SHOGHI EFFENDI:

AUTHOR OF

TEACHING PLANS





‘Alí Nakhjávání



CASA EDITRICE BAHÁ’Í

‘Alí Nakhjávání






SHOGHI EFFENDI:

AUTHOR OF

TEACHING PLANS



Acuto 2005







CASA EDITRICE BAHÁ’Í

© Copyright 2007 - Casa Editrice Bahá’í - Ariccia











1st Edition 2006
2nd Edition 2007









CASA EDITRICE BAHÁ’Í s.r.l.

Sede legale: Via Stoppani, 10, 00197 RomaTel. 06 8079647
Deposito e amm.ne: Via Filippo Turati, 9 - 00040 Ariccia (Roma) ● Tel. 06 9334334

ISBN 88-7214-107-9

FOREWORD


The second course, held in Acuto in February 2005, under the
auspices of the Counsellors in Europe and the National Spiritual
Assembly of Italy, dealt with the subject of Shoghi Effendi’s
Teaching Plans. Over 90 Bahá’í youth from 25 countries in
Europe attended this course.
In six sessions we discussed the chronology of events, and
more particularly the manner in which Shoghi Effendi educated
the institutions of the Faith to formulate and prosecute teaching
plans, in preparation for the launching of his historic and unique
Ten Year Crusade, which was the climax and ‘chef d’oeuvre’ of
his glorious ministry.
May the material assembled and presented in this course be of
some help to the friends in obtaining a deeper appreciation of the
distinctive genius of the beloved Guardian and his inspired leader-
ship, as he guided the Bahá’ís of the world to advance resolutely
along the path envisaged for them in the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh.




‘Alí Nakhjávání














CONTENTS

I.  Twin Basic Themes of the Guardianship
II.  The Tablets of the Divine Plan. When and where revealed
and the territories mentioned





A. The urgency of the teaching work
B. Methods of effective teaching and propagation
C. Spiritual qualities of those who teach
D. Important individual attitudes of the believers
E. The Cause of God in the world
F. The individual in the community
G. Potentialities of specific populations and countries
H. Bahá’í life and the power of divine assistance
I. Prayers

III. Time Periods: From Cycles to Phases



IV. Plans Prior to the Ten Year Crusade



A. The First (North American) Seven Year Plan
B. The Second (North American) Seven Year Plan
C. Accessory Plans
D. Details of Accessory Plans


Australia and New Zealand
British Isles
Egypt and Sudan
Germany and Austria
India, Pakistan and Burma
Iraq
Persia (Iran)

E. Details of Subsidiary Plans

Canada
Central and South America
Italo-Swiss

















F. Shoghi Effendi’s encouraging remarks

as the Plans ended
G.  Addendum, Part I: Objectives of Concurrent

National Plans
H. Addendum, Part II: Objectives of Subsidiary

National Plans

V.  Launching of the Ten Year Crusade

A. The manner in which Shoghi Effendi anticipated

the launching of the Ten Year Plan
B. The nature and scope of the guidance given by

Shoghi Effendi almost up to the midway point of

the Crusade

VI. The Ten Year Crusade is launched

A. The twenty-seven objectives of the Ten Year Plan
B. Examples of supplementary goals
C. Subsidiary national plans and subordinate goals added
to the objectives of the Crusade
D. The Ten Year Crusade – a glorious ending of the
Guardian’s ministry
E. Messages of Shoghi Effendi to National Spiritual As-
semblies during the last six months of his life
F. The importance of the Ten Year Plan as viewed by
Shoghi Effendi in the process of the evolution of the
Faith and of humanity

Appendixes from N. 1 to N. 5

Bibliography

I
Twin Basic Themes of the Guardianship

Many have been the attempts to review the events associated with
the life of Shoghi Effendi and, more particularly, the develop-
ments that transpired under his watchful eye and were a result of
his initiatives during his thirty-six years of Guardianship. Of
course, the best survey of these thirty-six years has been the bril-
liant story written by Amatu’l-Bahá Rúḥíyyih Khánum in her
book The Priceless Pearl.
During the very first few years of his ministry, Shoghi Effendi
had to establish his position in the outside world and with the au-
thorities in the Holy Land, in view of the assaults of the Covenant-
breakers. These Covenant-breakers hoped to claim custodianship
of the Bahá’í Holy Places after the Ascension of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.
Shoghi Effendi also had to establish the legal right of the Bahá’ís
to the ownership and custodianship of the Most Holy House in
Baghdád, in the eyes of the government of the land and eventually
on the international level, under the scrutiny of the League of Na-
tions. He undoubtedly also knew that he had to provide the West-
ern world with reliable translations into English of several vol-
umes of the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, as well as an adequate pres-
entation of the contents of Nabíl’s Narrative. Furthermore, in
Bahjí the property surrounding the Most Holy Shrine had to be
cleansed from the presence of the Covenant-breakers, and in Haifa
he had to purchase land adjoining the Shrine of the Báb painstak-
ingly, one plot after another. Elsewhere in the East, he had to en-
sure that essential Holy Places in Iran and in Turkey, and historic
sites in these countries related to events in the annals of the Heroic
Age of our Faith, were acquired. He had to further enrich the lit-

SHOGHI EFFENDI: AUTHOR OF TEACHING PLANS

erature of the Faith by disclosing the vision of Bahá’u’lláh for the
unfoldment of the Bahá’í civilization yet to be born and by an-
swering the need of the believers and the public for an authentic,
interpretive and reflective history of the events of the Apostolic
Age and their relationship to the evolution of the Transitional
Age.
However, from all the multifarious responsibilities facing him,
two basic themes were constitutional in character and were, in-
deed, at the very core of the aims and purposes of the Revelation
of Bahá’u’lláh. These two themes had their roots in three charters,
namely the Tablet of Carmel revealed by Bahá’u’lláh, the Will
and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and His Tablets of the Divine
Plan, addressed to the North American Bahá’í Community. The
first two charters dealt with the up-building of the framework of
the future World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, while the third was the
clarion call of the Centre of the Covenant for the propagation of
the Faith, leading to its spiritual conquest of the planet. These two
themes were closely and intimately interrelated, inasmuch as, on
the one hand, the propagation of the Faith could not be sustained
without an adequate administrative structure to coordinate and
direct its various activities and, on the other, the very existence of
a properly functioning Administrative Order could not be justified
and consolidated if a parallel development in the teaching field
was not constantly maintained.
These two lines of Bahá’í activity had to develop systemati-
cally, to run parallel to each other and to reinforce their respective
operations. The first line was to lead the Bahá’í world to a level of
capacity, enabling it to sustain the weight of the promised Institu-
tion at the summit of the Administrative Order, namely the Uni-
versal House of Justice. The second parallel line was to devise
ways and means to implement the wishes of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, as
voiced by Him in His immortal Tablets of the Divine Plan.
In this introductory preamble we will first consider briefly
how Shoghi Effendi patiently built up the institutions of the Ad-
ministrative Order and equipped them with the capacity to take on

TWIN BASIC THEMES OF THE GUARDIANSHIP

the responsibility of implementing the provisions of ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá’s Divine Plan.
In his Foreword to God Passes By, Shoghi Effendi defines the
vital role the Guardianship played from 1921 until 1944 in shap-
ing and applying the teachings of the Faith. The statement made
by him on this point is best expressed by his own words:

[These teachings] at first designedly rigid, complex and se-
vere, [were] subsequently recast, expanded, and liberalized
under the succeeding Dispensation, later expounded, reaf-
firmed and amplified by an appointed Interpreter, and lastly
systematized and universally applied to both individuals and
institutions (God Passes By xvii).

The four stages in the above sentence clearly refer to the Báb, next
to Bahá’u’lláh, followed by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and then the contribu-
tion made by the Guardian himself.
In the passage mentioned above, we see that Shoghi Effendi
considered it a role of his Guardianship not only to guide the
Bahá’í world to universally apply the teachings, laws and ordi-
nances of the Bahá’í Revelation to the extent that the capacity and
circumstances of the Bahá’í communities permitted, but also to
enable the body of believers to apply these teachings in the work
of the institutions of the Administrative Order – institutions which
had just been formally established and were destined to become,
in the distant future, potent instruments in the building of the
Bahá’í World Commonwealth.
On the subject of applying the teachings to individuals, within
the constraints of wisdom, we see Shoghi Effendi translating the
Obligatory Prayers and stressing their importance in the spiritual
advancement of individual believers. We also note his explanation
of the essential details related to the obligation of fasting, of the
importance of monogamy, of observing the Bahá’í Holy Days and
of the need to suspend work on such days, of the requirement to

SHOGHI EFFENDI: AUTHOR OF TEACHING PLANS

avoid alcoholic drinks, habit-forming drugs and all forms of sex-
ual vice, and so on.
The last part of Shoghi Effendi’s sentence quoted above has a
direct link with the subject of our discussion, namely the applica-
tion of the teachings to the principles and guidelines that must
govern the operation of Bahá’í institutions. In the days of
Bahá’u’lláh and even later, during the ministry of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá,
the implications of the sentence in the Kitáb-i-Aqdas (see ¶181)
regarding the World Order, which, in Shoghi Effendi’s translation,
is a plain and straightforward statement in the Most Holy Book,
were not clearly understood. In fact, the verse was even misunder-
stood because the scholars of the Faith took it as a reference to the
order of the contents of the Most Holy Book and the format of the
revelation of its verses.
It was thanks to Shoghi Effendi and his translation into Eng-
lish of this verse, which appeared in his ‘Dispensation of
Bahá’u’lláh’ in 1934, that the Bahá’ís realized that the former
concepts were wrong. His translation reads as follows:

The world's equilibrium hath been upset through the vibrat-
ing influence of this most great, this new World Order.
Mankind's ordered life hath been revolutionized through the
agency of this unique, this wondrous System – the like of
which mortal eyes have never witnessed (World Order 146).

Bahá’u’lláh’s references to the institution of the House of Justice
on its international, national and local levels were generally taken
as mere statements providing for necessary centres to look after
the affairs of the community. Shoghi Effendi’s vision was differ-
ent. He saw this institution, at its international level, as a dome, at
its national level as pillars supporting the dome, and at its local
level as foundations upon which these pillars were destined to
rest. This hierarchy was, furthermore, to come into being through
election by the rank and file of the faithful, as clearly stated in the
Master’s Will. Furthermore, this line of institutional activity had

TWIN BASIC THEMES OF THE GUARDIANSHIP

to have a counterpart of appointed individuals who would primar-
ily be concerned with the protection and propagation of the Faith,
also stipulated in the same document.
The contemplation of such a system, which is common
knowledge to the Bahá’í community today, was partly or com-
pletely absent in the minds of the believers during the ministries
of Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. They must have wondered in
their speculations about the future of the Cause, travelling on don-
keys or in horse-drawn carriages on dusty roads, what supernatu-
ral events would take place to enable the Bahá’í communities in
scattered regions of the East, and later in Europe and North Amer-
ica, to be transformed into instruments for the realization of God’s
purpose for mankind.
Before He passed away, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá had explained to the
friends that His ministry was like a wedding day but that after
Him would come the time for an orderly home to be established
(see Star of the West, vol. XII, no. 12, p. 194). He also referred, in
one of His Tablets, to His own passing, and Shoghi Effendi, in the
‘Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh’, clearly states that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s
intent was to prepare the friends for the rise of the Administrative
Order established by His Will and Testament. His statement is as
follows:

Fear not, fear not if this Branch be severed from this mate-
rial world and cast aside its leaves; nay, the leaves thereof
shall flourish, for this Branch will grow after it is cut off
from this world below, it shall reach the loftiest pinnacles of
glory, and it shall bear such fruits as will perfume the world
with their fragrance (World Order 146).

To illustrate the patience with which Shoghi Effendi educated the
Bahá’ís in their understanding and application of administrative
principles, let us look at the institution of the Nineteen Day Feast.
Throughout the Heroic Age, the duty of extending hospitality
every nineteen days was generally understood as applicable to in-

SHOGHI EFFENDI: AUTHOR OF TEACHING PLANS

dividuals, since the Administrative Order was as yet unborn.
Moreover, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá added the importance of prayers and
reading from the Tablets in the Nineteen Day Feasts which were
held in the home of individuals. Therefore, for years, in Iran,
Bahá’ís invited non-Bahá’ís to the Nineteen Day Feasts and
shared readings from the Writings. The Nineteen Day Feast, as
you know, was established in the Bayán, subsequently confirmed
in the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, and further elaborated upon in the days of
the Master. The whole history of this institution will help us in
following what happened in the Bahá’í world. As stated in the
Foreword of God Passes By, Shoghi Effendi says that one of his
functions as Guardian was to apply the teachings concerning indi-
viduals to the institutions. Thus, with the birth of the Administra-
tive Order, Shoghi Effendi made it clear, less than sixteen months
after the inception of the Formative Age, that this provision in the
code of Bahá’í laws was also binding upon institutions. The Local
Assembly in each locality was now made officially responsible for
the Nineteen Day Feast held under its jurisdiction, with its three
component parts, namely devotional, administrative and social.
A very interesting development took place in Iran in connec-
tion with the holding of Nineteen Day Feasts. Those Feasts in the
days of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá were, as stated above, generally organized
by individual believers on odd days of the week and non-Bahá’ís
were invited to attend. With the inception of the Formative Age,
Shoghi Effendi advised that Nineteen Day Feasts were henceforth
to be held, preferably, on the first day of each Bahá’í month, un-
der the jurisdiction and guidance of the Local Spiritual Assembly.
The Persian friends sought the guidance of Shoghi Effendi on
whether or not non-Bahá’ís should continue to attend and, at that
early stage of the Administration in Iran, he felt that non-Bahá’ís
could do so.
Later, as the Administration developed in the United States
and Canada, Shoghi Effendi explained the three parts of the Feast
and advised that such meetings were to be for Bahá’ís only.

TWIN BASIC THEMES OF THE GUARDIANSHIP

In the mid-1930s the instructions given to the West became
known in Iran, and so Shoghi Effendi’s guidance was sought once
again. It was at that time that he said that this advice to the West
was now also applicable to the East. This was obviously because
Feasts had developed and had become occasions when, during the
administrative part, domestic community issues of the Faith were
being discussed by the local believers.
However, on 31 March 1955 Shoghi Effendi, in a letter writ-
ten by his secretary on his behalf and addressed to a Bahá'í group
in Florida, made the following statement: ‘Every Bahá'í, as a part
of his spiritual birthright, must teach, and the one avenue where
he can do this most effectively, is by inviting friends into his home
once in 19 Days . . .’ (Lights of Guidance 247). Nearly two years
later, on 6 March 1957, in a letter written on his behalf, the fol-
lowing elucidation was given: ‘The friends must realize their indi-
vidual responsibility. Each must hold a Fireside in his or her
home, once in 19 days, where new people are invited, and where
some phase of the Faith is mentioned and discussed. If this is done
with the intent of showing Bahá'í hospitality and love, then there
will be results’ (Lights of Guidance 247).
These two letters of Shoghi Effendi and the message they
convey could well be regarded as an echo of the provision of the
Bayán, as well as the verse revealed in the Kitáb-i-Aqdas. In these
texts, the believers are exhorted to extend hospitality to their
guests, even, as the Kitáb-i-Aqdas stipulates, ‘though only water
be served’ (Kitáb-i-Aqdas ¶40). As his letter indicated, it would be
entirely satisfactory for firesides to be held ‘once in nineteen
days’. Any suitable day for the Bahá'í host or hosts would cer-
tainly be in line with Shoghi Effendi’s guidance, provided that
over a period of one year, a minimum of nineteen such firesides
were held.
Bahá’ís today therefore have two types of gatherings every
nineteen days, one under the supervision and direction of the Lo-
cal Spiritual Assembly, which is the official and institutional
Nineteen Day Feast, preferably held on the first day of the month,

SHOGHI EFFENDI: AUTHOR OF TEACHING PLANS

and the other, firesides in their homes, in order to extend hospital-
ity and teach the Cause.
We are currently serving under the Five Year Plan in which
the importance of Training Institutes and the three core activities
is emphasized. During our trips around the world, we have found
that Bahá’ís have sometimes replaced firesides with study circles,
thinking that the Universal House of Justice had abolished fire-
sides as a sign of the coming of a new epoch. Unfortunately the
intent has been misunderstood. Study circles are primarily an in-
stitutional activity whereas firesides are an individual activity and
responsibility, aimed at extending hospitality and teaching the
Cause. Study circles do not cancel out the obligation to have fire-
sides. Bahá’ís have to understand that study circles become part of
the activities of the community. We are called upon to support
study circles and to hold firesides in our homes, as well as to at-
tend Nineteen Day Feasts.
Needless to say, Shoghi Effendi, like Bahá’u’lláh and
‘Abdu’l-Bahá before him, also drew the attention of the members
of the community to the importance of teaching and encouraged
the friends to deliver the message of the New Age to high and low
alike. During the Heroic Age of the Faith, glorious feats in the
teaching work had been achieved by the Dawn-Breakers, the
Apostles of Bahá’u’lláh, the Disciples of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, the Hands
of the Cause of God, as well as distinguished and outstanding
teachers and promoters of the Cause. These achievements were
both in response to specific guidance from the Head of the Faith,
as well as the result of individual initiatives on the part of devoted
and God-intoxicated believers.
From 1916 and 1917 when the Tablets of the Divine Plan were
revealed until 1937 when, under Shoghi Effendi’s guidance, the
first Seven Year Plan of the North American Bahá’ís was
launched, the rudimentary and elementary agencies of the Faith
were not actively involved in the initiation of teaching projects.
Those early administrative agencies were of course reminding the
believers of the obligation to teach the Cause and encouraging the

TWIN BASIC THEMES OF THE GUARDIANSHIP

friends when they arose. A few outstanding individuals, in both
East and West, certainly arose, travelled, spread the Message and
proclaimed it and were instrumental in raising up enthusiastic
communities. But these efforts were not created in an organized
way under an elected central administrative body. The Head of the
Faith was, of course, aware of these undertakings and in many
cases initiated and even directed these endeavours. This period
from 1916 and 1917 till 1937 was described as a phase when the
Tablets of the Divine Plan were ‘in abeyance’.
As Local and National Assemblies were formally constituted,
these Assemblies were invariably urged by Shoghi Effendi during
the first sixteen years of the Formative Age to assume responsi-
bilities in the teaching field, particularly by way of organizing cir-
cuit teaching trips, stimulating the activities of pioneers, and add-
ing their share of support in promoting the expansion work.
It was only in 1937, as stated above, that Shoghi Effendi felt
the time had arrived for the National Spiritual Assembly in North
America to undertake the first teaching plan ever to be formally
adopted and institutionally executed anywhere in the Bahá’í
world, so that in addition to the responsibility of the individual to
teach, the institutions, likewise, were now charged with the obli-
gation to adopt teaching goals and to ensure that they were sys-
tematically implemented.
Let us look at the Bahá’í statistics relating to expansion. Dur-
ing the first ninety-three years since the inception of the Faith –
that is, seventy-seven years of the Heroic Age, plus the first six-
teen years of the Guardianship – we see that the light of the Faith
reached fifteen countries at the end of the ministry of Bahá’u’lláh,
thirty-five countries by the end of the ministry of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
and forty-four countries by 1937, when the first Seven Year Plan
was launched.
To demonstrate the speed with which the expansion of the
Faith took place after this new phase of institutional responsibili-
ties was launched, we note that the number of countries open to
the Faith grew from forty-three to seventy-eight by the end of the

SHOGHI EFFENDI: AUTHOR OF TEACHING PLANS

first Seven Year Plan, which is an increase of over 80 per cent in
only seven years.
Nowhere in the writings of Shoghi Effendi do we find any
specific guidance to National Spiritual Assemblies on how to for-
mulate a plan and in what manner to execute it in an orderly fash-
ion. However, by observing the manner in which Shoghi Effendi
dealt with National Spiritual Assemblies on the matter of their
teaching plans, one realizes that there were certain fundamental
conditions that he observed. A tentative study of these develop-
ments reveals some of their essential features, such as:

1. The plan had to have concisely worded goals and objec-
tives.
2. The beginning and end of the plan had to be clearly deter-
mined in terms of months or years, and announced to the
friends.
3. The goals had to be formulated realistically, in terms
commensurate with the capacities of the community.
4. The entire machinery of the institutions of the Faith, as
well as the rank and file of the members of the community,
had to feel committed to the execution of the plan, by sup-
porting it wholeheartedly, with human and financial re-
sources.
5. In some cases, particularly when the plan extended over a
long period, it would be divided into distinct phases, to en-
able the agencies of the Administration as well as the body
of believers to focus on the requirements of each phase.
6. The community had to be informed regularly of the pro-
gress achieved in attaining the prescribed goals.

The Administrative Order was mentioned in the Writings of the
Báb Himself, where He writes about the appearance of the World
Order of Bahá’u’lláh. The Báb was not only the Forerunner of
Bahá’u’lláh, He was also the Herald of the appearance of the
World Order of Bahá’u’lláh. Shoghi Effendi used to stress this

TWIN BASIC THEMES OF THE GUARDIANSHIP

point to the pilgrims. The Báb says in the Bayán: ‘Well is it with
him who fixeth his gaze upon the Order of Bahá’u’lláh’ (World
Order 146–7). In the Kitáb-i-Aqdas Bahá’u’lláh clearly says that
this Order is in the making, that it has a revolutionizing effect on
human affairs, that it will upset the equilibrium of the world and
that its features are unique. In addition, He wrote about the station
of the Universal House of Justice and the lower levels of that In-
stitution. He also made reference to the Hands of the Cause and
elevated a few of the believers to that rank. Shoghi Effendi says
that we find in the Heroic Age the rudiments of the World Order
of Bahá’u’lláh. In addition, there came into being consultative
meetings of the friends. There were no Local Assemblies as such,
and no elections, but there were gatherings of friends to consult on
the interests of the Cause. This evolved a little more during the
time of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, but not formally or systematically, only in
an elementary way. Thus, the Local Spiritual Assemblies were
mostly called Boards of Consultation or Houses of Spirituality.
After the ascension of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in 1921 we saw the rise
of the Administrative Order. Teaching plans as such did not exist
during the sixteen years between 1921 and 1937. We had func-
tioning Assemblies, and elections, which were formal. We held
Conventions in the proper way with elected delegates, meeting
and electing the National Spiritual Assembly of each country. We
had committees operating. We had the establishment of National
and Local Funds. We had Bahá’í publications and review of pub-
lications. All these things happened during this period of the rise
of the Administrative Order, except for teaching plans.
Even in 1937 we did not understand clearly what the require-
ments of a teaching plan were. Shoghi Effendi helped the Bahá’í
community step by step, wisely, patiently, lovingly explaining
how this should be done. We learned under the first Seven Year
Plan in one country how there should be goals and that these goals
should be precise, that there was a specified time by which the
goals should be achieved, that there should be specific funds in
order to carry these plans forward, that all the friends should be-

SHOGHI EFFENDI: AUTHOR OF TEACHING PLANS

come aware of what the goals were and work in unison, and that
there should be special committees to carry forward the teaching
plan.
Now these things are common knowledge for us today but this
was new in 1937. Other National Assemblies in the world at first
did not realize what was happening in the United States and Can-
ada. It was only as the plan developed and the news went out that
the friends elsewhere learned that the Americans and Canadians
had a Seven Year Teaching Plan. But they did not have their own
teaching plans.
In the chart n. 3 attached as appendix there is a narrow column
called ‘respite’. This is a term used by Shoghi Effendi for a period
of relief between two plans and a period to consolidate what had
been achieved. Shoghi Effendi gave a respite of two years to the
North American believers from 1944 until 1946.
Rúḥíyyih Khánum explained something very important in the
article entitled ‘Twenty-Five Years of Guardianship’, which can
be found in The Bahá’í World, volume XI, 1946–1950. She ex-
plained that, after the passing of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá members of His
family, as well as older and experienced Bahá’ís from the East
and the West, suggested to the Guardian, who was then twenty-
four years old, that since he was young and since ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
had provided for Hands of the Cause to be appointed to help him
and as both Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá had provided for the
Universal House of Justice to be elected, that certainly the time
was ripe for him to take steps for the election the Universal House
of Justice and the appointment of Hands of the Cause.
Rúḥíyyih Khánum wrote that Shoghi Effendi’s argument was
that the Universal House of Justice was a dome. The foundations
had to be built first and only then could the dome rest on them.
This was the reason why he emphasized the importance of Local
and National Spiritual Assemblies and their functioning. Dele-
gates had to be elected for the National Convention, statistics had
to be drawn up by Local Assemblies to see the number of adult
believers because delegates had to be allocated according to the

TWIN BASIC THEMES OF THE GUARDIANSHIP

numerical strength of each area. Thus, statistics were also impor-
tant. When there were enough National Spiritual Assemblies
throughout the world, then finally the dome could be laid on top.
In 1946 Shoghi Effendi then launched a new Seven Year Plan.
This was to be the second North American Seven Year Plan, from
1946 until 1953. In the course of the respite period some National
Assemblies were anxious to move forward. One National Spiritual
Assembly which Shoghi Effendi was proud of and which was
wide awake was the British Assembly. Before all other communi-
ties in the world, this community wrote to Shoghi Effendi and
asked him to give them goals. Nowadays National Spiritual As-
semblies adopt their own goals but in those days it was just the
beginning, so Shoghi Effendi gave them goals for a Six Year Plan.
After the British embarked on their plan, Shoghi Effendi
started nudging other National Spiritual Assemblies. He prodded
them, urged them, encouraged them so that they too would be part
of a collective teaching activity. One by one the other National
Spiritual Assemblies responded. By the end of 1953 he had every
single National Spiritual Assembly in the entire Bahá’í world en-
gaged in a teaching plan, some for six years, some for five years,
others for three or two years. By the end of the second Seven Year
Plan the entire Bahá’í world was engaged in the work of teaching
plans, gaining experience on how to deal with organized teaching
work. During this period, and also in earlier periods, we see in the
Guardian’s writings that he was constantly pointing to the day
when there would be international interaction among the Bahá’ís
in preparation for future events. He gave pointers to signify that
we were approaching such a time.
The most moving passages from Shoghi Effendi were written in
1951. In 1951 he sent two messages, one to the United States and
Canada and one to the British National Spiritual Assembly. In these
messages, which are very similar in wording, he referred to the In-
ternational Bahá’í Council, which was created in 1950 and was to
be a preamble to the election of the Universal House of Justice. The
friends thus knew that they had a preparatory or embryonic body

SHOGHI EFFENDI: AUTHOR OF TEACHING PLANS

that was meant to develop through certain stages and culminate in
the Universal House of Justice. Then he said that we were almost
simultaneously to launch a Two Year Plan, which would be under
the management of the British National Spiritual Assembly, and
that he was calling on three other National Spiritual Assemblies to
join the American and British – namely Iran, India and Egypt, mak-
ing a total of five. He said the machinery of these five National As-
semblies would be working together in one continent, namely Af-
rica. To Shoghi Effendi this was extremely important from the
point of view of the evolution of the organic work of the Bahá’í In-
ternational Community, because for the first time the machinery of
five National Assemblies would be working together in a given
teaching field. This was, he said, a prelude to the time when all Na-
tional Assemblies of the world would work together on one major
international undertaking. On the one hand, Shoghi Effendi drew
our attention to the impending election of the Universal House of
Justice through the formation of the International Bahá’í Council.
On the other hand, he was anticipating the stage of international
collaboration when all National Assemblies would be interacting
with one another. He was in fact preparing the Bahá’í world for the
inception of the Ten Year Plan, which would for the first time call
for a global interaction among all National Assemblies.
As we look at the Bahá’í world today we see that National
Spiritual Assemblies are now accustomed to have teaching goals.
Furthermore many active Local Spiritual Assemblies in various
parts of the world now formulate their own local teaching and
consolidation plans. This obviously is a very desirable develop-
ment as it introduces method and system in carrying the Faith
forward and promoting its interests.
Beyond National and Local Assemblies, the Universal House
of Justice called on the individual Bahá’í to follow the example
set by national and local institutions. The individual, too, was en-
couraged to conceive personal plans of action, particularly in pur-
suing teaching goals. In a letter dated 16 November 1969, the
Universal House of Justice wrote:

TWIN BASIC THEMES OF THE GUARDIANSHIP

. . . It is now imperative for every Bahá'í to set for himself
individual teaching goals. The admonition of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
to lead at least one new soul to the Faith each year and the
exhortation of Shoghi Effendi to hold a Bahá'í Fireside in
one’s home every Bahá'í month are examples of individual
goals. Many have capacities to do even more, but this alone
will assure final and complete victory for the Plan (Lights of
Guidance 248).

In formulating our own individual goals we might well benefit
from some of the methods that Shoghi Effendi put into practice in
helping National Assemblies to execute their teaching plans.
What a soul-uplifting spectacle it would be when we could
witness the day that, under the broad guidelines set forth by the
Universal House of Justice, every National Assembly, every Local
Spiritual Assembly and every devoted lover of the Cause would
formulate plans and lines of action, and make every effort prayer-
fully, constantly and selflessly to bring the adopted goals to frui-
tion and to lay the harvest of such endeavours at the feet of the
Blessed Beauty.

SHOGHI EFFENDI: AUTHOR OF TEACHING PLANS



QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS

Q. In the Master's Will and Testament, He says that the choice
of the new Guardian should be confirmed by nine Hands of
the Cause. What would happen if the choice were not ap-
proved?

A. There is nothing in the Master’s Will to tell us what would
happen. Somebody asked Shoghi Effendi this question and the
answer has been published. He asked him, how it was that
‘Abdu’l-Bahá gave such authority to the Hands of the Cause to
disagree with the Guardian? He answered that it was inconceiv-
able that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá would include in His Will and Testament a
provision which would lead to a conflict of authority.
In other words there was some mystery here that the believers
could not understand because outwardly there was a conflict in
authority. Shoghi Effendi appoints his choice, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says
that the Hands of the Cause should then decide by secret ballot,
meaning that any of the Hands of the Cause would be free to dis-
agree with Shoghi Effendi. So perhaps the majority would not
agree with Shoghi Effendi. But the Guardian is telling us that this
is inconceivable. So what did actually happen? The situation did
not arise. Shoghi Effendi never appointed anybody, never asked
the Hands to elect nine from among themselves, and, of course,
these nine never met. So the whole process was completely
shelved and set aside. So when Shoghi Effendi says it is incon-
ceivable that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá would have provided something that
would lead to a conflict of authority, probably by that he meant
that such a situation would never arise and therefore we would
conclude that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá knew that such a conflict would never
occur. This could be the meaning in the light of the facts and what
actually took place.

TWIN BASIC THEMES OF THE GUARDIANSHIP

Q. I wonder how the NSA of, for example, Australasia or Cen-
tral Africa, met at all? Were the distances not a great hin-
drance to the believers, a great sacrifice of precious time?
How did they manage to stay away so long from their jobs?

A. When Shoghi Effendi dealt with large geographic areas, he had
two methods to deal with this question. In cases where two or
three countries were part of the area of a given National Assem-
bly, and the community in the country which was not the seat of
the national body reached numerically and administratively an
adequate degree of growth and stability, that community would
then branch off and form its separate National Spiritual Assembly.
The other method was for a very big region. In such cases the
same process would naturally have to go through two or three
stages. As to the question of National Spiritual Assembly meet-
ings in such large areas, Shoghi Effendi’s advice was to arrange
the consultation through correspondence. In other words, they
should try to meet once or twice or a maximum of three times a
year and matters not discussed had to be settled through corre-
spondence. Today if such a thing were to happen it would be very
easy because we have Internet facilities. We did not have Internet
in those days but we had cables, telegrams and airmail letters. It
was possible to have consultation between the nine National As-
sembly’s members by mail on all matters. This minimized the
number of meetings to be held because the meetings were very
costly. To have nine members from different parts of the region
meet, let us say every two weeks, would have been impossible. So
it had to be done very rarely, two or three times a year, and the
rest of the work was done by correspondence. This was a tempo-
rary thing anyway, as it was an intermediary stage.

Q. Is there any specific prayer or Tablet the believers can of-
fer for the institutions, at local and national levels and the
Universal House of Justice?

SHOGHI EFFENDI: AUTHOR OF TEACHING PLANS

A. You can offer any prayer you like. Certainly all the administra-
tive bodies that you have named need a lot of prayers, I can assure
you. Pick up any prayer and read it in their name and pray for
them.

Q. Shoghi Effendi said that the elected members should rid
themselves of the atmosphere of secrecy. At the same time, the
Spiritual Assemblies observe confidentiality in certain mat-
ters. What does `atmosphere of secrecy’ refer to? How can we
find the balance between keeping matters confidential and be-
ing unnecessarily secretive?

A. There is a difference between observing confidentiality and
being secretive. Being secretive is when members of the National
Assembly will never, ever tell the Bahá’ís what they are discuss-
ing and consulting about. This is being secretive. To have confi-
dential matters is another thing. Bahá’ís may have certain prob-
lems that are purely confidential and they come to their Assem-
blies, open their hearts to them and confide in them. These are
confidential matters. Usually very private and personal matters are
confidential matters. But the work of the National Assembly
should not be surrounded by secrecy, in the sense that National
Assemblies and every administrative body should be very open
and transparent in their activities.
The work of Local Assemblies on non-confidential matters
should not be clandestine. This is why at the Nineteen Day Feast,
for example, a Local Assembly should be very open about sharing
with the community its problems, its concerns, its cares, the state
of the fund and any general problem or difficulties it is having.
Likewise the National Assembly, when meeting with the delegates
at the Convention, has to be very open, to share with the delegates
the situation in the country. This is to avoid secrecy. The friends
should know what is happening. This is different from matters of
confidence of those who have special problems and go to Spiritual
Assemblies for assistance and guidance.

TWIN BASIC THEMES OF THE GUARDIANSHIP

Q. When will the International Library be built on Mount
Carmel?

A. The land on which the International Library is to be built has
been clearly defined by Shoghi Effendi. The land now is in a built
up area. This is a project that will take time.
The International Library will be directly facing the Archives
building. In the meantime, the International Library has its quar-
ters in the building which is known as the Centre for the Study of
the Texts. All the books are there under controlled conditions in
terms of humidity and temperature for preservation.

Q. The beloved Guardian wrote that his translations of the
Holy Writings will be improved in the future by scholars. The
Persian believers claim that Shoghi Effendi wrote this out of
humility. What do you think about this?

A. Shoghi Effendi was the interpreter. It is true that when Shoghi
Effendi released his translation of the Kitáb-i-Íqán, he wrote that
this is one more attempt to put into English what should always be
considered as the matchless utterance of Bahá’u’lláh. If, in the
future, some Bahá’ís would like to try to translate the Writings, it
should be with the approval of the Universal House of Justice.
Shoghi Effendi was not only a translator, he was also the in-
terpreter. The importance of the translations of Shoghi Effendi is
that he was interpreting for us what Bahá’u’lláh intended. This is
why it is very important for us not to treat Shoghi Effendi as, let
us say, the works of Marzieh Gail or Habib Taherzadeh. Shoghi
Effendi’s translations fall into a different category. They are not
only translations, they are interpretations. So all these things have
to be taken into consideration and then any changes that have to
be made will only be made with the full approval of the Universal
House of Justice.

SHOGHI EFFENDI: AUTHOR OF TEACHING PLANS

Q. Did Shoghi Effendi not know that Mason Remey would be-
come a Covenant-breaker? What wisdom was there in ap-
pointing him a Hand of the Cause?

A. There were Letters of the Living who were appointed by the
Báb who did not accept Bahá’u’lláh. The destiny of each and
every one of us is in our own hands. God chooses us, God gives
us the opportunity but if we decide that our failings or our moral,
ethical and spiritual weaknesses are stronger than our sense of
duty and responsibility to God, then we fail. This failure is not
because God wanted us to fail. God always wants everyone of us
to succeed, at all times. But we fail basically because of our self-
ish motives. It is the ego which works on us. The ego leads us to
pride, to jealousy and to doing things in the wrong way, in conflict
with the spirit of the Faith. That is where we fail. Our failures are
due to us, not because of God.
Of course, a competent teacher knows that a particular student
is going to fail but he gives assignments to all students and He
may give an assignment specially to this student in order to help
him. So it may have been an opportunity for Mason Remey to de-
velop. Now, if Mason Remey missed his chance, if a Letter of the
Living did likewise, if one of the outstanding believers who had a
title from Bahá’u’lláh also failed, the fault lies with them. Some of
the outstanding believers who were recipients of Tablets of
Bahá’u’lláh became Covenant-breakers during the time of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. The very son of Bahá’u’lláh, Muḥammad-`Alí,
who was not only the son of Bahá’u’lláh but was appointed to be a
successor to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, broke the Covenant. He could not
raise himself to a level of self-denial, and of self-abnegation,
which is so important in order to be able to render a service ac-
ceptable in the sight of Bahá’u’lláh.

Q. Shoghi Effendi often quotes words, titles, expressions and
sentences from the Writings (found between quotation marks
and in italics) in his writings and major letters. Many times we

TWIN BASIC THEMES OF THE GUARDIANSHIP

are not given the source of Shoghi Effendi’s quotations. Is it
easy to find them, as they may be useful when presenting cer-
tain arguments? Is there a collection of all the references in
God Passes By to be found anywhere?

A. When Shoghi Effendi was writing, and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá likewise,
and they quoted from the Writings, they did not give the refer-
ence. They were not professors at a university to give us footnotes
and references. It is our job to go and find these references.
God Passes By was not a paper that Shoghi Effendi was going
to present to a professor at a university. He was writing as Guard-
ian and interpreter of the Bahá’í Faith. The quotations are his own
translations of a phrase, a clause or a sentence. It takes many
scholars and many years of research finally to be able to find all
the passages and words quoted by him. Many scholars have
worked and are working to find all these references. A day will
come when there will be a kind of a compendium, which will
probably be published, giving us all the references.


II
The Tablets of the Divine Plan
When and where revealed and the territories mentioned

In all, there are fourteen Tablets of the Divine Plan which
‘Abdu’l-Bahá revealed over a period of nearly one year, from
March 26, 1916 to March 8, 1917. The Hand of the Cause Hasan
Balyuzi has given us in his book ‘Abdu’l-Bahá – The Centre of
the Covenant a list of these Tablets, their dates and the locations
where they were revealed (some in Bahjí and others in Haifa) and
those to whom they were addressed. The list is as follows:

1)   Revealed on Sunday morning, March 26th, 1916, in
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s room at the house in Bahjí, and addressed
to the Bahá’ís of nine north-eastern states of the United
States: Maine, New Hampshire, Rhode Island, Connecticut,
Vermont, Pennsylvania, Massachusetts, New Jersey and
New York.
2)   Revealed on Monday morning, March 27th, 1916, in the
garden adjacent to the Shrine of Bahá’u’lláh, and addressed
to the Bahá'ís of sixteen southern states of the United States:
Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, West Virginia, North Caro-
lina, South Carolina, Georgia, Florida, Alabama, Missis-
sippi, Tennessee, Kentucky, Louisiana, Arkansas, Okla-
homa and Texas.
3)   Revealed on Wednesday morning, March 29th, 1916, out-
side the house in Bahjí, and addressed to the Bahá'ís of
twelve central states of the United States: Michigan, Wis-
consin, Illinois, Indiana, Ohio, Minnesota, Iowa, Missouri,
North Dakota, South Dakota, Nebraska and Kansas.

SHOGHI EFFENDI: AUTHOR OF TEACHING PLANS

4)   Revealed on Saturday morning, April 1st, 1916, in ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá’s room at the house in Bahjí, and addressed to the Ba-
há'ís of eleven western states of the United States: New
Mexico, Colorado, Arizona, Nevada, Utah, California
Wyoming, Montana, Idaho, Oregon, and Washington.
5)   Revealed on Wednesday morning, April 5th, 1916, in the
garden adjacent to the Shrine of Bahá’u’lláh, and addressed
to the Bahá'ís of Canada, Newfoundland, Prince Edward Is-
land, Nova Scotia, New Brunswick, Quebec, Manitoba, Al-
berta, Ontario, Saskatchewan, British Columbia, Yukon,
Mackenzie, Ungava, Keewatin, Franklin Islands and
Greenland.
6)   Revealed on Saturday morning, April 8th, 1916, in the gar-
den outside the Shrine of Bahá’u’lláh, and addressed to the
Bahá'ís of the United States and Canada.
7)   Revealed on Tuesday morning, April 11th, 1916, in
‘Abdu’l-Bahá's room at the house in Bahjí, and addressed to
the Bahá'ís of the United States and Canada.
8)   Revealed on Wednesday morning, April 19th, 1916, in
‘Abdu’l-Bahá's room at the house in Bahjí; on Thursday
morning, April 20th, in the pilgrims’ quarters of the house in
Bahjí; on Saturday morning, April 22nd, in the garden adja-
cent to the Shrine of Bahá’u’lláh, and addressed to the Ba-
há'ís of the United States and Canada.
9)   Revealed on Friday morning, February 2nd, 1917, in Ismá`il
Áqá's room at the house of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in Haifa, and ad-
dressed to the Bahá'ís of the nine north-eastern states of the
United States.
10)  Revealed on Saturday morning, February 3rd, 1917, in the
same room in Haifa, and addressed to the Bahá'ís of the six-
teen southern states of the United States.
11)  Revealed in the forenoon of Thursday, February 8th, 1917,
in Bahá’u’lláh's room at the house of `Abbúd in `Akká, and
addressed to the Bahá'ís of the twelve Central States of the
United States.

THE TABLETS OF THE DIVINE PLAN

12)  Revealed in the evening of Thursday, February 15th, 1917,
in Bahá’u’lláh's room at the house of `Abbúd in `Akká, and
addressed to the Bahá'ís of the eleven western states of the
United States.
13)  Revealed on Wednesday morning, February 21st, 1917, in
Bahá’u’lláh's room at the house of `Abbúd in `Akká, and
addressed to the Bahá'ís of Canada.
14)  Revealed in the afternoon of Thursday, March 8th, 1917, in
the summer-house (Ismá`il Áqá's room) at ‘Abdu’l-Bahá's
house in Haifa, and addressed to the Bahá'ís of the United
States and Canada (‘Abdu’l-Bahá, the Centre of the Cove-
nant 420).

What is the importance of 1916 and 1917? It was during the
First World War, while ‘Abdu’l-Bahá was confined to the Holy
Land and also at a time leading up to the first centenary of the
birth of Bahá’u’lláh. He was born in November 1817 and here we
see ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, the Centre of His Covenant, starting over one
year ahead and revealing these Tablets for the spiritual conquest
of humanity. In other words, He celebrated the one hundredth an-
niversary of the birthday of Bahá’u’lláh by revealing these Tab-
lets.
We are now in the year 2005. In twelve years from now it will
be the year 2017, when it will be the second centenary of the
birthday of the Supreme Manifestation of God. We can visualize
what will happen in the Bahá’í world. We can well imagine what
the Universal House of Justice will do, what statements it will is-
sue, calling on the Bahá’ís of the world to celebrate the birthday
of Bahá’u’lláh as well as the first centenary of the revelation of
the Tablets of the Divine Plan. After 2017 there is another date,
2019, and that will be the second centenary of the birthday of the
Báb. He was born in October 1819. We can well imagine what
will happen then. Again stretching our imagination we can see
that, just two years later, it will be 2021, which will be the hun-
dredth anniversary of the passing of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, of the disclo-

SHOGHI EFFENDI: AUTHOR OF TEACHING PLANS

sure of the contents of the Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
and of the inception of the Formative Age of our Faith. So, what a
panorama twelve years from now, fourteen years from now, six-
teen years from now! I do not think I will be with you but you will
be participants in this worldwide Bahá’í activity and celebration.
You will certainly be not only among the participants but, I hope,
among the organizers and administrators of the Bahá’í community
at that time and that you will have ahead of you many, good and
fruitful years of humble service at the Sacred Threshold of
Bahá’u’lláh.
Referring to God Passes By, Shoghi Effendi considered the
contents of the Tablets of the Divine Plan addressed to the believ-
ers in North America as ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s ‘signal mark of His spe-
cial favour by investing them, on the eve of the termination of His
earthly ministry . . . with a world mission’ (God Passes By 305).
He furthermore stated that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá had also invested the
American Bahá’í community with a ‘spiritual primacy on which
they could rely in the fulfilment of their high destiny’ (World Or-
der 77). In his message to the American friends on 14th November
1936, he described these Tablets as a ‘Key which Providence has
placed into the hands of the American believers whereby to unlock
the doors leading them to fulfil their unimaginably glorious des-
tiny’ (This Decisive Hour 14). And, in his message of March 16th,
1949, he stated: ‘The American Bahá’í community [is] exalted,
singled out among sister-communities of East and West through
[the] revelation of the Tablets of the Divine Plan . . .’ (Citadel of
Faith 67).
In a summary of the goals and objectives of the Ten Year Cru-
sade, which was published in 1953 as a supplement to his World
Statistical Bahá’í Summary, Shoghi Effendi listed in alphabetical
order the 120 territories mentioned by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in His four-
teen Tablets of the Divine Plan. The list is as follows (Bahá’í
Faith, STATS 53-54):

THE TABLETS OF THE DIVINE PLAN

1)
Afghanistan
41)
Galapagos Island
81)
Nicaragua
2)
Alaska
42)
Germany
82)
Norway
3)
Andorra
43)
Gilbert Islands
83)
Orkney Islands
4)
Argentina
44)
Greater Antilles
84)
Panama
5)
Austria-Hungary
45)
Greece
85)
Paraguay
6)
Bahama Islands
46)
Guatemala
86)
Peru
7)
Balearic Islands
47)
Haiti
87)
Philippine Islands
8)
Belgium
48)
Hawaiian Islands
88)
Polynesia
9)
Belize (or British Honduras)
49)
Hebrides
89)
Portugal
10)
Bermuda
50)
Holland
90)
Puerto Rico
11)
Bismarck Archipelago
51)
Honduras
91)
Réunion Islands
12)
Bolivia
52)
Iceland
92)
Romania
13)
Borneo
53)
India
93)
Russia (Asia)
14)
Brazil
54)
Italy
94)
Russia (Europe)
15)
British Guiana
55)
Jamaica
95)
Saint Helena
16)
British Isles
56)
Japan
96)
Salvador
17)
Bulgaria
57)
Java
97)
Samoa Islands
18)
Canary Islands
58)
Juan Fernandez
98)
San Marino
19)
Cape Verde Islands
59)
Korea
99)
Santo Domingo
20)
Caroline Islands
60)
Lesser Antilles
100) Sardinia
21)
Celebes
61)
Liechtenstein
101) Serbia
22)
Ceram
62)
Low Archipelago
102) Shetland Islands
23)
Ceylon
63)
Loyalty Islands
103) Siam
24)
Chile
64)
Luxembourg
104) Sicily
25)
China
65)
Madagascar
105) Society Islands
26)
Colombia
66)
Madeira Islands
106) Solomon Islands
27)
Corsica
67)
Malta
107) South Africa
28)
Costa Rica
68)
Marquesas
108) Spain
29)
Crete
69)
Marshall Islands
109) Straits Settlements
30)
Cuba
70)
Mauritius
110) Sumatra
31)
Denmark
71)
Melanesia
111) Sweden
32)
Dutch Guiana
72)
Mexico
112) Switzerland
33)
Ecuador
73)
Micronesia
113) Tasmania
34)
Falkland Islands
74)
Moluccas
114) Timor
35)
Faroe Islands
75)
Monaco
115) Tobago
36)
Fiji Islands
76)
Montenegro
116) Trinidad
37)
France
77)
New Caledonia
117) Uruguay
38)
French Guiana
78)
New Guinea
118) Venezuela
39)
French Indo-China
79)
New Hebrides
119) Watling Island
40)
Friendly Islands
80)
New Zealand
120) Zanzibar

In this list there are a number of names that you will not recognize
in the geography of today but these names were current in the

SHOGHI EFFENDI: AUTHOR OF TEACHING PLANS

days of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. For example, Number 40 is Friendly Is-
lands. The new name is Tonga Island in the Pacific. Number 62 is
Low Archipelago. The name today is the Tuamuto Islands, which
is part of French Polynesia. Number 99 is Santo Domingo, whose
current name is the Dominican Republic in the Caribbean.
Another interesting point about this list is that He excludes a
number of countries. For example the United States and Canada
are not mentioned because the letters were addressed to them.
Other countries not included are Persia, Egypt, Iraq, Syria and
Cyprus. The interesting thing about Cyprus is that at that time
there were a few active Azalís, who were followers of Mírzá
Yaḥyá, and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá probably did not want the American
believers to go there at that time. Of course, later on, when things
changed Shoghi Effendi mentioned Cyprus in the Ten Year Plan.
Furthermore, some countries are included though there were
already Bahá’ís residing in them. For example, `Abdu’l-Bahá had
already visited the British Isles where He had given many talks to
the friends, and even in churches, yet we find that the British Isles
are included. Regarding France, as you know, the first Bahá’í cen-
tre in Europe was in Paris. The first believer, Hippolyte Dreyfus,
was already there and a local community existed. Germany has
also been included. `Abdu’l-Bahá had visited Germany and there
were Bahá’ís in Stuttgart as well as in other parts of the country.
India is mentioned, but `Abdu’l-Bahá had correspondence with
the Bahá’ís there and had sent teachers. The most wonderful thing
is that `Abdu’l-Bahá mentions Russia in two entries, ‘Russia Asia’
and ‘Russia Europe’. In ‘Russia Asia’ He already had the Ish-
qábád Temple.
In revealing the Tablets of the Divine Plan, the intention of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá was the conquest of the entire planet. It was not
only that there would be a Bahá’í address in each country, or one
individual Bahá’í, or one Local Spiritual Assembly, but, as Shoghi
Effendi has explained, the ultimate objective was that the entire
structure of the Administrative Order, in all its details, with all the
aspects of its machinery, would be operative in every spot on

THE TABLETS OF THE DIVINE PLAN

earth. We have a lot to do. During the Formative Age we may not
succeed in fully obtaining this objective in every territory on the
planet. At this time, there are still a number of territories that have
not yet been opened to the Faith. Shoghi Effendi has clearly stated
that in the goals of his Ten Year Crusade he did not include all the
territories of the globe. He only included the ‘chief territories’. So
there are a number of territories that are not in the category of
‘chief territories’. Therefore, the ultimate vision is to have the en-
tire structure of the Administrative Order fully established and
operative in every land, with its National Assembly and all its or-
gans, its Local Assemblies, its local ḤaZíratu’l-Quds’, its local
Bahá’í properties and maybe even its local Bahá’í temple! This is
the vision we have ahead of us. The process will continue
throughout the Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh.
Shoghi Effendi referred to these Tablets as ‘the Charter for
the propagation of the Faith throughout the world’ (Messages
from the Universal House of Justice 261). These immortal Tablets
contain ‘Abdul’Bahá’s call to the friends to arise. They also con-
tain beautiful and soul-stirring prayers for Bahá’í teachers.
I have tried to categorize the contents of these fourteen Tablets
under nine headings. From the many salient points I have ex-
tracted a few, which in my view have special importance and I
will comment on some of these points. When you study these lists
you see that there is some overlap. For example, when He com-
ments about teaching, He may refer to some of the spiritual quali-
ties that individuals should have. He may again refer in different
words to these qualities when explaining the role of the individual
in the community.
These gems of divine guidance could be summarized under
the following headings:

A) The urgency of the teaching work
B) Methods of effective teaching and propagation
C) Spiritual qualities of those who teach
D) Important individual attitudes of the believers

SHOGHI EFFENDI: AUTHOR OF TEACHING PLANS

E) The Cause of God in the world
F) The individual in the community
G) Potentialities of specific countries and populations
H) Bahá’í life and the power of divine assistance
I) Prayers

Salient points are listed here under each of the eight headings:

A) THE URGENCY OF THE TEACHING WORK
1)  Bahá’ís are called upon to diffuse the divine fragrances in
every city and village.
2)  Guiding one soul to God’s Holy Faith is better than all the
riches of the world.
3) ‘Abdu’l-Bahá is longing to travel through the territories
mentioned by Him to promote the divine teachings, though
on foot and in the utmost poverty.

B) METHODS OF EFFECTIVE TEACHING AND PROPAGA-
TION
1) Institutes of instruction should be established for the diffu-
sion of the teachings, as well as for training youth in the
proofs and precepts of the Faith.
2) Those who engage in the teaching work should either do it
on their own initiative or be selected for this purpose.
3) There is an advantage in groups of men and women travel-
ling together.
4) Learning the language of the people of the country to fa-
cilitate the teaching work is important.
5) Literature published in local languages is needed.
6) The national magazine must aim at promulgating the
Cause in both East and West, giving news of most impor-
tant events and issued with the utmost regularity.

On the subject of teaching ‘Abdu’l-Bahá refers to institutes of in-
struction, so the idea that we now have of Institutes is really based

THE TABLETS OF THE DIVINE PLAN

on the Tablets of the Divine Plan, namely His vision of an institu-
tion that will help to develop our capacities to teach and our
deeper understanding of the teachings of Bahá’u’lláh. There is no
clergy in the Faith, as in all religions of the past. Bahá’u’lláh abol-
ished professional clergy. The Hands of the Cause and today the
Counsellors are bereft of decision-making authority. They can and
should advise, give counsel, make recommendations and encour-
age. The decision-making authority has been given to elected in-
stitutions. It has been taken away from appointed individuals and
given to elected institutions. This is one of the distinctions of the
Administrative Order which is later to become the World Order of
Bahá’u’lláh.
In the absence of clergy, we get together and read the writings
with perhaps a facilitator to help us. This facilitator is not a cler-
gyman. He has merely a little more experience. Consultation is
one of the distinctive features of this Faith. It is not only applica-
ble to Local Spiritual Assemblies when they discuss the adminis-
trative work. Through consultation we exchange views and
deepen our understanding. A study circle provides a form of con-
sultation. Through the interaction and exchange of opinions and
ideas, we are able to learn. The clergyman goes up on his pulpit
and he gives a sermon, which gives his understanding of the text.
Bahá’u’lláh has taken this practice away from His system. But of
course this does not mean that if someone knows something he
cannot share it with others. In a local community we exchange
ideas, we work together, we learn together and that is how we de-
velop.
This existence of Institutes is very important in the Faith.
Therefore, the deepening runs through two parallel lines. One way
is through individual effort and the other is through collective ef-
fort, that is through the organized activities of the Institutes and
the study circles. But this does not take away from us our individ-
ual responsibility to deepen ourselves at home, by ourselves, be-
cause Bahá’u’lláh tells us, ‘Recite ye the verses of God every

SHOGHI EFFENDI: AUTHOR OF TEACHING PLANS

morn and eventide’ (Kitáb-i-Aqdas ¶149) and ‘Immerse your-
selves in the ocean of My words’ (Kitáb-i-Aqdas ¶182).
Somebody asked ‘Abdu’l-Bahá when He was in the United
States, ‘I want to live the Bahá’í life. What shall I do?’ ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá says that the first thing the believer must do is to have a
thirst for spirituality. In order to have this thirst, one has to pray,
to read the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh and think about life after
death. The third condition implies that we are not in this life for-
ever, that death is at our door, that there is another life and that we
are here to prepare ourselves for the next life. This awareness is an
essential part of developing our Bahá’í life and living the Bahá’í
life. I repeat, thus, the three essential requirements of beginning to
live the Bahá’í life are prayer, reading the Writings and reflection
on life after death (Compilation of Compilations vol. I, 202).
When we are reading the Writings, we have to meditate on the
words and ask ourselves, ‘What is the intention or purpose of
Bahá’u’lláh? What is He telling me?’ We have to try and probe
into what Bahá’u’lláh says, not only read the words. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
refers in one of His prayers to ‘the murmur of syllables and
sounds’ (Bahá’í Prayers 70). According to the Catholic Church
and the Muslim concept, the mere murmur of syllables and sounds
is important. For example, poor people in Africa who are Muslims
try very hard to read Arabic. They don’t understand the Arabic
words but to them the murmur of syllables and sounds is impor-
tant. So they try to pronounce, for example, the letter ‘ayn’ guttur-
ally for it to have an effect. This concept does not exist in the
Faith. Bahá’u’lláh advises us to read, understand, reflect, meditate
and allow the words to sink in and to become part and parcel of
our lives. He says in His Kitáb-i-Aqdas: ‘Read ye the Tablets that
ye may know what hath been purposed in the Books of God, the
All-Glorious, the Ever-Bounteous’ (Kitáb-i-Aqdas ¶36).

C) SPIRITUAL QUALITIES OF THOSE WHO TEACH
1)  Bahá’í teachers should be severed, holy, sanctified and
filled with the love of God.

THE TABLETS OF THE DIVINE PLAN

2)  Bahá’í teachers should be heavenly and radiant, embodied
spirits, personified intellects, moved by the spirit of self-
sacrifice.
3)  Their eyes should be turned to Kingdom of God.
4)  Those who travel in the paths of service should be free
from every attachment.
5) Teachers should be entirely severed from the physical
world and become angels of heaven.
6)  The intention of the teacher must be pure, his heart inde-
pendent, his spirit attracted, his mind at peace, his resolu-
tion firm. He should be like a torch, burning with the fire
of the love of God.
7)  The motive of the Bahá’í teacher should be noble and ex-
alted.
8)  Those who arise should be free from the world of nature,
vivified with the breaths of eternal life, with luminous
hearts and eloquent tongues.

There is no end to the perfections that each one of us can attain in
developing spiritual qualities. Mrs May Maxwell, the mother of
Rúḥíyyih Khánum, once said that the Faith is a university. We reg-
ister, but we never graduate. We learn all the time. Likewise, it is so
with spiritual qualities. We develop our spiritual qualities through-
out our lives, but absolute perfection is never reached, as it can only
be a characteristic of the Manifestations of God. The embodiment
of every Bahá’í virtue is ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, the perfect Exemplar.
Shoghi Effendi in the Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh writes:

No Guardian of the Faith, I feel it my solemn duty to place
on record, can ever claim to be the perfect exemplar of the
teachings of Bahá’u’lláh or the stainless mirror that reflects
His light. Though overshadowed by the unfailing, the unerr-
ing protection of Bahá’u’lláh and of the Báb, and however
much he may share with ‘Abdu’l-Bahá the right and obliga-
tion to interpret the Bahá'í teachings, he remains essentially

SHOGHI EFFENDI: AUTHOR OF TEACHING PLANS

human and cannot, if he wishes to remain faithful to his
trust, arrogate to himself, under any pretence whatsoever,
the
rights,
the
privileges
and
prerogatives
which
Bahá’u’lláh has chosen to confer upon His Son (World Or-
der 151).

There will never be another Perfect Exemplar during this Dispen-
sation. That door has been closed. This will prevent some fool
someday to say: ‘I am a great scholar, I am this, I am that, there-
fore I am a perfect exemplar’. We are all just trying to be Bahá’ís
and we will all continue to try. We will gain degrees of perfection
but we will never ever reach absolute perfection. The Faith is per-
fect. The teachings are perfect. The Exemplar is perfect. We are
not perfect. We cannot be perfect, but we will develop along this
path towards perfection, gradually, drop by drop, step by step. We
should never give up.

D) IMPORTANT INDIVIDUAL ATTITUDES OF THE BE-
LIEVERS
1) The pursuit of material rest, luxury and attachment to the
material world will in the end result in utter loss and re-
gret.
2) Men should not follow the example of animals and birds
and be occupied only with the requirements of this physi-
cal life.
3) Every outward glory and splendour will in the end vanish
and disappear but God’s sovereignty and majesty are ever-
lasting.
4) We should strive day by day to become more illumined
and draw nearer to God’s Holy Threshold.
5) Man, who is born from the womb of the mother, should
then be born from the womb of the world of nature.
6) Bahá’ís should be baptized with the water of life, acquire a
large portion of the heavenly banquet, and even be satis-
fied with little material food.

THE TABLETS OF THE DIVINE PLAN

7) We should detach ourselves from material possessions and
sacrifice our all in the path of service.
8) Bahá’ís should close their eyes to material comfort and
long for eternal life, the development of the spirit, the
promotion of the Word of God and the guidance and hap-
piness of humanity.
9) We should purify ourselves from this world and focus on
the welfare of others.
10) Man has been created for the acquirement of infinite per-
fections, for the attainment of nobility and for drawing
ever nearer to God’s Holy Throne
11) If the friends become intoxicated with the wine of His love
and be preoccupied with the affairs of the realm of the
spirit, they will regard sovereignty over the entire planet as
a plaything for children
12) We should not look upon the smallness of our numbers in
the face of the multitudes of the nations; five grains of
wheat will be endowed with heavenly blessing but one
thousand tons of tares will yield no result.

The obligation to teach the Cause is something that we often for-
get and ignore. Shoghi Effendi has advised that we should teach
the Cause every day. We should mention the name of Bahá’u’lláh
once every day. That means I have to mention the Faith three
hundred and sixty-five times in a year. Do I do it? I was so thrilled
when our friend from Turkey said yesterday that his friends were
saying: ‘Where are you going? When you go to Acuto, you cannot
teach anyone there! Remain here and you will be able to teach!’
This is the Bahá’í spirit. We have to teach every day at least once.
When we mentioned earlier about having personal individual
goals, this should be at the top of the list.
Another individual goal in the teaching work is, as ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá says, that we should aim to bring into the Cause one person
every year (Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá 265).
‘Do I do it?’ You know my age by now. If, as I am talking to you,

SHOGHI EFFENDI: AUTHOR OF TEACHING PLANS

I have a heart attack and go to the next world and I see ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá, He will ask: ‘`Alí, you have come! My first question is this!
Who are the seventy people you taught, who have become Bahá’ís
through your teaching? You were in a Bahá’í family for fifteen
years, you are now eighty-five; eighty-five less fifteen is seventy.
Who are those seventy people?’ I think every one of us should
think like this. My suggestion is for you to see how many years
you have been a registered Bahá’í and see how many Bahá’ís you
have brought into the Cause. This is a responsibility of each one
of us. The importance of the Tablets of the Divine Plan is because
they are designed to promote the teaching work.
We are very good in administration. We love administration
but somehow we are afraid to teach the Cause. This is a weakness
in the Bahá’í community. We leave it to the Assembly or special
committees to worry over the teaching work, to arrange for speak-
ers to give public talks and to run teaching projects here and there.
We are satisfied about discharging other spiritual obligations, but
when it comes to teaching, I have heard some Bahá’ís say, ‘I don’t
like teaching. I am afraid of teaching. I don’t know much. If I start
teaching the Faith and people realize that I don’t know much, it is
not good for the Faith!’ We rationalize our behaviour and that is
wrong. We should put our trust in Him, we should speak and men-
tion His Name. He assures us that He will help and inspire us.
Shoghi Effendi wrote: ‘Let the doubter arise’ (Messages to Amer-
ica 17). If I am afraid I must decide to change. Through His divine
assistance I have to transform myself. I have to find a way to
teach the Cause.
Teaching at its basic level does not need time. Yes, some
teaching activities need time. I agree that to have a fireside at
home needs time. But we should look at other possibilities of
teaching the Cause. For example, when I go to my work I meet
people. I’m mixing with people all the time in life. When I am out
in the world, I am meeting people. I should see where are the re-
ceptive souls. Shoghi Effendi says in one of his letters, ‘To find
these receptive souls and teach them, with tact and understanding,

THE TABLETS OF THE DIVINE PLAN

is the duty and privilege of every single Bahá'í’ (Compilation of
Compilations, vol. II 319). He has also said that we have to pray
everyday, ‘Oh Bahá’u’lláh! Send me one receptive soul today, to
whom I can mention the Faith’. This is so fundamental in the
teaching work.

E) THE CAUSE OF GOD IN THE WORLD
1) All countries long for peace and there is not a soul who
does not yearn for universal concord and conciliation.
2) The outward world should become a symbol of the inner
world. The mirror of the earth should reflect the ideals and
virtues of the Kingdom.
3) The Divine Collective Centre is more important than col-
lective centres based on national, patriotic, political, cul-
tural and intellectual interests, which by their very nature
have no permanent or abiding influence.

F) THE INDIVIDUAL IN THE COMMUNITY
1) The importance of fellowship and love among the believ-
ers.
2) Should one Bahá’í meet another, it must be as though a
thirsty one, with parched lips, has reached the fountain of
the water of life.
3) The importance of firmness in the Covenant.
4) Contention is absolutely forbidden in the Cause. If two
souls quarrel and contend about a question regarding the
Faith, both are wrong.

On the subject of love, unity and harmony in the community, this
is an eternal principle of all divine Revelations. In one of His Tab-
lets ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says that there are some Bahá’ís who love to
see differences in the community. We should be of those who love
harmony. There is a prayer by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in which He says
‘Grant that I may become…the promoter of concord amongst Thy
loved ones’ (Bahá’í Prayers p.29). Some people are promoters of

SHOGHI EFFENDI: AUTHOR OF TEACHING PLANS

discord among men and the instrument they use is backbiting and
gossip. This does nothing but instill poison in the minds and
hearts of the friends. Instead we should look at the good qualities
of others and praise them. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá gives the example of Je-
sus Christ looking at the white teeth of a dead dog. He was walk-
ing with His disciples and they passed by the corpse of a dead
dog. All the disciples complained about the smell and appearance
of the dead dog. Jesus Christ instead said, ‘Why don’t you look at
its white teeth?’ He found a good thing in this corpse of a dog. We
have to look for the white teeth in everybody and praise them. We
should not say this believer does not deserve any praise from me.
If I see a good thing, I must appreciate it. And that is one way to
promote unity.
I must be humble. I must not be proud and arrogant. I must try
to chase out jealousy from my heart. This is a fundamental re-
quirement. If we are not united in the community, how can we
teach the Cause? Why are we teaching the Cause? Are we inviting
people to come to a divided community? Is this how we intend to
establish the oneness of mankind? We should be aware of the im-
portance of promoting unity in the Bahá’í community, wherever
we are.
Another question you find referred to in this section is the
Covenant and the importance of firmness in the Covenant. The
Covenant is not just something that began with ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and
ended with ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says in several Tablets
that His ministry was the morning of the Covenant. The period of
twenty-nine years of His ministry was the morning of the Cove-
nant, as if it were seven o’clock in the morning. Now we are under
the shadow of the Universal House of Justice. It may be about
eight-thirty or nine o’clock. This Covenant is designed to continue
not only until the end of the Formative Age but until the end of
the Golden Age, into the next Dispensation. The duty of the Uni-
versal House of Justice would certainly be to recognize the next
Manifestation and introduce Him. The active force of the Cove-
nant is ongoing. We are sitting here under the Covenant of

THE TABLETS OF THE DIVINE PLAN

Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. The centre and pivot of our Cove-
nant is the Universal House of Justice. It is the central institution
of the Faith throughout the rest of the Dispensation. Think of the
wonderful day when we have the zenith, the sun of the Covenant
reaching its highest point. This is yet ahead. We will continue to
be under this Covenant till the end of this Dispensation. Our love
for the Universal House of Justice, our eagerness to understand
the intentions of the House of Justice, our longing to execute the
plans of the Universal House of Justice – such are the require-
ments of firmness in the Covenant today.

G. POTENTIALITIES OF SPECIFIC POPULATIONS AND
COUNTRIES

America and the American continent:
1) The members of the North American Bahá’í community
are addressed as ‘apostles of Bahá’u’lláh’.
2) The continent of America is a land wherein the splendours
of His light and the mysteries of His Faith will be revealed
and where the righteous and the free will assemble.
3) When the Divine Message is carried by the American be-
lievers to other continents, their community will find itself
established on the throne of an everlasting dominion.
4) Thus far the labours of the American friends have been un-
tiring, but their exertions should increase a thousand fold.

Canada:
The future of Canada is infinitely glorious and very great, whether
from a material or a spiritual standpoint.

Greenland:
Should the fire of the love of God be kindled in Greenland, all the
ice of that country will be melted.

Eskimos:
1) Reaching the Eskimos is important.

SHOGHI EFFENDI: AUTHOR OF TEACHING PLANS

2) Diffusion of the divine fragrances among the Eskimos will
have great and far-reaching effects.

Indian aborigines:
The Indian aborigines of the American continent have the capacity
to shed illumination upon the world, when they are educated and
properly guided.

Panama:
Once the Faith is established there, it will become a means of
unity.

H) BAHÁ’Í LIFE AND THE POWER OF DIVINE ASSIS-
TANCE
1) Unless a soul is detached, he cannot teach severance to
others.
2) A sanctified breath of a detached Bahá’í would even affect
a rock and can change a stone into a brilliant ruby, a mere
shell into a pearl and dead soil into a rose garden. Through
these pure breaths the blind become seeing, the deaf ac-
quire hearing and dead are quickened.
3) It has often happened that one blessed soul has become the
cause of the guidance of an entire nation.
4) The cohorts of the Kingdom will confirm the Bahá’í
teachers and the favours of Bahá’u’lláh will surround
them.
5) The breaths of the Holy Spirit can perform miracles.
6) A drop can become a sea and an atom a sun, through the
bounties of God.
7) The harvest of the seeds of divine teachings is abundant.
One grain will bring forth seven sheaves and every sheaf
shall contain a hundred grains.

Among the requirements of a Bahá’í life is detachment. Some-
times it is referred to as severance. This word ‘detachment’ is a

THE TABLETS OF THE DIVINE PLAN

special Bahá’í term. If you look up the entire range of religious
scripture, you will not find the word ‘detachment’. Look up the
Bible, the New and Old Testament as well as the Qur’án and you
will not find the word ‘detachment’ used in the way we under-
stand it in Bahá’í texts. The concept of detachment, as explained
in the Bahá’í Writings, does exist but it is expressed in different
terminologies. For example, Christ speaks about self-denial and
purity of heart, which are aspects related to detachment.
Detachment is something essential to Bahá’í life. As far as we
are concerned, our children, grandchildren and descendants
throughout the Dispensation will continue to try to become de-
tached but never will we or can we become one hundred per cent
detached. We can only achieve relative detachment.
In a Tablet revealed by Bahá’u’lláh He explains that detach-
ment has different levels. He speaks of a ladder that exists be-
tween man and God and has three steps.
The first step, He says, is detachment from material things, that
is, from pleasures and temptations, from the vanities and attach-
ments of this world. It means an inordinate attraction to money,
sex, power, ambition, etc. In other words, each one of us has an
ego, a self, inside of us. This self that we are born with is animalis-
tic. We will never be able to subdue it fully and completely as we
all have weak points. Each one has to know her or his own weak
points. Bahá’u’lláh tells us in the Hidden Words to examine our-
selves every day. He says: ‘Bring thyself to account each day ere
thou art summoned to a reckoning’ (Hidden Words Arabic 31).
This means self-examination. Self-examination can be of two
kinds: positive or negative. Self-examination can become negative
to the point where we are paralyzed and can do nothing. That is
bad. But self-examination can be positive when it leads to im-
provement, when a person strives to gain a little more perfection,
draw a little closer to the standard, step by step and little by little.
The second step is to be detached from the benefits of the next
world. What does that mean exactly? Does it mean that there will
be no rewards in the next world? That is impossible because He

SHOGHI EFFENDI: AUTHOR OF TEACHING PLANS

says there are rewards and punishments. I understand this to mean
that if I am rendering a service here, I might be expecting a rich re-
ward in the next world and the sole purpose of my efforts is to re-
ceive the expected reward. This, as I see it, is not acceptable in His
sight. He wants us to be pure and detached. It should not matter
whether there is a reward or not. Our love should be pure, as the
love that parents have for their child is pure. The parents love their
child without expectations. Whatever the mother and father do is
done for the benefit of the child. The thought that this child will
grow up and will compensate for the love now received, does not
occur to loving parents because they are motivated by selfless love.
Love can be of two kinds. It can be selfish love or it can be selfless.
What Bahá’u’lláh wants for us is selfless love without any anticipa-
tion or expectation, in this world or in the next.
The third step is very difficult. This is why I think we may
never be able to fully reach it. It is to be detached from the world of
‘names’. ‘Names’ here implies a desire that my name may be men-
tioned by Him. This is a form of attachment to this desire. In the
Hidden Words He says: ‘O Son of Being! Make mention of Me on
My earth, that in My heaven I may remember Thee, thus shall Mine
eyes and thine be solaced’(Hidden Words Arabic 43). This is a sub-
tle reward. He is just mentioning my name but I have become at-
tached to this acknowledgment of my name. I must detach myself
from my own name. There will be an identity of souls in the next
world, so I will never lose my identity. But He does not want me to
be attached to anything, including my name and my existence. That
is the third stage on the scale of detachment.
Bahá’u’lláh has also told us to ‘soar on the wings of detach-
ment’ (Prayers and Meditations 103). Detachment gives us wings.
We become birds and we fly. Without detachment we are earthly.
We get stuck and fixed on this earth all the time. We become
worms, instead of flying birds. The wings of detachment give us
joy. I am sure some of you must have had dreams that you were
flying. It is a wonderful and thrilling experience. It is a sign that
our souls long to become detached.

THE TABLETS OF THE DIVINE PLAN

Another important thing for our spiritual growth is trust and
confidence in Him. If we do not have trust in the Almighty, we do
not receive this divine confirmation. Trust is different from mere
faith. Faith is to recognize the Manifestation of God. Through love,
effort, study and service, faith develops into certitude. However,
trust is something else. Trust is when I move, when I start doing
something for Bahá’u’lláh. I must have trust in His help, trust in
His confirmation, trust that He is near me, sees me, knows me, will
help me, will assist me, will strengthen me, will inspire me, will
teach me. Bahá’u’lláh says, ‘Fear ye God; God will teach you’
(Kitáb-i-Íqán 69). Fear here really means love of God. The love of
God and the fear of God are the same. They are two sides of the
same coin. If I love God, if I fear God; and He will then teach me.
He will teach me and I will learn. He will inspire me. He will en-
able me to know things that I did not know before, that I never
thought of before. That is how He comes to my aid. This is a real-
ity, not only a theory. In practice, it has happened in the past and it
will always happen throughout the Dispensation.


I. PRAYERS

The fourteen Tablets are interspersed with nine prayers for
Bahá’ís engaged in the teaching work. These are usually included
in prayer books.



With the exception of two of the fourteen Tablets, which address
the assemblies and meetings of the believers of God in the United
States and Canada, all the rest are addressed to the general body of
the ‘believers of God and the maidservants of the Merciful’ or
similar titles. In the text of the Tablets, the duties and responsibili-
ties are either assigned to the general membership of the North
American community and regions within it or represent an appeal
and exhortation to the individual believer to acquire the essential

SHOGHI EFFENDI: AUTHOR OF TEACHING PLANS

prerequisites for successful teaching. Indeed, the Writings of
Bahá’u’lláh and other Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá are, for the most
part, similar in tone. The guidance given by the Heads of our Faith
during the Heroic Age are invariably directed to the individual
believer to arise, to immerse himself in the teachings, to deliver
the message and to pursue a life acceptable in the sight of God.
Out of the fourteen Tablets, five of them, revealed in 1916,
were sent to the United States before the Holy Land was cut off
from that country because of the First World War. However, the
remaining Tablets were held by the Master and sent after the war
was ended. It was only at the convention in 1919 that the Tablets
were formally presented. Amatu’l-Bahá Rúḥíyyih Khánum was
present at that gathering and she describes the occasion in the fol-
lowing words:

. . . a pleasant ceremony was held, called the ‘unveiling of
the Divine Plan’, at which pairs of children and young peo-
ple (myself included) pulled strings and one of the Tablets
duly appeared on the draped background of the platform
(Priceless Pearl 437).

Copies of the Tablets were sent to the friends in the East and were
eventually published in the series of volumes of Tablets of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, printed in Egypt. The fourteen Tablets were all in-
cluded in volume II of this series.
It was only during the Formative Age that Shoghi Effendi
drew, in ever greater measure, the attention of the friends to the
significance of these epoch-making Tablets, which had worldwide
implications. For example, he described these Tablets as a ‘pri-
mary factor in the birth and efflorescence of the World Order it-
self, in both the East and the West’ (This Decisive Hour 122). In
another context, he referred to the principal recipients of these
precious Tablets, that is the Bahá’í community of the United
States, as the ‘chief executors of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Divine Plan’, to
the Canadian Bahá’í community as their ‘allies’ and to the Latin

THE TABLETS OF THE DIVINE PLAN

American Bahá’í communities as their ‘associates’ (Messages to
the Bahá’í World 144). As to the rest of the Bahá’í world, he con-
sidered their national plans as accessory and supplementary to the
Divine Plan conferred upon the North American community. For
example, he wrote in 1949 the following: ‘[These national plans]
are but supplements to the vast enterprise whose features have
been delineated in those Tablets and are to be regarded, by their
very nature, as regional in scope, in contrast with the world-
embracing character of the mission entrusted to the community of
the champion builders of the World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, and the
torch-bearers of the civilization which that Order must eventually
establish’ (Citadel of Faith 70).
Shoghi Effendi pointed out that the Golden Age of our Faith
will have its own epochs and crusades. He also indicated that the
Tablets of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Divine Plan had relevance to the de-
velopments of the Golden Age of the Faith. Thus, crusades during
the Golden Age will fall under the shadow of the contents of the
Divine Plan.
The emphasis laid by Shoghi Effendi on plans, objectives and
goals has quite often, unfortunately, been misunderstood or per-
haps misinterpreted by some of the believers. It has often been
assumed that the urgency and importance of building up the
framework of the Administrative Order cancelled out and replaced
personal initiatives. This misapplication of the Guardian’s direc-
tives is regrettably apparent even today, as we pursue collective
efforts to win the goals of the Five Year Plan.
In the very early years of his Guardianship, in a letter dated
March 12, 1923, he wrote:

But let us be on our guard… lest… too long a preoccupation
with the details of our affairs and activities, make us ne-
glectful of the most essential, the most urgent of all our ob-
ligations, namely, to bury our cares and teach the Cause …
(Bahá’í Administration 42).

SHOGHI EFFENDI: AUTHOR OF TEACHING PLANS

In February 1929 he wrote again: ‘. . . the administration of the
Cause is to be conceived as an instrument and not a substitute for
the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh . . . It is surely for those to whose hands
so priceless a heritage has been committed to prayerfully watch
lest the tool should supersede the Faith itself . . .’ (World Order
9). The secret of right living and serving under the Administrative
Order is for every believer to strike a healthy balance between his
commitments to the institutions and agencies of the Faith and his
obligation to seek avenues for individual initiative, most particu-
larly in the teaching field.

THE TABLETS OF THE DIVINE PLAN



QUESTION AND ANSWER

Q. What happened to the Tablets of the Divine Plan? They
haven’t been heard of (in terms of executing them) for ages.
We have been in their second epoch for a long time. Are they
somehow ‘on hold’? What are the features of the second ep-
och?

A. Chart n. 2 shows the Tablets of the Divine Plan and it is stated
that these Tablets were kept in abeyance for twenty years. Then in
1937 the First Epoch of the Divine Plan began. Shoghi Effendi
himself said in his messages that in 1963 the First Epoch of these
Tablets would end. The Universal House of Justice has to decide
when the Second Epoch of the Tablets of the Divine Plan will end.
This has to do with the letter of Shoghi Effendi dated 4 May 1953
in which he comments about diffusion, penetration and suffusion.
The House of Justice will no doubt wish to refer to this passage
when considering its implication in their consultations on when to
end this Epoch. Whatever the House of Justice will decide is of
God and we will welcome its decision with heart and soul.



III
Time Periods: From Cycles to Phases

In order to fully grasp the significance of the Revelation of
Bahá’u’lláh in the context of the history of humanity, and the glo-
rious destiny that awaits it in the future, it would be helpful to pe-
ruse and meditate on statements made by Bahá’u’lláh, ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá and Shoghi Effendi on the potentialities of this Dispensa-
tion, which He Who is the Promised of all ages, has inaugurated.

From the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh

I testify before God to the greatness, the inconceivable
greatness of this Revelation. Again and again have We in
most of Our Tablets borne witness to this truth, that man-
kind may be roused from its heedlessness.

In this most mighty Revelation all the Dispensations of the
past have attained their highest, their final consummation.

That which hath been made manifest in this preeminent, this
most exalted Revelation, stands unparalleled in the annals
of the past, nor will future ages witness its like (World Or-
der 103–4).

It is evident that every age in which a Manifestation of God
hath lived is divinely ordained and may, in a sense, be char-
acterized as God's appointed Day. This Day, however, is
unique and is to be distinguished from those that have pre-
ceded it (World Order 107).

SHOGHI EFFENDI: AUTHOR OF TEACHING PLANS

Through the movement of Our Pen of glory We have, at the
bidding of the omnipotent Ordainer, breathed a new life into
every human frame and instilled into every word a fresh po-
tency. All created things proclaim the evidences of this
worldwide regeneration (World Order 107).

This Day . . . is unique, and is to be distinguished from those
that have preceded it. The designation ‘Seal of the Prophets’
fully revealeth its high station. The Prophetic Cycle hath,
verily, ended (Gleanings 60).

From the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá

[This is] a cycle that must extend over a period of at least
five hundred thousand years (World Order 102).

We are in the cycle which began with Adam, and its su-
preme Manifestation is Bahá’u’lláh (Some Answered Ques-
tions 161).

In connection with the Manifestations destined to follow the
Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá makes this definite
and weighty declaration: ‘Concerning the Manifestations
that will come down in the future “in the shadows of the
clouds”, know verily that in so far as their relation to the
source of their inspiration is concerned they are under the
shadow of the Ancient Beauty. In their relation, however, to
the age in which they appear, each and every one of them
“doeth whatsoever He willeth”’ (World Order 111).

From the Writings of Shoghi Effendi

After Bahá’u’lláh many Prophets will, no doubt, appear, but
they will be all under His shadow. Although they may abro-
gate the laws of the Dispensation, in accordance with the

TIME PERIODS: FROM CYCLES TO PHASES

needs and requirements of the age in which they appear,
they nevertheless draw their spiritual force from this mighty
Revelation. The Faith of Bahá’u’lláh constitutes, indeed, the
stage of maturity in the development of mankind. His ap-
pearance has released such spiritual forces which will con-
tinue to animate, for many long years to come, the world in
its development. Whatever progress may be achieved in the
later ages – after the unification of the whole human race is
achieved – will be but improvements in the machinery of the
world. For the machinery itself has already been created by
Bahá’u’lláh. The task of continually improving and perfect-
ing this machinery is one which later Prophets will be called
upon to achieve. They will move and work within the orbit of
the Bahá'í cycle (Lights of Guidance 473).

‘From time immemorial’, Bahá’u’lláh, speaking of God, ex-
plains, ‘He, the Divine Being, hath been veiled in the ineffa-
ble sanctity of His exalted Self, and will everlastingly con-
tinue to be wrapt in the impenetrable mystery of His un-
knowable Essence . . .’
‘The door of the knowledge of the Ancient of Days’,
Bahá’u’lláh further states in the Kitáb-i-Íqán, ‘being thus
closed in the face of all beings, He, the Source of infinite
grace . . . hath caused those luminous Gems of Holiness to
appear out of the realm of the spirit, in the noble form of the
human temple, and be made manifest unto all men, that they
may impart unto the world the mysteries of the unchange-
able Being and tell of the subtleties of His imperishable Es-
sence . . .
That Bahá’u’lláh should, notwithstanding the overwhelm-
ing intensity of His Revelation, be regarded as essentially
one of these Manifestations of God, never to be identified
with that invisible Reality, the Essence of Divinity itself, is
one of the major beliefs of our Faith – a belief which should

SHOGHI EFFENDI: AUTHOR OF TEACHING PLANS

never be obscured and the integrity of which no one of its
followers should allow to be compromised.
Nor does the Bahá'í Revelation, claiming as it does to be the
culmination of a prophetic cycle and the fulfilment of the
promise of all ages, attempt, under any circumstances, to
invalidate those first and everlasting principles that animate
and underlie the religions that have preceded it (World Or-
der 113–114).

Referring to the Martyrdom of the Báb, Shoghi Effendi has writ-
ten:

Thus ended a life which posterity will recognize as standing
at the confluence of two universal prophetic cycles, the Ad-
amic Cycle stretching back as far as the first dawning of the
world's recorded religious history and the Bahá'í Cycle des-
tined to propel itself across the unborn reaches of time for a
period of no less than five thousand centuries. The apotheo-
sis in which such a life attained its consummation marks, as
already observed, the culmination of the most heroic phase
of the Heroic Age of the Bahá'í Dispensation. It can, more-
over, be regarded in no other light except as the most dra-
matic, the most tragic event transpiring within the entire
range of the first Bahá'í century. Indeed it can be rightly ac-
claimed as unparalleled in the annals of the lives of all the
Founders of the world's existing religious systems (God
Passes By 54–55).

[This is] a Revelation, hailed as the promise and crowning
glory of past ages and centuries, as the consummation of all
the Dispensations within the Adamic Cycle, inaugurating an
era of at least a thousand years' duration, and a cycle des-
tined to last no less than five thousand centuries, signalizing
the end of the Prophetic Era and the beginning of the Era of
Fulfilment, unsurpassed alike in the duration of its Author's

TIME PERIODS: FROM CYCLES TO PHASES

ministry and the fecundity and splendour of His mission . . .
(God Passes By 100).

With ‘Abdu’l-Bahá's ascension… there draws to a close the
first and most moving chapter of Bahá'í history, marking the
conclusion of the Primitive, the Apostolic Age of the Faith of
Bahá’u’lláh. It was ‘Abdu’l-Bahá Who, through the provi-
sions of His weighty Will and Testament, has forged the vi-
tal link which must for ever connect the age that has just ex-
pired with the one we now live in – the Transitional and
Formative period of the Faith – a stage that must in the full-
ness of time reach its blossom and yield its fruit in the ex-
ploits and triumphs that are to herald the Golden Age of the
Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh (World Order 98).

The Formative Period, the Iron Age, of that Dispensation
was now beginning, the Age in which the institutions, local,
national and international, of the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh were
to take shape, develop and become fully consolidated, in an-
ticipation of the third, the last, the Golden Age destined to
witness the emergence of a world-embracing Order enshrin-
ing the ultimate fruit of God's latest Revelation to mankind,
a fruit whose maturity must signalize the establishment of a
world civilization and the formal inauguration of the King-
dom of the Father upon earth as promised by Jesus Christ
Himself (God Passes By 324).

The last twenty-three years of the first Bahá'í century may
thus be regarded as the initial stage of the Formative Period
of the Faith, an Age of Transition to be identified with the
rise and establishment of the Administrative Order… (God
Passes By 325).

The opening years of the second century of the Bahá'í Era
have synchronized with the termination of the first epoch of

SHOGHI EFFENDI: AUTHOR OF TEACHING PLANS

the Formative Age of the Bahá'í Dispensation, a Dispensa-
tion which posterity will recognize as the most glorious and
momentous in the greatest cycle in the world's religious his-
tory.
The first seventy-seven years of the preceding century,
constituting the Apostolic and Heroic Age of our Faith, fell
into three distinct epochs, of nine, of thirty-nine and of
twenty-nine years' duration, associated respectively with the
Bábí Dispensation and the ministries of Bahá’u’lláh and of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. This Primitive Age of the Bahá'í Era, unap-
proached in spiritual fecundity by any period associated
with the mission of the Founder of any previous Dispensa-
tion, was impregnated, from its inception to its termination,
with the creative energies generated through the advent of
two independent Manifestations and the establishment of a
Covenant unique in the spiritual annals of mankind.
The last twenty-three years of that same century coin-
cided with the first epoch of the second, the Iron and For-
mative, Age of the Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh – the first of
a series of epochs which must precede the inception of the
last and Golden Age of that Dispensation – a Dispensation
which, as the Author of the Faith has Himself categorically
asserted, must extend over a period of no less than one
thousand years, and which will constitute the first stage in a
series of Dispensations, to be established by future Manifes-
tations, all deriving their inspiration from the Author of the
Bahá'í Revelation, and destined to last, in their aggregate,
no less than five thousand centuries.
We are now entering the second epoch of the second Age
of the first of these Dispensations. The first epoch witnessed
the birth and the primary stages in the erection of the
framework of the Administrative Order of the Faith – the
nucleus and pattern of its World Order – according to the
precepts laid down in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá's Will and Testament,
as well as the launching of the initial phase of the world-

TIME PERIODS: FROM CYCLES TO PHASES

encompassing Plan bequeathed by Him to the American Ba-
há'í Community (Citadel of Faith 4–5).
The epoch we have now entered is destined to impart a
great impetus to this historic, this twofold process. It must
witness, on the one hand, the consummation of a laboriously
constructed Administrative Order, and, on the other, the un-
foldment of successive stages in the development of ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá's Plan beyond the confines of the Western Hemisphere
and of the continent of Europe (Citadel of Faith 6).

The Divine Plan of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá is divided into epochs. The
first Seven Year Plan constituted the first stage of the first
epoch; the second seven year plan constitutes the second
stage; while the 10 year Crusade will constitute the third
stage of the first epoch of the Divine Plan. The first epoch of
the Divine Plan will conclude with the conclusion of the 10
year Crusade (Lights of Guidance 487).

From the above texts we can draw the following conclusions:

1) We are now in the course of the evolution of an all-embracing
universal cycle, extending over a period of 506,000 years (Some
Answered Questions 161).

2) This all-embracing cycle is divided into two parts: the first part
is the Adamic cycle (see chart n. 1 p. 155), which began with
Adam and ended with the Declaration of the Báb in 1844, and it
consists of a period of 6000 years; the second part is the Bahá’í
cycle, whose duration is at least 500,000 years.

The Bahá’í cycle is different from the Bahá’í Dispensation. The
Bahá’í Dispensation is one thousand years. We are some 160
years into it. The Bahá’í Dispensation is part of the Bahá’í cycle,
which will go on for 500,000 years under the shadow of
Bahá’u’lláh. The Adamic cycle is also called the Prophetic Era,

SHOGHI EFFENDI: AUTHOR OF TEACHING PLANS

and the Bahá’í cycle the Era of Fulfilment (God Passes By 100).
As you know, the Prophet Muḥammad said that He was the ‘Seal
of the Prophets’. This could mean that He certified who the
Prophets were and He put His seal on Prophethood. There is an-
other meaning which is valid and is revealed in the Writings of
Bahá’u’lláh. This meaning indicates that Muḥammad brought to
an end the Prophetic Era. We have now entered the Era of Fulfil-
ment. It is the fulfilment of the prophecies of the past that human-
ity will attain its stage of maturity. We are now beginning to get
closer and closer to the stage when humanity will indeed reach
maturity and Bahá’u’lláh has given us signs of humanity’s coming
of age (see Kitáb-i-Aqdas pp. 250–251).
Bahá’u’lláh has said that His Dispensation will cover a period
of at least one thousand years. He does not give us the maximum,
only the minimum. Beyond this, nobody knows. This is in the
knowledge of God.

I) Each cycle is divided into Dispensations. The Adamic cycle,
which covered a period of 6000 years, included the prophets of all
religions whose followers are residing throughout the planet,
namely the Hindu, the Jewish, the Buddhist, the Zoroastrian, the
Christian and Muslim Dispensations. These Dispensations were
all designed to pave the way and announce the advent of the Dis-
pensation of Bahá’u’lláh. They are all component parts of what
Shoghi Effendi has described as the Prophetic Era. The Bahá’í
cycle, described by Shoghi Effendi as the Era of Fulfilment, is
composed of an undisclosed number of Dispensations.
The duration of the Prophetic Era, namely of 6000 years, has
been given to us by Shoghi Effendi. This is, of course, an ap-
proximation. In other words, the period from the time of Adam
until the time when the Bahá’í cycle and the Bahá’í Dispensation
began in the year 1844, we should regard as a period of 6000
years.
Now, Adam is considered by the Jewish, Christian and Mus-
lim communities to be the first created man and Eve the first cre-

TIME PERIODS: FROM CYCLES TO PHASES

ated woman. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá deals with this matter in Some An-
swers and Questions. He says this story ‘cannot be accepted by
any intelligent person’ (Some Answered Questions 125). It is
symbolic. And then He gives His interpretation of the meaning of
Adam and Eve. It is very clear from the Writings that Adam was a
Manifestation of God and that before Adam there were many
Prophets sent by God to the world but the records of their teach-
ings and activities disappeared because of the passage of time.
You will find this statement that I am summarizing in Gleanings
from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh (Gleanings 172–173).
So we start with Adam because His period was the beginning
of recorded religious history. At the time of Moses, 1500 B.C.,
what the people knew about Adam and His teachings were written
down and recorded. Then we have, of course, not the Semitic line
but the Indo-Aryan line in the Indian subcontinent; for example
Krishna in 3000 B.C. Then Abraham, Who is of the Semitic line,
lived around 2000 B.C., and Moses of the Semitic line in 1500
B.C. Zoroaster, Who was of the Aryan line, was in Iran in 900
B.C. Then Buddha was on the Indian subcontinent in 560 B.C.
(All these dates are approximations. The exact dates will depend
on future research.) Then there was Christ in 1 A.D. There is
question about whether 1 A.D. is correct or not. Some believe it
should be 4 B.C. when He was born. Muḥammad declared His
mission in 612 A.D. Then we have 1844 A.D. From the time of
Adam until 1844 is 6000 years. If you deduct 1844 from 6000, we
get 4156. The beginning of the Adamic Dispensation according to
the years that have been recorded by scholars of the Bible is 4004
B.C. But this has again been questioned as to whether it is correct
or not. Shoghi Effendi fixed the beginning of the Adamic Dispen-
sation to be 6000 years ago; therefore by implication we arrive at
the year 4156 B.C.

II) The Manifestations destined to appear after the Bahá’í Dispen-
sation, according to the texts above, are under the shadow of the
Blessed Beauty, but as they occupy the station of ‘He doeth what-

SHOGHI EFFENDI: AUTHOR OF TEACHING PLANS

soever He willeth’, they are invested with the authority to change
the laws, ordinances and institutions of the Most Holy Book, as
circumstances require in each subsequent Dispensation.
We believe in progressive revelation, therefore it is logical to
say that Manifestations can change the laws of Bahá’u’lláh. Just
as science evolves, so does divine revelation. But we are told that
these Manifestations of God will be under the shadow of
Bahá’u’lláh. This is why we are calling the cycle of 500,000 years
the cycle of Bahá’u’lláh, the Bahá’í cycle. How and why is it that
the Manifestations of God will be under the shadow of
Bahá’u’lláh? Bahá’u’lláh in His Writings states that this is the
‘Day which shall never be followed by night’, the ‘Springtime
which Autumn will never overtake’. In His Writings Bahá’u’lláh
refers to the word ‘Day’ in two ways. Sometimes the word ‘Day’
is used to refer to His Dispensation, that is the minimum of one
thousand years. This is how it is used in the passage we find in
God Passes By (p. 98), as quoted above. At other times, such as in
God Passes By page 245 in the passage ‘This is the Day which
shall never be followed by night’, the word ‘Day’ is used to denote
His own ministry over a period of thirty-nine years. In the former
case Bahá’u’lláh is describing the greatness of His Dispensation,
while in the latter usage He is extolling the power and influence of
the Lesser Covenant, namely the ministries of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, of
the Guardianship and of the Universal House of Justice, as the fo-
cal points of God’s Covenant during Bahá’u’lláh’s Dispensation.
When quoting for the second time the passage in question, Shoghi
Effendi makes it clear that the statement made by Bahá’u’lláh was
a ‘solemn affirmation’ assuring the ‘lovers of the Cause’ of the
‘continuity of that unerring guidance vouchsafed to it since its
birth’ (God Passes By 245).
When Shoghi Effendi was asked by pilgrims about future
Manifestations as indicated above, he said it will be the duty of
the House of Justice to recognize and introduce to the Bahá’í
community the future Manifestation. The degree of opposition
will be minimal compared to previous Revelations. The next

TIME PERIODS: FROM CYCLES TO PHASES

Manifestation will have opposition but not to the same degree.
This is why Bahá’u’lláh tells us, as quoted in Shoghi Effendi’s
‘Dispensation’, ‘Deal not with Him as ye have dealt with Me’
(World Order of Bahá’u’lláh 117). He is telling humanity not to
oppose Him the way He Himself was opposed.

III) As to the Bahá’í Dispensation, it is divided into the following
three Ages:

a) The Heroic Age, also referred to as the Primitive Age and
Apostolic Age; consisting of seventy-seven years.
b) The Formative Age, also described as ‘the Iron Age’, ‘the
Age of Transition’ (God Passes By 324–325), and ‘the Age
of Frustration’ (World Order 171), the duration of which is
unknown. ‘The term “Iron Age” suggests the age of la-
bour, of construction; a relatively primitive epoch as op-
posed to a “Golden Age”, an age of fulfilment, fruition,
[and] attainment’ (Lights of Guidance 487–8).
c) The Golden Age, which is to witness the fruition of the
Bahá’í Faith, will witness the maturation of the Dispensa-
tion of Bahá’u’lláh.

IV) The Heroic Age is divided into three epochs of nine, thirty-
nine and twenty-nine years’ duration, totalling seventy-seven
years and representing respectively the ministries of the Báb,
Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.

V) Shoghi Effendi anticipated two initial epochs for the Formative
Age, the first covering a period of twenty-three years, and the sec-
ond of nineteen years for a total of forty-two years. The twenty-
three years had in turn two parts: a period of sixteen years during
which the local and national institutions of the Administrative Or-
der took shape, followed by the seven years of the first American
Seven Year Plan. The second epoch of the Formative Age was to
last nineteen years, ending with the centenary of the Declaration
of Bahá’u’lláh’s mission in 1963.

SHOGHI EFFENDI: AUTHOR OF TEACHING PLANS

VI) The end of this second epoch was to coincide with the end of
the first epoch of the Divine Plan of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. As stated
above, this epoch, according to Shoghi Effendi’s letters, began in
1937 with the inception of the first American Seven Year Plan and
was to cover a period of twenty-six years (i.e. 7+19).

In order to bring our thoughts to the present time, it would be
good to refer to the developments of the Faith in terms of epochs
of the Formative Age under the guidance of the Universal House
of Justice.
The third epoch of the Formative Age covered the period of
twenty-three years, from 1963 to 1986, and covered three plans
under the guidance of the Universal House of Justice, namely the
Nine Year, the Five Year and the Seven Year Plans.
The fourth epoch of the Formative Age lasted fifteen years, up
to the year 2001, and witnessed the execution of four plans,
namely the Six Year, Three Year, Four Year and Twelve Month
Plans.
The fifth epoch of the Formative Age began in 2001. Its dura-
tion will be determined by the Universal House of Justice. The
first of the series of plans during this epoch is the current Five
Year Plan.
Among the attached charts there are two (see charts n. 2 and 3
pp. 156-157) that show the Epochs of the Heroic and Formative
Ages and those in the Evolution of the Tablets of the Divine Plan.


As indicated above, the third epoch covered a period of twenty-
three years and witnessed the formulation and execution of three
plans. The goals of all three plans of this epoch were defined by
the Universal House of Justice and conveyed to the National As-
semblies for execution. In 1986, however, the House of Justice
felt that National Assemblies throughout the world had, to all in-
tents and purposes, achieved a degree of fitness and acquired
enough experience to adopt their own goals within the time period

TIME PERIODS: FROM CYCLES TO PHASES

stipulated by the World Centre. Such goals had to be adopted after
full consultation with the responsible Counsellors of the area. A
copy of the formulated goals had, of course, to be submitted to the
Universal House of Justice and regular reports sent to the World
Centre on the progress achieved.
As to the fourth epoch and the decision of the Universal House
of Justice to open a new epoch with a new Five Year Plan, the
reason for such a step was the fact that a stage had generally been
reached in the Bahá’í world when a new culture had begun to pre-
vail and a new sense of ownership and participation to evolve. If
this sense existed in some old and experienced national communi-
ties, it had to be enhanced. The time had come for Training Insti-
tutes to become formally and universally established as a perma-
nent feature of the work of every National Spiritual Assembly.
This Institute was designed to produce facilitators and tutors who
would develop and promote the activities of study circles. Devo-
tional meetings and children’s classes also had to become fixed
patterns in every Bahá’í community throughout the world. These
core activities would be conducted in such a manner as to open
the doors of the community to sympathetic seekers and non-
Bahá’ís, both adults and children.
There was a need to divide the country into clusters and to
categorize clusters depending upon whether they were virgin or
not, and if already opened to the Faith, for these clusters to be
classified according to their strengths. These new features were so
fundamental in nature that the House of Justice felt that they had
to accompany the dawn of the new epoch.
Another feature was to be the operation of Regional Councils,
both elected and appointed, as approved by the Universal House
of Justice. In countries where the establishment of such Councils
was justified, the supervision of the teaching work, the much-
needed stimulation to be given to Local Assemblies, groups and
isolated believers and the urgency to improve the administrative

SHOGHI EFFENDI: AUTHOR OF TEACHING PLANS

machinery in each of the regional areas became ongoing func-
tions of these Regional Councils.
The final determination of all these details was, of course,
within the jurisdiction of National Spiritual Assemblies but they
were urged by the Universal House of Justice to invite the Coun-
sellors, to seek their views and to engage in full consultation with
them about the various aspects of this new stage in the develop-
ment of the Faith.
How often has it been seen that in countries where the collabo-
ration between the Counsellors and the National Spiritual Assem-
blies was genuine, intimate and sustained, the work of the Faith
progressed, rapidly and healthily, both the teaching work and in
the administrative field of Bahá’í service.
It will, of course, devolve upon the Universal House of Justice
to determine when the current epoch will end and to decide how
many more epochs separate us from the Golden Age of the Dis-
pensation of Bahá’u’lláh. As already stated, Shoghi Effendi has
visualized, in his letter of May 1953, that even the Golden Age of
the Bahá’í Dispensation will be divided into epochs and will have
its own crusades (Messages to the Bahá’ís of the World 154).

TIME PERIODS: FROM CYCLES TO PHASES


QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS

Q. We know the beginning of the process of disintegration is
the year 1844. How can we respond to people who argue that
the evidences of disintegration, the decadent events in history,
have been occurring from before 1844 and therefore do not
accept the Bahá’í view.

Q. Will destruction and integration, according to the idea
given by the two lines, always coexist? Does this mean that in
the Bahá’í civilization there will also be destructive events?

Q. In these days we have been talking about the two main
processes of integration and disintegration; my question is,
have they always coexisted since the beginning of human his-
tory? Or this is something that belongs only to the Bahá’í cy-
cle in order to establish the World Order of Bahá’u’lláh?


A. These three questions are very closely related. For the word
disintegration we can think of another word like decline or decay.
It is because of decay and decline that the Prophets or the Mes-
sengers of God appear. God sends them because the disintegration
process does exist before the appearance of the Manifestation of
God. When a Manifestation of God appears, His appearance does
not stop the disintegration, it accelerates it. Just as when the sun
rises, if something is decayed, it dries it up (see chart n. 5 p. 159)
As to the question of whether the processes of integration and
disintegration existed under previous Manifestations, they cer-
tainly did. This is a universal process. There is always disintegra-
tion in the world but this term has not been used and the concept
has not been clarified in the way it is now, because it was local-
ized in a country or applied to a region. Since we are now talking
about the whole planet and the entire human race, this is why it
has now become so dramatic and captures the imagination. But in

SHOGHI EFFENDI: AUTHOR OF TEACHING PLANS

essence the two processes always existed in the past and will con-
tinue to exist in the future. The scale is different.

Q. Why is the Formative Age also called ‘the Age of Frustra-
tion’ in The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh?

A. Shoghi Effendi uses this term ‘the Age of Frustration’ and it is
mostly applicable to the Formative Age. But when we read his
exact words about ‘the Age of Frustration’ you see that he is say-
ing that the condition of frustration began even before the begin-
ning of the Formative Age. With the First World War, the Age of
Frustration began. Shoghi Effendi attached a great deal of impor-
tance to the First World War. In God Passes By he points out that
the First World War was the first stage in the convulsions and the
commotion that Bahá’u’lláh predicted (God Passes By 305). Re-
member he was writing this in God Passes By in 1944, when the
Second World War was on. The Second World War was the sec-
ond stage in the convulsions and the derangement of the equilib-
rium of the world that Bahá’u’lláh had predicted. The concept of
‘frustration’ is humanity’s realization that what it thought it could
achieve, it had not achieved, as it failed to fulfil its hopes and its
aspirations for happiness and welfare.

Q. Báb means ‘Gate’. Why is it that He is the starting point of
the new era?

A. The Báb means ‘gate’. Of course, that means that He was a
gate to Bahá’u’lláh. He was also a gate to a new era. At the con-
fluence of two cycles stands one man, the Báb, and the era He
opens is not called the Bábí cycle but the Bahá’í cycle. He is
twenty-five years old. Now we come to the Dispensation itself.
The Bahá’í Dispensation begins with the Heroic Age, including
the Báb Himself, Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. The Heroic Age
comes to an end in 1921. There is another confluence here. At this
confluence there is one man standing, Shoghi Effendi. He is

TIME PERIODS: FROM CYCLES TO PHASES

twenty-four years old and he is now opening a new Formative
Age and this Formative Age will continue after the thirty-six years
of his ministry into the stretches of time ahead. Then we have the
Universal House of Justice and it will lead us into the Golden Age
and later on into a new Dispensation.
The Báb was both a Manifestation of God and the Herald to
Bahá’u’lláh. We call this the Bahá’í and not the Bábí cycle be-
cause its Supreme Manifestation is Bahá’u’lláh and the Báb was
under the shadow of Bahá’u’lláh. Shoghi Effendi used to say that
the Shrine of the Báb on Mount Carmel was under the shadow of
the Shrine of Bahá’u’lláh, and he wrote that future kings coming
to the Most Holy Land as pilgrims would first visit the Shrine of
Bahá’u’lláh and then visit the Shrine of the Báb because the
Shrine of the Báb was under the shadow of the Shrine of
Bahá’u’lláh.

Q. Why do we commonly use the word ‘Prophet’ in connec-
tion with our Twin Manifestations, knowing that technically
this does not apply to Them, since MuCammad was the last
one of these beings? We find this too in Shoghi Effendi's writ-
ings.

A. I can see the problem that the questioner has about the word
‘Prophet’ because this word has a double meaning. One is to be a
prophet who prophesies about the advent of the Era of Fulfilment,
and one is to be a Prophet, a Messenger or Manifestation of God.
In the first sense of Prophet, the Prophetic Era is over. The Twin
Manifestations, in the second sense of the word ‘Prophet’, are in-
deed divine prophetic figures.



IV
Plans Prior to the Ten Year Crusade

The first sixteen years of the Formative Age witnessed the forma-
tion and consolidation of Spiritual Assemblies, both Local and
National. It was during this period that Shoghi Effendi was able to
establish ten National Spiritual Assemblies in the world, which
included two within the confines of the former Soviet Union.
Listed below are the names of these National Spiritual Assemblies
in alphabetical order:

 Australia and New Zealand
 Caucasus
 Egypt
 Germany and Austria
 British Isles
 India and Burma
 Iraq
 Iran
 Turkistan
 United States and Canada

Just prior to the beginning of World War II, and soon after, three
of the National Spiritual Assemblies had to be disbanded. They
were the National Assemblies of Caucasus, Germany-Austria and
Turkistan. Thus in the year 1940-1941 the number of National As-
semblies in the world was reduced to seven.
The National Spiritual Assembly of Germany and Austria was
re-elected soon after the end of the war. Some three years later,
that is in 1948, that community was able to adopt its first nation-
ally sponsored teaching Plan, namely its Five Year Plan ending in
April 1953.

SHOGHI EFFENDI: AUTHOR OF TEACHING PLANS

The two other National Assemblies were out of action for a
much longer period, that is until 1990 when the former Soviet Un-
ion fell apart. It was then possible to form a number of new Na-
tional Spiritual Assemblies in the former regional area of the So-
viet regime. Among them were the National Spiritual Assemblies
of Azerbaijan and Turkmenistan, which replaced the National As-
semblies of the Caucasus and Turkistan.
It was at Riḍván 1937 that Shoghi Effendi felt that the time
was ripe for the American Bahá’í community, whom Shoghi Ef-
fendi had described as the ‘envied custodians’ (Citadel of Faith
120) of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Tablets of the Divine Plan to be charged
with the responsibility of executing, under his direct guidance, the
first American Seven Year Plan, which was the initial collective
teaching enterprise in the history of our Faith. It also opened, ac-
cording to Shoghi Effendi, the first epoch in the evolution of the
Divine Plan of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.

A. The First (North American) Seven Year Plan

Any close observer will clearly note that Shoghi Effendi took this
crucial step without pomp or ceremony. He introduced, however,
the idea of a plan one year before its eventual inception by merely
expressing a hope that the Bahá’í community of the United States
and Canada, whose members he had labelled ‘the spiritual de-
scendants of the Dawn-breakers’ (This Decisive Hour 13), would
fulfil a wish that he cherished in his heart. His exact words in a
telegraphic message addressed to the Bahá’í convention at Riḍván
1936 were as follows:

FIRST CENTURY BAHÁ’Í ERA DRAWING TO A
CLOSE. HUMANITY ENTERING OUTER FRINGES
MOST PERILOUS STAGE ITS EXISTENCE. OPPOR-
TUNITIES PRESENT HOUR UNIMAGINABLY PRE-
CIOUS. WOULD TO GOD EVERY STATE WITHIN
AMERICAN REPUBLIC AND EVERY REPUBLIC IN

PLANS PRIOR TO THE TEN YEAR CRUSADE

AMERICAN CONTINENT MIGHT ERE TERMINATION
THIS GLORIOUS CENTURY EMBRACE LIGHT FAITH
BAHÁ’U’LLÁH AND ESTABLISH STRUCTURAL BA-
SIS OF HIS WORLD ORDER (This Decisive Hour 11).

One year later, in his message to the convention at Riḍván 1937,
he mentioned the term ‘Seven Year Plan’. As it was important to
complete the exterior ornamentation of the Temple by the end of
the first Bahá'í century, it was clear that this latter goal had to be
incorporated into the formulation of that plan.
The objectives of the first Seven Year Plan were as follows:

1) The completion of the exterior of the Temple in Wilmette.
2) The formation of a Spiritual Assembly in every state of the
United States including Alaska as well as in nine provinces
of Canada.
3) The establishment of a centre in each republic of Latin
America and the Caribbean.

Its conclusion was to coincide with the celebrations of the cen-
tenary of the Declaration of the Báb in 1944, which marked the
end of the first Bahá’í century.
Amatu’l-Bahá Rúḥíyyih Khánum, in The Priceless Pearl, has
given us a digest of the various steps and phases through which
the Seven Year Plan was guided by the beloved Guardian. She
quotes from one of Shoghi Effendi’s letters in 1939, addressed to
the American Bahá’í community:

Through all the resources at their disposal, they are promot-
ing the growth and consolidation of that pioneer movement
for which the entire machinery of their administrative order
has been primarily designed and erected (This Decisive
Hour 34).

SHOGHI EFFENDI: AUTHOR OF TEACHING PLANS

Following this quotation, this is how she picks up the story of the
first Seven Year Plan:

It was the Guardian who had ‘so laboriously erected’ this
‘machinery’, with the help of willing and eager tools he
found amongst the North American believers, who grasped
his thought, obeyed his command and hastened to put into
action his instructions. It was the Guardian alone who pos-
sessed the divine and indefeasible right to direct the battle of
Bahá’u’lláh's forces of light against the forces of darkness
(Priceless Pearl 382).

A little over two years after the initiation of this historic
teaching drive Europe went to war; another two years
passed and the United States – and practically the whole
planet – was at war. Its seven-year activity took place in the
face of the greatest suffering and darkest threat the New
World had ever experienced. The degree to which Shoghi
Effendi watched over, encouraged and guided this first great
Plan of the Divine Plan is unbelievable. Messages streamed
from him to the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá'ís
of the United States and Canada. In 1937 he informed them
that to carry out the dual enterprises of this Plan would shed
a ‘lustre no less brilliant’ on the closing years of the first
Bahá'í Century, ‘than the immortal deeds which have signal-
ized its birth, in the Heroic Age of our Faith’ [This Decisive
Hour 16]. In 1938 he told them the ‘deepening gloom’ of the
Old World invested their labours with a ‘significance and
urgency’ [This Decisive Hour 24] that could not be overes-
timated. The Latin American campaign was ‘one of the most
glorious chapters in the international history of the Faith’
[Advent of Divine Justice 59], and upon its success de-
pended future Plans. It marked, he cabled them, the ‘inaugu-
ration [of the] long-deferred world mission constituting
‘Abdu’l-Bahá's distinctive legacy [to the] Bahá'í Community

PLANS PRIOR TO THE TEN YEAR CRUSADE

[in] North America’ [This Decisive Hour 35]. It was the
‘opening scene of the First Act of that superb Drama whose
theme is no less than the spiritual conquest of both the East-
ern and Western Hemispheres’[This Decisive Hour 41].
With all this it was still to be viewed as ‘a mere beginning,
as a trial of strength, a stepping-stone to a crusade of still
greater magnitude . . . ’ [Advent of Divine Justice 12].
After two years of the Plan had run their course, when the
exterior ornamentation of the Temple was satisfactorily pro-
gressing, and a series of ardent appeals from him (as well as
a contribution of nine hundred pounds which he had felt ‘ir-
resistibly urged’ and ‘proud’ [This Decisive Hour 26] to
contribute toward the permanent pioneer settlement of the
nine still unsettled states and provinces in North America)
had ensured that all the preliminary steps had been taken on
the home front – Shoghi Effendi waved his arm and directed
the march of his forces down the coasts and over the islands
of Central America, following, as he cabled, in a ‘methodi-
cal advance along [the] line traced [by the] pen [of]
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’[This Decisive Hour 32]. In spite of his own
ever-growing burdens and anxieties he informed the friends
he wished to keep personally in contact with pioneers in
North, Central and South America. What those letters of his
meant to the pioneers ‘holding’, as he said, ‘their lonely
posts in widely scattered areas throughout the Americas’
[This Decisive Hour 87], only those who received them can
truly judge, but I myself wonder if this, or later crusades
would ever have been won without this communion he had
with the believers. His love, encouragement and understand-
ing kept them anchored to their posts. Not a few are still
where they are because of letters signed ‘Your true brother,
Shoghi’ (Priceless Pearl 385–386).

In looking back on those glorious and terrible years of the
last war the success of the first Seven Year Plan seems truly

SHOGHI EFFENDI: AUTHOR OF TEACHING PLANS

miraculous. While humanity was being decimated in Europe
and Asia, while the World Centre of the Faith was being
threatened with unprecedented danger on four sides, while
the United States and Canada were engaged in a world con-
flict, with its attendant anxieties, restrictions and furor, a
handful of people, lacking in resources but rich in faith,
lacking in prestige but rich in determination, succeeded in
not only doubling the number of Bahá'í Assemblies in North
America and ensuring the existence of at least one in every
state of the Union and every province of Canada, but in
completing the extremely costly exterior ornamentation of
their Mother Temple sixteen months ahead of the scheduled
time, and establishing not only a strong Bahá'í group in each
of the twenty Latin Republics, but in addition fifteen Spiri-
tual Assemblies throughout the entire area . . . When the sun
of the second Bahá'í Century rose, it rose on triumph. To his
cohorts Shoghi Effendi said that he and the entire Bahá'í
world owed them a debt of gratitude no one could ‘measure
or describe’ [This Decisive Hour 93]. Small wonder he
wrote that such a community had ‘abundantly demonstrated
its worthiness to shoulder the superhuman tasks with which
it had been entrusted’ [This Decisive Hour 64–65] (Price-
less Pearl 387–388).

At the end of the Seven Year Plan, Shoghi Effendi was so proud
of the achievements of the American Bahá’í Community that he
outlined their accomplishments in his God Passes By in the fol-
lowing words:

Indeed, ere the expiry of that century not only had the work
on the Temple been completed sixteen months before the
appointed time, but instead of one tiny nucleus in every
Latin Republic, Spiritual Assemblies had already been es-
tablished in Mexico City and Puebla (Mexico), in Buenos
Aires (Argentina), in Guatemala City (Guatemala), in

PLANS PRIOR TO THE TEN YEAR CRUSADE

Santiago (Chile), in Montevideo (Uruguay), in Quito (Ecua-
dor), in Bogotá (Colombia), in Lima (Peru), in Asuncion
(Paraguay), in Tegucigalpa (Honduras), in San Salvador
(El-Salvador), in San Jose and Puntarenas (Costa Rica), in
Havana (Cuba) and in Port-au-Prince (Haiti). Extension
work, in which newly fledged Latin American believers were
participating, had, moreover, been initiated, and was being
vigorously carried out, in the Republics of Mexico, Brazil,
Argentina, Chile, Panama and Costa Rica; believers had es-
tablished their residence not only in the capital cities of all
the Latin American Republics, but also in such centres as
Veracruz, Cananea and Tacubaya (Mexico), in Balboa and
Christobal (Panama), in Recife (Brazil), in Guayaquil and
Ambato (Ecuador), and in Temuco and Magellanes (Chile);
the Spiritual Assemblies of the Bahá'ís of Mexico City and of
San Jose had been incorporated; in the former city a Bahá'í
centre, comprising a library, a reading room and a lecture
room, had been founded; Bahá'í Youth Symposiums had
been observed in Havana, Buenos Aires and Santiago,
whilst a distributing centre of Bahá'í literature for Latin
America had been established in Buenos Aires (God Passes
By 399–400).

Some explanation is necessary at this juncture to point out that we
do not find the date of the end of the first epoch of the Formative
Age and the beginning of the second epoch rigidly fixed in Shoghi
Effendi’s letters of the period. Within a clearly defined span of
two years – i.e. between April 1944 and April 1946 – however, we
see him allowing the cut off date to sway, depending on the recep-
tivity of national communities to assume the responsibility of fol-
lowing plans.
This flexibility on his part is an indication of his wisdom. He
wanted each national community to take its own time to warm up
to the idea of adopting a teaching plan suitable to its particular
circumstances.

SHOGHI EFFENDI: AUTHOR OF TEACHING PLANS

B. The Second (North American) Seven Year Plan

The Bahá’í world entered the second Bahá’í century with the proud
knowledge that the first epoch of the Formative Age had been ter-
minated, that its light had now reached seventy-eight countries, that
it had achieved a major step in the construction of the Mother Tem-
ple of the West and that it was now ready to further extend the
range of its institutions and consolidate its administrative structure.
Shoghi Effendi had been patiently and systematically educating and
preparing the Bahá’í world for the implementation of the two broad
objectives he had in mind for his unique ministry. The first, as al-
ready stated, was to strengthen the foundations of the structure of
the Administrative Order, both locally and nationally, to enable it to
sustain the weight of the dome of that structure, which he repeat-
edly identified in his letters, in English and in Persian, as the Uni-
versal House of Justice. The second broad objective was to train the
nascent institutions of the Faith in the concept of collective action
aimed at executing step by step each and every wish expressed by
‘Abdu’l-Bahá in the Tablets of the Divine Plan.
After two years of respite given to the North American Bahá’í
community, he called upon it to initiate its second Seven Year
Plan – a plan designed to end with the centenary of the birth of the
Bahá’í Revelation in 1953.
It was in April 1946 that Shoghi Effendi felt that the hour had
now struck for the launching of the second Seven Year Plan of the
North American community. These are his words in his cabled
message, addressed to the 1946 American Convention:

TIME RIPE, EVENTS PRESSING, HOSTS ON HIGH
SOUNDING
SIGNAL
INAUGURATION
SECOND
SEVEN YEAR PLAN, DESIGNED CULMINATE FIRST
CENTENNIAL YEAR NINE, MARKING MYSTIC
BIRTH
BAHÁ’U’LLÁH’S
PROPHETIC
MISSION
SÍYÁH-CHÁL, ṬIHRÁN. TWOFOLD RESPONSIBILITY
URGENTLY CALLS VANGUARD DAWN-BREAKERS

PLANS PRIOR TO THE TEN YEAR CRUSADE

WEST, CHAMPION-BUILDERS BAHÁ’U’LLÁH’S OR-
DER, TORCHBEARERS WORLD CIVILIZATION, EX-
ECUTORS ‘ABDU’L-BAHÁ’S MANDATE, ARISE SI-
MULTANEOUSLY BRING FRUITION TASKS AL-
READY UNDERTAKEN, LAUNCH FRESH ENTER-
PRISES BEYOND BORDERS WESTERN HEMISPHERE.
FIRST OBJECTIVE NEW PLAN: CONSOLIDATION
VICTORIES WON THROUGHOUT AMERICAS, IN-
VOLVING MULTIPLICATION BAHÁ’Í
CENTRES,
BOLDER PROCLAMATION FAITH MASSES. SECOND
OBJECTIVE: COMPLETION INTERIOR ORNAMEN-
TATION
HOLIEST
HOUSE
WORSHIP
BAHÁ’Í
WORLD, DESIGNED COINCIDE FIFTIETH ANNIVER-
SARY INCEPTION HISTORIC ENTERPRISE. THIRD
OBJECTIVE: FORMATION THREE NATIONAL AS-
SEMBLIES, PILLARS UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUS-
TICE, DOMINION CANADA, CENTRAL, SOUTH
AMERICA. FOURTH OBJECTIVE: INITIATION SYS-
TEMATIC TEACHING ACTIVITY WAR-TORN, SPIRI-
TUALLY
FAMISHED,
EUROPEAN
CONTINENT,
CRADLE WORLD-FAMED CIVILIZATIONS, TWICE
BLESSED ‘ABDU’L-BAHÁ’S VISITS, WHOSE RULERS
BAHÁ’U’LLÁH SPECIFICALLY COLLECTIVELY AD-
DRESSED, AIMING ESTABLISHMENT ASSEMBLIES
IBERIAN PENINSULA, LOW COUNTRIES, SCANDI-
NAVIAN STATES, ITALY. NO EFFORT TOO GREAT
FOR
COMMUNITY
BELONGING
CONTINENT,
WHOSE RULERS BAHÁ’U’LLÁH ADDRESSED, IN
MOST HOLY BOOK, WHOSE MEMBERS INVESTED
SPIRITUAL PRIMACY BY ‘ABDU’L-BAHÁ, AND
NAMED BY HIM, APOSTLES HIS FATHER, WHOSE
COUNTRY WAS FIRST WESTERN NATION RESPOND
DIVINE MESSAGE, AND DEEMED WORTHY BE
FIRST BUILD TABERNACLE MOST GREAT PEACE,
WHOSE ADMINISTRATORS EVOLVED PATTERN

SHOGHI EFFENDI: AUTHOR OF TEACHING PLANS

EMBRYONIC
WORLD
ORDER,
CONSUMMATED
FIRST STAGE DIVINE PLAN, AND WHOSE ELEVA-
TION THRONE EVERLASTING DOMINION, CENTRE
COVENANT CONFIDENTLY ANTICIPATED (This De-
cisive Hour 112–113).

Since during the Second World War it would take two weeks for a
letter from the Holy Land to reach the American National Assem-
bly, he resorted to cables. In cablegram (cablese) style of writing
one drops, auxiliary verbs, propositions, conjunctions and articles
for practical reasons. When Shoghi Effendi was sending a cable to
the American Bahá’í community it was sometimes a couple of
pages long. At that time, there was a system in cable transmissions
known as ‘L.T.’ which meant ‘Late Telegram’. These L.T.s were
sent after all the regular cables were sent; in other words, at night,
and thus were less expensive. Shoghi Effendi did not mind writing
a cable during the day and for its text to be received the next
morning in America. So he sent cables by L.T., which gave him a
cheaper rate. L.T. message had to have at least 22 words and any-
thing over that was at a lower rate than the regular cables.
The American National Spiritual Assembly realized that the
friends would find it difficult to understand the messages, as they
had to guess the missing words. For example, in Shoghi Effendi’s
sentence ‘TIME RIPE’, the National Assembly would add ‘the’
before ‘TIME’ and ‘is’ before ‘RIPE’. So in print the text would
read: (The) TIME (is) RIPE. The added words would be in paren-
thesis to show that they were not in the original text.
The National Assembly, however, made mistakes sometimes
when choosing, say, the preposition. Such mistakes could change
the meaning of the sentence. Shoghi Effendi had in mind, for in-
stance, ‘for’ as the missing word. The Assembly would think it
was ‘of’ and by inserting ‘of’ instead of ‘for’, the meaning would
be changed. That was a problem that Shoghi Effendi encountered.
After the publication of the cables, Shoghi Effendi had to look
carefully at these insertions by the National Assembly and would

PLANS PRIOR TO THE TEN YEAR CRUSADE

then have to write or cable the Assembly to convey the corrections
to be made. That is how much trouble he had to go through. These
points are important to bear in mind as you read these cables.
A couple of weeks after his 1946 cable, Shoghi Effendi wrote
a fourteen page letter explaining in detail the objectives of the
plan and called on the friends to pioneer, to put the Cause first in
their lives and to respond to the call voiced by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in
His Tablets of the Divine Plan.
Amatu’l-Bahá Rúḥíyyih Khánum in her The Priceless Pearl
points out that the pioneer and teaching goals in Europe were the
pre-eminent goal of this second Seven Year Plan and that among
the American friends this plan was referred to quite often as the
‘European Campaign’ (Priceless Pearl 403). In addition to the
distinctions that Europe had won in Bahá’í history, as indicated in
the above-mentioned convention message, Shoghi Effendi in a
later message to the American friends described Europe as a ‘con-
tinent unconquered by Islam, rightly regarded as the mother of
Christendom, the fountainhead of American culture, the main-
stream of western civilization’ (Citadel of Faith 4). Shoghi Ef-
fendi was fully aware of the challenges that pioneers and teachers
in Europe would face. Referring to the mentality of the European
people in general, he described them in one of his letters as ‘in-
tensely conservative by nature, steeped in tradition, bound, for the
most part, by the ties of religious orthodoxy, sunk in materialism,
and fully content with the standard they have achieved’ (Priceless
Pearl 405).
Amatu’l-Bahá picks up the thread of the story of the second
Seven Year Plan. She writes, with reference to the date of the
message to the 1946 Convention:

Six weeks later a cable from Shoghi Effendi informed the
American National Assembly that ‘nine competent pioneers’
[This Decisive Hour 114] should be promptly dispatched to
Europe to as many countries as feasible, that the Duchy of
Luxembourg should be added to the Low Countries and

SHOGHI EFFENDI: AUTHOR OF TEACHING PLANS

Switzerland also included. With these two and the previous
eight, the ‘Ten Goal Countries’ [Citadel of Faith 110] came
into existence in our Bahá'í vocabulary. Some time later, in
view of the marked progress being made in the north of
Europe, Finland was also added to the scope of the Plan. Al-
though, in addition to Britain and Germany, there were still
Bahá'ís living in France, Switzerland, Norway, Sweden,
Denmark, Yugoslavia, Czechoslovakia, Bulgaria and per-
haps other places, they were for the most part too isolated or
too suppressed to undertake large-scale teaching activities.
The opening of this systematic well-organized Plan in ‘war-
torn, spiritually famished’ [This Decisive Hour 112] Europe
meant that the American Community now found itself
‘launched in both hemispheres on a second, incomparably
more glorious stage, of the systematic Crusade designed to
culminate, in the fullness of time, in the spiritual conquest of
the entire planet’ [This Decisive Hour 135; Priceless Pearl
403)

The continent of Europe was ‘turbulent, politically convulsed,
economically disrupted and spiritually depleted’ (Citadel of Faith
42). But it was the arena where the American Community must
now carry out the ‘first stage of its transatlantic missionary enter-
prise’ (Citadel of Faith 41) ‘amidst peoples so disillusioned, so
varied in race, language and outlook, so impoverished spiritually,
so paralyzed with fear, so confused in thought, so abased in their
moral standards, so rent by internal schisms...’ (Citadel of Faith
47).

“When these ‘trail-blazers’ [This Decisive Hour 85] of the
second Seven Year Plan began their mission there were only
two European Bahá'í communities worthy of the name,
those of the British Isles and Germany, both long-standing
and both of which had had active National Assemblies be-
fore the war; the first had never ceased to function; the sec-

PLANS PRIOR TO THE TEN YEAR CRUSADE

ond, dissolved by the Nazi authorities in 1937 when all Ba-
há'í activity was officially suspended, was now reconstituted
and heroically gathering its war-torn flock about it. With
these the European Teaching Committee of the American
National Assembly and the ever-swelling group of pioneers
in the Ten Goal Countries closely co-operated. The progress
was so rapid that by the second year of the new Plan there
were already eight new local Assemblies functioning in
these countries and, as the work continued to rapidly spread,
the Guardian extended its objectives to include Finland.
With the same degree of burning interest with which he
had guided the exploits of the first Seven Year Plan he now
followed the course of the second one. In 1948 he informed
the friends that the ‘primacy’ of the American Bahá'í Com-
munity was ‘reasserted, fully vindicated, completely safe-
guarded’ [Citadel of Faith 49]; that ‘intent on maintaining
its lead among its sister communities’ [Citadel of Faith 51]
it had excited ‘feelings of admiration and envy in several
communities, East and West’ [Citadel of Faith 46]. The vic-
tories won in Europe were all the more meritorious, Shoghi
Effendi pointed out, because the environment and circum-
stances were more adverse and challenging than had been
the case in Latin America (Priceless Pearl 404–405).

In the middle of this great European undertaking, which had
truly fired the imagination of the Bahá'ís all over the world,
including the new communities of Latin America – who
were even able to send some of their own pioneers to assist
in this new Crusade – the hard-pressed American Bahá'ís
found themselves faced by a serious crisis. Owing to a sud-
den increase in costs the expense of completing their be-
loved Temple, through clothing its interior with designs lit-
tle less elaborate than its exterior and of the same material,
had risen heavily. Shoghi Effendi's army was in difficulties.
He investigated the situation carefully and then immediately

SHOGHI EFFENDI: AUTHOR OF TEACHING PLANS

decided on the action necessary to save it. It is illuminating
to see what he considered could be safely jettisoned and
what was essential: the budgets allocated to the all-
important European work, to the spread and maintenance of
the precious Assemblies and centres created in Latin and
North America, must not be curtailed; the holding of the
American National Convention and the publication of Ba-
há'í News he considered imperative; but all other activities,
such as proclamation, publications and summer schools,
should either be ‘drastically curtailed or suspended during
two years’ [Citadel of Faith 65] (1949 and 1950). Like any
great general conducting a campaign he safeguarded three
things: his front lines of battle, his ‘essential base’ [Citadel
of Faith 102] (as he called it) of operations and his lines of
communication. Other considerations, however, were to
persuade the Guardian, in 1951, to not only prolong this pe-
riod of intense economy in America but to enlarge it to em-
brace the whole Bahá'í world. The construction of the
Shrine of the Báb – for the entire stonework of which he had
recently signed a contract – as well as the formation of the
International Bahá'í Council and the general expansion of
the work in the Holy Land, led him to appeal to all National
Spiritual Assemblies, local Assemblies and individual be-
lievers to curtail their budgets and through a great effort and
sacrifice rally to the support of the World Centre. ‘Austerity
period’, he cabled, ‘previously affecting fortunes American
Bahá'í Community unavoidable prolonged now extended en-
tire Bahá'í world in recognition pressing needs paramount
importance glorious international task’ [This Decisive Hour
130]. The American Bahá'ís had already, by 1950, raised
half-a-million dollars for the interior ornamentation of their
Temple, thus breaking the back of a particularly heavy
commitment (Priceless Pearl 405–406).

PLANS PRIOR TO THE TEN YEAR CRUSADE

Yet with all their burdens, their triumphs during the last
years of the second Seven Year Plan continued to multiply
(Priceless Pearl 407).

In 1952 he cabled that ‘ere termination American Commu-
nity's second Seven Year Plan’ the National Spiritual As-
sembly of the Bahá'ís of Italy and Switzerland should be
formed . . . [Messages to the Bahá'í World 22] (Priceless
Pearl 407).

He explained he was planning to entrust this youngest As-
sembly of the Bahá'í world with a specific plan of its own as
part of the Global Crusade to be embarked upon between the
second and third Century celebrations. It had become an es-
tablished procedure of the Guardian for these new National
Bahá'í babies to be born with a plan in their mouths!
It may well be imagined how excited, how heartened, all
the followers of Bahá’u’lláh were by news so thrilling as
this. They saw what seemed to them little short of miracles
taking place, and their loving ‘true brother’, in his humility,
his praises and kindness, led them to believe such miracles
were all theirs. That Italy should have, from a vacuum, suc-
ceeded in one decade in building up a foundation of local
Assemblies strong enough, with its Swiss companion, to
bear the weight of an independent National Assembly was a
feat far beyond anyone's fairest dreams (Priceless Pearl
407–408).

A just and loving God does not require of any soul what He
will not give it the strength to accomplish. Privileges in-
volve responsibilities, for peoples, nations, individuals. To
the degree to which they arise to meet their responsibilities
they are blessed and sustained; to the degree they fail they
are automatically deprived and punished. Shoghi Effendi
had written at the beginning of the first Seven Year Plan that

SHOGHI EFFENDI: AUTHOR OF TEACHING PLANS

‘failure to exploit these golden opportunities would . . . sig-
nify the loss of the rarest privilege conferred by Providence
upon the American Bahá'í Community’ [This Decisive Hour
27]. ‘The Kingdom of God’, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá had said, ‘is pos-
sessed of limitless potency. Audacious must be the army of
life if the confirming aid of that Kingdom is to be repeatedly
vouchsafed to it . . .’ [This Decisive Hour 28]. It was in pur-
suance of the operation of this great law that the followers
of Bahá’u’lláh who had been entrusted with the Divine Plan,
rising to meet their challenge, pulling down from on high
through their services an ever-greater measure of celestial
aid, discharging their sacred responsibility in so noble a
fashion, found destiny hastening to meet them, a step in ad-
vance. A victorious army, having swept all barriers before it,
is often so exhilarated by its exploits it needs no respite. It is
ready to march on, fired by its victories. This was the mood
of the Bahá'í world as 1953 approached and it was about to
enter the Holy Year (Priceless Pearl 408).

Shoghi Effendi took the Centenary – this great golden wheel
in his tapestry – and fashioned it in such a way that two en-
tirely different things were made to react on each other and
at the same time blend into each other in one great creative
centre of force. One was the past, the commemoration of
such soul-shaking events as the martyrdoms, the imprison-
ment of Bahá’u’lláh, His mystic experience of His own sta-
tion in the Síyáh-Chál, His exile and all that these events
signified for the progress of man in his journey towards his
Creator; the other was the marshalling, this time of all the
organized Bahá'í communities of the planet, in a vast Plan,
the next step in the unfoldment of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá's Divine
Plan.
Moved by the spirits of those two Exalted Beings Who,
‘Abdu’l-Bahá had promised in His Will and Testament,
would infallibly guide him, his whole heart and attention fo-

PLANS PRIOR TO THE TEN YEAR CRUSADE

cused on the propagation of that Faith of which he had been
made Guardian – and Guardian is a very weak English
equivalent for what the original Arabic ‘Valiyy-i-Amru'llah’
means, Defender of the Faith, Leader, Commander-in-Chief
– Shoghi Effendi set about devising the next stage of the
Master's Plan (Priceless Pearl 409–410).

Bahá’u’lláh was imprisoned for four months in the Síyáh-Chál
from August until December 1952. When one reads from the
Writings of Bahá’u’lláh Himself about the experience He had in
this prison, one sees that the intimation He received occurred
about half way through this four-month period. Shoghi Effendi
judged that half way would be October and thus decided to start a
Holy Year from October 1952 until October 1953.
This was not supposed to be a respite. While activities of the
plans were being pursued, at the same time the Bahá’ís of the
world were called upon to celebrate the Holy Year and to call to
mind the events of the Síyáh-Chál.
Shoghi Effendi explained in God Passes By and in his letters
to the Bahá’í world both in Persian and in English that the an-
nouncement of the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh occurred in three
stages. Shoghi Effendi described the first stage as an ‘intimation’,
the second stage as ‘declaration’ and the third stage as ‘proclama-
tion’ (God Passes By 103, 121, 152 and 170). The ‘intimation’
took place in Tehran in the Síyáh-Chál, at the midway point of
these four months. The ‘declaration’ was in Baghdád, when He
declared Himself to be ‘Him Whom God made manifest’ in the
Riḍván Garden in 1863, over a period of twelve days. The ‘proc-
lamation’ happened in Adrianople and continued until He was in
‘Akká during a period of over five years.
Every Prophet had experiences to indicate the dawn of His
Revelation. In God Passes By Shoghi Effendi compares the ex-
perience of Bahá’u’lláh in the Síyáh-Chál with the one of ‘Moses
when confronted by the Burning Bush in the wilderness of Sinai;
of Zoroaster when awakened to His Mission by a succession of

SHOGHI EFFENDI: AUTHOR OF TEACHING PLANS

seven visions; of Jesus when coming out of the waters of the Jor-
dan He saw the heavens opened and the Holy Ghost descend like
a dove and light upon Him; of MuOammad when in the Cave of
Hira, outside of the holy city of Mecca, the voice of Gabriel bade
Him “cry in the name of Thy Lord”; and of the Báb when in a
dream He approached the bleeding head of the Imám Pusayn,
and, quaffing the blood that dripped from his lacerated throat,
awoke to find Himself the chosen recipient of the outpouring
grace of the Almighty’ (God Passes By 93).
As clearly stated in the Writings of our Faith, the Manifesta-
tions of God from early childhood displayed exclusive and dis-
tinctive qualities of spiritual and intellectual excellence. ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá tells us that Bahá’u’lláh as a child was known to possess
‘extraordinary power’, ‘wisdom’ and ‘intelligence’ (Promulgation
of Universal Peace 25). The Báb is reported to have manifested in
His childhood ‘remarkable evidences of superhuman wisdom as
well as a ‘mysterious power’ (Nabíl’s Narrative 75–76). And Je-
sus is said to have ‘astonished’ Jewish doctors of religion in the
Temple through His ‘understanding’ and the ‘questions’ He was
asking them (Luke 46–48).
In Some Answered Questions ‘Abdu’l-Bahá tells us that God’s
Manifestations are themselves cautious of Their own powers be-
fore unveiling Their stations to others. He says: ‘Verily, from the
very beginning that Holy Reality (the Manifestation) is conscious
of the secret of existence, and from the age of childhood signs of
greatness appear and are visible in Him. Therefore, how can it be
that with all these bounties and perfections He should have no
consciousness?’ (Some Answered Questions 155) Furthermore,
when commenting on Bahá’u’lláh’s statement that He was asleep
and the divine breeze wafted over Him, referring to the inaugura-
tion of His ministry, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains: ‘Sleeping is the con-
dition of repose, and wakefulness is the condition of movement’
(Some Answered Questions 85). He further explains ‘A man sleep-
ing or waking is the same man . . . The time of silence is compared

PLANS PRIOR TO THE TEN YEAR CRUSADE

to sleep, and manifestation and guidance are compared to wake-
fulness’ (Some Answered Questions 153).
Shoghi Effendi decided that the centenary of the momentous
intimation of Bahá’u’lláh in the Síyáh-Chál should be celebrated.
Thus from October 1952, a hundred years after the midway point
of Bahá’u’lláh’s imprisonment in the Síyáh-Chál, until October
1953 a Holy Year would take place and there would be worldwide
celebrations and intercontinental conferences, at which the goals
for a new plan would be announced.
When announcing the objectives of the second Seven Year
Plan in April 1946, Shoghi Effendi had called on the North
American Bahá’í community to prepare itself for a third Seven
Year Plan. Between the second and third Seven Year Plans there
would a three-year period of respite, so that the third Seven Year
Plan would end in 1963. This is the way he announced this pro-
jected development:

UPON SUCCESS SECOND SEVEN YEAR PLAN DE-
PENDS LAUNCHING, AFTER RESPITE THREE BRIEF
YEARS, YET MORE MOMENTOUS THIRD SEVEN
YEAR
PLAN
WHICH
WHEN
CONSUMATED,
THROUGH ESTABLISHMENT STRUCTURE ADMIN-
ISTRATIVE
ORDER
REMAINING
SOVEREIGN
STATES CHIEF DEPENDENCIES ENTIRE GLOBE,
MUST CULMINATE IN, AND BE BEFITTINGLY COM-
MEMORATED THROUGH, WORLDWIDE CELEBRA-
TIONS MARKING CENTENNIAL FORMAL ASSUMP-
TION BY BAHA’U’LLAH PROPHETIC OFFICE, ASSO-
CIATED BY ‘ABDU’L-BAHA DANIEL’S PROPHECY
AND WORLD TRIUMPH BAHA’I REVELATION, SIG-
NALIZING TERMINATION INITIAL EPOCH EVOLU-
TION PLAN, WHOSE MYSTERIOUS RESISTLESS
PROCESSES MUST CONTINUE TO SHED EVER-
INCREASING LUSTRE ON SUCCESSIVE GENERA-
TIONS, BOTH FORMATIVE GOLDEN AGES FAITH

SHOGHI EFFENDI: AUTHOR OF TEACHING PLANS

BAHA’U’LLAH (This Decisive Hours 113, cablegram of
23 April 1946).

Four and half years later Shoghi Effendi announced that instead of
a three-year respite and a third Seven Year Plan, there would be a
global Ten Year Plan. This time the plan was not aimed only at
the American community; it was for the entire Bahá’í world: a
momentous and unprecedented Ten Year Crusade. Everybody was
excited to see what was in store and what Shoghi Effendi had in
mind.

C. ACCESSORY PLANS

Shoghi Effendi’s policy was to have Bahá’í communities vie with
one another. It can be compared to a spiritual race. You have your
line and you run! Another person next to you also runs! Therefore
there is a competition here. You look at your friend as he runs,
then you vie with him and you are stimulated by him. This is how
Shoghi Effendi drew attention to the goals and encouraged the
friends. For example, I was on pilgrimage, coming from Africa,
and the work in the Pacific was developing. So he said: ‘We have
so many Bahá’ís now in the Pacific Islands. Look at the Gilbert
and Ellice Islands for example; they have so many Bahá’ís. The
Pacific is moving forward. When you go back, you should ask the
African friends if they are ready to see the Pacific Islanders over-
taking them.’ This was a healthy method of motivating and stimu-
lating the friends.
This is why it is very important to be an example in our per-
sonal lives. We don’t have to advertise ourselves but we have to
live the Bahá’í life. If we live the Bahá’í life, other people will see
us and will want to be like us.
Once ‘Abdu’l-Bahá said: ‘If you are asleep, wake up! If you
are awake, do not lie down, sit up! If you are seated, stand up! If
you are standing, march! If you are marching, run!’ This is a

PLANS PRIOR TO THE TEN YEAR CRUSADE

process that God wants us to follow. He does not say: if you are
asleep, run! Gradually, step by step, we change.
Shoghi Effendi, in one of his letters, says: ‘The Cause has the
spiritual power to recreate us’(Unfolding Destiny 442)… ‘We
should try to change, to let the Power of God help recreate us and
make us true Bahá'ís in deed as well as in belief. But sometimes
the process is slow, sometimes it never happens because the indi-
vidual does not try hard enough’ (Unfolding Destiny 440).
One has to tap this celestial power and the way one can do it is
through prayer. One has also to decide to arise and to move in line
with the wishes of the Universal House of Justice, for that Su-
preme Body is the light that one should follow, as it is today the
central institution of the Covenant. And this has to be done while
one is detached from undesirable acts of omission or commission
of others. One should arise selflessly and love selflessly. This is
when action has an effect.
In the Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablet to Náṣiri’d-Dín Sháh He says:

They that surround thee love thee for their own sakes,
whereas this Youth loveth thee for thine own sake, and hath
had no desire except to draw thee nigh unto the seat of
grace, and to turn thee toward the right hand of justice. Thy
Lord beareth witness unto that which I declare (Summons of
the Lord of Hosts 99).

In other words, those around you show love towards you for
their own profit but I do not want anything from you and I love
you for your own sake. This is pure love and it is how one should
serve the Cause, with an unadulterated, unalloyed and pure love.
Such love attracts divine confirmation, and without it we can do
very little because we will be alone. With divine confirmation,
blessings come, and we can see the signs of His guidance and thus
become stronger in our faith and grow spiritually. This is one ex-
planation of what Shoghi Effendi means by ‘the Cause has the
power to recreate us’.

SHOGHI EFFENDI: AUTHOR OF TEACHING PLANS

Divine confirmations transform, change and strengthen us. If
we are timid, we become brave; if we have doubts, we become
full of certitude; if we feel inadequate, we should still offer our-
selves, and if our motives are pure, He will use us. We become
instruments in the hands of God, however inadequate we may be.
I often say that when I look at myself I see that I am like a knife. I
look at my knife. I see that my blade is old and rusted. I look at
the handle of the knife and I see that it is dirty. I know I am inade-
quate, unworthy and with many failings but I offer myself none-
theless. And believe me, our Blessed Beauty extends His arms and
I feel that somebody is holding me, and using me, though rusted. I
do not consider myself worthy at all but I offer myself. And we
should trust that He watches over us and that He helps us.
As to the accessory plans, as already stated, the first National
Assembly to come forward in 1944 was the British Assembly.
Two years later, in 1946, the United States and Canada started
their own second Seven Year Plan and at the same time Shoghi
Effendi had succeeded in encouraging Iran to have its own teach-
ing plan, a Forty-five Month Plan, which began in 1946. The same
year, India, Pakistan and Burma were also encouraged to have
their own plans. The following year, in 1947, he was able to join
to this group two other National Assemblies, that of Australia and
New Zealand, and that of Iraq. Then, in 1948, he was successful
in moving Egypt and Germany/Austria.
Unfortunately, the Second World War prevented Germany
from coming aboard but in 1948, with the encouragement of the
beloved Guardian, Germany and Austria as one community began
their own teaching plan. In total, at that time, there were eight Na-
tional Spiritual Assemblies.
Shoghi Effendi was wisely but surely nudging, in direct and
indirect ways, each of the National Assemblies, operating in dif-
ferent parts of the world, during the same seven years, to follow
the example of the American community, so that each National
Spiritual Assembly would, within its jurisdiction, adopt goals in
the teaching and consolidation work.

PLANS PRIOR TO THE TEN YEAR CRUSADE

As these goals were being carried out, Shoghi Effendi was
monitoring every movement made in each country from reports
that he received. Through letters and cables, he would constantly
push them to do better, to translate more books and create more
Local Assemblies and he would shower these National Spiritual
Assemblies with love and encouragement. And when they fol-
lowed his instructions and when they did well, he would praise
them generously, lovingly and bountifully. His letters were filled
with love, encouragement and gratitude for their achievements.
And these communities really felt that they were among the spiri-
tual champions of the planet. So they derived more courage and
forged ahead.
Something new developed in the course of the Seven Year
Plan: new National Assemblies were asked to ‘spin off’ and be-
came independent. In other words, a new National Assembly
separated itself from a mother Assembly. To illustrate this initia-
tive, one should look at the two communities of United States and
Canada. They started the second Seven Year Plan together in
1947. However, one year later Shoghi Effendi felt that Canada
was ready to be independent, so it was asked to spin off and create
its own National Assembly in 1948. As soon as this new Assem-
bly was born, he sent them a new message with a new plan for the
rest of the Seven Year Plan. It became the subsidiary Six Year
Plan of the Canadian National Spiritual Assembly.
Then, in 1950, Shoghi Effendi decided that Central America
and South America, since each of these regions was composed of
some twenty countries, should form two National Assemblies. As
a result, South America became a Regional Spiritual Assembly
including all of the various southern countries of the western
hemisphere, and Central America, including the Caribbean, be-
came another Regional Assembly. Shoghi Effendi started the sec-
ond Seven Year Plan with one National Spiritual Assembly in the
region, for North America, and by the end of the Seven Year Plan
in 1953 there were four National Assemblies: the United States,
Canada, Central America and South America. Because he wanted

SHOGHI EFFENDI: AUTHOR OF TEACHING PLANS

to have twelve of what he called ‘generals’ of the Ten Year Cru-
sade, he needed one more National Assembly. He combined Italy
and Switzerland together and it became the Italo-Swiss Assembly.
It was born on the same day that launched Riḍván 1953. He thus
welcomed this National Assembly as one of his ‘generals’ of the
Ten Year Crusade. These are examples of the way Shoghi Effendi
operated; he was on top of everything.
Each of the seven National Spiritual Assemblies is listed be-
low in alphabetical order, followed by passages from the Guard-
ian’s messages, as well as relevant data related to the adoption of
these seven national plans. The same types of details have then
been given regarding the subsidiary plans of the three National
Spiritual Assemblies that span off from the National Spiritual As-
sembly in North America.
At the end of this section a compilation is included, described
as ‘Addendum Part I’, which lists the objectives of the concurrent
and supplemental national plans of the Bahá’í world. Part II of the
Addendum includes the objectives of the three subsidiary plans.

D. DETAILS OF ACCESSORY PLANS

1) Australia and New Zealand

The Six Year Plan, 1947 – 1953

Shoghi Effendi called on the National Assembly to devise a teach-
ing plan and execute it systematically. On March 1947, he wrote:

The initiation of a Plan, carefully devised, universally sup-
ported, and designed to promote effectively the vital inter-
ests of the Faith, and attain a definite objective within a
specified number of years, would seem, at the present hour,
highly desirable and opportune, and will, as a magnet, at-
tract, to an unprecedented degree, the blessings of

PLANS PRIOR TO THE TEN YEAR CRUSADE

Bahá’u’lláh on the members of both communities, both indi-
vidually and collectively.
Now that the structural basis of the Bahá'í Administra-
tive Order has been firmly and definitely laid in those far-
away lands, and the National Headquarters of that Order
established, a systematic effort must be exerted to widen the
basis of that Order, by multiplying the Administrative insti-
tutions and forming the necessary nuclei, which, as they de-
velop and are consolidated, will have to be utilized as the
divinely ordained and most effectual instruments for the
proclamation of the Faith to the masses.
I fully realize how small are your numbers, how circum-
scribed are your means, how vast the distances that separate
the centres already established. But I firmly believe that the
initiation of a Plan to remedy the very deficiencies from
which the infant Administrative Order is now suffering, and a
firm resolve to carry out its provisions, as well as a sustained
effort to make the necessary sacrifices for its consummation,
will set in motion forces of such magnitude, and draw upon
both communities blessings of such potency, as shall excite
the wonder of the believers themselves, and cause their Faith
to enter an era of unprecedented expansion and marvellous
and fruitful development (Messages to the Antipodes 246).

In response to this call the National Assembly adopted its first
teaching plan at Riḍván 1947. The objectives of the plan were to
establish two new Spiritual Assemblies in Australia and nineteen
groups in Australasia. As a result of this Plan five new Assemblies
were established, bringing the total number in Australia and New
Zealand to seventeen. Twenty-one groups established beyond the
goals of the Plan brought the total number of groups to forty (Ba-
há'í World vol. XII 67).
In the course of their plan, the National Spiritual Assembly re-
ceived twenty-four messages in all from the Guardian, drawing
their attention to the historical significance of their first plan to

SHOGHI EFFENDI: AUTHOR OF TEACHING PLANS

promote the Faith in the Antipodes. Shoghi Effendi knew that the
active Bahá’ís in Australia and New Zealand were few but he
could see the receptiveness of their homelands and continuously
urged them not to lose hope, to labour unitedly and assiduously
and to be confident that the confirmations from on high would
come to their aid and lead them to ultimate victory.

2) British Isles

The Six Year Plan, 1944 – 1950

From its convention in April 1944, the delegates cabled the
Guardian, stating that the convention wished Shoghi Effendi
would set goals for a Six Year Plan for the British Bahá’í commu-
nity, coinciding with the hundredth anniversary of the Martyrdom
of the Báb. The Guardian cabled as follows:

WELCOME
SPONTANEOUS
DECISION.
ADVISE
FORMATION NINETEEN BAHÁ'Í SPIRITUAL AS-
SEMBLISE SPREAD OVER ENGLAND WALES SCOT-
LAND NORTHERN IRELAND AND EIRE PRAYING
SIGNAL VICTORY (Unfolding Destiny 169).

During this period Shoghi Effendi sent the British National Spiri-
tual Assembly, and a few of its important national committees, 108
messages, some by cable and the rest by regular mail. To several of
these he appended long postscripts, written in his own handwriting.
Most of the messages dealt directly with issues related to the plan.
In these messages he gave the institutions directions, appreciated
their efforts, urged them to concentrate on unfinished tasks, guided
them in their endeavours and assured them of a glorious destiny, if
the responsibilities facing them would be successfully achieved.

The Two Year Plan, 1951 – 1953

In the same message congratulating the British community on the
achievements under the Six Year Plan, Shoghi Effendi gave them

PLANS PRIOR TO THE TEN YEAR CRUSADE

a year of respite, to be followed by a Two Year Plan, later referred
to as the African Campaign.
In the course of this plan, which ended in April 1953, Shoghi Ef-
fendi sent this National Spiritual Assembly and/or its national com-
mittees, seventy-five messages. The messages were partly by cable
and the rest by ordinary mail. In the latter category there were long
messages, running over several pages as reproduced in the compila-
tion of his letters published by the British National Assembly. He
followed with close attention and supervision the work in Africa. He
considered the creation of the International Bahá’í Council and the
simultaneous inception of the African Campaign, which involved the
collaboration of several National Spiritual Assemblies in one com-
mon field of pioneering and service, as twin compelling evidences of
the resistless unfoldment of the embryonic, divinely appointed World
Order of Bahá’u’lláh (Unfolding Destiny 256–257).

3) Egypt and Sudan

The Five Year Plan, 1948 – 1953

Like other National Assemblies of the Bahá’í world, the National
Assembly of Egypt and the Sudan was likewise encouraged by
Shoghi Effendi that, despite the disabilities from which they were
suffering, the adoption of a teaching plan was advisable. It should
be noted that Egypt was in a leading position both in the Islamic
and the Arab world. The Islamic canonical code known as the
Shari’ah was regarded to be binding on the civil authorities.
At the end of the plan the number of Local Spiritual Assem-
blies was raised to nine, six virgin provinces were opened, a plot
for a permanent summer school was purchased, three new centres
were established in the Sudan, a new locality was opened in Eri-
trea, two Bahá’í centres were established in Libya, a pioneer set-
tled in Algeria and a Spiritual Assembly was formed in Tunisia.
The Guardian was very pleased with these accomplishments and
invited them to join the Ten Year Crusade as one of its generals.

SHOGHI EFFENDI: AUTHOR OF TEACHING PLANS

4) Germany and Austria

The Five Year Plan, 1948 – 1953

The Bahá’í communities in these two countries were subjected to
persecution and the banning of their institutions during the period
of the Second World War. However, as the friends regained their
freedom at the end of the war, they were able, under the guidance
of Shoghi Effendi, to rehabilitate their local communities and re-
establish their National Spiritual Assembly. On the 11th of May
1948, Shoghi Effendi wrote to them as follows:

At this propitious moment in the evolution of the Faith in
your country . . . it is only fitting for a community as old and
honoured as yours, which has survived such cruel blows,
which occupies so enviable a position in the heart of
Europe, the recipient of so great a measure of bounty and
loving-kindness from ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, to formulate its own
Plan, preferably a five year Plan, destined to culminate in
1953, the hundredth anniversary of the birth of
Bahá’u’lláh's Mission in the Síyáh-Chál of Sihrán.
As to the objectives of the Plan, in both Germany and
Austria, I feel that your Assembly should carefully consider
them, and after mature deliberation announce them to the
believers and ensure, by every means in its power, the at-
tainment of every goal you set yourselves to achieve. (Lights
of Divine Guidance, vol. I, p. 138)

In the forty-one letters and messages sent to Germany and Austria,
Shoghi Effendi repeatedly reminded the friends in these two coun-
tries, particularly the German Bahá’í community, of ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá’s great hopes for the Bahá’ís of that country to become a
centre of illumination throughout Europe. He also enumerated for
them their exceptional capacity for scholarship, their erudition in
the fundamental verities of the Cause and the destiny that awaited

PLANS PRIOR TO THE TEN YEAR CRUSADE

them in their future achievements in Eastern Europe and as far as
the lands of the Far East.

5) India, Pakistan and Burma

On its own initiative, and in order to promote the expansion of the
Faith in its area the National Assembly of the Indian Sub-Continent
adopted in 1938 a rudimentary Teaching Six Year Plan, which, al-
though not instigated directly by Shoghi Effendi received his com-
mendation and encouragement.

The Four and a Half Year Plan, January 1946 – July 1950

On December 1945 the Guardian felt that the National Spiritual
Assembly of India, Pakistan and Burma had to set an example to
other National Assemblies of the East in adopting a plan for teach-
ing and the consolidation work in their area of jurisdiction. The fol-
lowing was written on his behalf to the National Assembly:

The Indian believers are finding themselves increasingly
called upon to shoulder heavy responsibilities; they are be-
coming more numerous, have spread to many new centres,
undertaken a large publishing programme, increased the
number of their institutions, and are gradually becoming
known to their fellow-Indians as followers of a new and glo-
rious Faith. In view of this he feels your Assembly should
constantly exhort the friends to be more conscious of their
duties, and to be very careful of having differences of opinion
which are so strong as to lead to disputes and thus humiliate
our beloved Faith in the eyes of non-Bahá'ís. (Messages to
the Indian Subcontinent 264).

He appended in his own handwriting the following words:

The reconstitution of dissolved Assemblies, the extension of re-
lief to the needy, the promotion of the teaching work, the dis-

SHOGHI EFFENDI: AUTHOR OF TEACHING PLANS

semination of Bahá'í' literature, the construction of the
PaUíratu’l-Quds, the re-establishment of schools and commit-
tees are all vitally urgent, and should be carried out fully, sys-
tematically, and with the utmost speed. I long to hear of the
progress of your labours in this important field, upon which
the future welfare of the Burmese community depends, and
with which the destinies of the Indian believers are closely in-
terwoven (Messages to the Indian Subcontinent 264–265).

Following this general advice, the National Assembly adopted its
first Four and a Half Year Plan. Shoghi Effendi expressed admira-
tion and joy at what he called ‘a spontaneous decision’ (Messages
to the Indian Subcontinent 266) to inaugurate this plan. As the
plan unfolded, the National Assembly added additional objectives.

The Nineteen Month Plan, September 1951 – April 1953

A year after the conclusion of its first plan the National Spiritual
Assembly decided to initiate a second one, from September 1951
to April 1953.
Shoghi Effendi responded on August 30th by cable expressing
his joy over this ‘momentous, highly meritorious Nineteen Months
Plan’ (Messages to the Indian Subcontinent 324). In this cable he
‘heartily approved’ the chosen objectives and advised the Na-
tional Assembly to terminate the plan by Riḍván 1953.
During the period of over six years, which witnessed the
execution of the two plans of the Bahá’ís in the Indian Subconti-
nent, Shoghi Effendi sent a total of over eighty messages in letters
and cables commenting on the progress made, the priorities to be
established and the requirements in terms of financial and human
resources. Although restricted in their material means and in the
number of active Bahá’ís in their respective areas, the Bahá’ís in
the three countries exerted their utmost to win the good-pleasure
of the Guardian and meet his expectations.

PLANS PRIOR TO THE TEN YEAR CRUSADE

6) Iraq

The Three Year Plan, 1947 – 1950

Like its sister communities in Persia and in Egypt, the Bahá’í
community of Iraq suffered under oppressive persecution and re-
strictive measures generated by the bigotry, hatred and prejudices
of the general public and instigated by an ever antagonistic clergy
as well as a suspicious and timid system of government. Notwith-
standing these restrictions and in harmony with the rest of the
Bahá’í world, a Three Year Plan was devised.
By the end of the plan the construction of the National Bahá’í
Hall, which was part of the Bahá’í Headquarters, was completed.
This spacious hall could seat an audience of 500 people. The Na-
tional Fund was adequately reinforced and, in addition to the in-
crease of the number of Local Assemblies and the consolidation
of the Faith in the south, several translations of Bahá’í literature
into Arabic and a number of pamphlets introducing the Faith were
published.

7) Persia (Iran)

The Forty-Five Month Plan, October 1946 – July 1950

Soon after the American community launched its second Seven
Year Plan, Shoghi Effendi wrote the Persian National Spiritual
Assembly that it would be highly desirable for the community in
the Cradle of the Faith to adopt a plan similar in its general char-
acter to the plan of the North American Bahá’í community but
adapted to the internal needs and conditions within the country,
bearing in mind the needs of consolidating and opening territories
in the neighborhood of Persia, to the importance of which he had
referred in previous messages. This advice of the beloved Guard-
ian led the Persian National Assembly to make a study of the type

SHOGHI EFFENDI: AUTHOR OF TEACHING PLANS

of goals adopted and executed by the American Bahá’í commu-
nity under the first Seven Year Plan as well as the goals and ob-
jectives it had been assigned under its second Seven Year Plan.
At the outset of the Plan, on February 21, 1947, Shoghi Ef-
fendi sent the following cable message to the Persian National
Spiritual Assembly:

REJOICE MAGNIFICENT PLAN CONCEIVED NA-
TIONAL REPRESENTATIVES DEARLY BELOVED
COMMUNITY BAHÁ’U’LLÁH’S NATIVE LAND. THIS
FAR-REACHING PROJECT WELL BEFITS COMMU-
NITY WHICH IN AGE, NUMBERS, RICHNESS HIS-
TORY LEADS ENTIRE BAHÁ’Í WORLD. FRIENDS
FOES, WITHIN AND WITHOUT, AND FELLOW-
BELIEVERS NORTH, SOUTH, EAST WEST INTENTLY
WATCHING MANNER DISCHARGE GREATEST TASK
EVER UNDERTAKEN BY PERSIAN FOLLOWERS
FAITH BAHÁ’U’LLÁH. GLORIOUS COMPANY HOLY
FOUNDERS FAITH; THE LETTERS LIVING, HANDS
CAUSE, SAINTS, HEROES, MARTYRS, ALL GAZING
EXPECTANTLY FROM ABHÁ KINGDOM UPON
PRIVILEGED CUSTODIANS PRICELESS LEGACY
BEQUEATHED TO PRESENT GENERATION LABOUR-
ING CRADLE FAITH . . . UPON ITS SUCCESS AP-
POINTED TIME CHIEFLY DEPENDS RELEASE SPIRI-
TUAL FORCES DESIGNED EMANCIPATE HASTEN
RECOGNITION FAITH ÍRÁN (Bahá’í World vol. XI 35).

During the plan Shoghi Effendi was unsparing in his encourage-
ment of the steps being taken vigorously by the Persian National
Assembly. He expressed appreciation of the efforts exerted by the
pioneers, who had arisen to settle in the home front as well as in
territories specified in the plan, constantly reminding them of the
need to exercise caution and wisdom in the endeavours being ex-
erted to bring the plan and its objectives to a successful conclusion.

PLANS PRIOR TO THE TEN YEAR CRUSADE

In view of the repressive attitude of the local population,
which, unfortunately, was constantly provoked by the local clergy
as well as the clerical establishment in the capital, many setbacks
and reverses were experienced. A number of families found them-
selves forced to leave their pioneering posts and return to their
original homes, in order to avoid the crises from becoming more
intense and widespread. Regrettably, the civil authorities refrained
from extending their protection to the Bahá’ís and, in some cases,
were even in collusion with the fanatical clergy.

The Women’s Four Year Plan, 1946 – 1950

Concurrent with the inauguration of the Forty-Five Month Plan,
the need to relieve the Bahá’í women in Persia from the traditional
shackles of lack of education received the urgent attention of the
National Assembly. Women’s conferences were called for to dis-
cuss this problem. As a result of these consultations the Four Year
Plan was adopted by the National Assembly.
The Four Year Plan for Persian women proved to be an out-
standing success. All the goals anticipated in the plan were carried
out systematically and efficiently. Bahá’í women and girls in Per-
sia demonstrated their ability to serve their Faith on an equal foot-
ing with the men. The degree of literacy among them rose dra-
matically and was virtually a unique accomplishment in relation to
the conditions of the social environment of the country. The peri-
odical envisaged in the plan proved to be of inestimable value in
raising the standard of living among Bahá’í women and girls – an
achievement of high distinction when compared with the inade-
quacies of the Muslim population, particularly in rural areas.

E. DETAILS OF SUBSIDIARY PLANS

In the course of the seven years under discussion, four new Na-
tional Assemblies were formed, the fourth being the Italo-Swiss
National Spiritual Assembly. With the exception of this National
Assembly, which was formed in the very year the Ten Year Cru-

SHOGHI EFFENDI: AUTHOR OF TEACHING PLANS

sade was launched, each of the other three National Assemblies
was given a plan by the Guardian to end by April 1953. These Na-
tional Assemblies are as follows in chronological order:

1) Canada

Shoghi Effendi decided that in April 1948 the Bahá’í community of
Canada should be separated from the community in the United States
and be enabled to elect its own independent National Spiritual As-
sembly. In his message to the Convention at Riḍván 1948, he wrote:

HEARTS UPLIFTED THANKSGIVING BAHÁ’U’LLÁH
EPOCH-MAKING EVENT COMING AGE DEARLY BE-
LOVED CANADIAN BAHÁ’Í COMMUNITY FORMA-
TION FIRST NATIONAL CONVENTION CITY MONT-
REAL FORTHCOMING ELECTION CANADA’S NA-
TIONAL ASSEMBLY CONSTITUTING NINTH PILLAR
INSTITUTION UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE. AC-
KNOWLEDGE REVERENT GRATITUDE DEEPEST
JOY MARVELLOUS INFLUENCE OPERATION INI-
TIAL STAGE ‘ABDU’L-BAHÁ’S DIVINE PLAN ENA-
BLING NORTHERNMOST COMMUNITY FOLLOWERS
FAITH AMERICAN CONTINENT PASS STAGE IN-
FANCY ATTAIN STATUS ASSUME FUNCTIONS IN-
DEPENDENT EXISTENCE WITHIN WORLD BAHÁ’Í
COMMUNITY (Messages to Canada 103).

In this message he advised the National Assembly to initiate a
Five Year Plan.
Less than seven months later, on the 4th of November, he ad-
vised the National Assembly to avoid red tape and to preserve the
elasticity of the Administrative Order. In the letter written on his
behalf by his secretary, he pointed out:

The fundamentals laid down in the Bahá'í Administration
must, of course, be adhered to, but there is a tendency for

PLANS PRIOR TO THE TEN YEAR CRUSADE

Assemblies to constantly issue detailed procedures and rules
to the friends, and he considers this hampers the work of the
Cause, and is entirely premature. As far as is possible cases
which come up should be dealt with and settled as they
arise, and not a blanket ruling be laid down to cover all
possible similar cases. This preserves the elasticity of the
Administrative Order and prevents red tape from developing
and hampering the work of the Cause. You must likewise
bear in mind that you are now a wholly independent Na-
tional Body, and must consider the administration of the af-
fairs of the Faith within your jurisdiction as your separate
problem. There is no more need for you to follow every sin-
gle rule laid down by the American National Spiritual As-
sembly, than there is for the British or the Australian and
New Zealand National Spiritual Assemblies to do this. Uni-
formity in fundamentals is essential, but not in every detail.
On the contrary, diversity, the solving of the local situation
in the right way, is important (Messages to Canada 106).

During this five-year period Shoghi Effendi wrote this National
Assembly and national committees and agencies forty-five letters
and/or cables. Most of these deal with the goals of the plan, his
advice on the priorities to be upheld, his praise of the progress be-
ing made and his assurance of the great destiny, as intimated by
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, which awaits them.

2) Central and South America

The territories included by the Guardian for each of these two Re-
gional National Assemblies were as follows:

Central America: Mexico, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala,
Honduras, Nicaragua, Panama, the Greater Antilles, Haiti, Cuba,
Dominican Republic.

SHOGHI EFFENDI: AUTHOR OF TEACHING PLANS

South America: Argentina, Chile, Uruguay, Paraguay, Bolivia,
Brazil, Peru, Colombia, Ecuador, Venezuela (See Messages to the
Bahá’í World 82).

Both National Assemblies were formed in 1951. In a joint mes-
sage addressed to the two new National Spiritual Assemblies to be
formed, Shoghi Effendi called on them to preserve the prizes won,
incorporate a greater number of Spiritual Assemblies, enrich
Bahá’í literature in Spanish and Portuguese, win converts among
the Indians and enrich the spiritual life of the individuals and of
the community. A list of these goals is included in the addendum.
In response to Shoghi Effendi’s advice, the South American
National Assembly was able to formulate a Two Year Plan, 1951
– 1953, based on Shoghi Effendi’s stated objectives.
The Central American National Assembly, owing to condi-
tions in the community, could only formulate a One Year Plan,
following Shoghi Effendi’s advice. The goals adopted followed
the general advice given by the beloved Guardian.

3) Italo-Swiss

As the Italo-Swiss National Assembly came into existence at the
very outset of the inception of the Ten Year Crusade, Shoghi Ef-
fendi’s message to this National Assembly, dated Riḍván 1953,
outlined the ten objectives to be pursued by it. A summary of
these objectives appears in the attached addendum.


F. SHOGHI EFFENDI’S ENCOURAGING REMARKS
AS THE PLANS ENDED

At the end of each of these plans, Shoghi Effendi acknowledged the
efforts exerted for the winning of the projected goals. If the
achievements were well over the range of the objectives originally
formulated, his praise of the endeavours of the friends was gener-
ous and exhilarating. For example, the Six Year Plan of the British

PLANS PRIOR TO THE TEN YEAR CRUSADE

Bahá'í community, which had achieved a high mark of distinction,
won these words of appreciation: ‘I feel moved to reaffirm my feel-
ings of exultation, joy and gratitude for the superb triumph that
marks such a great turning point in British Bahá'í history’ (Unfold-
ing Destiny 250), while the success of the Two Year Plan was
greeted by him with the statement that the victories won ‘exceeded’
his ‘highest hopes’ (Unfolding Destiny 297). To Germany and Aus-
tria he gave the assurance that their achievement marked ‘a chapter
of the highest importance in the annals of the Faith in both Ger-
many and Austria and will be regarded by posterity as a milestone
of historic significance in the evolution of the Faith on the Euro-
pean continent’ (Lights of Divine Guidance, vol. 1, 199). The suc-
cesses of the plans of the National Assembly of India, Pakistan and
Burma led him to refer to the region comprising the three countries
as the ‘second stronghold’ of the institutions of the Faith on the
Asiatic continent, after the Cradle of the Faith (Messages to the
Indian Subcontinent 337–338). He lauded their exertions as a ‘no-
table’ ‘record of service’ and encouraged them to ‘march re-
sistlessly forward… plumbing still greater depths of heroism and
self-sacrifice’ (Messages to the Indian Subcontinent 314).


G. ADDENDUM, Part I

OBJECTIVES OF CONCURRENT NATIONAL PLANS

1. AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND

Six Year Plan, 1947 – 1953
1) To establish two new Spiritual Assemblies in Australia
2) To establish nineteen groups in Australasia

2. BRITISH ISLES

Six Year Plan, 1944 – 1950
1) To raise to nineteen the number of Local Spiritual Assem-
blies

SHOGHI EFFENDI: AUTHOR OF TEACHING PLANS

2) To double the membership of the community
3) To settle pioneers in Wales, Scotland, Northern Ireland
and Eire

Two Year Plan, 1951 – 1953
1) To strengthen the nineteen Spiritual Assemblies already
established in the British Isles
2) To form nuclei in three dependencies of the British Crown
in East or West Africa
3) To translate, publish and disseminate Bahá’í literature in
three additional African languages

3. EGYPT AND SUDAN

Five Year Plan, 1948 – 1953
1) To raise to nine the number of Local Spiritual Assemblies
2) To raise to thirty-three the number of localities where
Bahá’ís reside
3) To send pioneers to Tunisia, Algeria and Libya
4) To acquire property for a Bahá’í school
5) To issue a Bahá’í magazine.
6) To consolidate the community in Ethiopia.

4. GERMANY AND AUSTRIA

Five Year Plan, 1948 – 1953
1) To double the number of Local Spiritual Assemblies from
fourteen to 28, increasing the Bahá’í membership in each
community
2) To raise the number of localities in Germany and Austria
where Bahá’ís reside
3) To deepen the understanding of the friends in the operation
of the Administrative Order
4) To encourage deeper study of the teachings
5) To construct the National ḤaZíratu’l-Quds in Frankfurt

PLANS PRIOR TO THE TEN YEAR CRUSADE

6) To enrich Bahá’í literature with two publications by March
1949, fifteen by March 1950, six by March 1951 and nine
by 1952

5. INDIA, PAKISTAN AND BURMA

Four and a Half Year Plan, January 1946 – July 1950
1) To increase the number of Local Assemblies from twenty-
one to sixty-three
2) To give special attention to areas marked by sharp cultural
and political divisions

As the plan unfolded, the National Assembly added the following
additional goals:

3) To publish the Esslemont book in eighteen new languages
4) To acquire a National ḤaZíratu’l-Quds in New Delhi
5) To carry the Bahá’í message to Sri Lanka, Indonesia and
Thailand

Nineteen Month Plan, September 1951 – April 1953
1) To offer Rs 2,500,000 to the Shrine of the Báb Fund
2) To enrich Bahá’í literature in local languages
3) To send pioneers to Malaysia, Singapore, Nepal, Vietnam,
Zanzibar and Madagascar
4) To increase the number of Local Spiritual Assemblies in
India, Pakistan and Sri Lanka
5) To enhance the status of the Bahá’í New Era School in
Panchgani.

6. IRAQ

Three Year Plan, 1947 – 1950
1) To increase the number of Bahá’í centres
2) To complete the construction of the National ḤaZíratu’l-
Quds

SHOGHI EFFENDI: AUTHOR OF TEACHING PLANS

3) To raise contributions to support the National Fund
4) To establish ten new Local Assemblies
5) To encourage Bahá’í communities in the south of the
country.

7. PERSIA (IRAN)

Forty-Five Month Plan, October 1946 – July 1950
1) To consolidate all local Bahá’í communities
2) To reestablish sixty-two dissolved assemblies
3) To form twenty-two new groups.
4) To establish thirteen new centres
5) To establish Local Assemblies in Kabul (Afghanistan),
Mecca (Arabia) and Bahrain (Gulf area)
6) To form four new groups in the Arabian Peninsula
7) To send pioneers to India and Iraq

Women’s Four Year Plan, 1946 – 1950
1) To hold literacy classes for girls and adult women
2) To hold regional conventions semi-annually for Bahá’í
women
3) To hold a national convention annually with the participa-
tion of representatives of regional committees
4) To issue a periodical covering topics of both Bahá’í and
general history, science, literature, health, hygiene, house-
keeping and care of children

H. ADDENDUM, Part II

OBJECTIVES OF SUBSIDIARY NATIONAL PLANS

1. CANADA

Five Year Plan, 1948 – 1953
1) To incorporate the National Spiritual Assembly
2) To establish national endowments

PLANS PRIOR TO THE TEN YEAR CRUSADE

3) To increase to thirty the number of Local Spiritual Assem-
blies
4) To increase to one hundred the number of localities where
Bahá’ís reside
5) To form a group in Newfoundland
6) To form a group in Greenland
7) To enroll Eskimos and Native Indians in the Faith

2. SOUTH AMERICA AND CENTRAL AMERICA

1) To consolidate Local Spiritual Assemblies
2) To multiply the number of groups
3) To expand the process of Bahá’í incorporation
4) To translate and publish Bahá’í literature in Spanish and
Portuguese
5) To develop the Bahá’í Funds
6) To organize the teaching work among the Indians
7) To take measures to proclaim the Faith
8) To deepen the spiritual life of the individual believers and
increase their understanding of the principles of the Faith
9) To cement the unity of all local communities



V
Launching of the Ten Year Crusade

It is not difficult to differentiate the developments achieved under
the Guardian’s Ten Year Crusade from activities in the Bahá’í
world prior to the inception of that Crusade. Shoghi Effendi’s let-
ters show distinctly that the Ten Year Plan had been destined to be
a culmination of the processes at work ever since the inauguration
of the Formative Age and was meant to be a springboard for the
unimaginably glorious victories to be won throughout the epochs
and stages ahead.

A) The manner in which Shoghi Effendi anticipated the launching
of the Ten Year Plan

As far back as 1948, in his message to the American Bahá'í com-
munity dated 8 November, Shoghi Effendi refers to future tasks
which will be assigned before the end of the first epoch in the evo-
lution of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Divine Plan, which he could see would
have to be in 1963. We must recall that these words were written
during the second year of America’s second Seven Year Plan. ‘. . .
upon the outcome of the assiduous efforts now being collectively
exerted . . . must solely depend the timing as well as the nature of
the tasks which must be successfully carried out ere the closing of
an epoch of such transcendent brightness and glory’ (Citadel of
Faith 62).
Over two years later, on the 25th of February 1951, referring to
the uniqueness of the African Campaign, which linked the admin-
istrative machinery of five National Spiritual Assemblies, he
wrote the following to the British National Spiritual Assembly:

SHOGHI EFFENDI: AUTHOR OF TEACHING PLANS

‘On the success of this enterprise, unprecedented in its scope,
unique in its character and immense in its spiritual potentialities,
must depend the initiation, at a later period of the Formative Age
of the Faith, of undertakings embracing within their range all Na-
tional Assemblies functioning throughout the Bahá'í World’ (Un-
folding Destiny 261).
From these two quotations we can confidently draw the con-
clusion that the ‘future tasks’ referred to in 1948, and the world-
wide ‘undertakings’ mentioned three years later in the second pas-
sage, were hints by him of the forthcoming rise of the orb of the
Ten Year Crusade above the horizon of the community of the
Most Great Name.
Another act on the part of Shoghi Effendi was his cablegram
of 30 November 1951 in which he announced that the celebrations
of the Holy Year would be marked by the convocation of four in-
tercontinental conferences. These conferences would inaugurate
the ‘long anticipated intercontinental stage in administrative evo-
lution of Faith’ (Messages to the Bahá'í World 17). These confer-
ences were to be successively held in Kampala, Uganda for Af-
rica; Wilmette, United States for the Americas; Stockholm for
Europe and New Delhi for Asia and Australasia. The first time
that Shoghi Effendi disclosed to the Bahá’í world that a Ten Year
Plan was in store was in his Riḍván message of 1952 addressed to
the Bahá’í community in North America. In this message he gave
the glad-tidings that the goals of the plan would be announced in
the four projected intercontinental conferences.
In a letter in English addressing the entire Bahá’í world, he not
only stressed the highly significant nature of the plan which he
was intending to announce to the Bahá’í world, but he lifted the
veil on its salient features and made a poignant appeal to every
Bahá’í residing anywhere on the planet to consider it a binding
obligation to lend his or her share in bringing this forthcoming
plan to a triumphant conclusion. This message appeared in print in
nine pages. I will only quote for you the last part, where his fer-
vent appeal was made:

LAUNCHING OF THE TEN YEAR CRUSADE

Under whatever conditions, the dearly loved, the di-
vinely sustained, the onward marching legions of the army
of Bahá’u’lláh may be labouring, in whatever theatre they
may operate, in whatever climes they may struggle . . . I di-
rect my impassioned appeal[to them] to obey, as befits His
warriors, the summons of the Lord of Hosts, and prepare for
that Day of Days when His victorious battalions will, to the
accompaniment of hozannas from the invisible angels in the
Abhá Kingdom, celebrate the hour of final victory . . .
No matter how long the period that separates them from
ultimate victory; however arduous the task; however formi-
dable the exertions demanded of them; however dark the
days which mankind, perplexed and sorely-tried, must, in its
hour of travail, traverse; however severe the tests with
which they who are to redeem its fortunes will be con-
fronted; however afflictive the darts which their present
enemies, as well as those whom Providence, will, through
His mysterious dispensations raise up from within or from
without, may rain upon them, however grievous the ordeal
of temporary separation from the heart and nerve-centre of
their Faith which future unforeseeable disturbances may
impose upon them, I adjure them, by the precious blood that
flowed in such great profusion, by the lives of the unnum-
bered saints and heroes who were immolated, by the su-
preme, the glorious sacrifice of the Prophet-Herald of our
Faith, by the tribulations which its Founder, Himself, will-
ingly underwent, so that His Cause might live, His Order
might redeem a shattered world and its glory might suffuse
the entire planet – I adjure them, as this solemn hour draws
nigh, to resolve never to flinch, never to hesitate, never to
relax, until each and every objective in the Plans to be pro-
claimed, at a later date, has been fully consummated (Mes-
sages to the Bahá'í World 37–39).
A little over two months after this message was sent, that is on the
30th of June 1952, addressing in English once again Bahá'ís in all

SHOGHI EFFENDI: AUTHOR OF TEACHING PLANS

lands, he disclosed the unprecedented global dimensions of the
great plan ahead and he called on them, individually and collec-
tively, to commit themselves to its execution.
I remember the deep emotion of those days in 1952, when
these messages were received. They had an electrifying impact on
the minds and hearts of the friends. Indeed, a few of us even
thought that the plan Shoghi Effendi had in store might be consid-
ered as part of his Will and Testament, for in it he refers to the
grievous ‘ordeal of temporary separation from the heart and
nerve-centre’ (Messages to the Bahá'í World 39) of the Faith. In
October 1952, as the Holy Year was inaugurated, Shoghi Effendi
sent yet another world message in English to the entire Bahá’í
world. It was in this message that he more specifically defined,
however briefly, the goals to be achieved over a period of ten
years. The message ended once again with a heart-rending en-
treaty to the friends to lend their full support to the plan soon to be
announced.
While this preparation was going on and during the years just
preceding it, Shoghi Effendi simultaneously turned his attention to
the necessity to expand the institutions at the World Centre and to
broaden the base of their operation. His first decision was to inau-
gurate the construction of the superstructure of the Shrine of the
Báb in the heart of Mount Carmel. As soon as the project was un-
der way, he created the International Bahá’í Council and intro-
duced it as the forerunner of the Universal House of Justice. This
was soon followed by the appointment of the first contingent of
the Hands of the Cause of God, four of whom were designated by
him as Hands residing in the Holy Land, and, a short time later,
the second contingent, raising the number of these distinguished
Stewards of the Faith to nineteen. He soon after created the insti-
tution of the Auxiliary Boards, one for each continent. Through
the instrumentality of the International Bahá’í Council and nego-
tiations with the newly established State of Israel, he embarked
upon acquiring needed Bahá’í historic sites. He also proceeded to
furnish buildings associated with the exile of Bahá’u’lláh and

LAUNCHING OF THE TEN YEAR CRUSADE

‘Abdu’l-Bahá, to purchase vitally required properties surrounding
the Báb’s Shrine in Haifa and land adjacent to the Most Holy
Shrine of Bahá’u’lláh in Bahjí. He also arranged for a design to be
made for the future Temple on Mount Carmel.

B) The nature and scope of the guidance given by Shoghi Effendi
almost up to the midway point of the Crusade

It was early in 1953 that Shoghi Effendi set himself the task of
spelling out internationally, continentally and nationally the objec-
tives and goals that the friends throughout the world were expect-
ing to hear. On the international level, Shoghi Effendi set forth
these goals and objectives in his message to the Intercontinental
Conference for the Western Hemisphere. He simultaneously re-
leased an over-arching document of twenty-seven pages in which
he listed under twenty-four headings the goals and objectives for
the Bahá’í world of a decade-long crusade, unprecedented in the
annals of our precious Faith. He arranged for this document to be
published in the United States and in Britain as a reference book-
let for the Bahá’ís and the general public.
On the continental level, he included in his message to each of
the four conferences the major objectives that concerned that con-
tinent.
On the national level, he wrote twelve messages addressing
each of the newly designated ‘generals’, announcing to them their
share of the major objectives. In these messages he incorporated
supplementary objectives appropriate to each national or regional
area. This will be discussed in more detail in a subsequent section.
In his messages, immediately before the inception of the Cru-
sade and until the end of his life, which coincided with the first
four and a half years of the Crusade, he described this collective
enterprise of the Bahá’í world in such terms as these:

A world-embracing Crusade
A world-encompassing Crusade

SHOGHI EFFENDI: AUTHOR OF TEACHING PLANS

A world-girdling Crusade
An epochal, global, spiritual, decade-long Crusade
This momentous and challenging Crusade
This irresistibly unfolding Crusade
This pre-eminent Crusade
This incomparably glorious Crusade,
This unspeakably potent Crusade
This systematic World Crusade
This prodigious Crusade
This gigantic, divinely propelled Crusade
This soul-stirring Crusade
This World Crusade which in its magnitude and potentialities
transcends any previous collective Bahá’í enterprise

Apart from the soul-uplifting titles that he conferred upon this
Crusade, Shoghi Effendi continued to send inspirational messages
in both English and Persian, reminding the friends everywhere of
the uniquely majestic and infinitely glorious characteristics of this
Crusade. The following paragraph gives us an illustration of the
fervour with which Shoghi Effendi inspired the hearts and souls of
the friends and raised their expectations. The paragraph is from
his message, dated 4th May 1953:

The avowed, the primary aim of this Spiritual Crusade is
none other than the conquest of the citadels of men's hearts.
The theatre of its operations is the entire planet. Its duration
a whole decade. Its commencement synchronizes with the
centenary of the birth of Bahá’u’lláh's Mission. Its culmina-
tion will coincide with the centenary of the declaration of
that same Mission. The agencies assisting in its conduct are
the nascent administrative institutions of a steadily evolving
divinely appointed order. Its driving force is the energizing
influence generated by the Revelation heralded by the Báb
and proclaimed by Bahá’u’lláh. Its Marshal is none other
than the Author of the Divine Plan. Its standard-bearers are

LAUNCHING OF THE TEN YEAR CRUSADE

the Hands of the Cause of God appointed in every continent
of the globe. Its generals are the twelve national spiritual
assemblies participating in the execution of its design. Its
vanguard is the chief executors of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá's master
plan, their allies and associates. Its legions are the rank and
file of believers standing behind these same twelve national
assemblies and sharing in the global task embracing the
American, the European, the African, the Asiatic and Aus-
tralian fronts. The charter directing its course is the immor-
tal Tablets that have flowed from the pen of the Center of
the Covenant Himself. The armour with which its onrushing
hosts have been invested is the glad tidings of God's own
message in this day, the principles underlying the order
proclaimed by His Messenger, and the laws and ordinances
governing His Dispensation. The battle cry animating its
heroes and heroines is the cry of Yá-Bahá'u'l-Abhá, Yá
‘Alíyyu'l-A`lá (Messages to the Bahá'í World 152–153).

Shoghi Effendi upheld orderliness when executing undertakings at
the World Centre or directing projects under the aegis of National
Spiritual Assemblies. We should not be surprised therefore that in
the implementation of the Ten Year Crusade he would not adopt
the same method. For example, he divided the first five years of
the Crusade into three phases, the first being one year and the
other two designed to be two years each. He focused the attention
of the friends on the themes and requirements of each of these
three phases.
The first phase, from 1953 to 1954, was to be characterized by
the opening of as many of the 131 virgin territories as possible. To
encourage the friends to arise, he announced, on 28th May 1953,
on the occasion of the anniversary of the Ascension of
Bahá’u’lláh, that he was planning to open an illuminated ‘Roll of
Honour’, which would carry the names of the pioneers who would
arise and, as stated by him, ‘capture the unsurrendered territories
of the entire planet’ (Messages to the Bahá'í World 49). Upon

SHOGHI EFFENDI: AUTHOR OF TEACHING PLANS

each of these spiritual conquerors would be conferred the title of
‘Knight of Bahá’u’lláh’. During this first phase, seven-eighths of
the territories mentioned in his plan were opened.
During the second phase, forty-three National ḤaZíratu’l-Quds
and ten Temple sites were acquired worldwide. During the third
phase, sixteen new National Spiritual Assemblies were formed:
three in 1956 in Africa and thirteen in the following year in the
other four continents. Furthermore, during this third phase all but
three National ḤaZíratu’l-Quds, all but one Temple site and all but
two endowments were acquired and the number of localities
where Bahá’ís resided reached the impressive number of 4500.
The fourth phase of the plan was to be from 1958 to 1963 and
would focus on completing the rest of the vital objectives assigned
by him under the plan.

LAUNCHING OF THE TEN YEAR CRUSADE



QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS

Q. Why did Shoghi Effendi, in his letter of April 1946 an-
nouncing the launching of the second Seven Year Plan, state
that there would be three years of respite following this plan
and preceding a third Seven Year Plan? Why did he then re-
place this with the Ten Year Crusade?

A. No one can read the mind of Shoghi Effendi. This is not the
only time he has surprised the friends. The British National As-
sembly started their Six Year Plan in 1944 and they ended it six
years later in 1950. They thought that as Shoghi Effendi was very
pleased with them, they could now relax. Instead, Shoghi Effendi
gave them only one year of respite to be followed by the Two
Year Plan for Africa. He did the same thing with India. Now, why
did Shoghi Effendi do this with the American community? Maybe
initially he wrote of a third Seven Year Plan because they were
used to the idea of Seven Year Plans, but since the entire Bahá'í
world was now to be engaged in a world decade-long spiritual
Crusade, it was only proper for them not only to join in but to be
allocated the lion’s share of the goals.

Q. In a letter of the Universal House of Justice, dated 9 March
1965, it is said: ‘from that onward point [RiJván 1963] unless
the Faith were endangered, further divine guidance was essen-
tial’. Does this mean that, if in 1963 the Faith was not endan-
gered, no divine guidance would be essential?

A. Surely not. What the House of Justice is saying is that if we did
not have divine guidance through the institution of the Universal
House of Justice as Head of the Faith, as the designer of future
plans and as the focal point of the Covenant, then the Cause would
obviously be in danger.


VI
The Ten Year Crusade is Launched

A) The twenty-seven objectives of the Ten Year Plan

Shoghi Effendi, in his message of 8th October 1952 (Messages to
the Bahá'í World 40–45), announced to the Bahá’í world that the
forthcoming Crusade would have four broad objectives: first, the
development of the institutions at the World Centre; second, the
consolidation, through carefully devised measures, of the home
fronts of the administrative bases for the operation of the plan;
third, the consolidation of all territories already open to the Faith.
Fourth, the opening of chief virgin territories on the planet.
As to the specific objectives of the Ten Year Crusade, there
were twenty-seven in number. Ten of these Shoghi Effendi had set
aside as goals to be accomplished at the World Centre of the Faith.
These goals related to the properties and endowments in Bahjí and
Haifa, the establishment of Israel branches of National Assemblies,
the development of the institution of the Hands of the Cause and of
the International Bahá'í Council, the reinforcement of ties with the
United Nations, the codification of the laws of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas
and the holding of a World Congress at the end of the Crusade. The
remaining seventeen specific objectives were divided by him
among the twelve participating National Spiritual Assemblies.
Shoghi Effendi divided the world into three categories. The
first was made up of nine home fronts. Those excluded from
among the twelve generals were the Central American, South
American and the Italo-Swiss home fronts. He called these the
‘administrative bases’ for the conduct of the Ten Year Crusade.
The second category was what he called ‘consolidation territo-
ries’. These were territories where there were Bahá’ís already but
needed special assistance. The third category comprised ‘virgin

SHOGHI EFFENDI: AUTHOR OF TEACHING PLANS

territories’. In terms of the usage now current in the Bahá'í world,
these three categories would be A, B/C and D.
There are few differences with the past. Instead of countries,
we have clusters, and instead of three categories, we have four.
Also, the National Assembly has to consider its territory to be its
own globe, while inter-Assembly collaboration continues to be
determined by the World Centre.
Blessed are those countries that can have an ever greater num-
ber of A clusters because the hope is to have as many National
Assemblies as possible with the majority of their clusters in the
‘A’ category. The Bahá'ís can then really take the plunge into the
great ocean, which is to spiritualize and attract the masses to the
Cause of God.
The seventeen remaining specific objectives were therefore
divided by him among the twelve existing National Assemblies in
such a way as to make pioneering and teaching activities depend-
ent upon the collaboration of six National Spiritual Assemblies in
Africa, six in the combined zone of Asia and Australasia, and four
in each of Europe and the Western Hemisphere. This meant that
seven National Assemblies would each collaborate in two conti-
nents, four each in one continent, and the United States National
Spiritual Assembly and its community in all continents, since they
were the appointed chief executors of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Divine
Plan.
If a National Spiritual Assembly could not send pioneers to a
virgin country, anybody, from anywhere in the world, was en-
couraged to fill the goal. And when Shoghi Effendi saw that there
was a strong community anywhere in the world, he would call on
the resident Bahá'ís and encourage them to go to nearby virgin
territories.

The Twenty-Seven Objectives

1) Adoption of preliminary measures to the construction of
Bahá’u’lláh’s Sepulchre in the Holy Land

THE TEN YEAR CRUSADE IS LAUNCHED

What one can see today is what the Bahá'ís have inherited from
the Guardian’s efforts for the beautification of the Shrine of
Bahá’u’lláh. When this goal was first announced, many Bahá’ís
thought that this meant that Shoghi Effendi was planning to draw
up plans for the construction of the Shrine of Bahá’u’lláh.
This was not his intention. He explained to the Hands of the
Cause residing in the Holy Land, to the members of the Interna-
tional Bahá’í Council and to visiting pilgrims that what he had in
mind was to cleanse the precincts of the Most Holy Shrine, known
as the Ḥarám-i-Aqdas, from the presence of the remnants of the
Covenant-breakers. These Covenant-breakers had continued to
live on the property ever since the passing of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá more
than three decades before. As Shoghi Effendi had just acquired the
land adjacent to the Shrine, his goal was to create an exquisite
garden in the quadrant facing the entrance of the Blessed Tomb,
embellish it with beautiful plants, flowers, trees, ornaments and
paths, and likewise electrify the area so that it would be illumined
as a sea of light at night. As you all know, these goals were
achieved in full glory.

2) Doubling the number of countries within the pale of the Faith,
involving the opening of:
41 countries in Asia
33 countries in Africa
30 countries in Europe
27 countries in the American Continent
(Total: 131 countries)

The number of countries opened to the Faith in April 1953 was
128. This number was raised to 259 countries by the end of the
plan. As you all know, the last virgin territory was Sakhalin Is-
lands and when it was opened the House of Justice was able to
complete the ‘Roll of Honour’ of the Knights of Bahá’u’lláh, and
on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of His Ascension the Roll
was deposited at the entrance of the Shrine of Bahá’u’lláh by

SHOGHI EFFENDI: AUTHOR OF TEACHING PLANS

Amatu’l-Bahá Rúḥíyyih Khánum in the very spot designated by
the Guardian.

3) Over twofold increase in the number of languages into which
Bahá’í literature has been translated, printed or in the process of
translation:


40 in Asia


31 in Africa


10 in Europe


10 in America


(Total: 91 countries)

By the end of the plan the achievement in this area of activity ex-
ceeded the goal, thus the number of languages instead of being
doubled was trebled.

4) Doubling the number of Mashriqu’l-Adhkárs, through the ini-
tiation of the construction of:


1 in Asia


1 in Europe

The Temple to be built in Asia was to be in the Cradle of the
Faith. It was clear already in the days of Shoghi Effendi that this
goal could not be achieved in the course of the plan. The condi-
tions in Iran were such that they would not give the Bahá'ís a
building permit to build the Mashriqu’l-Adhkár in Tehran. He
therefore replaced it by two other Temples, one in Kampala,
Uganda, and the other in Sydney, Australia. The erection of these
two Temples was completed and they were opened to the public
prior to the end of the Crusade. As to the Temple on the European
continent, it was to be in Frankfurt, Germany. Its construction was
started during the second half of the Ten Year Crusade and it was
completed soon after 1963.

THE TEN YEAR CRUSADE IS LAUNCHED

5) Acquisition of the site of the future Mashriqu’l-Adhkár on
Mount Carmel

The location of the land had been identified by the Guardian and
in 1955, with a special donation by Hand of the Cause of God
Amelia Collins, this historic site was purchased – a property
which had been blessed by the footsteps of the Blessed Beauty
and was the site of the revelation of the Tablet of Carmel.

6) Erection of the first dependency of the Mashriqu’l-Adhkár in
Wilmette

Shoghi Effendi advised that the first dependency should be the
Home for the Aged. A property in the close neighbourhood of the
Temple was bought and a Home for the Aged was erected and be-
came operative before the end of the Crusade.

7) Purchase of the land for eleven future Temples:


3 in the American Continent


3 in Africa


2 in Asia


2 in Europe


1 in the Australian Continent


(Total = 11)

By the end of the plan the total number of Temple sites was forty-
six, amply fulfilling the goal.

8) Development of the functions of the institution of the Hands of
the Cause

This is a very important point. The enemies of the Faith have at-
tacked us on the basis that the Hands of the Cause were not sup-
posed to have administrative authority. They have argued that af-

SHOGHI EFFENDI: AUTHOR OF TEACHING PLANS

ter the passing of Shoghi Effendi the Hands of the Cause assumed
authority and they nominally and actively took the role of the
Head of the Faith. As there was no House of Justice and Shoghi
Effendi had passed away, the Hands of the Cause, who were not
supposed to have administrative authority, took over the reins of
the administration of the Cause. In his last major message to the
Bahá’í world, Shoghi Effendi gave them the title of ‘Chief Stew-
ards of Bahá’u’lláh’s embryonic World Commonwealth’ (Mes-
sages to the Bahá’í World 127). When Shoghi Effendi uses the
term ‘embryonic World Commonwealth’ or ‘embryonic World
Order’, he means the Administrative Order. Thus, here by ‘Chief
Stewards of Bahá’u’lláh’s embryonic World Commonwealth’, he
is referring to their role in the Administrative Order.
Stewards are those who in a pro-tem capacity are in charge of
a task. The Oxford Dictionary gives the following definition as the
first meaning of the word ‘steward’: ‘a person entrusted with
management of another’s property’. Webster’s Dictionary defines
a steward as ‘one who actively directs affairs or one appointed to
supervise’.
Thus, they have to be temporary managers of God’s property
(i.e. His Cause) so that they can later hand over the responsibility
to the authoritative Body. In the same message in which the title
of ‘Chief Stewards’ is mentioned, Shoghi Effendi refers to them
also as ‘protectors of the Faith’ and ‘high-ranking officers of a fast
evolving World Administrative Order’ (Messages to the Bahá’í
World 127–8).
In yet another message, of June 1957, written a few months
before the message mentioned above, Shoghi Effendi says that the
Hands of the Cause and the National Spiritual Assemblies are des-
tined to work and consult together. He wrote:

Divinely appointed Institution of the Hands of the Cause, in-
vested by virtue of the authority conferred by the Testament
of the Centre of the Covenant with the twin functions of pro-
tecting and propagating the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh, now en-

THE TEN YEAR CRUSADE IS LAUNCHED

tering new phase in the process of the unfoldment of its sa-
cred mission. To its newly assured responsibility to assist
National Spiritual Assemblies of the Bahá'í world in the
specific purpose of effectively prosecuting the World Spiri-
tual Crusade, the primary obligation to watch over and in-
sure protection to the Bahá'í world community, in close col-
laboration with these same National Assemblies, is now
added . . .
Call upon Hands and National Assemblies, each conti-
nent separately, to establish henceforth direct contact and
deliberate, whenever feasible, as frequently as possible, to
exchange reports to be submitted by their respective Auxil-
iary Boards and national committees, to exercise unrelaxing
vigilance and carry out unflinchingly their sacred, inescap-
able duties. The security of our precious Faith, the preser-
vation of the spiritual health of the Bahá'í communities, the
vitality of the faith of its individual members, the proper
functioning of its laboriously erected institutions, the frui-
tion of its worldwide enterprises, the fulfilment of its ulti-
mate destiny, all are directly dependent upon the befitting
discharge of the weighty responsibilities now resting upon
the members of these two institutions, occupying, with the
Universal House of Justice, next to the Institution of the
Guardianship, foremost rank in the divinely ordained ad-
ministrative hierarchy of the World Order of Bahá’u’lláh
(Messages to the Bahá'í World 122–123).

The wording of this message of June 1957 is so emphatic and
dramatic that those who read that message at the time felt as
though Shoghi Effendi was saying ‘good-bye’ to all of us, for the
time had come for the two institutions to work together, as the ul-
timate destiny of the Cause was now to be in their hands.
At the outset of the Ten Year Crusade the number of these
‘high-ranking officers’ of the Bahá’í community was nineteen. By

SHOGHI EFFENDI: AUTHOR OF TEACHING PLANS

1957, when Shoghi Effendi passed away, he had raised the num-
ber to twenty-seven.

9) Establishment of a Bahá’í Court in the Holy Land, preliminary
to the emergence of the Universal House of Justice

As explained by Shoghi Effendi in his The Advent of Divine Jus-
tice and subsequently in other messages, he envisaged seven
stages for the evolution of the Faith in different parts of the world.
The fourth was for the independence of the Faith to be acknowl-
edged by the authorities of a given country with a ‘status of full
equality with its sister religions’ (Advent of Divine Justice 14). In
his ‘Unfoldment of World Civilization’ he had explained also that
‘in certain countries of the East, in which religious communities
exercise jurisdiction in matters of personal status, Bahá’í Assem-
blies may be called upon to assume the duties and responsibilities
devolving upon officially constituted Bahá’í courts. They will be
empowered in such matters as marriage, divorce and inheritance,
to execute and apply, within their respective jurisdictions, and
with the sanction of civil authorities, such laws and ordinances as
have been expressly provided in their Most Holy Book’ (World
Order 200).
In Israel the tradition of religious courts, as it existed through-
out the Ottoman rule and the British Mandate, was not abolished
by the government after its independence in 1948. It was in this
context that Shoghi Effendi formulated the goal of establishing a
Bahá’í court in the Holy Land. However, he explained to the
Hands of the Cause in the Holy Land that this court was not to be
a court of appeal for the Bahá’í world, nor an international court
which would have any kind of jurisdiction over National Assem-
blies. It was meant to be a court which would be empowered by
the authorities of the country to assume such duties in matters of
personal status as are normally devolved upon legally constituted
religious courts of other religions in the country.

THE TEN YEAR CRUSADE IS LAUNCHED

From their conclave in November 1959 the Hands of the
Cause announced to the Bahá’í world that as the extent of jurisdic-
tion of religious courts in the Holy Land was being restricted (and
this was due to the strong secular tendencies prevalent in the re-
gion) (Ministry of the Custodians 169), the fulfilment of this goal
appeared to be unlikely. The International Bahá’í Council contin-
ued its efforts to determine the feasibility of implementing this
goal but it was definitely concluded that, under current circum-
stances, any Bahá’í religious court in the Holy Land, if estab-
lished, would be far more restricted in scope and authority in
comparison to the religious courts of other religious communities
existing in the country. This was an undignified position for the
Faith to assume, when compared to the rights and privileges en-
joyed by other Faiths, who in their turn were being subjected to a
steady and systematic erosion of their authority.

10) Codification of the laws and ordinances of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas,
Mother Book of the Bahá’í Revelation

The execution of this goal had been assigned to the World Centre.
Shoghi Effendi had himself laid the foundations of the structure of
this codification and had already achieved the major portion of the
intended synopsis. Amatu’l-Bahá, after the election of the House
of Justice, handed over, in the course of the transfer of documents
from Shoghi Effendi’s study, the detailed notes in Persian and in
English written in his own hand. The Universal House of Justice
commissioned a task force to complete the unfinished portion of
the document and, as you know, at Riḍván 1973, the material was
published in book form.

11) Establishment of the six national Bahá’í courts in the chief
cities of the Islamic East:


Sihrán


Cairo

SHOGHI EFFENDI: AUTHOR OF TEACHING PLANS



Baghdád


New Delhi


Karachí


Kabul
The explanation given above about religious courts in the Holy
Land applies to this objective as well. An added factor was, and
still is, the unwillingness of the authorities of the countries con-
cerned to give such concessions to the Bahá'ís. Since the entire
Bahá’í world is committed to the objectives formulated by Shoghi
Effendi for his Crusade, it is, of course, hoped that the believers in
these countries, under the guidance of the Universal House of Jus-
tice, will take steps to implement these goals, if circumstances
permit.

12) Extension of international Bahá’í endowments in the Holy
Land, on the plain of ‘Akká and the slopes of Mount Carmel

The area of land dedicated to the Shrines of Bahá’u’lláh and the
Báb at the outset of the Ten Year Plan was 354,000 square metres.
At the end of the plan the total area reached 487,000 square me-
tres. The purchase of needed properties after the Ten Year Cru-
sade continued and at the present time their area exceeds half a
million square metres.

13) Construction of the International Bahá’í Archives in the
neighbourhood of the Báb’s Sepulchre

As you all know, the construction of the Bahá’í International Ar-
chives began in March 1955, during the lifetime of Shoghi Ef-
fendi. Its construction was underway at the time of his passing and
through the efforts of the Hands of the Cause in the Holy Land,
the building was completed during the interregnum period. The
Tablets, relics and other artefacts were transferred and deposited
in the new building and later, with greater technical facilities, in

THE TEN YEAR CRUSADE IS LAUNCHED

its newly-built extension. The Archives building was to be the
first of the administrative buildings to be erected round the Arc.

14) Construction of a tomb for the wife of the Báb in Shíráz

As you are all aware, the unfavourable conditions in Iran did not
make it possible to carry out this important goal of the Ten Year
Crusade. We can all be sure that the Universal House of Justice
regards this responsibility as its own and, as soon as favourable
conditions prevail, appropriate action will be taken to ensure the
execution of this noble goal.

15) Identification of the resting places of the father of Bahá’u’lláh
and the mother and cousin of the Báb for reburial in the Bahá’í
cemetery in the vicinity of the Most Great House

Five months before the passing of Shoghi Effendi it was possible
to transfer the remains of the father of Bahá’u’lláh, Mírzá Buzurg,
to the Bahá’í cemetery in Baghdád. The news of the fulfilment of
this goal was shared by Shoghi Effendi with the Bahá’í world at
that time. It was not possible to do the same thing in connection
with the remains of the mother and the cousin of the Báb. The
friends should be sure, however, that in the future the friends in
Iraq, under the guidance of the Universal House of Justice, will
accomplish this goal.

16) Acquisition of the Garden of RiXván in Baghdád, site of the
Síyáh-Chál in Sihrán, site of the martyrdom of the Báb in Tabríz,
and of His incarceration in Chíhríq

The site of the Síyáh-Chál was purchased in Shoghi Effendi’s own
lifetime, likewise the fortress in Chíhríq. However, after the recent
revolution in Iran these properties, together with all the other
holdings of the Bahá’í community in the country, were confis-
cated by the authorities. The acquisition of the Garden of Riḍván
in Baghdád and the site of the martyrdom of the Báb in Tabríz

SHOGHI EFFENDI: AUTHOR OF TEACHING PLANS

was not possible in the past. Unfortunately, the current situation is
not very much different in these two countries. We must be confi-
dent that these wishes of our beloved Guardian will certainly ma-
terialize in the future, as soon as circumstances permit.

17) More than quadruple the number of the National Spiritual As-
semblies



This objective was particularly close to the Guardian’s heart be-
cause he had repeatedly stated that National Assemblies were pil-
lars sustaining the dome which was the Universal House of Jus-
tice. The greater their number, the more secure will be the final
unit crowning the edifice of the Administrative Order. At the close
of the Ten Year Plan fifty-six National Spiritual Assemblies had
been established, which outstripped the goal.

18) Multiply seven-fold the number of the national PaUíratu’l-
Quds, their establishment in the capital cities of the chief Sover-
eign States and chief cities of the principal Dependencies of the
planet:


21 in America


15 in Europe


9 in Asia


3 in Africa


1 in New Zealand

By the end of the plan, forty-nine new buildings had been ac-
quired to serve as National ḤaZíratu’l-Quds.

19) Framing of national Bahá’í constitutions, establishment na-
tional Bahá’í endowments in same capitals and cities of same
States and Dependencies

and

20) More than quintuple the number of incorporated National
Spiritual Assemblies

THE TEN YEAR CRUSADE IS LAUNCHED

Forty-seven National Assemblies acquired national endowments
and in thirty-four of these, national Bahá'í constitutions were offi-
cially registered.

21) Establishment of six national Bahá’í Publishing Trusts

By the end of the plan, seven Publishing Trusts had been estab-
lished and were operating worldwide.

22) Participation of the women of Persia in the membership of
national and local Assemblies

This goal was welcomed with great jubilation in Iran. Nine other
countries in the Muslim East had either preceded Iran or presently
followed suit. These were Iraq, Egypt, Sudan, Tunisia, Libya,
Arabian Peninsula, Jordan, Lebanon and Turkey.

23) Establishment of seven Israel branches of National Spiritual
Assemblies:


2 in Europe


2 in Asia


1 in America


1 in Africa


1 in Australia – totalling seven Israel branches

By the end of the plan, nine Israel branches had been established.

24) Establishment of a national Bahá’í printing press in Sihrán

As in the case of other goals related to Iran, this National printing
press could not be established, as Shoghi Effendi had envisaged.
However, some facilities were provided by the National Assembly
of Iran to duplicate Bahá’í literature and thereby to meet the needs
of the community. Undoubtedly, in the future this wish of the be-
loved Guardian will be fully realized.

SHOGHI EFFENDI: AUTHOR OF TEACHING PLANS

25) Reinforcement of the ties binding the Bahá’í World Commu-
nity to the United Nations

We should recall that the Bahá’í International Community was
registered in 1947 as a Non-Governmental Organization under the
auspices of the UNDP. In the course of the Ten Year Crusade, the
Bahá’í International Community succeeded in forging ties with
UNICEF, UNIFEM, WHO and WFP. In the spirit of this objec-
tive, after the Ten Year Crusade, the Bahá’í International Com-
munity was recognized as an NGO with consultative status in the
sessions of the Economic and Social Council. In 1970 and in 1976
it was granted a similar status with UNICEF. We should be confi-
dent that, in the days and years to come, these ties will be further
reinforced.

26) Inclusion, circumstances permitting, of eleven Republics com-
prised within Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and two Euro-
pean Soviet-controlled States within the orbit of the Administra-
tive Order of the Faith

Owing to the prevailing situation in the Soviet Union, throughout
the period of the Ten Year Plan it was not possible to send pio-
neers to these thirteen countries. However, some three years after
the inauguration of the plan Shoghi Effendi received news that in
four of these republics, namely Tajikistan, Kyrgyzstan, Kazakh-
stan and Uzbekistan, there were resident Bahá’ís who were rem-
nants of earlier communities that existed during the previous Rus-
sian rule. The nine remaining territories were opened as soon as
the Soviet Union fell apart and it was possible for Bahá’í visitors
and particularly pioneers to settle in these territories. As stated
earlier, the last unopened territory of the Soviet Union was Sakha-
lin Islands and its opening occurred just prior to 1992, when the
Roll of Honour was completed.

THE TEN YEAR CRUSADE IS LAUNCHED

27) Convocation of a World Bahá’í Congress in the vicinity of the
Garden of RiXván, Baghdád, third holiest city in the Bahá’í world,
on the occasion of the worldwide celebrations of the Most Great
Jubilee, commemorating the Centenary of the Ascension of
Bahá’u’lláh to the Throne of His sovereignty

It was not difficult to see that this last goal of the Ten Year Cru-
sade had to be realized not in Baghdád but elsewhere because of
the restrictive conditions under which the Iraqi Bahá’í community
was functioning. As Shoghi Effendi had passed away in London,
the Hands of the Cause of God determined that the capital of the
British Isles would be the most suitable location for this first
World Bahá’í Congress. As you all know, nearly 7000 Bahá’ís
attended the Congress in Albert Hall at Riḍván 1963 and they
were able to visit the resting place of Shoghi Effendi. Those who
were present at the Congress can recall that it was a very moving
experience. The Hands of the Cause were present, as were the
members of the Universal House of Justice, who had just been
elected in Haifa. They were introduced to the congress on a spe-
cial occasion. One can imagine how many were the eyes that shed
tears as they looked at an institution that is ordained in the Kitáb-
i-Aqdas and the establishment of which was a central theme of the
work of Shoghi Effendi throughout his Guardianship.
We should have no doubt that at a future date some major
gathering of the friends will certainly be held in Baghdád, as an
echo to the wish of our beloved Guardian.


B) Examples of supplementary goals

In his summing up of the major objectives of the Crusade, as pre-
sented by him on the international level, Shoghi Effendi did not
include specific goals which were supplementary and suited to the
specific circumstances of each of the twelve bases of operation.
We see, for example, among the subordinate objectives for the

SHOGHI EFFENDI: AUTHOR OF TEACHING PLANS

United States the following goals: the completion of the landscap-
ing of the grounds of the Mashriqu’l-Adhkár in Wilmette, the rais-
ing to three hundred the number of Local Spiritual Assemblies,
the conversion to the Faith of members of the leading Indian
tribes, the establishment of summer schools in each of the Scandi-
navian and Benelux countries as well as those of the Iberian Pen-
insula, the proclamation of the Faith through the press and radio
and the formation of an Asian Teaching Committee. In this mes-
sage he also refers to the American Bahá’í community as ‘the
standard-bearers of the all-conquering army of the Lord of Hosts’
who, as befits their rank, have been given the ‘lion’s share in the
prosecution of a global crusade designed to diffuse the light of
God’s revelation over the surface of the entire planet’ (Citadel
Faith 109).
Further examples of such subordinate goals can be seen in
Shoghi Effendi’s messages to Australia and New Zealand, the
British Isles, Canada, Germany and Austria, India, Pakistan and
Burma, and to the Italo-Swiss National Assembly:

Australia and New Zealand:
Doubling the number of Local Spiritual Assemblies, incorporating
nineteen of them and establishing an Asian Teaching Committee.

Canada:
Doubling the number of Local Spiritual Assemblies, raising the
number of incorporated Spiritual Assemblies to nineteen and the
establishment of American and Asian teaching committees.

India, Pakistan and Burma:
Doubling the number of Spiritual Assemblies and localities in In-
dia, Pakistan and Burma, doubling the number of incorporated
Spiritual Assemblies in India, Pakistan and Burma, expansion of
the Panchgani School and formation of an Asian teaching commit-
tee.

THE TEN YEAR CRUSADE IS LAUNCHED

The British Isles:
Doubling the number of Spiritual Assemblies and localities in the
British Isles, the incorporation of nineteen Assemblies in England,
Scotland, Wales and Ireland and the formation of European and
Asian teaching committees.

Germany and Austria:
Doubling the number of Local Spiritual Assemblies and localities
in Germany, doubling the number of Local Spiritual Assemblies
and localities in Austria, incorporation of nineteen Local Spiritual
Assemblies in Germany and in Austria, and the formation of an
European Teaching Committee.

Italo-Swiss:
Quadrupling the number of Local Spiritual Assemblies, trebling
the number of localities in Italy and Switzerland, incorporation of
Spiritual Assemblies in leading cities of each country, establish-
ment of a first joint summer school, subsequently separate ones,
and formation of a European Teaching Committee.

C) Subsidiary national plans and subordinate goals added to
the objectives of the Crusade

In 1956 Shoghi Effendi found that it was time for three new Re-
gional National Spiritual Assemblies to be added to the original
number. Instead of twelve, there were now fifteen National Spiri-
tual Assemblies. All the three new Assemblies were in Africa.
There was only one National Assembly in Africa in 1953, i.e. the
National Assembly of Egypt and Sudan; Shoghi Effendi enlarged
its area of jurisdiction and named it the Regional National Spiri-
tual Assembly of North East Africa, which now included Libya,
Abyssinia, Eritrea and Somalia, in addition to Egypt and Sudan.
Then he divided the rest of Africa into three big regions; in the
south, the Regional National Assembly for South and West Af-
rica, which comprised some fifteen countries and islands. Then he

SHOGHI EFFENDI: AUTHOR OF TEACHING PLANS

formed the Regional National Assembly for East and Central Af-
rica, which included nine territories. The rest of the continent,
from Cameroon all along the coast to Tunisia and everything in
between, which comprised twenty-five countries, formed the Re-
gional National Assembly for North West Africa.
Shoghi Effendi described these regional National Spiritual As-
semblies as ‘Regional Interim’ National Spiritual Assemblies. In
other words, they were temporary, intermediary stages. The final
stage would be when each country had its independent National
Assembly.
One year later, in 1957, looking at the rest of the world, he
created thirteen new National Spiritual Assemblies. These thirteen
new National Spiritual Assemblies plus the three aforementioned,
added up to sixteen National Assemblies but in the process the
two Regional Assemblies of Central and South America ceased to
exist. Thus the grand total became twenty-six National Assem-
blies at Riḍván 1957.
Shoghi Effendi sat and wrote a special message to virtually all
these National Spiritual Assemblies, as though he was bidding
them farewell. It is heart-rending to read these messages of the
Guardian to the National Spiritual Assemblies. He did not give
any indication that these messages were to be his last, but when
reading them, one can see that he was expressing his hopes and
aspirations for the future and sketching out the paths, sometimes
thorny, that they had to tread.
To each of the new National Assemblies he gave a subsidiary
plan. To those formed in 1956 he gave Seven Year Plans and to
the other thirteen he gave each, the following year, Six Year
Plans, all under the shadow of the Ten Year Crusade.
As the Crusade unfolded, new needs and challenges became
apparent. Without any inhibition Shoghi Effendi called on the
concerned National Assemblies to adopt additional subordinate
goals. For example, in the case of the United States he appealed to
the friends in that country not to congregate in large cities on the
Atlantic and Pacific coasts and to engage in a ‘veritable exodus’

THE TEN YEAR CRUSADE IS LAUNCHED

(Citadel of Faith 128) from cities such as New York and Los An-
geles, fully confident that a bare number of fifteen adult believers
left in each of these cities would be entirely adequate. In the case
of Canada, he directed the National Assembly to form Minorities
Teaching Committees, with subcommittees to specialize in the
teaching of French-Canadians, Eskimos and Indians (Messages to
Canada 64). And in the case of India, Pakistan and Burma, he in-
structed the National Assembly to consider the acquisition of bur-
ial grounds (see Messages to the Indian Subcontinent 415).
Shoghi Effendi was deeply interested in all supplementary
achievements, whether specified by him or accomplished by the
institutions on their own initiative. In the map of the world pre-
pared by him on the progress of the Bahá’í World Crusade for the
first five years, his lists of such achievements include additional
virgin territories opened to the Faith, holy sites acquired, educa-
tional schools founded, burial grounds and summer school proper-
ties purchased, new local assemblies incorporated, and local en-
dowments and local ḤaZíratu’l-Qudses established.

D) The Ten Year Crusade - a glorious ending of the Guardian’s
ministry

As already stated, Shoghi Effendi in God Passes By describes one
of his functions in the Formative Age of the Faith to be systema-
tizing the teachings of the Faith (see God Passes By xvii). He was
systematic and orderly in everything he did at the World Centre
and expected systematization and orderliness to be observed by
those who served under his guidance, whether as individuals or as
institutions. We have already seen how in the execution of the Ten
Year Plan he introduced phasing as a method of orderly imple-
mentation.
Shoghi Effendi’s World Crusade differed from the first and
second Seven Year Plans of the North American community be-
cause its scope was worldwide, ten of its objectives had been as-
signed by him as responsibilities of the World Centre, Hands of

SHOGHI EFFENDI: AUTHOR OF TEACHING PLANS

the Cause had been appointed who consulted on his behalf with
the twelve National Assemblies and acted as his representative at
intercontinental and continental conferences and, finally, the na-
ture of the goals were such as to necessitate close collaboration
among National Spiritual Assemblies and to provide the means for
Bahá’ís from different parts of the world to meet, be acquainted
with one another and work on joint collaborative projects.
A careful observer will easily note that these measures were
designed to prepare the Bahá’í world to elect the Universal House
of Justice at the end of the plan. This, of course, was exactly what
happened. Shoghi Effendi had given a number of pointers in his
Writings, both in Persian and in English, that by the end of the
Crusade it would be timely to place on the pillars of the Adminis-
trative Order its last unit, namely its dome. For example, Shoghi
Effendi had clearly and repeatedly stated in his letters that the sec-
ond epoch of the Formative Age would come to an end with the
celebrations on the occasion of the centenary of the Declaration of
Bahá’u’lláh in 1963. As early as 5th June 1947 – that is, the very
year when the second American Seven Year Plan was launched –
he had, in a letter addressed to the friends in North America,
clearly stated that this second epoch would witness ‘the consum-
mation of a laboriously constructed Administrative Order’ (Cita-
del of Faith 5). Several paragraphs later in the same message he
identified ‘the last crowning unit in the erection of the fabric of
the Administrative Order of the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh’ as the ‘Uni-
versal House of Justice’. Furthermore, the year 1963 was identi-
fied by Shoghi Effendi as the prescribed year destined to witness
the universal spread and world triumph of the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh
– an outcome envisaged by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and prophesied by
Daniel, with reference to the year 1335 recorded in the last chap-
ter of his book.
Furthermore, at the end of the first year of the Ten Year Cru-
sade, in a general letter written in Persian, addressed to the friends
in the East, Shoghi Effendi called on the believers to arise in ser-
vice to the Cause and to scatter and settle in the territories that

THE TEN YEAR CRUSADE IS LAUNCHED

needed pioneers’ support, so that isolated believers may develop
into groups, these groups into Local Assemblies, these Assemblies
into National Assemblies and these National Assemblies may be
blessed with emergence of the Universal House of Justice. The
analogy he gives in this letter is the process of the development of
a point into a book. Thus the isolated believer is likened to a point,
groups to letters, Local Assemblies to words, National Assemblies
to sentences and the Universal House of Justice to the ‘Luminous
Book’, the ‘Dome’ and ‘Crown’ of the Administrative Order of
God’s Faith. This letter clearly foreshadows the emergence of the
Universal House of Justice by the end of the World Crusade.

E) Messages of Shoghi Effendi to National Spiritual Assem-
blies during the last six months of his life

For several years prior to his passing it had become the practice of
Shoghi Effendi to send a world message addressed to the national
conventions throughout the planet. In these messages he would
give an overview of the major accomplishments at the World Cen-
tre and national communities throughout the year, analyse the
ever-deteriorating world conditions, relating them to the warnings
and prophecies from the pens of Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá,
and draw the attention of the friends to the needs of the Cause and
its current challenges. The last four convention messages made
particular mention of the Crusade, its progress and the immediate
tasks which called for urgent attention. His last world convention
message of April 1957 consisted of eighteen pages. This particular
message ended with two paragraphs which were extremely mov-
ing and filled with poignant emotion. He wrote:

I appeal . . . for a renewed dedication . . . on the part of the
entire company of my spiritual brethren in every continent
of the globe . . . be they in active service or not, of either
sex, young as well as old, rich or poor, whether veteran or
newly enrolled – a dedication reminiscent of the pledges

SHOGHI EFFENDI: AUTHOR OF TEACHING PLANS

which the Dawn-breakers of an earlier Apostolic Age, as-
sembled in conference at Badasht . . . willingly and solemnly
made for the prosecution of the collective task with which
they were confronted (Messages to the Bahá’í World 120).

The last paragraph read as follows: ‘May this Crusade, on which
the privileged heirs and present successors of the heroes of the
Primitive Age of our Faith have so auspiciously embarked, yield,
as it speeds on to its mid-way point, such a harvest as will amaze
its prosecutors, astonish the world at large, and draw forth from
the Source on high a measure of celestial strength adequate to
insure its triumphant consummation’ (Messages to the Bahá’í
World 120).
From the messages Shoghi Effendi sent during the period from
June to October 1957, it is clear that he was intent upon leaving
for posterity some precious gifts as follows:

1) A message, dated June 4, 1957, addressed to the Hands of the
Cause and National Spiritual Assemblies throughout the world.
Under the section of the Hands of the Cause the text of this
message is quoted in full.

2) In a message dated October 1957 he announced the need to
hold five intercontinental conferences successively in Kam-
pala, Uganda, for Africa, in Sydney, Australia, for the Antipo-
des, in Chicago, U.S.A., for the Western Hemisphere, in Frank-
furt, Germany, for Europe, and in Jakarta, Indonesia, for Asia,
to be convened respectively in the months of January, March,
May, July and September 1958, in order to mark the midway
point of the World Crusade.
3) In the same above-mentioned message he appointed the last
contingent of eight more Hands of the Cause of God, chosen
from four continents of the globe, representing Christian,
Muslim, Jewish and pagan backgrounds. This self-same mes-
sage authorized the Hands to appoint an additional Auxiliary

THE TEN YEAR CRUSADE IS LAUNCHED

Board, complementing the function of the original Board,
with the specific duty of watching over the security of the
Faith. And finally, in this same message, he bestowed upon
the Hands of the Cause a further accolade, referring to them
as ‘Chief Stewards of Bahá’u’lláh’s embryonic World Com-
monwealth’ (Messages to the Bahá’í World 127), as indicated
earlier in these notes.

4) In addition to the above, as I have stated already, he sent to
virtually all the twenty-six National Spiritual Assemblies
functioning at that time a specific message underlining what
he considered to be the vital aspects and unfinished tasks of
their work and entreating them not to relax in their efforts un-
til the challenges of the Crusade were befittingly met. It
would be of profound interest to future Bahá’í historians to
analyse these last letters in order to identify those gems of di-
vine inspiration which bedecked these immortal messages,
many of which were written in longhand by his own pen as
postscripts to the texts written on his behalf by his secretary.
In these messages Shoghi Effendi praised each national com-
munity for the victories already won, focusing his comments
on whatever he felt was vital, urgent and imperative for the
unimpeded progress of the Faith in the country or region he
was addressing.

For the sake of our study I have gleaned from the messages
available to me such important points that could well have general
application to the community of the Most Great Name labouring
at this time to bring the Five Year Plan to a successful conclusion.

Duties incumbent on the National Assembly:

1) To regard the work of the National Assembly as the beat-
ing of a healthy heart in the community, pumping spiritual
love, energy and encouragement.

SHOGHI EFFENDI: AUTHOR OF TEACHING PLANS

2) The National Assembly to regard itself as a loving parent,
not a stern judge.
3) To replace harsh measures with loving forbearance when
dealing with the community in general. However, to make
no compromises when the behaviour of any of the friends
is fragrantly disgraceful to the Faith.
4) To avoid adding rules and regulations of procedure, as un-
der-administration is better than over-administration.
5) To multiply the number of Local Assemblies, groups and
localities where Bahá’ís reside, as well as the number of
incorporated Spiritual Assemblies.
6) To increase the number of representatives of minorities
converted to the Faith.
7) To consider summer schools as venues for the acquisition
of greater knowledge of the Faith and means for closer
Bahá’í companionship.
8) To attach importance to the national newsletter.
9) To maintain the policy of review of Bahá’í literature for
the time being.
10) To broaden the base of the official recognition of the
Faith’s status in matters such as respecting the sanctity of
Bahá’í holy days and the issuing of Bahá’í marriage cer-
tificates.

The point that requires some comment is number four: To avoid
adding rules and regulations of procedures, as under-
administration is better than over-administration (Lights of Guid-
ance p. 38). This is a very important point. In the course of the
week I have been telling you about how much Bahá’ís fall in love
with the Administration because it is a beautiful thing. Frankly,
there is no question about that but we seem to elaborate on the
Administration, trying to make it bigger and more complicated.
When National Spiritual Assemblies started issuing orders, in-
structions and new procedures, Shoghi Effendi did not like it. He
would advise to keep the Faith simple, not to place extra burdens

THE TEN YEAR CRUSADE IS LAUNCHED

on the shoulders of the Bahá’ís and to administer moderately. This
is something that has to be kept in mind generally.

Duties incumbent on the community:

1) To appreciate the importance of unity and love among the
believers.
2) To increase steadily the number of the avowed supporters
of the Faith.
3) To realize that the path ahead is thorny and tortuous, with
tests and trials abounding.
4) To welcome opposition which the rising fame of the Faith
is destined to provoke.
5) To acquire a deeper understanding of the genesis, the sig-
nificance, the workings and the present status and achieve-
ments of the Faith’s Administrative Order as well as the
Bahá’í Covenant, on which it is based.
6) To appreciate the necessity of supporting the National
Fund.
7) To be aware that the maximum spiritual influence of the
national institutions of the Faith depends on the degree of
self-sacrifice of the contributors to the Fund.

Duties of the individual believer:

1) To participate in Bahá’í contributions and in teaching the
Cause – duties incumbent on all believers.
2) To appreciate the importance of the individual believer as
the fundamental unit for the revitalization, the expansion
and enrichment of the home front.
3) To serve as travelling teachers on teaching trips to centres
on the home front.
4) To deepen in the understanding of the Faith as well as in
one’s love for it.

SHOGHI EFFENDI: AUTHOR OF TEACHING PLANS

5) To exert diligent, painstaking and sustained efforts when
teaching the Faith.
6) To avoid apathy, timidity and complacency in the dis-
charge of spiritual responsibilities.
7) To endeavour, daily and methodically, to rise to loftier
heights of consecration and self-abnegation.

F) The importance of the Ten Year Plan as viewed by Shoghi
Effendi in the process of the evolution of the Faith and of
humanity

When Shoghi Effendi launched the Ten Year Crusade in 1953, in
a message on the 4th of May of that year, he set forth a number of
stages in the spiritual awakening and evolution of humanity. This
evolution was described by him as a process in ten parts (see chart
n. 4 p. 158).
The period from the dawn of the Adamic cycle to the prophet
Muḥammad constituted the first part of the majestic process of the
expression of the divine Will. According to this message, during
the Dispensation of Adam, the Tree of divine revelation was
planted in the soil of divine Will and this Tree was watered with
the ‘vernal showers of blood shed by countless martyrs’ during
the successive Dispensations of the Adamic cycle. In this message
he pointed out that the second and third parts consisted of the ap-
pearance of the ‘perfect fruit’ of that Tree, namely the Báb, as
well as the grinding of that ‘sacred seed’ in the ‘mill of adversity,
causing it to yield its oil’ in the city of Tabríz. The following three
parts, according to this message, cover the period of the ministry
of Bahá’u’lláh through the ‘ignition of this oil by the Hand of
Providence’ in the Síyáh-Chál of Ṭihrán, followed by the appear-
ance and diffusion of the ‘flickering light’ of divine revelation and
the subsequent ‘spread of the radiance of that light’ in Adrianople
and ‘Akká, when its rays reached parts of the Asiatic and African
continents. The seventh part was the shedding of the ‘illumina-
tion’ of this divine light upon twenty additional territories in the

THE TEN YEAR CRUSADE IS LAUNCHED

American, European and Australian continents. The eighth part
was the ‘diffusion’ of that same light in the course of the first
thirty-two years of the Formative Age of the Faith over a further
ninety-four territories of the planet. (see Messages to the Bahá’í
World 154). Thus, the eight parts constituting the period from the
inception of the Adamic cycle till the year 1953, when the Ten
Year Crusade was launched, comprises a grand total of 6109 years
(6000 + 77 + 23 + 9). Having thus brought us to the year 1953,
Shoghi Effendi explained that in this inconceivably dramatic dif-
fusion of the divine light, the ninth part was now to begin.
As we just saw, during this Crusade, so potently invested with
power and might, the light of God’s Revelation was destined to
reach 131 virgin territories – a feat incomparable in its magnitude
as well as in its impact on the declining fortunes of a harassed
humanity.
The beginning of the tenth part of this mysterious and histori-
cal process was in the year 1963, when the Ten Year Crusade
ended and the Universal House of Justice was elected. Following
Shoghi Effendi’s calculation, humanity had now traversed a pe-
riod of no less than 6119 years. The tenth and last part of this
process, in accordance with Shoghi Effendi’s message, is de-
scribed by him in the following sentence:

And finally the tenth part of this mighty process must be the
penetration of that light, in the course of numerous crusades
and of successive epochs of both the Formative and Golden
Ages of the Faith, into all the remaining territories of the
globe through the erection of the entire machinery of
Bahá’u’lláh’s Administrative Order in all territories, both
East and West, the stage at which the light of God’s trium-
phant Faith shining in all its power and glory will have suf-
fused and enveloped the entire planet (Messages to the
Bahá’í World 155).

SHOGHI EFFENDI: AUTHOR OF TEACHING PLANS

Four important points emerge when we analyse the above men-
tioned sentence:

1) It is clear that the tenth part, beginning in 1963, is meant to
cover the entire range of the centuries leading to the end of
the Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh.

2) We should expect successive epochs and numerous cru-
sades and plans ahead of us until the end of the Dispensa-
tion of Bahá’u’lláh, throughout the remaining years of the
Formative Age and the full duration of the Golden Age of
the Faith. Undoubtedly, these will be formulated and exe-
cuted under the guidance of the Universal House of Jus-
tice.

3) Shoghi Effendi acknowledges that the Ten Year Crusade
did not address the diffusion, in the full sense of the term,
of the Cause of God to every spot on earth. The Crusade
aimed at the opening of all ‘sovereign states’ and only
what he considered to be the ‘chief dependencies’, (in
other words, not all the dependencies) of the world. This
latter achievement was left by him for the tenth part when
future plans would address, in Shoghi Effendi’s words, ‘all
the remaining territories of the globe’ (Messages to the
Bahá’í World 153).

4) The worldwide diffusion of the light of God’s revelation
would have been, to all intents and purposes, achieved
through the execution of the Ten Year Crusade. After this
diffusion two other stages are anticipated by Shoghi Ef-
fendi, namely the ‘penetration’ of the light and heat of
God’s revelation into the inner depths of the planet and the
subsequent stage of the spread of that heat throughout its
deeper layers. This development is described by him as the
‘suffusion’ of that light and heat. Of course, we should not

THE TEN YEAR CRUSADE IS LAUNCHED

forget that this is a mere metaphor that Shoghi Effendi is
using to illustrate the extent to which the driving force of
the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh will first penetrate the very
hearts and souls of men, followed by a process of disper-
sion of the life-imparting warmth of God’s Revelation into
the deep strata and the frigid and lifeless tissues of the
body of human society.

While the three terms of ‘diffusion’, ‘penetration’ and ‘suffusion’
are not ambiguous in the vocabulary of the sentence constructed
by Shoghi Effendi, what is unknown to us at this point of time is
what penetration and suffusion, in their full sense, would mean in
terms of future goals, objectives, plans and epochs. There is no
doubt that when the time is ripe the Universal House of Justice,
which is the divinely-ordained body in charge of the tenth part,
will give the Bahá’í world the needed guidance.
Might we not venture to assume that, using Shoghi Effendi’s
metaphor in this sentence, the concept of penetration, as stated by
him, would be ‘the erection of the entire machinery of
Bahá’u’lláh’s Administrative Order in all territories, both East
and West’? (Messages to the Bahá’í World 155). This stage would
naturally have its counterpart in the teaching work. Could we not,
then, opine that this projected development would be the very
stage towards which we are currently advancing, as we cross the
threshold of ‘entry by troops’.
The last stage, namely when both inwardly and outwardly the
light and warmth of God’s revelation has demonstrated its God-
given capacity to spiritualize and unite the peoples of the world,
could well be associated with the long-awaited stage of ‘mass
conversion’, which Shoghi Effendi has described as a develop-
ment which will synchronize with events destined to ‘suddenly
revolutionize the fortunes of the Faith, derange the equilibrium of
the world, and reinforce a thousandfold the numerical strength as
well as the material power and the spiritual authority of the Faith
of Bahá’u’lláh’ (Citadel of Faith 117). This infinitely glorious

SHOGHI EFFENDI: AUTHOR OF TEACHING PLANS

consummation will be a merger of God’s Minor Plan with His
Major Plan. This stage has been described by Shoghi Effendi in
the following words with which he concludes his glorious mes-
sage of May 4, 1953:

This final and crowning stage in the evolution of the plan
wrought by God Himself for humanity will, in turn, prove to
be the signal for the birth of a world civilization, incompa-
rable in its range, its character and potency, in the history
of mankind – a civilization which posterity will, with one
voice, acclaim as the fairest fruit of the Golden Age of the
Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh, and whose rich harvest will be
garnered during future dispensations destined to succeed
one another in the course of the five thousand century Ba-
há'í Cycle (Messages to the Bahá’í World 155).

The important point in this passage is that when the three stages
‘diffusion’, ‘penetration’ and ‘suffusion’ have been traversed and
the anticipated stage of the conversion of the masses, as well as
the ‘spiritualization’ of these masses, has taken place, this will
then be the signal for the birth of the ‘incomparable’ Bahá'í civili-
zation, a fruit which the Golden Age of our Faith will eventually
produce and which, in the course of future Dispensations, will en-
able humanity to witness the ‘rich harvest’ it has long awaited
from time immemorial.

SHOGHI EFFENDI: AUTHOR OF TEACHING PLANS



QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS

Q: Could you give us sure clarification of the goal on the es-
tablishment Israel branches, as indicated in objectives number
23?

A: It was Shoghi Effendi’s wish that as a reward to outstanding
services rendered by National Spiritual Assemblies, some holy
places and properties in the Holy Land (and possibly in the future
such international endowments with sacred associations in other
countries) would be officially registered with the respective gov-
ernments in the names of these National Assemblies. To start this
process during the British Mandate, he established branches of a
few National Assemblies in Palestine. These legal entities were
registered with the government as societies with a very simple set
of by-laws and needed the signatures of two officers, such as a
president and a secretary, of the society. Shoghi Effendi’s lawyer
drew up the simple by-laws and he and his English secretary of
the period signed as president and secretary of the society, respec-
tively. When the State of Israel was formed the practice continued
but since the country had changed its name, the new name, i.e.
‘Israel’, replaced the designation ‘Palestine’, and under a new law,
they are now called ‘Friendly Societies’.
This practice also gives status to our holy places, as properties
belonging to the entire Bahá’í community, scattered across the
world. It is furthermore a step which would be an additional
measure taken for the protection of Bahá’í holy places. These
properties would thus be, not only in theory, but through proper
legal procedures, owned by properly constituted branches of Na-
tional Spiritual Assemblies throughout the world.

Q. Could you please give us more information on the Bahá’í
religious courts in terms of their future function and jurisdic-

SHOGHI EFFENDI: AUTHOR OF TEACHING PLANS

tion? Are they going to be separate from the Local and Na-
tional Assemblies or will they be executing their function to-
gether with those Assemblies?

A. The idea of establishing religious courts is that the Assembly
itself, whether Local or National, will become a religious court on
the local or national level. The Publishing Trust performs an as-
pect of the work of the National Spiritual Assembly but incorpo-
rates itself as a Bahá’í publishing agency, because that is a spe-
cific activity. Likewise, the Local and National Assembly incor-
porate themselves or, if necessary, reincorporate themselves so as
to be recognized by the civil authorities as religious courts. This
does not necessarily mean that these Assemblies will actually deal
with divorce cases, disputes between individuals and so on. Of
course, if it is a small community they will do it but not when the
community becomes large. Already in the days of Shoghi Effendi,
in Iran, because of the great number of Bahá’ís in the country and
particularly in the city of Ṭihrán, the Local Assembly of Ṭihrán
was obliged to have special committees and these committees
were more or less like courts. The Assembly would choose two or
three outstanding Bahá’í lawyers or Bahá’ís experienced in legal
matters, and these friends constituted themselves as, say, Bahá’í
Legal Committee number 1 or number 2,and so on. When cases
were presented to the Local Assembly of Ṭihrán, they would auto-
matically be referred to one of these special legal committees to
deal with each case on behalf of the Local Spiritual Assembly.
Recourse to appeal was also provided for.
When we say that a Local Spiritual Assembly will become a
court it does not necessarily mean that the Assembly will have to
judge every case. It could delegate this responsibility to commit-
tees or some subsidiary agencies, if it wants to, and as the need
arises.

Q. What exactly was the International Bahá’í Council? What
were its duties? Why did it not, as a forerunner of the Univer-

SHOGHI EFFENDI: AUTHOR OF TEACHING PLANS

sal House of Justice, guide the Bahá’í world after the passing
of the Guardian, to the end of the Ten Year Crusade? What
happened to it after 1963?

A. The duties of the International Bahá’í Council, as appointed by
the beloved Guardian, was first to help Shoghi Effendi in complet-
ing the Shrine and in starting the Archives building. The other
duty was to reinforce the ties with the government of the country,
build new bridges and reinforce ties with the newly formed State.
The third duty assigned to the Council was to study laws that af-
fect personal status; as we discussed, for example in cases of mar-
riage and divorce, to see to what extent it was possible to get more
prerogatives, more rights from the government of the land for the
Bahá’í community. Already the rights to perform the solemniza-
tion of Bahá’í marriages had been acquired by the Guardian him-
self, before the appointment of the Council. To accomplish the
task, the Council had to explore the possibilities of establishing a
religious Bahá’í court in the holy land. As I told you, the result of
this study was that it was impossible to have a court that was
equal to the religious courts of other religions which, in turn, were
becoming more restricted in their operation. Therefore it was de-
cided that this was not possible at that time.
The other part of the question is that why was it that the Inter-
national Bahá’í Council did not lead the Bahá’í world during the
period of the interregnum. It was because Shoghi Effendi had in
his last general message to the Bahá’í world referred to the Hands
of the Cause specifically as the Chief Stewards. He did not give
this title to the International Bahá’í Council or its members and
therefore it was logical for the Bahá’ís of the world to turn to the
Hands of the Cause.

Q. If the Universal House of Justice will announce the coming
of the future Manifestation of God, how will humanity react
according to the principle that the followers of the former

SHOGHI EFFENDI: AUTHOR OF TEACHING PLANS

Faith should have purity of heart? Is not this a principle that
should always distinguish the righteous from the wayward?

A. No one really knows how this matter will happen, when it is
going to happen and under what conditions it will happen. Since
Bahá’u’lláh says that He has fears and apprehensions, it means
obviously that there will certainly be opposition. This is because
in the Kitáb-i-Íqán Bahá’u’lláh says that all the Manifestations of
God face opposition. The Guardian used to say to pilgrims that the
degree of opposition will be far less than before. There will be op-
position but not to the same degree and not with the same inten-
sity. There is a Tablet revealed by Bahá’u’lláh which illustrates
how difficult it is to visualize the conditions under which the next
Manifestation will appear. He says that the proof of the validity of
the claim of the next Manifestation of God will not be the re-
vealed Word, as it has always been, but will be something else. It
is impossible for us human beings, with our finite minds, to visu-
alize how or what this will be.

Q. Do you think that the concept of ‘vying’ could be used by
institutions today to encourage the friends to arise and help
the Faith?

A. Very much indeed. We are not doing enough of it. I think that
the reason Shoghi Effendi attached importance to national news-
letters was precisely this: so that the National Assembly would be
able to inform the Bahá’ís of the country of the victories that are
being won by others. This is part of this vying process. So the
more this is done, the better.

Q. Since I have colleagues who have no notion or understand-
ing of God, with what should I start to talk – I mean what is
our understanding of God? Could you give me some refer-
ences about the concept of God, aside from those found in

SHOGHI EFFENDI: AUTHOR OF TEACHING PLANS

Some Answered Questions and Lights of Guidance? (The back-
ground of my colleagues is ‘technical’ rather than ‘social’.)

A. I think it is so important for Bahá’ís to be able to prove the ex-
istence of God. When Shoghi Effendi was asked by a Bahá’í
youth what were the subjects that the youth should study, the first
thing he said was to know how to prove the existence of God.
Second, how to prove the existence of the immortality of the soul.
Third, how to prove the need for a Manifestation of God and the
need for religion. Fourth, what is the meaning of progressive reve-
lation?
Some Answered Questions is full of proofs on these subjects.
But there is another book which I strongly recommend to you
which has these proofs, summarized and classified and that is All
Things Made New by the Hand of the Cause John Ferraby. It is a
beautiful book and it has a whole section on these subjects.

SHOGHI EFFENDI: AUTHOR OF TEACHING PLANS


Chart n. 1

APPENDIXES

Chart n. 2


SHOGHI EFFENDI: AUTHOR OF TEACHING PLANS

Chart n. 3

APPENDIXES

Chart n. 4
Diffusion 1n 15 more
countries in Asia and Africa
Spread of the Faith in
2 Countries

SHOGHI EFFENDI: AUTHOR OF TEACHING PLANS

Chart n. 5



BIBLIOGRAPHY


‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Compiled
by the Research Department of the Universal House of Justice. Haifa:
Bahá'í World Centre, 1997.

– Some Answered Questions. Collected and translated by Laura Clifford
Barney. Wilmette: Bahá'í Publishing Trust, 1987.

Bahá'í Prayers. Wilmette: Bahá'í Publishing Trust, ed. 2002.

The Bahá'í World: An International Record, vol. X, 1944–46; vol. XI,
1946–50; vol. XII, 1950–54. Wilmette, Bahá'í Publishing Trust.

Bahá’u’lláh. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. Wilmette: Ba-
há'í Publishing Trust, 1988.
– The Hidden Words of Bahá’u’lláh. Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
1985.
– Kitáb-i-Aqdas. Haifa: Bahá'í World Centre, 1992.
– Kitáb-i-Íqán, The Book of Certitude. Wilmette: Bahá'í Publishing
Trust, 2nd ed.1974.
– Prayers and Meditations by Bahá’u’lláh. Wilmette: Bahá'í Publishing
Trust, 1979.
– The Summons of the Lord of Hosts. Bahá'í World Centre, Haifa, 2002.

Balyuzi, Hasan M. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá: The Centre of the Covenant. Oxford:
George Ronald, 1971.

Compilation of Compilations: Prepared by the Universal House of Jus-
tice, 1963-1990. [Mona Vale, N.S.W.]: Bahá'í Publications Australia,
1991.

Lights of Guidance: A Bahá'í Reference File. Compiled by Helen Bas-
sett Hornby. New Delhi: Bahá'í Publishing Trust, 1994.

The Ministry of the Custodians, 1957–l963: An Account of the Steward-
ship of the Hands of the Cause. Haifa: Bahá'í World Centre, 1992.

Nabíl-i-`AZam. The Dawn-Breakers: Nabíl’s Narrative of the Early
Days of the Bahá'í Revelation. Wilmette: Bahá'í Publishing Trust, 1932.

Shoghi Effendi. The Advent of Divine Justice. Wilmette: Bahá'í Publish-
ing Trust, 1990.
– Bahá'í Administration. Wilmette: Bahá'í Publishing Trust, 1998.
– The Bahá'í Faith, 1844–1952: Information Statistical and Compara-
tive; including supplement: Ten Year International Bahá'í Teaching
and Consolidation Plan 1953–1963.
– Citadel of Faith. Wilmette: Bahá'í Publishing Trust, 1997.
– God Passes By. Wilmette: Bahá'í Publishing Trust, 1974.
– The Light of Divine Guidance, vol. I. Hofheim-Langenhain: Bahá'í
Verlag GmbH, 1982.
– Messages to America: Selected Letters and Cablegrams Addressed to
the Bahá'ís of North America 1932–1946. Wilmette: Bahá'í Publishing
Committee, 1947.
– Messages to the Antipodes. Maryborough, Victoria, Australia: Austra-
lian Print Group, 1997.
– Messages to the Bahá'í World 1950–1957. Wilmette: Bahá'í Publish-
ing Trust, 1971.
– Messages to Canada. Thornhill, Ontario: Bahá'í Canada Publications,
1999.
– Messages to the Indian Subcontinent. New Delhi: Bahá'í Publishing
Trust, 1995.
– This Decisive Hour. Wilmette: Bahá'í Publishing Trust, 2002.
– Unfolding Destiny of the British Bahá'í Community. London: Bahá'í
Publishing Trust, 1981.
– The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh. Wilmette: Bahá'í Publishing Trust,
1991.

Rabbaní, Rúḥíyyih. The Priceless Pearl. Welwyn Garden City: Broad-
water Press, 1969.

Star of the West, vol. XII, issue 12, 16 October 1921, p. 194.

The Universal House of Justice. Messages from the Universal House of
Justice, 1963 – 1986. Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1996.

Finito di stampare nel mese di ……. 2007
per conto della Casa Editrice Bahá’í
nella tipografia ……………
via …………………….
……………….., Italia