THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

2013-07-01

To the participants in the forthcoming

175 27 1 July 2013 To the participants in the forthcoming 114 youth conferences throughout the world Dearly loved Friends, 27.1 When the exalted figure of the Báb, aged just twenty-five,

arose to deliver His revolutionizing message to the world, many among those who accepted and spread His teachings were young, even younger than the Báb Himself. Their heroism, immortalized in all its dazzling intensity in The Dawn-Breakers , will illumine the annals of human history for centuries to come.

Thus began a pattern in which every generation of youth, drawing inspiration from the same divine impulse to cast the world anew, has seized the opportunity to contribute to the latest stage in the unfolding process that is to transform the life of humankind. It is a pattern that has suffered no interruption from the time of the Báb to this present hour.

27.2 The lifelong exertion and sacrifice of your spiritual

forebears did much to establish the Faith in diverse lands and to hasten the appearance of a global community of purpose.

Though the tasks that lie before you are not the same as theirs, the responsibilities with which you are entrusted are no less vital. After many a decade, the world-embracing labors of this far-flung community to obtain a more adequate understanding of the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh and to apply the principles it enshrines have culminated in the emergence of a potent frame-work for action, refined through experience. You are fortunate to be familiar with its methods and approaches now so well established. Through perseverance in their implementation, many of you will already have seen for yourselves signs of the society-building power of the divine teachings. At the confer - ence you attend, you are being invited to consider the contri- bution that can be made by any young person who wishes to answer Bahá’u’lláh’s summons and help to release that power.

176 FRAMEWORK FOR ACTIONTo assist you, a number of themes have been identified for you to explore, beginning with looking at your current time of life.

27.3 Across the world are to be gathered, in scores of youth

conferences sharing the same aim, tens of thousands who have much in common. Although your realities are shaped by a broad diversity of circumstances, yet a desire to bring about constructive change and a capacity for meaningful service, both characteristic of your stage of life, are neither limited to any race or nationality, nor dependent upon material means. This bright period of youth you share is experienced by all—but it is brief, and buffeted by numerous social forces. How important it is, then, to strive to be among those who, in the words of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, “plucked the fruit of life.”

27.4 With this in mind, we are delighted that so many of you are

already engaged in service by conducting community-building activities, as well as by organizing, coordinating, or otherwise administering the efforts of others; in all of these endeavors you are taking an increasing level of responsibility upon your shoulders. Not surprisingly, it is your age group that is gaining the  most experience at aiding junior youth, and children too, with their moral and spiritual development, fostering in them capacity for collective service and true friendship. After all, aware of the world which these young souls will need to navigate, with its pitfalls and also its opportunities, you readily appreciate the importance of spiritual strengthening and preparation. Conscious, as you are, that Bahá’u’lláh came to transform both the inner life and external conditions of humanity, you are assisting those younger than yourselves to refine their characters and prepare to assume responsibility for the well-being of their communities. As they enter adolescence, you are helping them to enhance their power of expression, as well as enabling a strong moral sensibility to take root within them. In so doing, your own sense of purpose is becoming more clearly defined as you heed Bahá’u’lláh’s injunction: “Let deeds, not words, be your adorning.”

27.5 To follow a path of service, whatever form one’s activity

assumes, requires faith and tenacity. In this connection, the ben- efit of walking that path in the company of others is immense.

Loving fellowship, mutual encouragement, and willingness to learn together are natural properties of any group of youth sin- cerely striving for the same ends, and should also characterize those essential relationships that bind together the components 177

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]