Lights of ‘Irfán

Papers Presented at the
‘Irfán Colloquia and Seminars









Book Six

Papers published in Lights of ‘Irfán represent the views of
their authors.
Reproductions from this compilation are permitted
provided that the sources and authors are clearly indicated,
with the exception of provisional translations, which are
not to be further distributed.


‘Irfán Colloquia
Bahá’í National Center
1233 Central Street
Evanston, IL 60201
USA
Phone: (847) 733-3501
Fax: (847) 733-3527
E-mail: iayman@usbnc.org
www.irfancolloquia.org



Lights of ‘Irfán
Papers Presented at the ‘Irfán Colloquia and Seminars
Book Six
General Editor Iraj Ayman
Sponsored by the Haj Mehdi Arjmand Memorial Fund
162 B.E. 2005 C.E.


Copyright © 2005, Haj Mehdi Arjmand Memorial Fund


Artwork by Trey Yancy and Majid Nolley
Typeset by Jonah Winters, winterswebworks.com

O friend of mine! The Word of God is the king of
words and its pervasive influence is incalculable.
It hath ever dominated and will continue to
dominate the realm of being. The Great Being
saith: The Word is the master key for the whole
world, inasmuch as through its potency the doors of
the hearts of men, which in reality are the doors of
heaven, are unlocked. No sooner had but a glimmer
of its effulgent splendour shone forth upon the
mirror of love than the blessed word `I am the
Best-Beloved’ was reflected therein. It is an ocean
inexhaustible in riches, comprehending all things.
Every thing which can be perceived is but an
emanation therefrom. High, immeasurably high is
this sublime station, in whose shadow moveth the
essence of loftiness and splendour, wrapt in praise
and adoration.
— Lawh-i-Maqßúd
Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 173

Table of Contents
Preface .................................................................................................iii
The Life and Times of August Forel
Sheila Banani.....................................................................................1
Bahá’í Understanding of Reincarnation in Relation to the World’s Faiths
Sateh Bayat and Vafa Bayat .............................................................21
Autobibliography in the Writings of the Báb
Vahid Brown ...................................................................................47
Appendix: A Provision Translation of the Khutba Dhikriyya.............59
Models and Idols: Towards a Philosophy of the Community of Mind
Sháhbaz Fatheazam .........................................................................69
True of Thyself: The Mystical Writings of Bahá’u’lláh and Ken Wilber’s
System of Integral Philosophy
Wolfgang A. Klebel ........................................................................87
Bahá’í Ontology: An Initial Reconnaissance
by Ian Kluge..................................................................................121
‘Abdu’l Bahá’s Tablet of the Two Calls: Civilizing Barbarity
Manooher Mofidi .........................................................................161
SunWALK: A Bahá’í-inspired Model of Education
Roger Prentice ..............................................................................173
Interpretation and the Guardianship
Ian Semple ....................................................................................203
The Signs of Prophet-Hood: An Exposition on a Tablet by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
James B. Thomas...........................................................................217
Elucidations
Infallibility of the Guardian of the Bahá’í Faith
Research Department of the Universal House of Justice.................237
A Commentary on the Conclusion on True Mysticism
Enoch Tanyi..................................................................................239
Appendices
Appendix I: Abbreviations of the Bahá'í Writings used in this book....241
Appendix II: Contents of Lights of ‘Irfán Books One-Five .................243
Appendix III: Publications of the ‘Irfán Colloquia..............................249

Preface

Baha’u’llah refers to His revelation as a Choice Wine that is
unsealed by the Fingers of Might and Power (KA π5). He says, “The
Sealed Wine is disclosed in this day before the faces of men.” (ESW
83). He further praises those who will be blessed by drinking from that
choice wine:
Well is it with him whom the changes and chances of this
world have failed to deter from recognizing the Day Spring
of the Unity of God, who hath quaffed, with unswerving
resolve, and in the name of the Self-Subsisting, the sealed
wine of His Revelation. Such a man shall be numbered with
the inmates of Paradise, in the Book of God, the Lord of all
worlds. (GWB, 340-1)
Verily, such a man is blessed by the Concourse on high, and
by them who dwell within the Tabernacle of Grandeur, who
have quaffed My sealed Wine in My Name, the Omnipotent,
the All-Powerful. (ESW 83)
That is why He calls on the believers to “Seize it in the name of thy
Lord, and quaff thy fill in remembrance of Him Who is the Mighty,
the Incomparable” (ESW 88) and urges them to “Meditate upon this, O
men of insight!” (KA π5).
The main goal and purpose of the ‘Irfán Colloquium and its
publications is to encourage, strengthen and promote systematic
studies and deepening in the Bahá’í scriptures and holy texts as well as
providing study guides for facilitating the quaffing of that spiritual
drink.
The Sacred Texts are revealed in the language of, and with the
expressions that are, prevalent among the people receiving them.
Consequently, understanding the concepts and messages that such
Writings convey requires familiarity with the literary, historical, and
cultural background of that language. In other words, one has to learn
the linguistic and philological background of that “language.”
Therefore the other aim and objective of the ‘Irfán Colloquium and
its publications is to assist in learning such backgrounds. The Lights of
‘Irfán is a collection of research papers and other items that facilitate
achievement of the above goals.
The Lights of ‘Irfán, starting with Book Six, will be published in
standard book size in order to make it easier to keep the volumes on
ordinary bookshelves. Another new feature is that in addition to the

Preface     iv


articles on the Writings of Baha’u’llah, articles on the Writings of the
Báb, and `Abdu’l-Bahá will also be added to the contents.  From the
Writings of the Báb the article on His autobibliography appears in
this volume. The article on the famous Tablet of the Two Calls, and
the Tablet on the Signs of Prophethood are devoted to the Writings
of `Abdu’l-Bahá.
Articles on the Interpretation of the Guardianship, A Bahá’í
Understanding of Reincarnation, and the Bahá’í-inspired Model of
Education are expositions on some of the fundamental principles of
the Bahá’í belief system. Research papers related to studies in the
Bahá’í Faith from the philosophic perspective include the papers On
Bahá’í Ontology, The Truth of Thyself, and Models and Idols. A
different approach to the study of the Writings is investigating the
life history of the recipients of Tablets. An example of such an
attempt is the article on the Life and Times of August Forel.
The section on Elucidations contains the response of the Research
Department of the Bahá’í World Center concerning the infallibility
of the Guardian of the Bahá’í Faith and a commentary on True
Mysticism.
‘Irfán Colloquia, in 2004, were conducted in seven sessions in
English, Persian and German at the Louhelen and Bosch Bahá’í
Schools in North America, at London University in England, UK, at
the center for Bahá’í Studies in Acuto, Italy and at the Tambach
Conference Center in Germany. In these sessions 62 scholars from 14
different countries made a total of 89 presentations. Thirty-two
presentations were delivered in English. The text of some of the
papers presented in English is published in this volume. The abstracts
of all the presentations are available in the ‘Irfán Colloquia website:
www.irfancolloquia.org.
All papers in this volume present the views and understandings of
their authors. The texts of the papers are published as provided by the
authors, without further editing. The writing styles and scholarly
approaches are therefore different. Articles are published in this
volume according to the alphabetical order of the author’s surnames.
Abstracts of all the presentations made at the ‘Irfán Colloquia and
Seminars are published in a series of separate booklets.






Iraj Ayman





Wilmette, June 2005

The Life and Times of August Forel
Sheila Banani
In 1848, the famous “year of revolution,” on September 1, August
Henri Forel was born, the eldest of four children to Victor Forel (b.
Switzerland) and Pauline Morin (b. France), in the country house
called “La Gracieuse” belonging to his paternal grandparents near
Morges, on the shore of Lake Geneva [see photo, next page].1
As a young child he was sheltered by his overly protective mother
who isolated him from outdoor play and friendships, leaving him
bashful and timid, bored and lonely. He found fulfillment in his
physical environment, in nature, initially in the lives of snails and later
in wasps and ants. The “social” life of insects fascinated him in their
encounters, both fighting and assisting one another, and intrigued him
to learn what was inside their nests. But his parents and grandmother
forbade him to keep living insects and he was allowed only to collect
dead ones. This was the beginning of what would become Forel’s life-
long passion and result, ultimately, in his famous book The Ants of
Switzerland [1874] and later the donation of part of his extensive ant
collection, one of the largest in the world, to the Geneva Museum in
1922.
Forel’s Protestant mother gave him a religious education which
taught the Bible, both Old and New Testament, was the revealed
Word of God, “even the most incomprehensible passages,” he wrote
in his autobiography. As a result of his loving respect for his mother,
by the age of fourteen his religious doubts and conflicts led him to
regard himself as “a hardened, outcast sinner, who need not hope for
God’s mercy,” though he still hoped that his “conversion” would come
upon him like a Biblical “miracle” (Forel 25). His schooldays were
passed in Morges and later at the College Cantonal in Lausanne. By
the age of 16 [1864] he faced the dreaded “confirmation” discussions
with the local Pastor. He stammered to the Pastor, “I can’t believe.” In
his autobiography he later wrote: “In the quiet meadows round my
home I had often cried in despair to the so-called personal God: ‘If
you really exist, destroy me here and now; then I shall know that you
exist, but otherwise I cannot believe in your existence!’ But all was
silent; I was not destroyed” (Forel 47).
By 1866, while not particularly attracted to the prospect of
entering education for the field of medicine, he did recognize the
connection between medicine and his love of natural science. So, with
his growing unbelief in God, despite his increasing sense of
independence and self-confidence, he felt himself a pessimist. “On

2     Life and Times of August Forel


every side I saw only lies and disappointments in human intercourse. It
seemed to me that life was hardly worth living. My only consolation
was, and remained, natural science” (Forel 51).
This
fateful
year
[1866]
Forel
met
Edouard
Bugnion,
a
fellow
entomologist,
who became his future
brother-in-law when he
married
Forel’s
eldest
sister in 1873. It is
through Bugnion that
Forel first learned about
Charles Darwin [1809-
1882] and his work.
Forel
wrote
in
his
autobiography: “When I
read [Charles Darwin’s]
The Origin of Species
[written 1859] it was as
though scales fell from
my eyes.... I saw that the
study of medicine was
worthy of my highest
endeavour. It must have
been about this time that
the notion of monism
first dawned upon me,
for
I
placed
the
following reflections on
record: ‘If Darwin is
right,
if
man
is
a
descendant
of
animal
species, and if therefore
his
brain
also
is
descended from the brain of the animal, and if, moreover, we think
and feel with the brain, then what we call the soul in man is a
descendant (an evolutionary product) of the animal soul, of the same
fundamental structure as the latter, and, like it, entirely conditioned,
in its simpler or higher development, by the simpler or higher
development of the brain.... Consequently ... psychology cannot in the
last resort be other than a sort of physiology of the brain’” (Forel 53).
In the University of Cambridge Darwin correspondence files
[internet], I found evidence that eight years later Forel sent to Darwin
[written in French on 23 September 1874, from Munich] a copy of

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   3


his newly published book on Swiss ants [Les Fourmis de la Suisse,
Geneva] and notes points and passages that Forel thinks will interest
him. Darwin responded [28 September 1874] with thanks to Forel and
recommends he read Thomas Belt’s The Naturalist in Nicaragua
[1874] by Darwin’s fellow-countryman. In his autobiography Forel
states: “He [Darwin] asked me the question: ‘Do you read English
easily?’ I [Forel] had no knowledge of English, and felt greatly
ashamed of the fact on receiving this book” (Forel 99-100). Forel
then finds someone to help translate Thomas Belt’s book and writes,
“by the time we finished it I could read English pretty fluently, and in
time I even learned to speak it after a fashion. For this Darwin was
responsible, and I have been grateful to him all my life. Darwin also
sent me his own interesting observations of ants, which led to a brief
exchange of letters” (Forel 100).
In Forel’s last year of medical school in Zurich [1870-1871] he
became enormously interested in psychiatry. “I felt that here, where I
perceived the contact of brain and soul, must lie the key to the
monistic-psychological problem which was engrossing me” (Forel 63).
This interest led him to Vienna [1871-1872] where he prepared his
thesis under the guidance of Professor Theodore Hermann Meynert
[1833-1892], finally passed his medical examinations in Lausanne and
was graduated as a doctor (Forel 79-85). He then received his first
medical appointment in Munich as assistant physician under Professor
Bernard Aloys von Gudden, an asylum director and head of a
laboratory, where he was able to work on the anatomy of the brain
and make the “first thin microscopic section of the human brain,”
which had never been done before (Forel 93). Upon completing and
publishing his book on Swiss ants he was awarded in 1875 the Thore
prize by the Paris Academy of Sciences. This greatly surprised him
until he learned that the politics of granting their academic
distinctions favored not giving it to a Frenchman (Forel 96).
Treatment of the patients in the asylum, some of whom were very
violent, challenged Forel who tried various experiments of separating
out the physically infirm for better care and, for the first time [in
1876], he began to understand the insidious role of alcohol as a
problem for the patients. However, it was not until a few years later
that he became convinced that only total abstinence from alcohol was
healthy.
In 1877 Forel became qualified as a lecturer in the University of
Munich and, as a member of an entomological society, met and
became close friends with Edouard Steinheil, the father of the child
Emma [then twelve years old] who, years later [1883], becomes
Forel’s wife (Forel 105). Edouard Steinheil had previously made a trip
to South America [Colombia] and now, with Forel, planned a six-

4     Life and Times of August Forel


month ant hunting expedition there, so Forel took a leave of absence
from his work in 1878 and they set out together. On their voyage
when they reached the Caribbean, at the first stop at the island of St.
Thomas, Steinheil took ill while still on board ship and suddenly died
of tropical heat-stroke. His body was taken ashore for burial on the
island where Forel served as his only mourner (Forel 109-111). Forel
returned immediately then to Munich to break the news to Steinheil’s
family and returned to his own family home in Morges, to his old
room, since he was still on his six-month leave of absence from his
work at the Munich asylum and as a lecturer at the University. During
this period Forel received and accepted an appointment to become
assistant physician at the Burgholzli Institute, an asylum in Zurich. He
served at Burgholzli for the next nineteen years [1879-1898]. Upon
his arrival at the asylum, he found himself having to act also as its
temporary director as well as physician and to look after the women’s
division in an insane asylum with more than 300 patients. Within a
few months he was formally appointed the Burgholzli Institute
Director and given a full professorship in the University of Zurich
(Forel 138).
Now that his career path seemed quite settled, Forel arranged for
the widow of his fellow entomologist friend Edouard Steinheil and
her children [including young Emma, now a teenager] to come from
Munich to visit his parents while he too was on a vacation at home. In
subsequent visits to the Steinheil home, Forel’s affection for Emma
began to grow slowly though his naturally pessimistic outlook led him
to fear that she would reject him as too old [he was 35 at this time].
But on the contrary, he relates in his autobiography, “I was positively
dizzy with joy when at last a young girl, and, indeed, the daughter of
the family I loved so dearly, confessed that she loved me. A totally
new world was opening before me, and I can truly say that at one
stroke the pessimism that had hitherto oppressed me vanished and was
replaced by a firm, optimistic confidence. I could not only love,
deeply and tenderly, but — and this seemed a sort of miracle to me — I
could also be loved” (Forel 145). The wedding took place in the
nineteen-year-old bride’s family home in Munich the end of August
1883 with both families present in a simple ceremony. When Forel
took his bride Emma back to Zurich she quickly made friends with
various inmates of the Burgholzli asylum, organizing a choir and
various festivities for those patients able to participate. Their first
child, Edouard, was born November 15, 1884 followed by five more
children, altogether four girls and two boys, the last child born in
1896 when Forel was 48 years old (Forel 231).

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   5



1883 marriage to Emma Steinheil. ‘Everything
about her was tender and thoughtful.’
Source: Vader, between pages 4 and 5
In these early years at
Burgholzli he met a boot-
maker,
Jakob
Bosshardt,
who tried to convince him
that alcoholism was not
curable
except
by
total
abstinence which Bosshardt
exemplified by rescuing and
curing by abstinence many
alcoholic former patients of
the
Burgholzli
Institute.
Forel, although a believer in
the temperance movement,
did
not
accept
total
abstinence until he slowly
began to realize the positive
success
rate
and
cures
accomplished by abstinence.
Forel relates that he asked
Bosshardt, “‘I want you to
explain something: I am a
psychiatrist, employed, as
director of the asylum, to
heal the sick, and you are a
shoemaker; how is it, then,
that I have never yet been
able to cure a drunkard
permanently, while you are
so successful?’ To this Bosshardt replied, with an understanding smile:
‘It’s very simple, Herr Direktor: I’m an abstainer, and you are not!’....
On that very day both my wife and I signed a pledge to abstain from
alcohol.... This incident was for me the beginning of a new period of
my life” (Forel 152-160).
Forel’s brain research led to his formulation of what later became
known as the neuron theory. He wrote a paper on the subject, “Some
Considerations and Results relating to the Anatomy of the Brain,” and
sent it to the Archiv fur Psychiatrie in Berlin but it did not appear in
publication until January 1887. However, without Forel’s knowledge,
Professor Wilhelm His [1831-1904] of Leipzig had arrived at similar
results and published them in a periodical which appeared two months
earlier [October 1886] than Forel’s. Both papers were generally
ignored until 1889 when in Barcelona Professor Ramon y Cajal [1852-
1934] completely confirmed their results “mentioning His and
[Forel], though only briefly” (Forel 163) and, in 1906, Santiago Ramon
y Cajal was awarded the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for his

6     Life and Times of August Forel


work on the structure of the nervous system which was shared with
the Italian anatomist Professor Camillo Golgi.2
Hypnotism also intrigued Forel because of what he saw as “the
relation between brain and psyche, or between the physiology of the
brain and psychology, and the true monism or unity between cerebral
and psychic phenomena.” He read of research by a Professor Bernheim
of Nancy so he traveled there where he received from Bernheim
instruction in “hypnotism or suggestion, which are one and the same
thing” (Forel 166-167). Forel later wrote a very popular book on this
subject, Hypnotismus und Psychotherapie [1889] which reached its
twelfth edition by 1923.
Forel traveled to North Africa [Tunis and Algeria] for a month in
the Spring of 1889 because of his great interest in ants of that region.
While there he observed the results of famine in some areas and
“comparatively savage people — the Arabs, very difficult to civilize,
because of the influence of Islam — governed by a cultured nation,
the French” (Forel 186). Soon after his return to Burgholzli, he noticed
the people of Zurich were taking a greater interest in the “drink
problem” and, in 1890, an Abstinence Society was founded which was
to become “The International Society for Combating Indulgence in
Alcohol.” He also founded the Ellikon sanatorium for the medical
treatment of alcoholism.
He began to see in his activities and interests the inseparable
connection among alcoholism, social problems, psychiatry, penal law,
and science as well as education. “What is the solution? The
renunciation of alcohol in childhood; freedom of belief, and the
teaching to children of the scientific truth, and their social duties.”
Further problems occupied him: the “sexual problem” [prostitution],
the “feminist problem” [he became a supporter of women’s right to
vote, and women’s rights in general], the problem of an international
auxiliary world-language to promote mutual understanding [he
studied Esperanto], and, the problem of what he called “the human
races” [“Which races can be of service in the further evolution of
mankind, and which are useless? And if the lowest races are useless,
how can they be gradually extinguished?”] (Forel 193). Please recall
the full title of Charles Darwin’s book, On the Origin of Species by
Means of Natural Selection, or the Preservation of Favoured Races in
the Struggle for Life, which dealt with evolution and selection, had
persuasive influence on Forel. He worked out the draft of a Swiss
Insanity Law which, in 1894, was accepted by the Psychiatrists’ Union.
He also was commissioned to draft a bill to abolish brothels (Forel 201-
206).

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   7


Following a three-
month expedition to
Colombia, this time in
the company of his
brother-in-law Bugnion,
he
returned
to
Burgholzli
feeling
exhausted
in
mid-
1896, just in time for
the birth of his sixth
and last child. By 1897
he
was
nearing
a
general breakdown. “I
had already given up
the anatomy of the
brain, I had handed
over the direction of
the Ellikon asylum ...,
and I had reduced my
studies of the ants to a
minimum” (Forel 237).
He was not yet fifty.
“After my retirement I
can
concentrate
wholly, if I wish, on
those
social
and
scientific tasks which I
regard
as
most
essential” (Forel 238).
By Spring 1898, Forel left the asylum in the hands of his successor and
friend, Dr. Eugene Bleuler. Soon after [1902] Carl Jung worked as a
psychiatrist under Dr. Bleuler at Burgholzli. Jung was to meet
Sigmund Freud in Vienna in 1907.
Forel and his family left Burgholzli to begin his retirement near his
childhood home in the little country village of Chigny in the canton
of Vaud, Switzerland. He took up bicycling and archery. His brother-
in-law Professor Bugnion persuaded him to give a few lectures on
psychology at the University of Lausanne, but he soon discontinued
them because too little interest was shown in the subject (Forel 251).
Forel traveled to the United States, where he delivered a lecture at
Clark University on the occasion of their jubilee festival [1899], and
to Russia [1902] as a member of the International Criminological
Union invited by the Russian Minister of Justice Muravieff (Forel 253-
261). Forel observed “Moscow was at that time a curious mixture of
barbarism and culture, with striking contrasts between wealth and

Family Group, 1898
Above: left to right, Inez, Edouard, Martha
Centre: Mme Forel and A. Forel
Beneath: Oscar, Cécile, Daisy
Source: Miall, page 225

8     Life and Times of August Forel



“The Ants’ Nest,” Forel’s last home, in Yvorne/Aigle, Switzerland 1903-1931
Source: Sheila Banani photo.
poverty, education and ignorance, integrity and corruption, feasting
and starvation. And everywhere society was fermenting under the
surface” (Forel 263).
In Forel’s autobiography, he gives his “retrospect” of the 19th
century at its close: “The beginning of the century stood under the
sign of the French Revolution, whose consequences influenced the
whole century; after which the technical and scientific discoveries that
followed one another with headlong speed, and the names of
Napoleon I, Lamarck, Darwin, and Bismarck, gave the century its
peculiar stamp. If I had to make a choice I should call it the century of
Lamarck and Darwin, in which the doctrine of evolution gave birth to
the germ of the discovery of the identity of the human soul with the
brain, and therewith dealt the deathstroke to the dualism of body and
soul. Compared with this, what is the significance of conquerors,
diplomatists, and technical discoveries?” (Forel 256).
In 1903, Forel and his family moved to the village of Yvorne in the
midst of vineyards near the little town of Aigle at the foot of the
mountains and overlooking the Rhone valley which opens westward
on Lake Geneva. Their home, which his wife called “La Fourmiliere”
[The Ants’ Nest], is where he lived productively his final twenty-eight
years. In 1908, on the occasion of their 25th wedding anniversary, the
Forels celebrated by journeying to Algeria, Tunis, Cairo, Carthage,
and Italy (Forel 264-270). Upon their return to Yvorne, Forel set out
again on lecture tours throughout Europe, the Balkans, Greece and

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   9


Turkey, visiting organizations for the support of abstinence and
helping form Leagues of Youth. Upon his return to Switzerland, he
celebrated the marriage [1910] of his daughter Martha to Dr. Arthur
Brauns. It is from this couple, ten years later, that Forel learns of the
Bahá’í Faith.
The end of July 1910 Forel endured the sudden and tragic death by
embolism of the pulmonary artery of his first son, Edouard, who had
just passed his examination in medicine and was engaged to be
married (Forel 280-281). Disheartened at his loss, he nevertheless
continued on lecture tours throughout Europe speaking on behalf of
the International Order for Ethics and Culture on such subjects as
eugenics, heredity, instinct and intelligence, morality in men and
animals, heredity and progress in married and sexual life, social and
hygienic requirements of the twentieth century. He expressed the
hope to “gradually build up and firmly establish the new agnostic
ethic, the religion of social welfare” (Forel 283).
Forel had also been studying the new ideas of psychoanalysis
advanced by Sigmund Freud [1856-1939] who had written a review
of Forel’s Der Hypnotismus book when it was first published [1889],
but he absolutely rejected Freud’s “exaggerations in respect of
infantile sexuality, dream-interpretation, and the like.” (Forel 284)
Longing to see the tropics in another part of the world [Africa,
Madagascar, the Indian Ocean] and possibly travel back by way of
Japan and Singapore, studying ants wherever he would go, Forel made
preparations to be gone about one year [from August 1912-1913]. He
had even written his Will [which is included in his autobiography by
the publisher in the German and English editions, but not the French
which was the language in which he wrote his Will]. But on May 17,
1912, as he began to dictate something to his secretary, he was
conscious of a tingling and numbness in his right arm and he could
not find the right words to express himself. He thought he might
have had a slight stroke but a doctor friend examined him and said it
was just due to excessive fatigue. However the symptoms continued,
his speech became indistinct and he fumbled for phrases. Within days
he was paralyzed on his right side. Now he was certain that it had been
a stroke and that he would have to give up his journey to the tropics.
He gradually trained his left hand to do many things. In the autumn
of 1912 he began to write his memoirs, using his wife’s journal since
she had kept an almost daily diary, and continued working on these
memoirs until 1916 when he put them aside for awhile. With his son-
in-law Arthur Brauns he went to Zurich in September for the session
of the International Union for Medical Psychology and Psychotherapy
where he was obliged to accept the Presidency in spite of his
compromised health (Forel 290-295).

10     Life and Times of August Forel


He eventually regained sufficient dexterity to be able to prune his
peach trees and do other gardening at home as rumors of war became
more threatening in Europe. In May 1914 he had written an article at
the request of the Hamburg Allgemeiner Beobachter concerning the
idea of a “United States of Europe” saying he was not in favor of
confining the League of Nations to Europe since he believed it should
include the whole world (Forel 299). As war approached, his eldest
daughter Inez married and moved to Canada, his remaining son Oskar
went with his Alpine regiment to the Swiss-Italian frontier, and his
son-in-law Arthur Brauns left in August for Germany where he was
appointed as an army surgeon in an auxiliary hospital. In Yvorne the
men had to join the frontier garrison. Forel and his remaining family
organized a crèche for infants and young children so the mothers
could replace their husbands in work on the land. He also began
writing pacifist articles which appeared in various periodicals, in both
French and German, and some were issued in pamphlet form in 1915
on the subject Les Etats-Unis de la Terre [“The United States of the
World”] (Forel 303). He expressed this view in his memoirs: “The truth
is that in the interest of the German people, whom I love and esteem,
I cannot too strongly condemn German feudalism and the militarism
and megalomania of the Pan-Germans. On the other hand, in France,
and even in my own country [Switzerland], I was often regarded as a
friend of Germany, and, indeed, suspected of secret Pan-Germanism....
In 1914, and again until 1918, I kept my pacifist correspondence in
special drawers in my library.... Far more significant for me were the
considered writings of really eminent minds, conceived in the neutral
sense of an international reconciliation and a lasting inter-State peace.
These I arranged in a drawer of their own in my library. My own ideas
in respect of the whole problem were recorded in [Forel’s pamphlet]
‘The United States of the World’” (Forel 305).
The biologist Professor Ernst Haeckel [1834-1919], in his 70’s by
1906, had formed the German Monist League along with a board
which included Forel. The Monist League argued for “biosocial
reform” and was an expression of Haeckel’s “social Darwinism” views.
Its philosophy claimed that, on scientific grounds, man was merely a
part of nature with no special transcendent qualities. At the same
time, German social Darwinists claimed Germans were members of a
“biologically superior community,” advancing some of the ideas that
were to become part of the core assumptions of national socialism.3 It
is interesting to note that in 1933, when Hitler became chancellor of
Germany, the Monist League was disbanded.
Views on “racial purity” spread worldwide. The eugenics movement
affected even California when, in 1909, it became the third state to
legalize the sterilization of the feeble-minded and insane. Eugenics
sterilization was in the mainstream of science and politics and upheld

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   11



Arthur and Martha Brauns-Forel,
Forel’s daughter and son-in-law, from
whom he first learned of the Bahá’í
Faith in 1920. Arthur died in 1925 in a
canoe accident. Martha became one
of the pillars of the German Bahá’í
community under the Nazi regime,
when the Bahá’í Faith was outlawed.
Source: Vader, between pages 22-23
by the U.S. Supreme Court. Eventually, more than 30 states with such
laws sterilized about 60,000 — a third of them in California, which
finally repealed its law in 1979.4
But Forel disagreed with some of Haeckel’s views. He wrote an
“open letter” in 1914 to Haeckel in Jena, the French version of which
was published in the Journal de Geneve, criticizing Haeckel’s essay on
“World War and Natural History” which he had sent to Forel in which
Haeckel had accused foreign countries of misrepresenting the German
Army as a “horde of barbarians and incendiaries.” Forel reminded
Haeckel that he had written in the Monistische Jahrhundert for
November 13, 1914 that it would be “highly desirable for the future
of Germany, and a federated Continental Europe, to besiege London,
to divide Belgium between Germany and Holland, and to give
Germany the Congo Free State, a great part of the British Colonies,
the north-eastern departments of
France, and the Baltic provinces of
Russia. To this you [Haeckel] add
that Poland should be amalgamated
with Austro-Hungary.... and your
colleagues
demand
that
the
Emperor of Germany shall be the
President of the future United
States of Europe, and that the
military security of this federation
of States shall be entrusted to
Germany.... If these assertions have
any
reality,
then
all
foreign
countries,
and
even
our
little
Switzerland, will be compelled to
defend themselves against your
schemes of hegemony to the last
drop of their blood” (Forel 303-304).
Haeckel did not reply to Forel.
Shortly after Forel became a
Bahá’í [1920], the U.S. Bahá’í
educator Stanwood Cobb and his
wife, Nayam, visited the Forel home
in Yvorne which he records in an
article on Forel published in The
Bahá’í Magazine of September 1924:
“After a most interesting tour of his
library, ... we noted the pictures of
Goethe,
Haeckel,
and
Darwin,
favorites of Forel (though he told me
he
found
Haeckel
much
too

12     Life and Times of August Forel


dogmatic, contrasting unfavorably with the modesty of Darwin)...”5
When I visited Switzerland and Forel’s home in Yvorne in 1990
and again in 1991, Auguste Forel’s picture was imprinted on the one-
thousand Franc banknote of Switzerland and it had been in circulation
for a few years. His portrait had also been on a Swiss postage stamp
issued in 1971. However, in 1997 a Swiss Citizens Commission on
Human Rights (CCHR Switzerland) claimed credit that it had
“exposed how the face of the 1,000 Swiss Franc bill was adorned by
one of the founders of the ideology that spawned Nazism — Swiss
psychiatrist August Forel” and that eight months later Forel’s face was
removed from the currency.6









Swiss National Bank
1000-franc note,
obverse and reverse
Source: Iraj Ayman
photocopy of
original bank note




During World War I Forel continually supported anti-war efforts
and movements, even attending international peace organizations
formed in The Hague. On May 1, 1916 he wrote an appeal stating, “I
believe only an international Socialist revolution can help us.... The
human race must kill the three dragons that are strangling it:
Capitalism, Militarism, and Alcoholism, or it will perish, the victim of
all three.... But by overcoming these, by the eugenic mating of the
best, the sterilization of the worst, and the help of social education

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   13


and the training of a well-disciplined, industrious Peace Army of all
men and women ... we may gradually begin a steady ascent to social
welfare on the basis of a supra-national peace.... Yet in vain I seek to
light the lantern of Diogenes, and with it enlighten the rulers of
Europe and America; so far I can find no man among them. Perhaps
one will come even yet.” And in July 1916 he resolved to become an
active Socialist (Forel 313-315).
Switzerland suffered during the war years and the Forel family,
with rationing, was unable to adequately feed and warm themselves.
Forel’s memoir recites that his wife even boiled earthworms for a meal
and that the price of coal forced them to give up central heating and
to content themselves with their fireplace during the winter of 1918-
1919 (Forel 317). At this time the Russian Legation in Bern informed
him that he had been appointed a member of the new Academy of the
Russian Soviet, but he had already heard of the “misdeeds of the so-
called dictatorship of the proletariat” so he sent a letter to the Russian
Legation declining the appointment “unless the deeds of violence of
which I spoke ceased immediately.” He never received a reply and later
heard the Russian Legation was expelled by the Swiss government
(Forel 322-323).
Forel’s memoir, Out of My Life and Work, closes in 1920, eleven
years before his death July 27, 1931 and cremation in Lausanne on
July 29, 1931. His son, Oskar, wrote in August 1934 in an Epilogue to
his father’s autobiography, “August Forel left the publication of his
memoirs to Herr Ernst Reinhardt, publisher, of Munich, since he
wished to make sure that his own family would not be involved in
their publication.... [T]he editor, with the permission of August
Forel’s widow, has greatly abridged it....” Forel himself wrote, “I have
made so many friends and enemies that I have felt afraid that my
obituary would be tendentious in one sense or another. For this reason
I preferred to write my own memoirs.... Many readers will take
offence at my opinions, and this I sincerely regret. But to tell the truth
when it must be told, and yet hurt no one’s feelings, is an art which is
beyond my capacities, and I cannot get out of my own skin, nor do I
wish to ...” (Forel Preface).
He wrote his personal “Testament” in the year 1912 which he states
in his memoir will be read by his son [Oskar] “as my own funeral
oration, during the cremation of my body” (Forel 332). [note: Bahá’í
law stipulates burial, not cremation, although Forel may have been
unaware of this law]. When Forel became a Bahá’í he added a Codicil
in August 1921 to his Will which was also read at his funeral before
hundreds of colleagues and admirers and it was included by the editor
in his memoir. It is this important document which states his Bahá’í
belief, “Our children should not be discouraged; they should, on the

14     Life and Times of August Forel


contrary, take advantage of the present world-chaos, by helping in the
difficult building of an ennobled and supranational human fabric on
the basis of a universal League of Peoples. In the year 1920, at
Karlsruhe, I first made acquaintance with the supraconfessional world-
religion of the Bahá’í, founded in the East seventy [sic] years ago by
the Persian Bahá’u’lláh. It is the true religion of the welfare of human
society, it has neither priests nor dogmas, and it binds together all the
human beings who inhabit this little globe. I have become a Bahá’í.
May this religion continue and be crowned with success; this is my
most ardent wish.... I am dying — I have died — in peace, desiring for
my ashes nothing better than the eternal rest, the ‘Nirvana,’ which
awaits them.... My ashes are sleeping the sleep of death. Remember
this, and think of me only with a quiet and cheerful mind, as you
think of my ants, my books, or the old walnut-trees in the garden....
We dead can do no more to alter the past; you living can give the
future a different form. Courage, then, and to work!” (Forel 341-343)
Dr. John Paul Vader wrote a valuable monograph (drawn from his
dissertation) published as For the Good of Mankind: August Forel and
the Bahá’í Faith [1984] which covers specifically those years
following the writing of Forel’s memoir [1920-1931] after he became
a Bahá’í. A summary of Vader’s work would make this essay too long
but, for a more complete view of Forel’s life, Vader’s book is
recommended. As Vader states, “It is theoretically possible for Forel to
have heard about the Bahá’í Faith before the winter of 1920-21....
Forel himself, however, clearly dates his first meeting with these
teachings to the winter months of 1920-21 which he spent at the
home of his daughter and son-in-law, Martha and Arthur Brauns-
Forel.” Dr. Arthur Brauns had opened his psychiatric clinic in Karlsruhe
and, in 1920, both he and his wife joined the Bahá’í Faith.7 Before
continuing with August Forel’s last years of life, when he was a Bahá’í,
let me conclude the story of the Brauns family since it is through them
the Faith is carried on today by the Forel family.
On September 1, 1925, Forel’s 77th birthday, tragically Arthur
Brauns was drowned in a canoe accident on the Rhone river, leaving
Martha a young widow with five children. Martha Brauns-Forel
became the center of the Bahá’í group in Karlsruhe and later served as
an elected member of the Bahá’í National Spiritual Assembly of
Germany. During World War II she suffered greatly, both personally
[her youngest son died on the Eastern Front and her eldest son was
seriously injured] and as part of the German Bahá’í community during
the eight-year suspension of Bahá’í activity in Germany [1937-1945].
She died at the age of 60 in August 1948.8 In May 2000, the
Karlsruhe Bahá’í community celebrated their 80th anniversary which
included an internet website review of their Bahá’í history from its
beginnings with the activities of Dr. Arthur and Martha Brauns-

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   15


Forel.9 The review states: “Marta Brauns experienced significant
difficulties during the Nazi regime. Shortly after the Nazis came to
power, it became apparent that Bahá’ís would be targets of hostilities
due to their global world views as well as their contacts with people
from all over the world. In 1937 Germany, Himmler outlawed the
Bahá’í religion. Marta Brauns-Forel was accused of participating in
the Bahá’í cause and being in contact with Jews and foreigners. She
was treated badly and insulted by the Gestapo. She wrote the
following to one of her sons: ‘My dear, dear child! It has happened
more than once in my life that I thought this must have been the most
difficult thing that could ever happen to me: August 1, 1914 [the
beginning of World War I], September 1, 1925 [Arthur Brauns’
death] ... but once again, fate has brought me days filled with horror
and dismay, causing me to fear for my own sanity.... I have been to
the Secret State-Police four days in a row now, and I thank God that
you have no idea what that really means.... The Gestapo has taken
everything. All letters and addresses ... no books, not a single page, no
prayer book, not a single one of those framed Golden Words.”10
Soon after Arthur and Martha Brauns had become Bahá’ís in
Karlsruhe, Forel sent ‘Abdu’l-Bahá a letter dated 28 December 1920,
in which he explained, “For my part, I am a monist, in the following
sense: I am convinced that the functionings of the brain and of the
human mind (or soul) are simply an inseparable whole. It follows that I
cannot believe that the individual soul survives after the brain has
died.... In metaphysical matters, on the other hand, I declare myself a
complete agnostic, like the philosopher Socrates or the great naturalist
Darwin, which means that ‘God’ for me is nothing but the Essence of
the
Universe, presumably absolute, but for man absolutely
unknowable.... Despite all my admiration for your human principles, I
must confess that I do not understand your ‘Divine’ principles. This,
then, is my question: May I, yes or no, belong to the Bahá’í Faith, with
the agnosticism I have mentioned above, without deceiving myself
and others?” (Vader 14-15)
Forel’s fascinating letter, quite fully describing his beliefs,
activities, and Bahá’í literature he had read apparently was received in
Haifa but not responded to by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá until 21 September 1921
[among the last Tablets composed before ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s death 28
November 1921]. His Tablet to August Forel,11 known now to Bahá’ís
as ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s proof of God’s existence, was not received by Forel
in Switzerland until March 1922, more than one year after Forel had
written to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and one year after Forel had already decided
to consider himself a Bahá’í.12
Some explanation is helpful to understand why there were delays in
the response to correspondence between Forel and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.

16     Life and Times of August Forel


Forel’s letter13 needed to be translated in Haifa to receive ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá’s considered answer and this was during the last few months of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s busy life. Then, after ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Tablet was
written, it was decided in Haifa to have it translated into English and
French for wider distribution to Bahá’ís worldwide which is explained
in the cover letter written by Shoghi Effendi, dated 27 February 1922
Haifa, Palestine and sent with ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Tablet to Forel. In
Shoghi Effendi’s letter he tells Forel that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s sudden
passing, “has plunged us all in profound grief and added heavily to
our preoccupations and responsibilities. Happily, however, the full
answer to your [Forel’s] epistle had been written, and signed by him
[‘Abdu’l-Bahá] many days before his passing ...” (Vader 18-19)
This essay will not include an analysis of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s famous
Tablet to Forel but, for the purpose of this work, it is important to say
what Forel responded to Shoghi Effendi when he wrote back on
Sunday, 19 March 1922: “... Of course I empower you to publish the
long and interesting answer which ‘Abdu’l-Bahá took the trouble to
give me. Out of love for truth I must tell you, however, that I stray
from ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s opinion on one point although at heart I am a
follower of the twelve Bahá’í principles ... the soul dies with the brain,
and I cannot believe that it lives on after the individual has died....
The short and simple question which I ask you please to answer
concisely, in place of your late lamented Grandfather, is this: ‘May I,
yes or no, consider myself a Bahá’í, without being a hypocrite after
the confession of faith I have just made? ... I would like to be a Bahá’í
without misunderstanding and without hypocrisy, a ‘leftist’ Bahá’í if
you like, but with the same rights as are enjoyed by the rightists. I
wanted to ask ‘Abdu’l-Bahá himself [Forel seems to have forgotten
that he did ask ‘Abdu’l-Bahá this very same question in his 28
December 1920 letter], but it is too late. This is why I ask you to
answer in his place ...” (Vader 19-21) Vader reports in his book that
there is no evidence in Forel’s papers of a direct response by Shoghi
Effendi to this letter, though Forel said he corresponded often with
Shoghi Effendi, since tragically much of Forel’s correspondence and
possessions were disposed of after his death. Nevertheless, Forel
undoubtedly considered himself a Bahá’í and continued to identify
himself as one in his letters and publications from 1921 until his death
in 1931.
After his declaration of Faith he had contact with several
prominent Bahá’ís including visits from Hippolyte Dreyfus, Stanwood
Cobb and his wife, Consul and Mrs. Schwarz, Mr. and Mrs.
Mountfort Mills and Miss Martha Root (Vader 28-29). Forel founded
the “Bahá’í group” in Lausanne in May 1922.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   17


He immediately set himself to teaching and defending the Faith,
particularly on behalf of the persecuted Iranian Bahá’ís in the mid-
1920’s, to influence European public opinion. He audaciously wrote
of these persecutions to the French Foreign Minister Edouard Herriot
[10 April 1925]; to the Neue Freie Presse of Vienna [26 April 1925]
and other newspapers; and to the Secretary-General of the League of
Nations Sir Eric Drummond [12 May 1926] from whom he received a
disappointing, but expected, response stating the League of Nations
was powerless to help since Persia had not accepted an international
agreement for the protection of minorities. When all members of the
Local Bahá’í Assembly of Constantinople were on trial on charges of
subversion, Forel wrote to Mustapha Kamal Pasha [Ataturk] in
Ankara on 18 November 1927. In this letter he advised Ataturk, “... if
you were to declare the Bahá’í Faith as an official religion of Turkey,
in addition to Islam, you would make a great step towards progress
and would give an example to all of Europe and even to all the
nations of the world!” The trial of the Bahá’ís did have a favorable
outcome (Vader 53-59).
Among the most well known of his articles written for and
published in Bahá’í sources is “World Vision of a Savant,” first
published in Star of the West in February 1928 and included in The
Bahá’í World, Volume III, 1928-1930. In this article, Forel shares his
“scientific” views on human behavior which reflect the racist
understandings and attitudes of that time: “... one makes a pretext
that there are differences in races; but if one excepts those races,
altogether inferior, with a lighter cerebrum (according to Wedda
about eight hundred or eight hundred and fifty grams instead of one
thousand) it is a fundamental error.... There are several conditions of
utmost importance which Bahá’ís ought to meet if they wish to remain
scientific.... They should refrain from metaphysics, from seeking to
know the Unknowable; and should occupy themselves wholly with the
social good of humanity here on earth.... Our duty as Bahá’ís is not only
to speak and think of God, but to be active for the social good.”14
Vader cogently reviews those areas of Forel’s beliefs which diverge
from Bahá’í belief as understood today. These include Forel’s concept
of God, in which he considered himself agnostic, monist, pantheist
and unable to believe in a “personal” God, and his rejection of the
immortality of the soul after death. Forel also was outspoken in his
political views, defining himself as a “leftist” and with anti-capitalistic
views, which he incorporated in a listing of 12 principles entitled
“Principles of the Bahá’ís” and published in Sonne der Wahrheit, the
German contemporary official Bahá’í magazine. The final area of
divergence from Bahá’í beliefs was in his racist attitudes, no doubt
influenced by anthropological views of his day (Vader 33-38). Forel
also was among many well known individuals who signed the Anti-

18     Life and Times of August Forel



‘My beloved Emma, my faithful, kind
and devoted comrade, the unfailing of
sunshine in my life ... bestowed upon
me ... the most precious things in life:
love and optimism.’
Source: Vader, between pages 60-1

Conscription Manifesto of 1926 which included Albert Einstein,
M.K. Gandhi, Martin Buber, Bertrand Russell, Rabindranath Tagore,
and H.G. Wells. The 1930 petition Against Conscription and the
Military Training of Youth was signed by Forel, along with some of
the others mentioned before, and also Jane Addams, Paul Birukoff
and Valentin Bulgakoff (secretaries of Leo Tolstoy), John Dewey,
Sigmund Freud, Thomas Mann, and Upton Sinclair among others.15
When Forel passed away, his Bahá’í daughter Martha Brauns-Forel
informed Shoghi Effendi16 to which Shoghi Effendi’s secretary, H.
Rabbani, replied on Shoghi Effendi’s behalf dated 10 September
1931: “... However great the contradictions in Dr. Forel’s testament in
regard to his attitude towards the Cause we cannot fail to recognize
him as a Bahá’í who had but a partial glimpse of the Bahá’í
Revelation. No one can claim that his knowledge of this Revelation is
adequate, especially in the embryonic stage of its development. Dr.
Forel was sincere in his convictions but like every human being his
comprehension was limited and this was not in his power to change...”
(Vader 40)
The year of Forel’s death,
four
months
later,
Shoghi
Effendi penned his magnificent
letter to the Bahá’ís of the world
[“The Goal of a New World
Order,” November 28, 1931] in
which he ponders the decade
since
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s
passing
[1921-1931],
the
same
last
decade of Forel’s life as a Bahá’í.
Shoghi Effendi laid before us a
description of a war-weary world,
the signs of impending chaos, the
impotence of statemanship, the
guiding
principles
of
world
order, and the principle of
oneness, the “pivot” round which
all the teachings of Bahá’u’lláh
revolve. The call for a federation
of mankind, a deep wish of
August Forel, would, Shoghi
Effendi wrote, require “the fire
of ordeal.” Both a call, and a
warning, which the world ignores
at its peril.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   19


Appendix: Significant dates of events and correspondence
of August Forel and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
Birth & Death of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá: May 23, 1844 — November 28, 1921
Birth & Death of August Forel: September 1, 1848 — July 27, 1931
December 28, 1920: Forel wrote an inquiry letter to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
asking if he could be considered a Bahá’í after explaining his
“agnostic views.”
September 21, 1921: Two months before His passing, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
wrote His famous Tablet to Forel on the existence of God. The
original Persian text was then published in Cairo in 1922. Forel did
not receive ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s answer (Tablet) sent from Haifa until the
end of February 1922.
February 27, 1922: Date of the cover letter to Forel from the
Guardian Shoghi Effendi written from Haifa, as the “grandson of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá,” explaining the delay in sending ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s answer
(Tablet) to Forel (various translations were being made). Following
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s passing, Shoghi Effendi had arrived in Haifa on
December 29, 1921 from England. The Guardian then left Haifa on
April 5, 1922 for rest and recuperation in Europe and was gone for 8
months, returning December 15, 1922. He had left his Great Aunt
Bahiyyih Khanum, the Greatest Holy Leaf, and an “assembly” of 9
persons in charge during his absence.
March 19, 1922: Forel acknowledges receipt of Shoghi Effendi’s letter
and the various translations (into English and French) of ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá’s Tablet to Forel, 15 months after Forel’s original inquiry to
‘Abdu’l-Bahá asking whether he [Forel], could consider himself a
Bahá’í “without being a hypocrite.” No specific answer to Forel’s
acknowledgment of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Tablet was sent from Shoghi
Effendi, but he had left Haifa (see above) on April 5, 1922 to be gone
8 months. Very little of the correspondence remains in Forel’s papers
between Shoghi Effendi and Forel because of disposal by Forel’s heirs.
Forel states, in a Codicil added in August 1921 to his original Will
and Testament, which he had written between 1912, following a
stroke, until 1924, that he learned of the Bahá’í Faith in Karlsruhe in
1920. The Codicil was read, at Forel’s instruction, by his son Oscar at
the ceremony on July 29, 1931 following Forel’s cremation. This is the
one reference of his Bahá’í beliefs left in his writings which survives
today:
At Karlsruhe, in 1920, I first came to know of the
supraconfessional world religion of the Bahá’ís, founded in
the East more than 75 years ago [this was written in 1921] by
the Persian Bahá’u’lláh. This is the true religion of human
social good, without dogmas or priests, uniting all men on
this small terrestrial globe of ours. I have become a Bahá’í.

20     Life and Times of August Forel


May this religion live and prosper for the good of mankind;
this is my most ardent wish.

NOTES
1 August Forel, Out of My Life and Work, translated by Bernard Miall
(New York: W.W. Norton, 1937) 20. Hereafter referred to in text as
(Forel with page number reference).
2 Santiago Ramon y Cajal Biography, Official website of The Nobel
Foundation, last modified June 27, 2003.
3 George J. Stein, “Biological Science and the Roots of Nazism: The
Promotion of racist doctrines in the name of science,” American
Scientist, January-February 1988, 76, 50-58.
4 Mike Anton, “Forced Sterilization Once Seen as Path to a Better
World,” Los Angeles Times, July 16, 2003, A-1, A-18.
5 Stanwood Cobb, “Man and the Ant,” The Bahá’í Magazine, 15:6
(September 1924): 166-170.
6 http:/www.cchr.org.
7 John Paul Vader. For The Good of Mankind: August Forel and the
Bahá’í Faith. Oxford: George Ronald, 1984, 13. Hereafter referred to in
text as (Vader with page number reference).
8 “In Memoriam: Marta Brauns-Forel 1888-1948,” BW Vol. XI, 1946-1950,
481-483.
9 http:/www.bahai.de/karlsruhe/80jahre.html: translated from the German
by Houshang Banani, August 2003.
10 ibid.
11 First English translation by Dr. Zia Baghdadi published in SW 13:8
(November 1922): 195-202; another English translation was published in
BW XV (1968-1973): 37-43.
12 Forel had added the Codicil to his Will in August 1921 declaring himself
a Bahá’í.
13 Forel’s letter was dated 28 December 1920 although mistakenly referred
to in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Tablet as dated 28 July 1920.
14 August Forel, “The World Vision of a Savant,” BW III (1928-1930): 286-
287.
15 http://www.peace.ca
16 Her letter was dated 22 August 1931.

A Bahá’í Understanding of
Reincarnation in Relation to the
World’s Faiths
Sateh Bayat and Vafa Bayat
Abstract
Belief in reincarnation, that is, the return of man’s spirit or some
aspect of his reality to the material world after death, has risen from
21 to 25% in the U.S. over the past decade. (Gallup 2001) Believers in
this concept are now found amongst the adherents of most religions
and even among non-religionists.
Given the overwhelming impact that this ideology can have on
the lives and beliefs of people and society, we will briefly explore
this concept in various Sacred Texts and then offer the perspective
of the Bahá’í Writings.
We will show in this essay that the Bahá’í Faith does not uphold
reincarnationist belief as literally understood. It accepts the return of
attributes and qualities, yet maintains that the essence or the reality
of things cannot be made to return. This essay seeks to see meaning
and
purpose
coming
from
all
those
who
have
adopted
reincarnationism and will demonstrate a far-reaching belief system
that acknowledges God’s love for man and his companionship as the
purpose behind his creation. Man’s physical birth along with the
creation of his spirit are the first steps in his spiritual progress
towards the acquisition of virtues and noble qualities. Thus, the
Bahá’í Faith also changes man’s age-long motivation for doing good
from anticipation of heaven vs. hell to continuous, uplifting
spiritual progress. It describes man’s soul and its relationship to the
physical body. It further describes man’s spirit as being God’s
supreme talisman, traversing the innumerable spiritual worlds, each
full of unconditional love and boundless grace, towards the court of
His Presence. He leaves behind the world of dust, limitations,
weaknesses, and darkness for the world of light, freedom and
perfection, just as he left the embryonic womb of limitations for the
material world of colors, sounds and fragrances.
Thus, there remains no reason for man’s spirit to return to this
netherworld and become attached to something else, be it plant,
animal or even another human body. After its severance from the
human body, the human spirit, with its acquired virtues and God’s

22   Bahá’í Understanding of Reincarnation

unique gift of free will, will soar and journey through the expanse
of never-ending spiritual worlds, gaining an ever-greater measure of
bounties and grace, and becoming ever worthier of His
companionship.
Introduction
There is one God, and He has been guiding mankind since his
inception through Divine Messengers including Zoroaster, Krishna,
Moses, Buddha, Christ, Mu˙ammad, the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh. Today
is the day of a new Revelation, which brings for the first time in
history all of the world’s people together, a Message brought by His
Holiness Bahá’u’lláh. He taught that the Earth is but one country
and mankind its citizens, and that we should consort with the world’s
peoples in the utmost amity and understanding, and seek to remove
the barriers between them, so that the Earth will become like
Heaven.
As members of this human family, we should not force our views
on anyone; in fact, unless we have an audience, we shouldn’t even
express our views. In our dealings with others, we must not deride,
criticize, or oppose anyone’s view, but must, if they are interested,
explain our understanding in a loving manner. In the words of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, we read:
O friends, consort with all the people of the world with joy
and fragrance. If there be to you a word or essence whereof
others than you are devoid, communicate it and show it
forth in the language of affection and kindness: if it be
received and be effective the object is attained, and if not
leave it to him, and with regard to him deal not harshly but
pray. The language of kindness is the lodestone of hearts
and the food of the soul; it stands in the relation of ideas to
words, and is as a horizon for the shining of the Sun of
Wisdom and Knowledge. (TN 43)
Nevertheless, our world-encompassing beliefs that solve the long-
held dilemmas, cure the world’s ailments, and re-awaken mankind’s
spirituality and hope are immensely valuable and pertinent and as
they come to the attention of the masses, have already begun to
shake the world. One of those world-shaking truths that Bahá’u’lláh
has revealed is His unveiling and clarification of the nature of life
and the soul itself and the progress of our souls through the worlds
of God after our physical death, ever advancing and ever
progressing. In relation to this subject, in recent years, we have
witnessed a great deal of interest, especially in the West, in the
principle of reincarnation. Belief in reincarnation, that is, the return
of man’s spirit or some aspects of his reality to the material world

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   23


after death, is estimated to be as high as 25% or higher in the United
States, with another 20% unsure. (Gallup 2001) Believers in this
concept are now found amongst the adherents of most religions and
even among non-religionists. We will attempt to describe this belief
system and how it originated, as well as discuss it in relation to what
the Bahá’í Writings say about it.
According to the American Heritage Dictionary, “reincarnation”
or “samsara”, as it is also known, is defined as “the eternal cycle of
birth, suffering, death, and rebirth”, in which every time someone
dies, their soul returns clothed with a new body. Another related idea
is that of “transmigration” or “metempsychosis”, in which the soul
passes into another body, be it human or animal, at the time of
death. The vast majority of believers in these ideas come from the
Hindu and Buddhist Faiths. Hindus believe that the soul progresses
through a cycle of successive lives, in which each reincarnation is
determined by how the previous life was lived, i.e., if one’s previous
life was a dishonest and dishonorable one, one’s present incarnation
will be far more unpleasant — you reap what you sow. Fate, then, is a
direct result of one’s previous actions, and this doctrine is known as
karma. Once these karmas have been resolved, one reaches the stage
of Nirvana or Moksha, in which a state of freedom from samsara is
attained, and one is then absorbed into the divine. Later we will
discuss why these ideas have so much appeal to people, and also
discover that the actual statements and Teachings of Krishna and all
of the other Great Teachers are in perfect accord with the Writings
of Bahá’u’lláh, as they should be since Bahá’u’lláh is the return of
their Divine Essences, and discuss the soul in what can only be a
symbolic way — to describe the existence of life after this physical
life. It is only much later that Hindu beliefs began to diverge from
this spiritual understanding of the afterlife to one in which people
are reincarnated on Earth into different bodies.
In order to proceed, we should first summarize the two major
“reincarnation” belief systems. The first has only a belief in the
existence of this Earth — it has no conception of future worlds of
God, so to speak. Through reincarnation, we continue returning to
this world and paying for our former misdeeds or being rewarded for
good behavior. Hell and heaven therefore exist on and solely on this
earthly plane. The second includes an affirmation in the existence of
other worlds, and reincarnation in this one is simply a means to
refine and perfect our soul until it has acquired enough perfections
to continue to the next world. Man is thus composed of both matter
and spirit, or “atman”. To most Hindus, Atman is considered as an
entity without any attributes including memory, however somehow it
manages to keep an account of Karma for an individual. This makes

24   Bahá’í Understanding of Reincarnation

atman an impersonal spirit of an individual that some Hindus believe
to be involved in the process of re-incarnation.
I. Reincarnation and Hinduism
Belief in “Hinduism”, literally meaning the “Hind” or “Indian”
Faith and introduced into the world’s vocabulary by the British in
about 1829, is held by almost a sixth of the world’s population. It is
estimated to have originated 3000 or more years ago, and indications
are that part of it may have been introduced to India over many
centuries by the Aryan people, tribes of whom settled in places as far
apart as India, Iran, and Europe. Hinduism is a vast collection of
beliefs and ideas, stories, traditions, and practices that have
developed and evolved over several millennia by innumerable and
sometimes well-separated people, and thus cannot easily be
understood in its entirety, but certain of its texts and teachings are
fairly universally accepted, and we will now examine them in relation
to the subject of “reincarnation”. Hindus believe in a Universal Soul
they call “Brahman”, Who is the Creator, Preserver and Transformer
of everything. They also recognize different aspects of Brahman in
the form of numerous deities including, for instance, Rama Vishnu,
Shiva and Krishna.
Although transmigration, or the migration of the soul from one
body to another at death, is a fundamental teaching of Hinduism
and has a firm hold on the mind of others in India including
Buddhists, Jains and Sikhs, the origin of the doctrine of
transmigration is one of the most difficult problems of Indian
philosophy, for the theory of reincarnation (rebirth) does not appear
in the Vedas. The Rig Veda, the first book of the Vedas (1200 BC),
speaks of death and immortality, rather than rebirth. Speaking of the
Creator, the poet says,
Whose shadow is immortality and death. (10.121.2)
and prays:
As from its stem the cucumber, so may I be released from
death, not reft of immortality. (7.59.12)
The Rig Veda offers various images of a vague but pleasant life
after death. A funeral hymn addresses the dead man:
Go forth, go forth upon the ancient pathways whereon our
sires of old have gone before us. ‘Mere shalt thou look on
both the Kings enjoying their sacred food, God Varuna and
Yama. Meet Yama, meet the Fathers, meet the merit of free
or ordered acts, in highest heaven. Leave sin and evil, seek

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   25


anew thy dwelling, and bright with glory wear another
body. (10.14.7-8)
Life in the reign of Yama, together with the fathers with a
glorious body, is the desire and hope of the Vedic man. Another
hymn is addressed to the funeral fire, Agni:
Burn him not up, nor quite consume him, Agni: let not his
body or his skin be scattered. O Jatavedas, when thou hast
matured him, then send him on his way unto the Fathers.
(10.16.1)
This hymn expresses the desire and hope that, after the purification
through fire, Agni, the dead person receives his body back, made
perfect, so as to enjoy the life of the fathers. Other hymns speak to
the dead man, of the final dispersal of his old body:
The Sun receive thine eye, the Wind thy spirit; go, as thy
merit is, to earth or heaven. Go, if it be thy lot, unto the
waters; go, make thine home in plants with all thy members.
(10.18.10-1 1)
And in a hymn addressed to the Earth, we read:
Betake thee to the lap of Earth the Mother, of Earth far-
spreading, very kind and gracious. Young Dame, wool-soft
unto the guerdon giver, may she preserve thee from
Destruction’s bosom. Heave thyself, Earth, nor press thee
downward heavily: afford him easy access, gently tending
him. Cover him, as a mother wraps her skirt about her
child, O Earth. (10.18.10-1 1)
From these and other texts of the Rig Veda, it can be concluded
that the original texts discuss death and immortality, and do not
mention the idea of one’s soul entering another body after death.
We find various and diverse ways of considering death and the fate
of man after his death, which seem to represent some sort of rebirth,
consisting of the “putting on of a glorious body”, receiving a
purified body made perfect by Agni and living happily with the
ancestors in the reign of the death, in the dispersion of the old body
in cosmic elements, or in returning to the loving womb of Mother
Earth. However, none of these texts speak explicitly that the dead
man has to be reborn on the Earth in any form.
The texts of the Brahmanas (900 BC) also do not contain the
doctrine of transmigration. In these texts too, the soul longs for the
world of the fathers — for immortality, as in the Rig Veda. The
problem here too is not that of reincarnation or rebirth, but that of
death, which is far more explicitly feared: Death is evil, and the
essence of evil is death. The central preoccupation of the Brahmans,

26   Bahá’í Understanding of Reincarnation

is therefore, the fear of death and the obsessive search for rituals
that can overcome it. Not only can the gods become immortal, but
also the sacrificer, in fact, becomes immortal. As we are beginning to
see, the addition of the idea of transmigration was a much later idea,
not found anywhere in the original texts, and was created to remove
people’s great fear of death, for similar to those in the Middle East,
it was yet too early in mankind’s spiritual history to comprehend the
existence of a spiritual world completely removed from this physical
world, and so analogies similar to those used there of rivers of milk
and honey, etc., were used to describe it.
Perhaps the
earliest foreshadowing of the doctrine of
transmigration is to be found in the Sathapatha Brahmana. This text,
however, does not explicitly refer to transmigration. What the
authors of the Brahmanas were searching for was not rebirth, but
liberation from the inevitable problem of death, which is the
greatest of all evils. What they feared was not life but death, “old
age and death” (janamrtyu), and more precisely “recurring death” or
“re-death” (punarmrtyu). They feared that in place of the desired
immortality in the next world (of the Fathers), there would be
renewed death, and, as a consequence, turned to many rites and
ceremonies, including the Agnihotra, the Visuvant, the Naciketas
fire, the piling of the fire, etc., in order to save them from suffering
repeated deaths. What people could have perhaps realized was that
the repeated death mentioned in their Holy Books referred to death
in the next world, not in this — it applied to the Fathers. The idea
that death is a birth (a passage to the next world) is not at all rare
and the conception that death might there be repeated is a very
natural one, i.e., a continuing progression from one spiritual world
to another, as Bahá’u’lláh tells us occurs. This was misunderstood,
unfortunately, and the idea of rebirth (transmigration) on the Earth
was thus subsequently created in the Upanishads.
According to the Upanishads, rebirth or reincarnation of the souls
can take place in a series of physical bodies (normally in human
bodies but also in animals and even plants) or in a series of astral and
preternatural bodies (sun, moon, planets, stars, angels or demons),
depending on one’s karma. The Kaushitaki Upanishad expresses it
more clearly: “he is born again here as a worm, or as an insect, or as a
fish, or as a bird, or as a lion, or as a boar, or as a serpent, or as a
tiger, or as a man, or as something else in different places”.
(Kaushitaki Upanishad 1.2)
It is important to reiterate that nowhere in the Vedic Hymns can
be found any mention of reincarnation — it was four hundred years
later that the doctrine was possibly alluded to in the Brahmana
writings, and two hundred years after that, beginning in the 7th
Century BC, that the concept was actually stated in the Upanishads.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   27


It should be noted however, that to some of the followers of the
Hindu Faith some of the books of Upanishads that are actually
explanations of the Vedic Hymns and are usually placed at the end
of each Hymn are as old and/or as authentic as the Rig Veda Hymns
themselves.
The Bhagavad-Gita, or “Song of the Lord”, is part of the sixth
book of the Mahabharata, the world’s longest poem. Composed
between 500 BC and 100 AD, the Mahabharata is an account of the
wars of the house of Bharata. It is one of the most popular Hindu
texts and has an important place within the Hindu tradition.
The Bhagavad-Gita in part consists of a dialogue between Prince
Arjuna and Krishna, his charioteer, an incarnation of the supreme
God, Vishnu. Topics such as the meaning of true self, renunciation
of work, the true nature of karma, the true nature of God, and the
definition of a true devotee are discussed. He explains that:
Just as the embodied soul passes from childhood to youth
to old age, it also passes from one body to another. The
undaunted person therefore is not deluded. (Bhagavad-Gita
2:13)
How very unfortunate that beautiful statements like this one by
Krishna have been misunderstood and misinterpreted to support the
idea of returning to this world.
At the time the Vedic Hymns were written, it was a widespread
belief that man continues to exist after death as a whole person.
There was an absolute distinction between man and deities that could
not be traversed. Much can be understood of their beliefs on this
subject through their funeral rites, in which the deceased were
buried with food and clothes necessary in the afterlife. Since they
believed in the preservation of personal identity, they would also
incinerate the dead body along with that of the (living) wife and ox
so that they could accompany them in the next life, a ritual that
continued in parts of India until the British outlawed it.
In the Vedas, we read about how the deity Yama, the sovereign of
the souls of the dead and the recipient of the offerings made by
their families, provided divine justice, casting the wicked into an
eternal dark prison that they could not escape from. It is valuable
here to note how we as Bahá’ís may look at this idea. Bahá’u’lláh
gives us innumerable titles for God, exampled by the Merciful, the
Judge, the Sovereign Ruler, the Lawgiver, the All-Knowing, and
gives us prayers to read on behalf of our departed loved ones. He
also tells us that should we lead wicked lives, when we die, we will be
far separated from our Beloved; it will be as if we were in darkness,
far away from the Light.

28   Bahá’í Understanding of Reincarnation

What death is more wretched than to flee from the Source
of everlasting life? What fire is fiercer on the Day of
Reckoning than that of remoteness from the divine Beauty
and the celestial Glory? (GDM 35)
So, though at first glance, the story of Yama might seem foreign
to us, we quickly realize in light of the Teachings of Bahá’u’lláh that
it is simply another name for God. Contrast this however with the
concept of reincarnation — designed to give hope that one can
escape hell. In this type of order, one realizes how far removed the
Divine becomes — in fact, we become obsessed with each of our
lives on Earth and seem to forget about God altogether. How
beautifully and clearly does Bahá’u’lláh tell us that though in the
future worlds of God we are rewarded and punished, progress is still
possible if we are so inclined, and forgiveness is abundant. Thus,
with one fell swoop, Bahá’u’lláh removes the fear of hell that people
have had for so long that has caused them to accept the idea of
reincarnation, with all of the shackles that that acceptance entails.
Again, in the Bhagavad-Gita, one finds words and statements on
the nature of the soul, as exemplified by the following:
Just as the sun illuminates the whole wide world, the Soul
illuminates the whole body, O Bharata. (Bhagavad-Gita 13:34)
We also read of Krishna telling Arjuna,
The soul is never born nor does it die at any time. It has
neither past nor future. It is unborn, ever existing,
permanent and ancient. When the body is slain neither it is
killed not it kills. (Bhagavad-Gita 2:20)
How beautifully does Bahá’u’lláh reiterate these when He says:
Verily I say, the human soul is exalted above all egress and
regress. It is still, and yet it soareth; it moveth, and yet it is
still. It is, in itself, a testimony that beareth witness to the
existence of a world that is contingent, as well as to the
reality of a world that hath neither beginning nor end.
(GWB 161)
The soul, thus, transcends the physical body; it is merely associated
with it for a short time, as it gains the faculties and qualities it needs
for life in those future worlds of God.
The Upanishads added to the Teachings of Krishna the idea of
reincarnation. They constitute the first writings to move the place of
one’s “second life” from the heavenly realm to the earthly realm, and
say that resolution of this never-ending cycle will only take place
after one knows one’s self. Later, in the Puranas, a simpler and more
down-to-Earth set of writings, one finds a vast elaboration of this

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   29


idea, where specific destinies are determined by the specific sin
performed in the previous life.
2. Reincarnation and Buddhism
Like Lord Krishna, Lord Buddha taught that mankind has a soul
and that in order to approach God’s court, so to speak, one must
purify oneself from such things as anger, greed, lust, jealousy, and
ignorance. In Buddha’s Dhammapada, one reads the following verses
on the subject:
Rouse thyself! Do not be idle! Follow the law of virtue! The
virtuous rests in bliss in this world and in the next.
(Dhammapada 13:168)
Impurity Thou art now like a sear leaf, the messengers of
death (Yama) have come near to thee; thou standest at the
door of thy departure, and thou hast no provision for thy
journey.
Make thyself an island, work hard, be wise! When thy
impurities are blown away, and thou art free from guilt,
thou wilt enter into the heavenly world of the elect (Ariya).
Thy life has come to an end, thou art come near to death
(Yama), there is no resting-place for thee on the road, and
thou hast no provision for thy journey.
Make thyself an island, work hard, be wise! When thy
impurities are blown away, and thou art free from guilt,
thou wilt not enter again into birth and decay.1
As one reads the last verse, one can begin to see how someone
intent on their own belief in reincarnation might see this potentially
as evidence for it, but simply switch the punctuation marks after
“wise” and “stain” respectively, that could easily have been
misinterpreted in the translation, and one gets a very different
picture — one that involves purging oneself of taint and stain, for
one will not have the chance to be born and die in this world again.
No original Writings and statements made by any Messenger of God
ever taught reincarnation, it is the creation of people only. The
foundations of religious truth are one reality. All the holy
Manifestations of God have proclaimed and promulgated the same
reality. They have summoned mankind to reality itself and reality is
one.
Now let us look at the concept itself and why it is so detrimental
to society — so different from the intentions of the Prophets who
people claim support it. According to the reincarnationist view, if

30   Bahá’í Understanding of Reincarnation

someone knows that the suffering they have experienced during the
course of their lives is caused by previous lives’ misdeeds, they will
accept them as just and strive to improve themselves, as opposed to
those who do not believe this, and therefore do not improve
themselves, only increasingly feel resentment for life and society’s
injustices. As such, they will rebel against their fate, becoming ever
more jealous of others and full of hate towards the more privileged,
their situation only becoming more and more grave. This view is
exemplified, for instance, by the following quote from a Swami:
If the virtuous man who has not done any evil act in this
birth suffers, this is due to some wrong act that he may
have committed in his previous birth. He will have his
compensation in his next birth. If the wicked man who
daily does many evil actions apparently enjoys in this birth,
this is due to some good Karma he must have done in his
previous birth. He will have compensation in his next birth.
He will suffer in the next birth. The law of compensation is
inexorable and relentless.2
Objections to this idea abound, and show how the holding of this
idea can cause so much suffering in its adherents. For instance, as
long as suffering (or the reward for good deeds) can be experienced
only at a personal level, and man ceases to exist as a person at
physical death, it implies that another person, generated in another
physical body, will actually bear the consequences dictated by the
karma of the deceased person. The new person, too, will have no
recollection of previous transgressions, and will be forced to deal
with his new lot in life. In other words, one person sows and another
one reaps, since no personal characteristics can be preserved from
one incarnation of the impersonal self to the next. Another
objection one can raise relates to how, in practice, it would result in
an ever-increasing karmic debt, for it is supposed that the person
who is living out the consequences of his karma should do it in a
spirit of resignation and submission, but this ideal is far from reality.
Instead of adopting a passive attitude concerning the hardships that
have to be endured, man almost always reacts with indignation.
Indeed, experience shows us that evil always generates more evil, and
without divine guidance, a balance will never be reached and a
vicious cycle ensues. One can easily this in the many troubled parts
of the world, which will never become truly peaceful without that
change of heart that adherence to Bahá’u’lláh’s Message brings.
Another sad, unjust, and clearly not divinely ordained outcome of
adherence to the idea of reincarnation is that the suffering of others
is simply “their own fault”, and that they are being equitably
punished. Indeed, anyone who interferes in the unrolling of someone
else’s karma is gathering bad karma for themselves. Thus, adherence

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   31


might even lead to complacence and a total loss of compassion for
the welfare of others. Last but not least, according to this doctrine,
people are the instruments for the punishment of those with bad
karma. Unless one were to do this in the most “disinterested” and
“detached” manner — highly rare for someone causing someone else
intense suffering, the punisher in the process is gaining bad karma
for themselves too, and will in a future life be punished in turn. A
vicious cycle as such can be seen in regard to a butcher returning to
this world as a pig to be slaughtered. The pig has to be slaughtered as
punishment for being a butcher, and this will have to be done by the
new butcher, who will then be punished in the same way. The cycle
cannot be broken by anything, for it is the required punishment. It is
therefore completely contrary to the teaching of “ahimsa”, or “non-
violence”.
3. Reincarnation and Judaism
In Jewish Scriptures there is no mention of reincarnation, but this
has not prevented some of its scholars and their books from
supporting it. Throughout the Cabalists’ texts, for instance, in the
Zohar, one finds statements referring to reincarnation.
The souls must reenter the absolute substance whence they
have emerged. But to accomplish this, they must develop all
the perfections, the germ of which is planted in them; and
if they have not fulfilled this condition during one life,
they must commence another, a third, and so forth, until
they have acquired the condition which fits them for
reunion with God. (Zohar, Vol. II:99)
In the Cabala one finds the story of Moses killing an Egyptian as
the reincarnation of Abel avenging his slaying by his brother Cain.
From a Bahá’í perspective, actions such as these by Messengers of
God that at first glance seem like breaking the law, another example
being the breaking of the Sabbath by His Holiness Jesus Christ, have
nothing to do with reincarnation — They doeth what They willeth,
and no one has the right to question Them. (cf. GDM 62) They made
the Law, so They can break it. The idea of reincarnation appears
again in the Jewish interpretation of God’s judgment, as found in
the books Berachot and Rosh Hashannah.
Perhaps in answer to those Jews who believed in reincarnation,
Job, in the clearest fashion possible, categorically rejects it in the
following verses:
As the cloud is consumed and vanisheth away: so he that
goeth down to the grave shall come up no more. He shall

32   Bahá’í Understanding of Reincarnation

return no more to his house, neither shall his place know
him any more. (Job 7:9-10)
Before I go whence I shall not return, even to the land of
darkness and the shadow of death. (Job 10:21)
But man dieth, and wasteth away: yea, man giveth up the
ghost, and where is he? As the waters fail from the sea, and
the flood decayeth and drieth up: So man lieth down, and
riseth not: till the heavens be no more, they shall not awake,
nor be raised out of their sleep. (Job 14:10-12)
When a few years are come, then I shall go the way whence
I shall not return. (Job 16:22)
4. Reincarnation and Christianity
The early Christians were also strongly influenced by the
prevailing Greek views on reincarnation. Indeed, some statements
attributed to Christ even allude to such an idea, but it should be
strongly considered by Bahá’ís that those words might require a
different interpretation in the light of the totality of Christ’s
teaching on the subject. And that those passages should be
understood symbolically, for “the letter killeth, but the spirit giveth
life”. (2 Corinthians 3:6) Examples include the following:
Matthew 26:52: “all who draw the sword will die by the
sword”
John 3:3: “No one can see the kingdom of God unless he is
born again”
John 9:2: “Who sinned, this man or his parents, that he was
born blind?”
James 3:6: “the wheel of nature”
Galatians 6:7: “A man reaps what he sows”
Revelation 13:10: “If anyone is to go into captivity, into
captivity he will go. If anyone is to be killed with the
sword, with the sword he will be killed.”
As one would expect of a group of people who had only recently
become Christians from a Greek reincarnationist background, some
of the early Church leaders might have continued to support the
idea. One, for instance, is believed by some to have been Origen
(185-254 AD), the first leader of the early Orthodox Church, who
was the first person after Paul to develop a set of teachings around
the Teachings of Christ. According to some, Origen was one of the
ardent defenders of pre-existence, the idea that the soul existed

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   33


before birth in heaven or in a previous life, is found in the Teachings
of Moses and Christ.3 How could this possibly be true? It is
surprising to some how incredibly prevalent was the idea of
reincarnation in the early Christian world. It was even taught until
the Fifth Ecumenical Congress of Constantinople in 543 AD, at
which time it was removed officially from church doctrine. It is
remarkable how, until then, people had held a belief (and some still
do) that was rejected in their own Sacred Texts. In the New
Testament, we find, for instance:
And as it is appointed unto men once to die, but after this
the judgment: So Christ was once offered to bear the sins
of many; and unto them that look for him shall he appear
the second time without sin unto salvation. (Hebrews 9:27-8)
Most Christians today do not accept the idea of reincarnation,
correctly realizing that it completely undermines the Teachings of
Christ. For instance, it renders God’s sovereignty over creation
futile, transforming Him into a helpless spectator of the human
tragedy. Now one can see how this contrasts with our understanding
of the omnipotence and sovereignty of God Who does as He wills
when He wills. Additionally, as also stated earlier, an extreme
application of reincarnationist convictions would lead to the
adoption of a detached and complacent stand towards crime, theft,
lying, and other similar plagues, very different from the intentions
and Teachings of the Messengers of God, Whose spiritual Teachings
about mankind’s behavior in this world — honesty, humility,
obedience, justice, forgiveness, and selflessness to name but a few,
have always remained the same, only their social teachings have
changed. Furthermore, if we were to pay for our own sins through
being reincarnated in this world, the need for Christ’s redemptive
sacrifice for mankind’s sins would become a useless, perhaps even
absurd accident of history. If one reads the words of Christ
carefully, one cannot become other than convinced in the
nonexistence of reincarnation, exampled by the following. In His
story of Lazarus the beggar and the rich man, He indicates that the
rich man was unable to do anything about his fate and would suffer
eternal torment. Had reincarnation been possible, he would have had
a second chance, wouldn’t he?4 These words are exemplary of this:
Wherefore if thy hand or thy foot offend thee, cut them
off, and cast them from thee: it is better for thee to enter
into life halt or maimed, rather than having two hands or
two feet to be cast into everlasting fire. (Matthew 18:8,)
Then shall he say also unto them on the left hand, Depart
from me, ye cursed, into everlasting fire, prepared for the
devil and his angels. (Matthew 25:41)

34   Bahá’í Understanding of Reincarnation

And these shall go away into everlasting punishment: but
the righteous into life eternal. (Matthew 25:46)
Then goeth he, and taketh with himself seven other spirits
more wicked than himself, and they enter in and dwell
there: and the last state of that man is worse than the first.
Even so shall it be also unto this wicked generation.
(Matthew 12:45)
5. Reincarnation and Islam
Even in Islam, one finds people who have misinterpreted the
Words of the Holy Qur’án as indicative of the existence of
reincarnation. It should again be reiterated that the Prophet
Mu˙ammad categorically declared that the inner meaning of that
Book would not be unsealed until the Last Days, i.e., the coming of
Bahá’u’lláh.5 One such sometimes misunderstood statement of the
Holy Qur’án is:
Thou causest the Night to gain on the Day, and Thou
causest the Day to gain on the Night; Thou bringest the
Living out of the Dead, and thou bringest the Dead out of
the Living; and Thou givest sustenance to whom Thou
pleasest without measure.6
But as we now understand, when the Qur’án is talking about
coming to life, it is referring to spiritual life, not physical life, and is
referring to the spiritual eyesight and hearing we gain when we
recognize the Messenger of God for this day.
Indeed, some of the words of Rumí, a famous Sufi poet, have
also been misinterpreted in this regard, one of the reasons why many
modern Sufis still believe in the idea of reincarnation,
I died as a mineral and became a plant, I died as a plant and
rose to animal, I died as animal and I was man. Why should
I fear? When was I less by dying?7
It may be that these words were meant to be understood symbolically
and not to be taken literally. He is talking of being spiritually like a
mineral, discovering new senses, new understandings progressively
until he became a man with all of the full faculties and awareness of
His creator. Man was created to know and worship God. ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá similarly discusses the meanings of the vegetable, mineral,
animal and human kingdoms — each representing a different degree
of perfection, recognition, and love for the Creator.8

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   35


6. Reincarnation and the Bahá’í Faith
Reincarnation is a popular belief among many peoples. It has such
popularity because people would like to believe that they will be
given a second chance if they “blow it” in their first life. Due to lack
of spiritual capacity humanity had in the past often misunderstood
the concept of the spiritual worlds of God. Manifestations have
often spoken about the soul but could not reveal its nature or its
mysteries.
Christ states:
I have yet many things to say unto you, but ye cannot bear
them now. Howbeit when he, the Spirit of truth, is come,
he will guide you into all truth: for he shall not speak of
himself; but whatsoever he shall hear, that shall he speak:
and he will shew you things to come. (John 16:12-13)
Similarly, in the Qur’án, it has been mentioned:
And they will ask thee of the Spirit. Say: The Spirit
proceedeth at my Lord’s command: but of knowledge, only
a little to you is given.9
The Bahá’í view on reincarnation
Statements in the Sacred Writings of the world’s Faiths have
often been used to support the idea of reincarnation, but we have
now been given the key to understanding those statements. In this
section, the Bahá’í position on reincarnation will be stated, we will
describe the creation of the soul, what the purpose is behind its
creation, how it progresses in this world and all the worlds of God.
Regarding the belief in reincarnation, the Beloved Guardian
writes:
No revelation from God has ever taught reincarnation; this
is a man-made conception. (LG 536)
and explains further:
The Bahá’í view of ‘reincarnation’ is essentially different
from the Hindu conception. The Bahá’ís believe in the
return of the attributes and qualities, but maintain that the
essence or the reality of things cannot be made to return.
Every being keeps its own individuality, but some of his
qualities
can
be
transmitted.
The
doctrine
of
metempsychosis upheld by the Hindus is fallacious. (LG 536)
The Beloved Universal House of Justice states:

36   Bahá’í Understanding of Reincarnation

It is clear from the teachings of Bahá’u’lláh about the
nature of the soul and of life after death as published in
`Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh’, that the
Bahá’í position on this subject is wholly incompatible with
the theory of reincarnation. (LG 536)
Why reincarnation is an impossibility
‘Abdu’l-Bahá was asked on several occasions about reincarnation.
It is very instructive to read what He said:
As to what thou hast written concerning “Reincarnation”:
Believing in reincarnation is one of the old tenets held by
most nations and creeds, as well as by the Greek and Roman
philosophers and wise men, the old Egyptians and the chief
Assyrians. But all these sayings and superstitions are vanity
in the sight of God. (BWF 391)
No logical arguments and proofs of this question are
brought forward; they are only suppositions and inferences
from conjectures, and not conclusive arguments. (SAQ 283)
We must use writings of the Prophets as our measurement.
If Bahá’u’lláh had attached the slightest importance to
occult experiences, to the seeing of auras, to the hearing of
mystic voices; if He had believed that reincarnation was a
fact, He, Himself, would have mentioned all of these
things in His Teachings. The fact that He passed over them
in silence shows that to Him, they had either no importance
or no reality, and were consequently not worthy to take up
His time as the Divine Educator of the human race. (LG 538)
In Some Answered Questions, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá brings forward
explanations demonstrating the impossibility of reincarnation. The
first explanation is that when a living body dies, it is decomposed,
disintegrated, dissipated and dispersed. It is impossible for a body to
have all its atoms and molecules and the spirit to return to this
world.
Repetition of species is only possible through composition of new
elements. In the material world nothing is identical, genetically or
physically and appearances are not repeated. Since the material world
corresponds to spiritual world, repeated appearance of the same
spirit with its former essence and condition is impossible.
Now observe that in the sensible world appearances are not
repeated, for no being in any respect is identical with, nor
the same as, another being. The sign of singleness is visible
and apparent in all things. If all the granaries of the world
were full of grain, you would not find two grains absolutely

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   37


alike, the same and identical without any distinction. It is
certain that there will be differences and distinctions
between them. As the proof of uniqueness exists in all
things, and the Oneness and Unity of God is apparent in the
reality of all things, the repetition of the same appearance is
absolutely impossible. (SAQ 283)
The second explanation that ‘Abdu’l Bahá puts forward is what is
considered to be the purpose of repeated reincarnations, i.e.,
acquiring perfections. He considers that to be impossible.
Imperfection does not become perfection through return to the
material world.
If we say that this reincarnation is for acquiring perfections
so that matter may become refined and delicate, and that
the light of the spirit may be manifest in it with the
greatest perfection, this also is mere imagination. (SAQ 285)
Man’s refinement is through his acquiring perfections and
the bounty of God. No, in reality the cause of acquiring
perfections is the bounty of God. (SAQ 285)
The third argument against reincarnation is the futility of
returning to this world which ‘Abdu’l-Bahá compares to a cage and a
snare.
Moreover, this material world has not such value or such
excellence that man, after having escaped from this cage,
will desire a second time to fall into this snare. (SAQ 286)
He elucidates further that one develops and advances through all the
worlds of God with the starting-point being this world of matter.
No, through the Eternal Bounty the worth and true ability
of man becomes apparent and visible by traversing the
degrees of existence, and not by returning. When the shell
is once opened, it will be apparent and evident whether it
contains a pearl or worthless matter. When once the plant
has grown it will bring forth either thorns or flowers; there
is no need for it to grow up again. Besides, advancing and
moving in the worlds in a direct order according to the
natural law is the cause of existence, and a movement
contrary to the system and law of nature is the cause of
nonexistence. The return of the soul after death is contrary
to the natural movement, and opposed to the divine system.
(SAQ 286)
There are infinite divine worlds. If we were reincarnated umpteen
times in this physical world to acquire all the highest attributes and
graces, creation would be futile.

38   Bahá’í Understanding of Reincarnation

Since the spirit is without material form or substance and does
not enter and come forth, it would be better for man to try and
extend his life span on this earth and acquire as much perfections
and graces as possible rather die many times and have many lives.
If the divine worlds culminated in this material world,
creation would be futile: nay, existence would be pure
child’s play. (SAQ 287)
‘Abdu’l-Bahá states that the idea of reincarnation has developed
from the limited minds of philosophers, just the same way they
thought
... that the world, life and existence were restricted to this
terrestrial globe, and that this boundless space was confined
within the nine spheres of heaven, and that all were empty
and void. (SAQ 287)
The physical has its counterpart in the spiritual world. The
physical constellations are innumerable, and then one can imagine
the infinite number of spiritual worlds.
The true nature of the soul
Let us now look more closely at the vision the Central Figures of
the Bahá’í Faith have laid out for us on the subject of the soul and
the afterlife, and also see how beautifully similar are the words in the
Sacred Writings of other Faiths, which have as often as not been
misunderstood and misinterpreted.
The soul is a spiritual reality that is not ancient and comes into
being at the time of conception.
The soul or spirit of the individual comes into being with
the conception of his physical body. (LG 1988 504)
Evolution in the life of the individual starts with the
formation of the human embryo and passes through various
stages, and even continues after death in another form. The
human spirit is capable of infinite development. Man’s
identity or rather his individuality is never lost. His reality
as a person remains intact throughout the various states of
his development. He does not preexist in any form before
coming into this world. (LG 1988 537)
Its essence and its reality is beyond the understanding and
comprehension of man.
Thou hast asked Me concerning the nature of the soul.
Know, verily, that the soul is a sign of God, a heavenly gem
whose reality the most learned of men hath failed to grasp,
and whose mystery no mind, however acute, can ever hope

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   39


to unravel. It is the first among all created things to declare
the excellence of its Creator, the first to recognize His
glory, to cleave to His truth, and to bow down in adoration
before Him. (GWB 158)
When an individual aspires to spiritual things, turns to the
Manifestation of God, and does not direct all his affections towards
this ephemeral world, then his soul becomes illumined and it will
fulfill the purpose for which he has been created.
Man is, in reality, a spiritual being, and only when he lives
in the spirit is he truly happy. (PT 72)
The soul is immortal and will progress in the spiritual worlds of
God for all eternity. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states:
The spirit of man has a beginning, but it has no end; it
continues eternally. (SAQ 151)
The nature of the association of the soul and the body is like that
of light and a mirror. The light is not inside the mirror but reflected
from another source. It cannot be placed in a body and is exalted
above entry or exit, ascent or descent.
... the human soul is exalted above all egress and regress. It
is still, and yet it soareth; it moveth, and yet it is still. It is,
in itself, a testimony that beareth witness to the existence
of a world that is contingent, as well as to the reality of a
world that hath neither beginning nor end. (GWB 161)
The relationship between the soul of man and that of God is
between a lover and the Beloved. Man has been created out of God’s
love. We read in the Hidden Words:
O SON OF THE WONDROUS VISION! I have breathed
within thee a breath of My own Spirit, that thou mayest be
My lover. Why hast thou forsaken Me and sought a
beloved other than Me? (HW Arabic #19)
O SON OF BEING! Love Me, that I may love thee. If thou
lovest Me not, My love can in no wise reach thee. Know
this, O servant. (HW Arabic #5)
The soul of a believer whose heart has been touched by the love
of Bahá’u’lláh and has become assured of the truth of His
Revelation, is very precious in the estimation of God:
We dare not, in this Day, lift the veil that concealeth the
exalted station which every true believer can attain, for the
joy which such a revelation must provoke might well cause
a few to faint away and die. (GWB 9)

40   Bahá’í Understanding of Reincarnation

The purpose of the spirit’s journey through the material
world
This life is the beginning of a journey with the goal being of
getting closer and closer to the Lord. When the soul is first created it
is without experience but its qualities and powers are latent in it. It is
capable of acquiring these latent spiritual qualities in the course of a
lifetime.
... one must remember that the purpose of this life is to
prepare the soul for the next. (LG 359)
The purpose of life is to acquire virtues and a praiseworthy
character.
The fruits of the tree of man have ever been and are goodly
deeds and a praiseworthy character. Withhold not these
fruits from the heedless. If they be accepted, your end is
attained, and the purpose of life achieved. (ESW 25)
The purpose of the creation of man is the attainment of the
supreme virtues of humanity through descent of the
heavenly bestowals. The purpose of man’s creation is,
therefore, unity and harmony, not discord and separateness.
(PUP 4)
The true meaning of life and death
Some reincarnationists fear the concept of dying and its
consequences and prefer to be reborn. As Bahá’ís we do not fear
death but rejoice in it if we have spent our lives fruitfully and
acquired the virtues.
How does one look forward to the goal of any journey?
With hope and with expectation. It is even so with the end
of this earthly journey. In the next world, man will find
himself freed from many of the disabilities under which he
now suffers. (ABL 96)
O SON OF THE SUPREME! I have made death a
messenger of joy to thee. Wherefore dost thou grieve? I
made the light to shed on thee its splendor. Why dost thou
veil thyself therefrom? (HW Arabic #32)
The elemental body will come to an end at the time of physical
death and goes back to nature.
Every soul shall taste of death.10
The soul does not die but lives eternally, ever advancing. The
death that is mentioned in the sacred writings is not the physical
death one thinks of, but that of spiritual death, meaning a lack of

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   41


awareness of our Creator, of His love for us, and disobedience
towards Him.
But the spiritual life, which arises from the knowledge of God,
does not die:
Him will We surely quicken to a blessed life.11
In a passage concerning the martyrs, it states:
Nay, they are alive and sustained by their Lord.12
And in reference to true life, Bahá’u’lláh states:
And from the Traditions: “He who is a true believer liveth
both in this world and in the world to come.” (GDM 48)
Our second birth is not a physical birth, but a spiritual one — It is
acceptance of the Manifestation of the Day and obedience to Him.
The first duty prescribed by God for His servants is the
recognition of Him Who is the Dayspring of His
Revelation ... It behoveth every one who reacheth this most
sublime station, this summit of transcendent glory, to
observe every ordinance of Him Who is the Desire of the
world. (KA 19)
When one believes in the manifestation of God for the Day and
obeys Him, that person has spiritual life, is ‘born again’ ‘resurrected’
and is in Paradise.
Whoso acknowledged Him, recognized the signs of God in
His inmost Being, and saw in His beauty the changeless
beauty of God, the decree of “resurrection”, “ingathering”,
“life”, and “paradise” was passed upon him. For he who had
believed in God and in the Manifestation of His beauty was
raised from the grave of heedlessness, gathered together in
the sacred ground of the heart, quickened to the life of
faith and certitude, and admitted into the paradise of the
divine presence. What paradise can be loftier than this,
what ingathering mightier, and what resurrection greater?
Indeed, should a soul be acquainted with these mysteries, he
would grasp that which none other hath fathomed. (GDM
42)
Thus, we come to understand that we can bring others to the
recognition of the Manifestation by living a spiritual life.
The beloved of the Lord must, in this day, behave in such
wise amidst His servants that they may by their very deeds
and actions guide all men unto the paradise of the All
Glorious. (SLH 110)

42   Bahá’í Understanding of Reincarnation

Heaven and Hell
In the past, Hell was feared and Paradise was misunderstood. The
fear of Hell by people caused them to accept the idea of
reincarnation. This has now been removed through our recognition
that being in Hell is possession of an evil character and a state of
unbelief, and being in Paradise is belief in God’s Manifestation and
possession of heavenly characteristics.
... consider love and union as delectable paradise, and count
annoyance and hostility as the torment of hell-fire. (TAB 37)
In the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá we come to
understand that the descriptions of Heaven and Hell given in some
of the older religious writings are symbolic, like the Biblical Story of
the Creation, and not literally true. According to the Bahá’í
Writings, Heaven is the state of perfection, and Hell that of
imperfection; Heaven is harmony with God’s will and with our
fellow man, and Hell is the lack of such harmony; for instance,
Bahá’u’lláh states:
‘Where is Paradise, and where is Hell?’ Say: ‘The one is
reunion with Me; the other thine own self.’ (ESW 132)
‘Abdu’l-Bahá states:
But the paradise and hell of existence are found in all the
worlds of God, whether in this world or in the spiritual
heavenly worlds. Gaining these rewards is the gaining of
eternal life. That is why Christ said, “Act in such a way that
you may find eternal life, and that you may be born of
water and the spirit, so that you may enter into the
Kingdom.” (SAQ 323)
Heaven is the condition of spiritual life, and Hell that of spiritual
death. A man may be either in Heaven or in Hell while still on this
earthly realm. The joys of Heaven are spiritual joys; and the pains of
Hell are lack of such joys. In the Hidden Words, we read:
O SON OF BEING! Thy Paradise is My love; thy heavenly
home, reunion with Me. Enter therein and tarry not. This is
that which hath been destined for thee in Our kingdom
above and Our exalted dominion. (HW Arabic #6)
Fate of man’s spirit after death
The soul’s destiny in this physical life is great, as we read in
Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh:
Were man to appreciate the greatness of his station and the
loftiness of his destiny he would manifest naught save

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   43


goodly character, pure deeds, and a seemly and praiseworthy
conduct. (TB 172)
The soul’s destiny after death is also great.
And now concerning thy question regarding the soul of
man and its survival after death. Know thou of a truth that
the soul, after its separation from the body, will continue to
progress until it attaineth the presence of God, in a state
and condition which neither the revolution of ages and
centuries, nor the changes and chances of this world, can
alter. It will endure as long as the Kingdom of God, His
sovereignty, His dominion and power will endure. It will
manifest the signs of God and His attributes, and will
reveal His loving kindness and bounty. The movement of
My Pen is stilled when it attempteth to befittingly describe
the loftiness and glory of so exalted a station. The honor
with which the Hand of Mercy will invest the soul is such
as no tongue can adequately reveal, nor any other earthly
agency describe. Blessed is the soul, which, at the hour of
its separation from the body, is sanctified from the vain
imaginings of the peoples of the world. (GWB 155)
The soul carries with it divine attributes and spiritual qualities to
the next world and does not carry negative qualities. The degree of
the progress of a soul is also dependent upon the extent it has
accrued praiseworthy virtues. The soul continues to progress in the
spiritual worlds of God through the bounty of God, through prayers
of intercession offered by those still in this life,
The progress of man’s spirit in the divine world, after the
severance of its connection with the body of dust, is
through the bounty and grace of the Lord alone, or through
the intercession and the sincere prayers of other human
souls, or through the charities and important good works
which are performed in its name. (SAQ 240)
And also through his own prayers of entreaty and supplication:
As we have power to pray for these souls here, so likewise
we shall possess the same power in the other world, which is
the Kingdom of God. Are not all the people in that world
the creatures of God? Therefore, in that world also they can
make progress. As here they can receive light by their
supplications, there also they can plead for forgiveness and
receive light through entreaties and supplications. Thus as
souls in this world, through the help of the supplications,
the entreaties and the prayers of the holy ones, can acquire
development, so is it the same after death. Through their

44   Bahá’í Understanding of Reincarnation

own prayers and supplications they can also progress, more
especially when they are the objects of the intercession of
the Holy Manifestations. (SAQ 232)
Ultimately, one comes to recognize that until the Coming of the
Promised One of All Ages, Bahá’u’lláh, mankind has only been given
milk for its nourishment — it couldn’t comprehend more, and even
what it was told, it distorted it into something very different from
the truth, basically in this case, because it couldn’t deal with the idea
that it would be punished for its wrongs by its Lord; it couldn’t
comprehend a spiritual world, and even when it tried to understand,
could only do so with visions of rivers of milk and honey and
beautiful maidens — a very Earthly vision. It is not hard to see, then,
how people, when taught about the soul and life after life by their
divine Teachers could misunderstand it as being an Earthly return
and happily go about teaching the idea to everyone else until large
numbers of people accepted it, few seriously going back to the
actual Teachings of their Prophets and investigating the truth for
themselves. If they had, statements such as the following from each
of the world’s major Faiths would have been clear enough.
Hinduism
Those who remember me at the time of death will come to
me. Do not doubt this. Whatever occupies the mind at the
time of death determines the destiny of the dying; always
they will tend toward that state of being. Therefore,
remember me at all times ... Remembering me at the time
of death, close down the doors of the senses and place the
mind in the heart.13
Judaism
Then shall the dust return to the earth as it was: and the
spirit shall return unto God who gave it.14
Buddhism
The small and the great are there, and the slave is free from
his master. Relatives and friends and well-wishers rejoice at
the arrival of a man who had been long absent and has
returned home safely from afar. Likewise, meritorious
deeds will receive the good person upon his arrival in the
next world, as relatives welcome a dear one on his return.15
Christianity
Jesus said unto her, I am the resurrection, and the life: he
that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live:
And whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall never die.16

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   45


Islam
But ye prefer this present life, though the life to come is
better and more enduring. This truly is in the Books of old,
the Books of Abraham and Moses.17
The Bahá’í Faith
The world beyond is as different from this world as this
world is different from that of the child while still in the
womb of its mother. When the soul attains the Presence of
God, it will assume the form that best befits its immortality
and is worthy of its celestial habitation. (GWB 157)
Thou hast, moreover, asked Me concerning the state of the
soul after its separation from the body. Know thou, of a
truth, that if the soul of man hath walked in the ways of
God, it will, assuredly, return and be gathered to the glory
of the Beloved. By the righteousness of God! It shall attain
a station such as no pen can depict, or tongue describe. The
soul that hath remained faithful to the Cause of God, and
stood unwaveringly firm in His Path shall, after his
ascension, be possessed of such power that all the worlds
which the Almighty hath created can benefit through him.
(GWB 161)

NOTES
1 Dhammapada 18:235-238, tr. Max Müller.
2 Practice of Karma Yoga, Swami Sivananda, Divine Life Society, 1985,
p. 102.
3 “Origen.” Encyclopædia Britannica. 2005. EB Premium Service.
http://britannica.com/eb/article?tocId=9057374 (Retrieved 2/20/05)
4 Luke 16:19-31, KJV.
5 Qur’án, 7:53, 86:9, Rodwell tr.
6 Qur’án, Surih 3:27, Yusuf-Ali tr.
7 Jalal al-Din Rumi, “I Died as a Mineral”, Arberry tr., v1-4.
8 SAQ 7.
9 Qur’án 17:87, Rodwell tr.
10 Qur’án 3:185, Rodwell tr.
11 Qur’án 16:97, Rodwell tr.
12 Qur’án 3:169, Rodwell tr.
13 Bhagavad-Gita 8:5, tr. Edwin Arnold.
14 Ecclesiastes 12:7, KJV.
15 Dhammapada 219-20.

46   Bahá’í Understanding of Reincarnation


16 John 11:25-26, KJV.
17 Qur’án 87: 16-19, Rodwell tr.

Autobibliography in the Writings of
the Báb
Vahid Brown
While much of the sustained research in the writings of the Báb
in modern scholarship has focused on his earliest writings1, the
works written between 1844 and 1846 continue to present some of
the most serious challenges to analysis and understanding. Aside
from the general problems facing a reader of the Báb’s famously
obscure works, the Báb’s earliest writings are rendered particularly
difficult by an ever-shifting authorial voice. One must constantly
ask in reading these early texts, who is the author, who is addressing
us from the page? The obvious answer of course is, the Báb, Siyyid
‘Ali Mu˙ammad. That this answer doesn’t resolve our problem can
be best indicated by an example. The following two passages are
both drawn from the Báb’s writings from this earliest period:
Verily, We have bestowed revelation upon you [the Báb]
just as We bestowed revelation upon Mu˙ammad and the
Messengers before him, with clear signs, that perchance
you might be a Proof unto God for the people after the
[four] gates ... O people of the earth! Stray not from the
bounds of the word of the Remembrance, and speak not
concerning Him save by the truth, for the Remembrance
has not revealed his verses but by the truth.2
I have not claimed a single word of revelation. They say,
“He has laid claim to spiritual authority and its trappings.”
May God kill them for that in which they lie! I have neither
made claims to nor spoken a word with regard to anything
other than servitude ... The Remnant of God, the Lord of
the Age, has, after the four gates, no designated gate and
no specific deputy ... Verily, revelation from Thy presence,
the like of which was sent down upon Mu˙ammad, was
closed and ended with him.3
These excerpts are both from the pen of the Báb, though
ironically neither is in the authorial voice of “the Báb.” The first is
from the Qayyúm al-Asma`, written in 1844, and the authorial voice
is that of God. The second is from the Du’a-yi alif, written in 1845,
and is in the voice of a pious Shi’i siyyid of Shiraz. The problem that
these two texts exemplify is an acute one — the problem of taqiyya.

48   Autobibliography in the Writings of the Báb

In its most well-known sense, taqiyya means the dissimulation of
belief for reasons of self-preservation, but it has in Shi’ism a much
broader range of meaning. From the many injunctions to practice
taqiyya found in the recorded sayings of the Imams, it becomes clear
that taqiyya was not simply a negative obligation not to put oneself
in harm’s way, but was also a positive duty to conceal secrets.
Regarding the nature of these secrets, one scholar of Shi’ism put it
this way:
In the corpus of the Imams, certain subjects appear to
constitute the main objects of taqiyya: information relating
to the ‘Qur’an of the imams,’ the [pious hatred] toward
the Companions of the Prophet and in particular toward
the first three caliphs, or the identity of the Qa’im ... 4
Two of the three primary objects of taqiyya given in this list have
to do with Shi’i messianism — the Qur’an of the Imams and the
identity of the Qa’im. Taqiyya then was a Shi’i religious obligation,
was concerned with the concealment of secrets, and, more
importantly, such secrets were often of an eschatological nature.
It is important to understand taqiyya in this wider sense and not
just as dissimulation or self-preserving denial. When understood as a
technique of arcanization, as concealment of secrets, we are able to
discern taqiyya in the early writings of the Báb as operating at a
variety of levels and layers. It is not simply that these earliest
writings present two stark extremes of declaration and denial of
messianism, as in the passages from the Qayyúm al-Asma` and the
Du’a-yi alif cited above. Rather, there exists in these earliest works a
range of revelation and concealment, a spectrum that extends from
the open directness of the Qayyúm al-Asma`, to the opaque
covering of the Du’a-yi alif, and includes in between a variety of
shades of coding, allusiveness, and encryption of the messianic
secret. And, what is perhaps most important for our present-day
attempts to understand these texts, this spectrum of taqiyya isn’t
solely involved in claims or denials of a messianic station, but rather
extends to the Báb’s communication of personal belief and
statements of doctrine. For example, the Báb in some texts expresses
views of the Imams that He contradicts in other works, or states
belief in certain orthodox usuli-Shi’i tenets that He elsewhere
completely rejects. It is thus imperative that we make some attempt
to crack the Báb’s taqiyya code, to read between the lines of His
esoteric writing, if we are to have any hope of success in
understanding what the Báb thought — what, in other words, Bábí
doctrine really was.
The three autobibliographical works that I will discuss here — the
Khutba al-Jidda, the Kitáb al-Fihrist, and the Khutba dhikriyya — are

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   49

indices of this spectrum, and they provide a window into the
chronology of the Báb’s practice of taqiyya during this period. I
refer to the three texts in question as “autobibliographies” for the
simple reason that they all share the characteristic of including lists
by the Báb of works He had previously written. Autobibliography is
a well-established genre in Islamic letters, and has traditionally been
employed for a variety of reasons. In the Báb’s milieu of 19th-
century Shi’ism, autobibliographies were generally written by
established scholars and are perhaps best understood as having the
combined function of a curriculum vitae and a course syllabus; they
indicated the areas of learning that a given scholar had covered or
specialized in and, to use the language of the modern academy,
provided students with a list of courses that they could seek a degree
in.
While one might be tempted to understand the Báb’s
autobibliographical works against this scholastic background, there
are a number of factors that would point to the inadequacy of such
a view. For one thing, Shi’i scholars were not generally in the habit
of describing their own works as divine revelations. As with the
Báb’s Qur’an commentaries, the Báb’s autobibliographies are
radically different from previous works in the genre in that they are
bound up with His claims to be the Shi’i messiah. When there is
light to be shed on these works from the Shi’i textual tradition, it is
to be found not in the curriculum vitae of hadith scholars, but
rather in the apocalyptic imaginary, the culturally-shared body of
images and ideas associated with the coming of the Promised One.
As we go through the three texts, I will highlight the Báb’s
utilization of this “imaginary of the end” in signaling — sometimes
directly, sometimes obliquely — His messianic authorial voice.
The earliest of the three works is the Khutba al-Jidda, written
during the Báb’s return-journey from the pilgrimage during the late-
winter or early-spring of 1845. The Báb was in Jidda for only a few
days, from February 24th to March 4th, at which point He sailed from
Jidda for Bushihr. We know these precise dates because they are
given by the Báb Himself in the Khutba al-Jidda. Further, since the
last date He gives there is March 4th (24th of Safar), this provides a
terminus post quem for the Khutba itself. It seems most likely that it
was written aboard ship soon after sailing from Jidda, though Abu’l-
Qasim Afnan has noted that in one extant manuscript of the
Khutba revealed in Jidda, the scribe headed it “Khutba fi Bushihr
from His Holiness the Báb.”5 It is indeed possible that the Khutba
al-Jidda was written in Bushihr — i.e. in mid-May or late-June of
1845 — though the terminus ante quem for composition is June 21st,
1845, the date of composition for the Kitáb al-Fihrist, since the
Khutba al-Jidda is listed in the Kitáb al-Fihrist. I am sceptical of a

50   Autobibliography in the Writings of the Báb

later, Bushihr dating of the Khutba al-Jidda because of the absence
of any mention of the length of the journey by ship, the length of
stay at port in Bushihr, or of disembarking at Bushihr, whereas the
Báb goes into minute detail throughout the Khutba al-Jidda into all
of the earlier stages of His pilgrimage journey. If He had already
arrived at Bushihr when composing it, why give so much
chronological detail about His trip and yet leave off the details
regarding these final legs of the journey? Fortunately, Dr. Stephen
Lambden is currently working on this text, so I will leave the
resolution of these thorny matters to his able hands.6
The Khutba al-Jidda is a short work, just thirteen pages long in
the manuscript collection INBA 91.7 It begins with a page and a half
of cosmogonic narrative — a style of exordium common to many of
the works of the Báb during this period — describing the creation of
the cosmos and its metaphysical structure in terms of a set of
quaternities standard to Shaykhism and ubiquitous in the Báb’s
Writings throughout His ministry. The Báb then launches into a
brief polemic against Ishraqi philosophical theology, mentioning by
name one of the works of Mulla Sadra Shirazi, and stating that the
Ishraqis have gone astray in their particular views on the quaternality
of being and the status of the names and attributes of God. The Báb
then extends His critique to include those ‘ulama who have taken a
favorable view of Ishraqi thought. There follows a brief transition
to the next major section of the text — a detailed recounting of his
pilgrimage journey — and here the Báb shifts to a more directly
messianic register. Thus, for example, He writes:
This is the light that hath borne the letter ha` through the
land of the innermost heart, and hath gone forth from the
bounds of the letter waw through the pen of God’s
Remembrance, to whom hath been revealed verses in the
language of God, the Speaker, as divine proofs, that all
people might realize the limitedness of their drink and
recognize the true meaning ordained in this pearl-white
water.8
The Báb then describes His pilgrimage journey, and the messianic
overtones continue strongly throughout this section of the Khutba.
The action throughout this section is ascribed to God rather than the
Báb. Thus, this portion of the Khutba begins, “Praise be to God ...
who hath dispatched the Word of His servant from the land of his
birth ...”, and the text continues in this vein for another four and a
half pages, naming the points on His journey to and from Mecca
and providing the dates of each stage of this journey in extremely
indirect language. Towards the end of this itinerary, the Báb writes:

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   51

So praised be God, the One, the Self-Subsisting, the Single,
the Worshipped, Who hath spoken in praise of His
Remembrance and the days of his journey, and hath made
mention of the path of his ascent in visitation of the
manifestations of His power, Mu˙ammad and his family,
that all might learn the meaning of destiny and the secret
thereof through the knowledge of the days of his ascent,
and from the knowledge of the days of his journey might
proceed to the inner meaning of the Throne and the
Footstool, and make that holiest of journeys into the
concourse of Names and Attributes, until all people might
enter the blessed House of God by the exalted verses sent
down in this pearl-white tablet and prostrate themselves at
the place of prostration as they did the first time ... So
praised be He Who hath ordained in the path of these
journeys what He had ordained for all of the Gates
aforetime.9
This passage clearly states, among other things, that the Khutba
al-Jidda is a work of divine revelation (tanzil), that contemplation of
the Báb’s doings can provide the reader with various forms of
cosmological gnosis, and that the Báb Himself is in some way
equivalent to the Gates of the Hidden Imam.
The remainder of the Khutba is devoted to a listing of the works
of the Báb that were stolen from Him during his journey from
Mecca to Medina. More than a dozen individual works appear to be
listed, but there is some ambiguity here, since some of what he
writes may not be in regards to individual works but rather meant to
characterize His writings in general. A number of specific works are
named, however, and most of these were listed again in the Báb’s
Kitáb al-Fihrist, written less than four months later. The first item
listed — if indeed it is an item per se — is rather representative of the
list as a whole. The Báb writes:
Among that which was stolen are verses regarding the inner
mysteries of the writing that hath been inscribed by the
hand of the Remembrance in red ink upon eleven pearl-
white leaves, gilded with liquid gold, and lined about in
red, concerning the knowledge of two parts of the hidden
secret manifest through the greatest secret, the true
meaning of the inner mysteries of the Qur’an [batin al-
qur’an]. These verses are such as no one aforetime has
touched upon, nor shall any hereafter encompass them in
knowledge.
One of the most interesting features of this list is that the Báb
describes almost every item on the list as being concerned with the

52   Autobibliography in the Writings of the Báb

batin al-qur’an, the esoteric meaning of the Qur’an, or even of the
batin at-ta`wil, the inner meaning of the esoteric interpretation of
the Qur’an. His language of “secrets” and “concealed secrets” makes
constant allusion to a saying ascribed to the Sixth Imam, Ja’far al-
Sadiq, which says, in a form quoted by the Báb in His first
commentary on the letter ha‘: “Our cause is a secret, a secret
concealed by a secret, a secret veiled within a secret, a secret that
cannot be known save by means of a secret.”10
If we return to our original problem, the problem of taqiyya, we
might ask how much does this Khutba reveal and how much does it
conceal? This text is a far cry from the “verily, verily, I am God” of
the Báb’s latest works, but on the other hand there is nothing here in
the way of outright dissimulation. The Báb here openly describes His
works as revelation and compares Himself to the Gates of the Imam,
but the real messianic punch of this Khutba is communicated only
between the lines, in an esoteric manner, and is necessarily selective
in the readership to whom it will reveal its secret. That ideal
readership is the Shaykhi community, in whose language the Báb
expresses Himself throughout this text, and in terms of whose
apocalyptic imaginary the Báb encodes his messianic declaration.
As I said before, the Báb opens this work with a cosmogonic
narrative that is markedly Shaykhi in its terminology and symbolism,
discussing cosmic reality in terms of a symbolic system of
quaternities that was first codified, as it were, in the writings of
Shaykh Ahmad. It then proceeds to a polemic against Ishraqi
philosophy, mentioning by name the Kitáb al-Masha’ir by Mulla
Sadra, a book against which Shaykh Ahmad penned a gigantic,
refutation-style “commentary.” At the end of that polemic, after
remarking that most of the ‘ulama have sided with the Ishraqis, the
Báb mentions that this state of affairs had continued up until His
own time, when suddenly there had dawned the twin lights of the
luminescent sun and moon — a reference, I believe, to Shaykh
Ahmad and Siyyid Kazim. The Báb then writes:
People of late carried out a campaign of lies against those
two luminaries in contradiction to what is encompassed in
the knowledge of the Creator, just as the people of old had
calumniated against the Friends of God [the Imams],
without certain knowledge and having no clear book. Thus
it went until the letter Kaf returned (raja’a) to the place [of
the appearance] of the Cause, in the region of God’s
command, and the cycles of time came full circle to the
Day of God, in a new and wondrous mode, and the lights
that had been an inaccessible mystery dawned forth with
knowledge of the divine cloud of unknowing, and the
Siniatic Tree was made to speak forth upon the ocean of

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   53

praise, and the word of glorification was made manifest
upon the crimson earth.11
One would have to have been an avid reader of Siyyid Kazim to
be able to decode this messianic declaration, for in writing here of
the return of the letter Kaf, the Báb is alluding to a prophecy made
in Kazim’s Sharh al-Qasida that the name of the Qa’im will be
numerically equal to double the value of the letter kaf when
pronounced. The abjad value of the pronounced kaf, or kaf, alif, fa,
is 101, so the doubled value is 202. The abjad value of ‘Ali
Mu˙ammad is — 202. The Báb also refers to Himself elsewhere as
this letter Kaf, and Tahirih would later point out that this specific
prophecy of Siyyid Kazim was fulfilled by the Báb.12
The list of the stolen works at the end of the Khutba al-Jidda
provides a similar instance of this encoding of the Báb’s messianic
declaration in language that would likely only be decipherable to
Shaykhi initiates. In terms very similar to earlier Isma’ilism, the
Shaykhis had developed an elaborate theory of the cycles of spiritual
history that centered on a notion of a dialectic between the zahir and
the batin, the manifest and the hidden. According to this cyclical
theory, Mu˙ammad and the Qur’an initiated a cycle of the zahir, the
outward, and so during Mu˙ammad’s prophetic cycle the zahir of
the Qur’an was in force. According to all of the Shaykhi writers,
including the anti-Bábí Karim Khan Kirmani, the cycle of the batin
began in the year 1200, and would witness the coming of the Qa’im,
who would initiate a spiritual cycle under the sign of the batin al-
qur’an.13 As I noted above, the Báb refers to nearly all of the works
in the list given at the end of the Khutba al-Jidda as being verses of
the batin al-qur’an. Also, He begins the recounting of His
pilgrimage itinerary by dating it as “the year after the year 1200,”
without further specifying the date. Taken together with the earlier
reference to the cycles of time having come full circle, and in the
hands of an attentive Shaykhi reader, these references to the
revelation of the batin al-qur’an in the thirteenth century would
signal the Báb’s claims to be the messiah. The Báb, then, has hidden
the secret in plain sight, visible only to those who know what they’re
looking at.
I move now to the Kitáb al-Fihrist, a work clearly dated to the
15th of Jumadi ath-thani, 1261, or June 21st, 1845. This work is
extremely valuable in that it provides lengthy lists of works that the
Báb had produced up to that time, including dozens of books,
commentaries, letters, khutbas, and prayers. Like the Khutba al-
Jidda, it also encodes the Báb’s messianic claims, though the Báb in
this text approaches the balancing act of revelation and concealment
with altogether different methods. It is not markedly Shaykhi in its
language or symbolism, but appears to assume a wider audience. It

54   Autobibliography in the Writings of the Báb

evokes the Qur’an at the beginning by opening with a series of
disconnected
Arabic letters.
The
Báb
had
earlier
affixed
disconnected letters to the surahs of the Qayyúm al-Asma` and the
Kitáb ar-Ruh, the two most explicitly messianic texts written by the
Báb during the earliest period of his ministry.
In contrast to the Khutba al-Jidda, where the Báb describes His
works as verses sent down by God, at the beginning of the Kitáb al-
Fihrist the Báb states that it was sent down from the Baqiyyat Allah,
the Remnant of God, a title given to the Hidden Imam. The Báb
states that He is Himself a servant of the Remnant of God, and He
then proceeds to testify to His belief in Mu˙ammad, the twelve
Imams, Fatima, and the four Gates of the twelfth Imam. He then
proceeds for several pages to describe His writings as verses sent
down to Him from the Remnant of God, refers to Himself
consistently as a servant of God and the Remnant of God, though all
the while indicating that His own works technically constitute
revelation, writing, for example, that “the reading of these verses in
these, the days of God, is more excellent than all the deeds recorded
in the Book of God.” He states that His revealed works will endure
until the day of Resurrection, which to a Shaykhi audience meant
until the arising of the Qa’im. In any case, the whole of this
introduction serves to simultaneously reveal and conceal the Báb’s
claims. He clearly is claiming to be capable of producing inspired
verses, but by saying that these verses are sent down from the
Hidden Imam He is distancing himself from any identification with
that Messianic figure, even implying that He is waiting, just like all
other orthodox Shi’a, the Messiah’s future appearance.
At this point in the text, the Báb takes a most fascinating
approach to concealing His revealed secret. He cites a handful of
lengthy traditions, all of which, in one way or another, indicate the
possibility for post-Qur’anic revelation. I provide below a
translation of this lengthy section of the Kitáb al-Fihrist:
Verily, all that has been revealed by the hand of the
Remembrance will remain in force until the Day of
Resurrection, and the decree of God will suffer no
alteration — unto Him do all return! Say: I, verily, have laid
claim to no Cause other than that whose reality has been
revealed in the tradition [al-hadith]. Would that you might
read these traditions, that haply you would be of those who
have attained certitude in the verses of God!
God said (exalted be He), in a sacred tradition: My servant
ceases not from drawing nigh unto me through
supererogatory acts of worship until I love him, and when I
love Him I become the ear with which he hears, the vision

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   55

by which he sees, the tongue wherewith he speaks, and the
hand by which he strikes. If he beseeches Me, I will answer
his prayer, and if he asks of Me, I will grant him his
request. Even if he holds his peace, I will then take the
initiative [and answer his unspoken prayer].
He [an Imam] (upon him be peace) said: One who loves us
and only grows in his love for us, who devotes himself to
our knowledge and asks about certain matters from us and
not others –the heart of such a one we inspire with the
answers to those matters about which he asked.
In al-Kafi14 [it is related that] a Christian monk asked
about certain things from Musa ibn Ja’far (upon him and
his father be peace), saying: “Teach me about the eight
letters that were revealed, four of which were made known
on earth and four of which remained in heaven. To whom
were these latter four revealed, and who will interpret their
meaning?” Musa replied, “The one about whom you ask is
none other than he who will arise from among us
[qa’imunaa]. God will reveal these unto him and he will
interpret their meaning. God will reveal to him what has
not been revealed to any of the truthful ones, the
messengers, nor the rightly-guided.” Then the monk said,
“Teach me about two of the four letters that were made
known in this world. What are they?” Musa replied, “I will
tell you about all four of them. The first of them is ‘there
is no god but God, His unity eternally without peer.’ The
second of them is ‘Mu˙ammad is the Righteous Messenger
of God (the blessings of God and His peace be upon him
and his family).’ The third is ‘We are the People of the
Household.’ The fourth is ‘Our partisans (shi’a) are from
Us, and We are from the Messenger of God (the blessings
of God be upon him and his family), and the Messenger of
God (blessings) is from God (but by way of intermediate
causes).’”
In al-Kafi [it is related] from Abi ‘Abd Allah (upon whom
be peace), who said: Verily, God, exalted and glorified is
He, created a name with letters that are unutterable, with a
pronunciation that cannot be voiced, with an individuality
that is not corporeal, of a likeness that cannot be described,
and with color that has no hue. It transcends measurement
and delimitation, and is veiled from the senses of all
possessors of sense. It is hidden without being concealed.
He made it to be a word perfected by the joining of four
parts, yet not one letter thereof comes before any of the
others. He manifested from it three names, since creation

56   Autobibliography in the Writings of the Báb

depended on these latter names. He veiled one of them,
and that is the hidden, treasured name. The outer form of
these names that have been manifested is “God,” “Blessed”
and “Exalted.” And He, praised be He, gave to the service
of each of these names four pillars, making twelve pillars
in all. Then for each pillar He created thirty names, names
which are related to them.
The Merciful, the Compassionate, the King, the Holy One,
the Creator, the Fashioner, the Former, the Living, the
Self-Subsisting,
Whom neither weariness nor sleep
overtake, the Knower, the All-Informed, the Hearing, the
Perceiving, the Wise, the Almighty, the All-Compelling,
the Most Great, the Exalted, the Mighty, the All-Powerful,
the Omnipotent ... [lists 35 names in all, with one repeat]
These names and the names that (make up) the Most
Beautiful Names comprise three hundred and sixty names
and are related to these three names. These three names are
pillars and He concealed the single, hidden, treasured name
by these three names, even as He, exalted is He, says: “Say:
Call upon God or call upon the Merciful. By whatsoever
name you call Him, His are the Most Beautiful Names.”
(Q17:110)
Those who claim, however, to have met the Proof of God,
such as they are none but liars! Say: this, My Path, is the like
of what has been set forth in the above traditions, and my
inner heart lied not about what it saw... (cf. Q53:12).15
The Báb prefaces this brief compilation of traditions, as you can
see, by saying that He has claimed no Cause other than in accordance
with these traditions. The first two traditions describe modes of
extra-Qur’anic revelation or inspiration, the third alludes to secrets
that the Qa’im will reveal, and the last describes the hidden name of
God, the revelation of which is frequently associated in Shi’i
apocalyptic literature with the messiah. Nowhere in this text, then,
does the Báb state that He is the Qa’im, but He leaves wide open
for the reader the option of drawing that conclusion. Once again,
He’s hidden the messianic secret in plain sight.
The last text to be considered, written in January of 1846, is the
Báb’s Khutba dhikriyya, a text about which there has been
considerable confusion among Western scholars with regard to its
title, though there isn’t space here to go into those perplexities.16
The Báb begins the work with a very brief cosmogonic exordium,
and then proceeds to a lengthy creedal statement. He first affirms
the unity and absolute unknowability of God, and then goes through
a series of doxological statements, testifying to His belief in

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   57

Mu˙ammad, the Imams, Fatima, and so forth. The Báb refers to the
coming of the Qa’im in the future tense, certainly giving no
indication here of His identification with that figure. He states that
He believes in the standard dogmas of the Shi’i faith in a perfectly
orthodox manner — “just as the people have believed concerning it,”
as He says. We know from other works of the Báb that He did not,
in fact, believe in these dogmas “just as the people did,” and much
of the first wahid of the Persian Bayán is devoted to spelling out the
Báb’s radical interpretations of things like resurrection and so forth.
In contrast with the Khutba al-Jidda and the Kitáb al-Fihrist,
there is really nothing in the way of a direct indication of the Báb’s
claims in this text. The only hint to these claims is given in the list of
works at the end, and here again the Báb draws from the symbolism
of the apocalyptic imaginary to communicate this allusion. The Báb
writes:
I testify that everything set forth in this book is the truth,
by the grace of God, the Exalted, though many of mankind
are of the ungrateful. Indeed, there is delineated in this
book all that went forth from my hands from the year
1260 unto the middle of the [first?] month of the year
1262. These consist of four perfect books and ten
masterful epistles, each one of which is a sufficient proof
for leading all who dwell in the heavens and on earth unto
a station of servitude. Thus I now mention their names by
the names of the members of the Family of God, who are
their revealers, that these texts may be canonical within the
realm of exposition and honored with divine titles in the
domain of conclusive proof.17
Following this, the Báb lists fourteen works — the number of the
Shi’i Holy Family — and renames each work after a member of this
family. That the purpose of this list is primarily symbolic is indicated
towards the end. The eleventh, twelfth and thirteenth works do not
correspond to any actual works of the Báb, and serve here to fill out
the list and underscore the repetition of the sacred number.
In comparison with the other two texts that I have discussed, the
Khutba dhikriyya is the most obvious in its practice of taqiyya. It
conceals much more than it reveals, but it does reveal something.
For one thing, like the Kitáb al-Fihrist, it serves as an index to other
works of the Báb, works in which He is quite explicit about his
claims. But more importantly there is the symbolic nature of the list
itself, and the renaming of His works here as the ‘Alid Book, the
suhuf of the Imams and so forth. One of the central elements of
Shi’i apocalypticism is the belief that the Hidden Imam is in
possession of secret books and suhuf. According to these traditions,

58   Autobibliography in the Writings of the Báb

Mu˙ammad was given suhuf containing the true revelations that
had been sent down to all of the previous prophets, and He passed
these on to the succession of the Imams. Among them was the
Sahifat Adam, the suhuf Ibrahim wa Musa, etc. There is also the
Kitáb ‘Ali, said to contain a detailed list of all possible rulings of
Islamic law, which when revealed would obviate the need for all
disputation and legal interpretation in determining the rules of the
Shar’iah. Descriptions of these messianic kutub and suhuf are
scattered across dozens of traditions, and in many of them number
symbolism has a prominent role. That the Báb considered His own
writings in relation to these hidden books is made plain by more or
less direct references to them in the Qayyúm al-Asma`.18 Beliefs
regarding these books were even drawn upon by Bahá’u’lláh in
communicating His own claims, inasmuch as the Hidden Words
were originally given out as the mushaf fatima, one of the hidden
books in the possession of the Hidden Imam.
In looking at these three works of the Báb, we have seen that the
practice of taqiyya in this early period meant more than simply
directly denying messianic claims, and was more often a technique of
esoteric communication. Given the right readership, with initiation
or familiarity with the right body of apocalyptic lore, the Báb was
able in these works to simultaneously reveal and conceal His
messianic claims, to set forth, in the words of Ja’far al-Sadiq, “a
secret concealed by a secret, a secret veiled within a secret, a secret
that cannot be known save by means of a secret.”

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   59


Appendix
A Provision Translation of the Khutba Dhikriyya
Translated by J. Vahid Brown from a typescript of a
single ms. with handwritten corrections by Nader Saiedi
Khutba Dhikriyya19
The sixth epistle20 of sermons21, consisting of fourteen
sermons: first sermon.
I have revealed this sermon regarding all that hath been
inscribed in this book,22 that all might thereby be of those
who bear witness.
In the Name of God, the Compassionate, the Merciful!
Praise be to God Who hath created the water by the
mystery of construction23, hath established the throne upon
the water24 by the modality of execution25, hath sent down
the verses from the world of the divine cloud by the
flowing of decree26, hath set forth what He determined on
Mount Sinai by the power of praise, and accomplished in
glory27 whatsoever He determined by the deliquescence28 of
necessity.29 So glorified and exalted be He Who hath sent
forth the messengers — givers of glad tidings and warners
— that none may worship aught but Him. He hath given
into their hands a rank of His own power such as all else
but He must fail to attain, that they might establish the
truth through His words and frustrate falsehood by His
verses, that haply these verses might be a proof leading
unto a station of wisdom for any who take cognizance
thereof, and thus may all be of those who submit unto
Him.
So glorified and exalted be He, Who hath made between
He and His messengers a rank of glory in utterance — the
supreme grace in the world of creation — and hath honored
thereby some of the messengers above others, as hath been
sent down in the revelation30 by the decree of God, the All-
Glorious. Indeed, God hath not spoken to mankind except
by prophetic inspiration31, or from beyond a veil, or by
sending inspired messengers by His permission and
according to His will. Verily, He is exalted, wise. He hath
established in His utterance a mode of power the like of
which He hath not granted unto the utterance of His
servants. Verily, He is living, almighty, and sends down

60   Autobibliography in the Writings of the Báb

unto whomsoever He wills whatsoever He wills of His
verses. Glorified and exalted be He above what is
attributed to Him.
I testify unto God in this book according to what God hath
testified of Himself, by Himself, without any need of the
testimony of the foremost in knowledge among His
servants, that verily there is no God save Him, Who hath
existed from everlasting without the mention of any thing,
and is now the Existing One as He hath ever been, with
nothing with him. Immeasurably exalted is His Essence
above the depiction of the realm of construction and its
inhabitants. Supremely magnified is His Self above the
description of the realm of origination32 and whatever is
like unto it, glorified be He!
The realm of origination is cut off from His existential
reality, as is the realm of fashioning33 from His inner
identity. Whoever says, “He is He” hath truly lost Him, for
none may find Him other than He Himself, and He hath
no attribute other than His Essence, no name other than
His glory.34 And whoever declares His unity hath indeed
denied Him, for nothing recognizes Him and no servant
comprehends Him. The world of names is cut off from the
world of the divine cloud by [the interposition of] His
realm of omnipotence, and the world of attributes is
inaccessibly removed from the imaginal world by [the
interposition of] His sovereign Kingdom.35 He hath from
time immemorial been the Lord, with none as objects of
His Lordship, the Knower without objects of knowledge,
the Almighty without objects of His might, the Creator
without any creatures, and He is now as He hath ever
been.36 There is for Him no name, no description, no
depiction, and no designation. All things are entirely cut
off from His Essence, as are all entirely severed from His
existential reality. He cannot be mentioned in terms of
separation, nor can He be spoken of in terms of union.
Whoever says “He is the True One” depends in this matter
[of so designating Him] upon the creation. And whoever
says “He is the Just,” nevertheless fails to give His justice
any description, glorified and exalted be He. The act of
origination37 hath been brought into being by means of the
act of construction itself, without a touch of the fire of
God’s Essence. The Will was fashioned by the act of
origination, without any division of God’s own Self. Verily,
the originated is barred from recognizing the act of
origination, while the fashioned realm is severed from His

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   61

love by its mere fashioned station. Glorified and exalted be
He, for whom no praise can be mentioned — not by
negation, nor assertion, nor praise, nor signs, nor glory, nor
indications, nor by mention of [the letter] há`, nor by
flight from wáw, nor arising between the two affairs, nor
by the letter lá’ 38. Glorified and exalted be He above what
is attributed to Him.
I testify unto Mu˙ammad (blessings ... ) according to what
God Himself hath testified concerning him, wherein none
have knowledge save Him. He hath fashioned him for the
magnification of His Essence, hath chosen him for the
holiness of his honor, and hath made him, among his
people, unique in beauty, that he be established upon the
station of “no vision taketh in Him, but He taketh in all
vision. He is the Subtile, the All-Perceiving.” I testify that
Mu˙ammad ibn ‘Abd Alláh is His messenger, who hath
transmitted that which he bore of God’s cause and held
fast with his own hands to carrying out the Divine Decree,
glorified and exalted be He. God hath warned you all lest
anyone speak concerning him other than what God hath
Himself determined for him. Glorified and exalted be He
above what is associated with Him.
I testify that the vicegerents of Mu˙ammad — the blessings
of God be upon him and his family — are twelve souls
[inscribed] in the Book of God on that day when no letter
save them had been created, just as God hath testified of
them in the grandeur of His omnipotent realm, the holiness
of the world of His divinity, the magnificence of the
expanse His majesty, and the loftiness of the kingdom His
everlasting bounty, of which none has knowledge save
Him. I bear witness that they have transmitted what they
bore from the bequest of the messenger of God — the
blessings of God be upon him and his family — and that
they are truly the triumphant, with whom it shall be well. I
testify that he who will arise from among them39 — the
salutations of God be upon him — is alive, that by him God
hath raised up all things, that to him God will extend all
things, and that by him He will unite all things. I testify
that his return is the truth, as is the return of all [of the
vicegerents]. Verily, God will give new life to the earth by
his manifestation, and he will utterly confound the works
of those who join partners with God.
I testify that Fá†ima, the daughter of the messenger of
God — the blessings of God be upon him and his family —
is a blessed leaf from the snow-white tree of “No god is

62   Autobibliography in the Writings of the Báb

there but God,” glorified and exalted be He above what is
associated with Him.
I testify unto the truth of all things unto which God hath
testified in His hidden knowledge, and in the same manner
do I testify unto the falsity of falsehood. Verily, I am a
servant of God, a believer in Him, His verses, and His
book, the Discrimination40 — the like of which there hath
never been — and in the love of all that which is most
beloved of Him and the rejection of all that which is most
despised by Him. Sufficient as a witness is God, the
Exalted. I testify unto [the reality of] death, and of the
questioning [in the grave], and of the resurrection, and of
the reckoning, and of the raising of the bodies of the dead,
and unto whatever God hath established, beyond these, in
His knowledge, just as the people have believed concerning
it.
I testify that everything set forth in this book is the truth,
by the grace of God, the Exalted, though many of mankind
are of the ungrateful. Indeed, there is delineated in this
book all that went forth from my hands from the year
1260 unto the middle of the [first?] month of the year
1262. These consist of four perfect books and ten
masterful epistles, each one of which is a sufficient proof
for leading all who dwell in the heavens and on earth unto
a station of servitude. Thus I now mention their names by
the names of the members of the Family of God, who are
their revealers, that these texts may be canonical within the
realm of exposition and honored with divine titles in the
domain of conclusive proof.
First is the A˙madian Book, in elucidation of the first
thirtieth of the Qur’án and in commentary on the Surah of
Praise.41
Second is the ‘Alawian Book, divided into seven hundred
perfect surahs, each of which is of seven verses.42
Third is the Óasanian Book, divided into fifty books of
irresistible verses.
Fourth is the Óusaynian Book, in elucidation of the Surah
of Joseph — upon whom be peace — arranged in one
hundred and eleven surahs of forty-two verses, each one of
which is a sufficient proof unto whomsoever is on the
earth and whatsoever is beneath the throne, should it not
suffer any alteration. Sufficient is God as a witness.43

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   63

Fifth is the Fá†imid Epistle, comprising fourteen chapters
on the acts [of worship related to] the twelve months in
the Book of God.44
Sixth is the ‘Alawian Epistle, comprising fourteen prayers
in answer to ninety-two questions, composed during the
month of fasting, after my return from the pilgrimage.
Seventh is the Báqirian Epistle, comprising fourteen
chapters in commentary on the letters of the “bismallah.”45
Eighth is the Ja’farian Epistle, comprising fourteen
chapters in elucidation of [Ja’far’s] prayer — upon him be
peace — for the days of the Occultation.46
Ninth is the Músawian Epistle, comprising fourteen
chapters in answer to two souls from among the servants
of God, provided [in answer to them] in the land of the
Two Holy Sanctuaries.47
Tenth is the Ri∂áwian Epistle, comprising fourteen
chapters concerning the recitation of fourteen sermons —
which are the very height of eloquence — from the tree of
the laudation, “No god is there save Him, the All-Glorious,
the Beneficent.”48
Eleventh is the Jawádian Epistle, comprising fourteen
chapters in answer to fourteen questions concerning the
realm of Divinity [lahut].
Twelfth is the Hádian Epistle, comprising fourteen
chapters in answer to fourteen questions concerning the
Dominion of Power [jabarut].
Thirteenth is the ‘Askarian Epistle, comprising fourteen
chapters in answer to fourteen questions concerning the
Kingdom [malakut].
Fourteenth is the Hujjatian Epistle, comprised of fourteen
holy prayers which were revealed at the beginning of this
Cause and are related to the Imam of Justice.49
All fourteen of these holy texts are present in this book,
along with — at the end of the text — that illustrious epistle
regarding the fourteen books of the Imáms.50 All of these
are inscribed in this book. Regarding that which went forth
from my hand and was stolen while [I was] on the path of
pilgrimage, a detailed account thereof hath been made in
the Ri∂áwian Epistle. It is incumbent upon whomsoever
may find any of those [stolen texts] to carefully preserve
them. Happy is he who preserves all that hath been sent

64   Autobibliography in the Writings of the Báb

down from my presence in exquisite tablets with the finest
of handwriting. And [I testify] by Him who hath honored
me with His verses that a single letter thereof is more
glorious in My sight than the kingdoms of this world and
the next — may God forgive me for such a comparison.
And glorified be God, Lord of the Worlds, above what
they attribute to Him. And peace be upon His messengers,
and praise be to God, the Lord of all the Worlds.


BIBLIOGRAPHY
Afnan, Abu’l-Qasim. ‘Ahd-i A’la: Zindigani-yi Hazrat-i Báb (The Bábí
Dispensation: The Life of the Báb). Oxford: Oneworld, 2000.
Amanat, Abbas. Resurrection and Renewal: The Making of the Bábí
Movement in Iran, 1844-1850. Ithaca, NY: Cornell University Press,
1989.
Amir-Moezzi, Mohammad Ali. The Divine Guide in Early Shi`ism:
Sources of Esotericism in Islam. Trans. David Streight. Albany, NY:
SUNY Press, 1994.
Báb, Sayyid ‘Ali Mu˙ammad Shirazi. Qayyúm al-Asma`: Tafsir Surat
Yusuf. Ms. dated 1 Muharram, 1323 AH/8 March, 1905 CE.
——-. INBA 91. Majmu’ih-yi Athar-i Hazrat-i A’la, shumarih navad-u
yek.
Eschraghi, Armin. Frühe Saihi- und Bábí-Theologie: die Darlegung der
Beweise für Mu˙ammads besonderes Prophetentum (ar-Risala fi itbat
an-nubuwa al-hassa). Leiden: Brill, 2004.
Lawson, B. Todd. The Qur’an Commentary of Sayyid ‘Ali Mu˙ammad,
the Báb. Unpublished Ph.D. diss., McGill University, 1987.
MacEoin, Denis. From Shaykhism to Babism. A Study in Charismatic
Renewal in Shi’ite Islam. Unpublished Ph.D. diss., University of
Cambridge (Great Britain), 1979.
——-. The Sources for Early Bábí Doctrine and History: A Survey.
Leiden: E.J. Brill, 1992.
Mazandarani, Asadu’llah Fadil. Asrar al-Athar, 5 vols. Tehran, 1968-69.
——-. Tarikh-i zuhur al-haqq, vol 3. Tehran, 1941.
Rafati, Vahid. The Development of Shaykhi Thought in Shi’i Islam.
Unpublished Ph.D. diss., University of California, Los Angeles, 1979.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   65


NOTES
1 For instance, the three major dissertations on the Báb’s writings — by
MacEoin, Lawson, and Eschraghi — all focus on the Báb’s early
writings.
2 Qayyúm al-Asma`, sura 61, pp. 244f in ms. dated 1323. All translations
are provisional and my own unless otherwise noted.
3 Du’a-yi alif, from Mazandarani, Asrar al-Athar, 1:179-82.
4 Amir-Moezzi, Divine Guide, p. 129.
5 A.-Q. Afnan, ‘Ahd-i A’la, p. 474n. 18.
6 For now, see Dr. Lambden’s introduction and partial translation of
the khutba online at: http://www.hurqalya.pwp.blueyonder.co.uk/03-
THE%20BAB/post%201844/kh-jidda.htm (cited 20 December 2004).
7 INBA stands for Iranian National Bahá’í Archives, a series of just
over a hundred book-length collections of manuscripts that were
photoreproduced and distributed in an extremely limited fashion
during the latter half of the twentieth century, partly to avoid the
irrevocable loss of this material at the hands of Iranian authorities
committed to the complete destruction of the Bahá’í community.
Some authors (e.g. D. MacEoin, S. Lambden), refer to these volumes
with the acronym INBMC, and reserve INBA as an acronym
preceding individually-numbered mss. once housed in the Iranian
Bahá’í National Spiritual Assembly’s archives, a discrete collection
which no longer exists due to the destruction of Bahá’í institutions
and the murder of the entire membership of the National Spiritual
Assembly
following
the
Iranian
Revolution
in
1979.
See
http://bahai-library.com/?file=rabbani_inba_index .
8 INBA 91, p. 65. The symbolism in this passage is bound up with the
Báb’s quaternities: ha`, innermost heart, verses, and the color white are
the highest terms in their respective quaternities, and all are related to
divinity.
9 INBA 91, pp. 68f.
10 amrunaa huwa al-sirr wa mustasirr bi’l-sirr wa sirr muqanna’ bi’l-sirr
wa sirr la yufiidahu ila ‘l-sirr, cited by the Báb in INBA 67, p. 23. This
tradition is often quoted by Shaykh Ahmad and frequently alluded to by
the Bab. There are several variants of this tradition; see, for example,
those given in Amir-Moezzi, Divine Guide, p. 231n. 687.
11 INBA 91, pp. 64f.
12 See Vahid Rafati, Development, pp. 181f., and Mazandarani, Zuhur
al-Haqq, vol. 3 pp. 402 and 509.
13 See MacEoin, From Shaykhism, p. 213.
14 The famous early collection of Imami traditions, Usul al-Kafi,
compiled by Kulayni
15 For the texts of the Kitáb al-Fihrist, a number of mss. were
consulted, though my translation of these passages is based primarily

66   Autobibliography in the Writings of the Báb


upon the Princeton MS. (Bábí Collection of William McElwee Miller,
vol. 4, ff. 1a-6a.
16 For a summary of the issue up to the period of MacEoin’s
bibliographic labors, see Appendix Four in his Sources, p. 207.
MacEoin’s conclusions there are incorrect; the text in fact is the
khutba dhikriyya, and has no relationship whatsoever with the Risala-yi
dhahabiyya, other than the fact that Nicolas mistakenly referred to this
text by that name.
17 Translated from a typewritten copy of a single ms., with handwritten
corrections by Nader Saiedi, whom I thank here for kindly sharing the
typescript and his corrections with me.
18 MacEoin writes (From Shaykhism, p. 159):
The Qayyúm al-Asma` may be said to combine something of the
character of the tawqi’at written by the hidden Imam through his
intermediaries, the four abwáb, of the various books reputed to
be in possession of the Imams — the mushaf of Fatima, Al-sahifa,
Al-jami’a, Al-jabr, the complete Qur’an, and the previous
scriptures — and of the Qur’an itself.
19 See Browne, Descriptive Catalogue, p. 68, where he calls this the
Sahifa-i-Ridawiyya. For a full discussion of the various confusions
regarding this tablet and its title, see MacEoin, Sources for Early Bábí
Doctrine and History, p. 207. I do not agree with MacEoin that this
work should be titled “Risala-yi dhahabiyya,” but this issue cannot be
dealt with here. See also A.Q. Afnan, Ahd-i ‘Ala, pp. 437f. and 473f. n. 2.
20 Here and throughout this text, “epistle” translates sahífih.
21 “Sermon” renders khutbih.
22 Here and throughout this text, the Báb refers to the Sahífih al-
Ridáwiyyih as dhálik al-kitáb, or literally “that book.” Since this text is
itself one of the sections of that Sahífih, this phrase will be rendered
here as “this book.”
23 sirr al-inshá`
24 Cf. Qur’án 11:7: “And it is He Who hath created the heavens and the
earth in six days, and His throne was upon the waters.”
See also GWB 46:
Thus have We established for thee, through the waters [má`] of
Our wisdom and utterance [hikmati l-bayán], the foundations of
thy belief. This, verily, is the water whereon the Throne of thy
Lord hath been raised. ‘His Throne had stood upon the waters.’ [Q
11:7] Ponder this in thine heart, that thou mayest comprehend its
meaning.
In the Báb’s Ziyára jámi’a kabíra, He says of the Imáms:
I swear by my father and mother, and by whatsoever is in the
knowledge of my Lord, that the heavens were raised not by pillars
but by your name[s]; that the Throne was set upon the waters by
your command [istaqara al-’arsha ‘ala l-má`i bi-amrikum]; and that

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   67


káf was joined to nún for the mention of your afflictions.
(INBA50, p. 55f.)
25 al-im∂á`
26 al-qa∂á`
27 bahá`
28 dhawaban. This term appears to belong to the nomenclature of
alchemy. For example, Shaykh Ahmad al-Ahsa’i uses the term in this
sense in Jawahir al-Kalam, vol. 2, p. 258.
29 Compare this passage with the Tafsír súrat al-hamd, INBA69, p. 123.
No thing will ever know Him and no thing will ever be united with
Him inasmuch as the mention of the thing (dhikr ash-shay`) is made
to exist (kuwwina) by means of the Will (mashíya), and the
mention of existence (dhikr al-kawn) is made to have an essence
(dhuwwita) by means of Purpose (iráda), and the mention of the
essence (dhikr adh-dhát) is delimited (huddida) by means of
Determination (qadar), and the mode of Determination is realized
(huqqiqa) by means of Decree (qadá`), and the alteration (badá`) of
the Decree is fixed (yuthbat) after the [stage of] Execution (imdá`).
Therefore, the station of the secret of construction (sirr al-inshá`)
and the exaltation of its status in itself is by means of the
manifestation of Mt. Sinai in the crimson pillar.
Also relevant to this passage is the Báb’s letter in answer to questions
about alteration of the divine will (badá’) and the Preserved Tablet
(lawh al-mahfúz) in INBA67, pp. 172-76.
30 I.e., the Qur’an.
31 wahí
32 ibdá’
33 ikhtirá`
34 bahá`
35 There appears to be a hierarchy implied in this sentence: the ‘álam al-
’amá is above jabarút, while the ‘álam al-amthál is above malakút. I
have inserted the clarifying phrases in brackets in line with this reading
of the passage.
36 Here the previous sentence is repeated, with al-ka’in replacing rabb:
“He is the Existent with none as objects of His Lordship, the Knower
without objects of knowledge, the Almighty without objects of His
might, the Creator without any creatures.” I am surmising that this
repetition is due to a scribal error.
37 Alternatively, the world of origination; only the word al-ibda’ is used,
but this is often used by the Báb as a designation for a level of a
distinctive four-fold cosmological hierarchy. Likewise, the term is used
by the Báb to designate four levels of creative activity that are proper
to the generation of four different levels of cosmic reality.
38 The allusions here are many and baroque, but on one level these
references to letters can be understood to imply that God is exalted

68   Autobibliography in the Writings of the Báb


above being truly qualified by affirmation (huwa, written in Arabic
with the letters ha` and waw) nor by negation (la`, “no”).
39 The Qá’im, the awaited Twelfth Imám.
40 al-Furqán, a synonym for the Qur’án.
41 This is Báb’s Tafsir Surat al-Baqara.
42 This refers to Kitáb al-Ruh.
43 This refers to the Qayyúm al-Asma`.
44 This refers to the Sahifa a’mal al-sana.
45 This refers to the Báb’s Tafsir al-basmala.
46 This refers to the Sharh Du’a al-Ghayba.
47 The Sahifa bayn al-Haramayn is most likely intended here.
48 On the basis of the statement later in this khutba to the effect that
the Ridawian Epistle (Sahifa Ridawiyya) contains details about the
works which were stolen from the Báb during his pilgrimage, MacEoin
was of the opinion that this is none other than the Kitáb al-Fihrist. If
that were the sole criterion, however, it is equally likely that this refers
to the Khutba al-Jidda. Neither of these works is divided into fourteen
sections.
49 The Sahifa Makhzuna is probably intended here.
50 The text here has awlíya il-‘ubád, which could be translated “the
Guardians of the worshipers.”

Models and Idols
Towards a philosophy of the community of
mind
Sháhbaz Fatheazam
Preamble
My sincere thanks go to the organisers of the Irfán Colloquium
for making it possible to cross the globe and join you on this
auspicious 10th anniversary of this initiative. A chill ran up my spine
when I first received the invitation. I hadn’t even come across the
word ‘colloquium’ before. I had to look it up. Its meaning was
revealing. The term colloquium means as much an informal
gathering for the exchange of views as it does an academic seminar
on a broad field of study. Such latitude definitely made me feel at
home.
But first a personal introduction. Who am I? A non-academic
venturing outside his field? Doubly insulting to all of you
distinguished listeners. A safe specialist talking to a non-specialist
audience on matters he knows nothing about? Hardly. A demolition
expert of simplistic either-ors with more respect for academic
complexity than the authority of the heart? Too brash and
immodest. The public intellectual seeking influence or the timid
seeker attempting at quality? Neither if the world continues to
remain disenchanted. The value of gatherings such as this lies not so
much in how well we clear suspicion from the intellectual mind but
how well we portray sincerity to the rational soul. How we find truth
is as important as how we tell it. The politics of Bahá’í scholarship
lies precisely in balancing accuracy with sincerity and this tends to
reduce conflict as undue emphasis on precision alone will always take
power away from one group or the other. In our zest to get to the
facts we must avoid being seduced by the siren song of our own
agenda and to be led into making the facts fit our pet theories rather
than fostering a framework which fits reality. Thomas Hobbes
(1588-1679) said if the fact that two and two makes four were to
become a matter of political relevance, there would be a faction to
deny it. It is precisely to avoid fractioning scholarship that wisdom,
spiritual perception and sincere language should be more than a mere
appendix to knowledge. These should be our permanent referees.
For a while knowledge and wisdom remained bitter opponents until

70   Models and Idols

the staff of Hermes turned them into celebrated complements as
symbolized by the caduceus.
With less mythical flare, we propose the same here today. We
wish to see how we as a special emerging world community could
meet and overcome the two major modern obstacles to truth —
suspicion and skepticism. The fear of deception is real and doubt
universal. Should there be no objective truth or reality can any
human experiment last? If the greatness of man is a function of the
greatness of what he loves maybe it is to the heart first that we must
turn before examining the rules? Is there any philosophy that
simultaneously addresses the human being as a rational agent but
also as a package of passions and impulses? All these questions and
more were too compelling to be left unanswered.
The question ‘Who am I?’ has, however, been left unanswered
and remarks so far have responded more to the question ‘What must
we be?’ however coarsely addressed. In any case, to be respectful to
those here present I offer this line stolen from a distinguished Bahá’í
scholar of the recent past. “We are not so wise nor so good as we
should like to be; nor even so wise and good as we hope soon to
become. God Himself alone is a perfect teacher.”1
Introduction
The paper today, short and unsystematic — the limits of what can
be said in a sixty-minute lecture show through — is not a
reintroduction to Bahá’í community. The title ‘Towards a Philosophy
of the Community of Mind’ should not be regarded as offensive in
implying to mean that we have strayed so far from the ideal that it is
necessary to provide the means to return to it. Nor is the
presentation intended to be homiletical: sermons are too moralistic
to be of value. But rather it is to be viewed as an exercise in tensions
— to comprehend the incomprehensible, to objectify what we cannot
know objectively. If the word community has been defined as ‘a
most elusive and vague term ... and without specific meaning’ and
‘essentially a mental construct’ (Dictionary of Sociology, Penguin
2000, page 64) then imagine the difficulty of applying sublime
concepts to a collection of people in a permanent state of becoming.
‘Community’ is becoming and ‘mind’ thinking. But thinking and
being are too remote from each other for us to see them as anything
else but two human states in eternal, fraternal conflict.2 Nevertheless
it is the coexistence of action and learning that modifies community
and its traditions and any systematic study centered on this exchange
can only be valuable. One final reminder. The word ‘philosophy’ in
the title is but a synonym, albeit a pompous one, for meditation and
does not represent any groundbreaking structural theory of social

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   71

change nor doctrine. 3 Nor is the title as a whole an attempt at self-
aggrandizement.
There are too many creating too many catchy terms and trade-
marks for these to be treated as anything but poor badges of
scholarship and slogans in themselves have always been too spurious
to be grounds for investigative reasoning quite apart from the fact
that labels have lost their simplistic charm.4 Given that no adequate
definition of community exists other than uninspiring minimalist
references to a collection of people with a sense of belonging or
with similar interests or restrictive definitions heavily dependent on
which group views what for what purposes (the urban planner will
define community in terms of boundaries, the politician in terms of
constituents, the anthropologist in terms of culture and so on), we
shall use the following text of the Universal House of Justice: “A
community is ... more than the sum of its membership; it is a
comprehensive unit of civilization composed of individuals, families
and institutions that are originators and encouragers of systems,
agencies and organizations working together with a common
purpose for the welfare of people both within and beyond its own
borders; it is a composition of diverse, interacting participants that
are achieving unity in an unremitting quest for spiritual and social
progress.” (Ridvan Message 1996). The concept of community here is
dynamic (a purposive functional unit) and theory related — building
unity and effective development in areas of permanent concern of
mankind (welfare in the wider context of progress and prosperity).
The text goes on to show how recurring patterns of Bahá’í
community life manifest “the collective expression of the virtues of
the individual members.... .in the unity and fellowship of the
community and the dynamism of its activity and growth.... It implies
a collective will and sense of purpose.” (idem) The concept of will
and purpose are vital to our understanding of the notion
‘community of mind’. The noted German sociologist Ferdinand
Toennies (1855-1936) identifies two forms of human will: (1) the
essential will defined as ‘the underlying, organic, or instinctive
driving force’ in which community membership is self-fulfilling, and
(2) arbitrary will which is deliberative, purposive, and future (goal)
oriented, often associated with the wider society and State. Both
types of wills, according to Toennies, can be found in two basic
types of social groups — the community (Gemeinschaft) and society
(Gesellschaft).
Community of Mind
The community of mind, a concept which Toennies also
originates, is the ideal community, a format kinship represented by

72   Models and Idols

friendship (Community Society, 42).5 According to Tönnies, a
community based on similar interests (Gemeinschaft) has as its basis
a real community and the only real form of life.6 He famously
noted, “In community people remain essentially united in spite of all
separating factors, whereas in society they are essentially separated in
spite of all uniting factors.” Gemeinschaft, a “community of mind
and feeling” results from likeness and from shared life-experience.
In simple terms, it implies human relationships that are intimate and
enduring, understanding each member to be a unique human being,
a sacred soul, with dignity. Social bonds in such situations are
characterised by sentiment, commitment and depth. Emphasis in
Gemeinschaft was on kinship, locality and mind (sentiment). He
argued that all three of these had been seriously disrupted in the
transition to Gesellschaft. This social group is suggestive of the
impersonal, instrumental and largely contractual relationships that
are taken to characterise life in modern society. It is based on
rationality rather than sentiment. These concepts serve as a useful
device for giving expression to a dominant thought that a
community-based social order is being destroyed by processes of
industrialisation and urbanization and that, as a result, values were
being undermined, the basis of solidarity within the society was
being changed and an older closeness was being lost.
Bahá’í communites may be viewed today as similarly undergoing
profound change as per the Toennies’ dichotomy, shifting from a
community sustained by spirit to a society sustained by instrument. A
new ‘culture of growth’ is emerging which some view as alienating
(but not as discouraging) as the process of urbanization is to family
and neighborhood. Just as Toennies feared that the evolution from
community to city would create an impersonal society destructive to
common understanding and time-honoured customs so too many see
the new culture of growth (to be defined shortly) as the evolution of
one type of Bahá’í community to another, one less nourishing and
impersonal, causing fears not dissimilar to the German sociologist,
but infinitely less darksome: “The entire culture’ he says, ‘ has been
transformed into a civilization of state and Gesellschaft, and this
transformation means the doom of culture itself if none of its
scattered seeds remain alive and again bring forth the essence and
idea of Gemeinschaft, thus secretly fostering a new culture amidst
the decaying one.” To this we can match a recent sentiment of
despair from a British Bahá’í:
I have seen personally diverse manifestations of such
discouragement. I see them in desperate exhortations to
teach the Faith in which the sense of urgency is
accompanied
by
an
element
of
despondency
and
resentment. I see them in strong, faithful Bahá’ís who

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   73

choose to become inactive in the community on account of
their perception of dysfunctionality.7
Metánoia — the New Insight
The problem of transition in Bahá’í community is heightened by
the fact that whereas Toennies contrasts between a social order
which rests on harmony (consensus of wills) and is developed and
ennobled by religion, and another which rests on convention and
agreement, safeguarded by political legislation, in the Bahá’í
community there is a fusion of the two forms of social groups.
Order and bonding are consecrated by a divine charter protected by
divinely established social structure and laws. It is inevitable then
that perplexity mounts when believers seek to acquaint themselves
with ‘the profound change in Bahá’í culture’ when the change itself
has been capitalized on through the formal agency of established
order, in this case the Four Year Plan of the House of Justice
launched in 1996 which may be viewed as a landmark enterprise in
initiating a new community consciousness on a single focus —
advancing the process of entry by troops. Where should allegiance
lie? In the divided loyalty which emerges we are pressed to choose
between the inner promptings of a free but dedicated spirit or the
outer exigencies of a benevolent but formal order? A good example
of the metaphysical debate over self and the polis outside of it is the
culture shock of the new methods of Bahá’í activity against the old
habits of the heart. “There are no shortcuts,” writes the Universal
House of Justice.
Systematization ensures consistency of lines of action based
on well-conceived plans. In a general sense, it implies an
orderliness of approach in all that pertains to Bahá’í service
... While allowing for individual initiative and spontaneity,
it suggests the need to be clear-headed, methodical,
efficient,
constant,
balanced
and
harmonious.
Systematization is a necessary mode of functioning...
(Ridvan Message, 1998)
Are not efficiency and systematization obvious tendencies of
religion’s secularization? Is there not a real danger of our religion
falling into the age-old dilemma of intellectualization and
disenchantment? Does there not exist a real possibility that our new
culture of growth is ceding religion’s mystery to the clarity and
control of bureaucracy? The testing ground for adopting the
necessary values and attitudes to establish true Bahá’í communities
lies in this: that while individuals receive their share from a common
center of belief and root their strength of faith from this common
center, the center itself displays both the conditions of Gesellschaft-
like civilization in which peace and order are maintained through

74   Models and Idols

rules as much as conditions of Gemeinschaft family solidarity where
its members share a morally significant history, collectively striving
to realize ideals and aspirations governed by sentiments of trust,
cooperation and altruism. Can the religious ethic of brotherliness
sustain itself in the face of the increasing changes to its form?
The development of a ‘systematic’ image of community is not
anathema to religion (nor new).8 As Weber points out in ‘ Science as
Vocation’ (1919), such organization of the modern self does not
necessarily take power away from religion; it allows people to take a
corrective stance in response to the senselessness in the world. He
suggests that religions of redemption tend toward systematic,
comprehensive rationalizations of problems and their solutions, in
contrast to magical religions which are remedial in a non-systematic
way. The new culture of growth is developing a distinctive form of
collective enterprise without necessarily forfeiting our Faith’s
distinctive and vital function. But sustainable growth by building on
the necessary capacity at the levels of the individual, the institution,
and the community is a three-legged stool in need of balance. This
can be achieved commanding a new insight best described by the
Greek word metánoia, literally repentance (Woodhouse English-
Greek Dictionary, 696) but more generally used to mean to change
one’s mind as in respect for the new. Change is only meaningful if
we alter the mental model that shapes the way we think about
individuals, institutions, and community that shall benefit from
change.
Metanoia wrongly understood is a guilt ridden awareness of all
that is going wrong in our lives and society. Metanoia properly
understood is a push forward toward something better for us and
for our world. It is not change for change’s sake but positive change
with deep understanding of the implications. We see it in the first
syllable, “meta” in Greek meaning “with,” and “noia” meaning
understanding. Therefore if progress, process, and development are
inevitable in Bahá’í community and are to be accompanied by this
new insight, what value/attitude typology is there to adopt to
promote and foster a community that best expresses the essential
will while maintaining intact the unifying principles of the arbitrary
will?
Culture of Growth
Before examining this issue it is important we look more closely
to the concept ‘culture of growth’ first mentioned in the January 9th,
2001, Message of the UHJ to the Continental Board of Counsellors.
The phrase “culture of growth” at face value seems redundant. The
right culture is a significant determinant of a community’s ability to

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   75

grow and prosper. Culture shapes our thoughts, feelings and action.
Imagine, for a moment, the negative impact on young businessmen
in Ghana forestalled in involving themselves in affairs of
international business simply because of the traditional respect to
elders who do not wish for the younger generation to be involved in
events beyond their national boundaries?9 Or the obstacles to
upward mobility and self-improvement which the resignation of the
poor in certain societies represents? Or the low priority given to the
education of girls because of gender inequality? The point here,
reinforced with countless other studies, is that culture matters in any
collective behaviour, be it social or economic, albeit representing a
very complex story.10 The most pervasive and harmful tendencies in
culture are to revert to the familiar and to revere the past, at the
price of neglecting the present. One cabinet member of an African
country, for example, when questioned on the issue of underfunding
the AIDS programme in his country and how he could look at some
of the accomplishments of Uganda in this area he replied that they,
and “not Uganda had possessed the third highest standard of living
in Africa” twenty-five years ago. Clearly blind pride and a lack of
openness that stands in the way of learning and innovation may not
be prevalent in Bahá’í communities but we are not immune from
such error. Another obstacle is the error induced by conservatism. To
continue with ritual and repetition rather than decipher the real
meaning of tradition is unjustified. It is tantamount to forsaking the
tribulations of the Prophet in providing precisely that new gestalt to
break down ritualistic conservatism.
Growth depends on changing the way we think about growth.
The same for progress, prosperity or any other idea behind man’s
quest for community. Introspection is important. A modern
community stresses a continuous process of self-analysis. The
Universal House of Justice shows its foresight when it writes that
“the periodic reevaluation of the effectiveness of the teaching work
is an essential factor in promoting the growth of every community.”
(Lample p. 132). As one distinguished scholar from Stanford put it
“A modern nation is self-correcting”. (Inkeles One World Emerging,
24). So how people actually think or feel are important concepts.11
Specialists acknowledge now after five decades of frustrated
development, for example, that mental models may offer the best
way to understand and attack the problem of poverty. Our mental
states influence the way we behave and precede culture as the key
variable. Peter Senge, in his groundbreaking book The Fifth
Discipline (1990) defines mental models as “deeply ingrained
assumptions, generalizations, or even pictures or images that
influence how we understand the world and how we take action”. (p
8). Nobel laureate Douglas North writes that human beings use ‘both
... mental models ... and institutions “ to “shape the performance of

76   Models and Idols

economies.” Columnist and economist Paul Krugman admits that
“Economists are notoriously uninterested in how people actually
think or feel.” But again it is counterproductive to discuss a
particular value/attitude typology without being clear of what we
mean by growth. Have a conducive mentality for what? Progress in
which area? Expansion where? Consolidation and improvement to
what end? Progress is commonly defined as a movement towards
economic development, social justice, and political freedom. As
Bahá’ís we do not disagree with this interpretation but find it
imperfect. Its shortcoming is its imbalance.12
Progress is not so much a ‘movement towards’ a desired material
objective but a ‘turning to’ a dominant spiritual force — the
efficient cause which gives finality to all human effort as well as
true balance. Material progress is activity, spiritual progress is
reflexivity.13 Take the latter away and the work of the Cause
becomes the work of an international aid agency and not that of a
‘healing Agency, this leavening Power, this cementing Force,
intensely alive and all-pervasive ...‘ The words of Shakespeare are
revealing: “Take but degree away, untune that string, and hark, what
discord follows. Each thing meets in mere oppugnancy.” (Trolius and
Cressida Act I, scene II): The fairest testimony of mankind to itself
today — its state of disequilibrium and disharmony where vision is
befogged and systems have lost their virtue despite all efforts to
redeem it.
The central issue, therefore, in our discussion on culture,
community and growth should not be so much me—you, us and
them, but between the me here and now and the me there and then.
How I grow daily turning to the heaven of holiness is as vital as how
the community grows periodically moving towards prosperity. How I
recognize my limitations in understanding truth will turn more
effective my work in translating ‘that which hath been written into
reality and action.’ (TB 166) The two processes are interdependent
and are the defining attributes of simultaneously building an ideal
society and perfecting the behaviour of individuals — the key to
resolving Tonnies’ dilemma of society and community. Not
dissimilar to Shoghi Effendi’s message captured in his ‘double
crusade’: “first, to regenerate the inward life” of our own
communities, “and next to assail the longstanding evils that have
entrenched themselves in the life” of nations. (ADJ 34)
Idols
The mental model needed to carry out this double crusade (to be
defined shortly) cannot be beset with certain natural tendencies or
defects (idols) which prevent us from achieving a full and accurate

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   77

understanding of the ethics of community. (The world “idol” here is
used not in the sense of false god but from the Greek eidolon
meaning image or phantom). Many centuries ago a bright
Englishman introduced a famous doctrine which serves us well to
this day.
Francis Bacon (1561-1626), perhaps in his charge to establish the
basis for the emerging scientific philosophy of empiricism,
highlights in his book Novum Organon (1620), four different
classes of idols (Book I Aphorisms 39-68) that we must recognize to
counteract falsehood and avoid dogma and ignorance. One of the
four, Bacon’s ‘Idols of the Tribe’ refer to the natural weaknesses and
tendencies common to human nature. Only the Idols of the Tribe are
not the result of nurture. All the others are acquired through
intercourse with other men and the particular environments in which
thinking takes place. We chose Idola tribus because they are innate,
they cannot be completely eliminated, but only recognized and
compensated for. Some of Bacon’s examples are: reverting to the
familiar, wishful thinking (according to Bacon, we have a natural
inclination to accept, believe, and even prove what we would prefer
to be true), and our tendency to rush to conclusions. Spelling out the
ways in which the Idols of the Tribe come to bear on the human
understanding, persistently creating bias and twisting its workings in
specific directions in specific directions, Bacon observed: ‘The
human understanding resembles not a dry light, but admits a tincture
of the will and passions, which generate their own system
accordingly — for man always believes more readily that which he
prefers.’
Preference here is given to Bacon rather than other modern
theories of unlearning,14 principally because of its datedness and
how, independent of the period, man always incubates misleading
assumptions as self-created barriers to truth owed to fear, prejudice,
and principally, in the case of religion, fixed antagonism. We carry
‘an enchanted glass, full of superstitions and imposture’, which robs
the full potential of the inquiring mind and weakens the beneficial
leverage of mental models designed to see the world anew. The
mental model we are referring to are the concepts of trust and
resignation set in the context of a trustless world and a technology
dependent society with the emphasis being made not so much on the
central importance of these values to personal spiritual development
and social stability but that trust and resignation are indispensable
states of mind in the compelling saga of the quest for true
community. We shall see how both of these attitudes are
consequential to the behavioural implications of steadfastness in the
face of a disobedient self and the lure of irresponsible freedom bent
on interpreting rules in peculiar ways.

78   Models and Idols

Trust and Resignation
In the Book of My Covenant (Kitáb-i-‘Ahdí) two key words
appear early on in the text — ‘trust’ and ‘resignation’:
Although the Realm of Glory hath none of the vanities of
the world, yet within the treasury of trust and resignation
We have bequeathed to Our heirs an excellent and priceless
heritage. Earthly treasures We have not bequeathed, nor
have We added such cares as they entail. (TB )
Trust and resignation, the needed value/attitude typology
referred to earlier, are sister obligations, a sacred dyad, the duality
principle on which depends our outcome as true agents in connexion
with God, where social virtue (trust) and personal quality
(resignation) seal a dynamic coherence between the spiritual and
practical aspects of Bahá’í communities.
In our daily lives we accept and trust the judgement of highly
trained professionals to cure us, to educate us, to protect us. Trust is
a binding, stabilizing, critical factor of social order and progress.
How much so to trust in the judgement of the Divine Physician. The
Manifestations of God are
the very life of the world, and the skilled physician of each
ailing soul ... relate thou the Teachings of the Abhá Beauty
to the urgent needs of this present day, and thou wilt see
that they provide an instant remedy for the ailing body of
the world. Indeed, they are the elixir that bringeth eternal
health. (SWAB 59)
To apply the teachings to the needs of the age we must forsake
our ‘idle fancies and vain imaginings’ and trust the judgement,
vision and understanding of the Prophet. ‘... whatsoever are the
effective means for safeguarding and promoting the happiness and
welfare of the children of men have already been revealed by the
Pen of Glory.’ (TB ) This is not just a pious and spontaneous religious
outburst but a comprehensive statement to believe in and a most
effective ethical value to be shared, especially by those who hold
positions of responsibility in the Cause of God to maintain order and
organization in a divine trust committed to our charge by God’s
Messenger for today.15 No society is possible without order and
Bahá’u’lláh’s concept of order is centralized in the Covenant which
has its genesis in Revelation, authority necessarily superior to human
reason. As such “carries with it Assurance beyond Doubt, Evidence
beyond Exception.”16 The consequence of this axiom is the assent of
reason to authority — the immediate faith (well captured by the
Hebrew word emunah or “trusting in the Covenant”) — and virtues

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   79

like loyalty, honesty and dependability or trust must necessarily begin
to flourish.
The Bahá’í model of society not only encourages and protects
such ethics but depends on them for its prosperity. The evolution of
technology, the fermenting of new social relationships and the
consolidation of global networks depend on the prevalence of trust.
But more importantly trust in the Covenant avoids the
disaggregating forces of progress in the secular world as well as
guard against heliocentric tendency of religion to coercive power.
These may be avoided if both community and the institutional
framework remain faithful to the Covenant and conduct their
business on its axis even though they may not know, or cannot fully
understand, the connections or benefits.
There is a broader implication of dependency, however, which is
expressed in the peculiar spiritual vision of Bahá’u’lláh of human
reality:
They should put their trust in God, and, holding fast unto
Him, follow in His way ... inasmuch as man can never hope
to attain unto the knowledge of the All-Glorious, can
never quaff from the stream of divine knowledge and
wisdom, can never enter the abode of immortality, nor
partake of the cup of divine nearness and favour, unless
and until he ceases to regard the words and deeds of mortal
men as a standard for the true understanding and
recognition of God and His Prophets. (KI 3-4)
The Kitáb-i-‘Ahdí has branded in the word Covenant an attitude
to trust very different from current legal-rational codes of conduct
and moral-ethical guides to collective behaviour, no matter how
precise, creative, or even technologically fully proven these have
been made out to be. In the Bahá’í way of life humility is the
cornerstone of trust relationships. Given our overwhelming
limitations as human beings and the need to respect the rules as
active members of a diverse community we have a spiritual
obligation to distance ourselves from any corrupt inclination of
fame and popularity which false notions of rank and position breed.
In the Book of His Covenant, we find the standard against which to
measure our worth not as haughty creatures but as humble servants
conscious of the gift that our virtues are not intrinsically our own
but rather manifestations of the attributes of God.
‘Say: all things are of God.’ This exalted utterance is like
unto water for quenching the fire of hate and enmity
which smouldereth within the hearts and breasts of men.
By this single utterance contending peoples and kindreds
will attain the light of true unity.

80   Models and Idols

The greater the humility of the holders of trust the greater the
probability that trust shall succeed as a social virtue; the richer the
quality of servitude the more abundant the results of service; the
more absent ambition, the more present the “esteem and real
affection” of subject to ruler. The effective discharge of duty and
leadership in the Cause is not dependent on proficiency or power but
humility and service and this breeds resignation.17 Patience and
resignation are the hard-earned marks of a true believer because they
represent the highest form of belief as evidenced by sacrifice. But
for trust, however, resignation cannot exist. Acquiescence implies
self-deliverance to a trusting power. Any other combination is
compulsion not resignation and where there is compulsion there is
no joy (“Compulsion and felicity cannot be together”) with all its
implications for social rupture and alienation. Trust must be
established first for resignation to follow; I must trust the law
before I am able to resign and be patient to its outcome. And the
patience I bear must be true and forebearing, anything else is
resignation’s forgery, a cheap, chalked image of a master design. In
Bahá’u’lláh’s mystical work, the Seven Valleys, we read of the fruit
of patience:
... without patience the wayfarer on this journey will reach
nowhere and attain no goal. Nor should he ever be
downhearted; if he strive for a hundred thousand years and
yet fail to behold the beauty of the Friend, he should not
falter.... In their search, they have stoutly girded up the
loins of service, and seek at every moment to journey from
the plane of heedlessness into the realm of being. No bond
shall hold them back, and no counsel shall deter them.
(SVFV 5)
By dominating the ego and its ‘evil passions and desires’ (referred
to in the Book of His Covenant as nafs and havas) — precisely the
two imposters in Bacon’s tribe of Idols — we are free to surrender.
Trust in authority higher than our own and resignation to
circumstances beyond our control has as its basis the strength of
certitude and conscious faith and not the powerlessness of passive
fatalism or self-denial. This is the poverty of resignation and creates
obdurate mental models that impede progress and victimize its
participants. ‘It is good to suffer in this life because in the next life
you will find eternal reward’. Or ‘We must not challenge the will of
God’. Such impoverished mind-sets need to be reoriented to
promote prosperity. Nor does resignation mean to be imprudent. The
words of a fisherman from Galilee resound to this day “Be ye
therefore wise as serpents and harmless as doves.” Mathew 10:16
Bahá’u’lláh has swept away the belief in the virtue of living a
hard life as invented by Stoics or argued by Cynics.18 In the Bahá’í

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   81

Covenant resignation is not an end in itself but a means for patient
obedience to be learnt. Submission to the Will of God in the last
analysis helps us accept outcomes contrary to our expectations — a
state of mind which our natural pride disallows with insolence. As
the lesson of Abraham offering his son Isaac for sacrifice in the Old
Testament teaches us no sacrifice is too hard when God demands it.
Resignation is trust in the mystery of the standard, “He doeth what
He willeth, ordaineth what He pleaseth.” (Qur'án 2:254)
This is valid in our daily lives as much as it is in our
administrative duties as Bahá’ís or in our research as scholars. Well-
intentioned effort and praiseworthy achievement vanish in the
Cause when those responsible for such acts become proud and
arrogant, ‘the most deadly of sins” and dismiss contrariness with airy
condescension. Blatant disrespect, even its lesser manifestation
grudging compliance, are tantamount to forgetting our part of the
bargain as loyal covenanters (no partnership withstands the cult of
the petty personality for any length of time) aside from displaying a
poor understanding of the ultimate aim in the life of every soul — to
attain spiritual excellence.
Whoever has is eyes fixed on the goal of attaining the
good pleasure of God will accept with joy and radiant
acquiescence whatever work or station is assigned to him in
the Cause of God, and will rejoice to serve Him under all
conditions. (UHJ, Ranks and Functions in the Bahá’í Cause,
letter dated 03/27/1978)
It is to this aspect of contentment and resignation that part of
Bahá’u’lláh’s
Tablet
Madínatu’r-Ridá
(City
of
Radiant
Acquiescence), revealed in Baghdád, advances. To be pleased with
the believers and to be humble before them is explained in the
Tablet as an important attribute of “contentment and radiant
acquiescence.”
To show pride towards them is to show pride to God; for
man cannot attain the good-pleasure of his Creator unless
he obtains the good-pleasure of His loved ones.
Bereft of God’s love, service in the Covenant is barren. Without
radiance and resignation efforts in promoting the interests of the
Cause lose efficacy. Applying the mental model of trust and
resignation all human calculation is suspended. It is the dialectic of
faith at its most refined (we are conscious of our choice but on the
strength of the seemingly absurd) of which we can only form a
conception and not a comprehension. The incommensurable,
however, is recognizable given its heroic quality, memorably defined
by Kierkegaard: “The knights of infinite resignation are readily

82   Models and Idols

recognizable, their gait is gliding, bold.” (Fear and Trembling 1843,
67).
Final Words
To correct the antithetical tendencies of society and community
and to understand the new culture of growth that is sweeping before
us (the world-wide reception to a sequence of courses offered by
training institutes and the movement of geographic clusters from
one stage of growth to the next has hardly been an easy learning
experience not to mention trying) and avoid being the ‘magical
religion’ in the Weberian sense we must question our accumulated
beliefs, methods, knowledge, systems, habits, stories and traditional
patterns of community behaviour. We become comfortable with our
limited models, despite their obvious incompleteness. We are
hesitant with the new because of our misconceived loyalties. The
new culture is a credence good — it has to be taken on faith. Its
quality cannot be determined by inspection, in advance of purchase.
That is why monitoring input is so important. If the quality of the
output cannot be determined readily, the next best way of
ascertaining quality may be to monitor input quality. Not to screen
the three active participants of social change but to approach
individuals, institutions, and the community with compassion and
understanding and raising each of them to a new level of spirituality.
With regard to the ideal society, all philosophers whether classical
or revolutionary attest to the ascendancy of the spiritual bond over
all others in maintaining the fabric of society. The community of
mind is the closest to such an image. It is a community whose
language is a spiritual language; it is not spoken, it is felt. It is a
community that recognizes the fundamental needs of human
existence and self-expression but no longer blames the order or
society for its defects. It regards as shameful for its members to
have to rely on others to obtain their inner sense of justice. This
makes of us slaves and others our master. The root of the Latin word
‘societas’ is to share, to unite, man’s carbon copy of an ancient
divine exhortation: “... let us walk by the same rule, let us mind the
same thing.” (Philippians 3:16) and the Master’s oft-repeated
desideratum: “... that we may unite even as the waves of one sea and
become merged together as the rays of Thine effulgent Light; that
our thoughts, our views, our feelings may become as one reality,
manifesting the spirit of union throughout the world.” (BP 138) By
combining social perception (Tonnies) with philosophical perspective
(Bacon) and by acknowledging the Bahá’í categorical imperative of
trust in the Divine Covenant and its institutions, we have not today
constructed the community of mind so much as tried to portray the
need to be masters of the art of composition when attempting to

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   83

bring communities as close as possible to the divine original. In
bringing all lives, all ends, all values and all means into total
articulation with one another we must, first and foremost, be artists
and not technicians, poets and not statesmen, rational souls and not
public intellectuals. Skepticism be replaced by estheticism, workers
by seekers. In short, a community composed of men and women
with ‘fire in their minds’. “The passion ending, doth the purpose
lose.” (Shakespeare, Hamlet)
REFERENCES
Campbell, Joseph, The Power of Myth, New York, USA: Doubleday,
1988.
Da Fonseca, Eduardo Giannetti, Beliefs in Action: Economic
Philosophy and Social Change, Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University
Press, 1991.
Fukuyama, Francis, Trust: The Social Virtues and the Creation of
Prosperity, New York, USA: The Free Press, 1995.
Giddens, A et al. Reflexive Modernization: Politics, Tradition, and
Aesthetics in the Modern Social Order, Stanford, CA: Stanford
University Press, 1994.
Harrison, Lawrence et al., Culture Matters: How values Shape Human
Progress, New York, NY: Basic Books, 2000.
Hofman, David. George Townsend, Oxford, UK: George Ronald, 1983.
Lippitt, John, Kierkegaard and Fear and Trembling, London, UK:
Routledge, 2003.
Nisbet, Robert, The Social Philosophers, London, UK: Pocket Books,
1973.
Powell, Corey. S, God in the Equation: How Einstein Transformed
Religion, New York, NY: Free Press, 2002.
Senge, Peter M., The Fifth Discipline: the Art & Practice of the
Learning Organization, New York, NY: Doubleday, 1990.
Spears, Larry C. ed., The Power of Servant Leadership, San Francisco,
USA: Berrett-Koehler Publishers, Inc, 1998.
Taherzadeh, Adib, The Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh,Vol:1, Oxford, UK:
George Ronald, 1974.
The Oxford Dictionary of Quotations 3rd edition, Oxford, UK: Oxford
University Press, 1979.
The Oxford Dictionary of Philosophy, Oxford, UK: Oxford University
Press, 1994.
The World Bank, The Quality of Growth, Washington, USA: World
Bank Publication, 2000.

84   Models and Idols


NOTES
1 George Townshend, in George Townshend, page 223.
2 The mythological saga of the Titan brothers Prometheus and
Epimetheus, meaning ‘forethought’ and ‘afterthought’ respectively, and
delegated by Zeus to create mankind may well symbolize the tension of
thinking before acting and acting before thinking that characterize
community in history and its reshaping under everchanging conditions.
3 The title of the presentation must not be confused with the concept
‘philosophy of the mind’ which is concerned with the nature of mental
phenomena in general and the role of consciousness, sensation,
perception etc. Standard problems include those of free will, personal
identity, mind-body problem and so on.
4 At a January 2002 session of the Astronomical Society meeting, a
young astronomer named Brian Mason, of Caltech, presented the lead
paper in one of the main cosmology sessions. His discussion paper
bore the title, “Measurements of the CMB Power Spectrum to L = 4000
with the CBI”. Whatever happened to Einstein’s blunt ‘The Foundation
of the General Theory of Relativity” or “The Big Bang Cosmology”?
‘God in the Equation: How Einstein Transformed Religion’ Corey S.
Powell, page 242.
5 Tonnies’ major work, Gemeinschaft und Gesellschaft (first published
in 1887), is available in English translation (edited and translated by
Charles P. Loomis) as Community and Society (1957).
6 Not dissimilar to the Aristotelian ideal of the intimate, reciprocating
local community bound by shared ends.
7 See letter from an individual believer to the UHJ, dated August 9th,
posted
on
the
Internet
http://bahai-library.org/uhj/
enrollments.growth.html
8 The idea of a systematic approach to Bahá’í activity first appears in
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Tablet to the Bahá’ís of the Central States, revealed on
March 29, 1916 where he counsels that the teaching effort should be
conducted ‘systematically and enthusiastically’.
9 Such pressure of course can have the opposite effect as in the case of
Chinese merchants who had no choice but to excel at making money
because Confucianism formally placed the merchants near the bottom
of the social scale. Plato had similar disregard for the commercial class
relegating them to the lower abdomen together with craftsmen and
husbandmen in his analogy of comparing the activities of the State with
bodily functions (Republic).
10 The fact that the same values do produce different consequences in
different circumstances is just one of the paradoxical relationship
between culture and economic behaviour.
11 Sociologists as early as the 1900s questioned the cultural origins of
economic development beginning with Max Weber’s famous work Die

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   85


protestantische Ethik und der Geist des Kapitalismus (The Protestant
Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism) 1922; then followed by
anthropologists such as Margaret Mead and Ruth Benedict (her teacher)
in the 1940s, to be completed in the 1980s with the most prominent
contribution to the value of culture in understanding societies written
by Lawrence Harrison, entitled “Underdevelopment Is a State of Mind
— the Latin American Case” (1985) where he concludes that culture has
been a primary obstacle to development.
12 Social observers refer to development along exclusively material
lines and focus on three drivers: technology (scientific advance), goods
(economic output), and freedom (political, cultural and social
emancipation). The materialist stance is highlighted by a World Bank
publication, The Quality of Growth (2000), which equates quality of life
with higher per capita income, equitable education and job
opportunities, greater gender equality, better health and nutrition,
cleaner and more sustainable natural environment, more impartial
judicial and legal system, broader civil and political freedom and a
richer cultural life.
13 Reflexivity does not simply imply reflection, but a “self-
confrontation created by the dynamics of modernisation” (Giddens,
Beck “Reflexive Modernization”, 1995). The disposition for reflexivity
is created by the constant flow of information characterizing modern
communities and which forces these simultaneously to revise
themselves. The spiritual dimension is the collective self-confrontation
with eternal spiritual principles.
14 Systems thinking (and its sensibility for subtle interconnectedness),
feedback concepts of cybernetics and servo-mechanism engineering
theory are all famously discussed and applied in Peter M. Senge’s The
Fifth Discipline: the Art & Practice of the Learning Organization, 1990,
Doubleday.
15 Reference here to elected Bahá’í representatives and scholars may
not be uncalled given that so much responsibility is borne by these
legitimately qualified defenders of social order and progress, especially
scholars, whose high attainment “make it possible for them to
contribute in important ways to the advancement of civilization [and]
are deserving of society’s recognition and gratitude.” Letter written on
behalf of the Universal House of Justice to an individual believer,
March 14, 1996.
16 John Locke, quoted in Wendy M. Heller’s exposition “Covenant and
the Foundations of Civil Society”, published in BW 1995-96. If faith
constitutes the supreme degree of assent possible by human reason,
this poses a serious challenge especially to Bahá’í scholars who must
“try to avoid the snare of allowing a divorce between their faith and
their reason.” See the Memorandum on Scholarship in the Universal
House of Justice letter dated January 3rd, 1979.
17 Much debate today is being centred on the concept of the servant-
leader as the management paradigm of the future where the philosophy
of service is present in the practice of leadership. Embedded in

86   Models and Idols


teamwork and community, the servant-leader asks the questions,
“Whom do we serve?” and “For what purpose?” testing the idea that
those served grow as persons, “become healthier, wiser, freer, more
autonomous, more likely themselves to become servants.” See The
Power of Servant Leadership, edited by Larry C. Spears. See also a
seminal article by Jim Collins entitled “Level 5 Leadership, the Triumph
of Humility and Fierce Resolve”, Harvard Business Review, January
2001 issue.
18 The common ground of Stoicism and Cynicism is the manner in which
both respond to the inevitable cycle of senescence and decay. Their
gesture that living in accordance with Nature reduces man’s wants is
not a celebration of life but its depreciation, and therefore contrary
to Bahá’í belief.

True of Thyself
The Mystical Writings of Bahá’u’lláh and
Ken Wilber’s system of integral philosophy
Wolfgang A. Klebel
Introduction

Who sees inside from outside?
Who finds hundreds of mysteries even where minds are
deranged?
See through his eyes what he sees.
Who then is looking out from his eyes?


Jalálu’d-Din Rúmi (1207-12731)

“To see inside from outside” is the topic of this essay. The Persian
Sufi poet and mystic Rúmí, who was a contemporary of Thomas
Aquinas, stated in this poem the question that today arouses the
interest of the philosopher again. For several centuries the inside
remained unseen, the progress of science was focused exclusively on
the outside of this world and all what could be counted and
measured. Today it appears that the inside of things is in the process
of being rediscovered by psychology, by philosophy and, yes, even by
science.
The same thought has been fundamental to Phenomenology as a
philosophical system explaining Personal-dialogic Thinking:
The study of human awareness as it is authentically revealed
without assumptions and bias from abstract objectivity and
one’s own agenda. It implies the use of intelligent
subjectivity by authentic individuals in an encounter that is
primarily dialogic. Its importance lies in the issue that one
can then attempt to “look through the eyes of the other”
and then (ideally) experience the other with compassion
and situated acceptance. The other then reflects back to us
and we “come upon ourselves as stranger”. As with children
looking in their parent’s eyes, we see ourselves to learn, and
to be gifted.2 (bold in the original)

88   True of Thyself

In this description, the origin of spirit is based on the dialogical
nature of the human person. This spirit is given to the child looking
in their parent’s eyes. From this origin in the individual to the origin
of human spirituality as a whole, this thinking of dialogic
Personalism leads to the biblical tradition. This is expressed in John
1,1 “In the beginning was the word,” directing the attentive reader
back to Genesis 1:1–3 where it is stated: “In the beginning God
created the heaven and the earth. And the earth was without form,
and void; and darkness was upon the face of the deep. And the Spirit
of God moved upon the face of the waters. And God said ...”
The inside is seen through, and in the eyes of the other, through
and in the word of the other connecting the “I” and the “Thou” (you
singular)3. In establishing the unity of the vision and of the inside,
i.e., the spirit, Rúmí asks the question, who then is looking out from
his eyes? In the mystic Sufi tradition, and in most other mystic
traditions, what is seen in the inside is ultimately the Divine. Can we
see the inside if we do not see that the individual is always part of a
collective; that the position of the individual cannot be seen without
seeing the collective in which this individual finds its place? So seen
and unseen, or outside and inside is equally the topic of this paper as
the individual and the collective as expressed in the inside and
outside. The integration of the inside and outside, of the individual
and collective, of being and awareness is at the core of the integral
philosophy of Ken Wilber, whose writings will assist in this paper’s
quest to attain the “Truth of Thyself.”
What is the Truth of the self, one could ask? How does the self
relate to the internal and external, to the individual and to the
collective? To rediscover this tradition of the self and to fortify it
with modern science and the understanding of the development of
the individual and of humanity brings about Wilber’s integral
philosophy that has become a new, a worldwide phenomenon as the
translation of his books into 20 languages demonstrates. What is it
that made him the most read thinker not only in USA, but popular
also in countries such as Germany and Japan?
A note about popularity needs to be inserted here. Popularity is
not a criterion of truth, in fact, it often is indicative of a lack of
truth, or, as history has proven, it is an indication of what can be
called “half-truth.” Something becomes popular because it conveys
some truth, but in an easy form, which often disguises the
untruthful, but popular aspect of the statement. In the case of the
Integral Philosophy of Ken Wilber this issue will be explored below.
This paper is concerned with a vision that will shape the future; it
is trying to discover the way humanity sees itself and how it will try
to solve the difficulties the future might bring. Can philosophy be

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   89

the answer, or does it take more than human understanding? This
paper will bring together philosophical thinking of today and
another source of knowledge and understanding, i.e., the Revelation
of Bahá’u’lláh, (1817-1893), who is the founding prophet of the
Bahá’í Faith, and regarded as the Manifestation of God for our age.
The comparison of Wilber’s integral approach and Bahá’u’lláh’s
progressive Revelation will result in an attempt to formulate some
principles of an integral and progressive theology, an attainment that
can today only be envisioned in its outlines and that will have to be
developed over time.4 This comparison could further suggest some
ideas about the future Bahá’í commonwealth; and it will shed some
light from the “Truth of Thyself” as expressed by Bahá’u’lláh
towards the future of humankind.
Terry Culhane has made a connection between the philosophy of
Ken Wilber and the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh in the “integration of
the tradition of liberalism with a genuine spirituality”.5 In the chapter
“Redeeming Modernity: Bahá’u’lláh and the Integral Philosophy of
Ken Wilber”, he compares Wilber’s integral philosophy with the “life
and work of Bahá’u’lláh” and finds that both have a rather
corresponding understanding of the development of modernity, of
its strength and pitfalls, and both come to similar conclusions.
This correlation can be noted, when looking at the tradition of
liberalism, but the work and life of Bahá’u’lláh and especially His
early mystical Writings go much farther than the philosophy of
Wilber and are based on an understanding of the human predicament
that transcends Wilber’s ideas. Culhane is aware of this when
discussing the concept of Irfan and the integration of the social
practices in the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh.
The present essay intends to continue this dialogue between
Wilber and Bahá’u’lláh; it will extend it to a broader scope,
including the cosmological aspects of both system; and will,
furthermore, indicate in what special areas the Revelation of
Bahá’u’lláh is not only corresponding, but also transforming and
transcending Wilber’s system of integral philosophy and psychology.
Wilber’s subtle individualism, his mystic-pantheistic world view will
be placed in the light of the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh, which
transcends the philosophical speculation and psychological research
of Wilber, as we will see.6
There is another topic, which needs to be raised. What is the
connection of these two systems, one a Revelation, the other a
philosophy, and both a century apart? We have to ask in what way
can the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh be understood as the seminal
ground on which the philosophy of Wilber grew? This question has
been raised about other modern thinkers as well, for example Martin

90   True of Thyself

Heidegger7 and, most of all, Teilhard de Chardin8, whose writings
were a precursor of Wilber’s thinking about the relationship of
matter and spirit.
It is this writer’s opinion that Bahá’u’lláh’s ontological
understanding of the universe corresponds, at least in some
important points, with the ideas presented and explicated by Ken
Wilber, who has most recently, i.e., more than a century after
Bahá’u’lláh’s Revelation, described the structure and integration of
being, in a potential “Theory of Everything.” Such a theory must
include all of reality in an abstract form and this is how Wilber
describes this theory. He reverted to the Greek form of the word
cosmos reintroducing the word “Kosmos,” implying that by this
spelling he means all reality or everything that is, not only the partial,
external and materialistic aspects, which is researched by modern
cosmology. He finds access to this Kosmos in an analysis of human
consciousness and of its development, and explicates it in his theory
of “all-quadrants” “all-levels”, which will be explained below.9
Similarly, in the writings of Bahá’u’lláh, it can be stated that the
truth of this universe is revealed in “thyself”, in you and me, in the
human predicament. It consists of four states, of Firstness and
Lastness, of Outwardness and Inwardness (the manifest and the
hidden),10 or as expressed in the analogous terminology of Wilber in
Individual and Collective, in Interior and Exterior states. For this
investigation and this writer, these words of Bahá’u’lláh have
become “mother words”, in the sense as explicated by Him:
Every single letter proceeding out of the mouth of God is
indeed a mother letter, and every word uttered by Him
Who is the Well Spring of Divine Revelation is a mother
word, and His Tablet a Mother Tablet. Well is it with them
that apprehend this truth. (GWB 142)
In this paper these four “mother words” of Bahá’u’lláh, “First and
Last”, “Seen and Unseen”, “that are true of thyself”, will be analyzed
and an attempt will be made to explicate some of the meaning
contained in these terms. It is obvious that this attempt is rather
limited by the ability and background of this writer; on the other
hand,
this
limited
perspective
in
combination
with
other
interpretations in the sense of consultation can and should contribute
to a better understanding of the writings of Bahá’u’lláh in the
ongoing dialogue of Bahá’í scholarship.
This has been stated by Steve Birkland when he said: “The beauty
of it is: the limitations are all characterized by the way our minds
have been trained, so the view of a mathematician, the view of an
artist, the view of a doctor, or the view of any particular person give
shape and form to this interpretation.” Furthermore “these words

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   91

would give rise through every individual’s mind, according to their
limitations and capacity, to things that we had no previous
knowledge.”11
Since these four terms in this combination are used only in the
early writings of Bahá’u’lláh, as far as they are published and
available, the context of these terms needs to be elaborated and its
correlation, as well as its distinguishing features, to Wilber’s
corresponding terms analyzed.
After a brief description of the concept of “individual and
collective” of “interior and exterior” as used by Wilber, and
clarifying
these
concepts
in
his
philosophical
system,
the
corresponding terms used by Bahá’u’lláh will be investigated and
their place in the Seven Valleys will be evaluated.
Bahá’u’lláh describes them as being “conferred to thyself,” as gift
to every human individual and as descriptive of, not only, the human
awareness but of the human ability to be conscious of everything, to
reach out to the understanding of all that is. Traditionally, Aristotle
has described this fact already, when stating that “the human mind
(νουσ) can somehow understand everything (τα παντα)”. This
metaphysical line of thought leads us towards a better understanding
of being, of what reality is and what humans actually can be and
know. Ontology and epistemology, being and knowing, is both
expressed in these structures of thinking.
Therefore, in the next part of this paper, these four categories of
everything are being brought into the open and explained in their
Biblical, Qur’ánic and Bahá’í context. The explanation of these
concepts will become further elucidated in Wilber’s system of the
Four Quadrants. Wilber’s idea of “all levels” in this system can be
found in the modern, and especially Teilhardian, concepts of
progress and evolution, and in the Bahá’í principle of Progressive
Revelation. It is an expression of the idea of the maturation of the
individual and of mankind, both being basic concepts of the Bahá’í
Revelation.
It needs to be pointed out here that this writer did not follow this
line of thought in discovering this surprising correlation. In reading
the Wilber terms and their explanation he felt that they were
germane to the Bahá’í writings and Wilber’s concept could be used
to organize Bahá’í cosmology and provide a philosophical system for
the writings. Therefore, he attempted to correlate Bahá’í principles
with these Wilberian concepts and was in the process of writing a
paper on that topic. Purely accidental, so it seems, this author was
one evening reading the Seven Valleys and found to his total surprise

92   True of Thyself

that Bahá’u’lláh uses terms, which Wilber has reproduced in his
philosophical scheme.
More accurately, it must be stated, that Bahá’u’lláh’s terms not
only anticipate Wilber’s understanding, but substantially improve on
it, even though, they were written about a century prior. And what is
even more surprising is the fact that they were written without the
benefit of the philosophical and psychological development of the
last century, on which Wilber’s understanding is based. As will be
pointed out below, one could wonder if the vision of Bahá’u’lláh
was not the seminal ground, which gave rise to the development of
the idea of a developmental psychology and integral philosophy, as is
presented by Ken Wilber.
This discovery was unexpected and almost shocking. It is hoped
that this paper will increase the understanding of these concepts and
their correlation, as the work on this paper has already substantially
improved the ideas on which this paper is based.
In fact, Bahá’u’lláh’s terms can improve the understanding of
Wilber’s scheme and make it better fitting with other concepts of
Wilber’s Kosmology, especially the concept of Holon. As we will see
later, while Wilber follows the Teilhardian concepts in describing the
internal and external aspect of consciousness and being, Bahá’u’lláh’s
concepts of First and Last much better describe the other
corresponding concepts of individual and collective used by Wilber.
Continuing this search we will attempt to delve into the range of
these four concepts as presented in the Bahá’í writings. This
excursion will assure that this investigation is in tune with the
understanding of the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh. It further will bring
to light the breadth and depth of this Revelation and how it relates
to the most up to date understanding of this world as partially
presented by Wilber. This marriage of philosophy and theology in
understanding of this connection again will be indicative of our
time, which is a time of disintegration and integration as indicated by
Shoghi Effendi12.
In a final section the now elaborated concepts of the four
quadrants and of all the levels will conclude in a description of the
ontological aspect of the Bahá’í revelation and will bring new light
into the Wilber concepts of reality and awareness. This bringing
together of theology and some philosophical concepts, as well as,
psychology will impart more light into the Wilber metaphysical
system, not only indicating the severe limitations of this system, but
also its partial truth. This will open up the revelation of Bahá’u’lláh
to today’s philosophical discourse encompassing the whole globe.
The numerous translation and wide distribution of Wilber’s books
could assist in this development.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   93

This paper, therefore, is an attempt to integrate two seemingly
diverse systems of thought and to compare them to each other.
What they have in common is the fact that both are in their
particular way universal and integral, in what they differ is that one
author is the prophet-founder of a world wide religion, spreading
quickly all over the continents and the other is a philosophical and
psychological thinker, who has found wide acceptance in the USA
and has reached international recognition. Both are separated by
more than a century, yet it does not appear that the later has been
much aware of the former.
We will encounter the difficulty of trying to understand the unity
that binds them together, the deeper meaning that is the basis of
both of their ideas and we will have to make some effort to explain
the relationship between them both. It would be too easy to just
assume that the truth is always the same, no matter, who discovers it
— that things hang together and that there is a causal relationship
between different points of view and thoughts, which develop
independently from each other, as long as they sound similar.
Or, one might think, all is just accidentally connected; just like in
a heap of sand the different grains have nothing to do with each
other, except their proximity and similarity. Another way to
understand a coincidence of similar thoughts is to assume that either
one has caused the other or that both have one or more common
causes that connects their ideas together.
There are certainly two basic types of thinking about these kinds
of relationships, as Teilhard de Chardin already noted:
However, it is just at this point, in fact, that we meet an
initial split in the thinking mass of mankind.” And further:
“Beneath an infinite number of secondary differentiation,
caused by the diversity of social interests, of scientific
investigation or religious faith, there are basically two types
of minds, and only two: those who do not go beyond (and
see no need to go beyond) perception of the multiple —
however interlinked in itself the multiple may appear to be
— and those for whom perception of this same multiple is
necessarily completed in some unity. There are only, in fact,
pluralists and monists: those who do not see, and those who
do.13
Both the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh and the integral philosophy of Ken
Wilber seem to be connected by similar understanding and are
sharing of a similar view, at least in some areas.
Shoghi Effendi, the official interpreter of Bahá’u’lláh’s writings
describes the God’s Plan, whose Author is Bahá’u’lláh, and whose

94   True of Thyself

theater of operation is the entire planet14 in terms of integration15
and disintegration, of continuous and reciprocal reactions on each
other.
Such simultaneous processes of rise and of fall, of
integration and of disintegration, of order and chaos, with
their continuous and reciprocal reactions on each other, are
but aspects of a greater Plan, one and indivisible, whose
Source is God, whose author is Baha’u’llah, the theater of
whose operations is the entire planet, and whose ultimate
objectives are the unity of the human race and the peace of
all mankind.
In the Bahá’í understanding of history it is clear that the rapid
development of modern science and civilization is a response of the
entire world to the message of Bahá’u’lláh, who stated that the
world is pregnant of His Revelation.
The historicity of the Bahá’í worldview was portrayed by Saiedi as
one of the specific new aspects of the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh. It
is based on the principle of Progressive Revelation and the Maturity
of mankind receiving this new message.16
This increasing integration of the world is described as well in Ken
Wilber’s Integral Philosophy, when he writes,
I sought a world philosophy. I sought an integral
philosophy, one that would believably weave together the
many pluralistic contexts of science, morals, aesthetics,
Eastern as well as Western philosophy and the world’s great
wisdom traditions. Not on the level of details — that is
finitely impossible; but on the level of orienting
generalizations: a way to suggest that the world really is
one, undivided, whole, and related to itself in every way: a
holistic philosophy for a holistic Kosmos: a world
philosophy, an integral philosophy.17
Wilber’s Four Quadrants
Wilber organizes the structure of reality as well as of human
consciousness in four quadrants, where the left two quadrants are
depicting the inside of things and the right two sides the outside of
things. The upper quadrants signify the individual aspect and the
lower two quadrants the collective aspect of reality and
consciousness.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   95


Figure 1: Wilbur’s Four Quadrants
He further indicates that the philosophical tradition for several
thousand years, in East and West, has seen the structure of being in
similar ways, talking about the area of the “I” as the Beautiful, about
the area of “We” as the Good and about the right sight (the “it and
its”) as the area of the True. Combining the tradition and the
modern understanding of consciousness he added another aspect to
this structure, that of the levels. With this concept he introduces
into the structure of the perennial philosophy the modern idea of
historicity, of evolution and progress.
In this Wilber follows the view of Teilhard de Chardin and
others, who had indicated that the evolutionary aspect of reality was
a new understanding. Additionally, they had also described this
evolution not only in a biological Darwinian sense, but also much
more in an ontological sense, ascribing this concept of evolution to
the world and the reality of being. Teilhard had developed his view
from the scientific understanding of the human phenomenon, since
then many studies of psychology and philosophy have built a rather
substantial understanding of the progressive character of the
universe.
In Figure 2 (next page), the development of the individual
consciousness is shown as starting at the center and moving towards
the corners in a continuous evolution of awareness, of behavior,
social and cultural understanding. The same is true for the reality and
development of the universe, starting in the center with the big bang
and developing upwards and towards the corners in all four
directions.

96   True of Thyself


Figure 2: Development of Individual Consciousness
What should never be overlooked is the fact that this
development is not happening in four different directions, but that
these four quadrants are integrated and corresponding aspects of one
and the same reality. Whatever develops or changes in one quadrant
has effects in all the others, and happens at the same level in all four
quadrants. This is cogently demonstrated in an overview of the
modern understanding of developmental psychology and is
demonstrated in the history of mankind as well.
Figure 3 (next page) is a graph of the four Quadrants from the
books of Wilber (SES 198, SP 26). Obviously, this scheme
presupposes the understanding that awareness is present at all levels
of development of the universe. The reader is invited to seek the
explanation for this understanding of awareness and the history of
this ontological and epistemological idea in the writings of Wilber.
Wilber describes the development of the universe in three spheres:
The understanding, development and integration of physiosphere
(matter), biosphere (living organisms) and noosphere (a Teilhardian
concept, meaning the sphere of the mind), is presupposed in this
scheme.
Wilber’s Holons
There is another Wilberian concept (originally coined by Arthur
Koestler) that is important for the understanding of this
metaphysical concept of integration, which again places Wilber in
the center of modern thinking and demonstrates that all of his
concepts are thoroughly integrated with the most modern
understanding of science. This is his concept of the Holon. This
Greek term stands in for the word whole but in a very specific sense.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   97


Figure 3: The Four Quadrants: Constructive and
Evolutionary Integration of Awareness
Wilber explains that the world is not made of matter or spirit, who
in his and Teilhard’s system are never to be separated, but out of
Holons. A Holon is a whole consisting of parts in its own right, and
which is always at the same time a part of a higher whole.
Consequently, and that is important to the understanding of
Wilber’s system, everything is such a Holon, and dependent on what
place such a Holon is found it will be including always parts and be a
part of other wholes. So for example, the atom is a whole compared
to subatomic particles such as electrons or even lower quarks etc. As
soon as the atom is included in a higher whole such as a molecule it
becomes a part of this. And again, the molecule will be part of the
cell, and the cell of the organism and so fort, even into the spiritual

98   True of Thyself

area of consciousness, this principle is continued. There is no end in
either direction. The reality consists of these Holons, which gradually
developed into ever-higher wholes.
We will encounter this concept again when attempting to
understand the statement of Bahá’u’lláh in the Seven Valleys. And
we will see, it is hoped, that this understanding from the revelation
of Bahá’u’lláh gives the concept of Holon a new and increased
theological and cosmological meaning. This new meaning transcends
the Wilberian concept, in a similar way as Bahá’u’lláh’s mystical
writings transcend the Sufi mystical tradition, by incorporating what
is good into His revelation and elevating it to a new level of
integration.
Towards a Bahá’í Theology
Wilber describes evolution, which proceeds by separation and
following integration. When the separation becomes dissociation,
the evolution becomes pathological and integration cannot follow.
We will recognize these and other structures of the Wilberian system
later in the writing of Bahá’u’lláh. It should not surprise us that the
revelation of Bahá’u’lláh did not only anticipate the Wilberian
concepts, but that it further integrates them and transcends them
towards a more complete understanding of the Divine. Additionally,
it will become clear in this paper that this development can today be
more easily understood, after Wilber has developed his system of
integral philosophy and in this specific way, the theological
development depends on the level of philosophical understanding.
Here again we encounter the principle of progressive revelation.
To say it concisely following in the Bahá’í understanding of this
relationship, the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh and its influence into the
world has made the philosophical progress possible, as seen in
Wilber’s system. And that system in turn prepares us to a deeper
understanding of the meaning of Bahá’u’lláh’s revelation. In this
sense, and in this sense only is a progressive Bahá’í theology possible.
This influence of the Revelation to philosophy was expressed in the
statement of Bahá’u’lláh:
The essence and the fundamentals of philosophy have
emanated from the Prophets. That the people differ
concerning the inner meanings and mysteries thereof is to
be attributed to the divergence of their views and minds.
(TB 145)
This progressive and historical principle does distinguish Bahá’í
theology from all previous unhistorical and static forms of theology,
which ended up in dogmatic constructs, philosophical speculations

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   99

and/or in a simple adaptation to the thinking of the times. With the
understanding that the world is “pregnant with the Revelation of
Bahá’u’lláh,” Bahá’í theology tries to trace the emerging thinking of
this New Order in all contemporaneously developments of the
noosphere, and then apply these findings to the Writings for better
understanding of the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh.
Therefore, it is postulated in this paper that Bahá’í theology will
remain dynamic, up to date or “au currant” as the Guardian had
recommended and at the same time bound by the Covenant to the
Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh. It can remain at the zenith of modern
thought, without deviating from its origin in the Scriptures and
without losing its dynamic and progressive force, as long as it
remains integrated into the progressive revelation of God.
After this short excursion into the philosophic system of Wilber,
we will now turn our attention towards the early mystical writings of
Bahá’u’lláh, especially the Seven and Four Valleys.
Structure and Purpose of the Seven Valleys
The Seven Valleys of Bahá’u’lláh “was written in response to
questions of Shaykh Muhyi’d-Din, the judge of Khániqín, a town
near the Persian border northeast of Baghdad. The judge was
evidently a student of Súfí philosophy, a variety of mysticism that
developed as a movement within Islam.”18 As it will become clear in
the following sections, we can, therefore, understand these writings
as an introduction to Bahá’u’lláh’s Revelation for all adherents of
mysticism in general and especially Sufi mysticism. In this paper, we
will attempt to use these mystical writings of Bahá’u’lláh in the same
sense of integration and transcendence towards the integral
philosophy of Ken Wilber, who includes Eastern and Western
mysticism into his view of the Kosmos.
The formal structure of this mystical composition is patterned
after the writings of the twelfth century Persian Súfi, Farídu’d-Din
‘Attár, called Mantiqu’t-Tayr (Language of the Birds). Bahá’u’lláh
changed the structure of this composition slightly, and the reason for
this change is one of the points of analysis presented in this paper.
Quite clearly Bahá’u’lláh places the Valley of Unity in the center
of this text, and organizes the three Valleys before and after around
this Valley. The first three Valleys are the spatial approach towards
the beloved, which is reached in the Valley of Unity. The next three
Valleys are more an explanation of the Valley of Unity than new
progressive steps beyond unity. This corresponds to the importance
of Unity in His Revelation. The other changes are following this

100   True of Thyself

change, placing the idea of detachment into the last Valley as True
Poverty and adding Contentment in Place of Unification.

Figure 4: Valleys of Attar and Bahá’u’lláh
It is remarkable that the Four Valleys of Bahá’u’lláh have the
same structure as the Seven Valleys, but conclude with the Valley of
Unity, in which all of the three further Valleys are mentioned.19
The length of the different description of the Valleys gives us
another clue to the importance of the Valley of Unity. The Valley of
Unity is about triple the length of the other valleys. According to
Nader Saiedi, “Not a single word used by Bahá’u’lláh is arbitrary,
cosmetic, or unnecessary. His dynamic poetics unveils the beauty of
His mystical text.”20 Saiedi further comments that there are “at least
four fundamental principles that distinguish Bahá’u’lláh’s writings
from previous expressions of mysticism in general and Sufism in
particular.” First the principle of “absolute divine transcendence;”
secondly the “the idea of the spiritual journey is historicized;” thirdly
Bahá’u’lláh insists on, “harmony, not contradiction, between
mysticism and religious law, social teaching and institutions;” and
finally “mysticism is inseparably linked to the principle of the unity
of humankind as the ultimate goal of Bahá’u’lláh’s mission.”21
In this change we can already recognize the method Bahá’u’lláh
uses in order to friendly and positively accept all what is valuable in
the Sufi philosophy, yet carefully and gently moving the focus and
the conclusion towards His quite different philosophy as expressed in
His mystical writings. In the same manner He will explain in the last
Valley the total difference between Sufi philosophy and Bahá’í
mystic, stating that the Seven Valleys can be passed in one breath and
only after that the city of the heart opens up the seeker to the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   101

beloved. It is necessary to thoroughly analyze the writings in order
not to overlook this tendency, which is common in all the early
writings of Bahá’u’lláh and which was clearly stated by Him:
Were all the things that lie enshrined within the heart of
Baha, and which the Lord, His God, the Lord of all names,
hath taught Him, to be unveiled to mankind, every man on
earth would be dumbfounded.
How great the multitude of truths, which the garment of
words can never contain! How vast the number of such
verities as no expression can adequately describe, whose
significance can never be unfolded, and to which not even
the remotest allusions can be made! How manifold are the
truths, which must remain unuttered until the appointed
time is come! Even as it hath been said: “Not everything
that a man knoweth, can be disclosed, nor can everything
that he can disclose be regarded as timely, nor can every
timely utterance be considered as suited to the capacity of
those who hear it.”
Of these truths some can be disclosed only to the extent of
the capacity of the repositories of the light of Our know-
ledge, and the recipients of Our hidden grace. (GWB 176)
It has been demonstrated that this process is pervading the whole
structure of Bahá’u’lláh’s Revelation,22 especially in His early
Writings and we will, throughout the Seven Valleys, observe this
principle of disclosure of truth according to the capacity of the
recipients. This is actually nothing else than a direct application of
the Bahá’í principle of Progressive Revelation; any Revelation of
God is adjusted to the capacity of the people at that time and
therefore, there will be a next revelation, as soon as humanity is
ready for it. In other words, God, through His Manifestations, gives
successive Revelations to humanity according to their ability and
progress. As explained above this principle does permeate the
development of the study and understanding of the Bahá’í
Revelation as well, even beyond the time of the actual revelation
until the time of the next revelation.
“That the Full Meaning may be Manifest”
A note will here be inserted as to the process of developing this
paper. After studying Wilber and recognizing his internal correlation
with the Bahá’í Scriptures this writer attempted to demonstrate this
correspondence by explaining the Wilber scheme of Four Quadrants
with Bahá’í texts and placed the principles of prayer, work, order and
unity into them.

102   True of Thyself


Figure 5
These four Bahá’í principles (Figure 5) seem to fit perfectly into
this scheme and explain how the Bahá’í life is organized and
regulated in the individual and collective sense. While this process of
understanding was in progress, this writer, seemingly accidentally,
read one evening the Seven Valleys and encountered the following
paragraph in the Valley of Unity:
Although a brief example hath been given concerning the
beginning and ending of the relative world, the world of
attributes, yet a second illustration is now added, that the
full meaning may be manifest. For instance, let thine
Eminence consider his own self; thou art first in relation to
thy son, last in relation to thy father. In thine outward
appearance, thou tellest of the appearance of power in the
realms of divine creation; in thine inward being thou
revealest the hidden mysteries, which are the divine trust
deposited within thee. And thus firstness and lastness,
outwardness and inwardness are, in the sense referred to,
true of thyself, that in these four states conferred upon
thee thou shouldst comprehend the four divine states, and
that the nightingale of thine heart on all the branches of
the rose-tree of existence, whether visible or concealed,
should cry out: “He is the first and the last, the Seen and
the Hidden....” [Q 57:3] (SVFV 26-7)
The first thought that struck this writer, were the concepts of
outwardness and inwardness, of which was stated that they are “true
to thyself” and “conferred upon thee”, clearly indicating that the self
is seen by Bahá’u’lláh in the same way as by Wilber, i.e., having an
outward side and an inward side. Without doubt there was more to

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   103

this statement. It took some days and nights with increasing
excitement to understand the rest of the statement.
The first and the last created the next hurdle, until the
explanation of Bahá’u’lláh was carefully studied. This statement
became clear when the text was considered, which said: “let thine
Eminence consider his own self; thou art first in relation to thy son,
last in relation to thy father.”
That can only mean that everyone is first and last, depending on
the context and that everyone is always both, first and last. Towards
a higher unit, like the family of origin, one is last, one is a member;
in respect to the lower unit, like the family one starts, one is first, the
father is representing the whole. Consequently, when this is
understood metaphysically, the term first can be replaced by the term
whole and the term last can be replaced by the term part.
Another and even more meaningful explanation of first and last is
the social one. A person is an individual in respect to subordinated
units; he is at the same time a member, or a part of any higher
collective unit, such as family, state and humanity. As a matter of
fact, when the Wilber terms of individual and collective are replaced
by first and last, the dynamics of this relationship is better expressed
and the concept of Holon immediately comes to mind.
A Holon is, as shown before, always a whole towards its
subordinated parts, and at the same time always a part towards the
higher wholes, in which it is included. And everything that is, and
especially man, is a Holon, every structure is hierarchically organized
in this tension between being the whole and the part, at the same
time and in a constant process of integration, the first and the last.
This is “true of thyself” as Bahá’u’lláh clearly states, this is, as one
could say, the essence of being human. This way of existing is
“conferred upon thee” for a specific purpose, i.e., “to comprehend
the four divine states.” This purpose elevates this structure into the
religious, it is the necessary condition of being able to comprehend
the divine and in that sense it is the structure of man created in the
image of God, as stated in the first book of the Bible.
What is given to us in creation, what is our true self, what is
conferred to us, is the potential ability to recognize the Divine states.
The Valley of Unity will further explain, how this is possible and in
other early writings, Bahá’u’lláh will explain that these Divine states
are the Manifestations of God in His Messengers. God the
unknowable manifests himself as the First and the Last, the Seen
(manifest) and Unseen (hidden) in His prophets, the theological
meaning of this will be explicated further in another Chapter.

104   True of Thyself


Figure 6
The “Human Gestalt:” First and Last − Outward
and Inward
Internal and external23 as seen by Wilber is only one aspect of the
human consciousness and reality; the other is individual and
collective. The internal and external aspects are expressed as well in
the opposition between spirit and matter. These are not separate or
exclusive categories of being, neither is one dependent of the other,
nor can they stand alone and make the other dependent on the first.
They are mutually interdependent of each other. Teilhard de Chardin
has expressed that in many places, like in this quote:
It (the spirit) in no way represents some entity, which is
independent of matter or antagonistic to it, some force
locked up in, or floating in, the physical world. By spirit I
mean ‘the spirit of synthesis and sublimation’, in which is
painfully concentrated, through endless attempts and
setbacks, the potency of unity scattered throughout the
universal multiple: spirit which is born within, and as a
function of matter.24
The consequence of this understanding of the relationship
between spirit and matter is clearly demonstrated in Wilber’s opus,
where both are expressions of the Four Quadrants, the left handed
side is the spiritual or inner side of beings, the right handed side
exemplifies matter or the outside of things. The influence of this
thinking disavows the modern materialistic understanding of the
world, which was created by scientism defining being as matter and
reality as only that which can be measured and operationally defined.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   105

First and Last is the other dynamic that describes humanity,
humankind is stretched out between these two poles of existence.
Individual humans are always being the last in relation to humankind
and in this lastness they become the first, in relation to themselves
and to what belong to them. This can be reversed, only being able to
be the first, being an individual; one can equally accept the lastness
of one’s existence. This understanding is expressed in the concept of
service to humanity.
This truth was expressed in the Gospels, where the first will be the
last and the last be the first, where the individual grain has to die,
before it can bring fruit in the many. This Qur’ánic term, of first
and last, as used and expanded by Bahá’u’lláh provides new and
improved understanding of the Wilberian terms individual and
collective.
So we have to ask, what happens when the Wilberian term of
individual and collective is replaced by Bahá’u’lláh’s terms of first
and last? Placing these terms from the Valley of Unity and
introducing it into the Wilber scheme makes this structure more
dynamic and the concepts used more appropriate, as will be shown
below.
While it is clear to Wilber that internal and external must be
understood in their mutual relationship, the relationship of
individual and collective becomes clearer when the mutually related
concepts of first and last are used to describe these quadrants.
Wilber25 points out that ignoring the internal aspect of the human
condition was the mark of modern scientism, or materialistic
scientific understanding of the world. This view of the Kosmos
declares that only matter exists, and all ideas related to the internal
aspect of man are nothing but fairytales, like Santa Claus.
A similar point can be made in regard to individual and collective
and it is the prevalent meaning of these two concepts. In this
understanding the individual is absolute, as it can be located in space
and time, counted and materially measured. The individual’s
relationship to the collective of humankind becomes negligible and,
in the Western world at least, could be ignored for all practical
purposes. The individual person has material reality, the collective of
people is usually seen only as an aggregate, a heap or a summation of
individuals and has no attached manning or importance in this
materialistic and scientistic (i.e., based on scientism not on science)
understanding of the world, as is prevalent in modern times. This is
basically the ideology of Western Individualism and Capitalism,
where everyone is for himself, is number one and has to take care of
others only to protect the self. This ideology assumed that the
natural selfishness of the individual would, if used rationally, provide

106   True of Thyself

the perfect state for humanity, where everyone, out of selfishness,
will work for improving the fate of all.
Following this understanding, one can, and one often has
understood the term “individual” as a self-standing concept, as the
whole and independent essence of man. In common use the word
individual can stand for human being, for men or women. Saying
that someone is an “individual” gives that person special standing
and value in society. Modern Individualism has actually placed this
idea of the individual as an original descriptive term for the human
person, relegating any higher unit as a secondary element in the
human condition.
Liberal Individualism, which ignored or downgraded the collective
and social aspect of man, and its social consequence Capitalism
historically found its opposition in collective and materialistic
Communism and Socialism, which following the same logic in a
reversed way, ignored the individual and its value. Karl Marx called
this change from idealism to materialism a fundamental reversal and
transferred it from individualism to collectivism.
All of these ideologies are only partial conceptions of what human
beings are, and this partial and deficient vision of man has caused the
eminently destructive and devastating forces during the last century.
In fact, Bahá’u’lláh predicted this, when He warned the leaders and
all of humanity that ignoring His message will have devastating
consequences for humanity. Only in the tension and relationship
between first and last, inwardness and outwardness, and in
recognizing the divine states, can humanity exist and prosper.
Not recognizing the true states of man, not accepting in pride
that humans are the first as well as the last, created a devastating
force in this world that almost destroyed humanity and even today
could be causing ecological catastrophes.
First and Last in Bible and Qur’án
This section will be an overview over the passages that present the
concept of first and last in the Scriptures of the Jewish, Christian
and Muslims faith from Genesis to Qur’án.26 What it mainly shows
is the dynamic force of these words that were originally attributed to
God and than to God’s prophets. This process of attribution is
completed in the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh, especially in the Kitáb-i-
ˆqán, the Book of Certitude, written by Bahá’u’lláh during the same
period the Seven Valleys were revealed. In this book the circle is
completed, from God to His Prophets, and to the believer, so the
meaning of this descending and ascending circle is recognized by the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   107

faithful, as described in the Valley of Unity, because these four states
are “conferred upon thee”, to “comprehend the four divine states.”
Nader Saiedi has described this ontological circle, this arc of
descent and ascent in Logos and Civilization27, with special attention
to the Neoplatonic, Sufi and Islamic origins of these concepts and
their new interpretation in the Bahá’í writings.
Above all, one important feature strongly distinguishes the
Bahá’í concept of the ontological circle from typical Sufi or
Neoplatonic ideas. In the Bahá’í writings, the stations of
creation in the arc of descent do not start from the divine
Essence itself but from the realm of the divine Will.
Likewise, the arc of ascent — or the spiritual journey —
terminates not in union with the Essence of God, but in
union with the Will of God.... The Primal Will is also
referred to as the Command (amr) or Word of God and, as
such, refers to the common reality or essence of the
Manifestations of God. (page 55)
As the below quoted passages from the Hebrew and Christian
Scriptures demonstrate, this understanding was prepared in these
scriptures using the concept of first and last and of beginning and end.
From the Scriptures of the Old Testament:
In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth.
(Genesis 1:1)
Who hath wrought and done it, calling the generations
from the beginning? I the LORD, the first, and with the
last; I am he. (Isaiah 41:4)
Here the concepts of first and last28 are attributed to God, the
Lord of Israel. And the beginning is the creation of heaven and earth
by God. This direct relationship between God and his Creation as
described in Genesis is only possible in an early and primitive
understanding of this world. Evolutionary this is the message as
presented to a culture that is in the archaic or magical state of
development of human consciousness.29
Nevertheless, that does not mean that this description is wrong or
does not reveal truth, it just indicates the form in which the truth is
revealed. It further does not mean that people with higher developed
consciousness could not understand this message correctly, since any
higher level of consciousness includes, and elevate the lower levels in
a true dialectical process, as Wilber has described in most of his
books.
Another point needs to be made here, the fact that Isaiah
mentions the beginning and than speaks the words of God, who is

108   True of Thyself

the first and with the last, who is He. Being the creator makes God
the first and the last and much could be said about this
understanding of the Bible, but a more complete exegesis of these
texts cannot be presented here.
From the Scriptures of the New Testament
The letters of Paul were historically the first written documents of
the Christian Canon. Therefore, we present them first in the
description of the concepts of first and last.
1 Corinthians: 15:45:
And so it is written, the first man Adam was made a living
soul; the last Adam was made a quickening spirit.
Colossians. 1:15–20 Hymn about Christ, the head of all creation:
Who is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of
every creature?
For by him were all things created, that are in heaven, and
that are in earth, visible and invisible, whether they be
thrones, or dominions, or principalities, or powers: All
things were created by him, and for him:
And he is before all things, and by him all things consist.
And he is the head of the body, the church: who is the
beginning, the firstborn from the dead; that in all things he
might have the preeminence.
For it pleased the Father that in him should all fullness
dwell;
And, having made peace through the blood of his cross, by
him to reconcile all things unto himself; by him, I say,
whether they be things in earth, or things in heaven.30
About the seen and the unseen Paul has the following to say:
For the things, which are seen, are temporal; but the thing,
which are not seen, are eternal. (2 Corinthians 4:18)
The letters of the Apostle Paul were the first written documents
about Jesus. Jesus is called the Last Adam and put together with the
first Adam. Further, what can be seen with the natural eyes is the
temporal world, the outside existence of Jesus, what cannot be seen
this way is the eternal meaning of Jesus, who is described by Paul as
being before all things and through his cross he will reconcile all
things unto himself, in that sense he is the last. In Jesus the circle is
completed that originated in the first Adam in creation and ends in
the last Adam, who will reconcile all things unto himself, whether
they be in earth or in heaven. This allusion to the Lord’s Prayer and

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   109

to the Return of Christ expresses the completion of the ascending
arc in Jesus, the Christ.
The same idea is expressed in the Gospel that was written as the
last of the Gospels. Christ is the Word, in the beginning.
The Gospel of John 1:1-8:
In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with
God, and the Word was God. The same was in the
beginning with God.
All things were made by him; and without him was not any
thing made that was made. In him was life; and the life was
the light of men. And the light shineth in darkness; and the
darkness comprehended it not.
There was a man sent from God, whose name was John. The
same came for a witness, to bear witness of the Light, that
all men through him might believe. He was not that Light,
but was sent to bear witness of that Light. That was the true
Light, which lighteth every man that cometh into the world.
He was in the world, and the world was made by him, and
the world knew him not. He came unto his own, and his
own received him not.
And in the last book of the Christian Canon, in the Book of
Revelation 22:13
I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end, the first
and the last.
In this last book of the Judeo-Christian Scriptures the circle is
completed. Christ is the first and the last, the beginning and the end.
In Christ’s final return God’s Kingdom has come “Thy kingdom
come. Thy will be done in earth, as it is in heaven.” (Matthew 6:10)
From the Qur’án
All that is in heaven and earth gives glory to God, He is the
Mighty, the Wise One. It is He that has sovereignty over
the heavens and the earth. He ordains life and death, and
has power over all things. He is the First and the Last, the
Seen and the Unseen. He has knowledge of all things. It was
He who created the heavens and the earth... (Q 57:1-3)
In the Bahá’í Writings
In the passage from the Valley of Unity Bahá’u’lláh quotes this
verse from the Qur’án. The Manifestation as the First and the Last
and the Seen and the Unseen is one of the topics of the Kitáb-i-ˆqán
as in the following passage:

110   True of Thyself

Were any of the all-embracing Manifestations of God to
declare: “I am God!” He verily speaketh the truth, and no
doubt attacheth thereto. For it hath been repeatedly
demonstrated that through their Revelation, their attributes
and names, the Revelation of God, His name and His
attributes, are made manifest in the world. Thus, He hath
revealed: “Those shafts were God’s, not Thine!” (Qur’án,
8:17) And also He saith: “In truth, they who plighted fealty
unto thee, really plighted that fealty unto God.” (Qur’án
48:10) And were any of them to voice the utterance: “I am
the Messenger of God,” He also speaketh the truth, the
indubitable truth. Even as He saith: “Muhammad is not the
father of any man among you, but He is the Messenger of
God.” (Qur’án 33:40) Viewed in this light, they are all but
Messengers of that ideal King, that unchangeable Essence.
And were they all to proclaim: “I am the Seal of the
Prophets,” they verily utter but the truth, beyond the
faintest shadow of doubt. For they are all but one person,
one soul, one spirit, one being, one revelation. They are all
the manifestation of the “Beginning” and the “End,” the
“First” and the “Last,” the “Seen” and “Hidden” 31 — all of
which pertain to Him Who is the innermost Spirit of Spirits
and eternal Essence of Essences. (KI 178-9)
What He had indicated in the Seven Valleys, Bahá’u’lláh has
spelled out more directly in the Kitáb-i-ˆqán, about the different
Manifestations and their unity and what it means to follow them:
Therefore, whosoever, and in whatever Dispensation, hath
recognized and attained unto the presence of these glorious,
these resplendent and most excellent Luminaries, hath verily
attained unto the “Presence of God” Himself, and entered
the city of eternal and immortal life. Attainment unto such
presence is possible only in the Day of Resurrection, which
is the Day of the rise of God Himself through His all-
embracing Revelation. (KI 142-3)
The concept of Manifestation rounds up the circle of Creation
and Return, the arc of descent and ascent becomes closed in the
recognition of the Manifestation, who was in the beginning and is
the end of history. The progressive revelation and the return of the
Manifestations in every historical Prophet makes this circle the circle
of history, and it has a beginning without beginning and an end
without end, in other words this process of revelation transcends the
concept of time.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   111

Wilber’s Kosmos versus Bahá’í Commonwealth
It is important that we do not only point out the similarity
between Wilber’s philosophy and the statement of Bahá’u’lláh in the
Seven Valleys but also the fundamental difference. The main
difference is in the Worldview as presented by Wilber and in the
understanding of Reality as presented in the Bahá’í Writings. How
they overlap and how they diverge can be shown in the two figures
below, which were taken from a PowerPoint presentation of the
same topic. The first figure is taken from advertising to Wilber’s
Integral Institute and only augmented with statements indicating
Wilber’s understanding of God,32 which is strictly pantheistic and
monistic, strongly influence by Tibetan Buddhism.

Figure 7
He follows the main tradition of the mystics of the East and the
West and the critique Bahá’u’lláh applies to the Sufi mystic does
apply directly here also. Saiedi stated:
Some of the Bahá’í writings employ mystical symbols and
discourse, including, as in the Seven Valleys and the Four
Valleys, quotations from classics of Sufi literature. At the
same
time,
Bahá’u’lláh
strongly
criticizes particular
premises, doctrines and practices.

112   True of Thyself

Bahá’u’lláh’s explicit rule on the assessment of others’ statements
is to be sympathetic and open minded in approaching them.
Therefore, He tends to emphasize the positive aspects and the
acceptable meanings that can be found in those statements.33
A similar approach is attempted in this paper, where both the pos-
itive aspects and the critique of Wilber’s philosophy must be presented.
Wilber, talking about religions, states:34
The “great World Religions” (Hinduism, Buddhism,
Christianity, Islam, etc.) that still exist today ( ... ) all arose
in the general area of mythic-imperialism and all of them
remain clothed to some degree in surface structures (and
ethics) that are the two major technological epochs behind
the times. None of those religions (nor the previous tribal
religions) arose from within a global culture, and thus, none
of them can (or will) speak to the rising world culture,
however important their specific spiritual practices are (and
will remain).
And he continues talking about a new global religion, without con-
sidering the possibility that this new religion might be already present!
No, the new global religion(s) will come from within the
new global culture and will not be anything simply grafted
on from the past.
Wilber, in this statement, follows the modern understanding that
religion is a superstructure of a culture and caused by the culture, he
cannot perceive of the possibility that it is not the global culture that
will bring forth a global religion, but that it could be the opposite, a
global religion that is now bringing forth a global culture. He
expects the global religion to come from within the new global
culture, while it is this writer’s conviction that the new global
religion has laid the spiritual fundament of today’s global
consciousness.
The fact that the previous religions were presented in a different
cultural milieu, fits well in the Bahá’í concept of progressive
revelation, i.e., the religion is presented to the people in their
understanding, in their cultural awareness.
When the Bahá’í Universe is schematically depicted in the figure
below, the crucial difference is the position of the Manifestation, a
central aspect of the Bahá’í Worldview and understanding of
Reality. There is no monistic World Soul but the unknowable
Essence of God. All human striving and understanding directed
toward God is towards the Manifestation who manifests God to the
world. This follows the Biblical and Qur’ánic tradition, as pointed

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   113

out above. The global aspect of the new religion, the unity of the
world is in fact the fundament of the Bahá’í religion, and that 150
years before global consciousness has become a cultural idea today.
In the figure below (next page), several aspects need to be pointed
out: The direction toward the top is ending in the “Word of God” in
the biblical sense or the “Will of God” as the origin of the
Manifestation according to Bahá’í theology. God remains the
unknowable Essence and therefore Bahá’u’lláh talks about absolute
nothingness as the endpoint of the journey in the Seven Valleys. The
terms individual and collective are replaced by Bahá’u’lláh terms of
first and last, inward and outward. These four terms are conferred as
states to every human being, are described by Bahá’u’lláh to
comprehend the divine states:
And thus Firstness and Lastness, Outwardness and
Inwardness are, in the sense referred to, true of thyself, that
in these four states conferred upon thee thou shouldst
comprehend the four divine states.
Furthermore Bahá’u’lláh identified the same concepts with the
Manifestations of God, the founders of all world religions, whose
unity in their historical appearance is the basis of all human unity and
global understanding, and He describes that this is the Manifestation
of the same concepts as they have been applied to God in the
scriptures:
They are all the manifestation of the “Beginning” and the
“End,” the “First” and the “Last,” the “Seen” and “Hidden” –
all of which pertain to Him Who is the innermost Spirit of
Spirits and eternal Essence of Essences.
The scheme of the Bahá’í Universe that is presented here (see
Figure 8) includes Wilber’s Four Quadrant, but elevates and
transcends them in the light of the Bahá’í Revelation and indicates in
the sideline that Biblical referents to that understanding. In this
picture, these four terms of Bahá’u’lláh, the First and the Last, the
Outwardness and Inwardness are the means for humanity to
“comprehend the four divine states.” The same terms are again used
by Bahá’u’lláh to indicate how the Manifestations in their unity
“pertain to Him Who is the innermost Spirit of Spirits and eternal
Essence of Essences”.
Bahá’u’lláh explains further:
Therefore, whosoever, and in whatever Dispensation, hath
recognized and attained unto the presence of these glorious,
these resplendent and most excellent Luminaries, hath verily
attained unto the “Presence of God” Himself, and entered
the city of eternal and immortal life.

114   True of Thyself


Figure 8
To this writer it appears rather convincing that the four states
described by Bahá’u’lláh are nothing else than a modern explication
of the words of Genesis that God created man in His image.
Concluding it could be stated that the integral philosophical
understanding of Wilber and his reasoning has helped to clarify the
words of Bahá’u’lláh in the Seven Valleys which He introduces with
the important statement “that the full meaning may be manifest.” In
the Valley of the Search Bahá’u’lláh encourages the reader to
identify with the traveler when He states:
On this journey, the traveler abideth in every land and
dwelleth in every region. In every face, he seeketh the
beauty of the Friend; in every country he looketh for the
Beloved. He joineth every company, and seeketh fellowship
with every soul, that haply in some mind he may uncover
the secret of the Friend, or in some face he may behold the
beauty of the Loved One. (SVFV 7)
Could it be that in fellowship with a philosophical seeker of our
age and in the mind of influential thinkers in our days, we can
uncover the secrets of the Friend? This writer had the experience of
this meeting of the mind and has written these lines in the hope to
assist others on the way to the Friend, the loved One, on a journey
that is just a beginning.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   115

Postscript

Figure 9: The Four States
The presented structure can further be developed and the four
quadrants can be used to organize an integral Bahá’í worldview.
Additionally, the Bahá’í writings seem to organically fit into these
structures, which idea has been presented by this writer in several
deepenings and firesides. This exemplification will not be presented
here and can be attempted by any student of the Writings. Under the
four ideas of “prayer and mystical journey,” of “work and advancing
civilization,” of “administrative order and consultation” and finally
under the “unity of the world” all Bahá’í principles can be organized
and related to each other so “that the full meaning may be manifest.”
(SVFV 27)
The four states, as presented in Figure 9 above, are organized to
describe thyself and the whole cosmos, they are not only present in
man, they are the structure of all that is, or as ’Abdu’l-Baha stated in
a Prayer for the first School of Bahá’í Studies, they are embedded in
the heart of all that is:
Lord, help thou thy loved ones to acquire knowledge and
the sciences and arts, And to unravel the secrets that are
treasured up in the inmost reality of all created things.
Make them to hear the hidden truths that are written and
embedded in the heart of all that is.

116   True of Thyself


NOTES
1 The Essential Rumi, translated by Coleman Barks, Castelbooks,
Edison, New Jersey 1995, page 94. Rumi was born in Afghanistan, but
his family fled from the Mongols to contemporary Turkey, where he
became a brilliant scholar and teacher. Rumi lived in precarious times
when the Mongols from the East and the Christians Crusaders from the
West attacked Islam. Bahá’u’lláh quotes him frequently throughout the
Seven Valleys as presenting Sufi mysticism.
2 This quote is from a description of phenomenology on the internet,
which can be found on the following address: http://www.human-
inquiry.com/SpInasDiBe.htm
3 This relationship of the I and the Thou expressed in the word or the
logos of the Gospel of John is the topic of the book of Augustinus Karl
Wucherer-Huldenfeld, Personales Sein und Wort, Einführung in den
Grundgedanken
Ferdinand
Ebners,
(Personal
Being
and
Word,
Introduction in the fundamental Principle of Ferdiand Ebener 1882-
1931) Herman Bölau, Vienna Austria 1985
4 At the completion of this paper, this writer is researching the wider
context of Bahá’u’lláh’s statement in the Seven Valleys (see below) in
modern philosophy, especially in the light of the dialogical thinking of
Martin Buber and Ferdinand Ebner as presented in the above quoted
book by Augustinus Karl Wucherer Huldenfeld and others of his
writings as well as in the book by Bernhard Casper Das Dialogische
Denken, Franz Rosenzweig, Ferdinand Ebner und Martin Buber (The
dialogical thinking) Verlag Karl Albert, Freiburg, München, 2002. It is
hoped that this revised and extended edition of this paper can be
presented at an Irfan Colloquium in Germany. This will hopefully shed
some additional light on the value and the limitation of Wilber’s
thinking.
5 Terry Culhane, I Beheld a Maiden: The Bahá’í Faith and the Life of the
Spirit, Kalimat Press, Los Angles, 2000, Chapter 4, page 111.
6 Wilber’s psychological and philosophical system is based on the
Psychology of Transpersonalism. In an extensive and internal critique
of this philosophy, which places Wilber in a modern and Western
Buddhist tradition, Toegel has called Wilber’s position “Spiritual
Materialism.” Johannes Toegel, Eine Theologie des Zeitgeistes,
Darstellung und Kritik am Beispiel der Transpersonalen Psychology (A
theology of the spirit of the time, a presentation and critique using the
example of transpersonal psychology); Dissertation (28,684); University
of Vienna, 1991. Toegel reports that for three years he had tried the
same approach, while living in a cave in Tibet, where he eventually met
a true master and realized that true mystical experiences consist in
trust and acceptance and not in striving to higher transpersonal
techniques.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   117


In a forthcoming paper this writer intends to explicate this concept of
Spiritual Materialism in relation to the Tablet of Wisdom of
Bahá’u’lláh.
7 How Heidegger’s philosophy can be used to formulate a “Bahá’í
Existentialism” was demonstrated by Ian Kluge in The Call Into Being:
An Introduction to a Baha’i Existentialism; email iankluge@netbistro.com.
8 Teilhard de Chardin, The Phenomenon of Man, Harper & Row, New
York, 1965. Towards the Future, Harcourt Brace & Company, San
Diego, New York, London1975 and Christianity and Evolution,
Harcourt Brace & Company, San Diego, New York, London, 1974.
This correspondence was presented at the Irfan Colloquium in Bosch,
May 3, 2003 by this author with the title Unity and Progressive
Revelation, Comparing Bahá’í Principles with the Basic Concepts of
Teilhard de Chardin and will be published in the next number of Lights
of Irfan
9 Ken Wilber’s books are quoted in this paper by their abbreviation,
MS, IP, SES, ES, TE; i.e. MS for The Marriage of Sense and Soul,
Integrating Science and Religion, Broadway Books, New York,
originally published by Random House, New York, 1998. IP for Integral
Psychology, Consciousness, Spirit, Psychology, Therapy, Shambhala,
Boston & London 2001; SES for Sex Ecology, Spirituality, The spirit of
Evolution, Shambhala Boston & London, 2000; and ES for The Eye of
Spirit, An integral Vision for a World Slightly Mad, Shambhala Boston
& London, 2001; TE, A Theory of Everything, An integral Vision for
Business, Politics, Science, and Spirituality, Shambhala, Boston, 2001.
So I would like to introduce the term “Kosmos. The Kosmos
contains the cosmos (or physiosphere), the bios (or biosphere),
nous (the noosphere), and theos (the theospere or divine domain).”
SES, page 45 and “The endeavor to honor and embrace every
legitimate aspect of human consciousness is the goal of an integral
psychology.” IP, page 2 (italics in the original) and “A truly integral
psychology, I have suggested, would involve the very best of
premodernity (the Great Nest), modernity (the differentiation of
the value spheres), and postmodernity (their integration across all
levels of the Great Nest) — “all-level, all-quadrant. IP 87
10 SVFV 27. The respective terms in Arabic are batini (inwardness,
hidden or unseen) and zahari (outwardness, manifests or seen). As in
this translation the terms seen and unseen are used in accordance of
the Qur’án quotation, manifest and hidden is used in other Bahai
translation by Shoghi Effendi, Inwardness and Outwardness is used in
this translation. In this paper the translation of Shoghi Effendi will be
placed in parenthesis, when needed to clarify the original terms.
11 This investigation into these “mother words’ of Bahá’u’lláh need to be
understood in the sense as it was described at the meeting of the
American Bahá’í Studies (2003) in a talk by Steve Birkland: presented by

118   True of Thyself


Susan Maneck at http://list.jccc.edu/read/?forum=bridges July 16,
2004:
But ‘Abdu’l-Bahá said that God’s grace is like the rain: when it falls
to the earth, as it’s falling it has no shape or form or limitations —
it’s unrestricted. But the minute the rain hits the earth, it takes on
the shape of whatever container or place it falls into: in a square
pool it becomes a square; and in a round pool a circle, and so on.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá says that it’s the same with humans, that the Word of
God is unlimited and unrestricted, but when it goes through our
perceptual screen it takes on limitations. Whatever we offer in
terms of our view, our perspective of the Word of God is limited.
Previously unconfined, previously unlimited, now it takes on
limitations. The beauty of it is: the limitations are all characterized
by the way our minds have been trained, so the view of a
mathematician, the view of an artist, the view of a doctor, or the
view of any particular person give shape and form to this
interpretation.
I want to ask you to consider this as a challenge — that maybe all
of us, as a contribution to the development of scholarship in
Bahá’í Studies, even in the next few months, could think of one
word from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh that we could meditate on.
Because then, He said, these words would give rise through every
individual’s mind, according to their limitations and capacity, to
things that we had no previous knowledge of. I want to finish by
asking you to consider the value that those of you engaged in
scholarly pursuits have right now, in my estimation.
12 See below, endnote 15.
13 Teilhard, “How I believe,” page 101 in Christianity and Evolution,
Harcourt Brace & Company, San Diego, New York, London 1969,
14  Likewise, reflect upon the perfection of man’s creation, and that all
these planes and states are folded up and hidden away within him.
Dost thou reckon thyself only a puny form, When within thee the
universe is folded? (‘Alí) (SVFV 34)
How can I claim to have known Thee, when the entire creation is
bewildered by Thy mystery, and how can I confess not to have
known Thee, when, lo, the whole universe proclaimeth Thy
Presence and testifieth to Thy truth? (GWB 63)
15 ADJ 72-73
16 What is in Christian and Muslim interpretation the end of the world,
(i.e., the Return of Christ,) becomes “transformed into the doctrine of
historicity and historical consciousness,” (Nadir Saiedi, Logos and
Civilization, University Press of Maryland, 2000, page 68) This idea of
the evolution of mankind, as a theological concept, was previously
presented in a Christian context by Teilhard de Chardin who spoke of a
God of Evolution and of Christ the Evolver, (Christianity and
Evolution, Harcourt Brace & Company, San Diego, New York, London,

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   119


1971, especially in the papers on “Christ the Evolve, page 138, r,
Christology and Evolution, page 76 and The God of Evolution page
237). In his work Teilhard describes the necessity to understand religion
in the context of historicity or evolution. This topic will be resumed in
a later part of this paper.
17 Wilber TE, page 38
18 From the Preface (by Robert L. Gulick, Jr. 1975) to SVFV (Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, Wilmette, Illinois, USA, 1991)
19 The relationship of these two texts needs further study, but to this
writer it seems obvious that the selection of Four and Seven Valleys
cannot be two different types of mystical discourse, rather they are two
different descriptions and the Seven Valleys follow closer to the
historical tradition, while the Four Valleys focus on the essential of the
message presented.
20 Nader Saiedi, Logos and Civilization, Spirit, History, and Order in the
Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, University Press of Maryland, 2000, page 83
21 Saiedi, ibid. page 62
22 This issue was elaborated by Nader Saiedi in his book: Logos and
Civilization, Spirit, History, and Order in the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh,
University Press of Maryland, 2000, page 351, passim, where he discusses
the issues of authority and democratic principles expressed in the letter
to the Kings.
23 Internal and external is used her in the same sense as all the other
corresponding antonyms such as: inward and outward, hidden and
manifest, seen and unseen, evident and immanent. In this paper we will
use these concepts as exchangeable, except where the context indicates
a special difference in meaning.
24 Teilhard de Chardin, Christianity and Evolution page 107-108
25 See among others Wilber in MS, page 15:
The wonderful differentiations of modernity went too far into
actual dissociation, fragmentation, alienation. Dignity became
disaster. The growth became a cancer. As the value spheres began to
dissociate, this allowed a powerful and aggressive science to begin to
invade and dominate the other spheres, crowding art and morals out
of any serious consideration in approaching ‘reality’. Science
became scientism — scientific materialism and scientific imperialism —
which soon became the dominant ‘official’ worldview of modernity.
26 There are certainly many correlates of these terms in the Eastern Trad-
ition of Buddhism and Hinduism, as well as in Confucian traditions,
unfortunately this author is not able to describe them in this paper.
27 Logos and Civilization page 53-78
28 It needs to be mentioned here that in the book of Chronicle the term
first and last are used in another not totally unrelated sense, meaning

120   True of Thyself


the whole of a life, for example in: 1Chron: 29:29: “Now the acts of
David the king, first and last, behold, they are written in the book of
Samuel the seer, and in the book of Nathan the prophet, and in the
book of Gad the seer.”
29 See Wilber SES 608, note 44
30 The Jerusalem Bible, Doubleday & Company; Inc, New York 1966, a
modern critical translation of the bible by the Dominican Biblical
School in Jerusalem. It has the following footnote to this passage (page
345), which is very close to the understanding of Christ in the writings
of Bahá’u’lláh, who would fully agree with the description of Christ as
the visible manifestation of God:
The subject of this poem is the pre-existent Christ, but considered
only insofar as he was manifest in the unique historical person that
is the Son of God made man (cf. Phil, 2:5-11) It is as the incarnate
God that Jesus is the ‘image of God’ i.e., his human nature the was
the visible manifestation of God who is invisible (cf. Romans 8:29-
39) and it is as such, in this concrete human nature, and as part of
creation, that Jesus is called the ‘first-born of creation’-not in the
temporal sense of having been born first, but in the sense of
having been given the first place of honor.
This and similar Pauline statements about Christ have been the
foundation of Teilhard’s theology of evolution as expressed in Pierre
Teilhard de Chardin, Christianity and Evolution, Harcourt Brace &
Company, New York, 1969, see index under Christ, Pauline Attributes,
page 248, which books seemed to have been available to Ken Wilbur.
31 page 143-144
32 SES, in the Chapter “The Unpacking of God”, Pages 520-551
33 Logos and Civilization, ibid., page 73, with reference to GWB 329
34 SES, page 608, note 44

Bahá’í Ontology: An Initial
Reconnaissance
by Ian Kluge
Introduction
The purpose of this paper is to examine the Bahá’í Writings to
discover the nature of the ontology they embody. However, in a
single paper, this project can only be an “initial reconnaissance,” a
scouting of the territory to discover some of its most prominent
features. A full and more complete examination awaits a book-
length study.
The main value of this project is that an ontology, like a
constitution, provides a philosophical frame of reference within
which various ideas take on meaning. Any exposition of the
Writings or any Bahá’í-based philosophizing must harmonize with
this ontological ‘constitution’, or at least, be neutral and not offend
against its general principles. Thus, like any other constitution, a
Bahá’í ontology provides a particular philosophical identity that
distinguishes the Writings from other sacred books or the
foundational books of various philosophies and ideologies. Clear
knowledge of this identity lays the foundations for detailed and in-
depth dialogue with other religious and secular belief systems.
1. What is Ontology?
Ontology is the study of being and what it means to say that
something ‘is’ or ‘exists’. As a branch of metaphysics1, the study of
the most general principles of reality, ontology specifically concerns
itself with the most fundamental questions about the nature of
existence. It focuses on questions related to being, such as what
precisely does it mean ‘to be’?; “why is there anything at all rather
than nothing?”2; what exists?; what kind of things are there?; do all
things have ontological parity? and what is the relationship between
being and becoming?3 While far from complete, this list of
questions provides at least a sense of the ontological enterprise.
2. Do the Bahá’í Writings Have an Ontology?
As the following example illustrates, the Bahá’í Writings
definitely embody an ontology. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says that “the rational
soul is the substance, and the body depends upon it. If the accident
— that is to say, the body — be destroyed, the substance, the spirit,

122   Bahá’í Ontology

remains.” (SAQ 239) This statement commits the Writings to the
existence — in some form — of spiritual substances such as the soul4,
and to material substances such as the body. Moreover, it defines the
body, and perhaps matter in general, as an “accident”5, as a particular
kind of attribute or quality of a spiritual substance. Because the soul
is the substance and the body the attribute or accident, they
obviously have different ways or modes of existing: the ‘accidental’
body is in a relationship of existential dependence upon the soul,
which it needs to exist. This suggests that the soul does not depend
on the body for its existence — though it may depend on the body
for its appearance in the world of matter — which allows the soul or
substance to survive the dissolution of the body. Already at this
point we have dealt with such questions as ‘what kind of things
exist?’, ‘do all things have ontological parity?’ and ‘what does it
mean to be as a substance?’
Although philosophical study of the Bahá’í Writings is in its early
phases, it seems certain they embody a systematic ontology. As this
paper shall demonstrate, it is already possible to discern the
parameters of the system. The outward presentation of the Writings
— tablets, talks, letters — should not be interpreted as a lack of
coherent, systematic thought, since these various presentational
forms are united by a network of identifiable themes and principles.
3. The Language of Bahá’í Ontology
Careful analysis shows that to an almost overwhelming extent,
the Writings use a philosophical language and concomitant concepts
that overlap with the philosophical tradition begun with the work of
Plato, Aristotle and Plotinus.6 A list of these includes essence;
substance; essential attribute; attribute; accident; potential; the
prime mover argument; emanation; planes of existence; material,
efficient, formal and final causes; the mineral, plant, animal, human
kingdoms; contingent and necessary being; this world being an
image of a higher world; the concept of the rational soul; an
unknowable God and change as the actualization of potentials.
These terms and concepts are used in a manner fully consistent with
what we find in the original works of Plato, Aristotle and Plotinus.
Moreover, the terms and concepts are used in a consistent manner
throughout the Writings.
How are we to interpret the consistent use of this philosophical
language? In our view, the Bahá’í Writings plainly endorse many of
the ontological principles and ideas found in this tradition as the
basis for further philosophizing. Of course, this is not to imprison
future philosophical developments in ancient ideas, for as the work

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   123

of Whitehead, de Chardin, the neo-Thomists and Ken Wilber shows,
this tradition is capable of highly diverse developments.
There are two main reasons for taking this position. The first is
the sheer pervasiveness of the use of Platonic, Aristotelian and
Plotinian terminology and concepts in the Bahá’í Writings. It is
extremely unlikely that such a far-reaching overlap of terminology
and concepts is merely a matter of accident. The literary and
philosophical sophistication of the Writings show that the authors
were obviously in full and complete control of their diction and
chose it because they always had a specific purpose in mind. We
must also remember that the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
and Shoghi Effendi cover a century: in other words, this consistency
of diction spans four generations of writers expounding their
teachings in very different circumstances, to very different
audiences at very different times. This is unlikely to be mere
happenstance.
The second reason for concluding that the language of this
tradition was chosen intentionally lies in the inherent weakness of
the counter-arguments, of which there are basically two. The first is
that the philosophical concepts and terms were chosen as a means of
communicating with a specific audience in its own terms. While this
argument might possibly have some merit so far as Middle Eastern
audiences of the time were concerned, it does not apply to western
or other non-western audiences. In the West, since the time of
Galileo and Descartes in the 17th Century, the Platonic-Aristotelian
tradition was scientifically and philosophically discredited most
particularly in the areas of prime interest, physics, metaphysics,
epistemology and ontology. Since that time, despite the efforts of
neo-Thomists7 and neo-Aristotelians8, the philosophy of this
tradition has never been a part been a part of mainstream
philosophy. Therefore, we must conclude that if Bahá’u’lláh,
‘Abdu’l-Bahá and, through his use of quotation, Shoghi Effendi
intended to use the language of Plato, Aristotle and Plotinus to
reach western audiences of the 19th and 20th centuries, they
miscalculated grievously. For a Bahá’í scholar, the notion that a
Manifestation of God and His chosen interpreters err so completely
is not tenable for theological reasons but even a non-Bahá’í scholar
would have enormous difficulties in supporting such a conclusion on
non-theological grounds. Consequently, it seems almost certain that
the choice of philosophical tradition is intended as guidance for
future Bahá’í-based philosophizing.
A similar argument applies to reaching non-western audiences
outside of the Muslim world. Here too, the argument that this
language was chosen to facilitate communication fails because these
peoples were wholly unfamiliar with the Platonic-Aristotelian-

124   Bahá’í Ontology

Plotinic tradition. Initially, at least, such language is bound to be a
barrier, a barrier that could be overcome only by a careful study of
this tradition as presented in the Writings. Furthermore, it makes no
sense to put these non-western peoples to so much trouble if there
were no special value in doing so.
3.1. Making the Tradition and Language New
The second argument against the view that the Writings’ use of
the Platonic-Aristotelian-Plotinic tradition is intentional is that in
Bahá’u’lláh’s dispensation, God has “instilled into every word a fresh
potency.” (GWB 92-3) For these reasons, the Writings cannot belong
to an ‘outmoded’ tradition. This argument has two decisive
weaknesses. First, it cannot be rationally denied that this argument
notwithstanding, textual analysis shows that the Bahá’í Writings do
in fact, use the terminology and concepts of this tradition in the way
that is consistent with their original usages. A secular scholar would
describe this as a conceptual continuity, whereas a Bahá’í scholar
would say this is confirmation of some of the tradition’s
philosophical insights. Second, Bahá’u’lláh’s confirmation of this
tradition does not necessarily imprison our understanding in the
work of the ancients. Whitehead, de Chardin, Wilber, and the neo-
Thomists irrefutably demonstrated that this tradition is enormously
flexible, capable of considerable growth and has, indeed, received a
“fresh potency.” (GWB 92-3)
4. The Bedrock Principle of Bahá’í Ontology:
Ontological Dualism of Creator and Created
This paper contends that the bedrock of Bahá’í ontology is the
principle of ontological dualism between the Creator and the
created. It rejects any form of ontological monism — a substantial
identity and/or one-ness of being9 — between God and creation. God
and creation are so fundamentally different in their substance and
modes of being that between them there exists an unbridgeable gulf
denying any possibility of a direct connection, let alone substantial
unification. As Bahá’u’lláh says, “there can be no tie of direct
intercourse to bind the one true God with His creation, and no
resemblance whatever can exist between the transient and the
Eternal, the contingent and the Absolute.” (GWB 66, emphasis
added10) ‘Abdu’l-Bahá also states categorically that the “Preexistent is
different from the phenomenal, and the phenomenal is opposed to
the Preexistent.” (SAQ 293)
Because of the vast ontological gulf between the two11 — a
difference of kind, not of degree — it is impossible for God to
become man as held by some mystics and by Christian
incarnationism. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá describes this view, which He

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   125

identifies with the Sufis as “evident error.” (SAQ 195) There is no
way that “the Preexistent should confine itself to phenomenal
forms.” (SAQ 195) He also rejects the view that man may become
God, asking rhetorically, “[H]ow can the phenomenal reality
embrace the Preexistent Reality?” (SAQ 221) Bahá’u’lláh makes the
same point when He says, “no soul hath ever found the pathway to
His Being ... every saint hath lost his way in seeking to comprehend
[contain, encircle] His Essence.” (SVFV 23, emphasis added) He re-
enforces this point by asking rhetorically, “How can utter
nothingness gallop its steed in the field of preexistence?” (SVFV 23)
The ontological difference between Creator and created cannot be
overcome by mere human effort.
Ontological monism undermines Bahá’í theology because it
makes Manifestations superfluous as mediators between God and
humankind. If human beings can actually or substantially become
one with God, then there is no need for Manifestations to guide us
to the divine. For this reason, ontological monism undermines the
rationale of all revelational religion.
Moreover, ontological monism also ignores logic. First, if man
truly becomes ontologically one with the Creator, then the claimant
in effect becomes his own creator, which is to say, he exists before
he exists — since God logically precedes all other beings. This is not
logically possible. Second, the relationship of dependence on God
can never be revoked or negated in any way. God is the perpetually
indispensable ‘necessary and sufficient condition’ for the existence
of anything other than Himself. Consequently, there is no possible
point of view, position or stand-point within creation where the
distinction between Creator and created is overcome and
dependence on God is negated.
To claim otherwise — as ontological monism does — is, in effect,
to claim ontological parity with God and to ignore Bahá’u’lláh’s
assertion that “He hath assigned no associate unto Himself in His
Kingdom ... (GWB 192, emphasis added) It also violates Bahá’u’lláh’s
injunction not to “transgress the limits of one’s own rank and
station.” (GWB 188) The principle of adhering to one’s appropriate
station is so strict in the Bahá’í view that even after death, the soul
“never leaves its own condition.” (SAQ 233)
Another major problem with ontological monism is that it
violates the principle of the unknowability of God, since actually
(i.e. substantially) becoming one with something entails inner or
subjective knowledge of it and its condition. However, in the
“Commentary on the Islamic Tradition, ‘I was a Hidden Treasure...’”,
‘Abdu’l-Bahá categorically states His own position that “the path to
knowing the innermost Essence of the Absolute is closed to all

126   Bahá’í Ontology

beings ... How can the reality of non-existence ever understand the
ipseity of being?”12 Since the knowledge of God is utterly impossible
for “all beings” then no one — regardless of spiritual condition — can
attain the necessary and sufficient conditions for obtaining such
knowledge, which in effect denies the possibility of unity with God.
Moreover,
such
knowledge
is
also
impossible
because
“encompassment”13 is one criteria of knowledge: “until one thing
encompasses another, it cannot understand its inner nature.”14 The
problem for ontological monism is that according to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá,
“the limited can never comprehend, surround nor take in the
unlimited.” (PUP 422, emphasis added) This categorical statement is
itself enough to completely negate any conclusion about the equal
validity of ontological monism and dualism in Bahá’í ontology.
We must, however, remember that the denial of ontological
union or oneness with God does not preclude an ethical oneness in
which man submits to or harmonizes his personal will with the will
of God. This ethical monism is not only allowed but even
encouraged by the Writings as an essential human goal.
Nevertheless, we must not misinterpret this ethical harmonization as
an ontological union.
4.1. Apparently Monist Passages
It may be argued that the Bahá’í Writings contain passages
suggesting ontological monism, as, for example, Bahá’u’lláh’s
injunction, “Turn thy sight unto thyself, that thou mayest find Me
standing within thee.” (HW Arabic 7) However, this passage is not
really monist. Because we can find God’s omnipresent presence
reflected in the mirrors of our hearts15 does not mean that we have
become ontologically one with God’s Being. Moreover, this passage
maintains the distinction between the perceiver and the perceived
(God) — a fact which effectively precludes a monist interpretation
since monism vitiates the distinction between perceiver and
perceived.
The Seven Valleys and the Four Valleys16 contains another
seemingly monist passage: some wayfarers behold various colors, but
“some have drunk of the wine of oneness and these see nothing but
the sun itself.” (SVFV 20-1) A careful reading of this passage shows
that its concern is epistemological — visionary — and not ontological,
it is about perceiving, not about the being of that which is
perceived. To be ontologically monist, this passage would have to
assert that “the place of appearance” (SVFV 20) and the sun itself are
actually one and that the perceiver, the person who gazes, is
substantially one with the perceived. However, it is obvious that the
preservation of the perceiver/perceived distinction precludes a
monist interpretation of this passage.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   127

The following passage is also quoted to support ontological
monism:17 “Yea, all he [the seeker] hath, from heart to skin, will be
set aflame, so that nothing will remain save the Friend.” (SVFV 36-7)
Nothing in these or immediately subsequent statements suggests that
the seeker becomes ontologically one with God since neither the
passing away of the world or self nor the loss of awareness of self
and world as separate entities necessarily implies actual, substantial
one-ness.
Finally, it is claimed that the Bahá’í belief that only God has
absolute existence is “in essence a monist position.”18 Such is far
from being the case. First, God’s absolute existence implies the
(relative) nothingness of contingent creation, not the ontological
identity of creation with God. Indeed, to insist on such identity is, in
effect, to insist that God — like creation — is nothing and that
creation — like God — is absolute. Both positions are untenable for
Bahá’ís. Second, the assertion of ontological one-ness between
Creator and created implies that God is somehow present, albeit in
different forms, in His creation. This position would be “appearance
through manifestation” (SAQ 203) which ‘Abdu’l-Bahá categorically
rejects as “quite impossible.” (SAQ 203)
4.2. The Failure to Reconcile Monism and Dualism
Given this rejection of ontological monism in favor of
ontological dualism, how are we to understand Dr. Moojan
Momen’s claim that the two positions are reconciled in ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá’s “Commentary on the Islamic Tradition: ‘I Was a Hidden
treasure’”? According to Dr. Momen, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá adopts a
relativist approach to achieve “a reconciliation of the dichotomy”19
between an ontological dualism asserting that “there is a
fundamental difference between the human soul and the Absolute”20
and an ontological monism stating that “there is no fundamental
difference between the human soul and the Absolute.”21 But is this
really the case? After His exposition of both apparently monist and
dualist views, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says,
But to this servant all these expositions and questions,
stations and states are complete in their own station
without defect or flaw. For although the object being
viewed is the same, nevertheless the viewpoints and
stations of these mystic knowers is different. Each
viewpoint, with respect to the person who is in that station
is perfect and complete.22
Analysis shows that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá strictly confines His remarks to
the subjective criteria for truth: given their own presuppositions and
criteria, the advocates of each viewpoint reason correctly and attain
a conclusion that is consistent with their spiritual conditions as

128   Bahá’í Ontology

“knowers.” In other words, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s argument is subjectively
epistemological — concerned with the “knowers” and not with what
is objectively known, with the perceiver and not with the perceived.
He is not talking about what actually is the case but rather about
what the viewer thinks is the case because of his presuppositions,
nature and spiritual condition. Once this distinction is noted, it
becomes clear that His judgment about the two viewpoints has no
ontological implications at all.23 Consequently, seeing ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s
words as a relativist reconciliation of ontological monism and
dualism is to mistake a rather studiously neutral statement about two
kinds of viewers as an endorsement of both their opinions.24 Such is
patently not the case.
If Dr. Momen’s reading is correct, it would follow that ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá assumes that the spiritual condition, nature and understanding
of the believer are by themselves sufficient to determine the
objective correctness or truthfulness of a belief. However, the
Writings do not espouse such a subjectivist theory of truth.25
Indeed, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá clearly dismisses this notion when He points
out that subjective conditions and observations notwithstanding, it
is simply an objective error of fact to assert a geocentric solar
system.26 Moreover, if spiritual condition and nature were sufficient
to establish objective truthfulness, the Writings could not logically
dismiss certain beliefs as “vain imaginings,” (TB 41) “error,” (TB 10)
and “the lowest depths of ignorance and foolishness.” (SAQ 13727)
Spiritual condition is simply not sufficient to establish objective
truth.
5. Problems with Relativism
Can, as Dr. Momen asserts, relativism be “a basis for Bahá’í
metaphysics” or ontology? According to him, there can be no
‘correct’ or ‘incorrect’ interpretation of certain experiences and
statements as monist or dualist because all knowledge “is relative [to
the speaker’s standpoint] ... . This may be termed a cognitive or
epistemic relativism.”28
This far-reaching assertion is beset by at least six problems. First,
is the claim that humans are “unable to make any absolute
statements about Reality.”29 If this is meant categorically, how can
Bahá’ís claim “God exists”? For Bahá’ís, this declaration cannot be
anything less than absolute since ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, the infallible
interpreter of Bahá’u’lláh’s word, provided “proofs and evidences of
the existence of God.” (SAQ 530) He affirms this unconditionally,
which is to say, it absolutely as true from all possible viewpoints and
no addition can make it more true than it already is. Furthermore,
from God’s absolute existence, we can — contrary to Dr. Momen’s
claim — make indisputable ontological deductions. For example,

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   129

God’s existence makes Him the non-contingent head of a hierarchy
of being whose other members are contingent and dependent on
God. This dependence is true from all possible viewpoints within
creation. Denying or relativising this irreparably undermines the
foundations of the Bahá’í theology.
Second, in his claim that there can be no “absolute statements
about Reality,”31 Dr. Momen falls into a logical trap that devils all
assertions of absolute relativism. If the claim is true, then it
contradicts itself, since it is an “absolute statement about reality.” If
it is self-contradictory, there is no reason to give it the epistemic
privilege of being the “basis of Bahá’í metaphysics.”
A third problem is that the denial of “absolute statements about
reality”32 logically suggests that all viewpoints are equally true
insofar as they are relatively true, which in turn undermines the
central doctrine of “progressive revelation.” (KA 220) Guided by
successive Manifestations, humans attain ever more adequate, ever
more true — though never perfect — knowledge of reality. Similarly,
Bahá’u’lláh’s statement that we were “created to carry forward an
ever-advancing civilization” (GWB 215, emphasis added) implicitly
suggests an “evolutionary relativism” in which knowledge — while
never perfect — is nonetheless genuinely improving and progressive.
If knowledge is progressive, all viewpoints cannot be equally true.
A fourth difficulty is that Dr. Momen’s “cognitive or epistemic
relativism”33 rejects epistemic privilege, a position that maintains
that inasmuch as all views are conditioned by personality, spiritual,
historical and cultural factors, they are equal. There is no absolute
standard. However, in the Bahá’í Faith the Manifestations, “the
perfectly polished mirror[s],” (PT 26) and Their chosen interpreters
are, indeed, epistemically privileged: Bahá’u’lláh’s “Book itself is the
“Unerring Balance” established amongst men.” (KA 13) Bahá’í
teaching on this issue cannot be logically reconciled with epistemic
relativism.
A fifth difficulty: if we argue that the statements of the
Manifestations are privileged, but human interpretations of these
statements are not, we face the problem of vacuousness. When all
readings are equally true, then — because some readings contradict
others — none are. Consequently, it becomes impossible to teach the
Writings or even to discuss them since — all interpretations being
equally accurate — no one knows what the Writings actually say.
What is the point of becoming a Bahá’í or offering the Faith’s
teachings as a solution to a wide variety of world problems if no one
knows what the Writings ‘really’ mean? Obviously, the very raison
d’être of the Bahá’í Faith is removed by an unqualified cognitive
relativism.

130   Bahá’í Ontology

How can we distinguish various degrees of truthfulness without
infringing on every Bahá’í’s right to interpret the Writings for him
or herself? This paper contends that the Bahá’í community has
adopted negative gate-keeping as a means of reconciling doctrinal
cohesion with individual freedom. Any understanding of the
Writings is acceptable if it is not ‘forbidden,’ that is, inconsistent
with the letter and spirit of the Sacred Text and/or the guidance
from Abdu’l-Bahá, Shoghi Effendi and the Universal House of
Justice. By adopting negative gate-keeping, Bahá’ís have, in fact,
adopted a qualified relativism inasmuch as negative gate-keeping
stipulates that within the framework provided by the Central Figures
and the Institutions, all understandings that are not forbidden are
equally valid or true.
The sixth problem with Dr. Momen’s views on relativism is his
interpretation of Shoghi Effendi’s statement that Bahá’í Faith’s
“teachings revolve around the fundamental principle that religious
truth is not absolute but relative, that Divine Revelation is
progressive, not final.” (WOB 5834) He appears to understand this as a
blanket relativism applicable to all subjects, but such is not the case.
The context of Shoghi Effendi’s is progressive revelation which
distinguishes between eternal “essential ordinances” (PUP 106) and
“material ordinances [which] are abrogated according to the
exigencies of time.” (PUP 106) It is the “material ordinances” not the
“essential ordinances” or “golden core”35 which are relative. Because
these “essential ordinances” (PUP 106) of religion are not relative, it
follows that only a qualified doctrinal relativism can apply to the
Bahá’í Writings.
6. The First Great Ontological Question:
Introduction
Because the Bahá’í Writings embody an explicit and implicit
ontology, they are able to answer one of the most fundamental
ontological questions: “Why is there anything at all rather than
nothing?”36 In answering this basic question, the Writings also
answer a host of supplementary questions and thereby lay out an
entire ontological schema for future exploration and development.
The question arises because, as ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says, “absolute
nothingness cannot find existence.” (SAQ 281) Everything comes
from something else not itself.
6.1. ‘To Be’ Means ‘to be Caused’ (with one Exception)
Unlike God, the created universe lacks “essential preexistence ...
which is not preceded by a cause,” (SAQ 280) and, therefore lacks
ontological self-sufficiency and independence. For this reason, the
created universe, like every one of its contents, requires a creator or

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   131

pre-existing cause since according to Bahá’u’lláh, “All that is created
... is preceded by a cause.” (GWB 162, emphasis added37) From this we
can conclude that in Bahá’í ontology ‘to be’ means to be caused and
to be contingent38, that is, to require a pre-existent and external
cause. Consequently, ‘to be’ also means to be part of a causal chain
or network, to be essentially connected to other entities or acts in a
community of predecessors that extends through time.39 This, in
turn, suggests that the Bahá’í Writings are committed to a causal
ontology.40
‘Abdu’l-Bahá declares that every affect must have a cause41 and
rejects as “manifestly absurd” (BWF 343) the notion of an infinite
causal chain that does not eventually lead back to a First Mover. He
uses this to prove the existence of God. (BWF 343) The fact that all
beings except God need a prior cause highlights again the
ontological dualism what we have called the ‘bedrock principle’ of
Bahá’í ontology — the absolute distinction between God Who has
“essential preexistence” (SAQ 280) and creation which does not.
7. Why is There Something Rather than
Nothing? The First Answer
The Bahá’í Writings provide two answers to this question.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá says, “a creator without a creature is impossible ... all
the divine names and attributes demand the existence of beings.”
(BWF 297, emphasis added) This and similar statements42 affirm the
idea that there is something rather than nothing because God’s
perfection includes the title or name of ‘Creator’ which, in turn,
logically “demand[s]” (BWF 297) a creation without which God
would suffer a deficiency inconceivable in “the Exalted, the
Supreme”. (TAB 197) This is the argument from divine perfection. It
is possible to generalise this answer to say that creation follows
logically from God’s transitive attributes such as “All-Merciful,” (TB
12) “the Help in Peril” (PM 14) and “the Ever-Forgiving.” (PM 17)
This in turn can be generalised even further, as ‘Abdu’l-Bahá does
when He writes “all the divine names and attributes [transitive and
intransitive] demand the existence of beings.” (SAQ 180)
7.1. God’s Free Will and Necessary Creation
Do not such demands limit the freedom of God Who “is
powerful to do as He willeth?” (GWB 314) On one hand, God’s
freedom is a paradox or mystery beyond human reason. There is
nothing inherently irrational about this stance — known as moderate
rationalism43 — since recognising the limits of logic is not in itself
illogical. On the other, we could say that God has not only
established the laws of reason but also committed Himself to follow
them. Thus, He is constrained only by Himself which, in effect,

132   Bahá’í Ontology

leaves God doing as He wills. Given this commitment, He accepts
creation as a logical consequence of willing His own perfection.
8. Why is There Something Rather Than
Nothing? The Second Answer
Creation also exists because God wishes to be known. Bahá’u’lláh
makes approving use of the Islamic tradition “I was a Hidden
Treasure. I wished to be made known, and thus I called creation into
being in order that I might be known.” (KA 175, emphasis added) This
and similar passages44 highlight that this freely chosen wish on God’s
part underlies creation.
However, if God is the “the Self-Sufficing,” (GWB 12) why does
He wish to be known? One possible reply, the ‘devotional answer’, is
that God’s will in all its mystery ought to be sufficient reason for us
since He is “inscrutable unto all men.” (SWB 113) Another possible
response argues that without beings to know Him, God exists purely
as a subject and thus lacks being as an object. Since God cannot
have any deficiency45, He must — according to the logical rules He
has willed and to which He has freely committed Himself — also
exist as an object of knowledge in creations that are fundamentally
different than He.
9. The Ontological Principle of Perfection and
Plenitude
It might be argued that only the Manifestation and, perhaps,
humankind are needed for God to be known and to “reveal
[Himself]” (KA 175) but such a notion violates the principle that
God’s creation is “perfect and comprehensive.” (GWB 6246) This
seemingly simple phrase conveys a very powerful idea, namely, that
in Bahá’í ontology, the principles of perfection and plenitude are at
work: creation is not only perfect (PUP 7947) but the “numberless
forms” of creation guarantee that God is known as completely and
perfectly as possible throughout all degrees of being.
10. The Qualified Idealist Tendency in Bahá’í
Ontology
The Writings state that all beings are “expressive of the
knowledge of God.” (PUP 178, emphasis added) Indeed, without
revealing God’s attributes and names, there would be no beings: “but
for the potency of that revelation, no being could ever exist.” (PUP
177) Given that conscious or unconscious knowledge of God is the
sine qua non of existence, Bahá’í ontology has a strong idealist
tendency. Like Bishop Berkeley’s principle of “esse est percipi”48,

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   133

Bahá’í ontology correlates being and perception or knowledge, but
with a unique qualification: in the Writings, ‘to be’ is not just to be
known by God but also to actively know or perceive God in a
manner appropriate to one’s station. In general terms, knowledge
and being are correlates. They can be distinguished intellectually but
not separated in actuality.
Abdul’-Bahá’s statement that “the Kingdom is the real world, and
this nether place is only its shadow stretching out,” (SWAB 178) not
only reinforces the idealist tendency in Bahá’í ontology but also
gives it a decided Platonic turn.49 Just as in the “Myth of the Cave”50
Plato compares what most people take as reality to shadows, ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá likens the real world to a “shadow” (SWAB 178) or “images
reflected in water.” (SWAB 178) The Platonic structure of this idea is
plainly evident in that the material world is a shadow of the
ontologically superior, truly real world of the ideal Kingdom.
Although the material world is an image or shadow of the
Kingdom, the Writings do not write of this “nether” world” as
ontologically unreal or illusory in an absolute sense. Bahá’í ontology,
unlike Platonic ontology, only devalues the world therapeutically —
but not ontologically — to remind us that our ultimate destiny is not
on the material plane though passage through this plane is necessary
for our development as individuals and as a species. For this reason,
we say that Bahá’í ontology exemplifies a qualified idealism.
10.1. The (Platonic) Arc of Descent and the
(Aristotelian) Arc of Ascent
In Bahá’í ontology, things cannot just receive knowledge of
God’s attributes but must also express or reflect the divine
attributes. Thus, every entity not only illustrates the “return to God”
(PUP 7351), but actually is, in its very being, the act of returning to
God. If it did not ‘testify’ to God’s bounty, it would not actually
exist. Therefore, at every moment an entity’s act of being is both the
“arc of descent” (SAQ 284) — the reception of God’s attributes — and
the “arc of ascent” (SAQ 284) — the reflection of God’s attributes —
in a manner appropriate to the kind of being it is. Descent and
ascent are really aspects of a single ontological process constituting
at every instant an entity’s complete act of being and were this
process to stop, the entity would cease to exist. This shows that in
Bahá’í ontology, ‘to be’ is ‘to be in the act of becoming.’
Furthermore, the arc of descent corresponds to the Platonic fall
in which things are projected onto the lower, material plane as
shadows, images or “outer pictures.” (PUP 10) The corresponding arc
of ascent is Aristotelian insofar as entities proceed towards, or
‘return’ to God, the universal “object of desire,”52 by actualising
their intrinsic potentials through real experience and thus becoming

134   Bahá’í Ontology

‘all they can be.’ They give up an ideal, untested perfection — the
inexperienced purity of childhood53 — for practical experience by
which the human spirit will “acquire perfection.” (SAQ 200) The
descent is not entirely a loss since an entity’s act of being is
augmented by the process of return.54
11. The Two-Fold Structure of Being
The fact that things must both receive and actively express or
reflect their knowledge of God in order to be, indicates a correlative
two-fold structure of being: receptive (‘passive’) and active.55 ‘To
be’ is to be receptive and expressive of the divine attributes; being is
structured receptivity and expression.56 Though in the case of non-
human entities, reception and mere reflection, that is, unconscious
“testimony,” (GWB 177) is sufficient for the act of being, such is not
the case for human kind. As the Noonday Prayer demonstrates,
conscious and free humans were created to “know Thee and to
worship Thee.” (KA 100, emphasis added) Thus, humankind also has a
two-fold ontological structure, but it is distinguished by a
qualitative difference: we must not only be aware of the signs of
God but reflect them consciously and freely in worship.
12. A Hierarchical Ontology: Degrees of
Existence
Bahá’í ontology includes the concept of “degrees of existence”
(SAQ 225) as shown in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s statement that “the
differences in the degrees of existence of creatures is one of the
necessities of existence, which unfolds itself in infinite forms.”
(SAQ 30157) He also recognizes “degrees of being,” (SWAB 190)
stating that “although the degrees of being are various, yet all are
good,” (SAQ 225) meaning that each being and each kind of being
has its appropriate place (station) and properly performs its tasks as
it “participateth in a coherent whole.” (SWAB 19058)
Implicit in the concept of “degrees of being” is the concept of a
hierarchy, albeit one in which each entity is good and perfect in its
own degree and relative to itself. Relative to others, however, “some
beings are higher in the scale than others.” (SAQ 130) Specifically,
humankind is at the top and the mineral at the bottom, an idea
emphasised by saying that “the existence of the mineral in
comparison with that of man is nonexistence.” (SAQ 278) In other
words, humankind has a greater degree of being than matter, though
in relationship to the “Supreme Being” (KI 97) any degree of being
possessed by any created entity “is an illusion.” (SAQ 278) The
hierarchical principle is so much a part of Bahá’í ontology that even
the Abhá Kingdom reflects degrees or a hierarchy of being. As

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   135

‘Abdu’l-Bahá says, in the next life those who “fall[ ] into the lowest
degrees of existence” will be “considered as dead by the people of
truth.” (SAQ 225)
How, we may ask, can one thing can be ‘more real’ or have ‘more
being’ than another? One possible answer is that the degree of being
is determined by the capacity to receive and express the divine
attributes and names. “Each [entity] according to its capacity,
indicateth, and is expressive of, the knowledge of God,” (GWB 178)
and humankind possesses this receptive and reflective capacity “[t]o
a supreme degree” (GWB 177) because “in [humankind] are
potentially revealed all the attributes and names of God to a degree
that no other created being hath excelled or surpassed.” (GWB 177)
Thus, humankind possesses a pre-eminent degree of being among
created things.
We must also recall that our degree of being or existence has two
aspects. First, there is our natural degree or station as beings
consciously able “to know and worship” the Divine, and as beings
“at the last degree of darkness, and at the beginning of light.” (SAQ
235) Second, there is our existential degree of being, the degree we
attain by the free choices we make and our consequent “nearness to
God” (PUP 147) which seems to determine how much of the divine
bounties or attributes we can receive and reflect. Above all, we must
consciously choose to love God, for if we do not, we cannot receive
and reflect God’s bounties. (HW Arabic 4) Spiritually, we can be as
real as we choose to be.
13. A Qualified Relativist Ontology
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s foregoing statement about some beings as “higher
in the scale than others” (SAQ 130) shows that Bahá’í ontology is a
relativist ontology with the degree of existence possessed by any
entity being relative to its position in the hierarchy of being. At the
top of the “scale” of being is God, Who alone is existentially
independent or “Self-Subsistent,” (TB 34) and in comparison with
Whom “the existence of beings ... is but illusion and nothingness.”
(SAQ 278) A similar relationship holds between humankind and
matter: “the existence of the mineral in comparison with that of
man is nonexistence.” (SAQ 278) It is nevertheless important to
remember that relative to itself, or, as ‘Abdu’l-Bahá puts it, “in its
own condition,” (SAQ 281) the mineral possesses complete and
adequate existence. Similarly, in the Abhá Kingdom, those who are
“deprived of [God’s] divine favours” are “dead” in relationship to
the “people of truth.” (SAQ 225) Generalizing on this issue, ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá states that “existence and nonexistence are both relative.”
(SAQ 281)

136   Bahá’í Ontology

The relativity of existence and nonexistence is ontologically
important because it denies any form of creatio ex nihilo, or creation
out of absolute nothing, a key doctrinal point for almost all
Christians and Muslims.59 Indeed, on this issue, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says
that “absolute ... has not the capacity of existence.” (SAQ 28160)
Consequently, we cannot take literally Bahá’u’lláh’s statement that
we were “called into being ... out of utter nothingness.” (GWB 6161)
Given ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s qualification, the latter phrase obviously
intends the phrase “utter nothingness” relative or in comparison to
God and does not introduce the concept of creatio ex nihilo.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá dismisses the concept of absolute nothingness as
“inconceivable.” (PUP 88)
Because in Bahá’í ontological relativism, an entity’s degree of
being is both absolute and relative — absolute vis-à-vis itself and
relative vis-à-vis its place in the hierarchy of being — we have a
‘qualified’ not a radical or “totalistic relativism in which all things
without exception depend on their relationships to everything else
for their existence and degree of being.”62 Bahá’í ontology is also
qualified because it has an absolute reference point — God — Whose
absolute being is beyond degrees, and by Whom all other degrees of
existence are determined.63 God gives the hierarchy or “chain”64 of
beings an absolute foundation, just as in physics the absolute speed
of light gives relativity an absolute foundation.
14. Substantialist Ontology
‘Abdu’l-Bahá categorically rejects as “erroneous” the belief that
“each being is an absolute illusion which has no existence [and that]
the existence of beings is like a mirage or like the reflection of an
image in water or in a mirror which is only an appearance having in
itself no principle, foundation or reality.” (SAQ 278) What the
mirage or mirror image purports to be is entirely unreal because the
image “has no material existence, no substance.” (PUP 21, emphasis
added65) This suggests that in Bahá’í ontology to be real means to
have a substance of some kind.
‘Substance’ of course does not necessarily refer to material
substance. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá for example refers to the “living substance”
(SAQ 90) from which humankind is created, and says that the
rational soul and spirit are the substance whereas the body is the
accident.66 Even God seems to have a substance of some kind, for
according to Bahá’u’lláh, the spiritual nature of the Manifestation is
“born of the substance of God Himself.” (GWB 6667) Thus we may
conclude that in Bahá’í ontology, to be real, to exist, means to have
or be a substance of some kind. What illusions and mirages represent
lacks substance and is, therefore, not real.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   137

The substantialist ontology is also confirmed by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s
statement that while things are known to us by their attributes, their
“identity or reality ... remains hidden.” (PUP 42168) Elsewhere, using a
flower as an example, He notes that the “underlying reality or
intrinsic identity, is still beyond the ken” (PUP 421, emphasis added) of
human observers. In other words, in addition to the attributes by
which a thing becomes known to us, it also has an “underlying”
substrate or substance that remains unknown. In its identification of
“underlying reality” with “intrinsic identity” this last quotation also
indicates that substance (“underlying reality”) and essence (“intrinsic
identity”) are the same, a position that aligns Bahá’í ontology with
Aristotle.69
The fact that things are more than their perceived attributes also
makes it clear that Bahá’í ontology rejects phenomenalism, “the
doctrine that physical objects are reducible to sensory experiences”70
or
that
empirical statements
correspond
only
to
“mental
appearances.”71 Real things are not only their superficial sensible or
mental appearances but also possess an underlying reality, a substrate
or substance as an emanation of the divine Will.72
In regards to substantialism, there are three additional points to
keep in mind. First, the fact that even this “nether place” (SAQ 178)
has some degree of substantial reality qualifies or mitigates the
Platonic aspect of Bahá’í ontology: the unreality of the “nether
place” is relative in the hierarchy of being and not absolute. Second,
we must keep in mind that a substantialist ontology is not necessarily
static. What the Writings call ‘substance’ may — except in the case
of God — also be thought of as various modes of a process of self-
actualization.73 Third, evil is simply a by-product of the greater good
of the quest for self-actualization; it is a failing, a shadow or
“absence of good” (FWU 78) without real existence, that is, substance
of its own.
15. A Qualified Realist Ontology
Reflecting on the examples of substance given in the Writings,
makes it clear that a substance is that which exists independently of
a perceiver. Consider the mirage mentioned by Abdu’l-Bahá. What
it represents, or purports to be (a caravan) is completely unreal — not
only because it lacks substance but because it is observer-dependent
for its existence; another observer might see the caravan as
something else and there is no way to prove either person right.
However, the fact that mirages exist as atmospheric phenomena is
indisputable and independent of any observer. Therefore, Bahá’í
ontology is realist; what is real does not depend on observers for its
existence.74 This realism is supported by the fact that all things are

138   Bahá’í Ontology

created by God and therefore depend for their existence on Him and
not on any human observer.
The claim that Bahá’í ontology is fundamentally realist does not
mean that human beings simply perceive reality without interpreting
it. The fact that we do interpret reality encourages us to re-introduce
a traditional distinction between first nature, or reality as made by
God, and second nature, the personal, social and cultural
superstructure which humans have developed from their various
interpretations of and work with first nature. For example, a
sculptor such as Michelangelo takes a piece of marble — first nature
— and interprets it as the unrealised form of “David” which — the
second nature — he then reveals through his labour. Second nature is
indeed man-made reality, and is, therefore, immediately dependent
on humankind for its existence and proximately dependent on first
nature. Thus, when we say that in Bahá’í ontology reality exists
independently of human perception, we refer to first nature as
created by God, and not to second nature. For these reasons the
realism of the Writings is “qualified.”
Although the terms ‘first and second nature’ do not occur in the
Writings, the concept is implicitly there. It is directly analogous to
the distinction the Writings make between natural or innate and
“acquired capacity” (SAQ 214) as well as between innate and
“acquired character ... which is gained by education.” (SAQ 212)
Innate capacity and character correspond to first nature; they are
divine creations and, therefore, “purely good” (SAQ 212) because “in
creation there is no evil; all is good.” (SAQ 215) Acquired capacity,
character and education correspond to second nature. Our use of
this distinction does nothing accept apply at the larger, collective
level a distinction clearly made by the Writings at the individual
level.
The importance of the distinction between first and second
nature should not be underestimated. It means, among other things,
that the Writings distinguish between ontology per se, that is, the
study of being vis-à-vis the first divinely created nature, and cultural
ontology, that is, the study of being vis-à-vis human interpretations
of and constructs based on this first nature. This distinction
completely undermines the radical constructionist or relativist view
that there can be no knowledge of nature as it is because whatever
we call ‘nature’ is already a human cultural construct. From the
perspective of the Bahá’í Writings, such may be the case — as
proven by the existence of errors — but it is not necessarily so. Thus,
we conclude that Bahá’í ontology does not support the view that our
understanding of first nature is entirely a human construct. This, in
turn, supports the outright essentialism of Bahá’í ontology.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   139

Additional proof of the realist nature of Bahá’í ontology is
found in the existence of the various kingdoms of God, the mineral,
vegetable, animal and human. These are real regardless of human
perception, that is, they reflect inherent essential differences, the
divinely decreed “degrees of existence” (PUP 20875) that are
independent of human observers and not mere constructs or con-
ventions. (SAQ 301) However, the realism is qualified inasmuch as
the reality of things is relative in regards to God and higher beings.
However, this does not mean Bahá’í ontology espouses a
completely ‘naïve’ realism in which the world is necessarily always as
it appears to superficial inspection. On the contrary, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá is
perfectly aware that the senses and the rational mind can be deceived
as, for example, with images in a mirror or in a mirage.76 He does,
however, agree that it is possible to penetrate these illusions, to cut
through the appearances and illusions we have constructed to get to
the underlying reality. In the words of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, “we say that
the spirit of man can penetrate and discover the realities of all
things, can solve the secrets and mysteries of all created objects.”
(PUP 264, emphasis added) The notion of discovering realities suggests
they exist independently of the knower.
16. An Essentialist Ontology: To Be Means To
Have an Essence
Since the various kingdoms possess inherent or essential
differences and if each entity has a hidden “reality,” (PUP 421) then it
is difficult to avoid the judgement that the Bahá’í Writings uphold
an essentialist view, or conversely, reject the basic nominalist
principle that entities possess no real essences other than humanly
constructed ‘nominal essences’ of second nature. The essentialist
nature of the Writings can be deduced from Abdul’-Bahá’s
statement that we know the “hidden” (SAQ 220) essence of a thing
only through its qualities or attributes.77 It follows that if the
essence is hidden from us, it cannot be a human construction or
convention and must, therefore, be independent of human
perception and action. This would apply primarily to things in the
divinely created first nature. Moreover, if we define essence as a
thing’s unique capacity to reflect the divine attributes78 and that “all
things in their inmost reality” (GWB 177, emphasis added) do so, it
follows that all things, be they first or second nature, have an
essence.79 Nothing is exempt from having an essence, as shown by
the following list drawn from the Writings: God; the human soul;
humankind; belief in Divine Unity; justice; “all created things”
beauty; species of living things; truth; religion; “this new age”;
“existence” and the spirit. These references to the essence are even
more wide-spread once we realise that such phrases as “inmost

140   Bahá’í Ontology

reality,” “the realities of” the “inner reality,” and “inner realities”
also refer to the essence of things.
This highly diverse list, along with ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s references to
the real but hidden “intrinsic identity,” (PUP 421) as well as to “the
essential reality underlying any given phenomenon” (ibid, emphasis
added), makes it clear that in Bahá’í ontology, all things have an
essence whose attributes appear or manifest in the world. Because
there is no such thing as being without an essence, being and essence
are absolutely correlated. To be is to have an essence since the act of
being can never be separated from the act of being something in
particular.
Essentialism is reinforced by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s insistence that “the
essence of things does not change,” (SAQ 100) an idea also reflected
in His belief that the essence of humankind undergoes no change
despite changes of outward appearance80 and that species do not
change.81 The immutability of essences is, of course, one of the
pillars of any form of essentialism since the ‘purpose’ of essences is
to provide order, that is, continuity of identity through various
transformations.
Essentialism does not mean that Bahá’í ontology is static. Instead,
we must bear in mind that the essence of an entity is only an aspect
of its whole being. The other, equally necessary aspect is the
‘becoming’, that is to say, the manifestation of that particular
essence in the external, contingent and “visible world” (SWAB 8)
whereby it can display in ever-more adequate measure the bounties
of God. Without this ‘becoming’ or actualization, the essence
remains wholly on the “plane of the invisible” (PUP 30) and, thereby,
without effect and unknown. That is why ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says, “Praise
be to Him Who hath made the world of being ... and hath made the
invisible world to appear on the plane of the visible.” (SWAB 13)
16.1. Being and Essence
On the far-reaching issue of whether being or existence is
identical to essence, Bahá’í ontology sides with Ibn Sina and St.
Thomas Aquinas in distinguishing the two except in the case of God.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá makes this clear when He writes that “all things are
subject to transformation and change, save only the essence of
existence itself.” (SWAB 157, emphasis added) The phrase “the essence
of existence itself” is a philosophical description of God, Who, as
the only non-contingent being, exists necessarily. His essence is to
exist which is why He needs no creator. From this it follows that in
God, existence and essence are one. This is emphasized by ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá when He speaks of “the Essence of Unity (that is, the existence
of God)” (SAQ 180) indicating thereby that God’s essence and
existence are identical.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   141

In God, we cannot even conceive of a difference between essence
and existence but such is not the case with contingent beings in
whom we can distinguish between the essence, ‘what’ a thing is, and
whether or not it actually exists, as for, example, with unicorns and
moose. Thus, in Bahá’í ontology, whatever exists in creation has two
correlated aspects: a divinely bestowed act of existence by which it
negates nothingness and an essence which makes it the particular
kind of thing or negation it is. It should be noted that the
distinction between being or existence and essence allows us to
understand with greater precision the difference between Creator
and created since in God this distinction does not exist.
16.2. Knowledge and Essence
A key feature of Bahá’í ontology is the principle that human
beings cannot know essences or substances directly but can only
know about them by means of their attributes. Thus, Bahá’í
essentialism is an epistemically qualified essentialism. On this issue
‘Abdu’l-Bahá informs us, that “phenomenal, or created, things are
known to us only by their attributes,” (PUP 421) that “the inner
essence of anything is not comprehended, but only its qualities.”
(SAQ 220) Even more precisely, He says, “the essence of a thing is
known through its qualities, otherwise it is unknown and hidden.”
(SAQ 220, emphasis added)
What exactly does this prohibition of knowing essences mean? It
is our contention that this is one of the ‘continental divides’ in the
interpretation of the Writings: how we understand ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s
remarks will lead Bahá’í ontology into wholly two different
directions with profoundly different implications for a number of
important issues. If we go in a Kantian direction, the Bahá’í world-
view is divided not only between Creator and created but also
between absolutely unknown essence or noumenon and perceived
attribute.
On the basis of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s statement that “the essence of a
thing is known through its qualities,” (ibid) the present author takes
a non-Kantian view. The Master’s statement shows not that there
can be no knowledge of essences but rather that this know-ledge
must be gotten in a specific way — through the qualities. The
knowledge about essences may not be obtained by direct, immediate
intuitive or ‘mystical’ knowledge of the essence or substance itself.
Knowledge about essences is indirect and ‘second-hand,’ and it is
inherently incomplete, for which reason essences are bound to
remain mysterious. Nonetheless, we can rest assured that whatever
knowledge we do possess from the qualities, that knowledge is not
just about the appearance of something but is ‘connected to’,
corresponds to the inner nature of that particular thing.

142   Bahá’í Ontology

17. Disconnected, Phenomenal ‘Knowledge’
If there were a complete ‘disconnect’ between the qualities and
the essence, Bahá’í ontology would postulate a strongly ‘Kantian’
universe in which we remain absolutely isolated from the noumenal
or essential realm and enclosed in a world of superficial phenomena
or appearances.82 There are three problems with this position. First,
such a limitation denies any knowledge of ‘depth.’ Not only does this
conflict with ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s claim that essences can, in fact, be
known, albeit through attributes, but it also is out of harmony with
such statements as “The power of the rational soul can discover the
realities of things, comprehend the peculiarities of beings, and
penetrate the mysteries of existence” (SAQ 217), and “For this reason
we say that the spirit of man can penetrate and discover the realities
of all things, can solve the secrets and mysteries of all created
objects.” (PUP 264, emphases added) These statements, with their
references to knowing the “realities of things” and solving “secrets
and mysteries” clearly indicate that human knowledge goes deeper
than phenomena or appearances.
The second problem follows from the first. If there is a complete
disconnect between our knowledge and “the realities of things”,
then in fact, there is no knowledge of things at all. This opens the
way for a profound philosophical skepticism that undermines the
Revelation itself. A complete disconnect between phenomenal
knowledge of Bahá’u’lláh and His reality prevents Bahá’ís from
using their phenomenal knowledge of the history of Bahá’u’lláh to
attain certainty about Him and His mission. Any efforts to know His
phenomenal history would be pointless since such knowledge would
not necessarily connect in any way to His reality. In that case, why
bother?
Third: if there were no intrinsic connections between the entities
and its qualities, how could we know to associate a particular set of
qualities with a particular entity? Qualities with no intrinsic
connection with entities are simply free-floating qualities not much
different from the mirages mentioned by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. They have
no intrinsic or necessary connection with any underlying reality or
substance and this — in Bahá’í ontology — deprives them of reality.
Moreover, if there is no certain connection between perceived
attribute and essence, we will eventually arrive at an all-corroding
skepticism about knowing things in any way. This conflicts with the
Bahá’í notion of making progress by increasing knowledge of
various kinds.
Though it rejects a strong Kantianism, Bahá’í ontology does, in
fact, embrace a weak Kantianism insofar as it posits a distinction
between attributes and essence, between the knowable and not

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   143

completely knowable, between inherently mysterious essences and
the emanated attributes perceived by us. However, we must not
press this distinction too far, lest we end with a strong Kantianism
and its attendant difficulties. Finally, it should be noted that God, of
course, differs from created beings inasmuch as “all these attributes,
names, praises and eulogies apply to the Places of Manifestation”
(SAQ 149, emphasis added) rather than to God-in-Himself. However,
as will be seen in Section 19, this doctrine is more nuanced than at
first appears.
18. The Problem of Nominalism
Positing a complete disconnection between attributes and essence
leads to some form of nominalism. If essences are completely
unknown, they can be discounted and, therefore, objects can be
reduced to the qualities we select and bundle together in whatever
way suits us. This easily leads to the conclusion that what we call
particular things — ‘chairs’, for example — are only a conventional
(and basically arbitrary) selection of attributes bundled together
under one name or heading, ‘chair.’83 Such a conventional theory of
knowledge easily leads to skepticism since any convention can be
arbitrarily replaced by any other.84
The Writings show at least three additional problems with
nominalism. First, they assert that the “the reality of things, the
mysteries of beings and the properties of existence [are]
discovered.” (SAQ 9, emphasis added) Nowhere do they even remotely
suggest that reality is merely a construct or convention. Second, the
degrees of existence — mineral, plant, animal and human — are the
results of divine creation and not are not arbitrary human
conventions. Second, the differences between the degrees are
inherent, that is, essential. The same may be said of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s
three-fold division of reality in God, the Manifestation and the rest
of creation. These distinctions are not constructs or conventions.
Third, nominalism is implicitly rejected in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s acceptance
of the concept of species and His emphatic denial of the
modification of one species into another.85 Since the differences
among species are inherent and real, the existence of species is not
simply a matter of constructing and conventionalizing.
19. God and the Problem of ‘Disconnected
Knowledge’
Vis-à-vis God, the issue of disconnected knowledge takes a
different turn. It seems that on this issue the Bahá’í Writings try to
steer a middle course between absolutely denying any and all
knowledge of God on one hand and the direct acquisition of

144   Bahá’í Ontology

immediate, comprehensive and adequate knowledge of God’s
essence on the other. This is at times a difficult pathway.
According to the Writings, it is “absolutely impossible” (SAQ 147)
for the human mind to know the divine reality, essence of substance.
God’s essence is “above all comprehension” (SAQ 148) and for this
reason we categorically reject any direct, intuitive, mystical human
knowledge of God. But does this mean that our knowledge of God’s
attributes — known only indirectly via the Manifestation86 — is
completely disconnected from God? This paper contends that even
though this knowledge is scaled down, and, in absolute terms, wholly
inadequate to comprehending completely the divine nature, it is,
nonetheless, knowledge of God that we can rely on as being true,
though limited and obtained indirectly. We learn to expect mercy
from God, for example, because He is “the All-Merciful.” (TB 12)
Deficient as it may be, this knowledge tells us something about God.
At one point, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says that such knowledge is given
negatively: we assert God’s perfection to deny imperfection.87 This,
however is still knowledge connected to God. Finally, we must keep
in mind Bahá’u’lláh’s statement that “no tie of direct intercourse”
(GWB 66) joins God to His creation for which reason a Manifestation
is needed. This statement must not be misread to mean that no tie or
connection of any kind can exist between humankind and God.
19.1. The Problem of Ethical Nihilism and the Deus
Absconditus
The issue of ‘connected knowledge’ is important because denying
such a connection leads to two problems. First, if the knowledge
given us by the Manifestation is not connected to God in some way,
what is the soteriological relevance of the Manifestation? What
authority does He have? Second, if such names as the “Most
Merciful” (PM 63) have no real connection to God, what is the
ethical relevance of God? Without real grounding in God, our
ethical values are all mere matters of opinion. Such a position leaves
us open to an ethical nihilism since without God’s authority, ethical
injunctions lose their absolutely imperative character and become
‘suggestions.’
Finally, disconnected knowledge can also engender the problem
of the ‘disappearing God’, the deus absconditus. An absolutely
unknowable God will simply become irrelevant and, for practical
purposes, be ‘replaced’ as an ‘object’ of worship by the
Manifestation. This, of course, violates the very raison d’être and
message of the Manifestation, but the danger is nonetheless real
because it is hard, if not impossible, for humans to maintain a sense
of connection with something we cannot know in any way.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   145

19.2. An Alternative View
It must be noted that the concept of faith provides us with an
alternative view of the issue of connection between the God and the
attributes given by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and Bahá’u’lláh. We might say that
these descriptors provide no knowledge of God because knowledge
implies a degree of rational and intellectual certainty — which in turn
suggests surrounding the object of knowledge88 — whereas faith has
no such implications. Faith is simply a positive existential response
that is not dependent on rational or external evidence. In other
words, we take it on pure faith that the attributes of the
Manifestation apply to God, but we make no actual knowledge
claims on this issue.
Although further research is needed to make a final
determination whether the Writings favor the ‘faith’ and
‘knowledge’ approaches to God’s nature, there are strong
suggestions that ‘knowledge’ is favored as the first among equals.
Knowledge and faith are the “two wings of the soul” (BWF 382) and
both are necessary for the ascent of the human soul to the lofty
station of divine perfections.89 However, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá makes it
clear that “it is first ‘to know’ and then ‘to do’” and that “By faith is
meant, first, conscious knowledge, and second, the practice of good
deeds.” (BWF 383, emphasis added) These words seem to give
knowledge a certain primacy since ‘Abdu’l-Bahá even puts it ahead
of good deeds. This idea seems in keeping with the affirmation that
“for God, knowledge is the most glorious gift of man and the most
noble of human perfections.” (SAQ 137)
20. What Else Does It Mean ‘To Be’?
In exploring various questions, this paper has provided parts of
the answer to the question, ‘What does it mean ‘to be’?’ We shall
now continue this exploration. Rather than start with an abstract
discussion, we shall begin with an inventory of the kinds of things
that exist according to the Writings. This allows Bahá’u’lláh and
‘Abdu’l-Bahá to determine the inventory which is, in effect, a
‘world-map’ of reality.
According to the Writings, human beings inhabit a Lebenswelt90
or ‘life-world’ that is made up of the following kinds of ‘things’:
“sensible realities” or physical phenomena; “intellectual realities” or
ideational phenomena; spiritual realities such as the “Holy Spirit,”
“human spirit” and the “rational soul”; God, the Creator;
Manifestations, the mediators between God and creation; the
mineral, plant and animal kingdoms and their members; the human
kingdom and its members; the Abhá Kingdom and its inhabitants;
“spiritual beings” or entities who are the “angels of holiness ... Thine

146   Bahá’í Ontology

invisible hosts” also called “the angels of Abhá.” In addition there
are essences, and attributes or qualities, as well as potentials — also
referred to as “capacities” or “potency” “powers” and substances,
“material forces,” “spiritual forces”, four kinds of time (SVFV 25),
the reality of “limitless space,” and the reality of cause and effect.
(GWB 162) Furthermore, they recognize “the absolute order and
perfection of existence,” “natural order,” natural laws91 and
processes
of
growth,
evolution,
decline92
and
constant
regeneration.93
In the Lebenswelt of Bahá’í ontology, all of these things exist in
various modes of being. Examination of this list suggests that we
can classify all the items as existing in one of five ways: either as (1)
substance (which includes processes), as (2) an essential attribute, as
(3) an accidental attribute, or as (4) the form of a substance.94
Finally, there is (5) location, be it physical, temporal or ontological as
in the hierarchy of being. Essential attributes are those that a
substance needs to be the kind of substance it is; in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s
example, it is an “essential requirement” (SAQ 233), or the “inherent
nature” (ABL 27) of fire to burn. Accidental attributes are those
which a substance may have but are not necessary to be the kind of
substance it is. For example, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states that the body is an
accident of the soul which, He says, is the substance.95 The form of a
substance is the structure, or organization of the parts. Each of these
things has a different way or mode of existing. Substances, be they
material or spiritual, exist independently; accidental attributes exist
contingently and dependently but not necessarily in a substance;
essential attributes exist dependently but necessarily with a
substance, and form also exists dependently and necessarily with a
substance. Location tells us time and place as well as ontological
location in the hierarchy of being.
Examining this inventory shows that each of the items fits into
one of the five categories that seem to define the minimal
requirements of Bahá’í ontology. In the category of substance, we
find first of all God, Who is, strictly speaking, the only true
substance because only God is completely independent of anything
else. That God is a substance is confirmed by Bahá’u’lláh’s statement
that the Manifestation is “born of the substance of God Himself,”
(GWB 66, emphasis added) meaning not that God is material but that
He is a totally independent being. Lest this statement be
misinterpreted in an ‘incarnationist’ manner, we hasten to add that
the Manifestation is emanated or “born of” God, and resembles God
formally (though not substantially) in the way a mirror image
resembles the original formally. The relationship also resembles the
relationship between the original of a manuscript and a copy: the
two share formal but not substantial identity and one is logically

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   147

prior and is the final cause, raison d’être, of the other. All created
entities are, therefore, substances only in a relative sense. As we have
already seen, the rational soul is also a substance as are minerals,
plants, animals, “spiritual beings,” “material forces,” “spiritual
forces,” “sensible realities,” some “intellectual realities,” the Holy
Spirit, the human spirit, various physical and non-physical processes
and the members of the Abhá Kingdom.
In the category of essential attributes, we find the visible
essential attributes and “powers” that any substances has along with
“capacities” or potentials. All non-essential attributes are, by
definition, accidental. Within the category of form — that is, the
category of how things are organized — we find the “natural order”
and “natural laws,” whereas within the category of location we find
time, “limitless space,” and the “degrees of being.”
From the foregoing discussion we may conclude that in Bahá’í
ontology, to be is to fit into one of these categories: everything that
is a negation of absolute non-existence, everything that is in some
way a ‘reality’ finds a place somewhere in this schema. Refinements
or even changes may eventually be required, but it is difficult to
imagine how any list of categories based on the Writings could fail
to include these in some way or another. In other words, with these
categories, Bahá’í ontology provides us with a basic map of reality
that allows us to understand (within certain limits) the kinds of
things we encounter. This list of five categories also shows that there
exists some kind of underlying order in the Writings’ vision of reality.
22. A Non-Kantian, Realist Ontology Vis-à-vis
the Categories
Our inventory of the Bahá’í Lebenswelt reinforces, from yet
another side, the conclusion that our knowledge of first and even
second nature is not entirely a human construct. It shows that Bahá’í
ontology is not a Kantian ontology inasmuch as the Writings
recognize the independent reality of time, space, “natural order”
(SAQ 201) as well as cause and effect.96 According to Kant, time,
space, causality and other categorical attributes are imposed upon
the unformed external data — noumena — by the human mind and
shaped into the phenomena we experience. The cosmic order as we
know it is an invention, a construction or convention of the human
mind and, to this extent, truth is something that we have made
rather than found. The Writings reject this view. Time, space,
causality, the categoreal attributes — in short, the cosmic order — are
inherent in the phenomena themselves and are not human
constructs. They were created by God, not man, and therefore exist
independently of human perception.

148   Bahá’í Ontology

23. The Rejection of Classical Empiricism and
Positivism
Another conclusion we can draw from our inventory or
Lebenswelt is that Bahá’í ontology rejects positivism and “classical
empiricism,”97 that is, “any view which bases our knowledge, or the
materials from which it is constructed, on experience through the
traditional five senses.”98 This is not to say that the Writings
altogether reject sense knowledge — for they do not — but rather
that they present reality as made of intellectual99 and spiritual100 as
well as “sensible realities.” (SAQ 83) Consequently, it is difficult to
escape the conclusion that Bahá’í ontology is fundamentally
incompatible
with
any
philosophical
system
or
epistemic
methodology that confines valid knowledge to knowledge gathered
and verified by the five senses.
24. The Equivocal Application of ‘Being’
Our ontological inventory also shows that the term ‘being’ is
applied equivocally in the case of God. In other words, the term
‘being’ does not apply to God in the same way as it does to created
things. How could it? God is — among other things — uncreated,
Self-subsistent, beyond time, has no spatial location yet is
omnipresent and is omniscient. Indeed, the difference is so great we
might wonder if the term applies to Him at all. Its self-evident
virtues notwithstanding, this argument is rejected by the Writings
which on a regular basis refer to God in terms such as “the Divine
Being,” (GWB 46101) “the unchangeable Being,” (GWB 47) “the
Ancient Being,” (GWB 49102) and “the sacred Being.” (GWB 192) (It
must immediately be noted that these descriptors for God should not
be confused with the references to the Manifestation as the “Great
Being.” (GWB 250)) Given these descriptions of God, it is difficult to
avoid the conclusion that the Writings intend us to associate God
with being in some way. However, in light of the overwhelming
differences between God and creation, it is clear that ‘being’ can
only be attributed to God in an equivocal or analogous way. Like all
other things, God has being insofar as He is not absolute
nonexistence and because it is His essence to exist103 as the only self-
subsisting or necessary being.
This analogous knowledge of God’s being is entirely negative —
He is ‘not absolute non-existence’ — and thus lacks any genuine
positive content. Knowing what a thing is not tells us nothing about
what it actually is. Thus, we are not ascribing any predicate to God
beyond what the Writings Themselves do by referring to Him as the
“Divine Being.” (GWB 46) This is simply a positive way of saying that
God is not absolute non-existence. Of course we must recall that

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   149

although this predication indicates a truth about God — His being or
existence — this does not mean that humankind understands this
truth to its fullest measure. Our knowledge is correct but
incomplete.
25. The Tension of Being and Nothingness
The fact that “the existence of creation in relation to the
existence of God is nonexistence” leaves all created things in a
highly paradoxical or contradictory situation: they both are and are
not at the same time. Their very existence is constituted by a tension
between being and non-being, a tension that cannot be escaped or
resolved in favor of one side or the other. Were it resolved in favor
of being, the created thing, would, in effect, become an absolute
being like God; were it resolved in favor of non-being, it would
become absolute non-existence, and that, as we know from ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá, is impossible. Thus, all created, finite things are situated, so to
speak, in the middle, between being and nothingness, a situation
manifesting itself most obviously in the inescapable anxiety that
accompanies all life and especially the lives of human beings. For
humans it is necessary to learn how to live consciously and creatively
with the tension, with the thesis and antithesis, of being and non-
being which structurally constitutes our existence. We are not here
to escape the tension by various means but to use it for our
individual and collective growth.
26. Non-Being and Being-not-Yet
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s statements that “nonexistence is only relative and
absolute nonexistence inconceivable” (PUP 88) and that “no sign can
come from a nonexisting thing” (SAQ 225) lead to the conclusion
that in Bahá’í ontology there is another kind of non-being — ‘being-
not-yet.’ The classical name for such incipient being-not-yet is
‘potentials’, which we have noted earlier are a part of the Lebenswelt
in Bahá’í ontology. Of course, from the point of view of actually
existing things, such potentials do not exist and are, therefore, a
kind of non-being, but they are a relative non-being with a capacity
for actualization. As such, like all other finite entities, potentials
have a paradoxical existence: depending on viewpoint they both are
and are not, though they are as real “in [their] own condition” (SAQ
281) as any other degree of being.
The Writings admit the existence of potentials when They note
the virtues of the “potential in the seed,” (PUP 91) of the sun
awakening “all that is potential in the earth,” (PUP 74) of the “virtues
potential in mankind,” (PUP 70) of the inventions “potential in the
world of nature” (PUP 309) and of the embryo progressing until “that
which was potential in it — namely, the human image — appears.”

150   Bahá’í Ontology

(PUP 359) Of similar import are the passages referring to the
“mysteries latent in nature” (PUP 51) which are actualized by
humankind, the “latent talents” (PUP 52) hidden in human beings,
the “divine perfections latent in the heart of man,” (PUP 53) the
“latent realities within the bosom of the earth,” (FWU 70) and the
“the greater world, the macrocosm ... latent and miniature in the
lesser world, or microcosm, of man.” (PUP 69-70, emphasis added) The
same idea is implicit in Bahá’u’lláh’s statement that we are to
“[r]egard man as a mine rich in gems of inestimable value,” (GWB
260) which is to say that humankind possesses invaluable potentials
that must be actualized through education. Perhaps most fascinating
passage in this regard is ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s rhetorical question, “Before
we were born into this world did we not pray ... Did we not pray
potentially for these needed blessings before we were created?” (PUP
246, emphasis added) Combined with the previous quotes, this passage
strongly suggests that we had some degree of existence as potentials
before we actualized on the physical plain. This matter needs further
exploration.
27. Platonic and Aristotelian Elements in
Bahá’í Ontology
The passages quoted above suggest that Bahá’í ontology
recognizes that the material plane has two distinct, though not
actually separable levels, the invisible plane of potentials and the
visible plane of actualized things.104 Quotes such as the following
suggest the same idea: “through an ideal inner power man brings
these realities [in the universe] forth from the invisible plane to the
visible.” (FWU 70105) Such quotations strengthen the view that Bahá’í
ontology has a Platonic slant, a view also reinforced by statements
such as, “The spiritual world is like unto the phenomenal world.
They are the exact counterpart of each other. Whatever objects
appear in this world of existence are the outer pictures of the world
of heaven.” (PUP 10106) Elsewhere we read “For physical things are
signs and imprints of spiritual things; every lower thing is an image
and counterpart of a higher thing.107 These, combined with
statements that “the Kingdom is the real world, and this nether place
is only its shadow stretching out” (SWAB 178) and that the Kingdom
is a more perfect world108 — much like Plato’s world of Ideas —
shows that Bahá’í ontology has strong Platonic features.
The fact that the material world has a ‘level of potentials’ and a
‘level of actualization’, which are distinct though not actually
separable, reveals the Aristotelian features of Bahá’í ontology.
According to Aristotle, each thing — except God — is in the
condition of being actual and being-not-yet or being-in-potential, of
being and being-in-development, of being whole and being-not-yet-

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   151

whole. If we ask where these potentials are, the answer seems to be
that they are enfolded109 within the particular things. For example,
the Writings speak of the “latent realities within the bosom of the
earth,” (FWU 70) “the potential in the seed,”110 the “virtues potential
in mankind” (PUP 70) and the “virtues latent within the realities of
the phenomenal world.” (PUP 91, emphases added111) This suggests
that the invisible plane is not a physical place but rather the
unactualized and, therefore, to us, invisible, condition inherent in all
things. ‘To be’, therefore, includes being and being-not-yet.
28. Implications for Existential Ontology
Everything of which we are aware has a visible and hidden aspect
— a fact which has tremendous implications for existential ontology.
Due to limitations of space, we shall refer briefly only to two of
them. The first, and perhaps most obvious, is that humankind lives
in a world that is essentially and irremediably mysterious. Not only is
the world an endless mystery for us — “how vast the oceans of
wisdom that surge within a drop” (GWB 177) — but we are mysterious
to ourselves as well: in each of us is “are potentially revealed all the
attributes and names of God to a degree no other created being hath
excelled or surpassed... Man is My mystery, and I am his mystery.”
(GWB 177, emphasis added) The essential mysteriousness within and
around us leads in some existential ontologies to the establishment
of a sense of estrangement, ‘uncanniness’ or ‘unheimlichkeit,’ and
anxiety or Angst112 as constitutive features of human existence, and
in others, such as Marcel’s, to a more positive appreciation of the
role of mystery in our lives. Like the Bahá’í Writings, Marcel sees
the inescapable mysteriousness of life as a structurally constituted
sign of the presence of the divine and, therefore, as something that
brings value into human existence.
The second implication of the double visible and invisible aspect
of things relates to humankind’s role in the universe. According to
the Writings, humankind has a clearly defined role in cosmic
evolution, namely, to transfer phenomena from the plane of the
invisible to the visible. Humankind “discovereth those hidden secrets
of nature ... transfereth them from the invisible plane to the
visible.113 Thus, humankind plays a role in the unfolding of
creation’s otherwise hidden potentials and, thereby, makes its
contribution to the evolution of the cosmos at large which is to say,
human and cosmic evolution are inter-related as aspects of a unified
whole. Without this intervention of humankind, the being of the
cosmos would remain in an ontologically diminished state and for
this reason humankind is a necessity — not, as modern evolutionary
theory teaches, an accidental development — for the ontological
completeness of cosmos. Without man, the cosmos would also lack

152   Bahá’í Ontology

value,114
being
incomplete
and
imperfect.115
Quantitatively
insignificant at the cosmic scale, humankind is qualitatively of
supreme value.
29. An Ontological Fall?
Because of the Platonic elements in Bahá’í ontology, we cannot
avoid asking whether or not the transition from the Kingdom to the
visible world and from the potential to the actual constitutes a ‘fall’?
The question arises because the potential or essential has a certain
perfection insofar as it is not determined or limited by the
conditions of actual existence. It also arises because of ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá’s characterisation of the world of creation as being as
“shadow[s]”, “fantas[ies]”, “images” and “pictures” in contrast to
“the real world” (SWAB 178) of the Kingdom. From a Platonic point
of view, this transition constitutes a fall.
However, from the Aristotelian viewpoint also evident in the
Writings, the ‘fall’ into actual being in the world of creation, to the
plane of the visible, is an opportunity for real growth and the
actualization of latent potentials. Thus, what is a ‘fall’ in one sense is
the beginning of progress in another. One recalls in this connection
Bahá’u’lláh’s prayer, “O Thou Whose tests are a healing medicine.”
(PM 220) Without the tests of existence, there can be no progress, no
actualization and making visible. The situation is analogous to what
‘Abdu’l-Bahá says about the innocence of children: their “purity is
on account of weakness and innocence, not on account of any
strength and testing.” (PUP 53) From this vantage point, the fall is a
‘felix culpa’, a ‘fortunate fall.’
30. To Be and Becoming
Since all things are a combination of being and non-being in the
form of being-not-yet, all things are, therefore, in a constant
condition of change as various potentials strive to actualise
themselves. According to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, “nothing which exists
remains in a state of repose ... Everything is either growing or
declining; all things are either coming from nonexistence into being,
or going from existence into non-existence.” (SAQ, emphasis added)
He adds that “motion [is] an inseparable concomitant of existence,
whether inherently or accidentally, spiritually or materially.”116
Indeed, He says motion “cannot be separated from beings because it
is their essential requirement, “ (SAQ 233) to which He adds, “this
movement is necessary to existence, which is either growing or
declining.” (SAQ 233, emphases added) Since motion and change are
essential attributes of all entities, then it follows that in Bahá’í
ontology to be is to be in the condition of becoming. It is not a
static ontology.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   153

31. The Correlation of Being and Becoming
This leads to a subtle but important question: Is there a
difference between saying that ‘For an entity ‘to be’ means ‘to be in
the condition of becoming’ and saying ‘An entity’s being is the
process of its becoming’? One possible difference is that the first
implies that there is a continuing substance that is in the condition
of changing, that is, actualising its potentials, whereas the second
suggests that the changing process itself is the entity. Put into its
larger context, this question deals with whether Bahá’í ontology is
an ontology of being as represented by Plato and or an ontology of
becoming as represented by Heraclitus or perhaps a hybrid as
represented by Aristotle and Whitehead. At this stage in our
research, the last alternative seems the most capable of doing justice
to what we find in the Writings.
According to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, “This state of motion is said to be
essential — that is, natural; it cannot be separated from beings.”
(SAQ 233) In this statement, ‘being’ and ‘becoming’ are absolutely
correlated with one another: they are mutually interdependent,
complementary and reciprocal relationship. In His words, they are
“inseparable concomitants of existence.”117 Like two sides of a coin,
they are distinguishable by intellectual abstraction but are not
separable in actual fact, which ‘Abdu’l-Bahá affirms when He says,
“an essential requirement cannot be separated from the thing itself.”
(SAQ 171) For this reason, it is our contention that Bahá’í ontology
upholds the correlation — as opposed to the identification — of
being and becoming in all things except God and the Manifestations
in their station of “pure abstraction and essential unity.” (KI 152)
31.1. What is “Becoming’?
At this point, however, we still face the question of how Bahá’í
ontology defines becoming or change. According to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá,
there are “different degrees of motion”118: “motion in transit”,
“motion of inherent growth”, “motion of condition”, motion “of
spirit”, “motion of intellect” and “motion of eternal essence.”119
Reflecting on this passage, we see the nature of change as being
from one thing to its contrary or contradictory, that is, from one
place or condition to its opposite. Next, we see that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
has explicitly adopted Aristotle’s definition of change as the motion
from potentiality to actuality120, which is to say that in motion or
change, qualities and attributes that were potential but not overtly pre-
sent or active become actualized, that is, explicitly present and active.
Given the emphasis on change or the actualization of potentials
— and further — evolution, progressive revelation and human
progress after death, it seems clear that Bahá’í ontology has a strong

154   Bahá’í Ontology

affinity for process ontologies. Furthermore, because Bahá’í
ontology also has Platonic elements — the “nether place” as the
shadow of the Kingdom — it appears that Bahá’í ontology resembles
the process philosophy of Alfred North Whitehead which also
combines Platonic and Aristotelian elements with a process ontology.
Of course, this is not to suggest that Bahá’í ontology is completely
assimilable to Whiteheadian philosophy, but the fact remains that,
despite some important differences, they share a number of essential
features.121
From the foregoing discussion, it seems difficult to avoid the
conclusion that Bahá’í ontology is neither a pure ontology of being
as best illustrated by Parmenides and Plato, nor a pure ontology of
becoming as illustrated by Heraclitus, but rather a hybrid of the two
as represented by Aristotle and Whitehead. It does not claim that
only static being is real and valuable, nor does it claim that only
becoming has reality. Instead, both are real and essential features of
the universe. It is a qualified process philosophy.
32. Conclusion
From the foregoing survey it is possible to draw at least five
major conclusions about Bahá’í ontology.
1. The Bahá’í Writings do, in fact, contain a systematic ontology.
2. Bahá’í ontology confirms many of the insights provided by the
philosophic tradition that begins with Plato, Aristotle and
Plotinus, goes through Ibn Sina and Aquinas and is active today
in Whitehead, Adler, Wilber and neo-Thomism.
3. Bahá’í ontology is rigorously dualistic vis-à-vis the relation of
the Creator and the created. This is the bed-rock of Bahá’í
ontology.
4. Bahá’í ontology represents a qualified form of realism,
relativism, idealism and process philosophy.
5. Bahá’í ontology is rigorously essentialist, moderate rationalist,
hierarchical and substantialist.
SELECT BIBLIOGRAPHY
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, “Commentary on the Islamic Tradition: ‘I Was a Hidden
Treasure’.”
http://bahai-library.com/?file=kanzan_makhfiyyan.
Translated and Introduced by Moojan Momen.
`Abdu’l-Bahá’ “Tablet of the Universe.” Original Tablet in Makátib-i
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, vol. 1, pp 13-32. Anonymous translation. http://bahai-
library.com/?file=abdulbaha_lawh_aflakiyyih

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   155

Blackburn, Simon (editor). The Oxford Dictionary of Philosophy.
Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1994.
Brown, Keven.  “‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Response to the Doctrine of the Unity
of Existence” in The Journal of Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 11, Number 34,
September-December 2001.
Gilson, Etienne. Being and Some Philosophers. Toronto: Pontifical
Institute of Medieval Studies, 1952,
Hatcher, John, S. The Purpose of Physical Reality, Wilmette: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1997.
Honerich, Ted (editor) The Oxford Companion to Philosophy. Oxford:
Oxford University Press, 1995.
Jaquette, Dale. Ontology. Montreal & Kingston: McGill-Queen’s
University Press, 2002.
Kluge, Ian. “The Aristotelian Substratum of the Bahá’í Writings” in
Lights
of
Irfan
IV.
Evanston,
IL,
2003.
Also
at
http://www.geocities.com/SoHo/Den/4944/ aristotle.html
Kluge, Ian. “Process Philosophy and the Bahá’í Writings.” Lights of
Irfan
V,
Evanston
IL,
2004.
Also
at
http://www.geocities.com/iankluge/ Whitehead-deChardin.html
Momen, Moojan. “Relativism: A Basis for Bahá’í Metaphysics”
http://bahai-library.com/?file=momen_relativism.
Savi, Julio. The Eternal Quest for God. Oxford: George Ronald, 1989.

NOTES
1 The Oxford Dictionary of Philosophy; The Oxford Companion to
Philosophy.
2 Martin Heidegger, An Introduction to Metaphysics 1.
3 This question immediately brings to mind Plato’s view that true being
is only found in the realm of unchanging Ideas of which the changing
entities around us are mere copies without ‘full reality.’
4 SAQ 239.
5 SAQ 239.
6 See for example, Nima Hazini, “Neoplatonism: Framework for a
Bahá’í Metaphysics”; Mark Foster, “Neo-Platonism: Framework for a
Bahá’í Ontology”; John Hatcher, The Purpose of Physical Reality; Ian
Kluge, “The Aristotelian Substratum of the Bahá’í Writings”; Julio
Savi, The Eternal Quest for God; Juan Cole, “The Concept of the
Manifestation in the Bahá’í Writings”; Keven Brown, editor, Evolution
and Bahá’í Belief.
7 Of whom the most widely known are Etienne Gilson and Jacques
Maritain.
8 This movement is best represented by the renowned Mortimer J Adler.
9 See Section 14 of this paper, “A Substantialist Ontology” for a
precise meaning of ‘substance.’
10 See also SAQ 293.

156   Bahá’í Ontology


11 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, of course, reveals a three-fold division of existence —
the stations of Creator, Manifestation and the rest of creation. (SAQ
295) However, unaided natural reason, can, by itself, only identify two
stations, Creator and created. The station of Manifestation requires
revelation by the Manifestations of God. Moreover, the first
fundamental division is between Creator and created.
12 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, “Commentary on the Islamic Tradition: ‘I Was a
Hidden Treasure’”, emphasis added.
13 ibid.
14 ibid, emphasis added. See also SAQ 241; SAQ 157.
15 SWAB 108
16 Momen, “Relativism: A Basis for Bahá’í Metaphysics,” http://bahai-
library.com/?file=momen_relativism.
17 ibid.
18 ibid.
19 ibid.
20 ibid.
21 ibid.
22 “Commentary on the Islamic Tradition: ‘I Was a Hidden Treasure’”;
emphasis added.
23 A similar conclusion was reached by Keven Brown in “‘Abdu’l-Bahá ‘s
Response to the Doctrine of the Unity of Existence” in The Journal of
Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 11, Number 34, September-December 2001.
24 This, of course, raises the question as to why ‘Abdu’l-Bahá would take
such a neutral position and on this score we enter the realm of
historical speculation. It is possible, for example, that He did not want
to get the new faith or its adherents embroiled in a long-standing
Islamic theological dispute, especially while they were in Baghdad.
25 In fact, the Writings hold to a correspondence theory of truth. See
Ian Kluge, “The Aristotelian Substratum of the Bahá’í Writings” for
detailed documentation about the correspondence theory of truth in
the Writings, http://www.geocities.com/SoHo/Den/4944/aristotle.html
26 PUP 356.
27 This rejection of a subjective theory of truth is illustrated by
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s denial of the geocentric theory of the solar system. He
says, “The eye sees the sun and planets revolving around the earth,
whereas in reality the sun is stationary, central, and the earth revolves
upon its own axis.” (“Relativism: A Basis for Bahá’í Metaphysics”)
28 ibid.
29 ibid.
30 Of course, it is important to distinguish the absolute assertion that God
exists from particular descriptions of God; the latter may well be limited
by our personal perspectives, but the former is an absolute truth.
31 “Relativism: A Basis for Bahá’í Metaphysics”
32 ibid.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   157


33 ibid.
34 See also the Preface to The Promised Day is Come; BA 185.
35 Alexander Skutch, The Golden Core of Religion.
36 Heidegger, An Introduction to Metaphysics 1.
37 See also GWB 157 and SAQ 280.
38 GWB 157: “Such an existence is a contingent and not an absolute
existence, inasmuch as the former is preceded by a cause ...”
39 SAQ 178.
40 This moves Bahá’í ontology in the direction of causal or hidden
variable interpretations of quantum phenomena in agreement with
Einstein and Bohm that the Copenhagen interpretation is incomplete.
41 PUP 307. See also PUP 424; TAF 16.
42 PUP 219.
43 One way of schematising philosophies is by their answer to the
question, ‘How much can reason/logic tell us for certain?’ Rationalists
answer, ‘Everything — and what is not rational is not real knowledge.’
Irrationalists answer, ‘Nothing. It’s all just viewpoints and opinions.’
Moderate rationalists answer, ‘Some things — but not everything.’
44 As in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s “Commentary on ‘I was a Hidden Treasure’ “
provisionally translated by Moojan Momen.
45 BWF 315.
46 See also PUP 80; SAQ 199.
47 See also SAQ 301.
48 Berkeley, Principles of Human Knowledge. “Esse est percipi” — “To
be is to be perceived.”
49 For more on this, see Section 27.
50 Plato, The Republic, Book 7, 5141-517a.
51 See also PUP 291.
52 Aristotle, Metaphysics, XII, 7, 1072a, b.
53 PUP 53.
54 Some readers may recognise ideas analogous to those found in the
poetry of William Blake for whom being has a similar “innocence” and
“experience” dialectical structure. We may also see a Hegelian element
here.
55 This differs significantly from Berkeley for whom being perceived is
sufficient for existence.
56 If we correlate receptivity and activity with traditional beliefs, we
have, of course arrived at a concept analogous to beliefs about yin and
yang. For similar ideas, see TAB 140.
57 See also SAQ 206, 213; PUP 302; TAB 146.
58 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá uses the human body to illustrate His point, thereby
showing yet again that an organic image of creation as an internally
connected whole underlies the Writings.

158   Bahá’í Ontology


59 Thanks to Richard Gravelly and Susan Maneck for providing
information and exact Qur’anic references on Muslim beliefs regarding
creatio ex nihilo.
60 See also PUP 88.
61 See also SWB 196.
62 G.R. Lewis, “Relativism,” http://mb-soft.com/believe/txn/relativi.htm.
63 God as the absolute reference point is analogous to light, which is
the absolute reference point in physical relativity theory.
64 SAQ 178.
65 This does not refer to the mirage as atmospheric phenomenon, which
is quite real, but to what the mirage purports to represent.
66 SAQ 239; see also 240.
67 See also SAQ 146.
68 See also SAQ 220.
69 Leon Edel, Aristotle and His Philosophy 123.
70 The Oxford Companion to Philosophy, 658; The Concise Routledge
Encyclopedia of Philosophy 669.
71 Dictionary of Philosophy of Mind http://www.artsci.wustl.edu/
philos/MindDict/phenomenalism.html;
see
also
The
Catholic
Encyclopedia, “Phenomenalism”.
72 GWB 177.
73 A detailed discussion of this can be found in Kluge’s “Process
Philosophy and the Writings,” http://www.geocities.com/iankluge/
Whitehead-deChardin.html
74 The Oxford Companion to Philosophy 746.
75 See also SAQ 129; 286;
76 PUP 21.
77 SAQ 220.
78 GWB 177.
79 Even second natures have essences: Michelangelo’s “David” is
required to have certain essential attributes to be a statue, to be made
of marble, to be that particular statue by Michelangelo. We could call
Rodin’s “Balzac” “David”, but it lacks the attributes to be
Michelangelo’s “David.”
80 SAQ 184.
81 SAQ 193.
82 Schopenhauer, in The World as Will and Representation, tried to
solve this problem by using the universal will of which all things are
made as the means to obtaining more than phenomenal knowledge.
83 Nominalism: “The view that things denominated by the same term
share nothing except that fact: what all chairs have in common is that
they are called ‘chairs’... Our common classifications are merely flatus
vocis or breath of the voice.” The Oxford Dictionary of Philosophy 264.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   159


84 If the replacement of one convention by another cannot be
arbitrary, it must be constrained and such constraints lead us back to
the notion of essence/substance.
85 SAQ 178–84.
86 SAQ 222.
87 SAQ 148.
88 FWU 46.
89 BWF 382.
90 The term originated with Edmund Husserl in his Phenomenology of
the Life-World.
91 SAQ 3.
92 SAQ 233.
93 TAB 141. For a detailed study of process thought in the Writings see
Ian Kluge, “Process Philosophy and the Bahá’í Writings.” (see
http://www.geocities.com/iankluge/Whitehead-deChardin.html)
94 ‘Substance’ of course is not material substance but rather Aristotle’s
substance of anything that does not exist as an attribute (essential or
accidental) of anything else or as a form.
95 SAQ 239.
96 GWB, 162.
97 The Oxford Companion to Philosophy 226.
98 ibid.
99 SAQ 83.
100 PUP 138.
101 See also GWB 53; 70; 151; 166-167; 191; FWU 68.
102 See also GWB 151.
103 The essence and existence of God are equated in SAQ 180: “... the
Essence of Unity (that is, the existence of God ...)”
104 The Writings also refer to the “human plane” (PUP 114), the “animal
plane” (ibid., 182), the “vegetable plane” (ibid., 69), the “physical and
intellectual plane” (FWU 59). However, inasmuch as these are specific
planes of things already actualized, they are part of the visible plane in
general.
105 See also PUP 50, 81, 178, 241; PT 175.
106 See also ABL 46.
107 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Tablet of the Universe; emphasis added. Original
Tablet in Makátib-i ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, vol. 1, pp 13-32. Anonymous
translation. http://bahai-library.com/?file=abdulbaha_lawh_aflakiyyih
108 PUP 4; 90.
109 The allusion to quantum physicist David Bohm’s concept of
‘enfolding’, ‘unfolding’ and the ‘implicate’ and ‘explicate’ order is quite
intentional. See Bohm’s Wholeness and the Implicate Order.
110 PUP 91; emphasis added.

160   Bahá’í Ontology


111 See also “latent mystery” in PUP 360; “latent force” (ibid., 417) as
well as the numerous references to “latent” throughout the Writings.
112 Heidegger and Kierkegaard for example.
113 BWF 339; see also PUP 30; 81;
114 This is not to be interpreted as a contradiction with the statement
that creation is perfect (PUP 80. The apparent contradiction is re-
moved by recalling that creation as a whole, includes both the actual-
ized and unactualized potentials. However, strictly from the point of
view of actualized nature is incomplete and, in that sense, imperfect,
because other potentials remain to be actualized or made manifest.
115 PUP 310; see also 309, 330, 400. See also SAQ 201.
116 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Tablet of the Universe. Original Tablet in Makátib-i
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, vol. 1, pp 13-32. Anonymous Translation. http://bahai-
library.com/?file=abdulbaha_lawh_aflakiyyih
117 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Tablet of the Universe.
118 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá On Divine Philosophy, quoted from Julio Savi, The
Eternal Quest for God 57.
119 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá On Divine Philosophy, quoted ibid. 57.
120 Physics, III, 1, 201a.
121 See Ian Kluge, “Process Philosophy and the Bahá’í Writings” in Lights
of Irfan V (2004) or at http://geocities.com/iankluge/Whitehead-
deChardin.html

‘Abdu’l Bahá’s Tablet of the Two
Calls: Civilizing Barbarity
Manooher Mofidi
1.
Introduction
The earth seemed unearthly. We were accustomed to look
upon the shackled form of a conquered monster, but there
— there you could look at a thing monstrous and free. It
was unearthly, and the men were — No, they were not
inhuman. Well, you know, that was the worst of it — this
suspicion of their not being inhuman. It would come slowly
to one. They howled and leaped, and spun, and made horrid
faces; but what thrilled you was just the thought of their
humanity — like yours — the thought of your remote
kinship with this wild and passionate uproar. Ugly. Yes, it
was ugly enough; but if you were man enough you would
admit to yourself that there was in you just the faintest
trace of a response to the terrible frankness of that noise, a
dim suspicion of there being a meaning in it which you —
you so remote from the night of first ages — could
comprehend. And why not? The mind of man is capable of
anything — because everything is in it, all the past as well as
all the future.1
The immortal words of Marlow, the narrator in Joseph Conrad’s
enduring classic, Heart of Darkness, as he journeys deep into the
unknown, the darkness, to retrieve Kurtz, at one time civilization
personified, now the embodiment of crassness, avarice, barbarity.
Conrad’s novel, Heart of Darkness, is a rumination on the thin
line between civilization and barbarity. This relationship is also the
central theme of Abdu’l-Bahá’s Tablet of the Two Calls.
“Civilization is conjoined with barbarism,” (SWAB 297) Abdu’l-Bahá
states in the Tablet.
Arguably no subject is more apt to ponder in today’s political
(indeed politicized) and ideological climate than how thinly
civilization, a “terrible beauty,” to borrow from W.B. Yeats, cloaks
the darkness that envelops humanity. Here, we use Abdu’l-Bahá’s
civilization and barbarity construct to understand the capabilities of
humanity absent the “call of God,” “the Most Great Guidance.” We
employ the construct to also situate the geo-political and historical
events alluded to by Abdu’l-Bahá in His Tablet, events that

162   Tablet of the Two Calls

demonstrate how the boundaries between civilization and barbarity
at times overlap uncomfortably and at other times simply coexist
indistinguishably.
2.
The Tablet’s Structure and Themes
The Tablet, known as the “Tablet of the Two Calls,” is found in
Selections From the Writings of Abdu’l Bahá, No. 225. The Tablet
is not dated. Certain references in the Tablet, though, suggest that it
was revealed circa 1907-1908.2
A brief word about the structure and themes of the Tablet. It is
divided into 32 paragraphs of varying length. A number of themes
are explored. Among these are: The two calls, namely call of
civilization and call of God; the intimate relationship between the
two, namely, that civilization (progress) is conjoined with barbarism
unless material civilization is confirmed by Divine Guidance;
happiness of mankind (happiness of the world of humanity) “lieth in
the unity of the human race, and that spiritual and material
developments are conditioned upon love and unity among all men;”
the dual nature of man; material progress being the result of
association and cooperation, while ruin the outcome of animosity
and hatred; unity in diversity; obedience, submission, and loyalty
towards one’s government.3
Here, we probe the theme of civilization and barbarity.4
3.
Civilizing Barbarity
The Tablet begins with Abdu’l-Bahá describing, in His words,
“two calls to success and prosperity being raised from the heights of
happiness of mankind.” (SWAB 296)
One is the Call of civilization, which pertains to the world of
phenomena. It promotes the principles of material achievement;
trains the physical accomplishments of mankind; comprises the laws,
regulations, arts and sciences through which the world of humanity
has developed. The propagator and executive power of this call is
just government.5
The second call is the Call of God, whose spiritual teachings are
safeguards of the Everlasting glory, eternal happiness and
illumination of the world of humanity. It causes attributes of mercy
to be revealed in the human world and the life beyond. This Call is
founded upon the instructions and exhortations of the Lord and the
admonitions and altruistic emotions belonging to the realm of
morality which, like unto a brilliant light, brighten and illumine the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   163

lamp of the realities of mankind. The penetrative power of the Call
of God is the Word of God.6
Abdu’l-Bahá then describes the relationship between these two
calls.
He
says
that
until
material
achievements,
physical
accomplishments and human virtues are reinforced by spiritual
perfections, luminous qualities and characteristics of mercy, no fruit
or result shall issue therefrom, nor will the happiness of the world of
humanity, which is the ultimate aim, be attained.7 He cautions that
while, on the one hand, material achievements and the development
of the physical world produce prosperity, on the other hand dangers,
severe calamities and violent afflictions are imminent.8
Abdu’l-Bahá invites the reader to look at the orderly pattern of
kingdoms, cities and villages, with the attractiveness of their
adornments, the freshness of their natural resources, the refinement
of their appliances, the ease of their means of travel, the extent of
knowledge available about the world of nature, the great inventions,
the colossal enterprises, the noble discoveries and scientific
researches. He says that this vantage point compels but one
conclusion — namely, that civilization brings happiness and progress
to the human world.9
But a different vantage point warrants a different conclusion.
That vantage point is the discovery of destructive and infernal
machines, to the development of forces of demolition and the
invention of fiery implements, which uproot the tree of life. From
this perspective, it is evident that civilization is conjoined with
barbarism. Progress and barbarism go hand in hand, He says, unless
material civilization be confirmed by Divine Guidance.10
Let’s pause and reflect on this civilization-barbarity construct.
They are “conjoined,” Abdu’l-Bahá says. This means that civilization
and barbarity are separated by a very thin line. Civilization is
conceptualized in very precarious terms — a state of tension and
unyielding struggle between constructive aspirations and destructive
tendencies.
This is precisely the theme of Heart of Darkness. In this book,
Conrad attempts to come to terms with the brutal and exploitative
nature of the European colonization of Africa, using as a backdrop
the bloody history of the Congo Free State. Conrad’s narrator,
Marlow, is the commander of a riverboat looking for ivory to trade
in the Belgian Congo. Marlow travels into the heart of the Congo to
retrieve the enigmatic Mr. Kurtz, a promising young agent who has
disappeared into the bush. Along the way he learns that Kurtz has
gained supreme power over the natives of the land through the use
of extreme violence. Throughout Marlow’s harrowing journey,
Conrad maintains an unflinching focus on the crassness and avarice

164   Tablet of the Two Calls

of which human society is capable, ultimately revealing that the “the
horror” Kurtz fears lies within us all. Marlow’s encounter with the
mysterious and corrupted (and corrupting) Kurtz, who dies
proclaiming the “horror” of what he found in the Congo, is the
novel’s defining moment, when Marlow recognizes his kinship with
Kurtz’s corruption.

Joseph Conrad’s Heart of Darkness is a rumination on the
relationship between civilization and barbarity. The novel reminds us
that civility is not innate; that the values and beliefs we possess as
human beings, although passed down through countless generations
born into civilization, are not intrinsic. Furthermore, the novel
implies that, if submerged into a place of barbarity for a length of
time, a civil man might succumb, as evidently Kurtz did, to the
powers of darkness found in the human heart. Upon finding Kurtz,
Marlow fully realizes the impact of utter, enduring barbarity on the
heart of the urbane man. The values and beliefs civility had instilled
are powerless against Kurtz’s own heart of darkness as he descends
into his intrinsic, animalistic nature. Marlow recollects,
I tried to break the spell–the heavy, mute spell of the
wilderness–that seemed to draw him to its pitiless breast by
the awakening of forgotten and brutal instincts, by the
memory of gratified and monstrous passions. This alone, I
was convinced, had driven him out to the edge of the
forest, to the bush, towards the gleam of fires, the throb
of drums, the drone of weird incantations; this alone had
beguiled his unlawful soul beyond the bounds of permitted
aspirations ... His was an impenetrable darkness.11
Kurtz has capitulated to murder, theft, and the temptation to be
god.
Heart of Darkness vividly offers insight into the capabilities of
man without restraint. We have here a terrifying and thought-
provoking look at how thinly civilization cloaks the darkness that
lives within us all.
Kurtz personifies civilization, but, after succumbing to barbarity,
is transmogrified into “a Flabby, pretending, weak-eyed devil of a
rapacious and pitiless folly.” The original Kurtz had been educated
partly in England.12 His mother was half-English, his father half-
French.13 All Europe contributed to the making of Kurtz.14 We have
an indictment of Europe here. Kurtz did poetry; spoke on love;
justice.15 And yet, despite (or perhaps in spite of) these civilizational
trappings, there was a hollowness about him. When he lived his
entire life in every detail during that supreme moment of complete
knowledge, Kurtz could only utter: “The horror!” “The horror!”16

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   165

Such was his pronouncement: a judgment upon the adventures of
his soul on earth. That’s his entire summation!
Conrad portrays the tense and uneasy relationship between
civilization and barbarity — the same relationship Abdu’l-Bahá
describes in the Tablet. Recall that Abdu’l-Bahá describes progress
and barbarism as going hand in hand. The barbaric tendencies can be
tempered, mitigated, if you like, only when “material civilization [is]
confirmed by Divine Guidance, by the revelations of the All-
Merciful and by godly virtues, and [is] reinforced by spiritual
conduct, by the ideals of the Kingdom and by the outpourings of
the Realm of Might.”
(SWAB 297) Thus, absent spiritual
rejuvenation, growth, civilization decays and deteriorates into
barbarity. The divide between barbarity/civilization comes close to
collapsing into an area of mutual cohabitation.
Abdu’l-Bahá then illustrates just how uncomfortably civilization
and barbarity overlap:
Consider that the most advanced and civilized countries of
the world have been turned into arsenals of explosives, that
the continents of the globe have been transformed into
huge camps and battlefields, that the peoples of the world
have formed themselves into armed nations, and that the
governments of the world are vying with each other as to
who will first step into the field of carnage and bloodshed,
thus subjecting mankind to the utmost degree of
affliction. (SWAB 297-8)
To develop a deeper appreciation of Abdu’l-Bahá’s comments,
we must take the political temperature of late 19th century-early
20th century.17 Recall that the Tablet was revealed sometime around
1907-1908.
By the late 1880s, all the desirable territories of Africa (and many
of the richest countries of the Middle East and Asia) had been
brought under European flags or had become “spheres of influence”
of the European powers. Western imperialism was continuing apace
in the first decade of 1900.
In 1907 Britain, Russia, and France formed the Triple Entente,
which now faced the Triple Alliance of Germany, Austria-Hungary,
and Italy, which had been formed in 1882. As can be expected, all
the governments claimed their intentions in forming these alliances
were purely defensive, but the sober truth was that the loose concert
of power which had existed from 1815 to 1870 had gradually been
replaced by two powerful, hostile alliances.
From 1890 to 1914, all diplomats and military officers (if not all
politicians generally) knew that the major nations of Europe were

166   Tablet of the Two Calls

engaged in an arms race and in the formation of ever tighter military
alliances. The network of painstakingly crafted and often
overlapping alliances seemed to give assurance that a general
conflagration would be avoided and regional disputes settled, as they
had been during most of the previous century.
As it turned our, appearances were deceiving. The formation of
these mighty alliances and the concomitant increases in armaments
rendered inevitable the war that began in August 1914. The
tightening bonds of the Triple Alliance and the Triple Entente
substantially increased the danger of general war in the decade
before 1914. The alliances, which were intended to maintain a
balance of power and to protect each member in case of aggression,
also meant that any serious local conflict could become general,
internationalized.
The opening years of the 20th century were marked by
turbulence and instability. In the years 1904-1905, the violent war
between Japan and Russia led to the humiliating destruction of
almost the entire Russian naval forces and its surrender of territories
it regarded as vital to its interests. This humiliation was to have
long-term domestic and international repercussions. On two
occasions during these opening years of the 20th century, war
between France and Germany over imperialist designs in North
Africa was narrowly averted. In 1911 Italian ambitions similarly
provoked a dangerous threat to international peace by the seizure
from the Ottoman empire of what is now Libya. International
instability had been further deepened when Germany, feeling
constrained by a growing web of hostile alliances, embarked on a
massive naval building program designed to eliminate the British
lead.
Percolating below these conflicts were tensions among the
subject peoples of the Romanov, Hapsburg and Ottoman empires.
Balts, Poles, Czechs, Serbs, Greeks, Albanians, Bulgars, Romanians,
Kurds, Arabs, Armenians, and a host of other nationalities all were
thirsting for their day of liberation.
Advances in science and technology were exploited for military
advantage. Military hardware triggered a massive arms race:
Machine guns, long-range cannon, “dreadnoughts”, submarines,
landmines, poison gas, and the possibility of equipping airplanes for
bombing attacks. All this weaponry would be deployed and refined
during the course of the coming war — thus cementing, as Abdu’l-
Bahá had warned, civilization and barbarity.
Abdu’l-Bahá, of course, prescribes a different combination,
fusion. “[T]his civilization and material progress,” He says, “should

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   167

be combined with the Most Great Guidance so that this nether world
may become the scene of the appearance of the bestowals of the
Kingdom, and physical achievements may be conjoined with the
effulgences of the Merciful.” (SWAB 298)
Now, Abdu’l-Bahá’s prescription may, at first blush, appear
commonsensical. A closer inspection, though, shows otherwise.
Indeed, Abdu’l-Bahá’s civilization and barbarity construct may be
employed to illuminate the latest, and widely acclaimed, political
study of the relationship between civilization and barbarity in the
context of 20th century Europe.18
As the title suggests, the author, an eminent historian, deals with
the political and cultural history of Europe during the past hundred
years. The author observes, as Abdu’l-Bahá did nearly a century ago,
the apparent contradiction between forces of civilization and those
of barbarity and proceeds to catalogue Europe’s achievements. She
observes that
The ‘civilization’ of 20th century Europe has included
many of the most revolutionary scientific advances in
human history, the information explosion, some of the
most original movements in art and music, and the creation
of a “welfare state” offering greater and more varied
opportunities to the ordinary citizen than any previous
civilization.
It
has
democratized
both
traditional
intellectual and artistic culture, and the popular culture of
mass media entertainment, travel, and athletics. It has
witnessed the gradual extension of the concept of human
rights and religious and racial toleration.19
The author then juxtaposes these achievements with Europe’s gross
and glaring failures. She says that
But the same century has also seen the two most
destructive wars in human history; a large number of
authoritarian, arbitrary, and incompetent dictatorships;
and, in the form of Nazism and Stalinism, the most vile
and sadistic regimes of which we have any documented
record. How can we understand the combination of such
prodigious
accomplishments
and
such
devastating
violence?20
The author strives to answer two basic questions: What are the
factors that produced European economic and scientific leadership?
And what are the factors that produced such horrific wars and
cultural conflict within the context of a single civilization?
She notes that understanding of any society requires a basic
comprehension of its economic foundations, its political systems,

168   Tablet of the Two Calls

and its shifting power relationships. She then explains 20th century
European barbarism in terms of deceit, military prowess, military
alliances, threats, promises, military and naval feints, financial
policies, personal traits of reigning rulers, poor decisions by players,
misperceived ambitions of the enemy, virulent nationalism.21
Abdu’l-Bahá’s Tablet suggests that these material explanations
are necessary, but not sufficient. Material explanations capture only
part of the narrative; the analysis must go deeper — and consider
civilization’s disconnect with, in Abdu’l-Bahá’s words, “the Most
Great Guidance.”
Abdu’l-Bahá explains the various dimensions of this Guidance.
He tells us that happiness of mankind lies in the unity and the
harmony of the human race, and that spiritual and material
developments are conditioned upon love and amity among all men.
He describes man as being endowed with two natures: one bent
towards moral sublimity and intellectual perfection, the other
towards imperfections: “If ye travel the countries of the globe ye
shall observe on one side the remains of ruin and destruction, while
on the other ye shall see the signs of civilization and development.
Such desolation and ruin are the result of war, strife and quarrelling,
while all development and progress are fruits of the lights of virtue,
co-operation and concord.”22
Abdu’l-Bahá offers an implicit, but no less trenchant, critique of
the perennial “survival of the fittest” mentality. He tells us that
“which is conducive to association and attraction and unity among
the sons of men is the means of the life of the world of humanity,
and whatever causeth division, repulsion and remoteness leadeth to
the death of humankind.”23 Here, Abdu’l-Bahá is making a simple,
though often overlooked, distinction between human survival and
animal survival.
As S.I. Hayakawa observed long ago, it is often taken for granted
that human nature is “selfish” and that life is a struggle in which
only the fittest may survive.24 According to this thesis, the basic law
by which man must live, in spite of his surface veneer of civilization,
is the law of the jungle. The “fittest” are those who can bring to the
struggle superior force, superior cunning, and superior ruthlessness.
Hayakawa explained the implications of this philosophy: The wide
currency of this philosophy of the “survival of the fittest” enables
those who act ruthlessly and selfishly to ease their consciences by
deluding themselves that they are merely following a “law of
nature.” Hayakawa then, inviting a hypothetically disinterested, and
arguably more honest, observer, asked whether the ruthlessness of
the tiger, the cunning of the ape, and obedience to the “law of the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   169

jungle” are actually evidences of human fitness to survive.25 He
insightfully asked whether, if human beings are to pick up pointers
on behavior from the lower animals, there were not animals other
than beasts of prey from which one might learn lessons in survival.26
Pointing to the rabbit or the deer, Hayakawa asked whether
fitness may be defined as superior rapidity in running away from
one’s enemies. Similarly, pointing to the earthworm or the mole,
might we not define fitness as the ability to keep out of sight and
out of the way? Or, pointing to the oyster or the housefly, could
fitness not be defined as the ability to propagate one’s kind faster
than one’s enemies can eat them up? Thus, according to Hayakawa,
if we are looking to animals for models of behavior, if we simply
look to animals in order to define what we mean by “fitness to
survive,” there is no limit to the subhuman systems of behavior that
can be devised: we may emulate lobsters, dogs, sparrows, parakeets,
giraffes, skunks, or the parasitical worms, because they all obviously
survived in one way or another. We are still entitled to ask, however,
if human survival does not revolve around a different kind of
fitness from that exhibited by the lower animals.
Hayakawa then explained this fitness as the ability to cooperate,
to unify. Hayakawa found that cooperation within a species (and
sometimes with other species) is essential to the survival of most
living creatures, including man.
Juxtaposing Hayakawa’s insights with Abdu’l-Bahá’s utterances,
we learn that the unity called for by Hayakawa is attainable only in
the context of diversity. Abdu’l-Bahá explains that differences are
of two kinds:
One is the cause of annihilation and is like the antipathy
existing among warring nations and conflicting tribes who
seek each other’s destruction, uprooting one another’s
families, depriving one another of rest and comfort and
unleashing carnage. The other kind which is a token of
diversity is the essence of perfection and the cause of the
appearance of the bestowals of the Most Glorious Lord.
(SWAB 304)
Abdu’l-Bahá illustrates this point using the example of the
flowers of a garden. He says:
Consider the flowers of a garden: though differing in kind,
colour, form and shape, yet, inasmuch as they are refreshed
by the waters of one spring, revived by the breath of one
wind, invigorated by the rays of one sun, this diversity
increaseth their charm, and addeth unto their beauty. Thus
when that unifying force, the penetrating influence of the

170   Tablet of the Two Calls

Word of God, taketh effect, the difference of customs,
manners,
habits,
ideas,
opinions
and
dispositions
embellisheth the world of humanity. This diversity, this
difference is like the naturally created dissimilarity and
variety of the limbs and organs of the human body, for
each one contributeth to the beauty, efficiency and
perfection of the whole. When these different limbs and
organs come under the influence of man’s sovereign soul,
and the soul’s power pervadeth the limbs and members,
veins and arteries of the body, then difference reinforceth
harmony, diversity strengtheneth love, and multiplicity is
the greatest factor for co-ordination.
How unpleasing to the eye if all the flowers and plants, the
leaves and blossoms, the fruits, the branches and the trees
of that garden were all of the same shape and colour!
Diversity of hues, form and shape, enricheth and adorneth
the garden, and heighteneth the effect thereof. In like
manner, when divers shades of thought, temperament and
character, are brought together under the power and
influence of one central agency, the beauty and glory of
human perfection will be revealed and made manifest.
Naught but the celestial potency of the Word of God,
which ruleth and transcendeth the realities of all things, is
capable
of
harmonizing
the
divergent
thoughts,
sentiments, ideas, and convictions of the children of men.
Verily, it is the penetrating power in all things, the mover
of souls and the binder and regulator in the world of
humanity. (SWAB 304-5)
4.
Conclusion
Abdu’l-Bahá’s “Tablet of the Two Calls” is at once a plea and a
promise. The plea is for unity, which, according to Abdu’l-Bahá,
trumps discord and isolation. The promise is two-pronged: unity will
result in welfare and happiness of humankind, while dissension and
discord are sure to cause hardship — human, political, economic,
intellectual.
This plea and promise, as Abdu’l-Bahá demonstrates, are amply
borne out by history. Man continues to insist on harming man. The
political and social climate that Abdu’l-Bahá alludes to in the Tablet
prevail today. Difference, disunity, and destruction continue to
marginalize unity and construction. Abdu’l-Bahá’s unity in diversity
paradigm enables us to mine the diversity inherent in humanity
without alienating the other: unity without uniformity, diversity
without fragmentation.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   171


NOTES
1 Conrad, Joseph. Heart of Darkness and The Secret Agent. New York:
Doubleday, 1997, 47-48.
2 This determination is confirmed by the Research Department at the
Bahá’í World Centre.
3 SWAB 296-309.
4 “Depth or breadth?” A question that invariably leaps to mind in
exploring this or any other Tablet under page and space limitations
such as those imposed here. In other words, should the writer probe
two or three salient themes? Or, abandoning depth, should the writer
try to capture and convey the general thrust? I hope to steer a middle
ground; that is to say, I will give a flavor of the overall thrust of the
Tablet and then explore one or two themes in more depth. Along the
way, I will embark on various excursions into politics, history, poetry,
and literature. These detours, especially that involving Conrad’s Heart
of Darkness, are meant to illuminate and dramatize the topic at hand.
5 SWAB 296.
6 Ibid.
7 Ibid., 297.
8 Ibid.
9 Ibid.
10 Ibid.
11 Conrad, Heart of Darkness, 86, 90
12 Ibid., 65.
13 Ibid.
14 Ibid.
15 Ibid.
16 Ibid., 90.
17 This discussion borrows heavily from Century of Light, a 2001
publication of the Universal House of Justice.
18 Gabriel Jackson, Civilization and Barbarity in 20th-Century Europe,
Amherst: Humanity Books, 1999.
19 Ibid.
20 Ibid.
21 Ibid.
22 Ibid., 301.
23 Ibid., 303.
24 S.I. Hayakawa, Language in Thought and Action, New York:
Harcourt, 1949.
25 Ibid.
26 Ibid.

172   Tablet of the Two Calls

SunWALK
A Bahá’í-inspired model of education 1
Roger Prentice 2
Having created the world and all that liveth and moveth
therein,
He,
through
the
direct operation
of
His
unconstrained and sovereign Will, chose to confer upon
man the unique distinction and capacity to know Him and to
love Him — a capacity that must needs be regarded as the
generating impulse and the primary purpose underlying the
whole of creation.... Upon the inmost reality of each and
every created thing He hath shed the light of one of His
names, and made it a recipient of the glory of one of His
attributes. Upon the reality of man, however, He hath
focused the radiance of all of His names and attributes, and
made it a mirror of His own Self. (GWB 65)
The SunWALK Bahá’í-inspired model of education sees the key
challenge for education as establishing the spiritual-moral and the
creative-subjective as co-equal modes with the mode that currently
dominates; the reasoning-objective. SunWALK presents a view of
education that centres on the human spirit. The human spirit is seen
as the three intrapersonal dimensions of Caring, Creativity and
Criticality. The fourth ‘C’, Community’ includes the interpersonal-
social and the cultural. Inspired by principles evident in the Writings
of Bahá’u’lláh and Abdu’l-Bahá teaching and learning are presented
as the development of consciousness and abilities in these four ‘Cs’.
Development is seen as being brought about via processes of
dialogue, service and the creation and deconstruction of ‘texts’- texts
chosen as higher-order expressions from within the arts, humanities
and sciences. In SunWALK we study texts, including the text of self,
in a ‘nest’ of contexts — of family, classroom, community and the
ultimate ground of being, that Whole that we call the presence of
God.
Diagram 1
The diagram on the following page presents a summary of the
meanings of the main elements of the SunWALK model of education
logo.3 The diagram and the summary have been placed here so that
the reader may refer back as s/he reads each section.

174  Bahá’í-Inspired Education





















Summary of the meanings of the elements in the SunWALK ‘logo-diagram-mandala’

The SunWALK model brings aspects of ‘Western’ and ‘Eastern’ world-views into harmony. The
‘Sun’ = our source of spiritual inspiration & values. WALK = Willing & wise Action through
Loving & Knowing — the most general goal for education. The logo combines the following
sub-models:
a) An ‘interior’ model of the human spirit - in relation to ‘the world’.
b) A model for re-positioning education within being & becoming human — in the world
with others.
c) A general model of the curriculum - for primary, secondary and higher education.
d) A framework for the analysis and evaluation of teaching episodes or projects.
e) A model of education that makes spiritual education and moral education intrinsic.
THE MODEL IN ONE SENTENCE: - the SunWALK model of spiritualizing pedagogy
sees human education as the storied development of meaning, which is constructed, and de-
constructed, physically mentally and spiritually, through Wise & Willing Action, via
Loving and Knowing — developed in Community, through the ‘Dialectical
Spiritualization1‘ of Caring, Creativity & Criticality processes, all undertaken in the light
of the ‘Sun’ of chosen higher- order values and beliefs, using best available, appropriate
content.
The outer ring of the SunWALK logo combines two dimensions: 1 ‘Community’ i.e. the
social, interpersonal dimension of interaction with other individuals or groups. 2 ‘Cultural
sources’ including such dimensions as traditions, the political & the legal.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   175

Summary of the meanings, cont.
The three major divisions of the arts, sciences and humanities are here thought of as the
stored, yet dynamic, accumulation of knowledge and beliefs and procedures — everything
from galleries to written laws of physics that the individual can draw upon or be influenced
by. This is the ‘stuff out there’ rather than the interiority of consciousness.
In SunWALK everything within the inner circle = a representation of
‘interiority’, i.e. human consciousness - the human spirit. The human spirit is presented
intrapersonally as 3 ‘voices’ - 3 modes of being & of engaging with reality & of knowing —
that emanate from the singleness of ‘heart-mind’ as (metaphorically) the ‘primary colours’ of
Creativity (the yellow of inspiration), Criticality (the blue of reason) & Caring (the red
warmth of love)
Creativity is the ‘I’ voice of subjective engagement via an artistic medium - it is
particularly related to the core virtue ‘beauty’ and to ‘the Arts’. Criticality is the ‘IT’ voice
of objective engagement which enables progress in the Sciences (& Math., Philosophy and
‘critical’ studies). It is concerned with objective knowing - related particularly to the core
virtue ‘truth’. Caring is the ‘WE’ voice which enables moral engagement — for progress in
the moral domain and in service of others. It is concerned with social knowing — related
particularly to the core virtue ‘goodness’ and to ‘the Humanities’.
The physical dimension is seen as the instrument for the flow of spirit in all of its forms
— e.g. via dance drama & PE.
Each individual develops her/his I, WE and IT voices, the 3Cs, via socialization,
starting in the family, the local community and then later in formal education. A sense of
justice is seen as paramount intrapersonally as well as interpersonally i.e. it enables us to
engage with that which is beautiful, good or true with balance, clarity & due weight.
The essential process in all 4Cs is multi-level dialogue. In the case of the individual
dialogue is seen as meditation, reflection and inner-talk. In the case of groups it is dialectical
process via consultation.
The ‘Celtic’ knot that surrounds the central shield indicates that the 3Cs are simply
aspects of the one human spirit — the flow of ‘heart-mind’.
The white shield at the centre represents the meditative state in which there is no
‘focused’ engagement via one of the 3Cs — and in which there is relatively little of the ‘white
noise’ interference that we experience in the unquiet mind. This can enable us to ‘go beyond
ourselves’, i.e. transcend our normal knowing — any of the 3Cs (I, WE or IT modes) can be a
pathway to the transcendent and to subsequent improved insight into reality.
The black dot at the centre is the ‘well-spring’ of consciousness. For artists (and great
scientists) it is the Muse. For religionists it is the voice of God within (albeit distorted by the
dust of self). For non-religionists it is the inner source of spirit as energy & inspiration —
the little bits of realization and insight that come to us for which we don’t make an effort.
Educating the human spirit is seen as nurturing the life-force which culminates in the
developed human who, through higher-order consciousness, realizes abilities from within
Caring, Creative or Critical engagements. Teaching is seen as nurturing and cultivating what
is normally present, almost from birth, & certainly by the time we go to school — namely the
flow of spirit expressed in nascent forms of Caring, Creativity, and Criticality — in
Community with others. Holistic Learning takes place when the learner uses Creativity,
Criticality and Caring — in Community — inspired by higher-order values — in dynamic
combinations such as Creativity providing texts for criticality - which then via dialogue
produce the spirit for more creativity.
In SunWALK spirituality is not a dimension; it is the model as a whole. In SunWALK
moral education is not a dimension — they are one and the same. The SunWALK logo can also
be seen as a mandala, or even as a plan drawing for a fountain or a ‘temple of light’!
SunWALK is a major shift to a process view of the world, of being human and of educating
our young people. It rejects a worldview that is limited to the mechanistic, the ‘human-as-
computer, the fragmentary and the materialistic; seeking instead modelling that is based on
flow/process, holism and the spiritual.

176  Bahá’í-Inspired Education

Introduction
This paper gives a brief account of some of the main features of
‘the SunWALK model’ and its rootedness in the Bahá’í Faith’s
writings. SunWALK is a new model of education designed to reflect
the paradigm shift inherent in the coming of the Bahá’í Revelation.
The model is radical in that it paradigmatically shifts the main
focus of education toward a range of ‘new’ dimensions. For example:
from the material to the spiritual,
from a concern with fragments to a concern with the Whole and
its parts
from knowledge as trading in ‘stuff out there’ to knowledge as
being and becoming via multi-level dialogue
from the competitive acquisition of ‘having’ to self-realization —
through being and acting in service
from teaching as ‘instructing’ and ‘training’ to education as
nurturing and growth inducement
from repetition and reproduction to the raising of consciousness
and the solving of problems
from merely technical learning to technical learning within the
context of being and becoming human — in the world with
others
However such shifts are secondary to the most simple but
challenging shift, which is the shift to education as the nurturing of
the flow of the human spirit — as a river flows, as life-energy or ‘chi’
flows (the reader might like to look immediately at the ‘nub’ of the
model section below; see Part 1, p. 180). This of course echoes the
idea that we are spiritual beings having an embodied experience.
SunWALK was developed in my doctoral thesis. It was chiefly
forged out of the daily teaching of English with, mainly, 12 to 13
year olds in a Roman Catholic middle school plus a variety of Bahá’í
youth groups and their friends. The thesis was entitled Spiritualizing
Pedagogy: education as the art of working with the human spirit.
Until a publisher is found the thesis can be
found at
http://www.holisticeducation.org.uk
Our mainstream education is notoriously conservative and is, so I
will argue, unnecessarily complicated. SunWALK is a radical way to
simplify educational modelling
without losing the best of
contemporary thinking, and, indeed, the best of the wisdom of the
past. This broad concept of wisdom also means that we can respect,

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   177

and draw upon, the total treasure-house of our planet’s many and
varied cultures. Celebrating diversity, and the oneness that is at the
centre of reality, can provide the guiding principles — for education
as well as for the unification of the family of humankind. The
alternative seems to be that we more agonizingly get forged into
greater unity through such catastrophic events as the recent Tsunami
disaster. Such events and the worldwide compassionate response to
them belie the postmodernist claim that there is no grand narrative.
In the SunWALK model of education the eternal grand narrative is
the ‘story of stories’ — of being and becoming human in the world
with others. Story is one of the major means for making of the parts
a whole. It is the chief means by which we make sense of our life
experiences.
With regard to ‘story’ the thesis developed what has been called a
new form of methodology, named ‘applied autoethnography’.
Autoethnography is an established, but still emergent, form of
qualitative research. Described by Ellis and Bochner (2000) it is:
an autobiographical genre of writing and research that
displays multiple layers of consciousness, connecting the
personal to the cultural. Back and forth autoethnographer’s
gaze, first through an ethnographic wide-angle lens,
focussing outward on social and cultural aspects of their
personal experience; then they look inward, exposing a
vulnerable self that is moved by and may move through,
refract, and resist cultural interpretations — see Deck,
(1990); Neuman, (1996); Reed-Danahay, (1997). As they
zoom backward and forward, inward and outward,
distinctions between the personal and cultural become
blurred, sometimes beyond distinct recognition. Usually
written in first-person voice, autoethnographic texts appear
in a variety of forms — short stories, poetry, fiction, novels,
photographic essays, personal essays, journals, fragmented
and layered writing and social science prose. In these texts,
concrete action, dialogue, emotion embodiment, spirituality,
and self-consciousness are featured, appearing as relational
and institutional stories affected by history, social structure,
and culture, which themselves are dialectically revealed
through action, feeling, thought and language. (emphasis
added)
To the underlined elements, and the italicised passage, in the above
quotation I would like to make connection with principles evident in
Bahá’í writings.
Firstly the Universal House of Justice, when guidance was sought
in 1992, suggested a dialectical process of going back and forth — in

178  Bahá’í-Inspired Education

this case between Bahá’í writings and positive aspects of
contemporary educational theory and practice. They said;
[We] might make a contribution to the evolutionary process
of devising an educational system which “would be in full
harmony with the spirit of the Bahá’í Teachings”.
Knowledge of educational theory, for example, could assist
(us) in identifying some of the relevant “basic principles”
and “teaching ideals” that are set out in the Bahá’í Writings.
Such principles could in turn, serve as a basis for
highlighting positive aspects of contemporary educational
theory and practice which could contribute to the
implementation of Bahá’í “teaching ideals”. (Research Dept.
Memorandum 21st May 1992)
Some degree of innateness or embeddedness in human reality means
that knowledge or virtues are not just ‘stuff out’ there to be
crammed into the learner; rather we should:
Regard man as a mine rich in gems of inestimable value.
Education can, alone, cause it to reveal its treasures, and
enable mankind to benefit therefrom. (GWB 260)
We, as well as the Manifestation of God, are made in the image of
God (though in our case it is potentially and imperfectly). We on our
life-journey are in the business of supporting each other in the
process of manifesting whatever admixture of gifts constitutes each
individual’s uniqueness.
We can see emphasis on interiority, autonomy and subjectivity as
well as on the voice of ‘God within’, along with the importance of
self-understanding and the conditions for true knowing in the
following four Bahá’í quotations (emphases added):
1. O SON OF SPIRIT!
The best beloved of all things in My sight is Justice; turn
not away therefrom if thou desirest Me, and neglect it not
that I may confide in thee. By its aid thou shalt see with
thine own eyes and not through the eyes of others, and shalt
know of thine own knowledge and not through the
knowledge of thy neighbor. Ponder this in thy heart; how it
behooveth thee to be. Verily justice is My gift to thee and
the sign of My loving-kindness. Set it then before thine
eyes. (HW Arabic #2)
2. Turn thy sight unto thyself, that thou mayest find Me
standing within thee, mighty, powerful and self-subsisting.
(HW Arabic # 13)

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   179

3. One must ... read the book of his own self, rather than
some treatise on rhetoric. Wherefore He hath said, “Read
thy Book: There needeth none but thyself to make out an
account against thee this day.” (SVFV 51-52)
4. Turn your faces to the Sun of Reality. That Sun has
always risen in the East. Find the answer to your questions in
your heart. Be as little children. (PUP 213)
The notion then of autoethnography applied to specific
objectives, such as developing a new model, aims specifically at
utilizing the creativity that lies within individual life experience. It is
a method particularly relevant to the creative and moral spheres just
as scientific methodology is appropriate for the investigation of
objective reality via science. The present writer takes the view that
included in the purpose of the Bahá’í revelation is the subjective
manifestation of potential. Conversely there is a dis-empowering of
the individual when there is the belief that knowledge is simply ‘stuff
out there’ and that it is to be handed down from on high by those
few that know. This work’s against development4. We are protected
because not only is it forbidden for individuals to impose their own
‘reading’ of the Writings on others but also because Abdu’l-Bahá also
set out clearly (PUP 197) the conditions for growth and development.
The three conditions of freedom of conscience, liberty of thought
and right of speech I suggest are not presented by Abdu’l-Bahá as
luxurious and self-indulgent ‘rights’ in an extreme liberal society.
They are nothing less than key dynamics for the whole system to
work, if we are to have development and growth. The same principle
is, I suggest, applied by Abdu’l-Bahá to establish the dialogic basis for
education. He says;
Most ideas must be taught them through speech, not by
book learning. One child must question the other
concerning these things, and the other child must give the
answer. In this way, they will make great progress. For
example, mathematical problems must also be taught in the
form of questions and answers. One of the children asks a
question and the other must give the answer. Later on, the
children will of their own accord speak with each other
concerning these same subjects.... Oral questions must be
asked and the answers must be given orally. They must
discuss5 with each other in this manner. (BE 301; emphasis
added)
These dialogical and dialectical principles go even deeper. Taherzadeh
opens the first volume of his Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh with the
statement that

180  Bahá’í-Inspired Education

All created things, whether tangible or intangible, come into
being as a result of the intercourse between two elements
which assume the functions of male and female. This
pattern is followed throughout the whole of creation...
Dialogue engages and nourishes subjective potential in the way
that rain, soil and sun nurture the potential of the seed. Because we
have a whole complex of psycho-spiritual cross-checks given by
Abdu’l-Bahá and Bahá’u’lláh we need not fear the subjective.
Abdu’l-Bahá gives us the model of the senses, reason, intuition,
tradition (see SAQ 297; PUP 21-22 and 253-255; PUP 356). Bahá’u’lláh
gives us proofs (His own Self, His Revelation, His words — see GWB
105) and a process (consultation). Combined, this set of dynamics is
more than enough to check any distortions or excesses of
subjectivity.6
Such methodology as autoethnography clearly owes something to
the postmodern viewpoint7. What may be novel is its applied use —
applied in this case to developing a paradigmatic model of education
out of deep reflection on experience — in ‘dialogue’ with a wide
range of public theory.
In the thesis some twenty-five major problems were identified, to
which the model seeks to provide answers. Here I present a few of
the main challenges, and my suggested solutions, indicating examples
of Bahá’í writings that ‘speak’ to the particular issues. The paper is in
two parts. Part I presents some general, foundational, concerns and
Part II asks, and briefly answers, five core questions in relation to
Bahá’í-inspired holistic education.
Part I — SunWALK as a model for holistic
education — some general, foundational, concerns
Will and vital energy are similar. Where the will goes, the
vital energy follows. (Hong Yuan in Cleary 1991, 29)
When true knowledge flows, then knowledge and action
advance side by side. (Hong Yuan in Cleary 1991, 31)
One cannot obtain the full force of the sunlight when it is
cast on a flat mirror, but once the sun shineth upon a
concave mirror, or on a lens that is convex, all its heat will
be concentrated on a single point, and that one point will
burn the hottest. Thus is it necessary to focus one’s thinking
on a single point so that it will become an effective force.
(SWAB 10-11)

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   181

What’s in a name — the nub of the model?
SunWALK as a name, and mnemonic, has two elements. Sun
stands for whatever source of values the individual, or group, draws
upon with which to illumine her/his ‘walking’ of the path of life.
This light and inspiration is also seen as the source of the will to act —
morally (or creatively or critically). WALK stands for the generalized
goal of development in Willing Wise Action through Loving and
Knowing. Will, Action, Love and Knowledge also correspond to the
‘Four Valleys’ as described by Julio Savi in his essay8 entitled “Will,
Knowledge and love as explained in Bahá’u’lláh’s Four Valleys”. This
is the ‘what’ of the model.
The ‘how’ of the model is seen as the balanced, challenging and
nurturing of the dimensions of the human spirit. The human spirit is
seen as dynamic — always being expression in one of three voices: the
‘I’ voice of Creativity, the ‘WE’ voice of Caring and the ‘IT’ voice of
Criticality (see Wilber 1998: 74). These three are interpersonally the
arts, humanities and sciences but the focus in SunWALK is as
corresponding voices, from within the individual’s spirit — through
which we engage with reality.
Evil, or at least harm, comes from the absence of positives or from
imbalance between the 3Cs — and their illumination by higher-order
values or ‘virtues’.
To the three intrapersonal Cs in the model we must add the fourth
C which is termed ‘Community’. Community consists of a) the
interpersonal and social dimension of all of our relationships — our
being in the world with others — and b) the cultural from which we
take all of the various stimuli, via socialization, through which to
develop the three voices. Naturally we develop the ‘I’ voice from
what broadly we call the arts, the ‘WE’ voice from the Humanities
and the ‘IT’ voice from science and philosophy. This starts in the
(reasonably healthy) family, local community and earliest schooling.
Our individualized version of the three voices, and our command,
more or less, of reading the cultural milieu are shaped by the beliefs
and values of the culture in which we find ourselves — as well as our
personal beliefs and values.
Education, and civilization as a whole, needs the best possible
balance between the personal and the group. Failure to enable the
release of individual potential is harmful as is excess licence or group
domination.
The need to stay connected to the perennial values of
truth, beauty, goodness, justice and, transcending all, love
My educational studies in addition to their Bahá’í inspiration have
had ‘perennial philosophy’, as the wider community co-equivalent

182  Bahá’í-Inspired Education

source of inspiration for ‘holistic education’. Holistic education as a
form of education is to be distinguished from other ‘labels’ such as
‘integrated education’ or the broader ‘alternative education’ because
it puts the ‘Whole’ as greater than us, greater than any bits that we
can fit together, greater than the sum of the parts. That is to say
there is a mystical dimension intrinsic to the term ‘holistic education’
even though holistic education is not ‘faith-specific’. It is, most often
centred on the eternal truths of ‘perennial philosophy’. Such eternal
truths are of course referred to by Bahá’u’lláh as transcending
specific religions — the changeless Faith of God, eternal in the past,
eternal in the future (PB 118-9). The mystical connection is necessary
to holistic education and refers, as do the Guardian’s words, the core
of religious faith is that mystic feeling which unites man with God,
(LG 544) to how we relate to Mystery or the Whole. Such being and
relatedness is also described as the Whole, or, in Paul Tillich’s terms,
the ground of all being, or Being-Itself.9
The mystical connection to the Whole might enable us to maintain
an open and prayerful stance toward our theory-making and our
practice development and might consequently help us maintain a
touch of humility in how we view educational challenges and our
tentative solutions. Such a position is far from the ‘lust for certainty’
which is how the writer Karen Armstrong describes fundamentalism.
Fundamentalism of course closes down the possibilities of true
growth. Love on the other hand nurtures diversity as well as unity.
Concerning love Abdu’l-Bahá says:
Love is the cause of God’s revelation unto man, the vital
bond inherent, in accordance with the divine creation, in the
realities of things ...
Love revealeth with unfailing and limitless power the
mysteries latent in the universe. (SWAB 27-28)
The challenges of developing a new model of education are many.
The range of concerns from which questions might be posed, is
nothing less than vast. Here as in many challenges we have to set
aside the important in favour of the most important but what is the
most important concern when setting out to develop a new model of
education? Over a number of years the most important question was
sought — on which to construct a model of education. The question
which was settled on was, ‘what is it to be human, positively and
fully?’ This I suggest is the question to which all other educational
questions need to relate. To this was added the question, ‘what are the
characteristics of education as indicated in the writings of Bahá’u’lláh
and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá?’

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   183

This paper then focuses on a view of what it is to be human — in
order to provide a clear and simple way to reflect on educational
practice and theory.
Toward a definition of holistic education — as used in
SunWALK
What is Holistic Education? This is my working definition:
•
Holistic Education is learning and teaching based on balancing all
positive aspects of being, & becoming fully human — via the
realization of interconnectedness & wholeness.
•
Holistic Education seeks to provide for balanced engagement,
expression and relatedness of the whole person: the physical,
mental, affective, & spiritual — intrapersonally & interpersonally.
•
Holistic Education seeks to balance content & process. It seeks to
maintain balance between the intrapersonal dimensions of the
human spirit — here termed the Caring, the Creative and the
Critical. It also seeks to maintain a dynamic balance between
personal and interpersonal-group concerns. The interpersonal,
along with the cultural, political and legal dimensions of society
are collectively referred to as ‘Community’.
Holistic Education using the SunWALK approach is seen as an
answer to some of the key problems/challenges in education — its
fragmentariness, obviously, but also the need for moral education to
be integral throughout a model as opposed to being a bolt-on’ extra.
What kind of a mess is education in?
Children find themselves alienated by parents and other
adults whether they live in conditions of wealth or poverty.
This alienation has its roots in a selfishness that is born of
materialism that is at the core of the godlessness seizing the
hearts of people everywhere. (Ridvan 2000 letter, Universal
House of Justice)
Inadequate parenting, or exploitation of children, are not the only
forces that negatively impact on children and their teachers. Political
interference & manipulation, de-professionalization, prevalence of
materialistic philosophies, a mechanistic world view, sheer poverty,
poor teacher education etc. are just some of the issues that shape, or
distort, education. So are all the world’s general ills, terrorism being
the most recently publicized. We could list many such problems.
For me the chief negative characteristic of mainstream education
is its fragmentariness, it lack of wholeness. Children are usually whole
(to start with) but the system progressively atrophies connections and
connectedness. Should Bahá’ís see education as (necessarily) holistic?

184  Bahá’í-Inspired Education

A range of statements concerning connectedness are to be found in
Bahá’í writings. Examples are:
... all parts of the creational world are of one whole. (BWF
364)
God contains all.... The whole is greater than its parts ... (PT
23-7)
All that exists is God.... (ABL 22)
Every created thing in the whole universe is but a door
leading into His knowledge. (GWB 190)
We
cannot
segregate
the
human
heart
from
the
environment outside us and say that once one of these is
reformed everything will be improved. Man is organic with
the world. His inner life moulds the environment & is itself
also deeply affected by it The one acts upon the other and
every abiding change in the life of man is the result of these
mutual reactions. (From a letter written on behalf of Shoghi
Effendi 1933)
Together these suggest both a view of reality and a way of
proceeding. If all is God then all is sacred, all is connected, all
potentially leads from and to Him. We need to proceed ever-
conscious of two things; a) our connectedness and the need for the
learner’s realization of, and in, connectedness and b) the infinitely
Unknowable that lies behind the little we know and can know. In our
humanness lies potentially all of the names and attributes of God. In
humanity
are potentially revealed all the attributes and names of God
to a degree that no other created being hath excelled or
surpassed. All these names and attributes are applicable to
him. Even as He hath said: ‘Man is My mystery, and I am his
mystery.’ (GWB 177)
Yet beyond even the fullest expression of those names and
attributes lies mystery — both immanent and transcendent. Mystery is
the ever-present reality (and conditioner) as we look within ourselves
and also as we look at all that is ‘other’ and ‘beyond’. A sense of
Mystery and of the Whole should be ever present as we nurture
thought, feeling and action in education. The writings of A. J
Heschel (1965), in addition to the Bahá’í writings, are a great
inspiration in exploring awe, wonder and the ineffable as well as what
it is to be fully human.
The chief negative consequence of fragmentariness is here seen as
alienation. Alienation breeds anti-social behaviour and possibly ill-

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   185

health, and dis-ease. At the heart of alienation is meaninglessness. The
solution to the negative effects of fragmentariness is meaning-full-
ness. The creation of meaning-full-ness is both a personal and a
community responsibility. In SunWALK rich meaning-making comes
from the choice of higher-order texts experienced within higher-
order contexts.
The
chief
positive
consequence
of
wholeness,
through
connectedness, is seen as a sense of belonging and a sense of place
and a sense of identity and, consequently, a sense of purpose. Thereby
our name is named, as in
O son of man! I loved thy creation, hence I created thee.
Wherefore, do thou love Me, that I may name thy name and
fill thy soul with the spirit of life. (HW Arabic # 4)
which is seen as a process, not as a single completed act. The four
‘senses’ above are wholly relevant to the crisis that children and youth
are experiencing in the Western world — and perhaps the world
generally. The Hardwired to Connect10 report enables us to see both a
graphic portrait of the ills of our children and youth and also a way to
help bring healing. The notion of the panel of thirty odd scientists
who contributed to the report is to create ‘authoritative
communities’. These in effect embody the ‘four senses’ I have
mentioned above as a curative way. They also of course embody
support in answering the age-old existential questions of philosophy.
The teacher’s viewpoint and simplifying the teacher’s job
The SunWALK model, and its application to holistic education, is
presented from a teacher’s-eye-view of the teaching process. Its
perspective focuses on her/his consciousness, decision-making,
discourse-management, balancing of inner and outer concerns,
environment management etc. as s/he conducts the actual process of
nurturing others learning.
To illustrate the need for simplification I point to the UK National
Curriculum which originally required primary school teachers to teach
more than 200 ‘Attainment Targets’ for each and every child. One of
the consequences of the curse of ‘managerialization’ in education is
the replacement of horticultural metaphors with war metaphors.
Abdu’l-Bahá seems pre-eminently to use natural, horticultural,
metaphors in relation to education.
In SunWALK, on the other hand, I suggest that (in the West, at
least) teachers need only ever teach the development of abilities
within the dimensions of the 4Cs, three being intrapersonal, the other
the interpersonal:
The Intrapersonal:

186  Bahá’í-Inspired Education

•
Caring — abilities in other-focusedness — moral acts in service of
others
•
Creativity — abilities in construing reality via subjective
expression
•
Criticality — abilities in ‘reading’ reality via objective description
The Interpersonal:
•
in Community — abilities in being and functioning with other
individuals and groups — i.e. includes teamwork and citizenship
•
all the rest is forms of information and processing
The emphasis is on more than information or skills. Contexts are
as vital as texts. The supreme text is being and becoming human — in
the world with others — in the light of higher order values drawn
from our ‘Sun.’11 Information on its own is inert. It becomes
knowledge, or even wisdom, when it is placed in a context,
particularly in a values context (assuming raised consciousness in the
person). Lower-order contexts tend to debase human activity. Here I
am arguing for placing information, and all that we do in education
in higher-order contexts. Lower-order contexts tend to provide for
the greed of the individual, or group. Higher-order contexts tend to
be concerned with the good of the whole. We need to stay
consciousness of the contexts, whilst teaching ‘texts’12. In SunWALK
the teaching of the technical is always seen as within the context of
being and becoming more fully human. The ultimate context is of
course Mystery — or the presence of God. A sense of those contexts,
Wilber calls them a nest of holons (1998b: 61), can provide richness
and depth of significance and meaning.
The focuses of unbridled materialism robs children of the chance
to grow into their wholeness. Materialism narrows the meaning that is
made and the sense we have of what it is to be human. The antidote
to materialism is the spiritual, particularly in the sense of richness and
depth of meaning made.
Perhaps this is what the UK Chief Rabbi Jonathan Sachs had in
mind when he said (BBC 1 12.9.04) that the future is built on
memories. He spoke about how today’s children will become the
guardians of memory, so that what we invest in them today will
determine the legacy for tomorrow. Memory is what maintains our
knowing of who we are — but we need the collective memories of
humankind as well our personal memories. Together as contexts and
texts, dynamically interactive, they can provoke our development.
Rabbi Sachs said that children are the big time losers in our
consumer–society because what we give them is material affluence
and spiritual poverty. “Children grow to fill the space we give them,”

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   187

the Chief Rabbi said. The space I suggest is determined by nests of
contexts or holons with which we create the worldview within which
we do our teaching. We need to keep hold of eternal values to resist
the onslaught of exploitative materialism, and the dark side of the
postmodernist world-view. So massively de-stabilizing is that
onslaught that it would not be excessive to describe it as a spiritual
tsunami. The only antidote or cure to de-humanization is re-
humanization — which is why humanization is placed at the centre of
the SunWALK model.
It is a bitter-sweet irony that we can only study holistic education
fragmentedly. But we can live with a sense of the Whole — providing
that we recognize that we have no ability to comprehend the Whole.
Bahá’u’lláh says: I know not how to sing Thy praise, how to describe
Thy glory, how to call upon Thy Name. (PM 122) Abdu’l-Bahá says:
truth in its essence cannot be put into words. (ABL 22) Above all that
we know we have to acknowledge the infinity of what we don’t know.
In applying my thesis and model here I needed to summarize (some
aspects of) 12 years’ work. What did I get when I reduced more than
2000 books and papers, and many years of classroom ‘experience and
reflection and study’ to a one sentence version of the model —
consisting of approx 50 words?
The 50 word ‘one-sentence’ version of SunWALK?
Concepts are delicious snacks with which we try to alleviate
our amazement. (A. J. Heschel, Man Is Not Alone 7)
The one sentence version of The SunWALK model of spiritualizing
pedagogy (learning & teaching) sees human education as the
storied development of meaning, constructed, and de-
constructed, physically, mentally & spiritually, through Wise
& Willing Action, via Loving and Knowing — developed in
Community through Dialectical Spiritualization processes (in
all 4Cs) — all undertaken in the light of the ‘Sun’ of
(chosen) higher-order values and beliefs, using the best
available, appropriate, content.
These are the key elements, sifted from a total list of more than four
hundred concepts, and placed in a single, albeit, complex, sentence.
Presented as a list of elements the same one sentence version of
The SunWALK model of spiritualizing pedagogy looks like this:
1. the storied development of
2. meaning
3. constructed, and
4. de-constructed

188  Bahá’í-Inspired Education

5. physically,
6. mentally and
7. spiritually,
8. through Wise &
9. Willing
10. Action via
11. Loving and
12. Knowing developed in
13. Community through
14. Dialectical Spiritualization processes all undertaken in the light of
15. the ‘Sun’ of (chosen) higher-order values and beliefs
Each of these is a study in its own right, and will constitute chapters
or sections in a forthcoming book version, of the model, but there is
no space here to do that, however in Part II I present a little more
about five of the SunWALK model’s major themes.
Part II — Five Core questions and issues from
SunWALK in relation to Bahá’í-inspired education
The five themes, as questions, are:
1. What is the central idea around which to build education?
2. Given that being and becoming human is the central idea how
should we structure education?
3. How is knowing and knowledge viewed?
4. What is the key process?
5. How should we develop the curriculum and its contexts?
1. Unity, the central idea around which to build education?
I suggest that the best answer to the question, ‘What is the central
idea around which to build education?’ is the idea of ‘Being and
becoming human, in the world with others, in the light of higher
order values/virtues’. The question, ‘In what can we unite?’ also
springs to mind’. I suggest that the answer to both is that we can
unite in deeper and deeper understanding of what it is to be human —
positively and fully — as guided by the best contemporary thought, as
well as ancient wisdom13. Focus on being and becoming human is not
the same as a Humanist viewpoint. The viewpoint here comes from
the idea that we are made (potentially) in the image of God and also
that we (ideally) grow in the presence of God, a presence that is
maintained through prayer, meditation and engagement in service.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   189

As a representative image of this human-centred modelling
perhaps we can take the beauty of the human face. Beyond the beauty
of the human face, in what then can we unite and in what can we co-
operate? My answer is — in the universality of being human. We are
human, here in the world, and our needs centre on the same realities.
A student on a course on which I was teaching said, in answer to the
question, ‘Where do human rights come from?’, ‘Human rights arise
from human needs’. As is well known the psychologist Abraham
Maslow described these needs and realities as being at eight levels.
Maslow’s hierarchy of human needs:
1. Physiological: hunger, thirst, bodily comforts, etc.;
2. Safety/security: out of danger;
3. Belonginess and Love: affiliate with others, be accepted; and
4. Esteem: to achieve, be competent, gain approval and
recognition.
5. Cognitive: to know, to understand, and explore;
6. Aesthetic: symmetry, order, and beauty;
7. Self-actualization: to find self-fulfillment and realize one’s
potential; &
8. Self-transcendence: to connect to something beyond the ego
or to help others find self-fulfillment and realize their
potential.
Human needs, and the rights and responsibilities attached to them,
indicate the shared experience we have, and are as such grounded in
such essential fellow-feelings as empathy and compassion. But this
taxonomy of needs doesn’t tell us what medium it is with which the
teacher works, in the way that the sculptor works with stone, or the
painter with paint and canvas, or the dancer with body and space.
With what medium does the teacher-as-artist work, as the
sculptor works with stone or the dancer with her body?
My answer is the human spirit — her own and her pupils. How
might we construe that spirit? My answer is as the flow of ‘spirit-as-
the-life-force’ (chi?)
One analogy for the ‘flow of spirit-as-the-life-force’ is water
flowing. Another analogy lies in the flow of energy as dancer dances.
Another metaphor for ‘the flow of spirit-as-the-life-force’ is that of
white light. These metaphors are the opposite of the mechanistic
‘human-as-computers’ or the older ‘humans-as-machines’ metaphors.
Since, following Abdu’l-Bahá, I see teachers as ‘developers of
consciousness’14 I here am focusing on the idea of the life-force, in a
normal person, culminating in (raised) consciousness. I also use the

190  Bahá’í-Inspired Education

term interiority to refer to consciousness. By interiority I mean
‘affective awareness’ and ‘moral awareness’ as well as ‘cognitive
awareness’ — hence my preference for ‘heart-mind’ as a term for
interiority. Thoughts lead to feelings and vice versa. In the West,
post-Enlightenment, the heart and feelings have been presented as an
opposite to the ‘real thing’ i.e. to reason. As with the elimination of
the secondary status of women, peace for the human family needs a
re-balancing of heart and head and a re-legitimization of other ways
of knowing!
Metaphorically undifferentiated consciousness I suggest can be
viewed as white light. When the light is differentiated I suggest we
be concerned not with a full spectrum but with just the ‘primary
colours’. The primary colours of the human, the life-force in its
spiritual form (i.e. all that is not-biological) can be seen as the red of
the warmth of caring, the blue of cold reason, and the yellow of
expressing creativity. (See logo diagram on p. 174 above, or for
colour version please go to www.holisticeducation.org.uk)
Seen as the three ‘primary colours’, Caring, Creativity and
Criticality are not primarily ways of cognition, certainly not simply
ways of thinking about. They are socially derived ways, and possibly
even ‘hard-wired’ ways of being and of engaging with and acting in
the world. Of course the brain is involved in all three modes — but
not in the sense of reasoning. The 3Cs as presented here (see diagram
2, page 195) are modes of being and doing. It is true that caring
draws upon both the creative, for example via imagination in
empathy, and criticality, for example via estimating the seriousness of
an act, but being moved by some-thing and then moving is a
different mode to thinking about issues15.
In the West it seems to me that ‘other ways of being’ are mistaken
for simply different kinds of cognition or ‘thinking about’. Perhaps
this is relevant to, for example, the feminist objection to the
Kohlbergian developmental model of moral development (see
Gilligan 1998). The evolution of moral maturity is not experienced by
women as a step of improvement in reasoning. In general men, who
hold the majority of the positions of power, are challenged by the
idea that their way of being may not be the only valid way (much like
some powerful nations whose ethnocentricity makes it difficult to
understand that there are other worldviews.) Acknowledging other
ways of knowing is vital for the paradigm shift, especially for a
redress toward justice and peace — both require the establishment of
the equality of women on the world’s stage. The 3Cs are spiritual in
the sense of the ongoing manifestation of the human spirit, but they
are not of themselves the Spiritual16. The Spiritual in the divine sense
is seen as the voice of God that speaks via the Revelations of the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   191

Manifestations (but also to all, relatively, developed human
consciousness) via God immanent: Turn thy sight unto thyself, that
thou mayest find Me standing within thee, mighty, powerful and
self-subsisting (HW Arabic #13).
In the SunWALK model a quiet contemplative state of conscious-
ness is metaphorically, the ‘white light’ state — the state when our
spirit is dis-engaged from any one of the 3Cs. But from the
contemplative we can ‘fire up’ into engagement that is Caring or
Creative or Critical — we move from quietitude to focused
engagement.
In the quietness of the contemplative the ever-present God can
speak to us. Sometimes what we hear is impurified through egotistical
‘interference’, sometimes not. But from an educational point of view
since this is part of how we function as humans, being made in the
image of God, and this needs to be factored into any educational
model that considers itself Spiritual or Bahá’í.
Our psycho-spiritual life consists of events, most of which are
interactions that come through Caring, Creative, Critical and
Communal engagement. To ground these let me say this — Criticality
is the mode we (writer and reader) are in now. Caring would be the
mode of engagement if out of compassion we jumped up to care for
someone who had fallen down. Creativity would be your mode of
engagement if you took an idea and danced it as a dance, or
developed a series of filmic images, or represented it in paint, or as a
sculpture. My sense is that we are only ever in one mode, but the
other two are in the ‘background’ — each is ‘supported’ by the others.
We can ‘hover’ between two modes — but I suspect this means
switching back and forth rapidly between two modes. Whatever brain
science eventually reveals will be interesting but not vital — the
balance behind the three modes and the 4Cs is what education needs.
They enable the eliciting, developing and refining of ‘raw’ spirit into
appropriate and relevant abilities. They are what are needed to ensure
that education is whole, and education that is whole can be
instrumental toward the healing of our ailing world.
In SunWALK the teacher’s job is to develop abilities from within
the framework and dynamics of Caring, Creativity, Criticality in
Community — in the light of the ‘Sun’ of virtues/higher-order values.
The rest is information, and ‘information processing’ utilized for the
development of abilities in the 4Cs. Examples of such abilities are the
ability to analyse, differentiate, classify etc in the case of Criticality.
In the case of Creativity the abilities relate to the use of the various
arts media to express viewpoints subjectively. In the case of Caring
abilities include the capacity to empathise and act with compassion so
as to help others. The model also relates to several of the Ancient

192  Bahá’í-Inspired Education

Greeks’ cardinal virtues; truth (Criticality), beauty (Creativity) and
goodness (Caring). Justice is the over-riding virtue in the social realm
but is equally the virtue in interiority that enables us to see reality via
each of the 3Cs. It enables us to develop both autonomy and
authenticity. Justice is seen as the chief ‘conditioning’ influence in all
of the four Cs.
Each mode or voice needs an exemplary way or process to enable
its development in learners. For Criticality my exemplary process is
Professor Matthew Lipman’s philosophical inquiry programme called
Philosophy for Children. For Caring it is Bahá’í teachings and, from a
wider community perspective, perennial philosophy. For Creativity it
is — ‘artistic’ expression in any of its forms.
The 3Cs relate to three domains; the moral, the artistic and the
scientific. Epistemologically the 3Cs provide three forms of knowing
— internalized via socialization — from their various forms of social
and cultural embodiment — such embodiment being every-thing from
family members, to the media and galleries and museums.
As teachers it is our use of task setting and questioning that
provides the opportunities for challenging and nurturing abilities in
all of the 4Cs. The questions & tasks we give to children help
socialize development within the distinct modes of Caring, Creativity
& Criticality and in working in Community. With very young children
the task setting and questioning might be as simple as:
•
“Please offer the grapes to everyone.” (Caring — Goodness)
•
“Draw me a picture,’ or ‘Dance me a dance.” (Creativity —
Beauty)
•
“Is the green doll larger or smaller?” (Criticality — Truth)
Enlightened, responsible, parents of course get these processes started
from the child’s earliest years and create a good foundation for the
teacher to build on.
2. Given that being and becoming human is the central
idea how should we structure education?
In SunWALK the 4Cs, become the overall structure for
developing theory and practice. What does this mean? Theoretical
developments are looked at in terms of their value for supporting
further work via the 4Cs framework. We all have frameworks, we all
construe17, but they are not always explicit or shared, not always
articulated so that we know them.
In practice series of lessons need to be looked at in terms of
enabling balanced development between the four Cs. The need to

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   193

intensify one area might become apparent following reflection on the
work pupils have achieved over the preceding weeks. Most important
is the ‘juxtaposing of work’ especially the use of work from the
criticality mode being used as a creative challenge, followed by the
opposite i.e. creative work being used as the text for the next piece
of philosophical inquiry. In my experience this ‘dialectic’ can become
the most powerful form of pedagogy, and take the teacher and class
into high-order ‘crossover’ experiences between the critical and the
creative-meditative.
3. How is knowing and knowledge viewed?
Epistemologically two major shifts are seen as needed in
education. The first is a shift from the mechanistic, atomistic view of
knowledge as ‘stuff out there’ to knowing as a state of being and a
process of engaging with the world. Education is still largely in a
‘transmissive’, ‘Newtonian’, mechanistic mode. The shift is more than
a greater emphasis on experientiality or ‘learning through the mastery
of doing’ — but it includes these re-emphases. It is even more an
emphasis on being, and being in relationship with others, as opposed
to individualistic, regurgitation of information that is largely
meaningless to the learner, except for its instrumental value. The
learner has to find meaning in forms of collective experience as well
as in the personal. As Parker Palmer (1998) says in his book Courage
to Teach;
It is not enough to get the big story inside the student but
we also have to get the student inside the big story.
To escape from the dominance of ‘transmission’ a number of
things have to be changed, most notably reliance on teaching that
which can be tested in narrow, regurgitative ways. The answer here
lies in a combination of self, teacher and peer evaluation that is cross-
moderated right up to national level. Standards currently result in
homogenization, which is the opposite of what is needed. We need
standards but standards that are achieved via the principle of
‘harmony in diversity’, as opposed to standards that create
homogenization.
The second shift is away from the ‘god’ of rationality into
recognition of a range of ways of knowing. These can be seen as
including women’s ways of knowing, indigenous people’s ways of
knowing etc., but here I am proposing that education needs to
legitimize four ways of knowing that correspond to the 4Cs in the
model and these are not gender specific or culture specific;
Creativity: The subjective knowing that comes via the imagistic
and other arts media
Caring: The knowing that comes from focusing on others needs

194  Bahá’í-Inspired Education

Criticality: The objective knowing that comes from observing,
measuring, repeatability etc
Community: The interpersonal knowing that comes from being
and working with others
The first three forms of knowing correspond with the voices of
‘I’, ‘WE’ and ‘IT’ as described by Ken Wilber in several of his books
(1998a, 1998b, 2000).
In suggesting, as I do, greater emphasis on the other Cs I am not
making an argument to diminish the rational. Far from it, since
reasoning is taught abysmally in many schools. The exemplary process
for criticality in SunWALK, philosophical inquiry, (Lipman’s
Philosophy for Children18), shows us how to raise standards in
reasoning, and reasonableness.
4. Q. What is the key process?
The key process for SunWALK is dialogue. It is dialogue that
causes development that is worth having. Dialogue presupposes at
least an element of innate knowing in human reality. Professor of
Mathematics education Gene Maier emphases the vital difference
between education and training;
“Educate” stems from educere, to lead out, a Latin word
that lives in Modern English as “educe”. “Train” is from the
French traîner, to drag behind one, as in “bridal train.” Thus,
we have two disparate metaphors for teaching: leading out
or dragging behind.19
The chief purpose of dialogue, and philosophical inquiry, as in
Lipman’s Philosophy for Children, is to educe, to lead out — as in
Bahá’u’lláh’s “Man is a mine...” (GWB 260) I extend the notion of
dialogue into four forms to correspond with the four Cs and the four
ways of knowing.
Intrapersonal dialogue
1. Caring = d. with and in the heart & with & in relationships — d. in
other-centredness
2. Creativity = d. with and in and through the materials of the
chosen medium; focused on expression of the subjective world-
view (in the meditative) voice; to generate insight subjectively
3. Criticality = d. with and in texts (math., philosophical, critical)
focused on expression of the objective voice — to generate
insight objectively

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   195

Interpersonal dialogue
4. Community = d. in and with people (or artefacts) that are part of
the cultural, legal, social & political milieu — this form of d.
includes the purpose of maintaining & developing the
social/cultural milieu
The Western separation of affect and cognition can be a curse.
Heart and mind, (heart-mind) are involved, more or less, in all three
modes of engagement. Moral development, for example, as
understood in SunWALK draws upon all forms of engagement and
both affect and cognition. Cognition is sometimes defined as the
psychological result of perception and learning and reasoning. But
knowing and being in relationship do not require constant
‘perception-and-learning-and reasoning’. A mother and baby for
example can ‘talk’ to each other via touch whilst cognitive
involvement can be elsewhere. Diagram 2 indicates a straightforward
way to model the three Cs in relation to affect and cognition —
criticality being more cognitively charged, and less affectively
charged etc. However I still hold to the idea that ultimately interiority
is best seen at ‘bedrock level’ as heart-mind, the flow of the life-force
experienced as interiority or consciousness.

Criticality
Creativity
Caring
Head
↑
↓
Heart
Diagram 2 - The Three Cs
The nature of the process and methodology is vital to all aspects,
and users, of the SunWALK model. The researcher and the teacher,
and the teacher-as-researcher, need, as the Americans say, to ‘walk the
talk’. This relates to two general points. Firstly civilized living is seen
as a function of how well a society brings together the private,
subjective sphere, with the public sphere, i.e. the concerns of the
group as a whole. (What passes for democracy in the West may or
may not do better than other forms of government, at least on such
issues as care of children, or of the vulnerable — but its associated
freedoms are vital to the manifestation of potential). The second
general point concerns the conditions for
maximizing the
development of potential. Chief amongst the necessary conditions is
the freedom of expression and the use of dialogue. However dialogue

196  Bahá’í-Inspired Education

here is seen as more than the exchange of speech. I include creative
expression and meditation and consultation in my broadly-based
definition of ‘multi-level dialogue’, as described earlier, since all of
these provide the stimulus for a person, and the groups to which s/he
belongs to manifest potential.
The revelation of abilities through the stimulus of
dialogic challenge
Highly relevant to the concern of subjectivity and of maximizing
the development of peoples’ potential are the writings of Charles
Taylor, especially his book The Ethics of Authenticity (1991, p. 61)
where he says;
The notion that each one of us has an original way of being
human entails that each of us has to discover what it is to be
ourselves. But the discovery can’t be made by consulting
pre-existing models, by hypothesis. So it can be made only
by articulating it afresh. We discover what we ‘have it in us
to be’ by becoming that mode of life, by giving expression
in our speech and action to what is original in us. The notion
that revelation comes through expression is what I want to
capture ... (emphasis added)
The chief means for eliciting potentials is seen then as dialogue,
dialogue in the broadest sense, as described in the multi-level sub-
model of dialogue. Taylor’s revelation through expression is to my
mind more than a definition of ‘acceptable authentic individuality’
compared to ‘unacceptable individualism’. It is the identification of
an essential principle for learning and development. That principle
lies, as I described above, in having the creative and the rational
yoked in dynamic relationship. It also provides an inter-faith (or pan-
religious) way to understand the intuitive voice, the spiritual and the
transcendent form of experience. One pathway to try to build
common ground between the religious and the non-religious views of
the spiritual is via art especially if we are willing to entertain the
closeness of the subjectivity of art and the subjectivity of religious
experience.
5. How should we develop the curriculum and its contexts?
One of the key notions in SunWALK is that we enable the moral
and spiritual to be present throughout the whole process of
education. One essential way of doing this is to place all technical
learning, from basic reading through to advanced engineering, in the
context of being and becoming positively and fully human in the
world with others. Maslow’s20 hierarchy of human needs if ‘inverted’
gives us the transcendent as the outermost context with which to
embrace all ‘lesser’ focuses.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   197

8) Self-transcendence: to connect to something beyond the ego or
to help others find self-fulfillment and realize their potential.
7) Self-actualization: to find self-fulfillment and realize one’s
potential; &
6) Aesthetic: symmetry, order, and beauty;
5) Cognitive: to know, to understand, and explore;
4) Esteem: to achieve, be competent, gain approval and
recognition.
3) Belonginess and Love: affiliate with others, be accepted; and
2) Safety/security: out of danger;
1) Physiological: hunger, thirst, bodily comforts, etc. (William
Huitt, http://chiron.valdosta.edu/whuitt/col/regsys/maslow.html)
When inverted Maslow’s hierarchy can be seen as a hierarchy of
contexts, rather like Ken Wilber’s nests of holons. In SunWALK the
spiritual is seen as the source of the will to act morally. The spiritual
for me includes two simple ideas a) all that is not biological is
spiritual and b) spirituality is living for others21. Personally I don’t
care what a person’s belief system is so long as s/he is committed to
truth, beauty, goodness and justice. Consider the absurdity, and
horror, of humans being the only ‘animals’ that will kill each other
because they hold to different ideas. “I know that Christ is king, and
I’m prepared to kill you as a consequence.” “I know that Mu˙ammad
is the Seal of the Prophets, and I’m prepared to kill you as a
consequence.” “I know that all religion is the opium of the people
and I’m prepared to kill you as a consequence.” No lower ‘animal’
behaves like this. Whatever our worldview that which can be
cherished, that which can unite us is acknowledging virtues — and in
SunWALK I have chosen as cardinal the virtues of truth, beauty,
goodness and justice.
Consequently development in education is seen as the ability to
frame the curriculum within higher and higher developmental stages.
In using Maslow’s hierarchy ‘inverted’ the suggestion is that we try
framing the more material or biological within the higher order
context of transcendence. The transcendent (potentially) is here taken
at its simplest to mean being able to live primarily in the light of
higher order values, or ‘virtues’, and to be able to stay focused on the
needs of others. ‘Others’ here is seen as ranging from ones own
partner or family through to the human family as a whole. However
the transcendent can mean more, most importantly it is experiences in
which there is loss of ego boundaries, i.e. the subject and object
become one. It is possible that in this ‘the deeply spiritual experience’
and the ‘creative experience’, or the ‘aesthetic experience’, are all the
same — the unifying factor being the movement from subject-object

198  Bahá’í-Inspired Education

to an experience of oneness, expressed subsequently as a gain in ‘deep
feeling’ or ‘deep insight’. To include these, the deepest levels of
human
experience,
requires
sensitive,
inspired
teaching
of
considerable ability. SunWALK provides the framework for this kind
of development and international cooperation of the holistic kind can
help us create not just a vision, but working models and proven
practice.
Curricula models — is there a fourth level?
John P Miller (1996:5-8) suggests three forms/levels of
educational orientation, the Transmissive, the Transactional and the
Trans-formational — but is there a fourth? It seems to me that there is a
case to be made for a fourth namely; the Transcendental. The
transcendent I tentatively suggest might lie in such a deep
engagement, via any one of the four Cs, that there follows an
experience of oneness between subject and object, (preferably)
followed by new insight and new understanding. Unitive experience is
what Wilber calls boundarylessness, or a (temporary) loss of the ego
boundaries22. Unitive experience of itself is not, of course, a
guarantee of virtue. It is the contexts chosen that enable, or deny,
virtues.
We can’t teach transcendence but we can teach to maximize the
possibilities of transcendent experience (but that will have to be the
subject for another paper).
The approach used in SunWALK makes the model a vital new way
to develop initial teacher education, as well as in-service teacher
development. I will write about SunWALK’s application to initial and
in-service teacher education elsewhere but suffice it say that the
model applied to teacher education will involve the same dimensions
that are introduced here. This is to say that I believe that the way to
organize teacher education, as well as the teaching of children, is via
the 4Cs, multi-level dialogue etc.
Conclusion
This paper has provided a brief description of aspects of the
Bahá’í-inspired SunWALK model of holistic education’. It is
concerned particularly with holism in respect of interiority and in
respect of balances between the four modes of engagement with
reality, which in the light of higher-order values, make us human, and
which form a basis for true civilization.
Professionally as teachers we could structure our work on the three
voices found in (Western) civilization the ‘WE’ voice (Caring), the ‘I’
voice (Creativity) and the ‘IT’ voice (Criticality) — in Community —
with the rest of the process being refinement via use of various kinds

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   199

of information and processing of that information. SunWALK by
placing all technical learning in a context of being and becoming
human — in the light of higher-order values23 is a way of proceeding
that has the capacity to contribute to the establishment of justice and
peace.
East and West have an abundance of riches to bring to the task of
developing Bahá’í-inspired holistic education. With the 3 modes
corresponding to 3 ‘voices’ and corresponding to more diverse ways
of knowing we have a way to take education into the future —
providing they are linked to the cardinal values of goodness, beauty
and truth, along with justice as the measure and conditioner of all.
That way is a holistic maintaining of glorious diversity — harmonized
by our recognition that we are all in the process of being and
becoming more fully human, as with others, we spend our brief span
in this world.
Future developments and partnership cooperation with
other centres and further uses of the SunWALK model
We are currently working at developing courses at various levels
including an MA. We are interested to find ‘partner’ centres who
would like to work with us at developing the model further — or at
applying the model in schools or in teacher education. If you are
interested please contact us at: rogerprentice@bigfoot.com
About the SunWALK model Professor Martin Cortazzi wrote:
A further function of the SunWALK model might be to use
the model to integrate theorizing of education and
principles application to learning and teaching- in Bahá’í
institutes and schools. Another function could be to
facilitate ways for Bahá’í professionals to develop their
working practices in all levels of education in more
holistically oriented ways — in state or private school or
colleges. Since the ‘Sun’ part of the model is so designed
that the values from any religion, philosophy or community
tradition can be placed in the centre and worked through,
integrating practices around the 4Cs, the model has the
further function that it might be used to establish common
ground between different faiths or worldviews applied to
education. This is an exciting challenge towards a holistic
vision of spiritual traditions in education.
If you would like to discuss these ideas or receive a book list of
key texts please contact me at rogerprentice@bigfoot.com Much
information
about
Holistic
Education
is
available
at
www.holisticeducation.org.uk

200  Bahá’í-Inspired Education

Acknowledgements
My thanks to Dr Stephen Lambden for his interesting comments on
the transcendent. My thanks also to Professor Martin Cortazzi for
other helpful comments.
BIBLIOGRAPHY
Brown D. Mackensie (1965) Ultimate Concern — Tillich in Dialogue,
New York: Harper & Row (or Canterbury: SCM)
Ellis, Carolyn and Bochner Arthur P. (2000) Autoethnography, Personal
Narrative, Reflexivity: Researcher as Subject.
In Denzin Norman K. & Lincoln Yvonna S. (Eds.) Handbook of
Qualitative Research (pp. 199-258).
Fisher, Robert (1998) Teaching Thinking — Philosophical Enquiry in the
Classroom, London: Cassell
Gilligan, Carol, (1998) In a Different Voice — Psychological Theory &
Women’s Development, Cambridge, Ma, USA: Harvard University Press
Heschel, Abraham Joshua (1965) Who is Man, Stanford, California:
Stanford University Press
Heschel, Abraham Joshua (1971) Man is Not Alone, New York: Octagon
Books
Lipman, Matthew 1991b) Thinking in Education, Cambridge, UK:
Cambridge University Press
Miller, John P. (1996) The Holistic Curriculum, Ontario, Canada:
Ontario Institute for Studies in Education
Palmer, Parker J. (1998) The Courage to Teach, San Francisco, USA:
Jossy-Bass Publishers
Wilber, Ken (1985) No Boundary, Boston: Shambhala
Wilber, Ken, (1998a) The Marriage of Sense and Soul, NY: Random House
Wilber, Ken (1998b) The Essential Ken Wilber, Boston: Shambhala
Wilber, Ken (2000) Integral Psychology, Boston: Shambhala


NOTES
1 This paper is a development of presentations prepared for the Irfan
Colloquium October 2004 at the Louhelen Bahá’í school and the forum
held at the Bosch Bahá’í school by the CGIE — the Centre for Global
Integrated Education, October 2004. In this version however I have tried
to include some elements of a Bahá’í theological basis for educational
philosophy.
2 Director, Holistic Education Institute, rogerprentice@bigfoot.com.
3 The SunWALK logo and model of education  Roger Prentice 1995.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   201


4 Of course I don’t mean the Bahá’í Revelation or its proper
institutions. Here I have in mind corrupt organizations in which people
mis-represent knowledge in order to maintain power or achieve
improper ends.
5 The reader of course must decide whether ‘discuss’ means the openness
of dialogue or the closedness of cloze procedures.
6 ‘Mistakes’ are vital to learning — as someone said the fastest way to pro-
gress is ‘ready, fire, aim’. (My apology for the nature of the metaphor)
7 We mustn’t because of contemporary chaos think that the postmodern
is all bad. An excellent sorting out of the benefits as well as the
demerits of postmodernism is to be found in Wilber (1998 ch. 9)
8 Savi says:
To summarize the first three Valleys: in the first Valley, the self,
with its aspiration to realize its hidden potentialities and to become
similar to the Self of God, requires the capacity of willing, intended
as willingness to turn towards the True Beloved, willing-ness to
choose a course of action, to determine which thoughts, feelings,
words, deeds to manifest in this earthly life so that the self may be
transformed into a divine, angelic identity. In the second Valley,
reason, in its yearning to acquire knowledge of outer and inner
reality, requires the guidance of a divine universal mind that will
“teach it the science of the love of God” (SVFV 52). The accep-tance
of this guidance is the secret to acquiring a real and sound knowledge.
(http://bahai-library.com/?file=savi_will_knowledge)
9 The whole of the Harper and Row 1965 book Ultimate Concern —
Tillich in Dialogue by D. Mackenzie Brown is online at http://www.
religion-online.org/showbook.asp?title=538 (accessed 29 Jan 2005)
10 Much information including a summary is to be found at
http://americanvalues.org/html/hardwired.html (accessed 29 Jan 2005)
11 The ‘Sun’ for Bahá’ís obviously is the Bahá’í Revelation. However the
model is designed to enable us to work spiritually with others without
distorting relationships through feeling the need to convert; that is it is
designed to respect other forms of worldview within the ‘Sun’.
12 ‘Texts’ includes experience of dance, video, theatre etc. — and
especially the text of self.
13 The current interest in ‘restorative justice’ for victims, and between
them and perpetrators of crime, is essentially a process of re-
humanization of the perpetrators. Of course it is also for some of the
victims a releasing from the negatives that can destroy.
14 I have in mind the passage:
There are certain pillars which have been established as the
unshakable supports of the Faith of God. The mightiest of these is
learning and the use of the mind, the expansion of consciousness,
and insight into the realities of the universe and the hidden mys-
teries of Almighty God. To promote knowledge is thus an inescapa-
ble duty imposed on every one of the friends of God. (SWAB 126-7)

202  Bahá’í-Inspired Education


15 I continually repeat this point because many people seem to find it
difficult to understand the difference between cognition and being in
the creative mode (essentially the same as the mystical) or the caring
mode. My impression is that something of the order of 90% of male
academics, for example, just don’t ‘get it’ — they literately cannot get
out of their heads. Some women academics and politicians seem to have
essentially adopted a male-like persona in order to succeed. (Possibly
their only option.)
16 I have chosen to capitalize Spiritual to indicate divine influence. I
have in mind those passages where ‘Abdu’l-Bahá speaks of the ‘breaths
and promptings’ of the Holy Spirit — e.g. PUP 7, 23, 41, 142; PT 179. In
Paris Talks the notion of higher self is not capitalized — however in a
sense the higher self it is that receives the ‘breaths’ and ‘promptings’.
17 The psychologist Kelly developed a whole psychology on the idea of
our construing — see http://www.brint.com/PCT.htm for a summary of
his work (accessed 29 Jan 2005)
18 There are many books by Lipman and about Philosophy for Children.
A good classroom based introduction is Bob Fisher’s 1998 book Teaching
Thinking — Philosophical Enquiry in the Classroom. Lipmans opus
magnum is Thinking in Education.
19 Mair’s website on maths learning contains much more that
mathematics, see http://www.mlc.pdx.edu/ARC060998.html (29 Jan 2005)
20 For an introduction to Maslow’s ideas in an educational context see Dr
William
Huitt’s
website
at
http://chiron.valdosta.edu/
whuitt/col/regsys/maslow.html (accessed 29 Jan 2005)
21 These come from the much loved professor of Religious Education John
Hull; many papers are online at http://johnmhull.biz (29 Jan 2005)
22 This is a major theme in one of Wilber’s early books No Boundary (1985)
23 The teacher, the school, the community needs to decide on those
virtues that are to form the ‘human context’ for a school’s teaching — I
have argued for truth, beauty, goodness and justice to be cardinal but
compassion and empathy as well imagination and other key qualities
must be developed. The authority of the school needs to be derived from
periodic consultations between representatives of all stakeholders.

Interpretation and the Guardianship
A talk given by Ian Semple at a seminar in Haifa on
18 February 19841
The subject “Interpretation and the Guardianship” may seem to
be very straight-forward, but the more I have thought about it, the
more I have become aware that the Bahá’í concept of interpretation
is very different from that prevalent in earlier Dispensations and
that, even within the Faith, there are many misconceptions, and that
these can give rise to tests for the believer.
Here I would like to digress from the subject for a moment, to
make a personal comment about the coexistence of divine authority
and individual freedom of expression, which is such a characteristic
feature of the Faith. Someone — I think it was a pilgrim — once
commented to me that he thought that if the Guardian had been
sitting in the meeting of the Universal House of Justice it would
have been impossible for the members to say frankly what they
thought. I have had the privilege of only a few hours in the presence
of the Guardian, but I do not agree with that point of view. I
believe that in his presence one would not have dared to do anything
but say exactly what one thought. I am also confirmed in this view
by the actions of the Hands of the Cause of God since the coming
into being of the Universal House of Justice — the Hands who
worked so closely with the beloved Guardian. They have always
demonstrated absolute loyalty and also absolute frankness in all their
consultations with the Universal House of Justice, and this
combination has been a tremendous source of strength and
inspiration to the Universal House of Justice.
So I believe that the presence of a source of divine guidance in
the Faith, while being a guarantee of its unity and preserving the
purity of its teachings, is no contradiction to the principle of
freedom of thought. I doubt if it is possible to obtain a totally clear
understanding of the subject of interpretation, but perhaps we can
clarify it to some extent.
I propose to divide the subject into three main topics:
1. The distinction between the interpretation that we all do when
discussing any subject, and Authoritative Interpretation as
exercised by the Guardian
2. The distinction between authoritative interpretation, and
divinely guided legislation

204   Interpretation and the Guardianship

3. Aspects of the function of Interpreter as exercised by Shoghi
Effendi This part of the subject is our main concern in this talk,
and therefore I shall divide it also into a number of aspects,
although I must emphasize that this is a purely arbitrary division,
and each type of interpretation shades into the others. They are:
3.l.
Defining the meaning of specific Texts.
3.2.
Explaining what is the thought conveyed by the Texts,
i.e. expounding their meaning.
3.3.
Development of seminal statements in the Sacred Text.
3.4.
Examples of refusal to comment further on a Text or
make statements on matters not covered in the Text.
3.5.
Definition of the sphere of authoritative interpretation.
3.6.
Illumination of the overall significance of the
Revelation.
3.7.
The power to take a long and uninterrupted view over a
series of generations.
Let us go back to the first of the three main topics.
1. Aspects of Interpretation, Individual and Authoritative
It is, of course, impossible to understand or speak about any
statement, whether written or oral, without interpretation. The
Manifestation of God has the superhuman task of conveying to
mankind truths that it does not yet understand and training it in
modes of behaviour that it has not yet risen to. To do this He has to
use the limited languages that are spoken around Him, with all their
accumulated meanings and connotations. He not only uses words
and metaphors and similes with consummate skill, but in using old
forms and old concepts, He transforms them and breathes into them
new meaning. So, in trying to educate ourselves in the Revelation,
we need to study three meanings in each text we read: the meaning
of the words themselves; the meaning they will have had for the
particular person or persons that the Manifestation was addressing;
and also the new meaning or meanings that He will be trying to
convey. In other words, we must avoid three pitfalls: one is that of
ignoring the obvious meaning of the words (in the past people were
sometimes so keen on extracting the esoteric significance of a text
that they were blind to the clear meaning of the words); the second
pitfall is that of taking the words out of their historical and social
contexts; the third is that of thinking that the social and historical
contexts will, in themselves, give us an understanding of the obvious
meaning and of what the Manifestation is saying.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   205

A good example to show this is Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablet to a
Physician. Some passages are quite straightforward. To understand
others we need to remember the caution of the Guardian that this
Tablet was addressed to a physician of the old school of medicine,
and that without an understanding of the terminology of that
school, we could not understand what Bahá’u’lláh was saying.
However, it is clear that Bahá’u’lláh was not merely recounting to
the physician what the physician already knew; He was explaining to
him, in terminology that he could understand, certain truths that He
wanted to convey about health and healing.
The historical and social context is not the only context of a
passage. There is also the context of the other teachings. In
Gleanings we find the following words of Bahá’u’lláh:
If it be your wish, O people, to know God and to discover
the greatness of His might, look, then, upon Me with Mine
own eyes, and not with the eyes of anyone besides Me. Ye
will, otherwise, be never capable of recognizing Me,
though you ponder My Cause as long as My Kingdom
endureth, and meditate upon all created things throughout
the eternity of God, the Sovereign Lord of all, the
Omnipotent, the Ever-Abiding, the All-Wise. (GWB 272)
This, I think, implies among other things that the most important
keys to understanding the Writings are the Writings themselves;
that we must read them not merely from our point of view, trying to
see what we can understand, but consider them from Bahá’u’lláh’s
point of view: what is He trying to convey? And for what purpose?
It is no good taking one text and trying to understand it in isolation
from all the other teachings which might bear upon it. Therefore we
must relate every statement to all the rest of the Revelation and try
to understand what Bahá’u’lláh is striving to convey. The
consequence of this realization is to accept that, since we can never
encompass the whole Revelation we must always be tentative in our
understanding even when it may seem to us to be absolutely clear. A
striking example of the importance of this occurs in the Kitáb-i-
Aqdas, where we find the verses: “God hath enjoined upon you
marriage” and “Enter into wedlock, O people, that ye may bring
forth one who will make mention of Me: this is My commandment
unto you, obey it as a succour to yourselves.” One would think that
these are very clear statements not susceptible of any interpretation.
It seems, on the face of it to be an unambiguous and binding
command. Yet one of the believers asked Bahá’u’lláh Himself about
this passage, and whether it meant that marriage was compulsory.
Bahá’u’lláh replied: “This is not compulsory.” I instance this because
it is quite a temptation sometimes for Bahá’ís, during discussion of a

206   Interpretation and the Guardianship

subject, to assert dogmatically (and sometimes heatedly!): “You can’t
say that! Here are the words of the Text and they are quite clear!”
Individual interpretation of this kind, that is, striving to
understand the full meaning of a text, is not only inescapable, it is
essential if we are to increase the depth of our understanding and
also recognize its permanent limitations. I believe the combination
of encouragement of individual thought with the existence of an
infallible centre of authoritative interpretation is one of the unique
strengths of this Dispensation, the effects of which endure even in
the absence of the Guardian. The very fact that there is in principle
in the Cause a centre of such guidance, and that all other
interpretation is deprived of authority, teaches us a humility in our
thinking that is one of the strongest cements of unity.
Although individual interpretation has no authority, we should
not be led to the extreme of concluding that the explanations given
by individuals can never be inspired. In a Tablet which is published
in Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá the Master wrote:
The Blessed Beauty hath promised this servant that souls
would be raised up who would be the very embodiments of
guidance, and banners of the Concourse on high, torches
of God’s oneness, and stars of His pure truth, shining in
the heavens where God reigneth alone. They would give
sight to the blind, and would make the deaf to hear; they
would raise the dead to life. They would confront all the
peoples of the earth, pleading their Cause with proofs of
the Lord of the seven spheres. (SWAB 250)
It would be a mistake, therefore, to assume that the Bahá’í
Revelation will be deprived of believers who can give us profounder
insights into the meaning of the Teachings of the Faith. But none of
these kinds of interpretation, no matter how learned the believer
who expresses them, are authoritative. Although, they may enlighten
us there is always the inevitability of some degree of error. Let us
never forget the example of the Christian Dispensation. The Gospels
are filled with prophecies and warnings given by Jesus about His
Second Coming. Christians have laboured to understand these for
some 2,000 years. Their scholars have worked out many
interpretations and understandings of what would happen, but I do
not know of any who came to the correct conclusion, namely, that it
signified the appearance of another Manifestation of God.
Authoritative, divinely-guided interpretation is of a wholly
different order to what we have just been considering and is
exclusively the function of the Master and the Guardian.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   207

2. Authoritative Interpretation and Divinely Guided
Legislation
The prerogative of authoritative interpretation conferred by
Bahá’u’lláh, first upon ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and, after Him, upon the
Guardian, lies at the heart of the Covenant.
In previous Dispensations no clear distinction was drawn between
interpretation and legislation. The two functions were subsumed
under one process of deducing conclusions and guidance for new
situations from the study of the Holy Word. Because these
deductions were believed to be the process of making explicit what
was implicit in the Text, they were virtually unalterable and turned
into a massive accumulation of dogma, ritual and laws. In Judaism it
became primarily a multiplicity of minute regulations governing
every moment and aspect of a person’s life, obedience to which was
conceived as identical with obedience to the Law of God.
Christianity, to a large extent, broke free of this, but replaced it
with the erection of a formidable structure of dogma, belief in
which was understood to be essential for the eternal salvation of the
soul, and which led to such abuses as the sale of indulgences, which
precipitated the rebellion of Martin Luther and the Protestant
Reformation.
In this Dispensation we have two separate divinely-guided
authorities, one to provide authoritative interpretation, and one to
provide supplementary legislation. The essential distinction between
these two functions is explained by the Universal House of Justice in
its letter dated 9 March 1965:
The Guardian reveals what the Scripture means; his
interpretation is a statement of truth which cannot be
varied. Upon the Universal House of Justice, in the words
of the Guardian, ‘has been conferred the exclusive right of
legislating on matters not expressly revealed in the Bahá’í
Writings.’ Its pronouncements, which are susceptible of
amendment or abrogation by the House of Justice itself,
serve to supplement and apply the Law of God. Although
not invested with the function of interpretation, the House
of Justice is in a position to do everything necessary to
establish the World Order of Bahá’u’lláh on this earth.
(MUHJ63 π23.20)
One important consequence of this distinction is that when we
have a question about what we should believe, or what the Text
means, and this is not answered for us in the Text itself, there is no
one, in the absence of the Guardian, who can answer it
authoritatively and bindingly. If, however, we wish to know what we

208   Interpretation and the Guardianship

should do in any instance, the Universal House of Justice is fully
empowered to convey the divine guidance on the subject.
Two other important consequences are the prohibition of the
formulation of dogmas or creeds in the Faith (these are, after all, but
man’s attempt to tie the truths of God up in a parcel and are forever
doomed to inadequacy), and the recognition of the profound
difference between the Laws actually given by the Manifestation of
God, which can be changed only by another Prophet, and those
which the Universal House of Justice is inspired to make, which are
repealable by the House of Justice itself. This gives an
unprecedented degree of elasticity to the Bahá’í system of law.
There is, of course, a hierarchical relationship between the
Guardian’s interpretation and the legislation of the Universal House
of Justice. The supreme authority in the Faith is the Word of God
and all legislation is bound by that authority. The Authoritative
Interpreter is the living mouthpiece of that Word, the Expounder of
its true meaning. He therefore naturally has the authority to define
the sphere of the legislative action of the Universal House of
Justice. Shoghi Effendi has stated categorically that neither the
Guardian nor the Universal House of Justice would ever usurp the
function of the other. Both, after all, are under the protection and
unerring guidance of the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh. Therefore we can be
confident that, even in the absence of the Guardian the Universal
House of Justice is not going to legislate outside its sphere of
authority. I suspect, however, that in its care not to step beyond its
boundaries, the House of Justice may well refrain from legislating in
areas which, if we had the Guardian with us, he could have told us
were within its sphere. There are two very interesting examples of
what I mean.
As you know, in both Christianity and the Bahá’í Faith, murder is
prohibited. The question then arises as to whether abortion and
euthanasia are permissible or not. The Catholic Church has
concluded that the law is clear, “Thou shalt not kill”, and therefore
both are prohibited. In the Bahá’í Faith, however, we have
statements by the Guardian on both issues. In both cases he states
that there is nothing explicit about them in the Writings — which
implies that they are not quite the same thing as murder. The
following are three statements made on his behalf relating to these
subjects:
On 25 August 1939: The practice of abortion — which is
absolutely criminal as it involves deliberate destruction of
human life — is forbidden in the Cause. Regarding ‘mercy

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   209

killings’ ... this is also a matter which the Universal House
of Justice will have to legislate upon.
On 13 November 1940: Regarding the practice of
abortion; as no specific reference has been made to the
subject in the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, it devolves upon
the International House of Justice to definitely pronounce
upon it. There can be no doubt, however, that this practice,
involving as it does the destruction of human life, is to be
strongly deprecated.
On 20 October 1953: As there is nothing specific in the
Bahá’í Writings on the subject of abortion, it will
consequently have to be dealt with by the International
House of Justice, when that Body is formed.
On the basis of these statements the Universal House of Justice
has ruled that to have an abortion just for the sake of getting rid of
an unwanted birth is absolutely forbidden, but that there may be
cases in which abortion would be permissible, and this is for the
Universal House of Justice to legislate on. Pending such legislation
the decision is left to the consciences of the individuals concerned in
the light of the above principles and of expert medical advice.
Another area concerns the obligatory prayers. In the thirteenth
Glad-Tidings Bahá’u’lláh states: “All matters of State should be
referred to the House of Justice, but acts of worship must be
observed according to that which God hath revealed in His Book.”
On one occasion when one of the believers asked the Universal
House of Justice to designate a prayer which could be said for the
House of Justice it referred to this Text and refused to make any
such designation. One could have assumed, likewise, that this Text
would have made it impossible for the House of Justice to answer
any questions about the Obligatory Prayers, but the Guardian has
written that matters of detail that are obscure in relation to the
Obligatory Prayers are to be decided by the Universal House of
Justice, specifying, therefore, just what aspect of these matters do
lie within its sphere of legislation.
3. The Function of Interpretation
The way in which Shoghi Effendi exercised his function of
Interpreter is highly illuminating, both in regard to our
understanding of what Authoritative Interpretation implies and in
regard to our understanding of the infallibility of the Sacred Text, a
subject which has been badly misunderstood in earlier Dispensations.
All these quotations immediately following are from letters written
by the Guardian’s secretaries on his behalf.

210   Interpretation and the Guardianship

3.1 In some cases Shoghi Effendi simply gave clear statements
about what a particular passage meant, for example:
In regards to your questions: What the Master meant in the
words you quoted is simply that joy gives one more
freedom to create; if the Prophets, the Master Himself,
and the Guardian, had less problems and worries, They
could give forth a great deal more creatively to the Cause.
When He said that “grow to be as a fruitful tree” he meant
that, by lifting burdens from the Guardian and trying as
much as possible to do our share of the work of the Faith,
we would help Shoghi Effendi to develop his full powers
as Guardian and, thru the Covenant, the Cause would
spread its shadow over all men. This we have seen happen
in the last 30 years, but that does not mean we must not try
to our utmost to help him by our lives and our services
(1952.10.5 - Sec)
The “rheum” mentioned in the Tablet of the Master is
symbolic. He means that the people have a spiritual cold
and cannot smell the Divine Fragrance and that the
believers must be the physicians to heal men of these
conditions. He is not referring to physical ailments.
(1950.3.26 - Sec)
The Master uses this term “the Divine Reality is sanctified
from singleness” in order to forcibly impress us with the
fact that the Godhead is unknowable and that to define It
is impossible; we cannot contain It in such concepts as
singleness and plurality which we apply to things we know
and can experience. He uses the method of exaggerated
emphasis in order to drive home his thought that we know
the sun indirectly thru its rays, the Godhead indirectly thru
the Manifestations of God. (1950.2.20 - Sec)
The human soul is a “harbinger” [GWB 160] in the sense
that it gives us a faint idea of the existence of the other
worlds, an inkling of the spiritual worlds beyond. (1938.05.25
- Sec)
The “flame of fire” in the Tablet of A˙mad should be
taken figuratively. In other words, we must not tolerate the
evil of Covenant-breakers or enemies of the Faith, but be
uncompromising in our loyalty, in our exposure of them
and in our defense of the Faith. (1955.07.21 - Sec)
What Bahá’u’lláh means by the faculty of sight and
hearing is the physical faculty, not a spiritual abstraction.
He means that we have been given eyes and ears to

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   211

appreciate what goes on in this world, by Almighty God; in
other words, we can read the Teachings and listen to the
Message of the Prophet. This is to be taken literally.
(1954.04.22 - Sec)
“Him Who is at the distance of two bows” [GWB 70]
should not be taken literally, but it has an allegorical
meaning,
indicating
nearness
or
close
proximity.
(1938.04.12 - Sec)
The expression “tend my raven locks, and not wound My
Throat” [HW] is an allegorical warning by Bahá’u’lláh
against the misuse of anything bestowed by Him on the
world. (1937.09.06 - Sec)
In the Kalimát-i-Firdawsíyyih Bahá’u’lláh states:
We have formerly ordained that people should converse in
two languages, yet efforts must be made to reduce them to
one, likewise the scripts of the world, that men’s lives may
not be dissipated and wasted in learning divers languages.
Thus the whole earth would come to be regarded as one
city and one land. (TB)
A believer asked the Guardian how this related to Bahá’u’lláh’s
command that an auxiliary international language should be chosen
and taught in all the schools in addition to one’s mother tongue. The
reply was:
What Bahá’u’lláh is referring to in the Eighth Leaf of the
Exalted Paradise is a far distant time, when the world is
really one country, and one language would be a sensible
possibility. It does not contradict His instructions as to the
need immediately for an auxiliary language. (1946.03.16 —
Sec)
From these specific interpretations we learn not only what the
particular passages mean, but we receive an object lesson in studying
the Writings. We see that some passages are to be taken literally,
others allegorically. Some are even stylistic exaggerations to produce
an intended effect, and some relate to a different stage in the
development of the Dispensation than do others.
3.2 Sometimes the Guardian would go considerably beyond a
brief interpretation of the passage in question, such as in this
beautiful description of the Short Obligatory Prayer:
The meaning of the short prayer mentioned by Mr. Lacey
in his letter is simply that Bahá’u’lláh has put into one brief
sentence the very essence of life, which is that we come
from one Father, and pass, on the road of life, through

212   Interpretation and the Guardianship

tests and trials and experiences, so that our souls may grow;
and that the reason for our existence is to learn to know
and understand our Creator. As we do this, we will increase
our love for Him and will worship Him.
This is really the deepest joy that comes to any soul. All
others are merely reflections of this happiness, the
happiness that comes when we worship the God Who made
us, our Heavenly Father. (1953.10.05 - Sec)
3.3 Sometimes, he would develop an entire concept from just a
seminal reference in the Writings. There is, for example, his
definition of the Námús-i-Akbar (the Greater Law) as the
constitution of National Spiritual Assemblies, and the Námús-i-
A’Ωam (The Most Great Law) as the constitution of the Universal
House of Justice. The development of the institution of the Hands
of the Cause of God, with their Auxiliary Boards is undoubtedly
another example of the same process.
3.4 On the other hand, there are many examples of matters on
which he refused to give an interpretation because there was nothing
specific in the texts. For example:
We have no way of knowing what science Bahá’u’lláh
meant when he said it would largely eliminate fear; as no
further mention of it was ever made in the teachings, the
Guardian cannot identify anything with this statement. To
do so would depart from his function as interpreter of the
teachings; he cannot reveal anything apart from the given
teachings. (1952.08.30 - Sec)
Concerning the points you mention in “The Epistle to the
Son of the Wolf”, page 32: These were never, so far as we
know, further elaborated by Bahá’u’lláh; they remained
hidden within the realms of His infinite knowledge, just as
did the universal language which, in that same book, He
mentions. (1942.08.15 - Sec)
As to your question regarding the possibility of an artificial
production of life by means of an incubator; this is
essentially a matter that concerns science, and as such
should be investigated and studied by scientists. (1937.12.31
- Sec)
3.5 This leads us to the Guardian’s own definition of the
limitations of the sphere of his infallibility as Interpreter.
Shoghi Effendi is infallible only when interpreting the
words. He considers it heretic to attribute to him a station
equal to Bahá’u’lláh or even to the Master. His station is

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   213

Guardian of the Cause of God and the President of the
House of Justice, and the interpreter of the words and
nothing more. He absolutely disclaims any other station
that the friends may, through their great love, wrongly
attribute to him. (1938.09.18 - Sec)
The Guardian’s personal powers are not unlimited and are
different from those possessed by the Master. But the
degree of guidance which God may choose to vouchsafe
him is unlimited, as it comes from Bahá’u’lláh and not
himself. Any extraordinary manifestation of knowledge or
intuition he might on some occasions demonstrate must
not be attributed to his possession of powers akin to the
Master’s, but rather to a manifestation of the will of
Bahá’u’lláh guiding him for His own reasons on that
occasion. The Guardian is infallible interpreter of the
Word of God. His words are not the Word of God itself.
But his interpretation is as binding as the Word. (1941.11.20
- Sec)
He likes to be provided with facts by the friends, when
they ask his advice, for although his decisions are guided by
God, he is not, like the Prophet, omniscient at will, in spite
of the fact that he often senses a situation or condition
without having any detailed knowledge of it. (1948.03.04 -
Sec)
Anything that is not in the Teachings, the Guardian does
not pass upon. These are matters for scientists and
specialists. (1953.09.29 - Sec)
An implication of the Will and Testament that must not be lost
sight of is the injunction on the friends to obey the Guardian and
the House of Justice. This may be related to their functions of
divinely-guided interpretation and legislation, but it is not
necessarily the same thing and can apply in other contexts, as is
shown from the following explanations from letters written on
behalf of Shoghi Effendi.
As to the Master’s injunction concerning obedience to the
Guardian it should be made clear that the question of
deciding what matters require the obedience of the
Guardian is one which the latter alone has the full right to
conscientiously decide. In other words, it is for the
Guardian to say whether a certain action is injurious to the
Cause or not, and whether it calls for his personal
intervention. It is not for individual believers to limit the
sphere of the Guardian’s authority, or to judge when they
have to obey the Guardian and when they are free to reject

214   Interpretation and the Guardianship

his judgement. Such an attitude would evidently lead to
confusion and to schism. The Guardian being the
appointed interpreter of the Teachings, it is his
responsibility to state what matters which, affecting the
interests of the Faith, demand on the part of the believers
complete and unqualified obedience to his instructions.
(1933.11.27 - Sec)
The infallibility of the Guardian is confined to matters
which are related strictly to the Cause and interpretation of
the teachings; he is not an infallible authority on other
subjects, such as economics, science, etc. When he feels
that a certain thing is essential for the protection of the
Cause, even if it is something that affects a person
personally, he must be obeyed, but when he gives advice,
such as that he gave you in a previous letter about your
future, it is not binding; you are free to follow it or not as
you please. (1944.10.17 - Sec)
Future Guardians ... cannot ‘abrogate’ the interpretations
of former Guardians, as this would imply not only lack of
guidance but mistakes in making them; however, they can
elaborate and elucidate former interpretations, and can
certainly abrogate some former ruling laid down as a
temporary necessity by a former Guardian. (1947.02.19 - Sec)
3.6 Now I find it very interesting that all the quotations that I
have given so far, which are, for the most part what previous
dispensations have regarded as comprising “interpretation” are all in
the words of the Guardian’s secretaries. He himself devoted his main
attention in this field, not to the elucidation of obscure passages or
the definition of terms used in the Scriptures, but to the
illumination of the overall significance of the Revelation. He would
take certain themes, such as the nature and significance of the
Bahá’í way of life, the theory and functioning of Bahá’í institutions,
the relationship of the Cause to current events and its place in the
history of mankind, the station of the Manifestations of God and
Their interrelationships, the station of the Master, the destiny of
certain Bahá’í communities, the proper way of teaching the Faith,
and, with his own hand, write long letters which, like the string of a
necklace, would thread together quotations from the Báb,
Bahá’u’lláh and the Master, showing the sources from which the
ideas were welling up, the implications and importance of those
passages and the actions that they called for from the believers.
This, to my mind, is the greatest aspect of the Guardian’s
function as Interpreter. This Revelation is so enormous, so
profound, that the believers would be struggling like

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   215

minnows in the shallows of a vast ocean. He it was,
following in the footsteps of the Master, who drew
together those aspects of the Cause that require our
immediate attention, showed their relationship to the vast
implications of the entire Revelation, the riches of which
we are only beginning to taste, and gave us a vision of our
work far into the future, even to the end and beyond the
end of this Dispensation.
3.7 In “The Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh” Shoghi Effendi wrote
that “Without such an institution” as the Guardianship “the means
required to enable” the Faith “to take a long, an uninterrupted view
over a series of generations would be completely lacking.” I have
heard friends relate this statement to the fact that the Guardianship
is a hereditary institution, and that it was this hereditary factor that
would provide the means to the Faith to take this long view. I have
not seen this point made in any of the Guardian’s writings, however,
and it seems to me that although, of course, there is an element of
truth in the assumption, the mere fact that each Guardian would
have succeeded his father in office does not seem an adequate basis
for the exercise of such an exclusive function. The function of
inspired interpreter, however, does imply it. As interpreter the
Guardian is able to understand not only the outward meaning of the
Writings but their inner implications. Although others, by studying
the Writings and the progress of human affairs, can gain some idea
of the way society will develop, the Guardian alone could clearly see
the whole panorama of Bahá’u’lláh’s intention and could delineate
for us the course that the Manifestation of God sees as lying before
us. This, indeed, Shoghi Effendi has done in his World Order letters
and also in God Passes By. The latter is not only a history book,
magnificent though it may be in that respect, it is also an inspired
commentary on the events it recounts, illuminates the past,
challenges us in the present and gives us a vision of the future.

NOTE
1 Paper first published online 05/1997 at the Bahá’í Library Online; now
at http://bahai-library.com/?file=semple_interpretation_guardianship

216   Interpretation and the Guardianship

The Signs of Prophet-Hood
An Exposition on a Tablet by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
James B. Thomas
The veil hath fallen away, the curtain is lifted, the clouds
have parted, the Lord of Lords is in plain sight - yet all hath
passed the sinners by.
It is He Who hath made for you the new creation, (Qur’an
29:19) and brought on the woe that surpasseth all others,
(Qur’an 79:34) and gathered the holy together in the realm
on high. Verily in this are signs for those who have eyes to
see. (SWAB 14 )
To “have eyes to see” is the great challenge of the twenty first
century! It is an old challenge; 2000 years ago Christ asked His
audience “Having eyes see ye not?” (Mark 8:18) He was referring to
spiritual eyes of course. Now in the mélange of cacophonous
distractions and material temptations there lies confusion in the
minds of many folks who seek purpose in their lives beyond
immediate gratification. It is especially disadvantageous to people of
faith who have sincerely clung to belief systems that have been
surreptitiously corrupted by unscrupulous religious leaders past and
present. On the other hand, when things go consistently bad people
will begin to question what’s going on around them and hopefully
become open to new truths that may have been staring them in the
face all the while. New seekers are thus born and the potential for
the opening of spiritual eyes becomes apparent. What are the signs
of truth, of a new Prophet?
In three steps this paper elaborates upon the ramifications of the
extraordinary evidence of the signs of a Manifestation of God as
articulated by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, and is corroborated with excerpts from
the Dalá’il-i-Sab’ih (The Seven Proofs) by the Báb. It is also
reinforced by Bahá’u’lláh in the Kitáb-i-ˆqán and additional
comments by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in Some Answered Questions. And
references from the distinguished Bahá’í scholar Mírzá Abu’l-Fa∂l
are presented as he builds on criteria from ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s writing
with references to past dispensations. The interesting feature of
these passages by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá is that they are in the past tense with
respect to things accomplished whereas signs of Prophet-hood are
normally mentioned in future tense within prophetic utterances.

218  Signs of Prophet-hood

First, reliable criteria for proofs are defined. Second, in the
sequence of signs there are shown those that are obviously self-
evident whereas others are more subtle and require probing to
deeper levels of meaning. Third, emphasis is placed on historical
confirmation.
Proof Criteria
Proofs are of four kinds: first, through sense perception;
second, through the reasoning faculty; third, from
traditional or scriptural authority; fourth, through the
medium of inspiration. That is to say, there are four criteria
or standards of judgment by which the human mind
reaches its conclusions. (PUP 253-6 )
In His argument regarding the first kind of proof, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
holds that the senses are held to be unreliable. For example He refers
to sight as being subject to aberrations and inaccuracies. We see a
mirage as a body of water and reflections in a mirror as reality. We
see the earth as a fixed object with the stars moving across the night
sky whereas it is really the earth that is rotating on its axis. Many
examples may be drawn about the uncertainty of the senses.
The second kind of proof based on the intellect or ‘reasoning
faculty’ is also faulty and insufficient by virtue of the differences
among men of learning when analyzing identical subjects of
investigation. Even the great philosophers and scientists are often
contradictory in their conclusions revealing that human judgment
tends to be subjective or opinionated and therefore unreliable.
The third kind of proof is dependent on scripture whereof every
conclusion is supported by traditions, which are recorded in holy
books. But understanding these books requires the authority of
human reason for explanation. However, as previously shown,
human reason is unreliable so it follows that interpretation based on
it is inaccurate.
The fourth type of proof according to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá depends
upon inspiration. He refers to the “philosophers of the illuminati” of
past centuries who claimed that truth came to them through
revelation. But He points out that inspiration is prompted by the
human heart, which is sometimes satanic in its expression. Therefore
this type of proof is also insufficient.
What kind of proof can we rely on? ‘Abdu’l-Bahá answers:
Consequently, it has become evident that the four criteria
or standards of judgment by which the human mind
reaches its conclusions are faulty and inaccurate. All of
them are liable to mistake and error in conclusions. But a

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   219

statement presented to the mind accompanied by proofs
which the senses can perceive to be correct, which the
faculty of reason can accept, which is in accord with
traditional authority and sanctioned by the promptings of
the heart, can be adjudged and relied upon as perfectly
correct, for it has been proved and tested by all the
standards of judgment and found to be complete. When
we apply but one test, there are possibilities of mistake.
This is self-evident and manifest. (PUP 254-5 )
In summary, the criterion of proof must simultaneously satisfy
sensory perception, analysis by reasoning, traditional knowledge and
intuitive inspiration.
Signs
In the dawning days of the Bahá’í Dispensation a principle
emerged that profoundly changed the perspective on religion
forever. Although Mu˙ammad discoursed on some of the Prophets
that preceded Him it was the Báb, twin Prophet of this latest
dispensation,
Who
first
explicitly
presented
proofs
and
characteristics of Divine Messengers that form the basis of the
principle of progressive revelation. This principle is fundamental to
the Bahá’í Faith.1 In The Seven Proofs the Báb begins by defining
the source of divine knowledge. “And know thou that in this world
of being the knowledge of God can never be attained save through
the knowledge of Him Who is the Dayspring of divine Reality.”
(SWB 117) Is He referring to only one Manifestation of God? If not
who are they? At the conclusion of the tablet He states:
In the time of the First Manifestation the Primal Will
appeared in Adam; in the day of Noah It became known in
Noah; in the day of Abraham in Him; and so in the day of
Moses; the day of Jesus; the day of Mu˙ammad, the
Apostle of God; the day of the `Point of the Bayán’; the
day of Him Whom God shall make manifest; and the day
of the One Who will appear after Him Whom God shall
make manifest. Hence the inner meaning of the words
uttered by the Apostle of God, `I am all the Prophets’,
inasmuch as what shineth resplendent in each one of Them
hath been and will ever remain the one and the same sun.
(SWB 126)
This is in complete accord with Christ’s statements “For if you
had believed Moses you would have believed me” (John 8:58) and
“Before Abraham was I am.” (John 5:46) In addition, Bahá’u’lláh
mentioned two more Divine Messengers Who preceded Abraham
but are not readily known in the West. The first was Húd, a cousin
of ‘Ád, whose name was associated with the people that occupied a

220  Signs of Prophet-hood

large area in southern Arabia. According to tradition they were
fourth generation descendents of Noah.2
And after Noah the light of the countenance of Húd shone
forth above the horizon of creation. For well-nigh seven
hundred years, according to the sayings of men, He ex-
horted the people to turn their faces and draw nearer unto
the Ri∂ván of the divine presence. What showers of afflic-
tions rained upon Him, until at last His adjurations bore
the fruit of increased rebelliousness, and His assiduous endea-
vours resulted in the wilful blindness of His people. (KI 9)
Their demise was recited by Mu˙ammad: “And as for ‘Ád, they
were destroyed by a roaring and violent wind.” (Q 69:6)
The second Prophet was Íálih of the people of Thámud who
were the successors to the culture of ‘Ád. He like Húd tried to
convince the people to stop worshipping idols and to turn their
reverence to God. But the people said they could not find in Him
the signs of prophethood.3
For over a hundred years He admonished them to hold fast
unto the commandments of God and eschew that which is
forbidden. His admonitions, however, yielded no fruit, and
His pleading proved of no avail. (KI 9-10)
When Íálih asked them to attend to a she-camel with a warning
that if they did not comply with God’s wish they would be struck
with a calamity and seized for a grievous punishment,4 they
responded:
Those who were haughty said: Surely we are disbelievers in
that which you believe.
Then they strung the she camel and revolted against their
Lord’s commandment, and said: O Íálih, bring us that with
which thou threatenest us, if thou art of the messengers.
So the earthquake seized them, and they were motionless
bodies in their abodes. (Q7:76-78)
The question is, how can we recognize Divine Messengers and
know for sure that They are Who They say They are? What about
signs and proofs of the foregoing Divine Messengers? The inference
by the Báb is that They are all equal in Their essence. This concept is
unequivocally confirmed by Bahá’u’lláh:
These sanctified Mirrors, these Day-springs of ancient
glory are one and all the Exponents on earth of Him Who
is the central Orb of the universe, its Essence and ultimate
Purpose. From Him proceed their knowledge and power;

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   221

from Him is derived their sovereignty. The beauty of their
countenance is but a reflection of His image, and their
revelation a sign of His deathless glory. They are the
Treasuries of divine knowledge, and the Repositories of
celestial wisdom. Through them is transmitted a grace that
is infinite, and by them is revealed the attributes of God.
(KI 99-100)
Bahá’u’lláh further explains that all Divine Messengers equally
embody “light that can never fade.”
They only differ in the intensity of their revelation, and the
comparative potency of their light... That a certain attri-
bute of God hath not been outwardly manifested by these
Essences of Detachment doth in no wise imply that they
Who are the Daysprings of God’s attributes and the Treasur-
ies of His holy names did not actually possess it. (KI 103-4)
The eminent Bahá’í scholar Mírzá Abu’l-Fa∂l states
But of these Manifestations, those who appear later or
nearer to the Great ‘Resurrection’ and the Glorious ‘Hour,’
are of a greater brilliancy and splendor, and their proofs
and arguments are clearer and stronger, on account of the
law of progression. 5
And regarding their proof, he states that the adherents of
religions actually follow four types of proof: (1) Revelation, (2)
Logic or Argument, (3) Signs and Miracles and (4) Prophecies and
Records.6 These actually fall into the categories of proof that
‘Abdu’l-Bahá listed, namely sense perception (signs and miracles),
reasoning faculty (logic or argument), traditional or scriptural
authority (prophecies and records) and inspiration (revelation).
With these criteria one can easily confirm, even with the limited
information available, that the Prophet Founders of the great
religions of the past are true Manifestations of God for Their day.
Noah, even back to Adam through Abraham, Moses, Christ,
Mu˙ammad and others are so verified.
What about ‘The Great Resurrection’ and ‘the Glorious Hour’
mentioned above? This began with the advent of the Báb in 1844
when He announced that He was the Qá’im that the people of
Shí’ih Islam had been waiting for one thousand years. As a
Manifestation of God in His own right He also can be readily
verified based on extensive knowledge of His life and His Writings.
We come then to Bahá’u’lláh, The World Redeemer, The
Prophet of this age. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá begins His treatise on the signs
that define a Divine Messenger as they pertain to Bahá’u’lláh:

222  Signs of Prophet-hood

And among His signs is the appearance of omens and
joyous prophecies, of hints and clues, the spreading of
many and various tidings, and the anticipations of the
righteous, they who have now attained their goal. (SWAB 15)
A profound ‘omen’ emerged when Bahá’u’lláh wrote the Tablet
of The Holy Mariner. A deep sense of foreboding gripped a
multitude of Bábís and friends at all levels of society just prior to
His departure from Baghdád in 1863 after hearing the reading of
that tablet. The worst fears expressed in that mysterious tablet came
true
as
Bahá’u’lláh’s
exile
took
Him
from
Baghdád
to
Constantinople, Adrianople and finally the prison city of ‘Akká. He
and His small band of followers were subjected to a series of
extreme tests and difficulties that ultimately ended in remarkable
victories for His Cause.7
The ‘joyous prophecies’ of Bahá’u’lláh are numerous and they are
expressed in tablets of great variety. For example, in the famous
Tablet of Carmel He referred to the holy mountain of Carmel as the
seat for the Universal House of Justice when He wrote “Ere long
will God sail His Ark upon thee and will manifest the people of
Bahá who have been mentioned in the Book of Names.” (GWB 16)
Seventy two years after this utterance the Universal House of Justice
was elected in 1963 and now resides in an elegant edifice at the
center of an arc of buildings on the face of Mount Carmel. This
“Ark”, the highest administrative institution in the Bahá’í world has
been endowed by Bahá’u’lláh with “inferred infallibility” which will
last until the next Manifestation of God appears. Only as a body in
session does this special endowment exist, whereas the nine
individual members of the Universal House of Justice do not have
personal ‘infallibility’.
The Book of Names (the Kitáb-i-Asmá’) mentioned above was
written by the Báb wherein He admonishes His followers to embrace
“Him Whom God Shall Make Manifest” and that even His own
Bayan should not “keep them from recognizing the Promised One
when He should Appear.”8
Another example of prophecy by Bahá’u’lláh in a different form
was expressed to the first western scholar to make contact with the
Bahá’í Faith, distinguished Orientalist Professor E. G. Brown of
Cambridge: “Yet so it shall be; these fruitless strifes, these ruinous
wars shall pass away, and the “Most Great Peace” shall come ...” 9 By
the close of the 20th century this process was in its last stage. In the
year 2004 the last hotbeds of war were being resolved and the
prospects for a “great war” remain most unlikely. In regard to this
there were some astonishing prophetic utterances by Bahá’u’lláh to
the rulers of the world that will be noted later.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   223

Clues of Prophet-hood are abundant in Bahá’í literature. They are
sprinkled throughout with references to events of Bahá’u’lláh’s
childhood, and to His ancestry. More clues are related to His
character as a young man and to certain miracles attributed to Him
though He admonished His followers not to dwell on them.
His ancestry included Abraham through His wife Katurah,
through Zoroaster the Divine Messenger of Persian antiquity,
through Jesse the forerunner of David and through the last king of
the Sasaniyan dynasty, Yazdigird.10 His character as a youth was
exemplary.
From earliest childhood He was distinguished among His
relatives and friends. They said, “‘This child has
extraordinary power. In wisdom, intelligence and as a
source of new knowledge, He was advanced beyond His
age and superior to His surroundings. All who knew Him
were astonished at His precocity...” During the period of
youth the Blessed Perfection did not enter school. He was
not willing to be taught. This fact is well established
among the Persians of ˇihrán. Nevertheless, He was
capable of solving the difficult problems of all who came
to Him. In whatever meeting, scientific assembly or
theological discussion He was found, He became the
authority of explanation upon intricate and abstruse
questions presented. (PUP 25)
“The anticipations of the righteous” referred to the first teachers
who alerted their students to the coming of the Promised One. In
Persia they were Shaykh A˙mad-i-A˙sá’í and his chosen successor
Siyyid KáΩim who had accurately anticipated the coming of the Báb
prior to His declaration in 1844...11 For ten tears a parallel effort
actually occurred in the West but from a Christian perspective with
the talks given by Reverend Miller and others in the United States
who fully expected the return of Christ in 1843. In Germany the
Templars12 who were also disappointed after awaiting “The Great
Expectation” sent a group to settle in the Holy Land at the foot of
Mount Carmel in 1868, the same year that the Glory of God entered
‘Akká in the Holy Land. He was the very one they had been waiting
for, though they remained forever blind to His presence.
As to tidings there were many given in various forms by
Bahá’u’lláh in His writings but in the Tablet of Bishárát (Glad-
Tidings), Bahá’u’lláh specifically lists fifteen elements pertaining to
world rebirth. In the first He states that “the law of holy war hath
been blotted out from the Book.” (TAB 21) Here He is referring to
“the Mother Book” (Book of Laws) of His “Most Great
Revelation...” Historically, the Middle East has been plagued with
holy wars for fourteen hundred years that were motivated by a lust

224  Signs of Prophet-hood

for power of corrupt leaders. For similar reasons in medieval times,
the West became forever blighted spiritually by the Christian
Crusades the only benefit being contact with Islam and its high
learning, which reputedly sparked the Renaissance. Priests and
monks of the world’s great religions have increasingly taken on a
militant stance in various regions of the world during the last half
century. Even Buddhists have immolated themselves for political
reasons on a number of occasions in the far east. It is no wonder
then that Bahá’u’lláh “blotted out” holy war from “the Book.”
His second Glad-Tidings brings the prospect of peace full circle
with His admonition “O people! Consort with the followers of all
religions in a spirit of friendliness and fellowship.” (TAB 22) Imagine
what long reaching consequences this would have for society to exist
for the first time in a condition of harmony with complete absence
of acrimony. If the great religions claim that their followers are
worshiping the one true God then we must all be worshiping the
same God yet we seem to hate each other for doing so.
The third Glad-Tidings is concerned with divisiveness resulting
from the profusion of various tongues in the world. Bahá’u’lláh
resolves this with a formal decree:
It behoveth the sovereigns of the world - may God assist
them — or the ministers of the earth to take counsel
together and to adopt one of the existing languages or a
new one to be taught to children in schools throughout the
world, and likewise one script. Thus the whole earth will
come to be regarded as one country. (TAB 22)
In another tablet He further insists that we cannot have universal
peace until a secondary language finds common usage among all the
earths populace.
The fourth Glad-Tidings pertains to the oppressed people of the
world:
Should any of the kings - may God aid them - arise to
protect and help this oppressed people, all must vie with
one another in loving and in serving him. This matter is
incumbent upon everyone... (TAB 22)
In this instance kingship is exalted by Bahá’u’lláh for a good king
is a rare gift to the world. He has more to say on this later.
The fifth Glad-Tidings puts one’s relationship with government
into perspective. That is, citizens of every country “must behave
towards the government of that country with loyalty, honesty and
truthfulness...” He then appeals to the people of the world with:

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   225

We cherish the hope that through the earnest endeavours
of such as are the exponents of the power of God - exalted
be His glory - the weapons of war throughout the world
may be converted into instruments of reconstruction and
that strife and conflict may be removed from the midst of
men. (TAB 23)
The sixth Glad-Tidings is “the establishment of the Lesser Peace.”
The Lesser Peace is a political peace that shall be established in order
to eliminate war and to prepare for the Most Great Peace, which will
be established upon a spiritual foundation.13 When the rulers of the
world rejected Bahá’u’lláh’s summons He responded: “Now that ye
have refused the Most Great Peace, hold ye fast unto this, the Lesser
Peace, that haply ye may in some degree better your own condition
and that of your dependents.” (GWB 254) Humanity is currently
trying to achieve that goal.
The seventh Glad-Tidings is particularly appropriate for today
but with a warning.
The choice of clothing and the cut of the beard and its
dressing are left to the discretion of men. But beware, O
people, lest ye make yourselves the playthings of the
ignorant. (TAB 23)
In other words, vanity is to be avoided.
The eighth Glad-Tidings announces a profound but massive
change in the Christian world of religion. Priests and monks are
admonished to give up the life of the cloister and to rejoin the
world to become productive members of society. Moreover, celibacy
is no longer required:
We have granted them leave to enter into wedlock that
they may bring forth one who will make mention of God,
the Lord of the seen and the unseen, the Lord of the
Exalted Throne.” (TAB 24)
The ninth Glad-Tidings declares that confession belongs to God
alone and that the humiliation and abasement resulting from
confessing to another individual is not to be suffered by His
servants for
Confession of sins and transgressions before human beings
is not permissible, as it hath never been nor will ever be
conducive to divine forgiveness... When the sinner findeth
himself wholly detached and freed from all save God, he
should beg forgiveness and pardon from Him. (TAB 24)
Bahá’u’lláh then revealed a prayer about forgiveness for the
sinner to recite. Following is the first paragraph of that prayer:

226  Signs of Prophet-hood

O God, my God! I implore Thee by the blood of Thy true
lovers who were so enraptured by Thy sweet utterance that
they hastened unto the Pinnacle of Glory, the site of the
most glorious martyrdom, and I beseech Thee by the
mysteries which lie enshrined in Thy knowledge and by the
pearls that are treasured in the ocean of Thy bounty to
grant forgiveness unto me and unto my father and my
mother. Of those who show forth mercy, Thou art in truth
the Most Merciful. No God is there but Thee, the Ever-
Forgiving, the All-Bountiful... (TAB 24-5)
The remaining paragraphs express humility and remorse on the
part of the sinner. And an intense appeal is made for permission to
approach the “Court of Thy holiness” with the appeal for mercy and
grace. No suggestion is made for one to stand before another and
ask forgiveness.
The tenth Glad-Tidings pertains to book burning, a phenomenon
that is very old. Indeed the first library to develop a ‘book’ concept
became the first victim of this disparaging practice. The Library of
Alexandria, “the most famous library of classical antiquity” was
established by Ptolemy after the conquest of Egypt in 332 B.C by his
leader Alexander The Great, and was managed by a president-priest.
A “daughter library” was later established in the Temple of Sarapis
by Ptolemy III. The great library actually survived a fire set in
Alexandria in 47 BC by Julius Caesar but was destroyed in a civil war
in the late 3rd century CE. Later, Christians destroyed the “daughter
library” in 39114 CE. In modern times the Nazis of the Third Reich
had massive public burning of books that expressed any religious or
political thoughts that would even slightly infer disagreement with
Nazi philosophy during Hitler’s rise to power. To all this Bahá’u’lláh
states:
As a token of grace from God, the Revealer of this Most
Great Announcement, We have removed from the Holy
Scriptures and Tablets the law prescribing the destruction
of books. (TAB 25)
The eleventh Glad-Tidings resolves the long lasting conflicts
between science and religion: “It is permissible to study sciences and
arts, but such sciences as are useful and would redound to the
progress and advancement of the people...” In another place He
carries it one step farther by emphasizing that we must have
harmony between science and religion. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states:
The highest Praise is due to men who devote their energies
to science, and the noblest center is a center wherein the
sciences and arts are taught and studied... (PUP 348)

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   227

The twelfth Glad-Tidings gives new meaning to human enterprise:
It is enjoined upon every one of you to engage in some
form of occupation, such as crafts, trades and the like. We
have graciously exalted your engagement in such work to
the rank of worship unto God, the True One... Waste not
your time in idleness and sloth. Occupy yourselves with
that which profiteth yourselves and others...The most
despised of men in the sight of God are those who sit idly
and beg. Hold ye fast unto the cord of material means,
placing your whole trust in God, the Provider of all
means... (TAB 26)
The thirteenth Glad-Tidings cannot be overemphasized.
The men of God’s House of Justice have been charged
with the affairs of the people. They, in truth, are the
Trustees of God among His servants and the daysprings of
authority in His countries.
O people of God! That which traineth the world is Justice,
for it is upheld by two pillars, reward and punishment.
These two pillars are the sources of life to the world.
Inasmuch as for each day there is a new problem and for
every problem an expedient solution, such affairs should be
referred to the Ministers of the House of Justice that they
may act according to the needs and requirements of the
time... (TAB 26-7)
He further states that all should be obedient to them but that
worship should be observed according to His Book.
Integral to this Glad-Tiding is a strong admonition against
backbiting with this corollary:
O people of Bahá! Ye are the dawning-places of the love
of God and the daysprings of His loving-kindness. Defile
not your tongues with the cursing and reviling of any soul,
and guard your eyes against that which is not seemly. Set
forth that which ye possess. If it be favourably received,
your end is attained; if not, to protest is vain. Leave that
soul to himself and turn unto the Lord, the Protector, the
Self-Subsisting. Be not the cause of grief, much less of
discord and strife. The hope is cherished that ye may obtain
true education in the shelter of the tree of His tender
mercies and act in accordance with that which God
desireth. Ye are all the leaves of one tree and the drops of
one ocean. (TAB 27)
The fourteenth Glad-Tidings relieves one of a costly duty.

228  Signs of Prophet-hood

It is not necessary to undertake special journeys to visit the
resting-places of the dead. If people of substance and
affluence offer the cost of such journeys to the House of
Justice, it will be pleasing and acceptable in the presence of
God. Happy are they that observe His precepts. (TAB 27-8)
The fifteenth Glad-Tidings offers clues to the future world order.
Although a republican form of government profiteth all
the peoples of the world, yet the majesty of kingship is one
of the signs of God. We do not wish that the countries of
the world should remain deprived thereof. If the sagacious
combine the two forms into one, great will be their reward
in the presence of God ... (TAB 28)
Bahá’u’lláh made further mention of kingship in a different light
with respect to the maturity of man.
One of the signs of the maturity of the world is that no
one will accept to bear the weight of kingship. Kingship
will remain with none willing to bear alone its weight. That
day will be the day whereon wisdom will be manifested
among mankind. (KA notes 250-2)
But until that time, under the right circumstances, kingship can be a
bounty according to Bahá’u’lláh’s earlier reference.
Then ‘Abdu’l-Bahá gave credence to His splendors:
And among His signs are His splendours, rising above the
horizon of oneness, His lights streaming out from the
dayspring of might, and the announcement of the Most
Great Glad-Tidings by His Herald, the One, the
Incomparable. Verily in this is a brilliant proof for the
company of those who know. (SWAB 15)
The horizon of oneness signifies the realm of the one true God
from whence all creation emanates. It also characterizes the stations
of Divine Manifestations of God as being the same. Bahá’u’lláh, the
Daystar of this age, is often compared to the Sun of our solar system
with its life sustaining radiance. His splendors stream out as spiritual
soul sustaining radiance with omnipotent power. The Herald of
course is the Báb, the ‘Primal Point’ who announced the coming of
One greater than Himself.
Among His signs is His being manifest, being seen by all,
standing as His own proof, and His presence among
witnesses in every region, among peoples who fell upon
Him even as wolves, and compassed Him about from every
side. (SWAB 15)

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   229

Long before the Báb’s declaration, Bahá’u’lláh became known as
the “The Father of the Poor” and His young wife Ásiyih Khánum
was called “The Mother of Consolation” due to their constant
assistance given by them to the downtrodden of ˇihrán.15 Later He
became the great pillar of strength to the Bábís when the Báb was
incarcerated. From that time forward He was the center of concern
to the Persian and Ottoman leadership. In spite of their continuous
persecution of Him and His company, at no time did He
compromise one iota of His message to the people for the remainder
of His earthly life.
There were no hidden agendas in the life of Bahá’u’lláh and the
holy ones that accompanied Him. Those in His presence were often
overwhelmed by His spiritual majesty and those with evil intent that
rose to challenge Him sank into quiet submission without uttering a
word. The highest authorities could not squelch His spirit, they
actually increased the fire of His rhetoric and ultimately lost their
purpose.
Among His signs is His withstanding powerful nations and
all-conquering states, and a host of enemies thirsting for
His blood, intent at every moment upon His ruin,
wheresoever He might be. Verily this is a matter deserving
the scrutiny of those who ponder the signs and tokens of
God. (SWAB 15)
In 1853 Bahá’u’lláh emerged from the Black Pit of ˇihrán in
such a state of physical degeneration that He was almost
unrecognizable. Nine year old ‘Abdu’l-Bahá fainted upon seeing His
Father in such a condition.16 That was the beginning of a forty-year
exile initiated by The Sháh of Iran. He and His small band of family
and followers were ordered to Baghdád, a journey of extreme
hardship, as they had to walk without proper clothing through the
icy passes of the Zagros Mountains in the dead of winner. The
authorities thought that He would expire and be gone forever.
Instead His majestic influence not only reunited the bedraggled Bábí
community, it also brought great respect from the authorities in
Baghdád. Far worse for Him was the insidious disruption caused by
the covenant breakers led by Mírzá Yahyá and Siyyid Mu˙ammad.
In 1863, out of fear for His growing influence, the Sultán of
Turkey sent Bahá’u’lláh across the desert and mountains of northern
Iraq, thence by ship to Constantinople. Less than a year later He was
sent to Adrianople and in 1868 by sea to “The Most Great Prison” of
‘Akká. With respect to these journeys Bahá’u’lláh fulfilled one of
the numerous prophecies of past holy books that are distinctly
related to Him.

230  Signs of Prophet-hood

In that day also he shall come even to thee from Assyria,
and from the fortified cities, and from the fortress even to
the river, and from sea to sea, and from mountain to
mountain. (Micah 7:15)
The duration of His earthly ministry, forty years, is also given.
According to the days of thy coming out of the land of
Egypt will I show unto him marvelous things. (Micah 7:15)
Another of His signs is the marvel of His discourse, the
eloquence of His utterance, the rapidity with which His
Writings were revealed, His words of wisdom, His verses,
His epistles, His communes, His unfolding of the Qur’an,
both the abstruse verses thereof and the clear. By thy very
life! This thing is plain as day to whoever will regard it with
the eye of justice. (SWAB 15)
The marvel of His discourse and the eloquence of His Utterance
is self evident. One has only to read a few lines of His writings to
readily see the truth of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s statement.
The rapidity of His writings were witnessed by His own
amanuenses, the ones doing the actual writing from Bahá’u’lláh’s
dictation. At times He would have as many as six secretaries writing
simultaneously.
His words of wisdom are contained in the hundred tablets or
books that He wrote and dictated, the Most Holy Book being the
Kitáb-i-Aqdas (Book of Laws). One of the most informative books
on religion, the Kitáb-i-ˆqán (Book of Certitude) was written by
Bahá’u’lláh in the incredible span of forty-eight hours.
Again among His signs is the dawning sun of His
knowledge, and the rising moon of His arts and skills, and
His demonstrating perfection in all His ways, as testified by
the learned and accomplished of many nations. (SWAB 15)
His knowledge was innate and extensive beyond human
understanding. With no formal education He confounded His elders
as a youth.
O King! I was but a man like others, asleep upon My
couch, when lo, the breezes of the All-Glorious were
wafted over Me, and taught Me the knowledge of all that
hath been. This thing is not from Me, but from One Who
is Almighty and All-Knowing. And He bade Me lift up My
voice between earth and heaven, and for this there befell
Me what hath caused the tears of every man of
understanding to flow. The learning current amongst men I
studied not; their schools I entered not. Ask of the city

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   231

wherein I dwelt, that thou mayest be well assured that I am
not of them who speak falsely. This is but a leaf which the
winds of the will of thy Lord, the Almighty, the All-
Praised, have stirred. Can it be still when the tempestuous
winds are blowing? Nay, by Him Who is the Lord of all
Names and Attributes! They move it as they list. The
evanescent is as nothing before Him Who is the Ever-
Abiding. His all-compelling summons hath reached Me,
and caused Me to speak His praise amidst all people. I was
indeed as one dead when His behest was uttered. The hand
of the will of thy Lord, the Compassionate, the Merciful,
transformed Me. (ESW 11-12)
And from ‘Abdu’l-Bahá:
Briefly, all His adversaries in the Orient acknowledged His
greatness, grandeur, knowledge and virtue; and though
they were His enemies, they always spoke of Him as ‘the
renowned Bahá’u’lláh.’ (SAQ 35)
And again among His signs is the fact that His beauty
stayed inviolate, and His human temple was protected as
He revealed His splendours, despite the massed attacks of
all His foes, who came against Him in their thousands with
their darting arrows, spears and swords. Herein is verily a
wonder and a warning to any fair judge. (SWAB 15-16)
The fact that Bahá’u’lláh survived the Síyáh-Chál had to be a
miracle of Divine intervention. The same can be said about His trek
to Baghdád and to the other journeys in exile. He was not only
fraught with the persecutions to His Faith and His being; He also
faced constant threats from the seditious acts of the covenant
breakers. He was actually poisoned by Mírzá Ya˙yá yet survived to
fulfill the mission that God had given Him. Even near the end of
His life His Doctor was awed by the steady rhythm of His heart.
His ‘human temple’ was mysteriously protected at every juncture
beginning with the early uprisings against the Bábís. The defenders
at Fort Tabarsi were in imminent danger and needed all the help they
could get.
Bahá’u’lláh’s intention to throw in His lot with the defenders of
the fort of Shaykh ˇabarsí was destined to remain unfulfilled.
Though Himself extremely desirous to lend every possible assistance
in His power to the besieged, He was spared, through the mysterious
dispensation of Providence, the tragic fate that was soon to befall
the chief participators in that memorable struggle. Had He been able
to reach the fort, had He been allowed to join the members of that
heroic band, how could He have played His part in the great drama
which He was destined to unfold? How could He have consummated

232  Signs of Prophet-hood

the work that had been so gloriously conceived and so marvelously
inaugurated? He was in the heyday of His life when the call from
Shíráz reached Him. At the age of twenty-seven, He arose to
consecrate His life to its service, fearlessly identified Himself with
its teachings, and distinguished Himself by the exemplary part He
played in its diffusion. No effort was too great for the energy with
which He was endowed, and no sacrifice too woeful for the
devotion with which His faith had inspired Him. He flung aside
every consideration of fame, of wealth, and position, for the
prosecution of the task He had set His heart to achieve. Neither the
taunts of His friends nor the threats of His enemies could induce
Him to cease championing a Cause which they alike regarded as that
of an obscure and proscribed sect.17
His real beauty on the other hand is manifest through the
constant, steadfast outpouring of His Revelation to a hostile world
in spite of the difficulties that were heaped upon Him. It is through
His writings that His splendors streams forth.
And among His signs is His long-suffering, His tribulations
and His woes, His agony in His chains and fetters, and His
calling out at every moment: `Come unto Me, come unto
Me, ye righteous! Come unto Me, come unto Me, ye lovers
of the good! Come unto Me, come unto Me, ye dawning
points of light!’ Verily the gates of mystery are opened
wide - but still do the wicked disport themselves with their
vain cavillings! (Q 6:91, 52:12) (SWAB 16)
From the moment that Bahá’u’lláh was thrown into the Black Pit
of ˇihrán until His last days on earth, a period of forty years, He
was tormented by enemies from without and from within the Faith
that He founded. Even before His incarceration in the Síyáh-Chál
He was subjected to cruel indignities at the hands of His captors.
The events of the nineteen years that followed were so difficult, so
dramatic that He wrote the famous Fire Tablet in which He poured
out the heartache that wrenched His soul. Yet it was not for Himself
that He lamented. It was always for the friends, the lost souls of the
world and even His worst enemies that He offered the healing balm
of the love of God if only they would open their spiritual eyes to see
its radiance and the hope for the next world.
Yet another of His signs is the promulgation of His Book,
His decisive Holy Text wherein He reproved the kings, and
His dire warning to that one (Napoleon III) whose mighty
rule was felt around the world — and whose great throne
then toppled down in a matter of brief days — this being a
fact clearly established and widely known. (SWAB 16)

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   233

Historical Confirmation
His Book of Laws, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, sometimes called ‘The
Crimson Book,’ is the most essential of all His writings. It contains
the blueprint for the unification of man and the future world order.
Its potential impact extends for a thousand years in the life of the
planet and with it will come The Most Great Peace.
Brief mention has already been made about prophecies of
Bahá’u’lláh that have been fulfilled or are in the process of being
fulfilled. From this juncture verification can be made by witnesses
or by historical records on the remaining content of this paper.
The most audacious of Bahá’u’lláh’s prophetic warnings were the
letters to the leaders and divines of the world in the late 1860’s. The
colonial powers of Europe ruled the world in the middle of the 19th
century such that their bickering, machinations, political intrigue
and warlike tendencies impacted everyone else in the world. In the
Middle East the Ottoman Empire and its vassal Persia had reached
the lowest level in their long histories as a result of endless
corruption. This was compounded by the corruption of the religious
leaders in Christendom and in Islam. Bahá’u’lláh addressed the most
powerful leaders of these domains and brought them to task for the
grave error of their ways with warnings that they would be met with
utter failure if they did not obey the commands of God given
through His Messenger. One by one they received their summons,
Napoleon III, Pope Pius IX, Czar Alexander II, Queen Victoria, the
Sul†án of Turkey and other Ministers then one by one, with the
exception of the Queen, each rejected the claim and admonitions of
Bahá’u’lláh with disastrous results. Each of them lost their power
and died in ignominy. By virtue of Queen Victoria’s response, the
Monarchy of Britain is the only one remaining to this day.18
Perhaps the most pathetic was Pope Pius IX. A few abbreviated
statements from Bahá’u’lláh’s declaration are as follows:
O Pope! Rend the veils asunder. He Who is the Lord of
Lords is come overshadowed with clouds, and the decree
hath
been
fulfilled
by
God,
the
Almighty,
the
Unrestrained... Beware that thou dispute not with Him
even as the Pharisees disputed with Him (Jesus) without a
clear token or proof... Leave now the world behind thee,
and turn towards thy lord, through Whom the whole earth
hath been illumined. (SLH 54-5)
The Pope rejected the call of Bahá’u’lláh and instead, declared
Papal Infallibility in 1869. A few months later the consequences that
Bahá’u’lláh warned him about followed quickly.

234  Signs of Prophet-hood

On September 20, 1870, Italian troops occupied Rome, and in
October a plebiscite was held in which an overwhelming majority of
the votes cast were for the incorporation of Rome in the kingdom
of Italy. Pius remained for the rest of his days a prisoner, as he
regarded himself, in the Vatican... In the rest of Italy, church and
state were to be separated...19
And among His signs is the sublimity of His grandeur, His
exalted state, His towering glory, and the shining out of
His beauty above the horizon of the Prison: so that heads
were bowed before Him and voices lowered, and humble
were the faces that turned His way. This is a proof never
witnessed in the ages gone before. (SWAB 16)
Wherever Bahá’u’lláh was forced to go He would sway not only the
people but the highest authorities in that region. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
explains:
Only through the honor of entering His presence, many
souls became confirmed believers; they had no need of
other proofs. Even those people, who rejected and hated
Him bitterly, when they had met Him, would testify to the
grandeur of Baha’u’llah, saying, “This is a magnificent
man, but what a pity that he makes such a claim!
Otherwise, all that he says is acceptable... (SAQ 36)
The Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh are many. The precepts and
teachings they contain are universal, covering every
subject. He has revealed scientific explanations ranging
throughout all the realms of human inquiry and
investigation - astronomy, biology, medical science, etc. In
the Kitáb-i-ˆqán He has given expositions of the meanings
of the Gospel and other heavenly Books. He wrote lengthy
Tablets upon civilization, sociology and government. Every
subject is considered. His Tablets are matchless in beauty
and profundity. Even His enemies acknowledge the
greatness of Bahá’u’lláh, saying He was the miracle of
humanity. This was their confession although they did not
believe in Him. He was eulogized by Christians, Jews,
Zoroastrians and Muslims who denied His claim. They
frequently said, “He is matchless, unique.” A Christian poet
in the Orient wrote, “I do not believe him a manifestation
of God, yet his miracles are as great as the sun. (PUP 155)
Again among His signs are the extraordinary things He
continually did, the miracles He performed, the wonders
appearing from Him without interruption like the
streaming down of His clouds - and the acknowledgement,

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   235

even by unbelievers, of His powerful light. By His own
life! This was clearly verified, it was demonstrated to those
of every persuasion who came into the presence of the
living, the self-subsisting Lord. (SWAB 16)
The many miracles attributed to Bahá’u’lláh that were witnessed
by those in His presence were minimized by Him as being important
only to those events of the time. Once Bahá’u’lláh was challenged to
perform a miracle for a group of religious leaders in spite of their
acceptance that He had no peer in learning. Bahá’u’lláh replied that
they had no right to ask this for only God can test His creatures not
the opposite. He consented with the understanding that it would not
be considered a theatrical display.
The ‘ulamás must, therefore, assemble, and, with one
accord, choose one miracle, and write that, after the
performance of this miracle they will no longer entertain
doubts about Me, and that all will acknowledge and
confess the truth of My Cause. Let them seal this paper,
and bring it to Me. This must be the accepted criterion: if
the miracle is performed, no doubt will remain for them;
and if not, We shall be convicted of imposture. (SWAB 35)
Thirty ‘ulamás consulted and decided that Bahá’u’lláh would
probably defeat them with an enchantment so they did not dare to
push the matter further. Then ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says:
At the time when this great Light suddenly arose upon the
horizon of Persia, all the people, the ministers, the ‘ulamá
and men of other classes rose against Him, pursuing Him
with the greatest animosity, and proclaiming “that this man
wishes to suppress and destroy the religion, the law, the
nation and the empire.” The same was said of Christ. But
Bahá’u’lláh alone and without support resisted them all,
without ever showing the least weakness. At last they said,
“As long as this man is in Persia, there will be no peace and
tranquility; we must banish him, so that Persia may return
to a state of quietude. (SWAB 27)
And yet another of His signs is the wide-spreading rays of
the sun of His era, the rising moon of His times in the
heaven of all the ages: His day, which standeth at the
summit of all days, for its rank and power, its sciences and
its arts, reaching far and wide, that have dazzled the world
and astonished the minds of men.
Verily is this a matter settled and established for all time.
(SWAB 17)

236  Signs of Prophet-hood

Conclusion
The emergence of the Bahá’í era with the declaration of the Báb
in 1844 coincided with “The Great Expectation” but quickly
changed to “The Great Disappointment” when religionists were
unable to recognize the Promised One. But remarkable things
occurred in the world beginning with that date. Knowledge
exploded and the second industrial revolution began to accelerate
and continues to father generations of higher technological
revolutions (Air Age, Electronics, Telecommunications, Computer
age, Space Age, Medical Breakthroughs etc.) Today many of the
principles enunciated by Bahá’u’lláh have been adopted such as
equality of men and women, universal standards, universal
education, elimination of racism and an emerging secondary
universal language, perhaps English. There are many more but the
most important is the unity of humankind under a world assemblage.
A new cycle was born with the Báb and when Bahá’u’lláh
revealed Who He was, the very dust of the earth took on new life. A
radiance of spiritual and physical bounty was showered upon the
world of man and remains in its plenitude in our own time. For this
is the day not followed by night, the Day of God and, though the
general public is not yet aware of it, we now have the great privilege
of participating in its early stages.

NOTES
1 GPB 100.
2 Taherzadeh: Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh Volume IV, 425.
3 Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh IV, 426
4 Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh IV, 426.
5 Mírzá Abu’l-Fa∂l: The Bahá’í Proofs, 158.
6 ibid.
7 GPB 147.
8 Bahá’í Dictionary, 133.
9 Bahá’u’lláh, quoted in Selections from the Writings of E. G. Browne,
Browne’s interview with Bahá’u’lláh (pre-introduction).
10 GPB 94.
11 DB, 1.
12 Bahá’í Dictionary, 223.l
13 Bahá’í Dictionary, 174.
14 Encyclopedia Britannica, Inc. 2001, Alexandria, Library of.
15 Bahá’u’lláh: Call to Remembrance, 9.
16 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, in SW Sep. 1914-Mar. 1917, Vol. VII, No. 4, page 32.
17 DB, 376.
18 GPB, 211.
19 Encyclopedia Britannica 2001, CD-ROM, The Roman Question.

Elucidations

Infallibility of the Guardian of the Bahá’í Faith
Universal House of Justice letter to one of the believers
25 July, 1974
Dear Bahá’í friend,
We have received your letter stating you were disturbed by
statements made in your deepening class regarding the infallibility of
the beloved Guardian, and we appreciate your concern.
According to your letter, this question arose in connection with
Shoghi Effendi’s references in “God Passes By” to historical events,
and his descriptions of the characters of opponents of the faith,
particularly that of Óájí Mírzá Áqásí. Letters written on behalf of
the guardian by his secretary to individuals who asked similar
questions clearly define the sphere of the Guardian’s infallibility. We
quote from two of these, one written in 1944, the second in 1956.
The infallibility of the Guardian is confined to matters which
are related strictly to the Cause and interpretations of the
Teachings; he is not an infallible authority on other subjects,
such as economics, science, etc.
The Guardian’s infallibility covers interpretation of the revealed
word, and its application. Likewise, any instructions he may
issue having to do with the protection of the Faith, or its well-
being must be closely obeyed, as he is infallible in the
protection of the Faith. He is assured the guidance of both
Bahá’u’lláh and the Báb, as the Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá clearly reveals.
Now, in the matter of accuracy of historical fact, Shoghi Effendi
had to rely on available information. For example, on page 5 of “God
passes By”, he refers to Óájí Mírzá Áqásí as “... the idolized tutor of
Mu˙ammad Sháh, a vulgar, false-hearted and fickle-minded
schemer...” An appropriate and pertinent quotation supporting that
characterization can be found in P. M. Sykes’s “A History of Persia”,
Volume 2, pages 439-440, which appears as a footnote on page 233
of “Nabíl’s Narrative”:
The state of Persia, however, was not satisfactory; for Óájí
Mírzá Áqásí, who had been its virtual ruler for thirteen years,
‘was utterly ignorant of statesmanship or of military science, yet
too vain to receive instruction and too jealous to admit of a

238   Elucidations

coadjutor; brutal in his language; insolent in his demeanour;
indolent in his habits; he brought the exchequer to the verge of
bankruptcy and the country to the brink of revolution ...’ Such
— to adopt the weighty words of Rawlinson — was the
condition of Persia in the middle of the nineteenth century.
The Guardian was very meticulous about the authenticity of
historical fact. One of the friends in Yazd wrote to him stating that
the account given by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in one of His tablets about events
related to the martyrdom of some of the believers in that place was in
conflict with known facts about these events. Shoghi Effendi replied
saying that the friends should investigate the facts carefully and
unhesitatingly register them in their historical records, since ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá Himself had prefaced His recording of the events in His Tablet
with a statement that it was based on news received from Yazd.
It is a great pity if some of the friends fail to recognize the
matchless prose to be found in the Guardian’s writings. Shoghi
Effendi’s masterly use of the English language makes the meaning
abundantly clear, and that is an essential quality of great works.
We are delighted that you and your dear wife are conducting
classes for the benefit of the friends, and we will remember you both
in our prayers at the Holy Threshold.
With loving Bahá’í greetings,
The Universal House of Justice
The quotation from Abu’l-Fazl Gulpáygání, taken from Miracles
and Metaphors, pp. 9-10 reads as follows:
It is clear that the prophets and Manifestations of the Cause of
God were sent to guide the nations, to improve their characters,
and bring people nearer their Source and ultimate Goal. They were
not sent as historians, astronomers, philosophers or natural
scientists. Their position in the world of creation is like that of the
heart in the body: it has a universal position with a general effect.
The position of the learned in the world of earthly dominion is like
that of a specific organ. That is, they have a particular position
and a special effect. Therefore, the prophets have indulged the
people in regard to their historical notions, folk stories, and
scientific principles, and have spoken to them according to
these.... But from the point of view of science, it is impermissible
for the historian to depend on the literal meaning of these verses.
This is because he cannot discount the very real possibility that
they possess a higher significance and are subject to sublime,
figurative interpretations which differ from the understanding
that might be gained from their external sense.

A Commentary on the Conclusion on True
Mysticism
Enoch Tanyi
In the conclusion of my paper ‘Mysticism in African Traditional
Religion and in the Bahá’í Faith’, presented at the Irfán colloquium
in London in July 2001*, I wrote that true mysticism or class one
mysticism in the Bahá’í Faith had no parallel in African Traditional
Religion. In the light of new information and some more reflection,
I modify this conclusion.
To refresh the memory, I defined true mysticism as ‘The ecstatic
joy that results from communion with the Souls of the
Manifestations leading to physical martyrdom or the living of a life
of self-sacrifice and saintliness’. This definition is derived from a
statement the Guardian of the Bahá’í Faith made in Unfolding
Destiny of the British Bahá’í Community, pp. 406-7, and Abdu’l-
Bahá’s explanation of the meaning of sacrifice (see notes 1 and 2
below).
First of all, deducing from the Bahá’í teachings: African
Traditional Religion (ATR), like the Bahá’í Faith is divine in origin.
This means that a Manifestation or Manifestations of God appeared
in Africa, and brought divine teachings. True mysticism, as defined
in the Bahá’í teachings, is an eternal truth. Since the Bahá’í Faith
teaches that the Manifestations teach essentially the same truth, it
can be concluded that the Manifestations who taught the original
form of ATR also taught true mysticism. In this light, therefore,
true mysticism is found in both ATR and in the Bahá’í Faith.
Deducing from ATR:
According to one scholar, the book entitled ‘“The Sayings of the
Ancient One”, purported to have been found in Zimbabwe, shows
interesting correspondence to the Four Valleys of Bahá’u’lláh’.
The theme of the Four Valleys is true mysticism, therefore, this
book from ATR teaches true mysticism. My previous conclusion can
only hold in considering recorded examples in the lives of the
adherents, in which case the abundance of recorded exploits of
martyrs in Bahá’í literature would have no parallel in recorded ATR
literature. However, the absence of records does not prove that no
martyrs or true mystics arose in ATR. Besides, the main thrust of the
paper was to classify concepts and not to examine the extent to
which the adherents have applied these concepts to their lives.

240   Elucidations

NOTES
* Ref: Lights of Irfan, Book Three, 2002, Pp 155-172
1. The Guardian’s statement on true mysticism:
We liken God to the Sun which gives us all our life. So
the spirit of God reaches us through the Souls of the
Manifestations. We must
learn
to
commune with Their
Souls, and this is what the Martyrs seemed to have done,
and
what
brought
them
such
ecstasy
of
joy
that
life
became
nothing.
This
is
the
true
mysticism,
and
the
secret,
inner
meaning
of
life
which
humanity
has
at
present, drifted so far from. (UD 406-407)
2.
“Sacrifice
of
life
is
of
two
kinds.
To
be
killed
for
the
Cause
is
not
so
difficult
as
to
live
for
it
in
absolute obedience to the commands of God.” (Abdu’l-Bahá, in SW
5:VIII:6:65)
3. In this brief commentary, I propose another definition of True
Mysticism. This definition neither supersedes nor is inferior to the
previous one: ‘The act of communing with the Souls of the
Manifestations of God to such a degree that the communer attains
the
state
of
ecstatic
joy
leading
to
his
physical
martyrdom
or
to
his
living
a
life
of
self-sacrifice
and
saintliness’.

Appendices

Appendix I
Bibliography of the Bahá’í Writings and
their abbreviations used in this book*
ABL
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in London, Commemorative ed.
London, UK: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1987
ADJ
Shoghi Effendi. Advent of Divine Justice, 1st pocket ed. Wilmette,
IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1990
BA
Shoghi Effendi. Bahá’í Administration: Selected Messages 1922-
1932. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust
BP
compilation. Bahá’í Prayers.
BW
World Centre Publications. Bahá’í World, The, volumes I (1925)
through XX (1986-92); new series 1993-2004. Haifa, Israel: World
Centre Publications, 1925-2004
BWF
compilation. Bahá'í World Faith. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing
Trust, 1976
ESW
Bahá’u’lláh, trans. Shoghi Effendi. Epistle to the Son of the Wolf,
1st pocket ed. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1988
FWU
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Foundations of World Unity. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1979
GDM
Bahá’u’lláh, trans. World Centre Publications. Gems of Divine
Mysteries. Haifa, Israel: World Center Publications
GPB
Shoghi Effendi. God Passes By, 1st pocket ed. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust
GWB
Bahá’u’lláh, trans. Shoghi Effendi. Gleanings from the Writings of
Bahá’u’lláh, 1st pocket ed. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
HW
Bahá’u’lláh, trans. Marzieh Gail. Hidden Words. Numerous
editions.
INBA
compilation. Iranian National Bahá'í Archives (also called INBMC,
Iranian National Bahá'í Manuscript Collection). Tehran, Iran: 1976
KA
Bahá’u’lláh, trans. Shoghi Effendi and the Bahá’í World Centre.
Kitáb-i-Aqdas, 1st pocket ed. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing
Trust
KI
Bahá’u’lláh, trans. Shoghi Effendi. Kitáb-i-ˆqán, 1st pocket ed.
Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1983
KJV
King James Version, The Bible. Numerous editions.
LG
compilation. Lights of Guidance. India: Bahá’í Publishing Trust
MUHJ63 Universal House of Justice, comp. Geoffry W. Marks. Messages
from the Universal House of Justice 1963-86: The Third Epoch of
the Formative Age. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1996

242   Appendices

PB
Bahá’u’lláh. Proclamation of Bahá’u’lláh: To The Kings and
Leaders of the World. Haifa, Israel: World Centre Publications
PBA
Shoghi Effendi. Principles of Bahá’í Administration. London, UK:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
PM
Bahá’u’lláh, trans. Shoghi Effendi. Prayers and Meditations, 1st
pocket ed. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1987
PT
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Paris Talks. Ontario: Nine Pines Publishing.
PUP
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, 2nd ed. Wilmette,
IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1982
Q
Qur'án. Numerous editions.
SAQ
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, comp. and trans. Laura Clifford Barney. Some
Answered Questions, 1st pocket ed. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust
SDC
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, trans. Marzieh Gail. Secret of Divine Civilization,
1st pocket ed. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1990
SLH
Bahá’u’lláh, trans. World Centre Publications. Summons of the
Lord of Hosts. Australia: Bahá’í Publications Australia,
SVFV
Bahá’u’lláh, trans. Marzieh Gail. Seven Valleys and the Four
Valleys, 4th ed. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1991
SW
World Centre Publications. Star of the West, CD-ROM ed.
Heltonville, IN: Special Ideas, 2001
SWAB
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.
Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust
SWB
Báb, The. Selections from the Writings of the Báb. Wilmette, IL:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust
TAB
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Tablets of Abdul-Baha Abbas, volumes 1-3
TAF
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Tablet to Auguste Forel.
TB
Bahá’u’lláh, comp. Research Department of the UHJ, trans. Habib
Taherzadeh. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh Revealed after the Kitáb-i-
Aqdas, 1st pocket ed. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1988
TN
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Traveller’s Narrative, A. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust
UD
Shoghi Effendi. Unfolding Destiny. London, UK: Bahá’í Publishing
Trust
WOB
Shoghi Effendi. World Order of Bahá’u’lláh: Selected Letters, 1st
pocket ed. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1991
*  No formal list of abbreviations exists, but semi-formal lists can be
derived from abbreviations used by the Baha'i World Centre. First, a
partial list is in Messages from the Universal House of Justice 1963-
86 xxx. Second, the BWC downloads site has a list of their filename
abbreviations
at
http://library.bahai.org/README/README-
TREE.htm. Those two have been combined. See more at http://bahai-
library.com/?file=abbreviations

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   243

Appendix II
Contents of Lights of ‘Irfán Books One-
Five
Lights of ‘Irfán Book One, © 2000
Pilgrimage and Religious Identity in the Bahá’í Faith
Per-Olof Åkerdahl
Kitáb-i-Aqdas as Described and Glorified by Shoghi Effendi
Cyrus Alai
The Seven Valleys of Bahá’u’lláh and Farid ud-Din Attar
Sheila Banani
Common Teachings in Chinese Culture and the Bahá’í Faith: From
Material Civilization to Spiritual Civilization
Albert K. Cheung
The Bedrock of Bahá’í Belief: The Doctrine of Progressive
Revelation
Zaid Lundberg
The New Age Phenomenon and the Bahá’í Faith
Zaid Lundberg
A Study of the Meaning of the Word “Al-Amr” in the Qur’án and
in the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh
Moojan Momen
The Book of Revelation Revealed in Glory: A Summary of Glorious
Revelation
William Ridgers
The Development of Humankind
Julio Savi
The Concept of Sacred Justice in Hebrew Eschatology
Gary Selchert
Some Chronological Issues in the Law˙-i-Óikmat of Bahá’u’lláh
Peter Terry
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Explanation of the Teachings of Bahá’u’lláh: Tablets
and Talks Translated into English (1911–1920)
Peter Terry

244   Appendices

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Two, © 2001
“Point” and “Letter” in the Writings of the Báb
Muhammad Afnan
Perception into Faith: A Radical Discontinuity within Unity
William Barnes
An Introduction to the Súratu’l-Haykal (Discourse of The Temple)
Mohamad Ghasem Bayat
The Firm Cord of Servitude
Theo Cope
The Human Intellect: A Bahá’í-inspired Perspective
Adrian John Davis
The Perfect Man and the Manifestation of God
Y.A. Ioannesyan
The Mystic Cup: The Essential Mystical Nature of the Bahá’í Faith
LeRoy Jones
A Short Poem by “Darvísh” Mu˙ammad, Bahá’u’lláh: “Sáqí az
ghayb-i-baqá’ burqa’ bar afkan az ‘idhár”: An Introduction and
Three Versions of Provisional English Translations
Franklin D. Lewis
The Tablet of Unity (Law˙-i-Itti˙ád)—A Provisional Translation
Moojan Momen
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Commentary on the Quránic Verses Concerning the
Overthrow of the Byzantines: The Stages of the Soul
Moojan Momen
“What I Want to Say is Wordless”: Mystical Language, Revelation
and Scholarship
Ismael Velasco
Keys to the Proper Understanding of Islam in The Dispensation of
Bahá’u’lláh
Brian A. Wittman

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   245

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Three, © 2002
A Journey through the Seven Valleys
Ghasem Bayat
The beginning that has no beginning: Bahá’í Cosmology
Vahid Brown
Knowledge, Certitude and the Mystical Heart: The Hidden Essence
of God’s Word
LeRoy Jones
The Báb’s Epistle on the Spiritual Journey towards God
Todd Lawson
From Adam to Bahá’u’lláh: The Idea of a Chain of Prophecy
Zaid Lundberg
The Wronged One: Shí’í Narrative Structure in Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablet
of Visitation for Mullá Óusayn
William McCants
The Mystical Dimensions of the Bahá’í Administrative Order
Kavian Milani
Mysticism and the Bahá’í Community
Moojan Momen
The Law˙-i-Mánikjí Íá˙ib: introduction and provisional translation
Ramin Neshati
The Seven Valleys and the Scientific Method
Robert Sarracino
Theological Responses to Modernity in the 19th-century Middle
East
Oliver Scharbrodt
Mysticism in African Traditional Religion and in the Bahá’í Faith:
Classification of Concepts and Practices
Enoch Tanyi
An Exposition on the Fire Tablet by Bahá’u’lláh
James Thomas
The Influence of Bábí Teachings on Ling Ming Tang and 19th-
century China
Jianping Wang

246   Appendices

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four, © 2003
An Epistle of Sayyid ‘Alí Mu˙ammad ‘the Báb’ to Sultan
Abdulmecid
Necati Alkan
“Thee” and “thee” in the translation of the Súrih of the Temple
(Súriy-i-Haykal)
Khazeh Fananapazir
The Aristotelian Substratum of the Bahá’í Writings
Ian Kluge
The Call into Being: Introduction to a Bahá’í Existentialism
Ian Kluge
The Tablet to Hardegg (Law˙-i-Hirtík): A Tablet of Bahá’u’lláh to
the Templer Leader Georg David Hardegg
Stephen Lambden
The Tablet of the Bell (Law˙-i-Náqúsí) of Bahá’u’lláh
Stephen Lambden
The ‘Akká Traditions in the Epistle to the Son of the Wolf
Moojan Momen
The Tablet of Maqsúd (Law˙-i-Maqsúd): Guidance on Human
Nature and Leadership
Ramin Neshati
Inmates of the Celestial Pavilion
Research department of the Bahá’í World Centre
Letters of the Quranic Dispensation
Research Department of the Bahá’í World Centre
The Uses of Genealogy and Genealogical Information in Select
Persianate and Bábí/Bahá’í Sources: A Preliminary Survey
Sholeh A. Quinn
An Exposition of the Tablet of the World (Law˙-i-Dunya)
James B. Thomas
Bahá’u’lláh’s First Tablet to Napoleon III
Ismael Velasco

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   247

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Five, © 2004
Number of the Letters of the Living
Muhammad Afnan
Images of Christ in the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
Maryam Afshar
Letters to Bahá’í princesses: Tablets revealed in honour of the
women of Ibn-i Asdaq’s household
Dominic Parviz Brookshaw
Textual Resurrection: Book, Imám, and Cosmos in the Qur’án
Commentaries of the Báb
Vahid Brown
Chronicles of a Birth: Early References to the Bábí and Bahá’í
Religions in Spain (1850-1853)
Amín E. Egea
Unity and Progressive Revelation: Comparing Bahá’í Principles with
the Basic Concepts of Teilhard de Chardin
Wolfgang A Klebel
Process Philosophy and the Bahá’í Writings: An Initial Exploration
Ian Kluge
Kaleidoscope: Some Aspects of Angelology, Light, the Divine
Throne and Color Mysticism in Bábí and Bahá’í Scripture
Stephen Lambden
Karím Khán Kirmání and the Kitáb-i-ˆqán
Sholeh A. Quinn
Service, Joy and Sacrifice: An Essay on Commentaries by ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá
James B. Thomas
The Manifestations of God and Their Function in Human History
Iscander Micael Tinto

248   Appendices

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six   249

Appendix III
Publications of the ‘Irfán Colloquia
English-Language Publications


•
Scripture and Revelation, Moojan Momen (ed.), Oxford, UK:
George Ronald, 1997
•
The Bahá’í Faith and the World’s Religions, Moojan Momen
(ed.), Oxford, UK: George Ronald, 2005.
•
The Lights of ‘Irfán: Compilation of Papers Presented at the
‘Irfán Colloquia, Iraj Ayman (general ed.), Book One, 2000;
Book Two, 2001; Book Three, 2002; Book Four, 2003; Book
Five, 2004; Book Six, 2005
•
Occasional Papers volume 1: “Images of Christ in the Writings
of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá,” by Maryam Afshar.
Persian-Language Publications
Publications for sale:
•
Safini-yi ‘Irfán, Books I to VIII (Collections of the papers
presented at the ‘Irfán Colloquia in Persian)
Publications produced for and given to the participants of the ‘Irfán
Colloquia:
•
Mathnavyi Abha by F. Radmehr (A Commentary of the
Mathnavi of Bahá’u’lláh)
•
Ráhnamay-i Mutál’i-yi-Athár-i-Qalam-A’lá, Books I to IV
(Guidebooks for the Study of the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh)
•
Ráhnamay-i Mutál’-yi-Athár-i Hazrati-’Abdu’l-Bahá, Books I to
IV (Guidebook for the Study of the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá)
•
Basitu’l-Haqiqat (Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh and the Báb and a some
explanatory articles on “Basitu’l Haqiqih”)
•
Tajjaliyyih Barkhi Jilvih-háy-i Hayát-i Bahá’í dar Zindigáni-yi
Hazrat-i ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, by Flower Sámi (Manifestations of
Living a Bahá’í Life as Appears in the Life of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá: a
Study in the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá)

250   Appendices


All ‘Irfán publications in English and Persian may be ordered from:
Bahá’í Distribution Service
Images International
4703 Fulton Industrial Blvd.
5010 Austin Road
Atlanta, Georgia 30336-2017
Hixson, TN 37343
U.S.A.
U.S.A.
Tel: 404-472-9019
Tel: 1-800-470-4525
Fax: 404-472-0119
Fax: 1-423-870-4774
Email: bds@usbnc.org
Email: images@chattanooga.net
Web: www.bahaibookstore.com
Web: images-international.com
German-Language Publications
•
Beiträge des ‘Irfán-Kolloquiums 2003: ‘Irfán-Studien zum
Bahá’í-Schrifttum, Book I (Collections of the papers presented
at the ‘Irfán Colloquia in German). Hofheim, Germany: Bahá’í-
Verlag, 2004
‘Irfán publications in German may be ordered from:
Bahá’í Verlag
Eppsteiner Strasse 89
65719
Hofheim, Germany
Tel: +49-(0)-6192-22921
Fax: +49-(0)-6192-22936
Email: info@bahai-verlag.de
Web: www.bahai-verlag.de