R  G 
V 
Y O S
A COMPILATION FROM
THE BAHÁ’Í SACRED WRITINGS
R  G 
V 
Y O S
A COMPILATION FROM
THE BAHÁ’Í SACRED WRITINGS

R  G 
V 
Y O S
A COMPILATION FROM
THE BAHÁ’Í SACRED WRITINGS

&RS\ULJKW-X[WD3XEOLVKLQJ
,6%1
&RPSLOHGE\)DL]L$OYHV
7KLVERRNKDVEHHQSURGXFHGZLWKWKHFRQVHQWRIWKHRULJLQDOFRPSLOHUDQGULJKWVKROGHUV
5LJKWVKROGHUVUHWDLQIXOOULJKWVWRWKHLUZRUNV5HTXHVWVWRUHSURGXFHWKHFRQWHQWVRIWKLV
ZRUNFDQEHGLUHFWHGWRWR-X[WD3XEOLVKLQJ/LPLWHG5HSURGXFWLRQRIWKLVERRNLQLWVFXU
UHQWIRUPLVJRYHUQHGE\WKH-X[WD3XEOLVKLQJ%RRNVIRUWKH:RUOGOLFHQVHRXWOLQHGEHORZ
7KLVERRNLVUHOHDVHGDVSDUWRI-X[WD3XEOLVKLQJ·V%RRNVIRUWKH:RUOGSURJUDP
ZKLFKDLPVWRSURYLGHWKHZLGHVWSRVVLEOHDFFHVVWRTXDOLW\%DKi·tLQVSLUHG
OLWHUDWXUHWRUHDGHUVDURXQGWKHZRUOG8VHRIWKLVERRNLVJRYHUQHGE\WKH-X[WD
3XEOLVKLQJ%RRNVIRUWKH:RUOGOLFHQVH
7KLVERRNLVDYDLODEOHLQSULQWHGDQGHOHFWURQLFIRUPV
7KLVERRNPD\EHIUHHO\UHGLVWULEXWHGLQHOHFWURQLFIRUPVRORQJDVWKHIRO
ORZLQJFRQGLWLRQVDUHPHW

D7KHFRQWHQWVRIWKHÀOHDUHQRWDOWHUHG

E7KLVFRS\ULJKWQRWLFHUHPDLQVLQWDFW

F1RFKDUJHVDUHPDGHRUPRQLHVFROOHFWHGIRUUHGLVWULEXWLRQ
7KHHOHFWURQLFYHUVLRQPD\EHSULQWHGRUWKHSULQWHGYHUVLRQPD\EHSKRWR
FRSLHGDQGWKHUHVXOWLQJFRSLHVXVHGLQQRQERXQGIRUPDWIRUQRQFRPPHUFLDO
XVHIRUWKHIROORZLQJSXUSRVHV

D3HUVRQDOXVH

E$FDGHPLFRUHGXFDWLRQDOXVH
:KHQUHSURGXFHGLQWKLVZD\LQSULQWHGIRUPIRUDFDGHPLFRUHGXFDWLRQDOXVH
FKDUJHVPD\EHPDGHWRUHFRYHUDFWXDOUHSURGXFWLRQDQGGLVWULEXWLRQFRVWVEXW
QRDGGLWLRQDOPRQLHVPD\EHFROOHFWHG
7KLVERRNPD\EHUHSXEOLVKHGUHJLRQDOO\RUORFDOO\ZLWKRXWUR\DOW\E\SXE
OLVKHUVZKRHQWHULQWRDUHOHYDQWPLFURSXEOLVKLQJDJUHHPHQWZLWK-X[WD3XE
OLVKLQJ/LPLWHG3XEOLVKHUVVKRXOGFRQWDFW-X[WD3XEOLVKLQJ/LPLWHGLQZULWLQJ
WRHQTXLUHDERXWWKH-X[WD3XEOLVKLQJPLFURSXEOLVKLQJDJUHHPHQW:LWKRXW
HQWHULQJLQWRDPLFURSXEOLVKLQJDJUHHPHQWWKLVERRNFDQQRWEHUHSXEOLVKHG
E\RWKHUSXEOLVKHUV
$Q\RWKHUUHSURGXFWLRQRUUHGLVWULEXWLRQLQDQ\IRUPDWLVIRUELGGHQZLWKRXWWKHH[
SUHVVHGZULWWHQFRQVHQWRI-X[WD3XEOLVKLQJ/LPLWHG
ZZZMX[WDFRP

Table of Contents
Introduction ....................................................... 5
‘Worldliness in Its Essence’ ................................. 7
‘Self and Passion’ .............................................. 21
‘By the Power of God’s Might, Resolve to Gain the
Victory over Your Own Selves’ .................... 31
‘Cleanse from Your Hearts the Love of Worldly
Tings’ ........................................................ 37
‘Tey are Commissioned to Use the Inspiration of
Teir Words’ ............................................... 53
“‘Te Master Key’ to Self-Mastery is
Self-Forgetting” ........................................... 65
͚Remembrance of Me Cleanseth All Tings from
Deﬁlement’ ................................................. 73
Appendix .......................................................... 83
Bibliography ..................................................... 85

I
Te majority of the material presented in this compilation is
comprised of passages from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, with
one text from the Báb, some from ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, one passage
from a letter written on behalf of Shoghi Eﬀendi, and one ap-
pendix from a letter written on behalf of the Universal House
of Justice. It was compiled with an intentional sequence of cor-
related passages that would be conducive to spiritual growth,
and not meant to be focused on elucidation of independent
subjects.
For this reason, this material does not follow the ranking
protocol that should be adopted when compiling Writings of
the Faith. Indeed one will easily ﬁnd passages that are not di-
rectly related to a theme under which they have been placed. In
addition, of course, if one seeks to better understand a speciﬁc
passage, it is advisable to refer back to the source from which
the passage was extracted and study it in its broader context,
using cross-references, and so forth.

‘W  I
E’

Resolve to Gain the Victory Over Your Own Selves | 9
Purge your hearts from love of the world, and your tongues
from calumny, and your limbs from whatsoever may withhold
you from drawing nigh unto God, the Mighty, the All-Praised.
Say: By the world is meant that which turneth you aside from
Him Who is the Dawning-Place of Revelation, and inclineth
you unto that which is unproﬁtable unto you. Verily, the thing
that deterreth you, in this day, from God is worldliness in its
essence. Eschew it, and approach the Most Sublime Vision, this
shining and resplendent Seat.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, p. 54)
Know ye that by “the world” is meant your unawareness
of Him Who is your Maker, and your absorption in aught else
but Him. Te “life to come,” on the other hand, signiﬁeth the
things that give you a safe approach to God, the All-Glorious,
the Incomparable. Whatsoever deterreth you, in this Day, from
loving God is nothing but the world. Flee it, that ye may be
numbered with the blest. Should a man wish to adorn himself
with the ornaments of the earth, to wear its apparels, or par-
take of the beneﬁts it can bestow, no harm can befall him, if
he alloweth nothing whatever to intervene between him and
God, for God hath ordained every good thing, whether created
in the heavens or in the earth, for such of His servants as truly
believe in Him. Eat ye, O people, of the good things which
God hath allowed you, and deprive not yourselves from His
wondrous bounties. Render thanks and praise unto Him, and
be of them that are truly thankful.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 275)
Te Bird of the Realm of Utterance voiceth continually this
call: “All things have I willed for thee, and thee, too, for thine
own sake.”

(Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 259)

10 | Resolve to Gain the Victory Over Your Own Selves
Te world is continually proclaiming these words: Beware,
I am evanescent, and so are all my outward appearances and
colours. Take ye heed of the changes and chances contrived
within me and be ye roused from your slumber. Nevertheless
there is no discerning eye to see, nor is there a hearing ear to
hearken.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 257 258)
By the righteousness of God! Te world and its vanities,
and its glory, and whatever delights it can oﬀer, are all, in the
sight of God, as worthless as, nay, even more contemptible
than, dust and ashes. Would that the hearts of men could com-
prehend it! Cleanse yourselves thoroughly, O people of Bahá,
from the deﬁlement of the world, and of all that pertaineth
unto it. God Himself beareth Me witness. Te things of the
earth ill beseem you. Cast them away unto such as may desire
them, and fasten your eyes upon this most holy and eﬀulgent
Vision.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 304)
Know ye that the world and its vanities and its embellish-
ments shall pass away. Nothing will endure except God’s King-
dom which pertaineth to none but Him, the Sovereign Lord of
all, the Help in Peril, the All-Glorious, the Almighty. Te days
of your life shall roll away, and all the things with which ye are
occupied and of which ye boast yourselves shall perish, and ye
shall, most certainly, be summoned by a company of His angels
to appear at the spot where the limbs of the entire creation
shall be made to tremble, and the ﬂesh of every oppressor to
creep. Ye shall be asked of the things your hands have wrought
in this, your vain life, and shall be repaid for your doings. Tis
is the day that shall inevitably come upon you, the hour that

Resolve to Gain the Victory Over Your Own Selves | 11
none can put back. To this the Tongue of Him that speaketh
the truth and is the Knower of all things hath testiﬁed.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 123)
O ye loved ones of God! Know ye that the world is even
as a mirage rising over the sands, that the thirsty mistaketh for
water. Te wine of this world is but a vapour in the desert, its
pity and compassion but toil and trouble, the repose it proﬀer-
eth only weariness and sorrow. Abandon it to those who belong
to it, and turn your faces unto the Kingdom of your Lord the
All-Merciful, that His grace and bounty may cast their dawn-
ing splendours over you, and a heavenly table may be sent
down for you, and your Lord may bless you, and shower His
riches upon you to gladden your bosoms and ﬁll your hearts
with bliss, to attract your minds, and cleanse your souls, and
console your eyes.

(‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 186)
O YE THAT PRIDE YOURSELVES ON MORTAL
RICHES! Know ye in truth that wealth is a mighty barrier
between the seeker and his desire, the lover and his beloved.
Te rich, but for a few, shall in no wise attain the court of His
presence nor enter the city of content and resignation. Well is
it then with him, who, being rich, is not hindered by his riches
from the eternal kingdom, nor deprived by them of imperish-
able dominion. By the Most Great Name! Te splendor of such
a wealthy man shall illuminate the dwellers of heaven even as
the sun enlightens the people of the earth!

(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Hidden Words, Persian #53)

12 | Resolve to Gain the Victory Over Your Own Selves
Wealth is praiseworthy in the highest degree, if it is ac-
quired by an individual’s own eﬀorts and the grace of God, in
commerce, agriculture, art and industry, and if it be expended
for philanthropic purposes. Above all, if a judicious and re-
sourceful individual should initiate measures which would
universally enrich the masses of the people, there could be no
undertaking greater than this, and it would rank in the sight of
God as the supreme achievement, for such a benefactor would
supply the needs and insure the comfort and well-being of a
great multitude. Wealth is most commendable, provided the
entire population is wealthy. If, however, a few have inordinate
riches while the rest are impoverished, and no fruit or beneﬁt
accrues from that wealth, then it is only a liability to its pos-
sessor. If, on the other hand, it is expended for the promotion
of knowledge, the founding of elementary and other schools,
the encouragement of art and industry, the training of orphans
and the poor -- in brief, if it is dedicated to the welfare of so-
ciety -- its possessor will stand out before God and man as the
most excellent of all who live on earth and will be accounted as
one of the people of paradise.

(‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Te Secret of Divine Civilization, p. 24-5)
O SON OF BEING! Busy not thyself with this world, for
with ﬁre We test the gold, and with gold We test Our servants.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Hidden Words, Arabic #55)
We see you rejoicing in that which ye have amassed for
others and shutting out yourselves from the worlds which
naught except My guarded Tablet can reckon. Te treasures
ye have laid up have drawn you far away from your ultimate
objective. Tis ill beseemeth you, could ye but understand
it. Wash your hearts from all earthly deﬁlements, and hasten
to enter the Kingdom of your Lord, the Creator of earth and

Resolve to Gain the Victory Over Your Own Selves | 13
heaven, Who caused the world to tremble and all its peoples to
wail, except them that have renounced all things and clung to
that which the Hidden Tablet hath ordained.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 210)
Exultest thou over the treasures thou dost possess, knowing
they shall perish? Rejoicest thou in that thou rulest a span of
earth, when the whole world, in the estimation of the people
of Bahá, is worth as much as the black in the eye of a dead ant?
Abandon it unto such as have set their aﬀections upon it, and
turn thou unto Him Who is the Desire of the world. Whither
are gone the proud and their palaces? Gaze thou into their
tombs, that thou mayest proﬁt by this example, inasmuch as
We made it a lesson unto every beholder. Were the breezes of
Revelation to seize thee, thou wouldst ﬂee the world, and turn
unto the Kingdom, and wouldst expend all thou possessest,
that thou mayest draw nigh unto this sublime Vision.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Summons of the Lord of Hosts, p. 81)
O YE THAT ARE LYING AS DEAD ON THE COUCH
OF HEEDLESSNESS! Ages have passed and your precious
lives are well-nigh ended, yet not a single breath of purity hath
reached Our court of holiness from you. Tough immersed
in the ocean of misbelief, yet with your lips ye profess the one
true faith of God. Him whom I abhor ye have loved, and of
My foe ye have made a friend. Notwithstanding, ye walk on
My earth complacent and self-satisﬁed, heedless that My earth
is weary of you and everything within it shunneth you. Were
ye but to open your eyes, ye would, in truth, prefer a myriad
griefs unto this joy, and would count death itself better than
this life.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Hidden Words, Persian #20)

14 | Resolve to Gain the Victory Over Your Own Selves
If true glory were to consist in the possession of such
perishable things, then the earth on which ye walk must needs
vaunt itself over you, because it supplieth you, and bestoweth
upon you, these very things, by the decree of the Almighty. In
its bowels are contained, according to what God hath ordained,
all that ye possess. From it, as a sign of His mercy, ye derive
your riches. Behold then your state, the thing in which ye
glory! Would that ye could perceive it!
(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Summons of the Lord of Hosts, p. 190)
Every man of discernment, while walking upon the earth,
feeleth indeed abashed, inasmuch as he is fully aware that
the thing which is the source of his prosperity, his wealth, his
might, his exaltation, his advancement and power is, as or-
dained by God, the very earth which is trodden beneath the
feet of all men. Tere can be no doubt that whoever is cog-
nizant of this truth, is cleansed and sanctiﬁed from all pride,
arrogance, and vainglory. Whatever hath been said hath come
from God. Unto this, He, verily, hath borne, and beareth
now, witness, and He, in truth, is the All-Knowing, the All-
Informed.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, p. 44)
By God! In earthly riches fear is hidden and peril is con-
cealed. Consider ye and call to mind that which the All-Mer-
ciful hath revealed in the Qur’án: ‘Woe betide every slanderer
and defamer, him that layeth up riches and counteth them.’[1]
Fleeting are the riches of the world; all that perisheth and chan-
geth is not, and hath never been, worthy of attention, except to
a recognized measure.
[1 Qur’án 104:1-2.]
(Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 217 219)

Resolve to Gain the Victory Over Your Own Selves | 15
How great the multitude of the poor who have quaﬀed the
choice wine of divine revelation and how many the rich who
have turned away, repudiated the truth and voiced their disbe-
lief in God, the Lord of this blessed and wondrous Day!

(Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 248)
Say: O people! Let not this life and its deceits deceive you,
for the world and all that is therein is held ﬁrmly in the grasp
of His Will. He bestoweth His favor on whom He willeth, and
from whom He willeth He taketh it away. He doth whatsoever
He chooseth. Had the world been of any worth in His sight,
He surely would never have allowed His enemies to possess it,
even to the extent of a grain of mustard seed. He hath, how-
ever, caused you to be entangled with its aﬀairs, in return for
what your hands have wrought in His Cause. Tis, indeed, is
a chastisement which ye, of your own will, have inﬂicted upon
yourselves, could ye but perceive it. Are ye rejoicing in the
things which, according to the estimate of God, are contempt-
ible and worthless, things wherewith He proveth the hearts of
the doubtful?

(Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 207)
For after all, the earth is but the everlasting graveyard,
the vast, universal cemetery of all mankind. Yet men ﬁght to
possess this graveyard, waging war and battle, killing each
other. What ignorance! How spacious the earth is with room
in plenty for all! How thoughtful the providence which has so
allotted that every man may derive his sustenance from it! Te
Lord, our Creator, does not ordain that anyone should starve
or live in want. All are intended to participate in the blessed
and abundant bestowals of our God. Fundamentally, all war-
fare and bloodshed in the human world are due to the lack of
unity between the religions, which through superstitions and

16 | Resolve to Gain the Victory Over Your Own Selves
adherence to theological dogmas have obscured the one reality
which is the source and basis of them all.

(‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Te Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 395)
Say: O people! Withhold not from yourselves the grace of
God and His mercy. Whoso withholdeth himself therefrom is
indeed in grievous loss. What, O people! Do ye worship the
dust, and turn away from your Lord, the Gracious, the All-
Bountiful? Fear ye God, and be not of those who perish.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 104)
Where is he to be found who, through the power of My
name that transcendeth all created things, will cast away the
things that men possess, and cling, with all his might, to the
things which God, the Knower of the unseen and of the seen,
hath bidden him observe? Tus hath His bounty been sent
down unto men, His testimony fulﬁlled, and His proof shone
forth above the Horizon of mercy. Rich is the prize that shall
be won by him who hath believed and exclaimed: “Lauded
art Tou, O Beloved of all worlds! Magniﬁed be Ty name, O
Tou the Desire of every understanding heart!

(Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 34)
O SON OF THE SUPREME! To the eternal I call thee,
yet thou dost seek that which perisheth. What hath made thee
turn away from Our desire and seek thine own?

(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Hidden Words, Arabic #23)
O SON OF MAN! Tou dost wish for gold and I desire
thy freedom from it. Tou thinkest thyself rich in its posses-
sion, and I recognize thy wealth in thy sanctity therefrom. By
My life! Tis is My knowledge, and that is thy fancy; how can
My way accord with thine?

(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Hidden Words, Arabic #56)

Resolve to Gain the Victory Over Your Own Selves | 17
Te days of your life are far spent, O people, and your end
is fast approaching. Put away, therefore, the things ye have
devised and to which ye cleave, and take ﬁrm hold on the
precepts of God, that haply ye may attain that which He hath
purposed for you, and be of them that pursue a right course.
Delight not yourselves in the things of the world and its vain
ornaments, neither set your hopes on them. Let your reliance
be on the remembrance of God, the Most Exalted, the Most
Great. He will, erelong, bring to naught all the things ye pos-
sess. Let Him be your fear, and forget not His covenant with
you, and be not of them that are shut out as by a veil from
Him.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 127)
Walk not in the paths of the Evil One. Walk ye, during
the few remaining days of your life, in the ways of the one true
God. Your days shall pass away as have the days of them who
were before you. To dust shall ye return, even as your fathers of
old did return.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 125)
Take heed lest pride deter you from recognizing the Source
of Revelation, lest the things of this world shut you out as by a
veil from Him Who is the Creator of heaven.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 211)
O SON OF SPIRIT! Te bird seeketh its nest; the night-
ingale the charm of the rose; whilst those birds, the hearts
of men, content with transient dust, have strayed far from
their eternal nest, and with eyes turned towards the slough of
heedlessness are bereft of the glory of the divine presence. Alas!
How strange and pitiful; for a mere cupful, they have turned

18 | Resolve to Gain the Victory Over Your Own Selves
away from the billowing seas of the Most High, and remained
far from the most eﬀulgent horizon.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Hidden Words, Persian #2)
O FRIENDS! Abandon not the everlasting beauty for a
beauty that must die, and set not your aﬀections on this mortal
world of dust.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Hidden Words, Persian #14)
O MY SERVANT! Abandon not for that which perisheth
an everlasting dominion, and cast not away celestial sovereignty
for a worldly desire. Tis is the river of everlasting life that hath
ﬂowed from the well-spring of the pen of the merciful; well is it
with them that drink!

(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Hidden Words, Persian #37)
O OFFSPRING OF DUST! Be not content with the ease
of a passing day, and deprive not thyself of everlasting rest.
Barter not the garden of eternal delight for the dust-heap of
a mortal world. Up from thy prison ascend unto the glorious
meads above, and from thy mortal cage wing thy ﬂight unto
the paradise of the Placeless.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Hidden Words, Persian #39)
O CHILDREN OF VAINGLORY! For a ﬂeeting sover-
eignty ye have abandoned My imperishable dominion, and
have adorned yourselves with the gay livery of the world and
made of it your boast. By My beauty! All will I gather beneath
the one-colored covering of the dust and eﬀace all these diverse
colors save them that choose My own, and that is purging from
every color.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Hidden Words, Persian #74)

Resolve to Gain the Victory Over Your Own Selves | 19
Te peoples of the world are fast asleep. Were they to wake
from their slumber, they would hasten with eagerness unto
God, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise. Tey would cast away
everything they possess, be it all the treasures of the earth, that
their Lord may remember them to the extent of addressing to
them but one word.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Kitáb-i-Aqdas, p. 33)
Yet it behoveth the people of truth that the signs of hu-
mility should shine upon their faces, that the light of sanctity
should radiate from their countenances, that they should walk
upon the earth as though they were in the presence of God and
distinguish themselves in their deeds from all the dwellers of
the earth. Such must be their state that their eyes should be-
hold the evidences of His might, their tongues and hearts make
mention of His name, their feet be set towards the lands of His
nearness, and their hands take fast hold upon His precepts.
And were they to pass through a valley of pure gold and mines
of precious silver, they should regard them as wholly unworthy
of their attention.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Gems of Divine Mysteries, p. 59)
Man’s merit lieth in service and virtue and not in the
pageantry of wealth and riches. Take heed that your words be
purged from idle fancies and worldly desires and your deeds
be cleansed from craftiness and suspicion. Dissipate not the
wealth of your precious lives in the pursuit of evil and corrupt
aﬀection, nor let your endeavours be spent in promoting your
personal interest. Be generous in your days of plenty, and be
patient in the hour of loss. Adversity is followed by success and
rejoicings follow woe. Guard against idleness and sloth, and
cling unto that which proﬁteth mankind, whether young or
old, whether high or low. Beware lest ye sow tares of dissen-

20 | Resolve to Gain the Victory Over Your Own Selves
sion among men or plant thorns of doubt in pure and radiant
hearts.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 138)

‘S  P’

Resolve to Gain the Victory Over Your Own Selves | 23
Tou hast asked Me concerning the nature of the soul. Know,
verily, that the soul is a sign of God, a heavenly gem whose reality
the most learned of men hath failed to grasp, and whose mystery
no mind, however acute, can ever hope to unravel. It is the ﬁrst
among all created things to declare the excellence of its Creator,
the ﬁrst to recognize His glory, to cleave to His truth, and to bow
down in adoration before Him. If it be faithful to God, it will
reﬂect His light, and will, eventually, return unto Him. If it fails,
however, in its allegiance to its Creator, it will become a victim to
self and passion, and will, in the end, sink in their depths.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 158)
Know also that the soul is endowed with two wings: should
it soar in the atmosphere of love and contentment, then it will
be related to the All-Merciful. And should it ﬂy in the atmo-
sphere of self and desire, then it will pertain to the Evil One;
may God shield and protect us and protect you therefrom, O
ye who perceive! Should the soul become ignited with the ﬁre
of the love of God, it is called benevolent and pleasing unto
God, but should it be consumed with the ﬁre of passion, it is
known as the concupiscent soul. Tus have We expounded this
subject for thee that thou mayest obtain a clear understanding.
(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Summons of the Lord of Hosts, p. 154)
Te reality underlying this question is that the evil spirit,
Satan or whatever is interpreted as evil, refers to the lower na-
ture in man. Tis baser nature is symbolized in various ways. In
man there are two expressions, one is the expression of nature,
the other the expression of the spiritual realm. Te world of
nature is defective. Look at it clearly, casting aside all supersti-
tion and imagination. If you should leave a man uneducated
and barbarous in the wilds of Africa, would there be any doubt
about his remaining ignorant? God has never created an evil

24 | Resolve to Gain the Victory Over Your Own Selves
spirit; all such ideas and nomenclature are symbols expressing
the mere human or earthly nature of man. It is an essential
condition of the soil of earth that thorns, weeds and fruitless
trees may grow from it. Relatively speaking, this is evil; it is
simply the lower state and baser product of nature.

(‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Foundations of World Unity, p. 77)
Regarding the questions you asked: Self has really two
meanings, or is used in two senses, in the Bahá’í writings; one
is self, the identity of the individual created by God. Tis is the
self mentioned in such passages as ‘he hath known God who
hath known himself etc.’. Te other self is the ego, the dark,
animalistic heritage each one of us has, the lower nature that
can develop into a monster of selﬁshness, brutality, lust and so
on. It is this self we must struggle against, or this side of our
natures, in order to strengthen and free the spirit within us and
help it to attain perfection.
Self-sacriﬁce means to subordinate this lower nature and its
desires to the more godly and noble side of ourselves. Ultimate-
ly, in its highest sense, self-sacriﬁce means to give our will and
our all to God to do with as He pleases.  Ten He puriﬁes and
gloriﬁes our true self until it becomes a shining and wonderful
reality.
(Compilations, Lights of Guidance, p. 113
From a letter written on behalf of Shoghi Eﬀendi
to an individual believer, December 10, 1947)
Tis lower nature in man is symbolized as Satan -- the evil
ego within us, not an evil personality outside.

(‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Te Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 286)

Resolve to Gain the Victory Over Your Own Selves | 25
A man should pause and reﬂect and be just: his Lord, out
of measureless grace, has made him a human being and hon-
ored him with the words: “Verily, We created man in the good-
liest of forms”[1] -- and caused His mercy which rises out of
the dawn of oneness to shine down upon him, until he became
the wellspring of the words of God and the place where the
mysteries of heaven alighted, and on the morning of creation
he was covered with the rays of the qualities of perfection and
the graces of holiness. How can he stain this immaculate gar-
ment with the ﬁlth of selﬁsh desires, or exchange this everlast-
ing honor for infamy? “Dost thou think thyself only a puny
form, when the universe is folded up within thee?”[2]
[1 Qur’án 95:4.] [2 Te Imam Ali.]
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Te Secret of Divine Civilization, p. 19.)
Te winds of self and passion move them as they will, and
We found them all bereft of constancy.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Summons of the Lord of Hosts, p. 94)
How very strange the imaginings of those who speak as
prompted by their own caprices, and who wander distractedly
in the wilderness of self and passion!

(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Summons of the Lord of Hosts, p. 100)
Te lowliest and most abject of all things holdeth sway over
thee, and that is none other than self and passion, which have
ever been reprehensible.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Summons of the Lord of Hosts, p. 170)
Tus it is that certain invalid souls have conﬁned the lands
of knowledge within the wall of self and passion, and clouded
them with ignorance and blindness, and have been veiled from
the light of the mystic sun and the mysteries of the Eternal
Beloved; they have strayed afar from the jewelled wisdom of

26 | Resolve to Gain the Victory Over Your Own Selves
the lucid Faith of the Lord of Messengers, have been shut out
of the sanctuary of the All-Beauteous One, and banished from
the Ka’bih of splendor.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Seven Valleys, p. 19)
Indeed the face of the sun of justice and fairness is hidden
behind the clouds of idle fancy which the foolish ones have
conceived.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 236)
Behold how the sun shines upon all creation, but only
surfaces that are pure and polished can reﬂect its glory and
light. Te darkened soul has no portion of the revelation of the
glorious eﬀulgence of reality; and the soil of self, unable to take
advantage of that light, does not produce growth.

(‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Te Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 148)
We have forbidden men to walk after the imaginations of
their hearts, that they may be enabled to recognize Him Who
is the sovereign Source and Object of all knowledge, and may
acknowledge whatsoever He may be pleased to reveal. Witness
how they have entangled themselves with their idle fancies and
vain imaginations. By My life! Tey are themselves the victims
of what their own hearts have devised, and yet they perceive
it not. Vain and proﬁtless is the talk of their lips, and yet they
understand not.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 204)
Cast upon them, O My God, the glances of the eye of Ty
favour and bounty, and deliver them from self and passion,
that they may draw nigh unto Ty most exalted Horizon, taste
the sweetness of Ty remembrance, and delight in that bread

Resolve to Gain the Victory Over Your Own Selves | 27
which Tou hast sent down from the heaven of Ty Will and
the ﬁrmament of Ty grace.
(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Summons of the Lord of Hosts, p. 103)
Tey whom God hath endued with insight will readily rec-
ognize that the precepts laid down by God constitute the highest
means for the maintenance of order in the world and the securi-
ty of its peoples. He that turneth away from them, is accounted
among the abject and foolish. We, verily, have commanded you
to refuse the dictates of your evil passions and corrupt desires,
and not to transgress the bounds which the Pen of the Most
High hath ﬁxed, for these are the breath of life unto all created
things. Te seas of Divine wisdom and divine utterance have
risen under the breath of the breeze of the All-Merciful. Has-
ten to drink your ﬁll, O men of understanding! Tey that have
violated the Covenant of God by breaking His commandments,
and have turned back on their heels, these have erred grievously
in the sight of God, the All-Possessing, the Most High.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 329)
Beware lest the desires of the ﬂesh and of a corrupt inclina-
tion provoke divisions among you. Be ye as the ﬁngers of one
hand, the members of one body. Tus counselleth you the Pen
of Revelation, if ye be of them that believe.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Kitáb-i-Aqdas, p. 40)
It followeth, therefore, that rendering assistance unto God,
in this day, doth not and shall never consist in contending or
disputing with any soul; nay rather, what is preferable in the
sight of God is that the cities of men’s hearts, which are ruled
by the hosts of self and passion, should be subdued by the
sword of utterance, of wisdom and of understanding.
(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Summons of the Lord of Hosts, p. 109)

28 | Resolve to Gain the Victory Over Your Own Selves
Every good thing is of God, and every evil thing is from
yourselves. Will ye not comprehend?

(Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 149)
Erelong the world and all that thou possessest will perish,
and the kingdom will remain unto God, thy Lord and the Lord
of thy fathers of old. It behooveth thee not to conduct thine
aﬀairs according to the dictates of thy desires.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, p. 50)
Obstruct not the luminous spring of thy soul with the
thorns and brambles of vain and inordinate aﬀections, and
impede not the ﬂow of the living waters that stream from the
fountain of thine heart.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 323)
O SON OF BOUNTY! Out of the wastes of nothing-
ness, with the clay of My command I made thee to appear, and
have ordained for thy training every atom in existence and the
essence of all created things. Tus, ere thou didst issue from
thy mother’s womb, I destined for thee two founts of gleam-
ing milk, eyes to watch over thee, and hearts to love thee. Out
of My loving-kindness, ‘neath the shade of My mercy I nur-
tured thee, and guarded thee by the essence of My grace and
favor. And My purpose in all this was that thou mightest attain
My everlasting dominion and become worthy of My invis-
ible bestowals. And yet heedless thou didst remain, and when
fully grown, thou didst neglect all My bounties and occupied
thyself with thine idle imaginings, in such wise that thou didst
become wholly forgetful, and, turning away from the portals of
the Friend didst abide within the courts of My enemy.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Hidden Words, Persian #29)

Resolve to Gain the Victory Over Your Own Selves | 29
O DWELLERS OF MY PARADISE! With the hands of
loving-kindness I have planted in the holy garden of paradise
the young tree of your love and friendship, and have watered it
with the goodly showers of My tender grace; now that the hour
of its fruiting is come, strive that it may be protected, and be
not consumed with the ﬂame of desire and passion.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Hidden Words, Persian #34)
ALAS! ALAS! O LOVERS OF WORLDLY DESIRE! Even
as the swiftness of lightning ye have passed by the Beloved
One, and have set your hearts on satanic fancies. Ye bow the
knee before your vain imagining, and call it truth. Ye turn your
eyes towards the thorn, and name it a ﬂower. Not a pure breath
have ye breathed, nor hath the breeze of detachment been
wafted from the meadows of your hearts. Ye have cast to the
winds the loving counsels of the Beloved and have eﬀaced them
utterly from the tablet of your hearts, and even as the beasts of
the ﬁeld, ye move and have your being within the pastures of
desire and passion.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Hidden Words, Persian #45)
O WEED THAT SPRINGETH OUT OF DUST! Where-
fore have not these soiled hands of thine touched ﬁrst thine
own garment, and why with thine heart deﬁled with desire and
passion dost thou seek to commune with Me and to enter My
sacred realm? Far, far are ye from that which ye desire.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Hidden Words, Persian #68)
O CHILDREN OF NEGLIGENCE! Set not your aﬀec-
tions on mortal sovereignty and rejoice not therein. Ye are even
as the unwary bird that with full conﬁdence warbleth upon the
bough; till of a sudden the fowler Death throws it upon the

30 | Resolve to Gain the Victory Over Your Own Selves
dust, and the melody, the form and the color are gone, leaving
not a trace. Wherefore take heed, O bondslaves of desire!

(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Hidden Words, Persian #75)
O SON OF DESIRE! How long wilt thou soar in the
realms of desire? Wings have I bestowed upon thee, that thou
mayest ﬂy to the realms of mystic holiness and not the regions
of satanic fancy. Te comb, too, have I given thee that thou
mayest dress My raven locks, and not lacerate My throat.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Hidden Words, Persian #79)
O SON OF MAN! Many a day hath passed over thee
whilst thou hast busied thyself with thy fancies and idle imag-
inings. How long art thou to slumber on thy bed? Lift up thy
head from slumber, for the Sun hath risen to the zenith, haply
it may shine upon thee with the light of beauty.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Hidden Words, Arabic #62)

‘B  P  G’
M, R  G
 V O Y
O S’

Resolve to Gain the Victory Over Your Own Selves | 33
Arise, O people, and, by the power of God’s might, resolve
to gain the victory over your own selves, that haply the whole
earth may be freed and sanctiﬁed from its servitude to the gods
of its idle fancies -- gods that have inﬂicted such loss upon, and
are responsible for the misery of, their wretched worshipers.
Tese idols form the obstacle that impedeth man in his eﬀorts
to advance in the path of perfection. We cherish the hope that
the Hand of Divine power may lend its assistance to mankind,
and deliver it from its state of grievous abasement.
In one of the Tablets these words have been revealed: O
people of God! Do not busy yourselves in your own concerns;
let your thoughts be ﬁxed upon that which will rehabilitate
the fortunes of mankind and sanctify the hearts and souls of
men. Tis can best be achieved through pure and holy deeds,
through a virtuous life and a goodly behavior.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 93)
All that which ye potentially possess can, however, be
manifested only as a result of your own volition. Your own acts
testify to this truth.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 149)
Tere can be no doubt whatever that, in consequence of
the eﬀorts which every man may consciously exert and as a
result of the exertion of his own spiritual faculties, this mirror
can be so cleansed from the dross of earthly deﬁlements and
purged from satanic fancies as to be able to draw nigh unto the
meads of eternal holiness and attain the courts of everlasting
fellowship.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 262)

34 | Resolve to Gain the Victory Over Your Own Selves
Success or failure, gain or loss, must, therefore, depend
upon man’s own exertions. Te more he striveth, the greater
will be his progress. We fain would hope that the vernal show-
ers of the bounty of God may cause the ﬂowers of true under-
standing to spring from the soil of men’s hearts, and may wash
them from all earthly deﬁlements.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 81)
…man should know his own self and recognize that which
leadeth unto loftiness or lowliness, glory or abasement, wealth
or poverty.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 34 35)
Te diﬀerences among mankind are of two sorts: one is a
diﬀerence of station, and this diﬀerence is not blameworthy.
Te other is a diﬀerence of faith and assurance; the loss of these
is blameworthy, for then the soul is overwhelmed by his desires
and passions, which deprive him of these blessings and prevent
him from feeling the power of attraction of the love of God.
Tough that man is praiseworthy and acceptable in his station,
yet as he is deprived of the perfections of that degree, he will
become a source of imperfections, for which he is held respon-
sible. [1]
[1 Cf. “Te Causes of Diﬀerences in the Characters of Men,” p. 212.]
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 129-130)
Arise and, armed with the power of faith, shatter to pieces
the gods of your vain imaginings, the sowers of dissension
amongst you.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Proclamation of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 114)

Resolve to Gain the Victory Over Your Own Selves | 35
We, verily, have commanded you to refuse the dictates of
your evil passions and corrupt desires, and not to transgress the
bounds which the Pen of the Most High hath ﬁxed, for these
are the breath of life unto all created things.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Kitáb-i-Aqdas, p. 19)
Ten we must labor to destroy the animal condition, till
the meaning of humanity shall come to light.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Seven Valleys, p. 34)
O Friends of the Pure and Omnipotent God! To be pure
and holy in all things is an attribute of the consecrated soul
and a necessary characteristic of the unenslaved mind. Te best
of perfections is immaculacy and the freeing of oneself from
every defect. Once the individual is, in every respect, cleansed
and puriﬁed, then will he become a focal centre reﬂecting the
Manifest Light.

(‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 146)
…rest ye not, seek ye no composure, attach not yourselves
to the luxuries of this ephemeral world, free yourselves from ev-
ery attachment, and strive with heart and soul to become fully
established in the Kingdom of God.

(‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Tablets of the Divine Plan, p. 95 87)
We fain would hope that through thine exertions the wings
of men may be sanctiﬁed from the mire of self and desire,
and be made worthy to soar in the atmosphere of God’s love.
Wings that are besmirched with mire can never soar. Unto this
testify they who are the exponents of justice and equity, and yet
the people are in evident doubt.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, p. 130)

36 | Resolve to Gain the Victory Over Your Own Selves
He Who is the Day Spring of Truth is, no doubt, fully
capable of rescuing from such remoteness wayward souls and
of causing them to draw nigh unto His court and attain His
Presence. “If God had pleased He had surely made all men one
people.” His purpose, however, is to enable the pure in spirit
and the detached in heart to ascend, by virtue of their own
innate powers, unto the shores of the Most Great Ocean, that
thereby they who seek the Beauty of the All-Glorious may be
distinguished and separated from the wayward and perverse.
Tus hath it been ordained by the all-glorious and resplendent
Pen....

(Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 71)
Unto their sincerity hath borne witness what the All-Merci-
ful hath sent down in the Qur’án. He saith: “Wish ye, then, for
death, if ye are sincere.” [1]
[1 Qur’án 2:88.]
(Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 209)
O SON OF LOVE! Tou art but one step away from the
glorious heights above and from the celestial tree of love. Take
thou one pace and with the next advance into the immortal
realm and enter the pavilion of eternity. Give ear then to that
which hath been revealed by the pen of glory.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Hidden Words, Persian #7)

‘C  Y
H  L 
W T’

Resolve to Gain the Victory Over Your Own Selves | 39
Cleanse from your hearts the love of worldly things, from your
tongues every remembrance except His remembrance, from
your entire being whatsoever may deter you from beholding
His face, or may tempt you to follow the promptings of your
evil and corrupt inclinations. Let God be your fear, O people,
and be ye of them that tread the path of righteousness.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 274)
Say: Deliver your souls, O people, from the bondage of self,
and purify them from all attachment to anything besides Me. Re-
membrance of Me cleanseth all things from deﬁlement, could ye
but perceive it. Say: Were all created things to be entirely divested
of the veil of worldly vanity and desire, the Hand of God would
in this Day clothe them, one and all, with the robe “He doeth
whatsoever He willeth in the kingdom of creation,” that thereby
the sign of His sovereignty might be manifested in all things.
Exalted then be He, the Sovereign Lord of all, the Almighty, the
Supreme Protector, the All-Glorious, the Most Powerful.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 294)
…cleanse thine heart from the world and all its vani-
ties, and suﬀer not the love of any stranger to enter and dwell
therein. Not until thou dost purify thine heart from every trace
of such love can the brightness of the light of God shed its
radiance upon it, for to none hath God given more than one
heart. Tis, verily, hath been decreed and written down in His
ancient Book. And as the human heart, as fashioned by God, is
one and undivided, it behoveth thee to take heed that its aﬀec-
tions be, also, one and undivided. Cleave thou, therefore, with
the whole aﬀection of thine heart, unto His love, and withdraw
it from the love of any one besides Him, that He may aid thee
to immerse thyself in the ocean of His unity, and enable thee to
become a true upholder of His oneness.
(Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 237)

40 | Resolve to Gain the Victory Over Your Own Selves
Would that the hearts of men could be cleansed from these
man-made limitations and obscure thoughts imposed upon
them! haply they may be illumined by the light of the Sun of
true knowledge, and comprehend the mysteries of divine wis-
dom. Consider now, were the parched and barren soil of these
hearts to remain unchanged, how could they ever become the
Recipients of the revelation of the mysteries of God, and the
Revealers of the divine Essence? Tus hath He said: “On the
day when the earth shall be changed into another earth.”[1]
[1 Qur’án 14:48.]

(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Kitáb-i-Íqán, p. 45)
Te heart must needs therefore be cleansed from the idle
sayings of men, and sanctiﬁed from every earthly aﬀection, so
that it may discover the hidden meaning of divine inspiration,
and become the treasury of the mysteries of divine knowledge.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Kitáb-i-Íqán, p. 69)
Te pure heart is one that is entirely cut away from self. To
be selﬂess is to be pure.

(‘Abdu’l-Bahá, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in London, p. 107)
O SON OF MAN! Te temple of being is My throne;
cleanse it of all things, that there I may be established and there
I may abide.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Hidden Words, Arabic #58)
O SON OF BEING! Ty heart is My home; sanctify it for
My descent. Ty spirit is My place of revelation; cleanse it for
My manifestation.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Hidden Words, Arabic #59)
…if the mirror of his heart be already obscured by the dust
of these learnings, he must needs cleanse and purify it ere the
light of this mystery can be reﬂected therein.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Kitáb-i-Íqán, p. 187)

Resolve to Gain the Victory Over Your Own Selves | 41
…when a true seeker determineth to take the step of search
in the path leading to the knowledge of the Ancient of Days,
he must, before all else, cleanse and purify his heart, which is
the seat of the revelation of the inner mysteries of God, from
the obscuring dust of all acquired knowledge, and the allusions
of the embodiments of satanic fancy. He must purge his breast,
which is the sanctuary of the abiding love of the Beloved, of ev-
ery deﬁlement, and sanctify his soul from all that pertaineth to
water and clay, from all shadowy and ephemeral attachments.
He must so cleanse his heart that no remnant of either love or
hate may linger therein, lest that love blindly incline him to
error, or that hate repel him away from the truth.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Kitáb-i-Íqán, p. 192)
When the channel of the human soul is cleansed of all
worldly and impeding attachments, it will unfailingly perceive
the breath of the Beloved across immeasurable distances, and
will, led by its perfume, attain and enter the City of Certitude.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Kitáb-i-Íqán, p. 195)
Wherefore must the veils of the satanic self be burned away
at the ﬁre of love, that the spirit may be puriﬁed and cleansed
and thus may know the station of the Lord of the Worlds.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Seven Valleys, p. 10)
O SON OF PASSION! Cleanse thyself from the deﬁle-
ment of riches and in perfect peace advance into the realm of
poverty; that from the well-spring of detachment thou mayest
quaﬀ the wine of immortal life.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Hidden Words, Persian #55)
Say: Rejoice not in the things ye possess; tonight they are
yours, tomorrow others will possess them. Tus warneth you
He Who is the All-Knowing, the All-Informed. Say: Can ye
claim that what ye own is lasting or secure? Nay! By Myself,

42 | Resolve to Gain the Victory Over Your Own Selves
the All-Merciful, ye cannot, if ye be of them who judge fairly.
Te days of your life ﬂee away as a breath of wind, and all your
pomp and glory shall be folded up as were the pomp and glory
of those gone before you. Reﬂect, O people! What hath become
of your bygone days, your lost centuries? Happy the days that
have been consecrated to the remembrance of God, and blessed
the hours which have been spent in praise of Him Who is the
All-Wise. By My life! Neither the pomp of the mighty, nor the
wealth of the rich, nor even the ascendancy of the ungodly will
endure. All will perish, at a word from Him. He, verily, is the
All-Powerful, the All-Compelling, the Almighty. What ad-
vantage is there in the earthly things which men possess? Tat
which shall proﬁt them, they have utterly neglected. Erelong,
they will awake from their slumber, and ﬁnd themselves unable
to obtain that which hath escaped them in the days of their
Lord, the Almighty, the All-Praised. Did they but know it, they
would renounce their all, that their names may be mentioned
before His throne. Tey, verily, are accounted among the dead.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Kitáb-i-Aqdas, p. 33)
Cast away that which ye possess, and, on the wings of de-
tachment, soar beyond all created things. Tus biddeth you the
Lord of creation, the movement of Whose Pen hath revolution-
ized the soul of mankind.
Know ye from what heights your Lord, the All-Glorious,
is calling? Tink ye that ye have recognized the Pen wherewith
your Lord, the Lord of all names, commandeth you? Nay, by
My life! Did ye but know it, ye would renounce the world, and
would hasten with your whole hearts to the presence of the
Well-Beloved. Your spirits would be so transported by His Word
as to throw into commotion the Greater World -- how much

Resolve to Gain the Victory Over Your Own Selves | 43
more this small and petty one! Tus have the showers of My
bounty been poured down from the heaven of My loving-kind-
ness, as a token of My grace, that ye may be of the thankful.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Kitáb-i-Aqdas, p. 39)
Te essence of detachment is for man to turn his face to-
wards the courts of the Lord, to enter His Presence, behold His
Countenance, and stand as witness before Him.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 155)
He must purge his breast, which is the sanctuary of the
abiding love of the Beloved, of every deﬁlement, and sanctify
his soul from all that pertaineth to water and clay, from all
shadowy and ephemeral attachments.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 264)
I swear by the life of Him Who is the Desire of the world!
Were a man to ponder in his heart he would, free of all at-
tachment to the world, hasten unto the Most Great Light and
would purge and purify himself from the dust of vain imagin-
ings and the smoke of idle fancy. What could have prompted
the people of the past to err and by whom were they misled?
Tey still reject the truth and have turned towards their own
selﬁsh desires. Tis Wronged One calleth aloud for the sake of
God. Whosoever wisheth, let him turn thereunto; whosoever
wisheth, let him turn away. Verily God can well aﬀord to dis-
pense with all things, whether of the past or of the future.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 41)
Cast away the things current amongst men and take fast
hold on that whereunto ye are bidden by virtue of the Will of
the Ordainer, the Ancient of Days.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 78)

44 | Resolve to Gain the Victory Over Your Own Selves
Te friends of God have not, nor will they ever, set their
hopes upon the world and its ephemeral possessions.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Summons of the Lord of Hosts, p. 110)
Say: He is not to be numbered with the people of Bahá who
followeth his mundane desires, or ﬁxeth his heart on things of
the earth. He is My true follower who, if he come to a valley of
pure gold, will pass straight through it aloof as a cloud, and will
neither turn back, nor pause. Such a man is, assuredly, of Me.
From his garment the Concourse on high can inhale the fra-
grance of sanctity.... And if he met the fairest and most comely of
women, he would not feel his heart seduced by the least shadow
of desire for her beauty. Such an one, indeed, is the creation of
spotless chastity. Tus instructeth you the Pen of the Ancient of
Days, as bidden by your Lord, the Almighty, the All-Bountiful.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 118)
Blessed is the soul which, at the hour of its separation from
the body, is sanctiﬁed from the vain imaginings of the peoples
of the world. Such a soul liveth and moveth in accordance with
the Will of its Creator, and entereth the all-highest Paradise.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 155)
Tou hast, moreover, asked Me concerning the state of the
soul after its separation from the body. Know thou, of a truth,
that if the soul of man hath walked in the ways of God, it will,
assuredly, return and be gathered to the glory of the Beloved.
By the righteousness of God! It shall attain a station such as no
pen can depict, or tongue describe. Te soul that hath re-
mained faithful to the Cause of God, and stood unwaveringly
ﬁrm in His Path shall, after his ascension, be possessed of such
power that all the worlds which the Almighty hath created can
beneﬁt through him. Such a soul provideth, at the bidding of
the Ideal King and Divine Educator, the pure leaven that leav-

Resolve to Gain the Victory Over Your Own Selves | 45
eneth the world of being, and furnisheth the power through
which the arts and wonders of the world are made manifest.
Consider how meal needeth leaven to be leavened with. Tose
souls that are the symbols of detachment are the leaven of the
world. Meditate on this, and be of the thankful.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 161)
For every one of you his paramount duty is to choose for
himself that on which no other may infringe and none usurp
from him. Such a thing -- and to this the Almighty is My wit-
ness -- is the love of God, could ye but perceive it.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 261)
Follow not, therefore, your earthly desires, and violate not
the Covenant of God, nor break your pledge to Him. With
ﬁrm determination, with the whole aﬀection of your heart, and
with the full force of your words, turn ye unto Him, and walk
not in the ways of the foolish. Te world is but a show, vain
and empty, a mere nothing, bearing the semblance of reality.
Set not your aﬀections upon it. Break not the bond that uniteth
you with your Creator, and be not of those that have erred and
strayed from His ways. Verily I say, the world is like the vapor
in a desert, which the thirsty dreameth to be water and striveth
after it with all his might, until when he cometh unto it, he
ﬁndeth it to be mere illusion. It may, moreover, be likened unto
the lifeless image of the beloved whom the lover hath sought
and found, in the end, after long search and to his utmost re-
gret, to be such as cannot “fatten nor appease his hunger.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 327)
Ye are even as the bird which soareth, with the full force
of its mighty wings and with complete and joyous conﬁdence,
through the immensity of the heavens, until, impelled to satisfy
its hunger, it turneth longingly to the water and clay of the

46 | Resolve to Gain the Victory Over Your Own Selves
earth below it, and, having been entrapped in the mesh of its
desire, ﬁndeth itself impotent to resume its ﬂight to the realms
whence it came. Powerless to shake oﬀ the burden weighing on
its sullied wings, that bird, hitherto an inmate of the heavens, is
now forced to seek a dwelling-place upon the dust. Wherefore,
O My servants, deﬁle not your wings with the clay of wayward-
ness and vain desires, and suﬀer them not to be stained with
the dust of envy and hate, that ye may not be hindered from
soaring in the heavens of My divine knowledge.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 325)
O SON OF BEING! If thine heart be set upon this eter-
nal, imperishable dominion, and this ancient, everlasting life,
forsake this mortal and ﬂeeting sovereignty.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Hidden Words, Arabic #54)
O SON OF MAN! Te temple of being is My throne;
cleanse it of all things, that there I may be established and there
I may abide.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Hidden Words, Arabic #58)
O SON OF BEING! Ty heart is My home; sanctify it for
My descent. Ty spirit is My place of revelation; cleanse it for
My manifestation.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Hidden Words, Arabic #59)
O YE SONS OF SPIRIT! Ye are My treasury, for in you I
have treasured the pearls of My mysteries and the gems of My
knowledge. Guard them from the strangers amidst My servants
and from the ungodly amongst My people.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Hidden Words, Arabic #69)

Resolve to Gain the Victory Over Your Own Selves | 47
Wert thou to attain to but a dewdrop of the crystal waters
of divine knowledge, thou wouldst readily realize that true life
is not the life of the ﬂesh but the life of the spirit.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Kitáb-i-Íqán, p. 120)
By ‘riches’ therefore is meant independence of all else but
God, and by ‘poverty’ the lack of things that are of God.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Kitáb-i-Íqán, p. 132)
Te essence of wealth is love for Me; whoso loveth Me is
the possessor of all things, and he that loveth Me not is indeed
of the poor and needy. Tis is that which the Finger of Glory
and Splendour hath revealed.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 156)
He who attaineth to My love hath title to a throne of gold,
to sit thereon in honour over all the world; he who is deprived
thereof, though he sit upon the dust, that dust would seek
refuge with God, the Lord of all Religions.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Kitáb-i-Aqdas, p. 32)
Blessed are they that have soared on the wings of detach-
ment and attained the station which, as ordained by God,
overshadoweth the entire creation, whom neither the vain
imaginations of the learned, nor the multitude of the hosts of
the earth have succeeded in deﬂecting from His Cause. Who
is there among you, O people, who will renounce the world,
and draw nigh unto God, the Lord of all names? Where is he
to be found who, through the power of My name that tran-
scendeth all created things, will cast away the things that men
possess, and cling, with all his might, to the things which God,
the Knower of the unseen and of the seen, hath bidden him
observe? Tus hath His bounty been sent down unto men, His

48 | Resolve to Gain the Victory Over Your Own Selves
testimony fulﬁlled, and His proof shone forth above the Ho-
rizon of mercy. Rich is the prize that shall be won by him who
hath believed and exclaimed: “Lauded art Tou, O Beloved of
all worlds! Magniﬁed be Ty name, O Tou the Desire of every
understanding heart!”

(Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 34)
It behoveth the people of Bahá to die to the world and all
that is therein, to be so detached from all earthly things that
the inmates of Paradise may inhale from their garment the
sweet smelling savor of sanctity, that all the peoples of the earth
may recognize in their faces the brightness of the All-Merciful,
and that through them may be spread abroad the signs and
tokens of God, the Almighty, the All-Wise. Tey that have
tarnished the fair name of the Cause of God, by following the
things of the ﬂesh -- these are in palpable error!

(Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 100)
O SON OF GLORY! Be swift in the path of holiness, and
enter the heaven of communion with Me. Cleanse thy heart
with the burnish of the spirit, and hasten to the court of the
Most High.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Hidden Words, Persian #8)
O SON OF DUST! Blind thine eyes, that thou mayest
behold My beauty; stop thine ears, that thou mayest hearken
unto the sweet melody of My voice; empty thyself of all learn-
ing, that thou mayest partake of My knowledge; and sanctify
thyself from riches, that thou mayest obtain a lasting share
from the ocean of My eternal wealth. Blind thine eyes, that is,
to all save My beauty; stop thine ears to all save My word; emp-
ty thyself of all learning save the knowledge of Me; that with a

Resolve to Gain the Victory Over Your Own Selves | 49
clear vision, a pure heart and an attentive ear thou mayest enter
the court of My holiness.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Hidden Words, Persian #11)
O MY SERVANT! Free thyself from the fetters of this
world, and loose thy soul from the prison of self. Seize thy
chance, for it will come to thee no more.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Hidden Words, Persian #40)
O CHILDREN OF ADAM! Holy words and pure and
goodly deeds ascend unto the heaven of celestial glory. Strive
that your deeds may be cleansed from the dust of self and
hypocrisy and ﬁnd favor at the court of glory; for ere long the
assayers of mankind shall, in the holy presence of the Adored
One, accept naught but absolute virtue and deeds of stainless
purity. Tis is the daystar of wisdom and of divine mystery that
hath shone above the horizon of the divine will. Blessed are
they that turn thereunto.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Hidden Words, Persian #69)
O MY FRIEND! Tou art the daystar of the heavens of
My holiness, let not the deﬁlement of the world eclipse thy
splendor. Rend asunder the veil of heedlessness, that from be-
hind the clouds thou mayest emerge resplendent and array all
things with the apparel of life.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Hidden Words, Persian #73)
It is incumbent upon thee, and upon the followers of Him
Who is the Eternal Truth, to summon all men to whatsoever
shall sanctify them from all attachment to the things of the
earth and purge them from its deﬁlements, that the sweet smell
of the raiment of the All-Glorious may be smelled from all
them that love Him.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 201)

50 | Resolve to Gain the Victory Over Your Own Selves
O SON OF MY HANDMAID! Didst thou behold im-
mortal sovereignty, thou wouldst strive to pass from this ﬂeet-
ing world. But to conceal the one from thee and to reveal the
other is a mystery which none but the pure in heart can com-
prehend.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Hidden Words, Persian #41)
As to Paradise: It is a reality and there can be no doubt
about it, and now in this world it is realized through love of
Me and My good-pleasure. Whosoever attaineth unto it God
will aid him in this world below, and after death He will enable
him to gain admittance into Paradise whose vastness is as that
of heaven and earth. Terein the Maids of glory and holiness
will wait upon him in the daytime and in the night season,
while the day-star of the unfading beauty of his Lord will at all
times shed its radiance upon him and he will shine so brightly
that no one shall bear to gaze at him. Such is the dispensation
of Providence, yet the people are shut out by a grievous veil.
Likewise apprehend thou the nature of hell-ﬁre and be of them
that truly believe. For every act performed there shall be a rec-
ompense according to the estimate of God, and unto this the
very ordinances and prohibitions prescribed by the Almighty
amply bear witness. For surely if deeds were not rewarded
and yielded no fruit, then the Cause of God -- exalted is He
-- would prove futile. Immeasurably high is He exalted above
such blasphemies! However, unto them that are rid of all at-
tachments a deed is, verily, its own reward. Were We to enlarge
upon this theme numerous Tablets would need to be written.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 188 189)

Resolve to Gain the Victory Over Your Own Selves | 51
He, verily, hath willed for you that which is yet beyond
your knowledge, but which shall be known to you when, after
this ﬂeeting life, your souls soar heavenwards and the trappings
of your earthly joys are folded up.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Kitáb-i-Aqdas, p. 55)
Te ﬂeeting hours of man’s life on earth pass swiftly by and
the little that still remaineth shall come to an end, but that
which endureth and lasteth for evermore is the fruit that man
reapeth from his servitude at the Divine Treshold.

(‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 233)
He should cleanse his heart from all evil passions and cor-
rupt desires, for the fear of God is the weapon that can render
him victorious, the primary instrument whereby he can achieve
his purpose. Te fear of God is the shield that defendeth His
Cause, the buckler that enableth His people to attain to victo-
ry. It is a standard that no man can abase, a force that no power
can rival. By its aid, and by the leave of Him Who is the Lord
of Hosts, they that have drawn nigh unto God have been able
to subdue and conquer the citadels of the hearts of men.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 272)
O SON OF BEING! Bring thyself to account each day
ere thou art summoned to a reckoning; for death, unheralded,
shall come upon thee and thou shalt be called to give account
for thy deeds.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Hidden Words, Arabic #31)

‘T  C 
U  I
 T W’

Resolve to Gain the Victory Over Your Own Selves | 55
Led by the light of unfailing guidance, and invested with
supreme sovereignty, Tey are commissioned to use the inspira-
tion of Teir words, the eﬀusions of Teir infallible grace and
the sanctifying breeze of Teir Revelation for the cleansing of
every longing heart and receptive spirit from the dross and dust
of earthly cares and limitations. Ten, and only then, will the
Trust of God, latent in the reality of man, emerge, as resplen-
dent as the rising Orb of Divine Revelation, from behind the
veil of concealment, and implant the ensign of its revealed
glory upon the summits of men’s hearts.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 67)
In like manner, endeavour to comprehend the meaning of
the “changing of the earth.” Know thou, that upon whatever
hearts the bountiful showers of mercy, raining from the “heav-
en” of divine Revelation, have fallen, the earth of those hearts
hath verily been changed into the earth of divine knowledge
and wisdom.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Kitáb-i-Íqán, p. 45)
God’s purpose in sending His Prophets unto men is two-
fold. Te ﬁrst is to liberate the children of men from the
darkness of ignorance, and guide them to the light of true
understanding. Te second is to ensure the peace and tranquil-
lity of mankind, and provide all the means by which they can
be established.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 79)
All praise and glory be to God Who, through the power
of His might, hath delivered His creation from the nakedness
of non-existence, and clothed it with the mantle of life. From
among all created things He hath singled out for His special
favor the pure, the gem-like reality of man, and invested it with

56 | Resolve to Gain the Victory Over Your Own Selves
a unique capacity of knowing Him and of reﬂecting the great-
ness of His glory.  Tis twofold distinction conferred upon him
hath cleansed away from his heart the rust of every vain desire,
and made him worthy of the vesture with which his Creator
hath deigned to clothe him. It hath served to rescue his soul
from the wretchedness of ignorance.
Tis robe with which the body and soul of man hath been
adorned is the very foundation of his well-being and develop-
ment. Oh, how blessed the day when, aided by the grace and
might of the one true God, man will have freed himself from
the bondage and corruption of the world and all that is therein,
and will have attained unto true and abiding rest beneath the
shadow of the Tree of Knowledge!

(Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 77)
Say: God hath made My hidden love the key to the Trea-
sure; would that ye might perceive it! But for the key, the Trea-
sure would to all eternity have remained concealed; would that
ye might believe it! Say: Tis is the Source of Revelation, the
Dawning-place of Splendour, Whose brightness hath illumined
the horizons of the world. Would that ye might understand!
Tis is, verily, that ﬁxed Decree through which every irrevo-
cable decree hath been established.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Kitáb-i-Aqdas, p. 24)
In this day, they that are submerged beneath the ocean of
ancient Knowledge, and dwell within the ark of divine wisdom,
forbid the people such idle pursuits. Teir shining breasts are,
praise be to God, sanctiﬁed from every trace of such learning,
and are exalted above such grievous veils. We have consumed
this densest of all veils, with the ﬁre of the love of the Beloved
-- the veil referred to in the saying: “Te most grievous of all
veils is the veil of knowledge.” Upon its ashes, We have reared

Resolve to Gain the Victory Over Your Own Selves | 57
the tabernacle of divine knowledge. We have, praise be to God,
burned the “veils of glory” with the ﬁre of the beauty of the
Best-Beloved. We have driven from the human heart all else
but Him Who is the Desire of the world, and glory therein. We
cleave to no knowledge but His Knowledge, and set our hearts
on naught save the eﬀulgent glories of His light.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Kitáb-i-Íqán, p. 187)
For were men to abide by and observe the divine teachings,
every trace of evil would be banished from the face of the earth.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 176)
Were any man to ponder in his heart that which the Pen of
the Most High hath revealed and to taste of its sweetness, he
would, of a certainty, ﬁnd himself emptied and delivered from
his own desires, and utterly subservient to the Will of the Al-
mighty. Happy is the man that hath attained so high a station,
and hath not deprived himself of so bountiful a grace.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 342)
O SON OF MAN! Te light hath shone on thee from the
horizon of the sacred Mount and the spirit of enlightenment
hath breathed in the Sinai of thy heart. Wherefore, free thyself
from the veils of idle fancies and enter into My court, that thou
mayest be ﬁt for everlasting life and worthy to meet Me. Tus
may death not come upon thee, neither weariness nor trouble.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Hidden Words, Arabic #63)
Hearken thou unto the Words of thy Lord and purify
thy heart from every illusion so that the eﬀulgent light of the
remembrance of thy Lord may shed its radiance upon it, and it
may attain the station of certitude.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 182 183)

58 | Resolve to Gain the Victory Over Your Own Selves
…cleanse thyself with the waters of detachment that have
ﬂowed out from the Supreme Pen…

(Bahá’u’lláh, Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, p. 11)
Verily I say: Incline your ears to My sweet voice, and sanc-
tify yourselves from the deﬁlement of your evil passions and
corrupt desires. Tey who dwell within the tabernacle of God,
and are established upon the seats of everlasting glory, will
refuse, though they be dying of hunger, to stretch their hands
and seize unlawfully the property of their neighbor, however
vile and worthless he may be.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 298)
A Book sent down in truth unto men of insight! It biddeth
the people to observe justice and to work righteousness, and
forbiddeth them to follow their corrupt inclinations and carnal
desires, if perchance the children of men might be roused from
their slumber.
Say: Follow, O people, what hath been prescribed unto you
in Our Tablets, and walk not after the imaginations which the
sowers of mischief have devised, they that commit wickedness
and impute it to God, the Most Holy, the All-Glorious, the
Most Exalted. Say: We have accepted to be tried by ills and
troubles, that ye may sanctify yourselves from all earthly deﬁle-
ments. Why, then, refuse ye to ponder Our purpose in your
hearts? By the righteousness of God! Whoso will reﬂect upon
the tribulations We have suﬀered, his soul will assuredly melt
away with sorrow. Ty Lord Himself beareth witness to the
truth of My words. We have sustained the weight of all calami-
ties to sanctify you from all earthly corruption, and ye are yet
indiﬀerent.

Resolve to Gain the Victory Over Your Own Selves | 59
Say: It behoveth every one that holdeth fast to the hem of
Our Robe to be untainted by anything from which the Con-
course on high may be averse. Tus hath it been decreed by
thy Lord, the All-Glorious, in this His perspicuous Tablet. Say:
Set ye aside My love, and commit what grieveth Mine heart?
What is it that hindereth you from comprehending what hath
been revealed unto you by Him Who is the All-Knowing, the
All-Wise?

(Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 305)
Whatever, therefore, He saith unto you is wholly for the
sake of God, that haply the peoples of the earth may cleanse
their hearts from the stain of evil desire, may rend its veil asun-
der, and attain unto the knowledge of the one true God -- the
most exalted station to which any man can aspire.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 84)
Whoso followeth his Lord, will renounce the world and all
that is therein

(Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 211)
O MY FRIENDS! Have ye forgotten that true and radi-
ant morn, when in those hallowed and blessed surroundings ye
were all gathered in My presence beneath the shade of the tree
of life, which is planted in the all-glorious paradise? Awe-struck
ye listened as I gave utterance to these three most holy words:
O friends! Prefer not your will to Mine, never desire that which
I have not desired for you, and approach Me not with lifeless
hearts, deﬁled with worldly desires and cravings. Would ye but
sanctify your souls, ye would at this present hour recall that
place and those surroundings, and the truth of My utterance
should be made evident unto all of you.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Hidden Words, Persian #19)

60 | Resolve to Gain the Victory Over Your Own Selves
O CHILDREN OF DESIRE! Put away the garment of
vainglory, and divest yourselves of the attire of haughtiness. In
the third of the most holy lines writ and recorded in the Ruby
Tablet by the pen of the unseen this is revealed:
O BRETHREN! Be forbearing one with another and set
not your aﬀections on things below. Pride not yourselves in
your glory, and be not ashamed of abasement. By My beauty!
I have created all things from dust, and to dust will I return
them again.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Hidden Words, Persian #47 and #48)
Say: O people! Te Lamp of God is burning; take heed, lest
the ﬁerce winds of your disobedience extinguish its light. Now
is the time to arise and magnify the Lord, your God. Strive not
after bodily comforts, and keep your heart pure and stainless.
Te Evil One is lying in wait, ready to entrap you. Gird your-
selves against his wicked devices, and, led by the light of the
name of the one true God, deliver yourselves from the darkness
that surroundeth you.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 167)
Cast away, in My name that transcendeth all other names,
the things ye possess, and immerse yourselves in this Ocean in
whose depths lay hidden the pearls of wisdom and of utterance,
an ocean that surgeth in My name, the All-Merciful. Tus
instructeth you He with Whom is the Mother Book.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 33)
As to him who turneth aside, and swelleth with pride, after
that the clear tokens have come unto him, from the Revealer of
signs, his work shall God bring to naught. He, in truth, hath
power over all things. Man’s actions are acceptable after his
having recognized (the Manifestation). He that turneth aside

Resolve to Gain the Victory Over Your Own Selves | 61
from the True One is indeed the most veiled amongst His crea-
tures. Tus hath it been decreed by Him Who is the Almighty,
the Most Powerful.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, p. 60)
O peoples of the earth! Incline your inner ears to the call
of this Wronged One and pause to reﬂect upon the story that
We have recounted. Perchance ye may not be consumed by
the ﬁre of self and passion, nor allow the vain and worthless
objects of this nether world to withhold you from Him Who
is the Eternal Truth. Glory and abasement, riches and pov-
erty, tranquility and tribulation, all will pass away, and all the
peoples of the earth will erelong be laid to rest in their tombs.
It behoveth therefore every man of insight to ﬁx his gaze upon
the goal of eternity, that perchance by the grace of Him Who
is the Ancient King he may attain unto the immortal Kingdom
and abide beneath the shade of the Tree of His Revelation.
(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Summons of the Lord of Hosts, p. 169)
O SON OF MAN! Wert thou to speed through the im-
mensity of space and traverse the expanse of heaven, yet thou
wouldst ﬁnd no rest save in submission to Our command and
humbleness before Our Face.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Hidden Words, Arabic #40)
God is Our witness! Whoever hath tasted the sweetness
of those words will never consent to transgress the bounds
which God hath ﬁxed, neither will he turn his gaze towards any
one except his Well-Beloved. Such a man will, with his inner
eye, readily recognize how altogether vain and ﬂeeting are the
things of this world, and will set his aﬀections on things above.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 298)

62 | Resolve to Gain the Victory Over Your Own Selves
O MY BROTHER! Hearken to the delightsome words
of My honeyed tongue, and quaﬀ the stream of mystic holi-
ness from My sugar-shedding lips. Sow the seeds of My divine
wisdom in the pure soil of thy heart, and water them with the
water of certitude, that the hyacinths of My knowledge and
wisdom may spring up fresh and green in the sacred city of thy
heart.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Hidden Words, Persian #33)
We enjoin the servants of God and His handmaidens to be
pure and to fear God, that they may shake oﬀ the slumber of
their corrupt desires, and turn toward God, the Maker of the
heavens and of the earth.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, p. 22)
O ye loved ones of God! In this, the Bahá’í dispensation,
God’s Cause is spirit unalloyed. His Cause belongeth not to
the material world. It cometh neither for strife nor war, nor for
acts of mischief or of shame; it is neither for quarrelling with
other Faiths, nor for conﬂicts with the nations. Its only army is
the love of God, its only joy the clear wine of His knowledge,
its only battle the expounding of the Truth; its one crusade
is against the insistent self, the evil promptings of the human
heart. Its victory is to submit and yield, and to be selﬂess is its
everlasting glory.

(‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 256)
O people of the world! Follow not the promptings of the
self, for it summoneth insistently to wickedness and lust; fol-
low, rather, Him Who is the Possessor of all created things,
Who biddeth you to show forth piety, and manifest the fear of
God.
(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Kitáb-i-Aqdas, p. 41)

Resolve to Gain the Victory Over Your Own Selves | 63
O banished and faithful friend! Quench the thirst of heed-
lessness with the sanctiﬁed waters of My grace, and chase the
gloom of remoteness through the morning-light of My Di-
vine presence. Suﬀer not the habitation wherein dwelleth My
undying love for thee to be destroyed through the tyranny of
covetous desires, and overcloud not the beauty of the heavenly
Youth with the dust of self and passion. Clothe thyself with the
essence of righteousness, and let thine heart be afraid of none
except God. Obstruct not the luminous spring of thy soul with
the thorns and brambles of vain and inordinate aﬀections, and
impede not the ﬂow of the living waters that stream from the
fountain of thine heart. Set all thy hope in God, and cleave te-
naciously to His unfailing mercy. Who else but Him can enrich
the destitute, and deliver the fallen from his abasement?
O My servants! Were ye to discover the hidden, the shore-
less oceans of My incorruptible wealth, ye would, of a certainty,
esteem as nothing the world, nay, the entire creation. Let the
ﬂame of search burn with such ﬁerceness within your hearts
as to enable you to attain your supreme and most exalted goal
-- the station at which ye can draw nigh unto, and be united
with, your Best-Beloved....
O My servants! Let not your vain hopes and idle fancies sap
the foundations of your belief in the All-Glorious God, inas-
much as such imaginings have been wholly unproﬁtable unto
men, and failed to direct their steps unto the straight Path.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 322)
O wayfarer in the path of God! Take thou thy portion of
the ocean of His grace, and deprive not thyself of the things
that lie hidden in its depths. Be thou of them that have par-
taken of its treasures. A dewdrop out of this ocean would, if
shed upon all that are in the heavens and on the earth, suﬃce

64 | Resolve to Gain the Victory Over Your Own Selves
to enrich them with the bounty of God, the Almighty, the All-
Knowing, the All-Wise. With the hands of renunciation draw
forth from its life-giving waters, and sprinkle therewith all
created things, that they may be cleansed from all man-made
limitations and may approach the mighty seat of God, this hal-
lowed and resplendent Spot.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 279)
O SON OF WORLDLINESS! Pleasant is the realm of
being, wert thou to attain thereto; glorious is the domain of
eternity, shouldst thou pass beyond the world of mortality;
sweet is the holy ecstasy if thou drinkest of the mystic chalice
from the hands of the celestial Youth. Shouldst thou attain this
station, thou wouldst be freed from destruction and death,
from toil and sin.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Hidden Words, Persian #70)
Praised be Tou, O Lord my God! Tis is Ty servant who
hath quaﬀed from the hands of Ty grace the wine of Ty
tender mercy, and tasted of the savor of Ty love in Ty days.
I beseech Tee, by the embodiments of Ty names whom no
grief can hinder from rejoicing in Ty love or from gazing on
Ty face, and whom all the hosts of the heedless are powerless
to cause to turn aside from the path of Ty pleasure, to sup-
ply him with the good things Tou dost possess, and to raise
him up to such heights that he will regard the world even as a
shadow that vanisheth swifter than the twinkling of an eye.
Keep him safe also, O my God, by the power of Tine
immeasurable majesty, from all that Tou abhorrest. Tou art,
verily, his Lord and the Lord of all worlds.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Prayers and Meditations by Bahá’u’lláh, p. 15)

“‘T M K’ 
S-M 
S-F”

Resolve to Gain the Victory Over Your Own Selves | 67
Today the conﬁrmations of the Kingdom of Abhá are with
those who renounce themselves, forget their own opinions, cast
aside personalities and are thinking of the welfare of others....
Whosoever is occupied with himself is wandering in the desert
of heedlessness and regret. Te ‘Master Key’ to self-mastery is
self- forgetting. Te road to the palace of life is through the
path of renunciation.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Star of the West, Vol. XVII, p. 348)
(Lights of Guidance, p. 114)
Hence, one of the Prophets of God hath asked: “O my
Lord, how shall we reach unto Tee?” And the answer came,
“Leave thyself behind, and then approach Me.”
(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Four Valleys, p. 55)
Turn your faces away from the contemplation of your own
ﬁnite selves and ﬁx your eyes upon the Everlasting Radiance;
then will your souls receive in full measure the Divine Power of
the Spirit and the Blessings of the Inﬁnite Bounty.

(‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Paris Talks, p. 166)
In one of His meditations, Bahá’u’lláh entreats God to
supply the believers with “the choice Wine of Ty mercy, that
it may cause them to be forgetful of any one except Tee, and
to arise to serve Ty Cause, and to be steadfast in their love for
Tee”.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Kitáb-i-Aqdas, p. 166)
Center your thoughts in the Well-Beloved, rather than in
your own selves.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 167)

68 | Resolve to Gain the Victory Over Your Own Selves
O SON OF DESIRE! Give ear unto this: Never shall mor-
tal eye recognize the everlasting Beauty, nor the lifeless heart
delight in aught but in the withered bloom. For like seeketh
like, and taketh pleasure in the company of its kind.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Hidden Words, Persian #10)
O MAN OF TWO VISIONS! Close one eye and open the
other. Close one to the world and all that is therein, and open
the other to the hallowed beauty of the Beloved.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Hidden Words, Persian #12)
O SON OF DUST! All that is in heaven and earth I have
ordained for thee, except the human heart, which I have made
the habitation of My beauty and glory; yet thou didst give My
home and dwelling to another than Me; and whenever the
manifestation of My holiness sought His own abode, a stranger
found He there, and, homeless, hastened unto the sanctuary of
the Beloved. Notwithstanding I have concealed thy secret and
desired not thy shame.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Hidden Words, Persian #27)
O SON OF SPIRIT! Burst thy cage asunder, and even as
the phoenix of love soar into the ﬁrmament of holiness. Re-
nounce thyself and, ﬁlled with the spirit of mercy, abide in the
realm of celestial sanctity.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Hidden Words, Persian #38)
O MY SERVANT! Tou art even as a ﬁnely tempered
sword concealed in the darkness of its sheath and its value
hidden from the artiﬁcer’s knowledge. Wherefore come forth
from the sheath of self and desire that thy worth may be made
resplendent and manifest unto all the world.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Hidden Words, Persian #72)

Resolve to Gain the Victory Over Your Own Selves | 69
Teir hearts seem not to be inclined to knowledge and the
door thereof, neither think they of its manifestations, inasmuch
as in idle fancy they have found the door that leadeth unto
earthly riches, whereas in the manifestation of the Revealer of
knowledge they ﬁnd naught but the call to self-sacriﬁce.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Kitáb-i-Íqán, p. 29)
Tine eye is My trust, suﬀer not the dust of vain desires
to becloud its luster. Tine ear is a sign of My bounty, let not
the tumult of unseemly motives turn it away from My Word
that encompasseth all creation. Tine heart is My treasury,
allow not the treacherous hand of self to rob thee of the pearls
which I have treasured therein. Tine hand is a symbol of
My loving-kindness, hinder it not from holding fast unto My
guarded and hidden Tablets.... Unasked, I have showered upon
thee My grace. Unpetitioned, I have fulﬁlled thy wish. In spite
of thy undeserving, I have singled thee out for My richest,
My incalculable favors.... O My servants! Be as resigned and
submissive as the earth, that from the soil of your being there
may blossom the fragrant, the holy and multicolored hyacinths
of My knowledge. Be ablaze as the ﬁre, that ye may burn away
the veils of heedlessness and set aglow, through the quickening
energies of the love of God, the chilled and wayward heart. Be
light and untrammeled as the breeze, that ye may obtain ad-
mittance into the precincts of My court, My inviolable Sanctu-
ary.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 320)
O my brother! A divine Mine only can yield the gems of
divine knowledge, and the fragrance of the mystic Flower can
be inhaled only in the ideal Garden, and the lilies of ancient
wisdom can blossom nowhere except in the city of a stainless
heart. “In a rich soil, its plants spring forth abundantly by per-

70 | Resolve to Gain the Victory Over Your Own Selves
mission of its Lord, and in that soil which is bad, they spring
forth but scantily.”[3]
[3 Qur’án 7:57.]
(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Kitáb-i-Íqán, p. 191)
“... As soon as one feels a little better than, a little superior to,
the rest, he is in a dangerous position, and unless he casts away
the seed of such an evil thought, he is not a ﬁt instrument for the
service of the Kingdom. Dissatisfaction with oneself is a sign of
progress. Te soul who is satisﬁed with himself is the manifesta-
tion of Satan, and the one who is not contented with himself is
the manifestation of the Merciful. If a person has a thousand good
qualities he must not look at them; nay, rather he must strive to
ﬁnd out his own defects and imperfections. ...However much a
man may progress, yet he is imperfect, because there is always a
point ahead of him. No sooner does he look up towards that point
than he become dissatisﬁed with his own condition, and aspires
to attain to that. Praising one’s own self is the sign of selﬁshness.”
-- Diary of Mirza Ahmad Sohrab, 1914.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá in J.E. Esslemont, Bahá’u’lláh and the New Era, p. 83)
Charity is pleasing and praiseworthy in the sight of God and
is regarded as a prince among goodly deeds. Consider ye and call
to mind that which the All-Merciful hath revealed in the Qur’án:
“Tey prefer them before themselves, though poverty be their
own lot. And with such as are preserved from their own covetous-
ness shall it be well.”[1] Viewed in this light, the blessed utterance
above is, in truth, the day-star of utterances. Blessed is he who pre-
ferreth his brother before himself. Verily, such a man is reckoned,
by virtue of the Will of God, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise, with
the people of Bahá who dwell in the Crimson Ark.
[1 Qur’án 59:9.]
(Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 71)

Resolve to Gain the Victory Over Your Own Selves | 71
Tey who are possessed of riches, however, must have the
utmost regard for the poor, for great is the honor destined by
God for those poor who are steadfast in patience. By My life!
Tere is no honor, except what God may please to bestow, that
can compare to this honor. Great is the blessedness awaiting
the poor that endure patiently and conceal their suﬀerings, and
well is it with the rich who bestow their riches on the needy
and prefer them before themselves.
Please God, the poor may exert themselves and strive to
earn the means of livelihood. Tis is a duty which, in this most
great Revelation, hath been prescribed unto every one, and is
accounted in the sight of God as a goodly deed. Whoso obser-
veth this duty, the help of the invisible One shall most certainly
aid him. He can enrich, through His grace, whomsoever He
pleaseth. He, verily, hath power over all things....
Tell, O ‘Alí, the loved ones of God that equity is the most
fundamental among human virtues. Te evaluation of all
things must needs depend upon it.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 201)
Until a being setteth his foot in the plane of sacriﬁce, he
is bereft of every favour and grace; and this plane of sacriﬁce
is the realm of dying to the self, that the radiance of the liv-
ing God may then shine forth. Te martyr’s ﬁeld is the place
of detachment from self, that the anthems of eternity may be
upraised. Do all ye can to become wholly weary of self, and
bind yourselves to that Countenance of Splendours; and once
ye have reached such heights of servitude, ye will ﬁnd, gathered
within your shadow, all created things. Tis is boundless grace;
this is the highest sovereignty; this is the life that dieth not. All
else save this is at the last but manifest perdition and great loss.

(‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 76)

72 | Resolve to Gain the Victory Over Your Own Selves
To attain eternal happiness one must suﬀer. He who has
reached the state of self-sacriﬁce has true joy. Temporal joy will
vanish.

(‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Paris Talks, p. 179)
Tat one indeed is a man who, today, dedicateth himself
to the service of the entire human race. Te Great Being saith:
Blessed and happy is he that ariseth to promote the best inter-
ests of the peoples and kindreds of the earth.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 248)
Tese shall labour ceaselessly, by day and by night, shall
heed neither trials nor woe, shall suﬀer no respite in their ef-
forts, shall seek no repose, shall disregard all ease and comfort,
and, detached and unsullied, shall consecrate every ﬂeeting mo-
ment of their lives to the diﬀusion of the divine fragrance and
the exaltation of God’s holy Word.

(‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 251)
Occupy thyself, during these ﬂeeting days of thy life, with
such deeds as will diﬀuse the fragrance of Divine good plea-
sure, and will be adorned with the ornament of His acceptance.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, p. 76)
Oﬀer up, O people of Bahá, your substance, nay your very
lives, for his assistance.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 211)

͚R  M
C A T
 D ‘

Resolve to Gain the Victory Over Your Own Selves | 75
Remembrance of Me cleanseth all things from deﬁlement,
could ye but perceive it.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 294)
True remembrance is to make mention of the Lord, the
All-Praised, and forget aught else beside Him.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 155)
O SON OF EARTH! Wouldst thou have Me, seek none
other than Me; and wouldst thou gaze upon My beauty, close
thine eyes to the world and all that is therein; for My will and
the will of another than Me, even as ﬁre and water, cannot
dwell together in one heart.
(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Hidden Words, Persian #31)
O BEFRIENDED STRANGER! Te candle of thine heart
is lighted by the hand of My power, quench it not with the
contrary winds of self and passion. Te healer of all thine ills is
remembrance of Me, forget it not. Make My love thy treasure
and cherish it even as thy very sight and life.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Hidden Words, Persian #32)
O SON OF SPIRIT! I created thee rich, why dost thou
bring thyself down to poverty? Noble I made thee, wherewith
dost thou abase thyself? Out of the essence of knowledge I gave
thee being, why seekest thou enlightenment from anyone be-
side Me? Out of the clay of love I molded thee, how dost thou
busy thyself with another? Turn thy sight unto thyself, that
thou mayest ﬁnd Me standing within thee, mighty, powerful
and self-subsisting.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Hidden Words, Arabic #13)

76 | Resolve to Gain the Victory Over Your Own Selves
O SON OF UTTERANCE! Turn thy face unto Mine and
renounce all save Me; for My sovereignty endureth and My
dominion perisheth not. If thou seekest another than Me, yea,
if thou searchest the universe for evermore, thy quest will be in
vain.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Hidden Words, Arabic #15)
O SON OF LIGHT! Forget all save Me and commune
with My spirit. Tis is of the essence of My command, there-
fore turn unto it.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Hidden Words, Arabic #16)
O SON OF MAN! Be thou content with Me and seek no
other helper. For none but Me can ever suﬃce thee.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Hidden Words, Arabic #17)
Meditate on what the poet hath written: “Wonder not,
if my Best-Beloved be closer to me than mine own self; won-
der at this, that I, despite such nearness, should still be so far
from Him.”... Considering what God hath revealed, that “We
are closer to man than his life-vein,” the poet hath, in allu-
sion to this verse, stated that, though the revelation of my
Best-Beloved hath so permeated my being that He is closer to
me than my life-vein, yet, notwithstanding my certitude of
its reality and my recognition of my station, I am still so far
removed from Him. By this he meaneth that his heart, which
is the seat of the All-Merciful and the throne wherein abideth
the splendor of His revelation, is forgetful of its Creator, hath
strayed from His path, hath shut out itself from His glory, and
is stained with the deﬁlement of earthly desires.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 184)

Resolve to Gain the Victory Over Your Own Selves | 77
It is the waywardness of the heart that removeth it far from
God, and condemneth it to remoteness from Him. Tose
hearts, however, that are aware of His Presence, are close to
Him, and are to be regarded as having drawn nigh unto His
throne.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 184)
Again He saith: “And also in your own selves: will ye not,
then, behold the signs of God?” And yet again He revealeth:
“And be ye not like those who forget God, and whom He hath
therefore caused to forget their own selves.” In this connection,
He Who is the eternal King -- may the souls of all that dwell
within the mystic Tabernacle be a sacriﬁce unto Him -- hath
spoken: “He hath known God who hath known himself.”

(Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 176)
O My servants! Could ye apprehend with what wonders
of My muniﬁcence and bounty I have willed to entrust your
souls, ye would, of a truth, rid yourselves of attachment to all
created things, and would gain a true knowledge of your own
selves -- a knowledge which is the same as the comprehension
of Mine own Being. Ye would ﬁnd yourselves independent of
all else but Me, and would perceive, with your inner and outer
eye, and as manifest as the revelation of My eﬀulgent Name,
the seas of My loving-kindness and bounty moving within you.
Suﬀer not your idle fancies, your evil passions, your insincerity
and blindness of heart to dim the luster, or stain the sanctity, of
so lofty a station.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 326)

78 | Resolve to Gain the Victory Over Your Own Selves
Far, far from Ty glory be what mortal man can aﬃrm of
Tee, or attribute unto Tee, or the praise with which he can
glorify Tee! Whatever duty Tou hast prescribed unto Ty
servants of extolling to the utmost Ty majesty and glory is but
a token of Ty grace unto them, that they may be enabled to
ascend unto the station conferred upon their own inmost be-
ing, the station of the knowledge of their own selves.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 4)
Tey say: ‘Where is Paradise, and where is Hell?’ Say: ‘Te
one is reunion with Me; the other thine own self…

(Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 118)
When God created the Remembrance He presented Him
to the assemblage of all created beings upon the altar of His
Will. Tereupon the concourse of the angels bowed low in
adoration to God, the Peerless, the Incomparable; while Satan
waxed proud, refusing to submit to His Remembrance; hence
he is identiﬁed in the Book of God as the arrogant one and the
accursed.[1] Chapter LXVII.
[1 cf. Qur’án 2:32; 38:74-78 ]
(Te Báb, Selections from the Writings of the Báb, p. 64)
O SON OF JUSTICE! Whither can a lover go but to the
land of his beloved? And what seeker ﬁndeth rest away from his
heart’s desire? To the true lover reunion is life, and separation
is death. His breast is void of patience and his heart hath no
peace. A myriad lives he would forsake to hasten to the abode
of his beloved.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Hidden Words, Persian #4)

Resolve to Gain the Victory Over Your Own Selves | 79
O MOVING FORM OF DUST! I desire communion
with thee, but thou wouldst put no trust in Me. Te sword of
thy rebellion hath felled the tree of thy hope. At all times I am
near unto thee, but thou art ever far from Me. Imperishable
glory I have chosen for thee, yet boundless shame thou hast
chosen for thyself. While there is yet time, return, and lose not
thy chance.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Hidden Words, Persian #21)
O MY FRIEND IN WORD! Ponder awhile. Hast thou
ever heard that friend and foe should abide in one heart? Cast
out then the stranger, that the Friend may enter His home.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Hidden Words, Persian #26)
O CHILDREN OF NEGLIGENCE AND PASSION! Ye
have suﬀered My enemy to enter My house and have cast out
My friend, for ye have enshrined the love of another than Me
in your hearts. Give ear to the sayings of the Friend and turn
towards His paradise. Worldly friends, seeking their own good,
appear to love one the other, whereas the true Friend hath
loved and doth love you for your own sakes; indeed He hath
suﬀered for your guidance countless aﬄictions. Be not disloyal
to such a Friend, nay rather hasten unto Him. Such is the
daystar of the word of truth and faithfulness, that hath dawned
above the horizon of the pen of the Lord of all names. Open
your ears that ye may hearken unto the word of God, the Help
in peril, the Self-existent.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Hidden Words, Persian #52)

80 | Resolve to Gain the Victory Over Your Own Selves
Te one true God hath ever regarded the hearts of men
as His own, His exclusive possession -- and this too but as an
expression of His all-surpassing mercy, that haply mortal souls
may be purged and sanctiﬁed from all that pertaineth to the
world of dust and gain admittance into the realms of eternity.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Summons of the Lord of Hosts, p. 110)
Hearken ye to the Call of this wronged One, and magnify
ye the name of the one true God, and adorn yourselves with
the ornament of His remembrance, and illumine your hearts
with the light of His love. Tis is the key that unlocketh the
hearts of men, the burnish that shall cleanse the souls of all
beings. He that is careless of what hath poured out from the
ﬁnger of the Will of God liveth in manifest error. Amity and
rectitude of conduct, rather than dissension and mischief, are
the marks of true faith.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 204)
Unlock, O people, the gates of the hearts of men with the
keys of the remembrance of Him Who is the Remembrance of
God and the Source of wisdom amongst you. He hath chosen
out of the whole world the hearts of His servants, and made
them each a seat for the revelation of His glory. Wherefore,
sanctify them from every deﬁlement, that the things for which
they were created may be engraven upon them. Tis indeed is a
token of God’s bountiful favor.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 296)
It is incumbent upon thee, by the permission of God, to
cleanse the eye of thine heart from the things of the world, that
thou mayest realize the inﬁnitude of divine knowledge, and
mayest behold Truth so clearly that thou wilt need no proof to

Resolve to Gain the Victory Over Your Own Selves | 81
demonstrate His reality, nor any evidence to bear witness unto
His testimony.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Kitáb-i-Íqán, p. 90)
How great the number of those holy souls, those essences
of justice, who, accused of tyranny, were put to death! And
how many embodiments of purity, who showed forth naught
but true knowledge and stainless deeds, suﬀered an agonizing
death! Notwithstanding all this, each of these holy beings, up
to his last moment, breathed the Name of God, and soared in
the realm of submission and resignation. Such was the potency
and transmuting inﬂuence which He exercised over them, that
they ceased to cherish any desire but His will, and wedded their
soul to His remembrance.

(Bahá’u’lláh, Te Kitáb-i-Íqán, p. 234)
Center your thoughts in the Well-Beloved, rather than in
your own selves.
(Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 167)
…Waft, then, unto me, O my God and my Beloved, from
the right hand of Ty mercy and Ty loving-kindness, the holy
breaths of Ty favors, that they may draw me away from myself
and from the world unto the courts of Ty nearness and Ty
presence. Potent art Tou to do what pleaseth Tee. Tou,
truly, hast been supreme over all things…

(Bahá’u’lláh, Prayers and Meditations by Bahá’u’lláh, p. 310)
Ty name is my healing, O my God, and remembrance of
Tee is my remedy. Nearness to Tee is my hope, and love for
Tee is my companion. Ty mercy to me is my healing and my
succor in both this world and the world to come. Tou, verily,
art the All-Bountiful, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.
(Bahá’u’lláh, Bahá’í Prayers, p. 85)

A
Requisites for Spiritual Growth
Bahá’u’lláh has stated quite clearly in His Writings the es-
sential requisites for our spiritual growth, and these are stressed
again and again by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in His talks and tablets. One
can summarise them brieﬂy in this way:
1. Te recital each day of one of the Obligatory Prayers
with pure-hearted devotion
2. Te regular reading of the Sacred Scriptures, speciﬁcally
at least each morning and evening, with reverence, at-
tention and thought
3. Prayerful meditation on the teachings, so that we may
understand them more deeply, fulﬁl them more faith-
fully, and convey them more accurately to others
4. Striving every day to bring our behaviour more into
accordance with the high standards that are set forth in
the Teachings
5. Teaching the Cause of God
6. Selﬂess service in the work of the Cause and in the car-
rying on of our trade or profession
(Compilations, Lights of Guidance, p. 540
From a letter written on behalf of the Universal House of
Justice to a National Spiritual Assembly, 1 September 1983)

B
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in London.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Foundations of World Unity. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Pub-
lishing Trust, 1968.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Paris Talks. London: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1995.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Some Answered Questions. Collected and Translated by
Laura Cliﬀord Barney. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust:
1987.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Tablets of the Divine Plan. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Pub-
lishing Trust, 1977.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Te Promulgation of Universal Peace. Wilmette, IL:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1982.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Te Secret of Divine Civilization. Translated from
Persian by Marzieh Gail in consultation with Ali-Kuli Khan.
Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1990.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Compiled
by the Research Department of Te Universal House of Justice.
Translated by a Committee at the Bahá’í World Centre and by
Marzieh Gail. Haifa, Israel: Bahá’í World Centre, 1982.
Bahá’u’lláh. Epistle to the Son of the Wolf. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Pub-
lishing Trust, 1988.
Bahá’u’lláh. Gems of Divine Mysteries. Haifa, Israel: Bahá’í World
Centre, 2002.
Bahá’u’lláh. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. Wilmette, IL:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1983.
Bahá’u’lláh. Prayers and Meditations by Bahá’u’lláh. Wilmette, IL:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1987.
Bahá’u’lláh. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh. Universal House of Justice and
translated by Habib Taherzadeh with the assistance of a Com-
mittee at the Bahá’í World Centre . Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Pub-
lishing Trust, 1988.

86 | Resolve to Gain the Victory Over Your Own Selves
Bahá’u’lláh. Te Seven Valleys and the Four Valleys. Translated by
Marzieh Gail in consultation with Ali Quli Khan . Wilmette, IL:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1986.
Bahá’u’lláh. Te Hidden Words. Translated by Shoghi Eﬀendi with the
assistance of some English friends . Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publish-
ing Trust, 1994.
Bahá’u’lláh. Te Kitáb-i-Aqdas. Haifa, Israel: Bahá’í World Centre,
1992.
Bahá’u’lláh. Te Kitáb-i-Íqán. Translated by Shoghi Eﬀendi . Wil-
mette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1983.
Bahá’u’lláh. Te Proclamation of Bahá’u’lláh. Haifa, Israel: Bahá’í
World Centre, 1967.
Bahá’u’lláh. Te Summons of the Lord of Hosts. Haifa, Israel: Bahá’í
World Centre, 2002.
Bahá’u’lláh. Bahá’í Prayers, A Selection of Prayers Revealed by
Bahá’u’lláh, Te Báb, and ‘Abdul-Bahá. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1991.
Te Báb. Selections from the Writings of the Báb. Translated by Habib
Taherzadeh with the assitance of a committee a the Bahá’í World
Centre . Haifa, Israel: Bahá’í World Centre, 1978.
Esslemont, J. E.. Bahá’u’lláh and the New Era. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1980.
Lights of Guidance: A Bahá’í Reference File. Compiled by Helen Bas-
sett Hornby. New Delhi, India: Bahaá’í Publishing Trust, 1994.