THE BAHA'I QUESTION
Iran's Secret
Blueprint
for the
Destruction
of a Religious
Communtty
An Examination
of the Persecution of
the Baha'is of I ran
Baha'! International Community

THE BAHA'i QUESTION
Iran's Secret Blueprint for the
Destruction of a Religious Community
An Examination of the Persecution
of the Baha'Is of Iran
©1999 by the Baha'i International
Community (All rights reserved)
Baha'i International Community
866 United Nations Plaza, Suite 120
New York, N.Y. 10017, U.S.A.
Contents
Introduction
The Historical Background
Persecutions in the Islamic Republic of Iran
The International Response
How Iran Has Justified the Persecution
The Secret Blueprint on "The Baha'i Question"
The Current Situation
Summary
Appendix I
Baha'is killed since 1978
Appendix II
The United Nations' Response

Between 1978 and 1998,
more than 200 Baha'is
were executed by the
Iranian Government. The
majority of them were
members of the
community's
democratically elected
governing councils. During
the 1980s, especially,
hundreds more Baha'is
were imprisoned, and tens
of thousands were
deprived of jobs, pensions,
businesses, and
educational opportunities.
Baha'is face these
persecutions solely
because of their
religious beliefs.
lution in 1979, the persecution of Baha'is
intensified as the Government embarked
on a systematic campaign to eradicate the
Baha'i community of Iran.
Between 1978 and 1998, more than
200 Baha'is were executed by the Iranian
Government. The majority of them were
members of the community's democrati-
cally elected governing councils. During the
THE BAHA'I QUESTION
1980s, especially, hundreds more Baha'is
were imprisoned, and tens of thousands
were deprived of jobs, pensions, businesses,
and educational opportunities. Baha'is face
these persecutions solely because of their
religious beliefs.
In response to intense international
pressure, the most notable example of
which has been a series of United Nations
Shown here is the destruction of the National Baha'. Center in Teheran by Muslim
leaders and members of the Shah's army in 1955.
resolutions against Iran, the Iranian Gov-
ernment in the late 1980s reduced the rate
of executions and the number of Baha'is
held in prison.
Despite an apparent abatement of the
most severe forms of persecution against
the Baha'is in the 1990s, a close look at the
evidence reveals that the Government of
the Islamic Republic of Iran still seeks to
marginalize, suffocate and ultimately de-
stroy the 350,OOO-member Baha'i commu-
nity, Iran's largest religious minority.
INTRODUCTION

In July 1998, Mr. Ruhu'llah Rawhani, a
52-year-old medical supplies salesman and
father of four, was hanged in Mashhad. In
July 1997, two other Baha'is, Mr. Masha'llah
Enayati and Mr. Shalliam Reza'i, were killed
in unrelated incidents w1der circumstances
related to their religious beliefs. And in
March 1992, Mr. Bahman Samandari, a
well-known Baha'i businessman in Tehe-
ran, was summoned to Evin prison and
summarily executed. As of early 1999, at
least 16 Baha'is were being held in prison,
with six facing death sentences.
Beyond the Government's willingness
to execute Baha'is and/or to allow them to be
killed, clear evidence of the Government's
intentions emerged in early 1993 with the
discovery of a hitherto secret Government
memorandwn aimed at establishing policy
regarding "the Baha'i question." Drafted by
the Supreme Revolutionary Cultural Coun-
cil and signed by President Ali Khamenei,
the document lays out unequivocally the
Government's overall objective -
to ensure
that the "progress and development" of the
Baha'i community "shall be blocked." [See
page 50 for full text of docwnent.]
The continuing fo rce of that docu-
ment, which calls for a series of restrictions
In raids on 500 Baha'. homes
in September 1998, Iranian
Government agents seized
hundreds of thousands of
dollars worth of books and
equipment in an effort to
close down the Baha'. Insti-
tute for Higher Education.
Shown here is one of the
B I HE offices.
THE BAHA'I QUESTION
on the access of Baha'is to education and
liveliliood that is nothing less than a blue-
print for the strangulation of the Baha'i
community, was vividly demonstrated in
September-October 1998 when Govern-
ment agents arrested some 36 Baha'i aca-
demics and raided more than 500 Baha'i
homes, confiscating hundreds of thousands
of dollars worth of books, computers, and
laboratory equipment. Witnesses describe
some of the raiders as having been accom-
panied by film crews -
evidence of the
methodical nature of the attacks.
The aim of the assault was to shut down
the Baha'i Institute for Higher Education
(BIHE), an effort by the Baha'i community
of Iran to provide university education for
its young people, who have been systemati-
cally excluded from colleges and universities
in Iran since the Islamic Government came
to power. Founded in 1987, the BIHE oper-
ated as an independent, full-fledged univer-
sity with an enrollment of some 900
students, a faculty of more than 150 first-rate
academics and instructors, and complete
course offerings in ten subject areas such as
engineering and accounting.
These raids and other actions contra-
dict the Government's oft-repeated conten-
tion that it has no campaign of persecution
against the Baha'is. Given Iran's long his-
tory of measures taken against the Baha'is,
the overall effect of the policies established
by the memorandum and its continued ful-
fillment through sporadic executions, re-
volving door imprisonments, periodic
arrests, and the general harassment aimed
at Baha'is and their institutions provide
clear evidence that Iran hopes to continue
its oppression of the Baha'i community of
Iran while arousing as little foreign atten-
tion as possible.
As a result of this campaign, the
Baha'is of Iran remain in a precarious state.
They are denied the right to practice their
faith freely, guaranteed under international
human rights instruments such as the In-
ternational Bill of Human Rights, to which
Iran is a party. The administrative institu-
tions of their Faith have been dismantled in
accordance with a Government edict. They
live each day knowing that their Govern-
ment seeks to block their development as a
community, and that even slight infractions
can result in the deprivation of their liveli-
hood, imprisonment or worse.
No one, however, has suggested that
the Baha'i community in Iran poses a threat
to the Iranian authorities. The principles of
the Baha'i Faith require members to be
obedient to their government and to avoid
partisan political involvement, subversive
activity, and all forms of violence. The com-
munity has sedulously avoided aligning it-
self in any fashion with any of the country's
governments, ideologies or opposition
movements.
Viewed objectively,
the Iranian
Government's treatment of the Baha'i com-
munity offers a singular litmus test as to
whether the current political changes that
are represented as reforms, altering the face
of Iran, are genuine.
Baha'is of Iran remain in a
precarious state. They are
denied the right to practice
their faith freely, guaranteed
under international human
rights instruments such as the
International Bill of Human
Rights, to which Iran is a
party. They live each day
knowing that their
Government seeks to block
their development as a
community, and that even
slight infractions can result in
the deprivation of their
livelihood, imprisonment
or worse.
I NTRODUCTION

.-.... __ .
.----------- ... _-_ .. --"--- '.--
-- -------- --_ .... _._._._----_. __ . --.-... ---
... - -- _. ------_._-- - -----_.- ....
.. - ---- --- -- _. __ . --.-_.- ------
. __ ... _
.... _----- --
•••••• •• _.n. __ . __ __ • .
------------ - --- --------
- ---- --- ----
--.- ----"_ .. ----... __ ._-_._-'---_._- --- .. _--
.... --.~
.. _..
-- -
-.- -
-
.. --- ._._--
_
... _--_._---- --_._----- ,-,--
.. _-_. -
-- ........ _-_._---
.. ---,---------- --
The Historical
Background
The Baha'i Faith has been
persecuted in Iran since its
founding there in the mid-
1800s. Early followers faced
violent opposition from both
the Islamic religious
authorities and succeeding
dynasties. It has been
estimated that some 20,000
persons perished in these
pogroms during the
nineteenth century.
he present day status of
human rights and social
reform in the Islamic Republic
of Iran cannot be adequately un-
derstood without taking into ac-
count the historical background
of persecution against the Baha'i commu-
nity -
a history that does much to explain
the cultural crisis gripping Iranian society
today as its leadership struggles to face the
challenge of modernity.
The Baha'i Faith has been persecuted
in Iran since its founding there in the mid-
1800s. Early followers faced violent opposi-
tion from both the Islamic religious
authorities and succeeding dynasties. It has
been estimated that some 20,000 persons
perished in these pogroms during the nine-
teenth century.
The persecutions have continued in-
termittently in the twentieth century, coin-
ciding most often with the need of various
governments to shore up support with cer-
tain elements of Iran's Islamic leadership.
And they have come regardless of the lead-
ers' political orientation.
Some of the outbreaks against Baha'is
were directed by local or regional authorities.
In 1903, for example, some 101 Baha'is were
HISTORICAL BACKGROUND

killed in the city of Yazd after the populace
was incited by hostile mullahs. At other
times the oppression of Baha'is was made a
part of official national policy. During the
early years of the Pahlavi Regime (1927 to
1979), the Government formalized a policy
of discrimination against the Baha'is as a
concession to the clergy. Beginning in 1933,
Baha'i literature was banned, Baha'i mar-
riages were not recognized, and Baha'is in
public service were demoted or fired. Even-
tually, Baha'i schools were closed.
Another round of persecutions com-
menced in 1955, when the Pahlavi regime
THE BAHA'I QUESTION
allowed the nationwide broadcast of a se-
ries of incendiary sermons against the
Baha'is by a leading Shi'ih preacher in
Teheran -
apparently hoping to make
the Baha'is a scapegoat to deflect atten-
tion from unpopular government poli-
cies. Both the national and army radio
stations were put at the disposal of the re-
sponsible cleric, Sheikh Muhammad Taqi
Falsafi, who joined the Shah's Minister of
Defense, General Batmangelich, in de-
molishing the dome of Baha'i national
headquarters with pick axes. A wave of
anti-Baha'i violence swept the country.
Murders, rapes and robberies were re-
ported in many areas, while the Govern-
ment assured the Majlis that it had
ordered the suppression of all activities of
"the Baha'i sect."
Baha'is understand that this pattern of
persecution is a manifestation of the misun-
derstanding and fear that often occur when
a new religion emerges from the matrix of a
well-established orthodoxy. The pattern has
been repeated through the ages; virtually all
of the world's great religions have faced in-
tense persecution at their birth.
In the case of the Baha'i Faith, the
Baha'is understand that this
pattern of persecution is a
manifestation of the
misunderstanding and fear
that often occur when a
new religion emerges from
the matrix of a well-
established orthodoxy. The
pattern has been repeated
through the ages; virtually
all of the world's great
religions have faced intense
persecution at their birth.
A Baha'i father and son (at left) in chains
after being arrested with fellow Baha'is,
shown in a photograph taken around
1896. Both were subsequently executed.
teachings of its two Founders, especially
when viewed through the lens of traditional
Islam, are as challenging as those of any
Prophet in ancient times.
The initial wave of persecution came in
response to the claims of a young Iranian
merchant, known to history as the Bab, who
announced in Shiraz in May 1844 that He
was the bearer of a new revelation from God.
This revelation, He said, fulfilled Islamic
prophecies for the coming of "the Twelfth
Imam." His primary mission, the Bab said,
was to prepare humanity for the advent of
"Him Whom God Shall Make Manifest," the
HISTORICAL BACKGROUND

,.
:: r
!:
n
Ii
i!
Ii
Ii
II
i! q
I.
Ii
Ii
Ii
II "
!!
Ii
I.
'I !
i
!
This illustration, depicting the death of an early Baha'., appeared in the Persian
magazine, Ima'mat, circa 1911.
universal divine Messenger anticipated in
the scriptures of all the major religions.
The teachings of the Bab called for the
spiritual and moral reformation of Persian
society, and for the upliftment of the sta-
tion of women and the poor. His promo-
tion of education and the useful sciences
was also revolutionary. Such progressive
and idealistic teachings, which made a clear
break with the Islamic frame of reference,
were rapidly embraced by thousands of fol-
lowers and were seen by both secular and
religious authorities as a threat to their
power. Widespread persecutions followed,
and, as noted above, several thousand fol-
lowers, who were known as Babis, paid with
their lives. The Bab Himself was executed
by the Government in 1850.
THE BAHA ' I QUESTION
Among the followers of the Bab was an
Iranian nobleman named Baha'u'llah. In
1863 He announced that He was the Mes-
senger the Bab had heralded, founding the
Baha'i Faith, which develops and extends
many of the teachings and principles intro-
duced by the Bab. The central theme of
Baha'u'llah's message is that humanity is a
single race and that the day has come for
unification into one global society. "The
earth is but one country and mankind its
citizens," wrote Baha'u'llah.
Baha'u'llah taught that there is only
one God, and that all of the world's reli-
gions are expressions of a single, unfolding
Divine plan, "the changeless Faith of God,
eternal in the past, eternal in the future."
Baha'is believe that God progressively
reveals religious truth to humanity through
a series of Divine Messengers, each of
Whom has founded a great religion. These
Messengers have included Abraham,
Krishna, Zoroaster, Moses, Buddha, Jesus
and Muhammad; the most recent are the
Bab and Baha'u'llah. Others will follow in
ages to come.
The idea that there should be new
Messengers of God after Muhammad is
viewed by many Muslims as heresy. In the
Qur'an, Muhammad referred to Himself as
the "Seal of the Prophets," and most Mus-
lim scholars interpret this to mean that He
would be the last Messenger of God.
Baha'is, however, believe that the com-
ing of the Bab and Baha'u'llah poses no
contradiction to Islamic teachings or those
of any of the other revealed religions.
Baha'is understand that Muhammad ended
or "sealed" the prophetic cycle. Then, with
the advent of the Bab and Baha'u'llah, a
new era of religious fulfillment began.
Baha'u'llah referred to this new period in
human history as the "stage of maturity."
Baha'is believe that this is all in accordance
with the prophecies of Islam and the
world's other major religions.
Other aspects of the Baha'i teachings
also arouse opposition among some follow-
ers of Islam. In outlining His vision for a
new world civilization, Baha'u'llah advo-
cated a series of highly progressive social
principles. These include: the elimination
of all forms of prejudice; equality between
the sexes; recognition of the essential one-
ness of the world's great religions; the
elimination of extremes of poverty and
wealth; universal education; the harmony
of science and religion; a sustainable bal-
ance between human society and the natu-
ral world; and the establishment of a world
federal system, based on collective security
and the oneness of humanity.
Baha'is believe that God
progressively reveals
religious truth to humanity
through a series of Divine
Messengers, each of Whom
has founded a great
religion. These Messengers
have included Abraham,
Krishna, Zoroaster, Moses,
Buddha, Jesus and
Muhammad; the most
recent are the Bab and
Baha'u'llah. Others will
follow in ages to come.
HISTORI CAL BACKGROUND

In 1996 the Baha'I communities of Ibadan and Idi-Ose, Nigeria, sponsored an in-
terfaith conference on "Women, Equality and Religion" at the University of Ibadan.
Representatives of the Baha'I, Christian, Hindu and Islamic communities took part.
Equality of women and men, an essential principle of the Baha'I teachings, is viewed
by Iran's clerical rulers as antithetical to the traditions of Islam. Baha'IS in Iran and
around the world seek to promote this principle in their words and actions.
THE BAHA ' I QUESTION
Some fundamentalist Muslims view
the progressive nature of these teachings,
such as the equality of women and the ab-
sence of religious clergy, as especially anti-
thetical to the traditions of Islam. To Iran's
Shia establishment, especially -
indeed to
many among their Sunni Muslim counter-
parts -
the emergence of an independent
religion that postdates the Qur'an by al-
most thirteen centuries is not only theo-
logically abhorrent but threatens the system
of patronage, endowments, political in-
fluence, and social perquisites to which
they lay claim. The effect has been to
arouse in the Shia establishment a deter-
mination to extinguish the new faith and
suppress its followers.
The persecution of the Baha'is in Iran
is not related to any underlying issue of
ethnicity or political agenda. The over-
whelming majority of Iranian Baha'is
come from the same Persian and Azer-
baijani ethnic stock as the rest of the
population, and they represent a cross sec-
tion of Iran's social classes.
Only their religious beliefs distinguish
them from their fellow countrymen -
be-
liefs which the Baha'i teachings forbid them
from imposing on others. Paradoxically, be-
cause of the control exercised by the Islamic
clergy over the media of communication,
the nature of Baha'i beliefs remains virtu-
ally unknown to a public that has been sys-
tematically taught to fear and hate them.
The Iranian Baha'i community has it-
self consistently been denied the use of any
means of mass communication, including
radio, television, newspapers, films, the dis-
tribution of literature and public lectures.
The result has been the kind of widespread,
unreasoning prejudice all too similar to
situations facing the United Nations Hu-
man Rights Commission in other parts of
the world.
The persecution of the
Baha'is in Iran is not related
to any underlying issue of
ethnicity or political agenda.
The overwhelming majority
of Iranian Baha'is come from
the same Persian and
Azerbaijani ethnic stock as
the rest of the population,
and they represent a
cross section of Iran's
social classes.
HISTORICAL BACKGROUND

Persecutions in the
Islamic Republic of Iran
Under Iran's concept of an
Islamic government, this
exclusion of the Baha'fs from
the Constitution has come to
mean that Baha'fs enjoy no
rights of any sort, and that
they can be attacked and
persecuted with impunity.
ith the establishment
of the Islamic Republic
in 1979, a new chapter
in the persecution of the
Baha'is of Iran was opened.
Even before the Ayatol-
lah Khomeini returned from exile to as-
sume power in February of that year, an
increase in attacks on Baha'is presaged the
wholesale persecution that was to come. In
1978 at least seven Baha'is were killed, most
as a result of mob violence.
While many Iranians hailed the revolu-
tion as the dawn of a long awaited era of po-
liticalliberty and national reconstruction, it
was clear from the start that the Baha'is
would be unjustly reviled for their beliefs.
When the Republic's new constitution
was drawn up in April 1979, certain rights
of the Christian, Jewish and Zoroastrian
minorities in Iran were specifically men-
tioned and protected. However, no men-
tion whatsoever was made of the rights of
the Baha'i community, Iran's largest reli-
gious minority.
Under Iran's concept of an Islamic
government, this exclusion has come to
mean that Baha'is enjoy no rights of any
sort, and that they can be attacked and
RECENT PERSECUTIONS

In an interview given by the
Ayatollah Khomeini to
Professor James Cockcroft
of Rutgers University in
December 1978, the
Ayatollah was asked: "Will
there be either religious or
political freedom for the
Baha'is under an Islamic
Government?" His answer:
"They are a political
faction; they are harmful.
They will not be accepted."
Professor Cockcroft then
asked: "How about their
freedom of religion -
religious practice?" The
Ayatollah answered: "No."
THE BAHA'I QUESTION
persecuted with impunity. Courts in the
Republic have denied Baha'is the right of
redress or protection against assault, kill-
ings or other forms of persecution -
and
have ruled that Iranian citizens who kill
or injure Baha'is are not liable for dam-
ages because their victims are "unpro-
tected infidels."
Without any claim to civil rights, the
Baha'i community saw rapid deterioration
of its position within Iranian society. In
Shortly after the Islamic revolution, the National Baha'i Center in Teheran was con-
fiscated by authorities and turned into a "Temporary Islamic Propaganda Center"
and "Open Muslim University."
March 1979, the house of the Bab, the holi-
est Baha'i shrine in Iran, was turned over by
the Government to a Muslim cleric known
for his anti-Baha'i activities. In September,
the house was destroyed by a mob led by
mullahs and officials of the Department of
Religious Mfairs.
A November 1979 edict from the
Ministry of Education required not only
the dismissal of all Baha'i teachers, but
also held them responsible for the repay-
ment of all salaries they had previously
received.
At least seven Baha'is were killed in
RECENT PERSECUTIONS

Ushnaviyyih-j
r- ~ Tabri1;-l?:
Urumiyyih, 6
'
~ Khuy-l
Miyan-Duab-3
Mahilbad-l
pfranshahr-l ~ Bukcin-l
ct Sanandai-l
Rasht-2
Q
'
~ Sari-l
azvlO-4
Karaj-l0
~ Teheran-.68
Khaniabad-'2
Qum HigJ1~ay-~
.'
Map of Iran showing cities where Baha'Is have been killed.
1979. Two were executed by the Government
and one was hanged in prison. Others were
beaten to death or killed in local incidents.
Executions
Buoyed by their growing influence over all
aspects of Iranian life, in 1980 the clergy
moved "to cut off the head" of the "hereti-
cal" Baha'i movement by destroying its
THE BAHA ' [ QUESTION
leadership, believing that the majority of
the Baha'is would then succumb to social
pressures to recant their Faith.
Th is policy is reflected in the fact
that well over half the Baha'is executed in
Iran since 1979 have been members of
national and local governing councils of
the Baha'i community, known as Spiri-
tual Assemblies.
The execution on 27 June 1980 ofYusuf
Sobhani, a highly regarded member of the
Teheran Baha'i community, was among the
first of such killings that targeted Baha'i
leadership. This was followed by the execu-
tions of the chairman and another member
of the local Spiritual Assembly of Tabriz on
14 July 1980, a member of the Spiritual As-
sembly of Rasht on 16 July 1980, and two
prominent Baha'i spokesmen in Teheran on
30 July and 15 August 1980.
On 21 August 1980, all nine members
of the national Baha'i governing council,
the National Spiritual Assembly of the
Baha'is of Iran, were arrested and disap-
peared without a trace. It seems certain that
they were executed.
During 1980 at least 24 Baha'is were
killed in Iran; 20 were executed by the Gov-
ernment and the rest were stoned, assassi-
nated or burned to death.
Despite a growing international outcry,
the rate of executions continued to grow
through 1981. By late summer that year,
revolutionary courts were openly sentenc-
continued on page 27
Buoyed by their growing
influence over all aspects of
Iranian life, in 1980 the clergy
moved "to cut off the head" of
the "heretical" Baha'i
movement by destroying its
leadership, believing that
the majority of the Baha'is
would then succumb to social
pressures to recant their Faith.
Although the number of executions has
fallen off in the face of international
pressure, the Iranian government is still
systematically denying the rights of
Baha'is.
50 ---------- 48------------------------------------------------
Number of Baha'is killed
by year, 1978-1998
29 30
II
111ii.
•
1 .J.
-
RECENT PERSECUTIONS

An interview with Mehri Mavaddat, a
Baha'i who was arrested and imprisoned
in 1980 in Iran for her Faith. Her husband,
Farhang Mavaddat, also arrested in 1980,
was executed in June 1981. Later that year,
Ms. Mavaddat escaped from Iran.
I
grew up in a Baha'i family in Iran. ?n my
mother's side I am the fifth generatIOn,
and my father was third.
In Iran the Baha'i Faith was never
recognized officially, so we were always under
pressure. They cursed us in the streets, the
children were beaten in school, and always I
remember when I was a small child they broke
our windows and put dirt behind our door
because we were Baha'is. But we never tried to
get revenge. My parents told me, and I always
told my children later, that Baha'u'llah said to
love people, even your enemies.
They burned my father's business in
Hamadan when I was two or three years old.
When I married, my husband was a chemi-
cal engineer, an expert in his field. We moved
to different remote places for his work, and
wherever we lived we always had a Baha'i
community, either small or a little bit bigger.
Most recently, my husband and I were
members of the Local Spiritual Assembly of
Karaj, which was a very big community. My
husband was the chairman for a long time. He
was very knowledgeable about the Faith. And I
was also a member.
When the Revolution started, they thought
that if they killed their "leaders" -
Assembly
members -
and they took all the Baha'i centers
and books, they could paralyze the community.
And then they could get rid of the rest very
easily. They thought that when they didn't have
leaders, the rest -
the women and the children
-
would come and deny their faith and they
could easily get rid of the Baha'is.
They arrested two Baha'is from our com-
munity and asked us to come to the Revolu-
tionary Court to be witnesses. This was only an
excuse to arrest people; it was not something
related to the case. They asked my husband and
'THE BAHA'I QUESTION
Mehri Mavaddat was imprisoned in
Iran for her Faith and her husband was
executed.
he went there. The Baha'is were so loyal and
obedient, they went because they didn't have
anything to hide.
When he went to be a witness, they came to
our place while I was at home alone, waiting
for the result. They searched all through our
home. The first thing they were very interested
in was Baha'i books and literature and tapes,
which they took or burned or tore up. And
valuable things. All the Baha'is who were called
or arrested, their houses were ransacked.
So he was put in prison, and then they came
and took me, too. We were both placed in
solitary confinement and there was a lot of
pressure. Hours and hours of interrogation.
The only thing they accused us of was spying.
They always had some excuse to confuse
people. It went on and on. Every night and day.
After twenty days, they let him out. But they
came even at midnight to our home, daily, and
destroyed or took everything, and they took us
to make us show them other Baha'is' places.
They did this to other Baha'is too.
Then they called him to go to Evin Prison
in Teheran for another reason. And he went
again. For almost two' months I didn't know
where he was. I went to the authorities to ask
about him, to defend our case, but it never
worked. The minute they heard about the
Faith, they couldn't stand it. It was just a preju-
dice. Because I was a lawyer for the Govern-
ment, I had a lot of friends who were lawyers
and judges, and they told me, "If you were a
criminal or a drug dealer we could help you,
but because you are a Baha'i we can't even talk
about it because they will accuse us of being
friends of Baha'is." They were too scared to do
even a little about it.
After a while, when I found him, I could go
to visit him behind the window and we could
talk on the telephone for 10 minutes. He told
me about all the pressure he was under, but he
was very strong because this was for his Faith;
he hadn't committed any crime and he wasn't
guilty of anything. They told him, "Deny your
faith, and you are free." Every non-Baha'i
prisoner who was released came and asked me,
"Please tell him to deny his faith, because that
is the only thing they want, and it's a pity to kill
these nice, well-educated, kind people." I told
them, "No, we will not lie. How do you respect
a person who lies about what he believes in his
heart?" What the Government really wanted
was to make the Baha'is recant their faith and
to publicize that, but they could not.
I went to see him once a week, and one day
he told me he had a trial. Fortunately, his is the
only trial of an Assembly member that was
reported in a national newspaper. The Islamic
judge first asked him to read about Islam and
become a Muslim. My husband said, "I believe
in Islam and I have a Qur'an in my library and
I have studied it and I believe in all religions.
But I also believe that Baha'u'llah is the latest
Manifestation of God:' After that, the judge
listed all the accusations -
having Baha'i
books, Baha'i tapes, teaching Baha'i classes,
sending money for Baha'is, and so on. They
were all published in the newspapers.
Two months after, I was in my office when
my friends came and said they heard on the
radio that they had executed several people,
including three Baha'is. We went to the morgue
where they take the bodies, and we had to
identify which were ours. We had difficulty
taking the bodies, because they were always
throwing them out, but at last we managed to
take them to our cemetery. I have a picture.
The crime was written on their legs. It said
"Baha'i -
anti-God."
The day after the funeral, the authorities
went to our house, sealed it, and took every-
thing. They had ransacked the whole thing
before, but now they seized the house, closed
our bank account, took our car, and every-
thing. And they were looking for me again.
Before, my office had bailed me out because
of some cases in which I was involved, but
now, since I didn't have any house to go to
and my friends would be in danger if I went
to their places, my non-Baha'i friends said,
"It's good for you not to come back again."
And they arranged to smuggle me out of the
country. It was a dangerous decision to take,
but because of my friends and my situation,
and my children who were out and worried
about me, I went.
I still love my country, and I hope to return
to it one day. I don't have any animosity against
anybody. I love them, even though they tortured
us. The reason they are doing this to Baha'is in
Iran is because they don't have justice. They
don't read and see what we are saying. They are
ignorant -
they don't know. It's just like the
other religions. Christ was crucified because of
the clergy who didn't want people to know.
Muhammad was persecuted for the same rea-
son. The Bab and Baha'u'llah, too.
It is the leaders' fault -
what they are
teaching the people. I pray for them. I say a
prayer for them everyday that God will give
them justice and fairness. If they were just and
fair, they would study and would see that
Baha'is are not their enemies and they are right
and these principles are something that we
need for the world -
a remedy, a solution for
all these problems.
If we have real love for each other, this
solves every difficulty. Because with animosity
and revenge and hatred we don't go anywhere.
If we try to take revenge, we only bring more
animosity and it never ends.
RECENT PERSECUTIONS

ing Baha'is to death purely on religious
grounds and announcing the fact in Iranian
media. The Attorney General, Siyyid
Moussavi-Tabrizi, stated explicitly: "The
Qur'an recognized only the People of the
Book as religious communities. Others are
pagans. Pagans must be eliminated." Under
Islamic law in Iran, "People of the Book" in-
elude only Muslims, Jews, Christians and,
by special dispensation, Zoroastrians.
The National Spiritual Assembly of the
Baha'is of Iran was reconstituted through
new elections but was again ravaged by the
execution of eight of its members on 27
December 1981. In all at least 48 Baha'is
were killed in Iran during 1981; of those, all
but two were executed by the Government.
Executions continued apace through
1982, 1983 and 1984. At least 32 Baha'is were
executed or killed in 1982, 29 were executed
or killed in 1983, and 30 were executed or
killed in 1984. And, again, the targets of these
executions were often members of Baha'i
governing councils. Four members of the
National Spiritual Assembly, which had once
again been courageously re-established
through fresh elections, were executed in
OPPOSITE lEFT: Many Baha'IS have been
tortured. The body of Dr. Nasir Vafai, a
49-year-old physician who was ex-
ecuted on 14 June 1981, was found to
have a deep gash below his abdomen
which ran all the way around his leg,
severing the joint.
LEFT: Mona Mahmudnizhad, 17, was one
of 10 Baha'I women executed in Shiraz
on 18 June 1983. The primary charge
against her: teaching Baha'I children's
classes.
The torture of Baha'is in
Iranian prisons -
and
particularly of those who had
been members of Baha'i
governing councils -
was
routine and systematic.
Again, according to Baha'is
who survived, the purpose of
the torture almost invariably
was to make the Baha'is
recant their Faith or confess
to some treasonous activity.
RECENT PERSECUTIONS

A Baha'. girls' school in Saysan, Iran, 1932.
1984, although by then the institution had
been disbanded in accordance with a Gov-
ernment decree and the individuals held no
official position in the Baha'i community.
[See Appendix I for a complete list of those
who have been killed or executed.]
One of the most dramatic groups of
executions came in June 1983, when ten
Iranian Baha' i women, including two
teen-age girls, were hanged. The primary
charge against them: teaching Baha'i
children's classes.
THE BA HA' t QUESTION
The women were subjected to intense
physical and mental abuse in an effort to
coerce them to recant their Faith -
an op-
tion that was almost always pressed upon
Baha'i prisoners. Yet, like most Baha'is who
have been arrested in Iran, they refused to
deny their beliefs. Nevertheless, the fact that
so many Baha'is were given the option of
recanting, with the promise of release if
they did so, is among the strongest proofs
that the persecutions were based solely on
religious beliefs.
_ ':-1 .
Imprisonment and Torture
Since 1979, nearly 1,000 Baha'is have been
arrested and imprisoned. At one point in
1986, some 747 Baha'is were being held in
prisons throughout Iran. In most cases,
they had no trials.
The torture of Baha'is in Iranian pris-
ons -
and particularly of those who had
been members of Baha'i governing councils
-
was routine and systematic. Again, ac-
cording to Baha'is who survived, the pur-
pose of the torture almost invariably was to
make the Baha'is recant their Faith or con-
fess to some treasonous activity.
Torture included sustained beating and
flogging, the bastinado (whipping the soles
of the feet), the pulling out of fingernails
and teeth, and the deprivation of food and
water for days at a time.
Baha'is were also subjected to psycho-
logical torture, including mock executions
and being forced to witness the torture of
family members and friends.
Thus an elderly Baha'i woman, who was
a member of a local Baha'i council, was tor-
tured in front of a dozen other Baha'is in an
effort to persuade her and them to deny their
Faith. The woman's jailer took her by her
hair and continually banged her head against
the wall. She was beaten about the head for a
long time, until her body was covered with
blood. After two years of imprisonment, she
was summarily released, with no recourse
against the abuse she had received.
At least 13 Baha'is who died in prison are
believed to have been tortured to death. In
these cases, the bodies were buried by the au-
thorities before the families could view them.
Two of the most recent cases involv-
ing torture and intimidation took place in
July 1997.
Mr. Masha'llah Enayati, a 63-year-old
Baha'i resident of Teheran, died on 4 July
Since the 1930s, the Baha'fs
have been forbidden to
openly run their own
schools, forcing them to
send their children to state
schools and universities
where they have suffered
discrimination and
persecution. In the 1980s,
students were banned from
universities and colleges
altogether. In response, the
Baha'f community of Iran
established its own
institution of higher learning
-
which was shut down by
Government agents in
September 1998.
RECENT PERSECUTIONS

Baha'i civil servants who
had been dismissed were
told to repay salaries they
had received during their
employment and were
threatened with
imprisonment if they
did not comply.
THE BAHA'I QUESTION
1997, after being severely beaten while in
custody. During a visit to his native village of
Ardistan to attend a Baha'i meeting, Mr.
Enayati was arrested under circumstances
which are not clear. He was taken to prison
in Isfahan, where he was severely beaten on
all parts of the body. It appears that he was
held in prison for about a week before being
taken to a hospital, where he eventually died.
Mr. Enayati's death certificate is worded in a
most unusual way, suggesting that the doc-
tor himself may have been under threat. Un-
der "cause of death" the doctor entered in his
own handwriting, "will be known later."
Mr. Shahram Reza'i, a young Baha'i
serving as a conscript in the Iranian army
on a military base near the city of Rasht,
was shot in the head by his superior officer
on 6 July 1997 and died the following day.
The officer concerned, who was responsible
for weapons training, maintained that the
bullets were fired in error. He was released
after a few days, once it was determined
that the dead soldier was a Baha'i. The
court excused the officer from paying the
blood money normally required in such in-
stances, ordering him to pay just the cost of
the three bullets used to kill Mr. Reza'i. Mr.
Reza'i is the seventh Baha'i in Iran engaged
in compulsory military service to have been
slain by officers or other soldiers.
Social and Economic
Intimidation
The authorities have also conducted a
campaign of economic, social and cultural
intimidation against the Baha'i commu-
nity of Iran. The objective, it is clear, has
been to deprive Baha'is of their rights to
education, to jobs and to homes of their
own -
once again with the intention of
forcing them to recant.
Since the 1930s, the Baha'is in Iran
have been forbidden to run their own edu-
Seven members of the Local Spiritual Assembly of Hamadan, the local Baha' i' com-
munity governing body, were executed on 14 June 1981. Shown here, in a photo-
graph taken in prison shortly before their execution are, front row, left to right:
Tarazu'llah Khuzayn and Husayn Mutlaq; back row, left to right: Muhammad-Baqir
(Suhayl) Habibi, Husayn Khandil, Dr. Nasir Vafai, Muhmmad (Suhrab) Habibi, and
Dr. Firuz Naimi.
cational establishments, and have therefore
educated their children at state-run schools
and universities where they have often suf-
fered discrimination and persecution.
The level of discrimination and perse-
cution in schools rose sharply following the
Islamic revolution in 1979. In 1981, an offi-
cial decree was issued barring Baha'i stu-
dents and professors from admission to or
employment at any university in Iran. Uni-
versities published new prospectuses in
1981 requiring that applicants belong to
one of the four religions recognized in the
constitution, namely the Moslem, Jewish,
Christian or Zoroastrian religions.
Admission to primary and secondary
schools was refused to those who identified
themselves as Baha'is, and hundreds of stu-
dents were expelled.
Deprivation of Employment
Since 1979 the Iranian Government has
also sought to intimidate and stifle
Baha'is by making it impossible for them
to earn a living.
In 1979 the Government started dis-
missing all Baha'i civil servants without
compensation. By July 1982, all Baha'i pub-
lic servan ts had been dismissed and the
pensions of all retired Baha'i civil servants
had been terminated.
In late 1984, the Attorney General
started issuing summonses demanding
that all those Baha'i civil servants who had
RECENT PERSECUTIONS

,
I.
i:
!: r
I,
I:
11 II
II
ill.
II~
lit
IL
II"
P
,I
Ii
II.
I'
ii
i
:
III
l
i~ I, ::
1;
i: i
~
I:
I!
I:
!I ii,
. :
ii
'I II
Ii
!I I
been dismissed repay salaries they had re-
ceived during their employment. They
were threatened with imprisonment if
they did not comply. Obviously, repay-
ment of a lifetime's wages was beyond the
means of most victims. Many were impris-
oned as a result of failure to meet this ab-
surd demand.
The Government has also systemati-
cally sought to drive Baha'is in the private
sector to economic ruin. In the early 1980s,
the trading licenses of most Baha'i busi-
nessmen were revoked, the assets of busi-
nesses run by Baha'is were confiscated, and
bank accounts of most Baha'i businessmen
were frozen. In addition, the authorities in-
timidated private employers into dismiss-
ing many Baha'i employees.
Almost every dismissal notice served
on a Baha'i employee, whether in the pub-
lic or the private sector, stated that the rea-
son for dismissal was membership in the
Baha'i Faith and that the individual's job
would be restored if he or she would recant
his or her faith.
In addition to depriving Baha'is of a live-
lihood, the Government in the early 1980s
sought to deprive arrested Baha'is of many
The House of the Bcib in Shiraz, one of the most holy sites in the Baha'I world, was
destroyed by Revolutionary Guardsmen in 1979 and later razed by the Government.
of their possessions, including their homes.
Through its takeover of the major
Baha'i savings company, Nawnahalan -
literally meaning "new plant:' a reference to
the fact that the savings institution was
started by Baha'i children at the turn of the
century -
the Government in one move
swept away the life savings of 15,000 Baha'i
shareholders and investors. In addition,
thousands of Baha'is, rich and poor alike,
have had their homes and personal posses-
sions confiscated by the Government, and
thousands more have had their homes de-
stroyed by arson and looting. In rural areas,
the authorities have encouraged the plun-
der and destruction of the livestock and
crops of Baha'i farmers.
Confiscation of
Community Assets
The Baha'i community in Iran has never been
allowed to hold community property in its
own name. As a result, all community prop-
erty has been held in the name of a non-profit
company created for this purpose. This body,
the Umana -
meaning "Trustee" -
Com-
pany, was allowed to administer such proper-
ties without undue interference until the
change of government in 1979.
One of the first acts of the new Govern-
ment was to confiscate the Umana Company
and all its holdings. This meant that in one
stroke all Baha'i community properties were
arbitrarily transferred to the state without
compensation. The Government also confis-
cated the assets of all Baha'i welfare agencies,
which provided services to people of all reli-
gions on an equal basis.
Among the Government's next steps
were to desecrate and in many cases destroy
Baha'i holy places throughout Iran. As
noted, these properties include the holiest
Baha'i shrine in Iran, the House of the Bab
in Shiraz, which was confiscated and then
destroyed. The House of Baha'u'llah in
Takur, where the Founder of the Baha'i
Faith spent His childhood, met a similar
fate: it was demolished and the site was of-
fered for sale to the public.
In Teheran and other cities through-
out Iran, Baha'i buildings were looted and
burned, Baha'i cemeteries were bulldozed
and Baha'i graves were broken open. In
the Teheran area, the Baha'is are now
forced to bury their dead in a barren
stretch of land reserved by the authorities
for "infidels." Having access to their own
cemeteries is especially important to
Baha'is because, as might be expected,
they are not allowed to bury their dead in
Muslim cemeteries.
RECENT PERSECUTIONS

The International
Response
The international community
has responded to the
persecution of the Baha'i
community in Iran with
overwhelming sympathy,
expressing concern for the
Baha'is and condemnation of
the Iranian Government.
This outpouring has
prevented a pogrom on a
much greater scale.
THE BAHA ' I QUESTION
he international commu-
nity has responded to
the persecution of the Baha'i
community in Iran with over-
whelming sympathy, expressing
concern for the Baha'is and con-
demnation of the Iranian Government.
The Baha'i community believes that this
outpouring has been a strong restraining
force against the Government, preventing
a pogrom on a much greater scale.
As of this writing, the United Nations
Commission on Human Rights has passed
eighteen resolutions expressing concern
about reports of human rights violations in
Iran. Each resolution has made specific
mention of the situation of the BaM.'i com-
munity there. The specific reference to a re-
ligious community is quite unusual for the
Commission, which normally confines it-
self to expressions of diplomatic concern
and general references to charges of human
rights violations and discrimination.
Following the lead of the Commission
on Human Rights, the United Nations Gen-
eral Assembly itself has approved thirteen
resolutions since 1985 which specifically
mention the situation of the Baha'is in Iran
and express concern over reports of human

Among the most salient
features of the United
Nations' attention to the
Baha'i case has been the
continuing investigations
conducted by a succession
of highly regarded human
rights specialists. Each has
reported extensively on the
real and serious nature of
the persecution of the
Baha'is of Iran, lending
unimpeachable credibility
to the Baha'i case.
THE BAHA'I QUESTION
rights violations there.
Virtually all of these resolutions have
called on Iran to stop violating the rights of
Baha'is and to abide by the various interna-
tional covenants on human rights that the
Government has freely signed.
In a sign of further support for the
Baha'i case, the General Assembly in 1997
and the Commission on Human Rights in
1998 included wording in their resolutions
that calls for the "emancipation" of the
Baha'is of Iran. [See Appendix II for a com-
plete listing of United Nations resolutions
and actions.]
Among the most salient features of the
United Nations' attention to the Baha'i case
has been the continuing investigations con-
ducted by a succession of highly regarded
human rights specialists. Each was ap-
pointed by the UN Commission on Human
Rights and given the mandate to probe into
the human rights situation in Iran. And
each has reported extensively on the real
and serious nature of the persecution of the
Baha'is of Iran, lending unimpeachable
credibility to the Baha'i case.
The first Special Representative of the
Commission on Human Rights, as these in-
vestigators are called, was Andres Aguilar of
Venezuela, who was appointed in 1984. Af-
ter his resignation in 1986, Reynaldo
Galindo Pohl, a law professor and human
rights expert from El Salvador, was ap-
pointed to the position. Following Mr.
Galindo Pohl's departure in 1994, the Com-
mission appointed Maurice Copithorne, a
noted Canadian jurist, as its Special Repre-
sentative for Iran.
These Special Representatives have pro-
duced a series of reports to the United Na-
tions on the situation in Iran, gathering their
information from a variety of sources and-
in at least four cases -
making visits to Iran.
Although their reports have been in
many ways constrained by the diplomatic
language required within the United Na-
tions system, the Special Representatives
have nevertheless over the years managed
to catalogue the whole range of abuses and
persecutions which the Baha'i community
in Iran has experienced.
For example, Mr. Galindo Pohl's 1990
report to the General Assembly noted that
he had received extensive documentation
that provides "evidence of discrimination,
confiscation, rejection by universities, sus-
pension of pensions, demands for the re-
turn of pensions earned and paid, denial of
passports and other irregularities."
The report added that "it would seem
that the attitude towards the Baha'is and
their situation depends on the temperament
and personal convictions of individual offi-
Baha'. International Community re-
presentatives at the United Nations
Commission on Human Rights in 1982.
INTERNATIONAL RESPONSE

, .
i, r
I
I.
Ii
II
jj
II
Ii!
I"
Ii
!!I
'I
il: ·
Ii'
II II
II
Ii
II
Iii
I.
I!
Ii
Ii
II
Major articles and editorials
which detail, confirm and
condemn the persecutions
have appeared in Le Monde,
the Times of London, the
New York Times, the
Washington Post, the
Economist, the Times of
India, and the Sydney
Morning Herald -
as well as
smaller and lesser known
newspapers such as the
Uganda Times, the Papua
New Guinea Post Courier,
the Straits Times of
Singapore, and La Republica
in Panama City.
THE BAHA'I QUESTION
cials. This keeps the Baha'is in a perpetual
state of uncertainty about their activities."
In Mr. Copithorne's 1998 report to the
General Assembly, he wrote that continuing
reports of violations of human rights
against the Baha'is force him "to conclude
that the pattern of persecution of members
of this community has not abated."
As well, in 1996, United Nations sup-
port for the Baha'i case was further
strengthened by the release of a report by
the UN's Special Rapporteur on Religious
Intolerance, which called on Iran to end its
ban on Baha'i institutions and other op-
pressive measures. Authored by Professor ,
Abdelfattah Amor, a noted Tunisian legal
expert, the report explicitly stated that the
persecution of the Baha'is was based on re-
ligious intolerance.
In addition to efforts by the United
Nations and its subsidiary bodies and
agencies, numerous national legislatures
and regional bodies have spoken out
against Iran's treatment of the Baha'i
community over the last twenty years.
Expressions of concern for Iran's Baha'is
have come from the Council of Europe,
the European Parliament, and from the
legislatures of Australia, Brazil, Canada,
Italy, the Netherlands, Norway, the
United Kingdom, and the United States of
America, among others. Many heads of
state and government leaders have also
voiced their dismay over Iran's treatment
of the Baha'is.
International and national non-gov-
ernmental organizations have also risen to
the defense of Iran's Baha'is. Amnesty In-
ternational, the Minority Rights Group,
and Middle East Watch, among others, have
closely monitored the situation of the
Baha'is in Iran and published extensive re-
ports that confirm the persecutions there.
The world's news media, as well, have
reported extensively on the persecution of
Iran's Baha'i community. Major articles and
editorials which detail, confirm and con-
demn the persecutions have appeared in Le
Monde, the Times of London, the New York
Times, the Washington Post, the Economist,
the Times of India, and the Sydney Morning
Herald -
as well as smaller and lesser
known newspapers such as the Uganda
Times, the Papua New Guinea Post Courier,
the Straits Times of Singapore, and La Repub-
lica in Panama City. The Associated Press,
Reuters, and the Agence France Press have
also carried numerous dispatches on the per-
secution of Baha'is in Iran and the response
of international organizations and agencies.
In many respects the Baha'i case has
been a model for how international human
rights machinery can be used to protect an
oppressed minority. Thanks to interna-
tional support for the Baha'is, the wholesale
genocide of the Baha'i community in Iran
has so far been prevented.
A 27 February 1993 editorial in the New
York Times condemning the continued
persecution of the Baha'IS in Iran.
Copyright © 1993 by The New York Times.
Reprinted by permi ssion.
INTERNATIONAL RESPON SE

As long ago as 1924, a Sunni
appellate court in Egypt
recognized that the Baha'i
Faith was an independent
world religion, stating that, in
its judgement, "The Baha'i
Faith is a new religion
entirely independent.. ..
No Baha'i therefore can be
regarded as Muslim or vice
versa, even as no Buddhist,
Brahmin or Christian can be
regarded as Muslim."
THE BAHA ' I QUESTION
supporters of the Pahlavi regime and the late
Shah of Iran; that they collaborated with
SAVAK, the secret police; and that the Baha'i
Faith is a political organization opposed to
the present Iranian Government.
THE REALITY: Baha'is are required by
the basic principles of their Faith to show
loyalty and obedience to the government of
the country in which they live. The Baha'i
community in Iran thus did not oppose the
Pahlavi regime, just as it does not oppose
the
present
Government
of
the
Islamic Republic of Iran. Indeed, members
of the community have obeyed every law
and instruction of the present Government,
including the instruction to disband all
Baha'i administrative institutions in Iran.
Baha'i principles also require the avoid-
ance of any form of involvement in partisan
politics. Accordingly, Iranian Baha'is were
precluded by membership in their faith from
accepting cabinet posts or similar political
positions under the Pahlavi regime. They did
not collaborate with SAVAK. On the con-
trary, the Pahlavi regime consistently perse-
cuted the Baha'i Faith, and SAVAK was one
of the main agencies of this persecution.
The Iranian Government has alleged
that certain SAVAK officials were Baha'is.
These allegations are completely untrue,
fabricated to mask the religious nature of
the persecutions.
Indeed, the non-political nature of the
Baha'i case was significantly bolstered by
the 1996 report of the UN Special Rappor-
teur on Religious Intolerance. Professor
Abdelfattah Arnor of Tunisia wrote: "With
regard to the Baha'is, the Special Rappor-
teur hopes that a clear distinction will be
drawn between questions of belief or other
questions of a political nature. In that con-
nection, it should not be presumed that the
entire community has been politicized or is
engaged in political or espionage activities.
Because Baha'I marriages are not recognized as legal in Iran, the Islamic Govern-
ment has charged that Baha'Is are involved with prostitution, adultery and immo-
rality -
charges that are without foundation. The photograph here shows a wedding
celebration by Baha'Is in Iran, taken in Teheran in 1960.
Considering the religious principles of the
Baha'i community, the Special Rapporteur
believes that there should not be any con-
trols that might, through prohibition, re-
strictions or discrimination, jeopardize the
right to freedom of belief or the right to
manifest one's belief."
THE ACCUSATION: That Baha'is are
heretics or enemies of Islam.
THE REALITY: Such charges are false.
The Baha'i Faith is widely recognized as an
independent world religion -
even by
Islamic scholars. As long ago as 1924, a
Sunni appellate court in Egypt recognized
that the Baha'i Faith was an independent
world religion, stating that, in its judge-
ment, "The Baha'i Faith is a new religion
entirely independent.... No Baha'i therefore
can be regarded as Muslim or vice versa,
even as no Buddhist, Brahmin or Christian
can be regarded as Muslim." Accordingly,
no charge of heresy can be made.
Baha'is revere Muhammad and His
Book, the Qur'an, as they do Jesus, Buddha,
and the founders of the other great reli-
gions. Indeed, alone among the followers of
the world's other major independent reli-
gions, only Baha'is recognize the station of
Muhan1mad as a Prophet of God.
THE ACCUSATION: That Baha'is are
agents of Zionism.
THE REALITY: This charge is based on
the fact that the Baha'i World Centre is in
Israel. The Baha'i World Centre was, how-
ever, established on Mt. Carmel in the last
century, long before the State of
Israel came into existence, in accordance
with the explicit instructions of Baha'u'llah,
who was exiled there from Iran.
THE ACCUSATION: That Baha'is are
involved with prostitution, adultery and
immorality.
IRAN'S JUSTIFICATION

THE REALITY: This charge, like the oth-
ers, is without foundation. Baha'is have a
strict moral code and attach great impor-
tance to chastity and to the institution of
marriage.
The Baha'i marriage ceremony is not
recognized in Iran and no civil marriage
ceremony exists. Consequently, Baha'is
have been faced with the choice of denying
their faith in order to be married according
to the rites of one of the religions recog-
nized in Iran, or of marrying in accordance
with the rites of their own faith. They have
consistently chosen to be married in accor-
dance with Baha'i law. The Government
does not recognize these marriages and de-
nounces Baha'i wives as prostitutes.
The other charges of adultery and im-
morality against Baha'is are based on the
fact that, in accordance with the Baha'i
principle of the equality of men and
women, there is no segregation of the sexes
at Baha'i gatherings.
The location for the Shrine of the Bab,
situated on the slopes of Mt. Carmel in
Haifa, Israel, was established in the last
century, long before the State of Israel
was formed.
THE BAH A' I QUESTION
The Baha'i
community of Iran
speaks for itself
I
n 1983, the Public Prosecutor of
the Islamic Revolution declared
that Baha'i religious institutions
should be banned. The Baha'i
community of Iran, obedient to the laws
of the country as required by its Faith,
subsequently disbanded its locally and
nationally elected administrative institu-
tions -
a dramatic step, inasmuch as
there is no clergy in the Baha'i Faith and
all religious functions are performed by
these institutions.
As a final act, however, the National
Spiritual Assembly of the Baha'is of Iran
wrote an open letter about the ban, the
accusations that led to it, and its own
decision to obediently disband. The letter
made a strong and stirring case for the
falsity of the charges leveled against the
community. The following are some
excerpts:
The honorable Prosecutor has again
introduced the baseless and fictitious
story that Baha'is engage in espionage,
but without producing so much as one
document in support of the accusation,
without presenting proof in any form,
and without any explanation as to what is
the mission in this country of this ex-
traordinary number of "spies": what sort
of information do they obtain and from
what sources? Whither do they relay it,
and for what purpose? What kind of
"spy" is an eighty-five-year-old man from
Yazd who has never set foot outside his
village? Why do these alleged spies not hide
themselves, conceal their religious beliefs and
exert every effort to penetrate, by every strata-
gem, the Government's information centers
and offices? Why has no Baha'i "spy" been
arrested anywhere else in the world? How
could students, housewives, innocent young
girls, and old men and women, like those
blameless Baha'is who have recently been
delivered to the gallows in Iran, or who have
become targets for the darts of prejudice and
enmity, be "spies"? How could the Baha'i
farmers of the villages of Allis, Chigan, Qal'ih
Malik (near Isfahan), and those of the village
ofNuk in Birjand, be "spies"? What Secret
Intelligence documents have been found in
their possession? What espionage equipment
has come to hand? What "spying" activities
were engaged in by the primary schoolchil-
dren who have been expelled from their
schools?
... Baha'is are accused of collecting
contributions and transferring sums of
money to foreign countries. How strange! If
Muslims, in accordance with their sacred and
respected spiritual beliefs, send millions of
tumans to Karbila, Najaf and Jerusalem, or to
other Muslim Holy Places outside Iran to be
spent on the maintenance and upkeep of the
Islamic Sacred Shrines, it is considered very
praiseworthy; but if a Baha'i -
even during
the time in which the transfer of foreign
currency was allowed -
sends a negligible
amount for his international community to
be used for the repair and maintenance of
the Holy Places of his Faith, it is considered
that he has committed an unforgivable sin
and it is counted as proof that he has done so
in order to strengthen other countries.
Baha'i administration has no aim except
the good of all nations and it does not take
any steps that are against the public good.
Contrary to the conception the word "ad-
How could students,
housewives, innocent young
girls, and old men and
women, like those blameless
Baha'is who have recently
been delivered to the
gallows in Iran, or who have
become targets for the darts
of prejudice and enmity,
be Nspies"?
ministration" may create in the mind be-
cause of the similarity in name, it does not
resemble the current organizations of politi-
cal parties; it does not interfere in political
affairs; and it is the safeguard against the
involvement of Baha'is in subversive political
activities. Its high ideals are "to improve the
characters of men; to extend the scope of
knowledge; to abolish ignorance and preju-
dice; to strengthen the foundations of true
religion in all hearts; to encourage self-reli-
ance and discourage false imitation; ... to
uphold truthfulness, audacity, frankness, and
courage; to promote craftsmanship and
agriculture; ... to educate, on a compulsory
basis, children of both sexes; to insist on
integrity in business transactions; to lay
stress on the observance of honesty and
piety; ... to acquire mastery and skill in the
modern sciences and arts; to promote the
interests of the public; ... to obey outwardly
and inwardly and with true loyalty the regu-
lations enacted by state and government; ...
to honor, to extol and to follow the example
of those who have distinguished themselves
in science and learning': And again, " ... to
help the needy from every creed or sect, and
to collaborate with the people of the country
in all welfare services".
IRAN'S JUSTIFICATION

::::::
-
-=--
=_. "~.-'
====
== ="' ••
.
~
--~~ -.-.-
-- =--=
= .
... --
,
I~
~~.:~J"".
.
:-.
(
.~.
~.
-
,-
~
-
----
. vi;. .:._
" ..
..
. . .
~
=
=
-
f o.
=
~
==
=
.-.
...
.,. - a -
... ~ ..
=
:1
The Secret Blueprint. on"
"The Baha'i QuestIon
The emergence in
early 1993 of a secret
Government memorandum
which established state
policy on "the Bah~'{ .
question" has convincingly
demonstrated that Iran's
policies toward the Baha'{s
have not changed -
and are in fact centrally
orchestrated.
uring the late 19805 and
early 1990s, there were
signs that the Govern-
ment had begun to feel
the weight of the interna-
tional outcry against its ac-
.
d h d undertaken a reconsideration
tlOns an
a
", In 1987
of its policies towards the Baha IS.
st of those
and 1988, for examp e, mo
Baha'is being held in prison were released
and the number of executions dropped
sharply after 1985.
.
During this period, Baha'i chIldren
allowed to re-enroll in pnmar
.
yand
were
f h
secondary schools in most parts 0 t e
B h'" were allowed to ob-
country. Some a a IS
. .
'
b'
licenses and restnctIOns
tam new usmess
. ,
h
corms of economic actIvIty ap-
on ot er 11
peared to lessen.
,
Nevertheless, recent developments m-
dicate that these improvements are cos-
,
t best and that the Government
metic a,
",
remains bent on destroying the Baha I com-
'ty of Iran as a viable entity,
mum
,
A
ted in the introductIOn, among
s no
,
f
.
d
rrI'some SIgnS 0
the most egregIOUS an wo
,
I
's continued oppression agamst the
ran
I 1998 of
Baha'is was the execution on 21 Ju y
Mr. Ruhu'llah Rawhani, a 52-year-old
THE SECRET BLUEPRINT
•

•
I
'\ ~
Shirin Dalvand, another of the ten
Baha'. women killed on 18 June 1983
for teaching children's classes on the
Baha'. Faith.
There exists a continuing
pattern of arbitrary arrests,
revolving door imprisonments,
and day-to-day social and
economic harassment that
indicate Iran still seeks to
destroy the Baha'i community.
The Government apparently
hopes that by grinding away
slowly, the gradual erosion
of the Baha'i community
will go unnoticed by the
world at large.
THE BAHA ' I QUESTION
medical supplies salesman living near
Mashhad.
Beyond the execution of Mr. Rawhani,
however, there exists a continuing pattern
of arbitrary arrests, revolving door impris-
onments, and day-to-day social and eco-
nomic harassment that indicates Iran still
seeks to destroy the Baha'i community. The
Government apparently hopes that by
grinding away slowly, the gradual erosion
of the Baha'i community will go unnoticed
by the world at large.
Indeed, the existence of just such a
plan emerged in 1993, with the discovery of
a heretofore secret Government memoran-
dum aimed at establishing policy on "the
Baha'i question."
Drawn up by the Supreme Revolution-
ary Cultural Council in 1991, the secret
memorandum is nothing less than a Gov-
ernment blueprint for the quiet strangula-
tion of the Baha'i community of Iran. [See
page 50 for complete text of the document.]
Stamped "confidential:' the document
was prepared at the request of the Leader of
the Islamic Republic of Iran, Ali Khamenei,
and the President of Iran, Hahsemi
Rafsanjani. The memorandum was signed
by Hujjatu'l Islam Seyyed Mohammad
Golpaygani, Secretary of the Council, and
approved by Mr. Khamenei, who added his
signature to the document.
The memorandum came to light in the
1993 report by Special Representative
Reynaldo Galindo PoW to the Commission
on Human Rights. According to Mr.
Galindo PoW, the document came as "reli-
able information" just as the annual report
on Iran to the Commission on Human
Rights was being completed.
The memorandum specifically calls for
Iran's Baha'is to be treated in such a way
"that their progress and development shall
be blocked," providing for the first time
conclusive evidence that the campaign
against the Baha'is is centrally directed by
the Government.
The document indicates, for example,
that the Government aims to keep the
Baha'is illiterate and uneducated, living only
at a subsistence level, and fearful at every
moment that even the tiniest infraction will
bring the threat of imprisonment or worse.
Although some of its provisions ap-
pear to grant a measure of protection to
Baha'is, its overall impact is to create an en-
vironment where the Baha'i community of
Iran will be quietly eliminated.
The memorandum says, for example,
that all Baha'is should be expelled from
A photocopy of the 1991 memoran-
dum from the Iranian Supreme Revo-
lutionary Cultural Council on "the
Baha'. question."
THE SECRET BLUEPRINT

II!
I:)
Ii.,·
Ii
II
Ii
iii
III
I" I:
Ii
I'
I!
Ii
Ii
I:
Ii
I!I
!:
Ii
ji
" i
I
i,
!:
j:
II
:1
J(
I:
;1
i -
!
I 11
, -
-
A translation of the 1991 memorandum from the Iranian Supreme
Revolutionary Cultural Council on "the Bahci'i question."
THE ISRCC DOCUMENT
[Translation from Persian]
[Text in square brackets added by translator]
In the Name of God!
The Islamic Republic of Iran
The Supreme Revolutionary Cultural Council
Number: 13271 ....
Date: 6/12/69 [25 February 1991]
Enclosure: None
CONFIDENTIAL
Dr. Seyyed Mohammad Golpaygani
Head of the Office of the Esteemed Leader
[Khamenei]
Greetings!
After greetings, with reference to the letter
#1/783 dated 10/10/69 [31 December 1990],
concerning the instructions of the Esteemed
Leader which had been conveyed to the Re-
spected President regarding the Baha'i question,
we inform you that, since the respected Presi-
dent and the Head of the Supreme Revolution-
ary Cultural Council had referred this question
to this Council for consideration and study, it
was placed on the Council's agenda of session
#128 on 16/11169 [5 February 1991] and session
#119 of 2/11/69 [22 January 1991]. In addition
universities; that they shall be denied "posi-
tions of influence;' and instead only be al-
lowed to "lead a modest life similar to that
of the population in general"; and even that
"employment shall be refused to persons
identifying themselves as Baha'is."
The provisions regarding arrest, im-
prisonment and punishment can be read in
two ways. The document says:
(a) With regard to the general condition
of Baha'is, the following guidelines are hereby
THE BAHA ' I QUESTION
to the above, and further to the [results of the]
discussions held in this regard in session #112 of
2/5/66 [24 July 1987] presided over by the Es-
teemed Leader (head and member of the Su-
preme Council), the recent views and directives
given by the Esteemed Leader regarding the
Baha'i question were conveyed to the Supreme
Council. In consideration of the contents of the
Constitution of the Islamic Republic of Iran, as
well as the religious and civil laws and general
policies of the country, these matters were care-
fully studied and decisions pronounced.
In arriving at the decisions and proposing
reasonable ways to counter the above question,
due consideration was given to the wishes of the
Esteemed Leadership of the Islamic Republic of
Iran [Khamenei], namely, that "in this regard a
specific policy should be devised in such a way
that everyone will understand what should or
should not be done." Consequently, the follow-
ing proposals and recommendations resulted
from these discussions.
The respected President of the Islamic Re-
public of Iran, as well as the Head of the Su-
preme Revolutionary Cultural Council, while
approving these recommendations, instructed
us to convey them to the Esteemed Leader
[Khamenei] so that appropriate action may be
taken according to his guidance.
adopted: (i) they are not to be expelled from
the country without reason; (ii) they are not
to be detained, imprisoned or punished with-
out reason; (iii) the Government's treatment
of them shall be such that their progress and
development shall be blocked.
At first glance, it might seem that the
term "without reason" is a move towards
greater justice, inasmuch as virtually all of
the detentions, arrests and imprisonments of
Baha'is in the past have been without cause.
SUMMARY OF THE RESULTS OF THE
DISCUSSIONS AND RECOMMENDATION
A. General status of the Baha'is within the
country's system
1. They will not be expelled from the coun-
try without reason.
2. They will not be arrested, imprisoned or
penalized without reason.
'
3. The Government's dealings with them
must be in such a way that their progress
and development are blocked.
B. Educational and cultural status
1. They can be enrolJed in schools provided
theY, ,~ave not identified themselves as
Baha IS.
2. Preferably, they should be enrolled in
schools which have a strong and impos-
ing religious ideology.
3. They must be expelled from universities
either in the admission process or durin~
the course of their studies, once it be-
comes known that they are Baha'is.
4. Their political (espionage) activities
m~st be dealt with according to appro-
pn~te Government laws and policies, and
therr religious and propaganda activities
s~ould be answered by giving them reli-
gJOus and cultural responses, as well as
propaganda.
5. Propaganda institutions (such as the Is-
lamic Propaganda Organization) must
establish an independent section to
co~~ter the propaganda and religious ac-
tJvltles of the Baha'is.
However, when the entire memo is under-
stood in the context of what to do about "the
Baha'i question;' it is clear that the directive
is merely instructing officials to be sure that
they justify their actions before they make
any ~oves against a Baha'i. It in no way
prolTIlses any sort of protection.
The memorandum also belies its under-
lying intentions when it says that Baha'is will
be allowed to go to school only if they do not
identify themselves as Baha'is, and that they
6. A plan must be devised to confront and
destroy their cultural roots outside the
country.
C. Legal and social status
1. Permit them a modest livelihood as is
available to the general population.
2. To the extent that it does not encourage
them to be Baha'is, it is permissible to
~ro~ide them the means for ordinary liv-
~g m accordance with the general rights
given to every Iranian citizen, such as ra-
tion booklets, passports, burial certifi-
cates, work permits, etc.
3. Deny them employment if they identify
themselves as Baha'is.
4. Deny them any position of influence
such as in the educational sector, etc.
'
Wishing you divine confirmations,
Secretary of the Supreme Revolutionary Cul-
tural Council
Dr. Seyyed Mohammad Golpaygani
[Signature]
[Note in the handwriting of Mr. Khamenei]
In the Name of God!
The decision o.f the Supreme Revolutionary
Cultural Council seems sufficient. I thank you
gentlemen for your attention and efforts.
[signed:] Ali Khamenei
s~oul~ be sent to schools "with a strong reli-
gIOUS Ideology." The aim here, obviously, is
to wrest Baha'i children from their faith,
Ominously, the memorandum says
that "a plan shall be formulated to combat
and destroy the cultural roots which this
group has outside the country." That Iran
would like to reach outside its borders to
stamp out the Baha'i Faith makes clear the
degree of blind animosity felt by the Gov-
ernment towards Baha'is.
THE SECRET BLUEPRINT

On 20 July 1998, someone
from the Iranian Intelligence
Department telephoned a
Baha'i in Mashhad stating
that Mr. Rawhani was to be
executed the next day. The
next morning, the family
was called, told to come to
the prison to collect Mr.
Rawhani's body, and given
an hour to bury him. Rope
marks on his neck indicated
he had been hanged.
THE BAHA ' I QUESTION
from the 1980s, its continued willingness to
kill a Baha'i occasionally for no good rea-
son indicates a canny strategy of maintain-
ing the threat of death as an element of its
campaign against the Baha'is.
The stories behind the two most recent
executions -
in 1998 and 1992 -
reflect
the arbitrary and therefore especially terri-
fying nature of this threat.
A father of four and an active Baha'i
during his entire life, Mr. Ruhu'llah
Rawhani suffered through the indignities of
religious persecution throughout much of
Iran's recent history. In 1984, Mr. Rawhani
was arrested and imprisoned for more than
a year, during which he was tortured, ac-
cording to relatives. He was subsequently
released but then was arrested a second
time in the mid-1990s. The charge was ap-
parently related to his volunteer work at
purely religious activities, such as prayer
meetings and children's classes. He was re-
leased after 24 hours.
In September 1997, however, the medi-
cal supplies salesman was arrested for a
third time, and placed in solitary confine-
ment in Mashhad. Mr. Rawhani had been
accused of "converting" a woman from
Islam to the Baha'i Faith. The woman, how-
ever, denied that she had converted; she ex-
plained that her mother was a Baha'i and
tha t she herself had been raised as a Baha'i.
She was not arrested.
Mr. Rawhani was kept incommuni-
cado for the duration of his imprisonment
and no information is available regarding
his treatment in prison. There is no evi-
dence that he was accorded any legal pro-
cess, and no sentence was announced. It
appears certain that he was not allowed ac-
cess to a lawyer.
On 20 July 1998, someone from the
Iranian Intelligence Department tele-
phoned a Baha'i in Mashhad stating that
Mr. Ruhu'llah Rawhani, who was
hanged in Mashhad by Government
authorities on 21 July 1998.
Mr. Rawhani was to be executed the next
day. Initially, this statement was not be-
lieved, as Baha'is in Iran have received simi-
lar calls previously in apparent attempts to
frighten them.
The next morning, the family was
called, told to come to the prison to collect
Mr. Rawhani's body, and given an hour to
bury him. Rope marks on his neck indi-
cated he had been hanged.
The killing of Mr. Rawhani was the
first Government execution of a Baha'i in
Iran since the death of Mr. Bahman
Samandari, a Teheran businessman, in
March 1992. Mr. Samandari, who ran a
well-known Teheran travel agency, was
summoned without explanation to Evin
prison by authorities on 17 March 1992.
The next day, he was secretly executed.
No official charge or verdict was an-
nounced, and inquiries by family members
produced vague indications that Mr.
The killing of Mr. Rawhani was
the first Government execution
of a Baha'i in Iran since the
death of Mr. Bahman
Samandari, a Teheran
businessman, in March 1992.
Mr. Samandari, who ran a
well-known Teheran travel
agency, was summoned
without explanation to Evin
prison by authorities on 17
March 1992. The next day, he
was secretly executed.
THE CURRENT SITUATION

Mr. Bahman Samandari, who was sum-
marily executed by the Government in
March 1992.
Samandari's execution was related to his pre-
vious detention more than four years before,
when he and four other Baha'is were ar-
rested for having a prayer meeting in his
home.
In addition to these Government-
sponsored executions, Baha'is have also re-
cently been killed under circumstances that
indicate continuing disregard for Baha'is as
individuals who deserve protection under
the law.
Arbitrary arrests and
imprisonments
As of this writing, arbitrary arrests of
Baha'is continue, with a marked increase in
the number of short-term arrests in various
areas of the country. During a three-year
period from 1996 through 1998, more than
200 Baha'is have been arrested and de-
tained for periods ranging from 48 hours to
six months in cities such as Yazd, Isfahan,
Simnan, Babul, Kirmanshah, Mashhad,
Shiraz, Tankabun, Ahvaz, Kirman, Karaj,
Qa'im Shahr and Teheran.
Since November 1997, more than fifty
THE BAHA ' l QUESTION
Baha'is have been arrested and imprisoned,
and some forty-one have been released. As
of April 1999, sixteen Baha'is were being
held in prisons because of their religious
beliefs, with six facing death sentences.
Again, the stories of several of these
cases indicate not only the arbitrary and in-
timidating nature of such actions, but the
degree to which Government at the highest
levels is aware of them.
Three of the prisoners currently under
sentence of death, Mr. Kayvan Khalajabadi,
Mr. Bihnam Mithaqi and Mr. Musa Talibi,
are being held in Evin prison in Tehran.
The prisoners have no access to their law-
yers and limitations have been placed on
visits with them.
Mr. Khalajabadi and Mr. Mithaqi have
been imprisoned since 1989 on charges
arising solely from membership in the
Baha'i Faith. Both were originally sentenced
to eight years' imprisonment. Upon appeal
their sentences were commuted to three
years' imprisonment plus 50 lashes. Both
prisoners again appealed. On 30 April 1991,
they were sentenced to death by the Islamic
Revolutionary Court. Despite further ap-
peals the sentences were reconfirmed on 24
August 1992 and again on 23 November
1993. On 18 February 1996 the Supreme
Court of Iran rejected the appeals, con-
firmed the death sentences and conveyed
this information to the Islamic Revolution-
ary Court. The prisoners have written to
the Office of the Attorney General, asking
that the verdicts be rescinded.
Mr. Talibi was arrested on 7 June 1994
and sentenced to death for apostasy on 18
August 1996 by the Islamic Revolutionary
Court, Branch 31. He was initially sen-
tenced to ten years in prison for having
shared the tenets of his Faith with others.
An appellate court reduced that sentence to
18 months. The public prosecutors, protest-
ing that the sentence was too light and that
the court had failed to consider the charge
of apostasy, appealed to the Supreme
Court. The Supreme Court referred the
case to Islamic Revolutionary Court,
Branch 31, which set aside the earlier sen-
tence and imposed the death sentence for
apostasy. This was appealed, but on 28
January 1997 relatives on a prison visit were
told that the Supreme Court of Iran had
confirmed the sentence. Iranian authorities
typically convey verdicts orally to prisoners
and do not give them a copy of the actual
text of the court decision.
Mr. Dhabihu'llah Mahrarni, also under
sentence of death, is being held in a general
prison in Yazd. Mr. Mahrami was called be-
fore the Islamic Revolutionary Court in
Yazd on 6 September 1995 and questioned
about his adherence to the Baha'i Faith. The
Court held several meetings with Mr.
Mahrami in an effort to persuade him to
renounce his beliefs. He refused and was
charged with apostasy. On 2 January 1996,
he was sentenced to death. Since his heirs
are not Muslims, but Baha'is, his properties
and assets have been confiscated. Mr.
Mahrami's lawyer appealed to the Supreme
Court, and it was announced by Iranian of-
ficials that the Court rejected the verdict of
the Revolutionary Court and referred the
case to a civil court. However, on 28 Janu-
ary 1997 the Baha'i International Commu-
nity was informed that the Supreme Court
Mr. Ruhu'llah Ghedami was brutally
murdered on 17 June 1992 at the hands
of two brothers who are members of the
Disciplinary Forces of the Government
of Iran.
THE CURRENT SITUATION

of Iran had confirmed the death sentence.
Other Baha'is currently being held in
prison include Mr. Nasir Qadiri of Birjand,
who was arrested on 5 November 1997, after
persisting in holding a monthly gathering of
a few Baha'i families. He has been sentenced
to three years' imprisonment. Also held are
Mrs. Sonia Ahmadi and Mr. Manuchehr
Ziyai, who, along with twelve students aged
fifteen and sixteen, were arrested and de-
tained for one week on 1 May 1998 for hold-
ing a youth class in their home in Mashhad.
Mrs. Ahmadi and Mr. Ziyai were sentenced
to three years' imprisonment. The students
were released but were each given "sus-
pended" sentences of three years.
Also in Mashhad, Mr. Sirus Dhabihi-
Muqaddam, Mr. Hidayat Kashifi Najafabadi
and Mr. Ata'u'llah Hamid Nasirizadih were
arrested in the fall of 1997. Although the pre-
text used for their arrest was that they had
enrolled into the Baha'i community a
woman whose parents were Muslim, it was
clear that the real reason was their participa-
tion in monthly religious "family life" meet-
ings. The woman in question has stated that
her parents are Baha'is, an assertion that the
authorities have refused to accept. They re-
main in prison, with Mr. Nasirizadih facing
a ten-year sentence, while Mr. Dhabihi-
Muqaddam and Mr. Najafabadi remain un-
der sentence of death.
The deprivation of social
and economic rights
Since 1983 the Baha'i community has been
denied the right to assemble officially and
the right to maintain its administrative insti-
tutions, those democratically elected govern-
ing bodies which in other countries organize
and administer the religious activities of the
community. Since the Baha'i Faith has no
clergy, the denial of the right to elect these
institutions threatens the very existence of its
THE BAHA ' I QUESTION
community. These sacred institutions per-
form many of the functions reserved for
clergy in other religions and are the founda-
tional element of Baha'i community life.
Gradually over the last few years the
Iranian Baha'is have developed makeshift
arrangements to worship in small groups,
to conduct religious classes for children,
and to take care of other community
needs. However, authorities continue to
harass the Baha'i community by disrupt-
ing meetings and occasionally arresting
teachers of children's or "family life"
classes. At present seven persons are in
prison for conducting such classes.
The economic oppression of Baha'is
also continues to be an urgent problem. As
noted above, more than 10,000 Baha'is were
dismissed from positions in government and
education in the early 1980s because of their
religion. A considerable number of these re-
main unemployed and receive no unem-
ployment benefits. The retirement pensions
of Baha'is dismissed on religious grounds
have been terminated. Baha'i farmers are de-
nied admission to farmers' cooperatives,
which are often the only sources of credit,
seeds, pesticide and fertilizer.
Baha'is throughout the country have
been bullied and intimidated into aban-
doning their professions. For example, fab-
ricated accusations were used to force one
Baha'i doctor to close his practice.
The property rights of Baha'is are still
generally disregarded. Again, as previously
noted, large numbers of private and busi-
ness properties belonging to Baha'is, in-
cluding homes and farms, were arbitrarily
confiscated shortly after the 1979 revolu-
tion. These have not been returned and
random confiscations still continue. In the
city ofYazd in 1995 alone there were more
than 150 cases related to the seizure of be-
longings. Many of the properties taken
from the Baha'is are being sold at auctions
with no consideration being given to the
appeals of the Baha'is concerned.
Among those ejected from their homes
in 1996 was a blind Baha'i woman. The au-
thorities confiscated her belongings and
took possession of her house, despite the
protests of her neighbors. A document is-
sued by the Prosecutor of the Islamic Re-
public of Iran in Teheran, states that the
Baha'i woman "is accused of affiliation with
the wayward Baha'i sect" and therefore,
"she has been sentenced to complete con-
fiscation of all her belongings," which are
placed "under the authority of selected law-
yers of the spiritual guardians."
Baha'i cemeteries, holy places, histori-
cal sites, administrative centers and other
assets, seized mostly in 1979, remain con-
fiscated or have been destroyed. Having
access only to those cemeteries which the
Government has designated for them,
Baha'is in many localities experience diffi-
culties in burying their dead. Baha'is are
not permitted to mark the graves of their
fellow Baha'is, making it almost impos-
sible to identify the graves of their loved
ones. In 1993, bulldozers excavated an en-
tire section of the Baha'i cemetery in
Teheran to make way for construction of a
municipal cultural center. Iranian authori-
ties responded to international protests
with contradictory explanations, both de-
nying and confirming the destruction of
the cemetery. Approximately 15,000 graves
were desecrated in this project.
The continuing denial of civil
rights and liberties
The rights of Christians, Jews and Zoroas-
trians in Iran are also severely limited in
comparison with those of their Muslim fel-
low citizens. Such rights as they do enjoy
are enshrined in explicit clauses of Iran's
The economic oppression
of Baha'is also continues to
be an urgent problem. As
noted above, more than
10,000 Baha'is were
dismissed from positions in
government and education
in the early 1980s because
of their religion. A
considerable number of
these remain unemployed
and receive no
unemployment benefits.
THE CURRENT SITUATION

Constitution. The Baha'i Faith, however, is
not recognized in the Iranian Constitution;
Baha'is, therefore, fall into the category of
"unprotected infidels" whose human rights
can be ignored with impunity. In general,
the pressures placed on Baha'is by the judi-
cial system have increased.
Neither Baha'i marriage nor divorce is
legally recognized in Iran, and the right of
Baha'is to inherit is denied. For example, a
Baha'i was recently prevented from receiv-
ing her rightful share in the family inherit-
ance following the death of her daughter.
The Ministry of Justice, Teheran Civil Court,
issued a Certification of Inheritance which
THE BAHA'I QUESTION
states that the only heir of the deceased is
her husband, a Muslim, " ... because the
other inheritors are Baha'is, and subject to
Article No. 881 of the Civil Law." On appeal,
the Central Public Court ruled that this
woman's objection to the previous verdict
" .. .is unfounded because she has frankly ad-
mitted to the court that she is a Baha'i." Un-
til 1995, attempts to gain probate were
permitted if carried out in a special way;
however, since 1996, Baha'is have been
strictly forbidden to seek probate.
The freedom of Baha'is to travel out-
side or inside Iran is often impeded by
Iranian authorities and sometimes denied.
Although 1998 witnessed an increase in
the number of Iranian Baha'is who were
given passports, it is too soon to judge
whether there has been a change of policy
on the part of the Iranian Government on
this issue. Passport application forms
which require applicants to declare their
affiliation with a "recognized religion"
have been used to pressure Baha'is to re-
cant their religious beliefs.
Such treatment is not confined to Iran
itself. Baha'is applying to Iranian embassies
abroad to renew their passports or to ob-
tain visas to return to Iran have often found
officials similarly uncooperative. However,
In 1993, bulldozers excavated
an entire section of the Baha'i
cemetery in Tehran to make
way for construction of a
municipal cultural center.
Iranian authorities responded
to international protests with
contradictory explanations,
both denying and confirming
the destruction of the
cemetery. Approximately
15,000 graves were desecrated
in this project.
Destruction at a Baha'I cemetery In
Shlraz, 1979.
in countries where Iranian embassies do
not require the applicants to state their reli-
gious affiliation, Baha'is are more likely to
be able to obtain visas or to renew their Ira-
nian passports.
Furthermore, in a number of commu-
nities the practice of summoning Baha'is to
the security offices on various specious pre-
texts and insulting and belittling them, so
as to create fear in their families and
weaken their spirits, continues unabated.
Denial of access to education
The Government's attempts to strangle the
Baha'i community extend to children and
THE CURRENT SITUATION

Most of the classes offered by
the Baha'i Institute for Higher
Education were held in pri-
vate homes, like this one,
which shows a professor at an
easel with his back to the
camera and several students
sitting on living room couches
as they listen to a lecture.
The Baha'i Institute for Higher Education utilized
a network of special depository libraries, located
throughout Iran. Numberi~g more than 45, th~~,e
libraries existed in the private homes of Baha IS
and enabled students in each district to obtain
access to the necessary textbooks for the courses.
The books in many of these libraries, like the one
shown above, were seized during the Govern-
ment raids in September 1998.
THE BAHA'I QUESTION
youth, who are seen by the Government -
as made clear in the 1991 secret memoran-
dum -
as ripe targets for re-conversion to
Islam. As noted, that memorandum urges
that Baha'i children be "enrolled in schools
which have a strong and imposing religious
ideology." Baha'i youth have been barred
from public and private institutions of
higher education since 1979, a ban that re-
mains in force.
The Baha'i Faith places a high value on
education, and Baha'is have always been
among the best-educated groups in Iran.
Being denied access to higher education for
years has had a demoralizing effect on
Baha'i youth, and the erosion of the educa-
tional level of the community is clearly
aimed at hastening its impoverishment.
In what the New York Times called "an
elaborate act of communal self-preserva-
tion:' the Baha'i community in 1987 estab-
lished its own higher education program to
meet the educational needs of as many of
its young people as resources would allow.
That program evolved over the years into a
full-fledged university, known as the Baha'i
Institute for Higher Education (BIHE),
which, until mid-1998, had an enrollment
of some 900 students, a faculty of more
than 150 first-rate academics and instruc-
tors, and complete course offerings in ten
subject areas.
Because of the continual threat of
persecution, the BIHE was forced to oper-
ate in a highly circumspect and decentral-
ized manner. Most of its classes were held
in private homes throughout Iran and
what little permanent infrastructure it had
was composed of a handful of rented
classrooms and laboratories scattered
throughout the capitol.
Then, in an act that speaks volumes
about the Government's real attitude towards
Baha'is, hundreds of Government agents
In an act that speaks volumes
about the Government's real
attitude towards Baha'is,
hundreds of Government agents
fanned out across the country in
September 1998, arresting some
36 Baha'i Institute of Higher
Education faculty and staff,
raiding some 500 homes, and
confiscating hundreds of
thousands of dollars worth of
books, equipment and records
in a blatant effort to shut the
university down.
fanned out across the country in September
1998, arresting some 36 BIHE faculty and
staff, raiding some 500 homes, and confiscat-
ing hundreds of thousands of dollars worth of
books, equipment and records in a blatant ef-
fort to shut the university down.
"The materials confiscated were nei-
ther political nor religious, and the people
arrested were not fighters or organizers,"
said the New York Times, in a 29 October
1998 article about the raids. "They were lec-
turers in subjects like accounting and den-
tistry; the materials seized were textbooks
and laboratory equipment."
While most of those arrested have
since been released, and the holding of
classes in private homes has resumed on a
small scale, the effort by the Government to
shut down the BIHE clearly demonstrates
the degree of hatred and prejudice against
the Baha'is that remains in certain circles of
the Government -
and shows unambigu-
ously why the Baha'i community will not
be safe until legal protections are firmly in-
stitutionalized, regardless of talk of reform.
THE CURRENT SITUATION

! I~
I:
l'i
II
j
, : ~
Geographic spread of the world's major religions
Christianity
Baha'i Faith
Islam
Judaism
Buddhism
Hinduism
According to the Encyclopedia Britannica 1998 Yearbook, the Baha'I Faith is the
second-most widespread independent world religion, with significant communities
in more countries than any religion except Christianity.
some aspects of this persecution subsided
as a result of international pressure. How-
ever, the exposure in 1993 of a secret gov-
ernmental plan to strangulate the Baha'i
community, and subsequent actions such as
random killings, revolving door imprison-
ment, harassment, denial of access to
higher education, jobs and pensions, reveal
the Iranian government's intention of con-
tinuing its efforts to destroy the Baha'i
community without attracting interna-
tional attention.
For most people, whatever their reli-
gious background, the continued campaign
against the Baha'is defies rational explana-
tion. The Baha'i community in Iran poses
no threat to the Iranian authorities. The
fundamental principles of the Baha'i Faith
require its followers to be obedient to their
government and to avoid partisan political
involvement, subversive activity, and all
forms of violence.
Iran is currently undergoing a period
of political and social change. In 1997,
the country elected a new president,
THE BAHA 'I QUESTION
Mohammad Khatami. In recent state-
ments, President Khatami has sought to
portray his nation as a place that has of
late become much more tolerant than it
was in the early years of the revolution.
He has spoken of humanity's entry into a
"new century of humanity, understand-
ing, and durable peace" and has indicated
by various words and actions an apparent
desire on the part of him and his follow-
ers to enter that new century as a full and
respected partner in the community of
nations.
Yet on the Baha'i question, the admin-
istration of President Khatami has been
strangely silent. There has been no admis-
sion of the Government's campaign against
Iran's Baha'i community and the need for
reform that it represents, let alone public
statements that might somehow pave
the way for recognition of the Baha'i
community's fundamental rights.
In this regard, continued international
monitoring remains the only form of pro-
tection for Iran's Baha'is. Any lessening of
international support for the Baha'i com-
munity will be perceived wrongly by the
Iranian authorities, whatever their various
political stances, as a license to continue
their campaign with impunity, or at least to
condone it.
The Baha'is in Iran seek no special
privileges. They seek only their rights under
the Universal Declaration of Human
Rights, including the right to life, the right
to liberty and security of person, the right
to education and work, and the right to
profess and practice their religion.
What is necessary, in the end, are legal
and entirely public steps that will firmly
establish the complete emancipation of
the Baha'is of Iran. Only then can Iran's
reformers be said to have complied truly
with their oft-stated commitment to uni-
versal human rights.
On the Baha'i question, the
administration of President
Khatami has been strangely
silent. There has been no
admission of the
government's campaign
against Iran's Baha'i
community. In this regard,
continued international
monitoring remains the
only form of protection
for Iran's Baha'is.
After the Islamic Revolution, the Government sought to destroy Baha'I leadership.
In August of 1980, the entire membership of the National Spiritual Assembly of the
Baha'IS of Iran, shown here, "disappeared." History shows that without continued
international attention and strong legal steps to ensure their complete emancipa-
tion, the Baha'IS of Iran will remain in grave peril.
SUMMARY

APPENDIX I
NO.
NAME
ROLE*
DATE
PLACE
METHOD
1981 continued
Baha'is killed since 1978
44.
Mr. Ihsanu'lhih Mihdi-Zadih
Apr 30
Shiraz
Executed
45.
Mr. Yadu'llah Vahdat
ABM
Apr 30
Shiniz
Executed
46.
Mr. Muhmmad (Suhrab) Habibi
LSA
Jun 14
Hamadan
Executed
47. Mr. Muhammad-Baqir (Suhayl)
LSA
Jun 14
Hamadan
Executed
Habibi
ROLE*
DATE
PLACE
METHOD
48.
Mr. Husayn Khandil
LSA
Jun 14
Hamadan
Executed
NO. NAME
49.
Mr. Tarazu'llah Khuzayn
LSA
Jun 14
Hamadan
Executed
50. Mr. Husayn Mutlaq
LSA
Jun 14
Hamadan
Executed
1. Mr. Ahmad Isma'ili
Ahram
Killed
51.
Dr. Finiz Na'imi
LSA
Jun 14
Hamadan
Executed
2. Mr. Diya'u'llah Haqiqat
Aug 13
Jahrum
Killed
52. Dr. Nasir Vafa'i
LSA
Jun 14
Hamadan
Executed
3.
Mr. Shir-Muhammad Dastpish
December
Buyr-Ahmad
Mobbed
53. Mr. Buzurg 'Alaviyan
LSA
Jun 23
Teheran
Executed
4. Mrs. 'Avad-Gul Fahandizh
Dec 14
Shiraz
Mobbed
54. Mr. Hashim Farmish
ABMLSA
Jun 23
Teheran
Executed
5. Mr. Sifatu'llah Fahandizh
Dec 14
Shiraz
Mobbed
55. Mr. Farhang Mavaddat
LSA
Jun 23
Teheran
Executed
6.
Mr. Khusraw Afnani
Dec 22
Miyan-Duab
Mobbed
56. Dr. Masih Farhangi
CBCASIA
Jun 24
Teheran
Executed
7.
Mr. Parviz Afnani
Dec 22
Miyan-Duab
Mobbed
57. Mr. Badi'ullah Farid
Jun 24
Teheran
Executed
58. Mr. Yadu'llah Pustchi
Jun 24
Teheran
Executed
Mr. Ibrahim Ma'navi
early 1979
Hisar
Killed
59.
Mr. Varqa Tibyaniyan (Tibyani)
Jun 24
Teheran
Executed
8.
60. Mr. KamaIu'd-Din Bakhtavar
Jul26
Mashhad
Executed
Mr. Haji-Muhmmad 'Azizi
Jan 9
Khurmuj
Beaten
9.
61. Mr. Ni'matu'llah Katibpur
Jul26
Mashhad
Executed
Ushnaviyyih
Killed
10. Mr. Husayn Shakuri
Apr 2
Shahidi
Mr. 'Ali-Akbar Khursandi
LSA
Apr 12
Teheran
Hanged
11.
62. Mr. 'Abdu'l-'Ali Asadyari
LSA
Jul29
Tabriz
Executed
Mr. Bahar Vujdani
Sep 27
Mahabad
Executed
12.
Killed
63.
Mr. Husayn Asadu'llah-Zadeh
LSA
Jul29
Tabriz
Executed
l3. Mr. 'Ali Sattarzadih
Oct 28
BUkan
Mr. 'Azamatu'llah Fahandizh
Dec 14
Shiraz
Executed
64. Mr. Mihdi Bahiri
LSA
Jul29
Tabriz
Executed
14.
65. Dr. Masrur Dakhili
LSA
Jul29
Tabriz
Executed
66. Dr. Parviz Firuzi
LSA
Jul29
Tabriz
Executed
15. Mr. Habibu'llah Panahi
Feb 4
Urumiyyih
Assassinated
67. Mr. Manuchihr Khadi'i
LSA
Jul29
Tabriz
Executed
16. Mr. Ghulam-Husayn A'zami
May 6
Teheran
Executed
68. Mr. Allah-Virdi Mithaqi
Jul29
Tabriz
Executed
17. Mr. 'Ali-Akbar Mu'ini
May 6
Teheran
Executed
69. Mr. Habibu'llah Tahqiqi
LSA
Jul29
Tabriz
Executed
18. Mr. Badi'u'llah Yazdani
May 6
Teheran
Executed
70.
Mr. Isma'il Zihtab
LSA
Jul29
Tabriz
Executed
19. Mr. Parviz Bayani
May 11
Piranshahr
Executed
71. Mr. Husayn Rastigar-Namdar
Aug 5
Teheran
Executed
20. Mr. Mir-Asadu'llah Mukhtari
May 18
Andrun
Stoned
72. Mr. Habibu'llah 'Azizi
LSA
Aug 29
Teheran
Executed
21. Mr. Hasan Isma'ilzadih
June
Sanandaj
Killed
73. Mr. Bahman 'Atifi
Sep 11
Darytin, Isf.
Executed
22. Mr. Yusuf Subhani
Jun 27
Teheran
Executed
74.
Mr. 'Izzat Atifi
Sep 11
Darytin, Isf.
Executed
23. Mr. Yadu'llah Astani
LSA
Jul14
Tabriz
Executed
75. Mr. Ahmad Ridvani
Sep 11
Darytin,Isf.
Executed
24. Dr. Faramarz Samandari
LSA
Jul14
Tabriz
Executed
76. Mr. Ata'u'llah Rawhani
Sep 11
Darytin, Isf.
Executed
25. Mr. Muhammad Akbari
Jul16
Rasht
Executed
77. Mr. Gushtasb Thabit-Rasikh
Sep 11
Darytin, Isf.
Executed
26. Mr. Yadu'llah Mahbubiyan
Jul30
Teheran
Executed
78.
Mr. Yadu'llah Sipihr-Arfa
Oct 23
Teheran
Executed
27. Mr. Dhabihu'llah Mu'mini
Aug 15
Teheran
Executed
79. Mr. Mihdi Amin Amin
NSA
Dec 27
Teheran
Executed
28. Mr. Nuru'llah Akhtar-Khavari
ABM
Sep 8
Yazd
Executed
80. Mr. JaW'Azizi
NSA
Dec 27
Teheran
Executed
29. Mr. 'Azizu'llah Dhabihiyan
ABM
Sep 8
Yazd
Executed
81. Dr. 'Izzatu'llah Furuhi
ABMNSA
Dec 27
Teheran
Executed
30. Mr. Firaydun Faridani
ABM
Sep 8
Yazd
Executed
82. Mrs. Zhinus Ni'mat Mahmudi
ABMNSA
Dec 27
Teheran
Executed
31. Mr. Mahmud Hasanzadih
Sep 8
Yazd
Executed
83. Dr. Mahmud Majdhub
NSA
Dec 27
Teheran
Executed
32. Mr. 'Abdu'l-Vahhab
Sep 8
Yazd
Executed
84. Mr. Qudratu'llah Rawhani
NSA
Dec 27
Teheran
Executed
Kazimi -Manshadi
85. Dr. Sirus Rawshani
NSA
Dec 27
Teheran
Executed
33. Mr. Jalal Mustaqim
LSA
Sep 8
Yazd
Executed
86. Mr. Kamran Samimi
NSA
Dec 27
Teheran
Executed
34. Mr. 'Ali Mutahari
LSA
Sep 8
Yazd
Executed
35. Mr. Rida Firuzi
Nov 9
Tabriz
Executed
Nuk, Birjand
Burned
87. Mrs. Shiva Mahmudi
LSA
Jan 4
Teheran
Executed
36. Mr. Muhammad-Husayn Ma'sumi
Nov 23
Asadu'llah -Zadeh
Mrs. Shikkar-Nisa Ma'sumi
Nov 23
Nuk, Birjand
Burned
37.
88. Mr. Iskandar 'Azizi
LSA
Jan 4
Teheran
Executed
Mr. Bihruz Sana'i
Dec 17
Teheran
Executed
38.
89. Mrs. Shidrukh Amir-Kiya Baqa
Jan 4
Teheran
Executed
90.
Mr. Fathu'llah Firdawsi
LSA
Jan 4
Teheran
Executed
39. Dr. Manuchihr Hakim
NSA
Jan 12
Teheran
Assassinated
91. Mr. Khusraw Muhandisi
LSA
Jan 4
Teheran
Executed
40. Mr. Mihdi Anvari
Mar 17
Shiraz
Executed
92. Mr. Kurush Tala'i
LSA
Jan 4
Teheran
Executed
41. Mr. Hidayatu'llah Dihqani
Mar 17
Shiraz
Executed
93.
Mr. Ata'u'IIah Yavari
LSA
Jan 4
Teheran
Executed
42. Mrs. Nuraniyyih Yarshatir
Apr
Shiraz
Assassinated
94. Mr. Ibrahim Khayrkhah
Feb 22
Teheran
Executed
43. Mr. Sattar Khushkhu
Apr 30
Shiraz
Executed
95. Mr. Husayn Vahdat-i-Haq
Feb 28
Teheran
Executed
96. Mr. 'Askar Muhammadi
Apr 2
Rahimkhan,
Assassinated
* Many of those killed or executed played a leadership role in the Iranian Baha'i community. The acronym::~SA" in this column
Kirman
indicates that the person was a member of a local Spiritual Assembly, the commumty elected local Baha 1 govern~ng council.
97. Mr. Ihsanu'llah Khayyami
Apr 12
Urumiyyih
Executed
"NSK identifies a member of the National Spiritual Assembly of the Baha'is of Iran, the national-level govermng council.
98. Mr. 'Azizu'llah Gulshani
Apr 29
Mashhad
Executed
"ABM" identifies an "auxiliary board member," an appointed leadership position within the Baha'i administrative framework.
99. Mrs. Ishraqiyyih Faruhar
LSA
May 8
Karaj
Executed
"CBC" identifies a member of the Continental Board of Counsellors," an appointed leadership position which oversees the
100. Mr. Mahmud Faruhar
LSA
May 8
Karaj
Executed
. ,
auxiliary board members.
101. Mr. Badi'u'llah Haqpaykar
LSA
May 8
Karaj
Executed
THE BAHA'I QUESTION
APPENDIX I
':'

NO. NAME
ROLE*
DATE
PLACE
METHOD
NO. NAME
ROLE*
DATE
, PLACE
METHOD
1982 continued
1984 continued
102. Mr. Agahu'llah Tizfahm
May 10
Urumiyyih
Executed
158. Mr. Jahangir Hidayati
NSA
May 15
Teheran
Executed
103. Miss J ahiliyyih Mush ta
May 10
Urumiyyih
Executed
159. Mr. 'Ali-Muhammad Zamani
May 15
Teheran
Executed
il Usku'i
160. Mr. Nusratu'llah Vahdat
Jun 17
Mashhad
Executed
104. Mrs. Iran Rahimpur (Khurma'i)
May 12
Dizfill
Executed
16l. Mr. Ihsanu'llah Kathiri
Jun 27
Teheran
Executed
105. Mr. Nasru'llah Amini
LSA
May 16
Khaniabad,Tehe.
Executed
162. Dr. Manuchihr Ruhi
Aug 16
Bujnurd
Executed
106. Mr. Sa'du'llah Babazadeh
LSA
May 16
Khanh\bad,Tehe.
Executed
163. Mr. Aminu'llah Qurbanpur
Aug 25
near Teheran
Died in Prison
107. Mr. Ata'u'llah Haqqani
Jun 1
Teheran
Killed
164. Mr. Rustam Varjavandi
Sep 15
Teheran
Died in Prison
108.
Mr. Muhammad Abbasi
LSA
Jul9
Qazvin
Executed
165. Mr. Shaplir (Hushang) Markazi
NSAABM
Sep 23
Teheran
Executed
109. Mr. Jadidu'llah Ashraf
LSA
Jul9
Qazvin
Executed
166. Mr. Firuz Purdil
Oct 30
Mashhad
Executed
110. Manuchihr Farzanih
LSA
lul9
Qazvin
Executed
167. Mr. Ahmad Bashiri
NSA
Nov 1
Teheran
Executed
Mu'ayyad
168. Mr. Yunis Nawruzi-Iranzad
LSA
Nov 1
Karaj
11 I. Mr. Muhammad Mansuri
LSA
Jul9
Qazvin
Executed
169. Mr. 'Alirida Niyakan
Nov 11
Tabriz
Died in Prison
112. Mr. Manuchihr Vafa'i
Jul9
Teheran
Assassinated
170. Mr. Diya'u'llah Mai'i-Usku'i
Nov l3
Tabriz
Died in Prison
113. Mr. 'Abbas-Ali Sadiqipur
Jul15
Shiniz
Executed
17l. Dr. Farhad Asdaqi
NSA
Nov 19
Teheran
Executed
114. Mr. 'Ali Na'irniyan
Aug 11
Urumiyyih
Executed
172. Mr. Firuz Athari
LSA
Dec9
Teheran (Karaj)
Executed
115. Mr. Habibu'llah Awji
Nov 16
Shiniz
Executed
173. Mr. Ghulam-Husayn Farhand
LSA
Dec9
Teheran (Karaj)
Executed
116. Mr. Dhiya'u'llah Ahrari
LSA
Nov 21
Shiraz
Executed
174. Mr. 'Inayatu'llah Haqiqi
LSA
Dec 9
Teheran (Karaj)
Executed
117. Mr. Husayn Nayyiri-Isfahani
Nov 29
Isfahan
Died in Prison
175. Mr. Jamal Kashani
LSA
Dec 9
Teheran (Karaj)
Executed
118. Mrs. Guldanih 'Alipur
Dec 24
Sari
Mobbed
176. Mr. Jamshid Pur-Ustadkar
LSA
Dec 9
Teheran (Karaj)
Executed
177. Dr. RW1U'llah Ta'Jim
LSA
Dec9
Teheran
Executed
119. Mr. Hidayatu'llah Siyavushi
LSA
Jan 1
Shiraz
Executed
(Kirmanshah)
120. Mr. Yadu'llah Mahmudnizhad
LSAABM
Mar 12
Shiraz
Executed
12I. Mr. Rahmatu'llah Vafa'i
LSA
Mar 12
Shiraz
Executed
178. Mr. Ruhu'llah Hasuri
Jan 21
Yazd
Executed
122. Mrs. Tuba Za'irpur
Mar 12
Shiraz
Executed
179. Mr. Ruhu'llah Bahramshahi
LSA
Feb 25
Yazd
Executed
123. Mr. Adadu'llah (Aziz) Zaydi
Apr 1
Miyan-Duab
Killed
180. Mr. Nusratu'llah Subhani
Mar 5
Teheran
Executed
124. Mr. JaW Hakirmin
May 1
Teheran
Executed
18l. Mr. 'Abbas Idilkhani
Aug 1
Teheran
Executed
125. Mr. Suhayl Safa'i
May 1
Teheran
Executed
182. Mr. Rahmatu'llah Vujdani
LSA
Aug 31
Bandar-'Abbas
Executed
126. Dr. Bahram Afnan
LSA
lun 16
Shiniz
Executed
183. Mr. Nur'ud-Din Ta'ifi
Oct 12
Gurgan
Died in Prison
127. Mr. 'Abdu'l-Husayn Azadi
LSA
lun 16
Shiniz
Executed
(Kirmanshah)
128. Mr. Kurush Haqbin
LSA
Jun 16
Shiniz
Executed
184. Mr. 'Azizu'll<\h Ashjari
Nov 19
Tabriz
Executed
129. Mr. 'Inayatu'llah Ishraqi
lun 16
Shiraz
Executed
130. Mr. Jamshid Siyavushi
LSA
Jun 16
Shin\z
Executed
185. Mr. Payman Subhani (reported)
Apr 28
Saravan
Mobbed
l3I. Mr. Bahram Yalda'i
Jun 16
Shiraz
Executed
186. Mr. Sirru'lhih Vahdat-Nizami
May 4
Teheran
Executed
l32. Miss Shahin(Shirin) Dalvand
Jun 18
Shiraz
Executed
187. Mr. Fidrus Shabrukh
May 9
Zahidan
Executed
133. Mrs. 'Izzat lanami Ishraqi
lun 18
Shiraz
Executed
188. Mr. Farid Bihmardi
NSA
Jun 10
Teheran
Executed
l34. Miss Ru'ya Ishn\qi
Jun 18
Shiraz
Executed
189. Mr. Habibu'llah Muhtadi
Aug 27
Teheran
Killed
l35. Miss Muna Mahmudnizhad
Jun 18
Shiraz
Executed
190. Mr. Babak Tilibi
Sep 2
Karaj
Beaten
l36. Miss Zarrin Muqimi-Abyanih
Jun 18
Shiraz
Executed
191. Mr. Iraj Mihdi-Nizhad
Sep 4
Bandar-'Abbas
Mobbed
137. Miss Mahshid Nirumand
lun 18
Shiraz
Executed
138. Miss Sinlin Sabiri
lun 18
Shiraz
Executed
139. Mrs. Tahirih Arjumandi Siyavushi
Jun 18
Shiraz
Executed
192. Mr. Ahmad Kavih
Jan 26
Isfahan
Killed
140. Miss Akhtar Thabit
Jun 18
Shiraz
Executed
193. Mr. Surush Jabbari
Mar3
Teheran
Killed
141. Mrs. Nusrat Ghufrani Yalda'i
LSA
Jun 18
Shiraz
Executed
194. Mr. Abu'I-Qasirn Shayiq
Mar 3
Teheran
Killed
142. Mr. Suhayl Hushmand
Jun 28
Shiraz
Executed
195. Mr. Ardishir Akhtari
Sep 28
Teheran
Executed
143. Mr. Ahmad-'Ali Thabit-
Jun 30
Shiraz
Died in Prison
196. Mr. Amir-Husayn Nadiri
Sep 28
Teheran
Executed
Sarvistani
144.
Mr. Muhammad Ishn\qi
ABM
Aug 31
Teheran
Died in Prison
197. Mr. Bihnam Pasha'i
presumably Nov Teheran
Executed
145. Mr. Akbar Haqiqi
Sep 19
Khuy
Mobbed
198. Mr. lradj Afshin
presumably Nov Teheran
Executed
146. Mr. Bahman Dihqani
Nov 19
Mubammadiyyih
Mobbed
199. Mr. Mihrdad Maqsudi
Feb 16
Urumiyyih
Killed
147. Mr. 'Abdu'I-Majid Mutahhar
Dec 15
Isfahan
Died in Prison
200. Mr. Bahman Samandari
Mar 18
Teheran
Executed
148. Mr. Rahmatu'llah Hakiman
Jan 11
Kirman
Died in Prison
201. Mr. Ruhu'llah Ghedami
Jill11 7
on Qum Highway Killed
149. Mr. Ghulam-Husayn Hasanzadill-
Mar 10
Teheran
Executed
Shakiri
150. Mr. Muhsin Radavi
Mar 13
Teheran
Died in Prison
202. Mr. Srurvin Fallah
Approx Dec Arak
Killed
lSI. Mr. Nusrat'ullah Diya'i
Mar 19
BMt, Kirman
Died in Prison
152. Mr. Kamran Lutfi
Apr 9
Teheran
Executed
203. Mr. Mansur Dawlat
Apr4
Kirman
Killed
153. Mr. Rahim Rahimiyan
Apr 9
Teheran
Executed
204.
Mr. Shahram Reza'i
Jul 7
Rasht
Killed
154. Mr. Yadu'llah Sabiriyan
Apr9
Teheran
Executed
205. Mr. Masha'llah Enayati
Jul4
Isfahan
Beaten in prison
155. Mr. Asadu'IHh Kamil-Muqaddam
May 2
Teheran
Died in Prison
156. Mr. Maqsud 'Alizadili
MayS
Tabriz
Executed
157. Mr. JaJa! Payravi
ABM
MayS
Tabriz
Executed
206. Mr. Ruhu'llah Rawhani
lui 21
Isfahan
Executed
THE BAHA ' 1 QUESTION
APPENDIX I

APPENDIX II
The United Nations'
Response
Since 1980, human rights organs of the United Na-
tions have been expressing concern about the tragic
situation of the Baha'i religious minority in Iran.
This demonstration of international concern has
played a critical role in moderating the actions of the
Iranian authorities and providing a measure of secu-
rity to the Baha'I community.
In 1985 the General Assembly had the issue on its
agenda for the first time. It adopted a resolution
which expressed deep concern about the human
rights situation in Iran and decided to continue its ex-
amination of the situation, "including the situation of
minority groups such as the Baha'is," during its forty-
fi rst session in 1986. The issue is therefore on the
General Assembly's agenda again for its forty-first ses-
sion.
A summary history of this issue at the United Na-
tions is outlined below:
Resolution 10 (XXXIII) (1 0.9.1980) of the Sub-
Commission on Prevention of Discrimination and
Protection of Minorities expresses profound concern
for the Baha'IS both individually and collectively, and
invites the Government of Iran to protect their fun-
damental human rights and freedoms.
Resolution 8 (XXXIV) (9.9. 198!) of the Sub-Com-
mission on Prevention of Discrimination and Protec-
tion of Minorities draws the attention of the
Commission on Human Rights to the perilous situ-
ation facing the Baha'is and requests the Secretary-
General to report on their plight to the next session of
the Commission.
Resolution 1982/27 (11.3.1982) of the Commis-
sion on Human Rights notes the Secretary-General's
report on the Baha'is and requests him to establish di-
rect contacts Witll the Government of Iran and to
continue his efforts to ensure the Baha'IS full enjoy-
ment of their human rights and fundamental free-
doms.
Grave concern fo r the Baha'i minority was ex-
pressed by members of the Human Rights Committee
at its 16th session, when the Committee discussed
with representatives of the Iranian Government the
T H E BAH A' I QU ESTIO N
preliminary report submitted by the Government of
the Islamic Republic of Iran in accordance with its re-
porting obligations under the International Covenant
on Civil and Political Rights.
Resolution 1982/25 (8.9.1982) of the Sub-Com-
mission on Prevention of Discrimination and Protec-
tion of Minorities recalls its earlier resolutions on the
plight of the Bal1a'ls and expresses its continuing con-
cern at human rights violations in Iran.
Resolution 1983/34 (8.3.1983) of the Commission
on Human Rights expresses its profound concern at
the religious persecution of the Baha'is and requests
the Secretary-General to continue his direct contacts
with the Government of Iran on the human rights
situation in that country, "including the situation of
the Baha'is."
Resolution 1983/ 14 (5.9.1983) of the Sub-Com-
mission on Prevention of Discrimination and Protec-
tion of Minorities expresses its grave concern at the
continuing religious persecution of the Baha'IS and
suggests that the Commission on Human Rights ap-
point a Special Rapporteur to study the human rights
situation in Iran.
Resolution 1984/54 (14.3.1984) of The Commis-
sion on Human Rights expresses its concern for the
Baha'I minority and requests its Chairman to appoint
a Special Representative to establish contacts with the
Government of Iran and to make a thorough study of
the human rights in Iran.
Decision 19841138 of the Economic and Social
Council endorses the Commission's decision to ap-
point a Special Representative.
Resolution 1984114 (29.8.1984) of the Sub-Com-
mission on Prevention of Discrimination and Protec-
tion of Minorities expresses alarm at the continuing
gross violations of human rights in Iran, including the
religious persecution of the Baha'is, and welcomes the
Commission's decision to appoin t a Special Represen-
tative.
Preliminary Report of the Special Representative to
the Commission on Human Rights expresses great
concern at the number and gravity of alleged viola-
tions of human rights in Iran, including denial of the
right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion.
Resolution 1985/39 (13.3.1985) of the Commission
on Human Rights endorses the general observations of
its Special Representative, expresses its deep concern at
the number and gravity of alleged violations of human
rights to which his preliminary report bears witness,
extends his mandate, and requests him " ... to present
and interin1 report to the General Assembly at its fo rti-
eth session on the human rights situation in the Islamic
Republic of [ran, including the situation of minority
groups such as the Baha'IS ... "
Decision 1985/148 of the Economic and Social
Council endorses the Commission's decision.
Resolution 1985/17 (29.8.1985) of the Sub-Com-
mission on Prevention of Discrimination and Protec-
tion of Minori ties welcomes the Commission's
decision, expresses its alarm at the continuing reports
of gross violations of human rights and fundamental
freedoms in Iran, "in particular at the evidence of per-
secution of the Baha'i religious minority .... ," endorses
the general observations of the Special Representative
in his preliminary report, and expresses the hope that
the initial contacts of the Government of Iran with
the Special Representative will develop into a positive
cooperation.
Resolution 401141 (13.12.1985) of the General As-
sembly "Expresses its deep concern over the specific
and detailed allegations of violations of hnman rights
in the Islamic Republic of Iran to which the Special
Representative refers in his interim report, and in par-
ticular, those related to the right to life, such as sum-
mary and arbitrary executions; the right to freedom
from torture or cruel, inhuman or degrading treat-
ment or punishment; the right to liberty and security
of person and to freedom fro m arbitrary arrest or de-
tention; the right to a fair trial; the right to freedom
of thought, conscience and religion and to freedom of
expression; and the right of religious minorities to
profess and practice their own religion" (operative
paragraph 2);
"Decides to continue its examination of the situ-
ation of human rights in the Islamic Republic of Iran,
including the situation of minority groups such as the
Baha'is, during its forty-first session in order to exam-
ine this situation anew in the light of additional ele-
ments provided by the Commission of Human Rights
and the Economic and Social Council" (operative
paragraph 8).
Resolution 1985/41 (12.3.1986) of the Commis-
sion on Human Rights "expresses its deep concern
over the specific and detailed allegations of grave hu-
man rights violations in the Islamic Republic of Iran
to which the Special Representative refers in his re-
port;" endorses his conclusion that "specific and de-
tailed allegations concerning grave human rights
violations" in Iran cannot be dismissed; decides to ex-
tend the mandate of the Commission's Special Repre-
sentative and requests him to present an interim
report on the situation, "including the situation of
minority groups such as the Baha'is" to the General
Assembly at its forty-first session and a final report to
the Commission at its forty-third session in 1987.
Decision ,19861137 of the Economic and Social
Council approves the Commission's decision to extend
the Special Representative's mandate and its request to
the Special Representative to submit reports to the
forty- first session of the General Assembly and the
forty-third session of the Commission.
It was announced on 14 July [986 that, in response
to this request, the Chairman of the Commission had
appointed Mr. Reynaldo Galindo PoW to serve as the
Special Representative of the Commission.
Reso[ution 411159 (4. 12.1986) of the General As-
sembly "Expresses its deep concern over the specific
and detailed allegations of violations of human rights
in the Islamic Republic of Iran and in particular over
those related to the right to life, such as summary and
arbitrary executions, the right to freedom from torture
or cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punish-
ment, the right to liberty and security of person and to
freedom from arbitrary arrest or detention, the right to
a fair trial, the right to freedom of thought, conscience
and religion and to freedom of expression and the right
of religious minorities to profess and practice their own
religion;"
"Requests the Commission on Human Rights to
study carefully the final report of the Special Repre-
sentative, as well as other information pertaining to
the situation of human rights in the Islamic Republic
of Iran, and to consider furtller steps for securing ef-
fective respect fo r human rights and fundamental
freedoms for all in that country;"
Decides to continue its examination of the situa-
tion of human rights in the Islamic Republic of Iran
including the situation of minority groups such as the
Baha'IS, during its forty-second session .... "
Resolution EICN AlRESIl987 155 (11.3.1987) of the
Commission on Human Rights recalling its resolution
1986/41, extends the mandate of the Special Repre-
sentative for one year; requests him to present an in-
terim report on the human rights situation including
the situation of minority groups, such as the Baha'is;
regrets "that the Government of the Islamic Republic
of Iran has so fa r provided no comment or info r-
mation to the Special Representative and has not al-
lowed him to visit the country"; again expresses "its
deep concern over the numerous and detailed alle-
gations of grave and extensive human rights vio-
lations to which the Special Representative refers in
his report (E/CNAI1 987/23) and in particular, those
related to the right to life, the right to freedom from
torture or cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or
punishment, the right to liberty and security of per-
son and to freedom from arbitrary arrest or deten-
tion, the right to a fair trial, the right to freedom of
thought; conscience and religion and to freedom of
expression, and the right of religious minorities to
profess and practice their own religion"; requests "the
Special Representative to present an interim report to
the General Assembly, at its forty-second session on
human rights in the Islamic Republic of Iran, includ-
ing ~,~ e ~itu a ti o n of minority groups such as the
Baha IS ....
Decision 19871150 of ECOSOC approves the
Commission's decision to extend the Special
TH E U N RESPONSE

Representative's mandate.
Resolution E/CN A/Sub.2/RES/19871l2 (1.9.1987)
of the Sub-Commission on Prevention of Discrimina-
tion and Protection of Minorities refers to "various
resolutions and documents published by other inter-
national bodies and organizations including reso-
lutions ratified by the European Parliament and
Council of Ew·ope ... all of which have expressed great
concern over the violations of human rights and vio-
lation of the most basic rights of the ethnic and reli-
gious minorities ... "; learns "with renewed concern that
the number of those allegedly executed by the ruling
Government, including Baha'is and others, now ex-
ceeds 70,000 ... "; expresses "strong concern over the
grave violations of human rights and basic freedom
such as ... the right to freedom of belief and reli-
gion ... "; urges "determined protest by the Commis-
sion to the Islamic Republic of Iran concernin g
continuing disrespect for the Charter of the United
Nations in relation to human rights;" and "requests
the Secretary-General to inform the General Assem-
bly, the Commission on Human Rights and its Special
Representative of the information obtained from the
Sub-Commission on the grave violation of human
rights and the most basic freedoms in the Islamic Re-
public of Iran."
Resolution 42/ 136 (7.12.1987) of the General As-
sembly takes note of the Commission's resolution
1987/55 requesting the Special Representative "to sub-
mit an interim report to the General Assembly at its
forty-second session on the situation of human rights
in the Islamic Republic of Iran, including the situ-
ation of minority groups such as the Baha'is ... :'; again
expresses "its deep concern about the numerous and
detailed allegations of grave human rights violations
in the Islamic Republic of Iran to which the Special
Representative had referred in his report, namely,
those related to the right to life, the right to freedom
from torture or cruel, inhuman or degrading treat-
ment or punishment, the right to liberty and security
of person, and to freedom from arbitrary arrest or de-
tention, the right to a fair trial, the right to freedom of
thought, conscience and reLigion and to freedom of
expression, and the right of religious minorities to
profess and practice their own religion"; expresses "its
grave concern, in particular, that although the Special
Representative indicates that the number of alleged
violations of the right to life has diminished over the
past two years, according to information made avail-
able to him, some one hundred persons were alleged
to have been executed in the period October 1986-
September 1987 because of their political and reli-
gious convictions"; expresses "its deep concern at
allegations that maltreatment and torture, both physi-
cal and psychological, are common practice in Iranian
prisons during interrogation and before and after the
final verdict, and at the existence of extremely sum-
mary and informal proceedings unawareness on the
part of the prisoners of specific accusations, lack of
legal counsel and other irregularities with respect to
fair trial"; endorses "the conclusion of the Special
Representative that acts continue to occur in the Is-
lamic Republic of Iran that are inconsistent with the
provisions of international instruments .... "; decides
"to keep under consideration the situation of human
THE BAHA'I QUESTION
rights in the Islamic Republic of Iran, including the
situation of minority groups such as the Baha'is, dur-
ing its forty-third session .. :'
Resolution E/CNA/RES/1988/69 (10.3.1988) of the
Commission on Human Rights recalls its decision to
request the Special Representative to present an in-
terim report to the General Assembly on human
rights situation including the situation of minority
groups, such as the Baha'is; expresses "again its deep
concern about the numerous detailed allegations of
grave human rights violations ... in particular tho e re-
lated to the right to life, ... the right to freedom of
thought, conscience and religion and to freedom of
expression ... "; requests "the Special Representative to
present an interim report to the General Assembly at
its forty-third session on the human rights situation,
including the situation of minority groups, such as
the Baha'is, and a final report to the Commission at
its forty-fifth session."
Decision 19881137 of ECOSOC approves the
Co mmission's decision to extend the Special
Representative's mandate. This decision refers also to
Commission resolution 1984/54.
Resolution 43/137 (8.12.1988) of the General As-
sembly takes note of the Commission's resolution
1988/69 requesting the Special Representative "to sub-
mit an interim report to the General Assembly at its
forty-third session on the situation of human rights
in the Islamic Republic of Iran, including the situ-
ation of minority groups such as the Baha'is .... "; notes
"the recent contacts between the Special Representa-
tive and the Government of the Islamic Republic of
Iran, which it is hoped will lead to a state of full co-
operation between the Special Representative and that
Government, including a visit to the Islamic Republic
of I ran, so that he can fulfil his mandate"; notes "that
the Baha'is in the Islamic Republic of Iran continue
to be subjected to various forms of harassment and
discrimination, although there are indications that
the intensity of the campaign of persecution against
the Baha'is has diminished somewhat in recent
months, and that a number of them have been re-
leased from prison"; expresses once more "its deep
concern about the numerous and detailed allegations
of grave human rights violations in the Islamic Re-
public of Iran to which the Special Representative had
referred in his report, namely, those related to the
right to li fe, the right to freedom from torture or
cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punish-
ment, the right to liberty and security of person, the
right to a fair trial and the right to freedom of
thought, conscience and religion"; expresses "its deep
concern also at the existence of extremely summary,
informal and irregular proceedings, failure to inform
defendants of specific accusations against them, lack
of legal counsel, absence of an appropriate instance
for appeal and other irregularities that contravene in-
ternational standards on fair trial"; endorses "the con-
clusion of the Special Representative that acts
continue to occur in the Islamic Republic of Iran that
are inconsistent with the provisions of international
instruments .. . "; decides "to keep under consider-
ation the situation of human rights in the Islamic Re-
public of Iran, including the situation of minority
groups such as the Baha'is, during its forty-fourth ses-
sion .... "
Resolution E/CNA/RES/l989/66 (7.3.1989) of the
Commission on Human Rights recalling " ... the situ-
ation of minority gro ups, such as the Baha'is ... ";
notes "that the situation of the Baha'is in the Islamic
Republic of Iran continues to be uncertain;" expresses
once more "its deep concern over the numerous and
detailed allegations of grave and extensive human
rights violations to which the Special Representative
has referred in his reports, namely, those related to the
right to life, the right to freedom from torture or
cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punish-
ment, the right to liberty and security of person, the
right to a fair trial and to freedom of thought, con-
science, religion and expression,"; requests "the Spe-
cial Representative to present an interim report to the
General Assembly at its forty-fourth session on hu-
man rights situation in Iran, including the situation
of minority groups, such as the Baha'is and a final re-
port to the forty-sixth session of the Commission."
Resolution E/CNA/Sub.2/RES/l989/10 (31.8.1989 )
of the Sub-Commission on Prevention of Discrimina-
tion and Protection of Minorities takes note "of nu-
merous reports by United Nations special rapporteurs
and by NGOs, ... "; concerned "also at reports of denial
of rights of minorities to enjoy their own culture, to
profess and practice their own beliefs"; is "further
concerned at reports about persecution and detention
of members of the Baha'i community in the Islamic
Republic of [ran."
Resolution 44/163 (15.12.1989) of the General As-
sembly takes note "with appreciation of the interim
report of the Special Representative of the Commis-
sion on Human Rights"; takes note "of the view of the
Special Representative that, in order to achieve full co-
operation between the Government of the Islamic Re-
public of Iran and the Special Representative, there is
a need to proceed to another stage in the discharge of
his mandate"; welcomes "the invitation by the Islamic
Republic of Iran to the Special Representative for him
to visit that country"; decides "to continue its exami-
nation .... during its forty-fifth session."
Resolution E/CNA/RES/1990/79 (7.3. 1990) of the
Commission on Human Rights notes "the findings of
the Special Representative on the situation of the
Baha'is in the Islamic Republic of Iran"; expresses "its
concern that testimony gathered by the Special Rep-
resentative reiterated complaints about unlawful ex-
ecutions, torture, substitute prisoners, imprisonment
beyond the period specified in the sentence, sponta-
neous decisions by low-ranking officials and the ab-
sence of council for defence as well as restrictions on
the right to assemble ... "; requests "the Special Repre-
sentative to submit an interim report to the General
Assembly at its forty-fifth session on the human rights
situation in the Islamic Republic of Iran, including
the situation of minority groups, such as the Baha'is,
and a final report to the Commission at its forty-sev-
enth session."
Decisio·n 19901243 of ECOSOC approves the
Commission's decision to extend the Special
Representative's mandate.
Resolution E/CN.4/Sub.2/RESI1990/9 (30.8.1990)
of the Sub-Commission on Prevention of Discrimina-
tion and Protection of Minorities notes "that the situ-
ation of the Baha'is in the Islamic Republic of Iran
continues to be uncertain"; expresses "its deep con-
cern about the grave violatio ns of human rights
namely those related to the right to life, the right to
freedom from torture and from cruel, inhuman and
degrading treatment or punishment, the right to lib-
erty and security of person, the right to a fair trial,
and the right to freedom of thought, conscience, reli-
gion and expression ... "; decides "to consider the situ-
ation of human rights in the Islamic Republic of Iran,
including the situation of minority groups such as the
Baha'i, at its forty-third session."
Resolution 451173 (18. 12.1990) of the General As-
sembly noting "the findings of the Special Represen-
tative on the situation of the Baha'is in the Islamic
Republic of Iran"; calls upon "the Islamic Republic of
Iran to intensify its efforts to investigate and rectify
the human rights issues raised by the Special Repre-
sentative, in particular as regards the administration
of justice and due process of law in order to comply
with international instruments on human rights, in-
cluding the International Covenant on Civil and Po-
litical Rights to which the Islamic Republic of Iran is a
party, and to ensure that all individuals within its ter-
ritory and subject to its jurisdiction, including reli-
gious groups, enjoy the rights recognized in these
instruments"; notes "that the co-operation of the Is-
lamic Republic of Iran with the Special Representative
has improved and has included replies by the Govern-
ment to allegations that have been transmitted to it,
and urges the Government to reply in detail to all al-
legations referred to by the Special Representative in
his reports."
Resolution E/CNAIRESI!991/82 (7.3.1991) of the
Commission on Human Rights noting further "the
findings of the Special Representative on the situation
of the Baha'is in the Islamic Republic of Iran;" wel-
comes "the full cooperation extended by the Govern-
ment of the Islamic Republic of Iran to the Special
Representative, which has reached its highest level, as
well as the intention of the Government to continue
its full cooperation with the Special Representative";
requests "the Special Representative to maintain his
contact and cooperation with the Government. .. and
to report on further progress with regard to the rec-
ommendations contained in his report, on the basis
of his mandate pursuant to Commission on Human
Rights resolution 1984/54 of 14 March 1984"; also re-
quests the Special Representative "to submit a report
to be considered by the Commission which will con-
sider the report with the view to its discontinuing the
mandate if there is further progress achieved regard-
ing his recommendations."
Decision 1991126 1 of ECOSOC approves the
Commission's request to the Special Representative to
maintain his contacts and cooperation with the Gov-
ernment of the Islamic Republic of [ran and to report
THE UN RESPONSE

on further progress.
Resolution E/CN.4/Sub.2/RESI1991/9 (23.8.1991)
of the Sub-Commission on Prevention of Discrimina-
tion and Protection of Minorities notes "that the situ-
ation of the Baha'i community in the Islamic
Republic of Iran continues to be a matter of great
concern"; expresses "its deep concern at the escalating
grave violations of human rights in the Islamic Re-
public of Iran, in particular of the right to life, the
right to freedom from torture and from cruel, inhu-
man and degrading treatment or punishment, the
right to Liberty and security of person, the right to a
fair trial and the right to freedom of thought, con-
science, religion and expression, and calls upon the
Commission on Human Rights at its forty-eight ses-
sion, to extend the mandate of the Special Represen-
tative and the monitoring of the situation of human
rights"; decides "to consider the situation of human
rights in the Islamic Republic of Iran, including the
situation of minority groups such as the Baha'i com-
munity, at its forty-fourth session."
Resolution E/CN.4/RESI1992/67 (4.3.1992) of the
Commission on Human Rights takes note "with ap-
preciation of the report of the Special Representative
of the Commission (E/CN.411992/34) and the obser-
vations contained therein"; expresses "its deep con-
cern at the continuing reports of violations of human
rights in the Islamic Republic of Iran"; expresses "its
concern more specifically at the main weaknesses, ac-
cording to the Special Representative, of human rights
situation in the Islamic Republic of Iran, namely, the
lack of guarantees of due process of law, discrimina-
tory treatment of certain groups of citizens for reason
of their religious beliefs, notably the Baha'is ... "; wel-
comes "the fact that the Government of the Islamic
Republic of Iran has permitted the Special Represen-
tative to visit the country and has continued to reply
to allegations of human rights violations transmitted
to it by the Special Representative"; calls upon the
Government "to ensure that all individuals within its
territory and subject to its jurisdiction, including reli-
gious groups, enjoy the rights recognized in the inter-
national instruments"; decides "to extent the mandate
of the Special Representative requesting him to sub-
mit an interim report to the General Assembly at its
forty-seventh session"; decides "to continue its con-
sideration of the situation of human rights and fun-
damental freedoms in the Islamic Republic of Iran, as
a matter of priority, at its forty-ni nth session."
Decision 19921239 of ECOSOC approves the
Comm ission's decision to extend the Special
Representative's mandate and its request to the Spe-
cial Representative to submit an interim report to the
forty-seventh session of the General Assembly and a
final report to tbe forty-ninth session of the Commis-
sion.
Resolution E/CN.4/Sub.2/RESI1992115 (27.8.1992)
of tbe Sub-Commission on Prevention of Discrimina-
tion and Protection of Minorities notes "in particular
that the situation of the Baha'i community in the Is-
lamic Republic of Iran continues to be a matter of
concern"; condemns "the continuing grave violations
of human rights by the Government of the Islamic
THE BAHA'I QUESTION
Republic of Iran, especially: (d) renewed persecution
of religious minorities and summary killings of
Bah,l.'is."
Resolution 471146 (18.12.1992) of the General As-
sembly expresses "its concern at continuing reports of
violations of human rights in the Islamic Republic of
Iran"; expresses "its concern more specifically at the
main criticism according to the Special Representative
of human rights situation in the Islamic Republic of
Iran, namely, the high number of executions, the
practice of torture, the standard of the administration
of justice, the absence of guarantees of due legal pro-
cess, the treatment of the Baha'i community and re-
striction of freedoms of expression, thought, opinion
and press"; regrets "that the Government of the Is-
lamic Republic of Iran has not permitted the Special
Representative to visit the country and failed to reply
to allegations of human rights violations" and regrets
also "that, as the Special Representative concluded, the
Islamic Republic of Iran has not given adequate fol-
low-up to many of the recommendations contained
in the previous reports"; decides "to continue the ex-
amination of the situation of human rights in the Is-
lamic Republic of Iran during its forty-eighth session
under the item 'Human rights questions' in the light
of additional elements provided by the Commission
on Human Rights and the ECOSOC."
Resolution E/CN .4/RESI1992/62 (10.3.1993) of the
Commission on Human Rights, noting "the Special
Representative's .. . view that during 1992 there was
no appreciable progress in the Islamic Republic of
Iran towards improved compliance with human
rights standards in conformity with international in-
struments:' "expresses its deep concern at continuing
reports of violations of human rights in the Islamic
Republic of Iran; expresses "its concern more specifi-
cally at the main criticisms of the Special Represen-
tative of the ... discriminatory treatment of certain
groups of citizens for reason of their religious beliefs,
notably the Baha'is:' while conveying "its regret that
the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran has
not granted the request of the Special Representative
to visit the country for more than a year," "calls upon
the Government ... to comply with international in-
struments on human rights ... to which the Islamic
Republic of Iran is a party, and to ensure that all indi-
viduals within its territory and subject to its jurisdic-
tion, including religious groups, enjoy the rights
recognised in these instruments," and "decides to ex-
tend the mandate of the Special Representative ... for
a further year:' requesting "the Special Representative
to submit an interim report to the General Assembly
... on the human rights situation in the Islamic Re-
public of Iran, including the situation of minority
groups, such as the Baha'is:' continuing its consider-
ation of Iran's human rights situation "as a matter of
priority, at its fiftieth session."
Decision 1993/273 of ECOSOC approved the
Commission's decision to extend the mandate of the
Special Representative for one year, to request him to
submit an interim report to the General Assembly at
its forty-eighth session on the situation of human
rights in the Islamic Republic of Iran and to report to
the Commission at its fiftieth session and to request
to the Secretary-General to give all necessary assis-
tance to the Special Representative.
Resolution E/CN.4/Sub.2/RES/1993114 (20.4.1993 )
of the Sub-Commission on Prevention of Discrimina-
tion and Protection of Minorities, gravely concerned
at "the systematic repression of the Baha'i community
and at the plight of the Iranian Kurds," strongly con-
demns "the continuing and flagrant human rights
violations of the Islamic Republic of Iran, including:
(d) The continued persecution of the Baha'is and
other religious minorities," and decides to "consider
further the situation of human rights in the Islamic
Republic of Iran, including the situation of women
and minority groups such as the Baha'is and the
Kurds, at its forty-sixth session."
Resolution 481145 (20.12.1993) of the General As-
sembly expresses its concern "at the main criticisms of
the Special Representative with regard to the human
rights situation in the Islamic Republic of Iran,
namely, ... discriminatory treatment of certain
groups of citizens by reason of their religious beliefs,
notably the Baha'is, whose existence as a viable reli-
gious community is threatened ... ," also calls upon
"the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran to
comply with international instruments on human
rights, in particular the International Covenant on
Civil and Political Rights, to which the Islamic Repub-
lic of Iran is a party, and to ensure that all individuals
within its territory and subject to its jurisdiction, in-
cluding religious groups, enjoy the rights recognized
in those instruments" and decides to "continue the
examination of the situation of human rights in the
Islamic Republic of Iran, including the situation of
minority groups, such as the Baha'is ... "
Resolution E/CN.4/RESI1994/73 (9.3.1994) of the
Commission on Human Rights expresses its concern
"at the main criticisms of the Special Representative
with regard to the human rights situation in the Is-
lamic Republic of Iran, namely, ... discriminatory
treatment of certain groups of citizens for reason of
their religious beliefs, notably the Baha'is, whose ex-
istence as a viable religious community in the Islamic
Republic of Iran is threatened, as well as the ill-treat-
ment of certain Christians and restrictions on the
freedoms of expression, thought, opinion and the
press, and that, as noted by the Special Representative,
there is continued discrimination against women,"
also calls upon "the Government of the Islamic Re-
public of Iran to comply with international instru-
ments on human rights, in particular the
International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights,
to which the Islamic Republic of Iran is a party, and
to ensure that all individuals within its territory and
subject to its jurisdiction, including religious groups,
enjoy the rights recognized in these instruments" and
requests the Special Representative to submit an in-
terim report to the General Assembly at its forty-
ninth session on the situation of human rights in the
Islamic Republic of Iran, including the situation of
minority groups, such as the Baha'is, and to report to
the Commission at its fifty-fust session;
Decision 1994/263 of ECOSOC approved the
Commission's decision to extend for a further year the
mandate of the Special Representative, to request him
to submit an interim report to the General Assembly
at its forty-ninth session on the situation of human
rights in the Islamic Republic of Iran, including the
situation of minority groups such as the Baha'is, and
to report to the Commission at its fifty-first session
and to request the Secretary-General to give all neces-
sary assistance to the Special Representative.
Resolution E/CN.4/Sub.2/RESI1994/16 (25.8.1994)
of the Sub-Commission on Prevention of Discrimina-
tion and Protection of Minorities deeply concerned
"at extensive and continuing human rights violations
by the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran,
including .. . freedom of religion," shocked "by the
systematic repression of the Baha'i community and at
the situation of the Iranian Kurds and the Arab mi-
nority in Iran, and at increasing intolerance towards
Christians, including recent murders of Christian re-
ligious ministers:' condemns "the flagrant violations
of human rights in the Islamic Republic of Iran
which, as noted by the Special Representative of the
Commission, include: (d) Religious discrimination,
notably against the Baha'is and Christian individuals
and groups," and requests the Secretary-General to
"continue to keep the Sub-Commission informed of
relevant reports and United Nations measures to pre-
vent human rights violations in the Islamic Republic
of I ran, including, in particular, those concerning the
situation of the Kurds and the Arab minority and the
religious freedoms of the Baha'i and Christian com-
111unities in Iran."
Resolution 49/202 (23.12.1994) of the General As-
sembly expresses "its concern more specifically at the
main criticism of the Special Representative in his re-
cent reports with regard to ... the discriminatory
treatment of minorities by reason of their religious
beliefs, notably the Baha'is, whose existence as a viable
religious minority is threatened ... ," urges "the Is-
lamic Republic of r ran to comply with international
instruments on human rights, in particular the Inter-
national Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, to
which the Islamic Republic of Iran is a party, and to
ensure that all individuals within its territory and
subject to its jurisdiction, including religious groups
and other persons belonging to minorities, enjoy the
rights recogn.ized in those instruments;" and decides
"to continue the examination of the situation of hu-
man rights in the Islamic Republic of Iran, including
the situation of minority groups, such as the Baha'is,
during its fiftieth session under the item entitled 'Hu-
man rights questions' in the light of additional ele-
ments provided by the Commission on Human
Rights and the Economic and Social Council."
Resolution E/CN.4/RES/1995/68 (8.3.1995) of the
Commission on Human Rights expresses "its deep
concern at continued violations of human rights in
the Islamic Republic of Iran, including those high-
lighted by the Special Representative in his report,
namely ... the discriminatory treatment of minorities
by reason of their religious beliefs, notably the Baha'is,
whose existence as a viable religious community in
the Islamic Republic of Iran is threatened ... also
urges "the Government of the Islamic Republic of
Iran, as a State party to the International Covenants
THE UN RESPONSE

on Human Rights, to abide by its freely undertaken
obligations under the Covenants and under other in-
ternational instruments on human rights, and to en-
sure that all individuals within its territory and
subject to its jurisdiction, including religious groups,
enjoy the rights recognized in these instruments," fur-
ther urges "the Government of the Islamic Republic
of Iran to intensify its efforts to investigate and rectify
the human rights issues raised by the Special Repre-
sentative in his observations, in particular with regard
to the administration of justice and due process of
law, and, in fulfilment of its obligations under article
27 of the International Covenant on Civil and Politi-
cal Righ ts, to take steps to ensure the recogn i tion and
enjoyment of human rights of persons belonging to
minorities" and requests "the Special Representative
to submit an interim report to the General Assembly
at its fiftieth session on the situation of human rights
in the Islamic Republic of Iran, including the situ-
ation of minority groups such as the Baha'is, and to
report to the Commission at its fifty-second session."
Decision 1995/279 of ECOSOC approved the
Commission's decision to extend for a further year the
mandate of the Special Representative on the situ-
ation of human rights in the IsJamic Republic of Iran,
to request him to submit an interim report to the
General Assembly at its fiftieth session on the situ-
ation of human rights in the Islamic Republic of Iran,
including the situation of minority groups such as the
Baha'is, and to report to the Commission at its fifty-
second session and to request to the Secretary-Gen-
eral to give all necessary assistance to the Special
Representative.
Resolution E/C .4/Sub.2/RES/1995/18 (24.8.1995)
of the Sub-Commission on Prevention of Discrimina-
tion and Protection of Minorities deeply concerned at
"extensive and continuing human rights violations by
the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran, in-
cluding arbitrary and summary executions, torture and
inhuman or degrading treatment and punishment, ar-
bitrary arrests and imprisonment, unexplained disap-
pearances, tbe absence of guarantees essential for the
protection of the right to a fair trial and disregard for
freedom of expression and freedom of religion;' noting
"that relevant international organizations and bodies
emphasize the role of the Islamic Republic of Iran in
intimidating and harassing the religious minorities in
the Islamic Republic of Iran during the past year, in
particular in the assassination of three Christian lead-
ers;' condemns "the flagrant violations of human rights
in the Islamic Republic of Iran which, as noted by the
Special Representative of the Commission, include: (f)
Religious discrimination, notably against Baha'is and
Christian individuals and groups;' requests "the Secre-
tary-General to continue to keep the Sub-Commission
informed of relevant reports and United Nations mea-
sures to prevent human rights violations in tbe Islamic
Republic of Iran, including, in particular, those con-
cerning the situation of the Kurds and the Arab minor-
ity and the religious freedoms and the emancipation of
the Baha'i and Christian communities in Iran:'
Resolution 50/188 (22.12.95) of the General As-
sembly expresses "its concern at violations of human
rights in the Islamic Republic of Iran, in particular ...
the discriminatory treatment of minorities by reason
THE BAHA'I QUESTION
of their reJigious beliefs, notably the Baha'is, whose
existence as a viable religious community in the Is-
lamic Republic of Iran is threatened .. . ," urges "the
Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran, as a State
party to the international Covenants on Human
Rights, to abide by its obligations freely undertaken
under the Covenants and under other international
instruments on human rights and to ensure that all
individuals within its territory and subject to its juris-
diction, including religious groups, enjoy the rights
recognized in those instruments," and decides "to
continue the examination of the situation of human
rights in the Islamic Republic of Iran, including the
situation of minority groups such as the Baha'is, dur-
ing its fifty-first session under the item entitled "Hu-
man rights questions;' on the basis of the report of the
Special Representative and in tbe light of additional el-
ements provided by the Commission on Human Rights
and the Economic and Social Council."
Resolution E/CN.4/RES/1996/84 (24.4. 1996) of the
Commission on Human Rights expresses "its concern
at the continuation of violations of human rights in
the Islamic Republic of Iran, in particular ... the dis-
crinlinatory treatment of minorities by reason of
their religious beliefs, notably the Baha'is, whose ex-
istence as a viable religious community in the Islanlic
Republic of Iran is threatened ... ," calls upon "the
Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran to imple-
ment fully the conclusions and recommendations of
the Special Rapporteur on religious intolerance relat-
ing to the Baha'is and to other minority religious
groups, including Christians;' urges "the Government
of the Islamic Republic of Iran, as a State party to the
International Covenants on Human Rights, to abide
by its obligations under the Covenants and under
other international instruments on human rights to
which it is party, and to ensure that all individuals
within its territory and subject to its jurisdiction, in-
cluding religious groups, enjoy the rights recognized
in these instruments" and requests "the Special Rep-
resentative to submit an interim report to the General
Assembly at its fifty-first session on the situation of
human rights in the Islamic Republic of Iran, includ-
ing the situation of minority groups such as the
Baha'is, and to report to the Commission at its fifty-
third session."
Decision 1996/287 of ECOSOC endorsed the
Commission's decision to extend for a further year the
mandate of the Special Representative, and approved
the Commission's request to the Special Represen-
tative to submit an interim report to the General As-
sembly at its fifty-first session on the situation of
human rights in the Islamic Republic of Iran, includ-
ing the situation of minority groups such as the
Baha'is, and to report to the Commission at its fifty-
tl1ird session.
Resolution E/CN.4/Sub.2/RES/l996/7 (20.8.1996)
oftbe Sub-Commission on Prevention of Disc rim ina-
tion and Protection of Minorities gravely concerned
"at reports of: (a) Extensive and continuing human
rights violations by the Government of the Islamic
Republic of Iran, including arbitrary and summary
executions, torture and inhuman or degrading treat-
ment and punishment, arbitrary arrests and impris-
onment, unexplained disappearances, the absence of
guarantees essential for the protection of the right to
a fair trial and disregard for freedom of expression
and freedom of religion," requests "the Government
of the Islamic Republic of Iran to investigate fully in
order to end the alleged violations of human rights in
the Islamic Republic of Iran which include: (d) Reli-
gious discrimination, notably against Baha'is and
Christians," urges "the Government of the Islamic Re-
public of Iran to implement fully the conclusions and
the recommendations of the Special Rapporteur on
religious intolerance relating to the Baha'is and to
other minority religious groups, including Christians,
until they are completely emancipated" and requests
"the Secretary-General to continue to keep the Sub-
Commission informed of relevant reports and United
Nations measures to prevent human rights violations
in the Islamic Republic of Iran, including violations
of the religious freedoms of the Baha'i and the Chris-
tian communities in Iran."
Resolution 511107 (12.12.96) of the General As-
sembly expresses "its concern at the grave breaches of
human rights of the Baha'is in the Islamic Republic of
Iran and situations of discrimination against the
members of this religious community, as well as at the
discriminatory treatment of minorities by reason of
their religious beliefs, including lack of adequate pro-
tection for the Christian minorities, some members of
which have been the target of intimidation and assas-
sination;' urges "the Government of the Islamic Re-
public of Iran, as a State party to the International
Covenants on Human Rights, to abide by its freel y
undertaken obligations under the Covenants and un-
der other international instruments on human rights
and to ensure that all individuals within its territory
and subject to its jurisdiction, including members of
religious groups and persons belonging to minorities,
enjoy all tbe rights enshrined in those instruments,"
calls upon "the Government of the Islamic Republic
of Iran to implement fully the conclusions and rec-
ommendations of the Special Rapporteur of the
Commission on Human Rights on the elimination of
all forms of religious intolerance and of discrimination
based on religion or belief relating to the Baha'is and to
other minority religious groups, including Christians;'
expresses its grave concern at indications, according to
the information received by the Special Representative
of the Commission on Human Rights on the situation
of human rights in the Islamic Republic of Iran, of a
significant toughening of criminal legislation and its
application in the Islamic Republic of Iran and in par-
ticular at tbe incidence of capital punishment imposed
for apostasy and non-violent crimes, in violation of the
relevant provisions of the International Covenant on
Civil and Political Rights and United Nations safe-
guards," and decides "on the basis of the report of tbe
Special Representative and in tl,e light of additional el-
ements provided by the Commission on Human Rights
and the Economic and Social Council, to continue the
examination of the situation of human rights in the Is-
lamic Republic of Iran, including the situation of mi-
nority groups such as the Baha 'is, during its
fifty-second session under the item entitled 'Human
rights questions.' ''
Resolution E/CN.4/RES/l997/54 (l5.4. 1997) of the
Commission on Human Rights expresses "its concern:
(b) At the grave breaches of the human rights of the
Baha'is in the Islamic Republic of Iran and situations
of discrimination against the members of this reli-
gious community, as well as at the discriminatory
treatment of minorities by reason of their religious
beliefs, including certain Christian minorities, some
members of which have been the targets of intimi-
dation and assassination," calls upon "the Govern-
ment of the Islamic Republic of Iran: (b) To abide by
its freely undertaken obligations under the Inter-
national Covenants on Human Rights and under
other international instruments on human rights, and
to ensure that all individual.s within its territory and
subject to its jurisdiction, including members of reli-
gious groups and persons belonging to minorities, en-
joy all the rights en hrined in those instruments; (c)
To implement fully the recommendation of the Spe-
cial Representative and the relevant recommendations
of the pecial Rapporteurs on religious intolerance
and on freedom of opinion and expression, in par-
ticular the recommendations relating to the Baha'is,
Christians, Sunni and other minority religious
groups; (g) To ensure that capital punishment will not
be imposed for apostasy or non-violent crimes, or in
disregard of the provisions of the International Cov-
enant on Civil and Political Rights and the United
Nations safeguards" and decides: " ... (c) To continue
its examination of the situation of human rights in
the Islamic Republic of Iran, including the situation
of minority groups such as the Baha'is, at its fifty-
fourth session under the agenda item entitled 'Ques-
tion of the violation of human rights and
fundamental freedoms in any part of the world, with
particular reference to colonial and other dependent
countries and territories.'''
Decision 1997/262 of ECOSOC endorsed the
Commission's decision to extend for a further year the
mandate of the Special Representative on the situ-
ation of human rights in the Islamic Republic of Iran,
approved the Commission's request to the Special
Representative to submit an interim report to the
General Assembly at its fifty-second session on the
situation of human rights in the Islamic Republic of
Iran and to report to the Commission at its fifty-
fourth session, and to keep a gender perspective in
mind when seeking and analysing information, and to
request the Secretary-General to continue to give all
necessary assistance to the Special Representative to
enable him to discharge his mandate fully.
Resolution 521142 of the General Assembly ex-
presses "its concern: (b) At the grave breache of the
human rights of the Baha'is, the discrimination
against members of other religious minorities, includ-
ing Christians, and the death sentences pronounced
against Dhabihullah Mahrami, Musa Talibi and
Ramadan-Ali Dhulfaqari, on the marge of apostasy,
and again t Bilinam Mithaqi and Kayvan Khalajabadi
because of their beliefs," calls upon the Government
of the Islamic Republic of Iran: " .. . (b) To abide by its
freely undertaken obligations under the International
Covenants on Human Rights and under other inter-
THE UN RESPONSE

national instruments on human rights and to ensure
that all individuals within its territory and subject to
its jurisdiction, including members of religious
groups and persons belonging to minorities, enjoy all
the rights enshrined in those instruments; (c) To
implement fully the conclusions and recommen-
dations of the Special Rapporteur of the Commission
on Human Rights on the elimination of all forms of
religious intolerance and of discrimination based on
religion or belief relating to the Baha'is and to other
minority religious groups, including Christians, until
they are completely emancipated; E/CN.411996/951
Add.2. (g) To ensure that capital punishment will not
be imposed for apostasy or non-violent crimes or in
disregard of the provisions of the International Cov-
enant on Civil and Political Rights and United Na-
tions safeguards" and decides "to continue the
examination of the situation of human rights in the
Islamic Republic of Iran, including the situation of
minority groups such as the Baha'is, at its fifty-third
session under the item entitled 'Human rights ques-
tions: in the light of additional elements provided by
the Commission on Human Rights."
Resolution E/CN.4/RES/1998/80 (22.4.1998) of the
Commission on Human Rights expresses "its concern:
(c) At continuing grave violations of the human rights
of the Baha'is, as well as at the discrimination against
members of other religious minorities, including
Christians, despite constitutional guarantees, at the
increased pressure on religious communities and per-
sons suspected of proselytizing, and at the death sen-
tences pronounced against Mr. Dhabihullah Mahrami
and Mr. Musa Talibi on the charge of apostasy, and
against Mr. Bihnam Mithaqi and Mr. Kayvan
Khalajabadi because of their beliefs:' calls upon "the
Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran: (b) To
abide by its freely undertaken obligations under the
International Covenants on Human Rights and under
other international instruments on human rights, and
to ensure that aU individuals within its territory and
subject to its jurisdiction, including members of reli-
gious groups and persons belonging to minorities, en-
joy all the rights enshrined in those instruments; ...
(e) To implement fully the conclusions and recom-
mendations of the Special Rapporteur on religious in-
tolerance relating to the Baha'is, Christians and other
minority religious groups, until they are completely
emancipated .. . (j) To ensure that capital punishment
will not be inlposed for non-violent crimes, for apos-
tasy, or otherwise in disregard of the provisions of the
international Covenant on Civil and Political Rights
and the United Nations safeguards" and decides: " ...
(c) To continue its examination of the situation of
human rights in the Islamic Republic of Iran, includ-
ing the situation of minority groups such as the
Baha'is and the Christians, at its fifty-fifth session un-
der the same agenda item."
Decision 1998/273 of ECOSOC endorsed the
Commission's decision to extend the mandate of the
Special Representative for a further year, to request
the Special Representative to submit an interim report
THE BAHA'I QUESTION
to the General Assembly at its fifty-third session and
to report to the Commission at its fifty-fifth session,
and to keep a gender perspective in mind when seek-
ing and analysing information, and to request the Sec-
retary-General to continue to give all necessary
assistance to the Special Representative to enable him
to discharge his mandate fully.
Resolution 53/158 (9.12.1998) of the General As-
sembly expresses "its concern at the discrimination
against religious minorities and in particular remains
gravely concerned at the unabated pattern of perse-
cution against the Baha'is, in particular the execution
and sentencing to death and arrests of members of the
Baha'i community, and calls upon the Government of
the Islamic Republic ofIran to implement the recom-
mendations of the Special Rapporteur of the Com-
mission on Human Rights on religious intolerance
relating to the Baha'is and to other religious minori-
ties, until they are completely emancipated;" calls
upon "the Government of the Islamic Republic of
Iran to ensure that capital punishment will not be im-
posed for other than the most serious crimes, for
apostasy, or otherwise in disregard of the provisions
of the International Covenant on Civil and Political
Rights and United Nations safeguards, and to provide
the Special Representative with relevant statistics on
this matter;" and decides "to continue the exami-
nation of the situation of human rights in the Islamic
Republic of iran, including the situation of minority
groups such as the Baha'is, at its fifty-fourth session
under the item entitled 'Human rights questions: in
the light of additional elements provided by the Com-
mission on Human Rights."
Resolution E/CN.4/RESI1999/13 (23.4.1999) of the
Commission on Human Rights notes with interest:
" ... (b) The reported elimination of discrimination
against Baha'i youth in enrolment in the pre-univer-
sity year at the high-school level, while remaining
concerned that their entry to universities continues to
be refused, expresses its concern: (c) At the continued
discrimination against religious minorities, in par-
ticular the unabated and, in some instances, worsened
pattern of persecution against the Baha'is, including
death sentences, executions, arrests and the closure of
the Baha'i institute of Higher Education" and calls
upon the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran:
" .. . (b) To ensure that capital punishment will not be
imposed for other than the most serious crimes, not
for apostasy or otherwise in disregard of the provi-
sions of the International Covenant on Civil and Po-
litical Rights and United Nations safeguards, and to
provide the Special Representative with relevant
statistics on this matter; (c) To implement fully the
conclusions and recommendations of the Special
Rapporteur on religious intolerance relating to the
Baha'is and other minority religious groups until they
are completely emancipated;" and decides: " ... (c) To
continue its examination of the simation of human
rights in the Islamic Republic of Iran, including the
situation of the Baha'is and other minority groups, at
its fifty-sixth session under the same agenda item."