THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1995-12-31

To the b ahá’ís of the w orld

dearly loved f riends,

in the wake of the dynamic spirit animating the six-day-long counselors’

conference at the world center, now in its final session as we address you,

we take the occasion to announce our decision which has been the subject

of their deliberations: At ri¤ván 1996 a global plan of expansion and con-

solidation will be launched, to end four years later at ri¤ván 2000.

it is this anticipation that has focused the thoughts of the seventy-eight

counselors from the five continents, who have been conferring together in the presence of the hands of the cause of god Amatu’l-b ahá rú¥íyyih

khánum, ‘Alí-Akbar furútan and ‘Alí-m u¥ammad varqá, the members of

tional Teaching center. Their consultations on the challenges and prospects

facing the bahá’í world community have been of such caliber and content

as to have emboldened our expectations of a mighty thrust in the growth and development of that community during the crucial years immediately ahead.

The whole plan will be announced at ri¤ván. however, we wish you to

have some information about it now within the measure of the discussions which have been taking place at the counselors’ conference.211.3

211.4

212.1

212.2

212.3

1993–1996  •  T h e  Th r e e  Ye a r  Pl a n

61The four year plan will aim at one major accomplishment: a significant

advance in the process of entry by troops. This is to be achieved through

marked progress in the activity and development of the individual believer,

of the institutions, and of the local community. keen attention to all three

will ensure a greatly expanded, visibly united, vibrant and cohesive interna-tional community by the end of the twentieth century. The basic requisites

can be summarized as follows.

The first calls for a vitality of the faith of each believer that is expressed

through personal initiative and constancy in teaching the cause to others,

and through conscientious, individual effort to provide energy and resources to upbuild the community, to uphold the authority of its institutions, and to

support local and regional plans and teaching projects. The second requires that local and national bahá’í institutions evolve more rapidly into a proper

exercise of their responsibilities as channels of guidance, planners of the teaching work, developers of human resources, builders of communities, and loving shepherds of the multitudes. The third, the flourishing of the community especially at the local level, demands a significant enhancement

in patterns of behavior by which the collective expression of the virtues of

the individual members and the functioning of the Spiritual Assembly is manifest in the unity and fellowship of the community and the dynamism of its activity and growth.

Towards these ends, the work of the continental counselors must as-

sume new dimensions. Thus, at their conference, they have been deliberat-ing on such matters as:

– d evelopments in the mode of the functioning of the continental

boards of counselors.

– The process for the elaboration of the plan through the formulation

of derivative plans and strategies at the national, regional, and local

levels. joint consultations between the continental counselors and

National Spiritual Assemblies will begin immediately after ri¤ván,

and the planning process will move quickly to the regional level,

involving Auxiliary board members, local Spiritual Assemblies

and committees.

– The development of human resources to meet the needs of a rap-idly expanding community. large-scale growth necessitates sus-

tained measures of consolidation. The urgent requirement is for formally conducted programs of training through institutes and other centers of learning, in the establishment and operation of 212.4

212.5

212.6

212.6a

212.6b

212.6c

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

62which the counselors and Auxiliary board members will become

more intimately involved.

– e ffective approaches to the raising up and consolidation of local

Spiritual Assemblies. in accordance with the objective of fostering

the maturation of these Assemblies, a greater effort is required to

uphold a vital principle, which is that the responsibility for electing

a local Spiritual Assembly rests primarily on the bahá’ís in the

locality. The Auxiliary board members and their assistants are to

increase their efforts to improve the general understanding of this

principle and will devote more attention to assisting the develop-

ment of local Assemblies. As of ri¤ván 1997, all local Spiritual

Assemblies throughout the world will have to be elected on the first

day of ri¤ván.

– f urther means for the development of local bahá’í communities.

The needs in this respect will be met in part by an immediate in-

crease in the membership of the Auxiliary boards for protection

to equal that of the Auxiliary boards for propagation, so that pro-

tection board members can directly and systematically assist on

a wide scale the fundamental activities of the community, such as the spiritual nurturing of individual believers, the participation of women in all aspects of community life, the observance of the

Nineteen day feasts and holy days, the holding of children’s

classes, the fostering of youth activities.

The seven objectives specified in previous plans describe essential, in-

teracting directions that must advance simultaneously into the foreseeable

future. The four year plan’s aim at accelerating the process of entry by

troops identifies a necessity at this stage in the progress of the cause and

in the state of human society. with this perspective, the three inseparable

participants in the evolution of the new world order—the individual, the

institutions, and the community—must now demonstrate more tangibly than ever before their capacity and willingness to embrace masses of new adherents, to effect the spiritual and administrative transformation of thou-

sands upon thousands, and, above all, to multiply the army of knowledge-

able, consecrated teachers of a faith whose emergence from obscurity must

be registered on the consciousness of countless multitudes throughout the

earth. These are among the detailed considerations that have occupied the

deliberations of the continental counselors, who, upon their return home 212.6d

212.6e

212.7

1993–1996  •  T h e  Th r e e  Ye a r  Pl a n

6and in the course of their work, will have occasion to share the results of

their conference with the friends.

An auspicious beginning for the new plan will largely depend on the re-

sults of the current one, which will end in just a few months. The adequacy of these results will owe much to the degree to which the local Spiritual

Assemblies and the friends carry out the directions of their National Spiri-

tual Assemblies, the generals of every plan. Time is slipping away. This

reality should prod us all to maximum action. hence, in preparation for

what beckons us on the near horizon, we cannot, we must not, hesitate to

expend every energy to bring the Three year plan to a successful conclusion.

The urgency which intensifies our desire for such an outcome is not merely pride of victory, gratifying as that may be. There are divine deadlines to be met. o ur work is intended not only to increase the size and consolidate the

foundations of our community, but more particularly to exert a positive influence on the affairs of the entire human race. At so crucial a moment in world affairs, we must not fail in our duty to take timely action on the goals set before us in the Three y ear p lan.

with the full fervor of our expectant hearts, we call upon you all, in-

dividually and collectively, to arise to the summons of the lord of hosts

to teach his cause. do so with love, faith and courage; and the doors of

heaven will open wide to pour forth benedictions upon your efforts.

with loving b ahá’í greetings,

213

Preparations for the Four Year Plan

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]