B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Cover
HUMAN
RIGHTS
FAITH
CULTURE
and
50th Anniversary of the
Universal Declaration
of Human Rights
Proceedings of the Australian
Bahá’í Studies Conference
7-8 November 1998
Canberra, Australia

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
The Books for the World series aims
to bring diverse literature to people
around the world by directing all
proceeds from sale of a title into
donating the same title to people who
otherwise could not afford it as well
as offering library donation programs
and free electronic books which can
be used for local printing and
distribution.
At this time, the following programs
are part of the Books for the World
series:
Free Book Distribution Program:
Juxta Publishing prints
selected book titles for sale to
subsidize the cost of free
distribution of the same titles
worldwide.
World Library Donation Program:
Juxta Publishing makes
selected titles available to
National Bahá’í Communities,
Local Bahá’í Communities and
Bahá’í Groups which would
like to donate the books to
their local libraries.
Royalty-free E-books Program:
Juxta Publishing produces
e-books which can be freely
downloaded and printed for
local non-commercial use.
www.juxta.com
© 2001,  Association for Baha’i
Studies - Australia.
This electronic edition is prepared with the
consent of the original authors; all articles
first appear in this volume. The copyright
of individual articles remains with the
authors; the articles are included in this
volume with the permission of the
individual authors. Requests to reproduce
individual articles should be directed in
writing to the authors directly or to Juxta
Publishing Limited. Requests to reproduce
this entire volume outside the provisions
outlined below should be directed in
writing to Juxta Publishing Limited.
This electronic edition has been produced
to facilitate widespread distribution and
use of this book and it may be freely
redistributed in electronic form so long as
the following conditions are met:
1. The contents of this file are not altered.
2. This copyright and redistribution notice
remains intact
3. No charges are made or monies
collected for the redistribution of this work
In addition, this file may be printed
without alteration for personal and
academic use in course settings in non-
bound formats; copies printed for this
purpose may not be distributed commer-
cially. In cases of academic use in course
settings, charges may be made for
reproduction costs but no additional
monies may be collected. Any other
printing, in bound or non-bound formats,
or redistribution in printed form is
forbidden without the expressed written
consent of the Association for Baha’i
Studies - Australia or Juxta Publish-
ing Limited.
BOOKS FOR
THE WORLD

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Introduction...................................................................................................5
The Contributors ...........................................................................................7
Seeing is Believing  Zita Antonios ..............................................................12
Human Rights: Fifty Years and On  Gillian Bird .......................................20
Combating Racism: Multiculturalism
and Reconciliation  Angela Chan................................................................28
Cultural Diversity in International Law  Hilary Charlesworth...................34
Catholicism, Gender and Human Rights  Sandie Cornish .........................46
Human Rights: Reflections from a
Bahá’í Viewpoint  Michael Curtotti ............................................................65
Religious Freedom in the Asia Pacific  Graham Hassall.............................85
Tikkun Olam: To Repair the World  Jeremy Jones .......................................95
Human Rights and Responsibilities:
A Christian Perspective  Robert McCorquodale ........................................101
Respecting Spiritual and Cultural Beliefs about Death:
An Australian Buddhist Case Study  Ann Pickering ...............................115
Majority-Minority Issues in Religious Freedom  Juliet Sheen..................129
An Islamic Legal Perspective on the Universal
Declaration of Human Rights  Asmi Wood ..............................................140

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Introduction
Introduction
The year 1998 marked the 50th anniversary of the Universal Declara-
tion of Human Rights.
Rightly, this anniversary provoked reflection by many organizations
and individuals on the progress made, and yet to be made, in attaining
the goals - indeed the minimum societal aspirations - set out in that his-
toric document.
As a contribution to this process of reflection, the Association for Baha’i
Studies Australia hosted a 50th anniversary conference on the theme “Hu-
man Rights, Faith and Culture”.  It is a theme particularly pertinent to
our period of history in which the inter-relationship between belief, cul-
ture and human rights is at issue in both positive and negative ways.
The papers presented at the conference, which are published here to-
gether for the first time, provide much food for thought on these ques-
tions.
Zita Antonios explores for us one of the challenging issues facing Aus-
tralian society: our capacity to accord due recognition and respect to the
religious beliefs and institutions of the indigenous people of Australia.
Gillian Bird, in a keynote address to the conference, reflects broadly on
Australia’s approach to international human rights, and the current state
of progress of human rights.  Angela Chan draws to our attention the
issues of cultural diversity and inclusiveness, which are intimately con-
nected to the affirmation of the human dignity for all without distinction.
Hilary Charlesworth examines debates regarding cultural relativity and
human rights and explores the role of religious institutions in intergov-
ernmental negotiations in resisting equal rights for women.  Sandie Cor-
nish reviews the historical unfoldment of the Roman Catholic Church’s
approach to human rights questions and also reflects on issues of gender
equity facing the Church.  Michael Curtotti provides a perspective on
Baha’i approach and practice in the field of human rights and provides
an outline of the relationship between Baha’i scripture and human rights

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Introduction
principles.  Graham Hassall, also speaking from a Baha’i perspective, ad-
dresses the Baha’i approach to issues of religious freedom in the Asia-
Pacific, and more widely.  Jeremy Jones reflects on universal questions
from a Jewish perspective – exploring the inter-relationship between learn-
ing and practical action in the service of human dignity.  Robert
McCorquodale explores and affirms the obligation to respect human rights
from a Christian and scriptural viewpoint.  Ann Pickering examines the
experience of the Buddhist community in Canberra in seeking recogni-
tion of its religious practices in respect to death and dying.   Juliet Sheen,
looking at the evolution of minority rights within the international sys-
tem, explores the difficulties still encountered by religious and other mi-
norities both overseas and in Australia.  Asmi Wood draws interlinkages
between Islam and human rights – and challenges the notion that there is
any inherent contradiction between the two.
This brief review will hopefully serve to whet the appetite of the reader
to learn more of the insights shared by these contributors.  They represent
a wide diversity of Australian opinion and in themselves demonstrate
that, despite the road yet to be traversed, human rights have had a pro-
found and positive impact on Australia.
With the publication of these papers in 2002 we see that their relevance
has far from diminished.
We take this opportunity to express our sincere thanks to all who spoke
at the conference and contributed to its organization.  We extend our
very special thanks to Annemarie Devereux, of the Catholic Community,
who made a disproportionate and much appreciated contribution to the
conference’s organization and success.  Also deserving of special thanks
is Sandra Langshaw who, as Treasurer of the Association for Baha’i Studies
Australia, managed the financial aspects of the conference.
Human Rights Working Group
Association for Baha’i Studies Australia

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
The Contributors
The Contributors
Ms Zita Antonios
Zita Antonios was appointed Race Discrimination Commissioner in
September 1994 and Acting Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Social
Justice Commissioner in February 1998.
She was educated in Sydney and is a qualified social worker. Through-
out her career she has held a range of administrative, research and policy
positions. The public service positions she has held have focused on equal
opportunity and race discrimination particularly as it affects people of
non-English speaking backgrounds. She has also held a number of advi-
sory positions and she is currently a member of the Multicultural Advi-
sory Committee to the Sydney Organising Committee for the Olympic
Games.
Ms Gillian Bird
Gillian Bird is the First Assistant Secretary of the International
Organisations and Legal Division of the Department of Foreign Affairs
and Trade.  She joined the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade in
1980 and has represented the Australian government at the OECD and
the United Nations.  From 1988 to 1990 she worked in the Office for Min-
ister ofTrade Negotiations, and from 1990 to 1993 she worked as First
Secretary and Counsellor at the Australian mission to the United Nations
New York.  In 1993 she worked on the “Cooperating for Peace” issue and
Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty projects.  Also in 1993 she was appointed
Assistant Secretary of the Executive Branch, and in 1994, Executive Sec-
retary of the Peace, Arms Control and Disarmament Branch.  Ms Bird
holds a BA (Hons) from the University of Sydney.  She was born in
Adelaide.

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
The Contributors
Ms Angela Chan
Angela Chan was born in Sydney, and graduated from the University
of Wollongong with a Bachelor of Arts, majoring in Italian language and
South-East Asian history.  She completed her Diploma in Law (Barrister’s
Admission Board) and was admitted to the Bar in 1990.  She was the first
Australian born Chinese woman to be admitted as a Barrister.  Angela is
a former Chairperson of the Ethnic Communities’ Council of NSW (ECC)
which was a voluntary position.  Her term as Chairperson came to its
constitutional end in 1997 when she was then appointed the national
Convenor for the Federation of Ethnic Communities’ Council of Australia
(FECCA) on community harmony, anti-racism, reconciliation and the
Sydney 2000 Olympics.
Professor Hilary Charlesworth
Hilary Charlesworth is Professor and Director of the Centre for Inter-
national and Public Law at the Australian National University.  From
1993 to 1997 she was John Bray Professor of Law at the University of
Adelaide.  In 1997 she was a visiting Professor at the law program, Re-
search School of Social Sciences, Australian National University.  Her re-
search and teaching interests are in international law and human rights
law.  In 1997 she wrote, with Burns Weaton and Richard Falk, Interna-
tional Law and World Order. In 1982, she was awarded the Frank Knox
Memorial Scholarship, the Robert Gordon Menzies Scholarship to Harvard
and a Fulbright Scholarship to undertake postgraduate work at Harvard
Law School. She graduated from Harvard with an SJD in 1986. She was
part-time Commissioner with the Australian Law Reform Commission
on its reference into Equality before the Law.  She was a member of the
Australian Council for Women, a body established by the Commonwealth
government to advise it on preparations for the Fourth  World Confer-
ence on Women in 1995, and Deputy Chair of the National Consultative
Committee on the World Summit for Social Development. From 1995 to
1998 she was a member of the Executive Council of the American Society
of International Law.  From 1994 to 1998 she was a Hearing Commis-
sioner with the Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission.  She

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
The Contributors
is currently a member of Foreign Affairs Council of the Minister for For-
eign Affairs, a Board member of the Diplomacy Training Program and
Defence of Children International (Australia).  She is also President of the
Australian and New Zealand Society of International Law.
Ms Sandie Cornish
Sandie Cornish is the Chief Executive Officer of the Australian Catho-
lic Social Justice Council and Co-Convenor of the National Council of
Churches in Australia’s Network on Women and Gender Relationships.
She has played a significant role in the planning and conduct of the Catholic
Bishops’ research on the Participation of Women in the Catholic Church
of Australia, the report of which was due for completion in May 1999.
Sandie has degrees in Economics, Catholic Social Doctrine, and Public
Policy, and has worked in the field of Social Justice for ten years.  She is
married to Photographer Geoff Hirst.
Mr Michael Curtotti
Since 1996 Michael Curtotti has been Executive Officer – External Af-
fairs for the Australian Baha’i Community in which capacity he repre-
sents the community on human rights issues and supports the work of
the Bahá’í Community on human rights and related social issues.  He is
also currently Secretary of the Australian Forum of Human Rights
Organisations, in which capacity he serves as a liaison with the Depart-
ment of Foreign Affairs and Trade in relation to biannual human rights
consultations.  He has represented the Australian Council for Overseas
Aid in 1997 and again in 1998 at the United Nations Commission on
Human Rights.   Prior to working in the non-government sector Michael
served as a policy and legal officer in the International Organizations and
Legal Division of the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade (1993-
1996). Prior to joining DFAT he was Assistant Director of International
and Operations Law with the Royal Australian Navy.  He holds a Master
of International Law from the Australian National University and a Bach-
elor of Laws and Commerce from the University of New South Wales.

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
The Contributors
Dr Graham Hassall
Graham Hassall studied Asian and Pacific Islands’ history at Sydney
University and the Australian National University. Since 1990 he has di-
rected the Asia-Pacific program of teaching and research at the Centre
for Comparative Constitutional Studies, the University of Melbourne.  In
recent years he has published works on issues of citizenship, human rights,
and electoral systems.   In July of this year he observed the Cambodian
general election on behalf of the Lawasia Organisation and in October he
participated in a meeting in Stockholm on “Democracy and Deep-Rooted
Conflict”.   He is an active member of the Victorian Bahá’í community,
the United Nations Association of Victoria, and the World Conference on
Religion and Peace.
Mr Jeremy Jones
Jeremy Jones is the Director of International Community Affairs of the
Australia/Israel & Jewish Affairs Council; the Executive Vice-President
of the Executive Council of Australian Jewry; the Chair of the Advisory
Group of Faith Communities to the Council for Aboriginal Reconciliation;
a member of the Jewish community components in on-going dialogues
with Uniting, Catholic and Anglican Churches; Australian correspon-
dent for the Jerusalem Report and for the Jewish Telegraphic Agency.
Associate Professor Robert McCorquodale
Robert McCorquodale is an Associate Professor (Reader) in Interna-
tional and Public Law in the Faculty of Law at the Australian National
University.  He has been at the ANU for three years.  Prior to this he was
a Fellow and Lecturer in Law at St. John’s College, University of Cam-
bridge for 8 years after a number of years in legal practice.   He has writ-
ten two books and over 40 papers in the field of international law and
constitutional law, with the focus being on international human rights
law.  He has advised governments and peoples on issues of international
law and has assisted in the drafting of new constitutions, such as in Malawi.
Robert is a Christian and has been a member of Christian churches all his
life, particularly the Uniting Church in Australia and the Baptist Church
in the UK, and he is a lay preacher. He is a member of the Board for Social
Responsibility in the NSW Synod of the Uniting Church. He is blessed by
a wonderful wife and three lovely children.

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
The Contributors
Ms Ann Pickering
Ann Pickering is a student of Sogyal Rinpoche, the author of The Ti-
betan Book of Living and Dying, and Namkhai Norbu Rinpoche. She has
received teachings from these and other masters on the Tibetan Buddhist
practices for the moment of death. The sudden death in Canberra in 1993
of Gyalsay Tulku Rinpoche triggered a review of the ACT Coroner’s Act.
Ann coordinated a submission to this review by the combined Buddhist
communities of Canberra. In 1998, she provided evidence on Buddhist
beliefs on death and dying to a workshop on Religion and Human Rights
by the Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission.
Dr Juliet Sheen
Juliet Sheen is an independent human rights consultant, specialising
in the area of freedom of religion and belief.  While working on policy
development and law reform in the NSW Anti-Discrimination Board from
1977 to 1994, she largely compiled its 1984 report: Discrimination and Re-
ligious Conviction.  Since 1984 she has been involved in international work
to support the 1981 UN Declaration of the Elimination of All Forms of
Intolerance and of Discrimination Based on Religion and Belief. In recent
years, as a Fellow of the University of Essex Human Rights Centre (UK),
she has worked with Kevin Boyle to produce Freedom of Religion and
Belief: A World Report which studies 57 countries.
Mr Asmi Wood
Asmi Wood is a student of International Law with a special interest in
human rights. He graduated from the University Of Melbourne in Sci-
ence and has worked both in the private sector and in government. He
currently works as a contractor to the public sector and also works for a
family business. He is interested in Islamic studies and is currently the
Secretary of the Canberra Islamic Centre and Australian National Islamic
Library, both based in Canberra.

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Seeing is Believing
Seeing is Believing
BY ZITA ANTONIOS
Several years ago the Commonwealth Government appointed three
Commissioners to inquire into the development of the Australian coastal
zone. A meeting was held at Millingimbi on the coast of Arnhem Land
where the Commissioners met with Aboriginal custodians and heard their
concerns about the protection of the coast, the inter-tidal zone and their
salt-water country. The Aboriginal custodians were worried about pollu-
tion, the intensity of commercial fishing, especially the waste of what is
called ‘by-catch’, tourist operations and the protection of sacred sites in
the sea. At the end of the day a senior custodian offered to take the Com-
missioners to a site for which he had particular responsibility. Shoes and
socks were taken off, trousers were rolled up as the Commissioners waded
out to an aluminum run-about. There was an air of expectancy as the old
man carefully aligned landmarks and directed the boat to a particular
point. The Commissioners peered over the side at a patch of muddy brown
water, completely indistinguishable from the rest of the sea which stretched
out around them. Their faces could not hide their disappointment and
disbelief as they stared at nothing.
Hundreds of kilometres to the west, also in the Northern Territory, an
optical fibre cable was laid through the Victoria River District. “The route
could not avoid traversing land which held documented mythological
significance. The whole area formed a densely mythologised cluster of
sacred sites, including a child or a piccaninny Dreaming (Karu), a major
blue-tongued lizard Dreaming (Lungarra) and a black whip snake Dream-
ing (Wiyawatu) ... The area represented a kind of spiritual bottleneck which
made it inevitable that some form of damage to significant Dreaming sites
and pathways would occur” in the process of laying the cable1.

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Seeing is Believing
Under the Northern Territory Sacred Sites Act (1989) compensation for
interference with land was negotiated. But “as one of the company repre-
sentatives indicated, while he was not saying the areas in question were
not sacred sites, ‘he had a lot of difficulty in paying for something that
was invisible’ ... something that you could not place a recognisable value
on.”2
Recognition is the fundamental issue in achieving respect for Indig-
enous spiritual beliefs. Lack of recognition can occur at several levels.
In Australia, the first level flows from a deeply-instilled, almost sub-
liminal disbelief in the value of Indigenous culture generally. It has its
origins in nineteenth century social Darwinian theory in which Aborigi-
nal culture was regarded as primitive, the product of an unevolved soci-
ety. Within such a framework, the progress of civilisation - epitomised by
Western Europe - was marked not only by technological advances, but by
refinement in the artifacts of the law, government and religion. Indig-
enous religious belief, if not stigmatised as devil worship, was regarded as
a crude and benighted form of superstition. The missionary imperative
was to bring our dark brothers and sisters within the light of civilised
belief and to find salvation within Christianity. The separation of Ab-
original and Torres Strait Islander children from their families was part of
the attempt to destroy Indigenous religion and to cut the cultural descent
lines of its transmission.
Such aggressive denigration of Indigenous culture has diminished to-
day. A more politic, polite, sometimes romantic, view is expressed. But
the undertow of this history remains active. It can be revealed by what is
omitted. Another form of invisibility.
During his visit to Australia in 1997, Abdulfattah Amor, the United
Nations Special Rapporteur on Religion and Belief, observed that infor-
mation on Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander beliefs was not included
in the statistics provided to him on Australia’s religious diversity.
Aboriginals are not identified in the table of religions in Australia. Part of this
population may, of course, be included in the Christian religion. However, the
Aboriginal people have their own beliefs, which are manifested by their sacred
ties to the Earth and which have to be taken into account as part of Australia’s
religious diversity.3
The Special Rapporteur went on to note that:

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Seeing is Believing
The land and sacred sites hold a fundamental significance for Aboriginal people
insofar as their beliefs are identified with the land. A basic question is therefore
the recognition of an Aboriginal religion intrinsically related to the land within
the framework of an Australian society essentially based on Judeo-Christian and
western values. In the view of the Aboriginals the integrity of the land takes on a
religious dimension which therefore has to be preserved.4
This passage indicates further difficulties with the recognition of In-
digenous spiritual beliefs. Unlike the Judeo-Christian tradition where the
numinous is located in places (usually structures) consecrated to worship,
Indigenous spirituality is embedded throughout the entire natural land-
scape in complex interwoven patterns of dreaming tracks, significant and
sacred sites laid down from the time of creation. They express the origins
of all vitality and are essential to its universal maintenance. At the same
time they are intensely personal.
The significance of country is difficult for non-Indigenous people to
grasp. One of the most vivid attempts to convey its meaning was made by
the late Professor Bill Stanner:
No English words are good enough to give a sense of the links between an Ab-
original group and its homeland. Our word ‘home’, warm and suggestive though
it be does not match the Aboriginal word that may mean ‘camp’, ‘hearth’, ‘coun-
try’, ‘everlasting home’, ‘totem place’, ‘life source’, ‘spirit centre’ and much else
all in one. Our word ‘land’ is too spare and meagre. We can now scarcely use it
except with economic overtones unless we happen to be poets. The Aboriginal
would speak of ‘earth’ and use the word in a richly symbolic way to mean his
‘shoulder’ or his ‘side’. I have seen an Aboriginal embrace the earth he walked on.
To put our words ‘home’ and ‘land’ together into ‘homeland’ is a little better but
not much. A different tradition leaves us tongueless and earless towards this
other world of meaning and significance.5
The distance between our traditions is certainly profound. But I sug-
gest it is more than mere difference that gives the particular quality to the
lack of recognition of Indigenous culture and religion. We manage, in
Australia, without sharing beliefs, to recognise many other religious tra-
ditions different to that of the Judeo-Christian world. The Islamic Faith,
Buddhism, Hindu and Shinto Religions may not always be extended the
fullest respect, but their quality as genuine religious beliefs is not impugned
or called into question in the same manner as are Indigenous beliefs.

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Seeing is Believing
It is not merely that Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander cultures have
different beliefs and those beliefs find expression in different forms. It is
the location of the spiritual in the physical landscape that generates so
much difficulty in the extension of respect.
Values which underpin the dominant settler culture of Australia are
directly confronted by the Indigenous relationship to land. The analysis
of this relationship by Judge Blackburn in the Gove Peninsula case,
Milirrpum vs. Commonwealth6, revealed the divergent values which col-
lide when Anglo-European concepts are applied to Indigenous culture.
The Judge was impressed with the depth and reality of the Aboriginal
connection to land to the extent that he ventured the curious thought that
possibly Aboriginal people were owned by the land rather than owning
it. But in his view, their relationship failed to satisfy the common law test
of ownership by lacking to demonstrate a right to exclusive possession.
The significance of exclusive possession of precisely defined areas of land,
of course, reflects the values and needs of a sedentary agricultural society.
Land in the common law tradition is primarily defined by its utility; it is
an economic commodity characterised by the ability to buy and sell and
use it as you see fit, constrained only by the rights of adjacent land own-
ers.
As Professor Stanner said, “we can scarcely use” the word land “ex-
cept with economic overtones”. The location of religious values in an eco-
nomic commodity brings those values into sharp relief against values
shaped by the hard edge of materialism and economic rationalism. And
this is not an abstract philosophical collision of values. It happens in the
physical world where spiritual significance collides with scrappers and
bulldozers.
Perhaps the greatest attention, certainly the most critical attention, is
paid to Indigenous beliefs when they are pitted against proposed land
developments and resource extraction projects. It is a field of contest where
the precise dollar figures of employment and export earnings are con-
trasted against the intangible and divergent beliefs of another culture.
There is a kind of echo of the social Darwinian theory as progress and
development is seen to be impeded by the beliefs of an ancient culture
clinging to its impractical heritage. As one Aboriginal man wryly put it:
“Indigenous culture is seen, basically, as a speed hump on the road to
development.”
Whenever these conflicts between development proposals and the pro-
tection of significant sites occur, not only scepticism but frequently deep

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Seeing is Believing
cynicism is expressed about the existence and characters of those sites.
The Ngarrindjeri experience with Hindmarsh Island and the Gamiliraay
people’s inability to protect Boobera Lagoon near Boggabilla on the New
South Wales-Queensland border are only two of the more recent demon-
strations of this denigration of belief and accusations of bad faith. Always
there is a demand for proof.
The United Nations Rapporteur commented on the complexities and
the inconsistency provided by various State, Territory and Commonwealth
laws. He observed that:
One criticism which is often put forward is the inability of these laws derived
from a western legal system to take account of basic Aboriginal values. A basic
difficulty arises from the fact, that under some laws, Aboriginals have to prove the
religious significance of sites and their importance.7
One wonders how proof of the appearance of the Blessed Virgin Mary
in Lourdes would fare in 1998 if pitched against a billion dollar mining
proposal. Would the issue ever even emerge? I have chosen this example
because it is most familiar to me – I am sure you could think of many
others from different belief systems. But the problems of proof are not
confined to the credit of stories given substance, resonance, meaning and
significance by faith and belief. They go to the processes of inquiry and
the intrusive public nature of the disclosure of information to inappropri-
ate people. Acute sensitivity is not confined to Aboriginal people. The
commercial-in-confidence is a very real form of secret business.
In a multicultural society where competing interests and values must
be balanced, there is no doubt of a need for a discretionary process of
assessment which accords all parties natural justice. It is the nature of
that balance and the extent of protection which is of deep concern.
The Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Heritage Protection Act 1984
(CTH) was reviewed by the Hon Elizabeth Evatt AC in 1986. The Review
was guided by seven policy objectives. Three in particular are worth recit-
ing:
·
To respect and support the living culture, traditions and belief of
Aboriginal people and to recognise their role and interest in the pro-
tection and control of their cultural heritage.

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Seeing is Believing
·
To ensure that heritage protection laws benefit all Aboriginal people,
whether or not they live a traditional lifestyle, whether they are
urban, rural or remote, so as to protect the living culture/tradition
as Aboriginal people see it now.
·
To resolve some of the difficulties of developers by better procedures
which ensure early consideration of heritage issues in the planning
process, effective consultation with Aboriginal people and genuine
mediation.
The latter point identifies that in common with many conflicts con-
cerning Indigenous rights, early consultation and negotiations can avoid
many unnecessary conflicts and achieve a reconciliation of interests in a
practical way. The work clearance agreements negotiated in South Aus-
tralia by the Aboriginal Legal Rights Movement are a very good demon-
stration of this approach.
Unfortunately the recommendations of the Evatt Report have not been
translated into effect in the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Heritage
Protection Bill 1998 which is intended to replace the current Aboriginal
and Torres Strait Islander Heritage Protection Act 1984 (Cth).
The Bill proposes to minimise Commonwealth involvement in Aborigi-
nal cultural protection. The States and Territories will be accredited after
meeting certain minimum standards. The Commonwealth would then
have no role in the protection of Aboriginal heritage except in relation to
unaccredited regimes or in cases where the protection of an area or object
might be in the ‘national interest’.
The Bill has been widely criticised. Elizabeth Evatt was quoted as say-
ing that the Bill represented an abdication of Federal responsibility to pre-
serve Aboriginal heritage by handing back its protective power to the
States without adequate minimum standards. She said that this was con-
trary to her findings that most State and Territory regimes do not ad-
equately protect cultural heritage.8
The Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Commission also criticised
the Bill on a number of similar grounds including the fact that ‘national
interest’ is not defined, and may be limited to decisions which affect ex-
port income and employment rather than allowing a broader definition
which might include the protection of significant areas and sites.
The Parliamentary Joint Committee on Native Title and Aboriginal and
Torres Strait Islander Land Fund reviewed the Bill in light of the recom-

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Seeing is Believing
mendations made in a previous report and reported its further findings in
its 12th Report in May 1998.
The Committee recommended specific changes to the Bill including
that it should:
·
provide blanket or presumptive protection of Indigenous heritage
and for States and Territory legislation to have this protection in
order to achieve accreditation;
·
define the ‘national interest’ comprehensively (but not exhaustively)
so as to include the protection of Indigenous heritage; and
·
provide a more detailed and comprehensive standard by which
States and Territories may qualify to adopt their own heritage pro-
tection regimes subject to the Commonwealth’s last resort function.9
These suggested amendments would resolve in some measure the main
flaws of the Bill but it is arguable that they do not go far enough. In par-
ticular, the retention of any form of a ‘national interest’ criterion for Com-
monwealth intervention may be a step away from the fundamental
purpose of the legislation and the Commonwealth national responsibility
to provide a remedy of last resort for all Indigenous heritage which is not
protected adequately by State or Territory legislation. The minority report
of the Committee rejected the Bill on this ground:
The Minority emphasises the point entailed jointly by evidence from
Ms Elizabeth Evatt, Professor Garth Nettheim, and Mr Mick Dodson that:
·
The combination of an inadequate accreditation regime;
·
together with ‘national interest’ criterion for submitting heritage pro-
tection to the Commonwealth accredited jurisdiction; means
·
in practice, the Bill would establish a heritage protection regime
which could not be used as a last resort in an overwhelming major-
ity of cases.
Despite the Committee’s concern about the Bill the Government pro-
ceeded with it in its original form and it has passed through the Lower
House without amendment. It is now to be considered by the Senate.

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Seeing is Believing
Conclusion
In closing, the failure of our country to accord respect and effective
protection to the religious beliefs of its Indigenous peoples calls into ques-
tion our obligations under Articles 2, 18, 26 and 27 of the International
Covenant on Civil and Political Rights dealing with religious freedom,
equality before the law and minority rights to culture and religion. It ig-
nores the call of the United Nations Special Rapporteur for Indigenous
Peoples to respect “the profound highly complex and sensitive relation-
ship that Indigenous people have with their land”.
But more immediately, it refuses the gift of Indigenous perception.
To see the spiritual within the material, to recognise our intimate rela-
tionship and obligation to all living things in the natural world, draws us
into relationship with timeless and transcendent values. Surely this is one
of the most nourishing and sustaining perceptions of the human spirit. To
deny respect for this is to deny respect for our own spirit.
Notes
McWilliam, A., “Negotiating Discretion: Sacred Sites, Damage and Due Compensation
in the Northern Territory”,  Australian Aboriginal Studies, no. 1, 1998, p. 6.
Ibid., pp. 6-7.
“Implementation of the Declaration on the Elimination of All Forms of Intolerance and
Discrimination Based on Religion or Belief”, report submitted by Mr Abdulfattah Amor,
Special Rapporteur UNDOC, E/CN. 4/1998/6/ADD.1, p. 9.
Ibid., p. 17.
Stanner, W. E. H., White Man Got No Dreaming: Essays 1938-1973, Australian National
University Press, Canberra, 1979, p. 230.
Milirrpum v Nabalco (1971) 17 FLR 141 (NTSC).
Amor report, supra note 3, para. 93.
See also Kingston, M., Sydney Morning Herald, 12 May 1998, p. 6.
Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia, Parliamentary Joint Committee on
Native Title and the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Land Fund (12th Report),
Canberra, 1998, para. 4.4.

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Human Rights: Fifty Years and On
Human Rights: Fifty Years and On
BY GILLIAN BIRD
In this year, 1998, as we mark the fiftieth anniversary of the Universal
Declaration of Human Rights, it is important to recognise the impact the
Declaration has had and continues to have, on peoples all around the
world, regardless of race, sex, culture or religion. What is equally impor-
tant is that the beliefs inscribed in the Universal Declaration were not
invented fifty years ago. They have been with us for centuries. The earli-
est philosophical thinkers espoused them. Every great religion teaches
them. That is why the Universal Declaration can claim rightly to embody
a set of universal principles - principles that apply equally to all human
beings.
The Universal Declaration was adopted in 1948, in part to fulfil a re-
quirement in Article 13 of the UN Charter which calls on the General
Assembly to initiate studies and make recommendations for the purpose
of “assisting in the realization of human rights and fundamental free-
doms for all without distinction as to race, sex, language, or religion”.
Australia can be proud of the key role played by our then Foreign Minis-
ter, Dr Evatt, in ensuring that respect for human rights was placed along-
side peace, security and development as the primary objectives of the UN.
In recognition of Australia’s efforts in championing human rights in the
newly established UN, we were included in the eight-member committee
charged with drafting the Universal Declaration. Moreover Australia, in
the person of Dr Evatt, presided over the General Assembly when the
Declaration was adopted by the United Nations in 1948.
The international community wasted no time in giving effect to the
human rights commitments in the UN Charter: the Universal Declaration
of Human Rights was one of the first major achievements of the United

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Human Rights: Fifty Years and On
Nations. Indeed, it was the first time that human rights and fundamental
freedoms were set forth in such detail in a single document.
After fifty years the Universal Declaration remains a powerful instru-
ment which continues to exert an enormous effect on lives all over the
world. Although not legally binding, it carries immense moral force. It is
rightly regarded as the foundation of the international human rights sys-
tem. Its adoption prompted a sustained and intensive series of negotia-
tions which have seen the drafting and adoption of a set of international
instruments which today form a significant body of international law.
These include the two basic Covenants, on civil and political rights, and
on economic, social and cultural rights - which, together with the Univer-
sal Declaration, form the Universal Bill of Human Rights - as well as other
international legal instruments dealing with issues such as freedom from
torture and racial discrimination, and the rights of women and children.
This year, 1998, is not only the fiftieth anniversary year of the Univer-
sal Declaration of Human Rights. It also marks the five year review of the
Vienna Declaration and Program of Action agreed on at the World Con-
ference on Human Rights in 1993 by Australia and 170 other countries.
The Vienna Declaration reaffirmed the international community’s com-
mitment to the purposes and principles contained in the Universal Decla-
ration of Human Rights, and in particular the universality, indivisibility
and interdependence of all human rights, thus providing clear guidance
for promoting and protecting all rights - civil, political, economic, social
and cultural. The commemoration of these two events has a special sig-
nificance given the interrelationship between the Universal Declaration
and the Vienna Plan of Action: if the Declaration is the foundation on
which the UN’s human rights goals are built, then the Vienna Plan of
Action charts the course for the international community into the next
century by providing a framework of principles and a program of activi-
ties for achieving these goals.
This is a time both to reflect on the achievements in developing and
maintaining this international human rights system, and to consider what
is still required to consolidate and further develop it. As stated by the
Prime Minister, the fiftieth anniversary is an opportunity for all of us to
reinvigorate efforts to ensure that human rights are enjoyed by all people
in all countries. He has also pledged that Australia will continue to do all
it can to promote and protect the rights enshrined in the Declaration to
ensure they become a reality throughout the world.

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Human Rights: Fifty Years and On
While much has been achieved in the five decades since the adoption
of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, it is clear that respect for
all the rights articulated in the Declaration is far from universal. The Uni-
versal Declaration will not be able to deliver its promised vision for the
world if it is not implemented in a practical and coherent way.
Over the past fifty years, the UN has created an elaborate system of
mechanisms to advance human rights, as well as to deal with violations
of human rights as they occur. The treaty body system which underpins
the UN’s human rights mechanisms is an impressive body of international
law. Today we have international laws which defend our basic right to
life and the right of freedom of expression; laws which address the rights
to work and to a decent standard of living, health and education; laws
which advance and protect the rights of women and children; and laws
which ensure the proper treatment of people regardless of race.
A recent major achievement was the adoption by the Rome Diplo-
matic Conference in July 1998 of a statute to establish an International
Criminal Court. Australia played an active and constructive role through-
out the negotiating process. The Court’s establishment is one of the Aus-
tralian Government’s prime multilateral and human rights objectives. In
welcoming the adoption of the Court’s Statute, Australia’s Minister for
Foreign Affairs, Mr Downer, noted that “the creation of an International
Criminal Court was a great victory for those who had fought long and
hard to ensure that the perpetrators of the most heinous crimes against
humanity would not be able to act with impunity”.
We still have some way to go in developing this network of interna-
tional law. There still exist gaps in international law in important areas
such as according full protection for children from sexual exploitation
and participating in armed conflict. Negotiations are currently proceed-
ing in two working groups to elaborate optional protocols to the Conven-
tion on the Rights of the Child to fill these gaps. Australia is participating
in both these working groups.
We also need to give adequate protection to the defenders of our hu-
man rights - those who often put their lives on the line to protect others -
whether they be individuals, groups, NGOs, lawyers, or anyone commit-
ted to the promotion and protection of human rights and fundamental
freedoms. Australia welcomed the adoption this year by the Commission
on Human Rights of the Declaration on Human Rights Defenders, and
looks forward to its adoption by the General Assembly on 10 December

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Human Rights: Fifty Years and On
1998. This would be an apt conclusion to the celebrations marking this
“human rights year”.
A key element in the UN’s human rights system is the way in which it
makes states accountable for meeting their obligations as parties through
a monitoring system provided for in the six key treaties. Monitoring is
undertaken by committees of independent experts whose key task is to
examine periodic reports on implementation which parties are obliged to
provide. Some of the committees have additional mandates to seek infor-
mation from parties or to hear complaints from their citizens.
The first human rights instrument to establish an international moni-
toring system was the Convention on the Elimination of Racial Discrimi-
nation, adopted by the UN General Assembly in 1965. This convention
not only defined and condemned racial discrimination, but also commit-
ted States to amend policy which creates or perpetuates racial discrimi-
nation. The Convention’s monitoring mechanism - the Committee on the
Elimination of Racial Discrimination - was subsequently established in
1969 when the Convention came into force.
The two Covenants dealing with economic, social and cultural rights,
and civil and political rights also have monitoring bodies. The monitoring
body of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights - the
Human Rights Committee - is mandated not only to study reports from
State Parties but also to consider complaints from one State against an-
other or from individuals. But the monitoring body for the International
Covenant on Economic Social and Cultural Rights, the Committee on
Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, which was only established some
ten years after the Human Rights Committee, does not have a mandate to
consider complaints. This inconsistency has been the subject of interna-
tional debate over the years, but it needs to be remembered that the Uni-
versal Declaration itself makes no distinction between civil and political,
and economic, social and cultural rights. And that is precisely Australia’s
position. Australia’s human rights policies are based on the universality
of all fundamental human rights - civil, political, economic, social and
cultural. We have consistently rejected the view that there exists a hierar-
chy or priority of rights. As far as Australia is concerned, all rights in the
Universal Declaration are closely inter-related, inter-dependent and, above
all, indivisible.
Three subsequent conventions also established treaty monitoring bod-
ies: the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination
against Women; the Convention against Torture and other Cruel, Inhu-

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Human Rights: Fifty Years and On
man or Degrading Treatment or Punishment; and the Convention on the
Rights of the Child.
Apart from this formal system of monitoring States’ compliance, spe-
cial procedures such as working groups, special rapporteurs and special
representatives of the UN Secretary-General are called upon to deal with
burning issues as they arise. Australia has supported these arrangements
as we see them as valuable tools to be used in the protection and promo-
tion of human rights internationally.
Despite this impressive and ever-evolving body of international hu-
man rights instruments, we need to remember that the protections em-
bodied in these instruments can only be fully realised if they are universally
and fully implemented. The more effective and widespread the imple-
mentation of these instruments, the greater the protections to each and
every individual. The real challenge facing us therefore is not only to con-
tinue developing the human rights system, but to do the less eye-catching
but, if anything, more important work of ensuring that existing instru-
ments and mechanisms work as effectively as possible.
However, as Professor Philip Alston (the Australian chair of the ESCR
Committee) pointed out in a major report in 1996, the treaty monitoring
system is experiencing serious difficulties. At the time of his report, 957
national reports under the 6 human rights treaties were overdue, thus
leading to serious concerns about the ability of the treaty bodies to per-
form their monitoring role. Of equal concern was the fact that if all over-
due national reports were submitted today, the Committees would not
have the time or resources to deal with them expeditiously. For example,
it has been estimated that it would take the Committee on the Elimination
of Racial Discrimination twenty-four years to examine all its reports while
the Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women would
require twenty-one years. If the burden of preparing reports is resulting
in countries like Australia being well behind in meeting their obligations,
and, even when submitted, the reports are not considered until they are
well out of date, then the effectiveness of the system is severely compro-
mised. Professor Alston’s suggestions for improving the system focused
on a streamlining of the reporting requirements both to encourage greater
compliance with the obligation and to make the reports easier for the
Committee to manage. Reducing the workload of the Committees in this
way would enable them to deal with reports much more quickly, to iden-
tify problems promptly and assist parties in developing appropriate ways
of dealing with them within a realistic timeframe. While Australia, along
with Canada and New Zealand, has been championing this proposal, it

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Human Rights: Fifty Years and On
has not yet been accepted by many State Parties. But we will continue to
push the issue.
Australia has also supported the efforts of the UN Secretary-General
and High Commissioner for Human Rights to promote an integrated sys-
tem-wide approach to the UN’s human rights activities. The link between
democracy, development, peace and human rights has been demonstrated
time and again by global events - be it the situation in Cambodia or the
internecine conflict of the Balkans. To promote mainstreaming of human
rights across the UN system, the Office of the High Commissioner has
been given the task of assessing the work carried out on human rights
issues in the four Executive Committees of the United Nations - dealing
with peace and security, economic and social affairs, development coop-
eration, and humanitarian affairs - and to participate regularly in every
stage of the UN’s activities in relation to actual or potential conflicts, or
post-conflict situations. This approach has already been reflected in the
increased cooperation and coordination between the Office of the High
Commissioner for Human Rights and the United Nations Development
Program, thereby enhancing the human rights aspects of this program
which focuses on poverty elimination, the promotion of good governance
and democracy.
We also see scope to improve the functioning of the UN Commission
for Human Rights, the pre-eminent multilateral human rights forum. The
current Chairman of the Commission, Ambassador Selebi of South Af-
rica, launched an initiative to review its agenda and procedures with a
view to eliminating unproductive activity. Australia has been a keen par-
ticipant in this process. In relation to human rights, as for other interna-
tional issues, our preference is for cooperation rather than confrontation,
and we make no secret of the fact that we regard a confrontational ap-
proach as frequently unhelpful and unproductive. As was seen at the
1998 session of the Commission, a good deal of its work, and the great
majority of its resolutions and decisions, proceed on a consensus basis,
with States making considerable efforts to accommodate a diversity of
views. That said, there will always be occasions, particularly in a forum
dealing with such sensitive issues, when consensus proves either impos-
sible or meaningless, and the differences among States must be registered
if the credibility of the Commission is to be preserved. But we hope that
the greater degree of commonality of purpose evident in 1998 will be-
come the norm.
Australia has a clear national commitment to the ratification and imple-
mentation of the human rights treaties. We are a party to all six key hu-

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Human Rights: Fifty Years and On
man rights instruments, as well as to the two optional protocols to the
International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. As in any country,
this is an ongoing and evolving process. As States sign and ratify instru-
ments these need to be incorporated into domestic laws, consolidated
within their institutions, and finally absorbed into their society and cul-
ture.
As well as our commitment to human rights domestically, Australia
also has a strong commitment to assist other countries, particularly those
in our region, to accept and meet human rights norms. We have sought to
do this by taking opportunities, whether in bilateral contexts or multilat-
eral forums, to promote the ratification of major international human rights
instruments, as well as by providing guidance on and assistance for their
implementation. Australia is also playing an increasingly active role in
providing support to domestic institutions in countries where civil society
and the rule of law are still underdeveloped. The government funds a
range of training programs which seek to enhance those common ele-
ments in society which are vital to the democratic process, such as courts,
police, parliaments, the media and national human rights institutions.
National institutions are a good example of how culture can be used to
promote human rights. These institutions, established in conformity with
international human rights standards, and taking into account different
national circumstances, are one of the most practical and effective ve-
hicles for the promotion and protection of human rights. A key strength
of such institutions is their ability to reflect to a significant degree the
different culture and local conditions of the societies in which they are
established, while at the same time remaining faithful to international
human rights standards. By being able to deal with issues with a sensitiv-
ity for local conditions that only a local body can have, and with a compe-
tence for finding solutions which, again, no outsider can easily replicate,
these bodies make potent human rights advocates at the national level.
They also have the added advantage of taking away the government’s
option of using national sovereignty arguments, which they may resort to
when criticism or suggestions come from abroad.
For all these reasons, Australia has endeavoured to assist countries in
their efforts to establish and strengthen these bodies. For example, we
recently provided AUD 2 million to the Indonesian National Commission
on Human Rights. When the former Suharto Government decided to es-
tablish the Commission in 1993, there were cries of scepticism from some
who doubted the Commission’s ability to maintain its independence and
effectiveness when confronted with a multitude of human rights issues. It

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Human Rights: Fifty Years and On
has, however, disproved the sceptics and is a striking ambassador for
national human rights institutions in our region, conducting investiga-
tions, spreading human rights education, and hosting conferences on topi-
cal human rights themes.
Australia also supports the establishment and operation of regional
arrangements on human rights. The government has contributed $275,000
since 1996 to finance the establishment and operation of the secretariat to
the Asia-Pacific Forum of National Human Rights Institutions. This body,
established in Darwin in July 1996, has become a vibrant, collegiate force
in the regional human rights system, and an example of how institutions
from countries with different cultural and religious backgrounds can work
together in the pursuit of universal human rights goals. Australia also
participates actively in the UN’s annual workshop on Asia-Pacific regional
human rights arrangements, the long-term objective of which is to tran-
scend regional particularities and establish a bona fide human rights
mechanism in this part of the world.
In conclusion, it is worth noting that the committee charged with draft-
ing the Universal Declaration comprised eight people who represented a
good cross-section of cultural and religious traditions, and had different
patterns of socio-economic development. Apart from Australia, the com-
mittee included representatives from Chile, China, France, Lebanon, the
then Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, the United Kingdom and the
United States of America. The Declaration is well equipped to stand the
test of time because the drafters of this document sought to embody in it
rights which are foreign to no culture and native to all nations. In our
dealings with other countries, this fundamental truth has been revealed
again and again. As people around the world gather to commemorate
the fiftieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration, the world commu-
nity has a salient opportunity to remind itself that human rights are the
foundation of human existence and the basis for co-existence.

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Combating Racism: Multiculturalism and Reconciliation
Combating Racism: Multiculturalism
and Reconciliation
BY ANGELA CHAN
This year is the twenty-fifth anniversary of the inauguration of the
policy of multiculturalism in Australia. Before that time ethnic and racial
discrimination were enshrined in the policy of the nation at all levels.
Externally, the White Australia Policy was in place, requiring that in-
tending migrants to Australia, whatever their nationality, should be 75%
substantially European, whatever that meant. It was left to junior clerks
in the bureaucracy working from either interviews or photographs, to
decide whether applicants were in accord with the racial requirements of
the day.
In Australia itself, Australian citizenship was granted on the basis of
colour and place of birth. Different people were given citizenship after
one year, five years, or maybe never.  During the depths of World War II,
indigenous Australians and Asian Australians were not permitted to join
the armed forces. The fact that some did is a testimony to the fundamen-
tal sense of fair play of ordinary Australians who defied government edicts.
Even in comparatively recent years, some states did not permit indigenous
Australians and Asian Australians to join the police force, while for a
time any language other than English was banned in some Australian
schools.
This is the past and we will never go back to it.  But it is an essential
recital of what every Australian over the age of forty will remember and
will have encountered.  Despite the fact that the nation’s legislative face
was wiped clean, racial and ethnic discrimination continued, and in fact
it continues today.  I am convinced that as we come to the end of the

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Combating Racism: Multiculturalism and Reconciliation
twentieth century the greatest aid to the survival of prejudice and dis-
crimination is stereotyping.
Australia has always been a multicultural society, and in colonial times
stereotyping was a useful tool to divide the society and keep it in its place
as part of a worldwide empire.  For most of the nineteenth century, ste-
reotyping was concentrated on three major groups.  Indigenous Austra-
lians, who were the majority of the population up until the 1850s, were
the main target for most of the nineteenth century.  If you were going to
take the land and the women of any group of people, it would be com-
forting to the plunderers to categorise them as less than human. The myth
that they did not really own the land was expanded to the myth that they
were not really here at all. In fact, until the High Court of Australia re-
cently ruled otherwise, it was the official policy of Australia, and taught
to young Australians, that when the British Empire took over Australia
no one lived here. This policy was called terra nullius:   land with no one.
If anyone is puzzled how the stupidities of racial stereotyping can be ac-
cepted, we have only to address the fact that seven generations accepted
as a legal truth an obvious lie.  So Indigenous Australians were the first
target of not only racial discrimination and vilification, but stereotyping
which even denied them their humanity.
The next target for stereotyping and discrimination was the Irish. They
came as prisoners of war, as rebels, and largely with a different language,
religion and culture to the ruling regime. Their stereotyping spanned what
was described as their papist superstitions, inclination to violence, drunk-
enness, and irresponsibility. Some critics of the Irish followed the stereo-
types of Indigenous Australians and wrote them off as “monkey men”.
The third great leg of discrimination in the last century focussed on the
Asians, particularly the Chinese. The Chinese started coming to Australia
in the 1830s. In some places, like the Northern Territory, they constituted
a majority after the original Australian population.  After the gold rush
boom of the 1850s and the recessions which followed, the Chinese were a
convenient scapegoat for the vagaries of the colonial economy.  They were
attacked on a personal basis as heathens, gamblers, practitioners of im-
morality and, of course, opium smokers. This stereotyping, which was
put forward in the parliament and political meetings in every part of the
country, totally ignored the police records which described them as the
most law-abiding group in the community.  The demonisation of the Chi-
nese was continued with the invention of the yellow peril and the flight of
fancy that great fleets of Chinese junks were going to arrive to take over
the country.  So deep was the prejudice against the Asians and the Irish

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Combating Racism: Multiculturalism and Reconciliation
that William Parkes, the English-born five-time Premier of New South
Wales, who is often called the Father of Federation, declared that there
was no place in Australia for either the Chinese or the Irish. He was suc-
cessful in excluding the Chinese.  All this stereotyping served political
purposes at the time.  There is no doubt it has left a legacy.
Other groups came in for their share, such as southern Europeans,
described in a Queensland Royal Commission report as coming from an
inferior civilisation.  We have seen the stereotyping of the “Balts,” who
were displaced persons after World War II, and of course the Vietnamese,
who came as refugees, and the Arabic-speaking peoples. I can only recall
the words of a New South Wales policeman who said, “We have no trouble
in our area, except for the Lebs”. He was referring to the Lebanese, who
have made a unique contribution to Australia in the last hundred years,
and who happened to be the majority in his area.
While the old religious discriminations in Australia have largely disap-
peared, there still remains overt prejudice against Muslims and Jews. Jewish
synagogues are defaced and firebombed, while the Muslim women who
choose to wear their veils become specific targets.  This mindless preju-
dice is born of, and reinforced by, the stereotyping invented to justify
political action at the national or international level.  It is this stereotyping
which has been used to advance the policy of assimilation, and it is still
the desire of some groups in Australian society, and indeed a significant
minority of individuals, to go back to the ugly days of assimilation.  It is
important to recognise that what assimilation means is that we all pre-
tend to be the same: to have the same heritage, the same language, the
same appearance, the same values, and even the same religion.  Assimila-
tion is a tool of racial discrimination.  It has no validity in any community
because it abolishes individual human rights. It has no place in our
multicultural society.  However, like many nations in the western world,
Australia is facing a challenge about the efficiency and efficacy of the
democratic process. This situation arises from the great changes in atti-
tude and tradition which have long been occurring in western societies.
For many centuries, old countries such as England and the northern
European nations have used the symbolism of monarchy as the means of
unifying and directing the people towards common objectives in the po-
litical sphere. In countries such as Spain, Italy and Greece the state was
the repository of the Catholic or Orthodox tradition which provided the
central focus for loyalty and cohesion.  Australia was part of a world
empire, and as a dutiful colony we followed the mores of the imperial
power.  Since World War II, the symbolism which so long dominated the

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Combating Racism: Multiculturalism and Reconciliation
western countries has become less important and less recognised, and
new attitudes have developed.  There was faith that the people’s will
would prevail, and indeed, in post-colonial Australia, living conditions,
social security, education and health made tremendous advances. In both
town and country there was a feeling that the society was sound and that
people generally wanted to see a “fair go for all”.  In later times, however,
the “fair go for all” has been replaced to some extent by a “fair go for me”.
In the 1998 federal election there was little emphasis on the fact that
Australians are now working longer hours for less pay, or that one Aus-
tralian family in eight is living below the poverty line. The horrific youth
unemployment, rising in some rural areas to as much as 46%, attracted
attention but not much passion and commitment from the top.  Despite
the rise of the “greed is good” syndrome, Australians did register their
votes and the informal vote appeared to be lower than before - in other
words, although compelled to go to the polls, there was a feeling that the
individual should make his or her voice heard.
The concept of loyalty and dedication to our neighbours and the com-
munity must be made the priority of national consciousness. It is not good
enough to rely on outworn forms of loyalty to a monarch and call for
sacrifice in the monarch’s name. Loyalty to the people of the land and the
greatest good for the greatest number must be taught as a basis for citi-
zenship. This is one of the fundamental principles of multiculturalism, as
well as respect for Australia’s institutions and legal systems, equality of
the sexes, recognition of English as the national language, and mutual
respect for the many cultures, religions and traditions in Australia.
Until 1972, the White Australia Policy was still implemented. This meant
that potential migrants had to prove that they were 75% substantially
European to be accepted for migration to Australia.  In 1973, the policy of
multiculturalism was launched by the Hon. Al Grassby, former Minister
for Immigration. It was done not because people simply thought it was a
good idea, or they thought that the word was good, or because they plucked
the theory out of the air. It was done after much community consultation
around Australia and after examining policies around the world.  For
example, Americans have the “melting pot” theory. In essence this is the
policy of assimilation, and we know that assimilation is something we
find abhorrent. We only have to look at the ethnic communities and the
effects on the Indigenous communities and the stolen generations to see
that assimilation is not something which is an acceptable alternative to
multiculturalism.

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Combating Racism: Multiculturalism and Reconciliation
Canadians, who launched their policy of multiculturalism before the
Australians, recognised the French and the English as the founding na-
tions of Canada. That was all very well, but the policy failed to recognise
the indigenous people, the Inuit and the Indian peoples of Canada. It also
failed to recognise that there were other ethnic communities who were
part of the Canadian community.  In Canada today, the French are try-
ing to secede. They are saying that they are more Canadian than the En-
glish, they are more Canadian than the Inuits and Indian peoples, they
are more Canadian than everyone. The problem with the Canadian policy
is that you can’t have a country which says it is multicultural but only
officially recognises two ethnicities. This is divisive in itself, and the Cana-
dians are moving away from this model.
Paramount to the policy of multiculturalism launched in Australia was
the recognition of the Indigenous people as the custodians of Australia
for at least forty thousand years. They were at the apex of the family tree.
That is a very important aspect of the policy. It also recognised that every-
one else who has come to Australia over the past two hundred years were
migrants of one generation, or a maximum of eight generations.  The most
important aspect of the policy of multiculturalism was that it was an in-
clusive policy for people of English speaking backgrounds and non En-
glish speaking backgrounds, and it recognised the Indigenous and ethnic
communities as one multicultural community.  It is very important that
we recognise the policy of multiculturalism, as it was originally launched
in 1973, as fundamental to our cohesive Australian society.
Part of the challenge for the new millennium is reconciliation with the
original Australian people, which should be achieved sooner rather than
later. The debate has gone on long enough. The issues are clear. It is time
to translate the overwhelming desire for reconciliation into realities of a
new Constitutional preamble, a new look at Australian history, and above
all, a recognition that the very foundations of Australia for forty thou-
sand years rested exclusively on the shoulders of Australia’s Indigenous
people.  However, it is not enough simply to complete the process of rec-
onciliation. We must also achieve a consensus on the policy of
multiculturalism which guarantees every Australian a “fair go”.
Multiculturalism has been enshrined in legislation in some states and it
has been the subject of lip service by many members of most parliaments,
but this is not enough. Australia must proclaim in its fundamental docu-
ment of unity, the Constitution, that this is a multicultural society. This
would be a pledge that Australia would never again tolerate the politics
of division.

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Combating Racism: Multiculturalism and Reconciliation
Our young people cannot be ignored. Governments will continue to
err by ignoring the voice of youth, and by simply assuming that they will
continue with the traditional protocols and agree with the rhetoric of the
major political parties. There is a challenge for institutions to ensure that
they have strategies in place which address the needs of our young people,
who will be the future leaders in the new millennium.
The last federal election witnessed a turning point in the history of
Australia and the combating of racial discrimination. Never in the twenty-
five years since the White Australia Policy was abolished, multiculturalism
inaugurated and the Racial Discrimination Act adopted has there been
such a significant victory against the forces of racism and reaction.
During the past quarter-century racism did not disappear because of
legislation. It was present at the personal level, and indeed at the
organisational level in many parts of Australia. But in the last three years
it found a new voice and a new strength based on valid resentment of
neglect and hardship imposed on many communities that suffered from
the policies of economic rationalism.  It is in such circumstances of hard-
ship that racists have always raised their banners: blame the Jews, blame
the Asians, blame the Blacks.
We have now witnessed the failure by the leaders of the upsurge in
racism in their bid to take their places in the national parliament. Only
one person will find a lonely and isolated place in the Senate. The resigna-
tion of several One Nation members of parliament in Queensland will, I
believe, add to the decay of One Nation.  The upsurge in racism has been
turned back. But the question remains, for how long?
The Australian population is made up of more than two hundred
ethnicities, eighty different religions and ninety different languages, in
addition to indigenous Australian languages. There is no way that the
jackboot of assimilation and racial discrimination can destroy multicultural
Australia with its inclusive values representing a “fair go for all Austra-
lians”.

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Cultural Diversity in International Law
Cultural Diversity in International Law
BY HILARY CHARLESWORTH
How does international human rights law respond to the phenom-
enon of cultural diversity? Can we respect culture and protect rights at
the same time? The international community is made up of myriad cul-
tures and traditions and so the issue is a very live one.
In international human rights law, the issue of cultural diversity has
two distinct aspects. The first is the issue of cultural diversity at the inter-
national level: can international human rights law claim to be truly uni-
versal? When the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) was
adopted fifty years ago, the UN had only 56 member states. It was by and
large a Western club, with very few Asian or African members. During
the drafting of the UDHR, there was no discussion at all about whether
the values enshrined in the Declaration were culturally specific. The de-
scription ‘universal’ was seen as uncontroversial, a statement of fact, and
the drafters of the UDHR, a committee chaired by Eleanor Roosevelt,
mainly drew inspiration from Western sources and concepts in their work.
Today, the UN has 185 member states, the majority of which are non-
Western. These states are extremely wary of any signs of what they per-
ceive to be neo-colonialism in the form of the imposition of Western culture
and values. The area of human rights has understandably been a major
battlefield in this context because of its assumption that there are rights
that attach to people everywhere simply by virtue of their humanity.
Asian and African states, in particular, have argued that the UN hu-
man rights system focuses on rights that are built on a very Western, lim-
ited notion. For example, they have been critical of the priority given to
the individual’s needs and rights, arguing that the rights of the commu-
nity are often more important. They have also been critical of the empha-

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Cultural Diversity in International Law
sis placed by Western countries on civil and political rights — such as the
right to freedom of speech and assembly — at the expense of economic
and social rights — such as the right to food and the right to housing.
For example, in our region, Dr Mahathir of Malaysia has argued that
the UDHR should be redrafted to take ‘Asian values’ into account. He has
described the notion of human rights as a vehicle for the re-imposition of
colonialism on developing countries. So too, the permanent secretary of
the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Singapore, Kishore Mahbubani, has linked
the collapse of the West’s economic and social structures to the West’s
decadence, which he in turn connected to an over-emphasis on human
rights.1
The debate between the ‘universalists’ and the ‘cultural relativists’ is
sometimes based on inaccurate understanding of each other’s position.
Western understanding of human rights is not inevitably individualistic
— indeed there is an important tradition of communitarianism in West-
ern philosophy. At the same time, ‘Asian’ values are not completely com-
munal by any means. An example of this is the priority given to the idea
of entrepreneurship, which celebrates individualism, in many Asian soci-
eties.2
Professor Yash Ghai has pointed out that, in the Asian context, rejec-
tion of human rights principles typically comes from governments seek-
ing to justify repressive practices rather than promoting social practices.
Minorities and human rights organisations within Asian states generally
see international human rights standards as important benchmarks to
assess government practices.
Indeed, Dr Mahathir’s former deputy, Anwar Ibrahim, has said:
If we in Asia wish to speak credibly of Asian values, we too must be prepared to
champion those ideals which are universal and belong to humanity as a whole. It
is altogether shameful, if ingenious, to cite Asian values as an excuse for auto-
cratic practices and denial of basic rights and civil liberties ... It is true that Asians
place greater emphasis on order and social stability. But it is certainly wrong to
regard society as a kind of false god upon whose altar the individual must con-
stantly be sacrificed.
The issue of cultural diversity at an international level has involved
much rhetoric and absorbed much diplomatic energy, but it is worth not-
ing that, in practice, all 185 members of the UN are parties to at least one

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Cultural Diversity in International Law
human rights treaty. They were also able to finally agree at the Vienna
Conference on Human Rights in 1993 that ‘the universal nature of [inter-
national human rights law] is beyond question.’ The Vienna Declaration
stated that:
While the significance of national and regional particularities and various his-
torical, cultural and religious backgrounds must be borne in mind, it is the duty of
States, regardless of their political, economic and cultural systems, to promote
and protect all human rights and fundamental freedoms.
It has been pointed out that both the universalists and cultural relativ-
ists have many assumptions in common — particularly about the value of
‘human dignity’3 — and useful attempts to formulate pluralist approaches
to human rights have been made, particularly by anthropologists.4
This first debate over cultural diversity has essentially been one be-
tween different states. A second aspect of the debate over cultural diver-
sity in human rights law takes place within national societies. This debate
is over the rights of culturally distinct communities to retain their own
traditions and culture: to what extent do ethnic or religious minorities
within a particular state have the right to maintain their particularity?
I use the term ‘culture’ here to mean (in Clifford Geertz’ words) ‘an
historically transmitted pattern of meanings embodied in symbols, a sys-
tem of inherited conceptions ... by means of which men communicate,
perpetuate, and develop their knowledge about and attitudes towards
life.’5 Of course ‘culture’ is never internally homogenous. It is continually
contested and negotiated.6
International human rights law provides some protection for minority
groups. For example, article 27 of the International Covenant on Civil
and Political Rights (ICCPR) provides:
In those States in which ethnic, religious or linguistic minorities exist, persons
belonging to such minorities shall not be denied the right, in community with the
other members of their group, to enjoy their own culture, to profess and practise
their own religion, or to use their own language.
What does this right actually mean? The interpretation of article 27 by
the Human Rights Committee, which monitors the implementation of the

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Cultural Diversity in International Law
ICCPR, has been relatively expansive. The Committee has adopted an
‘objective’ test to decide whether ethnic, religious or linguistic minorities
exist, refusing to accept individual States’ assessment of this issue. It has
stated that ‘the survival and continued development of the cultural, reli-
gious and social identity of minorities ... [enriches] the fabric of society as
a whole.’
The Committee has decided that article 27 imposes a positive obliga-
tion of protection of minorities in order that the identity of a minority is
preserved and that its members can enjoy and develop their culture and
language.7 It has also endorsed the notion of special treatment for minori-
ties if it is aimed at correcting conditions that impair the enjoyment of the
rights in article 27.
In 1992, the UN General Assembly adopted a Declaration on the Rights
of Persons Belonging to National or Ethnic, Religious and Linguistic Mi-
norities.8 This document emphasises that States must take affirmative steps
to ensure the rights of minorities to their particular identity. The Declara-
tion requires States:
to take measures to create favourable conditions to enable persons belonging to
minorities to express their characteristics and to develop their culture, language,
religion, traditions and customs, except where ... contrary to international stan-
dards.
From these standards, it can be argued that depriving a person of the
cultural context that provides the environment in which autonomy and
independence may develop is a violation of human dignity.9
Another relevant provision for the issue of cultural diversity within
national societies is the right to self-determination. The centrality of this
right to the international legal order is signified by the fact that it is set out
in article 1 of both the ICCPR and the International Covenant on Eco-
nomic, Social and Cultural Rights (ICESCR):
All peoples have the right of self-determination. By virtue of that right they freely
determine their political status and freely pursue their economic, social and cul-
tural development.

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Cultural Diversity in International Law
A third set of human rights norms that are relevant to cultural differ-
ence within states are those relating to equality and non-discrimination.
The Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination
of 1966 deals with this right in detail. The more general right to non-
discrimination is set out in article 26 of the ICCPR:
All persons are equal before the law and are entitled without any discrimination
to the equal protection of the law. In this respect, the law shall prohibit any dis-
crimination and guarantee to all persons equal and effective protection against
discrimination on any ground such as race, colour ... or other status.
So, in summary, while the international community has been relatively
wary of conceding that cultural differences on the international level can
undermine the universality of human rights norms, it has shown consid-
erable respect for cultural diversity within nation states.
Thus far I have used the terms ‘culture’ and ‘cultural diversity’ as if
they were unproblematic, neutral terms. Of course, the definition of ‘cul-
ture’ is a highly political and contentious one – who defines ‘culture’, and
who benefits from it?
A case study of women’s rights in international law shows how prob-
lematic the category can be. Claims of women’s rights are often coun-
tered by counter claims of religious and cultural rights. For example, we
can see this in the striking number of reservations made to the Conven-
tion on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women
(CEDAW) on the basis of respect for religion. Another example is the
response (made by the Catholic Church and Islam in particular) in some
of the global conferences in the 1990s, particularly in Cairo in 1994 and in
Beijing in 1995.
At the UN Conference on Population and Development (UNCPD),
the Catholic and Islamic religious traditions strenuously opposed placing
women’s health, reproduction and sexuality within a human rights frame-
work. Because the UN conferences work on a consensus principle, the
coalition was able to delay agreement on a text until very late in the con-
ference. The coalition resisted the definition of the notion of reproductive
health to include sexual health, ‘the purpose of which is the enhancement
of life and personal relations, and not merely counselling and care related
to reproduction and sexually transmitted disease.’ This text was finally
accepted, with strong reservations made by Catholic and Islamic states.10

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Cultural Diversity in International Law
But the Holy See and Islamic states managed to undermine this appar-
ent advance at the next international summit, the Copenhagen Summit
on Social Development. Unusually, and at the insistence of the Holy See
and Islamic states, the Copenhagen Platform for Action refers to reserva-
tions made to the UNCPD documents, which gives them renewed status.
A statement in a draft of the official Beijing conference document that
reaffirmed commitments made about women in earlier summit documents,
especially at UNCPD, was vigorously contested by the Holy See. The Holy
See was also active in ensuring that parts of the official documents con-
taining references to reproductive health, fertility control and sex educa-
tion, all endorsed at the UNCPD, remained in square brackets during the
negotiations for both Copenhagen and Beijing, indicating lack of consen-
sus on their adoption.11 In the end, however, the UNCPD wording was
preserved.
A particular concern of Islamic states has been the issue of the univer-
sality of human rights. After much debate and controversy, the Vienna
Second World Conference on Human Rights in 1993 affirmed that hu-
man rights were universal, indivisible, inter-dependent and inter-related,
and that ‘while the significance of national and regional particularities
and various historical, cultural and religious backgrounds must be borne
in mind, it is the duty of states, regardless of their political, economic and
cultural systems, to promote and protect all human rights and funda-
mental freedoms.’12 At the 1994 UNCPD, Islamic states were successful
in watering down the Vienna language by inserting a rather contradic-
tory clause stating that implementation of the document should both be
in conformity with universally recognised human rights but also ‘should
be consistent with full respect for the various religions and ethical values
and cultural backgrounds’ of nations.13 Islamic states also revived this
debate in the context of women’s rights at Beijing. Although the Vienna
language was eventually included in the preamble to the Beijing Plat-
form, on the table until the very last moments of the official Conference
was a proposal to insert a footnote to the effect that different cultural and
religious traditions were relevant in implementing the human rights of
women. The footnote did not make its way into the final document, ap-
parently as a trade-off for the exclusion of any reference to women’s right
to freedom of sexual orientation.14
There are signs of the success of Islamic lobbying at Beijing in the offi-
cial documents. For example, the Beijing Platform for Action acknowl-
edges women’s right to inherit property, but because of resistance by some
sub-Saharan and Islamic states, not the right to inherit in equal shares to

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Cultural Diversity in International Law
men. The signs of the failure of the religious lobbying are evident in the
reservations made to the Platform, for example the Holy See and some
Catholic and Islamic states rejected the idea of a woman’s right to control
her sexuality (para 97) and they also rejected the call to review punitive
laws for women who had had illegal abortions (para 107 (k)).
The role of the Holy See and Islamic countries was not unremittingly
negative at Beijing. Indeed, Professor Mary Ann Glendon, the leader of
the Holy See’s delegation, supported many aspects of the Beijing Platform
for Action, for example recognising the economic value of women’s work
in the home. My point is rather that the Catholic and Islamic delegations
were interested in limited notions of the rights of women that involved no
rethinking of religious traditions.
The reservations made by Islamic states to the Convention on the Elimi-
nation of All Forms of Discrimination against Women are another mani-
festation of the tension between human rights and religious traditions.
The Cairo Declaration on Human Rights in Islam states that women are
equal to men in dignity, but not in rights. Unlike the Holy See, many
Islamic states have become a party to the Women’s Convention. However
they have lodged formal statements of reservation to the treaty.15 Typical
of these reservations is that of Egypt. With respect to article 16 of the
Women’s Convention, which requires that states observe equality between
men and women in all matters concerning marriage and family relations,
Egypt’s reservation states that this matter must be subject to Islamic Shari‘a
law.
Some states have made even more sweeping reservations. For example,
the Maldives’ reservation commits it to comply with the Convention’s
provisions ‘except those which the Government may consider contradic-
tory to the principles of the Islamic Shari‘a upon which the laws and the
traditions of the Maldives is founded.’ Moreover, the reservation goes on
to say ‘the Republic of Maldives does not see itself bound by any provi-
sions of the Convention which obliges it to change its Constitutions and
laws in any manner’. While there is little question that this type of reser-
vation is invalid under international law because it undermines the object
and purpose of the treaty, there are no satisfactory mechanisms in inter-
national law to challenge reservations adequately.16 A number of states
have objected to the reservations,17 but the objections have been rejected
by the Islamic states as a form of religious intolerance.18 Thus Islamic states
are still considered parties to the Women’s Convention although they have
rejected the equality provisions that are at its heart. Many other countries
have made reservations to the Women’s Convention, but the Islamic res-

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Cultural Diversity in International Law
ervations, along with the Israeli, Indian and UK reservations, that protect
the laws of religious communities, are the only ones based on religious
grounds.
So, in the context of women’s rights, major religious traditions have
regarded human rights as a sort of Trojan Horse, with a belly full of sub-
versive values. Why do women’s rights pose so many problems for reli-
gions? Such traditions are an important part of the life of human society.
They sustain both spiritual and temporal hierarchies. At the same time,
they have contributed to and reinforced the historic relegation of women
to the sphere of home, hearth and family, and women’s traditional exclu-
sion from the public sphere of the economy, political life and power. The
idea of separate spheres based on gender is accompanied by a common
image of womanhood presented in the texts of all major religions: it is
integrally connected to motherhood, submission, sacrifice and duty —
being a woman entails obedience, not only to God, but to fathers, hus-
bands and other male family members. Indeed there are many passages
in the Bible, the Qur’an and the sacred texts of Hinduism and Buddhism
that explicitly present women as the property of men.19
In other words, the major religious traditions operate with asymmetric
accounts of manhood and womanhood. This is rationalised not as in-
equality as such, but as based on a type of ‘separate but equal’ doctrine.
Women may have similar moral and spiritual worth to men, but their life
work is fundamentally different. This is why the Catholic Church has
found the issue of women’s ordination so difficult: priesthood is simply
not within the province of womanhood. Similarly, in orthodox Judaism,
women are disqualified from being rabbis and performing most public
functions.20 In Islam, a verse of the Qur’an declares that men have qawama
[guardianship and authority] over women because of the physical ad-
vantage men have over women and because men spend their property in
supporting women.21 The Shari‘a interpretation of this verse is that men
as a group are guardians of and superior to women as a group and the
men of a particular family are the guardians of and superior to the women
of that family. An associated principle is that of al-hijab, or the wearing of
the veil, symbolising the assignment of women to the private domestic
sphere. Women also have much fewer rights than men in family and in-
heritance law.22 Attempts by scholars to reinterpret religious texts to eradi-
cate the asymmetry have had little apparent impact on actual religious
practices. The problem with a ‘separate but equal’ approach, as we have
learned from the experience of segregation in the United States and that
of apartheid in South Africa, is that the promise of equality is illusory if

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Cultural Diversity in International Law
groups are running different races, or assigned to different spheres. There
is no meaningful equality in denying women the status of being a priest,
rabbi or mullah.
Given the fundamental inequality between women and men on which
the major religious traditions operate, it is small wonder the international
law of human rights which regards sex and gender as irrelevant to rights
poses a great challenge to those traditions. The challenge has not been
taken up in any meaningful way: unfortunately the approach seems to be
to resist engagement and dialogue and to work hard to undermine many
women’s rights at the international level. In this way, the transformative
possibilities of human rights law are being squandered.
The failure to come to grips with human rights law is also evident in
local contexts. For example, in Australia many religious institutions lob-
bied successfully to gain exemption from the state and federal laws pro-
hibiting sex discrimination. Thus the Sex Discrimination Act specifically
excludes from its provisions sex discrimination in the ordination or ap-
pointment of priests and ministers or members of a religious order (sec 37
(a)) and ‘any ... act or practice established for religious purposes, where
the act or practice conforms to the doctrines, tenets or beliefs of that reli-
gion or is necessary to avoid injury to the religious susceptibilities of fol-
lowers of that religion.’ (sec 37 (d)). If the Churches had lobbied to be
exempted from race discrimination laws, it would have been regarded as
quite unacceptable by their members and by the community generally.
There is no principled reason why the religious exemption from sex dis-
crimination laws is not similarly problematic.
Second, religious traditions must be prepared to interpret their sacred
texts and traditions in ways that are consistent with the protection of
human rights — developing a ‘human rights hermeneutic’.23 In some con-
texts, this has already proved possible — for example, at the Second Vatican
Council the Catholic Church adopted a Declaration on Human Freedom
which vindicated the right of people to freely choose their own conscien-
tious religious beliefs, although the right had been denied for centuries by
the Church. In the context of Islam, the Sudanese jurist, Abdullahi An-
Na’im, has described a process of reinterpretation of the sources of Is-
lamic tradition in a way that both preserves legitimacy and is consistent
with human rights norms. He has argued that we need to understand
that religious traditions reflect a historically conditioned interpretation of
scripture, influenced by social, economic and political circumstances.24
For example, with respect to the strictures on the role of women in the
Shari‘a, we need to note that equality between women and men at the

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Cultural Diversity in International Law
time of the development of the Shari‘a in the Middle East would have
been inconceivable. By analysing the Shari‘a principle of qawama, the guard-
ianship and authority of men over women, it can be seen to be based on
assumptions that have little relevance today — that men are stronger than
women and that men financially support women. The principle, An-Na’im
has suggested, should not therefore retain its legitimacy. A similar analy-
sis could apply to the scriptures of Christianity that are used to justify the
exclusion of women from the priesthood.25
A human rights approach indicates that it is important to pay atten-
tion to the political uses of claims of religious culture. We need to ask
whose culture is being invoked, what the status of the interpreter is, in
whose name the argument is advanced, and who the primary beneficia-
ries are.26 An-Na’im has observed that Islamic governments, when pres-
sured to observe Islam, ‘have tended to enunciate policies that have a
differential impact upon the weaker elements of society [particularly
women and minorities]’.27 So too, Ann Mayer has noted the tendency in
Islamic states to use Islam as an interchangeable rationale with ‘the rule
of law’, ‘public order and morality’ and ‘state policy’ to suppress any
activism by women.28 A good example of this was a 1997 statement of the
Muslim Governor of Kandahar, a province of Afghanistan, rejecting at-
tempts by the Grameen Bank of Bangladesh to lend money to rural women
to start their own businesses. He was quoted as saying that ‘[t]he motive
of the bank was to lead Moslems away from Islam and to promote shame-
lessness among women.’29
A human rights approach also requires a close analysis of the invoca-
tion of religion by the Holy See in its international lobbying against cer-
tain women’s rights. Whose interests are served by arguments based on
religion and who comes out on top? At the international level religious
traditions are used in a complex way to preserve the power of men. The
appeal to the sanctity of religion is considerably reduced if it is the case
that it is being used to bolster the existing distribution of power and privi-
lege.30
Notes
Mahbubani, K., “The Dangers of Decadence: What the West can Teach the Rest”, For-
eign Affairs, Vol. 72, 1993, p. 10.
Toope, S., “Cultural Diversity and Human Rights”, McGill Law Journal, Vol. 42, 1997,
pp. 182-3.

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Cultural Diversity in International Law
Cheah, P., “Posit(ion)ing Human Rights in the Current Global Conjecture”, Public
Culture, Vol.  9, 1997, p. 244.
See Messer, E., “Pluralist Approaches to Human Rights”, Journal of Anthropological
Research, Vol. 53, 1997, p. 293.
Geertz, C., Interpretation of Culture, 1973, p. 89.
Tully, J., Strange Multiplicity, 1995, p. 11.
Human Rights Committee, General Comment 23, 1994.
A/RES/47/135, 18 December 1992.
Anghie, A., “Human Rights and Cultural Identity: New Hope for Ethnic Peace?”, Harvard
International Law Journal, Vol. 33, 1992, p. 350 .
10 See Charlesworth, H., “Women as Sherpas: Are Global Summits Useful for Women?”,
Feminist Studies, Vol. 22, 1996, pp. 542-3.
11 See Haslegrave, M. and Havard, J., “Women’s Right to Health and The Beijing Platform
for Action: The Retreat from Cairo?” Health and Human Rights Vol. 1, 1995, p. 461.
12 Vienna Declaration, para. 3.
13 Ibid., Chapeau to Chapter II.
14 Otto, D., “Holding Up Half the Sky, But For Whose Benefit?: A Critical Analysis of the
Fourth World Conference on Women”, Australian Feminist Law Journal, Vol. 6, 1996,
pp. 25-6.
15 For the text of reservations see http://www.un.org/womenwatch/daw/. For a discus-
sion of the issue of reservations in the context of the Women’s Convention see Cook,
R., “Reservations to the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination
Against Women”, Virginia Journal of International Law, Vol. 30, 1990, pp. 673-8.
16 See generally Simma, B., “Reservations to Human Rights Treaties – Some Recent De-
velopments” in Hafner, G., et al eds, Liber Amicorum Professor Seidl-Hohenveldern –
in honour of his 80th birthday, 1998, p.659.
17 See Austria, Canada, Denmark, Finland, Portugal and Sweden. The objections can be
found at http://www.un.org/womenwatch/daw/
18 Mayer, A., “Cultural Particularism as a Bar to Women’s Rights: Reflections on the
Middle East Experience” in Wolper, A. & Peters, J. eds, Women’s Rights, Human Rights,
1995, p. 178.
19 Howland, C., “The Challenge of Religious Fundamentalism to the Liberty and Equal-
ity Rights of Women: An Analysis under the United Nations Charter”, Columbia Jour-
nal of Transnational Law, Vol. 35, 1997, p. 282.
20 Sahlev, C., “Women in Israel: Fighting Tradition” in Wolper, A., & Peters, J. eds, Women’s
Rights, Human Rights, 1995, pp. 91-2.
21 An-Na’im, A., in Wolper, A., & Peters, J. eds, Women’s Rights, Human Rights, 1995, p.
37.
22 Ibid., p. 34.
23 Ibid., pp. 15-16.
24 Ibid., pp.  46-7.
25 See Fiorenza, E., In Memory of Her: A Feminist Theological Reconstruction of Chris-
tian Origins, 1983; Countryman, L. W., “The good news about women and men” in

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Cultural Diversity in International Law
Holloway, R. ed., Who Needs Feminism? Men Respond to Sexism in the Church, 1991,
p. 11.
26 Rao, A., “The Politics of Gender and Culture in International Human Rights Discourse”
in Wolper, A. & Peters, J. eds, Women’s Rights, Human Rights, 1995, p. 174.
27 An-Na’im, A., supra note 21 p. 26.
28 Mayer, A., supra note 18, p. 182.
29 The Bulletin, 23 September 1997.
30 Mayer, A., supra note 18, p. 185.

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Catholicism, Gender and Human Rights
Catholicism, Gender and Human Rights
BY SANDIE CORNISH
From rejection to proclamation: a brief overview of the development of
Catholic thinking on human rights
The Catholic Church’s teaching on human rights is part of what is
known as Catholic Social Doctrine or Catholic Social Teaching. Catholic
Social Teaching is grounded in Biblical revelation, the teachings of the
leaders of the Early Church (often known as the Fathers of the Church,
although there were also some significant ‘Mothers’), and in the wisdom
gathered from the experience of the Christian community as it has re-
sponded to social justice issues through time (also known as Tradition).
Catholic Social Teaching develops through time as it responds to new
situations and learns from advances in human knowledge. It uses peren-
nial principles for reflection and also more dynamic middle axioms or
criteria for judgement. Catholic Social Teaching also includes less authori-
tative, more changeable and more specific guidelines for action in the
particularity of given cases or historical situations.
Few people today would doubt that the Catholic Church is a great
champion of human rights, yet the Church has not always viewed the
concept of human rights as a positive thing. The journey of the Catholic
Church from an outright rejection of human rights to a very active and
committed proclamation of human rights is instructive for us all as we
celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human
Rights.
Monsignor Franco Biffi, of the Lateran and Gregorian Universities,
describes the Church’s engagement with the idea of human rights as hav-

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Catholicism, Gender and Human Rights
ing passed through four phases: rejection, discernment, dialogue, and
proclamation.1
The phase of rejection (Pius VI-Pius IX)
The Church’s initial response to the French Revolution and the result-
ant Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen was complete
rejection. This was essentially a defensive reaction against the anti--Chris-
tian, anti-religious, anti-clerical, rationalist and indifferentist spirit of the
movement which produced the Charter of 1789.
The Church saw the French revolution as proclaiming a ‘liberty’ that
was total and without limits. Such a ‘liberty’ was seen as ultimately pro-
moting a freedom from God, the laws of God, and the social requirements
of the common good. The base of this movement for liberty was naturalis-
tic and materialistic.
The Church’s rejection of the human rights ideas being promoted
reached a peak during the reign of Pope Gregory XVI. In Mirari Vos (1832)
he saw freedom of opinion and the separation of Church and State as
‘crazed absurdity’. He also rejected religious liberty, freedom of the press
and indifferentism (the idea that it is possible to obtain salvation through
the profession of any kind of religion, ie. being indifferent to different
religions).
The logic of the Church at this time was as follows. The Roman Catho-
lic faith is the true religion. It is good for people to believe what is true.
The State is obliged to promote the common good. Therefore the State is
bound to promote Catholic belief, and, wherever possible, to establish
Catholicism as the religion of the State.2
The basic idea was that error has no rights. The Church now sees per-
sons as being the subject of rights rather than abstract concepts.
The phase of discernment (Leo XIII-Pius XII)
Pope Leo XIII began to discern and accept some positive elements in
the human rights ideas of his times.3 His great contribution to the Church’s
teaching on human rights was the incorporation of whatever he saw as
true or healthy in the liberal institutions being established in society.

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Catholicism, Gender and Human Rights
Leo XIII saw human dignity as the root of natural, universal and invio-
lable rights. He saw a need for the State to exercise authority according to
the rule of law, to defend the powerless, and to promote the common
good. In taking this position he stressed that the person is prior to and
above the State and therefore the State has no right to ‘swallow up’ the
individual or family. In the aftermath of the Industrial Revolution, Leo
XIII understood that the Church must become an advocate of the social
and economic rights of the person, and his landmark encyclical Rerum
Novarum (1891) elaborates a whole series of socio-economic rights.
Pius XI developed further the thinking of the Church about the rights
of the person in relation to the State. In Non Abbiamo Bisogno (1931) he
spoke out against fascism and in favour of the liberty of conscience. In Mit
Brennender Sorge (1937) he rejected Nazism and the idolatry of the State,
emphasising the right to profess one’s faith and live according to it and
the primary right of parents to the education of their children. In Divini
Redemptoris (1937) he rejected communism and its reversal of the order of
relations between the person and the State. He also enunciated a whole
range of the respective rights and duties of the person and the State. In
the third of his 1937 encyclicals, which became known collectively as the
Easter Trilogy, Nos Es Muy Conocida, Pius XI made it clear that Catholic
citizens should not passively accept the infringement of their religious
and civil liberties, and that defence of oneself and one’s nation by legiti-
mate and appropriate means (with certain conditions) is not prohibited.
Pius XII’s thoughts during the second World War were already fo-
cussed on what would be needed to reconstruct just and peaceful na-
tions. His Christmas radio messages were particularly important in setting
out the philosophical and juridical framework of the Church’s approach
to human rights and the role of the State. Pius XII’s contribution is often
overlooked because he published few encyclicals and lacked the charisma
of John XXIII, who was later to rely so heavily on his predecessor’s work.
The phase of dialogue (John XXIII   Vatican II)
Pope John XXIII initiated a phase of dialogue between the Church and
the international community on human rights.4 In his teachings, and that
of Vatican II, the affirmation, defence and promotion of human rights
was included with increasing clarity as one of the fundamental and indis-
pensable tasks of the Church’s mission.

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Catholicism, Gender and Human Rights
In Mater et Magistra (1961) Pope John picked up Pius XII’s revival of
the expression ‘the signs of the times’ and he set about reading the hope-
ful and concerning signs of his times. He identified as a positive sign of the
times the increasing consciousness of their own dignity and rights of work-
ers, women and newly independent nations.
Pacem in Terris (1963) is as close as the social magisterium of the Church
in modern times comes to its own declaration of human rights. Pope John
saw human rights as the basis of peace, without which real peace was
not possible. He set out the rights and duties of individuals within the
community, and the rights and duties of political communities. He went
on to outline the need for a supranational authority capable of ensuring a
more enduring peace between nations.
In was in the context of the encyclical Pacem in Terris   addressed not
only to Catholics, but to all people of goodwill, that Pope John explicitly
praised the Universal Declaration of Human Rights which had been is-
sued by the United Nations in 1948. This was highly significant given that
his predecessor had passed the Declaration over in silence. Pope John
built on the secular Declaration to produce a ‘Christian Charter of hu-
man rights’, which saw human rights as based on the dignity of the hu-
man person created in the image and likeness of God, and giving emphasis
to the social nature of the person and the reciprocal nature of rights and
duties. It had been the absence of these dimensions from the UN Declara-
tion that had so disappointed Pius XII that he failed to explicitly welcome
it. Pope John, as Cardinal Roncalli the Papal Nuncio in Paris, had worked
on the drafting of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and in
Pacem in Terris he completed his own declaration.
The Second Vatican Council, initiated by Pope John and brought to
completion by Pope Paul VI, focussed on the Church’s role as a servant of
humanity. All of the rights enunciated by the Universal Declaration of
Human Rights can be found in the texts of Vatican II, and especially in
Gaudium et Spes (1965).
The phase of proclamation (Paul VI to the present)
Following the Second Vatican Council the Catholic Church embarked
on a new phase of actively proclaiming human rights.5 By 1971, the Synod
of Bishops saw the promotion of human rights as not only part of the
work of the Church, but central to the demands of the Gospel. This theme
was taken up by Paul VI in Evangelii Nuntiandi (1975) which sets out the

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Catholicism, Gender and Human Rights
relationship between evangelisation and the work for social justice, hu-
man rights and development.
Pope Paul taught about rights, duties and peace through a range of
‘gestures of peace’ such as the institution of the World Day of Prayer for
Peace, and the establishment of the Pontifical Commission for Justice and
Peace (now a Pontifical Council). Pope Paul engaged in many of the ac-
tivities and conferences of the United Nations and frequently made posi-
tive reference to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. He worked
hard to assist those whose rights had been violated, although little of this
‘diplomatic’ action was known. He fostered ecumenical collaboration via
SODEPAX (Committee on Research on Society, Development and Peace)
which acted as a link between the World Council of Churches and the
Pontifical Commission for Justice and Peace. And it was Pope Paul who
initiated the great Papal travels of our times.
During the past twenty years, Pope John Paul II has contributed strongly
to the development of Catholic Social Teaching, producing important so-
cial encyclicals and taking part in many significant international forums.
His journeys to many countries have become an important tool for high-
lighting the particular forms of human rights abuses present in various
parts of the world. The theological underpinnings of John Paul II’s hu-
man rights work are explicitly Christological and incarnational. Follow-
ers of Christ, who embraced the human condition, must be lovers of
humanity and are called to imitate him in defending the dignity and rights
of every human person and of all peoples.
The Catholic Church’s attitude to human rights has come a long way
since the French Revolution. We now understand that far from offending
God, the defence of human rights is the will of God.
Human dignity demands respect for human rights: connecting Church
teaching and human rights today
To summarise the current state of Catholic thinking on human rights,
the source of human rights is the inalienable, transcendent, God given
dignity of every human being. It is on the basis of this dignity that we
make the claims that are called human rights. Every human being and all
human groups share equally in the image of God and are therefore equal
in dignity and rights. The promotion of human rights is a central part of
the mission of the Catholic Church. It is both a requirement of evangelisation
and a consequence of it.

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Catholicism, Gender and Human Rights
The source of human rights is God
Human dignity is the starting point and central concern of Catholic
thinking about human rights and justice in society. Each person is created
in the image and likeness of God and so has an inalienable, transcendent
God given dignity. It is because we were made by God in God’s own
image, endowed with intelligence and free will, that we have human
rights. This is the source or origin of our human rights, not the Universal
Declaration of Human Rights. The Universal Declaration states some truths
about the dignity and rights of human beings, and it has significant moral
force in international humanitarian law, but it does not create or confer
those rights.
To speak of human rights is to speak of the claims that we can make on
the basis of our human dignity. They are the things that are due to us
simply because we are human beings, made in the image and likeness of
God. It follows that each member of the human family is equal in dignity
and has equal rights because we are all created in God’s likeness, all chil-
dren of the one God. We are sisters and brothers to each other.
We understand God to be a trinity of persons and so we see the image
of God reflected not only in individual people, but also in communities.
Together in community we bear the image of our God whose very nature
is communal. Our nature too is social. We were born out of relationship
and into relationship. Human beings cannot survive, let alone reach their
potential, in isolation from others. Just as all persons are equal in dignity
and rights, so too every nation possesses equal dignity and rights.
Created in the image and likeness of the one God and equally endowed with
rational souls, all men [sic] have the same nature and the same origin. Redeemed
by the sacrifice of Christ, all are called to participate in the same divine beatitude:
all therefore enjoy an equal dignity.6
Human dignity demands respect for human rights
The Church more often speaks of the dignity of the human person
than of human rights; however, the teaching of the Church makes it clear
that respect for human dignity requires respect for human rights.

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Catholicism, Gender and Human Rights
Respect for the human person entails respect for the rights that flow from his [sic]
dignity as a creature. These rights are prior to society and must be recognised by
it. They are the basis of the moral legitimacy of every authority; by flouting them,
or refusing to recognise them in its positive legislation, a society undermines its
own moral legitimacy.7
Respect for human dignity and human rights is not simply something
that the Church urges on individuals and secular authorities. The promo-
tion of human dignity and human rights is a central part of the Church’s
own mission. The Church’s work for social justice and the promotion of
human rights has deep Christological and missiological roots.
The mystery of the Incarnation and Redemption and human rights
To be Christians we must be followers of Jesus Christ. Through the
mystery of the Incarnation Jesus took on the human condition and re-
deemed it. Christians, then, must also embrace the human in all its con-
crete historical particularity. God acts in and through human history and
so the ordinary business of living in this world is part of our journey of
faith, part of our path to salvation. This is what Pope John Paul II means
when he talks about the human person as the path of the Church.
... we are not dealing here with man [sic] in the ‘abstract’, but with the real, ‘con-
crete’, ‘historical’ man [sic]. We are dealing with each individual, since each one
is included in the mystery of the Redemption, and through this mystery Christ
has united himself with each one forever. It follows that the Church cannot aban-
don man [sic], and that this man [sic] is the primary route that the Church must
travel in fulfilling her [sic] mission ... the way traced out by Christ himself, the
way that leads invariably through the mystery of the Incarnation and the Re-
demption.8
The option for the poor and human rights
Jesus had a special care for the poor, powerless and pushed aside. To
follow him means walking in solidarity with the poor, the oppressed, and
those who are powerless, to affirm their dignity and rights, and to lend
them a voice. Our lives too must bring good news for the poor, sight for

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Catholicism, Gender and Human Rights
the blind, and freedom for the oppressed. This is sometimes called the
option for the poor.
This is an option, or a special form of primacy in the exercise of Christian charity,
to which the whole tradition of the Church bears witness. It affects the life of each
Christian inasmuch as he or she seeks to imitate the life of Christ, but it applies
equally to our social responsibilities and hence to our manner of living, and to the
logical decisions to be made concerning the ownership of goods.
Today, furthermore, given the worldwide dimension which the social question
has assumed, this love of preference for the poor, and the decisions which it
inspires in us, cannot but embrace the immense multitudes of the hungry, the
needy, the homeless, those without medical care and, above all, those without
hope for a better future. It is impossible not to take account of the existence of these
realities.9
Evangelisation and human rights
Work for justice and respect for human rights is an essential part of the
Catholic faith, and it is a necessary part of preaching the Gospel of Jesus
Christ. It is both a requirement of evangelisation and a consequence of it.
The first means of evangelisation is the witness of life; in order to preach
the Gospel effectively we must witness to its values in the way that we
live. And if we hear and accept the Gospel, we will answer its call to work
for justice and respect for the dignity of each and every human person.
As the kernel and centre of his good news, Christ proclaims salvation, this great
gift of God which is liberation from everything that oppresses man [sic] but which
is above all liberation from sin and the evil one.10
Work for social justice and respect for human rights involves promot-
ing the elimination of poverty, and freedom from political oppression.
These things are part of working to build up the Reign of God already
mysteriously present in the world, but the Reign of God is not to be re-
duced to a purely temporal transformation of our societies. Work for so-
cial justice and the promotion of human rights is not the whole of the
mission of the Church.

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Catholicism, Gender and Human Rights
The teaching and spread of her [sic] social doctrine are part of the Church’s
evangelising mission. And since it is a doctrine aimed at guiding people’s
behaviour, it consequently gives rise to a ‘commitment to justice’, according to
each individual’s role, vocation and circumstances.
The condemnation of evils and injustices is also part of that ministry of
evangelisation in the social field which is an aspect of the Church’s prophetic
role. But it should be made clear that proclamation is always more important than
condemnation, and the latter cannot ignore the former, which gives it true solidity
and the force of higher motivation.11
The rights of man or of all human persons? Catholic teaching on the
rights of women
Current Catholic teaching about the roles and rights of women ap-
pears to be contradictory. On the one hand, women and men are seen as
equal and the participation of women in public life is heralded as a posi-
tive sign of the times. Yet on the other hand, the role of women is seen in
terms of complementarity and being helper to men, and the appropriate
vocational choices presented are either virginity or motherhood. Sex dis-
crimination in the world at large is decried, but not all roles within the
Catholic Church are open to women.
As we shall see there is much in the teachings to support those who
promote a socially conservative view of the role of women, while at the
same time there is ample encouragement to Christian feminists.
Women’s rights are human rights
During the early 1990s I undertook a study of the teachings of the
Catholic Church in Australia on matters of justice for Aboriginal and
Torres Strait Islander people. I compared the Australian teachings to the
international teachings of the Church – or, as we would say, to the uni-
versal social magisterium. The development of the Church’s thinking about
the rights of indigenous people was to be seen most clearly in the speeches
given by the Pope when visiting various countries and addressing groups
of indigenous people.
I found that the approach of the Church was not to identify special
rights for indigenous peoples that other peoples can’t have, but rather to
emphasise that the rights of indigenous people and indigenous peoples

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Catholicism, Gender and Human Rights
are simply human rights. Everybody, including indigenous peoples, has a
right not to have their land and property taken from them arbitrarily.
Everyone, including indigenous people, has a right to primacy in the edu-
cation of their children, and a right to raise their children according to
their own culture. And so the list of basic human rights of indigenous
people that haven’t been respected in practice goes on.
This study illustrates the general approach of the Catholic Church to
the rights of particular groups. It is not a case of special rights for special
groups. Human rights are seen as universal, as applying to all people and
all peoples across all boundaries of time and place. But what might be
required in order to give practical expression to these same rights may be
different for different groups or in different concrete circumstances. For
example, respect for religious liberty does not require that Catholics have
access to particular pieces of land, but the freedom of many indigenous
peoples to practice their religious beliefs does require that they have ac-
cess to particular sites.
Following this approach, the Catholic Church today proclaims that
women’s rights are human rights, that all human rights pertain to women
as well as to men. As in many other areas of teaching on human rights, it
has taken the Catholic Church some time to reach this understanding.
During the medieval period women were clearly seen by the Catholic
Church as inferior beings and there were serious theological discussions
on whether or not women possessed souls.
In Gaudium et Spes, which is a very authoritative Church document,
being a teaching statement of the Pope in Council, we have a clear de-
nunciation of discrimination on the basis of sex:
Undoubtedly not all men are alike as regards physical capacity and intellectual
and moral power. But forms of social or cultural discrimination in basic personal
rights on the grounds of sex, race, colour, social conditions, language or religion,
must be curbed and eradicated as incompatible with God’s design. It is regret-
table that these basic personal rights are not yet being respected everywhere, as is
the case with women who are denied the choice freely to choose a husband, or a
state of life, or to have access to the same educational and cultural benefits as
available to men.12

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Catholicism, Gender and Human Rights
Complementarity, virginity and motherhood
While the Catholic Church sees women and men as being equal in
dignity, it also sees them as different, and as having quite different roles
and responsibilities. The proper vocation of women is seen as either vir-
ginity or motherhood. These sex roles are treated as biologically deter-
mined and Divinely ordained. They are seen as part of the natural order
and, at times, it appears that women and men are seen as having differ-
ent natures rather than a common human nature. Men’s vocation, role
and nature are not defined by the teachings biologically.
As John Paul II expressed it in his Letter to Women:
The creation of woman is thus marked from the outset by the principle of help: a
help which is not one sided but mutual. Woman complements man, just as man
complements woman: men and women are complementary. Womanhood ex-
presses the ‘human’ as much as manhood does, but in a different and comple-
mentary way.
When the Book of Genesis speaks of ‘help’, it is not referring merely to acting, but
also to being. Womanhood and manhood are complementary not only from the
physical and psychological points of view, but also from the ontological. It is only
through the duality of the ‘masculine’ and the ‘feminine’ that the ‘human’ finds
full realization.13
The concept of complementarity between the roles of women and men
casts women in the role of helper and nurturer. These roles may be expe-
rienced as subsidiary, dependent, conferring little social status and pro-
viding few opportunities for self expression and growth. In these
circumstances, such a division of roles may foster domination rather than
mutuality and equality.
While affirming the full personhood of women, their autonomy, their
capacity and right to freely determine their own life choices, the Catholic
Church also indicates what it sees to be the proper role of women. This is
well illustrated by the following passage from Octagesima Adveniens by
Paul VI:
in many countries a charter for women which would put an end to actual dis-
crimination and would establish relationships of equality in rights and respect
for their dignity is the object of study and at times lively demands. We do not have

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Catholicism, Gender and Human Rights
in mind that false equality which would deny the distinctions laid down by the
Creator himself and which would be in contradiction with women’s proper role,
which is of such capital importance, at the heart of the family as well as within
society. Developments in legislation should on the contrary be directed to protect-
ing her proper vocation and at the same time recognising her independence as a
person, and her equal rights to participate in cultural, economic, social and politi-
cal life.14
The controversy regarding the Catholic Church’s judgement that it
has no authority to ordain women to the ministerial priesthood is related
to this view of complementarity. Many of the faithful struggle to see this
gendered division of religious roles as reflecting different but equal roles
rather than simply enforcing different and unequal ones. Interestingly,
Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Catholics seem to find this division
easily acceptable. All of the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Catholic
women with whom I have discussed these issues saw this division as be-
ing in harmony with their cultures: cultures in which gender roles are
highly specified but experienced as complementary and equal. This en-
courages me to believe that it is the social construction of complementarity
that is problematic rather than the concept that women and men are
different but equal.
This is how John Paul II has explained the Church’s position on ordi-
nation:
the presence of a diversity of roles is in no way prejudicial to women, provided
that this diversity is not the result of arbitrary imposition, but is rather an expres-
sion of what is specific to being male and female ...
If Christ by his free and sovereign choice, clearly attested to by the Gospel and by
the Church’s constant tradition  entrusted only to men the task of being an ‘icon’
of his countenance as ‘shepherd’ and ‘bridegroom’ of the Church through the
exercise of the ministerial priesthood, this in no way detracts from the role of
women, or for that matter from the role of the other members of the Church who
are not ordained to the scared ministry, since all share equally in the dignity
proper to the ‘common priesthood’ based on baptism.15
Those who wish to examine a fuller explanation of this position should
read John Paul II’s Apostolic Letters Mullieris dignitatem (On the Dignity
and Vocation of Women) and Ordinatio sacerdotalis (On Reserving Priestly
Ordination to Men Alone) - only the titles are in Latin.

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Catholicism, Gender and Human Rights
Participation in the public sphere
The participation of women in the public sphere was at first treated by
the Popes as an unfortunate reality, often the result of economic neces-
sity, typically the loss of a male provider, or the advent of war. Such par-
ticipation was gradually accepted, on the proviso that it should not be
allowed to interfere with women’s ‘real’ role as mothers.
And so we see the following qualifications in Gaudium et Spes’ affirma-
tion of women’s participation in social and cultural life:
Women are employed in almost every area of life. It is appropriate that they should
be able to assume their full proper roles in accordance with their own nature.
Everyone should acknowledge and favour the proper and necessary participa-
tion of women in cultural life.16
And, spelling out more specifically what this nature implies:
the children, especially the younger among them, need the care of their mother at
home. This domestic role of hers must be safely preserved, though the legitimate
social progress of women should not be underrated on that account.17
‘Good’ Pope John had earlier welcomed, in his characteristically opti-
mistic tone, the increasing consciousness of women and their participa-
tion in public life as a sign of the times:
it is obvious to everyone that women are now taking a part in public life. This is
happening more rapidly perhaps in nations of Christian civilisation, and, more
slowly but broadly, among peoples who have inherited other traditions or cul-
tures [this claim is perhaps debatable]. Since women are becoming ever more
conscious of their human dignity, they will not tolerate being treated as inani-
mate objects or mere instruments, but claim, both in domestic and in public life,
the rights and duties that befit a human person.18
While the contributions of women to public life are now more clearly
celebrated, there remains an implicit preference for domestic roles or roles
with a quasi domestic quality. In welcoming women’s participation in

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Catholicism, Gender and Human Rights
public life and urging them to become involved in the work of reconcilia-
tion, Pope Paul VI sees their specific contribution as an extension of their
nurturing family roles:
We rejoice, especially on the eve of International Women’s Year, proclaimed by
the United Nations, at the ever wider participation of women in the life of society,
to which they bring a specific contribution of great value, thanks to the qualities
that God has given them. These qualities of intuition, creativity, sensibility, a
sense of piety and compassion, a profound capacity for understanding and love,
enable women to be in a very particular way the creators of reconciliation in
families and in society.19
While the heavy emphasis of Catholic teaching on the family roles of
women may seem burdensome and restrictive to many, the experience of
many women of different cultures and classes, but especially the poorest,
has been that the price of involvement outside the domestic sphere is that
they are now expected to work the double shift of paid employment, car-
ing for dependants and performing housework. It is true, as the Interna-
tional Declaration of Human Rights sets out in Article 25.2 that motherhood
and childhood are worthy of special care and protection. Catholic teach-
ing is right to insist that this role be esteemed and protected. This is really
a pro woman stance. What is problematic is the apparent reduction and
restriction of women to this role. There are signs, however, that the Catholic
Church’s thinking on how this care and protection can best be ensured in
is a state of change. In recent Church pronouncements and in ‘semi-offi-
cial’ writings there has begun to enter an appreciation of the necessity of
men taking their fathering roles more seriously and sharing in the work of
family life. There has also been a move to suggest that the organisation of
the production process itself should be better adapted to the family re-
sponsibilities of workers.
There has also been a significant concession that sex role stereotypes
may not be Divinely ordained but rather the result of social conditioning.
John Paul II’s acknowledgment of the role of social conditioning and apol-
ogy for the Church’s part in the oppression of women is worth quoting at
length:
Unfortunately we are heirs to a history which has conditioned us to a remarkable
extent. In every time and place, this conditioning has been an obstacle to the
progress of women. Women’s dignity has often been unacknowledged and their

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Catholicism, Gender and Human Rights
prerogatives misrepresented; they have often been relegated to the margins of
society and even reduced to servitude. This has prevented women from truly
being themselves and it has resulted in a spiritual impoverishment of humanity.
Certainly it is no easy task to assign the blame for this, considering the many
kinds of cultural conditioning which down the centuries have shaped ways of
thinking and acting. And if objective blame, especially in particular historical
contexts, has belonged to not just a few members of the Church, for this I am truly
sorry. May this regret be transformed, on the part of the whole Church, into a
renewed commitment of fidelity to the Gospel vision. When it comes to setting
women free from every kind of exploitation and domination, the Gospel contains
an ever relevant message which goes back to the attitude of Jesus Christ himself.
Transcending the established norms of his own culture, Jesus treated women
with openness, respect, acceptance and tenderness. In this way he honoured the
dignity which women have always possessed according to God’s plan and in his
love. As we look to Christ at the end of this Second Millennium, it is natural to ask
ourselves: how much of his message has been heard and acted upon?
Yes, it is time to examine the past with courage, to assign responsibility where it
is due in a review of the long history of humanity.20
How can the Catholic Church respond to this call?
Fidelity to the Gospel vision: some directions for the development of
Catholic teaching on gender and human rights
Catholic social teaching draws on the Scriptures; on human knowl-
edge, especially in the areas of the social sciences; and on Tradition or the
experience of the faith community through time. It is a constantly devel-
oping body of teaching as the Church grows in understanding of the hu-
man person and the world and responds to changing circumstances and
new issues. Its standard methodology is inductive, moving from observa-
tion and description of the social reality to assessing this reality according
to the Church’s principles for reflection and applying the criteria for judge-
ment in order to develop guidelines for action.
Recalling the sources and methodology of Catholic Social Teaching
provides several starting points for the development of Catholic thinking
on gender and human rights.

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Catholicism, Gender and Human Rights
Return to the Book, look again at Tradition
What does the Bible tell us about the lives of women as they respond to
the message of the Gospel? What does it tell us about the kinds of relation-
ships that Jesus had with women and the kinds of relationships that the
Gospel message inspired in the early followers of Jesus?
In the last couple of decades there has been an explosion of Scriptural
studies undertaken by women and feminist men. As people of the book,
the Bible is a critically important source for us in trying to be ever more
faithful to the Gospel. Good Biblical scholarship, attentive to the perspec-
tives and experiences of women as well as men, will be indispensable to
the task of renewing our commitment to the Gospel vision of the equal
dignity of women and men.
I mentioned earlier the influence of the ‘Fathers of the Church’. We
need also to look for the Mothers of the Church and to recover the stories
of the women of the Early Church. This enterprise also needs to extend
beyond the so-called Patristic period to encompass the experience of the
people of God through time-up to and including the present. In particular
we will benefit from the excavation of the wisdom gained through the
experiences of the female part of the people of God as we have struggled
to respond to social justice issues through history.
There are many role models that could be offered to modern women.
There are many virgins and martyrs but strangely very few mothers among
our saints. Women engaged in working actively in the world should also
feature among those held up as examples of faith.
Embrace knowledge about the human person
The Church can always learn from human sciences, especially the so-
cial sciences. As human knowledge advances, it is conceivable that the
anthropology underlying Papal teaching on the roles of women and men
may need to be reassessed. Perhaps the part played in the determination
of gender roles by social conditioning is even larger than currently thought.
If nurture were found to be a stronger influence on roles than nature,
then it may well be that rigidly defined sex roles are not part of a Divinely
ordained order but rather are a consequence of original sin.

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Catholicism, Gender and Human Rights
The passage from John Paul II quoted above moves in this direction
but it needs to be more thoroughly ‘unpacked’ to understand its implica-
tions.
Start with the reality of women’s lives
There has been a growing tendency in teaching about women to work
deductively, applying abstract ideas to the ‘question’ of women, or to base
teaching in Mariology, rather than working inductively, starting from the
concrete reality of contemporary women’s lives. To date the experiences
of women have not been adequately taken into account in the Catholic
Church’s social teachings. For example, it is only in recent times that
women’s experiences as workers have begun to be addressed as some-
thing more than an unfortunate passing phenomenon.
Applying the standard methods of the Catholic Social Teachings, we
would start by looking at the concrete, historical, lived experience of real
women around the world today. We would then ask what was happen-
ing to the dignity of women as human persons. We would formulate a
call to action to promote the dignity and rights of women as full human
beings. A global analysis would grow out of the dialogue between a vari-
ety of more localised or specific analyses.
As well as being the object of Catholic reflection, women should also
be more frequently involved in that analysis, reflection and subsequent
formulation of Church teaching. The laity as a whole have the particular
mission of transforming the everyday world according to the will of God.
Women in particular must claim this legitimate role in action for social
justice.
Returning to the methodology of Catholic Social Teaching would pro-
vide a strong antidote to the romanticisation and sentimentalism that marks
so much Catholic teaching on women and on motherhood in particular.
As a woman and a social scientist, I think I am reasonably well placed to
observe that women are not morally superior to men; we are capable of
all of the evil that is perpetrated by men - sometimes we just lack the
opportunity. The exalted status that is given to women by Church teach-
ing has not in fact resulted in care and protection of women by men, but
more often in a dualistic love - hate relationship marked by exploitation.

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Catholicism, Gender and Human Rights
Conclusion
Catholic teaching on the dignity and role of women appears at this
time to be riddled with contradictions. Is this chaos and confusion? Is it
hypocrisy? In my opinion it is the sign of a period of growth and develop-
ment in the Church’s teachings. Catholic thinking is struggling towards a
new understanding of gender and human rights. It has already taken
some time, and it may take some years yet, to reach that new understand-
ing. It is my hope that it will be an understanding that continues to es-
teem motherhood but balances this esteem with a greater emphasis on
the parenting responsibilities of fathers and the personal growth and op-
portunities for self-giving that this offers men. I hope that it will be an
understanding that retains a commitment to the complementarity and
mutuality of women and men but denounces as sinful the social construc-
tion of complementarity as subordination. I hope that in the not too dis-
tant future, the teaching authority of the Church will encourage a greater
participation by women in the public realm and a greater participation
by men in the private realm, but above all, deliver a challenge to everyone
to develop their God--given potential and to place it at the service of the
human community.
Notes
The historical material that follows is indebted to the work of Monsignor Biffi in
course notes and in his article “Human Rights in the Magisterium of the Popes of the
Twentieth Century”, in Human Rights: a Christian Approach, International Federation of
Catholic Universities Research Coordination Centre, Manilla, 1988.
Key Papal texts from this period include Gregory XVI, Mirari Vos, 1832; and Pius IX,
Quanta Cura and the Syllabus of Errors, 1864.
Key Papal texts from this period include: Leo XIII, Rerum Novarum, 1891; Pius XI,
Quadragesmio Anno, 1931, Non Abbiamo Bisogno, 1931, Mit Brennender Sorge, 1937, Divini
Redemptoris, 1937, Nos Es Muy Conocida, 1937; Pius XII, Sumi Pontificatus, 1939, and his
Christmas Radio Messages during the Second World War, especially 1941, 1942, and
1944.
Key texts from John XXIII were Mater et Magistra, 1961; and Pacem in Terris, 1963. One of
the most significant texts from Vatican II was Gaudium et Spes, 1965.
Some important texts from this period include the 1971 Synod of Bishops’ statement,
Justice in the World; Paul VI, Populorum Progressio, 1967, Evangelii Nuntiandi, 1975; John
Paul II, Redemptor Hominis, 1979, Laborem Exercens, 1981, Solicitudo Rei Socialis, 1987,
Centesimus Annus, 1991.
Catechism of the Catholic Church, n 1934.
Catechism of the Catholic Church, n 1930.
John Paul II, Centesimus Annus, n 52.

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Catholicism, Gender and Human Rights
Pope John Paul II, Sollicitudo Rei Socialis, n 42.
10 Pope Paul VI, Evangelii Nuntiandi, n 9.
11 Pope John Paul II, Sollicitudo Rei Socialis, n 41.
12 Vatican II, Gaudium et Spes, 1965, n 29.
13 John Paul II, Letter to Women, 1995, n 7.
14 Paul VI, Octagesima Adveniens, 1971, n 13.
15 John Paul II, Letter to Women, 1995, n 11.
16 Vatican II, Gaudium et Spes, 1965, n 60.
17 Vatican II, Gaudium et Spes, 1965, n 52.
18 John XXII, Pacem in Terris, 1963, n 41.
19 Paul VI, World Day of Peace Message, 1975, n 13.
20 John Paul II, Letter to Women, 1995, n 3.

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Human Rights: Reflections from a Bahá’í Viewpoint
Human Rights: Reflections from a
Bahá’í Viewpoint
BY MICHAEL CURTOTTI
Since its inception in Iran in 1844, the Bahá’í Faith has developed into
a global religion in both its geographical spread and in the diversity of the
composition of its community. As of May 1995 the Bahá’í community
world-wide numbered over five million. A total of 174 National Spiritual
Assemblies had been established in separate countries and territories, each
representing a well-established Bahá’í community.1 Today just under 90%
of local Bahá’í communities are found in the developing world, approxi-
mately 10% in western countries, and less than 2% in the original Islamic
heartlands where the Bahá’í Faith emerged.2
Born in modern times, the Bahá’í Faith addresses human rights in the
language of modernity. As well, however, we find traditional religious
terminology with which religions have characteristically dealt with issues
now falling within the human rights framework. In the earliest writings
of Bahá’u’lláh, the prophet-founder of the Bahá’í Faith, we find rights
themes addressed in terms of the spiritual journey of the soul. From this
seed, references to rights evolve into a well-defined set of principles which
form the foundation of the Bahá’í teachings, many of which have subse-
quently been championed by the modern human rights movement, and
some of which suggest future human rights agendas.
The Bahá’í community has long undertaken activities which promote
human rights, particularly in fields such as the abolition of racial and
other prejudices and the advocacy of the equality of men and women.
Since the adoption of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights the com-
munity has also advocated human rights through its contribution as an

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Human Rights: Reflections from a Bahá’í Viewpoint
non-government organisation represented at the United Nations, and in
the work of national communities around the world.
A significantly expanded involvement in human rights issues since 1994
has compelled the community to develop a better understanding of the
scriptural basis of the Bahá’í commitment to human rights, and to begin
to develop methodologies for the effective advocacy of rights which are
consistent with the community’s non-political character and its emphasis
on building unity between people. The focus on rights also raises the ques-
tion of how to deal maturely with areas where the standards of the Bahá’í
Faith and particular aspects of human rights may seem to be in tension.
Bahá’í Scripture and human rights principles
In a forty-year period from 1852-1892, Bahá’u’lláh delivered a com-
plex body of religious teachings directed to his followers, to enquirers, to
leaders of society and to humanity in general. Born to a leading ministe-
rial and noble family of Persia, Bahá’u’lláh spent this entire period as an
exile in the Ottoman Empire, held in varying degrees of detention and
imprisonment by its government.
A common theme throughout all of Bahá’u’lláh’s writings is the con-
cept of the oneness of humanity. Replete with human rights resonance, it
symbolises complex ideas concerning the nature of the human person
and society. This principle is regarded as the “pivot” around which the
Bahá’í teachings are built.3 It expresses the common spiritual origin - and
thus equality - of all human beings:
Know ye not why We created you all from the same dust? That no one should
exalt himself over the other.4
It symbolises the value of the human person, in language which paral-
lels the concept of human dignity in article 1 of the Universal Declaration
of Human Rights:
Noble have I created Thee, yet thou hast abased thyself. Rise then to that for which
thou wast created.5

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Human Rights: Reflections from a Bahá’í Viewpoint
It expresses the basic moral paradigm of Bahá’u’lláh’s teaching,
emphasising a vision of service to humanity as the highest moral order:
Do not busy yourselves in your own concerns; let your thoughts be fixed upon
that which will rehabilitate the fortunes of mankind and sanctify the hearts and
souls of men.6
It expresses the close bonds uniting all human beings together:
Ye are the fruits of one tree and the leaves of one branch. Deal ye one with another
with the utmost love and harmony, with friendliness and fellowship ... So power-
ful is the light of unity that it can illuminate the whole earth ... Exert yourselves
that ye may attain this transcendent and most sublime station, the station that
can ensure the protection and security of all mankind. This goal excelleth every
other goal, and this aspiration is the monarch of all aspirations. So long, however,
as the thick clouds of oppression, which obscure the day star of justice, remain
undispelled, it would be difficult for the glory of this station to be unveiled to
men’s eyes.7
Bahá’u’lláh’s teaching that “the earth is but one country, and man-
kind its citizens” expresses yet another aspect. It concisely conveys not
only the idea of oneness but also the idea of equality of all humans before
one global law. The foundational philosophies of the Universal Declara-
tion - dignity, equality, fraternity and non-discrimination - find expres-
sion in the idea of the oneness of humanity and the other core Bahá’í
principles.
Bahá’u’lláh’s teachings
It is possible to discern four phases in Bahá’u’lláh’s teachings. Despite
the marked differences between the various categories of scripture, all
feature the thread of human rights, which are given expression in an
evolutionary way.
During the first phase, his Baghdad teachings from 1852 to 1863,
Bahá’u’lláh’s writings were largely mystical and theological in character,
focussing on the relationship between man and God and on the nature of
religion. Observance of human rights is regarded as an element of the

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Human Rights: Reflections from a Bahá’í Viewpoint
soul’s search for God. The second phase, from 1863 to 1872, during which
Bahá’u’lláh was successively exiled to Constantinople, Adrianople and
finally the prison city of Akka in Palestine, featured a key series of letters
to various kings and rulers. Here observance of human rights is a divine
obligation imposed on the rulers of society. The third phase is represented
by the writing in 1873 of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, the Bahá’í book of sacred law,
in which human rights are foundational elements of the ordering of the
‘divine’ society. The fourth and final stage is expressed in a series of letters
written to various followers in which Bahá’u’lláh provides his vision of
an enlightened society, outlining a series of teachings designed to address-
ing the healing of social ills. As aspirations for the future, human rights
are at the core of the healing of society’s ills and the redemption of hu-
manity.
The journey of the soul (1852-1863)
The earliest references to rights concepts in Bahá’í scripture are found
in Bahá’u’lláh’s mystical and theological writings. From a Bahá’í point of
view rights are a far richer concept that mere legal prohibitions limiting
the power of those governing society. They are enjoined on the believer,
not only because they represent justice, but because the believer must ex-
press them to be able to attain to God. The following passage from the
Kitab-i-Iqan, in which Bahá’u’lláh discusses the religious path, is an ex-
ample of this:
When a true seeker determines to take the step of search in the path leading to the
knowledge of the Ancient of Days he must ... never exalt himself above anyone ...
That seeker should regard backbiting as grievous error ... He should succour the
dispossessed, and never withhold his favour from the destitute. He should show
kindness to animals, how much more to his fellow man, to him who is endowed
with the power of utterance ... He should not wish for others that which he doth
not wish for himself ... These are among the attributes ... of the spiritually minded.8
In the previous section we have reviewed a number of quotations from
the Hidden Words which come from this period and which address equal-
ity in spiritual terms. In the same works we find a range of other rights
concepts such as adherence to justice, care for the poor and condemna-
tion of injustice, in each case expressed in mystical language. These kinds
of references, as Bahá’u’lláh himself states, crystallise the teachings ‘re-

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Human Rights: Reflections from a Bahá’í Viewpoint
vealed unto the prophets of old’. One such example is the following pas-
sage in which the prophet Isaiah talks of the kind of worship that is ac-
ceptable to God:
“The multitudes of your sacrifices - what are they to me?” says the Lord. “I have
more than enough of burnt offerings, of rams and the fat of fattened animals ...
Stop bringing meaningless offerings! Your incense is detestable to me ... I cannot
bear your evil assemblies. Your New Moon festivals and your appointed feasts
my soul hates. They have become a burden to me ... even if you offer many prayers
I will not listen ... Your hands are full of blood; wash and make yourselves clean.
Take your evil deeds out of my sight! Stop doing wrong, learn to do right! Seek
justice, rebuke the oppressor. Defend the cause of the fatherless, plead the case of
the widow”.
Sources such as this, which could be multiplied from a variety of reli-
gions, underline the universality and antiquity of philosophies which are
the roots of the modern human rights movement.
The duties of the rulers of society (1863 - 1873)
The next phase of Bahá’u’lláh’s writings is represented by letters to
various kings and rulers of society in which he proclaims his divine mis-
sion. These letters include an active advocacy of rights expressed in terms
of divinely imposed duties binding on the rulers of society. It is a theme
that continues in subsequent periods of his teachings.
Thus we find the core of civil and political rights: a condemnation of
oppression and praise of just governance and the securing of rights.
God hath committed into your hands the reins of the government of the people,
that ye may rule with justice over them, safeguard the rights of the down-trodden
and punish the wrong-doers.9
We also find the basic outlines of the concepts of economic rights in
repeated calls for economic justice. Thus Bahá’u’lláh calls on the Otto-
man sultan to address the extremes of wealth and poverty under his rule:

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Human Rights: Reflections from a Bahá’í Viewpoint
Deal with ... undeviating justice so that none among [your subjects] may either
suffer want or be pampered with luxuries. This is but manifest justice ... for this is
what we observed when we entered the City [Constantinople]. We found among
its inhabitants some who were possessed of an affluent fortune and lived in the
midst of excess riches, while others were in dire want and abject poverty. This ill
beseemeth thy sovereignty, and is unworthy of thy rank.10
In addition to these two major themes we find a number of specific
rights references addressed to rulers of society. Religious discrimination is
condemned in a reference to the persecution of the Jewish community by
two governments.11 In an allusion to the suffering of the Bahá’í commu-
nity Bahá’u’lláh outlines the kinds of abuses of governmental power that
are impermissible and which should be addressed by the world’s leaders,
including violation of life, property, and reputation. He emphasises the
duty of kings (in modern terminology, governments) to prevent oppres-
sion.12 The role of the will of the people in the process of governance is
alluded to in an early letter to Queen Victoria: “We have heard that thou
has entrusted the reins of counsel into the hands of the representatives of
the people. Thou, indeed, hast done well”.13 To these representatives he
emphasises that they should regard themselves as “the representatives of
all that dwell on earth”14, a concept which emphatically suggests the duty
to advance the rights of all people:
O ye the elected representatives of the people in every land! Take ye counsel
together, and let your concern be only for that which profiteth mankind, and
bettereth the condition thereof.15
A third major theme which dominates Bahá’u’lláh’s message to the
rulers is his encouragement for them to establish peace in the world. While
examination of this theme is beyond the scope of this paper, it is impor-
tant to note that a full appreciation of the promotion of peace was central
in his writings to kings and rulers.
The Kitáb-i-Aqdas and human rights
The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, Bahá’u’lláh’s book of sacred law, is the fundamen-
tal source for the way of life practiced by Bahá’í s. The Aqdas provides for
prayer, fasting, religious institutions, places of worship and religious fes-
tivals. It deals with traditional religious subjects - morality, man’s rela-

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Human Rights: Reflections from a Bahá’í Viewpoint
tionship with God and individual spiritual growth. It is concerned with
basic social laws such as the prohibition of theft and murder. It deals with
basic matters of personal status such as marriage, divorce and inherit-
ance. Within this overall context we find in the Aqdas basic human rights
principles - dignity, equality, fraternity, non-discrimination - and the out-
lines of the concepts of civil and political rights and economic, social and
cultural rights. In addition there is a range of provisions bearing directly
on human rights principles found in the Universal Declaration of Human
Rights.
The idea of human unity is expressed in the Aqdas in a call to Bahá’ís to
“consort with all religions in the spirit of amity and concord”, with the
added emphasis that “all things proceed from God and unto Him they
return”. Here we find both the idea of the human fraternity and the idea
of the equality of human beings found in article 1 of the Declaration.16 Its
basic intent is reinforced in provisions such as the abolition of ritual impu-
rity, a concept whose discriminatory impact and destructiveness to equality
and dignity (particularly for women) requires no elaboration. In the con-
text of this abolition Bahá’u’lláh again calls on his followers to “consort
with the followers of all religions”.17
Human dignity is expressed in passages which emphasise the sacred-
ness of the human person - “the human temple”, “temple of man” - and
which encourage behaviour worthy of that dignity.18
The way in which the prohibition of murder is expressed emphasises
the sacredness of human life:
let no soul slay another ... What! Would ye kill him whom God hath quickened,
whom He hath endowed with a breath of spirit through a breath from Him?
Grievous then would your tresspass be before His throne! Fear God, and lift not
the hand of injustice and oppression to destroy what He hath Himself raised up.19
From a religious viewpoint the “right to life” set out in article 3 of the
Declaration could not be more strongly stated. The applicability of this
prohibition to the agents of government is implicit in the condemnation of
the abuse of power to take life expressed in this passage.
The abolition of the slave trade and the practice of slavery set out in
article 4 of the Universal Declaration is advocated in the Kitáb-i-Aqdas:

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Human Rights: Reflections from a Bahá’í Viewpoint
It is forbidden to you to trade in slaves, be they men or women. It is not for him
who is a servant to buy another of God’s servants ... Let no man exalt himself over
another: all are but bondslaves before the Lord.20
As well as forbidding both the slave trade and slavery the language
emphasises the concept of human equality - including by implication the
equality of men and women, an equality explicit in other of Bahá’u’lláh’s
writings.
The right to social security found in articles 22 and 25 of the Declara-
tion is expressed in a variety of provisions of the Aqdas:
All have been enjoined to earn a living, and as for those who are incapable of
doing so, it is incumbent on the Deputies of God and on the wealthy to make
adequate provision for them.21
Other passages confirm the system of charitable contributions for re-
lief of the poor known as Zakat, which was taught by Muhammad.22 The
estate of a deceased who leaves no children and no will is to be expended
“on the orphaned and widowed, and on whatsoever will bring benefit to
the generality of the people”.23 These passages envision a society provid-
ing systems of social security.
The right to education found in article 26 of the Declaration is expressed
in the Aqdas:
Unto every father hath been enjoined the instruction of his son and daughter in
the art of reading and writing ... He that putteth away that which is commanded
unto him, the Trustees are then to take from him that which is required for their
instruction if he be wealthy and, if not, the matter devolveth upon the House of
Justice. Verily have We made it a shelter for the poor and needy.24
This passage provides successive mechanisms to ensure that all chil-
dren receive an education. Like the passage dealing with slavery, where
equality of men and women is implied, this provision promotes equal gen-
der access to education.
The principles of protection of privacy and reputation found in article
12 of the Declaration are expressed in the Aqdas: “take heed that ye enter

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Human Rights: Reflections from a Bahá’í Viewpoint
no house in the absence of its owner, except with permission.” Believers
are forbidden to commit “backbiting or calumny”, a prohibition strongly
emphasised in Bahá’u’lláh’s teachings.
References in the Aqdas to the kings and rulers of society continue elabo-
ration of the basic elements of civil and political rights, reinforcing state-
ments addressing such rights in greater detail elsewhere. Bahá’u’lláh
reminds the Kings that their power is not arbitrary: they are subject to a
higher law and to divine sovereignty.25 This concept reminds us of the
non-secular sources of the concept of the “rule of law”. He is contemptu-
ous of the “throne of tyranny” in Constantople, the capital of the Otto-
man Empire.26 In a paragraph specifically addressed to the rulers of
America he calls on them to “Adorn the temple of dominion with the
ornament of justice and fear of God”. He calls on them to “Bind the bro-
ken with the hands of justice, and crush the oppressor who flourisheth
with the rod of the commandments of your Lord, the Ordainer, the All-
wise.”27 In a reference to his native city of Teheran he predicts that even-
tually God will bless its throne “with one who will rule with justice” and
that “erelong, the reins of power” would fall into the hands of the people.28
In a later work he clarifies the intent of this reference:
Referring to the land of Ta [Teheran] We have revealed in the Kitáb-i-Aqdas that
which will admonish mankind. They that perpetrate tyranny in the world have
usurped the rights of the peoples and kindreds of the earth and are sedulously
pursuing their selfish inclinations.29
Bahá’u’lláh later expresses support for constitutional monarchy, as it
is “adorned with the light of both kingship and of the consultation of the
people”.30
These provisions of the Aqdas establish a broad foundation for human
rights. The significance of this scriptural foundation cannot be
overemphasised. Bahá’í support of human rights is not a question of re-
sponse to current social trends; it falls rather into the category of funda-
mental norm of Bahá’í community life. Advocacy of human rights is one
aspect of aspiring and doing justice to the way of life inculcated in the
Bahá’í teachings.

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Human Rights: Reflections from a Bahá’í Viewpoint
An enlightened world society
The final phase of Bahá’u’lláh’s writings was embodied in a series of
major letters to the faithful and others which set out his vision of an
enlighted world society. Here again we find the stream of human rights
thought expressed.
In the Tablet of the World, for instance, he defines societal evil in terms
which only too well capture the depths of violations of human dignity in
the twentieth century:
The unbelievers and the faithless have set their minds on four things: first, the
shedding of blood; second, the burning of books; third, the shunning of the fol-
lowers of other religions; fourth, the extermination of other communities and
groups.31
A flavour of the writings of this period can be gleaned by an examina-
tion of the letter known as Glad-Tidings which, among others, abolishes
the law of holy war, encourages association with the followers of all reli-
gions, promotes the adoption of a universal language so that “the whole
earth will come to be regarded as one country”, encourages loyalty to
government, calls for the establishment of global peace, promotes free-
dom in dress, encourages service to the community, prohibits the destruc-
tion of books, promotes the sciences and the arts, regards work as worship,
and promotes constitutional monarchy. Similar passages are found in other
writings of the period.
It is also in this period that Bahá’u’lláh defines the distinguishing char-
acter of his teachings:
We have on one hand, blotted from the pages of God’s Holy Book whatsoever
hath been the cause of strife, of malice and mischief amongst the children of men,
and have, on the other, laid down the essential prerequisites of concord, of under-
standing, of complete and enduring unity.32
It is from passages such as this that the core principle of the oneness of
humanity is drawn.
Again we find additional human rights elements represented in this
period. For instance, the idea of fair reward for work: “The people of

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Human Rights: Reflections from a Bahá’í Viewpoint
Bahá should not deny any soul the reward due to him, should treat crafts-
men with deference”.33 The proper administration of justice is referred to:
“Shed not the blood of anyone, O people, neither judge ye anyone un-
justly.”34 Respect for the property of others is embodied in such passages
as: “Deal not treacherously with the substance of your neighbour. Be ye
trustworthy on earth”.35 The Aqdas instruction to ensure the education of
children is reiterated as a central principle. The obligation to work is iden-
tified as a form of worship, which later we see elaborated as a right to
work and as a duty on those who organise society to ensure work is pro-
vided for all.
Seen from the Bahá’í paradigm
Religions provide meaning to life, and in doing so they provide a con-
ceptual world or paradigm within which the religion’s principles and
teachings are elaborated. Accordingly, though we have seen a powerful
affirmation of rights themes in the Bahá’í teachings, those teachings can-
not be seen as merely an expression of human rights philosophy or any
other system of thought. The Bahá’í approach to human rights needs to
be understood in its own context, if it is to be fully appreciated.
The difference in paradigm between secular modernism and a reli-
gious system such as the Bahá’í Faith inevitably gives rise to a number of
areas of conceptual tension. These tensions need to be acknowledged and
explored. In some cases the tension can be resolved by a better under-
standing of the nature of human rights, or of the Bahá’í teachings, and by
better understanding what is essential to each.
Fundamentally the Bahá’í approach to human rights is one that bal-
ances communitarian approaches with individual interest. Unsurprisingly,
given its religious character, responsibilities are as important as rights from
a Bahá’í point of view. This issue, of course, only becomes problematic if
one views human rights as in any sense anti-communitarian or anti-re-
sponsibility. Such an interpretation must be regarded as highly question-
able, certainly in respect of the principles of the human rights movement
grounded in the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
If one looks to the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, one finds that its very first phrase is a
reference to a duty, not a right: the duty of the individual to know God
and his prophets and to obey their teachings. Curiously, we can observe
that the Universal Declaration itself begins with a duty rather than a right:

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Human Rights: Reflections from a Bahá’í Viewpoint
every individual and every organ of society, keeping this Declaration constantly
in mind, shall strive by teaching and education to promote respect for these rights
and freedoms and by progressive measures, national and international, to secure
their universal and effective recognition and observance”.36
In addition, every right implies duties. The “right to life”, for instance,
in an active sense is addressed to all mankind and only has meaning if we
understand by it “thou shalt not abuse power to take human life”. Article
29 of the Universal Declaration includes the idea of community responsi-
bility, stating “everyone has duties to the community in which alone the
free and full development of his personality is possible”. The emphasis on
rights as opposed to duties in the Declaration itself also needs to be under-
stood in its historical context. The language, for very good reasons, is con-
cerned to emphasise the limits of governmental power, because
governments have so prominently been the principal violators of rights.
The introduction of extensive reference to duties would potentially un-
dermine this purpose. The same is true of the international human rights
treaties, which are concerned to bind governments with legal obligations
not qualified by ambiguities arising from duties which might be read by
those minded to avoid human rights obligations as making rights condi-
tional.
A second area of difficulty is presented by the revolutionary origin of
human rights philosophy. To the extent that human rights can be inter-
preted as continuing to endorse the violent overthrow of government,
they would not accord with Bahá’í principle. Violence is a methodology
antithetical to the character of the Bahá’í Faith and is profoundly rejected.
Bahá’ís are counselled to be obedient and loyal to government:
None must contend with those who wield authority over the people; leave unto
them that which is theirs, and direct your attention to men’s hearts.37
In the last clause of this passage we see encapsulated the Bahá’í view
that the true transformation of society depends ultimately on the trans-
formation of the individual. The pacific character of the Bahá’í Faith is
emphasised by other provisions such as the prohibition on carrying arms
unless essential, and on engaging in conflict, striking another, or commit-
ting similar acts “whereby hearts and souls may be saddened”.38 These
statements do not imply an acceptance of unjust rule, but they define a

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Human Rights: Reflections from a Bahá’í Viewpoint
methodology based on the peaceful and progressive transformation of
such injustice.
Fundamental to an appreciation of the Bahá’í approach is its emphasis
on unity as the prerequisite to social well-being and the Bahá’í Faith’s
own unifying mission which mandates that all its activities be directed to
the achievement of unity in the human family.
The foregoing is not necessarily outside the bounds of modern human
rights thinking. The preambular paragraphs to the Declaration in fact
note that one of the purposes of human rights is to obviate the necessity
for individuals to resort to “rebellion against tyranny and oppression”.
Further, the modernity of the Bahá’í Faith in its social principles does
not equate to an acceptance of moral indifference or moral relativism in
matters of personal conduct, which is a prominent characteristic of mod-
ern cosmopolitan society. Indeed the Bahá’í Faith expects high standards
of morality from its followers including in areas such as personal ethics,
chastity, and abstinence from alcohol, drugs and gambling.
The Faith’s emphasis both on peace and on high standards of conduct
is reflected in Bahá’u’lláh’s critical reference to liberty in the Aqdas. It is a
reference which can be easily misunderstood if taken out of context. In
the Aqdas, Baha’u’llah refers to excesses of liberty as contrary to human
well-being. As indicated by the Universal House of Justice, the world gov-
erning body of the Bahá’í Faith, such references cannot be construed as
approval of oppressive governance:
A true reading of the teachings of Bahá’u’lláh leaves no doubt as to the high
importance of [freedom of thought, expression and action] to constructive social
processes. Consider, for instance, Bahá’u’lláh’s proclamation to the kings and
rulers. Can it not be deduced from this alone that attainment of freedom is a
significant purpose of his Revelation? His denunciations of tyranny and His
urgent appeals on behalf of the oppressed provide unmistakable proof. But does
not the freedom foreshadowed by His Revelation imply nobler, ampler manifesta-
tions of human achievement? Does it not indicate an organic relationship be-
tween the internal and external realities of man such as has not yet been attained?39
An analysis of the relationship between the teachings of the Bahá’í
Faith and human rights is found in a major essay in the 1996-1997 vol-
ume of The Bahá’í World. The inclusion of this essay in an official publica-
tion of the international Bahá’í community reflects the significance of

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Human Rights: Reflections from a Bahá’í Viewpoint
human rights in the current work of the community. Titled “The Human
Rights Discourse: A Bahá’í Perspective”, the article addresses the philoso-
phy of rights and makes a number of observations. First and foremost, it
discusses the basic congruence between human rights values and the Bahá’í
teachings. Secondly, it is concerned to critique moral relativism and thus
to support the universality of human rights, commenting that relativistic
statements about rights (such as in the Bangkok Declaration) “are often
intended to insulate governments from international criticism regarding
treatment of their citizens”. Thirdly, the article discusses the various sources
posited for human rights (nature, reason etc) supporting the validity of
arguments for a divine origin for those rights. Fourthly the article
emphasises the communitarian character of the Bahá’í teachings which
call for a balance between individual freedom and the promotion of the
collective good.
Beyond these thematic issues are specific provisions of Bahá’í law that
need to be considered in the overall context of the relationship between
the Bahá’í teachings and human rights. The following examples illustrate
some of the issues that arise.
A social law introduced by Bahá’u’lláh requires that once intending
spouses have decided they wish to marry each other, they should seek
and obtain the consent of their parents to the marriage. This might be
seen as impeding free consent of the spouses as referred to in article 16.2
of the Universal Declaration. Yet Bahá’u’lláh’s intent in introducing this
provision furthers an aim of this article, which is the well-being of the
family:
Desiring to establish love, unity and harmony amidst Our servants, We have
conditioned [marriage], once the couple’s wish is known, upon the permission of
their parents, lest enmity and rancour should arise amongst them.40
The intestacy laws provided by Bahá’u’lláh provide for a complex se-
ries of inheritors who receive different portions of the inheritance. The
first male child receives significant preference over other potential benefi-
ciaries, and in other instances a greater proportion of inheritance is pro-
vided for male as opposed to female beneficiaries. Here again difficult
issues arise, a full appreciation requiring consideration of the context of
these inheritance laws.

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Human Rights: Reflections from a Bahá’í Viewpoint
The death penalty is allowed for in the case of murder and arson, as is
its commutation to life imprisonment.41 A significant body of work in the
human rights movement is undertaken to bring about the full abolition of
the death penalty, although there is an equally significant resistance to
this aim.
Rather than creating a fundamental divergence, such issues need to be
seen in the context of an evolutionary and diverse human rights system,
whose basic provisions vary over both time and place, although its funda-
mental principles and intent remain in essence unchanging. Since 1948
new “generations” of rights have been created and different regions have
emphasised different aspects of human rights. Work within the interna-
tional system to elaborate rights continues largely unabated. Furthermore,
rights are themselves not absolute and are balanced against each other.
For instance, the Convention on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination
limits the right to freedom of expression in order to promote racial equal-
ity. Universality thus cannot be taken to mean uniformity: within limits
there is scope for a diversity of approaches to achieving the minimum
aspirations set out in the Universal Declaration.
Bahá’í aspirations for human rights
A review of the Bahá’í approach to human rights would be incomplete
without reference to those areas where the Bahá’í teachings suggest the
need for further development of human rights principles.
Of central importance to unfulfilled human rights aspirations from a
Bahá’í point of view is the concept of the oneness of humanity - a concept
at the core of Bahá’u’lláh’s teachings and which he emphasises repeat-
edly. It is expressed in various ways including the idea of global citizen-
ship. “The Earth is but one country, and mankind its citizens.” This idea
of universal human citizenship implies, in stronger terms than expressed
in the Declaration, the equality of rights of all members of the human
family. Citizenship is the organising principle that replaced hierarchical
medieval society with egalitarian concepts of modernity. Yet, in today’s
world we still do not practice full equality of human rights. One’s country
of birth still determines whether one will live in abject poverty or in mate-
rial affluence unimaginable to previous generations, whether one will
experience peace or warfare, whether one lives in a democratic society or
whether one is subject to tyranny. It is a reality implicitly endorsed by the
Declaration, which in this respect gives priority to the rights of states as
opposed to the rights of the individual. For instance articles 13 (freedom

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Human Rights: Reflections from a Bahá’í Viewpoint
of movement, and the right to leave a country), 14 (the right to asylum)
and 15 (the right to nationality) can be seen from a Bahá’í point of view as
steps along the way to adopting the principle that all humanity are the
citizens of a common homeland.
In this context article 28, which states that “everyone is entitled to a
social and international order in which the rights and freedoms set forth
in the Declaration can be fully realised”, would be seen as an area of
neglected human rights advocacy. From the point of view of the Bahá’í
teachings, human rights will not be achieved until the unity of the human
race is established.
The Bahá’í principle that extremes of wealth as well as the extreme of
poverty need to be addressed suggest another area of human rights advo-
cacy. In broader terms the attention given to economic rights in the Bahá’í
writings contrasts with western approaches which in the past were pri-
marily focussed on civil and political rights. Thus far efforts towards the
achievement of basic economic standards for all human beings, as called
for in the Universal Declaration, have been notably unsuccessful; and
extremes of poverty and wealth are increasing, both globally and within
national borders.
The concept of the “oneness of religion” takes article 18 of the declara-
tion one step beyond recognising the freedom of others to practice their
beliefs - it implies the idea that all religions are from God and therefore
sacred and worthy of reverence. It is an idea that promotes reconciliation
and mutual respect between the followers of all faiths. Religious tolerance
remains an unachieved aspiration, as sadly evident in conflict between
followers of different faiths in a number of countries.
Bahá’í community advocacy of human rights
The Bahá’í teachings provide rich sources for action to promote hu-
man rights. Thus, as one would expect, the Bahá’í community has sought
to translate these principles into practical action.
In a general sense Bahá’í community life intrinsically involves the pro-
motion of human rights. The practices of free and fair elections, the role of
the community in the governance of its own affairs, the promotion of
unity between people irrespective of race and background, the pursuit of
gender equity are all inherent aspects of Bahá’í community life. In a Bahá’í
International Community statement on human rights education the pro-

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Human Rights: Reflections from a Bahá’í Viewpoint
motion of human rights principles in Bahá’í moral education classes is
discussed: “Bahá’í communities in 173 countries are already both pro-
moting and providing education, based on the principle of the oneness of
humanity, which seeks to cultivate respect for the rights of others, a sense
of responsibility for the well-being of the human family, and the moral
attributes that contribute to a just, harmonious and peaceful world civili-
zation. As a fundamental tenet of their religion, Bahá’ís are committed to
the eradication of all forms of prejudice, including those based on race,
ethnic origin, religion, sex or nationality — prejudices that fuel hatred
and cause otherwise good people to deprive their fellow citizens of
rights.”42
As well as this general context there is an increasing body of specific
human rights advocacy in which the Bahá’í community is engaged.
Statements issued by the Bahá’í International Community, which rep-
resent some of its work at the United Nations, give an indication of the
length of commitment to human rights at the international level. The Bahá’í
community contributed to the drafting of the Universal Declaration of
Human Rights through its Bahá’í Declaration of Human Obligations and
Rights. From 1974 onwards there has been a steady stream of Bahá’í con-
tributions to the human rights work of United Nations bodies, covering a
broad range of topics including women’s rights, racial prejudice, rights of
minorities, religious tolerance, rights of indigenous people, economic so-
cial and cultural rights, human rights education, violence against women
and combatting racism.43
A 1974 document on the elimination of discrimination against women
illustrates how the Bahá’í community, as a global entity, has worked over
many years to promote human rights:
Since this is the first occasion we have had to report on publicity given to the
Declaration on the Elimination of Discrimination Against Women, we would like
to mention that as far back as 1968 we were making available to our affiliates
[national communities] information on the [Declaration on the Elimination of
Discrimination Against Women], as well as mailing supplies for United Nations
Day or Human Rights Day meetings.
This description is representative of the kind of global and grass roots
activity that Bahá’í communities have pursued for many years.

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Human Rights: Reflections from a Bahá’í Viewpoint
During the International Year of Peace in 1986, the Universal House of
Justice issued The Promise of World Peace, a document which focussed on
the prerequisites for the achievement of peace. It was shared with com-
munity leaders from the Secretary General of the United Nations to the
chiefs and mayors of local communities, as well as the public in general. It
continues to be distributed by the Bahá’í community. Its themes include
the abolition of racism, the equality of men and women, the abolition of
extremes of wealth and poverty, and the need for universal education.
In 1994 Bahá’í advocacy of human rights was given a greater focus
through the adoption of an international policy for a Bahá’í contribution
to the fostering of peace that focussed on four thematic issues: human
rights, advancement of women, global prosperity and moral development.
This policy has had the effect of significantly increasing national and lo-
cal Bahá’í focus on these issues. In 1997 the Bahá’í community launched a
program of action to support the implementation of national measures
pursuant to the United Nations Decade for Human Rights Education. In
this campaign Bahá’í communities have been encouraged to undertake
promotion of commemoration of the fiftieth anniversary of the Universal
Declaration of Human Rights and steps to implement the UN plan of
action for the decade.
In Australia, the Bahá’í community has participated in such activities
over many years. The community’s work for peace was recognised by an
award from the United Nations Secretary General in the International
Year of Peace. Since 1996 there has been an increased focus on commemo-
ration of Human Rights day, adding to routine activities in support of
other international and national commemorations such as United Na-
tions’ Day, International Women’s Day, Reconciliation Week and Refu-
gee Week. In its national work the community has sought to increase its
contribution to non-government work in the field of human rights. A wide
range of activities were organised to promote the fiftieth anniversary of
the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in 1998, including local com-
memorations and the conference at which this paper was presented.
Conclusion
As we explore the body of Bahá’í teachings we see a deep stream of
reference to human rights expressed in traditional religious terminology -
terminology drawn not from modern western political philosophy, but
rather from the traditions of the great prophetic traditions of the Middle
East. The comprehensiveness of this reference to human rights underlines

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Human Rights: Reflections from a Bahá’í Viewpoint
the centrality of rights in the Bahá’í Faith. The traditional language ex-
pressing rights concepts signals what can be deduced from a study of
Judaism, Christianity, Islam and indeed the other great faiths: that these
systems of thought have contributed directly to the assumptions and ways
of thought from which human rights and instruments such as the Uni-
versal Declaration of Human Rights have emerged.
The very act of humanity gathering in 1948 to declare its global values
and its aspirations for all human beings was profoundly spiritual in char-
acter. It was both a step and a beacon towards a future worthy of human
dignity.
Notes
Statistics from The Bahá’í World 1995-1996, World Centre Publications, 1996. Local
communities sufficiently developed to possess Local Spiritual Assemblies numbered
17,148 with the following geographical spread: Africa: 4828, Americas 4515, Asia 5954,
Australasia 901, Europe 950.
Smith, P., The Bábí and Bahá’í Religions: From Messianic Shi’ism to a World Religion,
Cambridge University Press, 1987.
Shoghi Effendi,  World Order of Bahá’u’lláh:  Selected Letters, Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
Wilmette, 1938, 1974, pp 42-43.
Bahá’u’lláh, The Hidden Words, Bahá’í Publishing Trust, Wilmette: 1985.  Arabic Hid-
den Words, No. 68.
Ibid., Arabic Hidden Words, No. 22.
Bahá’u’lláh, Writings of Bahá’u’lláh: A Compilation, Bahá’í Publishing Trust, New Delhi,
1986, pp. 212-213.
Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
Wilmette, 1952, p. 288.
Ibid., p. 264 (quoting from Bahá’u’lláh’s Kitáb-i-Iqán).
Bahá’u’lláh, The Proclamation of Bahá’u’lláh to the Kings and Leaders of the World,
Bahá’í World Centre, Haifa, 1967, 1972, p. 11.
10 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
Wilmette, 1952, supra note 8, p. 235.
11 Bahá’u’lláh, Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, supra note 7, p. 255.
12 “Twenty years have passed, O Kings, during which We have, each day, tasted the agony
of a fresh tribulation ... They that rose up against Us, have put Us to death, have shed
Our blood, have plundered Our property, and violated Our honour. Though aware of
most of Our afflictions, ye, nevertheless, have failed to stay the hand of the aggressor.
For is it not your clear duty to restrain the tyranny of the oppressor, and to deal
equitably with your subjects, that your high sense of justice may be fully demonstrated
to all mankind.” Bahá’u’lláh, The Proclamation of Bahá’u’lláh, supra note 10, p. 11.
13 Ibid., p. 34.

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Human Rights: Reflections from a Bahá’í Viewpoint
14 Ibid.
15 Ibid., p. 67.
16 “God hath, likewise, as a bounty from His presence, abolished the concept of ‘unclean-
ness’, whereby divers things and people have been held to be impure.” Bahá’u’lláh,
Kitáb-i-Aqdas, para 144.
17 Ibid., para 75.
18 Ibid., para 120 and 154 dealing with intoxicants and mind-altering substances.
19 Ibid., para 73.
20 Ibid., para 72.
21 Ibid., para 147.
22 Ibid., para 146.
23 Ibid., para 21.
24 Ibid., para 49.
25 Ibid., para 81 and 82.
26 Ibid., para 89.
27 Ibid., para 88.
28 Ibid., para 91 and 93.
29 Bahá’u’lláh, Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, supra note 7, p. 212.
30 Ibid., p. 216.
31 Ibid., pp. 215-216.
32 Ibid., p. 217.
33 Ibid., p. 189.
34 Ibid., p. 328.
35 Ibid.
36 Preamble to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (Universal Declaration), Gen-
eral Assembly Resolution, UN Doc A/811.
37 Bahá’u’lláh, Kitáb-i-Aqdas, supra note 17, para 95.
38 Ibid., para. 159, 148.
39 Universal House of Justice, Individual Rights and Freedoms in the World Order of
Bahá’u’lláh: To the Followers of Bahá’u’lláh in the United States of America, 29 Decem-
ber 1988.
40 Bahá’u’lláh, Kitáb-i-Aqdas, supra note 17, para. 65.
41 Ibid., para. 62.
42 Bahá’í International Community, “Statement on the UN Decade of Human Rights Edu-
cation delivered to the UN Commission on Human Rights”, March 1996.
43 Statements of the Bahá’í International Community can be accessed via the Bahá’í World
web site at www.bahai.org.

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Religious Freedom in the Asia Pacific: The Experience of the Bahá’í Community
Religious Freedom in the Asia Pacific:
The Experience of the Bahá’í Community
BY GRAHAM HASSALL
This paper outlines some aspects of the Bahá’í Community’s approach to one
human rights initiative, the Declaration on the Elimination of All Forms of Intol-
erance and of Discrimination Based on Religion or Belief. It does so in the context
of key challenges facing nations in the Asia Pacific region if the cause of human
rights is to be advanced.  These include the need for new notions of governance,
an understanding of the origin of human rights and their relationality, and a
normative appreciation of diversity. The Asia Pacific is a region of diverse peoples
and belief systems in which most of the great religious traditions have contrib-
uted in one or several states to the progress of civilisation.  It is a region, too, in
which entire states have been founded on one or other of the great traditions:
Hindu, Buddhist, Islamic and Western/Christian.  In the context of the rapid
integration of economic and social systems frequently referred to as globalisation
it is desirable that the increasing proximity of religious traditions lead to inter-
faith harmony rather than to sectarianism.  Legal standards ensuring freedom of
belief provide an essential platform for religious harmony.  A considerable num-
ber of states, particularly in the Pacific Islands, are yet to endorse the major cov-
enants outlining these legal standards.  The Decade of Human Rights Education
provides the opportunity to heighten awareness of the issues, and the benefits of
agreeing to common standards.
The Emergence of Universal Human Rights
The articulation of the rights of individuals, and the legal means for
their protection, have emerged in response to consciousness of the large-
scale brutality of the twentieth century, and now comprise a significant

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Religious Freedom in the Asia Pacific: The Experience of the Bahá’í Community
portion of twentieth century international law innovation.  A significant
body of legal norms has been built on the Universal Declaration of Hu-
man Rights agreed by the United Nations in 1948.   Although merely a
‘declaration’ of desirable standards pertaining to human rights, the UDHR
has had considerable impact on the ways in which states and citizens
understand notions of individual rights and obligations.  In 1966 the UN
concluded two “covenants” concerning human rights: the International
Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR) and the International
Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights (ICESCR).  A number
of other declarations have been formulated since, including one seeking
to eliminate all forms of racial prejudice; another to eliminate all forms of
religious intolerance; and yet another declaring the rights of indigenous
peoples. In addition to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights the
principal treaties are:
-
The International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights
-
The International Covenant of Economic, Social and Cultural Rights
-
The Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimi-
nation
-
The Convention on the Elimination of Discrimination Against
Women
-
The Convention on the Rights of the Child
-
The Convention Against Torture
In 1993 the United Nations convened a Conference in Vienna to re-
view global progress in advancing human rights.1 In 1995 the United
Nations declared the UN Decade for Human Rights Education (1995-
2004).
The Bahá’í International Community has contributed ideas on human
rights policy from the inception of the United Nations.  It presented the
document “A Bahá’í Declaration of Human Obligations and Rights” to
the first session of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights at
Lake Success in New York in February 1947.  That document identified
seven “essential human rights characterizing the new world era” - those
concerned with: (1) the individual; (2) the family; (3) race; (4) work and
wealth; (5) education; (6) worship; (7) social order.
Since 1947 the BIC has made numerous statements to sessions of vari-
ous agencies of the United Nations.  Almost every year since 1988 it has

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Religious Freedom in the Asia Pacific: The Experience of the Bahá’í Community
addressed a statement to the United Nations Commission on Human Rights
in 1998 in relation to the 1981 Declaration on the Elimination of All Forms
of Intolerance and of Discrimination Based on Religion or Belief.
In 1995 the BIC published a Statement on the Occasion of the 50th
Anniversary of the United Nations2 and also in that year distributed a
statement at the United Nations World Summit on Social Development,
Copenhagen.3  In March 1996 the Bahá’í International Community sub-
mitted a written statement to the UN Commission on Human Rights, in-
dicating its full support for the Commission’s Plan of Action.
Many of these documents point out that the Bahá’í Community has
been the beneficiary of the UN’s human rights regime - particularly in
relation to conditions in Iran but also following episodes of persecution in
Morocco and elsewhere.  But in addition to relying on human rights
mechanisms to seek relief in such circumstances, the Bahá’í International
Community has sought to contribute actively to the formulation of policy
and to foster within the human rights community a positive vision of
possibilities for the future.
Human Rights in Asia-Pacific: the Bahá’í Experience
Bahá’í Communities in the Asia Pacific region face particular chal-
lenges.  In some states they are yet to secure for themselves the fundamen-
tal rights guaranteed in international law.  A second challenge is their
ability to make a contribution to the promotion of human rights of all
who live in the region.  The purpose of this paper is to briefly review the
status of Bahá’í Communities in the Asia Pacific with respect to existing
human rights regimes, and to consider the educational needs of these
Communities if they are to make a genuine contribution to the promotion
of human rights.
The persecution of Bahá’ís in Iran is the most widely acknowledged
instance of persecution of Bahá’ís on the basis of their religion, but it is not
the only instance.4  In Asia, for instance, political and social upheaval,
and political and religious ideology, have affected the situation of the
Bahá’ís in a number of countries.  All effective contact with the Cambo-
dian Bahá’ís was lost during the period of Khmer Rouge rule (1975-79),
and apart from contact with Bahá’ís subsequently found in refugee camps
in Thailand, the community had to be completely re-established in the
1980s.5  In Vietnam, similarly, the Bahá’í Community was affected by

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Religious Freedom in the Asia Pacific: The Experience of the Bahá’í Community
government policy toward religions implemented after reunification in
1975.6
The activities of Bahá’í Communities in predominantly Islamic coun-
tries face a number of limitations.  The Bahá’í Community of Indonesia
has been deprived of basic rights since the 1960s.  Although the Indone-
sian constitution states “The State shall be based upon belief in the One,
Supreme God”, and that “The state shall guarantee the freedom of the
people to express and to exercise their own religion”, a Presidential De-
cree of 1962 banned a number of religious organisations including the
Bahá’í Faith.7  The length of this ban, and the legal arguments used to
support it, began to attract scholarly comment,8 and it has since been
lifted. The activities of the Bahá’í Communities of Malaysia, Afghanistan
and Pakistan are also subject to restrictions specified by law.
In the islands of the Pacific, most Bahá’í Communities enjoy freedom
of religion afforded by express constitutional protections.  Subtle forms of
persecution persist, however, at ‘grass-roots’ level in cultures that are
unfamiliar with notions of human rights, and with religious diversity.
Some Pacific Island constitutions protect Christianity as the state religion
while allowing freedom of religion, creating a tension occasionally ex-
pressed in calls for the banning of non-Christian religions.  Bahá’í Com-
munities in these states are uniquely placed: in many they constitute the
largest non-Christian religious community.  While most Pacific Island states
are members of the United Nations, some are too small to meet the basic
requirements of membership: whether membership fees, or the costs of
diplomatic representation.  Accession to international treaties is an im-
posing exercise, and adherence to international standards of compliance
and reporting is equally daunting.
Asia-Pacific Bahá’í Communities and Human Rights Education
Asia-Pacific Bahá’í Communities have been prepared for involvement
in programs of Human Rights Education by several circumstances.  Firstly,
they are part of a global religious tradition that holds the values of the
human rights culture implicit in its scripture.  Second, on the basis of their
own experience, they understand the urgency of systemic change in the
operation of state power, and for broader understanding of the advan-
tages of more enlightened cooperation between governments, individu-
als, and civil society.

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Religious Freedom in the Asia Pacific: The Experience of the Bahá’í Community
This positive disposition, however, is accompanied by several con-
straints.  There is a lack of detailed knowledge across Asia-Pacific Bahá’í
Communities about current human rights practices and procedures.  Those
who do have such knowledge are not sufficient in number to conduct
broad-based education programs.9  The short-term implication is that such
activity as does occur in the field of human rights education, and human
rights advocacy, will be by a small group of specialists acting on behalf of
their Communities.  Despite the benefits of such activity, a broader ap-
proach to human rights education and advocacy will be required if the
aspirations of the Human Rights Commission’s Plan of Action is to be
realised.  The BIC statement on that plan comments:
The Plan of Action prepared by the High Commissioner for Human Rights reflects
this integrated conception of education by defining human rights education as
“training, dissemination and information efforts aimed at the building of a uni-
versal culture of human rights through the imparting of knowledge and skills
and the moulding of attitudes which are directed to:
a) The strengthening of respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms;
b) The full development of the human personality and the sense of its dignity;
c) The promotion of understanding, tolerance, gender equality and friendship
among all nations, indigenous peoples and racial, national, ethnic, religious and
linguistic groups;
d) The enabling of all persons to participate effectively in a free society; and
e) The furtherance of the activities of the United Nations for the maintenance of
peace.
The Bahá’í International Community fully embraces these goals and objectives.
Human rights education, if it is to succeed, must seek to transform individual
attitudes and behaviour and thereby establish, within every local and national
community, a new “culture” of respect for human rights.  Only such a change in
the fundamental social outlook of every individual - whether a government offi-

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Religious Freedom in the Asia Pacific: The Experience of the Bahá’í Community
cial or an ordinary citizen - can bring about the universal observance of human
rights principles in the daily lives of people.  In the final analysis, the human
rights of an individual are respected and protected - or violated - by other indi-
viduals, even if they are acting in an official capacity.  Accordingly, it is essential
to touch the hearts, and elevate the behaviour, of all human beings, if, in the
words of the Plan of Action, human rights are to be transformed “from the expres-
sion of abstract norms” to the “reality” of the “social, economic, cultural and
political conditions” experienced by people in their daily lives.”10
Steps that can be taken
1.
Participation in Human Rights Education
Therefore, the Bahá’í International Community joins Mr. Ribeiro in his
call for efforts to promote greater understanding amongst all people, par-
ticularly through inter-faith dialogues and through systematic efforts by
the Centre for Human Rights to disseminate the principles of the 1981
Declaration through the media and to urge their inclusion in the curricu-
lum of schools and universities.11
In the view of the Bahá’í International Community, the only sure means
of eradicating prejudice is through education, for education dispels igno-
rance, and blind ignorance is at the root of all prejudice.
We, therefore, believe that education is the essential factor in securing
implementation of the Declaration on the Elimination of All Forms of In-
tolerance and of Discrimination based on Religion or Belief. It is necessary
not only that the declaration be disseminated as widely as possible, but
that it should most particularly be brought to the attention of schools and
other educational bodies, and that determined steps should be taken, at
both national and international levels, actively to promote understand-
ing, tolerance and respect in matters relating to religion or belief.12
2.
Converting Declaration into a Treaty
Turning now to the role of the international community in combating
religious intolerance in all its many guises, the Bahá’í International Com-
munity believes that the attention accorded in the United Nations human
rights programme to the implementation of the Declaration on the Elimi-
nation of All Forms of Intolerance and of Discrimination Based on Reli-
gion or Belief is not only appropriate but must be increased.

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Religious Freedom in the Asia Pacific: The Experience of the Bahá’í Community
…  We do not believe that public denunciations are necessarily the
best method of resolving the issues involved. We therefore appeal to the
Commission, and to the Special Rapporteur, to devise strategies which
will enable the Rapporteur to discuss problems with Governments and to
assist Governments in solving difficulties without politicization of the is-
sues.
It is also, we believe, important that the Commission remind itself of
the General Assembly’s decision, in December 1962, to initiate the prepa-
ration of both a Declaration and a Convention to combat religious intoler-
ance. Practical considerations called, eventually, for priority to be given
to the elaboration of a Declaration, but we believe that the Commission
should once again recognize that this issue has the same claim to being
dealt with in a binding international instrument as does the issue of racial
discrimination.
We do not advocate the hasty initiation of a drafting exercise by the
Commission, and we believe that the suggestion contained in paragraph
216 of Mrs. Odio-Benito’s report — namely, that non-governmental orga-
nizations and independent experts should be entrusted with drafting the
outline for a Convention — is an interesting proposal.
We believe that all men and women of good will can contribute to-
wards hastening the end of religious fanaticism. They can do this, first, by
living up to the high ideals of love, unity and tolerance that lie at the
center of their own religions or beliefs. In addition … everyone must be
taught to respect the beliefs of others so that they will not merely tolerate,
but positively respect, those who hold different beliefs.13
The Bahá’í International Community believes that binding international
norms protecting human rights are of great importance. We are therefore
following with great interest the recent discussions in the Sub-Commis-
sion and the Commission on the possible elaboration of a binding interna-
tional instrument dealing with freedom of religion or belief…14
Conclusion
With the emergence of global human rights discourse in the second
half of the twentieth century, issues of identity and difference have
emerged.  There is no regional human rights organisation in the Asia Pa-
cific, and a number of nations in the region insist on defining rights in
their specific ‘historical and cultural circumstances’.  The UN Decade for

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Religious Freedom in the Asia Pacific: The Experience of the Bahá’í Community
Human Rights Education provides the opportunity for Bahá’í communi-
ties to contribute a broad conception of human rights, in terms of their
origin, scope, and ultimate purposes, to a vitally important component in
the construction of global civil society and the new world order.
Notes
United Nations. World Conference on Human Rights Vienna, 14-25 June 1993, Vienna
Declaration and Programme of Action. A/Conf.157/23.
Bahá’í International Community, “Turning Point For All Nations”, A Statement of the
Bahá’í International Community on the Occasion of the 50th Anniversary of the United
Nations, Bahá’í International Community, United Nations Office, New York, October
1995.
Bahá’í International Community, “The Prosperity of Humankind”, Statement prepared
by the Bahá’í International Community’s Office of Public Information, Haifa, Israel, 3
March 1995.
Persecution in past years of Bahá’ís in Egypt, Morocco, and Iraq is also widely docu-
mented.
A report concerning the fate of the Cambodian Bahá’ís appeared in Bahá’í World 1973-
76, Bahá’í World Centre, Haifa.  “With the conclusion of warfare and the establishment
of the new regime all Bahá’í activity in Cambodia is at a standstill, as far as can be
ascertained. For a time the national Teaching Committee secretary wrote of continuing
teaching activity among the believers and enquirers but there are now no available
channels of communication and there has been no recent news of the fate of the Khmer
Bahá’ís”: Bahá’í World 1973-76, p.138.
A report in Bahá’í World 1973-76, ibid. said: “In the latter period under review circum-
stances beyond the control of the Bahá’ís have hindered the completion of the goals. An
administrative committee has been appointed to function on behalf of the National
Spiritual Assembly”.  In 1978 the National Spiritual Assembly was dissolved. The
Bahá’ís were forbidden to meet, and all Bahá’í centres were closed or confiscated. The
National Hazirat’ul Quds was seized and two members of the National Spiritual As-
sembly were arrested and sent to “re-education” camps.  One was released due to ill
health in 1982. CM (Council of Ministers) Resolution 297 of November 1977 was super-
seded by SRV CM Resolution 69 “Regulation on Religious Activities” of 1991 which
tightened state control over religious activities and required churches to obtain gov-
ernment approval for religious conferences, visits by foreign clergy etc. (Indochina
Chronology X:2, 1991) At the same time, the new code does promised “Freedom of
Belief and non belief”. (It was printed in French in Eglises D’Asie 111, 16 May 1991.) See
further: U.S. Dept. of State, February 1, 1991, 1990 Human Rights Report; U.S. Dept. of
State, February, 1992, 1991 Human Rights Report.
Presidential Decree 1 of January 27, 1965 stated there were six official religions: Islam,
Protestantism, Catholicism, Hinduism, Buddhism and Confucianism. Many mystical
movements have also been banned, and the Ministry of Religious Affairs has restricted
Christian missionary activity: see USA. Department of State, Country Reports on Hu-
man Rights Practices for 1985, February 1986. (Report submitted to the Committee on
Foreign Affairs (House of Representatives) and Committee on Foreign Relations, (Sen-
ate), p.778  [Indonesia]: “A 1972 letter of the Supreme Prosecutor reiterated a Presiden-

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Religious Freedom in the Asia Pacific: The Experience of the Bahá’í Community
tial Decree of 1962 banning membership in Jehovah’s Witnesses and the Bahá’í Faith.
Although technically belief in one of these religions is not prohibited, legal decisions
based on the 1972 and 1962 decrees made clear that such belief implies membership,
which is illegal.” Early in 1985 the Aceh provincial office of the Ministry for Religion
sent a circular to all its officials to report any person propagating the Bahá’í Faith.  The
provincial police chief sent similar instructions to all police posts in the region, coupled
with a warning to people not to be tricked into joining (as reported in The Australian,
4 March, 1985: “Jakarta bans Bahá’í Faith as un Islamic”.)
Shelton, D., A Draft Model Law on Freedom of Religion, With Commentary. Religious
Human Rights in Global Perspective: Legal Perspectives, Martinus Nijhoff Publishers,
The Hague, Boston & London, 1996, pp. 559-592: “The freedom to have a religion means
that the government does not prescribe orthodoxy or prohibit particular religions or
beliefs. In practice, this is not always the case. Among the examples that may be cited,
Indonesia bans the Jehovah’s Witness religion because of  ‘its aggressive manner in
propagating its teachings, trying to convert other adherents to this faith’.  According to
the government, ‘misleading cults’ are banned in order to maintain peace and har-
mony between and among adherents of the various religions. ‘Without the Government’s
handling in the matter, the activities of ‘cults’ (including Jehovah’s Witnesses and
Bahá’ís) may create disturbances and disrupt the existing religious tolerance.’ [Report
on Religious Intolerance, 20).  Indonesian law is based on the Constitutio( which stipu-
lates that ‘the State shall be based upon belief in the One Supreme God’, and which
guarantees every resident the freedom to adhere to his respective religion and to
perform his own religious duties in conformity with that faith. Ibid, 39. However,
Article 1 of Law No. 1/NPS/1965 on the Prevention of Abuse and/or the Defiling of
Religions, prohibits anyone from deliberately making interpretations of any of the
recognized religions in Indonesia or publicly engaging in activities which deviate
from those religions; such interpretations and activities being contrary to, and deviat-
ing from the true teachings of those religions. Ibid, 40. Based on this, the Bahá’í faith is
banned in Indonesia ‘since its teaching and practices are contrary to, and deviating
from the teachings of Islam’ Ibid. UN Doc E/CN.4/1990 46 of 22 January 1990.
The Australian Bahá’í Community, through its Office of External Affairs, and through
others in the community with human rights expertise, is among the best placed in the
region to commence such involvements: See Curtotti, M., “The Bahá’í Contribution to
Society: an Overview of the Bahá’í External Affairs Strategy”, in Association for Bahá’í
Studies, From Poverty to Prosperity: Proceedings from the 1996 National Conference
of the Association for Bahá’í Studies, Rosebery, 1997; Puri, K., Human Rights of Indig-
enous Peoples. Indigenous Peoples: in the Wake of Mabo, Bahá’í Publications Austra-
lia, Mona Vale, 1997, pp. 115-132; Nicholson, G., “Toward a Global Ethic: The Bahá’í
Faith and Human Rights” in Toward the Most Great Justice: Elements of Justice in the
New World Order, Bahá’í Publishing Trust, London, 1996; Johnston, S. W. “Human
Rights and the Bahá’í Faith” in 75 Years of the Bahá’í Faith in Australasia: Proceedings
from the 1995 National Bahá’í Studies Conference, Rosebery, Association for Bahá’í
Studies – Australia, Rosebery, 1996.
10 Bahá’í International Community, “The United Nations Decade for Human Rights Edu-
cation”, in The Bahá’í World 1995-96, World Centre Publications, Haifa, 1997, pp. 295-
308.
11 Statement to the United Nations Sub-Commission on the Prevention of Discrimination
and Protection of Minorities, Geneva, Switzerland, August 1993.
12 Bahá’í International Community, “Eliminating Religious Intolerance”, Statement to
the 49th session of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights, Agenda item 22:

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Religious Freedom in the Asia Pacific: The Experience of the Bahá’í Community
Implementation of the Declaration on the Elimination of All Forms of Intolerance and
of Discrimination Based on Religion or Belief, Geneva, Switzerland, 18 February 1993.
13 Bahá’í International Community, “Eliminating Religious Intolerance”, Statement to
the forty-third session of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights, Agenda
item 23: Implementation of the Declaration on the Elimination of All Forms of Intoler-
ance and of Discrimination Based on Religion or Belief, Geneva, Switzerland, Febru-
ary/March 1987.
14 Bahá’í International Community, “Eliminating Religious Intolerance”, Statement to
the forty-fourth session of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights, Agenda
item 23: Implementation of the Declaration on the Elimination of All Forms of Intoler-
ance and of Discrimination Based on Religion or Belief, Geneva, Switzerland, 17 Febru-
ary 1988.

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Tikkun Olam: To Repair the World
Tikkun Olam: To Repair the World
BY JEREMY JONES
Justice, Justice shall you pursue that you may live, and inherit the land which the
Lord your God has given you. (Deut.16:20)
In the early 1980s one of the major issues on the international human
rights agenda was that of the treatment of Jews and others within the
USSR. For the Jewish community, this was arguably the priority issue of
the time and the Australian Jewish community is recognised as having
played a key role in advocating for the rights of Jews within the Soviet
Union to either be permitted freedom of emigration or to be allowed free-
dom to practice their religion, free of persecution.
Our public activities included petitions, writing articles for newspa-
pers, appealing to our government to intervene and, whenever and wher-
ever appropriate, demonstrating and protesting when various Soviet
representatives visited these shores. With the Embassy of the Soviet Union
being located in Canberra, there were many occasions on which I drove
from Sydney to spend my Sundays holding a placard or joining in songs
of freedom in an effort to keep the issue before the Australian public and
our politicians.
On the last of these occasions, my newly-purchased secondhand car
stopped running as I cruised into Canberra, with the gear box seizing just
as I reached the Canberra Rex Hotel, the venue for this conference. Need-
less to say, I missed that demonstration but, as the Australian Jewish News
put it, I had a protest of my own to look after on the next day.

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Tikkun Olam: To Repair the World
For so many Jewish people, regardless of their knowledge of the Jew-
ish religion or commitment to many of the ritual aspects, there was a clear
and vivid motivation in the Soviet Jewry movement of an awareness of a
moral responsibility to act as ‘our brothers’ keepers’. Right up until the
crumbling of the Soviet Union, we had no way of knowing whether our
efforts were doing much more than allowing us to feel we were at least
doing something for our brothers and sisters behind the Iron Curtain. We
now know not only were our efforts important in contributing to the even-
tual end of the Soviet dictatorship but that many Jews have taken the
decision to leave and re-join the Jewish family centred in Israel while oth-
ers have been involved in a remarkable re-building of Jewish life after
almost eighty years of oppression.
In September this year I attended the opening of the first synagogue
constructed anywhere in the former Soviet Union since the victory of the
Bolsheviks in 1917. The synagogue was built by and for the Jewish com-
munity of Moscow and was opened by the Russian President, Boris Yeltsin,
the Mayor of Moscow, a special representative of President Clinton, lead-
ing figures in international Jewish organisations and Israeli leaders, in-
cluding Natan Sharansky.
In an event which would have been unimaginable a decade ago, a
former long-serving prisoner of the Soviets, Natan Sharansky, returned to
Moscow as a Cabinet Minister of the sovereign Jewish State to open a
synagogue in front of an international Jewish and non-Jewish gathering.
To add to the symbolism of the occasion, the synagogue is located be-
tween an Orthodox church and a mosque, in a park area which is dedi-
cated to the memory of the victims of Fascism in the Second World War.
Anatoly Sharansky, as a prisoner in the Gulag, lived the struggle for
human rights. At a session of the Russian Jewish Congress, which took
place concurrently with the synagogue dedication, Minister Sharansky
told us the story of how, when placed in prison, he had not been put in
solitary confinement but was imprisoned together with someone his jail-
ers believed would cause him even more distress - a committed Christian.
Natan Sharansky told us that his guards were surprised that when the
only book permitted to his co-prisoner, a Bible, was taken away for a
punishment, the two men went on a hunger strike together, and they did
the same when his own lone book, a book of Psalms, was taken away.
The two men demonstrated the understanding that an enemy of freedom
was an enemy of all freedoms and that people of faith can and should
give each other mutual encouragement.

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Tikkun Olam: To Repair the World
One of the many outstanding religious figures to address the confer-
ence gave what we call in Hebrew a d’var torah, a commentary on the
words of the Bible. The rabbi said that, as we gathered on this occasion, it
was worthwhile for us to reflect on what message it was that normative
Jewish teaching would derive from the portion of the five books of Moses
which was read in the synagogue that week.
The rabbi dealt with the theme of what it is that God wants from hu-
manity. He explained that, as we think of God as our father we should
therefore think of ourselves - of all humanity - as children of God. He
asked what it is that parents most want from their children and said that
he believed all parents would agree, on reflection, that it is that we act
with love towards our siblings.
He spoke of how, when children demonstrate their love for each other,
whatever they do which might irritate, offend or upset their parents is
easily forgiven. However, if they do not demonstrate warmth and affec-
tion to each other, not only do the parents feel themselves to be failures,
but they find it almost impossible to enjoy the successes and achievements
of their children. He argued that all our Commandments - and in Judaism
we are given 613 of them - are premised in the view that as children we
should love and respect our God and that part of the demonstration of
this love is reflected in the way we treat each other.
On 9 November the Jewish world, and many non-Jews, commemorate
Krystallnacht, the night in 1938 when the Nazis preceded the murder of
millions of human beings with violent attacks on property and people.
The Shoah - the Holocaust - marked a period when humanity sank to its
nadir. Jewish people and others regarded as less than human were de-
prived of their rights, not only to participate fully within society, but even
to live. The process of stripping a human being of his or her humanity
proved to be remarkably simple, once the population was divided into
identifiable segments, with the weaker group being depicted as existen-
tial enemies of the dominant population. There is an abundance of evi-
dence that many Jews who are involved in social justice activities,
particularly in opposition to racism in all its forms, have drawn lessons
from the Holocaust and have vowed that such a world must not be al-
lowed to return.
Much of Judaism is about memory. So much of our understanding of
our own identity is drawn from knowledge of what it is like to be a slave
in Egypt, of what it is to be a member of a small, dispersed and too often

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Tikkun Olam: To Repair the World
despised group which had to learn how to maintain self-respect and dig-
nity in adversity.
While the Holocaust is etched deeply into the memory of Jews in the
current period, we recall centuries without a homeland, without political
rights, without any control over our own external destiny, on many occa-
sions throughout each year. We ask ourselves not only what happened to
us and how it happened, but also what lessons we can gain from our
experiences. To do this, we study.
The Jewish people have always placed a high value on literacy and
learning. Scholarship has always been thought of as the most worthy of
pursuits. But what is often not considered is why Jewish people study.
There is a famous Jewish story about two rabbis who lived in Poland
last century. We learn that one of the rabbis, upon completion of a major
tractate which represented a lifetime of study and scholarship, went to
visit his colleague. The proud and excited scholar said to his colleague,
‘Where is your life’s work? Why haven’t you written your discourses yet?’
The second rabbi led the scholar to his study and took out a tattered and
well-worn notebook. He opened it and read entries such as:
1 Cheshvan, a widow came to me because she doesn’t have money to
feed her children. I was able to get her some food;
3 Cheshvan, an orphan came to me in need of a job. Taken care of;
6 Cheshvan, a poor family was worried about the coming winter.
They received clothing and blankets.
And so it continued, each entry recorded whether he had been able to
meet the needs of those who turned to him. ‘This,’ the rabbi said, pointing
to his notebook, ‘is my life’s work.’
The purpose of this story is not to take away from the humanity or
goodness of the first rabbi, whose scholarship and contribution to learn-
ing is undoubted. What it does tell us, however, is that the purpose of
learning is to guide our behaviour. The question for each of us is how we
can achieve the appropriate balance, accruing enough knowledge to al-
low us to act in the best way possible while not neglecting action for the
sake of learning.
Rosalyn Yallow, Nobel Prize Laureate for Medicine in 1977, stated re-
cently that Jewish tradition ‘places emphasis on learning - learning for
the sake of understanding and perfecting the world’. Whatever the activ-

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Tikkun Olam: To Repair the World
ity in which a Jewish person is involved, there is Jewish teaching and
learning which guides one in the direction of social justice.
Marcos Aguinis, who was Secretary of Culture of Argentina from 1983
to 1987 and is a novelist and essayist, notes that: ‘Biblical prophets lashed
out at corrupt kings and priests. As a consequence, we gained the cour-
age to recognise and take responsibility for our shortcomings - as Jewish
people, as individuals and as part of humanity.’
When I look at the way others often misunderstand Judaism, I am
repeatedly struck by the false impression that we see learning as an end in
itself. Further, perhaps because of the way in which we use the word
‘law’ to refer to many acts which we believe do honour to God, there is an
image of Jews as people who would put ritual laws above what could be
considered general moral principles. However, as Dr Hyam Maccoby has
argued so cogently, in each and every case where ritual obligations and
moral requirements come into conflict, moral obligations have priority.
Our Prophets are always inveighing against those who put ritual before
moral requirements, as we see in places such as Proverbs 15:8, Isaiah 1:11-
15 and Amos 5:21-24.
Ruth Bader Ginsburg of the US Supreme Court said she had learnt
from Jewish history that Jewish tradition has always prized the scholar-
ship of judges and lawyers but there was always a clear purpose to laws,
and this has been reflected by Jewish jurists and judges who had used
law ‘as protectors of the oppressed, the poor, the loner’.
In trying to understand our place in the world, as Jews, we have reli-
gious source material not only on issues such as the rule of law and the
inherent dignity of all human beings, but also on issues such as the envi-
ronment - where we are taught that we have a trust relationship over the
earth - and on the paramount obligation for all of us to pursue darchei
shalom, the ‘ways of peace’, i.e. to be involved in the work of social justice.
We see human beings as the children of God who have a responsibility
towards each other. We do not, as a religion, seek to impose our view on
others, but rather to live in a way which does honour to the Lord. In the
words of Nobel Peace Prize Laureate, Elie Wiesel:
A Jew must be sensitive to the pain of all human beings. A Jew cannot remain
indifferent to human suffering, whether in former Yugoslavia, in Somalia or in
our own cities and towns. The mission of the Jewish people has never been to
make the world more Jewish, but to make it more human.

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Tikkun Olam: To Repair the World
While the expression tikkun olam - to repair the world - is loaded with
Messianic inferences, Judaism does not allow us the luxury of wishing for
a Messiah to bring us a better world. It is incumbent upon each of us to
work towards a more civil and better society marked by doing towards
each person as we would have them do towards us and learning to cel-
ebrate together our relationship with each other and with God.

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Human Rights and Responsibilities: A Christian Perspective
Human Rights and Responsibilities:
A Christian Perspective
BY ROBERT McCORQUODALE
Introduction
Whereas recognition of the inherent dignity and of the equal and inalienable
rights of all members of the human family is the foundation of freedom, justice
and peace in the world...Now, therefore, the General Assembly proclaims this
universal declaration of human rights.1
With these introductory words, on the evening of 10 December 1948,
the Universal Declaration of Human Rights was adopted by the General
Assembly of the United Nations. There were no dissenting votes.2 The
Assembly, in a rare gesture of appreciation, gave a standing ovation to
Eleanor Roosevelt, the chair of the Human Rights Commission which had
drafted the Universal Declaration.
The Universal Declaration was stated to be a ‘common standard of
achievement for all peoples and all nations,’3 setting out a range of civil,
political, economic, social and cultural rights for all humans. These are
high ideals which were designed to change the whole focus of govern-
ments and humans. As the then President of the General Assembly, Dr
H.V. Evatt of Australia, stated:
the adoption of the Declaration is a step forward in a great evolutionary process
... the first occasion on which the organised community of nations has made a

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Human Rights and Responsibilities: A Christian Perspective
declaration of human rights and fundamental freedoms. That document is backed
by the authority of the body of opinion of the United Nations as a whole and
millions of people, men, women and children all over the world who would turn
to it for help, guidance and inspiration.4
It is now 50 years since that Declaration was adopted, yet, appallingly,
human rights violations continue. Many people remain oppressed by oth-
ers who have more political, economic or social power. Too many people
live in fear, not only in those conflicts seen in the international media, but
also in conflicts hidden in the shadows of family life. There is a constant
loss of life, liberty and security and many millions do not have an ad-
equate standard of living. Often there is no access to a protective legal
mechanism when their rights are violated.
At the same time, in those 50 years there has been amazing progress in
making human rights more than vague moral inspiration. Prompted by
the Universal Declaration,5 there are now hundreds of international trea-
ties, agreements, documents and other material protecting human rights.6
These agreements place obligations, usually legal, upon governments and
many of these agreements set up some form of supervisory mechanism to
ensure compliance. While most countries do not always fulfil all those
obligations, no government today states that it can legally abuse human
rights.7 Walls of oppression and authoritarian rule have been torn down
from Eastern Europe to Africa and Asia. Indeed, an extraordinary fact is
that every single country in the world has accepted that it has interna-
tional legal obligations to protect human rights.8 Thus international legal
protection of human rights offers both obligations on governments to which
individuals or groups can appeal, and international standards by which
governments can be judged.
One consequence of these developments has been that the language of
human rights is now used in many contexts: from national and interna-
tional conflicts to personal relationships. I want to explore the extent to
which this use of human rights is consistent with Christian understand-
ings. What I aim to demonstrate is that much of the legal and social dis-
course of human rights has foundations in Biblical material and that the
language of human rights is a contemporary discourse which is abso-
lutely consistent with the discourse and practice of Christ. I will focus on
two aspects: the concept of human rights and the way human rights are
protected. These show that there are clear obligations on Christians to
uphold human rights arising from their responsibility, owed to God, to
love their neighbours without discrimination.

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Human Rights and Responsibilities: A Christian Perspective
There are three matters which must be dealt with initially. First, there
are far too many instances when actions or inaction by the institutions of
the Christian Churches and by those professing a Christian faith have
violated human rights. Many would also claim that some of the current
practices of some parts of the Christian Churches, particularly in regard
to ordination, continue to violate human rights.9 I do not aim here to ex-
amine those actions and inactions but to seek to offer a way forward. The
Christian Churches may seem immovable but it is hoped that they are
able to change their practices and seek new ways forward. The second
introductory matter is that I am not going to deal directly with the issue of
the right to freedom of religion – which is protected in Article 18 of the
Universal Declaration and elsewhere.10 Third, I do not pretend to be able
to offer the Christian perspective on human rights. There are many Chris-
tian perspectives and mine is influenced by the reformed/protestant Chris-
tian theology and by my legal training.
Concepts of Human Rights
There are many ways to describe human rights. One writer has of-
fered four characteristics of a human right:
First, it must be possessed by all human beings, as well as only by human beings.
Second, because it is the same right that all human beings possess, it must be
possessed equally by all human beings. Third, because human rights are pos-
sessed by all human beings, we can rule out as possible candidates any of those
rights which one might have in virtue of occupying any particular status or rela-
tionship, such as that of parent, president or promisee. And fourth, if they are
human rights, they have the additional characteristic of being assertable, in a
manner of speaking, “against the whole world”.11
These characteristics are essentially the primary elements of a human
right, though the fourth characteristic suggested is too broadly stated be-
cause a right does not always mean a legally enforceable claim against
another who has a duty to uphold that entitlement.12 The international
community has confirmed the essence of these characteristics in the Uni-
versal Declaration when it proclaimed the ‘inherent dignity and ... the
equal and inalienable rights of all members of the human family’.13
The use of the term “human rights” is relatively new, at least in the
context of enabling an individual to bring a claim against a government

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Human Rights and Responsibilities: A Christian Perspective
about its oppressive activities. However, the notion of the liberty of hu-
mans from oppression can be found in Greek philosophy and ancient
Chinese and Indian practice.14 Later philosophers associated rights with
the law of nature because they considered that autonomy and indepen-
dence of individuals were natural to humans and that governments were
under a duty to protect them.15 The Christian theologian Thomas Aquinas
proposed that nature and government were ordained by, and subject to,
divine law, being the higher law.16 The influence of his philosophy can be
seen in the American Declaration of Independence of 1776 which pro-
claims: ‘we hold these truths to be self-evident: that all men are created
equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable
rights, that among these are life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness’.17
Most contemporary philosophy about human rights has tended to re-
ject natural rights, on the basis, as Bentham put it, that ‘natural rights is
simple nonsense; natural and imprescriptible rights, rhetorical nonsense -
nonsense upon stilts’.18 Indeed, during the drafting of the Universal Dec-
laration it was proposed that Article 1 should provide that ‘human beings
are created in the image of God ... [and] are endowed by nature with
reason and conscience’ but this was rejected as incompatible with the
views of many in the world.19 Instead, contemporary human rights phi-
losophy is primarily based on reasoned notions of inherent human dig-
nity without reference to any spiritual element.20 Nevertheless, there is
general consensus that a key aspect of the nature of human rights re-
mains the natural law concept that human rights are inalienable and so
unable to be surrendered.21
One immediate difficulty for Christian scholars is that the Bible does
not use the term “human rights” in the sense of a legal entitlement of an
individual to bring a claim against another, who has a duty to uphold the
entitlement. However, the Bible is replete with references to justice and to
righteousness, in which notions of human rights can be seen.22 For ex-
ample, Zechariah proclaims: ‘This is what the Lord Almighty says: “Ad-
minister true justice; show mercy and compassion to one another. Do not
oppress the widow or the fatherless, the alien or the poor.”’23 This injunc-
tion is particularly directed at the need to protect widows, orphans, the
poor and foreigners. This is because these groups were the powerless in
that society, who were often the subject of oppression, and so needed to
be helped by God’s people.24
As well as the concept of justice requiring the protection of human
rights, the concept of loving one’s neighbours is a key element of Chris-

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Human Rights and Responsibilities: A Christian Perspective
tian teaching. In one of the first actions of Christ’s ministry, he read from
the book of Isaiah:
The Spirit of the Lord is on me, because he has anointed me to preach good news
to the poor. He has sent me to proclaim freedom for the prisoners and recovery of
sight for the blind, to release the oppressed and to proclaim the year of the Lord’s
favour.25
He then rolled up the scroll and said “Today this scripture is fulfilled in
your hearing”.26 Here he is declaring that his mission, his good news, is
about helping the poor and needy, the sick and helpless, the disenfran-
chised, and the outcast. It is about setting free the oppressed.
This statement of mission by Christ is consistent with his teaching about
the greatest commandments. When he was asked which is the greatest
commandment he replied:
Love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all
your mind. This is the first and greatest commandment. And the second is like it:
Love your neighbour as yourself. All the Law and the Prophets hang on these two
commandments.27
When Christ was asked (by an expert in the law) “who is my
neighbour?”, he responded by telling the parable of the Good Samari-
tan.28 In this parable, a man walking from Jerusalem to Jericho was at-
tacked by a group of robbers who beat him, stripped him and left him to
die. A priest, who was walking the same road, saw the man and passed
to the other side of the road. A Levite (a religious scholar) did the same.
Then a foreigner, a man from Samaria, came along and took pity on the
man. He poured oil on his wounds, bandaged them and put the man on
his donkey. He then took the wounded man to an inn and paid the inn-
keeper to look after the man until the Samaritan returned. In recounting
this event, Luke does not end his passage after the end of the parable.
Instead, he writes that Christ then asked which of the people in the par-
able was the neighbour. The questioner answered that it was the one who
had mercy on the man. At which answer Christ said: “Go and do like-
wise”.29 Do the same as the Samaritan had done: go and help those in
need.

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Human Rights and Responsibilities: A Christian Perspective
As the Christian theologian Wolterstorff has noted:
The commandment to love one another is grounded on this common sharing in
the image of God - on the fact that my fellow human being is, in Isaiah’s words, of
my “own flesh and blood” ... Every human being is, in this deep sense, my
neighbour. Indeed, says Calvin, Jesus’ purpose in the parable of the Good Samari-
tan was to teach “that the word neighbour extends indiscriminately to every man,
because the whole human race is united by a sacred bond of fellowship”.30
So a consistency can be seen between Christian concepts of loving one’s
neighbour, that being all of humanity created in the image of God, and
the international legal concept that human rights are universal and in-
alienable. In fact, national courts have used Christian ideas in reaching
conclusions on law. For example, the determination of the extent of liabil-
ity of manufacturers to consumers was based on the question “who in
law is my neighbour?”31
There are deep questions about the universalism of human rights and
the close connection between Judeo-Christian ideas and the ideals and
systems of law in the developed countries. There are also real concerns
about some of the developments in international human rights law as
being ‘partial and androcentric, privileging a male world view’.32 I do not
intend to deal with those issues here other than to note that while there
are serious divisions as to how human rights are to be applied in practical
ways in a society, there are few divisions as to whether the concept of
human rights exists at all in a society.33 In fact, international human rights
law does recognise explicitly the need for differing applications of human
rights worldwide,34 with the African Charter of Human and Peoples’ Rights
expressly taking into account the ‘values of African civilization’35 and
protecting both individual and group rights. In a similar way the Chris-
tian Churches should be aware of differences, with the liberation theolo-
gian Gutierrez pointing out that:
a true and full encounter with our neighbour requires that we first experience the
gratuitousness of God’s love. Once we have experienced it, our approach to oth-
ers is purified of any tendency to impose an alien will on them: it is disinterested
and respectful of their personalities, their needs and aspirations.36

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Human Rights and Responsibilities: A Christian Perspective
Thus there can be discerned within the Bible and theological writings a strong
conceptual basis for human rights. While the discourse is not exactly in human
rights terms as we understand it today, the concepts dealt with could be said to
create, as the Latin American bishops have affirmed, a ‘gospel of human rights’.37
Protection of Human Rights
While there may be many strong arguments that a particular need,
moral entitlement or aspect of life is a human right, only certain needs,
entitlements or aspects have been internationally recognised as human
rights and protected by international law.38 When comparing the rights
which are protected in international law with the commands of Christ
there are powerful resonances, particularly in the area of social rights.
For example, Article 25 of the Universal Declaration states that ‘everyone
has a right to a standard of living adequate for the health and well-being
of himself and his family, including food, clothing, housing, medical care
and necessary social services’. In Matthew’s gospel it is clear that the people
who God will consider at final judgment to be the righteous are those
who fed the hungry, gave drink to the thirsty, received strangers, clothed
the naked, cared for the sick and visited the prisoners.39 There is a clear
connection here. Christian responsibilities to protect human rights are
not limited to just a few political or civil rights because ‘biblical righteous-
ness is more than a private and personal affair; it includes social righ-
teousness as well.’40
Further, the Christian Churches, as institutions, have a responsibility
to take action against violations of human rights whenever they occur.
This is a responsibility to resist oppression, whether it is political, eco-
nomic, social or religious. The action taken might include making public
statements, using their moral authority in societies and motivating their
members where human rights are at issue. While the issue of conflict be-
tween God and earthly authority is a broader one than can be discussed
here,41 there could be said to be a harmony in the rejection of the absolute
power and sovereignty of the state found in both international human
rights law and in Christianity.42
Yet there are three primary areas where Christ’s commandments do
not seem to be appropriate to the international legal system for the pro-
tection of human rights. First, the Bible deals with concern for the op-
pressed in terms of responsibilities rather than rights. Second, the broader
focus of the Bible on communities seems inconsistent with the protection

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Human Rights and Responsibilities: A Christian Perspective
of individual rights. Third, the international human rights system places
responsibilities on governments, rather than on individuals, to protect
human rights.
In relation to the first issue, the Old Testament prophets do not ad-
dress the oppressed, encouraging them to claim their rights, but rather
address the powerful. Isaiah warns: ‘Woe to those who make unjust laws,
to those who issue oppressive decrees, to deprive the poor of their rights
and to withhold justice from the oppressed of my people.’43 In the New
Testament these responsibilities to others are not only owed by those with
power, they are owed by all Christians, with James asking:
What good is it, my brothers, if a man claims to have faith but has no deeds? Can
such faith save him? Suppose a brother or sister is without clothes and daily food.
If one of you says to him, “Go, I wish you well: keep warm and well fed,” but does
nothing about his physical needs, what good is it? In the same way, faith by itself,
if it is not accompanied by action, is dead.44
It is in the light of such passages as these that the Kairos Document
from South Africa recommended the development of a ‘prophetic minis-
try’ of resistance to oppression and towards democratic transition.45
But rights and responsibilities are linked. Contrary to the perceptions
of many, rights are not absolute. That rights can imply responsibilities (or
duties) is acknowledged in international human rights law. For example,
Article 29 of the Universal Declaration provides:
In the exercise of his rights and freedoms, everyone shall be subject only to such
limitations as are determined by law solely for the purpose of securing due recog-
nition and respect for the rights and freedoms of others and of meeting the just
requirements of morality, public order and the general welfare in a democratic
society.46
As this Article makes clear, each person’s human rights are limited
both by the rights of others and by the general interests of society. This is
because rights are not exercised in a vacuum but are exercised within the
context of communities. The promotion and protection of human rights
should not be any less strongly affirmed by Christians because of the fo-
cus on responsibilities in the Bible. After all, as Cronin has noted: ‘the
quality of human freedom [is] based on God’s gift of creation and re-

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Human Rights and Responsibilities: A Christian Perspective
demption’ respect is due to each person, a respect which involves justified
claims and correlative obligations.’47 Rather, while recognising their own
responsibilities, the presumption must be in favour of human rights being
protected as the oppressed are generally the powerless in society. They
are not in a position to determine if responsibilities are carried out or to
decide the legitimacy of any attempts by society to limit their rights.
Despite the social context within which it is recognised that rights are
exercised, there remains the concern that the broader focus of the Bible on
communities seems inconsistent with the protection of individual rights.
This concern was expressed by a former Archbishop of York when he
said that ‘there are good reasons to fear that the emphasis on rights, so far
from strengthening social cohesion, has in fact reduced it by seeking to
justify an individualistic kind of acquisitiveness.’48 I share that concern,
but I see it as based on a misunderstanding of the concept of human rights.
Human rights, as I have shown, is a concept which includes responsibili-
ties to others and to the community. Indeed protection of human rights is
not limited to individual rights but includes the protection of group rights,
such as those of indigenous peoples. Thus, while the building of a sense of
community is a vital part of the Christian Churches’ role, human rights
should not be cast aside, as the discourse of human rights can be empow-
ering and can give a voice to those without power.49
The third concern is that the international human rights system places
responsibilities on governments to protect human rights and does not gen-
erally place responsibilities on individuals.50 There are responsibilities to-
wards others placed on all peoples in international human rights law, as
seen in Article 29 of the Universal Declaration. But these responsibilities
are premised on the notion that all people have a horizontal responsibility
to protect the human rights of others. Christians have an additional re-
sponsibility: a vertical responsibility to God. Christians have an obligation
to God to uphold the rights of others and God demands that these rights
be upheld.51 The parable of the Good Samaritan makes clear that the re-
sponsibility to uphold the rights of others is not dependent on causation
or any direct relationship between people. It is irrelevant as to whether
the person in need has in some way been responsible for the position in
which she/he now finds her/himself. No human being is a stranger and
all Christians are responsible for them all.52 To take action to assist those
who are oppressed is not only a matter of charity or selfless giving; rather
it is a responsibility of all Christians to all people and that responsibility is
owed to God.

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Human Rights and Responsibilities: A Christian Perspective
The protection of human rights by the international legal system is
therefore consistent with Christianity, although the emphases are often
different. Rights and responsibilities are not distinct but are linked. In-
deed, it may be possible that the engagement of Christians in the process
of protecting human rights could be to broaden the notion of responsibili-
ties found in international human rights law.53 After all, ‘what unites us
as bearers of the image of God is more important than what divides us as
members of nations.’54
Conclusion
The development of an international system for the protection of hu-
man rights has been a major achievement of the latter half of the twenti-
eth century, although its concepts had a considerably longer history. There
is a coherence in the conceptual bases of both human rights and Biblical
commandments. There are clear Biblical instructions that Christians must
take action to help the oppressed and the powerless. This is due to the
Christians’ responsibility, owed to God, to love their neighbours as them-
selves. This responsibility extends to upholding the rights of others and
taking practical action to assist the oppressed and disadvantaged. This
responsibility is, sadly, not widely understood either by Christians or by
the Christian Churches. It is vital that Christians understand this respon-
sibility if they are to play a positive role in the education and clarification
of human rights because, as the South African theologian Morphew has
stated:
human rights have become possibly the pressing global issue of our time. This
alone makes it imperative for thinking Christians to grapple with it. More pro-
foundly, the struggle for human rights has to do with what it means to be fully
human, with how and to what extent the human race can reach its potential and
destiny. Any area of thought or endeavour that deals with man in his essence
must be the concern of those who are committed to the gospel of Jesus Christ, for
he came to seek and to save the same humanity.55
Finally, while the general discourse of human rights as expressed in
the Universal Declaration of Human Rights does not resolve all social and
moral issues, it does offer a basis for an inter-faith discourse and practice.
Human rights discourse acknowledges that there are greater interests to
serve than our own self-interests, including our own religion’s self-inter-

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Human Rights and Responsibilities: A Christian Perspective
ests.56 It can be a means of building hope and restoring a sense of commu-
nity.57 It offers parameters for making judgments about human relation-
ships and about the nature of being human because it ‘is saying that at
the deepest level all [humans] have equal worth, a worth which demands
action to bring the less fortunate ... up to a satisfactory level of participa-
tion in the goods which make human worth obvious to the naked eye.’58
This, after all, is one area where the major faiths can be united: a shared
belief in seeking true justice and in upholding the dignity and worth of
the human person.
Notes
Preamble to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (Universal Declaration), Gen-
eral Assembly Resolution, UN Doc A/811.
The vote was 48 states in favour, none against and eight abstensions (Byelorussia,
Czechoslovakia, Poland, Saudi Arabia, Ukraine, USSR, South Africa and Yugoslavia).
Preamble to the Universal Declaration, supra note 1.
Cited in Australian Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade, Human Rights Manual,
1993, p. 1.
Many of the principles set out in the Universal Declaration are now generally consid-
ered to be binding on all countries as a matter of customary international law: Advi-
sory Opinion on Namibia, International Court of Justice Reports, 1971, pp. 16, 57.
See Steiner, H. and Alston, P., International Human Rights in Context, 1996; and
Robertson, A. and Merrills, J., Human Rights in the World, 3rd ed., 1992.
When a government is confronted with allegations that it is abusing human rights it
either denies the facts upon which the allegations are based or seeks to rely on limita-
tions on the right. Whichever tactic is adopted, as a matter of international law, the
actions of governments in seeking to rely on exceptions to their obligations confirm
that a legal obligation does exist. See Military and Paramilitary Activities in and against
Nicaragua (Nicaragua v United States) International Court of Justice Reports, 1986, p.
14 at para 186.
There are nearly 190 countries in the world and every one has ratified at least one treaty
protecting human rights. The Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action 1993, In-
ternational Legal Materials, no. 32, 1993, p. 1661 states in paragraph 4: “the promotion
and protection of all human rights is a legitimate concern of the international commu-
nity”.
Charlesworth, H., “The Challenge of Human Rights for Religious Traditions”, Eureka
Street, no. 7, November 1997; and Padilla, A. and Winrich, J., “Christianity, Feminism
and The Law”, Columbia Journal of Gender and Law, no. 1, 1991, p. 67.  Gourevitch, P.,
We wish to inform you that tomorrow we will be killed with our Families: Stories
from Rwanda, 1998, shows how Churches were involved in the genocides and other
actions in Rwanda in 1994.
10 See Human Rights and Equal Opportunity, Free to Believe? The Right to Freedom of
Religion and Belief in Australia, Discussion Paper No. 1, 1997.

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Human Rights and Responsibilities: A Christian Perspective
11 Wasserstrom, R., “Rights, Human Rights and Racial Discrimination” in Rachels, J., (ed),
Moral Problems, 1979, p. 12.
12 See Hohfeld, W., “Fundamental Legal Conceptions as applied to Judicial Reasoning”,
Yale Law Journal, no. 23, 1913, p. 16.
13 Preamble to the Universal Declaration, supra note 1, (emphasis added). See also the
Preamble to the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action 1993, International
Legal Materials, no. 32, 1993, p. 1661: “all human rights derive from the dignity and
worth inherent in the human person, and that the human person is the central subject of
human rights and fundamental freedoms, and consequently should be the principal
beneficiary and should participate actively in the realization of these rights and free-
doms”.
14 Aristotle relied on the law of nature to show that there were elementary principles of
justice which were unalterable and eternal.  Weinreb, L., “Natural Law and Rights” in
George, R., (ed), Natural Law Theory: Contemporary Essays, 1992, p. 278.  This philoso-
phy was not originally concerned with rights as “an individual could be harmed with-
out warning if that was the natural order of things”. The Chin dynasty, founded 2200
years ago, operated with a belief in the fair treatment of all irrespective of caste:
Charlesworth, H., “The Challenge of Human Rights for Religious Traditions”, Eureka
Street, no. 7, November 1997.
15 See Finnis, J., Natural Law and Natural Rights, 1980.
16 St Thomas Aquinas, Summa Theologiae, quoted in Haldane, J., “Medieval and Renais-
sance Ethics” in Singer, P., (ed), A Companion to Ethics, 1993, p. 133.
17 Emphasis added. Another example is the French Declaration of the Rights and Duties of
Man and the Citizen, 1789, which notes that “men are born and remain free and equal
in rights ... the purpose of all political association is the conservation of the natural and
inalienable rights of man”. Both Declarations protect a limited range of rights.
18 Bentham, J., Anarchical Fallacies, reprinted in Waldron, J., (ed), Nonsense Upon Stilts,
1987.
19 Humphrey, J., Human Rights and the United Nations: A Great Adventure, 1984, p. 67.
20 “Many educated citizens in the West, however, have abandoned the traditional view of
man and replaced it with a more contemporary scientific view ... In purely material,
scientific terms, human beings are insignificant oddities cast up by chance in an im-
mense and impersonal universe.”: Thaxton, C. and Meyer, S., “Human Rights: Blessed
by God or Begrudged by Government”, Los Angeles Times, 27 December 1987, part V.
21 Almond, B., “Rights” in Singer, P. (ed), A Companion to Ethics, 1993, pp. 259, 265-6.
22 The Hebrew word “mispat”, which means justice or justice and righteousness, is often
used to refer to rights: J. Douglas, The New Bible Dictionary, 1962, p. 680. References to
“The Bible” are to the Christian Bible using the New International Version, 1973.
23 Zech 7:9-10. See also Deut 10:18, 16:19, 24:17 and 27:19. Also see Ps 9:4, Ps 140:12 and Jer
5:28, as well as 1 Sam 8:3 (right to a fair trial) and Lam 3:35 (prisoner’s rights). Martin
Luther King has noted that an unjust law is “a human law that is not rooted in eternal
and natural law ... [and] any law that uplifts human personality is just. Any law that
degrades human personality is unjust”. Quoted in Washington, J. (ed), A Testament of
Hope: The Essential Writings of Martin Luther King, 1986.
24 This idea of distributive justice is also found in the New Testament where the Greek
words “dikaios” and “dikaiosyne” are used: Kittel, G. and Friedrich, G.,Theological
Dictionary of the New Testament, 1985, vol. II pp. 174-225. See 1 Jn 2:29: “If you know

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Human Rights and Responsibilities: A Christian Perspective
that he is righteous, you know that everyone who does what is right has been born of
him”.
25 Luke 4:18-19. The words are from Is 61:1-2.
26 Luke 4:21.
27 Matt 22:39 and Mk 12:31.
28 Luke 10:25-37.
29 Luke 10:37.
30 Wolterstorff, N., Until Justice and Peace Embrace, 1983, p. 78 (emphasis in original).
31 Lord Denning, The Influence of Religion on Law, 1989, pp.18-19, referring to Lord
Atkin’s decision in Donaghue v. Stevenson [1932] Appeal Cases, pp. 562, 580.
32 Charlesworth, H., “What are Women’s International Human Rights?” in Cook, R., (ed),
Human Rights of Women: National and International Perspectives, 1994, p. 60. She also
criticises the public/private distinction created as to when law will and will not be
concerned with an issue.
33 See Teson, F., “International Human Rights and Cultural Relativism”, Virginia Journal
of International Law, vol. 25, no. 869, 1985, p. 891. Paragraph 1 of the Vienna Declara-
tion and Programme of Action 1993, International Legal Materials, no. 32, 1993, p. 1661,
states: “the universal nature of [human rights] is beyond question”. See also Sinaceur,
M., “Islamic Tradition and Human Rights” in UNESCO, Philosophical Foundations of
Human Rights, 1986, p. 205; Haile, M., “Human Rights, Stability, and Development in
Africa: Some Observations on Concept and Reality”, Virginia Journal of International
Law, no. 24, 1984, p. 575; and Rouner, L. (ed), Human Rights and the World’s Religions,
1988. The contrary argument, that human rights are relative to each society or culture
(known as “cultural relativism”), is set out in Pollis, A. and Schwab, P., (eds), Towards
a Human Rights Framework, 1982.
34 See the “margin of appreciation” doctrine used by the European Court of Human
Rights, where there is a degree of flexibility given to governments to determine the
particular pressing needs of their State. This is based on the notion that there ‘cannot
[be a] disregard [for] those legal and factual features which characterise the life of the
society in the State’: Belgian Linguistics Case ECTHR Series A, vol. 6, 1968, para 34-35.
See further van Dijk, P. and van Hoof, G., Theory and Practice of the European Conven-
tion on Human Rights, 1990, pp. 585-606.
35 Preamble.
36 Gutierrez, G., We Drink from our own Wells, 1983, p. 112.
37 Final Document of the Fourth General Conference of Latin American Bishops 1992 in
Santo Domingo, published in Santo Domingo Conclusions, 1993.
38 Debates about which human rights should be protected by law continue and at times
further rights are protected, such as the rights of the child.
39 Matt 25:31-46. The righteous are, therefore, not necessarily those who have won great
theological debates.
40 Stott, J., Christian Counter Culture, p. 45. He goes on to note that “righteousness is
concerned with seeking man’s liberation from oppression, together with promotion of
civil rights, justice in the law courts, integrity in business dealings and honour in home
and family affairs. Thus Christians are committed to hunger for righteousness in the
whole human community as something pleasing to a righteous God”.

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Human Rights and Responsibilities: A Christian Perspective
41 For a discussion on civil disobedience and pacifism see Wolterstorff, N., Until Justice
and Peace Embrace, 1983, pp. 143-5.
42 Christian philosophy upholds the sovereignty of God so that there are times when “we
must obey God rather than men”: Acts 5:29 and Acts 4:19.
43 Is 10:2. See also Psalm 72.
44 James 2:14-17. In a passage reminiscent of the Old Testament, James wrote: “Religion
that God our Father accepts as pure and faultless is this: to look after orphans and
widows in their distress” (1:27).
45 The Kairos Document, 1986. This document arose from discussions between a wide
range of church leaders in South Africa during the apartheid era.
46 Article 29 (2).
47 Cronin, K., Rights and Christian Ethics, 1992, p. 176.
48 Habgood, J., Church and Nation in a Secular Age, 1983, p. 42.
49 “For the historically disempowered, the conferring of rights is symbolic of all the
denied aspects of their humanity: rights imply a respect that places one in the referen-
tial range of self and others, that elevates one’s status from human body to social
being”: Williams, P., The Alchemy of Race and Rights, 1991, pp. 153, 164.
50 Individuals are directly liable for crimes against humanity and genocide, for example:
consider the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide,
1948, article IV and the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court.
51 This obligation can be illustrated by the story of Cain and Abel: Gen 4. See C. Wright,
Human Rights: A Study in Biblical Themes, 1979.
52 Murray, D., “The Theological Basis for Human Rights”, Irish Theological Quarterly,
vol. 56/2, 1990, p. 92 states: “Jesus Christ, the Son of God, has united himself to that
person to set him or her free (Gal 5:1); the Spirit, whose presence gives freedom (2 Cor
3:17) is within them; the Father, the source and goal of freedom, has loved them first.”
53 Charlesworth, M., Religious Inventions, 1997, p. 152, notes that human creativity and
imagination have played an indispensible role in the development of religion and this
should continue.
54 Wolterstorff, N., Until Justice and Peace Embrace, 1983, p. 119.
55 Morphew, D., Christians for Human Rights, 1991, p. 1 (emphasis in original).
56 A threat to human rights can come from fundamentalist streams of all religions. See the
analysis in Marty, M. and  Appleby, R., Accounting for Fundamentalisms: The Dynamic
Character of Movements, 1994; Spong, J. S., Rescuing the Bible from Fundamentalism,
1991; and The Uniting Church in Australia, Interim Report on Sexuality, 1996.
57 On the need to restore communities, see Costello, T., Streets of Hope, 1998.
58 Cronin, K., Rights and Christian Ethics, 1992, p. 74.

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Respecting Spiritual and Cultural Beliefs about Death
Respecting Spiritual and Cultural Beliefs
about Death: An Australian
Buddhist Case Study
BY ANN PICKERING
In 1994 I coordinated a submission by the Combined Buddhist Com-
munities of Canberra into reform of the ACT Coroner’s Act, following the
sudden death in Canberra of the Tibetan Lama Gyalsey Tulku Rinpoche.
His death dramatically illustrated that current Australian law and prac-
tice are such that members of minority spiritual and cultural traditions
cannot be sure that we will be able to die and have our bodies handled
after death in accordance with our spiritual beliefs.
When Sogyal Rinpoche, the author of the Tibetan Book of Living and
Dying, was asked what he hoped for from his book, he replied: ‘to inspire
a quiet revolution in the whole way we look at death and care for the
dying, and the whole way we look at life and care for the living’. All
people, whatever their spiritual tradition or cultural background, should
be able to die in peace and dignity in accordance with their spiritual be-
liefs and cultural traditions.
Buddhist understandings of death and the dying process
Buddhism has a variety of traditions. While there are differences be-
tween them, there is a common Buddhist understanding of death and the
process of dying, based on the core Buddhist scriptures.
The following are the key points from a Mahayana Buddhist perspec-
tive.

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Respecting Spiritual and Cultural Beliefs about Death
The state of mind at the moment of death is seen as all-important. His
Holiness the Dalai Lama has stated that ‘our state of mind at the moment
of death can influence the quality of our next rebirth’.1 If a person is dis-
tressed at the moment of death it can affect their passage through death
and their next rebirth. The moment of death is also an important spiritual
opportunity:
The actual point of death is also when the more profound and beneficial inner
experiences can come about ... an accomplished meditator can use his or her
actual death to gain great spiritual realisation. This is why experienced practitio-
ners engage in meditative practices as they pass away. An indicator of their at-
tainment is that often their bodies do not begin to decay until long after they are
clinically dead.2
Death is seen as a process: even after a person dies from a clinical point
of view, the inner process of dying and final separation of body and con-
sciousness is seen to continue for some time.
For these reasons, all Buddhist traditions emphasise the importance of
maintaining a peaceful, calm and respectful atmosphere both during and
just after the moment of death. Thus, once it is clear that a person is actu-
ally dying, it is desirable that they be able to die in a peaceful, meditative
atmosphere. Any advance directives or statements of their wishes, eg.
about not being resuscitated or being disconnected from life support and
monitors, should be respected.
All Buddhist traditions emphasise the importance of spiritual care and
support at the moment of death so the person dies in a good state of mind.
In the Mahayana tradition it is seen as important to have someone in the
same tradition - for example, a close fellow student of the same teacher -
remind the person of their heart practice and to guide the person so that
they die well, as well as to contact the person’s main teacher so that they
and other students can practise for them.
While this will often be organised by the immediate family, they may
not always share the person’s beliefs. In contemporary Australia, this is
true not only for Buddhists but for many people in other traditions. It is
therefore important to routinely check whether a person who is seriously
ill, dying or has just died has expressed any wishes in relation to spiritual
care and if there is anyone they want contacted to provide or arrange
such care.

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Respecting Spiritual and Cultural Beliefs about Death
The person’s consciousness is seen to continue after death. It can be
affected by what happens after death, including the handling of the body.
It can be up to three and a half days before a practitioner’s consciousness
finally leaves the body. An accomplished master may remain in a special
state of meditation for some days following clinical death.
Thus, if at all possible it is important:
-
to keep the body calm and undisturbed for up to 72 hours after the
last breath, until the ‘consciousness’ has left the body, and not to
touch the body at all;
-
if the body must be moved, not to do so until certain prayers have
been done;
-
not to hold autopsies or post-mortems for three days or until there
are clear indications that the consciousness has separated from the
body;
-
when the body is moved, that it is touched initially at the crown of
the head. This is because touching can draw the consciousness to
that part of the body, and where the consciousness leaves the body
can determine the person’s future rebirth;
-
to allow access to do prayers in front of the body - including a body
in the morgue awaiting autopsy. In the case of an ordinary person,
this is because the dead person is believed to sense a strong feeling
of connection with their body during the period immediately after
death, so that practices in the presence of the body can be particu-
larly powerful in helping the dead person. In the case of a master,
their close students regard it as of tremendous importance to be
able to carry out spiritual practices in the presence of the body.
The death of Gyalsey Rinpoche
The gulf between Buddhist understandings of death and dying and
Australian law and practice was startlingly illustrated by the death of
Gyalsey Tulku Rinpoche.3 Rinpoche died in Canberra early in the morn-
ing on Sunday 22 November 1993, after giving a Medicine Buddha em-
powerment the previous night. He had a headache before the
empowerment which had seemed to leave him during the teaching, but it
came back at the end and he retired to his room.

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Respecting Spiritual and Cultural Beliefs about Death
At 9 am the next morning, the students who were to drive him to
Sydney discovered him dead. As the local lama, Lama Choedak, was over-
seas, they had to do the best they could.
They did two main things. One was to contact paramedics, to see if
they could revive him. The other was to contact Sakya Trizin, the head of
Rinpoche’s lineage, in India. He instructed them to practise, and told them
which practices to do. He also said that the local law must be complied
with, but if at all possible, to avoid having the body moved or having an
autopsy. They also contacted the Sakya centre in Sydney. Two lamas based
in Sydney and some older students arranged to drive down to Canberra
that afternoon.
I was at home when a visiting friend, Luiz Ribeiro, who had been at
the empowerment, was rung by his wife to tell him the news. He left
immediately for the centre to do what he could to make sure the teach-
ings about death and dying were carried out.
I rang and left messages with two of my main masters. The main prac-
tical instruction from Sogyal Rinpoche, which was later passed back to
me, was the importance of making sure that Rinpoche’s own teachers
and family were informed.
I then had a call from Luiz’s wife Elisabeth to say there was trouble at
the house, the police had been notified by the paramedics and some of the
students were threatening to barricade the house to stop them taking the
body away. This set off another stage of the drama, where Elizabeth and
I tried to think what we could do to help. The police have no discretion
but to carry out the law - but could we do anything to stop the situation?
I rang the police to see if I could speak to someone senior, at least to get
a delay until the lama from Sydney arrived.
I also rang Senator Reid, who suggested I ring the ACT Attorney-Gen-
eral, Terry Connolly, at home. Terry’s instant reaction was that the law
had to be carried out - because of Rinpoche’s age, an autopsy would be
unavoidable - but that the law could be changed. He said that this was an
issue also for the Koori (Aboriginal) community and for the Greek Ortho-
dox and asked me whether the Ethnic Communities Council was the best
mode of consultation. I asked if he could at least stall things until the lama
from Sydney arrived and he undertook to ring the Commissioner of Po-
lice, which he did. But in the meantime I was told that the body had just
been moved.

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Respecting Spiritual and Cultural Beliefs about Death
It was because the students contacted the paramedics that they lost
control of the situation. When the paramedics could not revive him, they
contacted the police, as required under Australian law in all cases of sud-
den death. The next thing they knew, the police were there wanting to
take away the body.
The students attempted to negotiate with the police for some time,
whom they later commented showed a commendable level of sympathy
and patience. A police doctor came and certified life extinct. Eventually,
on the orders of the coroner (a magistrate rostered for that day) the police
decided to move the body.
Before they did so, Luiz touched Rinpoche on the head with a gold
Buddha statue. This is in line with the teaching that, if a body must be
moved, it should first be touched firmly on the crown of the head, so that
the consciousness leaves from the top of the head. Four or five students
recited mantras by the body while the negotiations with the police took
place. Rinpoche’s body was then put in a body bag and carried out. The
policeman in charge, who rang me later in the day, said that the students
had made sure Rinpoche’s body was handled very respectfully. I was
impressed both to be rung back and by his attitude, and felt that the po-
lice had tried to do their best in a difficult community policing situation.
Later in the morning one of Rinpoche’s devoted students, who was a
doctor, said that had he been contacted immediately he could have signed
a death certificate, as Rinpoche had been complaining to him of head-
aches for some time. If accepted by the coroner, this might have avoided
the need for the removal of the body and an autopsy.
The body was taken to the morgue where Lama Kechog and Lama
Trijam did practice late that day. They settled the students by saying that
in fact Rinpoche had died quickly of a ‘wind stroke’ and his conscious-
ness had left straight away; it was all right for the autopsy to go ahead. I
got to the morgue after they left. I was shown the body, on a stretcher
covered in gold silk, and still with a strong sense of presence.
The head of Rinpoche’s lineage was still keen to avoid an autopsy if at
all possible. The next morning, I was rung asking for the number of a
lawyer to get an injunction to stop the autopsy for three days. When I
checked I was told that it was unlikely that legal action would work: the
only thing that could was a political intervention.
Later that day a meeting was held with the ACT Attorney-General,
the Coroner, the Professor who would do the autopsy, the Office of Tibet

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Respecting Spiritual and Cultural Beliefs about Death
and David Cheah, the doctor. The position of the ACT authorities was
that the law had to be carried out, but as a compromise only a limited
autopsy was carried out on Rinpoche’s head with David Cheah present,
which confirmed that he died of a stroke.
However the law could be changed - the Attorney-General announced
the same day that an inquiry would be carried out into the ACT Coroner’s
Act.
After the autopsy the body was embalmed. The undertaker broke with
precedent and allowed some senior students to be present at the embalm-
ing. Canberra’s Buddhist community from all traditions practised in front
of the body over several nights at the funeral parlour. Later in the week
Lama Choedak flew back from India to accompany the corpse back to
Rinpoche’s monastery in India where the appropriate practices were done.
Reform of the ACT law
The death of Gyalsey Tulku Rinpoche acted as a catalyst. In response
to the distress caused by the death, the ACT Attorney General announced
an inquiry the next day into the ACT Coroner’s Act ‘to ensure that the
legal procedures that flow from a death in the Canberra community will
more appropriately reflect the multicultural nature of Canberra’.
A discussion paper was issued by the ACT Government in July 1994.
On behalf of Rigpa, the students of Sogyal Rinpoche, I coordinated a sub-
mission by the combined Buddhist Communities of Canberra, which was
signed by leaders of all major Buddhist traditions. A number of other
Buddhist groups also made submissions.
Sogyal Rinpoche also wrote personally to the ACT Attorney General,
welcoming the Discussion Paper and indicating that he was disturbed to
learn that it was simply not possible, under current Australian law and
practice, to ensure that Gyalsey Tulku Rinpoche’s body was given the
respect traditionally due to a Buddhist teacher.
It goes without saying that the moment of death, and what happens after, is the
greatest issue that faces any human being, and this is reflected in the tremendous
importance placed on it in all the great world religions ... I believe that Australian
law should now take steps to recognise the right of all people, including Bud-
dhists, to die in peace and dignity in accordance with their spiritual beliefs; for
this must surely be the most fundamental human right of all.

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Respecting Spiritual and Cultural Beliefs about Death
I hope and pray that Gyalsey Tulku Rinpoche’s death will in a way act as a
catalyst for a change in the law and practice, not only in Canberra but throughout
Australia, to enable greater caring and respect for the dying and the dead, so that
they can die well in accordance with their own religious beliefs...There is no way
to exaggerate the importance of such a change. It would send a message to the rest
of the world about the urgent need to pay attention to the questions surrounding
dying and death, especially in a multi-cultural context...It would also act as a
model for other Western countries.4
The need for reform was again drawn to attention in 1995 when a
senior visiting Pakistani civil servant died suddenly and his body was not
handled in accordance with Islamic law.
Following a change in Government, in late 1995 the new Attorney
General tabled an exposure draft of amendments to the Coroner’s Act for
community comment. Further detailed comments were made by Tibetan
Buddhist and other groups and some minor changes were made as a re-
sult. Amendments to the Coroner’s Act finally came into effect in October
1997, almost four years after Gyalsey Rinpoche’s death.
The crucial section of the amended legislation is section 28, which re-
quires the Coroner, in deciding whether to order a postmortem or re-
moval of the body, to ‘have regard to the desirability of minimising the
causing of distress or offence to persons who, because of their cultural
attitudes or spiritual beliefs, could reasonably be expected to be distressed
or offended.’ There are also provisions giving rights to the members of the
immediate family, or a representative of such a person, for example, to
request a viewing of the body or that the Coroner dispense with a post-
mortem examination if the manner and cause of death are sufficiently
clear.
This legislation is a major step forward.
From a Buddhist perspective, however, it is not perfect. For example,
the concern is with minimising distress to the survivors. The legislation is
based on the Western assumption that once a person is clinically dead,
they cease to be a legal person and so to have rights. Buddhism sees death
as a gradual process of dissolution that continues after clinical death and
in which the fate of the consciousness can be profoundly affected by what
happens after death.
Moreover, rights are primarily vested in the immediate family. How-
ever in many traditions the primary responsibility for ensuring that the
appropriate rituals are done and that the body is handled appropriately

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Respecting Spiritual and Cultural Beliefs about Death
is vested in other people with special expertise. For example, in the case of
Gyalsey Tulku Rinpoche, even though his family was informed, it was his
teacher and religious superior in India, Sakya Trizin, who so actively sought
through the Australian students who were on the ground to ensure that
his body was handled with the appropriate respect.
The ACT Act contains some useful extensions of the concept of imme-
diate family, for example to give rights to de facto spouses, including in
same sex situations. However, the only situation where it is recognised
that there may be customs or traditions giving responsibility to a person
outside the immediate family is where the deceased was an Aboriginal
person or Torres Strait Islander.
Another layer of complexity is that in contemporary Australia, it can-
not be assumed that a person’s immediate family will share their spiritual
and cultural beliefs, or even be comfortable with them. If there is to be
true freedom for people to die in accordance with their beliefs, in the end
it should be the beliefs of the dead person that are decisive. Thus if a
person has indicated while they are alive that they want certain people to
act on their behalf to ensure the appropriate rituals are performed during
and after death, this should be respected, for example by a coroner.
However, the legislation gives the coroner a degree of discretion. Pro-
vided that coroners are sympathetic and cross-culturally aware, and that
those acting on behalf of the dead person can know what their rights are
and who they need to contact and can get hold of them quickly enough, it
should be possible for those in the know to navigate their way round the
new Act and achieve a result that is consistent with the dead or dying
person’s beliefs.
Another important issue is the ability to ensure a peaceful, calm death.
This includes the ability for people to indicate their wishes about issues
such as resuscitation and withdrawal of medical treatment and to have
these respected, as well as to give someone else a medical power of attor-
ney to act on their behalf should they no longer be able to do so.
This area is well provided for in ACT law, by the ACT Medical Treat-
ment Act 1994 and associated changes to the Powers of Attorney Act.
I understand that there have also been amendments to coronial legis-
lation in NSW, Victoria and the Northern Territory to take into account
spiritual and cultural issues, as well as pressures for change by the Bud-
dhist hospice in Queensland, and that legislation relating to medical powers
of attorney exists in some States, but I have not researched the details.

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Respecting Spiritual and Cultural Beliefs about Death
Where to next?
What needs to happen next? And what can Governments and indi-
viduals do to help bring about a situation in which all Australians, in-
cluding members of minority religions, can die in accordance with their
beliefs?
There are three levels at which change needs to occur. First, law and
standard operating procedures need to be changed. Secondly, we need to
change attitudes to recognise how important it is to offer people access to
spiritual care in accordance with their beliefs at the time of and after
death. And finally, at the deepest level, we need to come to terms with
death and express our wishes while we are alive to those close to us, so
that we create a climate in which others - whether they have a strong
spiritual tradition or not - will feel comfortable in expressing their wishes
for the moment of death.
Changing law and practice
The Human Rights and Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
(HREOC) Report Article 18, Freedom of Religion and Belief was tabled in
Parliament on 11 November 1998.5 It discusses issues relating to burials
and autopsies, including a discussion of Buddhist concerns which draws
on the 1995 letter from the Canberra Buddhist Communities about the
issues raised by the death of Gyalsey Tulku Rinpoche. The report makes a
number of findings and recommendations on autopsies which I generally
support, subject to the proviso that freedom to die in accordance with
one’s beliefs requires that first priority be given to respecting of the spiri-
tual beliefs of the dead person, whilst of course also seeking to minimise
distress for the family.
The appearance of this report provides a favourable moment to push
for changes to the law throughout Australia. I believe that if we are clear
about what is needed, persistent, and can persuade Governments that
this is an important issue, we will succeed in bringing about change.
One of our strongest arguments for changing the law is the increasing
spiritual diversity of the Australian population. While 70% of the popula-
tion are Christian, the 1996 Census shows a significant growth in the
proportion of the population that belong to non-Christian religions. For
example there has been a 43% growth in the Buddhist population and
similar growth in the Islamic population, a small increase in the Jewish

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Respecting Spiritual and Cultural Beliefs about Death
population, and Hinduism was separately noted as a religion for the first
time. One quarter declared themselves as having no religion.6
The areas of the law where change is important are coronial legisla-
tion, consent to medical treatment (a particular issue for Jehovah’s Wit-
ness), introducing medical powers of attorney where they do not exist,
and laws relating to the disposal of the body.
Even where the law has been changed to respond to the needs of some
religious and cultural minorities who have raised concerns, this does not
guarantee that it meets the needs of all traditions. There may be issues of
vital concern to other minority traditions that did not even occur to the
law makers as potential issues. So all traditions need to look critically at
the law and identify whether it needs to be further amended to take ac-
count of their concerns.
It is not enough to change the law. People, especially members of mi-
nority traditions, need to know their rights and how to exercise them.
Because of the history, most of my Tibetan Buddhist friends are aware
that there have been changes to the Coroner’s Act, but not of the details
of what rights it provides. Most are not aware of the Medical Treatment
Act or position in relation to medical powers of attorney, unless their
lawyer has drawn it to their attention.
While researching this paper I discovered that there is in fact an excel-
lent pamphlet on the Medical Treatment Act available in a number of
languages at the Civic Shopfront.7 There is also a pamphlet on the NSW
Coroner’s Act available at funeral parlours.8 However, while the ACT
Coroner’s Act was amended in 1997 and a first draft of an information
booklet was made available for comment late that year, work on it has
come to a halt for the time being.
This highlights that not only is there a need for easy-to-understand
information on the law, but there are issues as to how best to alert key
people in minority spiritual and cultural traditions to the changes.
Another issue is that often it is important to act quickly, so people need
to be able to find out easily who to ring in an emergency to be able to
exercise their rights. This problem came up not only in relation to the
death of Gyalsey Tulku Rinpoche but again in 1995, when, if only I had
known who to ring, I could have arranged for a qualified lama who was
visiting Canberra to do the practice for the transference of consciousness
in front of the body of a friend who had just committed suicide. While this
practice can be done in the absence of the body, it is much more powerful

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Respecting Spiritual and Cultural Beliefs about Death
if it can be done in its presence. However neither I nor Telstra inquiries
could find the right number and yet again I only worked out who I should
have contacted after it was too late.
Another area that is important is to review checklists, operating proce-
dures, manuals and so on to ensure that they contain prompts so that
caregivers are aware of the person’s wishes as to who they want con-
tacted and any special requirements.
One important area is hospital admission procedures and patient charts.
These can be used to routinely capture and alert nurses to key informa-
tion such as whether, in an emergency, the person wants someone from
their spiritual tradition, and any special requirements that caregivers need
to be aware of.
People can also die or have medical emergencies at work. Emergency
contact lists need to be redesigned to ask whether people want someone
from their spiritual tradition contacted in an emergency. A recent experi-
ence highlights the need to ask for an alternative if the main contact is not
available. I am the emergency contact for a friend. Her ten year old daugh-
ter rang a few weeks ago to say her mother was very ill and needed help.
But I was away on retreat. Luckily other friends stepped in and got help
in time, and she is recovering.
Another area to be addressed is checklists on what to do when some-
one dies and bereavement kits. These can contain subtle embedded as-
sumptions. For example, the pamphlet put out by the Australian Funeral
Director’s Association called ‘What do I do if someone dies?’ states that
the first person who should be called is generally a doctor. ‘If appropriate,
you may also call your Priest or Minister.’9
Notice the primacy given to the medico-legal perspective, the Chris-
tian language and subtle assumption that it is the priest of the person
who survives who should be called. Later the discussion of funerals fo-
cuses on their role in helping the survivors cope with their grief.
The attention given to the needs of the grieving in the pamphlet is
excellent - our society has come a long way in this area in the last twenty
years. However, if you believe that the consciousness of the dead person
can be affected by what happens after death, and that your prayers can
help them, then your perspective changes radically. In some traditions,
the focus just after death is on helping the consciousness of the dead per-
son. The primary concern is to carry out the appropriate prayers for the
moment of death and ensure the body is handled, or not handled, in ac-

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Respecting Spiritual and Cultural Beliefs about Death
cordance with that tradition. However, knowing they have done the best
they can to help the dead person can help the survivors greatly in their
grieving.
Thus I would like to see added to such checklists a simple prompt to
ask whether the person belonged to a spiritual tradition and whether it
has any special prayers or rituals that need to be carried out upon death
before the body is removed.
Changing attitudes
This has two dimensions. One is to change attitudes towards death by
training doctors and nurses in issues relating to death and dying and end
of life care, so that patients and family are comfortable in talking about
and planning the end of their lives and what they want to happen after
death. My impression is that current practice in Australia varies, with
places like hospices and oncology wards, which deal with the dying all
the time, and Catholic institutions, where there are long traditions of ad-
ministering last rites to the dying, probably the most comfortable with
these issues.
There are signs of a welcome shift for the better. In 1995 an American
Medical Association study found that doctors were routinely misunder-
standing or ignoring the wishes of patients even where they had expressed
these clearly in advance directives and living wills.10 In October 1998 it
announced a training program for doctors in end of life care.11
There is also a need to increase the cross-cultural awareness of all of
those likely to be involved with deaths, especially sudden deaths, as these
are the most likely to involve coronial issues and are the ones where it is
least likely that there will be a chance to ask the dying person their wishes.
This might involve professional development seminars and the provision
of written information to doctors, nurses, other health workers, coroners,
forensic pathologists, ambulance and other emergency service staff.12
The aim is not to get them to know all the fine detail of every tradition.
It is simply to make them aware of the importance that many traditions
place on spiritual care during and after death - and so the importance of
asking who the dead person wants contacted. Also they need to be
sensitised to the range of issues they may not otherwise have thought of
where followers of particular traditions may have concerns, eg. the Ti-
betan Buddhist concern about not touching the body until the prayers for
the transference of consciousness are completed, but if it must be touched,
doing so first firmly at the fontanelle.

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Respecting Spiritual and Cultural Beliefs about Death
Preparing for our own death
None of us knows how and when we will die. Many traditions
emphasise the importance of preparing for death - not only to make it
easier for those who survive us, but also so that we are able to let go and
die peacefully.
As well as making a will governing issues such as the disposal of our
money, personal possessions and body and the guardianship of any chil-
dren under 18, we should think about issues such as organ donation and
whether we want to be resuscitated once we are dying, and consider
whether we want to exercise our rights under legislation such as the ACT
Medical Treatment Act, where such legislation exists, or give someone
power of medical attorney.
However, for those of us who see the spiritual as central, most impor-
tant of all is both to talk to and give written instructions to those close to
us, especially those likely to be contacted first if we die or in an emer-
gency. We need to talk through with them, especially if they do not share
our beliefs, about what spiritual care we want while we are dying and
after death. We need to make sure they know who we want contacted
from our spiritual tradition and how to contact them in an emergency -
also, if we have left any money to pay for special prayers, as these may
need to be arranged well before anyone looks at our will. It is good to give
back-up contacts. We may, if our tradition has strong concerns about
autopsies, like to think of giving someone written authority to act on our
behalf, particularly if we want someone other than our immediate family
or senior next of kin to act on our behalf or we anticipate differences of
opinion within the family.
Talking about what you want can both allow you to be more confident
that you can die in accordance with your beliefs, and help those who
survive you - by channelling their natural desire to do the best they can to
help you. Also, if those of us who are clear about our wishes talk about
them, it can help create an environment where others, even those who do
not formally belong to a spiritual tradition but wish to die in a spiritual
atmosphere, can also start to feel more comfortable in expressing their
wishes. Finally, thinking about death highlights for us what is most im-
portant in life; it helps us sort out our priorities and live life more fully.

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Respecting Spiritual and Cultural Beliefs about Death
Conclusion
I only heard Gyalsey Tulku Rinpoche teach once while he was alive -
about death, including how it can come suddenly, just to someone in the
street. His death has been extraordinarily powerful. I would like to dedi-
cate this paper in honour of him, and also for the fulfilment of the ex-
traordinary vision of Sogyal Rinpoche of bringing about a transformation
of Western attitudes towards living and dying. May this talk be a cause
for a change in law, practices and attitudes so that all people may be able
both to live and to die in accordance with their religious and cultural
beliefs.
Notes
HH Dalai Lama, Foreword to Sogyal Rinpoche, The Tibetan Book of Living and Dying,
p. ix
Ibid, p. x.
See also Lauber, S., “The Death of a Lama - autopsy laws in Australia and freedom of
religion”, Alternative Law Journal, vol. 21, no. 2, 1996, p. 84.
See also Pickering, A., “Reforming Coronial Legislation”, View, no. 6, 1996, p. 48.
Publication details of View magazine are on the Rigpa Fellowship web site.
This report, titled Article 18, Freedom of Religion and Belief, was tabled in the Senate
on 11 November 1998.
“Christians lose faith but eastern religions prosper”, The Australian, 16 July 1997,
reporting the results of the 1996 Census.
“Making decisions about your medical treatment”, published by the ACT Department
of Health and Community Care. This pamphlet also contains forms for exercising the
rights provided under the Medical Treatment Act (1994).
Attorney-General’s Department (New South Wales), “The Coroner’s Court”.
Australian Funeral Directors Association, “What do I do when someone dies?”
10 “Study Finds Doctors Refuse Patients’ Requests on Death”, New York Times, 22 No-
vember 1995. This reports a study reported in The Journal of the American Medical
Association of the same date.
11 “AMA launches end-of-life care program”, Reuters Health Information, October 1998,
obtained through Yahoo!News. This reports a statement released by the American
Medical Association by Dr Reed Tuckson, senior vice president for professional stan-
dards.
12 I was told by a friend whose mother is a nurse educator that information on the beliefs
about death of different religious traditions is provided in training manuals for nurses.
She said that it is possible for the relatives of a person who dies in hospital to request
that the body remain undisturbed for up to four hours, eg. so they can see the body and
have last rites performed. I am not aware how generally this applies. See also R3.10,
HREOC report.

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Majority-Minority Issues in Religious Freedom
Majority-Minority Issues in
Religious Freedom
BY JULIET SHEEN
In celebrating the fiftieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of
Human Rights, our thoughts could well go back to one aspect of its ori-
gins: minority rights.
Religious freedom, asserted in Article 18 of the UDHR, has always
been central to minority rights. Minority rights have been at the root of
the development of modern human rights mechanisms; yet they remain
controversial. How does democracy square with the concept of such rights?
As for countries which have traditionally accommodated minority com-
munities, is the historical legacy satisfactory? What if a minority is not
recognised? We can look at questions such as these in a world context.
Discrimination against minorities for their culture, language or reli-
gion is contrary to human rights norms. So is discrimination on many
other grounds which affect religious communities as individuals and as
groups. It is in terms of norms embracing all humanity that the rights of
minorities may be best asserted and new approaches developed.
The modern era has seen so many wars of religion and of empire (the
reformation and the counter-reformation; the Ottoman, Napoleonic and
Austro-Hungarian empires), of liberation and revolution (France, Greece,
Italy, Russia), the first and the second world wars and the continuing
crumbling of colonial administrations, the cold war and the dissolution of
communism in Europe. Not to mention the rise and rise of nationalism.
Indeed, there is scarcely a conflict in which religion and belief, ideology,
national or community affiliation, language and mode of life has not played
a significant role.

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Majority-Minority Issues in Religious Freedom
That great humanitarian Yehudi Menuhin deplored the fact that we
still act on the basis of territory rather than on the basis of principle.1 But
the two have been tied together throughout history, if only because prin-
ciple cannot be enunciated except through human agency and that agency
always has ‘a local habitation and a name’. The human rights instru-
ments we know today emerged not just from the will of nations, but,
among other things, from centuries of experience of negotiating and con-
cluding treaties between warring nations, the conquerors and the con-
quered, those who invaded and those who retreated from their lands.
Out of the two world wars came the Universal Declaration, with Ar-
ticle 18 declaring the right of freedom of religion and belief, acknowl-
edged as one of the basic rights which people have simply through the
dignity of being human. In exercising this right fully, human beings also
exercise their freedom of thought and conscience, of association with oth-
ers, of movement, of speech, expression and communication, of educat-
ing their children and maintaining their religious institutions, and their
right to physical integrity, to their very existence as living beings. Free-
dom of belief is called a ‘non-derogable’ right which means that no coun-
try may say they will not respect it when they ratify a convention under
international law. The 1981 UN Declaration on the Elimination of All
Forms of Intolerance and of Discrimination Based on Religion and Belief
further enlarges our understanding of the implications of this right.
Treaties concerned with minorities have been many. Typically they
have resulted in a particular power protecting a particular minority de-
fined by its religion, nationality or culture. Where territory has been ceded,
certain rights which its inhabitants had been accustomed to enjoy be-
came protected under the new regime, notably their religious, civil and
political rights. While some treaties protected the status of a named mi-
nority vis-a-vis the rest of the polity, other treaties extended equal rights
as citizens to all who had lived in the former territory.
Within national or empire boundaries, various protections developed,
depending on political considerations and differing legal systems. One
example of this is the millet system. Under the Ottoman empire, the millet
system allowed minority communities some autonomy, subject to ulti-
mate accounting to Constantinople. One legacy of the millet system in
some Mediterranean countries affects minorities wanting to maintain or
rebuild their religious buildings. For instance, in Egypt the Christian Copts,
who have been there since before Islam, virtually require a presidential
decree to even repair a toilet. Another example of limited minority au-
tonomy is the separate systems of personal law (such as in marriage, di-

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Majority-Minority Issues in Religious Freedom
vorce, custody and maintenance) which exist in many countries, often
side by side with civil law. As ever, women remain the markers of cul-
tural distinction and the battle for women’s equality has aroused commu-
nal tensions, as witnessed by Taslima Nasreen in Bangladesh.
Returning to the subject of minority treaties, two strands emerge from
these treaties which are also to be found in human rights instruments
today because they bind states as powers. The minority treaties contained
either general guarantees of civil and political rights (including religious
freedom) for people defined by territory - those individuals within certain
borders - or, on the other hand, guarantees of certain rights to people
defined as a specific group, especially as identified by religion: the com-
munity of Muslims, or of Catholics or Protestants, or of Orthodox Chris-
tians, for instance, together with their rituals, their religious governance,
buildings, schools and places of worship.
Since 1948, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the other
instruments which go to make up the international standards of human
rights and non-discrimination, and their protections, have been the glo-
bal statements of what makes a full human life in society, no matter who
you are or where you live, defining interference with the enjoyment of
that right in terms which carry moral weight - such as discrimination,
intolerance, exploitation, torture, genocide - and are stated to be contrary
to the aim of peace and brotherhood among the human community of
nations. These interlocking, interdependent principles morally and legally
bind States whether through ratified treaties or through customary inter-
national law.
Article 27 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights
states:
In those States in which ethnic, religious or linguistic minorities exist, persons
belonging to such minorities shall not be denied the right, in community with the
other members of their group, to enjoy their own culture, to profess and practise
their own religion, or to use their own language.
The question of what constitutes a minority often depends on the con-
text in which the word is used: legal, cultural, political, descriptive. There
is no general agreement on its definition, as Francesco Capotorti, the au-
thor of the United Nation’s first major study on the rights of minorities,
has noted.2 Questions about size, minority-to-majority ratios, objective

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Majority-Minority Issues in Religious Freedom
and subjective criteria, minorities’ origin and nationality are all issues that
affect the consideration of a definition. Under Article 27 of the ICCPR,
any group claiming minority status must be numerically smaller than the
rest of the population, be different from the rest, occupy a non-dominant
position in society and must wish to preserve its special characteristics as
a group. One of the significant developments in interpreting Article 27
has been the widening of its breadth of reference and the inclusion of First
People’s concerns such as land rights.
However, to be recognised as a minority has also been seen as dimin-
ishing the community’s status to second-class, thus contributing to the
controversy which surrounds the question of how minorities should be
treated in the general polity. According to this view, even making a dis-
tinction between majority and minority automatically imports discrimi-
nation and disadvantage. The issue can become a very complex interplay
between state policy and the perceptions of minorities who have to live in
the country. Let alone, in this era of globalisation, those outside. As in
other issues concerning a wide range of minorities, not confined to reli-
gion, tensions exist between those who wish to blend with the majority in
whatever way is possible, claiming their allegiance is to the whole, and
those whose concern is to be as distinctive as possible while maintaining
their identity.
Examples of the complexities of minority issues are legion. Here are
some; I make no pretence to cover the world.
The year 1999 marks the fortieth year since the Dalai Lama escaped
from Tibet to India during the unsuccessful uprising against Chinese rule.
Chinese repression of Tibetan Buddhism has been extreme and is well
documented. The ban on photographs of the Dalai Lama has deepened
and books and plays have been banned under a new campaign declaring
Tibetan Culture not to be Buddhist. Re-education and other state-spon-
sored action against monks has reduced the number of functioning mon-
asteries.3 Meanwhile, state-sponsored internal migration of Han Chinese
has gradually been changing cultural ratios in Tibet, a standard tech-
nique of colonisers. China demands that the Dalai Lama recognise Chi-
nese sovereignty over Tibet and the Dalai Lama wants to preserve Tibetan
heritage. But current tantalising hopes for resolving the issue need to be
set beside China’s human rights record of state control of religious expres-
sion and organisation and its ruthless repression of political dissidence.
The slaughter and destruction in the former Yugoslavia goes on. In the
face of accusations that gross human rights violations have been commit-

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Majority-Minority Issues in Religious Freedom
ted by Serbian army, police and para-military units, the President,
Slobodan Milosevic, has been obliged to organise troop withdrawals and
accept the monitoring of the withdrawal by the Organisation for Security
and Cooperation in Europe.4 Kosovans are ethnic Albanians and pre-
dominantly Muslim descendants of people who lived under the Ottoman
Empire. In 1389, Serbia was defeated at the Battle of Kosovo Field. From
1987, former Communist Party leader Milosevic started to link national-
ism to Serbian Orthodox religious fervour so that by the 600th anniver-
sary of the battle, in 1989, Kosovo had lost its autonomy to the vision of a
Greater Serbia.5 Almost all official Albanian-language education was
stopped in 1991 by Milosevic, and ethnic Albanians have had to set up
their own schools, often in houses; even these have been gutted with the
destruction of whole villages and the fleeing of their inhabitants.6 Just as
elsewhere in the Balkans, rampant nationalism has replaced with vio-
lence some centuries of co-existence among neighbours and religions, a
harmony which often still persists despite the depredations of hate and
civil war. Serbians who oppose the current ideology have been deprived
of access to the state-dominated media which encourages xenophobia
and is the only local source of information for those in rural Serbia. Re-
broadcasts in Serbian by the BBC and Radio Free Europe have now been
banned and professors at the University of Belgrade who are not mem-
bers of the ruling Socialist Party are being sacked to prevent their views
from contaminating student minds.7 In these circumstances, a political
solution for the Albanian minority in territory under Serb control does
not look imminent.
The mix of religion and politics has long been acknowledged as condu-
cive to intolerance. Christian minorities in India have come under increased
pressure with the rise of Hindu nationalism, especially after the Bharativa
Janata party won power in the central government.8 Religious national-
ism has been pushing at the bounds of India’s secular system for some
time now, affecting Muslims as well as smaller religious groups. In the
complex equation of caste, class, religion and ethnic origin which makes
up India, Christianity has also come under attack, not only for its evange-
lism in the so-called ‘tribal’ areas but, also, as another religious political
party, the Vishwa Hindu Parishad, has claimed for endangering national
unity and integrity and the cultural ethos of Hindu society.
The dissolution of the Soviet empire has continued to bring instability
and violence to Central Asia. The Afghanistan Taliban militia’s narrow
religious zeal was formed in Sunni Muslim religious schools of neighbouring
Pakistan. When the Taliban captured the northern city of Mazar-i-Sharif,

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Majority-Minority Issues in Religious Freedom
it was reported by Amnesty that the Shi’ite Hazara minority were tar-
geted when, among other killings, seventy men were slaughtered at a
Shi’ite shrine.9 The Hazaras look distinctively Asian; Persian- or Turkish-
based language speakers were killed but Pashtu-speakers were not. Pashtu
is spoken by the Taliban. The Mullah who was appointed governor of the
city is reported to have offered Shias three choices: convert to Sunni Is-
lam, leave the country or die.
When is a minority not a respected minority? When a member is
branded an apostate, a heretic or a blasphemer. Sandi Cornish has re-
called the time when the Catholic Church held that error has no rights.
To be regarded as having known absolute truth and then rejected it has
been considered unforgivable. That situation still holds for minorities in
some countries with dominant religions, as Bahá’í communities know to
their cost.10 Religious dissidents and secular believers have been perse-
cuted as apostates. Prosecutions for blasphemy have inflamed communal
violence and even prompted a Pakistani Catholic bishop recently to com-
mit suicide to bring world attention to the injustices.11
In Europe, new religious movements have been under political and
administrative scrutiny for some years now, leading to complaints about
discrimination and persecution.12 The difficulty of working out exactly
what constitutes a group dangerous to society and in need of state regula-
tion and warning to the general populace has been highlighted. A report
issued by the Belgian Parliamentary Commission on Sects in 1997 con-
tained a list of 189 minority groups which includes, among others, Bahá’ís
and Hassidic Jews, and those Evangelical, Pentecostal and Adventist
groups who do not belong to the state-recognised United Protestant Church
of Belgium even though they account for half the Protestant population.13
Groups on the list will be scrutinised by the newly-formed Information
and Advisory Centre on Harmful Sectarian Organisations (the Belgian
Observatory on Sects). The non-government organisation Human Rights
Without Frontiers has reported concern about the investigation and the
policy and structures proposed to implement the recommendations. Af-
ter the report was issued, there was a rise in intolerance because it was
generally interpreted as black-listing groups. Representatives of the Bel-
gian Adventist Church and of the Bahá’ís have encountered unexpected
difficulties in renting a public hall, for instance, and the Religious Depart-
ment of the Ministry of Justice also refused to meet with the Adventists,
saying it would only have relations with ‘recognised’ religions. The Re-
port also contained attacks on a Hassidic Jewish group, the Satmar com-
munity, its institutions and schools, as being insular and exclusionist. Rabbi

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Majority-Minority Issues in Religious Freedom
Abraham Malinsky, who inspects Jewish religious classes in public schools,
has commented that ‘since the end of the Second World War, Belgium
has been the first European State to publish hostile and unsubstantiated
statements against a prominent group of Orthodox Jewry.’
Registration of religious bodies is common in European countries’ ad-
ministrative arrangements and continental law, as it is in Central and
South America. However, some administrative arrangements may have
the effect of restricting religious freedom, especially in contrast to tradi-
tionally dominant religions. With the emergence of democratic political
structures in Russia, the Orthodox Church and the Communist Party depu-
ties drew together to make common cause against minority incursions on
the national turf. The law on religion passed by the Duma resembles the
old Soviet control mechanisms in many ways. It makes distinctions be-
tween three classes of religion and religious organisation as to which are
allowed to own property, preach publicly and distribute literature law-
fully. ‘Traditional’ religions are recognised and their institutions and ac-
tivities allowed: Russian Orthodoxy, Judaism, Islam and Buddhism are
religions not considered foreign to the wider Russia. All other religious
groups can ‘meet privately’ if the local authorities agree to register them.
However, this approval would only apply to those currently registered
groups which have been operating already for more than 15 years, that
is, from the time when Brezhnev lived, in the era when religion and the
religious were persecuted. The rest - Roman Catholics, Protestants, Bap-
tists, Seventh Day Adventists, Mormons, Pentecostals, Jehovah’s Witnesses
- would have to go through the fifteen-year approval process. During the
fifteen years the so-called ‘foreign religions’ would need to get permission
to operate from the traditional religions in their area. Some allowance has
apparently been made for ‘centralised’ religions but this might not, how-
ever, apply to some Catholic orders, let alone indigenous Russian congre-
gations like the independent Baptists or dissident Orthodox. According to
the Keston Institute, the fifteen-year rule has been under challenge in the
Constitutional Court.14
What of Australia?
Australian political scientist Marion Maddox has commented that
whereas commentary on the religion-politics overlap tends to focus on
Christian denominations, ‘the religious issues which have generated the
greatest public controversy over recent years have mainly to do with non-
Christian traditions.’15 When the UN Special Rapporteur on Religious In-
tolerance reported on his visit to Australia, he highlighted not only the

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Majority-Minority Issues in Religious Freedom
need to respect Indigenous beliefs and practices but also prejudice against
other religious minorities.16
Let me give you the most recent example. The Bangladeshi Muslim
community in Bankstown were understandably dismayed to hear that
Justice Sheahan of the NSW Land and Environment Court had interpreted
the word ‘church’ extremely narrowly when he reviewed the land use for
which Council approval had been given in 1954.17 The Bankstown City
Council had allowed the Presbyterian Church of NSW to erect a ‘brick
church or office’ on the land. The Bangladeshi community, who have
been using the church they bought from the Presbyterians as a mosque,
had thought that its existing use as a place of worship would stand. They
are not the only non-Christian community to have made such an assump-
tion, especially as the number of adherents of mainstream Christianity
has long been shrinking and the formerly consecrated churches become
deconsecrated and sold for other purposes.
However Bankstown Council chose to use complaints about noise and
parking, complaints which might have been resolved another way, as the
springboard for bringing a theological test into the court, a test which had
not been in the minds of the original legislators or administrators. The
wonder is that, so close to the millenium, the Council was allowed to run
with it and that their argument succeeded. An appeal from the decision
should definitely be made, especially as so many other councils report-
edly have been waiting for this determination in order to deal with simi-
lar matters in their own suburbs.
In 1984, the NSW Anti-Discrimination Board’s report on religious dis-
crimination commented on precisely this type of discrimination:
This report contains many examples of the way concepts and practices of main-
stream Christianity have been assumed to be universal. Some judicial interpreta-
tions of religious terminology contained in legislation have in effect constituted
narrow theological tests rather than the wider application intended under legis-
lation. While such terms as ‘church’, ‘worship’, ‘clergy’, and ‘minister’ remain
unqualified in our legislation, such over-strict interpretations, bearing little refer-
ence to the religious diversity of Australians today, may continue even though the
High Court has set down a more liberal interpretation of ‘religion’.18
Even though the Council’s administrative decision could be direct reli-
gious discrimination, that is still not covered by the NSW Anti-Discrimi-
nation Act. However, the Council’s decision could well constitute

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Majority-Minority Issues in Religious Freedom
unreasonable, and therefore unlawful, indirect racial discrimination, if
the Bangladeshi community were to make a complaint under the Act
concerning the Council’s original decision, as indeed they may already
have done.
The NSW Ethnic Affairs Commission and the NSW Anti-Discrimina-
tion Board have made representations to government on the issue. All
non-Christian communities would be affected by Justice Sheahan’s deci-
sion if it were allowed to stand as legal precedent.
According to the Islamic Council of NSW, the Canterbury and
Bankstown Councils have recently rejected or are likely to reject other
applications for building mosques and centres. Numbers of young Mus-
lims are rising in those areas and the councils concerned may have over-
looked the role of religious institutions in strengthening community ties
and educating the young to take their place in civil society.
To conclude, Australia is (or should be) a liberal democracy. There is
nothing like championing the cause of minority rights to make one realise
that they are mostly simply what the majority or the elite take for granted
belong to themselves or consider are universally available. Yet minorities
frequently have to struggle for their rights - not special rights, but ordi-
nary rights. In getting them, minorities are subjected to a degree of scru-
tiny which the majority or the elite do not turn upon themselves as if they
have to be convinced of the reasonableness rather than the rightness of
the need. ‘O! reason not the need; our basest beggars/ Are in the poorest
thing superfluous’, says Lear. Human rights ARE the bare necessities of
life.
Who takes up the causes of the powerless and minorities in democra-
cies with majoritarian tendencies? Human rights, religious organisations
and community groups, by mobilising the civil society and developing
and leading public opinion. Minority interests can become subsumed in
principles advocated by much more numerous groups which have elec-
toral clout. Thus, anti-racism is espoused by those who are not minority
members but who, in the name of the equality of all citizens, hold that
racism subverts equality. In this way minority interests can contribute to
developing pressure within a democracy, pressure which may lead to a
political decision by power-holders to further develop Australian policy
and law at every level for protecting human rights.19 Such a resolution
does not usually come quickly or easily, but in this society it should be
possible.

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Majority-Minority Issues in Religious Freedom
Zola apparently once said that the purpose of democracy was to make
people feel a little less different from each other. But democracies are not
truly democratic where minorities are discriminated against. Democra-
cies are only worthy of the name where the interests of all the people are
observed, not just those of the majority. The quality of government and
civil society and the protection of adequate human rights laws is what
makes a democracy worthy of the name.
There is no Quick Fix in human rights. Progress comes from patiently
knitting together one right with another, and rights with responsibilities.
We should take a strand from this tradition, another from that tradition
and weave the old with the new to make a fabric which holds us all
together in this world.
Notes
Yehudi Menuhin, interview with Margaret Throsby, ABC-FM radio, 27 October 1998.
Capotorti, F., “Study on the Rights of Persons Belonging to Ethnic, Religious and
Linguistic Minorities”, E/CN.4/Sub.2/384/Rev.1, New York: United Nations, 1979.
Kremmer, C., “Hope in exile”, Sydney Morning Herald, 28 October 1998.
Stevens, M., “Ceasefire deal defuses flashpoint in Kosovo”, The Australian, 14 October
1998.
Stevens, M., “Tactical genius destroys it all”, The Australian, 13 October 1998.
Strauss, J., “Cry for help in shattered village”, Sydney Morning Herald, 10 October
1998.
Perlez, J, “Milosevic channels Serb anger into fury at the West”, Sydney Morning
Herald, 14 October 1998.
Zubrzycki, J., “Besieged Christians seek succour from Hindu rulers”, The Australian, 8
October 1998.
Kremmer, C., “Why many pray for invasion by Iran”, Sydney Morning Herald, 26
September 1998.
10 See entries for Algeria, Egypt, Iran, Malaysia, Morocco, Pakistan and Sudan in Boyle,
K., and Sheen, J., (eds), Freedom of Religion and Belief: A World Report, London and
New York: Routledge, 1997.
11 O’Kane, M., “The invisible martyr”, SMH Good Weekend, 15 August 1998.
12 See entries for Europe in Boyle and Sheen, Freedom of Religion, supra note 10.
13 Fautré, W., press releases issued by Human Rights Without Frontiers, Belgium, 20-21
May 1998.
14 Uzzell, L., “Sebentsov offers milder than expected interpretation of new religion law”,
Keston News Service, 27 October 1997.
15 Maddox, M., “What is a “fabrication”? The political status of religious belief”, Austra-
lian Religious Studies Review, vol. 11, no.1, Autumn 1998, pp. 14-15.
16 Amor, A., “Visit to Australia”, report of the Special Rapporteur on Religious Intoler-
ance, Commission on Human Rights, 54th session: E/CN.4/1998/6/Add.1.

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
Majority-Minority Issues in Religious Freedom
17 Marsh, J., “Q: Why is this church not a church?” and editorial, “A mosque in Bankstown”,
Sydney Morning Herald, 29 October 1998.
18 Discrimination and Religious Conviction, NSW Anti-Discrimination Board, 1984, p.
167.
19 The Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission report, Article 18: Freedom of
Religion and Belief was issued just after this paper was completed and so has not been
referred to in the text. The report proposes a federal Religious Freedom Act for Austra-
lia and also a number of policy and legislative changes to ensure respect for minority
beliefs and practices.

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
An Islamic Legal Perspective on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights
An Islamic Legal Perspective on the
Universal Declaration of Human Rights
BY ASMI WOOD
Many eminent scholars have written about human rights in Islam.1
The purpose of this presentation is to \examine the provisions of the Uni-
versal Declaration of Human Rights from an Islamic law perspective. One
of the aims is to seek to identify the areas of agreement, i.e. to identify the
common ground between human rights under Islamic law and the Uni-
versal Declaration.
Two specific questions often arise for Muslims when consideraing the
Universal Declaration. First, does its claim to universality pose a problem
for acceptance of the Declaration among the proponents of Islamic law?
In addressing this point, the issue of a perceived western bias and the
accusation of the Declaration’s cultural relativism will be covered. The
second question is, do any of the provisions of the Declaration conflict
with the rules of Islamic law? Due to limitations of space, an article-by-
article comparison of the Declaration to rules and principles under Is-
lamic law is not possible; some general comparisons, however, will be
made.
The creation of obligation and some enforcement mechanisms within
Islamic law will also be examined. It is argued that enforcement mecha-
nisms under Islamic law, if utilised, will actually help improve human
rights as articulated in the Declaration. To be effective, however, it must
first be shown that these principles are binding on Muslims under Islamic
law.
In undertaking a comparison of this nature, it is important to be aware
of the problems associated with any attempt to compare apparently simi-
lar concepts between systems of government and ideologies whose bases

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
An Islamic Legal Perspective on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights
are fundamentally different. The concept of sovereignty can be taken as
an example. In a secular context, sovereignty may be vested in the “sover-
eign” or in the people. In Islam, however, sovereignty rests with the Cre-
ator (God) alone. In the context of this presentation, two major
consequences arise from this fundamental difference. First, secular legal
systems, including systems of government in Muslim majority states,
recognise sovereignty in the meaning of the UN Charter, which, in the
view of Dixon and McCorquodale, is “one of the fundamental concepts
of international law”.2 The Qur’an, the primary source of Islamic law, on
the other hand, states that the Muslim “nation” or ummah is one and
indivisible.3 Sovereignty rests with God alone, and the sole purpose of dif-
ferences in race, colour, language and so forth among people is to assist
“people identifying each other”,4 and is not a valid basis for the separa-
tion of people into self-governing sovereign states. Secondly, if sovereignty
is vested other than with God, then that sovereign may legitimately de-
cide what is permissible and what is not. However, under Islamic law, it
is God alone – through the Qur’an – who mandates what is permissible
and what is not.
It is also necessary to make clear what we mean by a “Muslim” system
of government. In countries where Muslims make up a numerical major-
ity, governments have attempted to form regimes that reflect and incor-
porate parts of the Islamic belief system of the people in the governance of
the state.5 More than fifty states have a Muslim majority and they display
a range of types of government, including ‘secular’ states such as Turkey
and Bangladesh, ‘Islamic Republics’ such as Mauritania, Pakistan and
Iran, Westminster-style democracies, military dictatorships, monarchies,
civilian dictatorships or the various cross-sections of the forms of govern-
ment as represented in the UN. Even in states that are attempting to move
towards the ‘Islamic State’ there are certain logistic problems of living in a
predominantly secular world. For example the fundamental contradic-
tion in the terms “Islamic Republic”6 at once shows the difficulties of es-
tablishing an Islamic regime in the contemporary world. The journey
towards a unified ummah, or even the desire to achieve this end, does not
at present appear to be universal.7
Bases of Islamic law
To Muslims, the Qur’an is the literal revealed word of God,8 and is the
primary source of Islamic law.9 Thus in evaluating the validity of the pro-

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
An Islamic Legal Perspective on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights
visions of the Declaration from an Islamic perspective, it is of fundamen-
tal importance to examine the Quranic injunctions on the subject.
In the view of Shafi’i, the second source of Islamic law, the sunna or
prophetic traditions, derives its legitimacy from the Qur’an.10 Shafi’i sub-
stantiates this assertion by reference to the Qur’an, citing the phrase “al
kitab wa’l hikma”.11 Al kitab (literally “the Book”) is a word often used to
describe the Qur’an. Al hikma (literally “the wisdom”) is, according to
Shafi’i, the wisdom given to humanity in the practice of the prophet.
Other sources of Islamic law include ijma’a or consensus,12 which can
refer to the consensus of the scholars or the consensus of the people;13
qi’yas or analogy; and, in Shi’i Islam, ra’y or reason.14
Two main types of obligation arise out of Islamic law. The first is an
obligation on a person as an individual (fard ayn), and the second is a
collective obligation on a community (fard kifaya). An example of the former
is the obligation to perform the daily prayers. Prayer is obligatory on ev-
ery man and woman, and failure do perform a prayer is a personal dero-
gation for which the individual is answerable to God. An example of the
latter type of obligation is the burying of the dead. If some members of the
community bury a dead person then the whole community is relieved of
the obligation; however, if no one does it, the whole community is an-
swerable to God for failure to perform a mandatory act.
In terms of Islamic Law, and therefore relevant provisions of the Dec-
laration, the call on Muslims to establish justice is an obligation-creating
command by God on every individual (fard ayn). This is seen in the fol-
lowing Quranic verse:
O ye who believe! Stand out firmly for justice as witnesses to God even as against
yourselves or your parents or your kin and whether it be (against) rich or poor: for
God can best protect both. Follow not the lusts (of your hearts) lest ye swerve and
if ye distort (justice) or decline to do justice verily God is well-acquainted with all
that ye do. (Qur’an 4: 135)
Similarly the following verse is a command to some in the Muslim com-
munity (fard kifaya) to protect monasteries, churches, synagogues, and
lastly mosques:

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
An Islamic Legal Perspective on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights
Did not God check one set of people by means of another they would surely have
pulled down monasteries, churches, synagogues and mosques in which the name
of God is commemorated in abundant measure. God will certainly aid those who
aid His (cause); for verily God is Full of Strength Exalted in Might (Able to enforce
His Will). (Qur’an 22:40)
If, however, such protection is not forthcoming, then the whole com-
munity is seen to have failed in fulfilling its obligation. In Islamic history
when the Muslim government has been unable to protect places of wor-
ship, homes and so forth, for example because it had lost control of terri-
tory, this has resulted in the government returning the taxes of the
non-Muslim citizens (only).
The Universal Declaration of Human Rights
The first of the questions raised at the beginning of this paper was
whether the universality of the Declaration poses a problem for its accep-
tance among the proponents of Islamic law.
Dr Mahathir, Prime Minister of Malaysia, has asserted that the Decla-
ration might need to be modified or amended to incorporate the values
that have sometimes been called ‘Asian values’. The existence of regional
human rights instruments such as the African Charter on Human and
Peoples’ Rights (1981), the European Convention for the Protection of
Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms (1950), and other regional
human rights agreements appears to give some credence to the view that
human rights are perceived differently by different cultures and races,
and that governments have concluded regional instruments to reflect this
belief.
If, however, human rights are the right of an individual on the basis of
being human, then a regional approach necessarily suggests that there is
an intrinsic difference between people from different regions. To be bind-
ing on Muslims, such a notion must be shown to be based in Islamic law.
The question then becomes: (a) what is the legal personality of an indi-
vidual under Islamic Law; and (b) does this vary from region to region.
The Islamic law view of an individual or a person’s legal personality is
clear. On the Day of Judgement, God will address each man and each
woman individually:

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
An Islamic Legal Perspective on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights
On no soul does God place a burden greater than it can bear. It gets every good
that it earns and it suffers every ill that it earns. (Qur’an 2:286)
An individual is judged, according to Islamic theology, inter alia on
their intent and the performance of their individual and collective duties.
Just judgement necessarily implies that all duties and responsibilities for
which one is answerable have been clearly and unambiguously articu-
lated. After all, the Qur’an alludes above all to a Just God. Thus any basic
differences in human beings on the basis of region, race, gender and so
forth will have to be clearly indicated by the Qur’an. If an African Swahili-
speaking woman were, for example, fundamentally different from a
Hokkein-speaking Chinese man, then their mandated duties (fard ayn)
should also be clearly and separately identified, in keeping with their re-
gional differences.
In reference to the various races and cultural differences within the
present human population the Qur’an states:
O humanity! We created you from a single (pair) of a male and a female and made
you into nations and tribes that ye may know each other, not that ye may despise
each other. Verily the most honoured of you in the sight of God is one who is the
most righteous of you. And God has full knowledge and is well acquainted (with
all things) (Qur’an 49: 13).
It therefore concedes no distinction on the basis of regional or racial
differences. Further, this verse was interpreted by the Prophet, who was
quoted by Ibn Kathir, who in turn was quoted by Bashier, as saying:
O People, surely your Lord is one, you all descend from Adam and Adam was
created of clay. No Arab is superior to a non-Arab nor a non-Arab superior to an
Arab and no white person is superior to a black person nor a black person supe-
rior to a white, surely the most noble of you are those who are the most God-
fearing.15
Thus there is no basis in Islamic law for the fundamental differentia-
tion between people on a regional, racial or geographic basis. There are
clearly differences within human populations, such as the rich and the
poor, the healthy and the infirm, and so forth. Islamic law caters for these
differences, but always on a universal basis. Thus there is no basis in Is-

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
An Islamic Legal Perspective on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights
lamic law for the stipulation of fundamental rights in other than univer-
sal terms.
Specifically, therefore, while there may well be differences between
the Islamic law and the Declaration on what actually constitutes a “right”,
the universality of these rights is not in question.
Thus the arguments based on cultural relativism as discussed in the
literature,16 and views opposing the Declaration on the basis of its univer-
sal nature, have no valid basis in Islamic law.
Opinio juris
It is now an opportune moment to examine state practice. An exami-
nation of the practice of two different Muslim majority countries, Saudi
Arabia and Iran, which both claim to be governed by Islamic law, high-
lights important principles from the perspectives of both international law
and Islam.
Saudi Arabia was represented at the Third Committee deliberations
on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights by Ambassador M.
Baroody. While other Muslim States - Syria and Turkey - were also present,
they could not have been reasonably expected to provide an Islamic per-
spective at the time – in the case of Syria because the nation was still going
through the de-colonisation process, and in the case of Turkey because it
was in the midst of an anti-Islamic phase of its history. Saudi Arabia, on
the other hand, had ample opportunity to present its perspective on the
draft declaration in the days leading up to 10 December 1948, when the
General Assembly voted unanimously to adopt it. Their role is particu-
larly important as Saudi Arabia was never formally colonised. In addi-
tion, Saudi Arabia has consistently and proudly proclaimed its
custodianship of the two holy mosques in Mecca and Medina and, by
virtue of this custodianship, has claimed to be committed to the defence
of the faith.17 Saudi Arabia claimed, as it does today, that Islamic law (the
sharia’a) was the law applicable in Saudi Arabia.
Saudi Arabia did not voice any fundamental opposition to the articles
of the draft UDHR. The travaux preparatoires indicates that Mr. Baroody
asked for no amendments to be made on the basis that the draft UDHR
had provisions conflicting with Islamic law;18 While Mr. Kayali, repre-
senting Syria, went further and in fact appeared to propose a strengthen-
ing of the provisions.19 It appears that there was a belief on the part of the
Saudi Arabian delegation that there was no conflict between the draft
declaration and Islamic law. Had the Saudi delegation believed that there

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
An Islamic Legal Perspective on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights
was a conflict, then, on the basis of its claim to defend Islam, it would
have voted against the adoption of the Declaration.
Further, the Saudi Gazette, which is seen to reflect the views of the
Saudi establishment, stated that the Declaration is “not so comprehensive
as rights granted under the Qur’an and in several respects is deficient in
ensuring justice and equality to all”.20 Thus in the Saudi Arabian view,
rights would be better protected under Islamic law; however it does not
question the validity of the provisions of the Declaration.
Nation-states sometimes radically change their forms of government.
In Iran, the monarchial form of government was replaced by a theocracy.
The new government declared its intention of establishing an Islamic form
of government. In doing so it radically reexamined its commitments, in-
cluding its international obligations.21
The Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties (1969) provides for the
denunciation or termination of treaties. Iran could have argued, for ex-
ample, that there was a “fundamental change in circumstances”.22 His-
tory attests to the fact that the new Iranian government did not present a
case for denouncing the Declaration.23 It must be seen to be of the view
that there were no fundamental conflicts between the Declaration and
Islamic law. In fact Iranian scholars generally take the Declaration to task
for its narrow and, in their view, extremely limited scope. Dr Thani goes
further and questions the efficacy, though not the legitimacy, of the Dec-
laration. He points out the deterioration of rights by examining the subse-
quent human rights record of some of the 56 nations present at the 1948
vote.24
Thus Iran viewed the Declaration as falling short of the rights granted
in the Qur’an. The record nevertheless shows that post-revolutionary Iran,
as a nation, did not denounce the Declaration and has even acknowl-
edged the positive points in it.25 Iran must therefore be seen as accepting
its validity. The Islamic law basis for accepting the terms of a treaty con-
cluded prior to the establishment of Islamic rule comes from the traditions
of the Prophet. He made it very clear that even treaties concluded by non-
Islamic predecessors remain binding on Muslims on the condition that
the treaties are just.26

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
An Islamic Legal Perspective on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights
Why is the Declaration perceived as a “Western” document?
The obvious answer to this question is because it was produced by the
UN at a time when the Western countries were the major powers. From
the Muslim viewpoint this domination has, if anything, increased in the
post-cold war era. However, this domination has not been because of the
Declaration.
The underlying reason why Muslims and others perceive the Declara-
tion as “Western”, however, is because of the simplistic notion that if it
shows the West as being the “guardians” of human rights, then it must
inherently be a Western tool. It is this false perception that the West is a
good human rights defender that must first be corrected, not the Declara-
tion itself. The human rights failings of the West, especially but not exclu-
sively on foreign soil, are many. For example, although article 9 of the
Declaration states “No one should be subject to arbitrary exile”, this is
exactly what the British did to the original inhabitants of Diego Garcia
who were exiled to Mauritius.27 Although article 4 states that “No one
should be held in slavery or servitude”, Australia thought otherwise for
the Gurindji (Aboriginal) people at Wave Hill Station.28
John Pilger states that “it’s the victims, not the oppressors who are
[painted as the] terrorists”. He explains how the West gets away with the
deception by quoting Falk: it is “the domination of fact by image in shap-
ing and shading the dissemination of information that controls the public
perception of reality.”29
The Provisions of the Universal Declaration
A comparison of provisions of Islamic law with the 30 articles of the
Universal Declaration shows that there is no basis in Islamic law to justify
the weakening of human rights provisions of the Declaration. In principle
agreement is quite clear.
There will always, however, be differences of opinion. What, for ex-
ample, constitutes “a cruel, inhuman or degrading punishment”?30 Is a
long stint in a tiny cell, with no privacy, at Long Bay Gaol for armed
robbery brought on by a gambling addiction, degrading? Is a spear in the
leg inhuman? Is the cutting off of a hand of the habitual criminal cruel?
Most people would agree in principle that there must be some form of
punishment and/or rehabilitation for crimes committed and proven by a
competent court. What this punishment actually constitutes is a moot

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
An Islamic Legal Perspective on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights
point and may be affected by one’s cultural background. It is, therefore,
in the implementation and the interpretation, rather than in matters of
principle, that differences come to the fore.
Enforcement
While the Universal Declaration is arguably binding on member states
under customary international law, and some of its provisions may even
possess the character of jus cogens, there is always a question of the lack of
suitable enforcement mechanisms. Many men, women and children have
been, and are continuing to be, at the receiving end of the abuses of hu-
man rights both in Muslim majority states and elsewhere. There have
been calls for a greater vigilance on the excesses committed by servants of
our nation-states. As technological innovations improve, it appears that it
is the persecutors and the oppressors of people, and not the enforcement
of rights for the oppressed, that receives the benefits of this progress.
On the other hand, God, in the Islamic view, mandates rights granted
under Islamic law, and the protection of these rights is thus binding on all
Muslims by virtue of their claim to be Muslims. The Qur’an makes it in-
cumbent on all those who believe in God to work towards a just outcome
for everyone:
O ye who believe! Stand out firmly for justice as witnesses to God even as against
yourselves or your parents or your kin and whether it be (against) rich or poor: for
God can best protect both. Follow not the lusts (of your hearts) lest ye swerve and
if ye distort (justice) or decline to do justice verily God is well-acquainted with all
that ye do. (Qur’an 4: 135)
There is a further Prophetic tradition:
God’s Apostle said, “Help a Muslim, whether they are the oppressor or the op-
pressed one.” People asked, “O God’s Apostle! We can help them if they are the
oppressed, but how should we help when they are the oppressor?” The Prophet
said, “By preventing them from oppressing others”.31
As you will recall, these injunctions are binding on all Muslim men
and Muslim women and the main enforcement mechanism in Islamic

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
An Islamic Legal Perspective on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights
law is the belief by Muslims that they are accountable to God on the Day
of Judgement:
One day every soul will come up struggling for itself and every soul will be recom-
pensed (fully) for all its actions and none will be unjustly dealt with. (Qur’an
16:111)
And the establishment of a just order is one of the actions mandated
on a Muslim by God. The great drawback, however, is that for those with
no conscience or an absence of a belief in the Day of Judgement, these
Qur’anic sanctions will have little effect. In this case, all the posturing by
Muslims is going to have little effect on elimination of abuses in human
rights.
Some Advice to Human Rights Activists
When you write to leaders of Muslim states to make complaints of
breaches in human rights, please keep this thought in mind. Use the pro-
visions of the Qur’an, their source of obligation, when reminding them of
their misdemeanours.32 They may not accept your version of the facts,
nor perhaps your perception of events, but it will make it that much more
difficult for them to dismiss you as “enemies of Islam” or by some other
similar platitudes. Remind them that the obligation on Muslims, both in-
dividually and collectively, does not stop at not oppressing, but goes fur-
ther in obligating them to actively oppose oppression and injustice.
Conclusion
There is no basis in Islamic law to claim the non-applicability of the
Declaration purely on the basis of its being universal. In fact, there is no
basis in Islamic law for the stipulation of fundamental rights in other than
in universal terms. An examination of the provisions of the Declaration in
the light of the sources of Islamic law shows that the rights it proclaims, in
general, appear to be in keeping with the teachings of the Islamic religion
and law.
The just implementation of Islamic law would strengthen the human
rights regime. However, accepting the provisions of the Declaration as an

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
An Islamic Legal Perspective on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights
interim measure should encounter little legitimate resistance on the basis
of Islamic law.
Islamic law is a potentially powerful force in enforcing the rights of
people. If the world’s 1000 million Muslim people refuse to oppress or
actively oppose the oppression of people - as they are obliged to do - than
it will become increasingly difficult for faceless governments to perpetrate
and conceal as much abuse as they do today. It is, after all, in the interests
of the Muslim peoples themselves to do so. John Pilger states that “in fact,
not only have Muslims been responsible for a tiny proportion of deaths
caused by terrorism, but in recent years it is they who have been the greatest
sufferers from state terrorism”.33
In conclusion, please ask the next person you meet who professes the
Islamic faith the following question. Ask them what they have done to
discharge the obligation placed on them by God to oppose oppression by
state powers; the oppression visited on their country-folk, their co-reli-
gionist, the speaker of their language or simply their sister or brother in
humanity.
Notes
Badawi, J., “An Islamic Classification of Human Rights”, Salam Magazine, Jan-Feb
1996; World Association of Muslim Youth, Human Rights in Islam, series no. 6, Insti-
tute of Islamic Information & Education, 1997; Al-Quaradawi, Y., Islam is a Force Against
Terrorism, Salam Magazine, Nov-Dec 1996; Ishaque, K., Fundamental Rights in the
Qur’an, The Muslim, Dec 1973-Jan 1974.
Dixon, M. and McCorquodale, R., Cases and Materials on International Law, Blackstone
Press, London, 1995, p. 279. Sovereignty is defined in article 2.1 of the UN Charter: “the
Organisation is based on the principle of the sovereign equality of all its Members.”
“Verily this Nation of yours is a single Nation and I am your Lord and Cherisher:
therefore serve Me (and no other)”: Qur’an 21:92. Asad, M., The Message of the Qur’an,
Dar Al Andalus Press, Gibraltar, 1980.
“O humanity! We created you from a single (pair) of a male and a female and made you
into nations and tribes that ye may know each other, not that ye may despise each
other”. Qur’an 49:1. Asad, The Message of the Qur’an.
The 1998 Constitutional Amendment Bill in Pakistan, which declared the Qur’an and
sunna as the supreme law of the country, is an example of specific legislation currently
being considered. In general one can point to the Islamisation programs undertaken in
Iran, the Sudan, Malaysia, Algeria and some other Muslim majority states.
Butterworths Concise Australian Legal Dictionary defines a republic as a form of gov-
ernment where the source of authority is the will of the people. This source of authority
may be compared with an Islamic form of government that draws its legal authority
from God alone.
Reference to a unified ummah is absent from the communiqués and resolutions issued
by groupings of Muslim states. For example, neither the Organisation of the Islamic
Conference (OIC) meeting of Heads of States nor the meeting of OIC Foreign Ministers

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
An Islamic Legal Perspective on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights
held in Tehran in December 1997 issued any communiqués or passed any resolutions
that referred to establishment of a single Muslim political entity, even in aspirational
terms.
“The revelation of this divine writ from on high is from God the Almighty the Wise”:
Qur’an 46:2. Asad, The Message of the Qur’an.
"If any do fail to judge by (the light of) what God hath revealed they are (no better than)
those who rebel”: Qur’an 5:47. Asad, The Message of the Qur’an.
10 Muhammad ibn-Idris al-Shafi’i, Kitab al Risala fi Usul al Fiqh (Treatise on the Roots of
Jurisprudence), Bulaaq Edition, vol. 6, p. 206.
11 For example Qur’an 2:129, 2:151, 2:231, 3:164, 4:113, 62:2.
12 Hourani, G. F., The Basis of Authority of Consesus in Sunnite Islam, Studia Islamica,
Dartmouth, 1996.
13 Wegner, J. R., “Islamic and Talmudic Jurisprudence: The Four Roots of Islamic Law and
their Talmudic Counterparts”, American Journal of Legal History, vol. XXVI, 1982, p.
55.
14 Reza, S. A. (trans.), Nahjul Balagha: Peak of Eloquence: Sermons, Letters and Sayings of
Imam Ali ibn Abu Talib, Tahrike Tarsile Qur’an Publication, New York, 1986, p. vii.
15 Bashier, Z., Sunshine at Madinah, Islamic Foundation, Leicester, 1990, p. 120.
16 Steiner, H. J.  and Alston, P., International Human Rights in Context, Clarendon Press,
Oxford, 1996, p. 192.
17 Shaheen, S. H., Unification of Saudi Arabia: A Historical Narrative, Ammar Press, 1993,
p. 25.
18 “Draft Universal Declaration of Human Rights (E/800): report of sub-committee 4”,
(A/C.3/400 and A/C.3/400/Rev 1), p. 844.
19 Ibid., pp. 842-860.
20 Ahsan., M. M., “Human Rights in Islam: Islamic Concept of Rights God-Centred,”
Saudi Gazette, 1 February 1993.
21 Human Rights in Islam, papers presented at the 5th Islamic thought conference, Tehran,
January 1987. Iran was represented by important personalities such as Ali Khamenei.
Though the Conference stressed the view that the West dominated the UN, it conceded
that the mechanism for this domination was the Security Council. The reality, how-
ever, is that the Security Council may have less actual power than is attributed to it.
This is highlighted in Bennis, P., Calling the Shots: How Washington Dominates Today’s
UN, Olive Branch Press, New York, 1996, p. xii: “The UN Security Council was still
meeting on 16 January, 1991, debating whether to authorise the bombing on Iraq, when
a reporter came into the chamber and said, “They are bombing Baghdad. It’s on CNN”.
22 Article 62, Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties, 1969.
23 Some provisions of the Declaration may arguably have the character of jus cogens,
provisions from which no derogation is permissible. A nation could, nevertheless,
place its views on record at the various forums at the United Nations.
24 Thani, J., “Some of the Shortcomings of the UDHR”, Human Rights in Islam, supra note
1.
25 “Conclusions and Recommendations of the 5th Islamic Thought Conference on Hu-
man Rights”, Human Rights in Islam, p. 9.

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
An Islamic Legal Perspective on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights
26 Bashier, Z., The Makkan Crucible, Islamic Foundation, London, 1991, p. 66 refers to the
“Alliance of the Virtuous”, a treaty concluded in pre-Islamic times to protect visitors to
Mecca. On being questioned about the treaty’s validity after the establishment of Is-
lamic rule the Prophet said, “I will never exchange that Treaty for the best material
gains and if someone appealed to it in Islam I will respond.”
27 Madeley, J., Diego Garcia: A Contrast to the Falklands, Minority Rights Group no. 54,
London, 1985.
28 Berndt, R. M., (ed.), The Concept of Protest within an Australian Aboriginal Context,
University of Western Australia Press, Nedlands, 1971.
29 Pilger, J., Hidden Agendas, Vintage, 1998, p. 37.
30 Article 5 of the “Universal Declaration of Human Rights”.
31 Narrated by Anas in the Sahih of Al Bukhari, vol. 3, Hadith no. 624.
32 God Says: “O My servants, I have forbidden oppression for Myself and have made it
forbidden amongst you, so do not oppress one another.” Hadith Qudsi, no. 17.
33 Pilger, J., Hidden Agendas, p. 34, supra note 29.

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
An Islamic Legal Perspective on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights
Attachment 1
O ye who believe! Stand out firmly for God as witnesses to fair
dealing and let not the hatred of others to you make you swerve to
wrong and depart from justice. Be just: that is next to Piety: and fear
God for God is well-acquainted with all that ye do. (Qur’an 5:8)
O ye who believe! Stand out firmly for justice as witnesses to God
even as against yourselves or your parents or your kin and whether
it be (against) rich or poor: for God can best protect both. Follow not
the lusts (of your hearts) lest ye swerve and if ye distort (justice) or
decline to do justice verily God is well-acquainted with all that ye
do. (Qur’an 4:135)
Art 1
All human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights.
They are endowed with reason and conscience and should act to-
wards one another in a spirit of brotherhood.
Islamic law
We have honoured the children of Adam; provided them with trans-
port on land and sea; given them for sustenance things good and
pure; and conferred on them special favours above a great part of
Our Creation. (Qur’an 17:70)
O ye who believe! Stand out firmly for justice as witnesses to God
even as against yourselves or your parents or your kin and whether
it be (against) rich or poor: for God can best protect both. Follow not
the lusts (of your hearts) lest ye swerve and if ye distort (justice) or
decline to do justice verily God is well-acquainted with all that ye
do. (Qur’an 4:135)
Art 2
[1]. Everyone is entitled to all the rights and freedoms set forth in
this Declaration, without distinction of any kind, such as race, colour,
sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social
origin, property, birth or other status.
[2]. Furthermore, no distinction shall be made on the basis of the
political, jurisdictional or international status of the country or ter-
ritory to which a person belongs, whether it be independent, trust,
non-self-governing or under any other limitation of sovereignty.
Islamic law
O People! We created you from a single (pair) of a male and a female
and made you into nations and tribes that ye may know each other
(not that ye may despise each other). Verily the most honoured of
you in the sight of God is (he who is) the most righteous of you. And
God has full knowledge and is well-acquainted (with all things).
(Qur’an 49:13)

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
An Islamic Legal Perspective on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights
Art 3
Everyone has the right to life, liberty and security of person.
Islamic law
If anyone slew a person unless it be for murder or in the execution of
justice it would be as if he slew the whole people: and if anyone
saved a life it would be as if he saved the life of the whole people.
Then although there came to them Our apostles with clear Signs yet
even after that many of them continued to commit excesses in the
land. (Qur’an 5:32)
Take not life which God hath made sacred except by way of justice
and law: thus doth He command you that ye may learn wisdom.
(Qur’an 6:151)
Nor take life which God has made sacred except for just cause. And
if anyone is slain wrongfully We have given their heir authority (to
demand Qisas or to forgive): but let him not exceed bounds in the
matter of taking life: for they are helped (by the Law). (Qur’an 17:33)
Art 4
No one shall be held in slavery or servitude; slavery and the slave
trade shall be prohibited in all their forms.
Islamic law
Agreed by Islamic law on the basis of ijma’a.
Art 5
No one shall be subjected to torture or to cruel, inhuman or degrad-
ing treatment or punishment.
Islamic law
O My servants, I have forbidden oppression for Myself and have
made it forbidden amongst you, so do not oppress one another.
(Hadith Qudsi No 17)
Art 6
Everyone has the right to recognition everywhere as a person before
the law.
Islamic law
God doth command you to render back your trusts to those to whom
they are due; and when ye judge between people that ye judge with
justice: verily how excellent is the teaching which He giveth you!
For God is He who heareth and seeth all things. (Qur’an 4:58)

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
An Islamic Legal Perspective on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights
Art 7
All are equal before the law and are entitled without any discrimi-
nation to equal protection of the law. All are entitled to equal protec-
tion against any discrimination in violation of this Declaration and
against any incitement to such discrimination.
Islamic law
Now then for that (reason) call (them to the Faith) and stand stead-
fast as thou art commanded nor follow thou their vain desires; but
say: “I believe in the Book which God has sent down; and I am
commanded to judge justly between you. God is Our Lord and your
Lord. For us (is the responsibility for) Our deeds and for you for
your deeds. There is no contention between you and us. God will
bring us together and to God is (Our) final goal. (Qur’an 42:15)
God commands justice the doing of good and liberality to kith and
kin and He forbids all shameful deeds and injustice and rebellion:
God instructs you that ye may receive admonition. (Qur’an 16:90)
Art 8
Everyone has the right to an effective remedy by the competent na-
tional tribunals for acts violating the fundamental rights granted
him by the constitution or by law.
Islamic law
God doth command you to render back your trusts to those to whom
they are due; and when ye judge between people that ye judge with
justice: verily how excellent is the teaching which He giveth you! for
God is He who heareth and seeth all things. (Qur’an 4:58)

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
An Islamic Legal Perspective on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights
Art 9
No one shall be subjected to arbitrary arrest, detention or exile.
Everyone is entitled in full equality to a fair and public hearing by
an independent and impartial tribunal, in the determination of his
rights and obligations and of any criminal charge against him.
Islamic law
After this it is ye the same people who slay among yourselves and
banish a party of you from their homes; assist (their enemies) against
them in guilt and rancor; and if they come to you as captives ye
ransom them though it was not lawful for you to banish them. Then
is it only a part of the Book that ye believe in and do ye reject the rest?
But what is the reward for those among you who behave like this
but disgrace in this life? and on the Day of Judgment they shall be
consigned to the most grievous penalty. For God is not unmindful
of what ye do. (Qur’an 2:5)
Malik related to me that Rabia ibn Abi Abd ar-Rahman said, “An
Iraqi man came before Umar ibn al-Khattab and said, ‘I have come
to you because of a matter which has no beginning and no end.’
Umar said, ‘What is it?’ The man said, ‘False testimony has ap-
peared in our land.’ Umar said, ‘Is that so?’ He said, ‘Yes.’ Umar
said, ‘By God! No one is detained in Islam without just witnesses.’“
Malik related to me that Umar ibn al-Khattab said, “The testimony
of someone known to bear a grudge or to be unreliable is not ac-
cepted.”
(Al Muwatta of Malik Hadith No 36.4)
Art 10
Art 11
[1]. Everyone charged with a penal offence has the right to be pre-
sumed innocent until proved guilty according to law in a public
trial at which he has had all the guarantees necessary for his de-
fence.
[2]. No one shall be held guilty of any penal offence on account of
any act or omission which did not constitute a penal offence, under
national or international law, at the time when it was committed.
Nor shall a heavier penalty be imposed than the one that was appli-
cable at the time the penal offence was committed.
Islamic law
And those who launch a charge against chaste women and pro-
duce not four witnesses (to support their allegation) flog them with
eighty stripes: and reject their evidence ever after: for such men are
wicked transgressors. (Qur’an 24:4)

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
An Islamic Legal Perspective on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights
Art 12
No one shall be subjected to arbitrary interference with his privacy,
family, home or correspondence, nor to attacks upon his honour
and reputation. Everyone has the right to the protection of the law
against such interference or attacks.
Islamic law
O ye who believe! Let not some men among you laugh at others: it
may be that the (latter) are better than the (former): Nor let some
women laugh at others: it may be that the (latter) are better than the
(former): nor defame nor be sarcastic to each other nor call each
other by (offensive) nicknames: Ill-seeming is a name connoting
wickedness (to be used of one) after he has believed: And those who
do not desist are (indeed) doing wrong. (Qur’an 49:11)
O ye who believe! Avoid suspicion as much (as possible): for suspi-
cion in some cases is a sin: and spy not on each other nor speak ill of
each other behind their backs. Would any of you like to eat the flesh
of his dead brother? Nay ye would abhor it...but fear God: for God is
Oft-Returning Most Merciful. (Qur’an 49:11-12)
O ye who believe! Enter not houses other than your own until ye
have asked permission and saluted those in them: that is best for
you in order that ye may heed (what is seemly). (Qur’an 24:27)
If ye find no one in the house enter not until permission is given to
you: if ye are asked to go back go back: that makes for greater purity
for yourselves: and God knows well all that ye do. (Qur’an 24:27-
28)
Art 13
[1]. Everyone has the right to freedom of movement and residence
within the borders of each State.
[2]. Everyone has the right to leave any country, including his own,
and to return to his country.
Islamic law
And when the Prayer is finished then may ye disperse through the
land and seek of the Bounty of God: and celebrate the Praises of God often
(and without stint): that ye may prosper.(Qur’an 62:10)
It is He Who has made the earth manageable for you so traverse ye
through its tracts and enjoy of the Sustenance which He furnishes:
but unto Him is the Resurrection. (Qur’an 67:15)

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
An Islamic Legal Perspective on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights
Art 14
[1]. Everyone has the right to seek and to enjoy in other countries
asylum from persecution.
[2]. This right may not be invoked in the case of prosecutions genu-
inely arising from non-political crimes or from acts contrary to the
purposes and principles of the United Nations.
Islamic law
The Treaty of Hudaibya & Exile of Meccans to Abyssinia, Exile of
Meccans to Medina.
Art 15
[1]. Everyone has the right to a nationality.
[2]. No one shall be arbitrarily deprived of his nationality nor de-
nied the right to change his nationality.
Islamic law
Everyone in an Islamic state has access to the law and a legal per-
sonality. [See general verses of the Qur’an on justice].
Art 16
[1]. Men and women of full age, without any limitation due to race,
nationality or religion, have the right to marry and to found a fam-
ily. They are entitled to equal rights as to marriage, during marriage
and at its dissolution.
[2]. Marriage shall be entered into only with free and full consent of
the intending spouses.
Islamic law
O ye who believe! ye are forbidden to inherit women against their will.
Nor should ye treat them with harshness that ye may take away
part of the dower ye have given them except where they have been
guilty of open lewdness; on the contrary live with them on a footing
of kindness and equity. If ye take a dislike to them it may be that ye
dislike a thing and God brings about through it a great deal of good.
(Qur’an 4:19)
O People! Reverence your Guardian-Lord Who created you from a
single person created of like nature his mate and from them twain
scattered (like seeds) countless men and women; reverence God
through Whom ye demand your mutual (rights) and (reverence) the
wombs (that bore you): for God ever watches over you. (Qur’an 4:1)

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
An Islamic Legal Perspective on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights
Art 17
[1]. Everyone has the right to own property alone as well as in asso-
ciation with others.
[2]. No one shall be arbitrarily deprived of his property.
Islamic law
To orphans restore their property (when they reach their age) nor
substitute (your) worthless things for (their) good ones; and devour
not their substance (by mixing it up) with your own. For this is
indeed a great sin. (Qur’an 4:2)
O ye who believe! Eat not up your property among yourselves in
vanities: but let there be amongst you traffic and trade by mutual
good-will: nor kill (or destroy) yourselves: for verily God hath been
to you Most Merciful. (Qur’an 4:29)
And do not eat up your property among yourselves for vanities nor
use it as bait for the judges with intent that ye may eat up wrong-
fully and knowingly a little of (other) people’s property. (Quran
2:188)
Art 18
Everyone has the right to freedom of thought, conscience and reli-
gion; this right includes freedom to change his religion or belief,
and freedom, either alone or in community with others and in pub-
lic or private, to manifest his religion or belief in teaching, practice,
worship and observance.
Islamic law
Those who believe (in the Qur’an) and those who follow the Jewish
(Scriptures) and the Christians and the Sabians and who believe in
God and the last day and work righteousness shall have their re-
ward with their Lord; on them shall be no fear nor shall they grieve.
(Qur’an 2:62 & 5:69)
Let there be no compulsion in religion. Truth stands out clear from
error; whoever rejects evil and believes in God hath grasped the
most trustworthy hand-hold that never breaks. And God heareth
and knoweth all things. (Qur’an 2:256)
We know best what they say; and thou art not one to ever awe them
by force. So admonish with the Qur’an such as fear My Warning!
(Qur’an 50:45)
If it had been the Lord’s Will they would all have believed all who
are on earth! Wilt thou then compel mankind against their will to
believe! (Qur’an 10:99)

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
An Islamic Legal Perspective on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights
Art 19
Everyone has the right to freedom of opinion and expression; this
right includes freedom to hold opinions without interference and to
seek, receive and impart information and ideas through any media
and regardless of frontiers.
Islamic law
Therefore do thou give admonition for thou art one to admonish.
Thou art not one to manage (men’s) affairs. (Qur’an 88:21-22)
The Qur’an alludes to this freedom in many places. For example the
Qur’an refers to the accusations unjustly made against the Proph-
ets including Mohammed [eg ‘they call you a madman (Qur’an 81:
26 (notes)), They say thou art possessed (Quran 65:51) etc]. These
accusations are rebutted but no attempt was made to silence the
enemies of the Prophet.
Art 20
[1]. Everyone has the right to freedom of peaceful assembly and
association.
[2]. No one may be compelled to belong to an association.
Islamic law
Revile not ye those whom they call upon besides God lest they out of
spite revile God in their ignorance. Thus have We made alluring to
each people its own doings. In the end will they return to their Lord
and We shall then tell them the truth of all that they did. (Qur’an
6:108)
Invite (all) to the way of thy Lord with wisdom and beautiful preach-
ing; and argue with them in ways that are best and most gracious:
for thy Lord knoweth best who have strayed from His Path and who
receive guidance. (Qur’an 16:125)

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
An Islamic Legal Perspective on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights
Art 21
[1]. Everyone has the right to take part in the government of his
country, directly or through freely chosen representatives.
[2]. Everyone has the right to equal access to public service in his
country.
[3]. The will of the people shall be the basis of the authority of gov-
ernment; this will shall be expressed in periodic and genuine elec-
tions which shall be by universal and equal suffrage and shall be
held by secret vote or by equivalent free voting procedures.
Islamic law
Those who hearken to their Lord and establish regular prayer; who
(conduct) their affairs by mutual Consultation; who spend out of
what We bestow on them for Sustenance. (Qur’an 42:38)
It is part of the Mercy of God that thou dost deal gently with them.
Wert thou severe or harsh-hearted they would have broken away
from about thee; so pass over (their faults) and ask for (God’s) for-
giveness for them; and consult them in affairs (of moment). Then when
thou hast taken a decision put thy trust in God. For God loves those
who put their trust (in Him). (Qur’an 3:159)

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
An Islamic Legal Perspective on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights
Art 22
Everyone, as a member of society, has the right to social security and
is entitled to realisation, through national effort and international
co-operation and in accordance with the organisation and resources
of each State, of the economic, social and cultural rights indispens-
able for his dignity and the free development of his personality.
Islamic law
And in their wealth and possessions (was remembered) the right of
the (needy) those who asked and those who (for some reason) were
prevented (from asking). (Qur’an 51:19)
It is not righteousness that ye turn your faces toward East or West
(in prayer); but it is righteousness to believe in God and the Last
Day and the Angels and the Book and the Messengers; to spend of
your substance out of love for Him for your kin for orphans for the
needy for the wayfarer for those who ask and for the ransom of
slaves; to be steadfast in prayer and practice regular charity; to fulfil
the contracts which ye have made; and to be firm and patient in
pain (or suffering) and adversity and throughout all periods of panic.
Such are the people of truth the God-fearing. (Qur’an 2:177)
(The Poor rate) for those in need who in God’s cause are restricted
(from travel) and cannot move about in the land seeking (for trade or
work). The ignorant one thinks because of their modesty that they
are free from want. Thou shalt know them by their (unfailing) mark:
they beg not importunately from all and sundry. And whatever of
good ye give be assured God knoweth it well. (Qur’an 2:273)
Art 23
[1]. Everyone has the right to work, to free choice of employment, to
just and favourable conditions of work and to protection against
unemployment.
[2]. Everyone, without any discrimination, has the right to equal
pay for equal work.
[3]. Everyone who works has the right to just and favourable remu-
neration ensuring for himself and his family an existence worthy of
human dignity, and supplemented, if necessary, by other means of
social protection.
[4]. Everyone has the right to form and to join trade unions for the
protection of his interests.
Islamic law
And every person shall be fully compensated for what they did.
And God knows full well what they do. (Qur’an 39:70)

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
An Islamic Legal Perspective on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights
Art 24
Everyone has the right to rest and leisure, including reasonable
limitation of working hours and periodic holidays with pay.
Islamic law
God’s Messenger (peace be upon him) said, “Give the workers their
wages before the sweat on the brow is dry.” Ibn Majah transmitted it.
(Al Tirmizi Hadith 2987)
Art 25
[1]. Everyone has the right to a standard of living adequate for the
health and well-being of himself and of his family, including food,
clothing, housing and medical care and necessary social services,
and the right to security in the event of unemployment, sickness,
disability, widowhood, old age or other lack of livelihood in cir-
cumstances beyond his control.
[2]. Motherhood and childhood are entitled to special care and as-
sistance. All children, whether born in or out of wedlock, shall en-
joy the same social protection.
Islamic law
Alms are for the poor and the needy and those employed to admin-
ister the (funds); for those whose hearts have been (recently) recon-
ciled (to truth); for those in bondage and in debt; in the cause of God;
and for the wayfarer: (thus is it) ordained by God and God is full of
knowledge and wisdom. (Qur’an 9:60)
O People! Reverence your Guardian-Lord Who created you from a
single person created of like nature his mate and from them twain
scattered (like seeds) countless men and women; reverence God
through Whom ye demand your mutual (rights) and (reverence) the
wombs (that bore you): for God ever watches over you. (Qur’an 4:1)
Thy Lord hath decreed that ye worship none but Him and that ye be
kind to parents. Whether one or both of them attain old age in thy life
say not to them a word of contempt nor repel them but address them
in terms of honour. And out of kindness lower to them the wing of
humility and say: “My Lord! bestow on them Thy Mercy even as they
cherished me in childhood.” (Qur’an 17:23-24)
We have enjoined on man Kindness to his parents: in pain did his
mother bear him and in pain did she give him birth. The carrying of
the (child) to his weaning is (a period of) thirty months. (Qur’an
46:15)

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
An Islamic Legal Perspective on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights
Art 26
[1]. Everyone has the right to education. Education shall be free, at
least in the elementary and fundamental stages. Elementary educa-
tion shall be compulsory. Technical and professional education shall
be made generally available and higher education shall be equally
accessible to all on the basis of merit.
[2]. Education shall be directed to the full development of the hu-
man personality and to the strengthening of respect for human rights
and fundamental freedoms. It shall promote understanding, toler-
ance and friendship among all nations, racial or religious groups,
and shall further the activities of the United Nations for the mainte-
nance of peace.
[3]. Parents have a prior right to choose the kind of education that
shall be given to their children.
Islamic law
High above all is God, the King, the Truth! Be not in haste before its
revelation to thee is completed but say, “O my Lord! advance me in
knowledge.” (Qur’an 20:114)
Proclaim! (or Read!) in the name of thy Lord and Cherisher Who
created
Created mankind out of a (mere) clot of congealed blood
Proclaim! And thy Lord is Most Bountiful
He Who taught (the use of) the Pen
Taught mankind that which it knew not.
Nay but mankind doth transgress all bounds
In that they looketh upon themselves as self-sufficient.
Verily to thy Lord is the return (of all). (Qur’an 96:1-8)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he heard that Luqman al-Hakim
made his will and counselled his child, saying, “Sit with the learned
and keep close to them. God gives life to the hearts with the light of
wisdom as God gives life to the dead earth with the abundant rain
of the sky. (Al Muwatta 59-1])

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
An Islamic Legal Perspective on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights
Art 26
Kathir ibn Qays said: I was sitting with AbudDarda’ in the mosque
of Damascus. A man came to him and said: AbudDarda, I have
come to you from the town of the Apostle of God (peace be upon
him) for a tradition that I have heard you relate from the Apostle of
God (peace be upon him). I have come for no other purpose. He said:
I heard the Apostle of God (peace be upon him) say: If anyone trav-
els on a road in search of knowledge, God will cause them to travel
on one of the roads of Paradise. The angels will lower their wings in
their great pleasure with one who seeks knowledge, the inhabitants
of the heavens and the Earth and the fish in the deep waters ask
forgiveness for the learned. The superiority of the learned over the
devout is like that of the moon, on the night when it is full, over the
rest of the stars. The learned are the heirs of the Prophets, and the
Prophets leave neither dinar nor dirham, leaving only knowledge,
and who takes it takes an abundant portion. (Sunna of Abu Dawd
No 3634)
Several Verses in the Qur’an exhort People to Read, Ponder, think
and Seek knowledge.
Art 27
[1]. Everyone has the right freely to participate in the cultural life of
the community, to enjoy the arts and to share in scientific advance-
ment and its benefits.
[2]. Everyone has the right to the protection of the moral and mate-
rial interests resulting from any scientific, literary or artistic pro-
duction of which he is the author.
Islamic law
O humanity! We created you from a single (pair) of a male and a
female and made you into nations and tribes that ye may know each
other, not that ye may despise each other. Verily the most honoured
of you in the sight of God is one who is the most righteous of you.
And God has full knowledge and is well-acquainted (with all
things). (Qur’an 49:13
Art 28
Everyone is entitled to a social and international order in which the
rights and freedoms set forth in this Declaration can be fully realised.
Islamic law
See the body of the text for a discussion on the ummah.

H U M A N  R I G H T S ,  F A I T H  A N D  C U L T U R E
An Islamic Legal Perspective on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights
Art 29
[1]. Everyone has duties to the community in which alone the free
and full development of his personality is possible.
[2]. In the exercise of his rights and freedoms, everyone shall be
subject only to such limitations as are determined by law solely for
the purpose of securing due recognition and respect for the rights
and freedoms of others and of meeting the just requirements of mo-
rality, public order and the general welfare in a democratic society.
[3]. These rights and freedoms may in no case be exercised contrary
to the purposes and principles of the United Nations.
Islamic law
See the body of the text for a discussion on fard ayn and fard kyfiyah.
Art 30
Nothing in this Declaration may be interpreted as implying for any
State, group or person any right to engage in any activity or to per-
form any act aimed at the destruction of any of the rights and free-
doms set forth herein.
Islamic law
See the body of the text for a discussion on the Ummah.