THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1987-10-11

To all National Spiritual Assemblies

dear b ahá’í f riends,

we enclose a copy of a new compilation entitled Crisis and Victory, which

was prepared by the research department at our instruction.38-1 The pur-

pose of this compilation is to orient the believers to the processes, within

and without the faith, that will accompany its progressive emergence on

the world stage.

T ribulations attend and fuel the unfoldment of the faith of bahá’u’lláh.

in describing the sweep of bahá’í history, the beloved guardian identified a

pattern of growth which is characterized by “a series of pulsations, of alter-

nating crises and triumphs, leading it [the faith] ever nearer to its divinely

appointed destiny.”38-2

As the stature of the cause of god increases in the eyes of the world, the

process of its emergence into the limelight of public attention, resulting, in

large part, from the indescribable sacrifices of the beloved friends in iran,

is accelerated, and the faith, gradually and inevitably, is projected into the

next stage of its divinely propelled development.

The shelter of its relatively imperceptible expansion enabled the founda-

tions of the faith to be established and consolidated, and the community to

attain a level of stability. Now, with the entrance of the faith on the world

scene, we call upon the believers everywhere not to allow themselves, even

for one moment, to be perturbed by any increase in opposition to the cause.

rather let them deepen their understanding of the creative interaction be-tween crisis and victory in the evolution of the faith, and increase their aware-

ness of the power inherent in the cause to surmount all obstacles that threaten

its progress. Armed with this knowledge, let them seize the opportunities that arise and embrace the god-given challenges, confident in the invincibility of

the faith and the steady onward march of its institutions.

with loving b ahá’í greetings,

38-1. The compilation is too lengthy to include here; see cc 1:131–85.

38-2. gpb, p. 409.38.1

38.2

38.3

38.4

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

7239

Arrest of Six Bahá’ís in Iran

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]