THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

2000-10-29

To the b ahá’ís of the w orld

dear b ahá’í f riends,

The day of the covenant, 26 November 2000, marks the commence-

ment of a new five-year term of service for members of the continental

boards of counselors for the protection and propagation of the faith. The

number of these high-ranking officers of the cause remains at eighty-one.

we are happy to announce the names of the counselors now appointed.

AFRICA (19 Counselors): beth Allen, george Allen, beatrice Asare,

Asfaw Tessema, Niaz bushrui, mehraz ehsani (T rustee of the con-

tinental fund), clément-Thyrrel feizouré, kobina fynn, ibrahim 343.5

343.6

344.1

344.1a

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

752galadima, kamaye moussa, eddy lutchmaya, enos makhele, maina

mkandawire, rachel Ndegwa, mu¥ammad otmani, Ahmad parsa,

garth p ollock, Antoinette z iehi, Tiati à z ock.

THE AMERICAS (19 Counselors): eugene Andrews, eloy Anello,

Stephen birkland, gustavo correa, irma Nelly de dooki, Abdu’l-m is-

sagh ghadirian, Angélica huerta, Antônio gabriel marques, hervé

masrour, catherine monajjem, rebequa murphy, carmen elisa de

Sadeghian, Arturo Serrano, crystal Shoaie, david Smith, marilyn

Smith, leticia de Solano, rodrigo Tomás (T rustee of the continental

fund), d orothy whyte.

ASIA (19 Counselors): fadel Ardakani, baatar uransaikhan, Nida-

vanur baskaran, irene chung, jabbar eidelkhani, bijan farid, elena

grouzkova, david huang (T rustee of the continental fund), hu-

maida jumalon, lee lee ludher, delafruz Nassimova, lori Noguchi,

jaya gopan ramasamy, lateef rashid, foad reyhani, payam Shoghi,

zena Sorabjee, g eorge Soraya, r osalie T ran.

AUSTRALASIA (11 Counselors): beatrice benson, donald blanks,

david chittleborough (T rustee of the continental fund), jalal mills,

Sírús Naráqí, manijeh reyhani, heather Simpson, henry Tamashiro,

erama u gaia, r obin white, f ereidoun y azdani.

EUROPE (13 Counselors): fevziye baki, Alla borets, uta von both,

firouzeh moghbel, paul Öjermark, patrick o’m ara (T rustee of the

continental fund), Shahriar razavi, İlhan Sezgin, Nosrat Tirandaz,

Nicola Towfigh, larissa Tsutskova, Sohrab y oussefian, i vo zerbes.

The following believers, whose contributions to the advancement of the

faith have earned our profound appreciation, are being relieved of the du-

ties of membership on the boards of counselors:

borhanoddin Afshin, ben Ayala, hooshidar balazadeh, patricia coles,

parvine djoneydi, wilma ellis, Tod ewing, Shidan fat’he-Aazam,

linda gershuny, louis hénuzet, hizzaya hissani, Nobuko iwakura,

Abbas katirai, zekrullah kazemi, kim myungjung, jacqueline left

hand bull, betra majmeto, peter mclaren, Alejandra miller, perin 344.1b

344.1c

344.1d

344.1e

344.2

344.2a

2000–2001  •  T h e  T W e lv e  m o n Th  Pl a n

75olyai, Nabil perdu, maija pihlainen, ruth pringle, polin rafat, dan-

iel ramoroesi, Shapour rassekh, cyrus rohani, vicente Samaniego,

isabel de Sánchez, bruce Saunders, errol Sealy, edith Senoga, farhad

Shayani, Tiberiu v ajda, lally w arren, w ingi m abuku.

we are confident that these distinguished friends will continue to display

the utmost valor and self-sacrifice in the pathway of service to bahá’u’lláh.

our fervent prayers at the h oly Threshold will surround each of them.

The accomplishments of the four year plan, now being consolidated,

have established a pace of growth that is certain to gain added momentum.

The five year plan, to be launched at ri¤ván, holds immense promise. in

the discharge of their responsibilities for the propagation and protection of

the faith, the counselors and the Auxiliary board members will play a vital

role, in collaboration with Spiritual Assemblies and regional councils, in

ensuring that the design and implementation of programs of action, from the national to the local level, respond to the exigencies of the hour.

The counselors in all continents are being called to the world center to

take part in deliberations on the general features of the five year plan from

9 to 13 january 2001. They will be joined by the Auxiliary board members

who will have gathered from throughout the world to participate in events marking the occupation by the international Teaching center of its per-

manent seat on mount carmel. The coming together of the counselors

and Auxiliary board members in the holy land, for the first time, on so

propitious an occasion, will give further impetus to the activity that they

will be required to sustain.

it is our earnest prayer at the Sacred Threshold that these eighty-one de-

voted souls will be assisted by grace from on high as they bend their energies

to foster the systematic growth of the community worldwide.

with loving b ahá’í greetings,

344.4

344.5

344.6

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

75345

Revision of Codification of the Law of Ḥuqúqu’lláh

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]