THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1987-06-19

dear b ahá’í f riends,

1987 and has instructed us to send you the following reply.

The house of justice was very pleased to know how fruitful you have

found the consultation at your recent National conventions to have been.

The convention is, of course, free to decide that every suggestion made

by a delegate be recorded and conveyed to the National Spiritual Assembly. beyond this, the National Assembly members who are present are always

free to note down for their own interest and further discussion any points that are made. it is by no means necessary to have a formal consultation and

vote on every recommendation. it is important to remember, however, that

the National convention is not a conference, it is a consultative institution

of the faith; therefore, consultation and formal voting on recommendations

should not be ruled out altogether. There may, for example, be disagree-ment among the delegates on certain proposals put forward, and it would be fruitful for the matter to be discussed and voted upon so that the National Spiritual Assembly will know the recommendation of the convention as a

whole on those issues.

detailed aspects of convention procedure which are not defined in the

National bahá’í constitution, being secondary in nature, are within the

discretion of each National Spiritual Assembly to decide. The house of

justice feels that it is generally advisable not to be rigid and to leave it to the

discretion of the convention officers, or the convention itself, to decide

which recommendations need to be discussed and voted upon and which

may be recorded without more ado. A distinction should be made in the 29.9

30.1

30.2

30.3

30.4

1986–1992  •  T h e  S i x  Y e a r  P l a n

59record between recommendations of the entire convention and those which

are merely the proposals of individual delegates.

with loving b ahá’í greetings,

Department  of tHe secretariat

31

The Bahá’í Role in Promoting World Peace

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]