THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1990-04-20

To all National Spiritual Assemblies

dear b ahá’í f riends,

T wenty-five years ago, when the international deputization fund was

friends were invited to contribute to it in support of pioneering and travel-ing teaching projects throughout the world, these illuminating words of

bahá’u’lláh were quoted:

center your energies in the propagation of the faith of god. whoso is

worthy of so high a calling, let him arise and promote it. whoso is un-

able, it is his duty to appoint him who will, in his stead, proclaim this

revelation, whose power hath caused the foundations of the mighti-88.9

88.10

89.1

89.1a

1986–1992  •  T h e  S i x  Y e a r  P l a n

159est structures to quake, every mountain to be crushed into dust, and

every soul to be dumbfounded. . . .89-1

it is clear from this injunction of bahá’u’lláh’s that the primary responsibil-

ity to promote the propagation of the faith of god rests on the individual

believer. it is, likewise, his responsibility, if he is unable to discharge this

duty, to appoint one who will, in his stead, proclaim this r evelation.

many of the friends have, ever since these words were revealed by

bahá’u’lláh, succeeded in responding to the call. A great number have not

found it easy to select suitable and qualified deputies willing to undertake such a task for them.

we feel that the time has come, as the bahá’í world is rapidly moving

towards the end of the Six year plan, for National Spiritual Assemblies to

take an active part in facilitating the selection and appointment of suitable pioneers and traveling teachers, by providing a link between those wishing to deputize, and those qualified and ready to be deputized. The manner in

which this objective can be achieved is left to the discretion of each National

Spiritual Assembly, which should consider the conditions of its national community, and determine, preferably in consultation with the counselors

or their representatives, the wisest and most effective course of action to

follow. it is hoped that whatever procedures are adopted, they will assist the

friends to fulfill their responsibilities, to the extent possible, in the manner

prescribed by b ahá’u’lláh.

The way is, of course, always open for the friends to use the international

deputization fund as the vehicle of their compliance with bahá’u’lláh’s in-

junction. Thus, those who are unable, or find it difficult, to identify suitable candidates to be designated as their deputies are able to send their contribu-

tions to the international deputization fund on a regular basis in order to

fulfill their sacred obligation for the promotion of the teaching work.

responsibility for the administration of this fund has been assigned to

the international Teaching center and, in its turn, the Teaching center

makes specific allocations through the continental pioneer committees,

whose memberships have recently been renewed and made known to the

friends. A few months ago short-term pioneer projects were announced and

89-1. gwb, no. 96.3.89.2

89.3

89.4

89.5

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

160the concept of short-term pioneers has been received with great excitement

by the friends everywhere. whenever supplementary funds are needed to as-

sist in the prosecution of these projects, or to finance long-term pioneering and traveling teaching projects, application could be made to the interna-

tional deputization fund. National Spiritual Assemblies, therefore, could

work out cost estimates of projects needing financial support, and submit

their requests for budget assistance to the continental pioneer committees.

The occasion demands that the followers of bahá’u’lláh should whole-

heartedly, with fresh enthusiasm and renewed dedication, step into this

arena of service. it is our hope and prayer that through such universal

participation in this mighty endeavor, those whose circumstances do not enable them at this time to fulfill the beloved’s call, as clearly enunciated

in his celebrated passage quoted above, will discharge their obligation by

contributing to the international deputization fund, thus providing the

means whereby others may propel the remaining stages of the Six year plan

to a triumphant conclusion.

with loving b ahá’í greetings,

90

Riḍván Message 1990

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]