in the days of noah
As it was
By Don Dainty
So Unfolds the Surprising Fulfilment
of Biblical Foresights of the ‘Return’
“But as the days of Noe were, so shall also
the coming of the Son of man be.” (Matthew 24:37-39)

AS IT WAS IN THE DAYS OF NOAH

ISBN 978-0-9811591-0-2
© 2009 E. Don Dainty, All rights reserved.
This essay has been reviewed and approved by the Literature Review
Committee of the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of
Canada, 2008; and many thanks are due to Linda O’Neil for the editing
process, and to Del Carry for the cover art and book design.
Unless otherwise indicated, biblical quotations are taken from the
King James Bible.

So Unfolds the Surprising Fulfilment
of Biblical Foresights of the ‘Return’
By Don Dainty
“But as the days of Noe were, so shall also
the coming of the Son of man be.” (Matthew 24:37-39)
in the days of noah
As it was

Preface		   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    vii
I
Interpreting the Mysteries of Biblical Scripture    .    .    .    .    .    .    1
Ii
Prelude to the ‘Glory’    .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  4
Iii
Biblical Foresights Become Both Bahá’í History & Future   .   .  7

Figure 1  –  The Shrine of His Holiness The Báb   .   .   .   .   .   10

Figure 2  –  Map of The Mt. Carmel Vicinity    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  13

Figure 3  –  Carmel, Sharon, Haifa and Akka    .    .    .    .    .    .    . 14

Figure 4  –  Buildings of The ‘Arc’ on Carmel    .   .   .   .   .   .   15

Iv
The Blueprint of The ‘Kingdom’ Biblically Foreseen   .    .    .    . 16
V
The Flood, Archeology and Genesis    .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   17
Vi
‘	Eating, Drinking and Marrying’   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   18

Figure 5 – Time Scales (see folded insert at the back of the book)
Vii
‘	The Days of Man Shall Be 120 Years’   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   20
Viii	 ‘	For Yet Seven Days’   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   25
Ix
Rain For ‘Forty Days and Nights’   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   28
X
‘	Decreed’ Vs ‘Conditional’ Events   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    . 31
Xi
The Waters Prevail and Abate   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   33
Xii
History & Traditions Support Such Timing    .   .   .   .   .   .   .   34

Figure 6 – The Rise and Fall of Civilizations  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   37
Xiii	 	Two Preludes to The ‘Most Great Peace’   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    . 38
Xiv	 ‘	Twelve Fruits’ For The ‘Healing of Nations’  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   38
Xv 	 ‘	Thrones Are Cast Down’ and ‘Kings Lose Life’   .    .    .    .    .    . 44
Xvi	 ‘	I Will Establish My Covenant’   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  51
Xvii	 ‘	All Things Made New’  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   52
Xviii		Reprise and Concluding Comments   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    . 54
Appendix I -	 	Abbreviated Biblical Text


From Genesis Describing


The Flood of Noah   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   59
Appendix Ii -	‘	Twelve Fruits From


The Tree of Life’   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   61
References and Notes    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    . 63
table of contents

vii
The writer’s personal interest in matters biblical began at an early
age in the 1930s. My family then lived in the southern Forest Hill
Village section of Toronto. It was a blessed location, as just up
the street was the beautiful Anglican Grace Church On-the-Hill.
There, encouraged by my parents, I so enjoyed being a choirboy for
five years until my voice broke. I warmly remember singing in the
chorus of the truly uplifting ‘MESSIAH’, written by Handel in the
1700s. It incorporated a biblical text written by the prophet Isaiah
around the year 800 BC, revealing a most weighty and sublime
foresight which stated: “And the Glory, the Glory of the Lord, shall
be revealed, and all flesh shall see it together” (Isaiah 40:5). What a
very succinct and inclusive statement of an exalted but distant fu-
ture to be ushered in by that ‘Glory of the Lord’. Not too much
later, not coincidentally in my view, I discovered that this phrase is
the very meaning of the Name of the Founder of the Bahá’í Faith
(Bahá’u’lláh) Whose mission includes the unification of all the
world’s peoples! After knowing something about the Bahá’í Faith
from Bahá’í neighbours for many years, I investigated it seriously
during my university years and embraced it as an adult in 1954.

Previously, from my early teens I was a member of the Anglican
Young Peoples Association (AYPA) ending at the age 17. During
that time, biblical studies were included in our activities, and I still
have my Bible from that time. It’s now rather badly worn because
of the years of use, particularly after retirement in 1991. Then I had
more time to savour the entrancing details of fulfilment that both
Bahá’u’lláh and the Báb (the ‘Forerunner’ of Bahá’u’lláh) represent
with respect to the Judaeo-Christian foresights in the Bible. At this
time of writing (2008), I have written some 66 documents showing
this astonishing and most absorbing relationship.
As a scientist, I have concluded that when numerous predictions
are made and then fulfilled, even thousands of years later, abstruse
theory becomes scientific fact — what an amazing story, laden with
weighty conclusions requiring beliefs including the very existence
of the Creator! For Whom else other than God can indeed know
the future, and graciously tell us about it, so that we can discern His
reality on fulfilment of those promises even millennia later? Such a
matter seems, at the very least, to be worthy of everyone’s interest!
preface

so shall the return be
viii
The first inspiration for this flood-associated essay was provided
by a well-known Bahá’í leader called a ‘Hand of the Cause’, who
expressed this concept to a close friend at a Bahá’í Summer School
in the 1960s. Specifically, that concept is that the Bahá’í Faith devel-
ops as anticipated by the story of Noah’s flood found in the Book of
Genesis and stated as follows: “But as the days of Noe were, so shall
also the coming of the Son of man be!” (Matthew 24:37). In 1965, I be-
came a member of the Bahá’í National Pioneer Committee, an arm of
the National Assembly of Canada. When that Committee consulted
on a subject on which to make a presentation on pioneering to the
October 1971 Canadian Regional Bahá’í Conventions, the idea of
relating the ‘Flood’ to the plans of the Canadian Bahá’í Community
was chosen. As a result of a subsequent animated discussion and
study among several friends, my wife Diana and I included, the light
truly dawned — the Bahá’í Faith was indeed unfolding just as the
Bible described it would! Further examination of the flood story in
the Qur’an added other important details. All those involved were
astonished that our Bahá’í activities had been anticipated some 6,000
years ago! A two-page first iteration was prepared, approved by
the National Assembly, and sent to the Regional Conventions for
presentation.
Subsequent to these events, I became aware of additional flood anal-
ogy references from the Bahá’í Writings, particularly from those
of Bahá’u’lláh. Thus began a systematic assembly of such Writings
and the formulation of this essay evolving through several itera-
tions over a period of several decades. Finally, the sixth iteration
was completed, including two important and relevant matters for-
warded to the writer by noted Bahá’í author Robert Riggs. These
inclusions were two biblical foresights, one found in Daniel 7:9-14,
and the other in Revelation 22:1-2. For these suggestions I remain
most grateful.
Don Dainty, Ottawa, Ontario, October 2008.

i -	interpreting the mysteries

of biblical scripture
This essay deals with the astonishing fulfilment of biblical scripture
about which most people are unfortunately presently unaware. One
reason for this is that the ancient scriptures are frequently expressed
in mysterious language and images, so that the meanings associ-
ated with this fulfilment are often ‘clouded’. For example, biblical
scholars G. J. Spurrell and C.C.H. Wright have observed that in the
book of Revelation, while some chapters are comparatively easy to
understand, “... the intermediate chapters are full of dark visions,
the exact meaning of which we are not likely to discover until the
Lord comes...” (1)
The Bible itself infers that ‘mysteries’ do indeed exist. St. Luke states,
for example, that:
... Unto you it is given to know the mysteries of the kingdom of
God: but to others in parables; that seeing they might not see, and
hearing they might not understand. (Luke 8:10)
The Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, founder of the Bahá’í Faith, Who is
introduced in Part III, both confirm and amplify the expression of
spiritual truth by the Prophets of God as being obscured by ‘veils
and clouds’. Bahá’u’lláh provides the reason for doing so:
... He [Jesus], Who in the realms of glory gave utterance to these
words [the Book of Revelation], wished to describe the signs of the
One Who would appear by means of symbol and allusion lest the
worldly should perceive His meaning.(2) And, Know verily that
the purpose underlying all these symbolic terms and abstruse al-
lusions, which emanate from the Revealers of God’s holy Cause,
hath been to test and prove the peoples of the world; that thereby
the earth of the pure and illuminated hearts may be known from
the perishable and barren soil. From time immemorial such hath
been the way of God amidst His creatures, and to this testify the
records of the sacred books. (3)
as it was in the days of noah

so shall the return be
It has long been expected that future revelations of the Holy Spirit
will provide needed clarification of the past teachings as well as those
new principles required for human advancement from infancy to
maturity in the ‘Kingdom’. For, as St. Paul said:
... we know in part, and we prophesy in part. But when that which
is perfect is come, then that which is in part shall be done away.
When I was a child I spake as a child, I understood as a child, I
thought as a child: but when I became a man I put away childish
things. For now we see through a glass darkly; but then face to face:
now I know in part; but then shall I know even as also I am known.
(I Corinthians 13:9-12)
Both the Judaic and Christian Testaments foresee the following in-
triguing outcome resulting from and clarified by the ‘Coming of
the two Promised Ones’ (Bahá’u’lláh as the ‘return of Christ’, and
the Báb as the second ‘return of Elijah’), as elaborated in Section III.
The Old Testament reveals:
But thou, O Daniel, shut up the words, and seal the book, even to
the time of the end... Go thy way Daniel: for the words are closed
up and sealed until the time of the end. (Daniel 12:4)
In the New Testament, the Book of Revelation of St. John the Divine
states an interesting related fact:
And one of the elders saith unto me, Weep not: Behold the Lion of
the tribe of Judah, the Root of David, hath prevailed to open the
book, and to loose the seven seals thereof. (Revelation 5:5)
Thus it’s clear that we are to expect authorized, clarifying inter-
pretations of past scripture with the promised ‘Coming’ of those
two Promised Ones, as stated in the fifth chapter of Revelation, i.e.,
the ‘slain Lamb’, the Báb, Forerunner of Bahá’u’lláh, and ‘He Who
sits on the Throne’, Bahá’u’lláh Himself! Regarding ‘removing the
seals’, Bahá’u’lláh proclaims:
Say: This [the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh] is the sealed and mystic scroll, the
repository of God’s irrevocable decree, bearing the words which the Finger
of Holiness hath traced, that lay wrapt within the veil of impenetrable

as it was in the days of noah
mystery, and hath now been sent down as a token of the grace of Him
Who is the Almighty, the Ancient of Days. (4)
Such clarification of true meanings by the ‘removal’ of ‘seals’ is de-
signed to assist the healing of the extensive, hurtful, sectarian and
religious divisions spawned by faulty scriptural interpretation.
The systematic investigation of the meanings of ancient scripture by
individuals is encouraged within the Bahá’í framework (5). ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá, designated by Bahá’u’lláh as the ‘Interpreter’ of the Bahá’í
Writings, also pointed out that the intention of one of his explanations
was “...to show that the Words of God have innumerable significances
and mysteries of meanings...” (6). Therefore, more than just a single
interpretation is often possible for each verse.
Regarding this matter of interpretation, the Supreme Institution of
the Bahá’í Faith, the Universal House of Justice, has written:
The existence of authoritative interpretations does not preclude the
individual from engaging in the study of the Teachings and thereby
arriving at a personal interpretation or understanding. A clear distinc-
tion is, however, drawn in the Bahá’í Writings between authoritative
interpretation and the understanding that each individual arrives at
from a study of its Teachings. Individual interpretations based on a
person’s understanding of the Teachings constitute the fruit of man’s
rational power and may well contribute to a greater comprehension
of the Faith. Such views, never-the-less, lack authority. In presenting
their personal ideas, individuals are cautioned not to discard the au-
thority of the revealed words, not to deny or contend with the author-
itative interpretation, and not to engage in controversy; rather they
should offer their thoughts as a contribution to knowledge, making it
clear that their views are merely their own. (7)
In the Bahá’í Writings, Bahá’u’lláh clearly emphasizes the use of
symbolic rather than literal interpretation in (8), as follows:
As they have literally interpreted the Word of God, and the sayings
and traditions of the Letters of Unity [the Prophets of God]... they
have therefore deprived themselves and all their people of the boun-
tiful showers of the grace and mercies of God.

so shall the return be
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, son of Bahá’u’lláh and His appointed Successor and
Interpreter of His Revelation, also underlines...”
... The divine Words are not to be taken according to their outer
sense... the Revelations of St. John are not to be taken literally, but
spiritually. These are the mysteries of God. It is not the reading of
the words that profits you; it is the understanding of their mean-
ings... All the texts and teachings of the holy Testaments have in-
trinsic spiritual meanings. They are not to be taken literally. (9)
This guidance suggests that numerous, current interpretations of
scripture, such as a literal ‘end to the world’ at the ‘Return’, or the
‘Rapture’ when those saved by belief in the ‘Return’ are raised bodily
to heaven, now require reinterpretation to become relevant to our
time, a time which numerous Christians now publicly affirm to be the
‘time of the end’. Discussion of such issues, however, is beyond the
scope of this essay, the purpose of which is to examine the devel-
opment of the Kingdom during the promised Millennium using the
flood analogy. Accordingly, throughout, the author has employed
relevant citations directly from the Bible and authoritative Bahá’í
texts. Those interpretations not directly addressed in the Bahá’í
Writings are appropriately ascribed. Thus, this essay is a suggested
Bahá’í approach.
ii -	prelude to the ‘glory’:
we should be vigilant!
There are many important biblical ideas regarding an appropriate
mind-set for each of us who revere Jesus Christ when we encounter
the astonishing proclamation that the Second Coming of our Lord,
with all its attendant implications, has in fact already occurred.
These include:
a) the promise of the ‘return’:
When the Son of man shall come in his glory, and all the holy angels
with him, then shall he sit upon the throne of his glory, and be-
fore him shall be gathered all nations (Matthew 25:31); and... unto
them that look for him shall he appear the second time... (Hebrews
9:28), etc.

as it was in the days of noah
b) the numerous related biblical injunctions to believers in
Christ to be vigilant, watchful and anticipate the fulfilment of that
pre-eminently important promise at the ‘end time’. Among the
many preparatory injunctions we find:
Watch therefore: for ye know not what hour your Lord doth  come.
(Matthew 24:42),
Be patient therefore, brethren, unto the coming of the Lord  (James
5:7), and
Watch ye therefore, and pray always, that ye may be accounted
worthy to escape all these things that shall come to pass, and to
stand before the Son of man (Luke 21:36), so that
When the Son of man shall come in his glory, and all the holy angels
with him, then shall he sit upon the throne of his glory. And
before him shall be gathered all nations. (Matthew 25:31)
Further, one can readily conclude that, in accordance with the tradi-
tion that the Promised One would come as a successful ‘thief in the
night’ (1 Thessalonians 5:2; 2 Peter 3:10; Matthew 24:43), He will
therefore have already come, completed His Mission, and departed
before we awake and become aware of Him. This thought and other
abundant promises have indeed come to pass in the Person of the
Prophet-Founder of the Bahá’í Faith — Bahá’u’lláh!
Both the Judaic and Christian foresights regarding the ‘Return of
the two Promised Ones’ at the ‘time of the end’, are astonishingly
extensive in number. The Rev. Billy Graham has stated that there
are many more biblical references related to the ‘Second Coming’
as there are to the ‘First’. These hint at the glorious nature of the
much-anticipated ‘New Jerusalem’, the new ‘Word of God’ to un-
fold during the ‘Millennium’, to ultimately establish the promised
‘Kingdom of God on Earth’ for which Christians have so long fer-
vently prayed.
This study describes one of these ‘Latter Day’ promises not fre-
quently discussed. It involves one of those many intriguing prom-
ises which Jesus made to His Disciples on the Mount of Olives in
Jerusalem when, at their request, He listed numerous signs of His

so shall the return be
Second Coming (Matthew Chapter 24). This particular promised
sign is stated as follows:
But as the days of Noah were, so shall also the coming of the Son
of man be. For as in the days that were before the flood, they were
eating and drinking, marrying and giving in marriage, until the
day that Noah entered into the ark. And they knew not until the
flood came, and took them all away; so shall also the coming of the
Son of man be. (Matthew 24:37-39)
Note that the ‘coming’ aspect is repeated twice in these verses, pre-
sumably to emphasize the importance of this particular feature of
fulfilment by the promised ‘glorious Return’.
The biblical narrative of the flood of Noah in Genesis is extensive.
Accordingly, the fulfilment of this promise involves much detail re-
garding the trials that humanity must undergo in order to awake,
and then participate in the establishment of this promised ‘earthly
Kingdom’.
The system used to interpret the biblical time prophecies outlined in
this essay is based on commonly-used Christian practice in which
each ‘day’ equals 1 ‘year’ (stated in Numbers 14:34, Ezekiel 4:6),
and 1 month equals 30 days (5 months = 150 days — Genesis 7:11
& 8:4 — see Fig. 5). In section XV, this relationship suggests that
a ‘season’ of 3 months is 90 days or 90 years in length. Thus, a full
year is equal to 12 months of 30 days each, and a biblical ‘time’ is
accepted as 360 years.
Before beginning this journey through the flood analogy, it is im-
portant that the reader be acquainted with a brief history of the
Bahá’í Faith, featuring biblical citations regarding the Coming of
these two ‘Promised Ones’ at the ‘end time’, as well as the subse-
quent development of this Faith in our time.

as it was in the days of noah
iii -	 biblical foresights become both
bahá’í history and future
The Writings of the Bahá’í Faith clearly affirm that the Bible is
the ‘Word of God’. Specifically regarding the Gospels, Bahá’u’lláh
states:
We have also heard a number of the foolish of the earth assert that
the genuine text of the heavenly Gospel doth not exist among the
Christians... How grievously have they erred! How oblivious of
the fact that such a statement imputeth the gravest injustice and
tyranny to a gracious and loving Providence. (10)
Thus the fact that the flood story is biblical requires that it be given
due consideration.
The analogy of the flood of Noah both reflects Bahá’í history and
provides some surprising foresights of its future as well. Before out-
lining the flood analogy however, the following is a brief biblically-
derived introduction to the inception of the Bahá’í Faith and its
Central Figures. These are followed by pertinent biblical references,
considered applicable in the opinion of the writer, to the panorama
of fulfilment by the promised ‘Returns’ of the Spirit.
Pre-eminent among the Central Figures of the Bahá’í Faith, are the
two ‘Promised Ones’ of the ‘time of the end’, that is, the ‘slain Lamb’
(Revelation 5:6) and He seated ‘on the throne of his glory’ (Matthew
19:28). They both are both uniquely invested with ‘blessing, honour,
power and glory’ (Revelation 5:13). The first Holy Figure (‘Prophet’
in biblical terms, and expressed in Bahá’í terms as a ‘Manifestation
of God’), is the Báb. This is a title meaning the ‘Gate’ (see Ezekiel
43:1-5), just as ‘Christ’ is a title meaning the ‘Anointed One’. He
was the promised second return of Elijah who ‘must first come be-
fore the great and dreadful Day of the Lord’ (Malachi 4:5), that is,
‘the time of the end’. Thus, He was to ‘prepare the way’ for the sec-
ond Promised One, Bahá’u’lláh, a title meaning the ‘Glory of God’
(Ezekiel 43:1-5). He was also styled the ‘Everlasting Father’ (Isaiah
9:6), ‘Christ Returned in the Glory of the Father’ (Matthew 16:27),
‘Lord of Hosts’ (Isaiah 9:6-7), etc.

so shall the return be
The Báb publicly declared His Mission five months into the year
1844 AD (1843+ yrs AD — see equation below). That year was of
great importance to expectant Christians because it was widely
announced by at least 59 prominent souls (11), including William
Miller, founder of the Millerites, that ‘the Gospel had then been
preached to the entire world’. Accordingly, Christ’s ‘Return’ was
due (Matthew 24:14)! Clearly, they saw through the ‘clouds’ of
biblical mystery to correctly understand an important biblical time
prophecy regarding that ‘Return’. The prophet Daniel foresaw
that the ‘cleansing of the sanctuary at the time of the end’ (Daniel
8:14-17), that is, the renewal of the ‘Word of God’, would occur
some 2,300 years after the ‘Third Edict’ to rebuild Jerusalem and
the Temple. The Persian King Artaxerxes declared that Edict dur-
ing 457 BC (12), as also stated by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Thus, the term 456
complete years, plus some months BC (456+ yrs BC), begins the
following equation:
[(456+) years BC plus (1843+) years AD]

= (2299++) years total or 2,300 years as prophesied!
The year 457 BC was chosen for this prophecy because, by hind-
sight presumably, Christians had also applied that date to the well-
known ‘70 weeks’ prophecy, again as foreseen in Daniel 9:24-27.
This foresight describes the length of Christ’s earthly life. And so:
[(70 weeks) X (7 days per week) X (1 year per day) — as in Section
2 above] = 490 years. Thus,

[(456+) years BC plus (33+) years AD]

= (489++) years total or 490 years as prophesied!
Thus, after a lapse of 490 years from 457 BC, the prophesied period
ended in the 34th year AD, the traditionally accepted year of Jesus’
crucifixion, when He was thought to be 33 years old. This interpre-
tation is also confirmed by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá (12). Thus, the Báb inau-
gurated the ‘Bahá’í Era’ (hereafter abbreviated BE), and began the
acclaimed Millennium, during which the ‘Kingdom of God on earth’
would be established (Revelation 20:2-3; Matthew 6:10 & 25:31-34).
Thus will that cherished biblical dream of unity among ‘all nations,
tongues, and peoples’ become a reality.

as it was in the days of noah
The Báb’s mission as ‘the Gate’ echoes that of John the Baptist, the
first Return of Elijah, in that the Báb was to ‘prepare the way’ for
One much greater than He. This Person He styled as the ‘Glory of
God’, a title frequently foreseen biblically (Ezekiel 43:1-5, Reve-
lation 15:8; 21:23). The Báb announced that this ‘Glory’ would de-
clare Himself 19 years after His own Declaration, which took place
in 1844. Like Christ’s, the Báb’s mission was brief. After its comple-
tion, He was cruelly martyred in 1850 AD, in a fashion similar to
the crucifixion of Jesus. His mortal remains now rest in His shrine
in the ‘midst of Carmel’, God’s Holy Mountain, seen in Figure 1
(page 10). This site is biblically forecast and described further on.
The Báb was indeed that ‘slain Lamb’ in the ‘latter Day’ (Revelation
5:6,12), whose death was accompanied by an astonishing 20,000
martyrs among His early believers.
Unfortunately, all this unfolding tragic drama was missed in the West
as the expectant seekers failed to ‘look toward the East’ of the Holy
Land (in this case Persia) as advised by the prophets (Ezekiel 43:1-5).
The outcome, labelled ‘the Great Disappointment’, arose from the
expression ‘He shall come as a thief in the night’ (Revelation 3:3 &
I Thessalonians 5:2), indicating eventual recognition but regrettably
long after His Coming.
In this life, the Báb never met the ‘Glory’, Bahá’u’lláh, of Whom
He was the Forerunner. As promised, in 1863, 19 years after the
Declaration of the Báb, Bahá’u’lláh, a prisoner of the Ruler of Islam
in Baghdad (in ancient ‘Assyria’ to the east — Micah 7:12), declared
that He was the Promised One, not only of Judaism and Christianity,
but indeed of all faiths. In biblical terms, He is the ‘shepherd of all
the folds of sheep’ (John 10:16), the ‘Return of Christ in the glory
of His Father’ (Matthew 16:27), the ‘King on the throne of glory’
(Matthew 19:28; Revelation 5:1). He revealed the extensive New
Gospel, the ‘New Jerusalem descended from heaven’ (Revelation
21:1-5), which contains ‘all things made new’ (Revelation 21:5), and
‘removes the seals from ancient books’ (Daniel 12:4), at the ‘time of
the end’. This action enabled Him to clarify the true meanings of
scripture, notably in His ‘Book of Certitude’, in order to promote
sectarian and religious unity, and to build the spiritual and social
foundations of the promised ‘Kingdom of God on Earth’.

so shall the return be
Figure 1 *
The Shrine Of His Holiness the Báb
The ‘Gate’ of Bahá’u’lláh And
The ‘Return of Elijah In The Great and
Dreadful Day of The Lord’
“Afterward he brought me to the gate, even
the gate that looketh toward the east: And,
behold, the glory of the God of Israel came
from the way of the east... and the earth
shined with his glory... And the glory of the
Lord came into the house by way of the gate
whose prospect is toward the east...”
(Ezekiel 43:1-5)

* [photo by Marco Abrar - Bahai Pictures.com]

as it was in the days of noah
Judaic/Christian prophesies stated that a descendant of Jesse and
King David would perform this ‘removal of seals’ from the Book
(Revelation 5:5). Independent Christian and Muslim scholars (13),
affirm that Bahá’u’lláh was indeed descended from Jesse and David,
through their descendant Salathiel (Matthew 1:5-12). While in cap-
tivity, Salathiel’s daughter, Rahab Bin Pinchas, married King Cyrus
the Great of Persia. They begat Sasan, founder of the Sasanian
Dynasty of kings, from whom Bahá’u’lláh was directly descended.
Accordingly, Bahá’u’lláh stated:
Ere long will God sail His Ark upon thee, and will manifest the
people of Baha who have been mentioned in the Book of Names.
The Most Great Law is come, and the Ancient Beauty [a title of
Bahá’u’lláh] ruleth upon the throne of David. Thus hath My Pen
spoken that which the histories of bygone ages have related. (14)
Bahá’u’lláh spoke the renewed ‘Word of God’ (Revelation 19:13) via
inspiration from the Holy Spirit. The appointed revered figures that
followed Him functioned under His sovereignty, and did His bidding
in service to Him and to His Cause. Bahá’u’lláh, by the time of His
biblically-forecast departure from this life to the heavenly Kingdom
in 1892, after a 40-year Ministry (Amos 2:10; Micah 7:15), had al-
ready appointed His son, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, whose name means ‘servant
of the Glory’, as the ‘Centre of the Bahá’í Covenant’. While neither
Prophet nor Manifestation of God, it was ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s function
to: lead the faithful; interpret scripture without error; educate the
believers regarding the ‘returned Christ’; and maintain the unity of
the Bahá’í Faith without serious schism. Bahá’u’lláh promised Him
divine assistance to perform these awesome tasks, and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
was eminently successful in doing so — the unity of the Faith has
been essentially preserved after the demise of its Founder for the first
time in religious history. He passed on in 1921, having appointed his
grandson, Shoghi Effendi Rabbani [whose name means the ‘zeal of
the Lord’(15)], as the ‘Guardian’ of the Bahá’í Faith. His primary
duty was to build the now world-wide governance framework of
the Bahá’í Faith ‘on the shoulders of Bahá’u’lláh’, in accord with
Isaiah’s vision (Isaiah 9:7). He successfully accomplished this task
before his death in 1957.

so shall the return be
The crown of that governance structure is named: the ‘Universal
House of Justice’, the senior world institution of the Bahá’í Faith.
It was foreseen to be located on scripturally-blessed Mount Carmel
(Micah 7:14), located in the Holy Land. Carmel means the ‘Vineyard
of God’ which was destined to see the ‘Glory of the Lord’ (Isaiah
35:1-2). Its geographic location, shown in a simple regional map
(Figure 2), is a truly surprising outcome considering Bahá’u’lláh’s
origin in the ‘East’ (Persia, now Iran). As a prisoner of the Sultan,
Bahá’u’lláh was forcibly moved from imprisonment in Baghdad (in
the ‘east’) ultimately to the prison city of Achor (now called Akka),
in this Carmel region of the Holy Land (Micah 7:14; Hosea 2:15).
God’s guiding hand was indeed at work!
Figure 3 (page 14) provides an impressive panoramic view from the
peak of Mount Carmel showing the City of Haifa situated on the
Plain of Sharon, as well as the adjoining Bay of Akka. In modern
times, Carmel has certainly become one of the most beautiful re-
gions in Israel.
The Institution of the Universal House of Justice was first elected
through a system of universal suffrage at the grass roots in 1963.
This was in accord with biblical prophecy, as detailed below in
Section VII, and confirmed by Bahá’u’lláh.
The Seat of the Universal House of Justice is depicted on Mount
Carmel in Figure 4 (page 15), with several of its auxiliary institu-
tions, including the International Teaching Centre and the Centre
for the Study of the Sacred Text, all arranged in a formation called
the ‘Arc’. This body will continue to expand the rule of ‘justice’
(Isaiah 9:7) while establishing the elements of the ‘Kingdom of God
on Earth’ (Matthew 6:10), characterized by unity and peace. This
process is to last at least to the end of the Millennium after which a
further spiritual renewal is promised (Revelation 20:3) and affirmed
by the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh. Its outcome is summarized by
Bahá’u’lláh:
... Verily, this is that Most Great Beauty, foretold in the Books of
the Messengers, through Whom truth shall be distinguished from
error and the wisdom of every command shall be tested... (16).

as it was in the days of noah
Figure 2
Map of The Vicinity of Mount Carmel
The Location of The World Centre
of The Bahá’í Faith
“The excellency of Carmel and Sharon,
they shall see the glory of the Lord,
and the excellency of our God.”
(Isaiah 35:1-2)

so shall the return be
Figure 3 *
Down The Slopes of Mount Carmel
Past The Shrine of The Báb
To Haifa on The Plain Of Sharon
By The Bay of Akka (Achor)
“Therefore, behold, I will allure her and
bring her into the wilderness, and speak
comfortably to her. And I will give... the
Valley of Achor for a door of hope...”
(Hoseah 2:14-15)
“As I live, saith the king, whose name is the
Lord of hosts, Surely as Tabor is among the
mountains, and as Carmel by the sea,
so shall he come.”
(Jeremiah 46:18)

* [photo by Marco Abrar - Bahai Pictures.com]

as it was in the days of noah
Figure 4 *
The Seat of The Universal House of Justice
and
Two Adjacent Administrative Buildings
“Call out to Zion, O Carmel, and announce
the joyful tidings: He that was hidden from
mortal eyes is come!”
(Bahá’u’lláh)
* [photo by Marco Abrar - Bahai Pictures.com]

so shall the return be
The Bahá’í Faith, with its more than five million members, is the
most widespread religion in the world next to Christianity. Its
continuing development is the result of a process directed by the
Universal House of Justice despite, regrettably, the severe religious
persecution of Bahá’ís in Iran, the land of its birth.
The flood and ark analogy discussed in the following sections adds
to the numerous biblical foresights regarding the development of
the Bahá’í Faith and the Kingdom it is designed to establish, the
‘Ark of Deliverance’ for humankind.
iv -	the blueprint of the ‘kingdom’
biblically foreseen
The following narrative describes how the Báb, Bahá’u’lláh, His ap-
pointed successors, and their early believers have marched along the
path of establishing the ‘Kingdom of God on Earth’. A most im-
portant ancient blueprint affecting this process of advancing toward
the Kingdom in this Day, is found in three verses in the Gospel of
Matthew (Matthew 24:37-39), a chapter in which numerous other
‘signs’ of the ‘time of the end’ are also listed. These verses, how-
ever, are not often discussed. This is presumably because the keys to
understanding their fulfilment are not generally known. This ‘sign’
enlarges from the very few words of Christ into a magnificent pan-
orama illuminated by the Genesis chronicle of the Flood of Noah:
But as the days of Noah were, so shall also the coming of the Son
of man be. For as in the days that were before the flood, they were
eating and drinking, marrying and giving in marriage, until the
day that Noah entered into the ark. And they knew not until the
flood came, and took them all away; so shall also the coming of the
Son of man be. (Matthew 24:37-39)
Thus, the flood of Noah is like a blueprint, somehow to be revisited
at the time of the coming of the ‘Son of Man’, that is, at ‘end of the
world’ as the disciples phrased it (Matthew 24:1-3). One Covenant
expressed to Noah was:

as it was in the days of noah
... neither shall all flesh be cut off any more by the waters of a flood...
This is a token of the Covenant, which I have established between
me and all flesh that is upon the earth. (Gen 9:11 & 17)
Thus, a literal revisiting of the flood is evidently not intended, and
the end of the flood is not the ‘end’, but rather a new beginning
for humanity as it descends from the ark. Similarly, no other literal
matters such as the immense age of the Prophet Noah are addressed
here. Evidently a metaphorical, not a literal, explanation is best for
understanding Christ’s meaning.
v - the flood, archeology and genesis
At least in part to confirm the validity of the history of the flood of
Noah that the Book of Genesis recounts, archaeology has estimated
the date and extent of a pervasive flood in the Middle East at ap-
proximately 4000 BC (17). Many consider that that ancient flood
covered an immense region called the Tigris-Euphrates river basin,
the cradle of ancient civilizations like Sumeria, now approximately
corresponding to Iraq.
The imprint of that flood catastrophe must have been indelibly im-
planted in the minds of our early forbears there. The saga took on
specific forms when their traditions were committed to writing as
that art developed, an example of which is the Epic of Gilgamesh of
the Sumerians. When Hebrew copper miners in the Sinai developed
early writing around 2000 BC, they were able to write a record of
the tribal memories of the descendants of Abraham, perhaps includ-
ing the description of the flood of Noah, ultimately described by
Moses in Genesis. Biblical scholars, including Warner Keller, point
out that the Sumerian and Hebraic versions are surprisingly similar
(18). Although opinions vary, Keller, in “The Bible As History” also
indicated that Abraham was probably a citizen of the Kingdom of
Mari on the north-western edge of the area covered by the flood. He
likely left the City of Haran in Mari around 1900 BC. Evidently, life
had been restored there in the subsequent 2100 years after that flood.
The biblical narrative is extensive — three full chapters of the Book
of Genesis. An excerpted version is reproduced in Appendix I.

so shall the return be
The reader is invited to scan this abbreviation before continuing with
this study of the analogy of the flood of Noah. Time scales for the
analogy are given in Figure 5 (see folded insert at the back of the
book). These time scales are derived from the frequently quoted age
of the Prophet Noah at significant points in the Genesis narrative.
They also include descriptions of some events and matters from other
biblical sources, particularly the Books of Daniel and Revelation, as
these contribute significantly to the unfoldment of the Kingdom dur-
ing the much anticipated Millennium of Bahá’u’lláh. The entire story
features Bahá’u’lláh appearing as the modern Noah, Whose ministry
is to be patterned on that of the ‘Saviour’ as outlined in Genesis.
vi - ‘eating, drinking and marrying’
What was Noah’s mission? The Bible tells us that He saved all flesh
from extinction, so being a Saviour was certainly one aspect of his
mission, but that was not all. Noah, being a Prophet, had to per-
form a Prophet’s duty, that of calling the people back to belief in
God and obedience to His Word, including warnings to turn from
materialistic ways so as not to suffer the inevitable consequences of
the ‘Judgement’. As Genesis recounts:
And God saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth,
and that every imagination of the thoughts of his heart was only
evil continually. (Genesis 6:5)
Evidently, Noah’s warnings went unheeded and the flood ensued.
This rejection of Noah is affirmed by Bahá’u’lláh:

Among the Prophets was Noah... He prayerfully exhorted His people
and summoned them to the haven of security and peace. None how-
ever, heeded His call. Each day they inflicted on His blessed person
such pain and suffering that no one believed He could survive. (19)
The rejection of Noah and His warnings is one example of what
appears to be a universal experience among the Revelators of God’s
Will. Bahá’u’lláh comments on His own similar experience:

as it was in the days of noah
So blind hath become the human heart that neither the disruption
of the city, nor the reduction of the mountain in dust, nor even
the cleaving of the earth, can shake off its torpor. The allusions
made in the scriptures have been unfolded, and the signs recorded
therein have been revealed, and the prophetic cry is continually
being raised. And yet all, except such as God was pleased to guide,
are bewildered in the drunkenness of their heedlessness! Witness
how the world is being afflicted with a fresh calamity every day.
Its tribulation is continually deepening... neither hath the world
been tranquillized, nor have the hearts of its people been set at rest.
At one time it hath been agitated by contentions and disputes, at
another it hath been convulsed by wars, and fallen victim to invet-
erate diseases. Its sickness is approaching the stage of utter hope-
lessness, inasmuch as the true Physician [Bahá’u’lláh] is debarred
from administering the remedy, whilst unskilled practitioners
are regarded with favour, and are accorded full freedom to act...
Erelong, they will perceive the consequences of what their hands
have wrought in the Day of God. (20)
Several of the ‘signs of the end’ described by Bahá’u’lláh mirror those
in Matthew Chapter 24, including wars, tribulation, salvation for the
heedful and punishment for the heedless. An interesting modern
parallel to Noah’s time is that, in addition to saving the people, the
animals were saved. This might appear as quaint in the Noah story,
now often told to children as a fable, but it is fraught with foreboding
meaning in our time, substantially due to ‘global warming’. It can be
inferred that a pre-eminent purpose of the modern Noah, Bahá’u’lláh,
is not only to ‘save’ the people as Noah did, but also to save the spe-
cies in existence at the time of His return. That is, He would establish
by grace, the structures and spiritual approaches necessary for a seri-
ous world-wide attack on the uniquely modern problem of a dete-
riorating world environment, global warming, and the consequent
threatened disappearance of numerous species of life.
These, then, are major aspects of the ‘time of the end’, reflecting an
overriding concern with material affairs ‘eating, drinking and mar-
rying’, while being offered the ‘cup of life indeed’, the new ‘Glad
Tidings’.

so shall the return be
vii - ‘the days of man shall be 120 years’
The reference to 120 years in Genesis, brings into focus the ele-
ment of time related to the period for construction of the ‘Ark’ and
‘warning the people’. God spoke to Noah, saying: “... his days (those
of man) shall be 120 years...” (Genesis 6:3). Notice that ‘days’ is
spoken of as ‘years’. That ‘respite’ period for humankind provided
Noah, the ancient Saviour, and those close to Him, with time to
construct the ark of salvation for the believers, the means of security
from the ravages to come. Failure to become heedful of the warn-
ings and guidance within that time (and thus miss becoming dwell-
ers within the Ark), meant that dramatic human suffering would
inevitably result.
Bahá’u’lláh, as the modern Noah, confirms this process both in gen-
eral and for our time:
We have fixed a time for you, O peoples. If ye fail, at the appointed
hour, to turn towards God, He, verily, will lay violent hold upon
you, and will cause grievous afflictions to assail you from every
direction. Know, verily, that an unforeseen calamity followeth you,
and grievous retribution awaiteth you. Think not that which ye
have committed hath been effaced in My sight. (21)
The flood analogy gains additional metaphorical strength when
one realizes that Bahá’u’lláh, the modern Noah, by revealing the
spiritual truths and principles for the new age of the Kingdom, and
defining its administrative structures (symbolized as the new ‘ark of
salvation’), started a building process that took 120 years from its
initiation on May 23, 1844 AD, when the Báb announced that the
new Day of God had begun, and heralded the Advent of Bahá’u’lláh,
the Promised Return of the Christ, only 19 years from the date of
His own declaration.
The advents of these two Manifestations of the Spirit signalled the
beginning of that agonizing period of ‘time of the end’ or ‘end of the
world’ trials as biblically foreseen. The Revised Standard Version of
the Bible translates such phrases as the ‘end of the age’ (Matthew
24:3), thus casting a rather different, non-literal meaning on these
amazing historical processes. Further, Revelation 20:2-7 mentions

as it was in the days of noah
that the famous period called ‘the Millennium’ follows the ‘Return
of the Son of Man’. So the ‘end’ was not really the end, but rather,
the end of one Age, and the beginning of a new Age of fulfilment
for all humankind.
Near the beginning of this age, the Báb revealed a Tablet to make
clear the meanings of a portion of scripture. He did this as the
expected Manifestation of ‘the Lamb that was slain’, Who in
Revelation 5:9, begins to remove the ‘seals from the books’. In this
Tablet, the Báb praised the inhabitants of the Ark in glowing terms,
and styled them as “the companions of the Crimson-Coloured Ark”
(22). This is likely the earliest reference to a symbolic ‘Ark’ in the
Bahá’í Writings.
It bears repeating, however, that not all the efforts of the Saviours
are devoted only to the necessary warnings. The element of joy in
renewal, and of revealed guidance, is foremost, a guidance that out-
lines in each instance, “the very pattern of divine civilization” (23).
Bahá’u’lláh, continuing the ‘Ark’ metaphor, proclaims:
Call out to Zion, O Carmel, and announce the joyful tidings: He
that was hidden from mortal eyes is come! ... Verily this is the Day
in which both land and sea rejoice at this announcement, the Day
for which have been laid up those things which God, through a
bounty beyond the ken of mortal mind or heart, hath destined for
revelation. Ere long will God sail His Ark on thee, and will mani-
fest the people of Baha who have been mentioned in the Book of
Names. (24)
It is important to note that in this citation, Bahá’u’lláh has intimate-
ly linked ‘Carmel’ with ‘Zion’. This is not an unimportant matter
because Isaiah foresaw that (emphasis added):

... it shall come to pass in the last days, that the mountain of the
Lord’s house shall be established in the top of the mountains, and
shall be exalted above the hills; and all nations shall flow unto it.
And many people shall go and say, Come ye and let us go up to the
mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob [Yahweh];
and he will teach us his ways, and we will walk in his paths: for

so shall the return be
out of Zion will go forth the law, and the word of the Lord from
Jerusalem. (Isaiah 2:2-3)

There are several possible meanings for ‘Zion’ as outlined in exten-
sive commentaries published in the Oxford Companion to the Bible
(25). These assist us to realize the mystical and intriguing connection
between Carmel and Zion. These commentaries explain, for exam-
ple, that ‘Zion’ can be identified as the Jewish Community (Zionists)
in the Holy Land (Isaiah 51:16), thus indicating the entire land of
Israel. Further, one theological interpretation of Zion is ‘Yahweh’s
Holy Mountain’, Yahweh or Jehovah being the Hebrew name for
God. Mount ‘Carmel’ literally means the ‘Vineyard of God’ — they
are both, evidently, metaphors for the same reality — the ‘Throne
of God’, as Bahá’u’lláh refers to Mount Carmel (26). ‘Zion’ is also
considered to mean the ‘City of God’, the ‘New Jerusalem’, that is,
the ‘Word of God’ that is to go forth from Zion (Isaiah 2:3) in the
‘last days’, thus from Carmel, from which mountain Bahá’u’lláh an-
nounces His new ‘joyful tidings’, the ‘New Jerusalem’ and the new
‘Word of God’!
Regarding the significance of Carmel, around 850 BC the Prophet
Elijah demonstrated to the Jewish people the concept of the su-
premacy of the one God (Yahweh) over false gods like Baal. He did
this with a manifestation of the ‘fire of the Lord’ on Mount Carmel
(I Kings 18:38). This was an early witness to the one and only ‘true’
God, a matter also emphasized by Bahá’u’lláh: “... there is none
other God but Thee, the Help in Peril, the Self-Subsisting.” (27)
Returning to the flood theme, Bahá’u’lláh continues with the ‘Ark’
analogy:
Know thou that the souls of the people of Baha, who have entered
and been established within the Crimson Ark, shall associate and
commune intimately one with another, and shall be so closely as-
sociated in their lives, their aspirations, their aims and strivings,
as to be even as one soul. They are indeed the ones who are well
informed, and who are endued with understanding. Thus hath it
been decreed by Him Who is the All-Knowing, the All-Wise. (28)

as it was in the days of noah
The ancient ark’s construction was long and laborious, and few la-
bourers were involved. By analogy, the challenge of building the
institutions of the divine ‘Ark’, the ‘Kingdom on earth’, i.e., the
institutions of the Bahá’í Commonwealth, was and continues to be
a laborious yet glorious one. This task was completed within the
120-year period, by a small ‘army’ of friends with ultimate faith in
the future.
The Bahá’í Calendar began on March 21, 1844 AD. All subsequent
dates refer to the Bahá’í Era or ‘BE’. One month into BE 119, April
21, 1962, there was great excitement among the dwellers of that Ark.
They had just succeeded in establishing the requisite number of
institutions (56 national Bahá’í communities) around the world to
ultimately establish the Universal House of Justice. This important
preliminary step had been accomplished by the determined efforts
of the believers to disseminate the teachings of Bahá’u’lláh to the
widely spread peoples of the world.
The achievement of such a goal was decreed by Shoghi Effendi, the
successor appointed by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá to lead the Bahá’í Cause, fol-
lowing His Ascension in 1921 AD. Until his own death in 1957 AD,
He indeed performed the function of building divine governance
‘on Bahá’u’lláh’s shoulders’ according to the Prophet Isaiah (Isaiah
9:6-7). He was, indeed, the ‘architect’ of Bahá’í governance for the
entire Bahá’í World centred on Mount Carmel.
Meeting this condition ensured that the emerging world-wide com-
munity would have strength sufficient for the first election of the
Universal House of Justice — the birth of that biblically-anticipated
governance structure. Further, that Universal House of Justice, ac-
cording to Shoghi Effendi, constitutes “the last stage in the erection
of the framework of its world Administrative Order ...” (29)
In addition, Shoghi Effendi stated that the evolution of the World
Centre of the Bahá’í Faith on Mount Carmel was part of a process
... which will attain its consummation in the institution of the
Universal House of Justice... and which will reveal the plenitude of
its potentialities with the sailing of the Divine Ark as promised in
the Tablet of Carmel. (30)

so shall the return be
Thus the senior echelon of the Bahá’í Administrative Order had
been added to the already functioning councils at the national and
local levels. And thus was provided a three-tiered structure com-
posed of universal (international), national and local levels, analo-
gous to that foreshadowed in Genesis:
Make thee an ark... And this is the fashion which thou shalt make
it... with lower, second and third stories shalt thou make it. (Genesis
6:14-16)
In order to carefully define the dating system, it bears repeating
that, in the birthplace of the Bahá’í Faith, the beginning of the New
Year, called Naw Ruz, has been celebrated on the first day of Spring,
March 21, for thousands of years. From March 21, 1844 AD, the be-
ginning of the Bahá’í calendar, to March 21, 1963 AD, represented
the passage of 119 complete years. Thus, one month into the 120th
year of the ‘Bahá’í Era’ (April 21, 1963 AD)
... the momentous first International Bahá’í Convention yielded
the long-awaited crown of the Bahá’í Administrative Order: the
Universal House of Justice. (31)
Mid-way through that same 120th year, in October 1963, after care-
fully examining all the Bahá’í Writings dealing with the questions of
successorship and leadership of this new Cause, the announcement
was made that:
... after long and prayerful consultation the... House of Justice... has
therefore begun, in humble obedience to the Will of God... to un-
dertake the heavy tasks laid upon it. (32)
The confirmed Universal House of Justice formulated its first sys-
tematic plan for the development of the ‘Kingdom’ near the end of
120 BE (1963/4 AD). This Nine-Year Plan was communicated to the
Bahá’í World. It began at the outset of BE 121 during 1964 AD. Thus,
in accord with the 120-year biblical time prophesy, the process of
building ‘the Ark’ was complete, the ‘Mariner’ had taken its helm
according to the Will of Bahá’u’lláh, and a Plan had been formulated
to direct the ‘Ark’ through the tempestuous years to come.

as it was in the days of noah
viii - ‘for yet seven days’
Following completion of the ark, the biblical narrative continues:
“For yet seven days, and I will cause it to rain...” (Genesis 7:4). This
‘seven days’ (read ‘years’ as indicated above) is indicative of a further
period of respite until the promised onset of the devastating rains,
from BE 121 to 127, corresponding to 1964 to 1971 AD. Although
the Genesis narrative is not specific with respect to the purpose of
this extra period of respite, Noah’s mission in general was to inform
and warn the people, and this additional period provided further
opportunity to do so.
But Noah’s call, as Bahá’u’lláh expressed it, went unheeded. To en-
sure that the call of Bahá’u’lláh would not suffer the same ultimate
fate, the newly-elected Universal House of Justice announced:
We stand now on the threshold of the second epoch of ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá’s Divine Plan, with the outposts of the Cause established in
the remotest corners of the earth... The foundation of the Kingdom
has been securely laid, the framework has been raised. The friends
must now consolidate their achievements, safeguard their institu-
tions, and gather the peoples and kindreds of the world into the ark
which the Hand of God has built. (33)
The Nine Year Plan was launched to raise that ‘call’, that is, to ac-
quaint the people with the ‘Word of God’, with the claims of His
Holy Messenger, and to gather the kindreds into the Ark.
This latter purpose was remarkably fulfilled during the first seven
years of that Plan. Between BE 120 and 127 or 1964 to 1971 AD,
the number of localities around the world in which Bahá’ís were
resident, increased 5-fold from approximately 10,000 to 50,000 (34)!
This astonishing accomplishment was due to an unprecedented
proclamation of the Bahá’í Cause to the world.
The beginning of this proclamation was a reissue, 100 years after
the first issue, of Bahá’u’lláh’s historic letters to the kings, ecclesi-
astics and rulers of the world. Bahá’u’lláh, Himself, penned these
amazing letters, beginning after His imprisonment in Adrianople in

so shall the return be
1863 AD, and ending in the early 1870s during His imprisonment in
Akka, Palestine. In them He proclaimed Himself to be the ‘return
of the Spirit’, called on the kings to use their supreme power to
establish the promised peace on earth, and pointed out that should
they fail to take heed, their kingdoms would be taken from them
and great trials would visit their nations and the world.
The visionary statements in these letters to the kings became his-
tory in miraculous fashion, and in conformity with Daniel’s ancient
vision:
I beheld till the thrones were cast down, and the Ancient of days
did sit... his throne was like the fiery flame... and there was given
him dominion, and glory, and a kingdom, that all people, nations,
and languages should serve him... (Daniel 7:9-14)
Thus, Bahá’u’lláh, the Return of the ‘Son of Man’, has come to es-
tablish an everlasting dominion including all peoples. When, not
surprisingly, the rulers of the time failed to respond, Bahá’u’lláh
admonished them:
Now that you have refused the Most Great Peace, hold ye fast to
the Lesser Peace, that haply ye may in some degree better your
own condition and that of your dependents. (35)
Bahá’u’lláh designated the Lesser Peace to be a political peace, to be
established by the rulers, who, wearied by devastation, conflict and
anarchy, would ultimately force an end to war. He ordained that the
‘Most Great Peace’ will follow the ‘Lesser Peace’. The ‘Most Great
Peace’ will, in contrast, be characterized by a spiritualized humanity
working within the institutions of the Kingdom as described below
in the Section XIV, ‘Twelve Fruits for the Healing of Nations’.
Toward the mid-point of this seven-year period of respite (BE 124,
October 1967 AD), the Message of the Universal House of Justice
to six Bahá’í Intercontinental Conferences (which contributed fur-
ther to this proclamation process), affirmed that difficult times were
ahead for the world (emphasis added):

as it was in the days of noah
As humanity enters the dark heart of the age of transition, our
course is clear — the achievement of the assigned goals and the
proclamation of Bahá’u’lláh’s healing Message. It is our ardent
hope that from these conferences valiant souls may arise with noble
resolve and in loving service to ensure the successful and early ac-
complishment of the sacred tasks that lie ahead. (36)
Evidently, the ‘age of transition’ referred to by the Universal House
of Justice, a transitional period from the ‘old order’ to the divine
order of the Kingdom, would incorporate this ‘dark heart’, presum-
ably analogous to the 40 days/nights (‘years’ as detailed above) of
rain and flood, symbolic of great tribulation.
Echoing the expression of ‘early accomplishment’ referred to by
the Universal House of Justice above, the Institutions of the Bahá’í
Faith urged the ‘inmates of the ark’ to achieve the major objectives
of the Nine Year Plan before its end in 1973, that is, by 1971 AD,
before the events in the world associated with the ‘dark heart of
the age of transition’ might overtake the Bahá’í Community. Such
events might temporarily render efforts to promote the Cause of
the Kingdom around the world much more difficult, thus delaying
It’s establishment and needlessly prolonging suffering.
That the warning of difficulty was real is attested to by the fact that
there was a levelling off of growth of Bahá’í localities around the
world from 1973 to 1976 AD, and another plateau beginning in 1981
(34). Contributing to these plateaux, for example, was the growth
of severe difficulties in developing countries including economic
hardship, and a need to preserve jobs for nationals. Thus, as Bahá’í
‘pioneers’ are in the main self-sustaining, their survival in those
areas became truly difficult. However, Canada, the ‘co-heir’ with
the United States of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Divine Plan, is a good example
of the ‘early accomplishment’ of the Plan spoken of by prominent
members of the Bahá’í Faith as mentioned above.
The Canadian ‘pioneers’ arose to meet that challenge, and com-
pleted the better part of the Canadian goals of the Nine Year
Plan, particularly those associated with the widespread over-seas
goals by 1971 AD, within the 7-year biblical period as mentioned
above. This achievement resulted in much rejoicing and a genuine

so shall the return be
spiritual elation evident to those gathered at the April 1971 National
Convention of the Canadian Bahá’í Community.
Thus had humanity’s additional respite period — ‘for yet seven
years’  — seen the promised unprecedented proclamation of God’s
guidance to the world’s peoples within the 127 years before the
‘deluge of rains’ was to begin in 1971, in accord with the analogy.
It is interesting to note that the prestigious ‘Club of Rome’ issued
a landmark book entitled “Limits to Growth” in 1971. It recorded
science-based warnings of continuing catastrophic global warming.
ix - rain for ‘forty days and nights’
The flood-like tribulation of the modern world, is the subject of the
following comment by the Guardian of the Bahá’í Faith:
The judgement of God, as viewed by those who have recognized
Bahá’u’lláh as His Mouthpiece and His greatest messenger on earth,
is both a retributory calamity and an act of holy and supreme dis-
cipline. It is at once a visitation from God and a cleansing process
for all mankind. (37)
Bahá’u’lláh expresses sorrow that the ‘Sun’ is unable to shine through
the ‘clouds’ of trouble causing early rejection by the masses of His
Message, and resulting in severe difficulty for Himself, as well as
those within the Ark:
Where... is the Sun of majesty and power... Where is He, the
Dayspring of the tender mercies of thy Lord, the Unconstrained ...
What is it, O throne of God, that altered thy countenance... There
hath befallen thee what hath befallen the Ark in which God’s
pledge of security had been made to dwell. Well is it with him that
apprehendeth the intent of these words, and recognizeth the pur-
pose of Him Who is the Lord of all creation. (38)
Further, Bahá’u’lláh advises:
...Seek thou the shore of the Most Great Ocean, and enter then

as it was in the days of noah
the Crimson Ark which God hath ordained... for the people of
Baha. Verily, it passeth over land and sea. He that entereth therein
is saved... Shouldst thou enter therein... set thy face towards the
Kaaba of God, and say: ‘O my God! I beseech Thee by Thy most
glorious light, and all Thy lights are verily glorious’. Thereupon
will the doors of the Kingdom be flung wide before thy face, and
thou wilt behold what eyes have never beheld, and hear what ears
have never heard. (39)
Further, Bahá’u’lláh describes the consequences of setting aside this
advice, throwing direct light upon the nature and meaning of the
‘Judgement Day’, as follows:

Know ye that the world and its vanities and its embellishments
shall pass away. Nothing will endure but God’s Kingdom... The
days of your life shall roll away, and all the things with which ye
are occupied and of which ye boast yourselves shall perish and ye
shall, most certainly, be summoned by a company of His angels to
appear at the spot where the limbs of the entire creation shall be
made to tremble, and the flesh of every oppressor to creep. Ye shall
be asked of the things your hands have wrought... This is the day
that shall inevitably come upon you, the hour that none can put
back. To this the tongue of Him that speaketh the truth and is the
Knower of all things hath testified. (40)
This, of course, is the harsher side of the Judgement Day. The glori-
ous side, on the other hand, is described as follows:
O My servants! Sorrow not if, in these days and on this earthly
plane, things contrary to your wishes have been ordained and
manifested by God, for days of blissful joy, of heavenly delight, are
assuredly in store for you. Worlds, holy and spiritually glorious, will
be unveiled to your eyes. You are destined by Him, in this world
and hereafter, to partake of their benefits, to share in their joys and
to obtain a portion of their sustaining grace. To each and every one
of them you will, no doubt attain. (41)
Thus does one see how important the act of entering the Ark be-
comes, now as it was then! Bahá’u’lláh, contributing further to the
flood analogy, observes (emphasis added):

so shall the return be
Waves have encompassed the Ark of God, the Help in Peril, the Self-
Subsisting. Fear not the tempestuous gales, O Mariner! He Who
causeth the dawn to appear is, verily, with thee in this darkness that
hath struck terror into the hearts of all men, except such as God, the
Almighty, the Unconstrained, hath been pleased to spare. (42)
In March 1981 (BE 137-8), when one quarter of the 40 years of
‘rain’, possibly the ‘darkness’ and tribulation predicted by the flood
analogy, had passed, the Universal House of Justice wrote from
Carmel, the Mountain of God in the Holy Land to the Bahá’ís of
the World:
...Beloved friends, the world moves deeper into the heart of dark-
ness as its old order is rolled up. Pursuing our objectives with confi-
dence, optimism, and an unshakeable resolve, we must never forget
that our service is a spiritual one. Mankind is dying for lack of true
religion and this is what we have to offer humanity. It is the love
of God, manifest in the appearance of Bahá’u’lláh, which will feed
the hungry souls of the world and eventually lead the people out
the present morass into the orderly, uplifting, and soul-inspiring
task of establishing God’s Kingdom on earth. (43)

In a telegram dated February 1983 (BE 139), the Universal House of
Justice continued on this theme (emphasis and brackets added):

To the followers of Bahá’u’lláh in every land: we bow our heads
in infinite gratitude to the Blessed Beauty for His all-embracing
confirmations enabling the House of Justice to occupy its newly
constructed permanent seat. This auspicious event signalizes an-
other phase in the process of the fulfilment of sailing God’s ark on
Mountain of the Lord as anticipated in the Tablet of Carmel, the
wondrous charter [of the] world spiritual and administrative cen-
tres of the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh. (44)
Bahá’u’lláh, the modern Noah, pointed out that His Ark is as inde-
structible as that of the ancient tradition:
The world’s equilibrium hath been upset through the vibrating
influence of this most great, this new World Order... The Hand of

as it was in the days of noah
Omnipotence hath established His Revelation upon an unassail-
able, and enduring foundation. Storms of human strife are power-
less to undermine its basis, nor will men’s fanciful theories succeed
in damaging its structure. (45)
According to the biblical analogy, as the start of the 21st century is
already past, the increasing depth of trouble during the ‘heart of
darkness’ is to approach its peak at the end of the 40-years of ‘rain’,
that is, in 2011 AD (1971 + 40 = 2011). From this tumultuous year,
the year of peak difficulty, the analogy suggests that while trouble
will remain with us, it will evidently constantly diminish in inten-
sity thereafter. However, only the future will confirm what now lies
ahead for the world. There are, however, a number of surprising
intimations of this future yet to be derived from the flood analogy,
as further outlined in sections XI, XIV and XV.
x - ‘decreed’ vs ‘conditional’ events
As the ‘century of light’, as ‘Abdu’l-Bahá called it, drew to its close
at the end of the year 2000, this deeply troubled world showed the
marks of distress mentioned by Christ when asked about the signs
of His Coming. However, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá often referred to the 20th
century using this very positive expression during the course of nu-
merous presentations in Europe and North America. Perhaps he
used such an expansive term because of his insistence that the seeds
of the much sought after peace of this world would indeed be sown
during that century in spite of continuing difficulties. While war,
global economic injustice and collapse(!), terrorism and the ‘global
warming’ onslaught, are still with us, none-the-less, the major insti-
tutional requirements to maintain global peace have, with great dif-
ficulty, been put in place. The precipitous fall of the ‘Iron Curtain’
in the 1989, a big surprise to virtually everyone, ended the ‘Cold
War’ and helped to accelerate developments toward world peace.
In recent decades, positive developments toward cooperation, col-
laboration and peace include:

so shall the return be
-	 the global community acting through, or in concert with, a
continually evolving United Nations;
-	 the realization that the nations of the world can no longer tol-
erate genocide, as clearly stated by world leaders with regard
to Kosovo, East Timor, Rwanda, the Middle East, and more
recently Darfur, the Congo and others;
-	 the assemblage of multi-national peace-keeping forces deployed
in the Balkans, East Timor, and elsewhere, and the UN accep-
tance of the ‘right to protect’ principle;
-	 the establishment of an International Criminal Court in 2002
to prosecute war crimes and crimes against humanity such
as those perpetrated by dictator Slobodan Milosevic (Bosnia,
Kosovo) and others, and successful extradition hearings for
Gen. A. Pinochet (Chile).
As mentioned, though terror, war, global economic trials of 2008
(which have appeared just before the 2011 flood peak of trials), etc.,
have increased or occurred despite these positive efforts, such insti-
tutional developments are indeed remarkable achievements! But it
also seems remarkable that the flood analogy, and the visions of the
prophet Daniel and the Book of Revelation of so long ago, should
provide important positive insights into global peace and gover-
nance. One is moved to pray that the rogue use of atomic bombs
will be avoided, and will not, therefore, contribute to the expected
peak of the ‘flood of trouble’ in 2011!
While real world events have confirmed many biblical prophecies,
the timing of future events and their metaphorical meaning must
remain potential indicators of a sublime future for the human race.
Bahá’u’lláh, conversing with noted British historian E.G. Browne,
emphasized that world peace is indeed inevitable, saying: “... the Most
Great Peace shall come...” (46). Its timing is less certain, however.
As stated in Matthew: “But of that day and hour knoweth no man...
but my Father only,” and “Watch therefore: for ye know not what
hour your Lord doth come.” (Matthew 24:36 & 42). Thus, we do
not know the exact timing of these events, including the establish-
ment of world peace, despite the fulfilment of numerous biblical
time indicators.

as it was in the days of noah
‘Abdu’l-Bahá throws light on this paradox: “Fate is of two kinds: one
is decreed, and the other is conditional or impending” (47). While
peace is inevitable according to the Judaeo-Christian scriptures
and in the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh, the ‘Return of the Spirit’, the
timing of peace is likely conditional upon on the conscious will of
individuals, nations, and races to bend their efforts in its direction,
in order to conform to the divine timetable.
xi - the waters prevail and abate
The rains are predicted to end after 40 years during 2011 AD or BE
167. And, as the time scales of Figure 5 indicate, for a period of 110
years (150 – 40) after the end of the rains, the waters will continually
recede to the point where the ark comes to rest on a mountain. The
Bible states this will happen in 2121 AD, or BE 277 (120+7+150 =
277), or 277 years after the commencement of the building of the
Ark (the Bahá’í global administrative structure).
Also as indicated in Figure 5, from this year, the waters are to con-
tinue to abate for another 220 years, that is, 277 + 220 = 497 years
after Noah began to construct the Ark — (1,844 + 497 = 2341 AD).
This latter 220-year period is characterized by several important
episodes, in chronological order, involving:
1)	 The released dove which returns to the ark because the flood
waters still seem bewildering and discomfiting; but curiously,
the raven, released at the same time, continues to fly ‘to and fro’
(Genesis 8:9). The corresponding year is 2235 AD or BE 391.
2)	 The dove returns with the olive leaf (Genesis 8:11), a sign that
the waters have truly abated. The equivalent year is 2242 AD
or BE 398. And then,
3)	 The dove does not return unto Noah any more (Genesis 8:12).
The equivalent year is 2249 AD or BE 405. And finally,
4)	 The earth is dried! Go forth from the ark! (Genesis 8:14-16).
The corresponding year is 2341 AD or BE 497.

so shall the return be
Mention of the ‘raven’ is fascinating. Ravens fed Elijah in a time of
drought (I Kings 17:2-7) and the birds have symbolic importance
in other traditions. The Tsimshian people of the Pacific north-west,
for example, believe that the raven causes the outgoing of the tide to
reveal food (clams) on the sea bottom for hungry people to harvest.
And the Haida people of British Columbia’s Queen Charlotte Islands
consider the raven to be not only the ‘trickster’ but also to be the all-
important ‘bringer of light’. Are there not here common themes of
provision of the ‘bread of life’, and of impending ‘salvation’? Does
the raven by moving ‘to and fro’ foster a return to equilibrium by
bringing ‘light’ to consultation between the agencies of the Divine
Governance and that of a maturing global society? Does the work
of the raven promote the ultimate ‘descent from the Ark’ nearly a
century later (497 – 391) when the earth is ‘dry’, as it is destined to
be? Certainly, the imagery of the receding waters and the adventures
of the dove suggest a gradual recovery of the real world from the
ravages of tribulation. This relief leads to a flourishing state of hu-
manity, including implementation of that most cherished universal
peace of which the ‘dove’ and the ‘olive branch’ are ancient, tradi-
tional, enduring and widely accepted symbols. It seems that peace is
to envelope the world some 405 years (2249 – 1844) after the start of
building the Ark. But even then the world continues to face some tri-
als as the earth is not completely ‘dry’, that is, while experiencing an
absence of war, there are still perhaps lingering prejudices, delaying
descent from the ark by a further 92 years (497 – 405) until 2341 AD
or BE 497. Conjecture suggests that this reflects a general acceptance
of the Word of God as delivered by the modern Noah — Bahá’u’lláh!
Thus the inmates of the Ark are now liberated from their refuge, and
find themselves among friends with a common vision. The overall
period suggested for this transformation, is 497 years or close to half
a millennium, just as historical experience would suggest.
xii -	history & traditions
support such timing
Is such a period sufficient for the development of world civiliza-
tion? Only the future will tell, but such a forecast approximately
corresponds to the rise and fall of the three recent civilizations — the

as it was in the days of noah
Western Roman Empire (pre-Christian), Byzantium (Christian) and
Islam (Muslim). Defining dates have been provided by prominent
historian H. G. Wells (48). These have been interpreted and sum-
marized by the writer into Table 1. This same data has also been
incorporated into Figure 6.
Table 1
dating the start, rise and decline
of three prior civilizations
* page numbers pertain to reference (48) in the Bibliography.
** The Qur’an and Islamic Traditions (Hadith) indicate that Islam
would be in need of spiritual renewal, a promise fulfilled by the
Returns of the 12th Imam (fulfilled by the Báb) and Jesus, the
Christ (fulfilled by Bahá’u’lláh), at the ‘end time’ (49). This time
was specified to begin 1260 lunar years (equivalent to 1222 solar
years) after the start of Islam in 622 AD. Note: (622 + 1,222) = 1844
AD, a date also confirmed in eight 1260-year biblical prophecies
(e.g. Daniel 12:7 & Revelation 11:3 & 12:6). These are all in addi-
tion to the 2300-year biblical prophecy of Daniel 8:14-17 detailed
above! One is certainly entitled to a degree of wonderment at the
astonishing correspondence of the biblical and Islamic prophecies
in this respect.
EMPIRE
START	 DIFFERENCE
PEAK
DIFFERENCE
END
SPAN OF


(years)

(years)

CIVILIZATION
1)	Rome
474 BC
89 BC
493 AD

(p 417)*

(p 464)

(p 519)
2)	Byzan-
400 AD
550-1050 AD
1453 AD

tium
(p 554)

(avge 800 AD)

(pp 564 &
(p 771)



(p 563-4)

771)
3)	Islam
622 AD
1,050 AD
1844 AD**
1222**

(p 604)

(p 630-1)

so shall the return be
The graphical representation of the three recent empires in Figure
6 also includes the biblical flood analogy dates suggesting how the
Bahá’í Faith is to unfold during the period of the Millennium as
described in Sections XIII to XV.
These three empires had attained their zeniths approximately 400
to 500 years from the time of their initiation. The Western Roman
Empire ended by splitting in two leaving Byzantium in the East.
Byzantium ceased to be when Constantinople fell to the Muslim
armies early in the 15th century AD, a cycle lasting approximately
1000 years. Thus do both biblical and Islamic writings record the
foresight, as mentioned above, that spiritual renewal for Islamic
civilization would occur in 1222 solar years, ending in 1844 AD,
the year the Báb declared that the Islamic period was completed and
a new age had indeed begun!
Revelation (20:1-10) again identifies that period calling it, ‘the
thousand years’ (Millennium). This is a period of time ushered in
by the Báb (the ‘Lamb’ as in Revelation 5:6), and, ‘He Who sits
upon the throne of glory’ (Bahá’u’lláh, Revelation 5:1&7). It is a
period when peace and unity are to ultimately prevail as the bases
of ‘the Kingdom of God on Earth’, that is, a spiritually-oriented
global civilization. This reference continues to say that the end of
the Millennium will see the release of trouble once again but only
for a ‘short time’ (see point 5 of Figure 6). In terms of timing, the
Judaeo-Christian vision appears to end there.
The Writings of the Guardian of the Bahá’í Faith, Shoghi Effendi,
affirm that Bahá’u’lláh is the prime inaugurator of that long-await-
ed Millennium of 1000 years (50). Bahá’u’lláh affirmed this approxi-
mate projection into the future before the next renewal, when He
indicated that another Manifestation of God would come in ap-
proximately 1000 years:

At that hour will the Mystic Herald, bearing the joyful tidings
of the Spirit, shine forth from the City of God resplendent as the
morn, and through the trumpet blast of knowledge, will awaken
the heart, the soul and the spirit from the slumber of heedlessness...
Once in about a thousand years will this City be renewed and re-
adorned. (51)

as it was in the days of noah
YEAR 	 -500
BC
AD	 +500
+1000
+1500
+2000
+2500
PEAK 
START/ 
END
Western
Roman
Islam
Byzantium
Biblically-derived  ‘Rise of the Kingdom’
figure 6 - graphical representation of the rise and
fall of three recent civilizations
CE
BE
5	-	2844  .   1,000
4	-	2341  .   .   450
3	-	2204  .   .   360
2	-	1963  .   .   120
1	-	1844  .   .   .   .  0

so shall the return be
Thus, it seems that the rhythm of the rise and fall of religion, and
of the civilizations generated, throbs to a drumbeat of a half and
a whole millennium! The flood analogy suggests the encouraging
possibility, as described in the remainder of this essay, that the uni-
versally anticipated global society, the embodiment of the Judaeo-
Christian hope, that is, the ‘Kingdom of God on Earth’, will be
flourishing in an era of peace after the elapse of half a millennium
from its starting point in 1844.
xiii - two preludes to the
‘most great peace’
There are at least two additional and substantial Biblical insights,
considered by the writer to add important events to the Flood anal-
ogy. This is because they contribute substantially to the unfoldment
of peace and the development of a truly stable, spiritually-oriented
world society during the first half of the first millennium of the
Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh. These both illuminate the substance
and timing of key developments consistent with the analogy. These
insights are that:
1)	‘twelve fruits will drop from the Tree of Life for the healing of
nations’ (Revelation 22:1-2), and
2)	not only will the ‘thrones be cast down’ (Daniel 7:9), but also
the ‘rest of the beasts’ (kings & rulers), already having lost their
sovereignty, will then ‘lose their life’ (Daniel 7:12).
xiv- ‘twelve fruits’ for the
‘healing of nations’
Perhaps the most important use of the terms ‘Tree’ or ‘Tree of Life’
in the Bahá’í Writings is the provision of a beautiful symbol for the
Revelators of God Who are truly inspired by the Holy Spirit, and re-
veal the Word of God to all humanity. In two examples, Bahá’u’lláh
says of Himself (emphasis & brackets added):

as it was in the days of noah
Verily, this is that Most Great Beauty, foretold in the Books of the
Messengers, through Whom truth shall be distinguished from error
and the wisdom of every command shall be tested. Verily, He is the
Tree of Life that bringeth forth the fruits of God (16). And,

O people! I swear by the one true God! ... From Him all the Suns
[Prophets] have been generated, and unto Him they will all return.
Through His potency the Trees of Divine Revelation have yielded
their fruits, every one of which hath been sent down in the form
of a Prophet, bearing a Message to God’s creatures in each of the
worlds whose number God, alone, in His all encompassing knowl-
edge, can reckon. (52)
Whereas the term ‘Tree of Life’ applies generally to all Prophets or
Revelators, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá affirms that the term ‘Tree’ in the above
citation pertains particularly to Bahá’u’lláh (53). The ‘tree’ imagery
employed by Bahá’u’lláh in these and other passages finds rich par-
allels and precursors in the Judaeo-Christian scriptures.
Such is particularly true of the Book of Revelation. Bahá’u’lláh con-
firms that this Book is at least in part revealed by Christ Himself
from the ‘Realm of Glory’ (2). In Revelation, these intriguing pro-
phetic verses begin with Chapter 2. In this chapter, we read (with
the writer’s interpolation and emphasis added):
“He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit [Bahá’u’lláh]
saith unto the seven churches; To him that overcometh will I give
to eat of the tree of life, which is in the midst of the paradise of
God”. (Revelation 2:7)
Both Bahá’u’lláh as ‘Remover of the seals’ and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá as the
‘Interpreter’ explain that the words ‘temple’, ‘church’, ‘synagogue’
and ‘tabernacle’ all refer to the Prophets of God and their religions.
About this matter, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states (54):
... Therefore it is evident that the church is a collective centre for
mankind. For this reason there have been churches and temples
in all the divine religions; but the real collective centres are the
Manifestations of God, of Whom the church or temple is a symbol

so shall the return be
or expression. That is to say the Manifestation of God is the real
divine temple of which the outer church is but a symbol.
Thus the ‘seven churches’ are interpreted to refer to seven major
Revelators and Their religions: Sabaean, Jewish, Hindu, Zoroastrian,
Buddhist, Christian, and Muslim. These religions are those in exis-
tence prior to the coming of the Báb, and that existed in the ‘Asia’
of Christ’s time, with Turkey at its Western extremity as in Roman
times when the Book of Revelation was penned. And, in the Bible’s
last Chapter it says (emphasis and brackets added):
And he [an Angel] showed me a pure river of the water of life, clear
as crystal, proceeding out of the throne of God [Bahá’u’lláh’s heav-
enly throne, or, Carmel the Centre of His Faith] and the Lamb [the
‘slain’ Báb]. In the midst of the street of it [the ‘City of God’]), and
on either side of the river was there the tree of life, which bare twelve
manner of fruits, and yielded her fruit every month: and the leaves
of the tree were for the healing of nations. (Revelation 22:1-2)
Although it has two roots (Bahá’u’lláh and the Báb), one on either side
of the ‘river of life’, this single ‘tree of life’ (in this case Bahá’u’lláh)
provides the spiritual teachings necessary for ‘individual salvation’,
the ‘healing of nations’, and the ‘making of all things new’. These
salient aspects of the ‘Kingdom on Earth’ are to be initiated by the
‘Christ returned’ in the ‘glory of the Father’ — Bahá’u’lláh.
Mention in this verse (Revelation 22:2) of a specific number of fruits,
is very significant from a Bahá’í point of view. Bahá’ís speak of the
‘Twelve Bahá’í Principles’ (see Appendix II) which represent a brief
summary of some of the major tenets of the Bahá’í Revelation which
stemmed from the pens of Bahá’u’lláh and the Báb. This twelve part
summary of Bahá’í belief may be considered as the ‘fruits’ of the
Bahá’í Revelation. In various forms, these principles were broadcast
far and wide by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá during his journeys in the West (1911
& 12 AD), and subsequently by that army of Bahá’í teachers who
have literally circled and settled around the entire globe.
The dropping of ‘one fruit each month’ raises the possibility that
this is another time prophecy. Important examples of such time
projections have been interpreted by the Central Figures of the

as it was in the days of noah
Bahá’í Faith, including three of the following four examples (some
previously detailed):
1)	 The Crucifixion of Christ after 70 weeks or 490 years (Daniel
9:26) ending in 34 AD, a traditional Christian interpretation
confirmed by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá (12);
2)	 The beginning of historical processes enabling the Return of
the Jews to the Holy Land after a ‘dispersal of seven times’ or
2520 years (Leviticus 26:19-28; Deuteronomy 28:64-65), end-
ing in 1844 AD as the ‘British Israelites’ believe (55);
3)	 The ‘Cleansing of the Sanctuary’ and the ‘end of the abomi-
nation’ after 2300 years (Daniel 8:14), a traditional Christian
interpretation confirmed by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá (53), and
4)	 The nine 1260 lunar year (3-1/2 ‘times’) prophecies of Daniel
& Revelation relating to the ‘Return’ in the ‘last days’, like-
wise confirmed by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá (53).
All these relate to universal fulfilment in 1844 AD, the advent of the
Bahá’í Faith, and the start date for all the flood projections.
As ‘fruits from the tree’ are to be eaten, as the story of Adam and
Eve eating the apple in the Garden of Eden suggests, ingesting these
fruits has inevitable spiritual consequences, in this case positive
ones!
It is further suggested that when all the fruits have dropped from
the Tree, they will indeed be assimilated by humanity, that is to say,
when all the spiritual principles will have been widely disseminated
and internalized by the bulk of humanity, the spiritual foundation
upon which the ‘Kingdom of God on Earth’ is to be erected will al-
ready be in place. This general perspective is confirmed by ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá stating:
Now is the time for the lovers of God to raise high the banners
of unity, to intone, in the assemblages of the world, the verses of
friendship and love and to demonstrate to all that the grace of
God is one. Thus will the tabernacles of holiness be upraised on

so shall the return be
the summits of the earth, gathering all peoples into the protective
shadow of the Word of Oneness. This great bounty will dawn over
the world at the time when the lovers of God shall arise to carry out
His Teachings, and to scatter far and wide the fresh, sweet scents of
universal love. (56)
To gain some biblical insight into how long a period might be re-
quired for this all-important spiritualizing process to be essentially
completed, one may undertake an analysis of certain biblical proph-
ecies employing principles familiar to many Christians and which
are confirmed by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá (53).
As also employed above: from Genesis 7:11, 7:24, and 8:3, we learn
that 5 months = 150 days; therefore one scriptural month = 30 days.
Numbers 14:34 indicates that ‘one day is as a year’; so the 30 days
become 30 years, the time required for each fruit to drop to help
nourish the spiritual life of humanity to establish the Kingdom.
As there are twelve fruits that drop from the ‘Tree’ specified in
Revelation, the entire process of spiritualization by the principles of
the Renewed Gospel will evidently require: 12 months X 30 years per
month, or 360 years, a period otherwise known as a ‘time’ (Daniel
12:6-7; ‘time, times & 1/2 a time’ = 3-1/2 times = 1260 years).
The completion of this process, begun in 1844 AD with the
Declaration of the Báb, will evidently occur in (1844 + 360) = 2204
AD or BE 360, a solar year being applicable to the period Bahá’ís
call the ‘Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh’, as indicated in Figure 5.
At the time of writing, some 164 complete years (1844 – 2008)
had elapsed since the Báb’s Declaration began the Dispensation of
Bahá’u’lláh. Thus, in that year we had not yet reached the half-way
point on the road to this glorious future landmark in the history of
the world. Humankind takes time to learn its lessons! But clearly,
this spiritualizing process is an essential precursor to the establish-
ment of a lasting peace. The projected timing suggests that internal-
ization of a spiritual nature (symbolized by the fact that the released
dove does not return) is to precede the actual peace by some 45
years (2249 – 2204 in Figure 5). And further, 92 years beyond 2249,
or in 2341 AD (BE 497), the reign of peace will have permitted all
the remaining difficulties to be overcome, and the world will ‘be

as it was in the days of noah
as it ought to be’ according to the timetable of the Divine Plan as
outlined by the Noah analogy.
Regarding this ‘future history’, the Bahá’í Writings speak of a
‘greater Plan’, occurring outside the Bahá’í Faith and associated
with social progress in the world-at-large. About this Plan Shoghi
Effendi says:
Such simultaneous processes of rise and of fall, of integration and of
disintegration, of order and chaos, with their continuous and recip-
rocal reactions on each other, are but aspects of a greater Plan, one
and indivisible, whose Source is God, whose author is Bahá’u’lláh,
the theatre of whose operations is the entire planet, and whose ul-
timate objectives are the unity of the human race and the peace of
all mankind. (57)
It seems clear that as part of this ‘Greater Plan’, some Bahá’í fruits
have already dropped from this ‘Tree of Life’, and have been ingest-
ed substantially by humanity-at-large, in accord with the Will of
Bahá’u’lláh. Some of these principles are clearly identifiable includ-
ing: the initial structures of world government, a world judiciary,
and the means of collective security to maintain the peace. These are
now in place, as described above in connection with this ‘century of
light’ as spoken of by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.
The principle of the ‘equality of women and men’ (the 6th ‘fruit of
the ‘Tree’) was promulgated in the middle of the 19th century during
the Dispensation of the Báb. Tahirih, a famous early female disciple
of the Báb, stated immediately before her martyrdom that: “You
may kill me as soon as you like, but you cannot stop the emancipa-
tion of women!” (58). Such a statement was met with widespread
scorn at that time, but the seeds of this principle have been sown
widely, and substantially ingested into the life of a significant por-
tion of the world’s population. Nor can this principle now be ig-
nored by the remaining areas of the world that still embrace a more
traditional view of the role of women.
The same statement can be made about other Bahá’í principles
such as: racial equality, universal education, etc. The encouraging
implication in this biblical foresight is that humanity’s ingestion of

so shall the return be
spiritual virtue will attain a significant stage of fruition some two
centuries from now!
xv - ‘thrones are cast down’
& ‘kings lose life’
Daniel prophesied that when the ‘Ancient of Days’ (Bahá’u’lláh)
would sit on the throne of God, ‘the thrones were to be cast down’
and the kings ‘would have their dominion taken away’ (Daniel 7:9-
12); as further described below. Regarding the fate of the kings and
rulers of that era, Bahá’u’lláh announced around 1870 AD (brackets
added):
From two ranks of men power hath been seized: kings and ecclesi-
astics... If ye (the kings & rulers) pay no heed... unto the counsels
which... We have revealed in this Tablet, Divine Chastisement
shall assail you from every direction... (59)
Elaborating on this pronouncement, Shoghi Effendi made a star-
tling observation regarding the sovereignty of the kings and ecclesi-
astics of the present era, when he wrote to the Bahá’ís of the world
(emphasis added):
Dear friends! The decline in the fortunes of the crowned wielders of
temporal power has been paralleled by a no less startling deteriora-
tion in the influence exercised by the world’s spiritual leaders. The
colossal events that have heralded the dissolution of so many king-
doms and empires have almost synchronized with the crumbling of
the seemingly inviolable strongholds of religious orthodoxy. That
same process which, swiftly and tragically, sealed the doom of kings
and emperors, and extinguished their dynasties, has operated in
the case of the ecclesiastical leaders of both Christianity and Islam,
damaging their prestige, and, in some cases, overthrowing their
highest institutions. ‘Power hath been seized’ indeed from both
‘kings and ecclesiastics’. The glory of the former has been eclipsed,
the power of the latter irretrievably lost. (60)
As previously noted, befitting His station as the ‘King of Kings’,
Bahá’u’lláh addressed a series of letters to the kings and rulers of His
time. In these earth-shaking, historic Letters, He offered them the

as it was in the days of noah
‘Most Great Peace’ should they recognize Him as manifesting such
biblical characterizations as: the ‘One like unto the Son of Man’,
the ‘Prince of Peace’, the ‘Return of the Spirit’ and the ‘Ancient of
Days’ seated on the ‘throne of glory’, etc. Sadly, they failed to take
heed. Beginning with Napoleon III in 1870 AD, as a result of the
Franco-Prussian War, he and almost all autocratic and tyrannical
rulers, particularly in Europe and the Middle East, suffered Daniel’s
predicted ‘downfall’ resulting from continual wars including the
two devastating World Wars, and the continuing anarchy evident
in many parts of the world! This rejection was reflected in a further
letter from Bahá’u’lláh to the rulers.
Now that ye have refused the Most Great Peace, hold ye fast unto
this, the Lesser Peace, that haply ye may in some degree better your
own condition and that of your dependents. O rulers of the earth!
Be reconciled among yourselves, that ye may need no more arma-
ments save in a measure to safeguard your territories and domin-
ions. Beware lest ye disregard the counsel of the All Knowing, the
Faithful. Be united, O kings of the earth, for thereby will the tem-
pest of discord be stilled amongst you, …if ye be of them that com-
prehend. Should any one among you take up arms against another,
rise ye all against him, for this is naught but manifest justice. (61)
Bahá’u’lláh’s instructions to the kings and rulers to bring into be-
ing the means of collective security to end war, represent a graphic
example of His inspired vision, particularly when one considers
that only now is this dictum being taken seriously with: the gradual
application of collective security under the United Nations; now
formally called the ‘Right to Protect’; including the formation of
a ‘rapid strike force’ to enforce that security; the apprehension of
war criminals; and the establishment of a war crimes tribunal in the
form of the International Criminal Court as previously mentioned.
Despite this progress, the rulers of Bahá’u’lláh’s time clearly failed
their test, i.e., they failed to play the role the Almighty had designed
for them. Thus they were destined to suffer, along with all humanity,
the promised ‘Judgement’ of the ‘last days’, or to use Bahá’u’lláh’s
term, the ‘Divine Chastisement’. Though the Most Great Peace
eluded them, Bahá’u’lláh never-the-less promised the coming of the
‘Lesser Peace’ — a political, as opposed to a spiritually-based, peace.

so shall the return be
The onset of the sublime ‘Most Great Peace’ would consequently
require a longer period of spiritual evolution on the part of human-
kind featuring the ingestion of the fruits from the ‘Tree of Life’.
Are there any specific indications of how long would be the period
of changeover from a traditional kings/rulers form of governance to
one which would express the virtues of the Kingdom, as foreseen in
Isaiah 9:6-7? Substantial time indicators are indeed to be found in
the Book of the Prophet Daniel, many of which have already been
fulfilled. With regard to ‘thrones’, Daniel Chapter 7 prophesies
additional future events that are to take place in the ‘Latter Day’.
Daniel’s use of the word ‘beast’ is symbolically interpreted to mean
‘king’ as the context of the following prophecy suggests (emphasis
and brackets added):
I beheld till the thrones were cast down, and the Ancient of days
[Bahá’u’lláh] did sit, whose garment was white as snow, and the
hair of his head like the pure wool: his throne was like the fiery
flame, and his wheels as burning fire. A fiery stream issued and
came forth from before him: thousand thousands ministered unto
him, and ten thousand times ten thousand stood before him: the
judgement was set, and the books were opened. I beheld then be-
cause of the voice of the great words which the horn spake: I beheld
even till the beast was slain, and his body destroyed, and given to
the burning flame. As concerning the rest of the beasts, they had
their dominion taken away: yet their lives were prolonged for a
season and time. I saw in the night visions, and, behold, one like
the Son of man came with the clouds of heaven, and came to the
Ancient of days, and they brought him near before him. And there
was given him dominion, and glory, and a kingdom, that all people,
nations, and languages, should serve him: his dominion is an ever-
lasting dominion, which shall not pass away, and his kingdom that
which shall not be destroyed. (Daniel 7:9-14)
Because Bahá’u’lláh and His Faith arose within Islam, some of the
imagery regarding ‘beasts’ in Daniel and Revelation refer to the
rulers of Islam: the caliphs, the shahs and the sultans, from whom
spiritual sovereignty had been seized by Bahá’u’lláh. As promised
by Him, all of these institutions are now extinct. For example, the
Sultanate, the leading and most powerful ruling institution of the

as it was in the days of noah
Islamic world, was abolished in the aftermath of WWI — indeed,
the ‘beast was slain’.
However, in addition to saying that the ‘thrones were to be cast
down’, a little later Daniel raises the matter of the ‘rest of the beasts’.
These provide a further indication of a general process of loss of
sovereignty and power for kings not confined to Islam only. Shoghi
Effendi describes this litany of falling kings and empires vividly as
follows (brackets added):
This process, so gigantic, so catastrophic, may be said to have had
its inception on that memorable night when, in an obscure corner
of Shiraz, the Báb, in the presence of the First Letter to believe in
Him, revealed the first chapter of His celebrated commentary on
the Surih of Joseph, in which He trumpeted His Call to the sover-
eigns and princes of the earth. It passed from incubation to visible
manifestation when Bahá’u’lláh’s prophecies, enshrined for all time
in the Suriy-i-Haykal, and uttered before Napoleon III’s dramatic
downfall and the self imposed imprisonment of Pope Pius IX in the
Vatican, were fulfilled. It gathered momentum when, in the days
of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, the Great War extinguished the Romanov, the
Hohenzollern, and Hapsburg dynasties, and converted powerful
time honoured monarchies into republics. It was further acceler-
ated, soon after ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s passing, by the demise of the effete
Qajar dynasty in Persia, and the stupendous collapse of both the
Sultanate and the Caliphate. It is still operating, under our very
eyes, as we behold the fate which, in the course of this colossal and
ravaging struggle, is successively overtaking the crowned heads of
the European continent. Surely, no man, contemplating dispassion-
ately the manifestations of this relentless revolutionizing process,
within comparatively so short a time, can escape the conclusion that
the last hundred years (say 1850 to 1950) may well be regarded, in
so far as the fortunes of royalty are concerned, as one of the most
cataclysmic periods in the annals of mankind. (62)
The loss of sovereignty by the Caliphate/Sultanate, was to be fol-
lowed by a similar loss on the part of kings everywhere, that is, by
the ‘rest of the beasts’, but evidently not right away, as the following
excerpt from the earlier quotation indicates:

so shall the return be
As concerning the rest of the beasts, they had their dominion taken
away: yet their lives were prolonged for a season and time. (Daniel
7:12)
So we are lead to believe that kingship is to survive, at least for a
time, and some kings are to live past their loss of sovereignty, pre-
sumably functioning as ‘constitutional monarchs’, devoid of secular
power but maintaining the trappings of power, tradition and wealth,
and hopefully functioning as virtuous examples.
This verse further provides the first indication of timing for these
events, as hinted at earlier. Using the time scales explained previ-
ously, there are four ‘seasons’ in a year, with three months in each
season, and 30 days in each month, so that three months have 90
days. And, as ‘each day is as a year’, the season becomes 90 years
in length. If a season is one quarter of a ‘time’, a ‘time’ must be 360
years in length, a matter which is corroborated above by the fulfil-
ment of other ‘time’ prophecies in the Bible. Thus, in the writer’s
view, the simplest possibility, is that the last signs of ‘life’ in these
national dynasties are to disappear 450 years (360+90) after 1844
AD, or 2294 AD, giving way to the Kingdom’s institutions as Daniel
7:9-14 (p 46) suggests.
Some kings however, seem destined to play an important role in this
transition from secular rule to that of the Kingdom. Historically,
there is an important precedent for such a kingly contribution to de-
velopment. Early in the fourth century AD, Constantine, Emperor
of Rome, assembled the leaders of the Christian Church in Nicaea.
There, on behalf of his peoples, he formally declared the empire to
be Christian, concluding a process that required a little more than
three centuries.
In the Book of Revelation there are ten references to ‘good beasts’
who pay obeisance to Him Who is seated on the ‘throne of glory’
(Bahá’u’lláh), as well as to the ‘slain Lamb’ (the Báb) on the right side
of the throne. For example, Revelation says that (emphasis added):
... before the throne there was a sea of glass like unto crystal: and
in the midst of the throne, and round about the throne, were four
beasts... and they were full of eyes within: and they rest not day and

as it was in the days of noah
night, saying, Holy, holy, holy, Lord God Almighty, which was, and
is, and is to come [Revelation 4:6-11]. And further we read: And
every creature which is in heaven, and on the earth, and under the
earth, and such as are in the sea, and all that are in them, heard I
saying, Blessing, and honour, and glory, and power, be unto him that
sitteth upon the throne, and unto the Lamb for ever and ever. And
the four beasts said, Amen. And the four and twenty elders fell down
and worshipped him that liveth for ever and ever. (Rev 5:13-14)
In summary, as derived from the ten references to ‘good kings’,
Revelation suggests a number of important matters related to such
kings and rulers:
1)	 They ‘circle round the throne of glory’, that is, they express

adoration for Bahá’u’lláh, the Lord on the throne, and serve
Him ‘day and night’.
2)	 They are gifted with ‘eyes within’, that is, they possess the
spiritual insight necessary to recognize that Lord even if long
after the date of His return.
3)	 They are adored by the ‘host’ of believers pertaining to the
ninth Revelation — the Bahá’í Revelation — implicit in the
Book of Revelation.
4)	 In the writer’s view, these are the followers of Bahá’u’lláh, those
who are uniquely capable of ‘singing the new song’, that is, they
are capable of believing in, and promoting, the new Gospel.
Note that the ‘earthly sovereignty’ of secular kings and rulers be-
comes the ‘heavenly sovereignty’ of the ‘King of Kings’ in close to
the half millennium period suggested by the examples of major de-
velopments of civilization in the past. This sovereignty of the ‘King
of Kings’ is, however, to last forever as Daniel suggests!
This magnificent, final outcome — the reign of the ‘King of Kings’  –
is detailed authoritatively by Shoghi Effendi (emphasis and brack-
ets added):

so shall the return be
Let no one, while this System [the Bahá’í Faith and its Institutions] is
still in its infancy, misconceive its character, belittle its significance or
misrepresent its purpose. The bedrock on which this Administrative
Order is founded is God’s immutable Purpose for mankind in this
day. The Source from which it derives its inspiration is no one less
than Bahá’u’lláh Himself. Its shield and defender are the embattled
hosts of the Abha Kingdom. Its seed is the blood of no less than twen-
ty thousand martyrs who have offered up their lives that it may be
born and flourish. The axis round which its institutions revolve are
the authentic provisions of the Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.
Its guiding principles are the truths which He Who is the unerring
Interpreter of the teachings of our Faith has so clearly enunciated in
His public addresses throughout the West. The laws that govern its
operation and limit its functions are those which have been expressly
ordained in the Kitab i Aqdas [Book of Laws]. The seat round which
its spiritual, its humanitarian and administrative activities will clus-
ter are the Mashriqu’l-Adhkar [Bahá’í House of Worship] and its
Dependencies. The pillars that sustain its authority and buttress its
structure are the twin institutions of the Guardianship and of the
Universal House of Justice. The central, the underlying aim which
animates it is the establishment of the New World Order as adum-
brated by Bahá’u’lláh. The methods it employs, the standard it in-
culcates, incline it to neither East nor West, neither Jew nor Gentile,
neither rich nor poor, neither white nor colored. Its watch-word is the
unification of the human race; its standard the “Most Great Peace”;
its consummation the advent of that golden millennium — the Day
when the kingdoms of this world shall have become the Kingdom of
God Himself, the Kingdom of Bahá’u’lláh. (63)
Thus, according to the Noah analogy, after the passage of a ‘time
and a season’, or 450 years after the start of building the Ark, the es-
tablishment of ‘divine governance’ on the shoulders of Bahá’u’lláh’
is forecast to begin in (1844 + 450) = 2294 AD or BE 450. Again,
such a development is a necessary precursor to the final consumma-
tion of ‘descending from the ark’ anticipated to occur about a half
century later, in 2341 AD or BE 497.
That such processes are centuries long, is indirectly affirmed by
‘Abdu’l-Bahá in his letter to author Edward Granville Browne:

as it was in the days of noah
... you should so endeavour that in future centuries your history
may become the undisputed authority, nay be considered sacred
history, and accepted both by the communities of the people of the
Kingdom and the just amongst the people of the world, because the
greatness of this Cause is not as evident as it should be, due to the
repressive measures repeatedly taken... and the severity of assaults,
but ere long will its Truth, like unto the luminous sun, be seen and
discerned. (64)
xvi - ‘i will establish my covenant’
While a devastating affliction was visited upon humankind during
the ancient flood, the promises God made to Noah suggest that no
identical universal, literal affliction will ever again be visited upon
humankind. Presumably, Christ referred us back to the Noah story,
not only to help us understand the nature of our times in general,
but also to alert us to the significance of the sweeping Covenants
made by God with Noah. Among those Covenants are:
1)	 I will not again curse the ground any more for man’s sake.

(Genesis 8:21)
2)	While the earth remaineth, seed time and harvest and cold and
heat, and summer and winter, and day and night shall not cease.
(Genesis 8:22)
3)	 And I will establish my covenant with you; neither shall all flesh
be cut off any more by the waters of a flood. (Genesis 9:11)
4)	 This is the token of the covenant which I have established be-
tween me and all flesh that is upon the earth. (Genesis 9:17)
This strongly suggests, by virtue of repetition three times, that hu-
man life upon the earth and the renewal of civilization are part of a
continuum for ‘perpetual generations’ (Genesis 9:12), even beyond
the dramatic, so-called ‘end’ trials forecast by Christ in Matthew 24.
Further, this continuum has a universal aspect, as this Covenant is
between ‘Me and all flesh that is upon the upon the earth’.

so shall the return be
So it is that Bahá’u’lláh, the modern Noah, has come, not to preside
over the ‘end’ but rather to make a new Covenant with all human-
ity to carry it far into the new age of the future. Of this the Bahá’í
Writings state:
That which is conducive to the regeneration of the world and the
salvation of the peoples and kindreds of the earth hath been sent
down from the heaven of the utterance of Him Who is the Desire
of the world... (65 – Bahá’u’lláh)

It is indubitably clear that the pivot of the oneness of mankind is
nothing else but the power of the Covenant. (66 – Bahá’u’lláh)
In every Dispensation, the light of Divine Guidance has been fo-
cussed upon one central theme... In this wondrous Revelation, this
glorious century [20th century], the Foundation of the Faith of
God, and the distinguishing feature of His Law is the consciousness
of the oneness of mankind. (67 – Shoghi Effendi)
Therefore, unity represents a truly fundamental aspect of the new
Gospel, the renewed Covenant, and the global future.
xvii - ‘all things made new’
Thus, according to the flood analogy, there is to be an ‘emergence’
from the Ark half a millennium from the coming of the Bahá’í Faith.
The apparent leavening effect of the new Gospel will have helped
humanity overcome the flood-associated trials. That leavening will
have penetrated into the life of the world to the extent that unity and
peace will have been firmly established, and the Divine Governance
implemented. Virtually then, ‘all things will have been made new’.
This promise is clearly stated in Revelation in the following em-
phatic words:
And he that sat upon the throne said, Behold, I make all things new.
And he said unto me, Write: for these words are true and faithful.
(Revelation 21:5)

as it was in the days of noah
Thus, this promise, already fulfilled in the spiritual sense by the
Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh, will find itself fully reflected in a global
society ‘on earth’ as well. And finally, with respect to this promise,
Bahá’u’lláh says:
The whole earth is now in a state of pregnancy. The day is ap-
proaching when it will have yielded its noblest fruits, when from
it will have sprung the loftiest trees, the most enchanting blossoms,
the most heavenly blessings. Immeasurably exalted is the breeze
that wafteth from the garment of thy Lord, the Glorified! For lo, it
hath breathed its fragrance and made all things new! Well is it with
them that comprehend. (68)
Further, the manner in which ‘all things are to be made new’ is elo-
quently expressed in some detail by Shoghi Effendi in his descrip-
tion of the coming establishment of a world commonwealth:
The unity of the human race, as envisaged by Bahá’u’lláh, implies
the establishment of a world commonwealth in which all nations,
races, creeds and classes are closely and permanently united, and in
which the autonomy of its state members and the personal freedom
and initiative of the individuals that compose them are definitely
and completely safeguarded. This commonwealth must, as far as
we can visualize it, consist of a world legislature, whose members
will, as the trustees of the whole of mankind, ultimately control the
entire resources of all the component nations, and will enact such
laws as shall be required to regulate the life, satisfy the needs and
adjust the relationships of all races and peoples. A world executive,
backed by an international Force, will carry out the decisions ar-
rived at, and apply the laws enacted by, this world legislature, and
will safeguard the organic unity of the whole commonwealth. A
world tribunal will adjudicate and deliver its compulsory and final
verdict in all and any disputes that may arise between the various
elements constituting this universal system.
A mechanism of world intercommunication will be devised, em-
bracing the whole planet, freed from national hindrances and
restrictions, and functioning with marvellous swiftness and per-
fect regularity. A world metropolis will act as the nerve centre of
a world civilization, the focus towards which the unifying forces

so shall the return be
of life will converge and from which its energizing influences will
radiate. A world language will either be invented or chosen from
among the existing languages and will be taught in the schools of
all the federated nations as an auxiliary to their mother tongue. A
world script, a world literature, a uniform and universal system
of currency, of weights and measures, will simplify and facilitate
intercourse and understanding among the nations and races of
mankind. In such a world society, science and religion, the two
most potent forces in human life, will be reconciled, will cooperate,
and will harmoniously develop. The press will, under such a system,
while giving full scope to the expression of the diversified views and
convictions of mankind, cease to be mischievously manipulated by
vested interests, whether private or public, and will be liberated
from the influence of contending governments and peoples. The
economic resources of the world will be organized, its sources of
raw materials will be tapped and fully utilized, its markets will be
coordinated and developed, and the distribution of its products will
be equitably regulated.
National rivalries, hatreds, and intrigues will cease, and racial
animosity and prejudice will be replaced by racial amity, under-
standing and cooperation. The causes of religious strife will be
permanently removed, economic barriers and restrictions will
be completely abolished, and the inordinate distinction between
classes will be obliterated. Destitution on the one hand, and gross
accumulation of ownership on the other, will disappear. The enor-
mous energy dissipated and wasted on war, whether economic or
political, will be consecrated to such ends as will extend the range
of human inventions and technical development, to the increase
of the productivity of mankind, to the extermination of disease, to
the extension of scientific research, to the raising of the standard of
physical health, to the sharpening and refinement of the human
brain, to the exploitation of the unused and unsuspected resources
of the planet, to the prolongation of human life, and to the further-
ance of any other agency that can stimulate the intellectual, the
moral, and spiritual life of the entire human race. (69)

as it was in the days of noah
xviii - reprise and concluding comments
What indeed, hath God wrought? Though Himself independent of
time and space, He has graciously provided humanity with detailed
scriptural foresights and proofs of the development of His human
creature from infancy in ancient times to maturity in our time. With
respect particularly to the ‘Second Coming of the Christ’, these tra-
ditions have been fulfilled in wondrous manner with the advents of
the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh. The following array summarizes some of
the major aspects of these awe-inspiring biblical foresights:
1) 	The beginning year of the ‘end time’, and of the ‘Return’
processes, that is, 1844 AD, is specified in nine biblical time
prophecies, and by Jesus Himself speaking to the Disciples
regarding the spread of His Gospel around the entire world at
the ‘end time’, a matter confirmed by history.
2)	The prophet Malachi promised the 2nd ‘Return of Elijah
Who must first come before the great and dreadful Day of the
Lord’. This foresight was fulfilled in 1844 AD in the Person of
the Báb (meaning ‘gate’), Whom Ezekiel titled the ‘Gate’.
3)	The Martyrdom of the Báb was foreseen biblically in the Book
of Revelation by His being styled as the ‘slain Lamb’ as part of
the Return processes.
4)	The promised ‘Second Coming of the Christ’, was revealed in
the Person of Bahá’u’lláh, Who was titled also by the prophet
Ezekiel as the ‘Glory of God’. He it was Who was biblically
ordained to declare Himself to the world soon after that
‘Return of Elijah’, His Forerunner.
5)	This ‘King of Kings’, Bahá’u’lláh, was biblically required to
be a descendant of ‘Jesse’ and ‘King David’, as indeed He was,
even though He came from the ‘east’!
6)	It was also Ezekiel who foresaw that the origins of the two
Promised Ones were to be from the ‘east’ of the Holy Land
(Persia and Iraq). Further in this regard,

so shall the return be
7)	The prophet Micah foresaw that Bahá’u’lláh would come
from the ‘Assyria’ of ancient times, corresponding to Iraq in
modern times.
8)	Bahá’u’lláh’s journeys from ‘Assyria’ as a prisoner of rulers
were also biblically detailed by the Prophet Micah.
9)	The ultimate destination of that ‘Glory of the Lord’, as
biblically required, was indeed the Holy Land, Akka/Carmel
in particular.
10)	The mission of the Returned Christ is broadly outlined to
include the Revelation contained in the ‘Book in His right
hand’; the ‘removal of the seals from the Book’; the Revelation
of matters not revealed in Jesus’ time because humanity could
not ‘bear them’ then; the Revelation of ‘things to come’; and
finally, the Revelation necessary to ‘make all things new’.
11)	The duration of the Mission of this ‘Glory of God’ was
biblically predetermined to be 40 years as history shows. And
finally,
12)	The fascinating saga of the Return of the Lord and the beginnings
and development of the ‘Kingdom of God on earth’ were all to
unfold in metaphorical manner in accord with the phrase ‘But
as the days of Noe were, so shall also the coming of the Son of
man be’. To this point in history, such has indeed been the case!
And, there are further foresights that are to yet to unfold in the
future!
These traditions summarize the most extensive fulfilment of reli-
gious traditions in all of human history! Has not this ‘proof’ been
placed before us in order that we might understand the depth and
breadth of God’s Plan for Humanity in this Day, and undertake the
necessary actions to assist in this realization of the Kingdom of God
on this earth? Each of us is personally advised in this Day to seek
the answer to this very question by ‘testing the spirits’ as St. Paul
enjoined us!

as it was in the days of noah
Finally, as we have seen, the major aspects of this Kingdom are: the
unity of all the folds, peoples, nations, tribes and tongues, and uni-
versal peace. So shall this journey through the flood of trials end,
thankfully on a note of great optimism for the fore-ordained estab-
lishment of the Kingdom. The Bahá’í Faith, the faith proclaimed by
Bahá’u’lláh, the ‘King of Kings’, has become, in little more than 160
years, one of the fastest growing of the world religions. Its followers
reside in virtually every nation, representing a cross-section of hu-
manity that includes more than 2,100 ethnic and tribal groups, and
its administrative order is established in even the most remote areas
of the globe. So it is that the march of the believers in Baha’u’lllah,
continually advancing toward the Kingdom in accord with the
‘Divine Plan’, and the parallel march of the agencies associated with
that ‘Greater Plan’ and its triumphs, will fruitfully continue!

APPENDIX I
abbreviated biblical text from genesis
chapters 6-9 describing
the flood of noah
And it came to pass, when man began to multiply on the face of the earth,
and daughters were born unto them, that the sons of God saw that the
daughters of men that they were fair; and they took them wives all
which they chose. And the Lord said, My spirit shall not always strive
with men... yet his days shall be a hundred and twenty years... And God
saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and that every
imagination of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually... And
the Lord said, I will destroy man whom I have created from the face of
the earth... But Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord... Noah was
a just man and perfect in his generations and Noah walked with God...
And God said unto Noah, The end of all flesh is come before me; for the
earth is filled with violence through them... Make thee an ark... and
thou shalt come into the ark, thou and thy sons, and thy wife, and thy
sons wives with thee, and of every living thing of all flesh... male and
female... every sort shall come unto thee to keep them alive... Thus did
Noah according to all that God commanded., so did he... But with thee
will I establish my covenant... For yet seven days, and I will cause it to
rain upon the earth for forty days and forty nights... And it will come to
pass after seven days that the waters of the flood were upon the earth...
and the rain was upon the earth for forty days and forty nights... and the
waters prevailed exceedingly upon the earth; and all the high hills were
covered... and every living substance was destroyed... from the earth;
and Noah only remained alive, and they that were with him in the ark.
And the waters prevailed upon the earth for one hundred and fifty days.
And God remembered Noah and every living thing... that was with
him in the ark: and God made a wind to pass over the earth, and the
waters assuaged... And God spake unto Noah saying, Go forth from the
ark... bring forth with thee every living thing... And Noah went forth...

appendix 1
builded an altar unto the Lord... and offered burnt offerings upon the
altar. And the Lord smelled a sweet savour; and the Lord said in his heart,
I will not again curse the ground any more for man’s sake... While the
earth remaineth, seed time and harvest, and cold and heat, and summer
and winter, and day and night shall not cease... And I will establish
my covenant with you, neither shall all flesh be cut off anymore by the
waters of a flood... for perpetual generations... And God said unto Noah,
This is the token of the covenant which I have established between Me
and all flesh that is upon the earth. (Genesis, chapters 6-9)

APPENDIX II
‘twelve fruits from the tree of life’
(twelve fundamental Teachings of Bahá’u’lláh)
1.	Realization of the oneness of the world of humanity,
2.	Individuals must independently search after and investigate
the truth,
3.	The foundation of all religions is one,
4.	Religion must be the cause of unity,
5.	Religion must be in accord with science and reason,
6.	The attainment of equality between men and women,
7.	Prejudices of all kinds must be forgotten,
8.	The establishment of universal peace,
9.	The implementation of universal education based on one

common curriculum,
10.	The application of spiritual solutions to economic problems,
11.	The adoption of a universal auxiliary language, and
12.	The establishment of an international tribunal. (70)
This listing of Bahá’í principles and their order are derived from
Volume 11 of ‘Star of the West’ no. 1, pages 4 and 5, published on
March 21, 1920. The date of publication is before ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s as-
cension, so that, as was often His pleasure, He may have personally

appendix 11
approved this listing. In various presentations in Europe and North
America in 1911-12, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá summarized the Revelation of
Bahá’u’lláh by stating such salient principles. This array of state-
ments is commonly called the ‘Twelve Bahá’í Principles’ and is fre-
quently included in Bahá’í pamphlets for informing the public of
fundamental Bahá’í beliefs.

REFERENCES AND NOTES
(1)	 The Holy Bible (Authorized King James Version). (1937)
London & New York: Collin’s Clear-type Press, “Summary
of the Books of the Bible”, J.G. Spurell, & C.C.H. Wright,
pp 6-7.
(2)	 Bahá’u’lláh, cited by Christopher Buck in Symbol and
Secret (1995). Vol. 7, Frontis Quote, Los Angeles: Kalimat
Press.
(3)	 Bahá’u’lláh, The Kitáb-i-Íqán: The Book of Certitude
(1954), Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, p 49.
(4)	 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh
(1951), Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, pp 281-282.
(5)	 The Universal House of Justice, Wellspring of Guidance
(1970), Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, pp 88-89.
(6)	 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace (1982),
Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, p 155.

(7)	 Bahá’u’lláh, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas: The Most Holy Book
(1992), Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, Notes 221 222.
(8)	 Bahá’u’lláh, The Kitáb-i-Íqán, p 82.
(9)	 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, pp
459-460.
(10)	Bahá’u’lláh, The Kitáb-i-Íqán, p 89.
(11)	Hoshidar Motlagh, I Shall Come Again (1992) Mt. Pleasant:
Global Perspective, pp 192-3.
(12)	‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions (1954), Wilmette:
Bahá’í Publishing Committee, pp 48-52.
(13)	An essay by Joel Smith, adapted from the work of Phil
Turner, records that Christian and Muslim scholars
independently confirm Bahá’u’lláh’s lineage to Jesse. See
http://bci.org/prophecy-fulfilled/lineage.htm, ‘Lineage’
(14)	Bahá’u’lláh, Proclamation of Bahá’u’lláh, (1967) Haifa:
Bahá’í World Centre, p 89-90.
(15)	Haim Shorter English-Persian Dictionary (1961), Teheran,

references and notes
by Roudaki Publishers, states: ‘Shogh’ means ‘eagerness,
strong desire, great interest, delight and pleasure’, and
‘Rabban’ means ‘divine’. In addition, The Persian Online
Dictionary (www.aryanpour.com) provides the following
meanings for Shoghi: zeal, ardour, and delight!
(16)	Bahá’u’lláh, Bahá’í Prayers (1967), Wilmette: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, p 130.
(17)	Werner Keller, The Bible as History (1960), Bungay,
Suffolk: Hodder & Stoughton, 1960, p 51.
(18)	Ibid., pp 52-59.
(19)	Bahá’u’lláh, The Kitáb-i-Íqán, p 7.
(20)	Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, p 39-40.
(21)	Bahá’u’lláh cited by Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of
Bahá’u’lláh, (1955), Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing
Trust, p 201.
(22)	The Báb, cited by Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, (1951)
Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, p 151.
(23)	Shoghi Effendi, World Order, p 152.
(24)	Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, p 16.
(25)	The Oxford Companion to the Bible (1993), compiled by
B.M. Metzger & M.D. Coogan, New York, Oxford: Oxford
University Press, p 830.
(26)	Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, p 15.
(27)	Bahá’u’lláh, Bahá’í Prayers, p. 117.
(28)	Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, pp 169-170.
(29)	Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By p 411.
(30)	Shoghi Effendi, Citadel of Faith, (1965), Wilmette: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, p. 95.
(31)	The Universal House of Justice, Wellspring of Guidance, p. v.
(32)	Ibid, pp 12-13.
(33)	Ibid, p 14.
(34)	The Bahá’ís, (2005), New York: Office of the Bahá’í
International Community.

references and notes
(35)	Bahá’u’lláh, cited in Shoghi Effendi, World Order, p 162.
(36)	The Universal House of Justice, Wellspring of Guidance, pp
120-112.
(37)	Shoghi Effendi, The Promised Day Is Come, (1941)
Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, p 2.
(38)	Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, pp 112-113.
(39)	Bahá’u’lláh, Epistle to the Son of the Wolf (1953).
Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, pp 139-140.
(40)	Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, p 125.
(41)	Ibid, p 328-9.
(42)	Bahá’u’lláh, Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, p 36.
(43)	The Universal House of Justice, Letter to the Bahá’ís of the
World, March 1981.
(44)	The Universal House of Justice, Letter to the Bahá’ís of the
World, February 1983, adapted from a telegram.
(45)	Bahá’u’lláh, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, p 109.
(46)	Bahá’u’lláh, cited in H.M. Balyuzi in Edward Granville
Browne and the Bahá’í Faith (1970), Oxford: George
Ronald, p 57.
(47)	‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, pp 283.
(48)	H.G. Wells, Outline of History (1949), Garden City:
Garden City Books, Doubleday & Co. Inc.
(49)	Muhammad, cited by Abdullah Yusuf Ali in The Holy
Qur’an: Text, Translation & Commentary (1946), p 1,093.
Pertinent citations: Surih 22:47; Surih 34:29-30; and Surih
32:5.
(50)	Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, pp 93-94.
(51)	Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, pp 267-269.
(52)	Ibid. p 104.
(53)	‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
(1978), Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, p 57.
(54)	‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Promulgation of Universal Peace, p 163.

references and notes
(55)	J. Llewellyn Thomas, FRCS, The Assyrian Invasions and the
Deportation of Israel (1937), London: The Covenant Publishing
Company, p 4.
(56)	‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p 20.
(57)	Shoghi Effendi, The Advent of Divine Justice, p 109.
(58)	Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p 75.
(59)	Bahá’u’lláh, cited in God Passes By, p 230.
(60)	Shoghi Effendi, The Promised Day Is Come, p 74.
(61)	Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings...” p 254.
(62)	Shoghi Effendi, The Promised Day Is Come, pp 49-50.
(63)	Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, pp156 157.
(64)	‘Abdu’l-Bahá, cited in Edward Granville Brown and the Bahá’í
Faith, p 98.
(65)	Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p 223.
(66)	‘Abdu’l-Bahá, cited in God Passes By, p 238-239.
(67)	Shoghi Effendi, The Promised Day Is Come, pp 123-124.
(68)	Bahá’u’lláh, cited in The Promised Day Is Come, p 47.
(69)	Shoghi Effendi, World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, pp 203 204.
(70)	David Hoffman, Selections from Bahá’í Scriptures (1941),
London: British Bahá’í Publishing Trust, quotes ‘Abdu’l- Bahá
as referring to the ‘Parliament of Man’ in parallel with the
‘International Tribunal’.
Additional works not cited in REFERENCES AND NOTES:
a)	 Robert F. Riggs, The Apocalypse: An exegesis (December 10,
1996), Self-published.
b)	 Robert F. Riggs, The Apocalypse Unsealed (1981), New
York: Philosophical Library.

“as it was in the days of noah...”
anticipated biblical fulfilment during
the dispensation of the báb & bahá’u’lláh
Related ANALOGICAL BAHá’í EVENTS
DESCRIPTION IN GENESIS
and OTHER BIBLICAL REFERENCES
DIFFERENTIALS IN
NOAH’S STATED AGE
The start of the Bahá’í Era in 1844, marred by
severe persecution, heralded the beginning of the
building of the ‘Ark of refuge’, i.e., the institutions
of the ‘Government upon His shoulder’ (Isa 9:7), the
foundation of the ‘Kingdom of God on Earth’. The
Bahá’í Universal House of Justice, took the helm of
the Bahá’í world at the mid-point of the 120th year,
completing the biblically decreed three levels of the
Institutions of the ‘Government on His shoulder’.
This period saw: unprecedented proclamation
of Bahá’í Cause to the world; pioneer calls issued at
3 Bahá’í Intercontinental Conferences; Bahá’u’lláh’s
‘Letters to the Kings’ (from whom He ‘seized power
and authority’) reissued, in which their ‘downfall’ was
promised and fulfilled; unprecedented increase in
number of Bahá’í communities around the world; the
House of Justice warned of the coming ‘heart of dark-
ness’, i.e., great trouble; Bahá’ís encouraged to ‘gather
the people into the Ark’; Canada rejoiced at early
completion of it’s 9-Year Plan pioneer goals (Ridvan
1971, April 21, 1971), as urged by Bahá’í Institutions.
Some global institutions contributing to the
‘Lesser (political) Peace’ were established during this
period. However, a flood of tribulations are to afflict
the world such as ‘never was, nor will ever be’ (Matt
24:21), as also described vividly by Bahá’u’lláh in
numerous references. In 1981, the House of Justice
affirmed that ‘humanity has moved further into the
heart of darkness as the old order is rolled up’.
But trouble for humanity continues to parallel se-
vere persecution of the Bahá’í Faith.
The Ark of the Cause of God comes to permanent
rest on the Mountain of God (Mount Carmel), sug-
gesting a stability which substantially ends its im-
perilled existence due to persecution and trouble. It
now rests on a secure foundation.
From its hard won position of safety, the Institu-
tions of the Kingdom of God begin to flourish as the
‘end-time of troubles’ subsides for humankind, and
persecution of the Bahá’í Faith diminishes. These ef-
fects are due to the continually increasing leavening
effect on global society of the 12 spiritual principles
of the Bahá’í Revelation.
“Verily, He (Bahá’u’lláh) is the Tree of Life that bri-
neth forth the fruits of God” (Bahá’í prayer). After 360
years, all of these principles have been widely dis-
seminated and evidently ingested to a substantial
degree by humanity as fruit from the ‘Tree of Life’.
The trials that afflict humanity continue to gradu-
ally abate.
The very ancient, as well as modern, symbol
of peace for the world, is ‘the dove with the olive
branch’! Bahá’u’lláh promised that ‘the Most Great
Peace will surely come’. He characterizes this peace as
spiritual, i.e., a peace that arrives due to widespread
acceptance of spiritual virtue, fostering a total loss
of ‘desire to make war anymore’. That peace is now
immanent!
Perhaps the three episodes of the dove are anal-
agous to major actions of the ‘Government on His
shoulder’, such as for example, proclamations to the
nations designed to establish universal peace. This
last effort is evidently successful because the dove
finds a most acceptable environment: the ‘Most
Great Peace’ of the world.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s confirmation: “You had referred
to history: you should so endeavour that in future
centuries your history may become the undisputed
authority, nay be considered sacred history, and ac-
cepted by the peoples of the Kingdom and the just
among the people of the world, because the great-
ness of this Cause is not as evident as it should be
due to the repressive measures repeatedly taken..,
and the severity of assaults, but ere long will Its truth,
like unto the luminous sun, be seen and discerned”
(Edward Granville Browne and the Bahá’í Faith p 98).
Bahá’u’lláh’s warning to the kings and rulers is
now literally fulfilled; the ‘rest of the rulers’, those
other rulers who ‘remained alive’, though already
deprived of their sovereignty (‘thrones cast down’),
now cease to wield authority in any real sense (‘loss
of life’), and the ‘Government on His shoulders’ now
becomes the object of considerable esteem in the
world.
After 497 years (1844 to 2341 AD), the Flood
Analogy is evidently complete. The process of in-
gesting spiritual truth is now well advanced. The
promised ‘Most Great Peace’ is firmly established.
The Lord’s Prayer is fulfilled as His ‘Will is now also
done on earth as it is in heaven’. The sovereignty of
the Kingdom on earth’ is now acknowledged at mid-
millennium, for which consummation there is much
thanksgiving.
The latter half of the millennium will undoubt-
edly see a glorious flowering of the human race into
global civilization as expressed in wondrous detail
by the Guardian of the Cause of God, Shoghi Effendi
(World Order of Bahá’u’lláh pp 203-206). Bahá’u’lláh,
Himself, promised that, in not less that 1,000 years
(KI pp 198-9), the next Manifestation of the Spirit will
again appear to consolidate the victories of the King-
dom and propel humanity into the next stage of its
development.
The ‘days of man are 120 years’ (Gen 6:3)
during which the Ark is to be built as God com-
mands (Gen 6:14), with 3 levels (Gen 6:16); both
Baha’u’llah and Muhammad indicate that Noah
was mercilessly persecuted by those who re-
jected Him.
Yet seven years of additional respite are de-
creed before the rains resulting in the flood be-
gin. (Gen 7:4 & 7:10)
‘I beheld until the thrones were cast down,
and the Ancient of Days did sit (upon His ‘Throne
of Glory’)...’ (Dan 7:9)
Noah and His family (those who believe in
Him), and all the creatures, are commanded to
enter the Ark, and be saved from the ravages of
the flood. (Gen 7:13)
Therefore the rain commences after 127
years – 1844 + 127 = 1971
40 years of rain produce the Flood at it high-
est level. (Gen 6:12)
Only the Ark’s inhabitants are saved.
(Gen 7:23)
The waters prevail on earth for 150 years.
(Gen 7:24); 150 years = 5 months; 30 days per
month. The rain is restrained (Gen 8:2) & then
the waters abate. (Gen 8:3)
The Ark rests on Mount Ararat. (8:4)
And, after further abatement,
the tops of the mountains are visible (Gen 8:5),
1844 + 351 = 2195. Before this 40 years elapse,
the 12 fruits of the ‘Tree of Life’ have all ripened
and fallen (Rev 22:1-2); 12 mos = 12 X 30 days
or 360 years; 1844 + 360 = 2204 AD; and, if the
term ‘time’ in the ‘time of the end’ means 360
years, the major troubles of the ‘end time’ are
evidently ended!
At the end of this second 40 year period,
Noah opens the window and releases a raven
[ravens fed Elijah (Kings 1:XVII:2-7)], and a dove,
for the first time in order to find dry land.
(Gen 8:8)
Not yet finding suitable dry land, from its first
adventure of discovery (Gen 8:9), and, after an
additional seven years, Noah releases the dove
a second time. But the dove returns quickly (‘in
the evening’ — i.e. less than a year) with proof of
dry land — an olive leaf in its beak. (Gen 8:11)
After another 7 years, Noah releases the dove
for the third and last time. (Gen 8:12)
It does not return because conditions are
now suitable for existence once again.
1844 + 405 = 2249 AD
“The rest of the beasts (rulers), though de-
prived of their sovereignty, were allowed to re-
main alive for a time and a season” (Dan 7-9-14).
A season = 0.25 X 1 year = 3 mos X 30 days/mo
or 90 years.
1844 + 360 + 90 = 2294 AD
“The earth is dried!” (Gen 8:14) “Go forth from
the Ark!” (Gen 8:16) God’s Covenant is spoken to
all of humankind: this literal smiting of the earth
and its creatures will never again be repeated
(Gen 8:21-22 & 9:11-12). The Flood Story ends.
Truly, “As it was in the days of Noah, so shall the
Coming of the Son of man be.” (Matt 24:37-39).
1844 + 497 = 2341 AD
“And he (Baha’u’llah) laid hold on the drag-
on, that old serpent which is the devil (the
metaphorical incarnation of materialism and
power)... and bound him for a thousand years...
that he should deceive the nations no more, til
the thousand years should be fulfilled: and after
that he must be loosed a little season.”
(Rev 20:1-7)
u
119+
or
u 120
yrs
1964	 •

u 7 yrs

1971	 •
u  40 yrs


2011	 •
2121	 •
2195	•
u 40 yrs
2235	•

u 7 yrs
2242	•

u 7 yrs
2249	•
2285	•
2341	•
yrs

2844	•
150  t
yrs
74 t
yrs
90 t
yrs
56 t
yrs
Noah’s age is stated to be:
599 yrs, 1 mo, 17 days
(Gen 7:11)
the differential in Noah’s age
is: 5 months;
5 months = 150 days = 150
years; therefore, a prophetic
month is 30 days. 1971 + 150
= 2121 AD
the Ark rests on Mount Ararat
(Gen 8:4) at which time Noah’s
age is stated to be: 599 yrs, 6
mos, 17 days (Gen 8:4)
the differential in Noah’s age
is: 2 mos, 14 days = 2 X 30 +
14 = 74 years
Noah’s age is stated to be:
599 yrs, 9 mos, 1 day
(Gen 8:5)
the differential in Noah’ s age
is: 3 mos = 3 X 30 = 90 yrs
Noah’s age is stated to be:
600 yrs, 0 mo, 1 day (Gen 8:13)
the differential in Noah’ s age
is: 1 mo + 26 days = 30 + 26
= 56 yrs
Noah’s age is stated to be:
600 yrs, 1 month, 27 days
(Gen 8:14)
figure 5
•
•
•
•
•
•