THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1992-06-25

ing earlier reports received from members of the ghedami family residing

in canada and the united States, the friends in iran have now confirmed

that mr. rú¥u’lláh ghedami, a staunch member of their community, has

become the victim of a brutal murder at the hands of two members of the iranian d isciplinary f orces.

The following details are reported by the friends in i ran:

mr. rú¥u’lláh ghedami was 65 years of age. he used to be employed

by the iranian railway company and was dismissed from work. he

was a farmer in the village of muµaffaríyyih near islám-Shahr for about

20 years. h is wife and five of his children are living outside of i ran.133.4

134.1

134.2

134.2a

1992–1993  •  T h e  h o l Y Ye a r

28mr. ghedami had a great love for the faith and would often talk

about it to non-b ahá’ís. Towards the end of 1370 (1991), he started

associating with a member of the disciplinary forces of the govern-

ment of iran and began talking to him about the faith. These conver-

sations continued for a while until he was officially asked, in that same

year, to report to one of the police stations in the town of rayy. he

was then given a questionnaire with 40 items which were all answered by him. mr. ghedami later explained to one of his friends that all the

questions related to b ahá’í subjects.

on 25/3/71 (15 june 1992), at 11:00 p.m., a man in uniform came

to mr. ghedami’s house in a car without a license plate, and told

mr. ghedami that he had come to arrest him. The neighbors insisted

that the uniformed man should come back on the following day, but

he paid no attention and took mr. ghedami with him. There were

two other individuals sitting in the car. following this event, there was

no news of mr. ghedami for several days and all the police stations

claimed that they knew nothing about him.

on 27/3/71 (17 june 1992), a man by the name of Sulaymán

‘Aynu’lláhí, who used to live in muµaffaríyyih a few years ago, entered

mr. ghedami’s house with a key that he had in his possession. he

claimed that he had purchased the house from mr. ghedami and told

the tenant to vacate it.

The tenant reported the matter to the police who then summoned

Sulaymán ‘Aynu’lláhí and his brother, ra¥mán ‘Aynu’lláhí, both

guards in the disciplinary forces. After the interrogations and inves-

tigations carried out by the office of criminal investigation, it was

determined that these two brothers had forced mr. ghedami to give

them a letter attesting to the sale of his property, following which they strangled him, and then drove the body 60 kilometers outside Tehran

on the q um h ighway, where they set fire to it, using gasoline.

The body was found several days later by the þasanábád police

Station and was transferred to the coroner’s office to be examined by

a doctor. i t was identified with great difficulty because it was so badly

burnt. The body is still in the coroner’s office and is supposed to be

transferred to the b ahá’í cemetery on 4/4/71 (25 j une 1992).

The friends in iran conclude by reporting that the murderers are now in

custody, but that the facts about this case have been only partially registered 134.2b

134.2c

134.2d

134.2e

134.2f

134.3

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

28in the official records. They are certain that the murder took place as a re-

sult of religious prejudice and because of mr. ghedami’s teaching activities.

whether the authorities had any previous knowledge of this murder is not known. . . .

with loving b ahá’í greetings,

Department  of tHe secretariat

135

Two Bahá’ís Sentenced to Death in Iran

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]