THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

2001-04-21

To the b aháís of the w orld

Ridván 2001

To the b ahá’ís of the w orld

dearly loved f riends,

with great joy in our hearts and high expectations, we come to this ri¤ván

season at a change of time, when a new state of mind is evident among us

all. Abroad in our world community there is a heightened awareness of the value of process, the necessity of planning and the virtue of systematic

action in fostering growth and in developing the human resources by which expansion can be sustained and consolidation assured. The coherence of understanding about these prerequisites of progress cannot be overvalued, nor can the importance of perpetuating them through well-ordered training

be overestimated. And so the arrival of our community at such a moment

of consciousness is an occasion of significance for us. we are deeply grate-

ful to the blessed beauty to be able to recognize and acclaim it at the very

beginning of the global enterprise being launched during these festive days.

The power of will generated by this consciousness characterized the con-

ference of the continental counselors and the members of their Auxiliary

boards who gathered last january in the holy land. The event produced so

illuminating an experience as to signalize the faith’s entry into a new epoch, .356.38a

357 .1

357 .2

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

798the fifth of its formative Age. Such a freshness of vitality as was displayed

at this historic gathering came to be understood as a manifestation of the

rising quality of activity throughout the community. pursuit during the past

year of the essentials for advancing the process of entry by troops confirmed

this observation. The path was thus paved for the five year plan, the first

venture being entered upon in the f ifth e poch.

in augmenting major efforts of the previous four year plan that brought

into being more than 300 training institutes, the T welve month plan

achieved its purpose. it gathered significance through the notable responses

of institutions and individuals to the call for a greater focus on the spiritual

nurturing of children and the involvement of junior youth in bahá’í com-

munity life. The training of teachers of children’s classes and the inclusion

of junior youth in the institute process have become a regular part of bahá’í

activity in a number of countries. despite its brevity, the T welve month

plan had an importance beyond the objectives specifically assigned. The

plan was a dynamic link between a highly eventful epoch in bahá’í his-

tory and the immensely promising prospects of a new one, for which its

achievements have so well prepared the community. it has been etched in

our annals, too, for the enduring effects of the faith’s activities at the end of

the twentieth century—a century that deserves to be reflected upon by any

bahá’í who wishes to understand the tumultuous forces that influenced the

life of the planet and the processes of the cause itself at a crucial time in

humanity’s social and spiritual evolution. As an aid to so worthy an effort, Century of  Light, a review of the twentieth century, was prepared at our

request and under our supervision.

on many occasions during this one-year endeavor, the external affairs

activities of the faith were especially visible. consider, for example, the

instances of bahá’í representatives’ having participated prominently in the

millennial events that took place in may, August and September at the

urging of the Secretary-g eneral of the united Nations. The implications

of so close and conspicuous an involvement of the bahá’í international

community with the processes of the lesser peace will require the pas-

sage of time to be properly understood. Among other highlights was the

continental colloquium organized in india by the institute for Studies in

global prosperity, a new agency operating under the aegis of the bahá’í

international community. Adopting the theme of “science, religion and

development,” the conference featured the participation of leading non-governmental organizations of india, as well as that of institutions of such 357 .3

357 .4

2000–2001  •  T h e  T W e lv e  m o n Th  Pl a n

799renown as uNeSco, uNicef , who and the world bank. in october,

the bahá’í world News Service (bwNS) was launched on the internet with

the intention of reaching both bahá’í and non-b ahá’í audiences with news

stories about developments throughout the b ahá’í world.

The intensive activities at the bahá’í world center during the last year

were, for the most part, made known to the friends through previous re-

ports that included references to such achievements as the occupation by

the international Teaching center of its permanent seat on mount carmel;

the conference of continental counselors and the members of their Aux-

iliary boards held in the holy land last january; and the completion of the

mount carmel projects, which are now receiving finishing touches in prepa-

ration for the celebratory events in may. last october, for the first time,

pilgrims and visitors were received at the new reception center in haifa,

which became fully operational. At bahjí the embellishment of the sacred

site through the development of its gardens has proceeded continually; the effort has, however, received a boost from the new project initiated last year to construct a visitors’ center towards the northern end of the property

beyond the collins gate. Scheduled for completion in the next few months,

the structure is fully in place, and work is progressing in all areas, including finishing and landscaping. The new facilities will improve the ability of the world center to receive increasing numbers of pilgrims, short-term bahá’í

visitors, and special guests.

To conclude this summary of the year, we rejoice in informing you that,

after the lapse of almost three decades, the National Spiritual Assembly

of the bahá’ís of indonesia was restored at the National convention held

in jakarta last ri¤ván. A ban imposed on bahá’í activities in August 1962

severely restricted the actions of the indonesian bahá’ís for all that time,

but they remained steadfast and wise in their long-suffering until changed circumstances in that country resulted in the lifting of the ban. may we

not venture to hope, then, that a similar happy report concerning our be-

leaguered coreligionists in iran, egypt and other countries will not be too

far distant?

dear friends: T wo decades from now the bahá’í world will celebrate the

centenary of the inception of the formative Age. we look back at the dawn-

ing of the Age from the vantage point of attainments that could hardly have

been imagined at the outset. up ahead are horizons that urgently summon

the community to even greater achievements in the short span separating it

from that centennial. Those heights can and must be scaled. The five year 357 .5

357 .6

357 .7

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

800plan, to which we call the urgent and sustained attention of the friends

throughout the world, is intended to meet this challenge. it constitutes

the first of a series of campaigns that will be pursued during these twenty

years. This plan marks the next phase in the aim to accomplish a significant

advance in the process of entry by troops. it demands an acceleration of

this vital process and, furthermore, insists upon continuity in systematic

endeavor on the part of its three constituent participants: the individual, the

institutions, and the community.

No need to elaborate on the requirements of the plan, for these were

set out in our message to the assembled counselors in the holy land and

subsequently shared with all National Spiritual Assemblies. Soon after their conference, the counselors began consulting with the National Assemblies

about the execution of the plan in their respective jurisdictions. The plan’s

direction is therefore known to the friends everywhere, as regional and local preparations for pursuing its major aim are under way. There is a general awareness by now that efforts will be made to effect a deeper penetration of the faith into more and more regions within countries. for example, where

circumstances permit, local communities that exist in close proximity to each other will be mobilized to participate in intensive programs of growth. other approaches will require methodical opening of new areas for which

homefront pioneers must be raised up in the same consecrated spirit that

prompted those who scattered abroad at earlier times to open virgin terri-

tories across continents and seas. Suffice it to say that the process animating this divinely driven enterprise will eventually expand as related features are

gradually introduced and systematically integrated into its operation.

A feature of the fifth epoch will be the enrichment of the devotional life

of the community through the raising up of national houses of worship,

the advancement of the process of entry by troops within countries. This

development will unfold throughout successive stages of ‘Abdu’l-b ahá’s di-

vine plan. upon the completion of the mother Temple of the west, the

guardian started a program of constructing continental temples. The first

among these were the mashriqu’l-A dhkárs in kampala, Sydney and frank-

furt, which were built in response to Ten year plan goals. The universal

house of justice continued along these lines with the building of Temples

in panama city, Apia, and New delhi. but this continental stage has yet

to be completed: one more edifice remains to be built. it is with profound 357 .8

357 .9

2000–2001  •  T h e  T W e lv e  m o n Th  Pl a n

801thankfulness and joy that we announce at this auspicious moment the deci-

sion to proceed with this last project. during the five year plan, erection of

the mother Temple of South America in Santiago, chile, will commence

and thus fulfill a wish clearly expressed by Shoghi e ffendi.

meanwhile, the time is propitious that further steps be taken at the world

center to develop the functions of the institutions occupying the new

edifices on the Arc. The international Teaching center having advanced

significantly in its work, attention will be given particularly to organizing

the work of the center for the Study of the Texts. enriching the translations

into english from the holy Texts will be a special object of this attention.

consulting the Sacred writings and to prepare translations and commentar-

ies on the authoritative texts of the faith. moreover, in the holy land, a

continued effort will be devoted towards the devising of measures to make possible a further increase in the number of pilgrims and visitors to the bahá’í w orld center.

in our ri¤ván message five years ago, we announced the holding of a

major event at the world center to mark the completion of the projects on

mount carmel and the opening of the Terraces of the Shrine of the báb

to the public. The moment is upon us, and we exult in the anticipation of welcoming friends from virtually all countries to programs that will extend

over a five-day period, 21–25 may. we are also happy to say that steps are

being taken to connect the bahá’í world to the proceedings through live

transmissions on the world wide web and by satellite, about which infor-

mation is being provided. As the world center focuses on the preparations,

excitement is building up among the public in haifa, where municipal

authorities have undertaken to publish a book entitled Bahá’í Shrine and

Gardens on Mount Carmel, Haifa, Israel: A Visual Journey to coincide with the event. moreover, the israel postal Authority is pursuing its decision to

release at the same time a commemorative stamp featuring the Terraces. The

significance of the occasion lies principally in the pause it will allow for a review of the remarkable distance the cause has covered in its development

during the twentieth century. it will be time, too, for considering the future

implications of the phenomenal accomplishments symbolized by the rise of the monumental structures on god’s holy mountain—a rise that opens the

spiritual and administrative centers of our f aith to the gaze of the world.

As our community rejoices in these thrilling considerations, let every

member bear in mind that there is no time for resting on laurels. human-357 .10

357 .11

357 .12

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

802ity’s current plight is too desperate to allow for even a moment’s hesitation

in sharing the bread of life, which has come down from heaven in our time.

let there be no delay, then, in advancing the process that has every promise of success in ushering to the banquet table of the lord of hosts the souls of

all that hunger after truth.

may he who keeps watch over the destiny of his divine System guide

and direct and confirm every effort you make towards the realization of the urgent tasks set before you.

80glossary

Note: Boldface terms within entries are cross-references to other entries that define

or amplify essential terms. A number of entries are based on explanations found

in “d efinitions of Some of the oriental Terms used in bahá’í literature” in The

Bahá’í World: An International Record, Volume XVIII, 1979–1983, pp. 897–904. other entries are based on explanations found in the notes and glossary in the

kitáb-i-Aqdas. references to Tablets of the divine plan cite Tablet and paragraph

numbers, e.g., “Tdp 6.8.”

A

‘ABDU’L-BAHÁ Servant of  Bahá: the title assumed by ‘Abbás effendi (23 may

1844–28 November 1921), eldest son and appointed successor of bahá’u’lláh

and the center of his covenant. upon bahá’u’lláh’s ascension in 1892, ‘Abdu’l-

bahá became head of the bahá’í faith in accordance with provisions revealed by

bahá’u’lláh in the kitáb-i-Aqdas and the book of the covenant. Among the titles

by which he is known are the center of the covenant, the mystery of god, the

master, and the perfect exemplar of bahá’u’lláh’s teachings. See Tablets of the

Divine Plan and Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.

ABHÁ Most Glorious. See Alláh-u-Abhá; Yá Bahá’u’l-Abhá.ABHÁ BEAUTY A translation of Jamál-i-Abhá, a title of Bahá’u’lláh.ABHÁ KINGDOM The Most Glorious Kingdom: the spiritual world beyond this

world.ABHÁ PARADISE See Abhá Kingdom.ADAMIC CYCLE See Cycle.ADMINISTRATIVE ORDER The international system for the administration

of the affairs of the bahá’í community. ordained by bahá’u’lláh, it is the agency

through which the spirit of his revelation is to exercise its transforming effects on

humanity and through which the Bahá’í World Commonwealth will be ushered

in. its twin, crowning institutions are the Guardianship and the Universal House

g l o S Sa rY

80of Justice. The institutions that make it up and the principles by which it oper-

ates are set forth in the writings of bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-b ahá. its structure was

further clarified and raised up by Shoghi effendi during his ministry as guardian

of the faith (1921–57). This process of elucidation continues through guidance

the bahá’í faith, which is supported by National and local Spiritual Assemblies

elected by members of the bahá’í community. These local and national bodies are

invested with the authority to direct the bahá’í community’s affairs and to uphold

bahá’í laws and standards. They are also responsible for the education, guidance,

and protection of the community. The Administrative order also comprises the

institutions of the Hands of the Cause of God, the International Teaching Cen-

ter, and the Continental Boards of Counselors and their Auxiliary Boards and

assistants, who bear particular responsibility for the protection and propagation of the faith and share with the Spiritual Assemblies the functions of educating,

counseling, and advising members of the bahá’í community. other institutions of

the Administrative order include Þuqúqu’lláh, the bahá’í Fund, the Mashriqu’l-

Adhkár, and the Nineteen Day Feast. The present bahá’í Administrative order

is the precursor of the World Order of Bahá’u’lláh and is described by Shoghi

effendi as its “nucleus” and “pattern.”

AFNÁN Twigs: the báb’s kindred; specifically, descendants of his three maternal

uncles and h is wife’s two brothers.

AGES The bahá’í dispensation is divided into three Ages: the heroic, forma-

tive, and golden Ages. The heroic Age, also called the Apostolic or primitive Age,

began in 1844 with the declaration of the báb and spanned the ministries of the

báb (1844–53), bahá’u’lláh (1852–92), and ‘Abdu’l-b ahá (1892–1921). The transi-

tional event most often identified with the end of the heroic Age and the beginning

of the formative Age is the passing of ‘Abdu’l-b ahá in 1921. The formative Age,

also known as the Age of T ransition or the iron Age, began in 1921 when Shoghi

effendi, according to instructions in ‘Abdu’l-b ahá’s will and Testament, became

the guardian of the cause of god and began to build bahá’u’lláh’s Administrative

order. The formative Age is the second and current Age; it is to be followed by

the third and final Age, the golden Age destined to witness the proclamation of

the most great peace and the establishment of the bahá’í world commonwealth.

“The emergence of a world community, the consciousness of world citizenship, the founding of a world civilization and culture,” Shoghi effendi wrote, “—all of

which must synchronize with the initial stages in the unfoldment of the golden

Age of the bahá’í era—should, by their very nature, be regarded, as far as this

planetary life is concerned, as the furthermost limits in the organization of human society, though man, as an individual, will, nay must indeed as a result of such a consummation, continue indefinitely to progress and develop.” See also Dispensa-tion; Epochs; Bahá’í World Commonwealth.

805g l o S Sa rY

AGHßÁN Branches: the sons and male descendants of b ahá’u’lláh.

‘AKKÁ A four-thousand-year-old seaport and prison-city in northern israel sur-

rounded by fortress-like walls facing the sea. in the mid-1800s ‘Akká became a

penal colony to which the worst criminals of the ottoman empire were sent. in

1868 bahá’u’lláh and his family and companions were banished to ‘Akká by Sul¬án

‘Abdu’l-‘Azíz. bahá’u’lláh was incarcerated within its barracks for two years, two

months, and five days. restrictions were gradually relaxed, and he lived in a series

of houses within ‘Akká until june 1877, when he moved outside the city walls to

the m ansion of m azra‘ih. b ahá’u’lláh named ‘Akká “the m ost g reat p rison.”

ALLÁH-U-ABHÁ God is Most Glorious: the Greatest Name, adopted as a greeting

among b ahá’ís during the period of b ahá’u’lláh’s exile in Adrianople (1863–68).

AMATU’L-BAHÁ RÚÞÍYYIH KHÁNUM Née mary maxwell (1910–2000), also

called rú¥íyyih rabbání; daughter of may bolles maxwell and Sutherland max-

well of montreal, and wife of Shoghi effendi, the guardian of the bahá’í faith. on

26 march 1952, succeeding her illustrious father, she was appointed a hand of the

cause of god residing in the holy land. Rú¥íyyih (meaning “spiritual”) is a name

given to her by Shoghi effendi on their marriage. Khánum is a persian title meaning

“lady,” “m adame,” or “mrs.” The title Amatu’l-Bahá (meaning “m aidservant of

bahá”) was used by the guardian in a cable to a conference in chicago in 1953.

Rabbání is a surname given to Shoghi e ffendi by ‘Abdu’l-b ahá.

ANCIENT BEAUTY A translation of Jamál-i-Qadím, a name of god that is also

used as a title of bahá’u’lláh, who is the latest manifestation of god to human-

kind. one cannot always say categorically in any passage whether the reference is to

god, to b ahá’u’lláh, or to both.

ANCIENT OF DAYS See Ancient Beauty.

APOSTOLIC AGE See Ages.AQDAS Most Holy. See Kitáb-i-Aqdas, The.ARC The line of a curved path laid out by Shoghi effendi on mount carmel,

stretching across the bahá’í properties near the Shrine of the báb and centered

on the monument gardens. on this Arc the seats of the “world-shaking, world-

embracing, world-directing administrative institutions” of the world order of

bahá’u’lláh are to be located (mA, pp. 32–33). within the Arc are the resting-places

of the greatest holy leaf; her brother, the purest branch; and her mother, the

most exalted leaf. edifices already constructed on the Arc include the internation-

al bahá’í Archives building (completed in 1957), the seat of the universal house of

g l o S Sa rY

806justice (completed in 1982 and occupied in 1983), the international Teaching cen-

ter, and the center for the Study of the Texts. The international bahá’í library has

yet to be completed. See also Administrative Order; World Order of Bahá’u’lláh.

ARK The word “ark” means, literally, a boat or ship, something that affords protec-

tion and safety, or a chest or box. it is used in two senses in the bible. in the first

sense it refers to the Ark of Noah, which he was bidden to build of gopher wood

to preserve life during the flood. in the second sense it refers to the Ark of the cov-

enant, the sacred chest representing to the hebrews god’s presence among them. it

was constructed to hold the Tablets of the law in moses’ time and was later placed

in the holy of holies in the Temple of jerusalem. The Ark, as a symbol of god’s

law and the divine covenant that is the salvation of the people in every age and

dispensation, appears in various ways in the bahá’í writings. bahá’u’lláh refers to

his faithful followers as “the denizens of the crimson Ark”; he refers to the Ark

of the cause and also to the Ark of his laws. A well-known passage in which this

term is used appears in the Tablet of carmel: “e re long will god sail his Ark upon

thee, and will manifest the people of bahá who have been mentioned in the book

of Names.” Shoghi effendi explains that the Ark in this passage refers to the bahá’í

Administrative center on mount carmel and that the dwellers of the Ark are the

members of the u niversal h ouse of j ustice.

ARMY OF LIGHT generally, the bahá’í community, but more particularly the

“heavenly armies . . . those souls,” according to ‘Abdu’l-b ahá, “who are entirely

freed from the human world, transformed into celestial spirits and have become divine angels. Such souls are the rays of the Sun of reality who will illumine all the

continents” (Tdp 8.2).

ÁSÍYIH KHÁNUM Navváb (an honorific implying “g race” or “h ighness”); the

Most Exalted Leaf: wife of bahá’u’lláh and mother of ‘Abdu’l-b ahá, bahíyyih khá-

num, and mírzá mihdí. She was married to bahá’u’lláh in 1835, accompanied him

in his exiles, and died in 1886. bahá’u’lláh named her his “perpetual consort in

all the worlds of god.” her resting-place is in the monument gardens on mount

carmel, next to the tomb of mírzá míhdí and near that of the greatest holy leaf.

AUTHOR OF THE BAHÁ’Í REVELATION Bahá’u’lláh. AUXILIARY BOARDS An institution established by Shoghi effendi in 1954 to

act as “deputies, assistants and advisers” to the Hands of the Cause of God as

they carry out their twin duties of protection and propagation. with the formation

of the Continental Boards of Counselors in 1968, the hands of the cause of

god were freed of responsibility for appointing, supervising, and coordinating the

work of the Auxiliary boards, and these functions were transferred by the universal

house of justice to the continental boards of counselors. There are two Auxiliary

boards, one for protection and one for propagation; members serve on one of the

807g l o S Sa rY

rized the appointment of assistants to Auxiliary board members.

B

BÁB, THE The Gate: title assumed by Siyyid ‘Alí mu¥ammad (20 october 1819–9

july 1850) after declaring his mission in Shíráz in 1844. The báb’s station is two-

fold: he is a manifestation of god and the founder of the bábí faith, and he is the

herald of bahá’u’lláh. A detailed, moving, and authoritative work titled The Dawn-

Breakers (written by Nabíl-i-z arandí and translated by Shoghi effendi) recounts the

báb’s life and h is followers’ exploits. See b alyuzi, The Báb.

BÁBÍYYIH, THE The Bábí place or the center of  the Bábís: a house in mashhad,

iran, that served as a residence for mullá þusayn (the first of the Letters of the Liv-

ing) and quddús (also a letter of the living, whose rank was second only to that of

the báb) and as a place to which inquirers came to learn about the bábí faith. The

bahá’í historian Nabíl writes that “A steady stream of visitors, whom the energy and

zeal of mullá þusayn had prepared for the acceptance of the faith, poured into the

presence of quddús, acknowledged the claim of the cause, and willingly enlisted

under its banner. The all-observing vigilance with which mullá þusayn labored to

diffuse the knowledge of the new revelation, and the masterly manner in which

quddús edified its ever-increasing number of adherents, gave rise to a wave of

enthusiasm which swept over the entire city of mashhad, and the effects of which

spread rapidly beyond the confines of khurásán. The house of bábíyyih was soon

converted into a rallying center for a multitude of devotees who were fired with an

inflexible resolve to demonstrate, by every means in their power, the great inherent energies of their f aith.” (db, p. 267)

BAHÁ’Í ELECTIONS See Elections, Bahá’í.

BAHÁ’Í FUND See Fund.BAHÁ’Í INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY An international body made up of

bahá’í institutions, local and national, continental and international, all closely

interrelated, and comprising the worldwide membership of the bahá’í faith. Since

1948 the bahá’í international community has been affiliated with the united Na-

sumed the function (shouldered for many years by the National Spiritual Assembly of the bahá’ís of the united States) of representing the bahá’í international com-

munity in its capacity as a nongovernmental organization at the united Nations. in

1970 the bahá’í international community was granted consultative status with the

united Nations economic and Social council (ecoSoc), and in 1976 it became

affiliated with the united Nations children’s fund ( uNicef , formerly named the

united Nations children’s emergency fund). it is also affiliated with the united

g l o S Sa rY

808Nations environment program ( uNep). in its work with the united Nations, the

bahá’í international community participates in meetings of united Nations bod-

ies concerned with such issues as human rights, social development, the status of

women, the environment, human settlement, food, science and technology, popu-lation, the law of the sea, crime prevention, substance abuse, youth, children, the family, disarmament, and the u nited Nations u niversity.

BAHÁ’Í WORLD CENTER The world spiritual and administrative centers of the

bahá’í faith located in the twin cities of ‘Akká and haifa in israel. See also Arc;

Administrative Order.

BAHÁ’Í WORLD COMMONWEALTH The future bahá’í community of na-

tions, Shoghi effendi explains, that will operate “solely in direct conformity with

the laws and principles of bahá’u’lláh” and will be animated wholly by his spirit.

tude of its power.” its advent will “signalize the long-awaited advent of the christ-

promised kingdom of god on earth.” it will serve as both “the instrument and the

guardian of the most great peace.” within the bahá’í world commonwealth “all

nations, races, creeds and classes” will be “closely and permanently united,” and

“the autonomy of its state members and the personal freedom and initiative of the individuals that compose them” will be “definitely and completely safeguarded. This commonwealth must, as far as we can visualize it, consist of a world legis-lature, whose members will, as the trustees of the whole of mankind, ultimately control the entire resources of all the component nations, and will enact such laws as shall be required to regulate the life, satisfy the needs and adjust the relation-ships of all races and peoples. A world executive, backed by an international force,

will carry out the decisions arrived at, and apply the laws enacted by, this world legislature, and will safeguard the organic unity of the whole commonwealth. A world tribunal will adjudicate and deliver its compulsory and final verdict in all and any disputes that may arise between the various elements constituting this universal system. . . . A world metropolis will act as the nerve center . . . , the focus towards

which the unifying forces of life will converge and from which its energizing influ-ences will radiate.” The world commonwealth will include a system of international communication; an international auxiliary language; a world script and literature; a uniform and universal system of currency, weights, and measures; and an integrated economic system with coordinated markets and regulated channels of distribution. See also World Order of Bahá’u’lláh.

BAHÁ’U’LLÁH The Glory of  God: title of mírzá þusayn-‘Alí Núrí (12 November

1817–29 may 1892), founder of the bahá’í faith. for accounts of his life, see

Shoghi effendi, God Passes By; Nabíl, Dawn-Breakers; and balyuzi, Bahá’u’lláh: The

King of  Glory. bahá’u’lláh is referred to by a variety of titles, including the promised

one of All Ages, the blessed beauty, the blessed perfection, the morn of T ruth, the

Abhá luminary, the dayspring of the most divine essence, the Ancient beauty,

809g l o S Sa rY

the Ancient root, the Ancient of days, the Author of the bahá’í revelation, the

mystic dove, the Sovereign revealer, the judge, the redeemer, the divine physi-

cian, the prince of peace, the pen of glory, the pen of the most high, the Supreme

pen, the lord of hosts, and the lord of the Age. See also Book of the Covenant;

Hidden Words, The; Kitáb-i-Aqdas, The.

BAHÍYYIH KHÁNUM The Greatest Holy Leaf; the Most Exalted Leaf: saintly

daughter of bahá’u’lláh and outstanding heroine of the bahá’í dispensation (1846–

1932). her death in 1932 marked the final end of the heroic Age of the bahá’í

faith, which had drawn to a close with the passing of ‘Abdu’l-b ahá in 1921. A

monument erected in her memory symbolizes the bahá’í world order; its location

is mount carmel, within the Arc and in close proximity to the resting-places of her

brother, mírzá mihdí; her mother, ásíyih khánum; and the wife of ‘Abdu’l-b ahá,

munírih khánum. her station as “foremost woman of the bahá’í dispensation”

and her rank among women are paralleled only by such heroines of previous dis-

pensations as Sarah, ásíyih, the virgin mary, fá¬imih, and øáhirih. for a compila-

tion of bahá’í writings about bahíyyih khánum and for some of her own letters, see

Bahíyyih Khánum: The Greatest Holy Leaf (1982).

BAHJÍ Delight, gladness, joy: the name of the property north of ‘Akká where the

Shrine of bahá’u’lláh is situated and where bahá’u’lláh lived from 1880 until his as-

cension in 1892. its extensive gardens were created by Shoghi effendi and expanded

of the b ahá’í world.

BAYÁN Exposition, explanation, lucidity, eloquence, utterance: the title given by the

báb to two of his major works, one in persian, the other in Arabic. it is also used

sometimes to denote the entire body of h is writings.

B.E. Bahá’í Era: denotes the nineteen-month badí‘ calendar, which is reckoned

from 21 m arch 1844, the year of the báb’s declaration of h is mission.

BEST BELOVED See Ancient Beauty.BLESSED BEAUTY A translation of Jamál-i-Mubárak, a title of bahá’u’lláh. See

also Ancient Beauty.BLESSED PERFECTION A translation of Jamál-i-Mubárak, a title of bahá’u’lláh.

See also Ancient Beauty.BOOK OF THE COVENANT A translation of Kitáb-i-‘ Ahd (sometimes referred

to as Kitáb-i-‘ Ahdí, meaning “the book of my covenant”): bahá’u’lláh’s last will and

testament, designated by him as his “m ost great Tablet” and alluded to by him

as the “c rimson book.” The last Tablet revealed before his ascension, it was writ-

g l o S Sa rY

810ten in his own hand and entrusted, shortly before his passing, to his eldest son,

‘Abdu’l-b ahá. in it bahá’u’lláh clearly designates ‘Abdu’l-b ahá as his successor and

as the center of his Covenant, providing for the continuation of divine authority

over the affairs of the f aith in the future.

C

CARMEL See Mount Carmel.

CENTER FOR THE STUDY OF THE TEXTS The seat of an institution of

Sacred writings, and will prepare translations of and commentaries on the authori-

tative texts of the f aith.

CENTER OF THE COVENANT A title of ‘Abdu’l-b ahá referring to his appoint-

ment by bahá’u’lláh as the successor to whom all must turn after bahá’u’lláh’s pass-

ing. See also Covenant; Book of the Covenant.

CENTRAL FIGURES A collective reference to bahá’u’lláh, the founder of the

bahá’í faith; the báb, forerunner of bahá’u’lláh and founder of the bábí faith;

and ‘Abdu’l-b ahá, authorized i nterpreter of the b ahá’í writings.

CHIEF STEWARDS See Hands of the Cause of God.CITY OF THE COVENANT A title designated to New york city by ‘Abdu’l-b ahá,

where he unveiled for western believers the authority given to him by bahá’ú’lláh

for the definitive interpretation of h is revelation.

COMMUNITY OF THE MOST GREAT NAME The bahá’í community. See

two parts: the declaration of T rust, which sets forth the origins and duties of the

universal house of justice, and the by-laws, which specify the terms under which

tions of the b ahá’í Administrative o rder.

CONSULTATION in bahá’í usage, a technical term referring to the process of

collective decision-making. The aim of bahá’í consultation is to arrive at the best

solution or to uncover the truth of a matter. Among the requisites for consultation that are set out in the bahá’í writings are love, harmony, purity of motive, humil-

811g l o S Sa rY

ity, lowliness, patience, and long-suffering. individuals not only have the right to

express their views, but they are expected to express them fully and with the utmost

devotion, courtesy, dignity, care, and moderation. if unanimity is not achieved, de-

cisions are arrived at by majority vote. once a decision is reached, all parties, having

had the opportunity to express their views fully, are to work together wholeheart-edly to implement it. if the decision is wrong, ‘Abdu’l-b ahá says, through unity the

truth will become evident and “the wrong made right.”

CONTINENTAL BOARDS OF COUNSELORS An institution of the bahá’í Ad-

into the future the functions of protection and propagation of the faith assigned

to the hands of the cause of god by ‘Abdu’l-b ahá in his will and Testament.

and serve in five zones—Africa, the Americas, Asia, Australasia, and europe. The

international Teaching center coordinates the work of the continental boards of

counselors, who are assisted in their work by Auxiliary board members, whom they

appoint and supervise. See also Auxiliary Boards; Hands of the Cause of God;

International Teaching Center.CONTINENTAL FUND See Fund.CONTINENTAL PIONEER COMMITTEES responsible for gathering and

supplying information for and about pioneers and international traveling teachers.

Their work complements the functions of the continental boards of counselors

and National Spiritual Assemblies. There are five such committees: one each for Africa, the Americas, Asia, Australasia, and europe. members are appointed by

center.

COVENANT generally, an agreement or contract between two or more people,

a letter dated 23 march 1975, that a religious covenant is “a binding agreement

between god and man, whereby god requires of man certain behavior in return

for which he guarantees certain blessings, or whereby he gives man certain boun-

ties in return for which he takes from those who accept them an undertaking to

two types of religious covenant: “There is . . . the greater covenant which every

manifestation of god makes with his followers, promising that in the fullness of

time a new manifestation will be sent, and taking from them the undertaking to

accept him when this occurs. There is also the lesser covenant that a manifesta-

tion of god makes with his followers that they will accept his appointed suc-

cessor after him. if they do so, the faith can remain united and pure. if not, the

faith becomes divided and its force spent.” in the bahá’í dispensation the greater

covenant refers to the renewal of god’s ancient covenant through the appearance

g l o S Sa rY

812of the twin manifestations of god, the báb and bahá’u’lláh, and the promise of

another manifestation to come in the future after the passage of at least one thou-

sand years. The lesser covenant, in this case, refers to bahá’u’lláh’s covenant with

his followers, which establishes ‘Abdu’l-b ahá as the center of the covenant. it

confers upon ‘Abdu’l-b ahá the authority to interpret bahá’u’lláh’s writings in order

“to perpetuate the influence” of the faith and to “insure its integrity, safeguard it

from schism, and stimulate its world-wide expansion.” The lesser covenant also

sors of b ahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-b ahá.

COVENANT-BREAKER A bahá’í who attempts to disrupt the unity of the faith

by defying and opposing the authority of bahá’u’lláh as the manifestation of god

for this Age, or his appointed successor, ‘Abdu’l-b ahá, or after him, the guardian

to violate the covenant are expelled from the faith by the universal house of

justice. This provision preserves the unity of the faith, which is essential to achiev-

ing its cardinal purpose of unifying humankind. it also preserves the purity of

bahá’u’lláh’s teachings from the disruptive influence of egoistic individuals who,

in past dispensations, have been responsible for dividing every religion into sects,

disrupting its mission, and frustrating to a large degree the intention of its founder.

See also Covenant.

CRADLE OF THE FAITH iran, the homeland of the bábí and bahá’í faiths and

of bahá’u’lláh, the báb, and ‘Abdu’l-b ahá.

CRUSADE, TEN YEAR WORLD The international teaching plan inaugurated

by Shoghi effendi in 1953 and completed in 1963, some six years after his death.

it was the first global plan in which all national bahá’í communities pursued their

respective goals in one coordinated effort. it culminated with the first election of the

universal h ouse of j ustice at ri¤ván 1963.

CYCLE A unit of time comprising the dispensations of numerous consecutive

manifestations of god. for example, the Adamic, or prophetic, cycle began with

Adam and ended with the dispensation of mu¥ammad. The bahá’í cycle began

with the báb and is to last at least five hundred thousand years.

D

DANIEL’S PROPHECY The prophecy contained in daniel 12:12: “b lessed is he

that waiteth, and cometh to the thousand three hundred and five and thirty days.” ‘Abdu’l-b ahá comments in a Tablet to a kurdish bahá’í, “Now concerning the verse

in daniel, the interpretation whereof thou didst ask. . . . These days must be reck-

oned as solar and not lunar years. for according to this calculation a century will

have elapsed from the dawn of the Sun of T ruth, then will the teachings of god be

81g l o S Sa rY

firmly established upon the earth, and the divine light shall flood the world from

the east even unto the west. Then, on this day, will the faithful rejoice!” ‘Abdu’l-

bahá further explains in the same Tablet that the 1,335 years must be reckoned

from 622 a.D., the year of m u¥ammad’s flight from m ecca to m edina.

Shoghi effendi associates daniel’s reference to the 1,335 days and ‘Abdu’l-b ahá’s

statements about the prophecy with the centenary of bahá’u’lláh’s declaration of

his mission in 1863 and with the worldwide triumph of the faith. he stressed that

the prophecy refers to occurrences within the bahá’í community, rather than to

events in the outside world.

while Shoghi effendi clearly allied the faith’s triumph with the successful

completion of the third teaching plan to be undertaken by the bahá’ís, in his letters

and in those written on his behalf, four specific dates are mentioned as marking the

fulfillment of daniel’s prophecy: 1953, 1957, 1960, and 1963. regarding the year

1960 (derived by a lunar reckoning), Shoghi effendi anticipated, in God Passes By,

p. 151, and in a number of his letters, the successful completion of a third Seven year plan that was to be inaugurated. had there been a third Seven year plan, it

would have concluded in 1960, one hundred lunar years after bahá’u’lláh’s decla-

ration. when the Ten year crusade (1953–63) was announced in 1952, Shoghi

effendi linked its completion with the fulfillment of daniel’s prophecy. There are

also several references in letters written on Shoghi effendi’s behalf that give 1957 as

the date of the prophecy’s fulfillment. in still other letters Shoghi effendi allies the

“hundred lunar years” after bahá’u’lláh’s declaration with the year 1953, although

the significance of this hundred years is unclear.

Thus it seems the prophecy is not fulfilled by a single date but, rather, by a

process that extended over a period of time. A letter dated 7 march 1955 written on

Shoghi effendi’s behalf says, “i n the Ten year crusade, we are actually fulfilling the

prophecy of daniel, because with the completion of the Ten year crusade in 1963

we will have established the faith in every part of the globe.” Thus the fulfillment

of the prophecy coincided with the period of the Ten year crusade, a span of time

that included 1953, 1957, 1960, and 1963.

DAWN-BREAKERS The bábís and early bahá’ís, many of whom gave their lives

as martyrs.DAWNING PLACE OF REVELATION A title of Bahá’u’lláh, or of any Mani-

festation of God.DAY OF THE COVENANT 26 November, the day ‘Abdu’l-b ahá selected for com-

memorating the inauguration of bahá’u’lláh’s covenant. The bahá’ís wished to cel-

ebrate ‘Abdu’l-b ahá’s birthday, but he did not want this because it coincides with

the anniversary of the declaration of the báb (23 may), when all attention should

be given to that sacred event. he gave them instead the day of the covenant to

celebrate, choosing a date that is six gregorian months away from the commemora-

tion of b ahá’u’lláh’s Ascension. See also Covenant.

g l o S Sa rY

81DAY OF GOD An expression used variously, according to context, to refer to the

appearance of a manifestation of god, to the duration of his life on earth, or to

the duration of his dispensation. it is also used to refer specifically to the advent

of bahá’u’lláh.

DAY OF JUDGMENT The time of the appearance of the manifestation of god,

when the true character of souls is judged according to their response to his revela-

tion. Also known as the d ay of r esurrection.

DAYSPRING OF DIVINE GUIDANCE Bahá’u’lláh.

DISPENSATION The period of time during which the laws and teachings of a

prophet of god have spiritual authority. for example, the dispensation of jesus

christ lasted until the beginning of the mu¥ammadan dispensation, usually fixed

at the year 622 a.D., the year mu¥ammad emigrated from mecca to medina. The

islamic dispensation lasted until the advent of the báb in 1844. The dispensation

of the báb ended when bahá’u’lláh experienced the intimation of his mission in

the Siyáh-chál, the subterranean dungeon in Tehran in which he was imprisoned

between August and december 1852. The dispensation of bahá’u’lláh will last

until the advent of the next manifestation of god, which bahá’u’lláh asserts will

occur in no less than one thousand years.

DIVINE ESSENCE g od.

DIVINE PEN A title of Bahá’u’lláh.DIVINE PLAN The plan for the dissemination of the faith of bahá’u’lláh

throughout the world, conceived by ‘Abdu’l-b ahá and entrusted to the bahá’ís of

North America in fourteen letters called the Tablets of the divine plan. The divine

plan was implemented by Shoghi effendi and is pursued today under the guidance

of the divine plan include the first Seven year plan (1937–44); the second Seven

year plan (1946–53) pursued at first by the bahá’ís of the united States and canada

and extended by supplementary plans adopted with the approval or at the behest

of Shoghi effendi by the british isles, egypt and the Sudan, germany, india, iran,

and iraq; and the Ten year world crusade (1953–63), all of which were inaugu-

rated by Shoghi effendi, and the Nine, five, Seven, Six, Three, four year, and

is divided into epochs. The first epoch included the years 1937–46; the second epoch spanned the years 1946–63; the third epoch ranged from 1963–86; and the fourth epoch was from 1986–2001. See also Crusade, Ten Year World; Epochs;

Plans; Tablets of the Divine Plan.

DIVINE THRESHOLD See Sacred Threshold.

815g l o S Sa rY

E

ELECTIONS, BAHÁ’Í elections conducted according to bahá’í principles to se-

lect individuals to serve as members of local and National Spiritual Assemblies

generally held on 21 April, the first day of the ri¤ván festival (21 April–2 may),

but in certain circumstances can be held on any day during ri¤ván. elections for

National Spiritual Assemblies are held annually during ri¤ván. elections for the

universal house of justice are held every five years. All adult members in good

standing in a bahá’í community may vote for the members of their local Spiritual

Assembly; bahá’ís in an electoral unit elect one or more delegates who, in turn, elect

the members of the National Spiritual Assembly at the national convention. The

members of the National Spiritual Assemblies elect the members of the universal

house of justice at an international convention. Shoghi effendi advises electors

“to consider without the least trace of passion and prejudice, and irrespective of any material consideration, the names of only those who can best combine the necessary qualities of unquestioned loyalty, of selfless devotion, of a well-trained mind, of recognized ability and mature experience.” There are no nominations. campaigning and electioneering are forbidden. ballots are cast in a prayerful at-

mosphere, and the nine persons receiving the most votes are considered chosen by god. members of a minority race or group are given preference when tied for the

ninth position; otherwise, ballots are cast to break the tie. A unique and significant aspect of all bahá’í elections is the fact that voters elect with the understanding that

they are free to choose whomever their consciences prompt them to select, and they freely accept the authority of the outcome.

EPISTLE A formal or elegant letter or treatise; a composition in the form of a letter.

in bahá’í usage it refers to certain writings of bahá’u’lláh—for example, Epistle to

the Son of  the Wolf.

EPOCHS major units of time used to mark the unfoldment of the Divine Plan

and the formative Age. The first epoch of the formative Age (1921–46) began

with the passing of ‘Abdu’l-b ahá in 1921 and ended with the conclusion of the first

Seven year plan pursued by the bahá’ís of North America under Shoghi effendi’s

direction. The second epoch of the formative Age (1946–63) began with the

launching of the second Seven year plan and the adoption of similar plans by other

national communities throughout the bahá’í world and ended with the conclusion

third epoch of the formative Age (1963–86) included the Nine, five, and Seven

formative Age (1986-2001), included the Six, Three, four year, and T welve month

centenary of the Ascension of b ahá’u’lláh. See also Ages.

g l o S Sa rY

816F

FAST, THE A nineteen-day period (2–21 march, the bahá’í month of ‘Alá, or

loftiness) of spiritual renewal and development during which bahá’ís abstain from

food and drink from sunrise to sunset. A symbol of self-restraint, the fast is a time

of meditation, prayer, and spiritual recuperation and readjustment.

FEAST See Nineteen Day Feast.FIRESIDE An informal bahá’í gathering held for the purpose of discussing the

bahá’í f aith and sharing its teachings.

FOLLOWERS OF THE GREATEST NAME bahá’ís; followers of Bahá’u’lláh.

See also Greatest Name.FORMATIVE AGE See Ages.FRIENDS b ahá’ís.

FUND The institution of the bahá’í fund, of which there are four main funds,

operates on the international, continental, national, and local levels.

and is used to support the work of the faith at the bahá’í world center and to

sustain national communities unable to meet their own expenses. The international

deputization fund, a subsidiary of the bahá’í international fund, supports the

work of pioneers and traveling teachers and is administered by the international

Teaching center. The persian relief fund, originally established by the National

Spiritual Assembly of iran to assist victims of persecution by the islamic republic,

is also a subsidiary of the bahá’í international fund and is administered by the

universal h ouse of j ustice.

The continental bahá’í fund supports the work of the continental boards of

counselors and the work of their Auxiliary boards.

each National Spiritual Assembly and local Spiritual Assembly administers its

own National and local f und, respectively.

The funds of the bahá’í faith are managed according to principles laid down

by bahá’u’lláh, ‘Abdu’l-b ahá, and Shoghi effendi. foremost among the principles

are: (1) except for the portion of the bahá’í funds devoted exclusively to chari-

table, philanthropic, or humanitarian purposes, contributions are accepted only

from those who have identified themselves with the bahá’í faith and are regarded

as its avowed and unreserved supporters. (2) contributing to the funds is both a

spiritual privilege and a responsibility. (3) All contributions to the bahá’í funds are

voluntary. (4) The degree of sacrifice and love of the contributor is more important than the amount given. (5) Appeals for donations must be dignified and general in character. (6) confidentiality of contributions is to be strictly preserved. (7)

817g l o S Sa rY

receipts are to be issued. Shoghi effendi referred to the funds as “the life-blood”

of the b ahá’í institutions.

G

GOD’S HOLY MOUNTAIN See Mount Carmel.

GOD’S MAJOR PLAN See Major Plan of God.GOD’S MINOR PLAN See Minor Plan of God.GOLDEN AGE See Ages.GREATEST HOLY LEAF See Bahíyyih Khánum.GREATEST NAME The name bahá’u’lláh (“the glory of god”) and its deriva-

tives, such as Alláh-u-Abhá (“g od is most glorious”), Bahá (“glory,” “splendor,” or

“light”), and yá bahá’u’l-Abhá (“o Thou the glory of the most glorious!”). Also

referred to as the m ost g reat Name.

GUARDIANSHIP The institution, anticipated by bahá’u’lláh in the kitáb-i-Aqdas

and established by ‘Abdu’l- bahá in his will and T estament, to which Shoghi effendi

was appointed. Shoghi effendi explains that the guardianship and the universal

house of justice constitute the twin pillars of the world order of bahá’u’lláh and

are the twin successors of bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-b ahá. The guardian’s chief func-

tions are to interpret the writings of bahá’u’lláh, the báb, and ‘Abdu’l-b ahá and to

H

HANDS OF THE CAUSE OF GOD eminent bahá’ís appointed by bahá’u’lláh

to stimulate the propagation and ensure the protection of the faith. ‘Abdu’l-b ahá

in his will and Testament conferred authority on the guardian to appoint hands

of the cause and specified their duties. Shoghi effendi, in a message dated octo-

ber 1957 to the bahá’í world, called the hands of the cause of god “the chief

Stewards of bahá’u’lláh’s embryonic world commonwealth.” After his death on 4

November 1957 the hands of the cause of god assumed responsibility for preserv-

ing the unity of the bahá’í faith and for guiding the bahá’í world community to the

victorious completion of the Ten year world crusade planned by Shoghi effendi.

requested the friends not to elect them, leaving them free to discharge their own

five hands of the cause of god were selected by fellow hands of the cause to serve

at the bahá’í world center, while the rest continued their continental responsibili-

g l o S Sa rY

818ties, which included overseeing the work of the Auxiliary board members. finding

itself unable to appoint or legislate in order to appoint additional hands of the

a letter dated 24 june 1968, announced the establishment of the institution of the

continental boards of counselors to extend the functions of the hands of the

cause of god into the future. The hands of the cause of god were then freed

of responsibility for directing the work of Auxiliary board members and were all

given worldwide responsibilities. See also Auxiliary Boards; Continental Boards

of Counselors; International Teaching Center.

ÞAþÍRATU’L-QUDS The Sacred Fold: official title designating the headquarters

of bahá’í administrative activity in a particular country or region.

HEROIC AGE See Ages.HIDDEN WORDS, THE bahá’u’lláh’s most important ethical work. revealed

circa 1858. described by Shoghi effendi as a “marvelous collection of gem-like

utterances . . . with which bahá’u’lláh was inspired, as he paced, wrapped in his

meditations, the banks of the Tigris.” originally designated “The hidden book

of fá¬imih,” the title of this work is an allusion to the muslim tradition that the

Angel gabriel revealed a book to fá¬imih to console her following the death of

the prophet mu¥ammad, her father, and that this book remained hidden in the

spiritual worlds thereafter.HOLY DAY A day commemorating a significant bahá’í anniversary or feast. The

nine b ahá’í holy days on which work should be suspended include:

The f east of Naw-Rúz (New y ear), 21 m arch

The first day of Ri¤ván, 21 April

The ninth day of ri¤ván, 29 AprilThe twelfth day of ri¤ván, 2 m ay

The anniversary of the d eclaration of the báb, 23 m ay

The anniversary of the Ascension of b ahá’u’lláh, 29 m ay

The anniversary of the m artyrdom of the báb, 9 j uly

The anniversary of the b irth of the báb, 20 o ctober

The anniversary of the b irth of b ahá’u’lláh, 12 November

The Day of the Covenant, 26 November, and the Ascension of ‘Abdu’l-b ahá, 28

November, are commemorated annually, but are not days on which work is to be suspended.

HOLY PLACES Sites in iran, iraq, T urkey, and israel that are associated with

significant events in the lives of b ahá’u’lláh, the báb, and ‘Abdu’l-b ahá.

819g l o S Sa rY

HOLY SHRINES See Shrine.

HOLY TEXTS See Sacred Scriptures.HOLY THRESHOLD See Sacred Threshold.HOSTS ‘Abdu’l-b ahá explains that “The blessed person of the promised one

[bahá’u’lláh] is interpreted in the holy book as the lord of hosts—the heavenly

armies. by heavenly armies those souls are intended who are entirely freed from

the human world, transformed into celestial spirits and have become divine angels.

Such souls are the rays of the Sun of reality who will illumine all the continents”

(Tdp 8.2).

HOUSE OF ‘ABDU’LLÁH PÁSHÁ The house in ‘Akká that ‘Abdu’l-b ahá rented

in 1896 and that served as h is residence until h e moved to h aifa in 1910.

HOUSES OF WORSHIP See Mashriqu’l-A dhkár.

ÞUQÚQU’LLÁH  The Right of  God:  one of the fundamental bahá’í ordinanc -

es of the bahá’í faith, it is a great law and a sacred institution laid down by

bahá’u’lláh in the kitáb-i-Aqdas. it is one of the key instruments for constructing

the foundation and supporting the structure of the world order of bahá’u’lláh.

its far-reaching ramifications extend from enabling individuals to express their

devotion to god in a private act of conscience that attracts divine blessings and

bounties for the individual, promotes the common good, and directly connects

individuals with the central institution of the faith, to buttressing the authority

and extending the activity of the head of the faith. The law prescribes that each

bahá’í shall pay a certain portion of his accumulated savings after the deduction

of all expenses and of certain exempt properties such as one’s residence. These payments provide a fund at the disposition of the head of the faith for carrying

out beneficent activities. þuqúqu’lláh is administered by the universal house of

justice, and payments are made to trustees appointed by the universal house of

justice in every country or region. in providing a regular and systematic source

of revenue for the central institution of the cause, bahá’u’lláh has assured the

means for the independence and decisive functioning of the world center of

his faith. The fundamentals of the law of þuqúqu’lláh are promulgated in the

kitáb-i-Aqdas. further elaborations of its features are found in other writings

of bahá’u’lláh and in those of ‘Abdu’l- bahá, Shoghi effendi, and the universal

house of justice. The law was codified in 1987 and made universally applicable as

of ri¤ván 1992 to all who profess belief in bahá’u’lláh. for further information,

see Þuqúqu’lláh: Extracts from the Writings of  Bahá’u’lláh, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Shoghi

g l o S Sa rY

820I

INSTITUTE See training institute.

INTERNATIONAL BAHÁ’Í ARCHIVES An institution at the bahá’í world

center that preserves the writings and sacred relics of the central figures of the

faith and Shoghi effendi as well as other historical documents and items. The

international Archives building, completed in 1957, was the first of five buildings

on the Arc on m ount carmel to be constructed.

INTERNATIONAL BAHÁ’Í CONVENTION An event held every five years in

haifa, israel, at which members of National Spiritual Assemblies from around the

world gather to elect the members of the u niversal h ouse of j ustice.

INTERNATIONAL BAHÁ’Í LIBRARY The central depository of all literature published on the faith, and an essential source of information for the institutions

of the world center on all subjects relating to the cause of god and the conditions

of mankind.

INTERNATIONAL FUND See Fund.INTERNATIONAL TEACHING CENTER An institution established by the

universal house of justice in 1973, the members of which are the hands of the

at the bahá’í world center. Among the institution’s many responsibilities are mak-

ing and directing the work of the continental boards of counselors, being fully

informed of the faith’s condition throughout the world, watching over the security

and ensuring the protection of the faith, and being alert to possibilities for extend-

ing the teaching work and for developing social and economic life both inside and outside the b ahá’í community.

K

KING OF GLORY A title of Bahá’u’lláh.

KITÁB-I-‘AHD See Book of the Covenant.KITÁB-I-AQDAS, THE The Most Holy Book (Kitáb means “book”; Aqdas means

“most holy”): the chief repository of bahá’u’lláh’s laws and the mother book of his

revelation, revealed in ‘Akká in 1873 and termed by Shoghi effendi “the charter of

the future world civilization.” for a summary of its contents, see gpb, pp. 214–15.

KNIGHTS OF BAHÁ’U’LLÁH The title given by Shoghi effendi to bahá’ís who

settled in the goal countries enumerated at the outset of the Ten year world cru-

sade as having no bahá’ís living in them. All those who settled in such territories

821g l o S Sa rY

during the holy year october 1952–o ctober 1953 and, thereafter, the first to settle

in the remaining territories were designated knights of bahá’u’lláh. The names of

the knights of bahá’u’lláh are inscribed on a scroll that was laid beneath the floor

inside the entrance door of the Shrine of bahá’u’lláh in may 1992 during the holy

year commemorating the centenary of b ahá’u’lláh’s ascension.

L

LESSER PEACE The first of two major stages in which bahá’ís believe peace will

be established. The lesser peace will come about through a binding treaty among

the nations for the political unification of the world. it will involve fixing every

nation’s boundaries, strictly limiting the size of their armaments, laying down

the principles underlying the relations among governments, and ascertaining all international agreements and obligations. its inception will synchronize with two

processes operating within the bahá’í faith—the maturation of local and national

bahá’í institutions and the completion of specified buildings around the Arc on

mount carmel—and will portend the coming of the Most Great Peace.

LETTERS OF THE LIVING A translation of Þurúf-i-Þáyy. The first eighteen

people who independently recognized and believed in the báb. Together with him,

they form the first Vá¥id (“u nit”) of the bábí dispensation. The word Þáyy, which

is the Name of god “The living,” has the numerical value of eighteen in the abjad

system of notation in which each letter of the Arabic alphabet is assigned a specific numerical value. The word “ vá¥id” has the numerical value of nineteen.

LIFEBLOOD OF THE CAUSE The b ahá’í Fund.

LORD OF HOSTS A title of Bahá’u’lláh. ‘Abdu’l-b ahá explains that “what is

meant in the prophecies by the ‘lord of hosts’ and the ‘p romised christ’ is the

blessed perfection [ bahá’u’lláh] and his holiness the exalted one [the báb].” See

also Hosts.

LORD OF THE AGE A designation of the manifestation of god in each dispen-

sation. in islam it was a title given to the promised qá’im and, therefore, is applied

in bahá’í terminology particularly to the báb.

M

MAJOR PLAN OF GOD god’s plan for humanity that is tumultuous and mys-

terious in its progress. its purpose in this cycle is to unify the human race and to

establish the kingdom of g od on earth. See also Minor Plan of God.

MANIFESTATION OF GOD designation of a prophet “endowed with constan-

cy” who is the founder of a religious dispensation, inasmuch as in his words, his

g l o S Sa rY

822person, and his actions he manifests the nature and purpose of god in accordance

with the capacity and needs of the people to whom h e comes.

MASHRIQU’L-ADHKÁR The Dawning-place of  the Praise of  God: a title desig-

nating a bahá’í house of worship or Temple. houses of worship have been con-

structed in wilmette, near chicago, illinois; kampala, uganda; ingleside, near

Sydney, Australia; langenhain, near frankfurt am main, germany; panama city,

panama; Apia, western Samoa; and New delhi, india. The first bahá’í house of

worship, built in 1902 in ‘i shqábád, T urkmenistan, was damaged by an earthquake

in 1948 and, following heavy rains, had to be razed in 1963. for a full description

of the institution of the m ashriqu’l-A dhkár, see bw 18:568–88.

MASTER A title of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá referring to the virtues he manifested and to his

role as an enduring model for humanity to emulate.

MAZRA‘IH A country mansion near the village of mazra‘a, several miles north

of the prison-city of ‘Akká and about a half-mile from the mediterranean Sea.

bahá’u’lláh lived at mazra‘ih for about two years after leaving ‘Akká in 1877 . The

mansion looks eastward to the hills of g alilee and has a pool and gardens.

MECCA The holy city of islam, the birthplace of mu¥ammad (570 a.D.). in

mecca, the principal place of pilgrimage of the muslim world, stands the great

mosque surrounding the ka‘bih ( kaaba), the ancient cubical temple believed to

have been built by Abraham and i shmael, which is the m uslim Qiblih.

MIHDÍ, MÍRZÁ The Purest Branch: a son of bahá’u’lláh and brother of ‘Abdu’l-

bahá. he died at the age of twenty-two in 1870 when he fell through a skylight while

rapt in prayer on the roof of the prison-barracks in ‘Akká. he asked bahá’u’lláh to

accept his life as a ransom so that pilgrims prevented from attaining bahá’u’lláh’s

presence would be enabled to do so. b ahá’u’lláh, in a prayer, made this astounding

proclamation: “g lorified art Thou, o lord my god! Thou seest me in the hands

of mine enemies, and my son blood-stained before Thy face, o Thou in whose

hands is the kingdom of all names. i have, o my lord, offered up that which Thou

hast given me, that Thy servants may be quickened and all that dwell on earth be

united.”MINOR PLAN OF GOD The part of god’s plan that is revealed by bahá’u’lláh to

his followers and is laid out for them in detailed instructions and successive plans

the Major Plan of God, it proceeds in a methodical, ordered way, disseminating

his teachings and raising up the structure of a united world society.

MOST EXALTED LEAF See Ásíyih Khánum and Bahíyyih Khánum.

82g l o S Sa rY

MOST GREAT FESTIVAL See Ri¤ván.

MOST GREAT JUBILEE The centenary of the declaration of bahá’u’lláh’s pro-

phetic mission in the garden of ri¤ván in baghdad, 22 April–3 may 1863. it was

commemorated by the first bahá’í world congress, held in royal Albert hall, lon-

don, during the ri¤ván festival (28 April–2 may) 1963. The most great jubilee

coincided with the victorious completion of the Ten year world crusade Shoghi

effendi launched in April 1953 (fulfilling the prophecy of daniel 12:12 regarding

the spread of the bahá’í faith throughout the world) and the establishment of

Daniel’s Prophecy.MOST GREAT NAME See Greatest Name.MOST GREAT OCEAN See Ancient Beauty.MOST GREAT PEACE The second of two major stages in which bahá’ís believe

peace will be established. The most great peace will be the practical consequence

of the spiritualization of the world and the fusion of all its races, creeds, classes,

and nations. it will rest on the foundation of, and be preserved by, the ordinances

of god. See also Lesser Peace.

MOST GREAT PRISON The prison-city of ‘Akká in which bahá’u’lláh, his fam-

ily, and companions were confined from 31 August 1868 until j une 1877 .

MOST HOLY BOOK See Kitáb-i-Aqdas, The.

MOST HOLY SHRINE The Shrine of b ahá’u’lláh in Bahjí.

MOTHER TEMPLE refers to the first bahá’í house of worship to be built in

a hemisphere or continent. for example, the bahá’í house of worship outside of

frankfurt am main, germany, is known as the mother Temple of europe; the

house of w orship in w ilmette, i llinois, the m other Temple of the w est.

MOUNT CARMEL A mountain in israel on which the Shrine of the báb and the

bahá’í world center are located. The home of the prophet elijah, it is referred to by

bahá’u’lláh as “the hill of god and his vineyard” and was extolled by isaiah as the

“mountain of the lord” to which “all nations shall flow.” on it bahá’u’lláh pitched

his tent and revealed the Tablet of Carmel, the charter of the world spiritual and

administrative centers of the b ahá’í f aith. See also Arc; Bahá’í World Center.

MYSTERY OF GOD A translation of Sirru’lláh, a title bahá’u’lláh gave to ‘Abdu’l-

Bahá referring to his unique spiritual station in which the incompatible character-

g l o S Sa rY

82istics of human nature and superhuman knowledge and perfection are blended and

completely harmonized.

N

NATIONAL CONVENTION The institution that elects the members of the Na-tional Spiritual Assembly during the annual ri¤ván festival (April 21–m ay 2). At

unit or “district” conventions, adult bahá’ís elect delegates who, in turn, attend

the National convention. There the delegates vote to elect the members of the

National Spiritual Assembly, consult about the affairs of the faith, and offer recom-

mendations to the National Spiritual Assembly. See also Elections, Bahá’í.

NATIONAL SPIRITUAL ASSEMBLIES See Spiritual Assemblies.NAW-RÚZ New Day: bahá’í New year’s day, the date of the vernal equinox. A

bahá’í holy day on which work is suspended, it is celebrated in the west on 21

date throughout the world in accordance with astronomical data.NIGHTINGALE OF PARADISE See Ancient Beauty.NINE YEAR PLAN The first teaching plan launched by the universal house of

justice. i t encompassed the years 1964–73. See also Plans.

NINETEEN DAY FEAST A bahá’í institution inaugurated by the báb and con-

firmed by bahá’u’lláh in the kitáb-i-Aqdas. it is held on the first day of every bahá’í

month, each consisting of nineteen days and bearing the name of one of the at-

tributes of god. The feast is the heart of bahá’í community life at the local level

and consists of devotional, consultative, and social elements.

O

ORDER OF BAHÁ’U’LLÁH See World Order of Bahá’u’lláh.

P

PEERLESS BELOVED See Ancient Beauty.

PEN OF GLORY, PEN OF THE MOST HIGH See Ancient Beauty.PEOPLE OF BAHÁ generally, the members of the bahá’í community. Shoghi

effendi explains that in the Tablet of carmel “the people of bahá” refers to the

members of the u niversal h ouse of j ustice.

825g l o S Sa rY

PILGRIM HOUSE A house for visiting pilgrims that mírzá ja‘far ra¥mání built,

with ‘Abdu’l-b ahá’s permission, near the Shrine of the báb. ‘Abdu’l-b ahá composed

a dedicatory inscription that appears above its entrance: “This is a spiritual hostel

for pilgrims, and its founder is mírzá ja‘far ra¥mání 1327 a.H. [1909].” it was

completed in 1909 and was known as the eastern or oriental pilgrim house. in

that pilgrims should be accommodated in hotels, thereby enabling it to convert the

pilgrim house into a reception center.

A western p ilgrim h ouse was built across the street from the h ouse of ‘Abdu’l-

bahá in haifa, shortly after his passing, with funds American bahá’ís had contrib-

uted and in accordance with a design ‘Abdu’l-b ahá had selected and modified. in

the w estern p ilgrim h ouse became the seat of the i nternational Teaching center.

Another pilgrim house is located at b ahjí, near the Shrine of b ahá’u’lláh.

PILGRIMAGE A journey made with the intention of visiting a shrine or holy place. for bahá’ís it is both a privilege and an obligation, although it is only obliga-

tory for men who are able to make the journey. in the kitáb-i-Aqdas bahá’u’lláh

specifically ordains pilgrimage to the house of bahá’u’lláh in baghdad and to the

house of the báb in Shíráz. on the day of bahá’u’lláh’s Ascension, the room where

his holy dust was laid became a third center of pilgrimage—the most holy spot

and the Qiblih of the bahá’í world—for at least the next thousand years. under

current conditions, bahá’ís assume that the obligation of pilgrimage is satisfied by

a visit to the Shrine of b ahá’u’lláh and the Shrine of the báb in the h oly land.

The first group of w estern pilgrims arrived in ‘Akká on 10 d ecember 1898 and

included edward and lua getsinger; phoebe hearst; mrs. hearst’s butler, robert

T urner, who was the first African-American in the west to become a bahá’í; and

mrs. Thornburgh.

semblies. See also Spiritual Assemblies.

PIONEERS bahá’ís who leave their hometown or country to reside elsewhere for

the purpose of teaching the b ahá’í f aith.

PLANS refers to the courses of action devised by Shoghi effendi and, later, by the

universal house of justice for expanding and consolidating the bahá’í faith within

the framework of ‘Abdu’l-b ahá’s Divine Plan. Teaching plans launched by Shoghi

effendi include the first Seven year plan (1937–44) and the second Seven year plan

(1946–53) pursued by the bahá’ís of the united States; a Six year plan pursued by

the bahá’ís of the british isles (1944–50); plans of varying durations separately pur-

sued between 1947–53 by the National Spiritual Assemblies of canada, of central

g l o S Sa rY

826America, of South America, of Australia and New zealand, of india, pakistan, and

burma, of germany and Austria, of iran, of iraq, and of egypt and the Sudan; the

T wo year plan for the development of the faith in Africa; and the Ten year world

crusade (1953–63) pursued by the worldwide bahá’í community. The universal

house of justice has launched the Nine year plan (1964–73), the five year plan

(1974–79), the Seven year plan (1979–86), the Six year plan (1986-92), the Three

year plan (1993–1996), the four year plan (1996–2000), the T welve month plan

(2000–2001), and two five year plans (2001–2006 and 2006–2011). See also Ma-

jor Plan of God and Minor Plan of God.

PROMISED ONE Bahá’u’lláh.PUREST BRANCH, THE See Mihdí, Mírzá.

Q

QIBLIH “That which one faces; prayer-direction; point of  adoration”: the focus to

which the faithful turn in prayer. The qiblih for muslims is the ka’bih in Mecca;

for bahá’ís it is the most holy Tomb of bahá’u’lláh at Bahjí, “the heart and qiblih

of the b ahá’í world.”

R

this new element of the bahá’í Administrative Order, serves as a link between the

local and national levels. These institutions are formed only in certain countries

where the growing complexity of the issues which are facing National Spiritual Assemblies requires this development. A regional council is established either

through election by the members of the Local Spiritual Assemblies in a region or

through appointment by the National Spiritual Assembly.

REMOTE PRISON The city of Adrianople (now edirne, T urkey), to which

bahá’u’lláh was banished from 12 december 1863 through 12 August 1868. Adri-

anople is in western T urkey, on its border with g reece and b ulgaria.

REVELATION The conveying of truth from god to humanity. The word is used

to refer to the process of divine communication from god to his manifestation

and from the manifestation to his people; to the words and acts of such communi-

cation themselves; and to the entire body of teachings given by a p rophet of g od.

RIØVÁN The islamic name of the gardener and custodian of paradise. in bahá’í

terminology the word denotes both “garden” and “paradise”; however, it has also

been used to denote god’s good-pleasure and his divine acceptance. The ri¤ván

festival, the holiest and most significant of all bahá’í festivals, commemorates

827g l o S Sa rY

bahá’u’lláh’s declaration of his mission to his companions in the garden of ri¤ván

in baghdad in 1863. it is a twelve-day period celebrated annually, 21 April–2 may.

it is also called the most great festival. during each ri¤ván festival local and

National Spiritual Assemblies are elected, and, once every five years, the universal

house of j ustice is elected.

RUHI INSTITUTE A system whose materials seek to integrate focused study of

the bahá’í writings with specific acts of service for the community. organized as a

series of levels of study, which aim to develop an understanding of the essential

spiritual verities taught by bahá’u’lláh, the courses are self-perpetuating in nature,

developing human resources who in turn are able to arise to serve the community and teach the courses to others.

RUÞÍYYIH KHÁNUM, AMATU’L-BAHÁ See Amatu’l-Bahá Rú¥íyyih

Khánum.

S

SACRED SCRIPTURES, SACRED TEXTS The holy books of the world’s reli-

gions. Also refers to the writings of b ahá’u’lláh, the báb, and ‘Abdu’l-b ahá.

SACRED THRESHOLD A term used metaphorically and respectfully to denote

approach to the presence of god and, hence, to the precincts of a holy place such

as a shrine. it is also sometimes used literally to denote the actual outer or inner

threshold of a holy shrine.

SEAL OF THE PROPHETS m u¥ammad.

SHOGHI EFFENDI The title by which Shoghi rabbání (1 march 1897–4 No-

vember 1957), great-grandson of bahá’u’lláh, is generally known to bahá’ís. (Shoghi

is an Arabic name meaning “the one who longs”; Effendi is a T urkish honorific

signifying “sir” or “master.”) he was appointed guardian of the bahá’í faith by

‘Abdu’l-b ahá in his will and assumed the office upon ‘Abdu’l-b ahá’s passing in

1921. SHRINE The original meaning of the word is a casket or case for books, but it later

acquired the special meaning of a casket containing sacred relics, and thence a tomb of a saint, a chapel with special associations, or a place hallowed by some memory. it is used to denote the latter in bahá’í terminology. The term “h oly Shrines,” for

example, refers to the burial places of bahá’u’lláh, the báb, and ‘Abdu’l-b ahá. The

house associated with the visit of ‘Abdu’l-b ahá to montreal was designated by

Shoghi effendi as a bahá’í shrine. Also, when referring to the All-American con-

vention held in 1944 to commemorate the one hundredth anniversary of the incep-tion of the bahá’í faith, the guardian wrote of the representatives of the American

g l o S Sa rY

828bahá’í community’s being “g athered within the walls of its national Shrine—the

most sacred Temple ever to be reared to the glory of b ahá’u’lláh” ( gpb p. 400).

SÍYÁH-CHÁL Black Pit: the subterranean dungeon in Tehran in which bahá’u’lláh

was imprisoned August-d ecember 1852. here, chained in darkness three flights of

stairs underground, in the company of his fellow-bábís and some 150 thieves and

assassins, h e received the first intimations of h is world mission.

SPIRITUAL ASSEMBLIES Administrative institutions of bahá’u’lláh’s world or-

der that operate at the local and national levels and are elected according to bahá’í

principles. They are responsible for coordinating and directing the affairs of the bahá’í community in their areas of jurisdiction. The institution of the local Spiri-

tual Assembly is ordained by bahá’u’lláh in the kitáb-i-Aqdas (referred to there as

the “h ouse of justice”); the institution of the National Spiritual Assembly is estab-

lished by ‘Abdu’l-b ahá in his will and Testament. The term “Spiritual Assembly”

was introduced by ‘Abdu’l-b ahá so that, while the faith is still generally unknown,

people will not make the false deduction from the term “h ouse of justice” that it

is a political institution. regional Spiritual Assemblies have been elected in many

areas and are gradually reduced in size and eventually replaced by National Spiritual Assemblies as the f aith expands and consolidates itself. See also Elections, Bahá’í.

SUPREME HOUSE OF JUSTICE See Universal House of Justice.

SUPREME PEN A title of Bahá’u’lláh.SÚRIY-I-MULÚK T ablet to the Kings: revealed by bahá’u’lláh in Adrianople, re-

ferred to by Shoghi effendi as “the most momentous Tablet revealed by bahá’u’lláh.”

in it bahá’u’lláh addresses collectively the monarchs of east and west, the Sul¬án

of T urkey, the kings of christendom, the french and persian ambassadors to the

ottoman empire, the muslim clergy in constantinople, the people of persia, and

the philosophers of the world. in the Súriy-i-m ulúk bahá’u’lláh unequivocally and

forcefully proclaims his station. See Proclamation of  Bahá’u’lláh (pp. 7–12, 47–54,

102–03) for passages of the Súriy-i-m ulúk that have been translated into e nglish.

T

TABLET OF CARMEL The charter of the world spiritual and administrative cen-

ters of the bahá’í faith, revealed by bahá’u’lláh in 1890 during one of his visits to

mount carmel. See gwb, no. 11, or Tb, pp. 3–5.

TABLETS r efers to letters revealed by b ahá’u’lláh, the báb, and ‘Abdu’l-b ahá.

TABLETS OF THE DIVINE PLAN fourteen Tablets revealed by ‘Abdu’l-b ahá

in 1916 and 1917 and referred to as the charter for propagating the bahá’í faith.

829g l o S Sa rY

Addressed to the bahá’ís of North America, the Tablets convey his mandate for

the transmission of the b ahá’í f aith throughout the world. See also Divine Plan.

TEN YEAR WORLD CRUSADE See Crusade, Ten Year World.

TONGUE OF GRANDEUR See Ancient Beauty.TRAINING INSTITUTE. A program designed to enrich the spiritual life of the

participants and enable them to perform specific acts of service such as engaging in teaching activities, giving deepening courses, teaching children’s classes, and acti-vating b ahá’í community life.

TRANSITION, AGE OF or PERIOD OF See Ages.

TWIN HOLY CITIES h aifa and ‘Akká, i srael.

TWIN HOLY SHRINES The Shrines of bahá’u’lláh and the báb. See also Shrines.

U

UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE The supreme governing and legislative body

twin, crowning institutions of the bahá’í Administrative order. elected every five

spiritual guidance to and directs the administrative activities of the worldwide bahá’í community. it is the institution bahá’u’lláh ordained as the agency invested

with authority to legislate on matters not covered in his writings. in his will and

Testament ‘Abdu’l-b ahá elaborates on its functions and affirms that it is infallibly

guided.

W

WILL AND TESTAMENT OF ‘ABDU’L-BAHÁ A document that Shoghi effendi says is “unique in the annals of the world’s religious systems,” the will and

Testament is the charter of the Administrative order of the bahá’í faith. written,

signed, and sealed by ‘Abdu’l-b ahá, the will and Testament consists of three sec-

tions written at three different times between 1901 and the year of his passing. The

will and Testament affirms “the two-fold character of the mission of the báb,”

which was to bring an independent revelation from god and to herald the coming

of another, greater revelation through bahá’u’lláh. it also “discloses the full station

of” bahá’u’lláh as the “Supreme manifestation of god,” declares the fundamental

beliefs of the bahá’í faith, establishes the institution of the guardianship, and

appoints Shoghi effendi as guardian. it provides for the election of the universal

house of justice and defines its scope. it also creates the institution of the National

g l o S Sa rY

80Spiritual Assembly, provides for the appointment of the hands of the cause of

god and prescribes their obligations, and exposes the conduct of the covenant-

breakers.

WORLD CENTER See Bahá’í World Center.

WORLD CONGRESS See Most Great Jubilee.

WORLD CRUSADE See Crusade, Ten Year World.WORLD ORDER OF BAHÁ’U’LLÁH bahá’u’lláh’s “scheme for world-wide soli-

darity” that is “destined to embrace in the fullness of time the whole of mankind.”

The current bahá’í Administrative order is its nucleus and pattern, providing the

“rudiments of the future all-enfolding b ahá’í commonwealth.”

Y

YÁ ‘ALÍYYU’L-A’LÁ O Thou the Exalted, the Most Exalted! A form of the Báb’s

name that is used as an invocation.

YÁ BAHÁ’U’L-ABHÁ O Thou the Glory of  the Most Glorious! A form of

Bahá’u’lláh’s name (the Greatest Name) that is used as an invocation.

81Selected p ublications

Writings of Bahá’u’lláh

Epistle to the Son of  the Wolf. 1st pocket-size ed. T ranslated by Shoghi effendi. wil-

mette, il: b ahá’í p ublishing T rust, 1988.

Gems of  Divine Mysteries: Javáhiru’l-Asrár. h aifa: b ahá’í w orld centre, 2002.

Gleanings from the Writings of  Bahá’u’lláh. T ranslated by Shoghi effendi. wilmette,

il: b ahá’í p ublishing, 2005.

The Hidden Words. T ranslated by Shoghi effendi. wilmette, il: bahá’í publishing,

2002.

The Kitáb-i-Aqdas: The Most Holy Book. 1st pocket-size ed. wilmette, il: bahá’í

publishing T rust, 1993.

The Kitáb-i-Íqán: The Book of  Certitude. T ranslated by Shoghi effendi. wilmette,

il: b ahá’í p ublishing, 2003.

Prayers and Meditations. T ranslated by Shoghi effendi. 1st pocket-size ed. wilmette,

il: b ahá’í p ublishing T rust, 1987 .

Summons of  the Lord of  Hosts: T ablets of  Bahá’u’lláh. wilmette, il: bahá’í publish-

ing, 2006.

The T abernacle of  Unity: Bahá’u’lláh’s Responses to Mánikchí ßá¥ib and Other Writ-

ings. h aifa: b ahá’í w orld centre, 2006.

T ablets of  Bahá’u’lláh revealed after the Kitáb-i-Aqdas. compiled by the research

herzadeh et al. w ilmette, il: 1988.

Writings of the Báb

Selections from the Writings of  the Báb. compiled by the research department of

pocket-sized ed. w ilmette, il: b ahá’í p ublishing T rust, 2006.

Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá

‘ Abdu’l-Bahá in Canada. Thornhill, o ntario: b ahá’í canada p ublications, 1987 .

‘ Abdu’l-Bahá in London: Addresses and Notes of  Conversations. london: bahá’í pub-

lishing T rust, 1982.

Memorials of  the Faithful. New ed. T ranslated by marzieh gail. wilmette, il:

bahá'í p ublishing T rust, 1996.

Se l e c TeD PuBl i c a Ti o n S

82Paris T alks: Addresses Given by ‘ Abdu’l-Bahá in Paris in 1911. wilmette, il: bahá'í

publishing, 2006.

Promulgation of  Universal Peace: T alks Delivered by ‘ Abdu’l-Bahá during His Visit to

the United States and Canada in 1912. compiled by howard macNutt. 2nd

ed. w ilmette, il: b ahá’í p ublishing T rust, 2007 .

The Secret of  Divine Civilization. T ranslated by marzieh gail with Ali-k uli khan.

1st pocket-sized ed. w ilmette, il: b ahá’í p ublishing, 2007 .

Selections from the Writings of  ‘ Abdu’l-Bahá. compiled by the research department

world center and marzieh gail. 1st pocket-size ed. wilmette, il: bahá’í

publishing T rust, 1996.

Some Answered Questions. compiled and translated by laura clifford barney. 1st

pocket-size ed. w ilmette, il: b ahá’í p ublishing T rust, 1984.

T ablets of  the Divine Plan. 1st pocket-sized ed. wilmette, il: bahá’í publishing

T rust, 1993.

A Traveler's Narrative Written to Illustrate the Episode of  the Báb. T ranslated by ed-

ward g. browne. New and corrected ed. wilmette, il: bahá'í publishing

T rust, 1980.

Will and T estament of  ‘ Abdu’l-Bahá. w ilmette, il: b ahá’í p ublishing T rust, 1944.

Writings of Shoghi Effendi

Advent of  Divine Justice. 1st pocket-size ed. wilmette, il: bahá’í publishing T rust,

1990.

Arohanui: Letters from Shoghi Effendi to New Zealand. Suva, fiji: bahá’í publishing

T rust, 1982.

Bahá’í Administration: Selected Messages 1922–1932. 7th ed. wilmette, il: bahá’í

publishing T rust, 1974.

Citadel of  Faith: Messages to America, 1947–1957. wilmette, il: bahá’í publishing

T rust, 1965.

Directives from the Guardian. compiled by gertrude garrida. New delhi: bahá’í

publishing T rust, 1973.

God Passes By. New ed. w ilmette, il: b ahá’í p ublishing T rust, 1974.

High Endeavours: Messages to Alaska. w ilmette, il: b ahá’í p ublishing T rust, 1976.

Japan Will Turn Ablaze: T ablets of  ‘ Abdu’l-Bahá, Letters of  Shoghi Effendi and the

Universal House of  Justice, and Historical Notes about Japan. compiled by

barbara r. Sims. r evised ed. Tokyo: b ahá’í p ublishing T rust, 1992.

Letters of  the Guardian to Australia and New Zealand, 1923–1957. Sydney, NSw :

National Spiritual Assembly of the bahá’ís of Australia and New zealand,

1970.

The Light of  Divine Guidance: The Messages of  the Guardian of  the Bahá’í Faith to

the Bahá’ís of  Germany and Austria. 2 vols. hofheim-langenhain: bahá’í-

verlag, 1982, 1985.

Messages to America. w ilmette, il: b ahá’í p ublishing committee: 1947 .

8Se l e c TeD PuBl i c a Ti o n S

Messages to the Bahá’í World: 1950–1957. wilmette, il: bahá’í publishing T rust, 1971.

Messages to Canada. Toronto: b ahá’í canada p ublications, 1965.

Messages of  Shoghi Effendi to the Indian Subcontinent, 1923–1957.

The Promised Day Is Come. 1st pocket-size ed. wilmette, il: bahá’í publishing

T rust, 1996.

This Decisive Hour: Messages of  Shoghi Effendi to the North American Bahá’ís, 1932–

1946. w ilmette, il: b ahá’í p ublishing T rust, 2002.

The Unfolding Destiny of  the British Bahá’í Community: The Messages from the Guard-

ian of  the Bahá’í Faith to the Bahá’ís of  the British Isles. london: bahá’í

publishing T rust, 1981.

The World Order of  Bahá’u’lláh: Selected Letters. 1st pocket-size ed. wilmette, il:

bahá’í p ublishing T rust, 1991.

The Institution of  the Counsellors. A d ocument p repared by the u niversal h ouse of

justice. h aifa: b ahá’í w orld centre, 2001.

Formative Age. compiled by geoffry w. marks. wilmette, il: bahá’í

publishing T rust, 1996.

The Promise of  World Peace: T o the Peoples of  the World. wilmette, il: bahá’í publish-

ing T rust, 1985.

Compilations of Bahá’í Writings

bahá’u’lláh, the báb, and ‘Abdu’l-b ahá. Bahá’í Prayers: A Selection of  Prayers Revealed

by Bahá’u’lláh, the Báb, and ‘ Abdu’l-Bahá. w ilmette, il: b ahá’í p ublishing

T rust, 2002.

bahá’u’lláh, the báb, ‘Abdu’l-b ahá, and Shoghi effendi. The Power of  Divine As-

sistance. compiled by the research department of the universal house of

justice. o akham, e ngland: b ahá’í p ublishing T rust, 1981.

———. Trustworthiness. compiled by the research department of the universal

house of j ustice. london: b ahá’í p ublishing T rust, 1987 .

bahá’u’lláh, the báb, ‘Abdu’l-b ahá, Shoghi effendi, and the universal house of

justice. Compilation of  Compilations. 3 vols. Australia: bahá’í publications

Australia, 1991, 2000.

———. The Covenant. compiled by the research department of the universal

house of j ustice. london: b ahá’í p ublishing T rust, 1988.

———. T eaching with the Media: A Compilation on Media, Knowledge, Audience,

Persuasion, and Unity. compiled by the National Teaching committee of

the u nited States. w ilmette, il: b ahá’í p ublishing T rust, 1999.

bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-b ahá. Bahá’í World Faith: Selected Writings of  Bahá’u’lláh

and ‘ Abdu’l-Bahá. 2nd ed. w ilmette, il: b ahá’í p ublishing T rust, 1976.

Se l e c TeD PuBl i c a Ti o n S

8———. The Importance of  Obligatory Prayer and Fasting: A Selection of  Extracts and

Prayers from the Bahá’í Writings. compiled by the research department of

Australia, 2001.

bahá’u’lláh, ‘Abdu’l-b ahá, and Shoghi effendi. Excellence in All Things: A compila-

tion of  Extracts from the Bahá'í Writings. compiled by the research de-

publications Australia, 1982.

———. Family Life. compiled by the research department of the universal

house of j ustice. w ilmette, il: b ahá’í p ublishing T rust, 2008.

Chaste and Holy Life. compiled by the research department of the uni-

versal h ouse of j ustice. london: b ahá’í p ublishing T rust, 1988.

———. Conservation of  the Earth’s Resources. prepared by the research department

———. Consultation: A Compilation. compiled by the research department of

1995.

———. Crisis and Victory. compiled by the research department of the universal

house of j ustice. london: b ahá’í p ublishing T rust, 1988.

———. Þuqúqu’lláh: The Right of  God. compiled by the research department

2007 .

———. The Importance of  the Arts in Promoting the Faith. ontario: bahá’í publica-

tions canada, 1999.

———. Scholarship. prepared by the research department of the universal house

of justice. m ona v ale, Australia: b ahá’í p ublications Australia, 1995.

———. T eaching Prominent People. based on material issued by the research de-

T rust, 1990.

———. Unlocking “The Power of  Action. ”  A compilation prepared by the research

committee for the Southern States, 1997 .

———. Women: Extracts from the Writings of  Bahá’u’lláh, ‘ Abdu’l-Bahá, Shoghi Ef-

canada p ublications, 1986.

statement and compilation prepared by the research department of the

universal house of justice. mona vale, Australia: bahá’í publications

Australia, 1994.

———. Bahá’í Elections. compiled by the research department of the universal

house of j ustice. london: b ahá’í p ublishing T rust, 1990.

85index of Names

‘Abdu’l-b ahá. See g eneral i ndex

Abu’l-þasan, j ináb-i-hájí Amín

(T rusted o ne), 21.20–22

Afaqi, Sabir, 97 .2c, 207 .2

Afshin, borhanoddin, 97 .2c, 207 .1c,

344.2a

Afshín, i raj, execution of, 59.4–5

Ahderom, Techeste, 342.9Ahdieh, h ushang, 97 .2a, 200.10,

207 .2; passing of, 241.1

Ahmadiyeh, h edayatoullah, passing

of, 93

Akhtárí, Ardishír, execution of, 37 .1–2Akhtar khávarí, khudáyár, 139.5

‘Akhúnd, j ináb-i-hájí (h and of the

cause of g od), 21.19, 21.21

Ala’i, Suhayl, 97 .4Allen, b eth, 344.1a

Allen, g eorge, 54.3, 97 .2a, 129.18,

207 .1a, 344.1a

Amánat, þusayn, 23.8jAndrews, e ugene, 344.1b

Anello, e loy, 97 .2b, 207 .1b, 344.1b

Annan, k ofi, 331.19

Anvari, h oushmand, 179.2, 179.4,

179.8a

A‘rábí, p anj’alí, 139.5

Arbab, f arzam, 51.1, 54.1, 129.18,

152.1, 264.1

Arbab, laurie, passing of, 322Ardakání, hájí Abu’l-þasan, 21.20Ardekani, f adel, 97 .2c, 207 .1c, 344.1c

Ardekaní, h usayn, 97 .4

Armstrong, leonora h olsapple, 233.2Asare, b eatrice o., 97 .2a, 207 .1a,

344.1a

ásíyíh khánum (Navváb, m ost

exalted leaf). See g eneral i ndex

Ayala, b en, 54.4, 97 .2d, 207 .1d,

344.2a

Ayman, i raj, 54.2

báb, The. See g eneral i ndex

bádkúbi’í, mrs., 139.7abahá’u’lláh. See g eneral i ndex

bahíyyih khánum ( greatest h oly

leaf). See g eneral i ndex

bahjestani, m ahmud kiani, 288.1,

288.2

bahta, g ila m ichael, 97 .2a, 207 .2

bakhshandegi, Amin, 179.5

bakhshandegi, b adri, 179.5

bakhshandegi, Shamam, 179.2, 179.4,

179.5

baki, f evziye, 344.1e

balazadeh, h ooshidar, 207 .1e, 344.2a

ballerio, g iovanni, 279.3–6, 299.9

barnes, kiser, 97 .2a, 154.1, 267 .1,

327 .1

barrett, d onald, 23.4

baskaran, Nidavanur, 274.1, 344.1c

bates, r onald, 23.4

bekkum, o nno f rank van, 75.1

benson, b eatrice, 97 .2d, 207 .1d,

344.1d

benson, richard, 97 .4

bergsmo, m orten, 75.1

bihmardí, f aríd, execution of, 3

i nDe x  o f  n a m e S

86birkland, Stephen, 156.1, 207 .1b,

344.1b

blanks, d onald, 293.1, 344.1d

bopp, Anneliese, 51.1

borets, Alla, 344.1eboth, u ta von, 207 .1e, 344.1e

buddha. See g eneral i ndex

bushrui, Niaz, 207 .1a, 344.1a

calderón, i sabel de, 97 .4

cardoso, f ernando h enrique, 233.4

carney, magdalene, 5 1.1; passing of, 117

chan, lady, 158.1chan, Sir j ulius, 158.1

chance, h ugh e., 49, 142.1–2;

passing of, 260

chance, m argaret, 260.1

chang, Afemata m oli, 97 .2d, 207 .1d,

290.1

chittleborough, d avid, 207 .1d,

344.1d

christ. See g eneral i ndex

chung, i rene, 344.1c

clinton, b ill, 188.2

cole, j uan ricardo, 12.2, 12.7–8

coles, p atricia, 207 .1e, 344.2a

copithorne, m aurice, 321.3

correa, g ustavo, 54.3, 97 .2b, 207 .1b,

344.1b

czékus, r olf von, 97 .2b, 129.18,

207 .1b, 267 .1

dahmúbidí, dáryúsh, 139.4

dánishníyá, Adíb, 139.5davis, lady, 4.1–2

davis, Sir Thomas, 4.1-2, 279.2

delahunt, j acqueline left-h and b ull,

54.3, 97 .2b, 207 .1b, 344.2a

dhabihi m uqaddam, Sirus, 278.4,

280.7, 341.2

djoneydi, p arvine, 97 .2a, 129.18,

207 .1a, 344.2a

dooki, i rma Nelly de, 344.1b

dunbar, h ooper, 49.1, 152.1, 264.1effendi, j amal, 332.2

ehsani, m ehraz, 97 .2a, 207 .1a, 344.1a

eidelkhani, j abbar, 207 .1c, 344.1c

ekpe, f riday, 97 .2a, 207 .2

ellis, w ilma m., 97 .2b, 207 .1b,

344.2a

enayati, m asha’llah, martyrdom of,

254.2, 254.4a–4c

epyeru, o loro, 97 .4

esau ( old Testament figure), 229.18

eshraghian, kamran, 97 .2d, 207 .2ewing, Tod, 207 .1b, 344.2a

faná’íyán, changíz, 39.2

fanaiyan, d erakhshan, 289.5

fanaiyan, m inu z amani, 289.5

farid, b ijan, 97 .2c, 207 .1c, 344.1c

fat’he-Aazam, Shidan, 97 .2a, 207 .1a,

344.2a

fatheazam, h ushmand, 49.1, 152.1,

264.1

featherstone, collis (h and of the

cause of g od), 90.3; passing of,

95

feizouré, clément-Thyrrel, 344.1a

ferdosian, h abibullah, 289.1

ferraby, d orothy, passing of, 178

filho, Antonio g abriel m arques,

274.1, 344.1a

fofana, kassimi, 97 .2a, 207 .2

fozdar, j ohn, 97 .2c, 207 .2

furútan, ‘Alí-Akbar (h and of the

cause of g od): bwc activities,

91.1, 186.3, 216.15; at counselors’ meetings, 53.2, 157 .1, 212.2, 275.2, 331.29, 350.2; at NSA inaugural conventions, 90.3, 108.6, 129.18

fynn, k obina, 156.1, 207 .1a, 344.1a

gabriel (angel). See g eneral i ndex

galadima, i brahim, 207 .1a, 344.1a

galindo p ohl, r eynaldo, 135.3,

136.3c, 137 .2g, 268.5

87i nDe x  o f  n a m e S

gandhi, m ahatma, 202.7

gershuny, linda, 207 .1b, 344.2a

ghadirian, Abdu’l-m issagh, 207 .1b,

344.1b

ghaznavi, Agnès, 97 .4

ghedami, rú¥u’lláh, murder of,

134.1–3

god. See g eneral i ndex

grossmann, h artmut, 51.1, 54.1,

129.18, 154.1, 267 .1

grouzkova, e lena, 207 .1c, 344.1c

gulmu¥ammadí, z abíhu’llah, 97 .4

haake, v iolette, 54.3, 97 .2d, 207 .1d,

267 .1

þájípúr, j amáli’d-dín, 268.1, 268.4,

268.5, 280.4

þájíyán, Suhráb, 39.2

þakhámanishí, írándukht, 139.5hakiman, Sina, 289.1, 297 .1, 297 .4

hancock, Tinai, 97 .2d, 207 .2

harris, r obert, 97 .4

hénuzet, louis, 97 .2e, 207 .1e, 344.2ahermes (prophet), 7 .5

þishmarí, q udratu’lláh, 139.6b

hissani, h izzaya, 54.3, 97 .2a, 207 .1a,

344.2a

hofman, d avid, 43.1

hofmann, Nadi, 75.1

huang, d avid, 97 .2c, 207 .1c, 344.1c

huerta, Angélica, 344.1b

imam þusayn, 140.5c

isaac ( old Testament figure), 229.18

isaiah (prophet), 176.11

ishráqí, A¥mad, 139.7b

iwakura, Nobuko, 156.1, 207 .1c,

344.2a

jabbárí, Surúsh, execution of, 19.1–2,

37 .2

jacob ( old Testament figure),

229.18

javaheri, f iraydoun, 207 .1a, 267 .1john p aul ii, pope, 108.9, 314.1,

331.20

jumalon, h umaida, 344.1c

kabua, Amata, 279.2kámrán mírzá (son of Ná¦irí’d-dín

Shah), 21.21

kashmírí, mr., 139.3

katirai, Abbas, 97 .2c, 207 .1c, 344.2akavelin, borrah, 43.1kávih, A¥mad, execution of, 16.1kazemi, z ekrullah, 97 .2a, 207 .1a,

344.2a

kazemzadeh, f oad, 97 .2e, 207 .2

kebdani, m u¥ammad, 97 .2a

khadem, z ikrullah (h and of the

cause of g od), passing of, 11.1

khadem-m issagh, b ijan, 299.10

khalajabadi, kayvan, 135.2–3, 136.1–

2, 136.3d–3f, 137 .1–2k, 239.5, 289.6

khamenei, Ayatollah Ali h oseyni,

268.5, 287 .5, 288.6

khamsí, m as’úd, 51.1, 129.18, 154.1

khan, p eter, 20.1, 49.1, 152.1, 264.1

khánjání, j amálu’d-d in, 39.1

khazeh, j alal (h and of the cause of

god), passing of, 87 .1

khelghati, Thelma, 54.2khulusi, m anuchehr, 321.4, 334.1–3

king, lauretta, 51.1, 54.1, 154.1,

181.11, 267 .1

koirala, b harat, 97 .4

lanfranconi, Alessandra, 75.1lincoln, Albert, 340.1, 342.6lincoln, j oan, 154.1, 267 .1

locke, h ugh, 188.3

ludher, lee lee, 97 .2c, 207 .1c, 344.1c

lur, ‘Atá’u’lláh, 139.5

lur, jamshíd, 139.5

lutchmaya, e ddy, 180.2, 207 .1a,

344.1a

lutchmaya, r oddy, passing of, 74, 77

i nDe x  o f  n a m e S

88mabuku, w ingi, 97 .2a, 207 .1a, 344.2a

ma¥búbí, þasan, 39.1

mahrami, z abihullah, 239.1–4, 289.6

majmeto, b etra, 97 .2d, 207 .1d, 344.2a

major, j ohn, 188.2

maka, lisiate, 97 .4

makhele, e nos, 344.1a

martin, d ouglas, 152.1, 264.1

masrour, h ervé, 344.1b

mawhibatí, mrs., 139.6c

maxwell, m ay, fiftieth anniversary of

passing, 86

mayberry, f lorence, passing of, 262

maµlúmí, mr., 59.7

mazlumi-Nosratabad, h ossain, 289.5

mcgill, john, 75.1

mclaren, p eter, 54.4, 97 .2b, 207 .1b,

344.2a

mehrabi, m ansur, 268.1, 268.4,

268.5, 280.4, 284.1

merhatsion, Abaineh, 207 .1a; passing

of, 320

mihdí-Nizhád, íraj, 9.2–3

miller, Alejandra, 207 .1b, 344.2a

mills, j alal, 344.1d

mírzá m ihdi (The p urest b ranch). See

general i ndex

mírzá m u¥ammad-‘Alí. See g eneral

index

mírzá y a¥yá. See g eneral i ndex

mirzapanah, z iaullah, 289.1, 297 .1,

297 .4

mitchell, g lenford, 49.1, 152.1, 264.1

mithaqi, b ehnam, 135.2–3, 136.1–3c,

137 .1–2k, 239.5, 289.6

mítháqí, m aryam, 136.3b

mkandawire, m aina, 344.1a

mogharrabi, Abdullah, martyrdom

of, 311

moghbel, f irouzeh, 344.1e

mohajer, p ayman, 115.1, 207 .1c, 267 .1

momtazi, r ouhollah, 97 .4

monadjem, Shapoor, 97 .2b, 154.1,

181.11, 267 .1monajjem, catherine, 344.1b

morrison, g ayle, 97 .2d, 207 .2

moses. See g eneral i ndex

mottahedeh, m ildred, passing of, 323

moussa, kamaye, 344.1a

muhájir, ra¥mátu’ulláh (h and of the

cause of g od), 332.2; conference

dedicated to, 80.1–3

mu¥ammad. See g eneral i ndex

mu¥ammad, j ináb-i-Shah (Amínu’l-

bayán, T rustee of the b ayán),

21.18–20

mu¥ammad-‘Alí, mírzá. See g eneral

index

mühlschlegel, e lisabeth, 54.3, 97 .2e,

175.1

mühlschlegel, u rsula, 97 .4

muhtadí, h abíbu’lláh, 9.5

müller, f riedrich, 111.79

muller, m ax, 202.4

murphy, r ebequa, 344.1b

myungjung, kim, 54.3, 97 .2c, 207 .1c,

344.2a

Nádirí, Amír-þusayn, execution of,

37 .1–2

Nagaratnam, S., 97 .2c, 115.2

Najafabadi, h abibullah f erdosian,

297 .1, 297 .4

Najafabadi, h edayat-kashefi, 278.4,

280.7, 285.2, 285.4, 286.2, 286.3, 288.1, 289.6, 321.2–3, 341.2

Nakhjavání, ‘Alí, 49.1, 152.1, 264.1Naráqí, Sírús, 97 .2d, 207 .1d, 344.1dNá¦irí’d-dín Sháh, 21.21Nasirizadeh, Ataollah h amid, 278.4,

280.7, 285.2, 286.2, 286.3, 288.1, 289.6, 321.2–3, 341.2

Nassimova, d elafruz, 344.1c

Navídí, ‘Azíz ( knight of b ahá’u’lláh),

passing of, 34

Navváb (ásíyíh khánum, m ost

exalted leaf). See g eneral i ndex

Ndegwa, rachel, 344.1a

89i nDe x  o f  n a m e S

Neufeld, linda, 97 .2b

Niederreiter, leo, 97 .4Ni’mati, mr., 321.5Noguchi, lori, 344.1c

Öjermark, p aul, 344.1e

olyai, p erin, 97 .2c, 207 .1c, 344.2a

o’m ara, p atrick, 54.3, 97 .2e, 207 .1e,

344.1e

ong, r ose, 97 .2c, 207 .2

otmani, m u¥ammad, 207 .1a, 344.1a

parsa, Ahmad, 344.1a

páshá’í, b ihnám, execution of, 59.2–3

paymán, khudára¥m, 97 .4

perdu, Nabil, 97 .2e, 207 .1e, 344.2a

peres, Shimon, 23.4

philip, p rince (d uke of e dinburgh),

42.1, 58.1–2, 188.1, 216.14

pihlainen, m aija, 207 .1e, 344.2a

pollock, g arth, 274.1, 344.1a

pringle, r uth, 97 .2b, 108.6, 207 .1b,

344.2a

rafat, p olin, 97 .2e, 207 .1e, 344.2a

rahbar-p our, g holam-h ossein, 278.1

ramasamy, j aya g opan, 344.1c

ramirez, z enaida, 207 .1c, 329.1

ramoroesi, d aniel, 97 .2a, 207 .1a,

344.2a

rashid, lateef, 344.1c

rassekh, Shapoor, 54.3, 97 .2e, 207 .1e,

344.2a

raw¥ání, m así¥, 97 .4

raw¥ání, m ihrangíz, 139.6a

raw¥ání, rú¥u’lláh, execution of,

276, 277, 278, 280.1–4, 280.6, 299.8

razavi, riaz, 179.2–3, 179.8arazavi, Shahriar, 344.1erené, e lla, 186.2

rené, f rance Albert, 186.1, 186.3

rené, Sarah, 186.2

reyhani, f oad, 344.1creyhani, m anijeh, 274.1, 344.1d

reza’i, Shahram, martyrdom of,

254.3–4c

rí¤á, þájí Amín (T rustee of the

huqúqu’lláh), 21.22

rí¤á, j ináb-i-g hulám (Amín-i-Amín,

T rustee of the T rustee), 21.23–24

robarts, j ohn (h and of the cause of

god), passing of, 112

robert, g ilbert, 77 .1, 97 .2a, 180.1

roberts, w illiam, 54.3, 97 .2b, 207 .2

rogers, donald, 5 1.1, 54.1, 154.1, 267 .1

rohani, c yrus, 207 .1c, 344.2a

rohani, r uhollah, execution of,

285.2, 285.3, 286.2, 288.4, 321.2

root, m artha, 269.1, 300.1, 301.1

ruhe, d avid S., 49.1, 142.1–2

rú¥íyyih khánum, Amatu’l-b ahá

(hand of the cause of g od). See

general i ndex

rumi, m ustafa, 332.2

rustamí, ‘Atá’u’lláh, 139.5

rustamí, rú¥u’lláh, 139.5

Sabeti, Nahid, 284.2Sabri, i sobel, 51.1; passing of, 132

Sadeghian, carmen e lisa de, 207 .1b,

344.1b

ßadúqí, Ayatu’lláh, 139.3, 155.2Sahba, f ariborz, 23.9, 64.2, 91.1

Samandarí, b ahman, 39.2; execution

of, 127, 128.1–128.4

Samandari, m ihdi, 97 .4

Samandarí, r uzítá, 39.2, 41.3

Samaniego, v icente, 97 .2c, 207 .1c,

338.6, 344.2a

Sanani, h ushmand, 284.2

Sánchez, i sabel de, 97 .2b, 207 .1b,

344.2a

Saunders, b ruce, 97 .2d, 207 .1d,

344.2a

Schaefer, u do, 111.1, 111.50

Schechter, f red, 97 .2b, 154.1, 216.34,

267 .1

i nDe x  o f  n a m e S

80Schwerin, kimiko, 97 .2c, 154.1, 267 .1

Sealy, e rrol, 97 .2b, 207 .1b, 344.2a

Sears, w illiam (h and of the cause of

god), passing of, 126

Semenoff, p aul, 97 .2e, 207 .2

Semple, i an, 49.1, 152.1, 264.1

Senoga, e dith, 97 .2a, 207 .1a, 344.2a

Serrano, Arturo, 97 .2b, 207 .1b, 344.1bSezgin, i lhan, 2.2, 97 .2e, 207 .1e,

344.1e

Shabrukh, f idrus, martyrdom of, 1.1

Shádpúr, g hulám-þusayn, 139.5

Shahabi, e htesham, 288.3

Shandegi, Shamambakh, 179.8aSharifabadi, f arzad khajeh, 289.1,

297 .1, 297 .4

Sharifi, m anouchehr, 284.2

Sharon, m oshe, 294.1a

Shayani, farhad, 156.1, 207 .1b, 344.2a

Sháyiq, Abu’l-qásim, execution of,

19.1–2, 37 .2

Shoaie, c rystal, 344.1b

Shoghi, p ayman, 344.1c

Shoghi e ffendi. See g eneral i ndex

Simpson, h eather, 207 .1d, 344.1d

Smith, Alan, 97 .2b, 207 .2Smith, d avid r., 97 .2b, 207 .1b,

344.1b

Smith, m arilyn, 344.1b

Solano, leticia de, 344.1bSorabjee, z ena, 97 .2c, 207 .1c, 314,

331.20, 344.1c

Soraya, g eorge, 207 .1c, 344.1c

St. b arbe b aker, richard, 82.1, 90.5,

188.3

Stevenson, j oy, 51.1, 54.1, 154.1, 267 .1

Subhání, p aymán, martyrdom of, 1.2

Subhání, rúhu’l-Amín, martyrdom

of, 1.2

Sundram, chellie, 54.2Sundram, Shantha, 54.3, 97 .2c, 207 .2

Tafakkurí, þabíbu’lláh, 139.5Taherzadeh, Adib, 49.1, 54.1, 152.1,

264.1; passing of, 319

Tahzib, b ahiyyih, 75.1

Talebi, m usa, 239.1–4, 289.6

øálibí, bízhan, 5.1

Tamashiro, h enry, 344.1d

Tessema, Asfaw, 344.1aThoresen, lasse, 299.10Thorne, Adam, 54.2Tin, u So, 97 .4Tirandaz, Nosrat, 207 .1e, 344.1eTomás, r odrigo, 97 .2b, 207 .1b,

344.1b

Towfigh, Nicola, 344.1eT ran, r osalie, 207 .1c, 338.6, 344.1c

Tsutskova, larissa g rigorjevna, 175.2,

207 .1e, 344.1e

ugaia, e rama, 207 .1d, 344.1d

uransaikhan, b aatar, 344.1c

vafá’í, mr. (of i sfahan), 59.7

va¥dat-Ni¥ámí, Sirru’lláh, martyrdom

of, 1.1

vajda, Tiberiu, 207 .1e, 344.2a

varqá, Akhu’sh-Shahíd, 21.25

varqá, ‘Ali m u¥ammad (h and of the

cause of g od): bwc activities,

216.15, 331.29; at counselors’ meetings, 157 .1, 212.2, 350.2; at NSA inaugural conventions, 108.6, 129.18, 181.11, 200.10; as T rustee of þuqúqu’lláh, 13.2, 21.2, 21.29–31, 62.2, 121.1b

varqá, j ináb-i-‘Azízu’lláh, 21.25

varqá, j ináb- valíyu’lláh (h and of the

cause of g od), 21.25–29

varqá the martyr, 21.25

vuyiya, p eter, 51.1, 54.1, 154.1;

passing of, 271

walker, p enny, 267 .1

warren, lally, 207 .1a, 344.2a

81i nDe x  o f  n a m e S

warren, l ucretia m., 97 .2a

weinberg, r obert, 75.1

white, r obin, 207 .1d, 344.1d

whyte, d orothy, 344.1b

wolcott, charles, passing of, 15.1

yazdani, f ereidoun, 344.1d

yazdí, ‘Azíz, 51.1

youssefian, Sohrab, 97 .2e, 207 .1e,

344.1ezabihi-m oghaddam, Sirus, 285.2,

285.4, 286.2, 286.3, 288.1, 289.6,

321.2–3

zarqani, mr. and mrs. Abdul

rahman, 186.2

zenimoto, m ichitoshi, 97 .4

zerbes, i vo, 344.1e

ziehi, Antoinette, 344.1a

zock, Tiat à, 207 .1a, 344.1a

zoroaster. See g eneral i ndex

8general i ndex

‘Abdu’l-b ahá: acceptance of, 355.5;

acquisition of apartment used in

france, 237, 249.4; as authorized

interpreter, 17 .1–2, 22.11, 52.2, 52.3, 52.6, 131.9, 145.13, 201.9a, 215.7, 255.10a, 283.3; as center of the covenant, 107 .6, 129.20, 131.9–10, 144.2–4, 145.13, 145.20; construction of Shrine of The báb, 36.2, 36.4a, 91.2, 129.13, 176.6; covenant-breakers in family of, 255.5a–6; as exemplar, 60.6, 145.13, 199.2,

209.3, 225.2; on inheritance, 229.12–22; in kitáb-i-‘Ahd, 177 .4; NSAs established by, 52.3; relations with i srael, 23.2;

on r evelation of b ahá’u’lláh,

201.9–10. See also Tablets of the divine p lan; w ill and Testament

of ‘Abdu’l-b ahá

Aboriginal peoples. See i ndigenous

peoples

Action, 331.2, 348.8; collective, 200.7,

216.37, 356.35a; lines of, 213.7, 221.4, 222.15, 263.10, 331.17, 348.15, 348.17, 348.18. See also individual initiative

Adamic c ycle, 22.10, 131.4

Administrative center, b ahá’í. See

bahá’í w orld center (bwc)

Administrative o rder, b ahá’í, 337;

acceptance of, 32.3–3a; authority of, 215.5, 337 .5; channels for criticism in, 60.32–36, 145.3; as child of covenant, 144.4, 145.3; collaboration in, 249.2; development of, 18.10, 18.12, 151.6, 183.18, 201.28, 216.35, 255.11, 348.2, 356.9; emergence from obscurity, 354.2; establishment of, 60.54, 176.4–5, 220.1; expansion and consolidation through, 90.2, 129.16–17; features of, 60.17, 60.22, 102.18, 111.51, 183.13, 250.3–4; individual believers and, 67; Nineteen d ay feast and, 69.7–

8; processes of, 60.6–10, 60.24; Shoghi e ffendi’s development of,

111.55–57, 111.59; w orld o rder

based on, 90.17, 90.20, 96.12, 201.13, 201.18–21a, 201.28, 250.3, 356.9. See also b ahá’í

administration; i nstitutions,

bahá’í; local Spiritual Assemblies;

National Spiritual Assemblies; universal h ouse of j ustice

Administrative rights, deprivation of,

122.5–6, 122.12–20, 247 .7–9, 250.18c, 257 .7

Adultery, 205.3aAdvocates for African f ood Security,

147 .2

Afghanistan, teaching work in, 223.7Africa: acceptance of b ahá’í f aith in,

162.6; alcohol consumption by bahá’ís in, 247 .3–13; Auxiliary

g e n e r a l  i n De x

8Africa: acceptance of b ahá’í f aith in,

(continued)

b oards, 2.3; bahá’í communities

in, 22.4–6, 116.2, 222.2–3; bahá’í

radio station in, 23.8i; continental

board of counselors, 54.2, 54.3,

77 .1, 97 .2a, 156.1, 180.1–2, 207 .1a,

274.1, 344.1a; entry by troops in, 181.9; european pioneers in, 221.3;

four year plan goals, 222.1, 222.10–

15; lSAs in, 222.5; NSAs in, 191.1,

222.5; ri¤ván message for 1996,

222, 247 .1; Six year plan pioneer

goals, 71.3; social and economic development projects, 216.9; teaching work in, 247 .2; Three year plan pioneer goals, 161.5–8;

tribal conflicts in, 222.7–8; u.S.

bahá’ís of African descent traveling

to, 220.9, 331.8; use of the arts in, 331.10; women in, 116, 147 .2. See

also individual African countries

Africa p roject (1951–53), 222.3

Age of maturity, b ahá’í, 273

Age of T ransition, 90.14, 108.2Aghsán, 177 .3–5AidS, statement on, 199‘Akká ( israel), 176.8

Alaska, b ahá’í community of, 220.11

Albania: establishment of lSAs in,

98.1; National Spiritual Assembly of, 121.1a, 129.18

Alcohol, prohibition against drinking,

206.4, 247 .3–13

American b ahá’í community, 60.3–4,

60.44, 220.9, 220.14, 331.8, 331.9. See also u nited States,

National Spiritual Assembly of

Americas: Auxiliary boards, 2.3;

continental board of counselors, 54.3, 54.4, 97 .2b, 156.1, 207 .1b, 274.1, 344.1b; Six y ear p lan

pioneer goals, 71.3; Three y ear

plan pioneer goals, 161.5–8Andaman and Nicobar i slands, b ahá’í

community of, 218.7

Angola, National Spiritual Assembly

of, 22.9, 121.1a, 129.18, 216.7

Antipodes, b ahá’í community of,

224.2–3

Apartheid, 6, 108.8Arc/Ark. See m ount carmel p rojects

Archives. See h istorical documents;

international Archives b uilding

Arc p rojects f und: contributions to,

36.5, 176.2, 181.3, 216.3, 240.2–4, 248.16, 249.6; needs of, 20.5, 64.10, 66.1, 83.5, 98.2, 120.5, 160.1, 171.6–7, 204, 213.31, 303.2; progress reports, 105.2, 189, 193.1–2, 200.9

Arctic regions, 220.16,

221.6

Arctic Teaching conference (1996),

238

Area g rowth p rograms, 313.6, 331.23.

See also i ntensive programs of

growth

Armaments, reduction of, 356.10b,

356.11, 356.12a, 356.13a

Armenia, National Spiritual Assembly

of, 191.1, 200.10. See also r ussia,

georgia and Armenia, r egional

Spiritual Assembly of

Arts, the, 299.10; in b ahá’í centers,

246; compilation on, 282; in expansion and consolidation, 216.31, 331.10; at Nineteen d ay

feasts, 222.13; as worship, 60.24;

youth involvement in, 331.27

“Arts and Nature” p rogram ( london),

58, 64.3

Ascension of ‘Abdu’l-b ahá, 129.28;

time of day to commemorate, 125.2

Ascension of b ahá’u’lláh, 144.2;

centenary of, 22.10, 64.9, 90.8–9, 90.11–12, 107 .2, 107 .4, 108.11c–d,

85g e n e r a l  i n De x

129.2, 129.19, 131, 151.1; time of

day to commemorate, 125.2

ASeAN y outh conference (Thailand):

messages to, 208, 346

Asia: Auxiliary boards, 2.3;

continental board of counselors, 2.2, 54.2–4, 97 .2c, 115.1, 156.1, 207 .1c, 274.1, 344.1c; h ands of

the cause visiting, 90.3; NSAs in, 173.2, 191.1; Six y ear p lan

pioneer goals, 71.3; Three y ear

plan pioneer goals, 161.5–8. See

also T wo y ear p lan for eastern

europe and Asia (1990–92); and

individual Asian countries and regions

Asian b uddhist conference for p eace,

108.9

Asian i nternational b ahá’í y outh

conference (p akistan), message

to, 338

ásíyíh khánum. See NavvábAssistants to Auxiliary board members.

See Auxiliary boards

Associations of b ahá’í Studies, 331.13

Australasia: Auxiliary boards, 2.3;

continental board of counselors, 54.3, 207 .1d, 274.1, 290, 293, 344.1d; f our y ear p lan goals,

224.10; Six y ear p lan pioneer

goals, 71.3; Three y ear p lan

pioneer goals, 161.6–8

Australia: bahá’í courses in schools,

299.9; continental board of

counselors, 97 .2d; four year plan

goals, 224.11; pilgrims from, 164.5; ri¤ván message for 1996, 224

Austria: f our y ear p lan goals, 236;

National Spiritual Assembly of, 269.3. See also g ermany

and Austria, National Spiritual Assembly of

Authority: in b ahá’í community,

60.33–34, 183.31, 183.36–38; expression of, 183.42–44; skepticism regarding, 60.22. See also i nterpretation, authoritative;

laws, b ahá’í

Auxiliary boards, 64.7, 108.10;

appointment of, 2.1, 121.1; conferences, 299.11; at continental boards of counselors’ conference (2001), 331.29, 344.5, 350.3, 351.2, 357 .2; continental pioneering committees and,

88.7; education of children and, 313.7; expansion of, 2.2–4, 108.10, 212.6e; financial support for, 213.31; f ive year p lan

involvement, 344.4; f our y ear

plan activities, 265.3; functions

of, 207 .3, 213.25, 272.1, 337 .14, 350.5; individuals’ relationship with, 60.33, 181.2, 348.8–10; intensive programs of growth and, 348.15; local communities’ relationship with, 213.30; lSAs’ collaboration with, 181.2, 183.15–20, 183.22–23, 212.6b, 212.6d, 213.22–25, 249.2, 331.6; maturation of, 129.12, 200.4; members not eligible for rbcs, 250.12f; message to, 350.4–9; Nineteen d ay feast promotion,

73.1–3; NSAs’ collaboration with, 102.7, 181.2, 213.10, 249.2; rbcs’ relationship with, 250.27a, 344.4; training institute assistance, 213.18, 213.19, 216.6, 216.28, 270.5, 310.6–8

Azerbaijan, National Spiritual

Assembly of, 123.1c, 129.18

báb, The: acceptance of, 355.4–5;

declaration of, 144.4; dream of, 140.5c; transfer and interment of remains, 21.19, 36.2, 91.2, 176.6. See also Shrine of the báb

g e n e r a l  i n De x

86backbiting, 206.5

bahá’í administration, 102; acceptance

of, 355.5; establishment of, 102.4;

features of, 60.20, 81.2, 183.21, 331.6; growth of, 129.12, 230.4; role in society, 55.10, 90.19,

183.33; unity in, 52.2, 183.32–

32a; in the w est, 164.3. See also

Administrative o rder, b ahá’í;

institutions, b ahá’í

Bahá’í Administration (Shoghi

effendi), 111.54

bahá’í chair for w orld p eace

(university of m aryland), 85,

90.5, 216.14

bahá’í community, 99.6; authority

in, 111.54–56, 183.31; culture of, 331.2; diversity in, 55.3–6, 90.16–17, 99.4–4a, 202.60; emergence from obscurity, 21.33, 181.3; example of, 14.3, 55.11, 56.5a, 149.18, 181.8, 220.6–7, 338.3–4; government relations, 60.4; growth of, 2.3–4, 36.6, 151.6, 157 .5, 172.1–3, 181.2, 256.2, 295.4, 356.9; homosexuality in, 205; individual’s relationship to, 337 .4; iT c responsibilities for,

272.7d–e; maturation of, 21.7, 60.43–47, 90.16, 99.6, 102.3–4, 120.3, 129.4–13, 200.4, 258.1, 313.7, 331.5; misfunctioning in, 337 .13; mission of, 64.12; rights and freedoms in, 60; strengthening, 60.33, 151.8, 213.23, 227 .6–8, 313.3–4; unity of, 6.3, 183.32–35, 212.5, 295.4. See also b ahá’í i nternational

community; b ahá’í life; b ahá’í

world community; laws, b ahá’í;

local b ahá’í communities;

membership, b ahá’í; National

bahá’í communities; i ndividual

believersbahá’í c ycle, 129.2, 131.4, 255.11a

bahá’í f aith: acceptance of, 21.14,

109.3, 111.22, 145.12, 162.6–7, 201.27, 355.4–6, 355.8; courses on in school systems, 348.6; example of, 202.1; growth of, 8.7,

22.9, 29.4, 36.6, 38.2, 48.2, 48.4,

129.5, 131.11, 146.2, 223.5–6, 258.1; i srael’s recognition of, 23;

leadership in, 255; power of, 4.3, 56.5, 60.4, 60.20; proclamation of, 18.5, 18.12, 83.6, 96.5a, 129.6, 129.8–9, 130, 216.10, 216.33, 220.1, 331.9, 331.18; purpose of, 64.11, 99.4a, 176.4, 183.5, 183.32; receptivity to, 120.2, 162.6–8a, 172.1–2, 181.6, 183.5, 217 .6–7, 218.3, 218.8, 223.1, 223.5, 233.5, 348.2; as State r eligion, 18.8a, 201.17a,

201.21a–22; study of, 157 .7, 169.2–4, 187, 215.3, 296.1; union of all peoples in, 96.3a, 176.3, 183.5, 183.29–35, 200.3; unity of, 52.2, 60.6, 60.34, 60.36, 145.14; as world religion, 111.74, 131.16, 314. See also b ahá’í

community; b ahá’í life; b ahá’í

Teachings; e mergence from

obscurity; e ntry by troops

bahá’í i nstitute of h igher e ducation

(bihe), 287 .3, 289.1–3, 297 .2, 299.8

bahá’í international community ( bic):

“Arts and Nature” cosponsorship, 58, 64.3; defense of iranian bahá’ís,

22.5, 331.15; environmental work, 42.1, 129.9, 15 1.3, 188.3; external affairs work, 8, 76.4, 108.9, 15 1.11; financial support for, 240.5; four year plan activities,

331.19; jerusalem office, 23.8b;

lesser peace and, 357 .4; millennial

activities, 342.1, 342.6, 342.9;

87g e n e r a l  i n De x

NSAs’ collaboration with, 8.4–6,

48.5, 61.1, 129.9; representative’s visit to pacific islands, 279; Three

year plan activities, 216.13; uN’s

relationship with, 8.2, 18.5, 61.1, 64.3, 147 .2, 263.8; web

site, 249.4. See also  office for the

Advancement of women; office

of public information; office of

the environment; united Nations

office

bahá’í i nternational f und:

contributions to, 240, 249.6; needs of, 22.12, 120.5–7, 213.31–33, 303; support for training institutes, 231.3, 270.1a, 310.3. See also Arc p rojects f und;

international d eputization f und

bahá’í i nternational w omen’s

conference (Nigeria), message to, 116

bahá’í life: characteristics of, 90.19,

183.33, 218.10, 236.3; living, 48.10, 183.10, 225.6, 248.6a. See also b ahá’í community

bahá’í principles. See b ahá’í Teachings

bahá’í p ublishers’ conference

(london), message to, 40

bahá’í Scriptures: electronic versions

of, 184; illuminate all knowledge, 169.2–4, 209.3; preservation of, 166, 302.5–6; prophets in, 7 .5; standard of presentation for, 281; study of, 64.11, 157 .7, 181.4, 217 .8, 248.5, 248.15, 283.7, 306, 338.2. See also i nterpretations of

bahá’í Scriptures; T ranslations of

bahá’í Scriptures

bahá’í State, 201.7–7c, 201.14a,

201.15a, 201.17a, 201.21a–22. See also w orld government; w orld

order of b ahá’u’lláh

bahá’í Teachings: acceptance of, 109.5,

355.4; application of, 60.1, 96.8, 109.2, 200.1–3, 201.20–20a; for conflict resolution, 202; moral and ethical, 56.3–5a, 124, 149.13, 205.13, 205.14, 206; obedience to, 18.5, 138.9; study of, 169.5–8, 169.10–11b, 181.5, 187, 206.3, 331.2

Bahá’í World, The (series), reformatting

of, 170

“bahá’í w orld, The” ( web site),

331.18

bahá’í w orld center (bwc):

correspondence from, 312; dangers to, 103.3; establishment of, 2.5, 176.5, 176.7–8, 176.10; financial support of, 240.6; historical documents at, 302, 305.4, 305.11; þuqúqu’lláh’s importance for, 21.4, 345.3; i srael’s recognition

of, 23; rbcs’ communication with, 250.25–25d; r esearch

department, 36.4c, 192.2, 192.7;

T welve m onth p lan, 357 .5;

youth service at, 129.11. See also center for the Study of the Texts; international Archives b uilding;

international b ahá’í library;

international Teaching center;

mount carmel p rojects; Seat of

universal h ouse of j ustice; Shrine

of The báb

bahá’í w orld commonwealth,

99.4b–c, 176.8, 201.17a, 201.22, 201.26a, 296.7, 356.19a. See also world government; w orld o rder

of bahá’u’lláh

bahá’í world community: development

of, 22.12, 32.2–6, 54.5, 123.5, 212.2; governance in, 111.20, 275.1; maturation of, 22.3, 146.1, 216.8, 216.18; recognition of, 8.6, 23.2, 48.2, 111.36; unity of, 6.3, 27 .2, 202.3, 216.3. See also Administrative o rder,

g e n e r a l  i n De x

88bahá’í world community: development

(continued)

b ahá’í; b ahá’í community; b ahá’í

international community

bahá’í w orld News Service (bwNS,

web site), 357 .4

bahá’u’lláh: acceptance of, 32.2–4,

96.11, 99.5, 109, 149.18, 151.8,

355.4–5; emblazoning the Name of, 90.11, 107 .8–9, 108.11e, 129.26–27, 144.6–7, 151.1; family of, 7 .9, 36.2, 176.6, 177 .3–5, 255.5a–6; infallibility of, 12.2–9; influence of, 99.8a, 131.12–14; love for, 162.7; on mt. carmel, 36.1, 91.2; p roclamation to kings

and rulers, 60.12, 129.6; purpose of, 29.2, 129.24, 144.2, 145.13, 145.15–16, 356.19a; station of, 129.25–26, 131.4–5, 140, 149.18, 355.4; sufferings of, 131.6–7 . See also Ascension of b ahá’u’lláh;

bahá’í f aith; g reatest Name;

revelation of b ahá’u’lláh; w orld

order of b ahá’u’lláh

Bahá’u’lláh ( office of p ublic

information), 107 .8–9, 108.11e

bahíyyih khánum ( greatest h oly

leaf), 7 .9; monument to, 36.2, 176.6

bahjí, new visitors center at, 331.7

bangladesh: b ahá’í community of,

218.5; message to first b ahá’í

National congress in, 143

beards, laws regarding length of,

165.4a

behavior, b ahá’í standards of, 206.3–5

belarus, National Spiritual Assembly

of, 191.1, 200.10. See also u kraine,

belarus and m oldova, r egional

Spiritual Assembly of

bible, 7 .5, 281.4

bolivia: indigenous teaching

conference in, 308; social and economic development in, 331.14. See also u niversidad Núr

bophuthatswana. See South Africa,

National Spiritual Assembly of

bosnia, teaching work in, 236.4brazil: b ahá’í courses in schools,

299.9; i nternational e xposition

on education for p eace, 108.9;

seventy-fifth anniversary of b ahá’í

faith in, 233, 249.4

british i sles. See u nited kingdom

budapest (h ungary), bic office in,

64.2

buddha, 7 .5

bulgaria: lSAs established in, 98.1;

National Spiritual Assembly of, 121.1a, 129.18

burundi, National Spiritual Assembly

of, 216.34

businesses, private, 167, 245

cambodia: b ahá’í community of,

219.6, 219.7; National Spiritual Assembly of, 173.2, 181.11; teaching work in, 216.7

cameroon, social and economic

development projects, 331.14

canada: b ahá’í community of,

183.11, 220.12, 339.1–2; National Spiritual Assembly of, 8.6; pioneers from, 331.8. See also u nited States and canada,

National Spiritual Assembly of

candor, 183.40–42capacity building, 331.14, 331.17 .

See also h uman resources,

development of; p eople of

capacity, teaching; T raining institutes

caribbean, the: e uropean pioneers in,

221.3; 1996 ri¤ván m essage for,

217

caucasus, f our y ear p lan in, 223.4–5

cause of b ahá’u’lláh. See b ahá’í f aith

89g e n e r a l  i n De x

cause of g od. See b ahá’í f aith

censorship, 72.2, 118.6. See also

prepublication review

center for the Study of the Texts

(building), 36.4c; commencement

of, 83.4, 129.13, 151.11, 174; progress reports, 108.11b, 113.2, 114.3–4, 114.7, 160.1, 193.2, 216.2, 249.5, 299.3

center for the Study of the Texts

(institution), 357 .10

center of the covenant. See ‘Abdu’l-

bahá

central Asia: f our y ear p lan in,

223.4–9; NSA’s inaugural convention, 129.18; r egional

Spiritual Assembly of, 123.1a, 173.2, 181.11; ri¤ván m essage for

1996, 223

centralization, 183.26, 183.46–48,

250.1, 250.4–5, 250.6e

Century of  Light ( uhj), 354, 357 .3

chad, training institute in, 299.5chair for b ahá’í Studies (h ebrew

university of j erusalem), 294

chair for b ahá’í Studies ( university of

indore), 90.5

charities, 35.4–5, 177 .2–3, 177 .5chastity, 205.13; compilation on, 56children: behavior of, 149.14–15,

273.1; education of, 200.4, 217 .5, 218.12, 223.7, 224.6, 248.11–15, 313.7; equality of men and women and, 7 .2, 7 .8, 7 .11; prevention of violence against, 149; registration of in i ran, 325;

spiritual education of, 28, 149.19–19a, 219.4, 299.7, 331.24–28, 338.5, 348.5–6, 357 .3; women as primary educators of, 116.1. See also j unior youth, b ahá’í; y outh,

bahá’í

children’s classes: as f our y ear p lan

goal, 348.17; importance of, 213.23, 222.13, 348.6; lSAs and, 73.1a, 234.5, 295.3; in m ongolia,

219.8; training teachers for, 216.6, 313.7, 331.25, 348.7, 357 .3–4; youth as teachers of, 213.33, 218.12

china: Amatu’l-b ahá rúhíyyih

khánum in, 90.3; i nternational

book f air, 23.8g; pilgrims from,

164.5; proclamation of b ahá’í

faith in, 23.8h

chinese believers, 219.4, 219.10christ, 140.2, 140.5c, 201.2a;

infallibility of, 12.6a

christianity, 201.21a; celebrating holy

days of, 10; Scriptures of, 7 .5, 281.4

ciskei. See South Africa, National

Spiritual Assembly of

city of the covenant. See New y ork

city, as city of the covenant

civil disorder, b ahá’ís’

noninvolvement in, 6.9. See also p olitics, partisan, b ahá’ís’

noninvolvement in

civilization. See w orld civilization

clergy, abolition of, 215.4, 225.4,

337 .6

clothing, laws regarding, 165.4aclug (romania), election of lSA in, 90.2

clusters, 348.11collective security, 108.3, 356.13a,

356.27–27a, 356.37a. See also Action, collective

commission on h uman rights ( uN),

efforts for b ahá’ís in i ran, 22.5,

90.6

committee on the Status of w omen

(uN), 147 .2

communal h armony g roup ( india),

331.10

communications. See i nternet, the;

media

communism, collapse of, 129.5,

129.11, 129.14

g e n e r a l  i n De x

850compilations: on the arts, 282; on

bahá’í elections, 81; on b ahá’í

scholarship, 195; on chaste and

holy life, 56; on conservation, 76; on covenant of b ahá’u’lláh, 45;

on crisis and victory, 38; on entry

by troops, 172, 181.9, 200.4; on

fasting, 336; on þuqúqu’lláh, 13.4, 324.4; on internal opposition, 296; on Nineteen day feast, 70.5; on obligatory

prayer, 336; on teaching people of capacity, 94; on trustworthiness, 14; on use of media, 130; on women, 7 .8, 307 .3–4

conference on e nvironment and

development (rio de j aneiro),

194.1

conflict resolution, 60.31, 96.7,

108.3, 202. See also consultation,

bahá’í; p olitics, p artisan, b ahá’ís’

noninvolvement in

congo r epublic: media campaign in,

331.9; National Spiritual Assembly of, 121.1a, 129.18

conservation, 42, 96.9, 188.1–3,

216.14; compilation on, 76. See also e nvironment, the; Network

on conservation and r eligion

consolidation, 57 .1, 103.3, 151.3,

191.4, 212.6c, 216.9. See also deepening; e xpansion and

consolidation; T raining institutes

consultation, b ahá’í: in b ahá’í

administration, 67 .3–7, 90.19; in marriage, 149.6, 149.9; principle of, 6.8, 55.10, 60.27–31, 60.41, 96.7; via the i nternet, 203.3–5,

203.7

continental b ahá’í f unds, 54.4;

support for training institutes, 231.3–4, 270.1a–5, 310.3, 310.4, 310.8continental boards of counselors,

349; accomplishments of, 64.7, 90.4, 97 .6; appointment of, 2, 54.1–3, 77, 97, 115, 156, 175, 180, 207, 274, 293, 344; conferences, 23.8a, 97 .7, 100.2, 101.1, 207 .4,

216.6, 299.2, 299.11, 331.6,

331.29, 344.5, 351; continental pioneering committees and,

88.6–8, 88.10, 343.4; f ive year

plan activities, 344.4, 357 .2; f our

year p lan activities, 210, 212,

213.2–34, 265.1–3; functions of, 103.3, 157 .6, 183.14–17, 200.4, 212.6a, 213.9–12, 215.7, 272.1, 272.3–6, 337 .14; increase in number of, 2.4, 207 .1; iT c’s

relationship with, 272.7a–b; local communities’ relationship with, 60.33, 102.7, 181.2, 213.30; lSAs’ collaboration with, 249.2; maturation of, 129.12, 200.4; messages to, 103.2, 209, 265, 348, 350; NSAs’ collaboration with, 23.8c, 103.2–3, 138.3–4, 151.11, 157 .4–5, 157 .8, 183.12–25, 212.6b, 213.6–7, 213.24, 249.2, 313.6, 331.6; pioneers’ relationship to, 243; rank of, 183.21; rbcs’ relationship with, 250.6c, 250.20, 250.22, 250.27–27a, 299.6, 344.4; Spiritual Assemblies’ collaboration with, 102.7, 181.2, 344.4; training institute assistance, 212.6c, 213.18, 216.27, 310.4, 310.6, 310.8, 331.4; women on, 52.8. See also Auxiliary boards

continental p ioneer committees, 88,

157 .9, 243.3, 272, 343. See also international d eputization f und

convention on the e limination of all

forms of d iscrimination against

women ( uN), 307 .9

851g e n e r a l  i n De x

conventions, b ahá’í: international,

121c, 129.17, 249.7, 265.2, 299.2;

national, 30, 81.3, 183.40–41, 185, 196.2, 196.5, 300, 301

conversions. See m ass conversions

convocation of world leaders, 18.2,

18.12, 31.1–2, 31.4, 200.2, 356.11–13a

cook i slands, visit of prime minister

to bwc, 4, 158

corruption, 60.22, 145.10, 149.16,

205.6

covenant-breakers, 251.7, 255.4–8,

272.3, 272.7c, 355.12–13

covenant of b ahá’u’lláh, 60.54;

‘Abdu’l-b ahá as center of, 107 .6,

129.20, 131.9–10, 144.2–4, 145.13, 145.20; centenary of inception of, 22.10, 45.2, 48.7, 90.10–12, 107 .2, 107 .5–6, 108.11c, 108.11e, 144.1–2, 145, 151.1; compilation on, 45; divine guidance from, 215.5; firmness in, 109.4, 151.9, 201.27, 220.4, 355.5; þuqúqu’lláh’s importance to, 21.5, 345.4, 345.7; power of, 48.12, 146.3, 201.9–10; proclamation of, 146.1; study of, 107 .5–6, 138.7, 225.7; unifying force of, 52.2, 60.6, 60.36, 145.14. See also d ay

of the covenant, messages for

crisis and victory, 18.7, 36.6, 151.13,

296.11; compilation on, 38

criticism, 60.32–36,

183.46

croatia. See Slovenia and c roatia,

regional Spiritual Assembly of

czech and Slovak r epublics, r egional

Spiritual Assembly of, 258.4, 258.6

czechoslovakia: establishment of

lSAs in, 98.1; National Spiritual Assembly of, 105.1, 108.5, 108.6czech r epublic, National Spiritual

Assembly of, 258.6, 269.3

day of the covenant, messages for,

121, 145

decentralization, 183.26, 183.46–48,

250.1, 250.4–5, 250.6e

declarations of faith, acceptance of,

78.3–5

deepening, 18.5, 162.7–9, 213.14,

219.7, 221.8, 222.12. See also consolidation; T raining institutes

deforestation, halting, 188.1–3

democracy, b ahá’í administration as,

337

deputization: by i ranian b ahá’ís,

248.9a–10; for training institute teachers, 231.3–4, 270, 310. See also i nternational d eputization

fund

devotional meetings, 216.26, 315.7,

348.17

dispensation of b ahá’u’lláh, 131.4. See

also b ahá’í c ycle

disunity, 29.3, 145.9, 203.4. See also

unity

diversity, 55.3–6, 90.16–17, 99.4–4a,

202.6c

divine p lan, 201.11a, 216.39, 217 .8,

263.10; unfoldment of, 22.11, 129.17, 223.1, 263.10. See also major p lan of g od; m inor p lan of

god; Tablets of the d ivine p lan

earrings, laws regarding wearing of,

165.1, 165.4

earth Summit (rio de j aneiro), 194.2

east, the: laws binding in, 164.3–4;

origins of all religions in, 7 .3–4

eastern b loc countries: b ahá’í f aith

in, 129.5, 162.6; first new lSA in, 90.2; pioneer goals, 24, 71.1, 71.8, 84.3; teaching work in, 23.8h,

g e n e r a l  i n De x

852eastern b loc countries: b ahá’í f aith

(continued)

120.2, 216.7; youth activities in,

129.11. See also  T wo year plan for

eastern europe and Asia (1990–92)

eastern e urope: establishment of lSAs

in, 90.2, 98.1; teaching work in,

61.1. See also T wo y ear p lan for

eastern e urope and Asia

economic and Social council ( united

Nations), bic ’s consultative status

with, 8.2

economic problems, 129.14; spiritual

solutions to, 21.5, 21.9, 21.15, 345.4

ecuador, social and economic

development in, 331.14

education: in Africa, 222.9; of

children, 200.4, 217 .5, 218.12, 223.7, 224.6, 248.11–15, 313.7; discipline within, 149.14–15; human rights, 253.1, 331.17; importance of, 141.3c, 205.6–6a; for peace, 85, 90.5, 108.9; spiritual, 28, 149.19–19a, 219.4, 299.7, 331.24–28, 338.5, 348.5–6, 357 .3; of youth, 141.3a, 357 .3. See also b ahá’í f aith,

study of; b ahá’í Scriptures, study

of; children’s classes; literacy, promotion of

egypt, b ahá’í community in, 222.3

elections, b ahá’í, 102, 196, 232,

337 .7–9; compilation on, 81; minority preference in tie votes, 6.3–4; voting age, 78.2. See also conventions, b ahá’í

emergence from obscurity, 2.3–4,

38.3–4, 44.5, 60.42–47, 85.3, 108.9, 176.9, 212.7, 223.1, 354.2; external affairs work and, 8.1, 29.8, 46.2, 90.19, 331.6; i ranian

persecutions and, 176.9, 216.40;

in Six y ear p lan, 22.1, 22.4–6encouragement, 183.46–48

endowments, disposition of, 177 .2–3,

177 .5

england. See u nited kingdom

enrollments: high levels of, 64.1, 90.2,

90.15, 331.3; increasing, 18.4,

22.9, 57, 213.15, 219.9, 222.12;

procedures for, 78.1–4; Six y ear

plan, 129.5

entry by troops: acceleration of, 57 .1,

64.11, 90.15, 90.18, 248.10; in Africa, 181.9, 222.10–12; in central Asia, 223.5–7; compilation on, 172, 181.9, 200.4; in e urope, 221.7; evidences

of, 36.6, 48.3, 64.1; in North America, 220.15–16; training institutes’ role in, 331.3, 331.5–6, 348.5; youth involvement in, 338.2. See also e xpansion and

consolidation; m ass conversions

entry by troops, advancing process

of: in Asia, 219.2, 223.1; in f our

year p lan, 212.4, 212.7, 213.4,

216.17–29, 217 .2, 218.1, 236, 249.8, 263.1, 348.3, 357 .7; in india, 218.3, 218.14; at local

level, 213.22; in p acific r egion,

224.3; systematic, 263.10; training institutes and, 220.2–3, 236.2

environment, the, 82.2, 96.9, 129.14,

188.1–3, 194.2; compilation on, 76. See also conservation

equality of women and men: in

Africa, 116, 222.9; b ahá’í

principle of, 7, 149.7, 187 .6, 218.11, 337 .16; differentiation of functions, 7 .9, 307 .9; as prerequisite for peace, 110.1. See also m en; o ffice for the

Advancement of w omen; w omen

era of f ulfillment, 22.10

eritrea, National Spiritual Assembly

of, 191.1, 200.10

85g e n e r a l  i n De x

ethiopia, social and economic

development projects, 331.14

europe: Auxiliary boards, 2.2, 2.3;

bahá’í faith in, 162.7, 299.10;

continental board of counselors,

2.2, 54.2, 54.3, 97 .2e, 207 .1e,

344.1e; external affairs work in, 48.5; four year plan pioneer

goals, 221.4–10; hands of the

cause visiting, 90.3; National

Spiritual Assemblies (NSAs), 191.1; regional Spiritual

Assemblies, 173.2; ri¤ván

message for 1996, 221; Six year

plan pioneer goals, 71.3; Ten year

world crusade in, 221.1; Three

year plan pioneer goals, 161.5–7;

youth conferences of 1994, 182. See also  individual European

countries and regions

european b ahá’í y outh council, 75,

129.11, 221.3, 252, 291

european u nion (eu): resolutions on

bahá’ís in i ran, 288.6

expansion and consolidation:

acceleration of, 48.3, 71.4, 90.4, 213.16–17, 216.18–19, 216.27, 217 .4–8, 219.3; of Administrative order, 129.16–17; in Africa,

222.10–13; in cambodia, 219.7; in central Asia, 223.5–7; four y ear p lan, 331.8; iT c’s

responsibilities for, 272.7e; large-scale, 218.1, 218.5, 263.11; local plans of, 108.10, 213.19, 213.22–24; sustaining, 90.16, 213.31, 263.11, 348.2; systematic, 313.6, 313.7, 348.13; Three y ear

plan activities, 216.4–8; training

institutes and, 223.7, 299.6; use of arts for, 216.31; youth involvement in, 218.12, 252.2. See also b ahá’í

faith, growth of; e ntry by troops;

mass conversionsexternal affairs work: advancement

of, 8, 147 .3, 200.4; consultations on, 61; f our y ear p lan activities,

216.33, 222.13, 299.8–9, 313.4, 331.6, 331.15–18, 348.2; Six y ear

plan activities, 48.4–5, 129.6–10;

Three y ear p lan activities, 216.4,

216.11–14; T welve m onth p lan

activities, 357 .4. See also b ahá’í

international community;

emergence from obscurity,

external affairs work and

families, 60.48; covenant-breakers in,

255.5–8; preservation of, 222.8; prevention of violence in, 149; spiritual enrichment of, 219.7; teaching b ahá’í f aith to, 218.11.

See also b ahá’u’lláh, family of

fasting, 21.14; compilation on, 336;

laws regarding, 315.3–5, 324.3, 324.6, 352.1

finland: b ahá’í courses in schools,

299.9; peace conference in, 31.1

five year p lan (2001–2006), 313.5–6,

344.4, 348, 357 .2, 357 .7–11

forests, preservation of, 188.1–3

formative Age: centenary of

inception, 357 .7; duration of, 356.20–20a; f ifth e poch,

351.4–5, 357 .2, 357 .9; f ourth

epoch, 21.32, 22.1, 23.8, 108.9,

129.4, 157 .5, 183.18, 210.3, 345.6; unfolding of, 216.35, 331.5, 331.22

fourth i nternational d ialogue on

the T ransition to g lobal Society

(maryland), 216.14

fourth w orld conference on w omen

(beijing), 147 .2, 194.1, 216.13

four y ear p lan (1996–2000), 216.16–

42, 248.2–3; accomplishments of, 234.3, 249.1–7, 258, 263.1–6, 299.1–11, 313.2–4, 331.1–22,

g e n e r a l  i n De x

85four y ear p lan (1996–2000)

(continued)

344.4, 348.1–2, 348.4,

357 .3; continental boards

of counselors’ involvement

in, 212, 265; financial needs,

213.31–32; goals of, 213.33,

217 .2–8, 218.9–15, 221.7, 236.2, 248.10, 263.12–13, 331.5; individual’s role in, 216.21–22, 263.12–16; iTc involvement

in, 272.5–6; national plans for, 213.5–7, 213.13–25; preparations for, 210.1, 213. See also  entry

by troops, advancing process of; pioneers, four year plan;

Training institutes; and also under

individual countries and regions

france, acquisition of apartment used

by ‘Abdu’l-b ahá, 237, 249.4

freedom(s): academic, 296.8;

authority as aspect of, 60.34; of expression, 60.1, 60.24–27, 60.31–36, 60.45, 60.48–52, 72.2, 72.4, 118.4–5, 183.42, 201.27; individual, 60, 102.15, 201.22–25; of religion, 111.3–4a, 111.37–38, 111.68; of religious association, 111.4b, 111.37–47, 111.75–76; true, 60.53–56, 109.3

free will, 60.5, 60.20, 60.49, 145.12

french canadian believers, 220.16

french p olynesia, teaching work in,

224.12

fundamentalism, religious, 26.9,

129.14, 202.4, 263.9

fund-raising activities, acceptable,

35.4–5

funds, b ahá’í, 35, 120, 151.12, 163,

171, 213.32, 216.3, 222.12. See also b ahá’í i nternational

fund; continental b ahá’í f und;

þuqúqu’lláh; local b ahá’í f unds;

National b ahá’í f undsgabriel (angel), 140.5b, 140.5c

genocide convention ( u.S.), 44.7

georgia, National Spiritual Assembly

of, 191.1, 200.10. See also r ussia,

georgia and Armenia, r egional

Spiritual Assembly of

germany: government recognition of

bahá’í community, 108.5, 111;

interfaith activities in, 331.20; National Spiritual Assembly of, 102.6, 111.10, 111.17

germany and Austria, National

Spiritual Assembly of, 221.1

ghana, use of the arts in, 331.10

girls: education of, 222.9; equality of

women and men and, 7 .2, 7 .11

god: involvement in history, 60.10;

knowledge of, 12.11a, 21.14, 145.15, 205.7; love for, 205.7; manifestations’ relationship with,

109.4, 140, 203.5a; mankind’s relationship with, 108.2, 145.16, 263.5, 296.6, 345.4; obedience to, 205.7; purpose of, 64.11, 108.2, 145.7, 176.10; sovereignty of, 60.5, 145.12. See also m ajor p lan

of god; m inor p lan of g od

godlessness, 90.14, 99.2a, 183.27,

331.24

golden Age of b ahá’í f aith, 55.4,

108.2, 216.38, 248.2, 331.22

government(s): b ahá’í concepts of,

29.8, 201.26; existing systems of, 60.10; influencing, 44, 201.7; loyalty and obedience to, 79.2, 122.7; NSAs’ relations with, 79, 120; opposition to, 60.22; uhj relations with, 4.1, 23.8f, 44.3–4, 200.8. See also b ahá’í State;

convocation of world leaders; Separation of church and state; world government

greatest h oly leaf. See b ahíyyih

khánum

855g e n e r a l  i n De x

greatest Name, 131.4, 229.6a–7a;

laws regarding recitation of, 315.3,

315.6. See also b ahá’u’lláh

greenland: b ahá’í community of,

220.13; e uropean pioneers in,

221.3; National Spiritual Assembly of, 121.1a, 129.18

growth. See b ahá’í community,

growth of; b ahá’í f aith, growth

of; e xpansion and consolidation;

intensive programs of growth

guardians: as authorized interpreters,

17 .3, 192.4–5, 215.7, 251.4–5, 251.9, 283.3; functions of, 255.8; infallibility of, 192.4–5. See also Shoghi e ffendi

guardianship: references in kitáb-i-

Aqdas, 177; restricted to men, 7 .9; succession issues, 255.1–10

guinea, National Spiritual Assembly

of, 22.9

guinea-b issau, National Spiritual

Assembly of, 22.9, 64.5

guyana: National Spiritual Assembly

of, 79.1–2; social and economic development projects, 331.14; teaching work in, 129.5

hair, laws regarding length of, 165.1,

165.3

hands of the cause of g od:

appointment of, 111.55; custodianship of, 144.5–6; functions of, 90.3, 183.15, 215.7, 350.5; residing in h oly land,

36.4b; women as, 52.8

harmony, communal, 202.6–7,

331.10. See also u nity

hawaii, f our y ear p lan in, 224.11

heroic Age, 181.9

hindus, conflicts with m uslims,

202.1, 202.4

hispanic believers, 220.16

historical documents: in b ahá’í community, 305.12–14; at bwc, 302, 305.4, 305.11; prepublication review of, 305.15, 305.18; publication of, 305.7, 305.9–18; translations into english, 305.7 . See also Scholars/

scholarship, b ahá’í

holy d ays, b ahá’í, 10.2b–4, 125

holy Spirit, 140.3, 140.5a–b, 151.2,

183.45, 206.1b, 248.5, 283.8a

holy y ear (1992–93), 64.8, 90.7,

107, 129.2–4, 129.15–27, 145.19; accomplishments of, 151.1–5, 216.1. See also Ascension of bahá’u’lláh, centenary

of; covenant of b ahá’u’lláh,

centenary of inception of; w orld

congress, second

homefront pioneers, 24.3, 343.2,

348.12, 357 .8

homosexuality, 124, 205

hong k ong: b ahá’í community

of, 219.10; o ffice of p ublic

information in, 64.2

house of ‘Abdu’llah páshá, restoration

of, 92.1

houses of j ustice, 201.7a, 201.13a.

See also local h ouses of j ustice;

National h ouses of j ustice;

universal h ouse of j ustice

houses of w orship. See m ashriqu’l-

Adhkár(s)

humanity. See m ankind

human resources, development of,

151.9, 181.5, 218.13, 263.11, 265.4; in f our y ear p lan, 313.3,

331.14, 331.17; in Six y ear p lan,

138.2, 151.7; in Three y ear p lan,

200.6. See also T raining institutes

human rights, 29.8, 194.1, 253.1,

331.17 . See also rights

hungary: establishment of lSAs in,

98.1; National Spiritual Assembly of, 121.1a, 129.18, 269.3

g e n e r a l  i n De x

856þuqúqu’lláh: amount directed to work

on Terraces, 98.2; compilation

on, 13.4, 324.4; computation and payment of, 21.5, 21.10, 21.12, 345.4, 345.9, 345.11; conference on (1987), 13; deputies and r epresentatives of,

62.2; development of, 21.12–33; provision for in wills, 229.9–10; as right of g od, 21.5, 163.3, 345.3,

345.4; w orld o rder of b ahá’u’lláh

and, 21.4, 345.3–4. See also law of þuqúqu’lláh; T rustee of þuqúqu’lláh

hypocrisy, 206

immorality, 124.2a, 205.3, 205.4a,

205.16–17 . See also m orality,

decline of

Importance of  Obligatory Prayer and

Fasting, The, 336

Importance of  the Arts in Promoting the

Faith, The, 282

incest, 149.16

independent investigation of truth,

109.2–4, 169.5a, 263.8

india: absorption of Sikkim into NSA,

129.17; b ahá’í community of,

218.2–4, 219.4; interfaith activities in, 314, 331.20; m ashriqu’l-

Adhkár in, 22.8, 23.8h, 64.3,

129.6, 331.9; ri¤ván m essage

for 1996, 218; Supreme court ruling re: b ahá’í f aith, 202; youth

conference in, 347

indigenous believers, 216.7, 217 .3,

219.4, 222.12, 224.4, 308

indigenous peoples: conservation and,

42.1; plight of, 29; rights of, 46, 55.7–9; service to, 295; teaching work among, 25.2, 55, 217 .3, 221.6, 238.1

individual, the: rights and freedoms of,

60, 102.15, 201.22–25; self-worth of, 6.5, 205.6–7; transformation of, 138.9, 183.32a, 227 .5–7 , 331.3; two duties of, 355.3

individual believers, 151.13; American,

183.3–11; Auxiliary boards’ relationship with, 181.2, 348.8–10; community’s relationship to, 337 .4; development of, 18.5, 212.4, 212.7, 213.4, 215.7, 216.17–22, 230; enhancing faith of, 13.2, 138.2, 151.7, 151.8, 200.6, 212.5; in f ive year p lan, 348.3;

in four y ear p lan, 222.11, 234.3,

234.6, 248.3; importance of þuqúqu’lláh for, 21.5; institutions’ relationship with, 60.5, 60.18, 96.5, 157 .5, 207 .3, 220.7, 337 .13; interpretations by, 12.3, 12.10, 17, 283.7; lSAs’ relationship with, 60.19–20, 200.7, 222.11; Nineteen d ay feast and, 69.10;

responsibilities of, 21.14, 67; Spiritual Assemblies’ relationship with, 25.3, 183.35–48, 206.2–4; teaching by, 22.5, 89.1, 90.12, 200.11–12, 212.5–6, 216.20, 220.8, 225, 310.4, 310.5, 313.3, 348.8–10; translations of b ahá’í

Scriptures, 192.3, 302.6–7, 304.3–5, 305.2–3, 305.7; true, 60.30. See also h uman resources,

development of

individual initiative: fostering, 102.15,

181.4, 183.36–37, 183.46–47, 216.22, 224.3; stifling, 183.26; systematic, 263.10, 263.12–16, 384.8–10; in teaching, 313.2–3

indonesia: f our y ear p lan in, 224.9;

restoration of NSA, 332, 357 .6

infallibility, 12

inheritance: b ahá’í laws on, 229.2–3a,

229.4, 229.9, 307 .9; quotes from ‘Abdu’l-b ahá regarding, 229.12–22

institute for higher bahá’í Studies, 297 .2–3

857g e n e r a l  i n De x

institute for Studies in g lobal

prosperity ( india), 357 .4

institutions, 60.22, 145.6, 145.9–11

institutions, b ahá’í: application of

bahá’í law, 149.18; appointed,

183.13, 25 1.11, 337 .14; authority of,

32.3–3a, 183.36–38; collaboration among, 263.12; elected, 183.13, 183.36, 330.2–2a; establishment of, 90.14, 176.4–5, 176.8–9; in five year plan, 348.3; in four year

plan, 222.11, 234.3; functioning of,

131.11, 138.2, 200.6–8, 201.26–26a; individuals’ relationship with, 96.5, 60.5, 60.18, 157 .5, 207 .3, 220.7 , 337 .13; maturation of, 18.4, 18.7–8, 22.1–2, 29.6, 212.4–5, 212.7 , 213.4, 216.17–19, 230, 337 .4; qualities for service on, 232.3–4, 232.6; responsibilities of, 141.3c, 141.4, 141.7; role in society, 90.19–20, 96.8, 201.7; safeguards for, 60.22; teaching role, 225.7; women’s participation in, 52.4a, 52.7 , 52.8, 307 .6–7 . See

also Administrative order, bahá’í;

Auxiliary boards; continental

boards of counselors; hands of the

cause; þuqúqu’lláh; local Spiritual

Assemblies; National Spiritual Assemblies; Spiritual Assemblies; universal house of justice

integration and disintegration,

processes of, 129.14, 145.4–6, 145.8, 151.3, 183.8, 200.3, 216.36, 263.4–5, 263.8–9, 331.21. See also o ld world order,

breakdown of

intensive programs of growth, 348.11–

19, 357 .8

inter-Assembly collaboration p rojects,

71.1, 138.6

international Archives b uilding, 36.2,

176.7international Archives b uilding,

extension to: commencement of, 83.4, 108.11b; construction of, 36.4d, 174; progress reports, 113.2, 114.3–4, 129.13, 151.11, 216.2, 299.3

international b ahá’í library, 36.4e,

129.13

international book f air (china), 23.8g

international conference on

population and d evelopment

(cairo), 194.1

international d eputization f und,

89.1; access to, 88.2, 88.6, 88.8; contributions to, 89.4, 89.6; oversight of, 89.5, 272.2f, 343.3; support for training institute teachers, 310.4

international development. See Social

and economic development projects

international e xposition on e ducation

for peace (b razil), 108.9

international literacy y ear (uN,

1990), 68.6

international Teaching center

(building), 36.4b, 129.13, 151.11; inauguration of, 331.29, 344.5, 350; progress reports, 193.2, 216.2, 249.5, 299.3

international Teaching center ( iTc,

institution), 64.7; appointment of members, 51, 54.4, 154, 267, 329; continental boards of counselors’ relationship with, 90.4, 272.7a–b; continental pioneering committees and, 88.6,

89.5, 272.7f, 343.3; f our y ear

international Teaching center

p lan activities, 299.2; functions

of, 36.4b, 157 .3–9, 216.32, 272; influences of, 200.4; maturation of, 129.12; meetings of, 53; Three year p lan activities, 216.6; training

g e n e r a l  i n De x

858international Teaching center

(continued)

institute assistance, 331.4; twenty-

fifth anniversary of, 272.1, 275; uhj consultations with, 157, 181.2; women on, 52.8

internet, the: b ahá’í sites on, 249.4,

331.18, 357 .4; opposition to b ahá’í

faith on, 296.2–3; postings on,

203

interpretations of b ahá’í Scriptures:

authoritative, 251.3, 251.4–5, 251.9; individual, 12.3, 12.10, 17, 283.7 . See also ‘Abdu’l-b ahá,

as authorized interpreter; Shoghi effendi, as authorized interpreter

iran: desecration of b ahá’í cemeteries

in, 133; education in, 68.4; registration of b ahá’í marriages

in, 325; registration of b ahá’í

properties in, 21.24

iranian b ahá’ís: arrests of, 39, 41,

284.2, 287 .3, 287 .5; community of, 52.7; confiscation of properties of, 139, 155, 284.3, 287 .4, 341.3; under death sentences, 135, 239, 280.7, 285, 286, 321, 341.2; defense of, 90.6, 216.33, 268.6, 288.6, 299.8, 331.15–16; deputization by, 248.9a–10; executions of, 3, 16, 19, 37, 59, 127, 128, 133.4, 276, 280.1–6, 286.2, 288.4, 299.8, 321.2; fortitude of, 48.4; government program against, 287 .5–5e; imprisoned, 136, 137, 268, 278, 288, 289, 297; laws binding on, 164.5–6; living outside i ran,

220.10, 248.6–6a, 248.9, 248.10, 248.13, 248.15–16; martyrdoms of, 1, 254, 277, 299.10, 311; message to (1997), 248; murders of, 5, 9, 134, 179; persecution

of, 22.5, 23.8c, 48.6, 60.43, 60.45, 118.4, 129.6, 145.14,

223.3, 224.1, 248.4–5, 248.7, 248.9, 280, 284; as pilgrims, 164.4; pioneering activities, 164.5; prayers for, 47; release of prisoners, 64.4, 90.6, 284.1, 334; sacrifices of, 38.3, 202.3, 216.39–40; service by, 248.16; youth, 248.7–8

‘ishqábád (r ussia): b ahá’í community

of, 99.2–2a; restoration of lSA in, 64.2, 65, 90.2

islám, 10.2a, 281.4, 283.6a

island nations. See p acific i slands

israel, g overnment of, bwc

recognized by, 23

Issues Related to the Study of  the Bahá’í

Faith ( uhj), 296

italy, f our y ear p lan in,

221.6

italy and Switzerland, National

Spiritual Assembly of, 221.1

japan: b ahá’í studies conference in,

331.13; f our y ear p lan in, 224.7

jesus. See christ

jordan, interfaith activities in, 331.20

judaism, celebrating holy days of,

10.2a

junior youth, b ahá’í, 313.7, 331.25,

331.27, 338.5, 348.7, 357 .3

justice, 29.6, 102.13, 122.3, 183.44.

See also m ost g reat j ustice

kazakhstan, National Spiritual

Assembly of, 173.2, 181.11

kingdom of g od, establishment of

on earth, 22.12, 140.8, 145.14, 201.19, 201.21a

kitáb-i-‘Ahd, The (b ahá’u’lláh, book

of the covenant), 111.54, 144.2, 145.13, 355.5

kitáb-i-Aqdas, The (b ahá’u’lláh, book

of laws), 111.54, 145.13, 201.21a;

859g e n e r a l  i n De x

applicability of laws in, 153,

168.3, 216.32, 315, 352.3; Arabic edition, 211, 216.15, 331.11; bahá’u’lláh’s descriptions of,

150.2, 150.6; e nglish translation,

48.7, 64.9, 102.3, 108.11a, 129.21, 131.8, 138.8, 150, 151.4, 151.8, 281.5; references to guardianship in, 177; revelation

of, 150.3, 176.5; Shoghi e ffendi’s

descriptions of, 150.1, 150.2, 150.3; study of, 181.4

kitáb-i-íqán, The (book of

certitude), 192.2–2a

knights of b ahá’u’lláh, 131.1, 131.16;

iranian b ahá’ís among, 248.16;

roll of h onor, 90.9, 108.11d,

129.19, 131.17, 151.2; for Sakhalin island, 90.2, 129.5

knowledge, acquisition of, 215.2–3,

215.6, 215.7 . See also e ducation

korea, f our y ear p lan in, 224.7

kuwait, safety of b ahá’ís in, 106

kyrgyzstan, National Spiritual

Assembly of, 173.2, 181.11

landegg Academy (Switzerland),

331.14

laos, b ahá’í community of, 219.7

lapland b ahá’í center, 238.1

latin America: 1996 ri¤ván m essage

for, 217; teaching work in, 80, 220.16

latin American y outh congress

(chile), message to, 256

latvia: message to first national

convention, 300; National Spiritual Assembly of, 299.11, 300.1

law of þuqúqu’lláh, 48.7, 216.15;

application of worldwide, 13.2, 21.11, 63, 108.12, 121.1b, 129.23, 138.7, 153.1, 181.4, 324.4, 345.4–5, 345.10, 352.1; codification of, 13.3, 21, 324.4, 345; education regarding, 62; fundamentals of, 21.6, 22.6; obedience to, 21.5, 21.8, 21.32, 345.7–8. See also þuqúqu’lláh

laws, b ahá’í, 111.54–59, 206.4,

247 .3–13; acceptance of, 109, 201.22; application of, 149.18, 164, 324; diversity honored in, 55.3a; as foundation of w orld

order of b ahá’u’lláh, 60.54,

102.18, 176.5, 201.21; importance of, 109.5, 111.77, 111.80, 131.8, 145.17–18; of inheritance, 229.2–3a, 229.4, 229.9, 307 .9; obedience to, 151.8, 181.4, 206.3–5; progressive application of, 52.7, 122.17, 307 .4; tribal practices conflicting with, 55.6; violations of, 122, 205.16–17, 247 .7–9, 250.18c, 257 .7, 355.8, 355.11. See also kitáb-i-Aqdas, The

laws, civil/criminal, violations of, 122.7 –8

leaders of thought, teaching, 85.3,

129.6

league of Nations, 356.25–29,

356.34a

learned, institution of, 251.11, 337 .14learning, promotion of, 215.6, 331.2,

348.8. See also e ducation

lesser p eace: advancement toward,

2.5, 90.20, 129.14, 200.3, 263.5, 263.8, 356.36a–37, 357 .4; establishment of, 31.2–4, 64.6, 90.14, 120.4, 151.11, 200.8, 216.38; promotion of, 18, 44.3b; timing of, 356; unity of nations and, 200.3, 356.6, 356.10–38a. See also m ost g reat p eace

liberia: media campaign in, 331.9;

National Spiritual Assembly of, 129.17, 258.5, 263.3; teaching work in, 216.7; use of the arts in, 331.10

g e n e r a l  i n De x

860Light and Fire (opera/ballet), 299.10

light of u nity p roject (Africa), 331.10

literacy, promotion of, 64.9, 68,

216.10, 219.4, 222.9

literature, b ahá’í, 40.1, 216.6, 222.12

literature Subvention f und, 157 .8

lithuania: message to first national

convention, 301; National Spiritual Assembly of, 299.11, 301.1

local b ahá’í communities:

development of, 212.4–7, 213.22–25, 216.25–26, 217 .5; in f our y ear

plan, 213.4, 216.17–19, 234.3–6;

lSAs’ relationship with, 218.10, 222.11; NSAs’ relationship with, 102.7–8, 213.30

local b ahá’í f unds: support for

training institutes, 231.3, 270.1a, 310.3, 310.4, 310.8

local h ouses of j ustice, 18.7–8, 52.3,

52.4a, 296.7

local Spiritual Assemblies ( lSAs):

appealing decisions of, 257 .2–7; attendance of members, 330.7–8a; authority of, 25, 257; Auxiliary boards’ collaboration

with, 181.2, 183.15–20, 183.22–23, 212.6b, 212.6d, 213.22–25, 249.2, 331.6; by-

laws, 78.2, 102.15, 111.56;

children’s education and, 348.7; committees of, 250.4; communities’ relationship with, 222.11; dissolution of, 111.19, 335.3; election of, 60.19–20, 111.13–15, 111.21, 111.22, 111.25, 111.61, 111.76, 212.6d, 213.23, 257 .2; enrollment procedures, 78.5; establishment of, 18.4, 111.55, 120.2; external affairs work, 129.6, 129.9; formation on first day of ri¤ván only, 213.26–29, 263.2, 331.12; functioning of, 151.7, 181.7, 213.22–25; incorporated, 111.10, 111.53, 111.56, 111.58, 111.75; individual’s relationship with, 60.19–20, 200.7, 222.11; as local houses of justice, 18.7–8;

maturation of, 2.5, 64.6–7, 129.12, 212.6d, 216.23–24, 224.3, 295.3, 348.2; membership on, 111.13–14, 330.4, 330.6, 330.8a–9; Nineteen day feast

and, 69.5, 69.7–8, 73.1–1b; NSAs’ relationship with, 335.2; prepublication review by, 259.2a, 259.4; private business ventures and, 167; rbc s’ relationship

with, 250.6a, 250.6b, 250.12a–b, 250.17, 250.18c, 299.6, 335.2–3; role in society, 55.10, 90.19–20, 234.5–6; simultaneous service on NSA and lSA, 330.4–6;

simultaneous service on rbc

and lSA, 330.4, 330.6; Six year

plan goals, 22.2; teaching work,

181.6, 348.17; training institutes and, 213.19, 216.28, 234, 310.5; women on, 52.7

lotus Temple. See m ashriqu’l-

Adhkár(s), in i ndia

love, 60.34, 183.32–35

macau: b ahá’í community of, 219.10;

National Spiritual Assembly of,

22.9, 64.5, 90.3

macedonia: National Spiritual

Assembly of, 298, 299.11; teaching work in, 236.4

major p lan of g od, 64.6, 129.5,

145.8, 183.8, 331.21, 348.21. See also m inor p lan of g od

malaysia: b ahá’í community of, 219.4;

National Spiritual Assembly of,

861g e n e r a l  i n De x

258.2, 258.3; social and economic

development projects, 331.14

manifestations of g od: acceptance

of, 12.11–12, 60.5, 145.12, 355.3; appearance of, 7 .3–7; god’s relationship with, 109.4,

140, 203.5a; infallibility of, 12; interrelationships of, 140.2–3a, 140.7; nature and station of, 7 .9, 140; obedience to, 60.5, 145.12, 203.5, 355.3. See also individual Manifestations

mankind: distortions of, 205.14;

duties of, 6.5, 21.14, 60.16; as first loyalty of b ahá’ís, 171.4; future of,

194.1; g od’s purpose for, 60.16,

108.2, 263.5; g od’s relationship

with, 145.16, 296.6, 345.4; maturation of, 60.21, 60.29–30, 60.37, 205.6–7, 227 .5, 255.11a; reform of, 183.32a; unification of, 29.3–5b, 60.36, 60.41, 144.2, 176.3, 200.3, 201.27, 331.19, 339.3a, 354.2. See also h uman

resources, development of; human rights; Nations, unity of;

oneness of mankind

marriage: consultation in, 149.6,

149.7, 149.9; between “eastern” and “western” bahá’ís, 164.5;

interracial, 6.3; laws regarding, 205.13, 324.6; opposition to, 60.22; place of sex within, 149.13; prevention of violence within, 149.10–11, 149.13; registration of in iran, 325;

relationship of spouses in next world, 7 .10a

marshall i slands: b ahá’ís operating

schools in, 181.6; visit of president to bwc, 158

martyrs. See i ranian b ahá’ís,

martyrdoms ofmashriqu’l-A dhkár(s), 296.7, 315.7;

in chile, 357 .9; in i ndia, 22.8,

23.8h, 64.3, 129.6, 331.9; of ‘ishqábád (r ussia), 99.2; in

uganda, 222.3

mass conversions, 48.3, 83.6, 90.15,

331.5. See also e ntry by troops;

expansion and consolidation

mass media. See i nternet, the; m edia

materialism, 29.5a, 205.8, 227 .2–3,

296.6, 331.24

maturity, 60.21; age of in b ahá’í

faith, 273; of mankind, 60.10,

60.21, 60.29–30, 60.37, 227 .5, 255.11a; as prerequisite for unity, 169.11b, 263.4–5; spiritual,  345.6

media: b ahá’í f aith covered in,

129.6, 129.8; h oly y ear publicity,

107 .7–9; proclamation use of, 130, 331.9, 331.18; relations with bwc, 200.8; during Three y ear

plan, 216.10–11. See also i nternet,

the; p ress, the

melanesia, f our y ear p lan in, 224.10

membership, b ahá’í: requirements

for, 32, 149.18, 255.7, 355.5; voluntary nature of, 111.22, 296.8; voting, 78; withdrawal from, 109.2, 201.22, 355. See also enrollments

men: membership of uhj restricted

to, 7 .9, 52, 187 .6, 228.4, 296.7, 337 .16; responsibility for advancement of women, 307 .3, 307 .5. See also e quality of women

and men

messengers of g od. See m anifestations

of god

middle east: dangerous conditions

in, 103, 103.2, 105.2, 108.2; documents on history of, 205.12–13, 305.13

g e n e r a l  i n De x

862millennial activities, 292.3, 342,

356.38, 357 .4

millennium f orum ( uN), 331.19,

342.2–4, 342.9

millennium Summit ( uN), 331.19,

342.1, 342.4, 342.7

millennium w orld p eace Summit of

religious and Spiritual leaders

(uN), 340, 342.5–6

minorities: oppression of, 29.6, 55.8;

preference given to in tie votes,

6.3–4; rights of, 201.22–25; teaching work among, 221.6. See also i ndigenous believers;

indigenous peoples

minor p lan of g od, 263.5–7 . See also

major p lan of g od

mírzá m ihdi (The p urest b ranch),

monument to, 36.2, 176.6

mírzá m u¥ammad-‘Alí, 177 .4;

descendants of, 255.5a–6

mírzá y a¥yá, descendants of, 255.5a–

6

moderation, 60.13, 60.17, 60.24,

60.56, 163.2, 183.42

moldova, National Spiritual Assembly

of, 214.1b, 216.34. See also ukraine, b elarus and m oldova,

regional Spiritual Assembly of;

ukraine and m oldova, r egional

Spiritual Assembly of

mongolia: b ahá’í community of,

219.8; establishment of lSAs in, 98.1; first native believer in, 90.3; National Spiritual Assembly of, 173.2, 181.11; study circles in, 331.3

morality: b ahá’í standard of, 56.3–5a;

decline of, 56.2, 56.5, 149.5, 151.8, 183.3, 183.27, 263.9; sexual, 149.13, 205.13, 206.5. See also i mmorality

moscow (r ussia), 99moses, 140.5c, 140.6a

most e xalted leaf. See Navváb (ásíyíh

khánum, m ost e xalted leaf)

most g reat covenant, 356.13a. See

also covenant of b ahá’u’lláh

most g reat j ustice, 257 .3. See also

justice

most g reat Name. See g reatest Name

most g reat p eace: b ahá’u’lláh

as author of, 131.4, 257 .3; establishment of, 18.11a, 18.12, 31.3a–4, 48.6, 216.39, 331.22, 356.8, 356.21a; goal of, 60.31, 201.13, 263.6; prerequisites for, 356.9, 356.19a; wwi signalizes dawn of, 356.5. See also lesser peace

most holy book. See kitáb-i-Aqdas, The

mount carmel, 176.11. See also Tablet

of carmel

mount carmel p rojects:

commencement of, 64.6–7, 66, 120.4, 151.11; completion of, 90.14, 216.35, 216.38, 356.23–23b, 357 .11; dedicatory events, 299.11; development of, 23.8j, 23.9, 36; f our y ear p lan goals,

216.32, 348.2; o ffice of p roject

manager, 64.10; progress reports,

83, 90.7, 105.2, 113, 114, 129.13, 148, 160, 193, 198, 200.8–9, 216.2, 249.5, 263.3, 299.3, 331.7; significance of, 90.20, 176, 181.3. See also Arc p rojects f und; and

individual buildings

mu¥ammad, 140.2, 140.5c, 163.3,

201.2a; infallibility of, 12.6a. See also i slám; q ur’án

muslims: conflicts with h indus,

202.1, 202.4; teaching b ahá’í

faith to, 222.12. See also i slam

myanmar, b ahá’í community of,

219.5

86g e n e r a l  i n De x

National b ahá’í communities, 22.7,

28.1–2, 48.5

National b ahá’í f unds: support for

training institutes, 231.3, 270.1a,

310.3, 310.4, 310.8

National h ouses of j ustice, 18.7–8,

52.3, 52.4a, 201.22

Nationalism, 129.14, 356.24a,

356.26a

National Spiritual Assemblies (NSAs):

Auxiliary boards’ collaboration with, 213.10; bic ’s collaboration

with, 8.4–8.6, 61.1, 253; burdens of, 200.5; committees of, 183.19, 183.25, 250.4; continental boards

of counselors’ collaboration with, 23.8e, 103.2–3, 151.11, 157 .4–5, 183.12–25, 212.6b, 213.6–7, 213.24, 249.2, 313.6, 331.6; continental p ioneering

committees and, 88.3–4, 88.6–8, 88.10, 89.5, 343.4; d eclaration

of T rust and b y-laws, 102.15,

111.56; d eputies of þuqúqu’lláh

and, 62.2; elections of, 102.5a, 102.8, 185.4–4a, 232.5, 337 .15; enrollment procedures, 78.5; executive committees, 33;

external affairs work, 44.7–8, 48.4, 79, 90.19–20, 120.3, 129.6, 129.9, 331.17; formation of, 102.4, 121.1a, 121.3, 123, 129.17, 173, 181.11, 191, 200.10, 214, 216.5, 216.34, 248.2, 258, 263.3, 299.11, 331.12; formulation of goals for Six y ear p lan, 22.2,

23.8e, 71.1; f our y ear p lan and,

234.3; functions of, 102.8, 151.7, 183.45, 196.2, 196.4, 232.5; handling violations of b ahá’í

laws, 122.4–5, 122.19, 122.21; incorporation of, 111.10, 111.56, 233; interassembly projects, 22.9, 27 .2, 48.5, 71.1, 138.6, 333; local communities’ relationship with, 102.7–8, 213.30; lSAs’ relationship with, 111.15, 111.17, 111.19, 111.21, 111.64, 111.76, 335.2; maturation of, 2.5, 64.6–7, 129.12, 138.7, 216.23–24, 263.3, 265.2, 348.2; membership on, 102.5–6, 102.12, 183.30, 232.5; as National h ouses of j ustice,

18.7–8; officers’ conduct, 102.12, 183.43; pioneer placement by, 89.3, 243.2–4; prepublication review by, 118.2, 118.7, 259.2a, 259.4–5, 305.7; private business ventures and, 167, 245; promotion of human rights, 29.8, 245; rbcs’

relationship with, 250.2, 250.6a, 250.6d, 250.6e, 250.7, 250.14–25, 299.6, 335.2; simultaneous service on NSA and lSA, 330.4–6; simultaneous service on NSA and rbc, 250.11d; social and economic development work, 129.10; teaching work, 103.3, 181.6, 212.8; training institutes and, 213.18, 213.21, 216.28, 231.1, 310.5; unity within, 183.29–30; women on, 52.7 . See also conventions, national; and individual National Spiritual Assemblies by country

National Teaching committees, rbcs

and, 250.28–31

Nations, unity of: attainment of,

356.2–3, 356.7, 356.28; growing consciousness of, 60.10, 356.33–38a; lesser p eace and, 200.3,

356.6, 356.10–38a; r evelation

of bahá’u’lláh, 108.13, 227 .5a; in

trade and finance, 263.8, 331.21, 356.36a. See also m ankind,

unification of

g e n e r a l  i n De x

86Native American i ndian b ahá’í

institute, 25.2

Native communities. See i ndigenous

peoples

Nature. See conservation;

environment, the

Navváb (ásíyíh khánum, m ost

exalted leaf), 7 .9; monument of,

36.2, 176.6

Nepal, b ahá’í community of, 218.6

Network on conservation and

religion, 42, 48.5, 58, 129.9. See

also w orld w ide f und for Nature

(wwf)

New South w ales (Australia), b ahá’í

curriculum in schools, 64.3

New w orld o rder. See w orld o rder of

bahá’u’lláh

New y ear (gregorian), celebration of,

10.2b

New y ork city, as city of the

covenant, 90.10, 108.11e, 129.20,

144.3, 144.8, 145.20

New zealand, four year plan in, 224.11

Niger, National Spiritual Assembly of,

123.3, 129.18

Nigeria: National Spiritual Assembly

of, 214.1a; women’s conference in, 116

Nineteen d ay feast, 60.33, 69, 70,

73, 213.23, 348.17; new believers at, 78.4; use of arts at, 222.13

Nine y ear p lan (1964–73), 213.14

Nongovernmental organizations. See

united Nations, nongovernmental

organizations

Non-profit organizations, 167 .2–3North America: external affairs work

in, 48.5; ri¤ván m essage for

1996, 220. See also American bahá’í community; canada;

united States, National Spiritual

Assembly ofNortheastern Asia: b ahá’í community

of, 224.2–3; f our y ear p lan in,

224.7

obligatory prayer: compilation on,

336; laws regarding, 315.3–5, 324.3, 324.6, 352.1

office for the Advancement of

women (bic), 147, 216.9, 307 .2,

307 .5, 307 .8

office of þuqúqu’lláh, establishment

of, 121.1b

office of p ublic i nformation (bic),

8.3, 76.4, 216.33; NSAs’ collaboration with, 8.4, 8.6, 253

office of Social and e conomic

development (bwc), 76.4,

216.33, 299.7, 331.14

office of the e nvironment (bic),

76.4, 90.5, 129.9

old world order, breakdown of,

102.18, 108.2, 145.6, 145.16, 149.5. See also i ntegration and

disintegration, processes of; Social problems; Society, degeneration of

oneness of mankind: b ahá’í principle

of, 6.2, 6.5, 46.4, 55.7, 99.4, 145.13; covenant of b ahá’u’lláh

and, 46.2, 60.6, 109.4–5, 144.3; importance of, 149.2, 183.32, 224.4; realization of, 48.6, 202.6c, 356.19a. See also mankind, unification of

open letter p roject (Albania), 181.6

opposition: external, 18.7, 38.4,

60.44–46, 118.4, 216.40, 218.6; internal, 272.4, 296. See also covenant-breakers; i ranian

bahá’ís, persecution of

order and chaos, processes of. See

integration and disintegration,

processes of

organizations of civil society, 331.19

865g e n e r a l  i n De x

pacific i slands: b ahá’í communities

in, 4.3, 158.1; four year plan in,

224.1–12; ri¤ván message for

1996, 224; teaching work in, 216.7 ,

221.6; uN office in, 90.5; visit by

bic representative, 279, 299.9. See

also individual island nations

pacific w omen’s conference, message

to, 110

pakistan, f our y ear p lan in, 223.7

panama, social and economic

development projects, 331.14

papua New g uinea: b ahá’í studies

conference in, 331.13; f our y ear

plan in, 224.10; visit of prime

minister to bwc, 158

parents: dealing with homosexuality,

124; loss of rights as, 149.12, 149.17; responsibilities of, 141.3b, 141.4, 141.8, 141.10, 149.17, 273.1, 273.3, 331.28

parliament of the w orld’s r eligions,

The ( cape Town), 331.20

Payam-e-Doost (radio program),

331.18, 353

peace: b ahá’í community as example

of, 14.3; commemorative world events for, 340; education for, 85, 90.5, 108.9; establishment of, 8.6, 216.36–39, 331.21; as goal of b ahá’í f aith, 183.5,

342.10; movement toward, 31, 48.2, 216.33, 263.4–5, 279.2–3, 342.2; prerequisites for, 6.2, 110.1, 151.4, 169.11a, 194.1; prospects for, 342.2, 342.5. See also convocation of world leaders; lesser p eace; m ost g reat p eace

peace Statement. See Promise of  World

Peace, The

people of capacity, teaching, 85.3,

90.18, 151.9, 181.5; compilation on, 94philippine i slands, f our y ear p lan in,

224.8

pilgrimages/pilgrims, 21.20, 164.4;

cancelation of, 100.1; increase in number of, 216.32, 299.4, 331.7, 357 .10; reception center, 299.4, 331.7, 357 .5

pioneers: to Africa, 220.9, 331.8;

continental boards of counselors’

relationship to, 243; to eastern

bloc countries, 24, 71.1, 71.8, 84.3;

european, 221.3, 221.6; facilitating,

88.2–10; four year plan, 217 .4,

218.14, 235.2–3, 331.8; iranian

bahá’í, 164.5; iTc responsibilities

for, 272.6, 272.7f; murders of in South Africa, 179; short-term, 22.9, 71.4–7 , 88.8, 89.5; Six year

plan, 22.9, 24, 48.7 , 71, 158; Three

year plan, 157 .9, 159, 161, 181.10,

190.1, 216.5, 235.1, 243.2, 343.2, 343.5–6; youth as, 129.11. See also

continental pioneer committees;

homefront pioneers; international

deputization fund; T raveling

teachers

pluralism, religious, 202.4

poland: establishment of lSAs in,

98.1; National Spiritual Assembly of, 121.1a, 129.18, 269.3

politics, partisan, b ahá’ís’

noninvolvement in, 35.5, 44.1, 44.5, 46.2–3, 79.2, 96.8; b ahá’í

administration as alternative to, 29.6, 55.8, 96.10–12, 109.2, 201.18–19, 207 .7–7c, 224.4; promoting peace through, 18, 31.2. See also Apartheid

portugal, bahá’í courses in schools, 299.9

poverty, elimination of extremes of

wealth and, 21.5, 21.9, 21.15, 345.4

prayer, 21.14, 183.10, 246.2. See also

obligatory prayer

g e n e r a l  i n De x

866prayer for the d ead, recitation of, 26,

168

pregnancy, as result of rape, 149.12,

149.17

prepublication review, 60.42–47,

72, 102.16–18, 118, 119, 259; of

historical documents, 305.9–18,

305.15; of translations, 304.2–5, 305.3, 305.7

press, the, 60.37–41. See also m edia

priesthood, abolition of, 215.4, 225.4,

337 .6

promised d ay of g od, 145.19

Promise of  World Peace, The:

distribution of, 21.6, 22.3, 23.8d, 23.8f, 31.5, 48.8, 129.6; presentation to leaders, 18.6, 48.8; responses to, 4.1, 85.1–2

Promoting Entry by Troops, 172, 181.9property, legal claims to, 29.7 . See also

iranian b ahá’ís, confiscation of

properties of

prophetic e ra, 22.10

prophets, 7 .4–5, 7 .8, 229.18. See also

manifestations of g od

Prosperity of  Humankind, The, 194,

216.13

provincial b ahá’í councils, 250.7 .

See also r egional b ahá’í councils

(rbcs)

publishing T rust(s), b ahá’í, 40.1

qur’án, 7 .5, 281.4

racism, 129.14radio stations, b ahá’í, 22.6, 23.8i,

331.14, 331.18, 353

rape, 149.12–13, 149.17reflection meetings, 348.18

regional b ahá’í councils (rbcs),

250; appointed, 250.13–13b; Auxiliary boards’ relationship with, 344.4; characteristics of,

250.5–6e, 250.11–13; continental boards of counselors’ relationship

with, 299.6, 344.4; elected, 250.12–12g; evolution of, 348.2; formation of, 250.9–10, 326, 331.6; functions of, 250.14–27a, 335; funding, 250.22–24; legal

status, 250.26; membership on,

250.12e, 330; national committees and, 250.28–32; simultaneous service on rbc and lSA, 330.4, 330.6; Spiritual Assemblies’ relationship with, 299.6; training institutes and, 250.30, 299.6

regional Teaching and Administrative

committees, 250.1, 250.7

religion(s), 201.3; degraded by

material wealth, 21.15; disunity of, 145.9–10, 202.1, 202.4; establishment of, 7 .4, 7 .6a; fundamentalist, 26.9, 129.14, 202.4, 263.9; interfaith activities, 216.14, 331.20; multiplication of, 263.9; non-b ahá’í, 201.3;

oneness of, 109.5; opposition to, 60.22; science in agreement with, 169.11b, 203.6; state, 201.17a, 201.21a–22; truths of, 109.4, 205.6; unity of, 109.5, 202.4–5. See also Network on conservation and r eligion; Separation of

church and state; State r eligion,

bahá’í f aith as; Theocracy, b ahá’í;

and specific religions

revelation of b ahá’u’lláh, 201.9–10;

Administrative o rder and, 250.3,

337 .3; influences of, 60.53, 129.15, 145.7, 183.5, 216.35, 356.19a; magnitude of, 55.2, 60.55, 131.4, 140.7, 146.2; power of, 90.1, 108.4, 129.2, 149.18, 227 .8; purpose of, 22.10, 60.4, 60.10, 131.7–8, 131.13, 216.39, 227 .5a, 355.6; study of, 157 .7,

169.2–4, 187, 215.3, 296.1. See

867g e n e r a l  i n De x

also b ahá’í f aith; kitáb-i-‘Ahd,

The; kitáb-i-Aqdas, The; w orld

order of b ahá’u’lláh

revelation of g od, 7 .6a, 12.6a, 296.10

ri¤ván, formation of lSAs on f irst

day of only, 213.26–29, 263.2,

331.12

ri¤ván m essages: for 1987, 22; for

1988, 48; for 1989, 64; for 1990,

90; for 1991, 108; for 1992, 129; for 1993, 151; for 1994, 181; for 1995, 200; for 1996, 216; for 1996 (Africa), 222; for 1996 (Australia and p acific i slands), 224; for

1996 (e urope), 221; for 1996

(india and neighboring countries),

218; for 1996 ( latin America

and caribbean), 217; for 1996 (North America), 220; for 1996 (Southeast Asia), 219; for 1996 (western and central Asia), 223;

for 1997, 249; for 1998, 263; for 1999, 299; for 2001, 357

right of g od. See þuqúqu’lláh

rights: within families, 149.3–3a; of

indigenous peoples, 46, 55.7–9; individual, 60, 102.15, 201.22–25; legal claims to, 29.7 . See also Administrative rights, deprivation of; e quality of women and men;

human rights

rise and fall, processes of. See

integration and disintegration,

processes of

romania: establishment of lSAs in,

98.1; government recognition of bahá’í community, 108.5;

National Spiritual Assembly of, 104.1, 105.1, 108.5, 108.6, 269.3

romany peoples, teaching work

among, 221.6

rú¥íyyih khánum, Amatu’l-b ahá

(hand of the cause of g od):

‘Abdu’llah páshá h ouse furnished by, 92.1; in b razil, 233.1, 233.4,

249.4; bwc activities, 91.1, 186.3, 216.15; at counselors’ meetings, 53.2, 212.2, 275.2; environmental activities, 42.1, 58.2, 188.1, 216.14; funeral service for, 317, 318; meetings with counselors, 53.2; at NSA inaugural conventions, 90.3, 108.6, 129.18, 200.10, 216.34; passing of, 316, 331.30; r oll of

honor deposited by, 131.17; in

russia, 181.10–11; at second

world congress, 144.5

russia: Amatu’l-b ahá rú¥íyyih

khánum in, 181.10–11; b ahá’í

community of, 221.6; b ahá’u’lláh’s

relations with, 99.2; National Spiritual Assembly of, 191.2, 221.3; teaching work in, 221.6

russia, g eorgia and Armenia,

regional Spiritual Assembly of,

123.2, 191.2

rwanda, National Spiritual Assembly

of, 216.34, 249.7

ryukyu i slands, teaching work in,

224.7

Sabah, National Spiritual Assembly of,

258.2, 263.3, 299.2

Sacred w ritings. See b ahá’í Scriptures

Sakhalin i sland, knight of b ahá’u’lláh

for, 90.2, 129.5

Sami people, teaching work among,

221.6, 238.1

Sanctity and Nature of  Bahá’í Elections,

The, 81

São Tomé and p ríncipe, National

Spiritual Assembly of, 214.1a, 216.34

Sarawak, National Spiritual Assembly

of, 258.3, 263.3, 299.2

Schism, covenant as guarantee

against, 52.2, 60.6, 145.14

g e n e r a l  i n De x

868Scholars/scholarship, b ahá’í, 36.4c,

169, 215, 331.13; compilation on,

195; promotion of, 18.5, 251.10, 272.4, 357 .10. See also b ahá’í

f aith, study of; b ahá’í Scriptures,

study of; h istorical documents;

T ranslations of b ahá’í Scriptures

Science: advances in, 263.4; religion in

agreement with, 169.11b, 203.6

Scriptures. See b ahá’í Scriptures; b ible;

qur’án

Seat of u niversal h ouse of j ustice,

23.9, 36.2, 36.6, 176.8

Secularism, 183.27–28, 202.4Self, the. See i ndividual, the

Self-expression. See f reedom(s), of

expression

Separation of church and state, 201,

296.7

Service, commitment to, 183.33–34.

See also y outh year of service

Seven y ear p lan (1937–44), fiftieth

anniversary of, 22.11

Seven y ear p lan (1979–86), 22.12,

23.8c, 36.2

Sex, proper use of, 149.13, 205.13Sexual abuse, prevention of, 149.1,

149.5–6

Seychelles, visit to bwc by president

of, 186

Shoghi e ffendi: appointment as

guardian, 144.5, 177 .3, 255.8–8a;

as authorized interpreter, 17 .1–2, 52.2, 52.6, 111.54, 118.3–3a, 192.4–5, 255.10a, 283.3; Auxiliary boards instituted by, 350.4; completion of i nternational

Archives b uilding, 176.7;

completion of Shrine of the báb, 16.6, 36.2, 91.2, 176.7; covenant-breakers in family of, 255.4–8; design of Arc, 36.2, 36.4a; global vision of, 129.16;

involvement with Bahá’í World series, 170.3; lack of successor

to, 255.1–10; passing of, 144.5; purchase of property near grave of, 50; relations with i srael, 23.3;

translation of b ahá’í Scriptures

by, 192.2–2a, 192.4–5; writings

on r evelation of b ahá’u’lláh,

201.9–10

Shrine of the báb, 36.2, 91.2, 176.7,

331.9. See also Terraces of the

Shrine of the báb

Siberia, 181.6, 220.11Sicily, National Spiritual Assembly of,

191.1, 200.10

Sierra leone, teaching work in, 216.7Singapore, b ahá’í community of, 219.9

Six y ear p lan (1986–92):

accomplishments of, 64.2–7, 108.5–11, 129.4–13, 170.2; goals of, 13.1, 21.1, 22.1–2, 27, 40.1, 62.1, 64.8–13, 90.14, 105.1, 138.2–3, 138.5–6, 150.3, 213.7; themes of, 22.10, 45.3. See also pioneers, Six y ear p lan; T wo y ear

plan for eastern e urope and Asia

Slovakia, National Spiritual Assembly

of, 258.4, 263.3, 269, 299.2. See also c zech and Slovak r epublics,

regional Spiritual Assembly of

Slovenia and c roatia, r egional

Spiritual Assembly of, 173.2, 181.11

Social and economic development

projects, 14.3, 85, 295.4; in cambodia, 219.7; f our y ear p lan

activities, 216.33, 222.13, 331.6, 331.14; funding for, 120.2; in india, 218.13; intensive programs

of growth and, 348.17; non-profit organizations for, 167 .2–3; Six y ear

plan activities, 22.6; statement on,

194; Three y ear p lan activities,

216.4, 216.9–10; training institutes

and, 299.7, 348.2; women’s

869g e n e r a l  i n De x

involvement in, 116.1, 129.10;

youth’s involvement in, 129.11. See also o ffice of Social and e conomic

development; w orld Summit for

Social d evelopment

Social and e conomic d evelopment

unit (bic), 8.3

Social problems, 151.5, 200.1–3,

200.11, 299.12, 356.35a, 356.36a; bahá’í solutions to, 29.5–5b, 46.2,

55.8, 76.2, 90.19, 96, 99.7, 109.2, 129.6, 149.19–19a, 176.3, 295.2–3. See also e conomic problems;

integration and disintegration,

processes of; m orality, decline of

Society: degeneration of, 60.22,

183.3–10, 183.44, 205.8, 205.17, 216.37–41, 227 .2–4, 299.12; evolution of, 201.11; individual’s relation to, 60.49–52; reform of, 183.32–32a, 227 .5–7 . See also integration and disintegration,

processes of; o ld world order,

breakdown of

Sodomy, 205.3, 205.3aSons, first-born, 229.18–22Soul, the, 68.2, 129.24, 162.7, 205.6;

reality of, 7 .7, 99.6, 140.2, 205.6

Soul mates, 7 .10–10aSouth Africa: b ahá’í community in,

6.4–6.5, 222.3, 299.9; murders of pioneers in, 179; National Spiritual Assembly of, 108.8, 191.3, 200.10; statement on apartheid, 6

Southeast Asia: f our y ear p lan in,

224.11; ri¤ván m essage for 1996,

219; youth in, 208, 346

Soviet u nion: ‘Alí-Akbar f urútan in,

90.3; b ahá’í f aith in, 23.8h, 61.1,

65.1, 129.5; collapse of, 129.5, 129.11, 129.14; establishment of lSAs in, 90.2, 98.1, 108.5; National Spiritual Assembly of, 104.1, 105.1, 108.5, 108.6; pioneer goals, 24; youth activities in, 129.11. See also r ussia; T wo y ear

plan for eastern e urope and Asia

Speech, characteristics of, 60.37 . See

also f reedom(s), of expression

Spiritual Assemblies: appealing

decisions of, 102.15; Auxiliary boards’ relationship with, 344.4; consultation on, 60.28–29, 60.32–36; continental boards of counselors’ relationship with, 344.4; decisions about membership status, 355.7–8; duties of, 60.32; external affairs work, 96.8; fostering proper functioning of, 151.9–10, 200.5, 212.5, 222.11; fostering unity in the community, 183.32–35, 337 .12–12a; handling violations of bahá’í laws, 122, 205.16–17;

incorporated, 111.65–67; individuals’ relationship with, 25.3, 183.35–48, 206.2–4; maturation of, 102.13, 201.17a, 216.24; membership on, 67 .3–7, 78.2; obedience to, 60.32, 60.33, 67 .3, 225.7; problems involving members of, 102.14; responsibilities of, 313.7, 337 .7–7a; South African, 6.4; spouses serving on, 102.13; training, 6.5. See also local Spiritual Assemblies; National Spiritual Assemblies

Spiritual axis, 213.11, 224.2, 242Spiritual growth, 225.2, 225.6, 227 .5,

263.8–9. See also T ransformation, spiritual

Sri lanka, b ahá’í community of, 218.7

State b ahá’í councils, 250.1, 250.7 .

See also r egional b ahá’í councils

State r eligion, b ahá’í f aith as, 18.8a,

201.17a, 201.21a–22. See also Separation of church and state

g e n e r a l  i n De x

870Study circles, 331.3, 348.5,

348.17

Suffering, b ahá’í attitude toward,

122.18, 129.15, 176.2, 181.8,

187 .4, 190.2, 199.2, 223.1, 227 .7

Summit on the Alliance between

religion and conservation

(england), 216.14

Switzerland, social and economic

development in, 331.14. See also italy and Switzerland, National

Spiritual Assembly of

Synopsis and codification of the laws

of the kitáb-i-Aqdas, 150.3

Systematization, 263.10–12, 331.5,

348.1, 357 .7; for human resource development, 313.3; in teaching, 313.6–7, 348.8, 348.11–19; training institutes and, 328, 331.2–4

System of b ahá’u’lláh, 108.2, 145.19,

250.3. See also Administrative order, b ahá’í; w orld o rder of

bahá’u’lláh

Tablet of carmel (b ahá’u’lláh), 36.1,

129.13, 176.5–7

Tablets of the d ivine p lan (‘Abdu’l-

bahá), 18.3, 176.5, 183.10,

183.11, 220.1, 220.4, 220.8, 220.13, 220.16–17, 248.2

Tablet to b ahá’ís of New y ork city

(‘Abdu’l-b ahá), 144.8

Taiwan, b ahá’í community of, 219.10

Tajikistan: martyrdom of i ranian

bahá’í in, 311; National Spiritual

Assembly of, 173.2, 181.11

Task f orce of literacy ( uNeSco),

90.5

Teaching: acceleration of, 108.10,

190.2, 200.3–4, 213.4, 213.33; achievements in, 64.1, 151.3, 221.8, 263.12; confidence in,

172.4, 222.12, 263.2; constancy in, 22.9, 64.11, 64.13, 212.5;

expansion of, 48.3, 64.9, 90.2, 151.6, 181.2, 216.38, 221.9, 331.3; funds for, 120.5; importance of, 36.6, 48.8–11, 54.5, 57 .1, 218.14; by individual believers, 89.1, 90.12, 200.11–12, 212.5–6, 216.20, 220.8, 225, 310.4, 310.5, 313.3, 348.8–10; institutions’ role in, 103.3, 141.7, 225.7; objectives of, 90.14, 90.16; passion for, 217 .8; sacred duty of, 141.2, 200.7, 225.1–6a, 248.9, 263.14–15, 310.4, 310.5, 348.10; systematization of, 313.6–7, 348.8, 348.11–19; Three y ear p lan

activities, 216.5; in u.S., 183.1–11;

wisdom in, 162; by youth, 129.11, 141.2, 200.4, 209.3. See also b ahá’í

faith, proclamation of; e xpansion

and consolidation; m ass

conversions; p eople of capacity,

teaching

Teaching projects, Three y ear p lan,

213.4, 216.5. See also i ntensive

programs of growth

Technology, 129.14, 263.4Temples. See m ashriqu’l-A dhkár(s)

Ten y ear w orld c rusade, 129.19,

144.5–6, 218.3, 221.1, 222.3, 248.16. See also knights of bahá’u’lláh

Terraces of the Shrine of the báb:

commencement of work on, 91, 92.2, 129.13; completion of, 48.7, 90.14, 151.11, 198; design for, 23.9, 36.4a, 64.2; opening of, 357 .11; progress reports, 98.2, 108.11b, 113.1–2, 114.2, 114.5–6, 160.1, 193.2, 200.9, 216.2, 249.5, 299.3; property acquisitions for, 244; significance of, 36.6, 176.8–9

T estament, writing of, 229.2, 229.6–7a

871g e n e r a l  i n De x

Tests, 183.10, 216.39, 216.41, 356.21a,

356.22a; for i ranian b ahá’ís,

248.7–8, 248.17

Thailand, b ahá’í community of, 219.6

Theocracy, b ahá’í, 201.2–2a, 337 .6–7

Three y ear p lan (1993–96):

accomplishments of, 181.1–11,

200.4–10, 216.1–15, 240.3, 248.2; in bangladesh, 218.5; goals of,

121.1c, 138, 151.5–13, 157 .4, 190, 200.6, 213.7; in u.S., 183.18. See also p ioneers, Three y ear p lan

T raining, 151.9, 213.16, 222.12, 265.4,

348.8

T raining institutes, 213.15–21,

216.27–30, 216.38, 217 .4, 263.2, 266, 299.5–7; Auxiliary boards’ involvement in, 212.6c, 213.18, 213.19, 216.28, 270.5, 310.6–7, 310.8; continental boards of counselors’ involvement in, 212.6c, 213.18, 216.27, 310.4, 310.6, 331.4; deputizing teachers for, 231.3–4, 270, 310; entry by troops through, 220.2–3, 236.2, 331.3, 348.5; establishment of, 249.3, 263.11, 331.6; expansion and consolidation through, 223.7, 299.6; in f ive year p lan, 348.4–7;

in four y ear p lan, 218.9–10,

221.8, 224.3, 234.4, 265.4, 308.1, 313.2, 357 .3; funding, 213.21, 231, 310; importance of, 219.3, 222.14; intensive programs of growth and, 348.15; lSAs and, 213.19, 216.28, 234, 310.5; rbcs and, 250.30, 299.6; social and economic development projects through, 299.7, 348.2; Spiritual Assemblies’ involvement in, 216.28; training of children’s class teachers, 216.6, 313.7, 331.25, 348.7, 357 .3–4; T welve m onth

plan goals, 313.6, 331.22; use of radio, 331.14; youth involvement in, 256.3, 338.2, 347 .2

“T raining i nstitutes and Systematic

growth” ( iTc), 328

T ransformation: collective, 331.3;

individual, 138.9, 183.32a, 331.3; moral, 56.5–5a, 339.5; personal, 48.10, 68.1, 90.12; as purpose of bahá’í f aith, 64.11; spiritual,

29.5b, 96.4, 96.5a, 96.11, 149.18, 151.8, 221.8

T ranskei. See South Africa, National

Spiritual Assembly of

T ranslations of b ahá’í Scriptures,

192, 331.7; authorized, 304.2, 305.7; into e nglish, 192.2–3,

281.5–6, 299.4, 304, 305, 357 .10; by individuals, 192.3, 302.6–7, 304.3–5, 305.2–3, 305.7; prepublication review, 304.2–5, 305.3, 305.7; provisional, 304.3–5, 305.3, 305.7, 305.17; by Shoghi effendi, 192.2–2a, 192.4–5. See

also under kitáb-i-Aqdas, The

T raveling teachers: continental boards

of counselors’ relationship to, 243; in eastern b loc countries,

84.3; in e urope, 221.6; f our y ear

plan, 217 .4, 218.14, 235.2–3,

331.8; iT c responsibilities for,

272.6, 272.7f; Six y ear p lan, 48.7,

71.2–5; Three y ear p lan, 159, 161,

181.10, 190.1, 216.5, 235.1, 343.2, 343.5–6; youth as, 129.11. See also continental p ioneer committees

T rustee of þuqúqu’lláh, 13.2, 21.12,

21.17–32, 121.1b, 345.11

T rustees of the continental f und,

54.4

T rustworthiness, compilation on, 14T ruth, 109.3–4, 122.9–9a, 169.8,

263.8, 302.8. See also candor; independent investigation of

truth

g e n e r a l  i n De x

872T ubingen ( germany), local Spiritual

Assembly of: constitutional appeal

made by, 111.11–12, 111.36, 111.50; incorporation of, 111.62–71

T unisia, b ahá’í community in, 222.3

T urkey: b ahá’í community in, 221.1;

continental board of counselors, 2.2; earthquake in, 309

T urkmenistan, National Spiritual

Assembly of, 173.2, 181.11

“T urning p oint for All Nations” (bic),

216.13

T uvalu, b ahá’í f aith in, 108.9

T welve m onth p lan (2000–2001),

313.5–8, 331.22–30, 338.5, 348.6, 357 .3–6

T wentieth century, 299.12, 356.24–

32; ‘Abdu’l- bahá’s praise of,

210.1, 216.35, 263.16, 292.1; commemorating end of, 292, 331.9, 331.22; uhj statements on, 354,

357 .3; unity of nations established during, 356.7 , 356.14–17a

T win processes. See i ntegration and

disintegration, processes of

T wo y ear p lan for eastern e urope and

Asia (1990–92), 84, 90.2, 98.1, 121.1a, 129.5

uganda, m ashriqu’l-A dhkár in, 222.3

ukraine: National Spiritual Assembly

of, 214.1c, 269.3; teaching work in, 221.6

ukraine, b elarus and m oldova,

regional Spiritual Assembly of,

123.1a, 129.18

ukraine and m oldova, r egional

Spiritual Assembly of, 191.2, 214.1b–c

‘ulamá, abolition of, 215.4

united kingdom: b ahá’í p ublishing

T rust, 40.1; interfaith activities in, 331.20; National Spiritual Assembly of, 221.1united Nations ( uN), 356.29–31a,

356.34a–36a;  b ahá’í association

with, 8.2, 18.5, 61.1, 64.3, 147 .2, 263.8; f iftieth Anniversary,

216.13, 216.37, 356.35a; international literacy y ear (1990),

68.6; millennial activities, 292.3, 342, 356.38; nongovernmental organizations, 48.4, 64.4, 68.5, 120.3, 129.8, 129.10, 147 .2, 194.1, 216.11, 216.33, 357 .4; resolutions on bahá’ís in i ran, 268.6, 288.6,

299.8. See also b ahá’í i nternational

community; and individual UN agencies

united Nations children’s f und, bic ’s

consultative status with, 8.2

united Nations conference on

environment and d evelopment

(rio de j aneiro), 151.3

united Nations d evelopment f und

for w omen ( uNifem), 129.10,

331.17; bic ’s collaboration with,

147 .2

united Nations e ducational, Scientific

and c ultural o rganization

(uNeSco), 216.14

united Nations o ffice (bic), 76.4,

216.33, 253

u.S. h ouse of r epresentatives, efforts

for b ahá’ís in i ran, 90.6

united States, National Spiritual

Assembly of: bic ’s collaboration

with, 8.6; continental boards of counselors and, 183.12–25; functioning of, 183.26–48; genocide convention and, 44.7;

membership on, 102.6; teaching work, 183.1–11; uhj response to concerns of, 183. See also American b ahá’í community

united States and canada, National

Spiritual Assembly of: d eclaration

of T rust and b y-laws, 111.56

87g e n e r a l  i n De x

unity: in diversity, 55.4, 90.16, 99.4–4a;

divine, 203.5; economic, 356.31a;

as foundation of peace, 169.11a,

194.1; movement toward, 263.4–5; political, 18.12, 200.3, 356.6, 356.19b. See also  bahá’í community,

unity of; bahá’í faith, unity of;

disunity; Nations, unity of

unity college ( ethiopia), 299.7 , 331.14

universal court of Arbitration,

201.16a, 283.4–4a

universal h ouse of j ustice ( uhj):

appealing decisions to, 122.19; authority of, 111.10, 251, 255.10a; constitution of,

102.15; continental boards of

counselors appointed by, 183.15;

elections, 20, 49, 52.3–3b, 54.1, 152, 264, 327, 337 .15; elucidations of bahá’í Scriptures

by, 192.5–7, 201.16a, 251.5, 283.2–6a; establishment of world order, 18.11a, 255.10a;

functions of, 177 .5, 201.11b, 302.2; infallibility of, 192.7, 228.2a–3; iTc’s consultations

with, 157, 181.2; legislation by, 192.6, 201.13a, 283.3–3a, 283.5, 283.8a; membership restricted to men, 7 .9, 52, 187 .6, 228.4, 296.7, 337 .16; promotion of lesser peace, 44.3b; relations

with government(s), 23.4a, 23.4b, 44.3–4; role of, 228, 283; supervision of lSAs, 111.64;

world leaders consulting with, 4.1, 23.8f, 44.3–4. See also  bahá’í

world center ( bwc ); Seat of

universal house of justice

universidad Núr (bolivia), 197, 331.14

uSSr. See eastern b loc countries;

russia; Soviet u nion

uzbekistan, National Spiritual

Assembly of, 173.2, 181.11victory. See c risis and victory

vietnam: b ahá’í community of, 219.7;

collis f eatherstone’s visit to, 90.3

violence, 149, 183.3

virtues, 145.7, 339.3a

voices of b ahá choir, 299.10

voting. See Administrative rights,

deprivation of; conventions, bahá’í; e lections, b ahá’í

wealth, elimination of extremes of

poverty and, 21.5, 21.9, 21.15, 345.4

west, the: laws binding in, 164;

seventy-fifth anniversary of ‘Abdu’l-b ahá’s visit to, 22.11

western Asia: f our y ear p lan in,

223.4–9; ri¤ván m essage for

1996, 223

west leeward i slands, National

Spiritual Assembly of, 105.1, 108.5, 108.6

“who is w riting the f uture?” (bic),

292.2, 292.5, 331.18

will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-b ahá,

111.54, 144.5, 176.5, 183.15, 283.3–3a, 355.5; Shoghi e ffendi’s

appointment as g uardian, 144.5,

177 .3, 255.8–8a

will of g od, 60.5, 60.15, 60.18,

64.11, 145.12, 203.5a. See also free will

wills, b ahá’í, 229, 307 .9

women: advancement of, 129.10,

218.11, 219.4, 223.7, 224.5, 307, 331.17; in Africa, 116, 147 .2; compilation on, 7 .8, 307 .3–4; participation in bahá’í community,

52.4a, 52.7, 52.8, 213.23, 307 .5–7; prevention of violence against, 149; prophethood and, 7 .8. See also e quality of women and men;

office for the Advancement of

women; u niversal h ouse of

g e n e r a l  i n De x

87women: advancement of, (continued)

j ustice, membership restricted to

men

word of g od, 17 .2–3, 60.6, 68.1–3,

172.4, 205.7 . See also b ahá’í

Scriptures; b ible; q ur’án

world b ank, interfaith activities,

331.20

world civilization, 144.4, 145.7,

203.6, 227 .5. See also b ahá’í

world commonwealth; w orld

government

world conference on e ducation for

All (uN), 90.5

world conference on h uman rights

(vienna), 194.1

world conference on r eligion and

peace, 129.9

world congress, first, 144.6

world congress, second, 107 .6,

129.20, 138.8, 145.20; message

to, 144; plans for, 48.7, 64.9, 90.10; publicity for, 107 .2, 107 .5, 108.11e, 130.1; success of, 146, 151.1, 151.2

world f aiths d evelopment d ialogue,

331.20

world f orestry charter g athering,

90.5; message to, 82, 188

world government, 18.3, 31.5, 216.37,

356.7, 356.29a–30a

world h ealth o rganization ( who),

bic relations with, 64.3

world o rder of b ahá’u’lláh, 60.24,

129.2, 145.13; Administrative order as basis of, 201.13,

201.18–21a, 201.28, 250.3, 356.9; birth of, 8.1–2, 68.2, 108.2, 108.4; establishment of, 29.4–5b, 108.2, 145.16, 201.18–18b, 356.20a; g olden Age of, 55.4;

þuqúqu’lláh’s importance to, 21.4–5, 345.3–4; influence of, 183.7, 227 .5, 355.6; Nineteen day feast and, 69.2, 69.6,

69.11; purpose of, 96.5a, 96.12, 129.15–16, 176.10; as solution to world problems, 109.2, 176.3; study of, 29.6, 85.3, 201.12–13;

as theocracy, 337 .6–7; uhj’s

role in establishing, 255.10a; unfoldment of, 48.2–4, 145.16, 176.4–5, 201.11, 212.7, 356.4, 356.34a–38a. See also b ahá’í

commonwealth; b ahá’í w orld

commonwealth

World Order of  Bahá’u’lláh, The

(Shoghi e ffendi), 111.54

world Summit for Social d evelopment

(copenhagen), 194.1, 200.2–3,

216.13

world w ar i, 356.24a, 356.32

world w ide f und for Nature ( wwf),

42.1, 58, 64.3, 76.4, 129.9. See also Network on conservation and religion

world w ide w eb. See i nternet, the

worship, 44.3c, 60.24, 315.4, 315.7 .

See also d evotional meetings;

prayer

youth, b ahá’í: as children’s class

teachers, 213.23, 218.12; dance workshops, 299.10; expansion and consolidation activities, 216.8, 222.13; in iran, 289.2–4;

martyrdoms of, 1.2, 5, 208.1b; messages to, 182, 208, 256, 338, 339, 346, 347; as role models, 338.5; service by, 22.7 , 22.9, 141, 208.1b, 218.12, 235.1; Six year

plan activities, 129.11; spiritual

education of, 299.7; teaching work of, 200.4, 209.3; training institute involvement, 248.7–8, 256.3, 338.2, 347 .2; as traveling teachers,

875g e n e r a l  i n De x

331.8. See also  european bahá’í

youth council; junior youth, bahá’í

youth conference ( vancouver), 339

youth f orum ( canada), message to,

226

youth year of service, 129.11, 141.1–2,

141.6, 182.6yugoslavia: establishment of lSAs in,

98.1; teaching work in, 236.4

zaire, National Spiritual Assembly of,

reformation of, 22.9

zoroaster, visions of,

140.5c

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]