THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1981-01-30

Dear Bahá’í Friends,

comments about events related to the martyrdom of Professor Manúchihr Hakím, and the general situation as it affects the safety of our brethren in Iran.

372274.2 The National Spiritual Assembly of Iran believes that ominous signs foreshadow an intensification of the persecution of the Bahá’ís, particularly since the release of the American hostages, and it fears that they will again become the target of their traditional adversaries who are presently in power.

274.3  In reply to complaints from the Bahá’ís concerning the recent assassination of Professor Hakím, the authorities have insisted that the murderer is unknown to them, and they categorically deny any involvement in the case.  It is very significant to note, however, that a few days after the assassination, the government officially produced documentation authorizing the confiscation of Professor Hakím's house, and officials went to that house, took an inventory of its furnishings, and sealed it on Wednesday, 14 January.  A lawyer who was protecting the interests of the Hakím family objected to this action, saying that the house belonged to and was in the name of Mrs. Germaine Hakím.  On the next day about twenty Revolutionary guards entered the house and removed everything, including the car in the garage, leaving the premises entirely bare! 274.4   Many non-Bahá’ís in Iran have expressed sympathy to the Bahá’ís for the cruel death of Professor Hakím, who was renowned for his gentleness and his services to the community. 274.5 Mrs. Hakím has sent a number of cables of protest to Iran, but these have not thus far produced any favorable results.  She is in Paris and has been advised to remain there since it is highly unsafe for her to return to Iran.

274.6 The National Spiritual Assembly is apprehensive about an official bill which is presently being drafted in the office of the Prime Minister, Mr. Rajá’í.  This bill, if passed, will prevent the employment of Bahá’ís by any government or quasi-government institution.  A circular letter has already been issued to all branches of the government, instructing them to dismiss all Bahá’ís. When the Bahá’ís do not fill out the blank marked “religion” on employment forms, they are asked again to complete the form so that there will be reason for  their dismissal, namely being Bahá’ís.  It should be recalled that the dismissal of Bahá’ís took place previously on a large scale in the field of education, and at that time the Minister of Education was the present Prime Minister, Mr. Rajá’í.  A considerable number of dismissals also occurred in the Army, despite protests made by a cadre of officers in the Ministry of Defense.

274.7  The National Assembly also reports that a number of local mullahs are continuously instigating the populace against the Bahá’ís in their respective areas. ...

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]