THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1989-09-07

To all National Spiritual Assemblies

dear b ahá’í f riends,

on 14 may 1987 we wrote to all National Spiritual Assemblies on behalf

ber of pioneers who were to settle in their goals by ri¤ván 1989, together

with a call for pioneers to settle in a number of eastern bloc countries by

the end of the Six year plan. This call was supplemented by a letter issued

on 5 june 1987, listing the inter-Assembly collaboration projects which

had been included in the individual National plans and which were, for

the most part, intended to be pursued throughout the six years of the plan.

The bahá’í world has now grown so large, and the flow of pioneers and

traveling teachers so constant that it is virtually impossible to keep a detailed up-to-date record of the vast number of projects being undertaken in every

country. however, the most recent information that the department of

Statistics has been able to collect presents the following highly encouraging

picture of the pioneering goals so far achieved during the p lan.

during the first year of the Six year plan, before the pioneer call of may

1987 was sent out, a large number of believers pioneered, of whom 523 are still at their posts. during the subsequent two years, in answer to the call,

943 believers have settled in goals specified in the plan or in posts not origi-

nally assigned. The total number of international pioneers since April 1986

is thus 1,466. The details of the response to the pioneer call, by continent

receiving pioneers, are as follows.

Goals	 	 Extra	 Pioneers	 Total

Receiving	 Assigned	 Still	 Goals	 Pioneers	 to	Other	 Pioneers

Area	 Goals	 Unfilled	 Filled	 to	Goals	 Places	 Received

Africa  100	 2	 58	 56	 68	 182

Americas  119	 5	 7	 1	 8	 25

Asia 50	 5	 5	 9	 101	 29

Australasia  5	 18	 27	 18	 28	 7

Europe  115	 66	 9	 11	 1	 20

The	World  29	 176	 25	 11	 79	 9

71.1

71.2

71.3

1986–1992  •  T h e  S i x  Y e a r  P l a n

19of the 176 pioneer goals outstanding, 14 have been canceled in light of

changed circumstances and in view of the new call for short-term pioneers

described below. There remains, therefore, the immediate task for the bahá’í

world to fill the 162 pioneer posts remaining vacant from the original pioneer

call and, indeed, to increase the flow of long-term pioneers to needy areas. in

addition to these, the tremendous recent acceleration in the twin processes of

expansion and consolidation calls for a new flexibility in meeting the needs in

pioneer projects during the remaining years of the Six year plan.

These short-term pioneer goals are being assigned in terms of months per

pioneer. in other words, a goal of 24 could mean one pioneer for two years

or two pioneers for twelve months or even four pioneers for six months each.

we can also envisage that special circumstances may warrant a succession of

short-term pioneers for terms as short as three months. These services could

run either concurrently or one after the other. The idea is that they should be for longer periods than can normally be spent by a traveling teacher but,

since the short-term pioneer does not have the aim of settling permanently

in his post, he will, generally, be freed of the need to find employment, and so will probably obtain a visa more easily and will also be able to spend his time in remote areas which the homefront teachers and the long-term

pioneers find it difficult to reach or on specific tasks which others are unable

to perform for lack of time or other reasons.

many of the short-term pioneers may be able to cover their own expens-

es; others will need financial help from the responsible National Spiritual Assemblies or the international deputization fund. All will need proper

preparation for their service and orientation both before and after they arrive in their goal countries.

The responsibility for sending short-term pioneers has been assigned to

specific National Spiritual Assemblies to ensure that volunteers are found and placed in the field. but such Assemblies do not necessarily have to draw

the pioneers from their own communities. volunteers may arise from com-

munities which have no assigned goals, or from countries which neighbor the goal areas. The services of all these can be used and will count towards the achievement of the goals. The assistance and advice of the continental

pioneer committees can be sought in this regard.

enclosed are two lists, one in the order of National Assemblies to receive

assistance, the other in the order of National Assemblies which have the 71.4

71.5

71.6

71.7

71.8

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

10responsibility to send it. it will be noted that no goals are included for the

countries of the eastern bloc; these are being dealt with separately in view

of the unprecedented opportunities, great urgency and special conditions

of the work there.

believers in every land will arise with increasing determination to speed the

process of entry by troops and the establishment of firmly grounded, ef-

ficiently functioning local Spiritual Assemblies.

with loving b ahá’í greetings,

Department  of tHe secretariat

72

The Function of Review in the Bahá’í Community

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]