THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1970-08-02

To all National Spiritual Assemblies

Dear Bahá’í Friends,

83.1 All National Spiritual Assemblies have been aware of the urgency of our Ri ḍván 1969 message to the Bahá’ís of the world when the call was raised for pioneers to settle in territories in need of pioneer support or as yet unopened to the Faith, and have been cognizant of the emphasis which was placed on the need for the believers to arise quickly to ensure the success of the Nine Year Plan in the pioneer field.

83.2 Since that call was raised, no less than 330 of the pioneer posts in the 184 specified territories in the globe have been filled, and in a few of those territories additional pioneers have arrived to supplement the ranks of Bahá’u’lláh’s followers at those posts.

13283.3 As you will note from the attached list showing the current status of pioneer goals, some 417 pioneers must yet arise and settle in the posts previously assigned.  After a recent review of pioneer needs we find it is necessary to call upon the valiant, constantly swelling community of believers throughout all continents to fill yet another 204 pioneer posts where manpower is desperately needed, in some territories in order to win the minimum number of Assemblies or localities called for in the Plan, and in others where vast new mass teaching areas have been opened to the Faith, thus necessitating additional reinforcements who must arrive soon if the precious gains are to be retained.  These 204 new pioneer goals have been assigned to  specific National Spiritual Assemblies.

83.4 Despite the magnitude of this undertaking and the grave challenge which your communities face in ensuring the homefront goals, we are compelled to point out that each of those goals assigned must be considered as a minimum requirement.  Pioneers unable to go to the goals assigned by their own National Spiritual Assembly should be encouraged to fill goals assigned to other National Assemblies.  Of course a self-supporting believer is free to settle as a pioneer in any country he chooses.

83.5 We call upon the friends to act promptly and decisively in this vital international undertaking in which the followers of Bahá’u’lláh are, in all continents of the globe, summoned to participate.  The time is short and the effort required is truly formidable. 83.6 We shall offer ardent prayers at the Holy Shrines, supplicating that the waves of pioneers required to complete this urgent task of the present hour shall arise and quickly rush forth into the arena of service.

With loving Bahá’í greetings,

THEUNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

84 Release of a Compilation on the Local Spiritual Assembly

11 A UGUST  1970

To all National Spiritual Assemblies Dear Bahá’í Friends, 84.1  As the Bahá’í Administrative Order rapidly expands throughout the world it behoves everyone associated with it to familiarize himself with its principles, to understand its import and to put its precepts into practice.  Only as individual members of Local Spiritual Assemblies deepen themselves in the fundamental verities of the Faith and in the proper application of the principles governing the operation of the Assembly will this institution grow and develop toward its full potential.

84.2 It is because the principles of Bahá’í Administration are new to so many who are now being called upon to serve as members of Local Spiritual Assemblies that we felt the need to make available in brief form some of the texts and instructions which apply.  No attempt has been made to put together a complete compilation of all texts from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, 133‘Abdu’l-Bahá and Shoghi Effendi, but it is hoped that the enclosed extracts will suffice as an introduction to a more profound study of the subject, and lead to a more efficient functioning of Local Spiritual Assemblies everywhere.

84.3 We call upon you to consider ways and means of sharing this material with the friends, and especially members of Local Spiritual Assemblies, as quickly as possible.  In many instances, of course, the material will need to be translated; in other instances many of the quotations included in the compilation may already be available to the friends in their own language. With loving Bahá’í greetings,

THEUNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

85 Formation of Seven National Spiritual Assemblies during Ri ḍván 1971

12 A UGUST  1970

To all National Spiritual Assemblies Dear Bahá’í Friends, 85.1        The following cable has just been sent to Hands of the Cause Rúhíyyih Khánum and William

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]