The Master in ‘Akká

by Myron H. Phelps

[Photograph]

‘Abdu’l-Bahá

The Master

The Master in

‘Akká

by Myron H. Phelps

including the recollections of

The Greatest Holy Leaf

Revised and annotated

with a new forward by
Marzieh Gail

Kalimát Press

Los Angeles

Copyright © 1985 by Kalimát Press

All Rights Reserved

Manufactured in the United States of America

These chapters are reprinted from Life and Teachings of

Abbas Effendi:  A Study of the Religion of the Babis, or Beha’is,

Founded by the Persian Bab and by his Successors, Beha Ullah

and Abbas Effendi by Myron H. Phelps, Second Revised

Edition, Published in 1912 by G. P. Putnam’s Sons,

New York and London.

Library of Congress Cataloging in Publication Data

Phelps, Myron H. (Myron Henry), 1856–1916.

The Master in ‘Akká

“Reprinted from Life and teachings of Abbas Effendi”

2nd rev ed.  New York; London:  Putnam, 1912.

Bibliography:  p. 159

1.  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, 1844–1921.  I.  Gail, Marzieh.  II.  Title.

BP393.P525  1985  297’.89’0924  85-24031

ISBN 9-933770-49-9

Contents

Familiar ‘Akká voices by Marzieh Gail..	ix

Chapter I:  The Master in ‘Akká..	1

Chapter II:  The story of His life:
Teheran and Baghdad..	13

Chapter III:  The story of His life:
Constantinople and Adrianople..	35

Chapter IV:  The story of His life:
‘Akká..	75

Chapter V:  The story of His life:
‘Akká (concluded)..	97

Chapter VI:  Characteristics and incidents..	123

References..	147

Bibliography..	159

[Blank page]

Familiar ‘Akká Voices
by Marzieh Gail

Title page to first edition

of Life and Teachings of Abbas Effendi by Myron H. Phelps.

In Cairo, on March 8, 1903, Myron H. Phelps of the

New York Bar finished the introduction to his Life and

Teachings of Abbas Effendi, and signed it with his three

initials.

Phelps had dedicated the work to Countess M. A. de

S. Canavarro because it was she who attracted his at-

tention “to the real character and significance of the

Beha’i Movement.”  (His then widely used but erroneous

spelling of Bahá’í was caused by the fact that

Persian does not write the short vowels, and some used

to read the first “a “as “e”

He went on to say that her “clear insight” was

largely responsible for “such success as I may have had

in reaching a correct appreciation and understanding

of the teachings of Abbas Effendi.”  He and the Countess

had “worked together over all parts of the book,” and

it should have been published over their two names,

“but since she does not wish this, I am obliged to con-

tent myself with stating the facts.”  He also said, in the

rather apologetic manner favored by authors of the day,

that he was aware of the book’s “many deficiencies”

and possibly “some errors” and asked his readers to

send him corrections in care of his publishers, G. P.

Putnam’s Sons, New York and London.

It so happened that the publisher, G. H. Putnam, was

an old friend of the orientalist, Edward Granville

Browne—whom Phelps had met in Cairo, probably in

the spring of 1903—and at Putnam’s request Browne

supplied the book with an introduction of his own,

dated at Cambridge, September 27, 1903.

Browne says he read the work “with equal pleasure

and satisfaction.”  He says “the whole book is to me full

of familiar echoes of the voices to which I so eagerly

listened when I visited ‘Akká thirteen years ago, in the

days when Bahá’u’lláh himself still dwelt amongst

mankind.” (p. vii)

Browne is, of course, mistaken when he says that the

book is “a faithful and trustworthy exposition of the

views of Abbas Effendi, ‘the Master of ‘Akká’, and his

followers.”  When studying the text of a proposed

reprint sent in for evaluation by Kalimát Press, the

Research Department of the universal House of Justice

identified forty inaccuracies during its initial review.

(All are noted here in footnotes and references.)  Phelps

does not correctly present the Bahá’í Teachings, since,

in the circumstances, exegesis was beyond him.

“I do not,” he writes, “for a moment conceive that I

have arrived at a full understanding of the tenets of the

[Bahá’í] religion and the philosophy underlying it in all

their scope and detail.”  He says the time was far too

short for his investigation—he was there in ‘Akká for

one month, December 1902—and accurate renderings

into a European language were not available. (p. xli)

Indeed it would not be till the following year, 1904,

that Laura Barney would begin to compile her priceless

and authoritative account of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s table talks

Some Answered Questions.  Laura, and American heiress,

was an intellectual; she had language skills, being bilingual

in French and English; and she studied Persian

in the Holy Land.  Furthermore she was helped in her

task by the erudite French scholar Hippolyte Dreyfus.

Their work on this book drew Laura and Hippolyte

together, their marriage resulted, and as is the custom

in some countries, the couple was known as the Hip-

polyte Dreyfus-Barneys.  (Thanks to a strange twist of

fate, Laura, whose memory history will cherish, is

passed over by many of her contemporaries, while her

sister Natalie appears in turn of the century memoirs

and is the subject of several full-length biographies, in-

cluding a recent one by Jean Chalon.)

In any case, Laura’s book, Some Answered Questions,

published in London, would not appear until 1908.  Hip-

polyte brought out his French translation of the same

talks, published in Paris by Leroux, and he called it Les

Leçons de Saint-Jean-d’Acre.

Laura says that Some Answered Questions is “in no

way complete and exhaustive.”  The teachings, given

her between 1904 and 1906, were, she tells us,

deliberately simplified by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá “to correspond

to my rudimentary knowledge,” and they were not

presented in order.  Here, the Master is “the teacher

adapting Himself to His pupil.”  He said He had given

her His “tired moments”  Sometimes “days and even

weeks would pass” before He had time to continue with

the lessons:  “But I could well be patient, for I had

always before me the greater lesson—the lesson of His

personal life.”

It is this personal life of the Master which Phelps

has exceptionally well recorded in his book.  For the

rest, the interviews of Madame Canavarro with

Khánum’s memories of the tragic events she had

herself lived through.  Otherwise one might well be

misdirected if one relied on this text for a study of the

deeper teachings, and for this reason Kalimát Press has

chosen to reprint only portions of the book.  Phelps has

certainly kept for posterity certain aspects of ‘Abdu’l-

Bahá’s daily practice, even certain gestures, which

because the Master was appointed by His Father not

only as Head and Interpreter of the Faith, but as the ex-

ample for all believers (each as best he can) to follow.

The fact that Phelps was not a declared Bahá’í,

although undoubtedly close and sympathetic to this

religion, is probably an advantage to the non-Bahá’í

reader.  Here is an educated man, attracted to this Faith

but not specifically an adherent, simply writing out the

best way he knew, what he had learned and witnessed.

His book has the same status as all other “pilgrims’

reports” subjective accounts which returned pilgrims

are welcome, even encouraged to share, but which

necessarily cannot be regarded as authoritative if one

wishes to go seriously into the Teachings.  In a religion

which has no clergy but which, unlike most other

religions—except Islam—does possess its authoritative,

original Texts, obviously one bases belief on these

Texts rather than on the impressions of this or the

other reporter.  (Bahá’ís are directed by Bahá’u’lláh to

“look into all things with a searching eye,” [Tablets, p.

157]; they may well, throughout life, from their ongoing

studies and contacts with other students of the Faith,

alter or develop their own understanding of this or that

teaching, but are always aware that their personal inter-

pretation has no authority over anyone else.  In trying to

attract the attention of the world to the Faith of

Bahá’u’lláh, Bahá’ís inevitably return again and again to

their authorized Texts.)

Religion in his time was, thought Myron Phelps,

“almost throughout the world … stagnant and faith is

dead.”  But there in the Holy Land he found “a

demonstration that it is capable of revival.  Such a spec-

tacle as the ideal, Christlike life of Abbas Effendi has in

it an immense probative and stimulating power.  “As a

result of reflections of this kind” he tells us, “came the

impulse to prepare this book.”

And so for a month he witnessed, and spoke with

[Photograph]

‘Abdu’l-Bahá near the Shrine of the Báb

with a group of Bahá’ís.  Note Shoghi Effendi, far left, and Western Bahá’ís

directly behind the Master.

family members and others who had long witnessed,

the Master’s way of being.  Bahá’ís learn from childhood

that only this kind of being can win them their goal—

the spiritual conquest of the planet.  The Guardian,

Shoghi Effendi, has written that not by noble principles,

not by the force of numbers, not even by staunch faith

and great enthusiasm, can Bahá’ís vindicate “the

supreme claim of the Abhá Revelation.  One thing and

only one thing will unfailingly and alone secure the un-

doubted triumph of this sacred Cause, namely, the ex-

tent to which our own inner life and private character

mirror forth … the splendor of those eternal principles

proclaimed by Bahá’u’lláh.” (Bahá’í Administration, p.

57)

There is no arguing with a life such as the Master

led, and He lived under close scrutiny.  During forty

years of His time on earth, He was a prisoner, and

watched.  Always there were people about Him,

disciples, guests, notables, inquirers.  What He was

drew them—not only the half-wild poor, living in their

hovels and out on the desert, but leading individuals

from East and West—to the narrow, sandy stretch

along the Mediterranean where He passed most of His

days.  It was a fact which His enemies, especially those

members of His household who broke with Him, could

never forgive.  Why had Bahá’u’lláh singled Him out

and called Him “the Master”?  Why did strangers come

to Him from unknown America and offer Him lifelong

devotion?  Why not to them instead?  Why would a Per-

sian prince become His follower?  Why would the

learned take notes when He spoke?

One thinks back to the time of Bahá’u’lláh, who also

attracted murderous hostility, though He was also “the

object of a devotion and love,” wrote E. G. Browne,

“which kings might envy.”  One reads, for example,

that although He came as a prisoner and exile, He was

greeted with great homage the day He entered Constan-

tinople.  That day His hostile half brother, Mírzá Yaḥyá,

running along “by his own choice, behind Bahá’u’lláh’s

carriage,” was heard by the chronicler Nabíl to tell his

evil genius, Siyyid Muḥammad:  “Had I not chosen to

hide myself, had I revealed my identity, he honor ac-

corded Him (Bahá’u’lláh) on this day would have been

mine too.” (God Passes By, p. 155)  Helpless rage at

another’s perfection can lead to murder of the innocent.

Joseph, down the ages, is time and again thrown into

the well.

Sidelights on how this book was written are found

in the Kháṭirát-i Nuh Sáli of Dr. Yúnis Khán, his

Nine Years of Memories of the days when he lived in the

Holy Land.

He tells how, very gradually, a few Westerners who

implored to come received permission, in spite of the

Master’s precarious situation, and appeared discreetly,

singly or in small groups.  Among the early ones were

two Americans, Madame de Canavarro and her brother

[Photograph]

Dr. Yúnis Khán Afrúkhtih

Author of Kháṭirát-i Nuh Sáli (Nine Years of Memories).

in Buddhism, Myron Phelps.  Fortunately by then, the

town residence of Bahá’u’lláh had been vacated and

was in the Master’s hands, so the two were accom-

modated there.

Madame de Canavarro had been an ardent Buddhist,

was a teacher of that Faith, and had expended large

sums over many years to promote her beliefs.  She had

sacrificed her substance for the work, and was widely

known for it.  She belonged to a leading family, was

thoroughly conversant with the new philosophy of the

West, as well as with the Sufism of India, and she had

had the Gospel of Buddha translated into English and

French.  Now, by way of Buddhism, she had come to the

Bahá’í Faith.  She was about forty-five or fifty, frail in

health but joyous in spirit.  Phelps, her co-religionist, ac-

companied her to ‘Akká.  He had a great talent for

literary work and was making a record of his

experiences.

When the countess arrived, she humbly kissed the

hand of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.  He showed her great kindness,

and she was received by the ladies of the Household in

the andarún.  The day following her arrival, conversa-

tions at table with the Master began.  Unlike recent

visitors, Mr. Breakwell and the sons of Mr. Dodge, she

asked many questions and Phelps wrote down the

answers.  But the problem was this:  The two Buddhists

differed as to their ideas and beliefs, and the book

which was being compiled had to be agreeable to both.

For this reason the Master was put to great trouble

clarifying questions for both of them.

“The lady asks a question,” says Dr. Yúnis Khán in

his account, “I translate it and then give her the

Master’s reply.  Mr. Phelps writes it all down very

rapidly—but since the questioner and the writer have

opposing viewpoints it becomes exceedingly difficult to

communicate the response to these two conflicting

minds, and the need to repeat it all places a burden on

the Master.  One brief section dealing with Buddha or

other Prophets presented no problems.  But for the im-

portant section dealing with reincarnation, Phelps in-

sisted in setting forth his preferences and beliefs, or

would slant the material in such a way as to please the

many believers in reincarnation who are in Europe—

thus attracting readings and sales—and this problem ob-

tained throughout the writing of the book.

“On the second or third day at the luncheon table,

when complex matters began to be introduced, a fracas

suddenly broke out and the occasion of it was this:  A

question which was obvious and basic in Bahá’í

philosophy seemed abstruse to the lady and accordingly

it was repeated a number of times until at last it was

made clear.  At this moment the lady turned on me,

angrily attacked me and became so agitated that she

could not address the problem with calm.  The Master

repeatedly asked me, ‘What is she saying?’ but the lady

gave me no opportunity to grasp the subject and pre-

sent it to the Master.

“After a considerable uproar, she seemed to be say-

ing, ‘You people of the east, why should you be in the

forefront of religion, in view of the fact that you are not

all that advanced, and why should we Westerners need

to receive our ideas from you?  Where did you come

from, that we should need you?  In the first place you do

not possess such attainments that you should have the

capacity to understand matters of this kind.  When we

have explained something to you and imparted some

line of thought, then we have to wait for your answer.

If it weren’t for us from the West how would you grasp

any of these things—and then as soon as you have

grasped the matter, you understand the answer first,

and then I have to understand it from you.  Worst of all,

you learn the secrets of Heaven and the divine truths

directly from the Master (that is, you drink from the

source), while we hear it only from your tongue (that is,

we drink stagnant water).  Why must I concentrate my

eyes and ears on what comes out of your mouth, and sit

waiting till I receive my answer?’

“As soon as I understood her comments I presented

them to the Master.  Yes, it is in such situations that His

dignified manner and His loving smiles can defeat a

whole world.  He gazed tenderly upon her and said,

‘Tell her that the influence of the secrets of Heaven is

spiritual, and not of the body.  Ear and tongue are

material tools.  Unless the spirit be ready to receive the

bounties of God, of what use are eye and ear?  These

spiritual themes are making an impact on your heart, I

am speaking with you by the power of the Spirit, and

you, with complete concentration and pure intent, and

an illumined heart, are receiving the divine effulgences.

The essential is a true inner bond between us.  God be

praised that this firm, inward, spiritual tie is present.

Whatever you have understood thus far has reached

you from the breaths of the Holy Spirit, and my

spiritual connection with you is immediate and direct.

The tongue of the interpreters but a material tool.’

“Following this the Master cited examples of the devo

-tion and success of the disciples of Christ, and said that

in this wondrous age as well, souls who had neither

physical sight nor hearing had attained to faith and had

guided others.  In brief, the lady was now content and

expressed her pleasure, and peace was established be-

tween the two of us.  She stayed over a month and impor-

tant philosophical and mystical problems were solved for

her.  Some of these were published by Mr. Phelps in his

book, some the lady kept in her heart.

“As for the book, the first section, telling of the im-

pressions of Phelps and the things he witnessed, is very

sweet, sensitive and moving.  The other section, describ-

ing the journeys of Bahá’u’lláh and the Holy Household,

the exile from Tehran to Baghdad, to Constantinople and

Adrianople and ‘Akká, is also very accurate and well

established.  This section, which the lady heard from the

Greatest Holy leaf herself, the translator being one of

the Master’s daughters, she wrote down and gave to Mr.

Phelps.  As to the other part, however, many mistakes

crept into it with regard to such matters as reincarna-

tion.  I translated half the book three or four times, and it

was brought to the Master’s attention.  Again, I either

translated it into English or described the material to

Mr. Phelps, and the Master corrected it.  Nevertheless,

the main part as published was contrary to the Master’s

teachings.  Madame de Canavarro herself would under-

stand His teachings, but Mr. Phelps would write as he

pleased.  Finally the two ended their days here in good

spirits and for a considerable time thereafter letters

would come from Madame de Canavarro telling of her

services to the Cause.”

No doubt this account by Dr. Yúnis Khán explains

why, as stated by Phelps in his introduction, the

Countess did not wish the book to be published over

their two joint names.

Through Madam Canavarro, Phelps was able to ob-

tain, as it were, interviews in absentia with Bahíyyih

Khánum, “The Lady”  This was ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s sister,

two years younger than Himself, who would in future,

more than once, be in effect Regent of the Bahá’í World.

She, the greatest Holy Leaf, spoke no English, but

young women in the Household, notably Rúḥá Khánum

and her sister Munavvar, daughters of the Master, could

serve as translators.  The talks were not written down as

Khánum spoke, they were recorded only after the lapse

of a few hours and shared with Phelps in installments.

He explains why he could not meet Khánum in person.

It was because of the restrictions of Islamic custom,

[Photograph]

Bahíyyih Khánum, The Greatest Holy Leaf

which the Bahá’ís “carefully observe for the sake of

peace and harmony.”  The ladies, captives in that

Muslim country, wore the veil and except for close

relatives did not meet with men.  The present narrative

from Khánum is probably the longest and most valuable

of any she has left us.

Here this graceful and patrician lady, fragile, her

health forever impaired by exile and imprisonment, tells

the story of her Brother, whose sufferings and those of

their parents she had shared from childhood.  She tells

how it was for them in Tehran, during the days after an

attempt was made on the life of the shah, and how, until

His innocence was proved, Bahá’u’lláh was chained

underground with criminals in the shah’s black Pit.

How the family’s house was pillaged, and in one day

they passed from great wealth to destitution, and her

mother had to exchange the gold buttons on their,

clothing for food.  How she, a little girl then, spent days

of terror alone with her small brother in their ruined

house, listening to the cries of mobs who were torturing

and killing her fellow believers in the streets, expecting

at every moment to hear that Bahá’u’lláh was no more.

Then came their exile to Baghdad, their extreme

poverty at the beginning, the plots of Bahá’u’lláh’s half

brother Mírzá Yaḥyá, Bahá’u’lláh’s two years absence

in the wilderness, His return and the growing prosper-

ity of the Faith.  How word was carried to the two

Muslim rulers, the shah and the sultan, of the spread of

the Teachings, and brought on their exile to Constan-

tinople.  How they were expelled from Constantinople

and exiled in summer clothes and with scanty food

through cold so terrible that the upper reaches of the

Euphrates froze over for forty days—to five years of

captivity in Adrianople.  Then the final exile to the for-

tress town of ‘Akká.  Khánum said that after landing in

‘Akká, they had to walk through cursing, taunting mobs

to the army barracks where they were jailed.  Most

were ailing, and Bahá’u’lláh and herself perhaps the

sickest of all.  As they entered the prison, the great door

was bolted behind them, they were up to their ankles in

mud, and the smell of excrement was so strong that

Khánum fainted away and there was no place to lay

her down.  A man there was weaving a mat for the

soldiers, and she was placed on this mat and brought

back to herself with water from a puddle on the floor,

which the weaver was using for his rushes.  The

prisoners came down with typhoid and dysentery, but

were allowed no doctor or medicine.  There were sev-

enty of them, and four died.

Then her younger brother Mihdí fell from the roof of

the barracks through an unguarded skylight, to his

death.  And throughout all the tragedies ‘Abdu’l-Bahá,

whatever His own sufferings, served His Father as

manager of the family and their fellow captives, as well

as cook, comforter and nurse.

Browne speaks in his introductory essay to Phelps’

book of the “most remarkable triumph of the Bahá’í

religion … the marvelous success achieved in recent

years by its missionaries in the United States of

America ….  Once again in the world’s history has the

East vindicated her claim to teach religion to the West

…”  It was precisely when these words were being

written that Mírzá ‘Abu’l-Faḍl with Ali-Kuli khan as

his interpreter were reaching large and enthusiastic audi-

ences in America.  Browne cites a number of reasons for

the Christian missionary’s “almost complete failure” in

Muslim countries.  He points out that “Western Chris-

tianity, save in the rarest cases, is more Western than

Christian, more racial than religious.”  Islam has

nothing against racial intermarriage while “many even

of the most excellent and earnest Christian mission-

aries … whom Europe and America send to Asia and

Africa would be far less shocked at the idea of receiving

on terms of intimacy in their house or at their table a

white-skinned atheist than a dark-skinned believer.”

Another reason Browne gives for Bábí-Bahá’í suc-

cess in gaining adherents is that these believers accept

“the divine inspiration of the Qur’án” and the prophet-

hood of Muḥammad, and he describes the insoluble

problem confronting the Christian missionary:  the

Qur’án teaches the validity of the religions gone before,

therefore arguing the Muslims out of their Book con-

verts them “not to Christianity but to Skepticism or

Atheism.”

“What indeed,” he asks, “could be more illogical

… than to devote much time and labor to the compo-

sition of controversial works which endeavor to prove,

[Photograph]

A view of ‘Akká, circa 1880

[Photograph]

Edward G. Browne

in Persian costume.

in one and the same breath, first, that the Qur’án is a ly-

ing imposture, and, secondly, that it bears witness to the

truth of Christ’s mission, as though any value attached

to the testimony of one proved a liar!”

The Bábí or Bahá’í, however, “admits that Muham-

mad was the Prophet of God and that the Qur’án is the

Word of God, denies nothing but their finality, and does

not discredit his own witness when he draws from that

source arguments to prove his faith.” (pp. xix-xx)

Browne is obviously wrong when he says of our

beliefs, “their doctrine … is at most a new synthesis of

old ideas …”  Where in previous religions do we find

sex equality, world language, universal education,

world federation, administration of (Bahá’í) affairs

through prayer and consultation by elected represen-

tatives of the “man in the street” and indeed the giv-

ing to that “ordinary” man and woman an individual

voice that can become effective nationally and even

globally through the Bahá’í system?  If, however,

Browne refers to the repetition by the Báb and Bahá’-

u’lláh, and every other Manifestation of God, of the

same, essential truths at the core of all religions (which

might be summed up in George Herbert’s “Love God

and love your neighbor, work and pray”), here one can

understand why, as Phelps quotes Him, the Master

says, “Every one receiving these instructions will think,

‘How like my own religion!’” (p. 128)

Telling of the impact which their belief exerts on the

conduct of these believers, the “high ethical standard

inculcated” by the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh, Browne re-

marks on the earnestness of followers of the new Faith,

“while the great majority of Jews, Christians, and Mu-

hammadans are what they are simply by reason of the

circumstances of their birth.”  He lists two advantages

which the Bahá’í religion enjoys over Christianity,

Islam, “or any other of the older world-religions”

—thus inferentially already calling the Faith a world re-

ligion:  first, “its freedom … lukewarm adherents

…” and second, he thinks, that “towards other re-

ligions, especially Christianity, they [the Bahá’ís]

would … be more tolerant than are the Muham-

madans …”  He does not hesitate to suggest that once

in power, the believers as he knew them might not

prove so tolerant toward native foes, but says that once

dominant in Persia “they would, I am convinced, prove

infinitely more progressive, and Persia as a country

might not improbably gain enormously both in wealth

and power by the change.” (p. xxiv)

He bases this on his own visit to Persia, described in

his classic A Year Amongst the Persians, when he spent

twelve months (1887–88) in that country.  A modern

Bahá’í, reading this work, feels that Browne was most

of the time with believers who were just emerging from

Islam, who in many cases had not had the new

teachings of Bahá’u’lláh, who indeed had much of the

time been cut off from the imprisoned, then the mar-

tyred Báb, and now, since 1852, from their Leader in

exile—that Leader Who “recast, expanded, and liberal-

ized” the Báb’s teachings and Whose own teachings

were later “expounded, reaffirmed and amplified” by

His appointed Interpreter, the Master.  (God Passes By,

p. xvii)

Browne, the scholar, writes of Phelps inferentially de

haut en bas, as almost a passerby.  Once finished with

the compliments normal in an introduction, we learn

that Phelps did not know the languages (as did

Browne), that Phelps had not spent a long time with the

believers (as had Browne), that Phelps did not know the

Persian classics (as did Browne), and Phelps “goes,

perhaps, rather too far …”

Harking back, however, to the dawn of the Faith,

Browne was caught up in unscholarly fervor, and could

not help ending his remarks with the martyr’s song,

sung in 1852 by Sulaymán Khán, the one with lighted

candles burning in his wounds as, through jeering

mobs, he walked and danced to his death:

In this hand the wine-cup, in this the

Loved One’s tress,

So would I dance across the market place.*

Myron Phelps begins his own personal introduction

to this book by stating of the Bahá’í Faith:  “We are

here in the presence of a great force, destined to have a

far-reaching influence upon the thoughts and lives of

men.” (p. xxvii)

“Fascinating indeed,” he continues, “are those

mysterious and mighty movements which … with a

certain rhythmic sequence and regularity, have from

_________________________

*  Retranslated by M.G.—Ed.

the earliest days swept over the earth … changing in-

dividual habits and social customs … molding the

lives of vast masses of mankind.  A Confucius, a

Zoroaster, a Buddha, a Christ, a Mohamet, is born as

other men, lives the ordinary span of human life, and

dies as others, but by his brief presence the face of the

world is changed.”

Over eighty years ago, Phelps referred to the Bahá’í

religion as “a religious faith which gives promise of

becoming, at no very distant time, one of the recog-

nized great religions of the world.”  His appreciation, so

early in the century when the general public knew little

of the Bahá’í teachings, does him much credit.  Many

eminences, leaders in their various fields, did indeed

pay it their tributes—this is a matter of record—but

even now when our Faith is established worldwide, it

takes a special type of mind to objectively consider the

stupendous claim of Bahá’u’lláh, that He is the Prom-

ised One of all religions.

Browne tells how he himself was excoriated for his in-

terest.  He had been “irresistibly attracted” to the Báb

by Count de Gobineau’s landmark study, Les Religions

et les Philosphies dans l’Asie Centrale.  He traveled to

Persia, and later had four interviews with Bahá’u’lláh

as His guest in the mansion of Bahjí, April 15–20, 1890.

It was during this visit that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá handed

Browne the manuscript of His (anonymously written) A

Traveller’s Narrative.  Browne translated it and was

savagely attacked for his pains, in the Oxford Magazine,

May 25, 1892.

In his introduction to Phelps’s book, ten years after

the event, Browne quotes portions of this attack, which

ended with the statement that his article prefacing the

translation displayed “a personal attitude almost in-

conceivable in a rational European …”  The critic also

avers that “speaking candidly as a layman,” he con-

siders “the history of a recent sect which has affected

the least important part of the Moslem world (nor that

part very deeply) and is founded on a personal claim

which will not bear investigation for a moment” is

“quite unworthy of the learning and labour which the

author has brought to bear upon it.”  And adds that “the

prominence given to the ‘Báb’ in this book is an absurd

violation of historical perspective; and the translation of

the Traveller’s Narrative a waste of the powers and op-

portunities of a Persian scholar.” (p. xiii n)

The attention of Phelps was drawn to ‘Akká because

he saw in the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh and the unnumbered

Persian martyrs, successors to the age-old glory that

had always recurred in the past.  He wished to observe

the third figure, still living, of a remarkable triumvirate,

two of them Messengers from God, the third now in-

vested with the headship of the Faith.  What impressed

him much was the fact that Bahá’ís recognize other

faiths “as equally divine in origin” with their own.  And

again, that the Bahá’í Faith has “a vital and effective

power to mold life.”

These things were a revelation to him, Phelps says.

He saw in what he had witnessed there in ‘Akká “the

potentiality of immense good to other nations of the

world by impelling a recognition of the real strength

and greatness of the spirit of true religion, under

whatever external form it may appear.  Out of such

reflections “came the impulse to prepare this book.”

(p. xlii)

Inevitably, students of the Bahá’í Faith will be impa-

tient to add explanatory material to what they find

here.  There is Browne’s note, for example, on page 42,

quoting Mírzá Yaḥyá, the murderous half brother of

Bahá’u’lláh, to the effect that in Adrianople Bahá’u’lláh

attempted to poison him, not the reverse, as was the

case—the brother giving Him poison which inflicted on

Bahá’u’lláh a month-long illness and left Him with a

tremor in His hand for the rest of His life.  Again in

Adrianople, as an estranged wife of the sanguinary

Mírzá Yaḥyá revealed, he poisoned the Holy Family’s

well.  It was also in that city that he tried to induce

Salmání, the devoted barber of Bahá’u’lláh, who

describes in My memories of Bahá’u’lláh the plot to

assassinate the messenger of God in His bath.

Discussing Browne’s statement in the latter’s notes

on A Traveller’s Narrative (p. 371 ff.), where Browne

lists accusations by the half brother and states—with

the same jingoism that Browne criticizes in the Chris-

tian missionaries—that after all, “the removal of

persons inimical to a religious movement by … religious

assassination is a thing far less repugnant to the

Eastern than to the Western mind.”  Phelps challenges

the implication:  “A transparent fabrication,” he says of

the charges, “incredible to anyone familiar with the

character and teachings of the Beha’is.”  “I must pro-

test most energetically against Professor Browne’s sug-

gestion that any traits of Oriental character shared by

the leaders of Behaism be assumed as possibly closing

their eyes to the iniquity of such proceedings in support

of their cause …  I wish to place on record the fact that

my own acquaintance with the Beha’is and the spirit

which animates them makes it inconceivable to me that

such utter perversion of moral sense, however possible

it may generally be to the Oriental type of character,

about which I heard express no opinion, could under any

circumstances characterize their policy as a body or the

policy of their leaders.” (pp. 42, 43 n)

A caveat should be added to Phelps’s reporting of the

Master’s words on hunting, reproduced here, and how

He did not care for this sport:  hunting in moderation is

not forbidden to Bahá’ís, as one learns from the Aqdas,

Bahá’u’lláh’s Book of Laws.

Two historic selections from Browne, which Phelps

includes, are the word-portrait of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá as

Browne saw Him in 1890, when the Master was forty-

six, and the now world-famous, first interview that the

orientalist was privileged to have with Bahá’u’lláh dur-

ing that same visit.

The historian Hasan Balyuzi, in his in-depth study,

‘Abdu’l-Bahá:  the Center of the Covenant of Bahá’u’lláh,

quotes extensively from the present work, and tells how

Phelps describes his visit to ‘Akká as one of the most

memorable months of his life, “for not only was I able

to gain a satisfactory general view of this religion, but I

made the acquaintance of Abbas Effendi, who is easily

the most remarkable man whom it has ever been my

fortune to meet.” (p. 97)

In their review of The Life and Teachings of Abbas

Effendi, Kazem and Firuz Kazemzadeh pointed out that

even then, fifty years after ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s passing,

there was no adequate biography of the Master (this

was before Mr. Balyuzi’s book was available, 1971).

Necessary documents were not at hand, sources were in

archives on at least three continents, language barriers

including Persian and Arabic narrowed the number of

researchers.  At that time the authors listed only five

biographers:  Phelps, H. C. Ives, M. Zarqání, Dr. H.

Mu’ayyad, and Dr. Yúnis Khán Afrúkhtih.  The present

book by Phelps was “the first attempt to write a full-

length study of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in English.”

Phelps did not have the necessary historical back-

ground—this was long before the Guardian’s transla-

tion of Nabíl’s chronicle, The Dawn-Breakers, and the

writing of his own master work, God Passes By.  These

reviewers feel that the pages of narrative from the

Greatest Holy Leaf are the “marrow” of this book, but

state that as a guide to Bahá’í beliefs Phelps cannot be

relied on.  They explain that the Bahá’í Faith “does not

synthesize” but “unifies and fulfills the great religions

of the past,’ and that “the very basis on which … its

acceptance of other religions rests—the concepts of

progressive revelation and of the relativity of religious

truth—is strikingly novel.”  (World Order Magazine,

Fall, 1971)

Today in the United States there is a new class of

human beings who go by the name of Street People.

They used to be confined to certain parts of the city,

like the Bowery in New York, and Third and Howard

Streets in San Francisco, but today they are increas-

ingly mixed in with the rest.  They lie along walls of

buildings, among the passersby, sit over gratings for

warmth, crouch in doorways.  At meal times, unless too

far gone, they line up where they know there will be

food.  Some are young enough, not badly dressed, and

these may ask for money.  But others are layered

encrusted with poverty going back many years, their

hair coarse, sores on their lips, oblivious, asking

nothing, muttering to themselves, carrying all their

worldly goods in a soiled bag—as cut off from the

passersby, as if they were a thousand miles away.

To the equivalent of these Street people ‘Abdu’l-Bahá

was a refuge and asylum, these that He nursed and fed.

Except that the American ones have some access to

government subsidies and charitable institutions, and

live in relatively clean cities, while those children of His

across the world often enough had no one but Him be-

tween them and death.

As Phelps tells it they were, many of them, blind,

were skin and bones, old, on crutches, of all the races

thereabouts.  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá would stand at a narrow

angle of the street and call them to Him and greet them

as friends.  And to each He would say, “Welcome!

Welcome!  Well done!  Well done!”  They pushed about

Him grasped at Him, some even scratching and

wounding His hands.  There were five or six hundred

poor in ‘Akká, and when winter came, the Master saw

to it that each had a warm coat.

All this, while He Himself was poor and did not even

belong to this country, His place of imprisonment and

exile.  Since 1892, He had been left in full charge of

Bahá’u’lláh’s Faith.  When funds came in, He denied

Himself, distributing all for the spread of the Cause, for

the destitute, for the Household and their continual

guests who flocked to Him even in the prison town, for

the education of the young.  (He financed the medical

training in Beirut of both Yúnis Khán and H. Mu’ay-

yad.)  When Ali-Kuli Khan served by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s side

virtually night and day for thirteen months as His

amanuensis, the Master would give him exactly enough

money for his needs—Khan never had to ask.  Gifts of

flowers, fruit, sweets, garments, were distributed, as

were valuables such as jewels, unless these were neces-

sary for the Faith.  For example, when Elsa (Laura)

Barney offered jewels to the Master, He gave them to

Lua and Edward Getsinger in 1901 to pay for their

journey back to the United States.  Obviously, the

Master did all this by putting everyone else first

[Photograph]

‘Abdu’l-Bahá in the Holy Land

holding a Tablet.

Phelps’s book starts out with a typical scene, showing

‘Abdu’l-Bahá in the midst of the crowding poor.  Four

years later, my mother, a young American woman,

bride of Ali-Kuli Khan, witnessed much the same scene

when she came on pilgrimage to ‘Akká in 1906.  The

Master had directed her to wear the Persian veil in

public, since times were dangerous, the Household was

continually spied upon, and her husband was a Persian.

Florence Khánum never really learned how to wear the

chádur, but did her best.  One day, wandering a little

away from the Master’s house and lost in her chádur,

Florence found herself one with the crowd.  That day,

so it happened, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá had appointed an atten-

dant, Bashír, to give out the silver coins.  Florence,

struggling in vain to reach Bashír’s protection and

smothering in her costume, did not dare cry out or put

aside her veil and reveal her American face.  Terrified,

pushing ahead, she was mistaken for a beggar woman

trying to shove away the rest.  Luckily, the believers

who were assisting the harried Bashír realized who she

was and, not without smiles, led her to safety.

Having been part of the beggar mob herself, Florence

left a more horrified report than the genteel one of

Myron Phelps.  To her, New England-bred, these people

were only half humans, with their wild staring eyes

and soiled rags, their jutting bones, their injuries, their

leprosy.  To her they were hateful, like sick, ill-kept

beasts.

To many, the poor still are.  But not to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.

[Photograph

‘Abdu’l-Bahá with some believers

Taken in Haifa March 3, 1921, on which day the Master started with

Cunningham for Tiberias.

He went about His prison life, living the words of

Bahá’u’lláh:  “Know ye that the poor are the trust of

God in your midst … betray not His trust.”  (Gleanings,

p. 251)  “If ye meet the abased or the down-trodden,

turn not away disdainfully from them …  Flee not from

the face of the poor that lieth in the dust, nay rather

befriend him.”  (bid., p. 314)  “Vaunt not thyself over

the poor …” (Hidden Words, Arabic, 25)

And when ‘Abdu’l-Bahá left the world in 1921, these

and their descendants wailed that their Father was

gone.

The Master in ‘Akká

by Myron Phelps

[Photograph]

A view of Lake Gennesaret, circa 1925

Chapter 1
The Master of ‘Akká

Small as this world is, boast as we may of our

means of communication, how little we really know

of other lands; how slowly the actual thoughts, hopes,

and aspirations of other peoples, the deep and real

things of their lives, reach us, if they indeed ever reach

us at all! We of the so-called “Christian” lands think,

perhaps, that if Christ were to appear again upon the

earth the good news would burden the telegraph, that

His words and daily life would be marshalled forth

under double headlines for our convenient perusal at

breakfast or on the rapid-transit trains, giving us the in-

teresting information without interrupting, our impor-

tant occupations.  Ah no!  We but deceive ourselves.  The

Man of Nazareth might pursue His holy life on the

banks of the Jordan and the shores of Gennesaret* for a

generation of men, but the faintest rumor of Him would

not reach our ministers or our stockbrokers, our

churches, or our exchanges.

_________________________

*  The Sea of Galilee.—Ed.

Imagine that we are in the ancient house of the still

more ancient city of ‘Akká, which was for a month my

home.  The room in which we are faces the opposite

wall of a narrow paved street, which an active man

might clear at a single bound.  Above is the bright sun

of Palestine; to the right a glimpse of the old sea-wall

and the blue Mediterranean.  As we sit we hear a singu-

lar sound rising from the pavement, thirty feet below—

faint at first, and increasing.  It is like the murmur of

human voices.  We open the window and look down.  We

see a crowd of human beings with patched and tattered

garments.  Let us descend to the street and see who

these are.

It is a noteworthy gathering.  Many of these men are

blind; many are pale, emaciated, or aged.  Some

are on crutches; some are so feeble that they can barely

walk.  Most of the women are closely veiled, but enough

are uncovered to cause us well to believe that, if the

veils were lifted, more pain and misery would be seen.

Some of them carry babes with pinched and sallow

faces.  There are perhaps a hundred in this gathering

and besides, many children.  They are of all the races

one meets in these streets—Syrians, Arabs, Ethiopians,

and many others.

These people are ranged against the walls or seated

on the ground, apparently in an attitude of expecta-

tion;—for what do they wait?  Let us wait with them.

We have not to wait long.  A door opens and a man

comes out.  He is of middle stature, strongly built.  He

wears flowing light-colored robes.  On his head is a light

buff fez with a white cloth wound about it.  He is

perhaps sixty years of age.  His long grey hair rests on

his shoulders.  His forehead is broad, full, and high, his

nose slightly aquiline, his mustaches and beard, the

latter full though not heavy, nearly white.  His eyes are

grey and blue, large and both soft and penetrating.  His

bearing is simple, but there is grace dignity and even

majesty about his movements.  He passes through the

crowd, and as he goes utters words of salutation.  We do

not understand them, but we see the benignity and the

kindliness of his countenance.  He stations himself at a

narrow angle of the street and motions to the people to

come towards him.  They crowd up a little too insis-

tently.  He pushes them gently back and lets them pass

him one by one.  As they come they hold their hands ex-

tended.  In each open palm he places some small coins.

He knows them all.  He caresses them with his hand on

the face, on the shoulders, on the head.  Some he stops

and questions.  An aged Negro who hobbles up, he

greets with some kindly inquiry; the old man’s broad

face breaks into a sunny smile, his white teeth glistening

against his ebony skin as he replies.  He stops a

woman with a babe and fondly strokes the child.  As

they pass, some kiss his hand.  To all he says,

“Marḥabá, marḥabá”—“Well done, well done!”

So they all pass him.  The children have been

crowding around him with extended hands, but to them

he has not given.  However, at the end, as he turns to

go, he throws a handful of coppers over his shoulder,

for which they scramble.

During this time this friend of the poor has not been

unattended.  Several men wearing red fezzes, and with

earnest and kindly faces, followed him from the house,

stood near him and aided in regulating the crowd, and

now, with reverent manner and at a respectful distance,

follow him away.  When they address him they call him

“Master”

This scene you may see almost any day of the year in

the streets of ‘Akká.  There are other scenes like it,

which come only at the beginning of the winter season.

In the cold weather which is approaching, the poor will

suffer, for, as in all cities, they are thinly clad.  Some

day at this season, if you are advised of the place and

time, you may see the poor of ‘Akká gathered at one of

the shops where clothes are sold, receiving cloaks from

the Master.  Upon many, especially the most infirm or

crippled, he himself places the garment, adjusts it with

his own hands, and strokes it approvingly, as if to say,

“There!  Now you will do well.”  There are five or six

hundred poor in ‘Akká, to all of whom he gives a warm

garment each year.

On feast days he visits the poor at their homes.  He

chats with them, inquires into their health and comfort,

mentions them by name those who are absent, and leaves

gifts for all.

Nor is it the beggars only that he remembers.  Those

respectable poor who cannot beg, but must suffer in

[Photograph]

A well near the mosque in ‘Akká

silence—those whose daily labor will not support their

families—to these he sends bread secretly.  His left

hand knoweth not what his right hand doeth.

All the people know him and love him—the rich and

the poor, the young and the old—even the babe leaping

in its mother’s arms.  If he hears of any one sick in the

city—Muslim or Christian, or of any other sect, it matters

not—he is each day at their bedside, or sends a

trusty messenger.  If a physician is needed, and the pa-

tient poor, he brings or sends one, and also the

necessary medicine.  If he finds a leaking roof or a

broken window menacing health, he summons a

workman, and waits himself to see the breach repaired.

If any one is in trouble,—if a son or a brother is thrown

into prison, or he is threatened at law, or falls into any

difficulty too heavy for him,—it is to the Master that he

straightway makes appeal for counsel or for aid.  In-

deed, for counsel all come to him, rich as well as poor.

He is the kind father of all the people.

This man who gives so freely must be rich, you think?

No, far otherwise.  Once his family was the wealthiest in

all Persia.1  But this friend of the lowly, like the

Galilean, has been oppressed by the great.  For fifty

years he and his family have been exiles and prisoners.*

Their property has been confiscated and wasted, and

but little has been left to him.  Now that he has not

much he must spend little for himself that he may give

_________________________

*  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá was exiled from Iran with his father in 1853.  This

account was written in 1903, fifty years later.  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá re-

mained a prisoner of the Ottoman Empire until 1908.—Ed.

more to the poor.  His garments are usually of cotton,

and the cheapest that can be bought.  Often his friends

in Persia—for this man is indeed rich in friends,

thousands and tens of thousands who would eagerly

lay down their lives at his word—send him costly gar-

ments.  These he wears once, out of respect for the

sender; then he gives them away.  A few months ago

this happened.  The wife of the Master* was about to

depart on a journey.  Fearing that her husband would

give away his cloak and so be left without one for

himself, she left a second cloak with her daughter,

charging her not to inform her father of it.  Not long

after her departure, the Master, suspecting, it would

seem, what had been done, said to his daughter, “Have

I another cloak?”  The daughter could not deny it, but

told her father of her mother’s charge.  The Master

replied, “How could I be happy having two cloaks,

knowing that there are those that have none?”  Nor

would he be content until he had given the second cloak

away.

He does not permit his family to have luxuries.  He

himself eats but once a day, and then bread, olives, and

cheese suffice him.†

His room is small and bare, with only a matting on

the stone floor.  His habit is to sleep upon this floor.  Not

long ago a friend, thinking that this must be hard for a

_________________________

*  Munírih Khánum, the Holy Mother.—Ed.

†  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá preferred simple food, but it is an exaggeration to

state that he invariably ate only once a day or that he limited his

foods to those listed above.—Ed.

man of advancing years, presented him with a bed

fitted with springs and mattress.  So these stand in his

room also, but are rarely used.  “For how,” he says,

“can I bear to sleep in luxury when so many of the poor

have not even shelter?”  So he lies upon the floor and

covers himself only with his cloak.*

For more than thirty-four years this man has been a

prisoner at ‘Akká.  But his jailers have become his

friends.  The governor of the city, the commander of the

Army Corps, respect and honor him as though he were

their brother.  No man’s opinion or recommendation has

greater weight with them.  He is the beloved of all the

city, high and low.  And how could it be otherwise?  For

to this man it is the law, as it was to Jesus of Nazareth,

to do good to those who injure him.  Have we yet heard

of any one in lands which boast the name of Christ who

lived that life?

Hear how he treats his enemies.  One instance of

many I have heard will suffice.

When the Master came to ‘Akká there lived there a

certain man from Afghanistan, an austere and rigid

Mussulman.  To him the Master was a heretic.  He felt

and nourished a great enmity towards the Master, and

roused up others against him.  When opportunity offered

in gatherings of the people, as in the osque, he

denounced him with bitter words.

“This man,” he said to all, “is an impostor.  Why do

_________________________

*  This is also perhaps an exaggeration.  No other account of ‘Abdu’l-

Bahá’s life indicates that he always slept on the floor in preference

to the bed in his room.—Ed.

[Photograph]

‘Abdu’l-Bahá

you speak to him?  Why, do you have dealings with

him?”  And when he passed the Master on the street he

was careful to hold his robe before his face that his

sight might not be defiled.

Thus did this Afghan.  The Master, however, did

thus:  The Afghan was poor and lived in a mosque; he

was frequently in need of food and clothing.  The

Master sent him both.  These he accepted, but without

thanks.  He fell sick.  The Master took him a physician,

food, medicine, money.  These, also, he accepted; but as

he held out one hand that the physician might take his

pulse, with the other he held his cloak before his face

that he might not look upon the Master.  For twenty-four

years the Master continued his kindnesses and the

Afghan persisted in his enmity.  Then at last one day

the Afghan came to the Master’s door, and fell down,

penitent and weeping, at his feet.

“Forgive me, sir!” he cried.  “For twenty-four years

I have done evil to you, for twenty-four years you have

done good to me.  Now I know that I have been in the

wrong.”

The Master bade him rise, and they became friends.

This Master is as simple as his soul is great.  He

claims nothing for himself—neither comfort, nor honor,

nor repose.  Three or four hours of sleep suffice him;

all the remainder of his time and all his strength are given

to the succor of those who suffer, in spirit or in body.  “I

am,” he says, “the servant of God.”

Such is ‘Abbás Effendi, the Master of ‘Akká.

[Photograph]

Bahíyyih Khánum, The Greatest Holy Leaf

[Blank page]

Chapter II
The story of His life

Tehran and Baghdad

In introducing ‘Abbás Effendi to the reader I have

thus far presented phases of his character which are

unusual and first strike the attention.  But these

qualities are only the efflorescence of a strong, sym-

metrical, and well-balanced nature, which should be

regarded from all sides.  In the various relations of life

when circumstances demand it he can be resolute,

stern, and unyielding, as well as tender and compas-

sionate.  In his large family he is the firm and careful

head, no less than the kind father and affectionate hus-

band.  Among men he is a strong and virile man, with a

vigorous and clear intellect, a sound judgment, and

substantial common sense.  Among his people he is the

executive, the administrator, and organizer of affairs.

Professor Browne, who visited ‘Akká in 1890, thus

graphically describes him as he saw him at that time (A

Traveller’s Narrative, Introduction, page xxxvi):

Seldom have I seen one whose appearance impressed me more.  A

tall strongly-built man holding himself straight as an arrow, with

white turban and raiment, long black locks reaching almost to the

shoulder, broad powerful forehead indicating a strong intellect

combined with an unswerving will, eyes keen as a hawk’s, and

strongly marked but pleasant features—such was my first im-

pression of ‘Abbás Effendí, “the Master” (Áḳá) as he par excellence

is called by the Bábís.  Subsequent conversation with him served

only to heighten the respect with which his appearance had from

the first inspired me.  One more eloquent of speech, more apt of

illustration, more intimately acquainted with the sacred books of

the Jews, the Christians, and the Muhammadans, could, I should

think, scarcely be found even among the eloquent, ready, and

subtle race to which he belongs.  These qualities, combined with a

bearing at once majestic and genial, made me cease to wonder at

the influence and esteem which he enjoyed even beyond the

circle of his father’s followers.  About the greatness of this man

and his power no one who had seen him could entertain a doubt.

But the best estimate of the character of ‘Abbás

Effendi is to be gathered from the events of his life, to

a brief narration of which I will now proceed.  The story

is told by Bahíyyih Khánum,* his sister, as follows:

“My brother, ‘Abbás Effendi, now our Lord, was born

at Tehran in the spring of 1844, at midnight following

the day upon which, in the evening, the Báb made his

declaration.†  I was born three years later.  He was

therefore eight and I five, when in August, 1852, the at-

tempt was made upon the life of the Shah of Persia by a

young Bábí, who through ungoverned enthusiasm had

_________________________

*  The Greatest Holy Leaf.—Ed.

†  May 22, 1844.—Ed.

lost his mental balance.2  The events following this at-

tempt are vividly impressed upon my mind.  My mother,

‘Abbás Effendi, myself, and my younger brother,* then

a babe, were at the time in Tehran.  My father was tem-

porarily in the country.

“The attempted assassination caused great uproar

and excitement throughout the city.  All Bábís were

searched for, and, when found, arrested.  A mob sacked

our house, stripping it of its furnishings.  My mother

fled with us to the home of a sister of her father, whose

husband was an official of the government; but, seeing

the alarm which her presence caused, she was unwilling

to bring her relatives into danger, and returned to her

own home.

“There we gathered together some furniture which

had been left by the mob, and lived in one room,

destitute of all but the barest necessities.

“My father, as my mother learned from a servant

who was with him when he was arrested, was not long

after brought to the city in chains and placed, with

many other Bábís, in a dungeon† below ground.3  They

were chained together in squads by heavy chains pass-

ing about their necks.  He expected to be executed first,

as a leader, but he was instead reserved for the more

horrible suffering of witnessing the successive torture

and death of his companions separately.  Each day one

_________________________

*  The Purest Branch, Mírzá Mihdí.—Ed.

†  Síyáh-Chál, the Black Pit.—Ed.

[Photograph]

Náṣiru’d-Dín Sháh

or more were selected for this fate, and the others

reminded that their turn might come tomorrow.

“Meanwhile, we heard each day the cries of the mob

as a new victim was tortured or executed, not knowing

but that it might be my father.  My mother went daily to

the house of her aunt for news of him and generally

spent the entire day there, hoping that each hour would

bring some tidings.  These were long and weary days

for my mother, young as she was and unaccustomed to

sorrow.

“At first, on going to her aunt’s, my mother would

take me with her; but one day, returning unusually late,

we found ‘Abbás Effendi surrounded by a band of boys

who had undertaken to personally molest him.  He was

standing in their midst as straight as an arrow—a little

fellow, the youngest and smallest of the group—firmly

but quietly commanding them not to lay their hands

upon him, which, strange to say, they seemed unable to

do.  After that, my mother thought it unsafe to leave

him at home, knowing his fearless disposition, and that

when he went into the street, as he usually did to watch

for her coming, eagerly expectant of news from his

father for whom, even at that early age, he had a pas-

sionate attachment, he would be beset and tormented

by the boys.  So she took him with her, leaving me at

home with my younger brother.  I spent the long days in

constant terror, cowering in the dark and afraid to

unlock the door lest men should rush in and kill us.

“Meanwhile my mother was without money.  She

[Photograph]

Winter in Tehran, circa 1895

would have been reduced to extremities but for the fact

that the buttons of our garments were of gold.  These

she used for buying food and for bribing the jailers

to take food to my father.

“Four months passed in this fearful agony of

suspense and terror.  Meanwhile the government had in-

vestigated my father’s case and had become convinced

that he had had no connection with the attack upon the

shah.  This might not have been sufficient to effect his

release at that time, on account of the popular fury

against all Bábís, but he was so ill that it was thought

he would die, and his illness was made a pretext for his

liberation and he was released under surveillance.4  Two

weeks later, in company with a number of other

families of believers, we set out for Baghdad with a

military escort.  It was bitterly cold, and the route lay

over mountains.  The journey lasted a month.4  My

father was very ill.  The chains had left his neck galled,

raw, and much swollen, My mother, who was pregnant

was unaccustomed to hardships, and was worried and

harassed over our recent trials and the uncertainty of

our fate.  Another thing which grieved her was her

separation from my younger brother whom, being very

delicate, she had felt obliged to leave behind in Tehran

as unfit to endure the hardships of this journey.  We

were all insufficiently clothed, and suffered keenly from

exposure.  My brother in particular was very thinly clad.

Riding upon a horse, his feet, ankles, hands, and wrists

were much exposed to the cold, which was so severe

that they became frost-bitten and swollen and caused

him great pain.  The effects of this experience he feels

to this day on being chilled or taking a cold.

“We arrived in Baghdad* in a state of great misery,

and also of almost utter destitution, the only means

that we had brought from Tehran consisted of a few

personal effects that my mother had collected before

our departure, which had been so hurried that she had

no time in which to make suitable preparation.

Even these were nearly exhausted by the time we

reached our destination, having been bartered on the

journey for necessaries.

“More misery now stared us in the face.  My father

was still very ill; my mother and other women in

delicate health; small children needed care, while our

means were insufficient to procure even the usual

necessities of life.  My mother’s health demanded that

we should have servants, but we were unable to hire

them.  There were, indeed, those among the believers

who would willingly have acted as such for us, and who

actually did so, to some extent, but we could not permit

them to do what we would not do ourselves—especially

my mother, who was habitually very thoughtful and

considerate, and who always preferred to work for

herself and others rather than be a source of trouble to

any one.

“I was, of course, too young to be of any real help;

_________________________

*  April 3, 1853.—Ed.

[Photograph]

A view of Baghdad, circa 1860

and as it was, there was no one in our household

capable of doing much but my poor mother, who was

unaccustomed to labor of any kind.  In trying to wash

our clothes her hands, which were fine and delicate,

became blistered and were torn till they bled.

“In short, our sufferings—at least those of our own

family—were indescribable.  However, we struggled

through this period as bravely as we could, until, after a

time, occasional remittances came to us from Tehran,

the proceeds of personal effects—jewels, cloth of gold,

and other valuable articles which were a part of my

mother’s dowry—which had been left there to be sold.

This money ameliorated our condition to a considerable

extent.

“As soon as the Blessed Perfection* became somewhat

better, he began again to teach.  Gathering the

believers about him he encouraged, exhorted, and

taught them until peace and happiness again reigned in

the hearts of his devoted followers, and our little band

of refugees found joy in his holy presence.  But this hap-

piness was of but brief duration.  Not long after, my

uncle, Ṣubḥ-i Azal,† my father’s half brother, arrived

_________________________

*  This is the appellation usually given Bahá’u’lláh by Bahá’ís.

—M.H.P.

†  Morning of Eternity, a title used by Mírzá Yaḥyá.  He eventually

became the Arch-Breaker of the Covenant of the Báb.  But at this

time he was regarded by most Bábís as the head of the community.

He had been nominated by the Báb, to “act solely as a figurehead

pending the manifestation of the Promised One.”  (See God Passes

By, pp. 28–29, 233.)—Ed.

[Photograph]

Baghdad

Showing the Tigris River.

in Baghdad, and then there began to be disharmony and

misunderstandings among the believers.  At the time of

the trouble in Teheran, Ṣubḥ-i Azal had escaped and re-

mained for some time in concealment.  Then he followed

us traveling in the disguise of a dervish.

“I do not wish to be understood as asserting defi-

nitely that Ṣubḥ-i Azal was the cause of the discord to

which I have referred; but it began at about the time of

his joining us, and I myself have concluded that it was

attributable to him.

“At length this state of affairs became very distaste-

ful to my father, he being by nature a man of peace.

Strife of any kind seemed to hurt him; more, however,

because of the unhappiness which it brought upon

others than because of the discomfort which it caused

him.  It was his habit, for the sake of peace and to quell

strife, to take all blame upon himself where possible,

and to seek to pacify those in contention by his love.

“After we had been in Baghdad about one year, he

announced that he could endure it no longer, and that

he would go away.

“Accordingly, taking a change of clothes, but no

money, and against the entreaties of all the family, he

set out.  He was prevailed upon to take a servant, but

sent him back the next day.*6

_________________________

*  Some of the details of this version of Bahá’u’lláh’s departure to

and return from Sulaymáníyyih differ from other historical accounts.

The Greatest Holy Leaf was a child at the time these events took

place and may not have been completely aware of all circumstances.

—Ed.

“I have stated that my brother was deeply attached to

his father; this attachment seemed to strengthen with

his growth.  After our father’s departure he fell into

great despondency.  He would go away by himself, and,

when sought for, be found weeping, often falling into

such paroxysms of grief that no one could console him.

His chief occupation at this time was copying and

committing to memory the tablets* of the Báb.  The

childhood and youth of my brother was, in fact, in all

respects unusual.  He did not care for play or for amuse-

ment like other children.  He would not go to school, nor

would he apply himself to study.  Horseback riding was

the only diversion of which he was fond; in that he

became proficient, being reputed to be a very skillful

horseman.†

_________________________

*  The letters and shorter writings of the Báb, Bahá’u’lláh, and

‘Abbás Effendi are called “tablets” by the Bahá’ís.—M.H.P.

†  In reply to a question by Madam Canavarro, as to what he was

most fond of as a child, ‘Abbás Effendi said:  “I cared more for hear-

ing the tablets of the Báb recited than anything else.  I used to

commit them to memory and repeat them.  This was the greatest

pleasure I knew in my childhood—my play and amusement.  I was

not fond of study, nor did I care for books.”

Being asked whether as a young man he did not seek amusement,

like others of his age, he replied:  “At Baghdad I rode on horseback;

and at one time I had an idea that I would like to hunt.  So on a cer-

tain occasion I joined a party of hunters and went with them to the

chase.  But when I saw them killing birds and animals, I thought that

this could not be right.  Then it occurred to me that better than hunt-

ing for animals, to kill them, was hunting for the souls of men to

bring them to God.  I then resolved that I would be a hunter of this

sort.  This was my first and last experience in the chase.

“This is all I want to tell you of myself.  I am only a seeker of the

souls of men, to guide them to God.”—M.H.P.

“After my father’s departure many months passed;

he did not return, nor had we any word from him or

about him.  We were all in great sorrow, and made con-

stant inquiries, hoping to hear some rumor which would

enable us to trace him.

“There was an old physician at Baghdad who had

been called upon to attend the family, and who had

become our friend.  He sympathized much with us, and

undertook on his own account to make inquiries for my

father.  He at length thought that he had traced him to a

certain locality, quite distant from Baghdad, in the

mountains; and thereafter was accustomed to ask all

persons whom he met from that region for such a man.

These inquiries were long without definite result, but at

length a certain traveler to whom he had described my

father, said that he had heard of a man answering to

that description, evidently of high rank, but calling

himself a dervish, living in caves in the mountains.  He

was, he said, reputed to be so wise and wonderful in his

speech on religious things that when people heard him

they would follow him; whereupon, wishing to be alone,

he would change his residence to a cave in some other

locality.  Further he related this incident:  a boy attend-

ing a village school had been flogged and sent out for

failure in his writing.  While he was weeping outside the

schoolroom, this holy man came by and asked the cause

of his grief.  When the lad had explained his trouble the

dervish said:  ‘Do not grieve.  I will set you another copy,

and teach you to write well.’  He then took the boy’s

[Photograph]

A dervish

with two young disciples, circa 1854

slate and wrote some words in very beautiful charac-

ters.  The boy was delighted; and showing his slate in

pride at now having a better master than he had had in

the school, the people were astonished, dervishes being

commonly illiterate.  They then began to follow the der-

vish; who, wishing to meditate and pray in solitude, left

that place for another.

“When we heard these things, we were convinced

that this dervish was in truth our beloved one.  But hav-

ing no means to send him any word, or to hear further

of him, we were very sad.

“There was then in Baghdad an earnest Bábí, formerly

a pupil of Qurratu’l-‘Ayn* (a woman famous for

her beauty and learning, who was one of the disciples of

the Báb, and a martyr).  This man said to us that as he

had no ties and did not care for his life, he desired no

greater happiness than to be allowed to seek for him

whom all loved so much, and that he would not return

without him†

“He was, however, very poor, not being able even to

provide an ass for the journey; and he was besides not

very strong, and therefore not able to go on foot.  We

had no money for the purpose, nor anything of value by

the sale of which money could be procured, with the ex-

ception of a single rug,, upon which we all slept.  This

_________________________

*  Ṭáhirih, one of the Letters of the Living appointed by the

Báb.—Ed.

†  This man was Shaykh Sulṭán, who was accompanied by Javád-i

Ḥaṭṭáb.—Ed.

we sold and with the proceeds bought an ass for this

friend, who thereupon set out upon the search.

“Time passed; we heard nothing, and fell into the

deepest dejection and despair.  Finally, four months hav-

ing elapsed since our friend had departed, a message

was one day received from him saying that he would

bring my father home on the next day.  The other

members of the family could not credit the truth of this

news, but it seemed to electrify my brother.  He mi-

nutely questioned and examined the messenger, and

became much excited.  He quite believed that his father

would return, but no one else did.

“During the night following the next day, however,

my father walked into the house.  We hardly knew him;

his beard and hair were long and matted—he really was

a dervish in appearance.  The meeting between my

brother and his father was the most touching and

pathetic sight I have ever seen.  ‘Abbás Effendi threw

himself on the floor before him and kissed and em-

braced his feet, weeping and crying, ‘Why did you

leave us, why did you leave us?’ while the great uncouth

dervish wept over his boy.  The scene carried a weight

not to be expressed in words.

“The absence of my father had covered a little more

than two years.*  After his return the fame which he

had acquired in the mountains reached Baghdad, and

_________________________

*  Bahá’u’lláh left Baghdad on April 10, 1854, and returned on

March 19, 1856.—Ed.

not only Bábís but many others came to hear his

teachings; and many, also, merely out of curiosity to

see him.  As he wished for retirement these curiosity

seekers were a great trouble and annoyance to him.

This aroused my brother and he declared that he would

protect his father from such intrusions.  Accordingly he

prepared two placards, one for the door of his own

room, which read, ‘Those who come for information

may apply within; those who come only because of

curiosity had better stay away’; the other for the door

of his father’s room, of which the purport was, ‘Let

those who are searching for God come, and come, and

come.’  Then he announced that he himself would first

see those who came.  If he found that they were genuine

truth-seekers he admitted them to his father’s presence

otherwise he did not permit them to see him.

“So time passed.  My father taught many, and his

followers became numerous.  Many of them were the

fierce and untutored Arabs of Iraq.  All evinced an in-

tense devotion to him.  He was visited also by many

Bábís from Persia.

“During these years ‘Abbás Effendi was accustomed

to frequent the mosques and argue with the doctors and

learned men.  They were astonished at his knowledge

and acumen, and he came to be known as the youthful

sage.  They would ask him, ‘Who is your teacher—

where do you learn the things which you say?’  His reply

was that his father had taught him.  Although he had

[Photograph]

‘Abdu’l-Bahá as a young man

never been a day in school, he was as proficient in all

that was taught as well-educated young men, which was

the cause of much remark among those who knew him.

“In appearance my brother was at this time a

remarkably fine-looking youth.  He was noted as one of

the handsomest young men in Baghdad.”

[Photograph]

Constantinople circa 1863

[Blank page]

Chapter III
The story of His life (Continued)

Constantinople and Adrianople

“The Governor of Baghdad at this time was a rel-

ative of my father, but his enemy on account of

differences in religious opinion and family misunder-

standings.7  This man, rendered uncomfortable by the

sight of my father’s increasing fame and influence, ex-

erted himself to effect his removal from Baghdad.  He

caused representations to be made to the Shah of Persia

that, whereas Bahá’u’lláh had been driven out of Persia

because of the harm threatened by his presence to the

Muhammadan religion in that country, now he was in-

juring the religion even more in Baghdad, and still

exerting his evil influence in Persia; and that therefore

he ought to be removed to a place at a greater distance

from that country, and one where he could do less

harm.

“These representations and suggestions he sent

repeatedly to the Court of Persia, until at length the

shah was moved to use his influence with the Sultan of

Turkey to have the Bábís transferred from Baghdad to

Constantinople.  An order to this effect was at length

made by the sultan.

“When this news came to us, from which we inferred

that my father would again be made a prisoner, we

were thrown into consternation, fearing another separa-

tion.  He was summoned before the magistrates.  My

brother imperiously declared that he would go in his

stead; but this our father overruled, and went himself.8

Great numbers of his followers had assembled about

our house, and these witnessed his departure with

many demonstrations of grief, feeling that it was pos-

sible that he might not return.

“The magistrates expressed great sorrow to my

father; they said that they respected and loved him, that

they had not instigated the order, but that they were

powerless to suspend or modify it, and must proceed

with its execution.  My father remained in conference

with them nearly all day, but could do nothing to avert

the catastrophe.9  When he returned, he told us that we

must prepare to set out for Constantinople in two

weeks.

“This report was like a death-knell to his followers,

who were still gathered about the house.  Many of them

were Arabs; their fierce natures rebelled and they

gave way to violent remonstrances.  They implored the

Blessed Perfection not to desert them.  ‘You are our

shepherd,’ they said; ‘without you we must die.’

The next day they so overran the house that we

[Photograph]

Boats in Baghdad

unloading on the banks of the Tigris, circa 1925

could not prepare for the journey.  Then the Blessed

Perfection proposed to go with ‘Abbás Effendi to the

garden of one of our friends* and live there in a tent till

the time of departure, that the family might be able to

proceed with the packing.  This remark was repeated

and misunderstood, and the rumor circulated among the

believers that the Blessed Perfection was to be taken

away alone.  Then they came pouring in by hundreds, so

wild with grief that they could not be pacified; and

when my father started to leave the house with my

brother they threw themselves upon the ground before

him.  One man who had an only child, which had come

to him late in his life, stripped the clothes from the

child’s body and placing it at my father’s feet cried,

‘Naked I give you my child, my precious child, to do

with as you will; only promise not to leave us in

distress.  Without you we cannot live.

“Then, as the only way in which to soothe his

followers, the Blessed Perfection took all his family to

the garden, leaving to friends the preparation of his

household goods for the journey.  Here we pitched tents

and lived in them for two weeks.†  The tents made, as it

were, a little village, that of my father, which he oc-

cupied alone, in the center.

“Four days before the caravan was set out, the

_________________________

*  The Najíbíyyih Garden, now known to Bahá’ís as the Garden of

Riḍván.—Ed.

†  Actually, twelve days.  This period is now celebrated each year

by Bahá’ís as the festival of Riḍván.  April 21 to May2.—Ed.

Blessed Perfection called ‘Abbás Effendi into his tent

and told him that he himself was the one whose coming

had been promised by the Báb—the Chosen of God, the

Center of the Covenant.  A little later, and before leav-

ing the garden, he selected from among his disciples

four others, to whom he made the same declaration.  He

further said to these five that for the present he en-

joined upon them secrecy as to this communication, as

the time had not come for a public declaration; but that

there were reasons which caused him to deem it neces-

sary to make it at that time to a few whom he could

trust.10  These reasons he did not state; but they are to

my mind suggested by the subsequent events which

I shall narrate further on, and which I think he at that

time anticipated, and in view of which he felt that he

needed special protection.

“Many of the Blessed Perfection’s followers decided

to abandon Baghdad also, and accompany him in his

wanderings.  When the caravan started, our company

numbered about seventy-five persons.  All the young

men, and others who could ride, were mounted on

horses.11  The women and the Blessed Perfection were

furnished wagons.  We were accompanied by a military

escort.  This journey took place in 1863, about eleven

years after our arrival in Baghdad.

“From the time when the declaration was made to

him at Baghdad, ‘Abbás Effendi seemed to constitute

himself the special attendant, servant, and body-guard

of his father.  He guarded him day and night on this

[Drawing]

A caravan

showing howdahs on the backs of horses

journey, riding by his wagon and watching near his

tent.  He thus has little sleep, and, being young, became

extremely weary.  His horse was Arab and very fine,

and so wild and spirited that no other man could mount

him, but under my brother’s hand as gentle and docile

as a lamb.  In order to get a little rest, he adopted the

plan of riding swiftly a considerable distance ahead of

the caravan, when, dismounting and causing his horse

to lie down, he would throw himself on the ground

and place his head on his horse’s neck.  So he would sleep

until the cavalcade came up, when his horse would

awake him by a kick and he would remount.

“The march to Constantinople occupied four

months.*  Much of the weather was inclement and dur-

ing many whole days we were without proper food.  In

our company were many small children, upon whom

and the women the journey was very hard.  On one oc-

casion during a long and cold march, my brother having

obtained some bread, rice, and milk, my father made up

with his own hands a sort of pudding by boiling these

together with a little sugar, which was then distributed

to all.  The preparation of this food was a reminiscence

of my father’s two-years’ sojourn in the mountains,

where he was dependent on what might be given him,

and this dish—which he sometimes made for himself—

was the only warm food he had.

_________________________

*  Bahá’u’lláh and His company left Baghdad on May 3, 1863, and

arrived in Constantinople on August 26, 1863.—Ed.

“Such times as these were moments of pleasure; but

there was always present a feeling of apprehension—as

though a sword were hanging over our heads.

“Arrived in Constantinople we found ourselves pris-

oners.12  We were put into a small house, the men below

and the women above.  My father and his family were

given two rooms.  The weather was very cold and damp,

and we had no fires or proper clothing.  Because of the

crowding the atmosphere was foul.  We petitioned for

better quarters, and were given another house, which

was to some extent an improvement.

“While we were here the Blessed Perfection was ad-

vised by persons of prominence who came to see him to

appeal to the sultan, state his case, and demand justice,

in accordance with the Turkish custom.  To these sug-

gestions he replied that he was a man whose only con-

cern was the spiritual welfare of men; that he had never

interfered in any way with worldly affairs, nor should

he ever do so, even in his own behalf; that the sultan

had commanded his presence in Constantinople, and for

that reason alone he had come; that in like manner he

should in the future comply with the wishes of the

sultan; that he saw no reason why he, a spiritual man,

should initiate the trouble, argument, and commotion

incident to an appeal; and that if the government

wished to investigate the truth of the matter, it would

itself institute an inquiry.

“I have heard that these words were repeated to the

[Photograph]

Some Bahá’ís in Constantinople

Áqáy-i Kalím (Mírzá Músá), center, with (l. to r.) Ḥájí Mírzá

Aḥmad of Kashan, Áqá Muḥammad-Ṣadiq of Isfahan, Nabíl-i

Zarandí, and Sayyid Muḥammad of Isfahan.

[Photograph]

Constantinople

Overlooking the Bosporus, circa 1890

[Photograph]

A street in Constantinople, circa 1890

[Photograph]

Sulṭán ‘Abdu’l-‘Azíz of Turkey

sultan and did not please him, perhaps because a dif-

ferent construction had been put upon them by the nar-

rator than the meaning which the Blessed Perfection

intended to convey.  However that may be, it being a

matter about which I cannot speak with certainty, my

father was not called upon to appear at any inquiry.

An order was, however, made, about two months

after our arrival in Constantinople, directing our transfer

to Adrianople [Edirne], a town in eastern European

Turkey of notoriously bad climate, to which criminals

were often sent.13

“Before we set out a threat was made of separating

us—of sending the Blessed Perfection to one place, his

family to another, and his followers elsewhere.  This

overwhelmed us with apprehension, which hung over us

and tormented us during the whole of the journey and

long after.  The dread of this or of the execution of my

father was the greatest of our trials—a horrible fear of

unknown danger always menacing us.  Such threats

were frequently repeated after this time also.  Had it not

been for them we could have borne our sufferings with

greater resignation; but these kept us always in a heart-

sickening suspense.

“The journey to Adrianople, although occupying but

nine days, was the most terrible experience of travel we

had thus far had.14  It was the beginning of winter, and

very cold; heavy snow fell most of the time; and

destitute as we were of proper clothing or food, it was a

miracle that we survived it.  We arrived at Adrianople

all sick—even the young and strong.  My brother again

had his feet frozen on this journey.

“Our family, numbering eleven persons, was lodged

in a house of three rooms just outside the city of

Adrianople.15  It was like a prison; without comforts and

surrounded by a guard of soldiers.  Our only food was

the prison fare allowed us, which was unsuitable for the

children and the sick.

“That winter was a period of intense suffering, due to

cold, hunger, and, above all, to the torments of vermin,

with which the house was swarming.  These made even

the days horrible, and the nights still more so.  When

they were so intolerable that it was impossible to sleep,

my brother would light a lamp (which somewhat in-

timidated the vermin) and by singing and laughing seek

to restore the spirits of the family.

“In the spring, on the appeal of the Blessed Perfec-

tion to the governor, we were removed to somewhat

more comfortable quarters within the city.  Our family

was given the second story of a house, of which some of

the believers occupied the ground floor.16

“We remained for five years in Adrianople.*  The

Blessed Perfection resumed his teaching and gathered

about him a large following.  We were very poor and

always in great privation, but had become so inured to

suffering that we should have lived in tolerable content-

ment had it not been for two things—the feeling of

_________________________

*  From December 12, 1863, to August 12, 1868.—Ed.

[Photograph]

A street on the outskirts of Adrianople

dread and sense of unknown danger of which I have

before spoken, and another matter to which I will

presently more particularly refer.

“During this period, as, in fact, had been the case for

a number of years, ‘Abbás Effendi was the chief

dependence and comfort of the entire family.  He had

from childhood a remarkably self-sacrificing nature,

habitually yielding his own wishes and giving up

whatever he had to his brothers and sisters, keeping

nothing for himself.  He was always gentle; never

became angry, and never retaliated.  The life we were

living afforded constantly recurring occasions for the

exhibition of these qualities of his character; and his

unceasing efforts did a great deal to make its conditions

endurable for the other members of the family.

“For the poor also he had ever been very tender-

hearted, and, destitute as we were, he always contrived

to find something to give to others who were in greater

want.  This almsgiving proclivity of my brother was a

great trial to our mother, for in our straitened cir-

cumstances she found it very difficult with the means at

her disposal to provide for her own family only those

things which were actually necessary.

“The matter to which I have just referred as interfer-

ing with our contentment was a very terrible experience

brought upon us by Ṣubḥ-i Azal, to whose machinations

our subsequent sufferings were chiefly due, and which

were the immediate cause of our being sent some years

later from Adrianople to ‘Akká.  To this very serious affair

I will now proceed.

[Photograph]

A group photo of some Bahá’ís

in exile in Adrianople.

[Photograph]

‘Abdu’l-Bahá (seated center) and the Purest Branch

(to his left) with some of the believers in Adrianople.

“Ṣubḥ-i Azal continued to be one of our company

after we came to Baghdad in 1853.  With his family he

now occupied in Adrianople a house separate from ours

though near it.  The relations between the two families,

which for a time while we were in Baghdad had been

strained, had become again harmonious.  The food of

Ṣubḥ-i Azal’s family was usually prepared in our house,

under my supervision, and sent to Ṣubḥ-i Azal’s house.

The reason for this was that his wives were not properly

attentive to their household affairs and prepared

his food so badly that it was not suitable for him to eat.

We saw this, and, in order to enable him to live com-

fortably, offered to cook his food and send it to him.

“There was a bath in our house, but none in Ṣubḥ-i-Azal’s,

and he was accustomed to use our bath.  The

same servant* prepared the bath and acted as bath at-

tendant for both my father and Ṣubḥ-i Azal.

“Up to this time the declaration which the Blessed

Perfection had made to five of his disciples in Baghdad

had not been formally communicated to Ṣubḥ-i Azal, or,

indeed, to any one else, and we do not know that he

was aware of it; though his conduct suggests that he

suspected it, and that this suspicion furnished the incen-

tive which prompted him in doing what I am about to

relate.17  As you no doubt know, Ṣubḥ-i Azal claimed

to have been appointed by the Báb as his successor, and

therefore to be, after the Báb’s death, the head of the

Bábí Church.18

_________________________

*  Ustád Muḥammad-‘Alíy-i Salmání, the Barber.—Ed.

“The events which I am about to relate occurred

about one year after he had moved into the city from

the quarters which he had at first occupied in Adri-

anople.  One day while in the bath Ṣubḥ-i Azal remarked

to the servant (who was a believer) that the Blessed

Perfection had enemies and that in the bath he was

much exposed, and asked whether it would not be easy

for an attendant who was not faithful to the Blessed

Perfection to make away with him while shaving him.

The servant replied that this was certainly the case

Ṣubḥ-i Azal then asked him whether, if God should lay

upon him the command to do this, he would obey it.

The servant understood this question, coming from

Ṣubḥ-i Azal, to be a suggestion of such a command,

and was so terrified by it that he rushed screaming

from the room.  He first met ‘Abbás Effendi and

repeated to him Ṣubḥ-i Azal’s words.19  My brother

endeavored to quiet him, and commanded his silence.

This the servant refused unless he was taken at once to

the Blessed Perfection.  ‘Abbás Effendi accordingly ac-

companied him to my father, who listened to his story

and then enjoined absolute silence upon him.

“This occurrence was ignored by my father and

brother, and our relations with Ṣubḥ-i Azal continued to

be cordial.  The Blessed Perfection was indeed several

times warned to beware of Ṣubḥ-i Azal, by persons who

claimed to have overheard conversations between him

and his intimates, but no attention was paid to these

warnings.

[Photograph]

Ṣubḥ-i Azal, Mírzá Yayḥá

in later years.

[Photograph]

Ustád Muḥammad-‘Alíy-i Salmání

barber and bath attendant to Bahá’u’lláh.

“Some time afterwards, to celebrate a family festival

day, Ṣubḥ-i Azal invited us all to his house.  At this

time, also, my father was warned not to take food

there, but replied that he must treat Ṣubḥ-i Azal with

kindness and could not refuse it.

“This entertainment was looked upon as cementing

the family reconciliation, and it is usual on such occa-

sions among Persians for the heads of the two family

factions which have been alienated to eat from the same

plate.  So, now, rice for both my father and Ṣubḥ-i-Azal

was served to them on one plate.  This rice, as well

as all the other food used for the meal, had been

prepared in Ṣubḥ-i Azal’s house, contrary to the usual

custom.  Now my father and Ṣubḥ-i Azal had these well-

known peculiarities of taste—that the former was very

fond of onion, while the latter could not endure them.

The portion of rice intended for my father was accord-

ingly flavored with onions, while that intended for

Ṣubḥ-i Azal was differently prepared.  The servant

bringing in the plate placed it, at the direction of Ṣubḥ-i

Azal, with the side upon which was the rice flavored

with onions toward the Blessed Perfection.  While he

did so Ṣubḥ-i Azal smilingly remarked, ‘Here is rice

cooked as you like it!’  My father ate some of the rice

prepared for him, but fortunately not very much, as for

some reason it did not please him.  He preferred the rice

prepared for Ṣubḥ-i Azal, and ate of it, and also of the

dishes which the others at the table were eating.20

[Drawing]

A Persian meal

“Soon after eating the rice my father became ill and

went home.  About midnight he was seized with severe

vomiting and passing of blood from the bowels.  A

physician was summoned, and declared that he had

been poisoned.

“My father was desperately ill for twenty-two days;

during all this time he took no food.  On the eighteenth

day the physician said that he could not live.  The death

sentence terribly moved ‘Abbás Effendi.  He placed his

head on the pillow beside his father’s in the utmost

agony of grief.  He implored him to live for the sake of

the world, for his family, and for him.  My father was

too feeble to speak, and could only place his hand on

my brother’s head.  The physician was deeply moved by

the sight.  He had learned to love ‘Abbás Effendi,—as

did everyone who came in contact with him,—and

declared he would give his life to save the father for the

boy.  Thrice he repeated, ‘I will give my life—I will give

my life—I will give my life,’ walking as he spoke

several times around the bed.  At length, utterly

despairing of the case, he left.  The next morning he

sent word that he was ill, and advised that another

physician be summoned.  Nine days later he died.  We

then recalled his singular words.21

“Meanwhile we did not summon another physician

for my father, feeling that the case was hopeless; but to

our surprise his condition soon showed marked im-

provement, and on the third day he asked for food,

which gave us much hope.  From this time he grew

stronger continuously, but very slowly,* and at length

recovered.

“After the recovery of my father from this illness,

‘Abbás Effendi strongly urged him to declare himself to

Ṣubḥ-i Azal.  My father, however, persisted in replying

that so long as Ṣubḥ-i Azal did not effect other harm

than he was able to do to him personally, that is, so

long as he did not injure the Cause, he would not assert

himself against him.

Ṣubḥ-i Azal made no further attempts upon the life

of the Blessed Perfection, but he began to endeavor to

arouse dissensions among the believers, making various

false accusations against the Blessed Perfection.  At this

_________________________

*  Partisans of Ṣubḥ-i Azal have endeavored to anticipate and

break the force of these revelations by publishing the following

story, cited by Professor Browne in a note, A Traveller’s Narrative,

p. 359.  They allege that Bahá’u’lláh “caused poison to be placed

one side of the dish of food which was to be set before himself and

Ṣubḥ-i Azal, giving instructions that the poisoned side should be

turned towards his brother.  As it happened, however, the food had

been flavored with onions, and Ṣubḥ-i Azal, disliking this flavor

refused to partake of the dish; but the poison having diffused itself

to some extent through the whole mass, he was presently attacked

with vomiting and other symptoms of poisoning.”  This transparent

fabrication assumes an impossible ignorance on the part of

Bahá’u’lláh of the fact that onions were disliked by his brother, as

well as the improbable hypothesis that Bahá’u’lláh would knowingly

have partaken of food in which poison had been placed.

In the following pages of his book Professor Browne mentions a

number of other charges made against Bahá’u’lláh by the Azalís,

equally incredible, at least so it seems to me, to anyone familiar with

the character and teachings of the Bahá’ís.  I do not think that it

would be time well employed to advert to these charges in detail.

Allegations so flatly in contradiction to the spirit, lives, and

time, of course, the Bábís in general did not know that

my father had said that he was the Divine Manifestation,

but he was regarded by most of them as their

leader, and very much beloved.  Ṣubḥ-i Azal was looked

upon as a leader, however, by some of the Bábís.

“Thus matters went, becoming worse and worse, un-

til it was plainly evident that the Cause was suffering.

Then the Blessed Perfection summoned ‘Abbás Effendi

and said to him that the time had come for a public

declaration.  ‘Not for myself would I do it,’ he said, ‘but

because the welfare of the Cause demands it.’  He then

wrote a tablet,* longer than any he had before written

and of great power,—it has been said that men trem-

bled as they read it,—addressed to Bábís generally,

and setting forth his declaration.

“This tablet he directed to be read to every Bábí, but

first of all to Ṣubḥ-i Azal.  He assigned to one of his

followers the duty of taking it to Ṣubḥ-i Azal, reading

______________________

teachings of Bahá’u’lláh and his successor, will quickly enough fade

away and be forgotten if left to themselves.  But I must protest most

energetically against Professor Browne’s suggestion (pp. 371 et seq.)

that any traits of Oriental character shared by the leaders of

Bahaism could be assumed as possibly closing their eyes to the

iniquity of such proceedings in support of their cause.  Of course one

cannot dogmatize on impressions of character, but I wish to place on

record the fact that my own acquaintance with the Bahá’ís and the

spirit which animates them makes it inconceivable to me that such

utter perversion of moral sense, however possible it may generally

be to the Oriental type of character, about which I here express no

opinion, could under any circumstances characterize their policy as

a body, or the policy of their leaders.—M.H.P.

*  The Ṣubḥ-i Amr.—Ed.

it to him, and returning with Ṣubḥ-i Azal’s reply.  When

Ṣubḥ-i Azal had heard the tablet, he did not attempt to

refute it; on the contrary he accepted it, and said that it

was true.  But he went on to maintain that he himself

was co-equal with the Blessed Perfection, affirming that

he had had a vision on the previous night in which he

had received this assurance.22

“When this statement of Ṣubḥ-i Azal was reported to

the Blessed Perfection, the latter directed that every

Bábí should be informed of it at the time when he heard

his own tablet read.  This was done, and much uncer-

tainty resulted among the believers.  They generally ap-

plied to the Blessed Perfection for advice, which,

however, he declined to give.  At length he told them

that he would seclude himself from them for four

months, and that during this time they must decide the

question for themselves.

“This he did.  None of the believers other than his

own family had access to him, or communication with

him, for four months.23  At the end of that period all the

Bábís in Adrianople, with the exception of Ṣubḥ-i

Azal and five or six others, came to the Blessed Perfection

and declared that they accepted him as the Divine

Manifestation, whose coming the Báb had foretold.  The

Bábís of Persia, Syria, Egypt, and other countries, also,

in due time accepted the Blessed Perfection with

substantial unanimity.*

_________________________

*  Ṣubḥ-i Azal had, indeed, a few adherents; but his following has

been so inconsiderable, and so utterly without the vitality and power

“Ṣubḥ-i Azal now took up another line of action.  He

opened a correspondence with prominent persons in the

Turkish government and the Muslim Church, in which

he alleged that the Blessed perfection was stirring up

strife and seeking to destroy the Muslim faith by showing

a contempt for the Qur’án, neglecting the fast of

Ramadan, permitting the women of his followers to go

unveiled, condemning polygamy, and the like.  These

allegations, although wholly unfounded, since the

Blessed Perfection, equally with our Master at the pres-

ent time, required of his followers the most careful

observance of, and respect for, the social customs of the

people among whom they lived, were persisted in by

Ṣubḥ-i Azal, until he had made the impression which he

desired.  The Turkish government, annoyed and ir-

ritated, finding our people, between whom, as can be

well understood, it was unable to discriminate, vex-

atious and troublesome, wearied of the whole matter,

and determined to scatter us; a course which under the

circumstances was a quite natural and intelligible out-

come of Ṣubḥ-i Azal’s actions.24  An order was there-

fore issued decreeing that the Bábís in Adrianople

should be separated and banished; that Ṣubḥ-i Azal

should be sent to one place, the Blessed Perfection to

another, his family to another, and the followers to still

_________________________

of assimilation so characteristic equally of the earliest and latest

stages of this movement, that the defection has not impaired in any

ascertainable degree its solidarity, and is to be regarded, in con-

sidering the present status of the faith, as a quite negligible quan-

tity.—M.H.P.

others; and that all should be kept in ignorance of their

own and the others’ destinations.

“During the period of his residence at Adrianople,

‘Abbás Effendi had endeared himself to every one, high

and low, those of the faith and others alike.  He taught

much and even at that time was commonly called the

‘Master’  The governor himself had become a friend of

the Master’s and delighted to listen to his religious

discourses.  It was the habit of the governor frequently

to have the Master at the palace, and when my brother

could not go to the governor he sometimes came to my

brother.

“When the governor received the order of banish-

ment from Adrianople he was so affected by it that, not

having the heart to execute it himself, he put it into the

hands of his subordinates for execution, wrote a letter

to ‘Abbás Effendi, and left the city.  In this letter he

said:

“‘This trouble has come upon you through members

of your own family.  It is Ṣubḥ-i Azal who has caused

the sultan to take these steps.  I am powerless to aid

you, and my love for you is so great that I must go

away.  I cannot see this dreadful thing happen.’

“This trouble broke with the suddenness of a tornado

upon us.  We were sitting quietly together at home

when we heard a bugle-call.  My brother looked out and

saw a cordon of soldiers about the house presenting

arms.  Our first thought was that the life of the Blessed

Perfection or of ‘Abbás Effendi was threatened.  The

latter endeavored to quiet our alarm, and went out to

inquire the cause of the demonstration.  He was given

the governor’s letter.  The family consulted and ‘Abbás

Effendi then told the officer in command that we would

die rather than be separated, and asked at least for

respite.  The reply was, ‘No; you must go today,

Bahá’u’lláh and his family to different places, and

neither can know the destination of the other.’  ‘Abbas

Effendi demanded permission to go to the governor’s

palace and appeal to his representative.  This was at

first refused but finally granted, and he set out between

two guards.

“My brother pleaded so eloquently with the officials

that they consented to telegraph to Constantinople ask-

ing that the order be changed so that our family might

remain together.  A reply was received refusing the

change.  My brother persisted, and had such influence

with the officials that they seemed unable to put the

measure into execution, permitting him to send

dispatch after dispatch for a week.

“These were days of horror.  The members of our

family neither ate nor slept.  No cooking was done in the

house.  When my brother left in the morning with the

guards we feared that we might never see him again,

and watched hour after hour for his return.

“At length a telegram was received granting the

concession that my father should be permitted to take

with him his immediate family, but directing that his

followers should be separated from him, without

knowledge of his destination.  A servant who had ac-

companied my brother overheard a part of this dispatch

read and misunderstood.  Without waiting to inquire

whether he had heard aright, he returned to us with the

report that the first order was not to be rescinded; that

the Blessed Perfection was to be separated from his

family and his followers.  After telling us this he ran out

and spread the news among the believers who were

gathered near our house.  They were as though stunned,

paralysed.  One of them, an old and faithful follower,*

seized a knife, and exclaiming, ‘If I must be separated

from my Lord, I will go now and join my God,’ cut his

throat.  Fortunately this man’s knife was partially ar-

rested by a bystander so that his jugular vein was not

severed; with the aid of a physician his life was

ultimately saved.25

“The attempted suicide caused a great noise and

disturbance, which attracted our attention.  My mother

and I went out to inquire into the cause of the commo-

tion.  We came near, and saw a man lying on the ground

with blood streaming from him.  The soldiers surround-

ing the group prevented us from approaching closely

enough to determine with certainty who it was, but the

first thought which came to us was that my poor

brother, on hearing that the order was to be carried out.

_________________________

*  Ḥájí Ja‘fár-i Tabrízí.—Ed.

had, in his despair, killed himself.  We could hear the

gulping utterances of the man-’You have separated

me from my Lord,-I prefer to die.’  Though unable to

distinguish the voice, we still thought it was my

brother.  We remained in this agonizing suspense for

some time, until we suddenly heard my brother’s voice

rising high above the din, and speaking with tremen-

dous force.

“On hearing him, two things amazed us.  First, he

seemed to be wrought up to the highest pitch of anger

and indignation.  Never before had we heard him speak

an angry word.  We had known him sometimes impa-

tient and preemptory, but never angry.  And then, his

great excitement had apparently given him command of

the Turkish language, which no one had ever heard him

speak before.*  He was, in Turkish, and in the most im-

passioned and vehement manner, protesting against,

and denouncing, the treatment of the officers and

demanding the presence of the governor, who in the

meantime had returned to the city.  The officers seemed

cowed by his vehemence, and the governor was sent

for.  He came, and seeing the situation said, ‘It is im-

possible, we cannot separate these people.

“The governor returned to his palace and telegraphed

_________________________

*  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá had lived in Turkish territory since 1853, when the

Holy Family was banished to Baghdad.  Since he had regular deal-

ings with the Ottoman authorities during most of this time, it is like-

ly that he had acquired a knowledge of the Turkish language.

However, he may have had no occasion to use it in the presence of

the women of the Household before this incident.—Ed.

[Map]

Map of the exiles of Bahá’u’lláh

to Constantinople.  The next day he received a reply

granting permission to the followers of the Blessed

Perfection to accompany him.  We were told to prepare

for immediate departure, but were not told to what

place we were to be sent.  When we set out there were

seventy-seven in all in our band.  We journeyed six

days, and arrived at Gallipoli, which is on the sea.26

“On our arrival at this town we were met with the in-

formation that the governor had a telegraphic order

from the sultan’s government directing our separation;

that my father with one servant was to go to one place,

my brother with one servant to another, the family to

Constantinople, the other followers to various places.

This sudden and unexplained withdrawal of the hard-

won concession we had so recently obtained exhausted

our patience.  We unhesitatingly declared that we would

not be separated, and a repetition, in substance, of the

events of the last days in Adrianople followed.  My

brother went to the governor and told him that we

would not submit to separation.  ‘Do this,’ said he,—

‘take us out on a steamer and drown us in the ocean.

You can thus end at once our sufferings and your

perplexities.  But we refuse to be separated.’

“We remained in Gallipoli for a week, in the same

horrible suspense which we had experienced at

Adrianople.27  Finally my brother, by his eloquence in

argument and power of will, succeeded in gaining for

the second time from the Constantinople government

the concession that we should remain together.28

“At Gallipoli the German, Russian, and English con-

suls called upon the Blessed Perfection and offered to

intercede in his behalf with the Turkish government,

assuring him that they could procure, for him and his

family, permission to go to one of the countries of

Western Europe, where they would have no further

trouble.29  My father replied that he did not wish to op-

pose the will of the sultan, nor would he consent to

abandon his followers; that his only interests were in

spiritual things and his only desire to preach a religion,

and that therefore he had nothing to fear.

“The order from Constantinople directed that we

should embark together upon a government vessel, and

no time was lost in putting it into execution.  In the

hurry, distress, and uncertainty of the moment, we

neglected to provide food for the voyage, but to one old

servant, on his way to the ship, the thought occurred

that he had not seen any provisions prepared, and he

bought a box of bread.  This, with the ship’s prisoners’

rations, which were almost inedible, was the only food

we had for five days, when we reached Alexandria.

Here the rumor that we were to be separated was re-

newed; and all were so terrified by it that no one was

willing to leave the ship to buy provisions lest he be

prevented from returning.30  We were able to procure

only some grapes and mineral water.

“The little bread we had was now spoiled; and, what

with hunger, fright, and grief, we were almost bereft of

[Photograph]

The Port of Alexandria, circa 1870

reason.  On one of our company,* indeed, these condi-

tions had so preyed as to unbalance his mind, and he

threw himself from the ship as we were leaving the har-

bor of Alexandria.31  The ships’ officers were, however,

fortunately able to bring her to in time to reach this

man before he sank, and he was brought on board and

revived.”

_________________________

*  Áqá ‘Abdu’l-Ghaffár-i Iṣfahání.—Ed.

[Photograph]

‘Akká, circa 1925

[Blank page]

Chapter IV
The story of His life (Continued)

‘Akká

“After a voyage of about two days we were

landed at Haifa, in Syria.  All were sick, from

hunger or eating improper food.  I myself was a healthy

woman up to the time of taking this voyage; since then

I have never been well.

“We remained one day in the prison at Haifa, the

men in chains, and were then taken in small boats to

‘Akká (a distance of ten miles).32  The water was very

rough, and nearly all became seasick.

“‘Akká, as we afterwards learned, was a prison to

which the worst criminals were commonly sent from all

parts of the Turkish empire.  It was reported to have a

deadly climate.  There was a saying that if a bird flew

over ‘Akká it would fall and die.

“At that time there was no landing for the city;  it was

necessary to wade ashore from the boats.  The governor

ordered that the women be carried on the backs of the

men.  My brother was not willing that this should be

done, and protested against it.  He was one of the first

to land, and procured a chair, in which, with the help of

one of the believers, he carried the women ashore.  The

Blessed Perfection was not allowed to leave his boat un-

til all his family had landed.  When he had come ashore,

the family were counted and taken to the army bar-

racks, in which we were to be imprisoned.  From the

terrible sufferings and privations of the journey we

were nearly all sick; worst of all, perhaps, the Blessed

Perfection and myself.

“Arrived at the barracks, it was proposed to put the

Blessed Perfection and his family on the second floor,

and he was sent up; but I fainted from exhaustion and

was unable to ascend the stairs.  [Here the narrator

paused a moment, visibly trembling, and then con-

tinued.]  Of my own experience perhaps this is the most

awful.  The horrible sufferings of the voyage had re-

duced me almost to the point of death.  Upon that came

the seasickness.  When we landed in ‘Akká all the peo-

ple of the town came crowding about us, talking loudly

in Arabic, which I understood.  Some said that we were

to be put in the dungeons and chained; others that we

were to be thrown into the sea.  The most horrible jests

and jeers were hurled at us as we were marched

through the streets to this dreadful prison.

“Imagine, if you can, the overpowering impression

made by all this upon the mind of a young girl, such as

I was then.  Can you wonder that I am serious, and that

my life is different from those of my countrywomen?

But this is digressing.

[Photograph]

‘Akká, The Sea Gate

“When we had entered the barracks the massive door

was closed upon us and the great iron bolts thrown

home.  I cannot find words to describe the filth and

stench of that vile place.  We were nearly up to our

ankles in mud in the room into which we were led.  The

damp, close air and the excretions of the soldiers com-

bined to produce horrible odors.  Then, being unable to

bear more, I fainted.  As I fainted, those about me

caught me before I fell; but because of the mud and

filth there was no place upon which I could be laid.  On

one side of the room was a man weaving a mat for the

soldiers.  One of our friends took this mat and I was

placed upon it.  Then they begged for water, but they

could not get it.  The soldiers would permit no one to go

out.  There was a pool of water on the dirt floor, in

which the mat-maker had been moistening his rushes.

Some of this water was dipped up and strained and up to

to my lips.  I swallowed a little and revived; but the

water was so foul that my stomach rejected it, and I

fainted again.  Then a little of this water was thrown in-

to my face; and at length I revived sufficiently to go

upstairs.

“In the meantime my brother had slipped out and

gone down to assist in the landing of the remainder of

our company, whom we had left in the boats.  When the

soldiers discovered that he had disappeared, they at

once notified the governor, who had search made for

him and found him helping the others ashore.  The

followers were all brought to the barracks together and

[Photograph]

The barracks in ‘Akká

where the exiles were imprisoned.

lodged on the ground floor.  Among them were the

women and children, almost dying with hunger and

parched with thirst.  My brother begged to be permitted

to go out for food and water.  The soldiers replied:  ‘You

cannot put a foot outside of this room.  If you do, we

will kill you.  Our orders are not to let you leave the bar-

racks under any pretext.’  Then he asked permission to

send out a servant guarded by soldiers.  This was

refused.

“The above was related to us by my brother, when he

at length returned to our family quarters, in reply to our

inquiries as to the occasion of his absence.  He had been

away for hours, and our hearts had been filled with anxiety

for his safety.

“Then came another time of heart-sickening suffer-

ing.  The mothers who had babes at breast had no milk

for them, for lack of food and drink, so the babes could

not be pacified or quieted.  The larger children were

screaming for food and water, and could not sleep or be

soothed.  The women were fainting.

“Under these conditions, my brother spent the first

part of the night in passing about among the distressed

people, trying to pacify them, and in appealing to the

soldiers not to be so heartless as to allow women and

children to suffer so.  About midnight he succeeded in

getting a message to the governor.  We were then sent a

little water and some cooked rice; but the latter was so

full of grit and smelled so badly that only the strongest

stomach could retain it.  The water the children drank;

but the rice only the strongest could eat.  Later on, some

of our people in unpacking their goods found some

pieces of the bread which had been brought from

Gallipoli, and a little sugar.  With these a dish was

prepared for the Blessed Perfection, who was very ill.

When it was taken to him, he said:  ‘I command you to

take this to the children.’  So it was given to them, and

they were somewhat quieted.

“The next morning conditions were no better; there

was neither water nor food that could be eaten.  My

brother sent message after message to the governor,

appealing in behalf of the women and children.  At

length he sent us water and some prisoners’ bread; but

the latter was worse even than the rice—appearing and

tasting as though earth had been mixed with the flour.

My brother also succeeded in getting permission to

send out a servant, guarded by four soldiers, to buy

food.  But before this permission was given, the gover-

nor commanded the presence of my brother and told

him that neither he nor any of our people—not even

a child—was to leave the prison under any circum-

stances whatever, and that unless this was promised the

servant would not be permitted to go out.  Under the

circumstances my brother was obliged to give this

promise.

“The servant selected was told that if he spoke to a

man or woman except in bargaining for supplies, he

would be spitted on the swords of the soldiers.

“The servant procured some provisions; yet even

thus we were still badly off for food, for we were all so

poor that we could buy but little.  So the Blessed Perfec-

tion requested that the prison allowance for our support

should be commuted for money.  The governor consented,

and gave to my father the amount allowed to the

others.  Then my father gave his own share and that of

our family to my brother for the people, the whole be-

ing insufficient for them, saying;  ‘I will eat bread.’

Thereafter, when the supply of provisions was insuffi-

cient and he learned of it, he would take only bread and

water.

“When we were first brought to the barracks we had

no knowledge as to the manner of life to which we were

to be consigned.  We feared that the Blessed Perfection,

my brother, and perhaps others would be placed in

dungeons and chained.  The only information about it

which we could obtain was that our sentence would be

read on Friday—our arrival being early in the week.

This uncertainty was an additional horror.  When the

sentence was read to us, we learned that it stated that

we were political prisoners, nihilists, murderers, and

thieves; that wherever we went, we corrupted the

morals of the people; that we had leagued to overthrow

the Ottoman Empire; that we could be given no le-

niency, and that the orders to keep us under bolt and

bar must not be broken.  It was because of this evil

reputation, which had doubtless been given to the

government by those who had reasons for desiring our

[Photograph]

The prison of ‘Akká

showing the windows to the room of Bahá’u’lláh, upper right.

destruction, and not from any want of humanity on the

part of our jailers, who later became very kind and

friendly to us, that we were subjected to such stern

treatment and were given no more latitude or aid.

“The season was summer (1868) and the temperature

very high.  All our people were huddled together on the

damp earth floor of the barracks; with little water to

drink, and that very bad, with no water with which to

bathe, and scarcely enough for washing their faces.

Typhoid fever and dysentery broke out among them.

every one in our company fell sick excepting my

brother, my mother, an aunt, and two others of the

believers.33  We were not allowed a physician; we could

not procure medicine.  My brother had in his baggage

some quinine and bismuth.  With these two drugs and

his nursing, he brought us all through with the excep-

tion of four, who died.34  These were two months of

such awful horror as words cannot picture.  Imagine it,

if you can.  Some seventy men, women, and children35

packed together, hot summer weather, no proper food,

bad water, the most offensive odors from purging and

excretions, and a general attack of the terrible diseases

of dysentery and typhoid.

“There was no one with strength to be of any general

service but my brother.  He washed the patients, fed

them, nursed them, watched with them.  He took no

rest.  When at length he had brought the rest of us—the

four who died excepted—through the crisis and we

were out of danger, he was utterly exhausted and fell

sick himself, as did also my mother and the three others

who had theretofore been well.  The others soon re-

covered, but ‘Abbás Effendi was taken with dysentery,

and long remained in a dangerous condition.  By his

heroic exertions he had won the regard of one of the of-

ficers, and when this man saw my brother in this state

he went to the governor and pleaded that ‘Abbás Ef-

fendi might have a physician.  This was permitted, and

under the care of the physician my brother recovered.

“For long after our departure from Adrianople none

of the friends and followers of the Blessed Perfection in

Persia knew our whereabouts.  We were not permitted

to send any letters.  Great efforts were made to find us,

and our friends finally traced us to ‘Akká; but this

whole city was then practically a prison from which

strangers were carefully excluded, and they found it im-

possible to get into communication with us, or even to

pass the city gate.

“There was a Persian follower of the Báb* who some

time before, having failed in his business at home, had

emigrated to ‘Akká.36  He had not dared to disclose his

faith, and no one suspected it.  The servant who

marketed for us happened one day, as he went about

the bazaar to come to this man’s shop; and though he

was not allowed to speak with him, he seems to have

known intuitively that he was a friend.  So thereafter he

made most of this purchases of provisions at his shop.

_________________________

*  Mírzá ‘Abdu’l-Aḥad, who had been asked by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá to

settle in ‘Akká prior to Bahá’u’lláh’s exile to that city.—Ed.

Some of the Persian believers who had come to ‘Akká,

but who had been unable to enter the city, effected

communication with this man and arranged with him to

send a note to the Blessed Perfection.  This the shop-

keeper accomplished by concealing the note among

some vegetables and giving them to the servant with

such a look that the latter understood and afterwards

searched for it.  The note begged the Blessed Perfection

to send out some word; but this seemed to be beyond

our power.

“The physician who visited my brother, on seeing our

condition, had so much sympathy with our distress, and

became so fond of ‘Abbás Effendi, that he asked him if

there was not something which he could do for us.  My

brother begged him to take a message to the believers

who were waiting to hear from the Blessed Perfection.

He undertook to do so, and carried a tablet away in the

lining of his hat.  For two years this physician conveyed

tablets and messages to and fro for us in this way.

“After this first message had been transmitted from

the Blessed Perfection, many believers came here from

Persia and remained in the neighborhood with the

hope of effecting some communication with him, or at

least of getting a glimpse of him.  They would go to

some prominent point where they could be seen from

his window.  Some of us, seeing them, would call my

brother’s attention to them, whereupon he would in-

form the Blessed Perfection and follow him to the

window and wave his handkerchief.

“We were imprisoned in the barracks, without any

substantial change in our manner of life, for two years.

During this time none of us left the prison—not even

my brother or any of the children.  The Blessed Perfec-

tion passed his time in his room, writing tablets, or

rather dictating them to my younger brother, who was

a rapid penman.  ‘Abbás Effendi would copy them and

send them out by the physician.

“It was usual to carry on this work during the eve-

ning.  One evening towards the end of the second year,

my younger brother came, as was his habit, to write for

his father.  But as he was not very well, and as some

others of the family were also ill, the Blessed Perfection

told him to go and come later.  So he went up to the flat

roof of the barracks, where we were accustomed to

walk, and which was our only recourse for fresh air and

exercise.  He was walking up and down, repeating

tablets and gazing at the sky, when he stumbled lost

his balance, and fell through the opening to which the

ladder from below led up.  The room into which he fell

had a lofty ceiling; it was the living-room of the family.

No one was in the room at the time, but, hearing his

cries, some of the family rushed in and found him lying

in a heap on the floor with the blood pouring from his

mouth.  The Blessed Perfection, hearing the commotion,

opened the door of his room and looked out.  When he

saw his son he turned back and reentered his room,

saying:  ‘Mihdí has gone!’

“We took him up and laid him on his mat.  He was

[Photograph]

Mírzá Mihdí, The Purest Branch

perfectly conscious.  Later the Blessed Perfection came

and remained with him.  The physician was sent for; he

said that there was no hope.

“My brother lived for about thirty hours.  When he

was about to pass away the Blessed Perfection said to

him:  ‘What do you desire?  Do you wish to live, or do

you prefer to die?  Tell me what you most wish for.’  My

brother replied:  ‘I don’t care to live.  I have but one

wish.  I want the believers to be admitted to see their

lord.  If you will promise me this, it is all I ask.’  The

Blessed Perfection told him that it would be as he

desired.

“So, after much patient suffering, my brother’s

gentle spirit took its flight.  As we could not leave the

barracks, we could not bury our dead; nor had we the

consolation of feeling that we could provide for him

through others the grateful final tribute of a proper and

fitting burial, as we had no means wherewith even to

purchase a coffin.  After some consideration and con-

sultation among ourselves, finding that we had nothing

to dispose of, and at a loss how to proceed, we told our

Lord* of the sad situation.  He replied that there was a

rug in his room which we could sell.  At first we de-

murred, for in taking his rug we took the only comfort

he had; but he insisted and we sold it.  A coffin was then

procured, and the remains of my deceased brother

_________________________

*  Bahá’u’lláh.—M.H.P.

placed in it.  It was carried out by our jailers, and we did

not even know whither it was taken.*

“The death of this youngest and favorite child—of a

gentle and sweet disposition—nearly broke his

mother’s heart.  We feared for her reason.  When the

Blessed Perfection was told of the condition of his wife,

he went to her and said:  ‘Your son has been taken by

God that His people might be freed.  His life was the

ransom, and you should rejoice that you had a son so

dear to give to the cause of God.’  When our mother

heard these words she seemed to rally,—knelt, and

kissed the Blessed Perfection’s hands, and thanked him

for what he had said.  After that she did not shed a

tear.37

“I should perhaps here say a word about our relations,

in the family, to the Blessed Perfection.  After his

declaration we all regarded him as one far above us,

and tacitly gave him a corresponding position in our de-

meanor towards him.  He was never called upon to con-

sider, or take part in, any worldly matters.  We felt no

claim upon him because of family relationship—no

more than that of his other followers.  When we had but

two rooms for all, one was set apart for him.  The best

of everything was always given to him.  He would take

it and then return it to us and do without.  He slept upon

_________________________

*  It was later ascertained that the remains of Mírzá Mihdí, the

Purest Branch, had been interred in the cemetery next to the shrine

of Nabí áli, in 'Akká.  Some fifty years later, they were transferred

to the Bahá'í Monument Gardens on Mt. Carmel.—ED.

the floor because his people had no beds, although he

would have been furnished one had he wished it.

“Some time after the death of his son, the Blessed

Perfection (who, as I have said, usually never attended

to affairs, these being all left to my brother) expressed

a wish to have an interview with the governor.  Mean-

while my brother’s dying prayer, that the believers

might be permitted to visit their Lord, having been

overheard by a soldier who was present at the time and

by him repeated to the officer in charge, had come to

the ears of the governor.  Very possibly it had touched

him and now influenced him to accede to the Blessed

Perfection’s request for an interview; at all events the

request was granted, and the Blessed Perfection met

the governor in council with his officers.  He then ad-

dressed them on the subject of his separation from his

followers and of their great sorrow and distress occa-

sioned by it, reminding them of his deceased son’s

dying petition, and speaking with such eloquence and

power that the governor was moved to grant his appeal.

“We were, in consequence, removed from the bar-

racks and given a comfortable house with three rooms

and a court.*  Our people, and also our family, were per-

mitted to go at large in the city, and whoever wished

could visit us; but my father was required to remain

within the house.”38

Just here I wish to interrupt the narrative in order to

_________________________

*  The house of ‘Údí Khammár.—Ed.

[Photograph]

The house of ‘Abbúd,

front, showing the ouse of ‘Údí Khammár, directly behind, where the exiles lived.

call attention to what seems to me a very remarkable

fact.  Notwithstanding this interminable catalogue of the

extreme and almost incredible sufferings and privations

which this heroic band of men and women have

endured—more terrible than many martyrdoms—there

is not a trace of resentment or bitterness to be observed

amongst them.  One would suppose that they were the

most fortunate of the people among whom they live, as,

indeed, they do certainly consider themselves, in that

they have always been permitted to live near their

beloved Lord, beside which they count their sufferings

as nothing.  They well know that those having their own

motives for maligning them have persistently misled

the sultan’s advisers as to their real character and pur-

poses; and that their implacable enemies have been, not

the authorities of the state, but those allied to them

both by nationality and close ties of family relationship.

Except as these have interfered and caused prejudice

and trouble, they consider their treatment by the

government humane and even kind.  Moreover, they

recognize the fact that the deplorable attack upon the

life of the Shah of Persia, while in no sense their fault,

has been inevitably their misfortune, rationally explain-

ing much of the suspicion and harsh treatment to which

they have been subjected.

When all is fairly considered, it must be acknowl-

edged that the sultan is fair and liberal in the treatment

of religious opinions, provided that these opinions are

not used as a shield for hostile political purposes and in-

trigues.  Men of many various faiths dwell together in

peace, harmony, and contentment in all parts of his

dominions.

We should beware, moreover, of hasty criticism,

remembering how difficult it is for a sovereign to

penetrate to the truth of such matters, easily obscured

by the perversions of hostile interests which have his

ear; and we may hope that the patient resignation and

good lives of ‘Abbás Effendi and his little band of

followers at ‘Akká may at length convince his Majesty

that, as is, indeed, the fact, he has not in his dominions

more loyal subjects or more useful citizens.*

_________________________

*  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá was eventually freed in 1908, after the Young Turk

Revolution.—Ed.

[Photograph]

The mosque of ‘Akká

[Blank page]

Chapter V
The story of His life (Concluded)

‘Akká

“Among those who went with us from Adrianople

to ‘Akká were three men who were followers of

Ṣubḥ-i Azal, and also one of Ṣubḥ-i Azal’s wives who,

having quarreled with him, asked permission to accom-

pany us.*  During the two years of close confinement

these four lived peaceably with the followers of the

Blessed Perfection, the woman in his family.39  As soon

as our company was released from the barracks, they

began to make mischief.  They slandered the believers

to the people of ‘Akká, saying that we would make

trouble at the first opportunity, and other things of like

nature.  The men were relatives of the woman, and she

asked permission to live with them.  So they took up

quarters together in another part of the town from that

in which we lived.

_________________________

*  The Azalís intended are apparently Sayyid Muḥammad-i

Iṣfahání, Áqá Ján-i Kaj-Kulláh, and Mírzá Riḍá-Qulíy-i Tafrshí.

Azal’s wife was Badrí-Ján (Badr-i Jahán).—Ed.

“After this their hostility became more aggressive

and open.  They declared that they were imprisoned by

mistake, being enemies of the Blessed Perfection;

threatened to kill the Blessed Perfection and my

brother, if there should be an opportunity; and carried

on various intrigues against them, as the forging of

letters purporting to come from the Blessed Perfection

and saying evil things of the sultan and the governor,

which they took to the officials.  At length they were so

successful in inviting trouble that a threat came from

Constantinople of again transporting and separating us.

“Two of the believers40 thought that they would

settle the matter themselves, without taking counsel

with the Blessed Perfection or my brother.  They

reasoned that if they should take such counsel, they

would be forbidden to execute their plans, and, having

been forbidden, they could not disobey.  ‘We will,’ they

said, ‘do a wicked deed; but we will stop the evil doings

of these people even if we are cursed for it.  We will

save our Lord though at the risk of our own souls.’

‘They persuaded another of the believers to join them

and the three proceeded to the house of the Azalís.

Their intention was to demand of them a promise to

stop their mischief, under threat of death; but they did

not have the opportunity to get so far as that.  Having

called the Azalís out they asked them whether they in-

tended to kill the Blessed Perfection and the Master;

whereupon the Azalís attacked them fiercely with clubs

and sticks.  A general fight followed in which two Azalís

and one Bahá’í were killed.41

“In consequence of this affair (which occurred very

soon after our release from the barracks) my brother

was arrested and put in chains in the dungeon, on the

assertion by the surviving Azalí and the woman with

him that he and the Blessed Perfection had instigated

the trouble.  Then followed another period of misery.

The Blessed perfection was brought before the court

and gave testimony in behalf of himself and my brother.

‘Abbás Effendi was speedily released from prison, but

remained under suspicion, and the matter was not

determined for many months, during which we lived in

terrible suspense and anxiety.  But at length the court

was satisfied that the charges were baseless, and they

were withdrawn.*

The Blessed Perfection then excommunicated the

two Bahá’ís who were in the fight and survived it:  they

_________________________

*  Professor Browne (A Traveller’s Narrative, p. 370) quotes

Laurence Oliphant as saying that Bahá’u’lláh, on being brought

before the court on this occasion, and being asked who and what he

was, replied;  “I will begin by telling you who I am not.  I am not a

camel-driver,”—an allusion to the prophet Muḥammad,—“nor am I

The son of a carpenter,”—an allusion to Christ.  “This is as much as

I can tell you today.  If you will now let me retire, I will tell you

tomorrow who I am.”  “Upon this promise,” continues Mr. Oliphant,

“he was let go; but the morrow never came.  With an enormous

bribe he had in the interval purchased an exemption from all further

attendance at court.”

I called ‘Abbás Effendi’s attention to this statement, and asked

him if there was any truth in it.  “There is none whatever,” he

replied.  “You can see for yourself that Bahá’u’lláh could not have

made those remarks.  This being a Turkish government, the officials

are all Muhammadans.  There are also a very large number of Chris-

tians here.  All Muhammadans and Christians would have

understood the allusions; and such remarks being disrespectful to

never again had speech with him.  He soon after began a

series of tablets on the sin of murder; declaring that no

one, whosoever he might be, who would take the life of

his brother, could be a Bahá’í.

“The woman and the surviving Azalí were sent to

Constantinople.42

“These, so far as I have ever heard, were the only

Azalís who have been killed by Bahá’ís.

“After our liberation from the barracks and the ter-

mination of this affair, my brother was able to mingle

freely with the people of ‘Akká, and he at once began to

establish friendly relations with them.  As illustrating

the manner in which he gradually won their good-will,

_________________________

Muḥammad and Christ, and the Blessed Perfection being a prisoner

accused of endeavoring to subvert religious faith, they would have

cut him in pieces—he could never have left the courtroom.

“What the Blessed Perfection actually said in his own behalf was

in substance this:

“‘I am innocent of any knowledge of this matter.  How could I,

who teach love and pity for every creature—who have given my life

and that of my family to demonstrate that this is true religion—

instigate this thing?

“‘You are trying to fasten upon me a guilt of which I am inno-

cent; but I am ready to die.  If you wish to execute me, I will sign

any paper which you may prepare consenting to my execution; but I

declare to you that I am innocent of this accusation.’

“The trial of these men lasted six months; during all this time the

effort was being made to fasten the guilt upon the Blessed Perfec-

tion.  Moreover, this trial was before a judge and jury.  Is it likely

that under these circumstances he could have bribed both a judge

and a jury, who were, besides, to begin with, not too well disposed

towards him?  The effort would have been futile had he attempted it.

He did not, nor would he have done so under any circumstances.”

—M.H.P.

an incident occurs to me which I will relate.  The

believers needed fuel, but the people would not sell it to

them.  They regarded us as heretics and thought there

was merit for them in harshness and unkindness

towards us.  ‘Abbás Effendi obtained permission to send

out of the city for charcoal, and a camel-load was

brought back.  The driver was stopped by a Christian

merchant.  ‘This is better charcoal than I can get,’ he

said, and without more ceremony took it for himself—

nor would he return the money paid for it.

“This was reported to my brother.  He went to the

merchant’s shop and stood in the door.  He was not

noticed.  Then he entered and sat down by the door.

The merchant continuing to transact his business with

those who came and paying him no attention, he waited

in silence for three hours.  At length, when the others

had left and no more came, the merchant said to him:

‘Are you one of those prisoners here?’  ‘Abbás Effendi

assenting, he continued:  ‘What have you done that you

are imprisoned?’

“‘Since you ask me,’ replied ‘Abbás Effendi, ‘I will

tell you.  We have done nothing.  We are persecuted as

Christ was persecuted.’

“‘What do you know of Christ?’ said the merchant.

“My brother replied in such a manner that the mer-

chant perceived that he was not ignorant of Christ and

the Christian Bible.  He then began to question him

about the Bible and was interested in his replies, as my

brother gave him explanations which he had never

before heard.

[Photograph]

The Greatest Holy Leaf with Shoghi Effendi

“Next he invited my brother to a seat beside him and

continued the conversation for two hours.  At its conclu-

sion he seemed much pleased, and said:  ‘The coal is

gone,—I cannot return you that, but here is the money.’

He then escorted my brother to the door and down into

the street, treating him with the greatest respect.  Since

that time he and ‘Abbás Effendi have been fast friends,

and the two families also.

“Yet the prejudices and animosities of the people

against us were so deep-rooted that much time and

patience have been required to remove them.  You have

already been told, I think, of the Afghan who persisted

in his enmity for twenty-four years, but was finally

softened by my brother’s kindnesses.  So it has been

with many.  But in time his love for others has won all

hearts.  People have commonly said of him:  ‘What does

he do to his enemies that he makes them his friends?’

“The governor, the magistrates, the officers of the

army, first learned to respect him, and then to love him.

Nearly every one in the city loves him,—Muslim and

Christian, rich and poor.

“Yet perhaps there is one exception—I know of no

other—of which I will now speak.

“The Blessed perfection indicated in many ways that

‘Abbás Effendi was to be his successor.  Many years

before his death he declared this in his Book of Laws

[the Kitáb-i Aqdas].  He has referred to ‘Abbás Effendi

as ‘The Center of my Covenant’ ‘The Greatest

Branch’ ‘The Branch from the Ancient Root’ ‘The

Mystery of the Greatest God’  He conferred upon him

the designation of ‘His Highness the Master’ and

usually so addressed him and spoke of him; and he re-

quired all his family to treat him with marked

deference.  He also left a testament in which he

reiterated his will in this respect.

“Nevertheless, after the death of the Blessed Perfec-

tion, ‘Abbás Effendi’s assumption of this position was

resented by our half brother, Mírzá Muḥammad-‘Alí.

For a time he endeavored to stir up dissensions among

the Bahá’ís.  Failing in this, he sought to injure my

brother personally.  At this time, as had been the case

for more than twenty years, my brother was permitted

to go at his pleasure beyond the walls of ‘Akká, and had

the freedom of the surrounding country.  I then myself

resided in Haifa, and he as well as the other members

of his family were in the habit of going there frequently,

a change which was of much benefit to their health,

since ‘Akká is a small, crowded, and, in some seasons,

unhealthy city.  Muḥammad-‘Alí proceeded to make

false charges of various sorts against ‘Abbás Effendi to

the Turkish government.  One of these was this:

“The Blessed Perfection before his death gave ‘Abbás

Effendi the charge to build, on a site which he had

selected on the side of Mt. Carmel above Haifa, a

building which should be the permanent resting-place of

the remains of the Báb, himself, and my brother, and

also contain a hall for meeting and worship.*  This

_________________________

*  Both ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and Shoghi Effendi, the subsequent Guardian

of the Bahá’í Faith, have made it clear that the interment of the re-

mains of the Master in the Shrine of the Báb is to be only tem-

[Photograph]

Two women of the household

Ḍíyá’íyyih Khánum (l.) and unknown.

building was in process of erection at the time I speak

of—it is not yet completed—and Muḥammad-‘Alí

represented to the authorities that it was intended as a

fort, in which ‘Abbás Effendi and his followers intended

to entrench themselves, defy the government, and

endeavor to gain possession of this part of Syria.

“Other equally baseless charges were fabricated and

reiterated until the government, as on previous occa-

sions, became weary of the annoyance and issued a

firmn decreeing that the original order, by which the

Blessed Perfection and his family were confined within

the walls of ‘Akká, should be again put in force.

This was about two years ago.  Since that time my

brother has been assured that on his application in

behalf of himself alone, his strict confinement would be

again remitted.  He refuses, however, to make this ap-

plication.*  This is because he is much more grieved by

his brother’s alienation from himself than by his own

loss of freedom.  He regards harboring hatred against

another as the greatest evil which can befall a man, and

_________________________

porary.  Eventually, they must be removed to a separate Shrine to be

built in an appropriate location at the World Center of the

Faith.—Ed.

*  Further, in the fall of 1902, a number of American friends of ‘Ab-

bás Effendi formed the plan of visiting the court of the Shah of Per-

sia and securing his cooperation in an application to the Sultan of

Turkey for the release of ‘Abbás Effendi.  They came to Europe for

this purpose, and from Paris telegraphed to ‘Abbás Effendi asking

his assent to the project.  He replied, requesting that the undertaking

should be abandoned.—M.H.P.

he is determined to rescue his brother from this, if

possible, at whatever cost to himself.  He knows that his

own liberation would cause Muḥammad-‘Alí’s hatred to

increase, and probably render a reconciliation impos-

sible; but he hopes that, if the situation remains as it is,

he may in time be able to soften his brother’s heart and

regain his love.*

“My father’s imprisonment in his house continued for

nine years after our release from the barracks.†  His

followers from abroad now had free access to him, and

our life was in most respects comparatively comfort-

able.  After this time the governor gave the Blessed

Perfection the freedom of the city, and of the country in

the vicinity of ‘Akká.  His friends now urged him to

reside in the country, believing that his health would be

benefited by the change.43  He at first refused, but at

_________________________

*  As this book is about to go to press, I am informed of an event

which has caused great rejoicing in the Bahá’í world.  Besides

Muḥammad-‘Alí, ‘Abbás Effendi has another half brother (full

brother to the former), by the name Badí‘u’lláh.  Badí‘u’lláh has

always maintained friendly relations with ‘Abbás Effendi and his

family, but has sided with Muḥammad-‘Alí in his protest against

recognizing ‘Abbás Effendi as the head of the church.  He has now

repented of his apostasy, and in a lengthy manifesto, a copy of

which I have seen, announces his adherence to ‘Abbás Effendi as the

true “Center of the Covenant”—M.H.P.

Mírzá Badí‘u’lláh’s repentance was, however, short-lived.  He

eventually abandoned ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and returned to the fold of the

Covenant-breakers.—Ed.

†  Bahá’u’lláh’s stay in the House of ‘Abbúd was seven years.  The

nine years was from the time of the arrival of the prisoners in

‘Akká.—Ed.

length yielded to persuasion and transferred his

residence to a house without the city.*  Here he passed

a quiet and peaceful life until his death at the age of

seventy-five, in the year 1892.  His chief occupation, as

it had been at all times since his return from his sojourn

of two years alone in the mountains near Baghdad, was

the writing of sacred books and tablets.

_________________________

*  Professor Browne visited Bahá’u’lláh there in 1890, and his

graphic description of his first interview with him is so effective and

interesting that I will quote it.  “I … was conducted,” he says,

“through passages and rooms at which I scarcely had time to glance

to a spacious hall, paved, so far as I remember (for my mind was

occupied with other thoughts) with a mosaic of marble.  Before a

curtain suspended from the wall of this great ante-chamber my con-

ductor paused for a moment while I removed my shoes.  Then, with

a quick movement of the hand, he withdrew, and, as I passed,

replaced the curtain; and I found myself in a large apartment, along

the upper end of which ran a low divan, while on the side opposite

the door were placed two or three chairs.  Though I dimly suspected

whither I was going and whom I was to behold (for no distinct in-

timation had been given to me), a second or two elapsed ere, with a

throb of wonder and awe, I became definitely conscious that the

room was not untenanted.  In the corner where the divan met the

wall sat a wondrous and venerable figure, crowned with a felt head-

dress of the kind called taj by dervishes (but of unusual height and

make), round the base of which was wound a small white turban.

The face of him on whom I gazed I can never forget, though I can-

not describe it.  Those piercing eyes seemed to read one’s very soul;

power and authority sat on that ample brow; while the deep lines on

the forehead and face implied an age which the jet-black hair and

beard flowing down in indistinguishable luxuriance almost to the

waist seemed to belie.  No need to ask in whose presence I stood, as

I bowed myself before one who is the object of a devotion and love

which kings might envy and emperors sigh for in vain!

“A mild dignified voice bade me be seated, and then continued:—

‘Praise be to God that thou hast attained! …  Thou hast come to see

“‘Abbas Effendi continued to live in ‘Akká.  He fre-

quently visited the Blessed perfection, and generally

came out on foot.  The walk was long, and in summer

the sun very oppressive.  It was his habit, if overcome

with heat or fatigue, to lie down on the ground, rest his

head on a stone, and sleep.  The Blessed Perfection

remonstrated with him about this, saying that he should

use a horse.  My brother replied, ‘How can I come to my

Lord riding?  I must show that I am the humblest of all

the people.  When Christ went out he walked, and slept

in the fields.  Who am I, that in visiting my Lord I

should go as greater than Christ?’

“In his early life my brother was much disinclined to

_________________________

a prisoner and an exile…  We desire but the good of the world and

the happiness of the nations; yet they deem us a stirrer up of strife

and sedition worthy of bondage and banishment….  That all na-

tions should become one in faith and all men as brothers; that the

bonds of affection and unity between the sons of men should be

strengthened; that diversity of religion should decease, and differences

of race be annulled—what harm is there in this? …  Yet so it shall

be; these fruitless strifes, these ruinous wars shall pass away, and

the “Most Great Peace” shall come ….  Do not you in Europe need

this also?  Is not this that which Christ foretold? …  Yet do we see

your kings and rulers lavishing their treasures more freely on means

for the destruction of the human race than on that which would con-

duce to the happiness of mankind …  These strifes and this blood-

shed and discord must cease, and all men be as one kindred and one

family ….  Let not a man glory in this, that he loves his country; let

him rather glory in this, that he loves his kind ….’

“Such, so far as I can recall them, were the words which, besides

many others, I heard from Behá.  Let those who read them consider

well with themselves whether such doctrines merit death and bonds,

and whether the world is more likely to gain or lose by their

diffusion.”—M.I.P.

marry.  It is a Persian custom, when two cousins, a boy

and girl, are born about the same time, to promise them

in marriage to each other in their infancy.  My brother

was promised in this way to a cousin, and while we

lived in Baghdad we thought that the time had come for

the marriage.  He, however, thought differently; and

when our mother desired to send for the girl, he

positively refused to permit it to be done.  ‘Why should I

marry?’  he asked; ‘Are there not enough to suffer now,

that we should propose to bring others to share our

lot?’44

“After our release from the two-years’ confinement in

the barracks here, my mother and myself were both

very desirous that my brother should marry, and we

began to look about for a girl whom we would approve.

Our choice finally fell upon the daughter of a believer

living in Syria, who was said to be very beautiful and

amiable, and in every way a suitable match.  Without

consulting my brother, since we wished to place him in

a position where he could not refuse our oft-repeated

appeals to give us a daughter and a sister, I invited her

to visit us.  The invitation was accepted, and she set out

with her brother.  After a hard and wearisome journey,

they reached Haifa and were taken to the house of one

of my uncles there.

“We commenced quietly to make preparations for the

marriage, without making known to my brother the

arrival of the girl.  However, many of the believers

knew of it and of our intentions, and were so delighted

that ‘their Master’ (as they always called him) was to

take a wife, thus giving them the hope that he might

have a son to succeed him in fostering the faith until it

should become established, that their pleasure shone in

their faces.  My brother saw that there was something

unusual afoot, and the thought occurred to him, since

the subject had been so much urged upon him, ‘Now

perhaps they are getting me a wife.’  So he hastened

home to us and demanded with considerable energy,

‘What is this—what are all the people smiling about?  Is

it possible that you are again planning to get me a wife?

If you are, you may as well give it up, for I will not

marry.’  We tried to plead and reason with him, but he

would not hear us.  Finally we said, ‘What, then, is to

be done?  She is at Haifa—she has come with her

brother—what can we do?’*  Then he hesitated, looked

serious, and finally said; ‘Well, if you have brought her

here, she belongs to me, and I will give her in marriage

to some one who will be better suited to make her

happy than I.’

“She remained at Haifa for some time, until at length

my brother brought about her marriage to a husband of

his own selection.  The marriage has resulted satisfactorily

to all parties.

“The Báb, during his life, had a certain follower who

was specially devoted to him.  On one occasion he

_________________________

*  To have returned the girl to her home unmarried, under these

circumstances, would have brought dishonor on her and her

Family.—Ed.

visited this man in his home.  His host said to him that

his visit filled him with the greatest happiness of his

life; but that he had one sorrow of which he wished to

speak.  He had been married ten years, and was

childless.  He begged the Báb to pray for a child for

him, and this the Báb promised.45

“Nine months later a daughter* was born to this

follower.  When this daughter grew up she was very

sweet and very amiable.  She had been promised in her

infancy to a cousin; and her cousin, in due time, was

very desirous for the marriage.  Having been permitted

to see her, from that day on he seemed to think of

nothing but the time when she should be his wife.  He

urged on the marriage, provided the house, and made

all the usual preparations.  On the day set, the bride was

brought to the bridegroom’s house, which, according to

Persian custom, completed the civil marriage.  Then, to

every one’s amazement and consternation, the bride-

groom refused to see the bride.  To the demands of the

relatives as to why he had changed his mind within an

hour his only reply was, ‘I do not know.  I cannot ex-

plain and have nothing to tell.  All I know is that I

cannot see her.’

“Six months later the young man died.

“The girl remained in her husband’s house until his

death; but she never saw him after entering it.46

“She felt much humiliated, and resolved that she

_________________________

*  Fáimih, later named Munírih Khánum by Bahá’u’lláh.—Ed.

[Photograph]

Munírih Khánum, the Holy Mother

The wife of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.

[Photograph]

The Greatest Holy Leaf (right) with

Munírih Khánum

would never again marry.  She and her family were very

earnest believers; and after this occurrence she begged

her father and mother to send her to be a servant in the

household of the Blessed Perfection.  Because of her

disappointment her parents did not wish to refuse her;

and her mother wrote for permission to visit the family

of the Blessed Perfection with her daughter.  Permission

was granted and they came to Haifa.  The Blessed

Perfection asked my brother to bring them; but, not

finding it convenient to go himself, he gave the commis-

sion to some one else to execute.  Mother and daughter

came to our house, and, having seen the Blessed

Perfection, asked to see the master.  At that moment

my brother entered and conversed briefly with the

ladies, seeming, however, unusually interested for him.

“The ladies returned to Haifa and remained there,47

coming back and forth occasionally to visit us.  My

mother and I.  Seeing that my mother was noticing the

young woman, hoped that he might marry her; but,

remembering our experience, we did not dare to sug-

gest it.  About six months later the Blessed Perfection

called my brother to his room and asked him if he

would not take this young woman for his wife.  My

brother consented.

“In deciding to marry, my brother undoubtedly

sacrificed his own preference for a single life to the

wishes of the rest of the family, and especially of the

Blessed Perfection.  The latter had suggested to him

that, as his example would influence all believers, it

would be well if it illustrated the best and highest condi-

tion of life for men, which was the married state.  Yet,

in coming to this decision, I think that our Master was

much influenced by the warm regard and affection

which he undoubtedly felt for the woman whom he was

asked to marry.

“Then there was much rejoicing.  All the believers

looked forward to the marriage with delight.  But time

went on and yet it was not concluded.  The real reason,

which we did not care to mention publicly, was that we

had no suitable room to give my brother in the house,

and were not willing to lose him from our home, where

his presence was so essential to our happiness.

“Finally, I went to the wife of our landlord and told

her of our perplexity.  She consulted her husband, and

he, a good-natured man, said that he could remove the

difficulty.  He owned the adjoining house; and he cut a

door to connect the courts of the two houses, and gave

us a room, completely furnished, in the other house.

“The way was thus made plain for the marriage, and

it was duly solemnized soon after.

“The occasion of the wedding had one peculiar

feature so characteristic of my brother that I will men-

tion it.  Our marriage service is very simple, consisting

of the reading of a tablet and the exchange of promises

by the contracting parties.48  It is usually followed by

feasting and the entertainment of friends until late at night.

[Photograph]

Courtyard in the house of ‘Abbúd

“Our Master had made, personally and with great

care, all the preparations for receiving and entertaining

the guests.  The ceremony was performed by the

Blessed Perfection about two p.m.  My brother then

quietly withdrew without speaking to any one, and did

not return until after the guests had dispersed.

“It was not from want of consideration for the solem-

nity of the occasion or for his bride that he did this, for

the tender affection which he has always shown for her

disproves this; or for his guests, for his minute attention

to the arrangements for their pleasure disproves this

also.  But it was his habit to spend this part of the day

and the evening in visiting the poor and sick and ex-

plaining the Qur’án, he being frequently thus occupied

until a late hour.  He never permitted his own affairs to

interfere with the discharge of these duties, and was

unwilling to neglect them even on this occasion.49

“My brother’s marriage has proved exceedingly hap-

py and harmonious.  Several months ago my sister [-in-

law] took two of her daughters to Beirut on account of

their health, and this has been her first separation from

her husband for any length of time.  Since a short time

after her departure a question repeated by my brother

the first thing every morning to his daughter, who is his

constant attendant, is, ‘R, when do you think your

mother will come back?’

“Eight children have been born to them, of whom

four are living.  Their family now consists of two unmar-

[Photograph]

Women of the Holy Household.  Standing (l. to r.):  Unknown, Unknown, Julia Culver,

Emogene Hoagg, Maryam, Unknown, Zaynat (wife of Dr. Zia Bagdadi), Mihranghiz, unknown.

Seated:  Surayá, Munírih Khánum (wife of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá), Bahíyyih Khánum, (the Greatest Holy

Leaf), and (the daughters of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá) Ḍiyá’íyyih Khánum, Ṭb Khánum, and Rúḥá

Khánum.  Children seated on the carpet:  Ḥasan, Zahrá, Riyál, Unknown, Parvín (daughter of

Dr. Bagdadi), Fu’ád.

ried daughters, two married daughters with their

families, and myself.*

“Many influences, and those of the very strongest

character, have been brought to induce my brother to

take a second wife—a practice which the Blessed

Perfection did not in terms forbid, but advised against.†

The believers have urged it strongly for several

reasons.  Very many of them wish to take a second wife

themselves, but feel constrained from doing so by the

Master’s example.  In Persia, except among believers,

polygamy is a universal custom, and the restriction to

one wife, which all believers feel and respect, seems

very severe.  Then there is a general wish that the

Master might have a son to succeed him.  Other arguments

have been advanced; and the pressure brought to

bear upon him has been, and still is, very great—

greater than you can easily imagine.

“The general advice of the Blessed Perfection against

a second marriage would in itself have had the effect

with my brother of a command and have settled the

question; but as regards him it was withdrawn by our

Lord before his death.  He said to ‘Abbás Effendi that

he rather wished to lead the believers gradually to

_________________________

*  The married daughters:  Ḍiyá’íyyih Khánum (the mother of

Shoghi Effendi) and Ṭúbá Khánum; the unmarried daughters:  Rúḥá

Khánum and Munavvar Khánum.—Ed.

†  The text of the Kitáb-i Aqdas forbids more than two wives, but

conditions bigamy upon justice.  Since justice is impossible in such a

circumstance, as ‘Abdu’l-Bahá later explained, monogamy alone is

permissible for Bahá’ís.—Ed.

monogamy than to force them to adopt it, which they

felt bound to do by reason of the Master’s example;

that therefore, and since it was much desired by all that

the Master should have a son, he withdrew even the ad-

vice in his case, and desired him to consider himself

free to follow his own desires and inclination.

“To this the master replied that his own wishes and

feelings were against a second marriage, though, if the

Blessed perfection should command it, he would obey.

This, however, the Blessed Perfection never did.

“To all other appeals his reply has always been a firm

refusal.  He thinks that if it had been God’s will that he

should leave a son, the two who had been born to him

would not have been taken away.50  He believes that the

best and highest condition of life for a man is marriage

to one wife, and that it is his duty to set that example to

the world.

[Photograph]

‘Abdu’l-Bahá

Chapter VI
Characteristics and incidents

I shall now collect some of my own observations

with regard to ‘Abbás Effendi, and a number of in-

cidents of his life related to me by others, which throw

light upon and illustrate his character, but which I am

not able to make a part of any consecutive narrative.*  I

am aware that in doing this I am disregarding literary

symmetry; but as my only object in preparing this book

is to give those who read it as much information as

possible about him and his teachings, I do not wish to

omit any material which may contribute to this end.

The characteristic of ‘Abbás Effendi, regarded as a

religious leader, which is at once the most striking, the

most attractive, and the most impressive, is his

generous and tolerant liberality.  It is disappointing to

find that narrowness and intolerance have already

_________________________

*  Many of the stories and reports that are related in this chapter

cannot be confirmed by other sources.  Since the author states

clearly here that these vignettes were “related to me by others,”

they cannot be regarded as eyewitnesses accounts or as absolutely ac-

curate statements of what took place.—Ed.

shown themselves in the teachings of some of his

followers—a perversion and degradation of true religion

which is seen to be an almost inevitable tendency of

human nature in all ages of the world, and which most

religions have suffered in the hands of their adherents.

The chief glory of Bahaism is that its true spirit, as ex-

emplified in its Great Apostle, is utterly free from it.

I shall state at length his attitude in this respect in a

subsequent chapter,* here merely mentioning two in-

cidents illustrating it, which were related to me in

‘Akká.

One was that of a gentleman who wrote to ‘Abbás Effendi

to this effect:  That he recognized him as a man of

great spiritual force, and one who, in urging upon men

the observance of the Law of Love, was doing much in

the service of humanity; that he desired to work with

him and for him; but that also he (‘Abbás Effendi) had

said some things with which he did not agree, and that

he himself had some spiritual light, which he did not

wish to surrender.

‘Abbás Effendi replied that he welcomed him as a

coworker; that he asked him to give up nothing; that he

approved of his continuing to adhere to any religious

faith with which he might be associated, and that the

one thing necessary was to love God above all things

and seek Him.

_________________________

*  The chapter referred to here has not been included in this

reprint.—Ed.

The other case was that of a lady who was visiting

‘Abbás Effendi in ‘Akká.  She had accepted him as her

religious teacher, and desired to assist in spreading his

teachings.  When about to return to her home, she told

him that her associations were all in the orthodox Chris-

tian Church, and that her friends would be repelled by

the idea of a new religion.  He advised her to return as a

Christian, to remain in the Christian Church, and to

Christ.*

“‘Abbás Effendi has another characteristic as a

religious leader which seems to me to be, especially at

this time, remarkably refreshing and reassuring—he

makes no claim to being a “healer” or to the perfor-

mance of “miracles”  Whether or not he possesses such

powers I would not undertake to say; but he certainly

regards physical health as of too little importance in

comparison with spiritual welfare to merit primary at-

tention.  The only real sickness which he recognizes is

sickness of the soul.  The one and exclusive object

which he has in view is the spiritual elevation of

_________________________

*  These stories illustrate ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s tactful approach to

seekers after truth and his emphasis on the Bahá’í principle of the

fundamental unity of all religions.  It was only gradually that the in-

dependent nature of the Bahá’í Faith emerged and became generally

recognized.  It was the Guardian of the Bahá’í Faith, Shoghi Effendi,

who established the principle that Bahá’ís, while associating in com-

plete friendship with followers of other religions, could not remain

members of Christian churches, certain of whose teachings are not

in accord with those of Bahá’u’lláh.—Ed.

[Photograph]

‘Abdu’l-Bahá

walking in the garden near his house in Haifa.

humanity—an all-sufficient end in itself, which does not

require for its justification any physical gain.*

Yet, in point of fact, he says there is a physical gain

in attaining spiritual health; for the normal effect of this

is to promote recovery from bodily disease; and still

more, in those cases where the latter is not removed by

spiritual regeneration, the spirit which has experiences

this change does not feel physical pain, and looks upon

the sufferings of its body with the same indifference

with which the ordinary man regards suffering in the

body of another.†  The body is, therefore, sometimes

restored, and pain is overcome by spiritual force; but

these occurrences are properly regarded as unimportant

incidents in the attainment of spiritual well-being.

Further, ‘Abbás Effendi is very careful not to counte-

nance any interpretation of his acts by his followers

which could lead to the imputation to him of miraculous

powers.  The assertion of such powers for himself or for

his predecessors would, he says, stand in the way of

_________________________

*  The author was not always a reliable reporter of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s

teachings.  His understanding of the Bahá’í Faith was often in-

complete or incorrect and colored by his own Buddhist philosophy.

(See “Familiar ‘Akká Voices” the foreword to this revised edition,

pp. xix-xxii.)  Therefore, the reader is cautioned not to rely upon

this chapter as an authoritative statement of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s views on

healing, disease, etc.  Such statements should rather be sought in the

published writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá himself.—Ed.

†  This statement attributed to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá finds no corroboration

in his writings or in other pilgrim’s notes.  It is true that certain

dedicated Bahá’í martyrs, caught up in spiritual ecstasy, are re-

ported to have felt no pain under torture.  However, to establish this

as a teacher of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá is perhaps an overstatement.—Ed.

other messengers, who will come, in the future as in the

past, when the world requires them.  If men’s minds are

fixed on miracles, which prove nothing except them-

selves, they will be less open to the reception of truth,

or be closed entirely to the Divine Message.

He says, also, that if miracles are ascribed to the

founders of a religion and become engrafted upon it,

they will inevitably be simulated by priesthoods and

other pretenders to Divine authority to mislead, delude,

and defraud the ignorant masses of mankind, as il-

lustrated by the greater part of the past history of

Christianity, and by the hundreds of quacks and im-

postors who at the present day practice their shameful

impositions upon the people in the name of Christ.

So, too, ‘Abbás Effendi discourages everything tend-

ing to center attention upon himself or to exalt his per-

sonality into an object of devotion or worship.  He has

had numerous applications for his photograph, but

always declines to have it taken.*  His reply to these re-

quests is:  “I do not wish to have men think of my per-

sonality or my form.  The personality changes, the form

passes away:  there is nothing permanent about them.

All this must die—must pass out of the recollection of

men.  But deeds and words never die.  These are my

sign:  it is these only which I wish to leave to the

believers and to the world.

His only claim or description of himself is, “Servant

_________________________

*  Photographs of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá were rarely taken before his visit to

America in 1911–1912.—Ed.

[Photograph]

‘Abdu’l-Bahá

at the gate of his house.

[Photograph]

‘Abdu’l-Bahá

walking near the gate of his house.

of God”, or “Servant of Bahá’u’lláh” or “Servant of

the servants of Bahá’u’lláh”

Bahá’u’lláh bestowed many titles upon him (see pp.

103–104), but as to these he says that they were all given

by favor, and that they mean but one thing—“Servant”

As might be expected from this lack of self-assertion,

‘Abbás Effendi’s life is spent in quiet and unassuming

work.  His general order for the day is prayers and tea

at sunrise, and dictating letters or “Tablets” receiving

visitors, and giving alms to the poor until dinner in the

middle of the day.  After this meal he takes a half-hour’s

siesta, spends the afternoon in making visits to the sick

and others whom he has occasion to see about the city,

and the evening in talking to the believers or in

expounding, to any who wish to hear him, the Qur’án,

on which, even among Muslims, he is reputed to be one

of the highest authorities, learned men of that faith fre-

quently coming from great distances to consult him

with regard to its interpretation.

He then returns to his house and works until about

one o’clock over his correspondence.  This is enormous,

and would more than occupy his entire time, did he

read and reply to all his letters personally.  As he finds it

impossible to do this, but is nevertheless determined

that they shall all receive careful and impartial attention,

he has recourse to the assistance of his daughter

Rúḥá, upon whose intelligence and conscientious dev-

otion to the task he can rely.  During the day she reads

and makes digests of letters received, which she submits

to him at night.

In his attention to these various duties he is abso-

lutely unremitting.  The month which I passed in ‘Akká

was the Muhammadan fast of Ramadan, which, as all

other Muhammadan observances, was scrupulously

kept by ‘Abbás Effendi and his followers, for the sake

of peace and to avoid the imputation of social innova-

tion.  This fast requires abstinence from food between

sunrise and sunset.  The effect of this privation upon

him, in addition to that of his assiduous activity, was

very marked, and towards the end of the fast he fre-

quently appeared to be in a state of great exhaustion.

I have adverted to his frugal and abstemious habits in

matters relating to his personal comfort.  Several in-

cidents further illustrating this trait were told to me.  On

one occasion he was going to Haifa, and asked for a

seat in the stage.  “Your excellency,” said the driver,

“surely wishes a private carriage.”  “No,” replied

‘Abbás Effendi.  The driver thought this parsimony in a

man of his position.  At Haifa, while he was still in the

stage, a fisherwoman came to him in great distress, say-

ing that all day she had caught nothing, and must go

home to a hungry family.  He gave her five francs, and

turning to the stage-driver said:  “You now see the

reason why I would not take a private carriage.  Why

should I ride in luxury when so many are starving?”

The Master’s habit of wearing cheap clothes troubles

his family.  I was told of a conspiracy a few months

before to impose a cloak of better quality upon him

without his knowledge.  His wife procured the necessary

money from her brother, who is in the habit of acting as

banker for the family, and furnished a tailor with the re-

quired cloth, who proceeded to make the garment.

They knew very well that the Master would not wear

expensive clothes if he knew it, but, counting upon his

inattention to such matters, hoped that he would not

notice the quality.

But unfortunately the tailor bungled the cloak.  It did

not fit, had to be returned several times; and in the go-

ings to and fro which ensued, its cost came to ‘Abbás

Effendi’s knowledge.  Thereupon he sent for his

brother-in-law and said to him:  “You must sell that

cloak and charge me with whatever loss there may be

upon it:  such an amount of money will buy four cloaks,

one of which is good enough for me; the others can be

given away.”

His daughter Rúḥá relates that when her sister was

recently married she had no trousseau, and for the

ceremony merely donned a clean dress.  People asked

her father why he had not given his daughter bridal

garments.  He replied, “My daughter is warmly clad

and has all that she needs for her comfort.  The poor

have not.  What my daughter does not need I will give

to the poor rather than to her.”

Early during my stay in ‘Akká the following curious

incident was related to me.  The Master happened to

have a fine cloak of Persian wool which had been given

to him.  When a poor man applied to him for a garment,

he sent for this cloak and gave it to the applicant.  The

[Photograph]

‘Abdu’l-Bahá in his garden

man took it and demurred, saying that it was only of

cotton.  “No,” said ‘Abbás Effendi, “it is of wool”; and

to prove it he lighted a match and burnt a little of the

nap.  The man still grumbled that it was not good.

‘Abbás Effendi reproved him for criticizing a gift and

appeared not a little vexed at his ungrateful conduct.

But he terminated the interview in this extraordinary

fashion—by directing an attendant to give the man a

mejidi (a coin worth about four francs).  “If any one

vexes him,” continued my interlocutor, “he always

gives him a present.”

I was at a loss to understand this singular procedure

at the time; but an incident which occurred later during

my stay threw light upon it.  One day the Master was

distributing coats to poor men, in accordance with his

custom, to which I have referred above (p. 4).  In this

distribution he carefully selected the donees, judging

from his personal knowledge in each case whether the

charity was merited, and making a record of those to

whom coats were given.  On this occasion there was one

man who was very insistent in his demand for a coat,

but whose application ‘Abbás Effendi for some reason

did not approve.  The man continued to persist, and the

Master to refuse, finally repulsing the beggar with a

good deal of acerbity.  After some time, however, what

did he do but bring this same man into the large court

where the coats were hung upon a line, and give him

the choice of the lot!  The man tried on three, and find-

ing one which suited him, took it away.

Madam Canavarro saw the incident and afterwards

asked ‘Abbás Effendi to explain it.  He smiled and said:

“Did you notice that?”—and then, calling her attention

to the backs of his hands, which had been somewhat

scratched and torn in managing the crowd, he con-

tinued:  “My body is still under the law.  You see how

these people may injure it.  It is necessary that I should

control them—that I should put them down.  But, hav-

ing put them down, I must show them that I did not do

it in unkindness.  And so, too, if I find it necessary to

display some temper, I must take care that my actions

show my motive, in order that my example may not be

misunderstood.”

The Master has, as may be inferred from what I have

already said, a very tender, sensitive, and sympathetic

nature.  To his appreciation of the suffering and discon-

tent which it causes among women I chiefly attribute

his dislike to the institution of polygamy, remarkable in

one who has been all his life surrounded by those who

practice it.  This is shown not only by his persistent

refusal to adopt it for himself, notwithstanding the very

powerful influences (see above, p. 120) which have urged

him to do so, but by the reticence which he habitually

maintains when the subject is introduced.  It is evidently

a matter upon which, because of his surroundings, he

does not wish to express himself with freedom.

Many things suggestive of his sympathy and tender-

heartedness were told to me.  I have referred to his

habit of eating very simply and but once a day.  This is

not his invariable custom, since, when he has guests, he

entertains them generously, in fact exquisitely, and eats

with them.  His family say, however, that he always

prefers a simple repast; and if it happens that he has

just come from visiting the poor, elaborately prepared

food is especially distasteful to him.

Busy as he is, it would much relieve him to delegate

distributing alms to some of his followers.  This, in fact,

he sometimes does, but rarely, for this reason.  On these

occasions the poor frequently resort to artifices, as by

going away after receiving money and returning to

secure double or triple alms.  These artifices are likely

to be met, by any one except himself, with impatience

or harshness, and this the Master does not like.  To the

poor and ignorant above all, he says, we should always

be kind.

Once he was entertaining a wealthy lady who had her

maid with her.  The latter stood behind her mistress’

chair at dinner.  ‘Abbás Effendi was uneasy.  At length

he called for a chair, placed it beside him, and asked the

maid to be seated.  Then he addressed his conversation

to her, telling her, among other things, to be content;

that those who served were often more loved by God

than those whom they served.

I was told of the case of a consumptive who had been

almost deserted by his friends, as frequently happens in

‘Akká.  Syrians having a superstitious fear of the

disease.  The mother and sisters of this young man

hardly entered his room.  His food was brought in by a

[Photograph]

‘Abdu’l-Bahá

walking with believers behind.

servant, and he was left to reach it and otherwise to

care for himself as best he could.

The house in which he lived was near that occupied

by the Master, and the ladies of the latter’s family saw

this sad sight from their windows.  No woman, of

course, could offer assistance under the circumstances;

but the Master heard of it from them, and thereafter

went daily to the sick man, took him delicacies, read

and discoursed to him, and was alone with him when he

died.

In his dealings with men and in the relief of suffering,

differences of religious opinion have no weight with the

Master.  Men of all faiths are absolutely the same to

him.  He commonly associates a Muslim and a Christian

with him in regulating his charities.  I usually notice

one or both of these faiths represented among those

who were assisting him in the distribution of alms or

clothing.  The ideal of human life which he strives, first

of all, to promote, is fraternal cooperation among all

men.

During the fast of Ramadan considerable discomfort

is caused among the poorer Muhammadans by the fact

that, when exhausted by the long fast of the day (from

sunrise to sunset), they have not the means to provide a

sufficiently substantial meal to restore their strength.  It

was the Master’s habit, while I was in ‘Akká, to provide

every second day a supper at sunset for many such

persons.

A year or two ago a wealthy American lady, a friend

of ‘Abbás Effendi, spent some months in Haifa.  On go-

ing away she asked permission to make him the dona-

tion of a sum of money, for his own use or for that of

the Cause.  He replied that he could not himself accept a

gift from her; but that if she wished to do something for

him, she should educate the two little girls of a Christian

schoolmaster in Haifa, who had recently lost his

wife, was very poor, and in much trouble.  She accord-

ingly sent these children to a school in Beirut.

There are in ‘Akká about ninety Bahá’ís of whom I

think I have met all the men.  The restrictions imposed

by Muhammadan social customs, which, as I have said,

the Bahá’ís here observe for the sake of peace and har-

mony, prevented me from meeting the women.  These

Bahá’ís are all Persians, living in ‘Akká in voluntary ex-

ile in order to be near their “Master”  The fact that,

also for the sake of peace, they are not permitted by

him to make propaganda within the dominions of the

sultan explains, no doubt, the absence of other na-

tionalities among them.*  The attractions of their native

country do not weigh as a straw against the privilege of

living near ‘Abbás Effendi; and nothing except his wish,

which is absolute law to his followers, could induce

them to leave him.  This touching and eloquent tribute

to the character of ‘Abbás Effendi is only an expression

of the fundamental characteristic of all Bahá’ís whom I

_________________________

*  Bahá’u’lláh Himself commanded His followers not to make con-

verts in the Holy Land.  This restriction was observed by ‘Abdu’l-

Bahá and Shoghi Effendi and continues to be observed today.—Ed.

[Photograph]

A group of Bahá’í men

Taken in ‘Akká, circa 1909

[Photograph]

‘Abdu’l-Bahá with friends

Taken in Haifa, February 1919

have known—that is, the absolute devotion of them-

selves, their possession, and their lives to the cause of

their faith and its representative.  I am told that it is the

dearest wish of the millions of Bahá’ís in Persia51 to

make the pilgrimage to ‘Akká, and that, if such a thing

were possible, they would migrate there en masse for

permanent residence.  But at present even pilgrimage is,

except in rare instances, forbidden by ‘Abbás Effendi.

In the earlier years of Bahá’u’lláh’s imprisonment there,

when access to him, or even entrance into the city, was

impossible for Bahá’ís from Persia, the pilgrimage was

frequently made for the mere purpose of seeing him at

the window of his room in the prison, from a point

without the walls of ‘Akká.

I have never known a community which seemed to

enjoy such a general distribution of the sterling

qualities and virtues of character.  They are industrious

and self-controlled; in appearance they are cleanly and

thrifty.  Their faces are all sincere, honest, kindly, in-

telligent, and generally strong.  Their school is attended

by almost twenty bright-looking boys (girls are excluded

by Muhammadan custom), who are, among other

things, industriously studying the English language, and

have made considerable progress in acquiring it.

In their intercourse with each other, and, so far as I

have had the opportunity to observe, with others, the

Bahá’ís continually overflow with kindliness and good-

will.  They seem like a single family whose members

bear the liveliest affection for one another.  I can even

easily credit the statement made to me that when the

persecutions were at their height in Persia, it happened

more than once that a Bahá’í, having been arrested by

mistake in place of another who had been denounced,

permitted the error to go undiscovered, and suffered

execution rather than endanger his fellow-believer.

To a Bahá’í there is no recommendation of character

and trustworthiness equal to that of being a Bahá’í.

This confidence in the character of Bahá’ís extends

also, as I have learned from conversations with other

citizens of ‘Akká, to those who are not of their faith.  I

am told that they are frequently chosen as fiduciaries

and trustees by Muslims and Christians.

One observes among them a feeling of fellowship and

complete equality as men, regardless of the distinctions

of wealth and poverty or high and low degree.  I saw

this feeling expressed many times; as when, during the

exposition of the doctrines by some teacher in my

room, the boy who served my meals would enter with-

out remark and respectfully take a seat before him.

There is also among them an atmosphere of intense

religious conviction and spiritual life,—yet quite with-

out apparent emotion or excitement,—which forcibly

impresses one who is accustomed to the torpidly pre-

vailing in Western lands in regard to those things.

Professor Browne remarks (A Traveller’s Narrative,

introduction, p. xxxix.):

The spirit which pervades the Bábís [Bahá’ís] is such that it can

hardly fail to affect most powerfully all subjected to its in-

[Photograph]

‘Abdu’l-Bahá descending Mt. Carmel

with a group of pilgrims.

fluence ….  Let those who have not seen disbelieve me if they

will; but, should that spirit once reveal itself to them, they will

experience an emotion they are not likely to forget.

Nothing could be more true.  In the presence of a

number of them, aglow, as they all are, with the fire of

love, conviction, and determination, one feels—however

he may believe, he feels—that skepticism about the

reality of spiritual existence is a trifle absurd, and that

things unseen must be as certain as things seen.

If we analyze this peculiar spirit of the Bahá’ís; if we

seek to penetrate that which marks them off from other

men, the conclusion to which we are brought is that its

essence is expressed in the one word Love.  These men

are Lovers; lovers of God, of their Master and Teacher,

of each other, and of all mankind.  This is the name

which they are fondest of applying to themselves, and it

is that which most intimately indicates their distinctive

characteristics.  Their love goes out in all these direc-

tions with the fervor of the lover’s passion, but a pas-

sion free from all gross elements.  It is this which has

sustained them in their sufferings and martyrdoms, and

now inspires their eager devotion to their cause.  To

some this fact will have an immense possible signif-

icance; for they will remember that seers have said that

there is a Divine Love of which the ordinary human

passion is but the darkened and corrupted shadow, and

which, searching, strenuous, and pure, it is sometimes

given to men to feel.

References

1.  An overstatement, of course.  Bahá’u’lláh’s family

had at one time been extremely wealthy, but his father,

Mírzá Burzurg-i Núrí, lost much of his money and in-

fluence during Bahá’u’lláh’s lifetime.  See Bahá’u’lláh:

The King of Glory, pp. 15–18.

2.  Náṣiru’d-Dín Sháh was attacked by three young

Bábís on August 15, 1852.  The attempted assassination

was the result of the conspiracy of a small number of

Bábís residing in Tehran.  Their leader, Mullá Shaykh

‘Alí Turshízí, ‘Aẓím, eventually made a full confession

which cleared Bahá’u’lláh of any connection with the

crime.  See The Dawn-Breakers, pp. 599–600, 636–37;

God Passes By, pp. 62–64, 104; Bahá’u’lláh:  The king of

Glory, pp. 74–76.

3.  On another occasion, the Greatest Holy Leaf

recalled this incident vividly in these words:  “Suddenly

and hurriedly a servant came rushing in great distress to

my mother.  “The master, the master, he is arrested—I

have seen him!  He has walked many miles!  Oh, they

have beaten him!  They say he has suffered the torture of

the bastinado!  His feet are bleeding!  He has no shoes on!

His turban has gone!  His clothes are torn!  There are

chains upon his neck!’  My poor mother’s face grew

whiter and whiter.”  (The Chosen Highway, pp. 40–41)

4.  There were also other factors which led to the

release of Bahá’u’lláh from prison, including the in-

tervention of the Russian ambassador, Prince Dolgo-

rouki.  See God Passes By, p. 104, 106

5.  Bahá’u’lláh set out from Tehran on January 12,

1853, and arrived in Baghdad on April 8, 1853.  He was

escorted by a member of the imperial body-guard and an

official of the Russian legation to Iran.  Besides his im-

mediate family—his wife, Navváb, and children, ‘Abdu’l-

Bahá and the Greatest Holy Leaf—his brother, Mírzá

Músá (Áqáy-i Kalím) and half brother Mírzá Muḥam-

mad-Qulí, with their families, accompanied him into

exile.  See The Dawn-Breakers, p. 650; God Passes By, pp.

106, 108; Bahá’u’lláh:  The King of Glory, p. 102.

6.  Other accounts provide a slightly different version

of Bahá’u’lláh’s withdrawal to Sulaymáníyyih, in Kur-

distan.  Shoghi Effendi states:  “Suddenly, and without in-

forming any one even among the members of His own

family, …  He departed, accompanied by an attendant,

a Muḥammadan named Abu’l-Qásim-i-Hamadání ….

Shortly after, that servant was attacked by thieves and

killed, and Bahá’u’lláh was left entirely alone …” (God

Passes By, p. 120).

See also, the account of the Greatest Holy Leaf in The

Chosen Highway, pp. 50–51;  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s account in

A Traveller’s Narrative, pp. 64–65; and, Bahá’u’lláh:  The

King of Glory, pp. 115–22.

7.  During the Baghdad period, there were three gov-

ernors of the city; none of them were relatives of

Bahá’u’lláh or his enemies.  See God Passes By, pp. 131,

142, 149–50; Bahá’u’lláh:  The King of Glory, pp. 480,

482–83.

The archenemies of Bahá’u’lláh in Baghdad were

Mírzá Buzurg Khán-i Qazvíní, the Persian consul, and

Shaykh ‘Abdu’l-Ḥusayn-i Ṭihrání, the personal repre-

sentative of the shah.  See God Passes By, pp. 145–46;

Bahá’u’lláh:  The King of Glory, pp. 135–54 passim.

8.  The summons was couched in courteous language

and requested that Bahá’u’lláh visit the Government

House.  Bahá’u’lláh arranged to meet the officials in the

mosque opposite that place.  See My Memories, pp.

20–21; God Passes By, pp. 147–48; and Bahá’u’lláh:  The

King of Glory, pp. 154–55.

9.  According to Balyuzi, the meeting began late in

the day.  (Bahá’u’lláh:  The King of Glory, p. 155)

10.  Shoghi Effendi states:  “Of the exact circum-

stances attending that epoch-making Declaration we,

alas, are but scantily informed.  The words Bahá’u’lláh

actually uttered on that occasion, the manner of His

Declaration, the reaction it produced, its impact on

Mírzá Yaḥyá, the identity of those who were priv-

ileged to hear Him, are shrouded in an obscurity which

future historians will find difficult to penetrate.”  (God

Passes By, p. 153)

See also, My Memories, p. 22; Revelation I, pp. 278–80.

11.  Bahá’u’lláh left Baghdad for Istanbul with His fam-

ily, His brothers Mírzá Músá and Mírzá Muḥammad-

Qulí, and some twenty-six disciples.  See My memories,

pp. 25–26; Materials, pp. 16–17; God Passes By, pp. 155–

56; Bahá’u’lláh:  The King of Glory, pp. 156–58, 175–77.

Of Bahá’u’lláh’s departure, Shoghi Effendi writes:  “A

caravan, consisting of fifty mules, a mounted guard of

howdahs, each pair surmounted by four parasols, was

formed …  At times on horseback, at times resting in

the howdah reserved for His use, and which was often-

times surrounded by His companions, most of whom

were on foot, He, by virtue of the written order of

Námiq Páshá, was accorded, as He traveled northward,

in the path of spring, an enthusiastic reception …”

(God Passes By, p. 156)

12.  Bahá’u’lláh and His companions were not prisoners

in Istanbul, but were free to come and go.  In all prob-

ability, however, the women were confined to the house

by Islamic custom.  Cf. My Memories, pp. 37–39;

Bahá’u’lláh:  The King of Glory, pp. 197–216 passim.

13.  The exiles had arrived in Istanbul on August 16,

1863.  They remained there for less than four months,

departing on December 1, 1863.  Cf. God Passes By, pp.

158–161; Bahá’u’lláh:  The King of Glory, pp. 204–206.

14.  The journey to Edirne actually lasted twelve days.

See God Passes By, p. 161; Bahá’u’lláh:  The King of

Glory, p. 204.

15.  Bahá’u’lláh and His family were first lodged in a

two-story caravansari known as Khán-i ‘Arab.  Three

days later, they moved to a house in the Murádíyyih

quarter of the city.  See My Memories, pp. 42–43;

Materials, p. 19:  God Passes By, pp. 161–62; Bahá’u’lláh:

The King of Glory, pp. 218–21.

16.  This house is known as Bayt-i Amru’lláh, the

House of God’s Command or the House of the Cause of

God.  See My Memories, p. 43; Materials, p. 19; God

Passes By, p. 162; Bahá’u’lláh:  The King of Glory, p. 221.

17.  See reference 10 above.

18.  Mírzá Yaḥyá was regarded by most Bábís at this

time as the titular head of the community.  Cf. God Passes

By, pp. 28–29.  For a fuller discussion of Mírzá Yaḥyá’s

claims from a Bahá’í point of view, see E. G. Browne and

the Bahá’í Faith, p. 33–41.

19.  A slightly different version of these events has

been recorded by Ustád Muḥammad-‘Alíy-i Salmání, the

bath attendant, in his memoirs.  See My Memories, pp.

50–53.

20.  There appear to have been a number of attempts

to poison Bahá’u’lláh in Edirne.  Shoghi Effendi mentions

that the well of Bahá’u’lláh’s house was poisoned by

Mírzá Yaḥyá.  (God Passes By, p. 166)  He further relates

that Bahá’u’lláh’s serious illness was caused by poison

smeared on his teacup by this same person.  (bid.,

p. 165)  The teacup story is also related by Mírzá Mu-

ḥammad-Javád-i Qazvíní in his historical epitome.  (Mate-

rials, pp. 22–23)

The Greatest Holy leaf’s version of the cause of

Bahá’u’lláh’s illness (that the rice had been poisoned) is

repeated in her published interview with Lady Blomfield.

(The Chosen Highway, p. 60)  Browne had heard

this story independently.  (A Traveller’s Narrative, p. 359)

As Phelps notes in his footnote (pp. 60–61), this version

of the story was reversed by the Azalís who made the

preposterous claim that Bahá’u’lláh had accidentally

poisoned himself while trying to poison Mírzá Yaḥyá.

21.  Cf. God Passes By, p. 166.

22.  Shoghi Effendi describes Azal’s response to the

Súriy-i Amr as follows:  “Mírzá Yaḥyá’s request for a

one day respite, during which he could meditate his

answer was granted.  The only reply, however, that was

forthcoming was a counter-declaration, specifying the

hour and the minute in which he had been made the re-

cipient of an independent Revelation, necessitating the

unqualified submission to him of the peoples of the earth

in both the East and the West.” (God Passes By, pp.

166–167)

23.  Bahá’u’lláh’s withdrawal lasted two months, not

four months.  See My Memories, p. 99; God Passes By, p.

167.

24.  The causes of Bahá’u’lláh’s banishment from

Edirne were complicated.  See God Passes By, pp.

178–79; Bahá’u’lláh:  The King of Glory, pp. 250–54.

25.  Cf. Materials, pp. 28–29; God Passes By, p. 180;

Bahá’u’lláh:  The King of Glory, pp. 258–59.

26.  Mírzá Muḥammad Javád-i Qazvíní records that

Bahá’u’lláh left Edirne “accompanied by his sons …,

his family and his disciples, sixty-eight souls in all.”

(Materials, p. 29)  However, these were joined upon their

arrival in Gallipoli by several companions who had been

arrested in Istanbul.  In her interview with Lady Blom-

field, the greatest Holy Leaf fixes the number of persons

who embarked from Gallipoli for ‘Akká at seventy-two.

(The Chosen Highway, p. 63)  But, of course, Mírzá

Yaḥyá and some of his followers, along with four

Bahá’ís, were eventually separated from the other exiles

and sent to Cyprus.  Shoghi Effendi numbers those

banished to ‘Akká at “about seventy”  (God Passes By, p.

181)

The journey from Edirne to Gallipoli, in carts and

wagons, lasted about four days.  See Materials, p.29; The

Chosen Highway, p. 62; God Passes By, p. 180; Bahá’u’lláh:

The king of Glory, p. 260.

27.  In her published interview with Lady Blomfield,

the Greatest Holy Leaf states that the exiles remained in

Gallipoli for a week.  (The Chosen Highway, p. 62)  Mírzá

Muḥammad Javád-i Qazvíní indicates that they were

there for ten days, arriving on August 9, and embarking

for ‘Akká on August 19, 1868.  (Materials, pp. 29 and 31)

Áqá Riḍáy-i Qannád remembered the period as “a few

days.”  (Bahá’u’lláh:  The King of Glory, p. 261) Shoghi

Effendi says “three nights”  (God Passes By, p. 181)

28.  Shoghi Effendi states:  “The government’s orig-

inal order was to banish Bahá’u’lláh, Áqáy-i-Kalím and

Mírzá Muḥammad-Qulí, with a servant to ‘Akká, while

the rest were to proceed to Constantinople.  This order,

which provoked scenes of indescribable distress, was,

however, at the insistence of Bahá’u’lláh, and by the in-

strumentality of ‘Umar Effendi, a major appointed to

accompany the exiles, revoked.”  (God Passes By, p. 181)

29.  The European consuls had visited Bahá’u’lláh

before his departure from Edirne, not at Gallipoli.  (See

Materials, p. 27; Bábí and Bahá’í Religions, pp. 191–200;

God Passes By, p. 180; Bahá’u’lláh:  The King of Glory,

pp. 256–58, 456–59)

30.  At least one of the prisoners, Áqá Muḥammad

Ibráhím-i Náẓir, left the ship under guard to make

purchases.  Nabíl-i A‘am, who was at the time im-

prisoned in Alexandria, has recorded that it was through

sighting Áqá Muḥammad-Ibráhím in the street that

he came to know of Bahá’u’lláh’s presence in the city.

See Bahá’u’lláh:  The King of Glory, pp. 256–68.

31.  Áqá ‘Abdu’l-Ghaffar’s attempted suicide took

place while the ship was at port in Haifa.  He was one of

the four Bahá’ís who was forced to accompany Mírzá

Yaḥyá to Cyprus.  He sought to end his life rather than

be separated from Bahá’u’lláh.  Nonetheless, he was

rescued and sent on to Cyprus.  See Materials, p. 44:  God

Passes By, p. 182; Bahá’u’lláh:  The King of Glory, p. 269.

The Greatest Holy Leaf, in her published interview

with Lady Blomfield, recalled:  “The friends, though

prostrated by sickness, worn out by the wretchedness of

the voyage, and crushed by this repeated blow, deter-

mined to refuse submission.  One friend, in his dire dis-

tress, jumped into the sea, but was saved.

“Bahá’u’lláh and the Master cheered us.  ‘Why did you

jump into the sea?  Did you wish to give a banquet to the

fishes?’ asked Bahá’u’lláh.”  (The Chosen Highway, p. 65)

32.  Of the landing in Haifa, the Greatest Holy Leaf

recalled, in another interview:  “At length we arrived at

Haifa, where we had to be carried ashore in chairs.  Here

we remained for a few hours.  Now we embarked again

for the last bit of our sea journey.  The heat of that month

of July was overpowering.  We were put into a sailing

boat.  There being no wind, and no shelter from the burn-

ing rays of the sun, we spent eight hours of positive

misery, and at last we had reached ‘Akká, the end of our

journey.”  (The Chosen Highway, p. 66)

The exiles arrived in Haifa shortly after sunrise on

August 31, 1868, and embarked for ‘Akká a few hours

later.  See Materials, p. 44; God Passes By, p. 182; Bahá’u’lláh:

The King of Glory, p. 269.

33.  Shoghi Effendi writes:  “All fell sick, except two,

shortly after their arrival.  Malaria, dysentery combined

with the sultry heat, added to their miseries.”  (God

Passes By, p. 187)

34.  Actually, only three of the exiles died at this time,

although one, Mírzá Áqáy-i Kashání (Jináb-i Munír),

had died earlier on the journey to ‘Akká.  See Materials,

p. 46; Bahá’u’lláh:  The King of Glory, p. 283; God Passes

By, p. 187.

35.  Balyuzi provides a list of sixty-seven companions

who entered the prison of ‘Akká with Bahá’u’lláh.  Two

more friends joined these prisoners a few days later.

(Bahá’u’lláh:  The King of Glory, pp. 276–77)

36.  In another published interview, the Greatest Holy

Leaf recalled:  “So closely were we watched that we had

been in ‘Akká six or seven months without being able to

get into touch with Mírzá ‘Abdu’l-Aḥad, a devoted Bábí

disciple, who had been sent by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá to ‘Akká

some time before our arrival, and had opened a shop.”

(The Chosen Highway, p. 67)

37.  Concerning the death of the Purest Branch, see

also Materials, pp. 49–50; God Passes By, pp. 188–89;

Bahá’u’lláh:  The King of Glory, pp. 311–14.

38.  In her interview with Lady Blomfield, the Great-

est Holy Leaf explained:  “Meanwhile the war between

Russia and Turkey was in progress.  More barrack room

was required for the soldiers.  Bahá’u’lláh protested

against the friends being crowded in with the soldiers.

By that time the Governor had become friendly and con-

sented to allow the family to leave the fortress, and live

in a little house which a Christian merchant had let to us.

“How we rejoiced in our liberty, restricted though it

was.  Only three times had we been permitted to go out,

for even an hour, from the prison barracks during the

whole of that first two years.

“How tired we were of those three little rooms!”  (The

Chosen Highway, p. 68)

Bahá’u’lláh and his family were kept in various houses

in ‘Akká for a period of months before finally being

moved to the house of ‘dí Khammár.  See Materials, p.

50; God passes By, p. 189; Bahá’u’lláh:  The King of

Glory, p. 315.

39.  According to Balyuzi, two of the Azalís—Sayyid

Muḥammad-i Iṣfahání and Áqá Ján-i Kaj-Kuláh—were

housed, upon their arrival in ‘Akká, over the city gate.

From this vantage point they kept watch and reported to

the authorities anyone whom they recognized as a Bahá’í

trying to enter the city.  (Bahá’u’lláh:  The King of Glory,

p. 317)

40.  There were actually seven Bahá’í conspirators.

See Materials, pp. 52–55; God Passes By, p. 189;

Bahá’u’lláh:  The King of Glory, p. 325.

41.  Actually, three partisans of Azal were killed:

Sayyid Muḥammad-i Iṣfahání, Áqá Ján-i Kaj-Kuláh, and

Mírzá Riḍ-Qulíyi-i Tafrishí.  The latter had been a

Bahá’í, but was expelled by Bahá’u’lláh.  He joined the

ranks of the Azalís.  See Materials, p. 55; God Passes By,

p. 189; Bahá’u’lláh:  The King of Glory, p. 320 and 325.

42.  The woman, Badrí-Ján, was removed to Cyprus

against her will.  (Bahá’u’lláh:  The King of Glory, pp.

336–37)  The identity of the “surviving Azalí” mentioned

here is not clear.

43.  For ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s description of Bahá’u’lláh’s

move from ‘Akká, see “Prison Gates Open” Bahá’u’lláh

and the New Era, pp. 34–38.

44.  For another version of this story, see Bahá’u’lláh:

The King of Glory, pp. 342–44.

45.  The details of this story are related somewhat dif-

ferently in Episodes, pp. 13–14 and in The Dawn-

Breakers, pp. 208–209.

46.  For Munírih Khánum’s own account of her first

marriage, see Episodes, pp. 18–19.

47.  According to Munírih Khánum, she lived in the

house of Mírzá Músá (Áqáy-i Kalím) in ‘Akká for about

five or six months.  (Episodes, p. 29; The Chosen Highway,

p. 87)

48.  The Bahá’í marriage ceremony consists of the ex-

change of a marriage vow, accompanied by such prayers

and readings as the couple may choose.

49.  Concerning Munírih Khánum’s life and marriage

to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, see also Episodes, 20–31; The Chosen

Highway, pp. 84–90; Bahá’u’lláh and the New Era, pp.

53–55; Bahá’u’lláh:  The King of Glory, p. 339–48.

A letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi to the Na-

tional Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United

States and Canada reads:  “With regard to Munírih

Khánum’s account of her life, concerning which

certain questions have been raised by one of the believ-

ers; what has been written by Munírih Khánum herself

in that account, and also the references to the subject

made by Nabíl in his Narrative should be taken as the ac-

curate standard and not what has been reported in Dr.

Esslemont’s book.”  (Bahá’í News, No. 133 [February

1940] p. 2)

50.  Cf.  The Chosen Highway, p. 90.

51.  A more accurate estimate of the number of

Bahá’ís in Iran at this time (1902) is one or two hundred

thousand.  See Peter Smith, “A Note on Babi and Bahá’í

Numbers in Iran,” Iranian Studies, vol. 17 (Spring-

Summer 1984) no. 2–3, p. 297.

Bibliography

‘Abdu’l-Bahá.  Memorials of the Faithful.  Trans. and an-

notated by Marzieh Gail.  Wilmette, Ill.:  Bahá’í

Publishing Trust, 1971.

[‘Abdu’l-Bahá].  A Traveller’s Narrative Written to Il-

lustrate the Episode of the Báb.  Trans. by Edward G.

Browne.  Cambridge University Press, 1891 (Amster-

dam:  Philo Press, 1975)

Bahá’u’lláh.  Epistle to the Son of the Wolf.  Trans. by

Shoghi Effendi.  Wilmette, Ill.:  Bahá’í Publishing

Trust, rev. ed., 1976

Balyuzi, H. M.  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá:  The Centre of the Covenant

of Bahá’u’lláh.  London:  George Ronald, 1971.

.  The Báb:  The Herald of the Day of Days.  Oxford:

George Ronald, 1975

.  Bahá’u’lláh:  The King of Glory.  Oxford:  George

Ronald, 1980.

.  Edward Granville Browne and the Bahá’í Faith.

Oxford:  George Ronald, 1975

Blomfield, Lady (Sitárih Khánum).  The Chosen Highway.

London;  Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1940 (Wilmette, Ill.:

Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1956).

Browne, E. G., comp.  Materials for the Study of the Bábí

Religion.  Cambridge University Press, 1918 (1961).

Cole, Juan R. and Momen, Moojan, eds.  Studies in Bábí

and Bahá’í History, Volume Two:  From Iran East and

West.  Los Angeles:  Kalimát Press, 1984.

Esselmont, J. E.  Bahá’u’lláh and the New Era:  An In-

troduction to the Bahá’í Faith.  Wilmette, Ill.:  Bahá’í

Publishing Trust, 4th rev. ed., 1980.

Gail, Marzieh.  Bahá’í Glossary.  Wilmette, Ill.:  Bahá’í

Publishing Trust, 1955.

Ḥaydar-‘Alí, Ḥájí Mírzá.  Stories from the Delight of

Hearts:  The Memoirs of Ḥájí Mírzá Ḥaydar-‘Alí.

Trans. and abridged by A. Q. Faizi.  Los Angeles:

Kalimát Press, 1980.

Honnold, Annamarie, comp.  Vignettes from the Life of

‘Abdu’l-Bahá.  Oxford:  George Ronald, 1982.

Ḥuseyn of Hamadán, Mírzá.  The New History of Mírzá

‘Alí Muḥammad, the Báb.  Trans. by Edward G.

Browne.  Cambridge University Press, 1893 (Amster-

dam:  Philo Press, 1975).

Momen, Moojan.  The Bábí and Bahá’í Religions,

1844–1944:  Some Contemporary Western Accounts.  Ox-

ford:  George Ronald, 1981.

, ed.  Studies in Bábí and Bahá’í History, Volume

One.  Los Angeles:  Kalimát Press, 1982.

Moneereh Khanum (Munírih Khánum).  Episodes in the

Life of Moneereh Khanum.  Trans. by Mirza Ahmad

Sohrab.  Los Angeles:  Persian American Publishing

Company, 1924.  (Los Angeles:  Kalimát Press, 1986)

Muḥammad-‘Alíy-i Salmání, Ustád.  My Memories of

Bahá’u’lláh.  Trans. by Marzieh Gail.  Los Angeles:

Kalimát Press, 1982.

Nabíl-i A‘ẓam (Muḥammad-i Zarandí).  The Dawn-

Breakers.  Nabíl’s Narrative of the Early Days of the

Bahá’í Revelation.  Trans. and edited by Shoghi Ef-

fendi.  Wilmette, Ill.:  Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1932.

Phelps, Myron H.  Life and Teachings of Abbas Effendi.

New York:  G. P. Putnam’s Sons, 1903 (2nd rev. ed.,

1912)

Ruhe, David S.  Door of Hope:  A Century of the Bahá’í

Faith in the Holy Land.  Oxford:  George Ronald, 1983.

Shoghi Effendi.  God Passes By.  Wilmette, Ill.:  Bahá’í

Publishing Trust, 1944.

A Synopsis and Codification of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, the Most

Holy Book of Bahá’u’lláh.  Haifa:  Bahá’í World Centre,

1973.

Taherzadeh, Adib.  The Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh.  Vol-

umes 1–3.  Oxford:  George Ronald, 1974–1983.

Thompson, Juliet.  The Diary of Juliet Thompson.  Los

Angeles:  Kalimát Press, 1983.

The Master in ‘Akká was designed by Anthony A.

Lee; dust jacket and cover design by Rick Kjarsgaard;

composed by Freedmen’s Organization, Los Angeles,

in eleven on fifteen point Century Old style; printed

by Arcata Graphics at Fairfield Graphics on fifty-five

pound Fairfield stock and bound in Crown Linen with

Multicolor end papers.