THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1989-07-10

To all National Spiritual Assemblies

dear b ahá’í f riends,

The holy word has been extolled by the prophets of god as the medium

of celestial power and the wellspring of all spiritual, social and material progress. Access to it, constant study of it and daily use of it in our indi-vidual lives are vital to the inner personal transformation towards which we strive and whose ultimate outer manifestation will be the emergence of that

divine civilization which is the promise of the w orld o rder of b ahá’u’lláh.

The blessings which flow from the word of god are implicit in this

instruction of bahá’u’lláh in the kitáb-i-Aqdas, the mother book of his

revelation: “i mmerse yourselves in the ocean of my words, that ye may

unravel its secrets, and discover all the pearls of wisdom that lie hid in its

depths.” Again in the same book, he bids us recite the “verses of god every

morning and evening.”

68-1 An astonishing insight as to the sublime influence

of the revealed word is conveyed in this further instruction gleaned from

one of his Tablets: “i ntone, o my servant, the verses of god that have

been received by thee, as intoned by them who have drawn nigh unto him,

that the sweetness of thy melody may kindle thine own soul, and attract the hearts of all men. whoso reciteth, in the privacy of his chamber, the verses

revealed by god, the scattering angels of the Almighty shall scatter abroad

the fragrance of the words uttered by his mouth, and shall cause the heart of every righteous man to throb. Though he may, at first, remain unaware of

68-1. revised translation in the kitáb-i-Aqdas: “r ecite ye the verses of god every

morn and eventide.” (¶149)68.1

68.2

1986–1992  •  T h e  S i x  Y e a r  P l a n

11its effect, yet the virtue of the grace vouchsafed unto him must needs sooner

or later exercise its influence upon his soul.”68-2

The most immediate access to the dynamic influence of the sacred word

is through reading. The ability to read is therefore a fundamental right and

privilege of every human being. bahá’u’lláh promotes this right in his com-

mand to parents to ensure the instruction of their sons and daughters in the

“art of reading and writing.”68-3 for this essential reason, in our last ri¤ván

message we called attention to the need for systematic attention to be given

to eventually eliminating illiteracy from the bahá’í community. This mat-

ter must assume its proper importance as a continuing objective of that

community.

let each National and local Spiritual Assembly, according to necessity

and circumstance, address itself to this objective, conscious that even where

total achievement is not immediately possible, opportunities must be sought to make steady progress. let each be confident that the shining example set

by iran, the mother community of the bahá’í world, under the inspiration

of bahá’u’lláh’s teachings and the urging of ‘Abdu’l-b ahá and Shoghi ef-

fendi, upholds a standard all can follow. in the earliest years of this century,

when no systematic, overall plan of education existed in iran, the bahá’ís

seized their chance and organized a widespread program of education. its

teachers were distinguished for their ability to foster child, youth and adult education, which led to significant self-improvement among the iranian

bahá’ís. The emergence of a literate bahá’í community was an outstanding

result.

Some local or national bahá’í communities may wish to follow the ex-

ample of those who have already instituted their own literacy projects and are achieving notable success; others may wish to participate in literacy pro-

grams organized by governmental or nongovernmental organizations. each

community will have to determine whether to engage in one or the other, or

to do both. progress will depend not only on the initiatives of bahá’í institu-

tions in relation to children, but also on the active interest of adult believers who want to learn to read. Such friends should definitely be encouraged and assisted to achieve, with dignity, their heart’s desire. certainly, the willing

participation of the friends in an undertaking of such importance to the

68-2. kA, ¶182, 149; gwb, no. 136.2.

68-3. kA, ¶48.68.3

68.4

68.5

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

12upliftment of individuals and the consolidation of the bahá’í community as

a whole will attract divine favors and confirmations.

The united Nations has declared 1990 to be international literacy year

so as to mobilize an all-out, ongoing effort to eradicate illiteracy around the

world. The literacy projects already in progress in the bahá’í community,

and those which are yet to be adopted, will surely lend support to this noble

and necessary effort. Therefore, we commend the purpose of this special

year to the attention of the entire bahá’í world. The bahá’í international

community’s united Nations office will send National Assemblies infor-

mation concerning activities associated with international literacy year and

how bahá’í communities may become involved. moreover, agencies at the

bahá’í world center having a special interest in literacy programs will offer

helpful advice as necessary, but Spiritual Assemblies need not wait to hear

from them before proceeding with their own plans.

we look forward with confident expectation to your achievements to-

ward the ultimate fulfillment of this objective which is so essential to the

progress of the bahá’í community and indeed all humanity. And we assure

you, as ever, of our continuing prayers at the holy Shrines for your success.

with loving b ahá’í greetings,

69

The Role of the Nineteen Day Feast

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]