I
.1
I 1L

AY" S
OF THE BOSPHORUS
BY STANWOOD
Author of
.. THE REAL TURK"
t·
,
BOSTON
MURRAA
EMERY AAMAANY

--
r TI!:: :-:I'W YIIIlK
, I'! I!.!!' I.i:! iL\I1Y
~J837911
'fiLIJ;~ .• ;', I'
l:
• '.0
1:' .. ,
L
Copyright. 1915.
By STANWOOD COBB
PH_ 01' IIllBBAT AND IIIIJIBT COllPAN1'
CAIIBBIDOJD. 1IA88.

f
.., -0'
of
DEDICATED TO
THE HAPPINESS OF ALL WHO LOVE

.g:: Jt AM

CONTENTS
I. COMMENCEMENT
II. AYESHA
III. THE LETTER
IV. THE WALK TO BOYAJIKEUY
V. THE SOUTARI RECEPTION
VI. THE POLISH FARMS
VII. THE OBSTACLE
VIII. IN THE ROUMANIAN ALPS
IX. HELENE
X. THE THRALLS
XI. AUTUMN DAYS
XII. A VISIT TO ACCA
XIII. THE RETURN
XIV. THE FLIGHT

'.' '\
. ,to

AYESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
CHAPTER I
COMMENCEMENT
•
T was commencement day at the
American College for Girls. Ro-
land Carver, with others from
Bissar, landed from the little Chir-
ket steamer at Kouskounjuk and the party
began the steep ascent which led to Scutari.
It was June. The sun beat down from a
cloudless Constantinople sky and was re-
flected back in a glaring dazzle from the white
stone pavements. Some preferred to follow
the road circling about the hill; but Carver,
with two others, took a narrow, steep path
which mounted almost perpendicularly, built
up into a long series of stone steps.
"Hey, fellows, let's rest a minute and enjoy
the view," cried Carver, as they neared the
top.
"Hang the view!" called out Prentice, a
.
. ,
--
, , ,
.
,
.

AYESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
little ahead.
" You are always stopping to
enjoy views. But I don't mind resting a
bit."
All three stopped, took off their hats,
wiped the perspiration from their wet fore-
heads, and turned around to look back at
the glorious panorama of the Bosphorus
spread out before them. The palace of Bey-
lerbey lay at their feet, and across the water
they could see Dolma Baghtcheh, the gem
of Turkish palaces. From the high point
they had reached the eye could follow the
waterfront far up the stream -
quaint, hud-
dled Turkish villages, with their busy quays
alternating with vast estates of pashas, which
extended their gardens to the water's edge.
Never had this enchanted Bosphorus looked
more sparkling. Amethystine blue, its waters
seemed to dance for joy, the wind and cur-
rent making little waves which kissed the
sunlight lying in them. For· several miles
the narrow strait wound between promon-
tories lined with houses, until it disappeared
at last behind the picturesque old towers of
Mohammed, built when he captured Con-
stantinople in 1453.
It was the end of the brief Constantinople
· ." · .
· .. : · . · .
·
· . · .
· . . .. :
. ·

AYESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
spring. The bloom of the peach trees which
had sprinkled the April days with tender
pink had yielded to the Judas tree, more
red, and to the luxurious green of Turkish
gardens. Just a little way ahead was a Turk-
ish cafe, its shaded terrace situated at an
excellent vantage point for a wide view of
the Bosphorus,- for few races love the
beauties of Nature as do the Turks.
"Let's sit down awhile and have some
coffee," suggested Petrides, tlle third of the
party, a Greek. "We have plenty of time.
It's only two o'clock."
They
settled
themselves
comfortably
around a small table, ordered coffee, and
began to smoke Turkish cigarettes -
silently,
in Oriental fashion. The coffee soon came.
Under the spell of coffee, tobacco, and the
scent of wisteria blossoms roofing them in,
dreamily viewing the fairy-like scene spread
before them, they might have spent half the
afternoon there, oblivious of the American
College for Girls, of commencement, of the
purpose of their trip -
for so the Orient
brings Lotus-like forgetfulness upon one; but
Prentice looked at his watch, began to grunt,
and to fumble in his pocket for coins.

A YESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
"Time to be going," he said, and beckoning
the waiter, paid him.
All got up slowly -
stretching themselves,
shaking off the charming sense of infinite
repose and lethargy which had settled on
them-and began the further ascent to Scutari
and to the American College.
When they arrived all was bustle and
excitement. The Montenegrin gate-keeper,
dressed for the occasion in gorgeously gold-
braided costume, his belt stuck full of long,
murderous-looking pistols and of Turkish
daggers, admitted them, smiling.
"Bu aksham chok guzel dir" (This is a
fine afternoon), he said, as they passed. They
reached the hall just in time, and were ush-
ered by two pretty Bulgarian girls to the
seats reserved for the Robert College teachers.
There they found the rest of the party,
which, tortoise-like, had reached the goal
first.
At three o'clock the student chorus rose
to sing, rendering an anthem very creditably;
and then to march music the twelve seniors
in cap and gown passed up the aisle and took
their places on the platform. One face par-
ticularly attracted Carver's attention -
a

A YESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
[)
delicate oval face crowned by hair as glorious
as the sky's deep black in a tropic, star-lit
night.
"Who is that girl in the first row, third
from the right?" he inquired of Mrs. Haw-
thorne beside him.
"Oh, don't you know? That is Ayesha
-
one of the few Turkish girls ever to gradu-
ate here." Then she added archly, "But
look out, Mr. Carver! Turkish girls are not
to be fallen in love with!"
"Not much chance," answered Carver,
smiling -
but thought what exquisite beauty,
what charm and grace, she had.
He set himself to wondering what her
mind was like, her inner personality .. Cer-
tainly so fair a body must clothe a lovely
soul. He wondered what she was thinking
of now as she looked raptly upward, out
into the future. His desire was to be unex-
pectedly gratified, for soon she rose and
performed her part in the program -
a paper
on "The Modern Woman."
It was a splendid address to come from a
girl of any race, but especially from the
despised Turk. Calm, dispassionate, thought-
ful, this Turkish girl outlined some of the

A YESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
problems which the New Woman has to
face in the conflict between the call of home
and of life. Earnest, pure, appealing, her
beautiful voice and manner carried conviction
-
and Carver for once failed to analyze
which factor counted most in his delight,
the pleasure of a splendid speech, or the
charm of beauty, both of soul and body.
When, in concluding, Ayesha made a plea
for the home as primal in its claim, Carver
gave a sigh of relief,- voicing the unconscious
thought, "Then she would herself love to
make a home." Under Oriental skies strange
thoughts and sudden fancies strike the mind,
when houri faces charm!
After the exercises were over and the girls
had received their degrees, all adjourned tp
the beautiful garden of the College where
tea was served,- daintily gowned students,
Bulgarian, Greek, Armenian, gliding in and
out among the crowd with trays of tea, of
cake and of ice cream, which they bashfully,
as Oriental girls do, proffered to the guests.
"Good afternoon, Mr. Carver," came a
voice at his elbow -
and Miss Frazier, one
of the teachers at the College, cousin of an
old friend of his, greeted him cordially.

AYESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
"Don't you want to meet some of the
graduates?"
He accepted the invitation gladly, but,
bashful, dared voice no preference.
His
hand and greeting were given to an Ar-
menian girl, homely and hare-lipped, to whom
he was introduced; but his eyes followed a
form and an exquisite face which glowed
beside him.
Destiny was in his favor!
, "Ayesha," called Miss Frazier, "I would
like to introduce my friend Mr. Carver, a
teacher at Robert College."
She bowed demurely, and gave her 'hand
-
a privilege for which the greatest pashas
would have sued in vain, accorded to an
American because that was the American
, custom and because she loved all things
American.
Miss Frazier had hurried away to greet
some of the other friends. An embarrassing
silence fell between them.
At last, awkwardly, Carver asked, "Have
you enjoyed your college course?"
"Very much," she said.
"What studies did you like best?"
"I think I like history and sociology best."

A YESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
"That showed in your address," he said,
forgetting his self-consciousness in enthusi-
astic praise. "It was a splendid address,
splendid! The best of the whole afternoon!"
She blushed.
"Thank you; 1 enjoyed
giving it."
"And what are you going to do," he
asked, "now that you have graduated? Are
you going to study your favorites abroad?"
"No, not yet, at least. I am coming back
here next fall to teach."
"Oh!" Surprise and unconcealed pleasure
showed in his voice. "I hope you will enjoy
that. 1 suppose you love your Alma Mater."
"I love it above everything else in the
world," she said earnestly -
ami for the first
time looked him full in the eyes. "It has
been everything to me. It has indeed been
a 'kindly mother,' for 1 have no other mother
living; and more than that, it has taught me
so many things -
it has opened my eyes,
broadened my thoughts, disclosed to me
the whole wonderful world of modem
knowledge. "
Her face glowed. She forgot her Turkish
modesty and smiled at him in intellectual
comradeship. Carver was on the point of

A YESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
carrying this interesting conversation further,
but Ayesha suddenly excused herself as a
teacher called her to meet other guests,-
for she was the chief attraction of the day.
She gave him her hand again, this time
not laid passively in his, but with a warm
touch that encouraged him to ask, "I hope,
then, I shall have the pleasure of seeing you
next fall?"
"I hope so," she said, smiling again charm-
ingly, and was gone.
Ice cream and cake were brought Carver,
and he felt it his duty to go about and greet
the teachers whom he knew. But his con-
versation was forced, his eyes preoccupied,
and at times his head turned involuntarily
when Ayesha passed near by. Soon he made
his farewells and hunted up Prentice and
Petrides and they started back for Kous-
kounjuk, where they hired a kayik to take
them to Hissar.
It was a wonderful evening for a kayik
ride. The sunset colors -
spread gorgeously,
as only Constantinople can spread them
in her western sky -
made the waters of
the Bosphorus a fairy sheen, reflecting tints
and hues that glow not elsewhere out of

A YESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
paradise. The lush scent of an Oriental
spring perfumed the night air and intoxicated
senses that were already awhirl in a maze
of beauty. Overhead the crescent moon-
symbol of the sacred East-floated tremulous,
mystic, pure of ray, athwart the evening sky.
Talk languished. Thoughts drifted out
beyond the twilight range of consciousness.
Everything seemed asleep in Carver save
his soul,- which was gloriously awake, su-
premely soaring above the unreal, as all
things earthly seemed just then.
Prentice first broke the silence. "'What
are you thinking of, Petrides? You're as
quiet as a clam."
Petrides smiled one of his slow, unpas-
sionate smiles, the comers of his mouth
lingering in reminiscence of it even after it
had died out from his eyes and the dimples
had gone from his cheeks.
"I am dreaming of that Turkish girl,"
he said. "Wasn't she beautiful!"
"What,
Ayesha?"
answered
Prentice.
"Say, boys, I am struck on her myself. How
about you, Carver? You've been mooning
away worse than 'Pet' here. Did you fall
in love with her too?"

A YESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
No smile responded on Roland's face.
More than once the breezy Americanism of
Prentice had jarred on him,- never more
than now.
"I found her very charming," he said-
lit a cigarette and retreated into dreams
agam.
All· sighed when Hissar was reached.
It seemed a pity to leave the ideal twilight
beauty of the Bosphorus.

CHAPTER II
AYESHA
•
HE summer had passed pleasantly
for Carver in a tour of Italy and
Switzerland. Now he was back
at Bissar, ready for the winter's
work. The first week was taken up with
afternoon teas, calling on the families of
American professors who, glad in June to
break the boredom· of a too-restricted and
monotonously enforced society, were just
as glad in September to welcome each other
back to the college, eagerly inquiring and
exchanging accounts of the summer's varied
travels.
It was Carver's second year in Constan-
tinople. The strange Orientalism of his new
environment had kept him deeply interested
and absorbed the previous year. But now
his restless nature, having devoured the
sights and shows of Turkish life, craved the
mild dissipation of society. Perhaps to this

AYESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
temptation is laid the fact that he made
more frequent visits to the mid-week teas
of the American College for Girls than was
considered manly in the ultra-masculine and
Antinomian set of bachelor instructors who·
disdained, so they claimed, feminine society
and pink teas.
"Say, Carver, why don't you apply for
a job at the American College?" twitted
Prentice one day as Carver returned home
from a tea, his face glowing. "There's some
pretty nice teachers over there -
good deal
more fun than to associate with us old rubes."
A blush on Carver's face was a signal for
further attacks. "Who is he interested in
now?" asked Glover.
.
"Why, don't you know? It's that Turkish
girl," called out Walker from the end of the
table.
It was only a chance shot, but hit home
more nearly than any guessed. Carver grew
red to the ears, cried out, "Bosh laff!" which
is Turkish for "nonsense," and confined
himself assiduously to eating.
The truth was, he had just returned from
a tea at which he had met and talked, for
the first time since last year's commence-

L
AYESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
ment, with Ayesha; and his heart still sang
within him and his blood glowed exquisitely
within his veins,- for this was the Orient,
where the dreams of a minute seem a year
and a year seems but a day.
In his first visits to Scutari he had looked
in vain for Ayesha. Perhaps she had not
returned as she intended; perhaps she was
ill,- he did not dare ask. One day when he
plucked up courage to inquire of Miss Frazier,
she told him that Ayesha was rather shy
about appearing before men, and generally
retired, Turkish fashion, when male guests
were announced. Did she divine his feel-
ings? This day when Carver was the only
guest she said, "I'll get Ayesha. She won't
be afraid of you. Besides, she met you last
year, didn't she?"
Carver's happiness rose to the sticking
point. That which is rare is precious. So
he treasured this opportunity to see and
speak once more with Ayesha. Had she been
the average woman, yet would distance have
invested her with charm. But Ayesha! Well,
she was just Ayesha. If Carver had been
asked to describe her fascination he could
not have done so, any more than he could

A YESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
look her in the face as she came in with
Miss Frazier and greeted him modestly.
He became tongue-tied and sipped his tea,
kindly refuge in conversational distress!
Miss Frazier tactfully carried on the con-
versation until Carver recovered sufficiently
to take his part in it. When she saw they
were on good speaking terms she excused
herself and left the room a minute to see
about the tea things. Carver and Ayesha
were alone together.
Suddenly a daring resolution formed it-
self in Carver's mind. "Miss Ayesha," he
said -
he could hardly control his vocal
organs -
"would you like to take a short
walk with me? Or wouldn't it be proper
for a Turkish girl?"
Ayesha, laughing, showed pearly teeth.
"These are new days in Turkey," she said
-
"days of glorious freedom."
"Then you would be willing to walk with
me?"
"With pleasure -
but not today. Perhaps
next Wednesday."
"I shall call for you next Wednesday,
then? About what time?"
"About this time -
or perhaps a little

--
A YESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
earlier. Then we can have our tea and get
away before people begin to come."
Could Carver believe his ears? Was she,
Ayesha, actually making an engagement with
him for a walk? She, a Turkish girl? Nothing
like it had happened in all history, he thought
-
and he was right; but this, as Ayesha said,
was the New Day.
Just then other guests arrived -
strangers
to Carver. But he had had his opportunity
and had richly profited by it. He went
home in a daze. Tha t is why he blushed
when Ayesha was mentioned. That is why
his heart sang even as he ate.
The week passed slowly, tantalizingly,
until Wednesday came.
The steamer to
Scutari that afternoon seemed obstinately
to want to stop at every little scala which
it usually passed by. One of the professors
with his wife was on the boat, evidently
going also to Scutari. Carver dodged them,
was the first off the boat, and charged up
the hill like one of Napoleon's Old Guards.
His one thought was to get off with Ayesha
before visitors began to come. For some
reason he felt shy, almost guilty about being
seen with Ayesha. He knew how tongues

AYES~ OF THE BOSPHORUS
would wag in Hissar if they were seen going
out together.
On arriving he sent up his card by Miss
Frazier. It seemed ages before Ayesha came
down to greet him. She, too, seemed con-
strained and shy. They gulped down tea
in silence, and excusing themselves were off,
luckily before any guests were announced.
"Where shall we go?" asked Carver. "You
know Scutari better than I do."
"Let's take the back road to the top of
Tchamlejah. Have you ever seen the view
from there?"
"No."
"Oh, then I can show you something
beautiful," she cried, clapping her hands.
"Come, come!"
They left the college grounds by a rear
gate, unobserved. Ayesha wore a European
costume and a cloak with high collar, so
that Turks meeting her would not have
recognized that she was of their race. Be-
sides, it was chiefly an Armenian district
they were to pass through. It was well not
to incur publicity; for even a free Turkey
did not mean that of a sudden all Turkish
minds were freed from the trammels and

A YESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
beliefs of centuries. In some of the native
quarters Turkish women had been insulted
and even mobbed for travelling about too
freely.
Had Carver known this he would not have
asked Ayesha to take such risks. Ayesha
knew it, but she did not care. Rejoicing in
the new-found liberty and freedom of her
people, she scorned the danger of a too
great departure from the old conventions.
Some souls are born to be pioneers. Such was
Ayesha.
For some time they ascended the hill in
silence.
Gradually the houses of Scutari
merged into the general landscape spread
below them and the shores of the Marmora
began to appear, thickly dotted with quaint
suburbs.
"See," said Ayesha, pointing to the famous
cemetery of Scutari -
"that cemetery is
said to be the largest in the world"; and
added smiling, "the only pre-eminence Tur-
key can boast of today is in her cemeteries.
As the dead sleep peacefully there, so the
minds of the Turks today sleep under the
weight of ignorance and inertia."
"But surely," said Carver, "you must

AYESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
rejoice that your country is now awakening
so wonderful1y from the sleep of ages."
"It is high time!" replied Ayesha. "Just
think -
at one time the Turks were one
of the most progressive races of Europe.
Pre-eminent in battle, they possessed the
tinest corps of mining engineers in the world.
Under Suleyman the Magnificent, Turkey
added the luster of a great civilization to
glory gained from conquests. The greatest
sovereigns of Europe sued for his favor.
And now," sighing -
"now, only the jealous-
ies of Europe have preserved us from absolute
destruction. "
"What do you think is the cause of this
backward
condition?"
ventured
Carver.
"Has Abdul Hamid's reign ruined the
country?"
"No; the cause lies deeper than that,
I fear ~ While the rest of Europe, and your
race in particular, have progressed through
industry and science to the wonderful civiliza-
tion of today, Turkey has stagnated, has
rested content with medievalism."
" You' are certainly a frank critic of your
own race. It seems to me you have given
the correct analysis of the trouble. I would

~o
AYESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
not have wanted to say it myself, though,
for fear of hurting your feelings."
Ayesha laughed a silvery little laugh.
"No danger of that," she said. "If my
Alma Mater has taught me nothing else,
it has taught me to face conditions honestly,
and to realize the need of understanding
the causes of things before we can change
things for the better."
"That is a great lesson to learn," replied
Carver. "After all, it is this spirit of criticism
which has produced our twentieth century
civilization. But it is wonderful how a few
years of education have enabled you to
catch this modern spirit."
"For that I am deeply indebted to the
American College," she said seriously. Then,
in a lighter tone, looking at him saucily,-
"But why should it be a miracle, Monsieur
Americano? Do you think Turkish people
are differently constructed and have dif-
ferent brains from you?"
Carver blushed -
"No! no! don't think
that I meant that! I only meant-"
"You did mean it! You did mean it!"
interrupted Ayesha, laughing and clapping
her hands. "Confess you did I"

AYESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
~1
"Why-"
"Yes, you did!" cried Ayesha, and laughed
again at his confusion.
"I know that
Americans think we Orientals are benighted
and can never grasp the culture of the Occi-
dent. They think we are destined always
to be inferior to them. But they do not
realize how great a difference education makes
in people. If an American child were brought
up uneducated in a Turkish home he would
be as stupid and as lazy as Turks are sup-
posed to be. It is education that we need,-
education, training, intellectual progress.
Oh, Mr. Carver, I hope when you go back
to America you will tell your people how
much we need education! You Americans
are kind and generous -
you are doing so
much for us already -
but we need even
more. How I long to see my people 'edu-
cated! And especially the girls,- for the
ignorance of our women is one of the greatest
causes of our national degradation. How
can an ignorant, stupid mother train her
children to be worthy men and women?"
As Ayesha made this little speech her
voice became magnetic, her dark eyes
sparkled, and her face glowed with enthu-

AYESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
siasm. Carver looked at her entranced. She
seemed inspired.
"Splendid," he cried, looking at her with
admiring eyes.
She blushed, and seeing a couple of people
coming towards them, turned up her collar
and looked away -
shutting off from Carver
the one view to him worth while; for the
magnificent scene opening before them held
little beauty in his eyes compared to the
fascination of her face.
Ayesha now became silent, self-conscious,
suddenly again a modest, demure Turkish
maiden. . Nothing more was said until they
reached the summit of Tchamlejah.
There they took seats at a small table
belonging to a Greek cafe, ordered coffee, and
sat looking at the beautiful scenery. In front
of them the Principo Islands dotted the
blue waters like an oasis of green; and the
clustering villages along the shore stretched
on and on for miles, as far as eye could reach.
On their left lay a wide, rolling expanse of
almost desert country, leading to the beauti-
ful mountains of Bithynia on the horizon.
Behind them the Bosphorus wound its glorious
sheen, visible almost to the Black Sea.

A YESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
The coffee was soon brought, and they
sipped it in a companionable silence, dreamily
absorbing the beauty of the Oriental scene
and basking in the glorious sunlight.
"I think it is time to go," said Ayesha,
at last. The sun was already casting long
shadows, the air was fresher and more bracing
than it had been. It seemed hard to stir.
They got up reluctantly, paid for the coffee,
and began their homeward way . No more
speeches fell from Ayesha's lips, but she
laughed and chatted over little things until
the college gate was reached.
"Good-by," she said, holding out her hand.
It seemed to Carver that he had never
hated more this word" good-by." He grasped
her hand and wanted to ask her if she would
take another walk with him some day.·
Yet no words came. He could only murmur
"Good-by!" and hurried down to the scala.

CHAPTER ill
THE LETTER
•
HE eighteenth of December -
first
day of the Christmas vacation-
found Carver in a novel environ-
ment. He had planned a trip to
Egypt with his Turkish friend N azim, also
teacher at the college. When the time came,
however, he found his savings much smaller
than he had anticipated; and the onlypos-
sibility of a trip to Egypt lay in travelling
deck passage, as the middle and lower classes
of the Orient do.
In summer this is a delightful mode of
travel. One stakes out a claim on the deck
-
some six feet square -
arranges his bag-
gage about it as a barricade, spreads a yor-
ghan, or mat, over the bare wood, and reclines
luxuriously under the canvas awning. By
day he sits thus, smokes cigarettes and
dreams. At night he rolls himself up in his
yorghan, with shoes for pillow, and sleeps

AYESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
under the open stars. He is infinitely more
comfortable and more happy than his fellow-
travellers of the second or first class, for he
lives entirely in the fresh open air and is
lord of his little domain.
Carver had travelled this way, and had
enjoyed it. But now it was a different matter.
Too cold to sleep outdoors, the deck pas-
sengers had to herd together in a small
cabin -
unventilated save from the hatch-
ways and reeking with the strong stench
of smoke, garlic, and human exhalations.
Carver had come early and had secured a
very desirable place in the corner, back of
the stairway and somewhat iecluded from
the too vulgar gaze.. He had placed his
baggage on the bench which ran next to the
wall -
thus indicating his pre-emption by
universal travellers' code-· and had gone
on deck to get a breath of fresh air and to
look up his friend Nazim, who could not be
induced to leave the comforts of first class
in order to keep Carver company.
He
found him at the rail and they stood there
some time watching the freight being loaded.
A half hour later Carver went below
again to make sure that everything was

!l6
AYESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
all right. It was fortunate he did. An old
Turkish woman, fat and grumpy, evidently
being of the same opinion as Carver in
regard to the desirability of this especial
corner, had jumped his claim, so to speak.;
had placed his baggage upon the floor; and
was in process of stringing a curtain wholly
across the corner in order to screen herself in.
Carver, seeing the situation, with small
gallantry stopped operations on this roughly
improvised harem by dumping the Hanoum's
baggage on the floor and deposi ting his
body on the place of contention; believing,
no doubt, that said body, though usually
more mobile than baggage, might in this
case prove less so.
The Hanoum gibbered and jabbered in
high rage, but to her Turkish invectives
Carver proved obdurate; fellow-passengers
joined in the outcry; and finally the quarter-
master, a dark little Levantine, came up to
adjudicate the matter. His inquiries from
the Hanoum, from Carver, and from fellow-
passengers seeming to prove Carver's claim
to priority, and Carver's own body main-
taining resolutely the rights of possession,
proverbially equivalent to nine legal or theo-

A YESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
i7
retical rights, the quartermaster went away
-
wisely, and to Carver's great relief, leaving
the situation in its statu quo, which after
all is the easiest and most Oriental way of
doing things.
N azim, who had happened to peer down
the hatchway at this moment, stood on
the upper stairs howling with laughter.
"Nice way to treat a poor old Turkish
Hanoum!" he cried. "See how affectionate
she is -
wants to get as near to you as she
can. Carver, you're a great one with the
ladies!"
"Cut that out!" Carver shouted. "Come
down here and visit a fellow."
"No thanks," said Nazim, who was
somewhat of a dandy, holding his nose.
" Don't like the smell. You come up and
visit me."
"No, I can'tl" said Carver, "Do you
think I want to lose this hard-earned corner?"
"Well, stay and keep the Hanoum com-
pany, then," said Nazim. "I'm going on
deck. Good-by!"- and he left Carver to
his own reflections.
Strangely enough the smell of greasy hu-
man flesh, which was so unbearable to one

!t8
A YESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
coming newly from the fresh air on deck,
ceased after two or three hours to offend.
In fact, it dropped below the threshold of
consciousness for Carver during the rest of
the voyage.
Besides, the weather was rough, and
Carver had other things to think of, en-
deavoring now to retain possession.not only
of his seat, but of the lunch of which he had
partaken,- efforts in which he was more
fortunate than some of those around him.
After that first lunch, the hamper of pro-
visions put up at the college -
a nice boiled
chicken, eggs, bread, cheese, olives and
fruit -lay untouched, while Carver lay in
dizzy, somnolescent mood, dreaming feverish
and light-headed day-dreams, and listening
to the chatter and laughter of the some
fifty-odd fellow-passengers. For two days
he thus lay there, sleeping more than the
allotted eight hours per day, eating nothing,
and not unpleasantly resting even from
thought.
On the third day the storm lulled, the sun
came out gloriously, and Carver managed
to pick himself up and reach the deck, where
he basked in the golden sunlight and the

A YESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
i9
warmth of the Egyptian air, for they were
nearing Alexandria.
Nazim joined him, also looking weak and
pale. It turned out that he had eaten nothing,
either, and had stayed in his berth these
forty-eight hours. Carver laughed heartily
at him.
"Here you have paid five times the amount
I have, and for what? For the privilege of
fasting and sleeping, as I did. The only
difference was, you slept on a mattress and
I on a bench."
As a matter of fact, Carver would not
have exchanged for any amount the interesting
below-deck experience of this trip- and the
opportunities it had given him of observing
and studying the life of the common people
in this far-off corner of the world -
of
studying them, not as an outsider, but as
one of them by all rights of the great free-
masonrY of deck travellers.
Soon they came within the harbor of
Alexandria. The air was soft and balmy
and the sun shone deliciously warm out of a
blue, unclouded sky.
They landed after
some difficulties on Carver's part, on account
of quarantine regulations for deck passengers,

AYESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
and were glad to be on terra firma again.
After a few hours of sight-seeing, they took
a train for Cairo and watched from their
window the sands of the desert run by.
As Carver looked out over this wide
expanse -
so
suggestive of infinity -
he
seemed absorbed and answered grudgingly
the intermittent conversation of his friend.
Thoughts and expectations were in his mind,
the purport of which N azim little dreamed.
This train gliding so peacefully along the
desert was bearing him swiftly toward one
of the great crises of his life. In Cairo there
was a letter waiting for him which might
promise untold happiness, or destroy a golden
dream.
It had happened in this way. After Carv-
er's walk with Ayesha he had been unable
to see her again. Every time he called at
Scutari she failed to appear at tea. He
looked up longingly at the windows of her
rooms but he did not dare ask after her.
Was she purposely avoiding him?
If "far from the eyes, far from the heart"
be true of lovers, it is nevertheless also a
matter of psychology that to know that
a divine face, already tantalizing to one's

A YESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
soul, is only a short distance from one's eyes,
yet separated by material and social bar-
riers, shut in, so to speak, in a fairy world
of her OWll,- to know this is the greatest
spur to love. It was a torment for Carver
to come there to tea and find Ayesha missing.
It was equally a torment for him to stay
away. Between this Scylla and Charybdis
he hovered for several weeks. Finally a
desperate plan came into his head -
a
plan unreasonable, romantic, and daring. If
he could not penetrate to her presence, yet
he could communicate with her by mail.
Since she was under American control a
letter could be sent. This, even the most
outrageous slings of fortune could not prevent
from reaching her. Many times has the
modern Cupid thus dropped bow and arrows
in order to wield a pen.
.
One day, then, Carver sat at his desk and
resolutely framed a message of his love,
worded quite frankly,- explaining how he
could not see her face to face, hence must
write; begging her to accept his offer of
marriage; and giving her time to think it
over seriously. He asked her to write him
after two weeks, ill care of the general de-

A YESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
livery at the Cairo post office, and explained
why he had thus proposed by mail.
Then he sealed the letter and slept over
it. H after the night's rest he felt in the
same mood, he would mail it. H he should
have a feeling that he was acting wrongly,
he would destroy the letter. Such was often
his custom in settling important questions.
The relaxation of sleep leaves the mind much
more clear for guidance -
and Carver believed
that he was often guided, by whom or by
what he could not tell.
The next morning the sun danced merrily
on blue, smiling waters of the Bosphorus.
A north wind filled the air with vigor and
Carver's soul with determination. No, he
felt no warning, no holding back of the
reins of Destiny. So with head high and
beating heart, he placed the letter in the
mail box, dropped the lid which now lay be-
tween him and Fate, and started upon his day's
work with some difficulty of concentration.
Two weeks must pass before he was to
expect an answer. He put the subject from
his mind as best he could. On the boat to
Egypt it had furnished, however, the chief
topic of his dreams, and he had lain for

A YESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
hours at a stretch in a sort of golden haze.
Now he was on his way to a final decision,
one way or another, of his hopes.
As soon as they reached Cairo and deposited
their baggage in the hotel, Carver -
greatly
relieved that his companion wished to rest
awhile -
excused himself and made hastily
for the post office. There was a line of five
or six waiting at the window. One by one
the line diminished -
and Carver at last
reached the window, gave his card to the
clerk, and was handed a letter, the hand-
writing of which was new to him but was
destined to cause him many heart throbs
in the coming days.
Hastily he tore the envelope and read:
"My dear Mr. Carver:
I was very much surprised to receive your
letter, and want to thank you for your kind-
ness in thinking of me and appreciating me
the way you do. But what you ask is im-
possible. Really, we hardly know each other,
do we? Please forget these ideas, which can
never be realized, and let me remain
Your friend,
AYESHA.
P .S. Please consider this letter as final."

A YESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
Carver took the letter to the park across
the square, sat down on a bench and watched
the beautiful fountain spray its silver threads
against the glorious blue sky. Birds were
singing in the palms, the air was soft and
sweet smelling, flowers bloomed about him
as if it were summer. He tilted his head
back against the seat for a few minutes
and dreamed, absorbing the sunshine as
did the plants about him. After a while the
peace of Nature all around him entered into
his soul. He opened his eyes, read the letter
again, pressed it to his lips, and then arose.
"Very well," he said, "let us be friends.
Inshallah !"
Submission, that quality of the Orient,
sweetened
his
cup
of
disappointment.
Strangely enough, he had even a feeling
of relief. It was his first proposal. Had
Ayesha accepted, he would not have known
what to do with her. He would have been
nonplussed.
When could he marry her?
How support her on his slender instructor's
salary? All these considerations which love
had blinded him to before now appeared
upon the scales -
so that the weight of his
disappointment was far less. After all, there

A YESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
are two sides to every problem. Perhaps
things were better off as they were.
He was in the country of Islam, strange
Eastern land -
where desire burns bright
within the soul, yet quickly flickers into
dusk and the dark night of abnegation.
It is easier to give up things in the East.
So Carver found to his surprise; and he
went about his sight-seeing with a fairly
light heart and enjoyed the strange scenes
of Cairo -
the crowded streets, the markets,
the Oriental quaintness of it all- far more
than he could have believed possible. A
camel trip into the desert restored peace
to his soul and a climb up the pyramids
brought back energy and aspiration. When
after a week of this they took a steamer back
to Constantinople, Carver felt that a chap-
ter in his book of life had been closed,-a
chapter full of romance, of unreasonableness
perhaps, of golden dreams; of reawakening
and descent to earth; of journeying again
along the dusty plains.

CHAPTER IV
THE WALK TO BOYAJIKEUY
•
HE work of the new term pro-
gressed slowly.
Carver had con-
siderable time for reading dur-
ing these long winter nights.
He enjoyed going out to call after his classes,
at some of the numerous married professors'
houses, and chatting comfortably over a cup
of tea: blessed institution for rainy days
and ennui -
the chief dissipation of the
Hissar community when tennis and boating
were forbidden by the weather.
After this social hour Carver would come
back to his room, curl up on his couch and
read. Books never seemed such close com-
panions as in this distant corner of the globe.
He for the first time became acquainted with
Ibsen through one of the other instructors
who was a devotee; and he felt happy that
he was able to enjoy this most glorious new
star in his firmament of literature.

A YESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
Play after play he read, pouring over
them, drinking in their deep lessons of life,
admiring the wonderful art of the master.
The strange women of Ibsen appealed to
him, as did the unique psychological problems
involved with them.
He saw there the
modern woman struggling to claim her destiny
-
the frail wings unfolded, still damp, from
the chrysalis of a long winter-easily broken,
easily crushed, but for those who failed
others coming forth to take their place: and
the vision of the future woman -
strong,
reliant, tender, and noble, throwing off the
pettinesses bred in slavery, breathing for
the first time a free spiritual breath under
the air of heaven,- this inspired him; he
longed to take a share in liberating woman,
in aiding and hastening her evolution.
He sighed· as he thought of it. It had been
his dream to do this in a definite way, a
joyous, happy way, the way of love. Modern
woman, unfolding her powers, took for him
a concrete form -
Ayesha. He had hoped to
share her life, to help her develop and express
her talents, to lend her opportunity for
playing a large part in the world. Yet the
inner selfishness of his love appeared in this,

A YESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
that now he had no hope to own her, he
must cast her from his heart; and the very
thought of her success apart from him was
bitter.
How weak, how feeble is the small spark
of altruism struck from the fiint of self by
love; true, it kindles a mighty fire ofttimes-
but one in which the flames are chiefly those
of lust. Carver lost all interest now in
Ayesha's career. He could not bear to hear
her name mentioned. It pained and wounded
him.
In March a fine concert was given at the
college. A noted cellist -
one of the world's
greatest -
happening in his tour to pass
through Constantinople, was engaged very
reasonably through the efforts of a friend,
both of his and of the college.
The hall was well filled by eight o'clock.
The first number was Schubert's Serenade,
played divinely and listened to with rapt
attention by those Oriental boys, whose
souls are more attuned to beauty than are
the souls of their Western brothers. This
sweet, unearthly melody of Schubert's carried
Carver to another world. He shut his eyes
and seemed to wander amid strange scenes.

AYESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
He felt he was on another planet, where
all was peace and love. Before him was a
forest blooming in myriad forms of beauty,
and sweet-scented; forth from which came
a group of maidens, their faces sunlit, their
whole beings expressing joy and the fragrance
of pure happiness. There he thought he saw
Ayesha; but he was powerless to move near,
and as they were advancing the music stopped
and the image unfortunately faded from
his mind. He opened his eyes with a sigh.
In the warm applause something made him
turn his head. There was Ayesha walking
up the aisle in company with Professor and
Mrs. Sturdy. They took seats not far from
Carver, a little to the front, and on the
other side of the hall.
A strange feeling of mingled happiness
and pain came over Carver. To have her
thus near him was to be in paradise; but
to have her eternally separated from his
love, this was torture. He looked away,
unwilling to kindle his love anew . Yet a
compelling power turned his head surrepti-
tiously in her direction -
and he feasted
his eyes on the delicate, queenly curve of
her slender neck, on her crown of soft black

A YESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
hair, on the profile slightly visible to him,
only suggesting, but not disclosing the full
beauty of her face. As he looked at her,
she turned and her eyes met his. Each
turned away abruptly.
The one glance, however, destroyed Carv-
er's peace of mind for the evening.
At
intervals -
short as he dared make them,
long as his impatience could endure -
he
turned again and again to the beauty of
that face. Strange! he found Ayesha several
times looking in his direction, searching
with her eyes for -
could he dare guess
himself?
Could it be that her letter was not final-
a woman's no, yielding inwardly to yes?
He did not dare hope that. Yet her actions
seemed significant of interest, if nothing
more; so much so that after the concert
something emboldened Carver to go up and
speak to her. She greeted him with a smile,
half conscious -
and a handshake, shy yet
warm.
Was she to be in Hissar long? he asked.
Yes, she was spending the week-end with
Mrs. Sturdy. Would she take a walk with
him next day, then? Yes, she would be

A YESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
pleased to.- This in the brief moment of
walking down the aisle.- "Good-by," she
said, and smiled on him as she left the hall.
As for Carver, he could scarcely think.
He went to his room, shut himself up and
sat on his sedia for half an hour in silent joy
before going to bed. Even then he did not
sleep till late in the night.
What had happened? Nothing definite.
Yet the future was again opened to him-
golden sunshine warmed his inner being-
and roseate dreams ushered at length his
soul to slumberland.
The next day at four he called for her at
Professor Sturdy's. She came down veiled,
and wrapped in a cloak of soft browns, a
cloak which ever after, when he saw it,
seemed impregnated with the charm of her
gracious personality -
seemed redolent with
life, fragrance, and sunshine.
It was snowing slightly. Was she afraid
of going out in it? No, she loved the soft
falling flakes. They walked along the quay
up the Bosphorus towards the little village
of Boyajikeuy. Beside them swirled the
whitish green waters of the Bosphorus, sul-
lenly reflecting a leaden sky. But to Carver

4~
A YESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
all was sunshine; he could even hear birds
singing and catch the fragrance of flowers,
in the garden of his heart.
Ayesha prattled of her childhood days-
of the happy girlhood -
of her rebellion on
entering at thirteen the harem, to be shut
off from life forever after -
of her father's
progressiveness and desire that she should
have an education, resulting finally in her
entering the American College.
She told
how she had outgrown, in process of educa-
tion, the primitive concepts and forms of
her religion -
how her soul rebelled against
the Mohammedan paradise, whose favors are
all for men -
how her education had made
her appreciate western ideals.
"Do you still feel yourself a Mohamme-
dan?" Carver asked.
"Yes. But I see it in a different light.
We need a reformation, a wave of protes-
tantism, to purify Islam of its crude and
childish beliefs. I am sure Mohammed meant
to teach us far differently. But in speaking
to a half-savage people like the Arabs, he
was obliged to use symbols that would appeal
to them. To win them over to a higher
religion than their polytheism he had to

A YESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
promise them a vivid paradise. We must
not take his words too literally."
"You do not think, then, that he really
meant to teach an after-life full of sensual
joys?"
" Certainly not. Progressive Mohammedans
interpret these things symbolically, as you
Christians interpret the Apocalypse. Do you
really believe, for instance, that you will walk
on streets of gold, and play a golden harp?"
"No, I suppose not. But it is a pity that
your prophet used such material symbols
for his paradise as houris and eternal feasts."
"Mr. Carver," said Ayesha, seriously,
"it would have been impossible otherwise
to have won those savage Arabs. Do we
not do everything for some ultimate reward?
Is not the hope of happiness the greatest
motive in life? How else could Mohammed
have appealed to his followers, save by
promising them joys such as they could
understand? To a tired, life-worn soul the
promise of eternal rest seems paradise. To
the roaming Arabs, who often failed of food
and lived for many months of the year in a
.state of half-starvation, the promise of eternal
feasts was paradise.

. A YESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
"That was good pedagogy, was it not?
But Mohammed did not intend that Moslems
should always rest content with these simple
figures. He knew that as the race progressed,
it would one day be able to interpret them
and see their inner meaning. The real
paradise of the Mohammedan is the same
as the real paradise of the Christian or of
the Buddhist,- a place where one is freed
from all the limitations of the flesh and where
the soul, through its spiritualization, is
bathed in eternal bliss."
Ayesha suddenly stopped and breathed
deeply.
She seemed a little tired.
"Oh,
look at that beautiful bit of green sky in
the west," she said ..
Carver turned and saw a wonderful sight.
Between the banks of sad gray clouds an
almost crescent rift appeared, disclosing a
pale soft green that seemed flooded with
translucent sunshine. All about them was
snow and mist -
yet somewhere the sun
was shining, and existence was bright. So
seemed the glimpse of heaven that Ayesha
had just given him. He marvelled at her
spiritual insight, and her gift of logical
expression.

A YESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
"What you say is true," he said. He
wanted to add, "My dream of paradise
is to be near you !"- but he could not say
it; he could not, somehow, speak of love,
as he had intended.
They had turned back and were already
nearly home.
Only a few minutes were
left if Carver was to speak. They climbed
the quaint stone stairway that led to upper
Bissar. Professor Sturdy's house came in
sight. They reached the door.
"Thank you for taking me on such a
charming walk," said Ayesha.
"My thanks are due to you," said Carver
-
and turned to go as her door was opened.
"Good-by," said Ayesha, looking him
straight in the eyes for the first time that day.
"Good-by," said Carver, and looked at
her till the doorway swallowed her up.
Then he walked slowly back toward the
college.
Where were his warm words of
love? Where was the declaration that fal-
tered on his lips? He could not understand
why he had failed to speak -
not knowing
the art that women have of guiding con-
versation as they wish!

CHAPTER V
THE SCUTARI RECEPTION
•
HE
Constantinople spring came
early this year, and
by April
the mud was drying on the roads,
the fields had become less soggy,
and had received a bloom of green. Already
the snowdrop, pushing its way through
the melting snow, had given its white vir-
ginity for a few days to the sun and then
faded earthwards. The cyclamen had shyly
hid its drooping head amid the underbrush,
the primrose had dotted hillsides with its
white blossoms, and here and there an Ori-
ental anemone had lent its glory to the
vernal days.
Now all these flowers had vanished and
the hot sun, sucking the moisture from
the ground, had produced a drier bloom,-
the sweet scent of Judas blossoms, of the
broom with its green and gold flowerings,

A YESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
of heather which exhaled a delicious odor
of the spring.
The hillsides were thick with Turkish
women who sat for whole afternoons squatted
on their heels, drinking in the sunshine and
making "kef." Children played about them
-
and in and out candy-venders, dondomajis
and wandering musicians plied their trades.
The varied colors of the costumes, the fresh
greensward against a tender sky, the outline
of the hills upon the lovely blues of the
Bosphorus, made these scenes idyllic.
No wonder that Carver, as he strolled of
an April afternoon amid these pastoral
scenes, dreamed of love. It was a time for
love,- this season when the thrush sprinkled
the air with liquid notes at eventide, and
the nightingale ventured forth to thrill all
listeners with its golden song. If one were
not already in love he would on this occasion
have invented a lady of dreams to deify
and love. Love was in the air -
was felt
in every caress of the silent sunshine, was
inhaled with every breath of April scent,
was awakened in the dullest heart by the
exultant melodies of Nature, who in spring
draws all creatures to her Court of Love

AYESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
and compels them to pay homage. If Carver
had been in love last autumn he was doubly
so now; and in his mind he was revolving
a plan which, if successful, would resolve
his doubts and make the road clear before
him.
Some distance inland from the Bosphorus
was a little village called the Polish Farms.
It had been settled early in the nineteenth
century by refugees from Poland, to' whom
Sultan Azis had kindly granted protection
and rights of homestead. Here in this quaint
village was a bit of Poland nestled in the
heart of Turkey. Here no Turkish officials
had right of entrance. The mayor was Polish,
the houses Polish, the farms Polish,- and
over all the village floated an air of tranquillity
and peace.
It was a favorite resting place for American
teachers during the monthly holidays. It
made an ideal trip for the week-end. One
could start on Saturday morning, sail up the
Bosphorus a way, enjoy a delightful tramp
of some nine miles to the Polish Farms,
remain there over Sunday and return on
Monday rested and refreshed for the work
of the new month. The vacations of Robert

A YESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
College and the American College for Girls
usually came at the same time.
Carver
determined to get up an excursion for the
month of May. He would invite several of
the American ladies and some of his chums,
-
and then, when he was assured of a suf-
ficient chaperonage, he would invite Ayesha.
There seemed little chance of her accepting
-
but if she did, it would mean almost a
certainty of his hopes being assured.
Fired with this idea he went home and
wrote some notes. The mails soon brought
him enough acceptances to guarantee a
party; for the ladies of Scutari were very
fond of going to the Polish Farms but could
safely do so only when they had male escorts.
The ladies secured, he set about finding men.
Here he had more difficulty. His fellow-
teachers, as has been already seen, were
not fond of feminine society,- at least,
in parties. Nor were the teachers of the
American College for Girls noted for any
hearty response to that half sentimental
jollying of which American young men are
so fond. The springs of sex, diverted into
intellectual channels, How far too peacefully
in most educated women. There are no

AYESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
rapids, no shoals, no hidden whirlpools to
tempt the adventure of Cupid. And so it
appeared with the ladies of Scutari, that in
devoting their lives to learning they had
renounced love; and were assiduously, if
not acidly, attentive to rebuff all advances
in this direction. Hence it was with difficulty
that Carver was able at last to extort a
promise from two fellows to accompany him
on this trip.
There only remained Ayesha ! Not trusting
to the fatality of letters, which had proved
his downfall before, he was determined to
give the invitation to her by word of mouth.
To his glad surprise he found Ayesha among
the group of faculty and guests which crowded
the drawing-room of the American College
on its monthly reception. He had hoped
she would be there, but did not dare count
on it. Yes, she was there -
a red rose in
her hair, a black dress with simple lace setting
off the pure beauty of her form, her face
glowing and animated in a conversation with
two other men from Robert College.
The rascals! They had constantly made
fun of these Scutari receptions -
had habitu-
ally refrained from attendance -
and yet

A YESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
now that he wanted to see Ayesha, they
were holding her attention. They may not
have cared for the American teachers, but
Carver paid them the grudging justice of
admitting that their taste on this occasion
was unassailable -
that, in fact, they had
managed to find the most beautiful, the most
engaging woman in the whole assembly.
Would they never have done talking and
laughing? He had not seen Ayesha so ani-
mated before. She ought to be more shy and
modest.
Yet here she was parrying the
attentions of two jollying Americans, and
seeming to enjoy it! Carver swallowed the
tea brought him by a pretty Bulgarian girl,
and answered absent-mindedly the greetings
of Miss Frazier,- but his eyes and mind
were in the corner of the room where Ayesha
was.
Finally to his relief he saw Prentice and
Walker start away. He almost rudely broke
from conversation with Miss Frazier and
pushed through the crowd toward Ayesha.
Before he could reach her Professor Sturdy
had engaged her attention, and Carver turned
aside to the tea-table and pretended to be
very much absorbed in the matter of pro-

5~
A YESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
visions, keeping a gloomy eye on his new
rival. Something diverted his attention for
the moment and when he looked toward
Ayesha again Professor Sturdy had gone,
but another man was talking to her.
Carver fidgeted from one place to another,
greeting friends with a forced smile, desiring
above all things in earth or heaven to be by
Ayesha's side -
but unable to make up his
mind to go there while others were around.
At last the hour came for departure, and
Carver was on tenterhooks. His embarrass-
ment, his preoccupation, he thought must
be visible to all. He hung about the doorway,
however, determined not to go until he had
seen Ayesha.
Suddenly, before he knew
how, she was at his side, on her way out
into the hall, and he managed to gasp, "Good
afternoon," and held out his hand.
"Why, how do you do?" said Ayesha,
with a cheery smile. "Where have you been
all the afternoon?" Had she not seen him?
"Oh, I've been around here."
"And you would not come to speak to
me."
"You were so busy having a good time
that I did not want to interrupt you." Now

AYESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
OS
or never. "Ayesha, would you like to join
an excursion to Polish Farms next week?
Miss Frazier and Miss Stone are going and
a couple of fellows from Hissar."
"Yes, I heard Miss Frazier talking about
it. It would be nice, wouldn't it?- But I
can't tell now. rlllet you know by Wednes-
day."
Carver had barely time to run for the last
boat. "Good-by, then! I hope you will go."
"Good-by," she said, and gave him her
hand and her smile -
and his hopes beat
high as he ran to the boat. He had seen her
give her rose in joking mood to Prentice,
but she had given him something still more
precious -
hope!

CHAPTER VI
THE POLISH FARMS
_
HE day of the picnic dawned at
last. Ayesha had accepted! In
Carver's Inind this seemed a proof
of her love -
at least he felt more
exuberant, and more fearsome than he had
ever felt before. To the last Ininute he could
not believe that she was really going. Some
inadvertence would surely happen to pre-
vent him from this happiness!
The Robert College teachers rowed across
to Anatoli Hissar in order to take there the
little steamer on which they were to meet
the Scutari party. It was twenty Ininutes
late -
twenty hours, it seemed to Carver.
When at last it came in sight and made up
slowly to the scala Carver saw a group of
ladies in the boat waving to him and to the
others -
but his heart sank when he failed
to see Ayesha. As soon as the gangway was
let down he rushed aboard to greet the

AYESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
Scutari party,- his eyes roving about the
deck for the one person whom he missed.
He did not dare ask, "Is Ayesha here?"
And he had already concluded with a gloomy
heart that his forebodings had turned out
true, when a voice behind him, silver sweet,
called out, "And haven't you a 'Good
morning' for me too, Monsieur Carver?"
Suddenly the clouds parted and showed,
not a rift of blue only, but a whole blue
sunny sky, gloriously spreading sunshine on
all of Carver's world. She was there, after
all! The fate of empires and the destiny
of solar systems seemed very small just
then compared with that one fact,-that
Ayesha was there; because if she had not
been there, the whole universe would have
become instantly void, barren, and lifeless-
as indeed it was already doing before he
had heard Ayesha's voice.
He did not sit beside her during the half
hour's sail to Tchiboukli. No, he could not
bring himself to that. A great shyness over-
came him -
and similarly seemed to over-
come Ayesha, who turned after her first
greeting and devoted all of her attention to
the other members of the party. Nor did

A YESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
Carver walk beside her when they disem-
barked at Tchiboukli and began the long
ascent to the forest road that wound its
hillside way to Polish Farms.
It was a glorious spring day, the dazzling
sunshine gilding grass and flowers to a super-
natural beauty. The path hillward led by
gorse and yellow broom. These filled the
air with a soft, rich perfume peculiar to warm
countries. Butterflies flitted from flower to
flower. The birds carolled" their best while
the morning dew still sparkled gem-like on
leaves and heather.
Several times the party stopped to rest
and to cool off, for the climb was steady,
and the sun beat down hot on their unshaded
path. At last the top was reached, and they
all sat down under the shade of a huge
chestnut while the men fetched water for
the ladies from a cool, sparkling spring.
The Bosphorus shone blue and dreamily
below them and the opposite terraces were
already misty with heat-haze.
After a short rest they continued their
waY,-now much easier, for it lay along a
fine macadamized road built by the Khedive
of Egypt, the finest and only modem road

A YESHA· OF THE BOSPHORUS
in all Turkey. It followed a sort of ridge
from which at times a wide and beautiful
expanse of country could be seen, hills
forest-clad, smiling meadows green with
spring, valleys that led the curious eye to
unknown depths.
It is this mystery of Constantinople land-
scape which makes it so entrancing.
A
thousand little valleys divide the hillsides
of the Bosphorus, tempting the foreigner to
explore their hidden ways. Many of them
have even yet been trodden but little by foot
of man. Only one accurate map -
made
by a German firm -
exists of this region;
and even that, in spite of German thorough-
ness, the youthful and adventurous teachers
of Robert College, in their frequent tramps,
were able to add to and correct. One always
had a feeling of mystery as one followed these
valleys,- tracing a sparkling brook to its
source on some barren hillside; emerging
triumphant from a tangle of trees, brush, and
heather to some new and superb view of the
Bosphorus; or suddenly discovering a Turkish
farm nestling in a bend of the valley -
whose
dogs furiously debarred approach until called
off by their masters. A wild country, un-

A YESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
spoiled by factory whistles or by railroads;
a region still inviolate to Nature, to the spirit
of Pan and of dryads, undisturbed by the
gross unbelief of modern factory-bred minds.
Again the road dipped into the forest-
shutting out the view, but cool and refreshing
after exposure to the sun. Soon after noon
they came out from the woods into a beautiful
level meadow surrounded on all sides by
trees, a little valley occupied by a few French
farms. This was where they were to eat
their luncheon. Baskets and knapsacks were
dropped; and reclining in the thick Hower-
strewed grass the party avidly attacked the
sandwiches, hard boiled eggs, sardines, and
oranges which were to support but not destroy
the appetite for a fine supper at the Polish
Farms. Somehow Carver could not eat very
heartily. He sat beside Miss Frazier and
dreamed between mouthfuls. At times he
looked over timidly to Ayesha, who sat
opposite. She, too, seemed dreamy and pre-
occupied. Little was said during the lunch
hour. After the repast Miss Frazier insisted
on a nap, and the other girls also lay resting
in the shade; while the fellows climbed a
cherry tree near by and ravaged it of the

A YESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
meager remnants left by the owner on its
branches.
At two o'clock they were on their way
again. Carver had exchanged hardly ten words
with Ayesha the whole morning. He now
found himself suddenly beside her. How
he got there he could not tell. They walked
together awhile in silence. The others were
a little ahead.
" Ayesha I"~ said Carver suddenly, "Won't
you reconsider that letter of yours? Say it
was not final?"
She smiled at him but said nothing.
"Won't you let me hope?"
"Perhaps!" She half whispered. It was
not the same Ayesha who had spoken so
eloquently at commencement; who had
discoursed vehemently to him on the prob-
lems of her people; who had flirted with
Prentice and Walker at the last Scutari
reception. This was a different person -
shy, feminine, shrinking from a happiness
which seemed mutual.
"Are you sure you won't forget me when
you go back home this summer?" she added,
timidly. "You like me now, but you will
make many friends in America -
then you

A YESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
will forget Ayesha. Far from the eyes is far
from the heart."
"Never!" he cried. "I would never forget
you! I have never seen anyone so beautiful.
But how did you know I was going home?"
"You told me so yourself -
don't you
remember ?"
The fact that Ayesha remembered this
detail- that she had already considered
his departure -
gave a clue to Carver and
made him very happy. He had been in her
thoughts, then. She knew his plans and
remembered them. Ah! but she did not yet
know all his plans!
"Then I may hope?"
"Perhaps"- and Ayesha's smile meant
to him more than her words. Carver wanted
to take her hand, but could not. He felt
constrained. Her purity, her gentleness re-
pressed in him the ardor which would
naturally have led to such expression. They
walked on side by side, silent, each rapt
in dreams, in the visions which lift youth and
innocence near to paradise.
They reached the Polish Farms just before
dusk, and ate supper by candle light in the
garden of Madame Gartner's simple inn.

AYESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
A bottle of wine was broached in honor of
the occasion, and anecdotes, laughter, and
jollity furnished additional sauce to the
appetites already engendered by hearty
exercise. Carver was in a radiant mood. He
forgot himself -
a rare thing for him-
and kept the company in constant laughter
by his jokes and witticisms. Now and then
he felt Ayesha's dark eyes upon him. She
said little, ate little, but seemed happy.
Even the beauty of that spring evening-
under a star-clustered sky -
could not tempt
our party long from sleep, for all were tired.
The men slept in one room, two in one large
bed and one on a couch laid along the
wall. Carver undressed, joining in the pranks
and merriment which necessarily must ac-
company the dishabillement of three fellows
on such an occasion. He chatted and joked,
cut up antics, and joined in the peals of
laughter bursting forth from men in blithe
holiday spirits. Finally a rap on the wall,
indicating that the ladies wished to sleep,
put an end to that fun; and after a few more
,~".
explosions of laughter all became still and
sleep gained its sweet ascendency over tired
limbs.

AYESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
Not so with Carver, however. He tossed
about -lying now on this side, now on
that -
in a delirium of happiness. Could
one so near to paradise fall asleep? Could
a brain on fire forget that a celestial houri
had smiled upon him and that the future
promised infinitely?
Oh, Sadi! then would thy poem of the moth
and candle have appeared appropriate. A
candle consuming its very essence in the
Hame of love -
such was Carver. The hours
passed, waking dreams of splendor swept
across his vision, and not till the first pale
light of dawn put to :ftight the ineffectual
stars did he forget and fall asleep.
A pillow neatly landed on his nose reminded
Carver that it was time to rise. The others
were half dressed and through the open
window came the song of birds and the
brightness of a glorious morning.
Soon they were all out in the garden, ready
for breakfast. As it was late they started
on their coffee without waiting for the ladies.
Presently Miss Frazier and
Miss Stone
appeared and later Miss McPherson, who
had shared Ayesha's room. Carver greeted
them with an expectant happiness, thinking

A YESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
soon to see Ayesha appear with the glory ot
the morning on her face.
Breakfast was over and yet no Ayesha.
She was going to have coffee in her room,
said Miss McPherson. She would join them
at dinner.
Carver was relieved.
She was not ill,
then, and she would be with them at dinner.
He could wait. The bubbling joy within him
was a spring whose effervescence would not
subside because of this slight deprivation.
They started for a stroll and Carver walked
with Miss McPherson. They did not go far,
just down the hill to a deep glade where
some one had built seats around a beech tree;
a lovers' nook it seemed, ideal in every respect
save of one absence. Miss McPherson, pick-
ing a daisy to pieces, looked at him
significantly.
"Ayesha did not sleep well
last night," she said. "I had to entertain
her with stories till long past midnight."
Carver
tried
to
look
noncommittal.
"That's too bad," he said.
But within,
his heart sang.
Strange selfishness of love! He was not
at all sorry that Ayesha could not sleep.
Had it been Miss McPherson, now, who had

A YESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
suffered from insomnia, he would have been
sorry -
would have been genuinely sympa-
thetic. But when in his mind he pictured
Ayesha tossing about upon a sleepless bed-
as he had done -
he could not wish it had
been otherwise. Indeed, he would have been
sorry if she had slept soundly.
In a dazed excitement he shared me-
chanically the conversation of the party-
but his feet itched for the homeward way.
When at last they returned for dinner, Ayesha
was there at a table looking over a curious
old roster of the inn full of signatures of
ancient guests, some of whom had jotted a
poem in praise of the inn or contributed a
clever sketch.
"Why don't you write something?" said
Ayesha, smiling to Carver as he bashfully
joined her. She seemed subdued but happy,
and prattled of her girlhood days and of her
love for Nature. The rest of the company
left them. It was an idyllic hour for Carver.
He was thoroughly happy just to bask in
the sunshine of her presence; and that gentle
voice by his side, regardless of the meaning
of the words, thrilled him as no music ever
did.

A YESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
Dinner was finally announced, and they
sat down to a hearty repast. A duck which
had but lately waddled and quacked its idle
life before them, gave forth an incense of
crisp roasted fat as it was laid upon the
table. Sweet potatoes and rice, apple sauce,
corn bread and pie completed the repast-
and for fruit they had but to reach up and
pluck delicious cherries from the branches
overhead.
A walk to the woods was proposed for
the afternoon. A mile within the forest they
came to a group of old beeches, gleaming
silver-white against the brown-leaved soil.
Here they nestled down and began to tell
stories and play games. Thus the afternoon
restfully passed by; and a simple but deli-
cious supper, with an "early to bed," sent
them to sleep with eager anticipations of
the morrow.
Monday dawned fair and bright as was
to be expected of a Constantinople spring;
and not without regret, after a hearty break-
fast, they bade farewell to this quaint hamlet
-
a bit of Poland delightfully misplaced in
Turkey.
On the homeward trip Carver stuck man-

A YESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
fully by Ayesha. Nor bashfulness nor the
pranks of his companions could separate
him from this happiness.
Once Prentice
meanly slipped into his place as Carver
stooped to pick a flower. Carver followed
in their trail until an opportunity presented
itseH for ousting Prentice. Prentice laughed
and twitted him for this -
but no derision
could today keep him from Ayesha's side.
So the way was retraversed, the pace more
and more moderating as the sun reached
its zenith and empty stomachs joined in
signalling the dinner hour. Their objective
point for luncheon was a huge tree, at
the foot of which was a spring famous in
that locality for its excellent water. Carver
led the way as he was most familiar with
the route, a slightly different one from that
by which they had come.
To his chagrin he found himseH upon a
false trail. He pushed ahead at a faster pace
to try and find the right path. Finally he
hit the trail again and rushed back to re-
direct the party. Ayesha was not in sight
and Carver continued to retrace his steps
until he met her, walking' somewhat wearily
by the side of Glover. The latter, not so

A YESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
much of a tease as Prentice, immediately
yielded his place and ran on ahead.
" Are you tired, Ayesha?"
"No," she said smiling; but her face belied
her.
"You are, I know. I'm so sorry. Won't
you take my arm over this rough place?"
Ayesha did, in fact: consent to take his
arm until a stony and uneven stretch was
passed. It seemed to Carver that the world
had been made just for this, that Ayesha
should be walking beside him supported by
his arm -
and when she withdrew it upon
reaching the smooth road again he wished
that all the rocks in the universe were piled
up before them, that he might help her
through.
When they reached the spring they found
the rest of the party all seated and luncheon
being served. Carver for the first time on
the trip sat beside Ayesha, and helped her
to chicken, to sandwiches, and to fruit-
which she ate with a good appetite. Although
naturally egoistic and inclined to be selfish,
the glow of love so warmed his heart that
had none of the luncheon fallen to his share
he would have been ~~.o~lIe
_r.~0 ~
"o\~N
.7&1l....t..'Jo1f~
l.~~ ........
3Hl.:lO
UU'3.aQlld.

A YESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
passed the food around, waited attentively
on others, and forgot himself in a true spirit
of service.
All beings crave happiness. To most people
pleasure seems to lie in getting, in acquiring,
or in satisfying some passing desire; to the
happy lover, however, whose cup of joy is
already filled to overflowing, the greatest
pleasure lies in thoughtfulness for others-
in bestowing generously, out of the exuberance
of his heart, love and kindliness to all around
him. Such was Carver's mood today. He
had a pleasant word and a cheery smile
for every one. He dropped his egoism and
escaped so completely from the prison of
self that he felt lost in the great Oneness,
a part of all the joyousness of life about him,
a brother of the birds and trees, a living,
breathing unit of the cosmic whole.
The hour's walk to the Bosphorus passed
all too soon. Carver and Ayesha conversed
on the beauty of the summer afternoon,
on the joy of exercise, of tramping in the
heart of Nature; but the great central theme
in both their minds did not come to their
lips. Only their smiles as they looked in each
other's eyes seemed to hint mysteriously,

A YESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
"We know! There is no need of speaking."
How poor, how restricted are words in
the presence of love! One may say, "I love
you "- and yet not mean it; and one may
simply look and smile and be assured. If
the eyes are the windows of the soul, revealing
in their depths translucent glories of the
indweller there,- then the lips, so mobile, so
expressive of emotion, are surely love's herald~,
announcing, though not a word is spoken,
the gentle power sweeping its way from heart
to face.
So two lovers may say as these two
did, "Isn't it a beautiful sunset!"- and
then look, not at the sunset, but in each
other's eyes and smile until they could bear
the mutual gaze no more.
At the scala Carver said farewell as he
helped Ayesha to the gangway. One last
brilliant smile and she was gone. The men
then engaged a kayik and rowed across to
Bissar. Carver said not a word -
nor did
his companions care to tease him.
The
afternoon glow upon the Bosphorus was
too beautiful to spoil with words. They
reached the little market quay, paid the
boatman and began the ascent to the college.

AYESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
When they reached it there was still a
glow of sunshine in the air -
some twenty
minutes lacking sunset.
Carver left the
others at the door and went out to stroll
alone upon the terrace. All the world was
singing. What was this transcendent light
that glowed on tree and flower and on the
flowing Bosphorus? Was it merely sun-
shine? Ah! there was more! For to the
beauty of a summer's afternoon was added
the elixir of joy and youth. And he who
gazes through love-intoxicated eyes finds
a supernatural glory over land and sea.

CHAPTER VII
THE OBSTACLE
B
UNE had come and another com-
mencement day was approaching.
Soon the school year would be
over and the teachers of the two
American colleges would be returning to
America or going to different parts of Europe
. for their summer vacations. In the former
class belonged Carver. Soon he would be
leaving Constantinople, perhaps forever. The
Saturday before commencement found him
on his way to Scutari to see Ayesha. Nothing
definite had yet been said between them.
Passionate, poetic letters from Carver had
brought sweet but modest answers -
in a
gentle handwriting which already had be-
come so dear to Carver that when he saw
that script among the pile of college mail
he never failed to tremble slightly from
excitement. He had seen Ayesha once or

7~
A YESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
twice at college functions, but never alone.
He had been content to let it rest so, until
this meeting which had been planned some
weeks ahead.
Fortunately for Carver's plans it was a
pleasant day. Instead of taking the steamer
he enjoyed a kayik to Candilli and walked
up from there. He had a small volume of
Persian poetry with him which he intended
to read to Ayesha. Half way up the hill
he sat down by the roadside, under a tree,
and while resting read a little in his book.
He opened to the introduction and hap-
pened upon a beautiful passage which de-
scribed the Sufi teaching as to love.
As he meditated over this, gazing down
dreamily at the Bosphorus and the sunlit
terraces beneath him, a new meaning seemed
to be in Nature. It became a window through
which he saw God -
a vista down the road
to paradise. He knew that Love, even such
a love as burned within him, had created
all the worlds of being and sustains them
by its breath. A dizziness almost overcame
him and he needed no intoxication of Dervish
rite or drug to feel that" Halet " which is the
goal of every mystic.

A YESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
Then he turned the leaves and read that
exquisite passage from Jami:
No heart is that which love ne'er wounded; they
Who know not lovers' pangs are soulless clay.
Turn from the world, 0 turn thy wandering feet;
Come to the world of love and find it sweet.
How joyous, how grateful to the Divine
Power that had planned all this, was Carver
that on this occasion he could bask, as it
were, both in the human and divine love.
He knew his weakness. He realized that his
heart, if lonely, could not have seen this
vision. It was ·because his soul was full of
human love that he could be so near divine;
it was because a thread of human love joined
him to a living, breathing being, it was
because the concretion of feminine loveliness
was awaiting him, that he could wander
safely in this maze of Union.
What though a hundred arts to thee be known;
Freedom from self is gained through love alone.
To worldly love thl. youthful thou~hts incline,
For earthly love will lead to love divine.
Was there ever, Carver thought, a more
joyous path to God than this the Sufis taught?
Once to his master a disciple cried:
.
"To wisdom's J>leasant path be thou my guide."
"Hast thou ne er loved?" the master answered; "learn
The ways of love and then to me return."

AYESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
Ah, he did not need to crave again for
love -
the weary search was ended. Was
he, as the poet said, "leaving the way of
wisdom for a while"? Yet such a detour
was a smiling fault, if fault it be,- and
fresh and radiant led him by love's path to
strange adventures.
After a while he left his dreams and con-
tinued his way to the college. Ayesha was
already waiting for him at the tea table,
and after a hasty cup of tea they started on
their walk. Ayesha suggested an old Turkish
cemetery on a hillside overlooking the Bos-
phorus. There, under the shadow of a cypress
tree, they reclined and looked out over the
water. No one was in sight and they had
this magic world all to themselves.
"May I read you some of these Persian
poems?" Carver asked.
Ayesha nodded. "Do! I love them."
Carver read some of the most beautiful
of them, looking up from time to time to
get fresh inspiration from her face. Ayesha
was stretched out comfortably on the grass,
her head supported on her graceful hands.
After reading awhile Carver began to dis-

AYESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
cuss with her the Sufi teaching and the mean-
ing of love. She was not so shy as when he
last had seen her, but seemed again the
frank, companionable Ayesha.
Finally Carver left the abstract and be-
came concrete. "Ayesha," he said, "I am
going to America to prepare a home. Will
you share it with me?"
He took one of her hands in his and gently
kissed it. Ayesha looked up at him sadly
and retook her hand.
"No, I cannot!"
she said.
Carver was surprised. "Why not? I will
try to make it a happy home, Ayesha -
and
my people will be proud of you. Don't you
love me?"
"Not enough to leave my country," said
Ayesha frankly. Then earnestly taking his
hand in hers, "Don't you see, Roland, I
cannot leave my poor country, which needs
our services so much. The whole purpose
of my education was to fit me to help my
people. I cannot give up that aim, which
has been so dear to me, for the sake of per-
sonal happiness,- for I think we could be
happy together, Roland."
"But can't you serve Turkey in America

A YESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
as well as here? You are a fine speaker. You
could give lectures on Turkey and help the
Americans to understand your people. You
would be a great success-dressed in Turk-
ish costume -
I know it. You lecture and
I write. Oh, Ayesha! That would be ideal.
That is what I have been dreaming of."
Ayesha smiled sadly.
"No -
I could not do it! I am needed
more here. Nothing could tempt me from
my country now, when things are changing
so fast and so much is to be done. Just think
how hard it has been for anyone to help
our poor tyrant-ridden country. But now
it is free and growing, oh, so fast! I want to
help make it a progressive, educated country."
She paused a moment, still holding his
hand with a sympathetic pressure. "I will
tell you something which you must not
tell anyone. The Minister of Education
has just asked me to help reorganize the
primary schools in Turkey." She put her
finger to her pretty lips. "Hush! Not a
word of this to anyone, will you? It's a
great secret. But you see why I cannot go
with you, don't you, dear P"
Was the Minister of Education interested

A YESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
in her in any other than a professional way P
A pang of jealousy disturbed Carver's hopes.
If he went to America he would leave behind
him he knew not what rivals. He thought
for a moment and then his face brightened.
"Well, then," he said, "I will stay here,
Ayesha; if you do not love me enough to
leave your country for me, I do love you
enough to leave my country for you. Besides,
I love Turkey, and would love to work here
at your side, if I could find anything to do.
Now it is all solved, isn't it?" and he kissed
her jubilantly,- this time, on the lips.
"Don't!" she cried, terrified. "Roland,
there is an obstacle to this, too!" and she
looked at him sadly. "Don't you know?"
Her dark eyes looked seriously, searchingly
in his.
"No."
"You do not remember the strict rules
of our religion? A Mohammedan man may
marry a Christian woman, but-" she paused.
Carver'(face turned white. "But a Chris-
tian man cannot marry a Mohammedan
woman?"
" No. They would be stoned to death if
they were found."

A YESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
"But in the new Turkey, the free, new
Turkey-"
"Religious customs do not change over-
night. It is just as impossible now as a year
ago. ,,'
"But isn't there anything we could do?"
Ayesha hesitated.
"I know there is ! You have something
in your mind -" seizing her hands and
looking eagerly in her face.
She did not answer.
"Tell me, Ayesha."
"It's nothing!"
"Then why did you hesitate? If you have
any consideration for me, tell me."
"Nothing could make such a marriage
possible, unless -"
"Unless what?"
"Unless the Christian man became Mo-
hammedan," she whispered, looking down.
There was silence for a while.
" Could he then marry?"
"Yes," she murmured, looking in his eyes
and seeing the doubt there. "But you do
not love me enough to do that! You could
not give up your religion, Roland, and I
would not ask you to. For religion, if it is

A YESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
sincere, is even nearer and dearer to one
than country, or than love. That is why I
said, there is no way out."
Nothing more was said. They sat for
some minutes looking over the Bosphorus
to the Queen of cities, golden in its sunset
glow. Tears were forming in Carver's eyes
and he turned away so as not to be seen,
and releasing his hands from Ayesha jumped
up. "I suppose we ought to be going," he
said.
They took the homeward path and as
they walked along Carver fed his soul upon
her face. If he returned to America it might
be the last time he would see her. When
they reached the gate he stopped, and as
he held her hand to say good-by, "Give me
time to think, Ayesha. Will you promise
that?" he said.
"Yes, Roland," and, as he turned to go,
"Evallah," she called, in her sweet Turkish
voice.
"Evallah "- (God
be
with you).
The beauty of this Turkish word of parting
lingered in his mind as he walked pensively
away.
Mter all, her God was the same as his.
Should the mere fact that what in French

A YESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
was called Dieu and in ancient Hebrew
J elwoah, was in Arabic called AUak -
should
that fact separate two lives? But to change
-
to renounce his Christianity for the sake
of earthly love -
would that not be 8. great
sin?
With such thoughts passed the hour's
trip from Scutari; with such thoughts were
filled the days remaining of the term. Out-
wardly the usual school work went on;
inwardly, a revolution was taking place in
Carver's soul, a battle between two forces
-
that of love, and of religion.

CHAPTER VIII
IN THE ROUMANIAN ALPS
M
T was July in the mountains, yet
the cool fragrance of the air and
the delightfUl feeling of exhilara-
tion that it gave seemed rather
to belong to an October day than to sum-
mer. After the heat and enervation of a
Constantinople spring, Carver found great
relief in this fresh, bracing climate. He loved
to stroll of an afternoon along some forest
path with book in hand; and upon reaching
a smiling mountain meadow, to sit on its
edge under the shade of pines, reading and
dreaming intermittently. His dreams were
happy -
because he soon expected Ayesha.
Strange prank of destiny -
that Carver
should be here in this little Roumanian
mountain village, instead of in America as
he had intended. When he last saw Ayesha
and she told him she would not leave her
native country, it came as a great blow to

8~
A YESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
him and upset all his plans. He had already
resigned his position at Robert College and
it seemed impossible now to be reinstated,
because a new teacher had already been
engaged to take his place. Yet to leave
Ayesha, to place between them seven thou-
sand miles of land and sea, seemed equally
impossible.
Day by day this problem weighed upon
him. At times he was on the point of going
to the president, stating his case, and asking
for any position, at any price, which would
enable him to stay,- but he was ashamed
to do this. So he saw the day of his departure
drawing nearer and nearer. His sleep became
disturbed, and he awoke each morning un-
rested, with worry so staring him in the face
that he did not heed the glorious sunshine
pouring in his windows. When he took walks
or trips with his friends he responded absently
to their conversation and found it all he could
do to keep his gloom from being openly
apparent.
It had now come to within one day of the
closing of college. Carver took a long walk
and communed with himself. A voice within
him told him to stay. He came back to

A YESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
the college glowing with the firm resolve to
stay at any cost. How soon and how mir-
aculously his resolution was to find a way!
As he went into the dining-room, a little
late for afternoon tea, he found Prentice
finishing his cup alone. Something made
him ask, "Prentice, do you want to go back
to America?" for he had heard him wish
often that his term was up.
"Do you want to stay?" asked Prentice.
"Yes."
"And I want to go. Why can't we fix it up?"
And in ten minutes they had arranged
a plan. Prentice went that evening to the
president and asked permission to resign,
with the provision that Carver stay in his
place. Prentice came back smiling, reported
favorably to Carver and began to pack his
trunks.
Carver, upon hearing the news,
looked about lovingly at his study -
the
home for two past years of his thoughts
and dreams -
greeting with joy each picture
on the walls, the sedia suggestive of many
leisure hours, and the books that smiled on
him from their shelves. Then he undressed
and went to bed, sleeping peacefully for
the first time in weeks.

A YESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
The next morning he arose bubbling with
joy. Never had sunshine seemed so glorious.
He strolled up the hill behind the college,
and rejoiced at the blue dancing Bosphorus
which he was not going to leave, after all.
As he sat under a cypress tree in the little
old Mohammedan cemetery, a brilliant idea
came to him. He had heard Ayesha speak
of Plo§na, * a village high up in the Rou-
manian Alps where she intended spending
the summer. She had described its charms,
and had he not already made plans for his
homeward trip he would have been tempted
to ask her if he could not spend the summer
there with her. Now that he had changed
his plans he determined to go to Plo§na
without saying anything to Ayesha about
it, and surprise her when she came there
in the middle of July; for if he told her she
might object to what -
in Oriental eyes-·
would entirely compromise her were it known.
Thus he could be with her more intimately
than he had ever dared to hope -
could
share with her daily the beauties of Nature,
the glory of the mountain scenery, the joy
of comradeship and communion of thought.
• Pronounced Plo,hna.

A YESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
The idea of it almost took his breath away,
-
but if he were going to dare aspire, why
not dare all things, and fight like a man for
that prize which seemed to him to be the
greatest life had to offer!
Through his friend, Miss Frazier, he found
out just where Plo§na was, and where Ayesha
was going to board. He then wrote there ask-
ing for accommodations, and not waiting for
a reply, packed and started out, trusting in
his usual luck to find a place there or near by.
After a hot day's journey through the
Roumanian plains -
which are an extension
of the great Hungarian plain -
the train
began t.o climb the steep ascent of the
mountain pass. A cool, fresh air penetrated
the compartment. Through the open windows
he could catch the noise of running waters
-
a brook that leaped its way down the
mountain side. Charming villages came to
view -
each one more ideal than the last
-
until finally, at sundown, he reached the
little station of PIO§na; and, giving his bag-
gage to a boy, allowed himself to be guided
to the Pension Plo§na, where Frau Wirthin
greeted him with a smiling welcome. Yes,
she had a place for him, not in her own house,

AYESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
but in a farmhouse near by -
and he could
eat with her guests.
After his supper -. eaten at a table in
the open air, with the mountains in their
sunset glory as a background -
Carver went
to his room to unpack. Not seeing his bed
made he returned to Frau Wirthin to find
out the cause.
"Did you bring any bedding?" she asked.
"Why, no! Is that the custom?"
"Yes, all my guests bring their own bedding.
But I will see what I can do for you."
She managed to scrape together a pillow,
two sheets, and a blanket. Visions of un-
comfortable nights filled Carver's mind with
apprehension.
One blanket would hardly
keep off the mountain cold. Just then a
German lady, a school teacher from Bu-
charest, came up upon hearing the conver-
sation and kindly offered to contribute her
steamer rug. Another lady contributed a
quilt, and so Carver found himself amply
provided.
Before retiring he could not resist, though
tired, a desire to walk a bit up the road that
passed his cottage. It was a cool, bracing
night. The stars danced glitteringly in the

A YESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
sky, as stars can only dance in mountain
atmosphere. High upon the left the wall
of mountain peaks frowned down upon fir
forests at their feet, sombre, calm, majestic.
It was a scene which Carver never forgot.
Often in after days he would shut his eyes
and retrace his steps upon this mountain
road.
A wonderful sleep followed this walk;
and in the morning the sun, peeping in at
his window, woke him up with little thrills
of delightful anticipation. Rushing to the
window he threw open the latticed sashes
and leaned out, breathing deep of the fresh
morning air -
joyous almost to ecstasy at
the sunlight sparkling on the grass and
filling with mist the northern slopes of the
mountains. He dressed quickly and walked
up the mountain path before breakfast,
exploring eagerly for nooks and corners where
he could bring his books and read. Not far
from the village the path opened out into a
forest clearing, surrounded by a wall of dark
pines and firs -
an ideal spot in which to
sit and dream. Resolving to come here often
he returned light-hearted to the pension and
ate with appetite his breakfast of black

AYESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
bread, fresh mountain butter, honey, and
coffee.
Fraulein Herder, who had lent him the
steamer rug, was also at breakfast. She
knew a little English and Carver knew a
little German, so they were soon well ac-
quainted. She offered to show him the beau-
ties of the immediate vicinity; but Carver,
making some excuse, slipped away by him-
self to his newly discovered glade, taking with
him a book and some letters of Ayesha's.
Ensconcing himself between the roots of
a gigantic pine, he leaned back in revery.
He wanted to be alone, so that he could
think of Ayesha, could dream of her, could
be with her in spirit, if not in person.
His dreams were not all pleasant, for a
conflict was going on within him,- a conflict
which had begun the last time he had seen
Ayesha and which the passing days accen-
tuated rather than relieved. His joy there-
fore at looking forward to seeing Ayesha
was not wholly unmixed with anxiety; for
to the problem, the dilemma which she
had presented to him, he could find no
solution. She would not leave her country;
he could not marry her without becoming

AYESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
a Mohammedan. The latter course he could
not bring himself to face -
yet equally futile
was the thought of leaving TUrkey and
Ayesha. Hence, this July day found him
in Plo§na waiting for Ayesha -
hovering
like the memorial moth about the candle
of his desire, whose flame allured him rest-
lessly.
He had thought over, again and again,
the idea of turning Mussulman -
but only
to reject it as impossible. Even though his
sympathies were strong for this virile Oriental
faith, he could not feel that it was right to
turn from Christianity and adopt a less lofty
religion from the sole motive of love. It
seemed, in a way, like bartering one's soul
for the sake of passion,- not so despicable,
yet not much better than changing one's
religion for the sake of business, as some
few Mohammedans were known to do in
Egypt.
Carver, though timorous, was of the stuff
that martyrs are made of. A peculiar com-
bination of tolerance and intensity in his
nature made it possible for him to admit
all the virtues of the Mohammedan religion,
yet shut him off from actual initiation into

AYESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
its fold. He was perfectly willing that Ayesha
should remain a Mohammedan; had he been
bom one he would be content at this moment
to remain Mohammedan himself; but he
could not feel justified in swapping religions,
so to speak, not for conviction's sake, but
for the gratification of desire.
.
Love to Carver had always seemed a
sacred thing. Yet he felt deep down in his
soul that ideals of religion should be more
sacred still; and that when it came to a con-
flict between love for woman and love for
God, it would be impossible for him to give
up the latter though it might be difficult for
him also to renounce the former.
That he found it indeed difficult to renounce
love -
the most wonderful, alluring and ec-
static love that had ever come into his life-
his presence here in Plo§na bore witness to.
In fact, he found it impossible to tear himself
away from Ayesha,- and so he lingered
in this mountain hamlet, playing with Des-
tiny, staking his chances on some strange
and unexpected turning of her wheel.
If he could not marry Ayesha, nothing
forbade him from loving her, from worship-
ping her, from even basking in the glory of her

A YESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
presence, -
for she was soon expected. So the
days passed by, with mountain tramps and
hours of dreaming and nights of balmy sleep;
and constantly Carver looked forward to
Ayesha's arrival, and constantly he dared not
ask just when she was to come.
It was already August, and Ayesha had
not come. Carver was getting anxious. Yet
not a word did he dare breathe -
nor make
an inquiry as to the cause of her delay-
so bashful was his love. Oue day, as some
of the guests were breakfasting, Fraulein
Herder remarked casually to Frau Weber-
"That Turkish girl is not coming, I hear."
"What Turkish girl?"
"I forget her name, Alesha -
no, Ayesha,
I think. She is quite prominent in Constan-
tinople. She was to come here for the
summer, you know.
But they say she is
betrothed to the Turkish Minister of Educa-
tion, and they will be married soon."
Carver's face became flushed. It could
not but show embarrassment, he thought.
He was glad only a few were at the table.
He buried himself in the big cup of coffee
for a moment and then jumped from the
table and walked off -
up the mountain,

9!!
A YESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
down the valley -
anywhere to get away,
to be by himself, to recover his poise and
think things out. He found a spot nestled
between high rocks, threw himself down
on the pine needles, and lay more stunned
than he had ever been before -
save when
as a child he had fallen from a high veranda
and had been carried to his room unconscious.
This, then, was Destiny's turn of the
wheel! One turn of it had settled his dilemma,
had removed his uncertainty, by sweeping
from the table in a second all the gold of
life that had so late enticed his heart and
soul.

CHAPTER IX
HELENE
•
RVER was at first very bitter
in his feelings toward Ayesha. She
had virtually promised to be his,
if love could find a way . Now
she had betrayed his love and had proved
faithless. He would not want to be married
to her if that were her real character -
the
fickleness of an Oriental breaking through
the veneer of Americanism which had so
become her. He hated her for this strange
act -
he cast her from his thoughts, or
tried to. But that was impossible. Ayesha's
face had made too deep an impression upon
his memory, as her personality and charm
had upon his heart, for him to forget her
simply because she had. forgotten him.
But had she, in fact, forgotten him? Per-
haps she was forced into this engagement.
Carver remembered vaguely hearing that
her relatives were becoming too suspiciously

A YESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
aware of her friendship for an American
young man. Was it not possible that they
had brought pressure to bear upon Ayesha -
who after all was Turkish and though in-
dependent would feel a duty to her family
-
and had hastily patched up an engagement
with one of her own race, in order to keep her
out of danger?
Carver preferred to think this. It was
less a blow to his pride. He could not believe
that those eyes which had looked into his
so lovingly were the eyes of a deceiver -
or
that she could so soon forget a love as deep
as theirs had seemed to be. Yes, it was
better to think of her as a victim to the
force of circumstance -
one with whom en-
vironment prevailed over the factors of
education, of freedom, and of love.
These were heavy days for Carver. He
kept by himself a great deal, walking upon
the mountain-side, reading, brooding over
the past while trying to forget it. An agreeable
diversion offered itself in an opportunity
to join a party of summer boarders who
were making a three days' tour of the moun-
tains on horseback. They needed a· man to
. make the excursion possible, and Carver

AYESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
was glad to join them in \he hope of forgetting
his troubles.
Early on Monday morning they started
from the pension before the stars had paled
-
six ladies, two Roumanian peasants to
see to the horses, and Carver. A morning's
climb brought them to the top of Virful cu
Dor, the peak which so grimly overshadowed
the little town of Plo§na. There they ate
luncheon and rested, looking down on the
beautiful scenery beneath them.
A long five hours' trip brought them by
evening to the summit of Omul, the highest
mountain of that district and .the end of
one chain of the Carpathians which domi-
nated the plains of Hungary at its feet.
They were hungry and tired. The Rou-
manian drivers quickly had a fire going in
the mountain shelter where they were to
pass the night, and proceeded to cook their
national dish, a sort of corn meal mush
boiled to a consistency such that it could be
cut into slices and eaten in the hand. This
with the native cheese proved more tempting
. to Carver than the sandwiches, eggs, and
cake with which they were plentifully pro-
vided. It was hot and savory, and tasted good.

AYESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
They walked out a bit after supper, and
could see the lights of Tomos, a city just
over the boundary between Roumania and
Hungary. Above them were the stars of a
majestic summer sky; did they, too, as the
lights below, suggest habitation, life, and
people? One does not feel, on mountain
peaks, the complacency of those who walk
in city streets whose artificial lights make
dim the stars. Up here the earth seems
very small, no longer the center and focus of
existence -
but more truly, as the Oriental
shepherd said, the footstool of God whose
throne is in the heavens.
With these thoughts, Carver turned in
and went to sleep.
The second day's trip carried them over
mountain plateaus and through picturesque
passes, where mountain sheep grazed in
huge Hocks. They lunched at an old monas-
tery built within a cave, whose huge pro-
portions had sheltered human life for many
hundred years. Before the fire was a gray-
bearded monk stirring corn meal in a pot.
"He speaks English," said one of the guides.
"You know English?"
asked
Carver
of him.

AYESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
"Sure!" was the ready response.
"You've been in America?" said Carver,
divining the adverb.
"Sure!"
"Where abouts?"
"Paterson, New Jersey."
He told briefly how he had migrated to
America and worked in a factory, until a
strike threw him out of work and he came
back to Roumania to turn monk and lead
a lazy existence in this strange mountainous
remoteness. Such is the kaleidoscopic quality
of life -
whose patterns change at the whim
of Destiny, ever new and unforeseen.
From here on, the journey proved monoto-
nous to Carver. He was tired and he found
little to interest him in the companionship
of his party. He had hoped to forget him-
self; yet, as Horace said of old, "black care
can also mount horseback,"- and gallop as
he would, Carver did not succeed in out-
stripping his foe. He was in a morbid con-
dition which the flaccidity, inaneness, and
asexuality of the rest of the party only ex-
aggerated. The inspiration which he was
wont to find in woman's eyes failed him in
these strange Swiss Germans -
so shy, so

AYESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
gauche, so reserving of their femininity that
they might as well have been Trappists, as
far as their conversation or their society
lending charm. to a weary mind was concerned.
Carver was greatly relieved when they
finally reached Sinaia, dismissed their guides
and horses, and took the train to Plo§na,
arriving in time for a late supper. He slept
soundly that night, at least one good result
of his trip.
The next morning when Carver came to
breakfast he saw a new face opposite him-
of delicate contour, somewhat wistful and
discontented, gray eyes looking friendlily
into his. It was a new boarder, a Fraulein
Ruppenthal from Bucharest. She seemed
lonely; she spoke French, and Carver spoke
French much better than he did German;
she was pretty, refined, rather charming, as
the Viennese run. It was inevitable that
they should get acquainted, that they should
take walks together, that they should find
enjoyment in each other's company.
Soon they were perfect comrades. They
sat together at meals; they strolled together
along the mountain paths; they sat beneath
ancient pines and read together in French

A YESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
or German. Some days she would make him
speak to her only in German; at other times
they talked in French. Carver made greater
progress in his German conversation in this
month than in all the previous years. To
speak with Helene was more inspiring than
to repeat to himself words from a phrase
book, as he had been doing.
Strange electricity of sex -like a light-
ning blast, the cause of so much disaster, yet
a power that can be directed into channels
of joy, growth, and achievement. How easy
it is to do things for one we love! How
quickly the mind responds under the in-
spiration of sex!
Once more life became joyous for Carver
and he forgot to mourn. The void was filled,
not so ecstatically, but measuredly and for
the moment adequately enough to make the
song of birds and the sparkle of mountain
sunshine delicious to his senses. But a week
before an Ishmael, a wanderer on the face
of the earth, he was now at home again, at
ease, in the world of life and joy and nature
all ab,out him -
and all because two gray
eyes looked from time to time inspiringly
into his; because a gentle voice made music

A YESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
to his ear; and a sympathizing hand pressed
his as if to say that he was not alone. For
of all things in earth or heaven, loneliness-
not of body, but of soul- was the one
thing he could not stand.
Several times they walked to Sinaia together
over a mountain path that wound delight-
fully through pine forests. In the garden of
the Cafe National they could rest and listen
to a splendid orchestra as they sipped lemon-
ade and studied the gay life about them;
for Roumanians are gay, Sinaia is their
summer capital, and the Cafe National is
the center of Sinaia life.
Once on a church festival- the birthday
of the Virgin -
they walked over to the
Royal Chapel at Sinaia to hear the service
and to catch a glimpse of the king and queen.
They were fortunate enough to secure a
place very close to where the royal pair
stood. Carver studied Carlo's face, dignified,
kingly, idealistic -
and the face of Carmen
Sylva
so motherly and sweet under its
crown of white hair; no finer couple in the
whole world, whether prince or peasant-
no couple more devoted to service, to ideals,
to humanity.

A YESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
Another time Helene took Carver to visit
the summer palace of the Princess Mary,
who was away at the time. Helene through
friends had secured a pass.
They were
shown all over this unique summer home of
royalty -
the most individual, artistic, and
homelike palace which Carver had seen in
all his travels. Instead of the monotony of
the typical palace with its reception hall,
its grande salle, its series of bedrooms with
stuffy tapestries, stately beds, trite decora-
tions and such lack of privacy that it would
seem princes must disrobe in semi-public,-
instead of all this Carver found himself
in the beautiful hallway of a modern home,
a curving staircase leading artistically to
the Hoor above, where to his astonishment
he found chambers unparalleled for their
beauty in all the residences even of royalty.
Everything in the combined anti-chamber
and study of the Princess, they were told,
had been designed by herself.
The furniture
was hand-carved from patterns made by
herself, in which the lily was the predominat-
ing motive; the decorations were all chosen per-
sonally; and on the walls and on easels about
the room were several beautiful oil paintings

A YESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
done by the Princess, who is an artist of no
little talent.
But the thing that impressed him most
was an alcove and small chapel built into
the wail, whose decorations, draperies, and
motto hand-carved in the oak panelling,
all bespoke a sweet devoutness and piety.
The Princess' bedroom was no less at-
tractive -
the expression, it seemed, of a
personality rich in culture, charm, and spirit-
uality. It was not a bare room of state, but
a room which seemed to admit one into the
intimacies of its owner's soul- so personal,
so expressive it was. Almost one felt an
intrusion.
With such trips and excursions the month
of August passed and on the first of Septem-
ber Helene regretfully -
so she said, and
Carver took it for true -left the Pension
Plo§na and returned to Bucharest to take
up her work again; but not before eliciting
from Carver a promise to see her on his
way through Bucharest a week later, when
he too was to bid farewell to the beautiful
mountains of dreams.
It was a dull week for Carver, after she
was gone. Though the sky still shone blue

A YESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
lOS
above and the grass still sparkled emerald
green beneath its morning dew, it seemed to
Carver that the joy and fragrance had· de-
parted from Nature.
Only a few days remained, however, before
Carver himself left Plo§na to return to
college. He had arranged with Helene to
meet her in Bucharest as he passed through
the Roumanian capital on his way to Con-
stanza. He reached the Little Paris, for so
Bucharest was often called, at noon and
found Helene waiting for him at the station,
happy and smiling. How pleasant was such
an arrival, where a pretty face greeted him
with welcome.
They took a carriage and drove to the
Cafe Parisien, which combined the luxurious
taste of Parisian cooking with the strange
dishes of the East. Mter dinner Helene took
him to the winter palace of Queen Carmen
Sylva, which was open to visitors at this
season. It was not as intimate and personal
as the residence of the Princess Mary which
he had visited in Sinaia, but Carver found
it more beautiful, artistic, and original than
most of the royal residences which he had
seen.

A YESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
For the evening a pleasant party had
been arranged, to meet Fraulein Herder
and Madame Therry -
whom they had
known at the Pension Plo§na -
and take
supper at the Cafe de l'Opera, an open-air
cafe where light opera was performed, a
place much frequented by the fashionable
of Bucharest.
They secured a table for four in the center
of the cafe. Carver greatly enjoyed watching,
as he ate, the people all about him,- studying
their costumes, their manners, and the little
dramas of real life which are so patent to
observing eyes in all such places. At eight
o'clock the opera commenced, the latest
thing from Vienna. It was tuneful, charm-
ing, and permeated with the light sentiment
of Viennese love. Carver sat beside 'Helene
and enjoyed listening to this music of ro-
mance and of love.
As the closing scene was sung and the
curtain fell, they rose with a sigh. Most
of the people had gone when they reached
the street and
called for a
carriage,
which they had some difficulty in getting.
The carriage reached at last Madame Therry's
door. Helene started to get out.

AYESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
"Why!" said Carver surprised -
"Are you
going to stay here?"
Helene looked at him with pale face and
eyes that drooped with love.
"Yes," she half whispered.
"Oui, oui, Monsieur Carver -
and you
are going to stay, too. No excuses now, I
insist upon it." The old lady beamed kindlily
upon him. "I love to make young people
happy. What! you hesitate? How ridiculous
of you -
no joking now, Monsieur Americano!
How foolish of you! Of course you knew you
were to stop here. Come, help us out."
Little shivers ran down Carver's back.
What was all this?
Red Hashes passed
through clouds of mist in his inner con-
sciousness. Something whispered within him,
"Here is Opportunity; we are brought to
its door. Let us go in at last." His pulse
quickened -
the blood pounded through his
veins and hammered at his temples.
But an inner angel seemed to stay him-
the angel of his past restraint. Then through
the mist he saw a vision of a pure pale face,
framed in hair of dark glory -
a face lost
to him, discarded violently from his store-
house of memory, but now reappearing.

AYESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
Something snapped within his brain. The
mist rolled away. One quick glance above
at the fair, pure stars of night -
then he
jumped from the carriage and assisted the
ladies gallantly out.
" Good-by, Helene"- he said, and took
her hand tenderly in his, holding it for a
moment. "Good-by."
A sad, divining face looked into his. Her
hand still lingered. She read his face -
she
read his mind -
and she responded, her
soul rising to meet his.
"Good-by, Roland!" she said, sadly-
looked for one long moment into his eyes.
" Good-by!" It was the last time they were
ever to meet, and both knew it.
"What! Not going to stay?" cried Madame
Therry in amazement.
Roland jumped back into the carriage.
"A la gare!"
(To tke railroad station)
he shouted to the cocher. As the horses
started, he looked back and watched. Helene
going up the steps. Her shoulders were bent
-
yet she turned and waved to him and
smiled bravely to him through her tears,
if tears there were, as if to say again in her
gentle voice, "Good-by, Roland!"

AYESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
He waved, he kissed his hand to her, he
followed her dainty form with his eyes until
the distance swallowed it up.
Half an hour later he was on the midnight
express bound for Constantinople. He felt
safer now that he was leaving Lotus Land.
He breathed a sigh of relief. His heart went
out in deep, true love to Helene -
whom he
had succeeded in loving as a comrade, nothing
more. All night he dreamed of PIQ§na, of
the beautiful mountains ranged about the
village, of walks through pine forests with
Helene -
yet, strangely enough, it was not
Helene! It was Ayesha who was with him
in his dreams!

CHAPTER X
THE THRALLS
g
ARVER'S train reached Constanza
at nine the next morning but the
.
boat for Constantinople did not sail
till two. He spent the morning
walking about the semi-Oriental town and
at noon found a delightful restaurant over-
looking the sea, where he could get his lunch.
After a fair meal -
of which a native fish
formed the "plat de jour"- as he sat smoking
and looking out over the charming bay
whose blue waters danced mistily to the far
horizon, his attention was attracted by scraps
of conversation which he overheard from a
couple at the next table. They had ordered
their meal in French, but were now speaking
English. As Carver had also spoken French
to the waiter -
unless he spoke English
he was always taken for French or Russian
-
this couple, thinking they were alone as
far as English was concerned, were quar-

AYESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
relling slightly in quite audible tones. The
talk, with its little undercurrent of complaint
yet tenderness, seemed to prove them to
be recently married -
perhaps nearing the
end of their honeymoon. She was bored and
complained of his manners; he knew she
was more cultured; in fact, that was why
he married her -
and he apologized, saying
he was somewhat out of sorts.
Carver set him down for a business man,
taking his bride with him on a trip which
combined
commerce
with travel- both
some tired and fretful, at that point in love
where friction first begins. He enjoyed always
sitting thus and analyzing people, of which
he had now a somewhat cruel opportunity
-
their intimate conversation unawares add-
ing clues to what he could discern from
physiognomy.
At last he was obliged to start for the
steamer. He wondered if they, too, were not
to take the same trip -
but he did not see
them on the boat -
and he passed the
afternoon reading on deck and went to bed
early.
The next morning he was up to see the
sunrise and the entrance to the Bosphorus,

AYESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
at that picturesque point where Jason so
narrowly escaped the closing Cyclades. As
he stood on the top deck, sighting land, he
became aware of his unknown friends of
the previous day standing near him. She
was asking questions which her husband
could ill answer, evidently not having passed
through the Bosphorus before.
Carver, knowing all the sights of the Bos-
phorus with much of its history, offered
some information which was eagerly ac-
cepted -
and he soon found himself playing
the part of guide. He pointed out the chief
things of interest,- the Giant's Mountain
at the entrance to the Bosphorus, where
Elijah is supposed to have been buried; the
ruined walls and towers built by the Genoese
in their palmy days of the fourteenth century;
the kiosk of the Khedive at Tchiboukli, its
steep winding road leading to the Polish
Farms which he had climbed many times-
once so joyously. Now to look at it made
him heavy-hearted and he turned to the
opposite coast and pointed out Buyukdere
and then Therapia, its charming water front
lined with embassies.
The Bosphorus was beautiful this morning

AYESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
as a dream of paradise, its waters reHecting
opalescent hues, its atmosphere surcharged
with misty color. The Thralls were enchanted
with the Turkish villas reaching in terraces
up the steep shores; with the quaint antique
boats they passed, rigged as the galleys of
old; with the dreamy Oriental beauty of it all.
Soon they came in sight of the towers of
Mohammed,- and as they passed the bend
at Roumeli Hissar, saw Robert .College
standing proudly on the hill, its stars and
stripes welcoming compatriots. Then they
slipped on down, past Arnaoutkeuy with
its quaint quay; past the palace of Beylerbey,
and the still more imposing palace of Dolma
Baghtcheh; until, facing the charming Serag-
lio Point and the blue open waters of the
Marmora, they came to anchor at Galata
amid a swarm of soft sea-gulls and a mad
tangle of· native boats.
In this short hour they had become fast
friends. Mr. Thrall proved to be one of
those frank, simple, warm-hearted men-
more common in the West than on the At-
lantic Coast -
who give their hearts to those
they like, and do not hesitate to show it.
They invited Carver to call at their hotel,

-
A YESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
and he in tum offered his services to show
them about the city for the three days of
their stay -
an offer which they were very
glad to accept.
They exchanged cards, and now came
the rush of disembarking. Carver helped
them at the customs, fending off the howling
mob of hamals, who hurled themselves fiercely
on strangers disembarking.
As they were
generous with their tips they were soon
through and off for the Pera Palace, taking
him in their carriage as far as Galata Bridge
where good-bys were said; then they con-
tinued on up the hill while he went to his
boat -
having arranged to call for them
that evening and show them the strange
sights of Ramazan, the only time of the
Mohammedan year when the Turks go about
after sunset.
Soon after sunset Carver called for them
at their hotel and they began their sight-
seeing.
First they went into a mosque
and saw the service -
a thing impossible
but a few months ago, before Turkey was
free. Then they went into a quaint Turkish
restaurant where they had some Turkish
refreshments and Mr. Thrall and Carver

AYESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
tried a narghileh, the famous Oriental water-
pIpe.
An Arab with a white turban indicating
his theological training, who had been sitting
near them, looked several times at the Thralls,
and on going out, stopped a moment in
passing and said something in Arabic. The
Thralls responded also in Arabic, and his
face broke into a most winning and friendly
smile as he left them. Carver was mystified.
He thought it must be some secret society,
a branch of the Masons perhaps, but he was
too polite to ask.
Next he took them to see Kara Guez,
the Turkish Punch and Judy show. Fortu-
nate for the Thralls that they knew no
Turkish, for the language of the little play
is extremely pornographic.
While they were waiting for the show to
start, something led the conversation to the
Bahai movement. Mrs. Thrall, it seems,
was a Bahai, and was on her way to Acca
to visit Abdul Baha, the head of its faith.
She told Carver something of its universal
principles,- its platform of peace, of inter-
nationalism; its opposition to racial and
religious prejudice; its declaration of the

AYESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
essential unity of all religions. Carver listened
eagerly.
"Tell me," he asked her -
"would an
American who was a Bahai think it right
to adopt Mohammedanism in order to marry
a Mohammedan?"
"Why not? AIl religions are one. This
also is of the truth. In fact, one of my best
friends, Herbert Weyland, did that very
thin "
g.
"Is that so? But could your friend con-
scientiously call himself a Mohammedan just
.
d
?"
m or er to marry
"Why not? AIl one has to do to become
a Mohammedan is to accept and repeat
before a witness their creed, 'I believe that
God is God, and that Mohammed is his
prophet.' Weyland, being a Bahai, could
easily do that, as Bahais believe in the truth
and validity of all God's messengers."
"Do they believe Mohammed was a true
prophet, then?"
"Certainly. Why, even many Christians
believe that -
Unitarians, for instance."
This made a deep impression on Carver.
"Tell me about this Bahai faith," he said,
after a pause.

A YESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
"It is a universal religion, which unites
all races and all creeds."
An idea dawned upon him. "Excuse me
for asking," he said, "but was that Arab
who spoke to you tonight a Bahai?"
"Yes."
"How remarkable! And you had never
seen him before?"
"Never."
"But how did he know you were Bahais?"
"By this ring"- and she held up her
hand on the little finger of which was a ring,
a red seal stone engraved with peculiar
markings.
"That is the name of God in ancient
Arabic," she said.
"They are the same
words with which he' greeted me. Such is
the Jove and unity of the Bahai brotherhood
that it enables me to reach the heart of these
Orientals, you see, more deeply in a few days
than you have been able to do in as many
years."
"That is wonderful. I thought it was just
one of the freak religions of the day."
"No, it is· very sane and reasonable,"
she said. "We Bahais believe it is to be the
great world religion of the future."

A YESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
Carver made up his mind that he would
investigate further this interesting move-
ment, especially as it seemed so opportunely
to fit his own problem of conflict between
love and religion.
It was long past midnight when he ushered
the Thralls back to their hotel, where he
also spent the night as it was too late for
him to get back to the college. The next
day he saw the Thralls off on the steamer
for Egypt, which they were to visit on their
way to see Abdul Baha in his prison home
at Acca.
These few days with the Thralls had proved
very pleasant to Carver, and had absorbed
his attention during the short period of
idleness before the fall term began -
a period
which otherwise might have proved full of
useless sorrow and regret for Ayesha.
They parted the best of friends, with that
cordiality which is so characteristic of
Americans, and good friends they remained
ever after; for the bond of a common love
for Constantinople unites tourists in a sort
of Masonic brotherhood.

CHAPTER XI
AUTUMN DAYS
&
ARVER had dreaded coming back
to Hissar -
the pride of a man re-
belling against condolence, against
the humiliation of defeat in love,
-
humiliation patent enough to all, for
Hissar was a small community and all
its members lived under the limelight. His
love for Ayesha had been known, and his
disappointment was of course equally known.
Yet outwardly all went on as before. No
word was said to him of this hurt which
rankled in his heart. The college work kept
him busy, and fortunately he was not thrown
in contact with Ayesha -
or he would have
had his fight to forget all for nothing. As
it was, the positive suffering had gone; he
felt resigned and cherished only a void which
no one else could fill.
In November an event happened which

A YESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
fully occupied Carver's attention and caused
him to forget, so far as one can forget, his
disappointment. This event was no other
than a strike on the part of the students
which reached formidable dimensions. It
centered about Carver himself, who in an
effort for discipline had procured the sus-
pension of three disobedient seniors. As no
junior or senior had ever been suspended
before, a general spirit of disrespect and
insubordination had grown up in the higher
classes. To break up this fatal spirit was
the purpose of Carver in establishing a prece-
dent. The new departure was met, as are
all innovations in the East, by resentment
and opposition. The whole senior class went
on a strike and were suspended in a body by
the faculty.
They remained in the city,
sending messages back and forth to the
juniors, who organized a universal strike
among the students.
Meetings were held each night in the
dormitories, fiery speeches made, plans of
violence formed in secret. Stones were thrown
through professors'
windows -
the large
lantern in the center of the court was re-
peatedly broken -
and more and more rough

A YESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
deeds took place. Some boys even armed
themselves with knives and revolvers.
The chief resentment of the students was
directed against Carver. Formerly beloved
by them and a general favorite, he now
received hisses and hoots as he passed through
their midst. As it happened, the two leaders
of the strike -
captain and lieutenant as
they were called -
had been members of a
pet club of his which had met weekly in his
room to discuss philosophy. These boys who
had been his best friends among the stu-
dents now were using all their energy and
ability against him and the college.
No greater or more valuable experience
could have happened to Carver. Nothing
is so dangerous as success, nothing so fatal
as popularity. He had enjoyed the boys'
smiles and friendship -
now he steeled him-
self to enjoy also their scowls and hatred.
He knew in embryo what is the feeling of a
ruler who ventures upon a measure which,
though needed, is offensive to the people.
He saw that to accomplish things worth while
in this world, one must get over sentiment -
one must cease to seek gratitude as a reward
for one's efforts -
one must be as ready to

AYESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
face storm and thunder as to bask in pleasant
sunshine.
Never before had Carver met hatred,
living continuously in its midst as he now
had to do, daily, for almost a month. A
quality of iron entered into his soul which
was much needed there. Never after was he
to quail at the disagreeable task as he had
always done before -
never after was, he
as sensitive as a woman to harsh words and
angry frowns.
In the midst of these events he had occasion
to call early in the evening at the house of
Professor Sturdy for some papers.
They
were still at table. As he waited in the recep-
tion room, hearing the laughter and confused
talk, a voice struck his ear which made
him turn in his chair -
a voice whose subtle,
sunshiny music had before this penetrated
and warmed his heart, but which now,
belonging to another man, turned his heart
cold and thrust knives into it. The servant
came with the message that he was to join
the dinner party for a cup of coffee; but he
excused himself and left immediately. The
sore was opened up again -
and a long tramp
in the moonlight over barren hills, which

AYESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
lU
failed to ward off a fretful sleep, was the
result.
The next few days more than ever in m.s
life, Carver longed for feminine consolation
-
for bright eyes, no matter whose, to look
into his -
for a sympathetic voice to soothe
his heart.
At last the strike was over. The seniors
were allowed back, but it was a victory for
authority and order in the college. Carver's
action had shown the students that he could
not be trifled with, and won him a respect
which he had not received from them before.
In a short time, such is the changeable nature
of Orientals, Carver and the boys became
good friends again and the college work went
on as before. It was now nearing the Christ-
mas vacation, and Carver felt the need of
getting away from the school environment
for a time and of throwing off from his mind
the anxieties and cares of the past month.
Just as the thought began to occur to him
of taking a trip to Egypt again and of visiting
Abdul Baha en route, a letter came which
settled his plans more vividly in this direc-
tion. It was from the Thralls. They described

U~ AYESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
their visit to Abdul Baha in glowing terms
and urged him to visit Acca if he had an
opportunity. Carver was so interested in
their description of the Persian leader that
he decided to go to Egypt for his Christmas
vacation and visit Acca on his way back.
The little trip would do him good and would
give him an opportunity to see one of the
world's great men, for such Abdul Baha
seemed undoubtedly to be. The president
of the college kindly extended his vacation
so as to make this journey possible.
A few days before Christmas he took
passage on the fast Roumanian line for
Egypt, and Christmas day found him in
sunny Cairo, enjoying the tropical beauty
of palms and verdant foliage in a climate
so mild that he could sit out of doors all day.
He did not stay long in Cairo, however. He
felt somewhat lonesome and blue, brooding
over Ayesha, who had been so intimately
connected with his first visit there. He
packed up and went to Port Said, from
which he took a P. and O. steamer for Haifa.

CHAPTER XII
A VISIT TO ACCA
•
HE next day but one, early in the
.
morning, the little steamer was
nearing Haifa. It was still dark
when Carver came on deck. The
stars still shone, though their tropical bril-
liancy was already paling before dawn. Over
the stem hung a beautiful crescent moon
athwart the sky, holding in its silver cup the
morning star. On the starboard, land was
already in sight, the dim outlines of Mount
Carmel coming into prominence as the pale
yellow tints of sunrise accentuated its purple
masses .
. Carver thought he had never seen any-
thing so beautiful, so peaceful, so inspiring.
It seemed a fitting prelude to a visit to one
whom so many, near and far, looked upon
as very holy. He was prepared to find in
Abdul Baha a spiritual giant. He haH hoped
even that in this Persian teacher who had

l!!4
AYESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
suffered exile and imprisonment' for his teach-
ings, he might discover the Master he had
searched for all his life and failed to find;
for in all whom he had met of great men and
of wise he had not as yet seen one in whom
he confided wholly -
whose soul was so
great, so wise, so divine as to compel a
humble trust and following.
It was half daylight when the steamer
came to anchor in the harbor of Haifa and
a small boat carried Carver ashore. He ate
breakfast at a native inn and as soon as it
seemed polite hunted up Selim, the nephew
of Abdul Baha, whose address had been given
him by Mrs. Thrall. He found that Abdul
Baha was in Acca, five miles away, in his
prison home of forty years which he was free
now to leave did he choose to do so. A
carriage was engaged and Sellm kindly went
with Carver to arrange an audience with
Abdul Baha.
The drive to Acca along the seashore, the
only route possible in the lack of roads,
was extremely beautiful.
The shore line
followed an exquisite curve of some five
miles -
on one side the sparkling amethyst
waters of the sea; on the other the Syrian

A YESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
desert and the purple peaks of the Lebanons
far away; while at the end of the curve
glistened the white roofs of Acca.
This quaint little town, for years a penal
colony of Turkey, was at last reached; the
carriage clattered over the cobblestones of
a narrow street and stopped at the entrance
to the compound set apart for Abdul Baha.
While the guide went to request an interview,
Carver was entertained at the little guard
room by a few black-bearded Persians whose
kindly smiles and warm welcome made him
feel at home.
Was he a BahaiP No, but he wished
very much to see Abdul Baha. At the mention
of this name a look of the greatest love and
devotion transfused the faces of the Persians
and one of them murmured "Inshallah,"
(God willing). They questioned him about
his nationality, his work and his religion, and
he was already feeling much at home with
them when his guide came back and beckoned
him impressively. Abdul Baha would see him
and was now awaiting him. From the guard
room he was led across the court and up a
long, narrow Hight of stone steps which
mounted to the second story.

A YESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
Abdul Baha was seated in a comer of the
divan which ran about three sides of the
simple Oriental room into which Carver
was ushered. Two tables for serving coffee
constituted the only other furniture. Yet
the room did not seem bare, for it was filled
with the living presence of a master of men.
Carver was somewhat embarrassed as to
how he should greet Abdul Baha. His guide
had prostrated himself and kissed the Mas-
ter's robe. Carver could not bring himself
to this sign of Oriental respect, nor did Abdul
Baha wait for any such attention but arose
from his couch and coming up to Carver
took him in his arms with infinite affection.
It seemed to Carver that during this embrace
a great universal love beat from the heart
of Abdul Baha into his, and he felt happy,
contented, and at peace with the world.
Abdul Baha then motioned to him to be
seated and began to speak to him of the
teachings of Baha Allah, the founder of the
Bahai movement -
his words being translated
by Selim.
"Praise God that you are here," he said.
"Is not this a miracle, that you have come
to me from the other side of the world, and

AYESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
that we can be friends? The day of hatred
and distrust is past. You are an American
and I am a Persian, but we understand each
other. We wish each other no harm. Rather
we are enkindled with the fire of love and
.
umon.
"Thank God that in this century of light
and progress all mankind shall be ushered
into the tents of nearness, all races shall
associate as brothers, and all religions become
one.
"Baha Allah said, 'Do ye know why we
have created ye from one clay? That no
one should glorify himself above the other.
Ye must be as one soul, walking with the
same feet, eating with one mouth, and
living in one land, that ye may manifest the
signs of unity and the spirit of oneness.'
"Baha Allah called the world to unity
and love and his word shall not be without
effect.
Why should countries be divided
one against the other? Why should the races
of the world hate one another? These are
animal qualities and not of God, for He
desires not hatred but love and union.
"Think how love and yearning are the
causes of progress, and hatred and separation

, ..
1!l8
A YESHA OF TIlE BOSPHORUS
the causes of ruin. Your mother, through
the power of God, loved you into being-
but the hatred of war maims and kills.
Consider, did love ever destroy? And did
hatred ever create? No, in truth, love is the
cause of all life; hatred the cause of all death.
"Reflect a little. What is it that holds
together the particles of matter? Is it not
attraction? And when that attractive force
ceases does not matter disintegrate and
perish? What is that spark of life in you
which changes meat and drink into flesh
and blood and unifies all the functions of
your body?
Does your stomach quarrel
with your mouth? Are your eyes and ears
engaged in strife? Do your legs hate each
other? No, by God they are engaged in
the greatest love and union through the
power of the spirit which pervades them.
"So should be this handful of humanity.
Men should be joined in spiritual love and
union.
They should co-operate, and not
fight the one against the other. Why do they
fight? There is enough land to feed all.
There is enough space to live and move in.
Why then do mankind fight?
.
"It is from ignorance, from prejudice,

A YESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
1!l9
from the false sense of patriotism. Baha
Allah said 'Let not a man glory in this, that
he loves his country -let him rather glory
in this, that he loves his kind.'
"These strifes and bloodshed must cease,
and all men be as one kindred and family.
It will come, praise God, through the power
of the Holy Spirit; for God has chosen this
century to be the century of divine gifts
to mankind, and His love shall pervade
mankind, as the spirit does your body, until
absolute union and harmony prevail.
"You are a seeker, or you would not have
come here to this little town of Acca. May
you be guided to the truth and grow daily
in the love of God."
Abdul Baha was now on the point of bring-
ing the interview to an end, when Carver
interrupted with an eager question which
had been in his mind ever since the Thralls
had first told him of this movement.
"What is the relation of Bahaism to Chris-
tianity?" he asked. "Does it seek to supersede
it?"
" No!" replied Abdul Baha.
"Bahaism
does not displace or supersede Christianity,
but completes it and fulfills its meaning."

A YESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
"How do you meanr"
"Is it not the teaching of Christ and the
aim of His church to establish the Kingdom
of God on earth, and to help humanity to
acquire the divine attributes of mercy and
faith and lover"
"Yes," responded Carver.
"And this was the sole aim of Baha Allah,"
continued the Master. "The Bahais seek
only to help bring the Kingdom to pass.
Their aim is not to destroy religion but to
build it up. No, praise be to God. All truth
is one. Go home, work in your church. Be
the best Christian you can and that will
be to be also a good Bahai."
Abdul Baha now showed that the interview
was over, and once more embracing Carver
dismissed him with these words: "You have
a beautiful spirit, you desire truth above
all things. Be on fire with the love of God.
These are great days. The call of the Kingdom
will soon be heard from all horizons."
As Carver left the presence of this inspired
leader, he felt a great glow and spiritual
power which seemed to flood his being with
infinite love and yearning. Was 4bdul Baha
the Master he had sought unconsciously

A YESHA OF TIlE BOSPHORUS
across the years -
the one living man who
could interpret absolutely to him truth?
The next day Carver drove back to Haifa
and was invited to the Persian guest-house
on Mount Carmel, built by one of the wealthy
Persian Bahais to entertain the pilgrims who
often travelled thousands of miles to visit
the head of their faith. At this time there
were some fifteen guests in it, Mohammedans,
Zoroastrians and Jews, who had been brought
together by the amalgamating power of the
Bahai movement. Carver thus enjoyed the
rare privilege of living for a day in true
Oriental fashion with these children of the
East.
Their house-keeping was very simple. They
ate mostly with their fingers, having few
dishes to be washed; and after lunch all
rolled themselves up in blankets and lay
down on the large sedia running round the
room, in order to take their midday siesta.
In the middle of the afternoon they began
to awake, one by one, and tea was prepared
in Persian fashion, sweetened almost to a
syrup.
As they sipped the tea they told thrilling
stories of the early heroes of their faith, men

IS!!
A YESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
who had been imprisoned in deep dungeons,
or put to death with terrible cruelty because
of their devotion to the Bahaist cause. Some
of those present had seen their parents
martyred -
some had been imprisoned for
years -
some had followed Baha Allah and
his family in their exile to Acca, suffering
exposure, hunger, and disease such as might
shake the strongest faith. Yet they spoke
of these things cheerfully, as if they were
of no consequence because of the joy that
filled their lives.
In this brief stay of two days, Carver was
very much impressed with the earnestness
and joy of living which seemed to characterize
all the followers of Abdul Baha. He felt
that there must be great spiritual power in
this movement, to command the happy and
steadfast allegiance of its devotees even in
the midst of suffering and persecution.
On the morning of his departure Abdul
Baha happened to be in Haifa and he sent
for Carver to bid him farewell. Carver was
ushered at an early hour into the Master's
bedroom; but Abdul Baha, he found, had
already been up for hours, dictating letters
and reading.

A YESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
Once more he felt himself in the warm
clasp of Abdul Baha's arms. He was then
motioned to be seated.
"Are you happy P" asked the Persian sage
as he fixed his brilliant, searching eyes upon
Carver.
"Yes," answered Carver, a little hesitat-
ingly.
"Are you very happy P"
Carver had to be honest. " No," he
answered, thinking of Ayesha.
"Do not grieve. All will come out well.
Ayesha loves you."
Carver started from his chair. How did
Abdul Baha know about his love for AyeshaP
Did he possess the power of reading minds?
It would almost seem so, from the piercing
quality of those eyes which seemed to lay
bare one's very soul.
Carver managed to stammer -
"But how
can we marry? Would it be right for me to
become a Mohammedan?"
"That is a matter which your own con-
science must solve. Some day the world will
realize the oneness of all spiritual truth."
Abdul Baha came up to Carver and patted
his cheek in a fatherly way. "But you need

AYESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
not worry about that. You will not have to
turn Mohammedan in order to marry Ayesha.
God willing, you will be happy soon."
With these words the Master gave Carver
a long farewell embrace and kissed him on
the forehead, saying, "You have a beautiful
soul. Seek only the ,,:elfare of humanity,
and all else will come to you. I see you have
a lofty destiny to fulfill. You must strive
day and night to become perfected, to reach
nearer to God, to love and serve mankind.
This is the way to be happy."
With these words he showed the visit
was at an end, and Carver. retired, carrying
with him undying faith and aspirations which
had been awakened by this great spiritual
leader. That afternoon he boarded a steamer
for Constantinople and sat watching the
white town of Acca disappear from view, the
purple peak of Mount Carmel still lingering
on the horizon with the beautiful orange
glow of sunset behind it.
Carver did not feel like eating. He retired
early to his stateroom, trying to digest his
many impressions of the last two days. The
cheering prophecy of Abdul Baha still rang in
his ears. How could Ayesha marry him when

A YESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
she was engaged to another? Yet it might
be! There was still hope. He dropped asleep
with more of happiness and spiritual up-
liftment than he had known for months.

CHAPTER XIII
THE RETURN
~
N Carver came to breakfast the
next morning he was agreeably
surprised to find opposite him at
the table Miss Frazier, of the
American College. She was just as much
surprised to see him. She was on her way
back from Jerusalem, which she had visited
with other friends. They had gone back to
Constantinople by way of Alexandria, but
having a few more days at her disposal Miss
Frazier had taken the longer way home in
order to see Beyreuth, the Lebanons, and
the coast of Asia Minor. She seemed very
glad to meet Carver and after breakfast
they went up on deck and sat there looking
out over the misty blue of the Mediterranean
toward the Lebanon mountains, which were
already coming into view.
"I haven't seen you much at our college
this winter," said Miss Frazier, whether

A YESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
mischievously or not Carver could not tell.
She must have known the reason.
"No, I have been very busy," replied
Carver, turning it off in this way. "You
know we had some difficulties at Robert
College which kept my hands full."
"Yes, I heard something about it. It
was all about you, I hear. Do tell me the
whole story. Now I can find out at first
hand."
Carver shrank from going over again this
struggle which had been hashed and rehashed,
discussed and argued about hour by hour for
so many days that he had sought this
trip to Egypt and Acca chiefly in order to .
throw the whole thing off his mind. For he
had found that talking about an unpleasant
experience simply renews the worry and
does no good. However, he was obliged for
politeness' sake to rehearse the chief details
of the strike, to which Miss Frazier listened
with the greatest interest. Then, woman-
like, she abruptly changed the subject with
a question which quite threw Carver off his
guard.
"Have you heard about Ayesha?"
Carver felt that he was blushing to the

A YESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
roots of his hair. "No," he managed to
stammer. The enchanted word with which
Solomon was wont to open solid rocks held
no more of magic charm than did this name
"Ayesha" for Carver. "What?"
"Oh, nothing much -
but her engagement
with Reshid Bey is all off. Turks are not
very steadfast, you know, not even as stead-
fast as the changeable American."
Carver felt an innuendo in this. He could
not utter the thought which was in his heart
-
that for him at least Destiny had laid a
net from whose meshes no caprice nor reason-
ing could free him. This news had flooded
his whole being with a great tide of love and
hope and dizzy expectation.
"She is very unhappy," Miss Frazier added,
looking at him sympathetically. "I think
she longs for true friendship. She has been
so educated in our American ways that I
am afraid she could not marry happily in
her own race."
"Perhaps not," said Carver, and looked in
silence over the snowy peaks of the Lebanons
into the heavenly expanse of blue beyond.
The sun shone dazzlingly on blue sparkling
waters -
the atmosphere lay like opal upon

A YESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
the distant shore. Nature, radiant, greeted
the radiance in his soul. He jumped up from
his chair, and not being able to dance for joy,
proposed to Miss Frazier a walk about the
deck. His feet had wings, but from that hour
the slow coast steamer seemed merely to
crawl through the water.
The details of the rest of the trip made
little impression on Carver. Mterwards he
recollected dimly going ashore while the
steamer lay to at Beyreuth, visiting the
Protestant College there, and taking a trip
by rail into the Lebanons. But through all
this he moved as in a dream -
and he yearned
for the days to pass that should bring him
to Constantinople and to Ayesha.
Mter Beyreuth the steamer made no
further stops going north until they reached
Smyrna. Here alarming news came to their
ears. Abdul Hamid, catching the Young
Turks unawares, had sprung a coup d'etat
upon them. For some months he had been
heavily bribing the soldiers of the Young
Turk army in Constantinople; and suddenly
putting forth the power he had been acquiring
in secret, he overturned the government,
closed the Parliament, attacked the Cabinet,

AYESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
-
killing some of the leaders of the Young
Turk party and driving the rest into flight
or concealment. The city of Constantinople
once more lay in his hands, and the Old
Turks returned to their former complacency
and graft. All who had taken part in the
movement of liberation were in great danger.
The same dread simultaneously came to
Carver and Miss Frazier.
"Ayesha!" said the latter. "What has
come of her!"
The joyous anticipations with which Carver
faced his return to Ayesha gave place to
a terrible anxiety and fear. Ayesha was a
conspicuous figure among the New Women
of Turkey. She had lectured and written
ardently in behalf of the new freedom. Noone
woman would be so singled out for punish-
ment as she. Moreover, by her utter dis-
regard of Turkish conventions and religious
prejudices she had made herself hated by the
clergy who were now, with the aid of Abdul
Hamid, all-powerful. Undoubtedly her life
was in danger.
Early the next morning, before daylight,
Carver got up and paced the deck. He could
not sleep. Finally in the ashen gray of dawn

AYESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
he saw the Marmora Islands far ahead, and
the dim coast line pointing like a ghostly
finger to the city of dreams and of tragedies.
Constantinople began to emerge rapidly from
the undistinguished distance, and the sun,
fiery red, rising like molten iron from the
sea, cast its shafts of light upon the domes
and towers of the Peerless City. Red, red
the gleams of light; and red a fitting symbol
for the blood that from the days of Con-
stantine had dyed her streets and washed
down to her Marmora. It was no longer a
city of fairy-like beauty to Carver, but a
terrible dungeon over which ruled that iron
man, Abdul Hamid.
Though he was due that morning at his
classes, his only thought was to reach Ayesha,.
if she were still alive. He helped Miss Frazier
to disembark and they took a small boat to
row them across the Bosphorus.
The city lay peaceful in its morning light.
St. Sophia sent its dome toward heaven as
unconcernedly as it had done for twelve hun-
dred years; the palace of Dolma Baghtcheh
was re:O.ected in delicate tints along the
Bosphorus; and no outward indication be-
trayed the volcanic force of the tyrant's

AYESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
power.
They had learned while landing,
from the officials on the quay, that the
American College was unharmed. That news
relieved somewhat their anxiety as they sped
swiftly through the dancing wavelets of the
Bosphorus, their kayik propelled by two
strong oarsmen.
On landing they took a carriage and drove
up the winding hill road to the college.
They reached the gate at last, and within
all seemed as usual.
"Buyurun" (Welcome), said Luka, the
Montenegrin gate-keeper; and in answer
to their anxious question whether all was
well, "Hepshi pek eyi" (Everything is weU).
They hurried up the path to the reception
hall, and found within a nervous group of
women who welcomed Miss Frazier with
more than the usual feminine gusto and
kisses. For a moment it seemed to Carver
as if he were to share in the same hearty
welcome, kisses and all; for he was the first
outside man they had seen for a week, and
the danger they had been in made even the
most bitterly misanthropic female welcome
the arrival of a man.
"How did you get here safely?"

AYESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
"Is the city safe?"
"Aren't they still shooting?"
"Did you see those twenty men hanging
on the bridge?"
This storm of questions from the excited
teachers made Carver laugh. He explained
that everything seemed peaceful as they
came through. However, terrible things had
happened, as he found out later; and there
had been such turmoil and danger that the
American College had closed its gates and
kept within its walls for a week, fearing to
go even to the near-by market.
Now that all seemed safe, with so many
female eyes upon him, he could ask only with
great embarrassment and blushing the ques-
tion which had been foremost upon his lips.
"How is Ayesha?"
"Do you want to see her?" queried the
president. "If you will wait in this little
reception room I will send her in to you."
To his surprise suppressed laughter followed
him as he was ushered into the quiet reception
room and the door was closed behind him.
Well, they could laugh at him if only Ayesha
were safe; and surely they would not laugh
if she were in danger, so Carver felt a rising

AYESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
barometer, indicating fair weather and a pos-
sible golden sunshine ahead. To see Ayesha
would be joy; to see her safe would be
miraculous; to see her perspectively his own,
-
this inchoate thought was stirring his
imagination and causing his heart to pound
at his ribs when the hall door opened and a
man came in and stood before him, dressed
in the costume of a Greek servant, with wide,
baggy trousers and short little jacket, a
large fez pulled down to the ears.
Carver got up hastily, his joy falling ter-
ribly.
He feared the servant was sent to
announce some disaster, or that Ayesha
could not see him.
He heard a silvery laugh. It came from
the Greek servant -
but it did not sound
like a man's laugh. He saw a sweet, rosy
mouth break into smiles, disclosing pearly
teeth delicate and white. He saw two dark
eyes glow luminously into his -
and he
gathered into his arms without question or
ado the fairest creature in the world. She
lay there lovingly, trustingly, abandoning
herself for the first time to a man's strong
embrace and passionate caresses. It was a
complete surrender, a capitulation made with-

A YESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
out parley -
and Carver inwardly blessed
Abdul Hamid and his friends the Old Turks
for this change of attitude.
. He remembered reading once how a girl
had accepted a much rejected suitor during
a thunder storm. In the hour of danger
woman cleaves to man -
the aggressive,
the bold, the protector. At least most women
do, and Carver thanked God that in this
respect Ayesha was like other women.
He freed her from his arms and held her
face between his hands, drinking in the
glory of her eyes, which spoke of love at last.
The veils were down. The door to the inner
chamber of her soul lay open to the one
she loved.
It seemed no time for words, nor did
Ayesha's mouth just then seem framed for
utterance; it was employed elsewise, in a
manner which lovers use, and which is
above all speech.
At last Ayesha asked mischievously, "How
do you like me in this costume?"
"Are you in disguise?"
"It is safer for me just now to be a Greek
man than a Turkish woman."
"Ayesha, have you been in danger?" and

AYESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
Carver again smothered her in his arms, in
dread at the mere thought that that body
so warm, so slender in his embrace, might
have been cold and stiff in death. The
miracle of the human body, as that of the
soul, is revealed only to lovers.
Ayesha explained that she had for some
days remained concealed in the cistern while
the college was in daily danger of being
searched. Her father's house had been ran-
sacked for her, but they had so far refrained
from disturbing the American College.
"But supposing a wave of fanaticism
should sweep over the city? Would
the"
American Hag protect you then?"
Ayesha did not answer.
"Where is the American stationnaire?
Have they not sent up bluejackets to protect
the college?"
The "Scorpion" was in Italy undergoing
repairs, as futile as most" American diplo-
macy had proved in the East.
"You must leave here, Ayesha!" Carver
said emphatically.
"Why?"
"Because you are still in danger."
"I am not afraid to die."

A YESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
"Are you not willing to live -
for me?"
She looked into his eyes tenderly and
smiled. "It would be pleasanter!" she said.
"Then let me save you. Flee from here."
"Where?"
"To America, the land of the free -
to
my home."
Ayesha looked down and seemed to be
studying the design in the carpet.
Carver grasped her by the shoulders and
lilted her face to his. "Will you?"
She looked down again, and murmured
so low that only the ear of a lover could
hear -
"Evet, effendim," which, being trans-
lated, means "Yes, my lord." And her
now lord and master drawing her face again
toward his, they sealed their promise with
a kiss so sweet, so tender, that it seemed
it must perfume all their future days.

CHAPTER XIV
THE FLIGHT
a1
VER had forgotten, in making
his plans of flight with Ayesha,
that he was not free to depart
so suddenly from Turkey. He was
pacing the deck of the little Chirket steamer
bearing him rapidly up the Bosphorus io
Bebek, intent upon packing his baggage
and fleeing with Ayesha, when for the first
time it occurred to him that he could not in
justice to his work, on such short notice,
leave the College. It would take some months
to get a teacher over from America to fill
his place. Yet his love for Ayesha came
near to overpowering every sense of duty.
Luck was in his favor. He found upon
reaching the college that one of the American
teachers from an interior mission school
was stranded in Constantinople and had
come up to Bebek that very day to look
for a position. The president was finally

AYESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
persuaded to accept Carver's resignation and
to instate the new applicant in his position.
Carver, greatly relieved, packed his things
and engaged passage for two on a French
steamer which was sailing the next day for
Marseilles.
The captain, on hearing his
story, gave him promise of protection for
Ayesha. The next step was to get her on
board in safety.
The American Embassy was turned to
for aid. They furnished a plan which seemed
to promise success, in spite of the fact that
the American College for Girls -
as Carver
now learned -
was watched day and night
by spies who lay in wait for Ayesha.
That night, which fortunately proved dark
and cloudy, Carver with two kavasses from
the Embassy crossed the Bosphorus in the
Embassy launch and took a carriage up to
the college. A half hour later Carver, ac-
companied by the two others in the uniform
of kavass, descended the steps of the college.
As they passed out of the college gate, Carver
thought he distinguished a dark form glide
away in the direction of the quay.
They entered their carriage and drove
rapidly down hill. . As they neared the quay,

AYESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
four armed horsemen suddenly barred their
path.
"NeredeP" called the leader, sternly.
"To Pera!"
"Kim sinizP" (Who are you'!)
"Americans, from the Embassy," cried one
of the kavasses.
The captain held a lantern up to each
one in turn. Upon seeing the uniforms of
the kavasses he passed them by and turned
to Carver.
"Your passport!" he demanded. Carver
took his passport from his pocket and sub-
mitted it to the Turkish officer, who scanned
it carefully and compared its description
point by point with Carver's face. He seemed
satisfied, for he returned the passport with
a grunted "Pek eyi" (All 'fight) and salut-
ing, wheeled away. A few minutes later
they were in their launch speeding over
the dark water toward "La Liberte," the
French boat lying at anchor near the quay of
Galata.
Carver breathed a sigh of relief as they
neared the black hull- but prematurely
so, for around the stern shot a Turkish
police-boat which hailed them threateningly.

A YESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
"Where are you going," asked the police
officer, as his boat came alongside the launch.
"I have important business with the
captain," answered Carver.
"You cannot go on the boat at this hour!
It is yasak."
That terrible word "yasak " (forbidden)
barred the way to all advance. When that
word was spoken by an official of the Sultan,
no pleas or threats were of avail. It might
almost be taken as the symbol of the tyrant's
rule, the word most used and most feared
during his reign of thirty-three years -
in
which there existed neither in writing nor
speech any word meaning "freedom." Just
now it seemed a dreadful word, an insuper-
able bar to success.
Carver, however, was provided for such
an emergency. "Hakim im!" he said-(J
am a doctor.) "I have been called to attend
the captain," and showed his medicine case
and a passport which had formerly belonged
to an American doctor and which some
friends had resurrected for the occasion.
Would the Turkish officer read carefully
the passport? All would be up with them
if he did -
for the passport was out of

A YESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
date and its description did not fit Carver
at all. The doctor's complexion was dark,
while Carver's was light; the doctor's eyes
brown while Carver's were blue; and worst
of all, the doctor was described as bald,
while Carver had a heavy head of hair. It
was a moment of terrible suspense.
The Turk solemnly unfolded the passport
and scanned it carefully by his lantern,
reading it line by line, and looking at Carver's
face as he read the detailed description.
"Pek eyi," he said abruptly as he handed
the passport back. He had been reading it
upside down. Thus did Turkish ignorance
save the day for Carver.
The officer waved his hand in a grudging
perllliSSlon
and
steamed
away, leaving
Carver free to moor alongside "La Liberte."
He climbed aboard the boat with one of
the kavasses, while the second one remained
in charge of the launch. Presently Carver
came down the rope ladder with his kavass,
and started for the quay.
Once more the police captain hailed him
and came alongside, looking suspiciously into
the launch to see if the same number of
people came off "La Liberte" as went aboard.

AYESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
He was there to make sure that no one left
Turkey save by daylight, and from the
customs quay alongside which the boat would
moor the next day-for it was just as diffi~
cult to leave Turkey as to enter it. Had one
of Carver's party remained on the boat it
would have been searched the next day from
bow to stern and from deck to .keel. How-
ever, he seemed satisfied and Carver with
the two kavasses was allowed to land at
the quay and drive up to the Embassy.
The next morning, half an hour before
"La Liberte" was to sail, Carver came
aboard with his baggage and his passport
properly vised for departure.
At twelve
0' clock the steamer weighed anchor and
slowly revolving with the aid of two fierce
little tugs steamed tranquilly out of the
Bosphorus and passed Seraglio Point into
the Sea of Marmora, leaving Constantinople
like a city of enchantment -
dazzlingly
beautiful with its dreamy heat-haze -
in the
caresses of its lover, the sea. Carver watched
with satisfaction the shores of the Bosphorus
drop out of sight, the minarets and towers
of Stamboul merge into the distant horizon
-
while "La Liberte~' joyously plowed the

A YESHA OF THE BOSPHOBUS
fresh foam from its bow speeding toward
home and freedom.
When the steamer cleared Smyrna, the
last Turkish port, and turned seaward for
Marseilles, a shrinking figure threw off the
disguise of captain's boy and came on deck
in the charming costume of a Turkish lady -
with veil pushed up, however, showing the
loveliness of an oval face, and a smile that
spoke of happiness. It was Ayesha.
When the two kavasses had gone to the
American College with Carver, one of them
had stayed there, giving his costume to
Ayesha, who thus disguised had been able
to reach "La Liberte" with Carver. There
she changed clothes again with the captain's
boy, who returned with Carver to the Em-
bassy in order to allay suspicion. Thanks
to careful planning and to Destiny, Ayesha
was now out of danger.
That evening a unique event took place
in the saloon of "La Liberte," a ceremony
of great interest, because it was the first
time, perhaps in the history of the world,
that an American man was to marry a Turk-
ish girl.
Ayesha had been persuaded to undergo

A YESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
this ceremony before reaching America, as
it would greatly expedite matters in their
travel. Let the virgin heart tell whether
Ayesha gave a glad consent or not; and
with what emotions, whether of trepidation
or of joy, she approached the solemn moment
of her troth to one of different race and
creed. She had put on a white gown for
the occasion, and instead of a veil a white
yashmak was draped in Turkish fashion over
her head, framing the exquisite contour of
her face.
The fellow-passengers grouped themselves
around the pair of lovers while a clergyman
who happened to be on board married them
by the Episcopal service. Those who were
privileged to witness this event have said
that it was the most romantic and appealing
wedding they had ever seen; and that no
bride ever looked as beautiful as Ayesha
did, when she smiled tenderly upon her
new-made husband and turned up to him to
be kissed a face alight with joy and Oriental
grace.
The captain gave a bridal dinner to the
pair, at which Ayesha gracefully submitted
to the name ofCarver,- a loss of identity,
-

-
A YESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
so far as name is concerned, which Turkish
brides in their own land never undergo.
Three days later, days of golden sunshine
and unrufHed joy, -they reached Naples and
k
.
th "c
." f
N
too
passage In
e
anoplC
or
ew
York. Just as they were leaving the docks
and steaming out to sea Carver opened a
paper he had bought, and read something
which made him suddenly start and exclaim,
" Well, well!"
"What is it?" asked Ayesha.
"Constantinople has been captured by
the Young Turks, and Abdul Hamid is
deposed."
They looked at each other for a moment in
silence.
"Dearest," said Carver gently, "I am
sorry! Perhaps 1 took you from your country
unfairly. Now you would be safe and free
again to serve there. Do you wish to go back?"
Ayesha gave him a look of tender love
and taking his arm led him, without saying
a word, to the bow of the boat.
"Do you see where we are going?" she
said. "It is not back to Turkey, but onward
to a new country, to your country."
"But have you no regrets?"

AYESHA OF THE BOSPHORUS
"No, dearest Roland. Can you not under-
stand that when a woman once gives her
heart to a man, she is happy to follow him
to the ends of the earth?"
"But we will still love Turkey! We can
be of service to her, even in America. I
can write, and you can lecture, as I have
. so long dreamed of our doing -
and we can
perhaps help to correct the bad impression
my people have of yours. For I love your
race, Ayesha, even as I love you."
They kissed each other and stood hand
in hand looking out to sea, dreaming of the
days that were to come.