THE BAHÁ’Í FAITH


_____________________________________________________________
_________


Emerging Global Religion





William S. Hatcher
and
J. Douglas Martin

THE BAHÁ’Í FAITH: EMERGING GLOBAL RELIGION Copyright © 1985, 1989, 1998, 2002,
2011 by William S. Hatcher and J. Douglas Martin. All rights reserved. No part of this book may be
used or reproduced in any manner whatsoever without written permission except in the case of brief
quotations embodied in critical articles and reviews.

The Bahá’í Faith was first published in 1985 by Harper and Row. An extensively revised edition,
with a new preface and additional content, was issued by Bahá’í Publishing, Wilmette, Illinois in
2002.

This digital edition is made possible by the kind permission of the copyright owners, Mrs. Judith
Hatcher and Mr. Douglas Martin.  This edition provided the copyright owners with the welcome
opportunity to correct the book’s title.


eBook version 1.0

Cover image
© Michael G. Dawes

Dedicated to the men and women who have given their lives for the Bahá’í
Faith in Iran, 1844 to the present.


This people have passed beyond the narrow straits of names, and
pitched their tents upon the shores of the sea of renunciation.
—BAHÁ’U’LLÁH

Contents

Preface
Note on the Transliteration of Persian and Arabic Names
Introduction

1. The Historical Background
2. The Bábí Faith
3. Bahá’u’lláh
4. The Succession to Leadership
5. Basic Teachings
6. God, His Manifestations, and Humankind
7. The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh
8. Administration and Laws
9. The Bahá’í Community
10. On into a New Century

Epilogue: The Challenges of Success
Appendix: Edward Granville Browne
Bibliography

Preface


In 1974, with the encouragement of the National Spiritual Assembly of the
Bahá’ís of Canada, a group of scholars and students created an association
to promote the systematic study of the Bahá’í Faith at the university level.
The group flourished, producing lectures, conferences, and a series of
publications. Today the North American Association for Bahá’í Studies,
with headquarters in Ottawa, Canada, boasts national affiliates in countries
around the world.

As the organization grew, it was recognized that none of the existing
sources would meet the need for a textbook on which courses of
undergraduate study could be based. The outcome was the commissioning
of the present work. Consequently, the authors feel a particular sense of
gratitude to the Association not only for the initiative that launched the
project, but also for the consistent support given to its realization.

Developments over the years since the book’s appearance in 1985 have lent
considerable weight to the Bahá’í interpretation of the historical process.
The accelerating changes taking place in both human consciousness and
human society as the twentieth century drew to its close were as irresistible
as they were unprecedented: on the one hand, incalculable loss of human
life, vast damage to the environment, and a debasement of moral and
spiritual standards previously unthinkable; on the other, dazzling scientific
breakthroughs, the development of immense new resources for human well-
being, and a steady proliferation of democratic institutions across the face
of the planet. Given the ever-increasing convergence between Bahá’u’lláh’s
prophetic vision and the course of world events, we felt it wise, in 1997, to
prepare a revised, updated and enlarged second edition of the original work,
thus taking the opportunity also to correct errors, oversights, and
unfortunate phrasings that had escaped the original editing process.

Throughout the successive editions and reprintings, we have benefited more
than we can say from the professional advice and support of Terry
Cassiday, Betty Fisher, and Larry Bucknell. The decision of Bahá’í
Publishing to produce the present edition is most gratifying.

The original edition benefited greatly from the contributions of Todd
Lawson of McGill University, who reviewed the chapter on historical

background, and Marion Finley at Université Laval, who handled the
transliteration of Persian and Arabic terms. Our deepest gratitude—for their
unfailing support and understanding—goes to our wives, Judith and
Elizabeth.



W. S. H.,  J. D. M.

Haifa, Israel
6 June 2002

Note on the Transliteration of Persian and Arabic Names


The system of transliterating Persian and Arabic names used in this work is
one of several such systems currently in use. It differs from the Cambridge
system primarily by its use of accents (“á” and “í”) instead of overlining
("ā" and "ī”), though there are some other differences as well

Generally speaking, we have avoided transliterating geographical names
which have either current or well-established English language forms. We
have applied this same principle to the names of persons of Oriental origin
who subsequently established themselves in the West under a particular
English language form of their name, and to names of historical figures
(e.g., Muhammad) with established English language forms. Also, names of
titles (“Shah” or “Imam”) with established English equivalents are not
transliterated unless they occur as part of a transliterated name (“Náṣiri’d-
Dín Shah”).

Two particular cases should be mentioned. First, we have avoided use of the
common “Koran” and used instead the transliterated “Qur’án,” which
appears to us a more dignified form to designate the holy book of the
Muslim faith. Second, we have used the established form “Shiah”
throughout to designate the Twelver (Imami) branch of Islam, consistently
avoiding such other hybrid forms as “Shiite” which are in current use.

In all, we have tried to achieve the greatest possible simplicity consistent
with clarity and accuracy.

Introduction


The Bahá’í Faith is the youngest of the world’s independent religions. From
its obscure beginnings in Iran during the mid-nineteenth century, it has now
spread to virtually every part of the world, has established its administrative
institutions in well over two hundred independent states and major
territories, and has embraced believers from virtually every cultural, racial,
social, and religious background.

The new faith is a distinct religion, based entirely on the teachings of its
founder, Bahá’u’lláh. It is not a cult, a reform movement or sect within any
other faith, nor merely a philosophical system. Neither does it represent an
attempt to create a new religion syncretistically by bringing together
different teachings chosen from other religions. In the words of Arnold
Toynbee:

Bahaism is an independent religion on a par with Islam, Christianity,
and the other recognized world religions. Bahaism is not a sect of some

other religion; it is a separate religion, and it has the same status as the
other recognized religions.1

This text attempts to examine a wide range of Bahá’í teachings. It will be
helpful at the outset to note the pivotal concept of the Bahá’í Faith: the
oneness of humankind. Bahá’u’lláh’s central message is that the day has
come for the unification of humanity into one global family. He asserts that
God has set in motion historical forces that are to bring about worldwide
recognition that the entire human race is a unified, distinct species. This
historical process in which, Bahá’ís believe, their faith has a central role to
play, will involve the emergence of a global civilization.

Entirely separate from this breathtaking vision, the Bahá’í Faith holds a
particular interest for students of the history of religion. This is because the
empirical data are so accessible. It would be difficult or perhaps impossible
to establish precisely the generating impulses that gave rise to the birth and
development of any of the earlier major religions of the world. An
explanation of the nature of the teachings of the Buddha, the actual events
of the life of Jesus, the era in which Zoroaster lived and the nature of his
influence, even substantiating the historical existence of “Krishna”–all
remain seemingly insoluble problems. The life and person of Muhammad

are more accessible, but even here controversy exists on many matters of
vital detail.

One of the earliest Western historians to become interested in Baha’i history
was Edward Granville Browne, a noted Cambridge orientalist.2 It was
Browne’s view that the then little-known faith afforded a unique
opportunity to examine in detail how a new and independent religion comes
into existence. He said:

for here he [the student of religion] may contemplate such personalities
as by lapse of time pass into heroes and demi-gods still unobscured by
myth and fable; he may examine by the light of concurrent and
independent testimony one of those strange outbursts of enthusiasm,
faith, fervent devotion, and indomitable heroism—or fanaticism, if you
will—which we are accustomed to associate with the earlier history of
the human race; he may witness, in a. word, the birth of a faith which
may not impossibly win a place amidst the great religions of the
world.3

The same point has been made by modern observers from outside the
Bahá’í community:

The Bábí-Bahá’í movement provides the historian of religion with
invaluable sources for studying its origin and development as with no
other religion. There are at least two reasons for this. First, the Bahá’í
Faith is the most recent religion. Other religions began hundreds or
thousands of years ago. Of the so-called eleven major, living religions
of the world, only Islam (seventh century A.D.) and Sikhism (sixteenth
century A.D.) are centuries old; the others—Hinduism, Buddhism,
Jainism, Taoism, Confucianism, Shinto, Zoroastrianism, Judaism, and
Christianity—date back thousands of years. The Bahá’í Faith
originated only in the last century (1844 A.D.), and only since 1963
has it reached possibly the last phase of its formative development,
which incidentally makes the present time most appropriate for making
a study of that development. The Bahá’í Faith is, therefore, a religion
of modern times and is naturally more accessible for study and
understanding than the older religions.4

Most recently, the intensification of the persecution of Iranian Bahá’ís by
the Islamic regime in their country has attracted international attention.
Since it is principally the religious affiliation of the victims which has
occasioned the attacks, interest has increasingly focused on the Bahá’í Faith
itself. The beliefs that distinguish Bahá’ís from Muslims, particularly, and
the sequence of historical events that has led up to the current outbreak,

have been the subject of considerable discussion in Western information
media.

The present text covers four main areas of study: (1) the history of the Bábí
and Bahá’í Faiths; (2) Bahá’u’lláh’s basic teachings; (3) the institutional
structure of the Bahá’í Faith; and (4) the development of the Bahá’í
community. An epilogue suggests some of the new challenges facing the
young religion as a consequence of the dramatic success it has enjoyed
during the more than 150 years of its growth.

The study of any religion poses special challenges. Unlike most of the
phenomena science studies, religion claims to comprehend human beings
themselves. Religion demands not only attention, but ultimately devotion
and commitment. So it is that many religious thinkers have insisted that
there is a fundamental conflict between faith and science and that the realm
of the former lies essentially beyond the explorations of the latter.

Here the Bahá’í Faith comes to the aid of those who undertake to study it.
One of the teachings of its founder, Bahá’u’lláh, is that God’s greatest gift
to humankind is reason. Bahá’ís accept that reason must be applied to all
the phenomena of existence, including those which are spiritual, and the
instrument to be used in this effort is the scientific method.5 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá,

the son of Bahá’u’lláh and the appointed interpreter of his writings, asserted
that: ‘‘Any religion that contradicts science or that is opposed to it is only
ignorance—for ignorance is the opposite of knowledge.” 6

To an unusual degree, therefore, one who studies the Bahá’í Faith finds the
subject laid open to examination. The mysteries one encounters, like those
in the physical universe, reflect no more than the recognized limitations of
human knowledge. That is to say, they do not represent assertions about the
natural world which contradict science and reason. The minimum of ritual
and the absence of a priestly elite endowed with special powers or
knowledge also afford relatively easy access to the central features of the
Bahá’í Faith.

Nevertheless, the study of religion is not paleontology. It is an examination
of living phenomena which must be penetrated, to the fullest extent
possible, not only by the mind but also by the heart, if a clear understanding
is to result. The Bahá’í Faith is a subject which represents the deepest
beliefs of some five million people, beliefs which govern the most
important decisions in human life, and for which many thousands of
Bahá’ís have accepted and are today accepting persecution and death.

The authors of the present work have sought to balance these demands of
mind and heart which the study of religion imposes on those who pursue it.

1. The Historical Background


To assert that a religion is independent of other faiths is not to argue that it
began in a religious vacuum. Buddhism emerged from a traditional Hindu
background, and only after it had crossed the Himalayas did it assume its
full character as a separate faith destined to become a major cultural force
in China, Japan, and the lands of Southeast Asia. Similarly, Jesus Christ and
his immediate followers began their mission within the context of Judaism,
and for some two centuries the movement was regarded by neighboring
peoples as a reformed branch of the parent religion. Christianity did not
appear as a separate religion with its own scriptures, laws, and institutional
and ritual forms until it had begun to attract large numbers of adherents
from the many non-Semitic races in the Mediterranean world.

The religious matrix of the Bahá’í Faith was Islam. Much as Christianity
was born out of the messianic expectations of Judaism, the religion that was
to become the Bahá’í Faith arose from eschatological tensions within Islam.

In the same way, however, the Bahá’í Faith is entirely independent of its
parent religion. The validity of this view has most recently again been
acknowledged by one of the most prolific scholars of modern Islam.
‘Allámah (an honorific meaning “very learned”) Siyyid Ṭabáṭabá’í states
categorically, “the Bábí and Bahá’í sects . . . should not in any sense be
considered as branches of Shi’ism.”7

The new faith first appeared in Persia, a predominantly Muslim country.8 It
then spread to neighboring Muslim lands in the Ottoman and Russian
Empires and to northern India. Though some early followers were of
Jewish, Christian, or Zoroastrian background, the vast majority had been
followers of Islam. Their religious ideas were drawn from the Qur’án, and
they were primarily interested in those aspects of their new belief system
that represented the fulfillment of Islamic prophecies and the interpretation
of Muslim teaching. Similarly, the Islamic clergy initially saw those who
followed the new faith as Muslim heretics.

Because of the Bahá’í Faith’s Islamic background, it is important to begin
with a consideration of the Islamic matrix out of which the Baha’i Faith
arose. Such an examination is important for a second reason as well: Islam
fits into a concept of both religious history and the relationship between
religions which is central to Bahá’í teaching. The Bahá’í Faith is perhaps

unique in that it unreservedly accepts the validity of the other great faiths.
Bahá’ís believe that Abraham, Moses, Zoroaster, the Buddha, Jesus, and
Muhammad are all equally authentic messengers of one God. The teachings
of these divine messengers are seen as paths to salvation which contribute
to the “carrying forward of an ever-advancing civilization.”9 But Bahá’ís
believe that this series of interventions by God in human history has been
progressive, each revelation from God more complete than those which
preceded it, and each preparing the way for the next. In this view, Islam, as
the most recent of the prior religions, constituted the immediate historical
preparation for the Bahá’í Faith. Not surprisingly, therefore, one finds in the
Bahá’í writings a great many Quranic terms and concepts.

Some tenets of Islam are especially important to a clear understanding of
the Bahá’í Faith. Like Muslims, Bahá’ís believe that God is One and utterly
transcendent in his essence. He “manifests” his will to humanity through the
series of messengers whom Bahá’ís call “Manifestations of God.” The
purpose of the Manifestation is to provide perfect guidance not only for the
spiritual progress of the individual believer, but also to mold society as a
whole. An important difference between the two faiths in this respect is that
while, among the existing religions, the Qur’án designates only Judaism,
Christianity, and Islam itself as divinely inspired, Bahá’ís believe that all
religions are integral parts of one divine plan:

There can be no doubt whatever that the peoples of the world, of
whatever race or religion, derive their inspiration from one heavenly
Source, and are the subjects of one God. The difference between the
ordinances under which they abide should be attributed to the varying
requirements and exigencies of the age in which they were revealed.
All of them, except a few which are the outcome of human perversity,
were ordained of God, and are a reflection of His Will and Purpose. 10

There is yet another aspect of Islam which influenced the development of
the new religion and which dictated Muslim reaction to it. Like Christianity
before it, Islam gradually divided into a number of major sects. One of the
most significant of these is the Shiah sect, which believes that it was
Muhammad’s intention that his descendants inherit the spiritual and
temporal leadership of the faithful. These chosen ones, called Imams, or
“leaders,” were believed to be endowed with unqualified infallibility in the
discharge of their related responsibilities. However, the great majority of
Muslims rejected such claims, believing that the sunna—the “way” or mode
of conduct attributed by tradition to the Prophet Muhammad—was a
sufficient guide. Those who subscribed to this latter belief became known
as Sunni.  Although Sunni Muslims vastly outnumber the Shiah today, and
are usually referred to by Western scholars as “orthodox” as opposed to the

“heterodoxy” of the Shiah, Shiah Islam has a long and respected tradition, a
tradition that only recently has become the object of serious study among a
growing group of non-Muslim scholars.11

By A.D. 661, only twenty-nine years after Muhammad’s death, power in the
Muslim world fell into the hands of the first of a series of dynastic rulers,
theoretically elected by the faithful, but in fact representing the dominance
of various powerful families. The first two of these Sunni dynasties, the
Umayyads and the Abbasids, saw the Imams as a challenge to their own
legitimacy. Consequently, according to Shiah accounts, one Imam after
another was put to death, beginning with Ḥasan and Ḥusayn, grandsons of
Muhammad. These Imams, or descendants of the Prophet, came in time to
be regarded by Shiah Islam as saints and martyrs.

Although Shiah Islam began among the Arabs, it reached its greatest
influence in Persia. From the beginning, the Persian converts to Islam were
attracted by the idea of the Imam as a divinely appointed leader. Unlike the
Arabs, the Persians possessed a long heritage of government by a divinely
appointed monarch, and the devotion that gathered around this figure in
time came to focus on the person of the Prophet’s descendants and
appointed successors.12 After centuries of oppression by Sunni caliphs, the

tradition of the Imamate eventually triumphed in Persia through the rise in
the sixteenth century of a strongly Shiah dynasty, the Safavids.

By this time, however, the line of Imams had ended. One of the features of
Iranian Shiah tradition is that, in the year 873, the twelfth and last appointed
Imam—only a child at the time—withdrew into “concealment” in order to
escape the fate of his predecessors. It is believed that he will emerge “at the
time of the end” to usher in a reign of justice throughout the world. This
eschatological tradition (doctrine of “last things”) has much in common
with the Christian expectation of the return of Christ and Mahayana
Buddhism’s promise of the advent of Maitreya Buddha, “the Buddha of
universal righteousness.” Among other titles Muslims have assigned to this
promised deliverer, the “Hidden Imam,” are Mahdi (the Guided One) and
Qá’im (He Who Will Arise–i.e., from the family of the Prophet).

For a period of sixty-nine years following his disappearance, the twelfth or
Hidden Imam was said to have communicated with his followers through a
series of deputies. These intermediaries took the title báb (gate), because
they were the only way to the Hidden Imam. There had been four bábs up to
the year 941, when the fourth one died without naming a successor.

The refusal of either the Imam or the final báb to name a successor implied
that the matter was to be left by the faithful entirely in the hands of God. In
time, a messenger or messengers of God would appear, one of whom would
be the Imam Mahdi, or Qá’im, and who would again provide a direct
channel for the Divine Will to human affairs. It was out of this tradition that
the Bahá’í religion and its forerunner, the Bábí Faith, appeared in the mid-
nineteenth century.

2. The Bábí Faith


The early nineteenth century was a period of messianic expectation in the
Islamic world as well as in the Christian world. In Persia, two influential
theologians, Shaykh Aḥmad-i-Aḥsá’í and his disciple and successor, Siyyid
Káẓim-i-Rashtí, taught a doctrine that departed radically from orthodox
Shiah belief. In addition to interpreting the Qur’án in an allegorical rather
than a literal manner, the “Shaykhís,” as their followers were known,
proclaimed that the return of the Imam Mahdi, the appointed deliverer and
successor of Muhammad, was imminent.13 Their teachings attracted
widespread interest and aroused an air of expectancy reminiscent of
contemporary Christian groups like the Millerites14 in Europe and America,
which at the same time were eagerly awaiting the return of Jesus Christ.

Before Siyyid Káẓim died in 1843, he urged his disciples to scatter in
search of the Promised One who would shortly be revealed. He pointed out
that the year, according to the Islamic calendar, was 1260 A.H., or exactly
one thousand lunar years since the disappearance of the Hidden Imam.

For one of the leading Shaykhís, a man called Mullá Ḥusayn, the search
ended abruptly in the city of Shiraz on the evening of May 23, 1844, when
he encountered a young man named Siyyid (a title referring to the
descendants of Muhammad) ‘Alí-Muḥammad, who announced that he was
the Promised One whom the Shaykhís were seeking. The claim was set
forth in a lengthy document titled Qayyúmu’l-Asmá’, which the young
Siyyid began that same night, and which became the foundation stone of the
Bábí Faith. The document identifies its author as a Messenger of God, in
the line of Jesus, Muhammad, and those who had preceded them. In
subsequent statements, Siyyid ‘Alí-Muḥammad also referred to himself by
the traditional Muslim title “Báb” (Gate), although it was apparent from the
context that he intended by this term a spiritual claim very different from
any which had previously been associated with it.15

The charm and force of the Báb’s personality, together with his
extraordinary capacity to reveal the meaning of the most abstruse passages
in the Qur’án, prompted Mullá Ḥusayn to declare his faith.16 He became the
first believer of the Bábí Faith. Within a few weeks, seventeen other seekers
accepted the Báb’s claim to be the promised messenger. He appointed these
first eighteen believers as the “Letters of the Living” and dispatched them

throughout Persia to announce that the Day of God heralded in the Qur’án
and all earlier religious scriptures had dawned.

Siyyid ‘Ali-Muhammad, who became known to history as the Báb, was
born in Shiraz on October 20, 1819, to a family of merchants.17 Both his
father and his mother were descendants of the Prophet Muhammad. The
Báb’s father died while his son was still a child and the Báb was raised by a
maternal uncle, Ḥájí Mírzá Siyyid ‘Alí, who in later years became one of
the Báb’s most devoted followers and one of the early martyrs of the new
faith. All surviving accounts agree that the Báb was an extraordinary child.
Although he received only elementary training in reading and writing, as
was customary for the minority of Persian children who received any
education at all, he exhibited an innate wisdom that astonished both his
teacher and other adults with whom he came in contact. To these qualities
of mind was added a profoundly spiritual nature. Even as a young boy he
spent long periods in meditation and prayer. On one occasion, when his
teacher protested that such lengthy devotions were not required of a child,
the Báb is reported to have said that he had been in the house of his
“Grandfather,” whom he was trying to emulate. The reference was to the
Prophet Muhammad, who was occasionally spoken of in this fashion by
those who could claim direct descent from him.

The Báb left school sometime before his thirteenth birthday, and at fifteen
years of age he joined his uncle in the family business in Shiraz. Shortly
thereafter he was sent to take over the management of the family trading
house in Búshihr. While pursuing a business career that won him a
reputation for integrity and ability, he continued his meditations, some of
which he wrote down. In the spring of 1841, he left Búshihr to undertake a
series of extended visits to various Muslim holy cities associated with the
shrines of the martyred Imams. During his visit to Karbilá, the Báb met
Siyyid Káẓim, who greeted him with a reverence and enthusiasm which the
Siyyid did not choose to explain to others, and which greatly surprised his
students. The Báb stayed briefly with the group around Siyyid Káẓim and
then returned to Iran where he married Khadíjih, the daughter of another
merchant family, to whom he was distantly related. Less than two years
later, his declaration to Mullá Ḥusayn in Shiraz took place.

The next step was publicly to proclaim the new faith. This began with a
visit by the Báb to the center of pilgrimage for the Muslim world, the twin
cities of Mecca and Medina in Arabia. On Friday, December 20, 1844,
standing with his hand on the door-ring of the Kaaba, the holiest shrine in
all the Islamic world, the Báb publicly declared: “I am that Qá’im Whose
advent you have been awaiting.” He also addressed a special “tablet,” or
letter, to the Sharíf of Mecca, guardian of the shrines, in which he made the

same claim. On neither occasion, although he was treated with respect, was
any serious attention given to his claims by the authorities of Sunni Islam.
Undeterred, the Báb set sail for Persia, where the teaching activities of the
Letters of the Living were beginning to raise a storm of excitement among
both the clergy and the general public.

To the Shiah Muslim clergy, the claims made by the Báb were not merely
heretical, but a threat to the foundations of Islam. Orthodox Islam holds that
Muhammad was the “Seal of the Prophets” and thus the bearer of God’s
final revelation to humankind until the “Day of Judgment.” Only Islam has
remained pure and undiminished because its repository, the Qur’án,
represents the authentic words uttered by the Prophet himself. From this
baseline, Muslim theology had gone on to assert that Islam contains all that
humanity will ever need until the Day of Judgment and that no further
revelation of the divine purpose could or would occur.

The Báb’s declaration of his mission was, therefore, a challenge to the
central pillar of this theological system. For the Shiah, the dominant branch
of Islam in Persia, the challenge was especially acute. Over the centuries,
Shiah dogma had accorded unlimited authority over all human affairs to the
person of the “Hidden Imam,” whose advent was to signal the Judgment
Day. Indeed, it had been argued that the shahs themselves reigned merely as

the Imam’s trustees. Accordingly, throughout Persia, mullas arose in violent
opposition to the Báb almost as soon as they heard his claim. This
opposition was greatly intensified by the Báb’s denunciation of the
prevailing ignorance and degeneracy of the clergy, which he saw as the
principal obstacle to the progress of the Persian people.

The mullas’ opposition went far beyond denunciations from the pulpit. In
nineteenth-century Persia the Shiah clergy represented a system of power
and authority parallel to that of the shah. Much of daily life was regulated
by Islamic religious law under the jurisdiction of mujtahids or doctors of
theology. In theory, the judgments of these ecclesiastical courts depended
on the support of the secular government for their enforcement. In practice,
the Shiah clergy had resources of their own by which they could compel
submission to their decrees. A leading modern authority on the subject
describes the conditions prevailing in Persia at the time the Báb announced
his mission:

Throughout most of the Qájár period, we encounter cases of mujtahids,
particularly in Isfahan and Tabriz, surrounded by what can only be
called private armies. Initially they consisted more of straightforward
brigands (lúṭí’s) than of mullas. The lúṭís, who originally formed
chivalrous brotherhoods similar to those of their counterparts, the fatí’s

in Anatolia and the Arab lands, acted to support clerical power by
defying the state and by enforcing fatvás. In return they were permitted
to engage in plunder and robbery, taking sanctuary, when threatened
with pursuit, in the refuge known as bast which mosques and
residences of the ‘ulamá provided.18

These private armies served as the spearhead of an even more powerful
resource available to the mullas. By declaring an enemy to be an infidel, the
clergy could arouse mobs of the fanatical and largely ignorant population of
towns and villages to stream into the streets in defense of what was
regarded as the one true faith. Not only heterodox groups, but even the state
itself had frequently felt the power of this clerical weapon.

Despite the growing threat from this source, the period from 1845 to 1847
witnessed a great expansion in the number of people who declared
themselves to be “Bábís,” or followers of the Báb. Indeed, this number
included many people drawn from the clergy. One of the new believers was
a brilliant and extremely influential theologian named Siyyid Yaḥyáy-i-
Dárábí, later given the name “Vaḥíd” (Unique). The Báb had been placed
under house arrest by the governor of Shiraz at the instigation of the
Muslim clergy in the area. Vaḥíd had been sent to interrogate him on behalf
of Muhammad Shah, the ruler of Persia, who had heard rumors of the new

movement and wished to secure reliable firsthand information. Not
surprisingly, upon learning of Vaḥíd’s conversion, the shah sent orders that
the Báb be brought immediately to the capital—Tehran—under escort, but
treated as an honored guest. The Báb had earlier indicated his own desire to
meet the ruler and fully explain his mission.

Unfortunately, the plan miscarried. Muhammad Shah was a weak and
vacillating man, already experiencing the later stages of an illness that
would kill him within the year. Moreover, he was completely dominated by
his prime minister, Ḥájí Mírzá Áqásí, one of the most bizarre figures in
Iranian history.19 The prime minister had been the shah’s childhood tutor
and was implicitly trusted by him. Fearing that his own influence might be
fatally undermined should the shah meet the Báb, the prime minister
ordered that the Báb be taken in great secrecy to the fortress of Máh-Kú, in
the northern province of Ádhirbayján, on the Russian frontier. The excuse
given to the shah was that the Báb’s arrival in the capital might produce a
confrontation between his followers and those of the orthodox clergy, and
could possibly lead to public disorder of the kind which was common to
this period.20

However, the prime minister, who came from Ádhirbayján, almost certainly
chose that area because he hoped that its wild Kurdish mountain people

would be totally unsympathetic to the Báb and his message. To his chagrin,
the contrary proved true. The new faith spread even to Ádhirbayján, and the
governor and other officials of the fortress of Máh-Kú were disarmed by the
captivating sincerity of their prisoner. In a final effort to contain what he
saw to be a mounting threat, Ḥájí Mírzá Áqásí had the Báb transferred from
Máh-Kú to the equally remote castle of Chihríq. The same process was
repeated and the Kurdish chieftain in charge of the fortress, Yaḥyá Khan,
became another of the Báb’s devoted admirers.

Realizing that the shah was about to die and fearing the antagonisms which
his own misrule had aroused among influential groups in Persia, Ḥájí Mírzá
Áqásí attempted to ingratiate himself with the powerful Muslim clergy who
were bitterly opposed to the Báb and who had urged a formal condemnation
of the new movement. At their urging, the prime minister ordered that the
Báb be taken to the city of Tabriz and tried before a panel of leading
ecclesiastics.

The trial took place in the summer of 1848 and by all accounts proved a
farcical event. Its only purpose, it was clear, was to humiliate the prisoner.21
The meeting ended with a decision to inflict corporal punishment on the
Báb, and he was subsequently subjected to the bastinado.22 The resulting
injuries had an unexpected result: they put the Báb in contact with the only

Westerner who has left an account of meeting him. During the course of the
infliction of the bastinado, one of the mullas struck the Báb across the face,
and an English physician, Dr. William Cormick, was asked to provide
treatment. The following is his account:

[The Báb] was a very mild and delicate-looking man, rather small in
stature and very fair for a Persian, with a melodious soft voice, which
struck me much.... In fact his whole look and deportment went far to
dispose one in his favour. Of his doctrine I heard nothing from his own
lips, although the idea was that there existed in his religion a certain
approach to Christianity. . . . Most assuredly the Musselman [sic]
fanaticism does not exist in his religion, as applied to Christians, nor is
there that restraint of females that now exists [in Islam].23

While the Báb was being held in prison his followers were experiencing
growing attacks from mobs instigated by the Shiah mullas. This raised for
them the question of self-defense. Islam, unlike Christianity, contains a
much-misunderstood doctrine of jihád (holy war), which permits the
conversion of pagan populations by force of arms. It also allows Muslims to
defend themselves when attacked, but forbids any form of aggressive
warfare and the forced conversion of other “Peoples of the Book” (i.e.,
followers of another revealed religion, generally interpreted as Jews and

Christians).24 Raised in this Muslim value system, the Bábís felt fully
justified in defending themselves and their families against the attacks of
the mullas. Some may even have expected that the Báb would reveal his
own doctrine of jihád.

If so, they were disappointed. In the Qayyúmu’l-Asmá’ the Báb reviewed in
detail the basic principles of the Quranic concept of jihád and called on his
followers to observe this governing order of the society in which they lived.
The Báb made any form of aggressive jihád contingent upon his own
approval, an approval which was not given despite the increasingly violent
character of the conflict with the Shiah clergy.

These restrictions proved to be the first step in the gradual dismantling of a
concept which had been one of the fundamental doctrines of the Islamic
religion. When the Bayán (the Exposition), the book containing the laws of
the Báb’s faith, was subsequently revealed, no jihád doctrine was included.
The Bábís were thus left free to defend themselves if attacked, but were
precluded from proclaiming the Bábí dispensation through the use of the
sword, as the Prophet Muhammad had permitted his followers to do under
the barbaric conditions prevailing in pre-Islamic Arabia. The protection and
ultimate triumph of his faith, the Báb said, were in the hands of God.

While the Báb was undergoing imprisonment and trial in northern Iran, his
following continued to grow in other parts of the country. At about the time
of his public declaration at Tabriz, a large group of leading Bábís met in the
village of Badasht. This conference proved of great significance to the
development of the Bábí Faith. One of the most prominent Bábís present
was an extraordinary woman named Qurratu’l-‘Ayn, known to Bahá’í
history as Ṭáhirih (the Pure One).

Born into a family of scholars and theologians, Ṭáhirih had become
recognized as one of the most gifted poets of Persia. To appreciate the
magnitude of this achievement, it is necessary to consider how secluded and
restricted Muslim women of this period were. Through the influence of an
uncle and a cousin who had become disciples of Shaykh Aḥmad, Ṭáhirih
came in contact with some of the early Bábís. Although she never met the
Báb, she corresponded with him, declared her faith, and was named by him
one of the Letters of the Living.

One of the primary reasons for holding the Badasht conference was to
decide on what steps might be taken to free the Báb from the castle of
Chihríq. However, the gathering was unexpectedly electrified by a daring
exposition by Ṭáhirih of some of the implications of the Báb’s message.
Some of the Bábís may have regarded the founder of their faith as a

religious reformer; others may have been confused by traditional
connotations of the term báb. Ṭáhirih explicitly clarified the implications of
the Báb’s own statements about his mission, uttered first on the night he had
declared himself to Mullá Ḥusayn: he was the long-awaited Imam Mahdi,
he who was to arise from the house of Muhammad. Thus he was a
messenger of God, the founder of a new and independent religious
dispensation. Just as early Christians had to free themselves from the laws
and ordinances of the Torah, so were the Bábís called upon to free
themselves from the requirements of the Islamic Sharí‘ah (canon law). New
social teachings had been revealed by the Báb, and it was these to which
Bábís should look for guidance.

To dramatize this exposition, Ṭáhirih appeared at one of the sessions of the
conference without the veil required by Muslim tradition. Her action, and
others like it, proved a severe test of faith for many of the more
conservative Bábís and further aroused the antagonism of orthodox
Muslims. Wild stories that the Bábís were atheists who believed in sexual
promiscuity and community of property were eagerly spread by mullas
determined to portray the movement as the enemy of both decency and
public order.25

The situation was made even more unstable in September 1848, when
Muhammad Shah finally succumbed to his many illnesses. His death
precipitated the usual period of political upheaval while the question of the
succession was being settled.26 Ḥájí Mírzá Áqásí was overthrown by his
political enemies, and the mullas took advantage of the ensuing disorder to
intensify their campaign for eradication of the Bábí heresy.

In the province of Mázindarán, a group of some three hundred Bábís, under
the leadership of Mullá Ḥusayn and the Báb’s leading disciple, a young man
named Quddús (who had accompanied the Báb on the Báb’s pilgrimage to
Mecca), found themselves besieged in a small fortress which they had
hastily erected at the isolated shrine dedicated to a Muslim saint, Shaykh
Ṭabarsí. They had enthusiastically swept through the province proclaiming
that the promised Qá’im had appeared, and called on all who heard them to
arise and follow. The local Shiah clergy had denounced them as heretics and
aroused the population of several villages to attack them. No sooner were
the Bábís penned up behind the palisade they had put together at Shaykh
Ṭabarsí than the mullas accused them of responsibility for the civil disorder
which the clergy’s own fulminations against heresy and apostasy had
aroused. In the highly charged atmosphere surrounding the struggle for
power among Muhammad Shah’s heirs, this reckless new accusation served
as a spark to gunpowder. Mírzá Taqí Khán, a man of great ability, but

ruthless and intensely suspicious, had replaced Ḥájí Mírzá Áqásí as grand
vizier. Deciding that the Bábí movement must be crushed, the new vizier
dispatched an armed force to support the efforts of the mullas and their
partisans.

The siege at Shaykh Ṭabarsí turned, however, into an occasion of
humiliation for the opponents of the Bábís. Over the following year, one
army after another, numbering finally thousands of men, was sent to
overcome the few hundred defenders of the fort, and all in turn suffered
decisive defeat. Eventually, the small garrison, which had already lost a
large percentage of its members—including Mullá Ḥusayn—was enticed to
surrender under a solemn promise, witnessed on a copy of the Qur’án, that
they would be freed. However, no sooner did they leave the protection of
the fortress than they were set upon by the besiegers. Many were killed
outright, others were tortured to death, and the remainder were stripped of
their possessions and sold into slavery. Quddús was given over into the
hands of a leading ecclesiastic of the area who had him dragged through the
streets, mutilated, and finally killed.

Similar events took place in two other major centers, Nayríz and Zanján. In
both places, armed forces of the Qájár princes came to the support of mobs
that had been stirred into a state of fanatic frenzy by the Shiah clergy, who

were determined to exterminate all the followers of the new religion. In
Nayríz, not even the fact that the Bábís were led by so prominent a figure as
Vaḥíd succeeded in calming the rage of local authorities and the aroused
and angry mob. Vaḥíd perished in the massacre that followed the capture of
the small fort in which the beleaguered Bábís had taken refuge. At Zanján,
as at Fort Shaykh Ṭabarsí, the surrender of the Bábí defenders was secured
by false pledges of peace and friendship signed and sealed on a copy of the
Qur’án, following which the prisoners were similarly massacred.

Despite some transparent attempts by various political and religious
authorities to suppress or limit public knowledge of these three
confrontations with the Bábís (Shaykh Ṭabarsí, Nayríz, and Zanján), there
were survivors of each incident who were able to give eyewitness accounts
of events. The written transcriptions of these firsthand narratives have
formed the primary sources for the historical work written several years
later by Nabíl-i-A‘ẓam.27

Scenes of violence occurred throughout the country. Advised by the mullas
that the property of the “apostates” was forfeit, many local authorities
joined in hunting down Bábís. Social position offered no protection. In the
capital of Tehran, at about the time of the massacre of Zanján, seven
prominent and highly respected leaders of the merchant and academic

communities were publicly put to death with great cruelty when they
refused to recant their newly proclaimed faith. It is indicative of the public
fury which had been aroused that one of these murdered men, Mírzá
Qurbán-‘Alí, regarded as a person of unusual saintliness, had served as
spiritual mentor to the royal family as well as to several members of the
government.28

Responsibility for the majority of these atrocities and those that were to
follow must be attributed not only to the Shiah clergy, but also to the new
prime minister, Mírzá Taqí Khán. The new ruler, Náṣiri’d-Dín Sháh, was
still a boy of sixteen; thus, once again, the monarch’s authority fell into the
hands of a chief minister. Mírzá Taqí Khán had been head of the faction that
had installed the new ruler after overcoming the partisans of two other heirs
to the throne. Concluding that his own power as well as the general stability
of the regime could be best assured by suppressing the Bábí movement, he
had collaborated in the horrors of Fort Shaykh Ṭabarsí, Nayríz and Zanján,
and also in the deaths of the “Seven Martyrs of Tehran,” as they became
known. Now he determined to strike the movement at its heart.

While the siege of Zanján was still in progress, Mírzá Taqí Khán ordered
the governor of Ádhirbayján to take the Báb to Tabriz and there conduct a
public execution.29 Mírzá Taqí Khán had no personal authority to issue such

an order, nor did he consult the other members of the government. Because
of this, the governor of Ádhirbayján, who had come to respect his captive,
refused Mírzá Taqí Khán’s order. The latter was therefore finally compelled
to send his own brother, Mírzá Ḥasan Khán, to execute the task. The Báb
was hastily taken to Tabriz, where the leading mujtahids were asked to
decide the case as a matter of religious rather than civil law. As Mírzá Taqí
Khán had anticipated, the clergy readily cooperated in signing a formal
death warrant on a charge of heresy. On July 9, 1850, in the presence of a
crowd of thousands who thronged rooftops and windows of a public square,
arrangements were made to carry out the sentence. What followed was a
most extraordinary event.

The Báb and one of his disciples were suspended by ropes against the wall
of a military barracks, and a regiment of 750 Armenian Christian troops
were drawn up to form a firing squad. The colonel of the regiment, a certain
Sám Khán, was reluctant to carry out the order of execution, which he
feared would bring down on his head the wrath of God. The Báb is reported
to have given him the following assurance: “Follow your instructions, and if
your intention be sincere, the Almighty is surely able to relieve you of your
perplexity.”30

Many eyewitnesses testified to what followed.31 The regiment was drawn
up and 750 rifles were discharged. The smoke from these muzzle-loading
rifles shrouded the square in darkness. When the smoke cleared,
incredulous onlookers saw the Báb’s companion standing unscathed beside
the wall; the Báb had vanished from sight! The ropes by which the pair had
hung had been severed by the bullets. A frenzied search ensued, and the
Báb was found unhurt in the room he had occupied the night before. He was
calmly engaged in completing his final instructions to his secretary.

The crowd was in a state of near pandemonium, and the Armenian regiment
refused to take any further part in the proceedings. Mírzá Ḥasan Khán was
faced with the real possibility that the fickle mob, which had first hailed the
Báb and then denounced him, might view his deliverance as a sign from
God and rise up in his support. A Muslim regiment was thus hastily
assembled, the Báb and his companion were once again suspended from the
wall, and a second volley was discharged. This time the bodies of the two
prisoners were riddled with bullets. The last words of the Báb to the crowd
were:

O wayward generation! Had you believed in Me every one of you
would have followed the example of this youth, who stood in rank
above most of you, and would have willingly sacrificed himself in My

path. The day will come when you will have recognized Me; that day I
shall have ceased to be with you.32

The extraordinary circumstances of the Báb’s death provided a focal point
for a new wave of interest in his message. The story spread like wildfire,
not only among the Persians, but also among the diplomats, merchants,
military advisers, and journalists who made up the substantial European
community in Persia at the time. The words of a French consular official, A.
L. M. Nicolas, suggest the impact the drama in Persia made on educated
Westerners:

This is one of the most magnificent examples of courage which
mankind has ever been able to witness, and it is also an admirable
proof of the love which our hero had for his fellow countrymen. He
sacrificed himself for mankind; he gave for it his body and his soul, he
suffered for it hardships, insults, indignities, torture and martyrdom. He
sealed with his blood the pact of universal brotherhood, and like Jesus
he gave his life in order to herald the reign of concord, justice and love
for one’s fellow men.33

For the Bábí community, however, the effect of the Báb’s death, occurring
so soon after the extermination of most of the faith’s leaders, including the

majority of the Letters of the Living, was a devastating blow. It deprived the
community of the leadership it needed, not only to endure the intensifying
persecutions it was experiencing, but also to maintain the integrity of the
standards of behavior taught by the Báb.

The Bábís had continuously emphasized that their sole concern was to
proclaim the new spiritual and social teachings revealed by the Báb. At the
same time, because their basic religious attitudes and ideas were built upon
the foundations of their Islamic background, they believed they had every
right to defend themselves and their families, provided they did not engage
in aggression to secure their religious ends. Once the guiding hands of those
who understood the Báb’s message were withdrawn by the brutal repression
exercised by Mírzá Taqí Khán, it was predictable that volatile elements
among the Bábís might prove unable to maintain the original discipline.

This proved to be the case when on August 15, 1852, two Bábí youths,
obsessed by the sufferings they had witnessed and driven to despair by the
attitude of the authorities, fired a pistol at the shah. The king escaped
serious injury because the pistol was loaded only with birdshot, but the
attempt on the monarch’s life triggered a new wave of persecutions on a
scale far surpassing anything the country had yet witnessed. A reign of
terror ensued.

One account has been left by Captain Alfred von Goumöens, an Austrian
military attaché in the shah’s employ. Horrified by the cruelties he was
compelled to witness, he tendered his resignation and subsequently wrote in
a letter published in a Viennese newspaper, the following:

Follow me, my friend, you who lay claim to a heart and European
ethics, follow me to the unhappy ones who, with gouged-out eyes,
must eat, on the scene of the deed, without any sauce, their own
amputated ears; or whose teeth are torn out with inhuman violence by
the hand of the executioner; or whose bare skulls are simply crushed
by blows from a hammer; or where the bazaar is illuminated with
unhappy victims, because on right and left the people dig deep holes in
their breasts and shoulders, and insert burning wicks in the wounds. I
saw some dragged in chains through the bazaar, preceded by a military
band, in whom these wicks had burned so deep that now the fat
flickered convulsively in the wound like a newly extinguished lamp.
Not seldom it happens that the unwearying ingenuity of the Oriental
leads to fresh tortures. They will skin the soles of the Bábí’s feet, soak
the wounds in boiling oil, shoe the foot like the hoof of a horse, and
compel the victim to run. No cry escaped from the victim’s breast; the
torment is endured in dark silence by the numbed sensation of the

fanatic; now he must run; the body cannot endure what the soul has
endured; he falls. Give him the coup de grȃce! Put him out of his pain!
No! The executioner swings the whip, and—I myself have had to
witness it—the unhappy victim of hundredfold tortures runs! This is
the beginning of the end. As for the end itself, they hang the scorched
and perforated bodies by their hands and feet to a tree head
downwards, and now every Persian may try his marksmanship to his
heart’s content from a fixed but not too proximate distance on the
noble quarry placed at his disposal. I saw corpses torn by nearly one
hundred and fifty bullets.34

The most prominent victim of the new persecutions was the poetess Ṭáhirih,
who for some time had been kept under house arrest. One of the features of
the new age, which she proclaimed the revelation of the Báb would bring
about, was the removal of the restrictions that kept women in a position of
inferiority. Advised that she had been condemned to death, Ṭáhirih said to
her jailer: “You can kill me as soon as you like, but you cannot stop the
emancipation of women.”35

Thus ended what Bahá’ís call “the Dispensation of the Báb,” the first phase
of Bahá’í history. For a brief period, the whole of Persia had hovered on the
brink of sweeping social change. Had the Báb entertained designs to seize

political power, as his enemies imputed, few doubted that he could have
established himself as master of the country. The extraordinary ability of his
leading followers, the demonstrated susceptibility of the public to a new
religious message, the demoralization and factionalism rife amongst both
civil and ecclesiastical leadership, and the temporary period of civil
disorder which accompanied the final illness and death of Muhammad
Shah, combined to create a situation in which the Báb would have merely
had to take advantage of the offers of help so urgently pressed upon him.

Late in 1846, the governor-general of Isfahan, Manúchihr Khán, one of the
most powerful men in the kingdom, had offered the Báb the full resources
of his army and vast wealth, urging a march on Tehran and confrontation
with both the clergy and the shah. Such an action would have been entirely
justified under Shiah belief. The fundamental principle underlying the
Persian monarchy was that the shah served merely as a regent who held the
kingdom in trust for the Imam Mahdi. Since the central claim of the Báb
was that he was this long-awaited spiritual authority, and since some of the
finest minds and spirits of the kingdom accepted him as such, fidelity to
Shiah teaching would have required that Muhammad Shah and Náṣiri’d-Dín
Sháh examine his claims with utmost respect and care. That they did not do
so was the result only of the intervention of religious and political leaders,

who feared that the Báb would threaten the authority which their positions
conferred upon them.

By refusing to force the issue, even at the cost of his own life, the Báb gave
conclusive evidence of the peaceable character of his mission and his
complete reliance on the spiritual forces which he had said from the
beginning were his sole support.

What were the teachings which provoked so violent a reaction and for
which the Báb and so many thousands of others willingly gave their lives?
The answer is far from simple. Because the Báb’s message related so
specifically to the theological concerns of Shiah Islam, it is very difficult
for Western minds to grasp many of the issues with which his writings deal.
Indeed, an important reason for the success which the Báb experienced in
converting distinguished theologians and a host of young seminarians was
his apparently effortless mastery of the most abstruse and controversial
questions of Islamic jurisprudence, prophecy, and belief.

It seemed to his hearers extraordinary that a young man, little versed in
fields of learning which were the primary preoccupation of the Persian
intellectual class, should so easily be able to confound venerable
theologians who spent their lives at this study and established their public

careers on it. Early historical accounts by Bábís draw extensively on the
details of these elucidations and the effects which they produced on
listeners. For the European or North American reader, these subjects often
appear quite obscure.36

Despite this mastery, the Báb did not encourage the pursuit of such learning
by the scholars, clergy, and seminarians who joined his cause. His reasons
can perhaps best be appreciated by noting the assessment of Shiah
theological studies expressed by the British orientalist Edward Granville
Browne. Browne has described the treatises, commentaries, super-
commentaries, and notes that passed for intellectual activity in nineteenth-
century Persia as unreadable “rubbish,” whose very existence serious
scholars “must deplore,” adding that his opinion was shared by leading
thinkers in Islam:

Shaykh Muḥammad ‘Abduh late Grand Muftí of Egypt and Chancellor
of the University of al-Azhar, than whom perhaps no more enlightened
thinker and no more enthusiastic lover of the Arabic language and
literature has been produced by Islam in modern times, used to say that
all this stuff should be burned, since it merely cumbered book shelves,
bred maggots and obscured sound knowledge. This was the view of a

great and learned Muhammadan theologian, so we need not scruple to
adopt it....37

These views had already been strongly expressed by the Báb. His principal
book, the Bayán, envisioned a time when Persia’s accumulated legacy of
misspent energy would be entirely destroyed and the intellectual capacities
of its people liberated from superstition. He spoke of a coming age in which
entirely new fields of scholarship and science would emerge and in which
the knowledge of even young children would far surpass the learning
current in his own time.38

Far more interesting than his extensive theological commentaries, therefore,
was the Báb’s social message. Among the important differences between
Islam and Christianity is the emphasis the former places on revelation as the
guide to the detailed organization of society. The Qur’án envisioned the
establishment of a fully Muslim society. Muhammad took the first step in
this direction when he established the first Muslim state in the city of
Medina. It is no doubt significant that, whereas the Christian calendar
begins with the supposed date of the birth of Jesus, the Islamic calendar
dates from the Hijrah and the establishment of the Muslim state in Medina.
Far from rendering unto Caesar “the things that are Caesar’s,” Islamic
teaching contains a wide range of moral instruction relating to the state’s

administration of human affairs. Shiah Muslims fully expected that, when
the Imam Mahdi appeared, he would not only open the way to salvation for
the individual soul, but would reaffirm the concept of a “nation summoning
mankind unto righteousness.”39

It is against this background that the Báb’s message must be understood.
The minds and hearts of his hearers were locked in a mental world that had
changed little from medieval times, except to become more obscurantist,
isolated, and fatalistic.40 The Báb’s way of overcoming this problem was to
create the concept of an entirely new society, one that retained a large
measure of cultural and religious elements familiar to his hearers, but
which, as events were to show, could arouse powerful new motivation. He
called upon the shah and the people of Persia to follow him in the
establishment of this society. During the brief period still left him, he
elaborated a system of laws for the conduct of public affairs; for the
maintenance of peace and public order; for the direction of economic
activity; for such social institutions as marriage, divorce, and inheritance;
and for the relationship between the Bábí state and other nations. Prayers,
meditations, moral precepts, and prophetic guidance were revealed for the
individual believer. These teachings have been described by a Bahá’í
historian as intentionally “rigid, complex and severe.” Their aim was to

effect a break with the believers’ Muslim frame of reference and to
mobilize them for a unique role in human history.41

This role was the theme that runs through every chapter of the Bayán and
for which the spiritual and social transformation of Persia was intended to
serve as a prelude. The Báb proclaimed that the central purpose of his
mission was to prepare for the coming of the universal Manifestation of
God. The Báb referred to this promised deliverer as “He Whom God Will
Make Manifest.” The Báb himself, although an independent messenger of
God in the line of Moses, Jesus, and Muhammad, was the herald of the one
whom all the religions of the world were awaiting. The term Báb had far
greater implications in the new revelation than any it held in Islam; the Báb
was the “gateway” to the Manifestation of God whose message would be
carried throughout the world.

Passages of the Bayán and other writings of the Báb deal at length with this
central subject. They make it clear that the Báb saw his religious
dispensation as a purely transitional one. When the Promised One appeared,
he would reveal the teachings for the coming age and would decide what, if
any, part of the Bábí system was to be retained:

A thousand perusals of the Bayán cannot equal the perusal of a single
verse to be revealed by “Him Whom God shall make manifest.” ...
Today the Bayán is in the stage of seed; at the beginning of the
manifestation of “Him Whom God shall make manifest” its ultimate
perfection will become apparent. ... The Bayán deriveth all its glory
from “Him Whom God shall make manifest.”42

The Báb refused to state precisely when the Promised One would appear,
but indicated that it would be very soon. Several of his followers were
informed that they would see with their own eyes him whom God shall
make manifest and have the privilege of serving him. The Bayán and other
writings contain cryptic references to “the year nine” and “the year
nineteen.” Moreover, the Báb categorically stated that no one could falsely
claim to be he whom God shall make manifest, and succeed in such a
pretension. The Bábís were warned not to oppose anyone who advanced
such a claim, but rather to hold their peace so that God might accomplish
his own will in the matter. To the faithful and distinguished Vaḥíd, for
example, the Báb wrote:

By the righteousness of Him Whose power causeth the seed to
germinate and Who breatheth the spirit of Life into all things, were I to
be assured that in the day of His manifestation thou wilt deny Him, I

would unhesitatingly disown thee and repudiate thy faith. . . . If, on the
other hand, I be told that a Christian, who beareth no allegiance to My
Faith, will believe in Him, the same will I regard as the apple of Mine
Eye.”43

The Bábí state, therefore, had it come into existence, was to have served
chiefly as a receptive agent for the message of the Promised One to come
and for its rapid diffusion throughout the world. The martyrdoms of the Báb
and the majority of his closest disciples, together with the massacre of
several thousands of his followers, aborted this vision before it could be
realized. Indeed, by 1852, the Báb’s mission appeared to have ended in
failure, and his faith hovered on the verge of extinction.44

3. Bahá’u’lláh


Prominent among the handful of Bábí leaders who escaped the massacres of
1848-1853 was a nobleman named Mírzá Ḥusayn ‘Alí.45 His family, from
among Persia’s oldest landed gentry, held extensive estates in the area of
Núr in the province of Mázindarán.46 Mírzá Ḥusayn ‘Ali was one of the
first of those to declare his faith in the Báb, in 1844, when Mullá Ḥusayn
delivered a message from the Báb at the family’s mansion in Tehran. From
Mullá Ḥusayn’s account of the incident, it is clear that he had sought out
Mírzá Ḥusayn ‘Ali on special instructions from the Báb. Indeed, the Báb
delayed a long-planned pilgrimage to Mecca, where he publicly announced
his mission for the first time, until he received Mullá Ḥusayn’s letter
advising him of the outcome of his visit to Mírzá Ḥusayn ‘Ali. Four
brothers of the convert followed him into the new faith, including a younger
half-brother named Mírzá Yaḥyá. Since the vast majority of the Báb’s
followers were drawn from the ecclesiastical, merchant, and peasant
classes, the conversion of members of an influential family from the
governing caste was a significant development.

For the first three to four years, the social position of Mírzá Ḥusayn ‘Ali,
who became an active teacher of the new faith, shielded him to some extent
from the physical attacks his coreligionists were experiencing.  His
activities were also protected by a reputation for personal integrity highly
unusual in government circles of his day, where bribery was a national
institution and all advancement depended upon it. For several generations,
members of his family had held positions of considerable political
influence. His father, Mírzá ‘Abbás, had been chief minister for the
province of Mázindarán. Born on November 12, 1817, Mírzá Ḥusayn ‘Ali
was only twenty-two at the time of his father’s death in 1839, but had
nonetheless been offered his father’s post in the government. To the
astonishment of his family and associates, he declined this lucrative
appointment. Instead, for the next several years he devoted his efforts to
management of the family’s estates, raising and training the younger
members of the family, and to a wide range of charities, which earned him
the popular title of “Father of the Poor” from the people of the region.

Upon becoming a follower of the Báb at the age of twenty-seven, Mírzá
Ḥusayn ‘Ali threw himself energetically into the affairs of the young faith,
which was beginning to experience the first tremors of the persecutions that
were to follow. He traveled widely, was responsible for the conversion of a

significant number of people of ability, including some of his own relatives,
and provided financial support for much of the Bábí teaching activity in
various parts of the country.

Very early after his declaration of faith, Mírzá Ḥusayn ‘Ali entered into a
correspondence with the Báb, which lasted until the Báb’s execution in
1850. Through this correspondence and through intimate association with
such leading Bábís as Vaḥíd, Quddús, Mullá Ḥusayn, and Ṭáhirih, he was
increasingly looked to by his fellow believers as a guide in their
understanding of their faith’s teachings. Mírzá Ḥusayn ‘Ali’s influence as a
Bábí leader culminated with the conference of Badasht in 1848, which he
personally organized and indirectly guided. The conference dramatically
revealed the revolutionary scope of the Báb’s teachings.47

A second occurrence that took place at Badasht would also have far-
reaching significance. In recognition of the new Day of God that had
dawned, Mírzá Ḥusayn ‘Alí conferred upon each of the eighty-one
participants a new name related to that individual’s particular spiritual
qualities. It was at Badasht that the great poetess of Qazvín, Qurratu’l-‘Ayn,
was given the name Ṭáhirih (the Pure One), an act which silenced those
who objected to her appearing in the meeting unveiled. For himself, Mírzá
Ḥusayn ‘Alí chose the title Bahá (Splendor, or Glory). Shortly after the

conference ended, his authority to confer such designations was endorsed
when the Báb wrote a series of letters to the Badasht participants, in which
he formally addressed each by the name given by Mírzá Ḥusayn ‘Alí at the
conference. To Bahá, the Báb sent an extraordinary document penned by his
own hand in the form of a star. It contained over three hundred brief verses,
all consisting of derivatives of the word “Bahá,” including the title
Bahá’u’lláh, “Glory of God.”

The art of calligraphy was a particularly prized cultural attainment of
Persian men of letters, and the manuscript in question was regarded as a
masterpiece which no trained calligraphist could equal—“so fine and
intricate,” in the words of one writer, “that viewed at a distance, the writing
appeared as a single wash of ink on the paper.”48 It was by the name
Bahá’u’lláh that Mírzá Ḥusayn ‘Alí became known to his Bábí associates
and to history.

New waves of violence were aroused as a result of the conference at
Badasht, and its aftermath created a situation in which no member of the
new faith was immune from attack. When Bahá’u’lláh intervened to protect
Ṭáhirih and some of her companions who had been arrested following the
conference, he was himself imprisoned and bastinadoed. He suffered the
same abuse some time later, when he was again arrested while en route to

meet Quddús and Mullá Ḥusayn at Shaykh Ṭabarsí. While at liberty, he
made repeated efforts to convince friends and relatives in positions of
authority (who remonstrated with him concerning his activities) that the
Bábís were both peaceful and law-abiding. He warned these officials that if
the government did not carry out its responsibility to check the persecutions
the clergy were inciting, the kingdom would find itself thrown into mass
violence and public disorder.

The warning proved all too accurate with the attempt on the life of the shah
by two young Bábís in the summer of 1852. Along with other prominent
Bábís, Bahá’u’lláh was arrested, taken to Tehran, and incarcerated in a
notorious prison known as the “Síyáh-Chál” (Black Pit). It is described as
“a subterranean dungeon in Tehran—an abominable pit that had once
served as a reservoir of water for one of the public baths of the city.”49

Bahá’u’lláh spent four months in the Síyáh-Chál, during which time the
anti-Bábí conflagration raged throughout Persia. The prisoners in the Síyáh-
Chál lived under threat of imminent death. Each day the executioners would
descend the steps, select a victim, and conduct him to execution. Several of
the condemned were murdered on the spot. In some instances, a hammer
and peg were used to drive a heavy wooden gag down the throat of the

victim, whose body might then be left lying for hours or days, chained to
those still alive.

One of the victims from the Síyáh-Chál, whose stories have become
immortalized in Bahá’í history, was a young man named Sulaymán Khán, a
former cavalier in the imperial army. Fearing no danger, Sulaymán Khán
had already risked his life to recover the remains of the Báb, which had
been left on the edge of a moat following his execution in Tabriz. When his
own turn came to die, the executioners dug a number of holes in Sulaymán
Khán’s body with sharp knives and inserted in each a lighted candle. In this
manner he was led through the streets to his death. Persian culture prized
nothing so highly as style, and it is a testimony to the combination of
spiritual exaltation and a sense of drama that Sulaymán Khán strode
through the streets of the capital, smiling at acquaintances and reciting
passages from the great Persian classical poets. When asked why, if he was
so happy, did he not dance, he obliged his tormentors by twirling slowly
through the stately movements of a dance created by the Mawlaví
mystics.50

Such dramatic displays in death exercised an irresistible attraction on the
imaginations of Western scholars and artists. People as different as the
Comte de Gobineau, Sarah Bernhardt, Leo Tolstoy, and Ernest Renan were

captivated by the tragic history of the youthful Báb and his band of heroes.
Edward Browne first encountered the story in the writings of the Comte de
Gobineau and subsequently devoted a large part of his life to a study of the
Bábí and Bahá’í Faiths. Browne described the young martyrs in this way:

It is the lives and deaths of these, their hope which knows no despair,
their love which knows no cooling, their steadfastness which knows no
wavering, which stamp this wonderful movement with a character
entirely on its own. For whatever may be the merits or demerits of the
doctrines for which these scores and hundreds of our fellow-men died,
they have at least found something which made them ready to

“leave all things under the sky,
And go forth naked under sun and rain,
And work and wait and watch out all their years.”

It is not a small or easy thing to endure what these have endured, and
surely what they deemed worth life itself is worth trying to understand.
I say nothing of the mighty influence which, as I believe, the Bábí faith
will exert in the future, nor of the new life it may perchance breathe
into a dead people; for, whether it succeed or fail, the splendid heroism
of the Bábí martyrs is a thing eternal and indestructible....

But what I cannot hope to have conveyed to you is the terrible
earnestness of these men, and the indescribable influence which this
earnestness, combined with other qualities, exerts on anyone who has
actually been brought into contact with them. That you must take my
word for....51

Bahá’u’lláh miraculously survived this worst of the successive waves of
persecution. The civil authorities were loath to release him because they
were aware of the influential role he played in the Bábí community. Yet,
because of his family’s social position and a personal intervention by the
Russian ambassador, Prince Dolgorukov, it would have been extremely
unwise to have executed him without a trial. A trial was impossible. The
would-be assassin of the shah had confessed at his own arraignment, in the
presence of a representative sent by the Russian government, and had
completely exonerated the Bábí leaders, including Bahá’u’lláh, of
complicity in his act.52

The new prime minister, a relative of Bahá’u’lláh, was eventually able,
therefore, to persuade the members of the royal family who wished to
execute their prisoner that it would be preferable to banish him from
Persia.53 The banishment was pronounced, but not before Bahá’u’lláh’s

properties had been confiscated by the shah, his mansion in Tehran looted,
his country home razed to the ground, and the works of art and manuscripts
he owned had found their way into the hands of Persian government
officials (including the prime minister himself).

In this state, despoiled of his possessions, weakened and permanently
scarred by the physical abuse he had experienced in the Síyáh-Chál,
Bahá’u’lláh was exiled from his native land without trial and without
recourse. Those who saw him were astonished that so devastating an
experience appeared rather to have left him with renewed assurance and
power. In fact, it was there, in the dark pit of the Síyáh-Chál, that the most
significant event in Bábí and Bahá’í history had occurred. It was there that
Bahá’u’lláh received the mantle of “Him Whom God Will Make Manifest.”
Bahá’u’lláh described the experience in the dungeon of the prison which
conveyed to him the first intimation of his mission:

One night in a dream, these exalted words were heard on every side:
“Verily, We shall render Thee victorious by Thyself and by Thy pen.
Grieve Thou not for that which hath befallen Thee, neither be Thou
afraid, for Thou art in safety. Ere long will God raise up the treasures
of the earth-men who will aid Thee through Thyself and through Thy
Name, wherewith God hath revived the hearts of such as have

recognized Him.” ... During the days I lay in the prison of Ṭihrán,
though the galling weight of the chain and the stench-filled air allowed
Me but little sleep, still in those infrequent moments of slumber I felt
as if something flowed from the crown of My head over My breast,
even as a mighty torrent that precipitateth itself upon the earth from the
summit of a lofty mountain. Every limb of My body would, as a result,
be set afire. At such moments My tongue recited what no man could
bear to hear.54

Bahá’u’lláh was thus the object of the Báb’s revelation and the center of
truth for those who had followed him. There is considerable evidence that
the Báb had, from the beginning, regarded Bahá’u’lláh as the one for whom
he himself had come to prepare the way. He had strongly intimated this to a
few of his closest disciples, and stated in a remarkable passage in the
Bayán:

Well is it with him who fixeth his gaze upon the Order of Bahá’u’lláh
and rendereth thanks unto his Lord! For he will assuredly be made
manifest. God hath indeed irrevocably ordained it in the Bayán.55

After four months of confinement in the Síyáh-Chál, Bahá’u’lláh was
released in the same arbitrary fashion in which he had originally been

confined and was informed that, by a formal decree of the shah, he was to
be sent into exile with his family and any who wished to accompany him. It
is significant that he did not choose this occasion to announce his mission to
his followers. Offered a refuge in Russia, he instead chose as his place of
exile the city of Baghdad in what is now Iraq, then a province of the
neighboring Ottoman Turkish Empire. Gradually, over the next three years,
a small colony of Bábís gathered around him as well as the members of his
family who accompanied him into exile. One of these was his younger half-
brother, Mírzá Yaḥyá, who fled Persia in disguise and joined the family
shortly after their arrival in Iraq in 1853. It was from this unexpected source
that a new form of hardship and opposition arose.

The story of Mírzá Yaḥyá is at once intriguing and pathetic. Yaḥyá’s
activities posed a grave threat to Bahá’u’lláh’s mission, and the effects have
continued to provide fuel for attacks on the Bahá’í community to the
present day.

Mírzá Yaḥyá was thirteen years younger than Bahá’u’lláh, and his
education was largely supervised by the latter. Being a talented
calligraphist, he served for a time as Bahá’u’lláh’s personal secretary. He
was described by those who knew him as a timorous and impressionable
individual, easily swayed by stronger personalities. He eagerly followed his

brother into the Bábí Faith and even accompanied him on some of his early
travels on its behalf.

Mírzá Yaḥyá, amiable by nature, was respected by the Bábí community
because of this close relationship to Bahá’u’lláh and also because of his
family’s social position. At about the time of the conference at Badasht, the
Báb, after consultation with Bahá’u’lláh and another leading Bábí, wrote a
statement nominating Yaḥyá as the titular head of the Bábí community in
the event of the Báb’s death. In retrospect, it is apparent that the aim of the
nomination was to create a channel though which Bahá’u’lláh could
continue to guide the affairs of the new faith, while avoiding the risk of
adding a formal designation to the personal prominence he had gained.56
Yaḥyá, at the time of the nominal appointment, was in little personal danger,
as he remained for the most part in seclusion on family estates in the north
and fled when the troubles reached that area.57

Hardly had the group of exiles settled in Iraq, however, than Yaḥyá
succumbed to a proposal urged on him by a persuasive personality, a
student of Muslim theology named Siyyid Muḥammad. Siyyid Muḥammad,
who appears to have wanted to make himself a doctrinal authority in the
Bábí community, urged Yaḥyá to throw off his brother’s tutelage and
assume the leadership of the Bábí religion for himself.58 Yaḥyá wavered for

a period of time; but, encouraged by Siyyid Muḥammad, he eventually
separated himself from Bahá’u’lláh and claimed the powers and
prerogatives of a successor to the martyred Báb.

The response of Bahá’u’lláh to Yaḥyá’s action provides an illuminating
insight into his character. Rather than enter into a dispute that would
endanger the unity and survival of the already demoralized Bábí
community, Bahá’u’lláh left without warning for the mountains near
Sulaymáníyyih in neighboring Kurdistán. For nearly two years he remained
totally out of touch with the Bábí community. This self-imposed exile in the
wilderness of Kurdistán is reminiscent of similar periods in the lives of the
founders of other great religions. As later became apparent, it was a time of
great creativity for him. His mission began to take definite form in his
mind, and to be articulated in meditations, prayers, and poems, which he
composed during the months of isolation. A few of these early intimations
of his message to the world have survived in the original Persian.

While Bahá’u’lláh was in Sulaymáníyyih, the affairs of the Bábí religion
were left entirely in the hands of Yaḥyá, who was assisted by his new
mentor, Siyyid Muḥammad. The result was near anarchy in the small
community of Bábí exiles. Within less than twenty-four months, nearly a
score of desperate souls advanced various claims of their own in attempts to

usurp the unstable leadership, and Mírzá Yaḥyá withdrew into seclusion,
leaving Siyyid Muḥammad to settle the theological questions that arose as
best he could. The would-be leader had demonstrated his incapacity for the
position he had sought so vigorously. The lesson was not lost on the
majority of his fellow Bábís.

As conditions rapidly deteriorated, several of the exiles made energetic
efforts to locate Bahá’u’lláh and induce him to return. Eventually, one of
the more zealous found Bahá’u’lláh as a result of rumors he had heard
regarding a “saint” living in the mountains. Even Yaḥyá joined with the
family and other Bábís in an appeal to Bahá’u’lláh to return and assume the
direction of the community. On March 19, 1856, he acceded to these
requests.

The next seven years witnessed a startling transformation in the fortunes of
the Bábí community. Through example, exhortation, and a vigorous
discipline, Bahá’u’lláh restored the community to the moral and spiritual
level it had attained during the Báb’s lifetime. Mírzá Yaḥyá remained
entirely withdrawn, and Bahá’u’lláh’s reputation as a spiritual teacher
spread throughout Baghdad and the neighboring regions. Princes, scholars,
mystics, and government officials came to meet with him, including many
individuals prominent in Persian public life.

In Baghdad, Bahá’u’lláh composed the Kitáb-i-Íqán, or Book of Certitude,
in which he laid out the panorama of God’s redemptive plan for humankind.
The book contains a detailed presentation of Bahá’u’lláh’s teaching on the
nature of God, the function of the sequence of divine Manifestations, and
the spiritual evolution of humankind. It concludes with a demonstration of
the truth of his own mission. In subsequent years the “Íqán” became the
most influential of Bahá’u’lláh’s writings and the foundation for much of
the work of disseminating Bahá’í belief.

Bahá’u’lláh’s growing influence, however, excited intense fear and
suspicion in the minds of the shah and his government, who in turn made
representations to the Ottoman government. Suddenly, without warning, in
April 1863, Bahá’u’lláh and his family were advised that the Ottoman
government had acceded to the Persian demands that the refugees be moved
further from the borders of their native land. They were to be moved to and
settled in Constantinople (now Istanbul).

As preparations for departure were being made, Bahá’u’lláh temporarily
transferred his residence to a garden on an island in the Tigris River, since
known to Bahá’ís by the name he gave it at that time, the Garden of Riḍván
(Paradise). It was in the garden that he announced to a selected handful of

his closest followers that he was “He Whom God Will Make Manifest,” the
universal messenger of God promised by the Báb and by scriptures of
earlier religions. Bahá’í history refers to Bahá’u’lláh’s experience in the
Síyáh-Chál as the dawning of his revelation. In the Riḍván declaration, his
claim was explicitly stated to others and the course of Bábí history thereby
permanently altered. The event is today celebrated around the world as the
chief festival of the Bahá’í Faith, although the impact of the declaration was
to be felt only after the public declaration of Bahá’u’lláh’s mission four
years later.59

On August 16, 1863, the party of exiles arrived in the Ottoman capital of
Constantinople after a journey of over three months; their stay there was to
be very brief. Relations between the Ottoman and Persian Empires had long
been strained and were marked by frequent minor wars, endless intrigues,
and the constant annexation of territories. Fearing that the Bábí exiles,
through their connections in Persia, might become an instrument of Turkish
policy, the shah’s government became increasingly uneasy over the decision
to settle the group in the Ottoman capital. The Persian ambassador, Mírzá
Ḥusayn Khán, thus began a campaign to pressure the Turkish authorities to
move the  Bábís to a more remote part of the empire.60 He coupled this
pressure with a warning that  Bábís were enemies of all established order

and a special menace to a society as cosmopolitan and unstable as the
Ottoman Empire. His efforts succeeded. Early in
December 1863, Bahá’u’lláh, his family, and his companions were suddenly
banished, again without prior warning, to Adrianople (now known as
Edirne) in European Turkey.61

In Adrianople a new stage in Bahá’í history began. Already the impact of
Bahá’u’lláh’s personality on a constant stream of visitors who sought him
out, the seemingly miraculous transformations he accomplished in the
Baghdad community, and his wide-ranging correspondence and influence
with and among persecuted groups of Bábís throughout Persia made him
the focal point of the Bábí Faith. Intimations of his declaration in the
Garden of Riḍván were openly discussed among the Bábís. With the
community in a state of receptivity, Bahá’u’lláh decided that the time had
come for the public declaration of his mission.

The first step in this proclamation was to acquaint Mírzá Yaḥyá, as nominal
trustee of the Bábí Faith, with the nature of his mission. Accordingly, in a
statement known as the Súriy-i-Amr,62 Bahá’u’lláh announced his claim to
be “He Whom God Will Make Manifest” and called upon Yaḥyá to
recognize and support him as the Báb had explicitly instructed him to do.
Such a response, however, was not forthcoming. Shortly after the exiles

reached Adrianople, Yaḥyá, encouraged again by Siyyid Muḥammad, began
a series of machinations designed to restore his lost prominence. When
these failed, Yaḥyá made two attempts to have his brother assassinated. It
was shortly after the second of these two attempts that Bahá’u’lláh’s
announcement was read to him.

Yaḥyá wavered briefly, and then astonished the Bábí community by
proclaiming that he, rather than Bahá’u’lláh, was the Manifestation of God
promised by the Báb. His reaction at least clarified a situation that his
previous behavior had made a source of confusion and distress. Yaḥyá was
abandoned almost overnight by virtually all of the Bábís in Adrianople, and
by the vast majority of those in Persia and Iraq, including the surviving
members of the Báb’s family who were believers.

Edward Browne estimated that no more than three or four in every hundred
clung to Yaḥyá, all the remainder acknowledging Bahá’u’lláh’s claim. It is
from this point on that Bábís began to describe themselves as “Bahá’ís,”
and the Bahá’í Faith emerged as a distinct religion.63

Having established his authority among the Báb’s followers, Bahá’u’lláh
turned his attention to his mission. Beginning in September 1867, he wrote
a series of letters which rank among the most remarkable documents in

religious history. They were addressed collectively to the “Kings of the
earth” and individually to specific monarchs. In them he declared himself to
be the One promised in the Torah, the Gospels, and the Qur’án, and he
called on the kings to arise and champion his faith. The letters contained
dramatic warnings that the nineteenth-century world would be torn apart,
that a world civilization was to be born. The keynote of the new age was the
oneness of the entire human race. Bahá’u’lláh called specifically upon the
powerful rulers of Europe to subordinate all other aims to the task of
achieving world unity:

The time must come when the imperative necessity for the holding of a
vast, an all-embracing assemblage of men will be universally realized.
The rulers and kings of the earth must needs attend it, and,
participating in its deliberations, must consider such ways and means
as will lay the foundations of the world’s Great Peace amongst men. ...
It is not for him to pride himself who loveth his country, but rather for
him who loveth the whole world. The earth is but one country, and
mankind its citizens.64

The letters asserted that God had set in motion historical forces which no
human schemes could resist. The rulers were told that power was entrusted
to them by God in order to serve the needs of humankind and to establish

international peace, social justice, and world unity. Governments that
attempted to use their powers to resist the process of the unification of
humankind would bring disaster on themselves and on their nations.

Hardly did the public proclamation begin when the new faith received
another serious blow whose effects linger even today. It again came from
Mírzá Yaḥyá. Yaḥyá’s rejection of Bahá’u’lláh’s mission had ended his
influence among the followers of the Báb. Yaḥyá later told Professor
Browne that he had been so abandoned by the other exiles that he was
compelled on occasion to go himself to the marketplace in order to shop for
food. However, he still maintained the support of Siyyid Muḥammad and
two other exiles in Adrianople. This small group appears to have cast about
for some means to interfere with the complete conversion of the Báb’s
followers, which was taking place throughout Persia and the Ottoman
territories. Bahá’u’lláh’s letters to the kings suggested a means for serving
this end.

At this point in history, the ramshackle Ottoman Empire was on the brink of
disintegration. Pressure from the many minorities that comprised the empire
was particularly acute and unremitting in the European territories beyond
Adrianople, where such new states as Greece, Bulgaria, Serbia, and
Montenegro were breaking away from it. The Persian ambassador to

Constantinople, Mírzá Ḥusayn Khán, was exerting every effort to convince
the Turkish authorities that the group of Bahá’í exiles constituted a political
as well as a religious danger. Mírzá Yaḥyá and Siyyid Muḥammad therefore
sought to picture Bahá’u’lláh’s messages to the kings in this light.
Anonymous letters warning of a political conspiracy were forwarded to
Constantinople. The stories no doubt gained credence from the fact that a
constant stream of visitors from all parts of the empire sought out
Bahá’u’lláh in Adrianople, and the authorities there seemed equally under
his spell.65

Bahá’u’lláh was known to have been offered the protection of both the
British and Russian governments at earlier stages of the Bábí persecutions,
and this may have added to the fears of the Ottoman government that
Yaḥyá’s accusations held some validity. It was decided to resolve the
question of the exiled community once and for all. Sulṭán ‘Abdu’l-Azíz
issued an imperial order, without recourse, committing the exiles in
Adrianople to perpetual imprisonment in the penal colony at Acre in
Palestine. On the morning of August 21, 1868, Bahá’u’lláh and some
seventy to eighty members of his family and close companions boarded a
steamer at Gallipoli and, after a harrowing journey of ten days, were put
ashore under heavy guard at the Sea Gate leading to the grim fortress of
Acre.

Ironically, Mírzá Yaḥyá and Siyyid Muḥammad were caught in the net they
themselves had prepared. Suspecting that Yaḥyá might himself be engaged
in conspiracy, the Turkish authorities sent him as a prisoner to the island of
Cyprus, together with three Bahá’í prisoners who, it was hoped, would
hinder his activities.66 Siyyid Muḥammad and a companion were sent with
the party of Bahá’í exiles to Acre for much the same reason.

Acre was chosen because it was confidently believed that Bahá’u’lláh could
not survive the experience. In the 1860s the prison city was a pestilential
place, a home for criminals from all parts of the empire, a warren of
labyrinthine alleys and damp, crumbling buildings. Prevailing winds and
tides washed the refuse of the Mediterranean onto its shores, creating a
climate so unhealthy that a popular saying held that a bird which flew over
Acre would fall dead in the streets.

The first two years of the Bahá’ís’ imprisonment was a period of intense
deprivation and hardship. From Constantinople, the Persian ambassador
issued orders that an agent of his government be installed in Acre to ensure
that the local Ottoman authorities strictly enforced the harsh terms in the
formal decree. A number of the exiles died from the treatment to which they
were subjected, as did Bahá’u’lláh’s second son, Mírzá Mihdí, who lost his

life in a tragic accident occasioned by the conditions of the prison. A degree
of relief arrived in 1870, when the fortress was required to serve as a
military barracks during a period of tension between Turkey and Russia,
and the prisoners were moved to confinement in rented houses and other
buildings.

Gradually, in spite of initial public prejudice, Bahá’u’lláh’s influence began
to have the same effect it had exerted in Baghdad and Adrianople.
Sympathetic governors reduced the number of guards, and influential voices
began expressing admiration and interest. Then a new blow fell. Siyyid
Muḥammad and two companions, frustrated by the improvement of the
prisoners’ situation, began to agitate the lower classes of the city in order to
provoke an attack on Bahá’u’lláh’s house–an attack which, it was hoped,
might lead to his death.

The new threat proved too great a provocation for some of the exiles to
endure. Ignoring the principles of nonviolence and reliance on the will of
God which they professed, seven of them took matters into their own hands.
After deliberately instigating a fight, they killed Siyyid Muḥammad and his
accomplices.

The effect of these murders was a far greater setback for the new faith than
anything Siyyid Muḥammad could himself have achieved. It added fuel to
the dying fire of accusations leveled against the exiles by opponents among
the Muslim clergy. For Bahá’u’lláh, the shock of the incident struck a blow
far more severe than physical imprisonment because it tarnished the
integrity of his work. In a letter written at the time, he said:

My captivity can bring on Me no shame. Nay, by My life, it conferreth
on Me glory. That which can make Me ashamed is the conduct of such
of My followers as profess to love Me, yet in fact follow the Evil
One.67

In time, a civil court established that the outburst of violence had been
countenanced neither by Bahá’u’lláh nor by the majority of the Bahá’ís in
Acre, and the guilty parties alone were punished. Passions gradually cooled.
In the meantime, Bahá’u’lláh had again taken up the series of letters to the
kings and rulers which had been interrupted by his departure from
Adrianople. Individual letters were addressed to Emperor Louis Napoleon,
Queen Victoria, Kaiser Wilhelm I, Tsar Alexander II, Náṣiri’d-Dín Sháh in
Persia, Emperor Franz Joseph of Austria, and the Ottoman sultan,
‘Abdu’l-‘Azíz.

In these letters Bahá’u’lláh called on the monarchs to join together in the
creation of an international tribunal that would have the authority to decide
on disputes between nations. This embryonic world government, he said,
should be supported by an international police force maintained by the
member states and used to enforce peaceful resolution of all international
disputes.

The letters also contained prescriptions for creating a sense of community
among the peoples of the world. For example, Bahá’u’lláh called for the
creation of an international auxiliary language, which would allow every
society to maintain its own cultural identity while benefiting from the
ability to communicate with all other races and nations. A compulsory
educational system would assure worldwide literacy; an international
system of weights and measures would create common standards for a
global economic system; military expenditures would be sharply curtailed
and taxation used for social welfare. The monarchs were urged to accept
certain basic democratic principles of government in the conduct of their
internal affairs.

Owing to the close confinement of the exiles, these extraordinary messages
were smuggled out of the prison in the clothing of sympathetic visitors. The

French consul personally delivered Bahá’u’lláh’s first communication to the
Emperor Louis Napoleon.

Powerful messages were also addressed to the leaders of the world’s
religions, including Pope Pius IX. The principal theme of these messages
was a challenge to ecclesiastical leaders to set aside dogma and attachment
to their positions of secular leadership, and to examine seriously the claims
Bahá’u’lláh put forward. It was primarily the clergy, the letters asserted,
who had been the first to reject and persecute the founders of each of the
world’s religions.

The letter to Pope Pius IX is particularly interesting to students of
institutional history, because it outlines a prescription for actions many of
which the pope’s successors have since found it impossible to avoid taking.
The pontiff was called upon to surrender his temporal sovereignty over the
Papal States to a secular government, to leave the seclusion of the Vatican
palaces to meet with the leaders of non-Catholic faiths, to present himself
before the secular rulers of the world and summon them to peace and
justice, to divest himself of the excessive ceremonialism that had grown
about his person, and to “be as thy Lord hath been.” Similarly, the Catholic
clergy were urged to

Seclude not yourselves in churches and cloisters. Come forth by My
leave, and occupy yourselves with that which will profit your souls and
the souls of men. Thus biddeth you the King of the Day of Reckoning.
Seclude yourselves in the stronghold of My love. This, verily, is a
befitting seclusion, were ye of them that perceive it.... He that wedded
not (Jesus) found no place wherein to dwell or lay His head, by reason
of that which the hands of the treacherous had wrought. His sanctity
consisteth not in that which ye believe or fancy, but rather in the things
We possess.68

None of the letters received any significant response from those to whom
they were addressed. Among the few recorded reactions was that of Queen
Victoria, who is reported to have said merely: “If this is of God it will
endure; if not, it can do no harm.”69

In time, however, the letters attracted attention because of the startling
fulfillment of the individual prophecies they contained.70 Emperor Louis
Napoleon, seemingly the most powerful European ruler of the time, was
warned that because of his insincerity and the misuse of his power:

thy kingdom shall be thrown into confusion, and thine empire shall
pass from thine hands, as a punishment for that which thou hast

wrought . . . Hath thy pomp made thee proud? By my life! It shall not
endure …71

Within two years the emperor had lost throne and empire in the entirely
unforeseen debacle at Sedan and was himself an exile from his native
land.72

Subsequently, the conqueror of Louis Napoleon, Kaiser Wilhelm I, who had
just been made emperor of a united Germany, received a similar warning.
Pride and desire for earthly domination would bring against Germany
“swords of retribution” that would leave “the banks of the Rhine covered
with blood.” Similar warnings were addressed to the tsar of Russia,
Emperor Franz Joseph of Austria, and the Persian shah.

Particularly explicit were the warning letters to the Turkish Sulṭán
‘Abdu’l-‘Azíz and his prime minister, ‘Alí Páshá, who held the life of the
prisoner of Acre in their hands. These letters predicted the deaths of both
‘Alí Páshá and his colleague, Fu‘ád Páshá, who was foreign minister, the
loss of Turkey’s European dominions, and the fall of the sultan himself. The
fulfillment of all of these predictions significantly enhanced the prestige
which was steadily growing around Bahá’u’lláh’s name.73

The ten-year period beginning in 1863, which constituted the formal
declaration of Bahá’u’lláh’s mission, culminated in the completion of the
book that today serves as the core of what Bahá’ís regard as the revelation
of Bahá’u’lláh, the Kitáb-i-Aqdas (literally, the Most Holy Book).

The Kitáb-i-Aqdas provides for the establishment and continuation of the
authority Bahá’u’lláh called upon humankind to accept. It begins with a
reiteration of his claim to be “the King of Kings,” whose mission is none
other than the establishment of the Kingdom of God on earth. Its two major
themes are the proclamation of the laws which are to transform individual
souls and guide humankind collectively, and the creation of institutions
through which the community of those who recognize him is to be
governed. A more complete discussion of these two themes may be found
in chapters 7 and 8. It will be sufficient to note here that the system of the
Aqdas entirely replaced, for Bahá’ís, both those Islamic laws which the Báb
had left unabrogated and the strict code which the Báb himself had laid
down. Jihád, the use of force, was explicitly forbidden, as was any form of
religious contention.74 With the separation from Islam fully achieved, even
the Báb’s harsh condemnation of theological studies was rescinded. Bahá’ís
were encouraged to be open to truth wherever they might encounter it:

Warn ... the beloved of the one true God not to view with too critical an
eye the sayings and writings of men. Let them rather approach such
sayings and writings in a spirit of open-mindedness and loving
sympathy.75

The completion of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas opened the final period of
Bahá’u’lláh’s ministry. The isolation the sultan’s decree of banishment had
sought to impose crumbled away. There followed nearly two decades of
creative work devoted chiefly to the revelation of a vast body of writings
that elaborated Bahá’u’lláh’s vision of humankind’s future. Dignitaries
throughout Palestine became first warm admirers and later confirmed
devotees. A leading Muslim ecclesiastic, the Muftí of Acre, became a
convert to the new faith, and the governor of the city would not enter
Bahá’u’lláh’s presence without first removing his shoes as a sign of respect.
The doors of the prison city were opened to a constant stream of pilgrims
whose recounted experiences and letters from Acre nourished the Bahá’í
communities in Persia and Iraq. Public works such as the reconstruction, at
Bahá’u’lláh’s request, of an ancient aqueduct to provide Acre with fresh
water helped to overcome the antagonism of the general public, which had
initially greeted the party of exiles on their arrival in 1868.

In 1877 Bahá’u’lláh agreed to move from Acre to a nearby country estate
called Mazra‘ih, which had been prepared for his residence by his friends.
Two years later the exiles obtained, for a nominal sum, the lease of a
magnificent mansion on the outskirts of the city, because the wealthy owner
had left the area out of fear of a threatening epidemic.

It was in this final residence, known as Bahjí (Joy), that Bahá’u’lláh
received Professor Browne, one of the few Westerners who is known to
have visited and written of him. Captivated by the story of the Bábí martyrs,
Browne determined to record the story of the Bábí and Bahá’í Faiths. He
thus describes his meeting at Bahjí with the founder of the Bahá’í Faith:

I found myself in a large apartment, along the upper end of which ran a
low divan, while on the side opposite to the door were placed two or
three chairs. Though I dimly suspected whither I was going and whom
I was to behold (for no distinct intimation had been given to me), a
second or two elapsed ere, with a throb of wonder and awe, I became
definitely conscious that the room was not untenanted. In the corner
where the divan met the wall sat a wondrous and venerable figure,
crowned with a felt head-dress of the kind called táj by dervishes (but
of unusual height and make), round the base of which was wound a
small white turban. The face of him on whom I gazed I can never

forget, though I cannot describe it. Those piercing eyes seemed to read
one’s very soul; power and authority sat on that ample brow.... No need
to ask in whose presence I stood, as I bowed myself before one who is
the object of a devotion and love which kings might envy and
emperors sigh for in vain!

A mild dignified voice bade me be seated, and then continued:—
“Praise be to God that thou hast attained! . . . Thou hast come to see a
prisoner and an exile. . . . We desire but the good of the world and the
happiness of the nations; yet they deem us as a stirrer up of strife and
sedition worthy of bondage and banishment. . . . These strifes and this
bloodshed and discord must cease, and all men be as one kindred and
one family. . . . Let not a man glory in this, that he loves his country;
let him rather glory in this, that he loves his kind. . . .”76

Later that year, Bahá’u’lláh “pitched his tent” on Mount Carmel, across the
bay from Acre. There he pointed out the site he had chosen for the
interment of the remains of the martyred Báb. This site has since become
the focal point for the extensive shrines, administrative buildings, and the
monumental terraces and gardens that comprise the international
headquarters of the Bahá’í Faith.

During the closing years of his life, Bahá’u’lláh had increasingly withdrawn
from contact with society so that he could devote himself to his writings
and to his meetings with Bahá’í pilgrims. The practical affairs of the
community had been left in the hands of his eldest son, ‘Abbás, called by
him ‘Abdu’l-Bahá (literally, Servant of Bahá). Late in 1891 Bahá’u’lláh
told those around him that his work was done and that he wished to “depart
from this world.” He was being called, he said, to “other dominions
whereon the eyes of the people of names have never fallen.” Shortly
thereafter he contracted a fever and, following a brief illness, passed away
at dawn on May 29, 1892, in his seventy-fifth year.

4. The Succession to Leadership


With the passing of Bahá’u’lláh, the Bahá’í Faith entered a stage in its
development that marked the emergence of what Bahá’ís regard as the
distinguishing feature of their religion. This was Bahá’u’lláh’s explicit
conveyance of authority for the establishment of an institutional system
designed to guide, protect, and enlarge the emerging Bahá’í community. It
is principally because of this system that the Bahá’í Faith, alone among the
independent religions, has escaped division into sects.

The system was erected on the basis of a body of interrelated documents in
which Bahá’u’lláh established a “Covenant” or solemn agreement with his
followers. The Covenant named his eldest son, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, as the sole
authoritative interpreter of his teachings and the source of authority in all
affairs of the faith. One of the titles he gave to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá was Ghuṣn-i-
A‘ẓam (The Most Mighty Branch). The documents of the Covenant made it
clear that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá was to be regarded not as a prophet or divine

messenger, but rather as the perfect human example of Bahá’u’lláh’s
teachings. The conveyance of this authority was explicit and sweeping:

Whosoever turns to Him hath surely turned unto God, and whosoever
turneth away from Him hath turned away from My beauty, denied My
proof and is of those who transgress. Verily, He is the remembrance of
God amongst you and His trust within you, and His manifestation unto
you and His appearance among the servants who are nigh. Thus have I
been commanded to convey to you the message of God, your Creator;
and I have delivered to you that of which I was commanded.77

Bahá’u’lláh also took particular care to ensure that the Bahá’í community
would gradually become accustomed, during his own lifetime, to the role he
intended ‘Abdu’l-Bahá to play after his passing. Matters between the Bahá’í
community and the civil authorities, as well as any relations with the
general population of Palestine, were left almost entirely in the hands of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Pilgrims from Persia were customarily received by “the
Master” (another title Bahá’u’lláh gave exclusively to his eldest son), and
meetings with the founder of the faith were arranged under ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s
supervision. The nature of the authority conferred on ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and the
demands presented by the growing Bahá’í community provided an
opportunity for him to exercise his impressive personal capacities. Professor

Browne, who initially met ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in 1890 and later came to know
him well, wrote:

Seldom have I seen one whose appearance impressed me more. A tall
strongly-built man holding himself straight as an arrow, with white
turban and raiment, long black locks reaching almost to the shoulder,
broad powerful forehead indicating a strong intellect combined with an
unswerving will, eyes keen as a hawk’s, and strongly-marked but
pleasing features—such was my first impression of ‘Abbás Effendi,
“the master” (Áqá) [sic] as he par excellence is called by the Bábís.
Subsequent conversation with him served only to heighten the respect
with which his appearance had from the first inspired me. One more
eloquent of speech, more ready of argument, more apt of illustration,
more intimately acquainted with the sacred books of the Jews, the
Christians, and the Muhammadans, could, I should think, scarcely be
found even amongst the eloquent, ready, and subtle race to which he
belongs. These qualities, combined with a bearing at once majestic and
genial, made me cease to wonder at the influence and esteem which he
enjoyed even beyond the circle of his father’s followers. About the
greatness of this man and his power no one who had seen him could
entertain a doubt.78

In retrospect, it is clear that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá saw the task of firmly
establishing the Bahá’í Faith on a very wide scale throughout Europe and
North America as one of the most important challenges facing him.79
Opportunities opened up, encouraged to a significant degree by the
attention which the Bábí epic had already attracted among intellectual and
artistic circles, particularly in western Europe. In North America the first
recorded public reference to the Bahá’í Faith occurred at the “Parliament of
Religions” held in connection with the 1893 Chicago World’s Fair, when a
Christian spokesman concluded the paper he presented with the words
Bahá’u’lláh had addressed to Edward Browne three years earlier.

At about the same time a Syrian merchant, Ibrahim Kheiralla, who had
enrolled in the Bahá’í Faith in Cairo, Egypt, immigrated to the United
States and began classes among interested inquirers. The first American
Bahá’í was an insurance executive named Thornton Chase. By 1897,
Kheiralla reported that there were Bahá’í believers numbering in the
hundreds in the Kenosha, Wisconsin, and the Chicago areas. It became
significant to the later development of the faith that all of these “declarants”
were encouraged to write directly to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in the Holy Land,
expressing their faith in the teachings of Bahá’u’lláh and seeking the
Master’s blessing.

Kheiralla’s activities were important not only because of the large number
of adherents his efforts attracted, but also because these included several
individuals who later became some of the faith’s leading exponents in the
West. One of the new Western believers was a talented and energetic
woman named Louisa Getsinger, who began traveling throughout the
United States, lecturing to interested groups in an attempt to extend the
influence of the new movement beyond the immediate Chicago-Kenosha
areas.

During the course of these travels she met with and was responsible for the
enrollment of the philanthropist millionaire Mrs. Phoebe Hearst. In 1898 the
latter expressed her desire to meet ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, and he agreed to the visit.
Mrs. Hearst then gathered together a party of fifteen pilgrims, the first
group of whom arrived in Acre on December 10, 1898. Mrs. Getsinger, her
husband, Dr. Edward Getsinger, and Ibrahim Kheiralla were among them.
The meeting was attended with some degree of personal risk owing to the
continuing political tensions in the Near East. Under those strained
circumstances, the unexpected arrival of a group of Westerners necessarily
aroused a good deal of suspicion.

Despite the handicaps, this brief visit proved critical to the early growth of
the Bahá’í Faith in the West. The impact of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s mind and

endearing personality on the first Western followers of Bahá’u’lláh was
immediate and decisive. In him they believed they saw the spirit of Jesus
Christ again moving among humanity. Indeed, in their enthusiasm they
were prepared to put his station well beyond the bounds of that which
Bahá’u’lláh had assigned to his son. Some, like Mrs. Hearst, believed that
‘Abdu’l-Bahá  was himself “The Messiah,” the return of Jesus Christ.80 It is
revealing, therefore, to note ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s own words on the subject:

. . . what is meant in the prophecies by the “Lord of Hosts” and the
“Promised Christ” is the Blessed Perfection (Bahá’u’lláh) and His
holiness, the Exalted One (the Báb). My name is ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
[Servant of Bahá]. My qualification is ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. My reality is
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. My praise is ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Thraldom to the Blessed
Perfection is my glorious and refulgent diadem, and servitude to all the
human race my perpetual religion.... No name, no title, no mention, no
commendation have I, nor will ever have, except ‘Abdu’l-Bahá .... This
is my greatest yearning. This is my eternal life. This is my everlasting
glory.81

The significance of the relationship between ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and his father’s
followers in the West is outlined in a summary of the first century of Bábí-
Bahá’í history, published in 1944:

The pilgrims brought back the sense of the early days of the faith,
when the Prophet has been seen by human eyes and heard by human
ears, and the world is filled with ecstasy like the golden light of perfect
dawn.... All the activities of the Cause of Bahá’u’lláh in America
emanated from the few score souls who attained the goal of all earthly
seeking in ‘Akká and Haifa between the years 1894 and 1911.82

The visit of the Hearst party was the beginning of a continuous stream of
Bahá’í visitors from Europe and North America that spanned a period of
nearly twenty-three years and continued until ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s death in 1921,
interrupted only by the duration of World War I.

Communities were established throughout the United States and Canada.
Public meetings and informal discussion groups were organized, and a
modest production of booklet literature on the faith began. These
publications consisted almost exclusively of excerpts from the Tablets of
Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, together with accounts given by returning
North American believers who had undertaken the pilgrimage to ‘Akká
(Acre). Informally organized groups also circulated carbon copies of
typewritten manuscripts containing more extensive excerpts from the

prayers and meditations of Bahá’u’lláh and excerpts from letters ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá had written to individual believers.

Hardly had this stage in the faith’s development begun when it was
subjected to a severe shock and setback that had several features of the
Yaḥyá episode in Bábí history. A younger half-brother of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
named Muḥammad-‘Alí began to chafe under the authority conferred upon
the new head of the faith. Unable to challenge the specific terms of his
father’s covenant, Muḥammad-‘Alí sought first to impose limitations on
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s exercise of his function in the Bahá’í community. When
this failed, Muḥammad-‘Alí attempted to create a following of his own
within the Bahá’í community. The resulting rupture occurred shortly before
the arrival of the first group of Western pilgrims, and it quickly attracted the
attention of Dr. Kheiralla.

The latter saw himself as both the most influential teacher of the faith in
North America, and a leading exponent of its fundamental concepts.
Browne later published notes from Kheiralla’s lectures, which present a
rather startling view of the kind of concepts which Kheiralla was
teaching.83 The only Bahá’í themes that had survived their migration from
Persia to North America were the station of Bahá’u’lláh and the idea of the
oneness of humankind. These two concepts were presented by Dr. Kheiralla

in a mélange of esoteric doctrines that bore no relation to the teachings of
the founder of the Bahá’í Faith.

During his visit to Acre in 1898, Kheiralla sought ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s
endorsement of his presentation of the Bahá’í Faith. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá at that
time corrected a number of Kheiralla’s misconceptions and urged him to
begin a serious study of the Bahá’í writings. He declined and became
progressively more and more estranged from Bahá’u’lláh’s teachings.
During the course of this same visit, Muḥammad-‘Alí sought him out; on
his return to America the following year, Kheiralla stunned his Bahá’í
friends and students by a rejection of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and an insistence on his
own role as the arbiter of the faith’s fortunes in the West. However, these
efforts to usurp Bahá’í leadership failed, and Kheiralla eventually returned
to Syria, bitterly disappointed. With his departure the danger of a schism
passed, as Muḥammad-‘Alí was never able to attract a following of his own
apart from a small handful of relatives and retainers.

The crisis and its outcome were critical to Bahá’í history. At this important
juncture, the new faith took the one course that could lead to the realization
of its claims to represent the birth of an independent world religion. There is
little doubt that, had Muḥammad-‘Alí and Kheiralla succeeded in their

efforts to dominate the movement and seize control of its leadership, it
would have quickly dwindled to the status of a cult.

Instead, the Bahá’í community in North America, though reduced in
numbers and suffering from the shock of charges and countercharges,
turned to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá for authoritative guidance on his father’s teachings.
In response, with more freedom and vigor than before, he expounded on the
principal features of the Bahá’í revelation. Discouraging metaphysical
speculation, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá set himself the task of explaining Bahá’u’lláh’s
social message to the world. In countless letters, table talks with pilgrims,
and expository writings, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá insisted that not only the individual
heart but also the entire social order must be transformed. The validity of all
the world’s religions, the need to abolish racial prejudices, the implications
of the equality of man and woman, universal education, justice in social and
economic systems, and a host of similar themes were emphasized. The
social teachings of Bahá’u’lláh were related to the needs of contemporary
society as revealed by the recurrent crises gripping the world.84

In 1908 the Young Turk Revolution freed all political and even religious
prisoners of the Ottoman Empire. As a result, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá was suddenly
free to leave Palestine and take a more direct hand in the expansion and
establishment of his father’s faith in the West. Before doing so, however, he

was able to realize one of the great desires of his life and fulfill one of the
major responsibilities given to him by Bahá’u’lláh. On March 20, 1909, in
the presence of a company of believers from both East and West, he laid the
small wooden coffin containing the mortal remains of the Báb in a
magnificent marble sarcophagus supplied by the Bahá’ís of Burma. The
burial took place in a stone shrine erected on the slopes of Mount Carmel,
on the spot chosen by Bahá’u’lláh many years earlier, and intended by him
to serve as the central point for the complex of the various administrative
institutions comprising the international headquarters of the Bahá’í Faith.
The Bahá’í community regards the blood of the Bábí martyrs as the “seed”
of the administrative institutions which Bahá’u’lláh called for and which
Bahá’ís were beginning to establish around the world under the guidance of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Now, at the heart of the Bahá’í community, the Báb’s
sacrifice was intimately linked with the central institutions of that religious
system, and the essential historical unity of the Bábí and Bahá’í Faiths was
given compelling symbolic expression.

By 1910 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá was able to conclude that circumstances in the Holy
Land would permit the departure for which he had so long yearned. The
rigors of his long imprisonment had seriously undermined his health, and
the first stage of the journey was therefore a period of recuperation in
Egypt. Then, on August 11, 1911, accompanied by a small group of

attendants, he sailed on the S. S. Corsica for Marseille, to begin a twenty-
eight month journey throughout the Western world. This journey included
two trips to London, Paris, and Stuttgart, and briefer visits to other
European centers, as well as a very demanding trip across North America.

On April 11, 1912, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá arrived in New York City. During this
North American tour he visited some forty cities and towns in the United
States, from coast to coast. It was in New York City itself that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
spent more time than in any other North American city and where he first
took the opportunity to explain to groups of the faith’s followers the
significance of the Covenant which Bahá’u’lláh had established and of
which he was himself the appointed “Center.” Among the other important
American centers visited was Chicago, where he laid the cornerstone of the
building that was to become the “Mother Temple of the West.” He also
visited Eliot, Maine, where Sarah Farmer, founder of Green Acre, a center
for adult education, had become a Bahá’í and opened her facility for the
systematic presentation of the Bahá’í message.85 In Canada, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
visited Montreal, where he was the guest of the Canadian architect,
William Sutherland Maxwell, and his wife, May Bolles Maxwell. Mrs.
Maxwell became a Bahá’í as a very young woman and had been with the
original Hearst party which visited in Acre in 1898.

The Montreal visit was in many respects typical of the receptions accorded
to him in other major centers throughout the West.86 He visited Notre-Dame
Cathedral, was invited to speak at the Church of the Messiah and St. James
Church, addressed a large trades union meeting at their hall on St. Lawrence
Street, and gave a great many informal talks both in his suite at the Windsor
Hotel and at the Maxwell home on Pine Avenue, where he stayed as the
family’s houseguest during the first part of his visit. Throughout both North
America and Europe, major newspapers gave the tour extensive coverage,
ranging from highly speculative and sensationalist articles to serious reports
of interviews with the visitor and public addresses by him. Among the
latter, the Montreal press was particularly attentive; it was in an interview
with the Montreal Star that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá was reported to have made two
particularly important predictions. The first was that a world war would
shortly break out in Europe. (“There is nothing in the nature of prophecy
about such a view,” said ‘Abdu’l-Bahá; “It is based on reasoning solely.”)
The second was that international peace would be established before the
end of the twentieth century. (“It will be universal in the twentieth century.
All nations will be forced into it.”)87

The effects of the tour were far-reaching. Western believers were directly
exposed to the leader and acknowledged exponent of their faith. They
flocked to meet him, sought his advice, and were able to clarify and deepen

their understanding of the faith’s teachings on theological, social, and moral
issues. The public in the West gained a highly favorable view of the new
religion, which was to prove of great importance to its followers in their
subsequent efforts to promote its growth.   ‘Abdu’l-Bahá spoke not only to
church congregations, but to peace societies, trade unions, university
faculties, and a variety of societies for social reform. At the tour’s end,
Bahá’u’lláh’s social message had been publicly proclaimed, and a new
generation of Bahá’ís from every strata of Western society had been
enlisted.88

‘Abdu’l-Bahá spent the years during World War I in relative isolation at his
home in Haifa in the Holy Land. His associations with the West and the
interpretation put on them by his half-brother, Muḥammad-‘Alí, had again
succeeded in arousing the suspicion of the Ottoman authorities. Once more
threats were made that he would be executed and the small Bahá’í colony in
the Holy Land dispersed into exile. However, this danger was removed in
1918 when the war ended with the defeat of the Central Powers, followed
by Turkey’s loss of all her possessions in the Arab Near East.

‘Abdu’l-Bahá again set in motion the highly significant processes begun
after his release from prison in Acre in 1908 for the building of an
international community that would reflect the teachings of Bahá’u’lláh. A

major feature of this work was the nurturing of Bahá’í administrative
institutions. As called on to do under the terms of Bahá’u’lláh’s Covenant,
‘Abdu’l-Bahá encouraged the establishment of what he called “spiritual
assemblies” in both North America and Persia. These elected bodies were
authorized to supervise activities such as publishing literature, teaching
programs, and devotional services at both the local and national levels.
They were to serve as forerunners of what Bahá’u’lláh had termed “Houses
of Justice.”

In 1908 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá drafted a Will and Testament in which he outlined in
considerable detail the nature and functions of the central institutions
conceived by Bahá’u’lláh for the conduct of the affairs of his cause. The
two principal institutions so named were the “Guardianship” and the
“Universal House of Justice.” The Guardianship conferred the sole
authority for the interpretation of Bahá’í teachings on ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s eldest
grandson, Shoghi Effendi Rabbani. As was the case with the appointment of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá in Bahá’u’lláh’s Covenant as the Center and designated
interpreter, the Guardian was designated the one to whom all the believers
were to submit questions on any matter of Bahá’í belief. The other principal
institution named in the Will and Testament was the Universal House of
Justice, designated to be the primary legislative and administrative authority
of the Bahá’í community. The Guardian of the Faith was to be assisted by a

group of particularly qualified individuals selected by him and designated
“Hands of the Cause of God,” and the Universal House of Justice was to
supervise the international administrative order of the Bahá’í community.
As the supreme administrative body of the community, its elected
membership would be chosen from among the adult Bahá’ís of the world at
an international congress of all the national spiritual assemblies.

The Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá  and Bahá’u’lláh’s Kitáb-i-‘Ahd
(Book of the Covenant) were the instruments by which Bahá’u’lláh’s
Covenant gained practical expression, and the provisions therein shaped the
steadily growing Bahá’í community after ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s death.89

During the course of World War I, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá dictated a series of
messages to the North American believers. Four of these fourteen letters
were addressed jointly to the Bahá’ís of the United States and Canada.
Eight were written for the specific guidance of the believers in various
regions of the United States, and two were specifically addressed to the
Bahá’ís of Canada. The theme of all fourteen was what ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
termed “The Divine Plan” for the worldwide proclamation of Bahá’u’lláh’s
message to humankind. The American and Canadian Bahá’ís were called
upon to take the lead in establishing the faith in every part of the globe.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá assured them that a befitting response to this challenge would

confer upon them, in the eyes of a grateful posterity, “spiritual primacy”
among the Bahá’í communities of the world. The various international
teaching plans through which the community has subsequently grown and
by which the message and teachings of Bahá’u’lláh have spread to every
corner of the world represent the response of the North American Bahá’ís to
the summons contained in these letters.90

Early in the morning of November 28, 1921, after a brief illness, ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá died in his seventy-eighth year. The circumstances surrounding his
funeral indicated that sweeping changes had occurred in the status of the
Bahá’í Faith in the Holy Land in just a few short years. Only thirteen years
before, as a helpless exile, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá had faced the very real possibility
that he would be publicly executed. By the time of his death, however, he
had established an unequaled reputation as a sage and philanthropist, indeed
as a kind of holy man revered by all the religious communities in Palestine.
The removal of the restraints imposed by Turkish rule permitted this
reputation to blossom. Honors were heaped on him from all segments of the
population. A knighthood had been conferred by the British government in
recognition of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s humanitarian services to the Palestinian
people during the famine that followed World War I.

The funeral held on November 29 had probably seen no equal in the history
of Palestine. A vast crowd, estimated to number over ten thousand people,
including dignitaries of the Muslim, Roman Catholic, Greek Orthodox,
Jewish, and Druze communities, as well as the British High Commissioner
and the governors of Jerusalem and Phoenicia, made up the cortege. It was
clear that whatever vicissitudes the new faith might still be obliged to suffer
in various parts of the world, it had succeeded, during ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s
administration of its affairs, in establishing its international center on an
impressive foundation of government recognition and public esteem.91

At this point in history, the Bahá’í community included perhaps 100,000
believers living more or less on sufferance in Persia, together with small
groups in a few other countries. Apart from Persia, the primary areas of the
world in which communities of Bahá’ís were to be found were India and
North America. Organization and literature were minimal, as were financial
resources. Widespread publicity had been secured through the efforts of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá and some of his immediate disciples, but this had yet to
produce any significant growth in the size of the community as a whole.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá  himself had received considerable recognition from civil
authorities, but this, too, had yet to be translated into any formal
acknowledgment of the Bahá’í Faith as a viable religious system.

Today, a little more than eighty years later, the situation has dramatically
changed. The Bahá’í Faith has come to be widely recognized as one of the
world’s most rapidly growing religions, embracing adherents from almost
every racial, social, cultural, and national origin, and carrying on a broad
range of activities in some 235 sovereign states and major territories. An
integrated administrative system has evolved at the local, national, and
international levels, and in most instances has won formal recognition from
the civil authorities.

The writings of Bahá’u’lláh, the Báb, and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, the central figures
of the Bahá’í revelation, have been translated and published in over 800
languages. Houses of Worship, Bahá’í schools, administrative headquarters,
and community centers have been erected throughout the world, and
properties have been acquired for even more ambitious future
developments. At the United Nations, the Bahá’í International Community
is accredited as an international Non-Governmental Organization in
consultative status with the Economic and Social Council. By any standard,
the achievements have been extraordinary. The guiding spirit of this
phenomenal expansion was Shoghi Effendi Rabbani, the grandson of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, appointed by him to be the Guardian of the Faith of
Bahá’u’lláh.

The institution of the Guardianship was conceived by Bahá’u’lláh, but its
specific functions and authority were first delineated in the Will and
Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. The two most important functions of the
Guardianship were the interpretation of Bahá’í teachings and the guidance
of the Bahá’í community. Mindful of the efforts Muḥammad-‘Alí had made
to seize control of the community’s leadership, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá used strong
language to make certain that Shoghi Effendi was fully empowered to act as
he saw best in all the affairs of the faith. Any opposition to him would
constitute opposition to the founders of the faith:

O ye faithful loved ones of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá! It is incumbent upon you to
take the greatest care of Shoghi Effendi, the twig that hath branched
from and the fruit given forth by the two hallowed and Divine Lote-
Trees,92 that no dust of despondency and sorrow may stain his radiant
nature, that day by day he may wax greater in happiness, in joy and
spirituality, and may grow to become even as a fruitful tree.

For he is, after ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, the guardian of the Cause of God. The
Afnán, the Hands [pillars] of the Cause and the beloved of the Lord
must obey him and turn unto him. He that obeyeth him not, hath not
obeyed God; he that turneth away from him hath turned away from
God and he that denieth him hath denied the True One. Beware lest

anyone falsely interpret these words, and like unto them that have
broken the Covenant after the Day of Ascension [of Bahá’u’lláh]
advance a pretext, raise the standard of revolt, wax stubborn and open
wide the door of false interpretation . . . 93

From the beginning of his Guardianship, Shoghi Effendi made it clear that
not only had the Bahá’í Faith entered a new stage in its growth, but that the
authority conveyed by statements such as the above-quoted, involved a
function quite different from the charismatic leadership of the community
characterized by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. What he called the “apostolic era” had
passed, and the “formative age” had begun.94

In this new period, it was the institution of the Guardianship which should
command the love and allegiance of the believers. The person of the
appointed Guardian was entirely subordinate. The faithful were forbidden to
commemorate any of the events associated with the Guardian’s life;
photographs were discouraged; appointed representatives carried out any
public ceremonial functions that were required of the Guardian; and
onerous administrative, interpretative, and writing tasks left Shoghi Effendi
no time for speaking tours of the kind ‘Abdu’l-Bahá  had been able to
undertake during his lifetime.

The sole exception to the retirement from a public role was the Guardian’s
devotion of whatever degree of time he could spare to meeting with the
steady flow of pilgrims visiting the Bahá’í World Centre from both East and
West. Even these encounters were limited for the most part to mealtimes at
the “Pilgrim House” in Haifa.

The period between 1921 and 1963 in Bahá’í history is most readily
accessible through consideration of the major projects undertaken by
Shoghi Effendi in the execution of his role as Guardian. Four areas of
activity particularly stand out: the development of the Bahá’í World Centre,
the translation and interpretation of Bahá’í teachings, the expansion of the
administrative order, and the implementation of the divine plan of ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá.

Immediately after assuming his responsibilities, and continuing throughout
his life, Shoghi Effendi devoted a great deal of time to the physical
development of the faith’s international headquarters in the area
surrounding the Bay of Haifa. During the lifetimes of Bahá’u’lláh and
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, several parcels of land had been gradually acquired by the
community of exiles. Of these, the two most important were the site of the
shrine where the body of Bahá’u’lláh was interred (in the vicinity of the
mansion of Bahjí just outside Acre), and the site of the shrine on the side of

Mount Carmel above the city of Haifa which contained the remains of the
Báb. Through the generosity of individual Bahá’ís, bequests, and responses
to special appeals by Shoghi Effendi, these properties were vastly increased
during the Guardian’s ministry. Magnificent gardens were laid out, the first
of a number of monumental buildings were erected, and a master plan was
created for the development of a spiritual center and administrative complex
that would meet the needs of a rapidly growing international community
and which would be able to expand with it, a complex designed to rank
among the most beautiful in the world. A widely dispersed religious
community was thus provided with a center of pilgrimage and guidance that
would greatly contribute to creating a sense of common identity.

High on the list of priorities of any religious system must be the
determination of the canon of its scripture and the application of these
sacred writings to the circumstances of individual and community life.
Empowered by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Will as the sole authoritative interpreter of
the Bahá’í writings, Shoghi Effendi interpreted world events in the light of
the Bahá’í scriptures and shared with the Bahá’í community the results of
these analyses in the form of lengthy letters to the Bahá’í world.95

At the same time, the nascent Bahá’í communities around the world were
deluging Haifa with questions on an enormous range of subjects in the

Bahá’í writings, and the Guardian’s answers to these inquiries also formed a
significant portion of the interpretation of the revelation of Bahá’u’lláh. In
the early 1940s Shoghi Effendi focused his analytical attention on the
events of Bahá’í history; and in 1944, in commemoration of the centenary
of the declaration of the Báb, he produced a highly detailed study covering
the entire century from the Báb’s first announcement of his mission to
Mullá Ḥusayn to the completion of the first “Seven Year Plan.”96

Shoghi Effendi’s program to interpret the Bahá’í writings was considerably
aided by the fact that he was in a position to serve as the principal translator
of the writings from Persian and Arabic into English.97 He had studied
English from early childhood and as a young man was able to continue his
studies at the American University of Beirut and subsequently at Oxford
University, where he remained until the time of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s death in
1921. Since the major administrative bodies of the Bahá’í Faith during the
first critical decades of the Guardianship were located in English-speaking
countries, Shoghi Effendi’s ability to express and interpret Bahá’í concepts
in the English language provided an invaluable source of guidance to the
new faith in the Western world.

His role as an interpreter was also of long-range importance to the
development of the Bahá’í community. It assured unity of doctrine during

the early years of the faith’s global expansion and thus greatly reduced the
threat of schism.

Parallel with his translation activities and the development of the World
Centre of the faith, Shoghi Effendi devoted much of his energies to bringing
into existence the system of administrative institutions as they had been
conceived by Bahá’u’lláh and established in embryonic form by ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá. Each locality with nine or more adult believers was encouraged to
elect a “Local Spiritual Assembly” to govern the affairs of the faith in that
area. As soon as the number of local spiritual assemblies in any given
country provided a sufficiently broad base, the Guardian urged the election
of a national spiritual assembly, vested with full jurisdiction over the affairs
of the faith in that particular country.

A steady stream of correspondence from Haifa provided these nascent
institutions with guidance concerning the application of the Bahá’í writings
to the conduct of community life. More general communications urged all
believers to give their wholehearted support and obedience to the bodies
they elected. Bahá’í principles of consultation were identified, and
assemblies were urged to conscientiously train themselves in group decision
making.

In accordance with ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Will, between the years 1951 and 1957,
the Guardian appointed a number of distinguished believers as Hands of the
Cause of God and charged them with special responsibilities for teaching
the faith and protecting its institutions. The crowning unit of this global
administrative structure was the institution of the Universal House of
Justice, conceived and named by Bahá’u’lláh. Shoghi Effendi indicated
that, as soon as the expansion of the Bahá’í community permitted, a
Universal House of Justice would be elected by the entire international
Bahá’í community, acting through their national spiritual assemblies.

A word should be said about the role that the North American Bahá’í
community, and particularly the Bahá’ís in the United States, played in this
building process. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá had been lavish in his praise of the spiritual
capacities and the services of its members. He had been generous, too, in
his recognition of many of the characteristics of the United States as a
nation. More important, he had indicated that America would serve as the
“cradle” of the administrative order which Bahá’u’lláh had conceived.
Because of the importance of this turning point in human history, “the day
is approaching when ye shall witness how . . .  the West will have replaced
the East, radiating the light of divine guidance.”98

Accordingly, when Shoghi Effendi began building the administrative order,
he turned to the American Bahá’ís as his chief collaborators. Already,
several of them were involved in Bahá’í teaching projects beyond their own
shores, and one of them, Martha Root, member of a distinguished American
family, had been successful in bringing into the faith its first crowned head,
Queen Marie of Rumania.99 The American Bahá’ís were also the “Chief
Executors” of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá‘s Will. It was principally through this
correspondence with the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the
United States and Canada100 that Shoghi Effendi gradually molded local
and national institutions which functioned in conformity with the principles
in the writings of the faith. Communities in other lands were encouraged to
follow this lead. While cultural differences would determine secondary
matters, the administrative order should be uniform in essentials, and for
this a model was needed.

The American community was to provide this model, but the members were
cautioned by Shoghi Effendi that their mandate owed nothing to the
political system with which they were familiar. On the contrary:
Bahá’u’lláh had appeared in Persia not because of any cultural superiority
that nation possessed, but because of its profound moral degradation.
Similarly, his administrative order would be erected first in a social milieu
characterized by materialism, lawlessness, and political corruption. There,

as had already occurred in Persia, Bahá’u’lláh would demonstrate that it is
only the power of God that can regenerate people and society.101

Shoghi Effendi’s reasons for devoting so much time and energy to the
development of the Bahá’í administrative order during the first years of his
guardianship soon became apparent. The administrative institutions of the
faith provided the necessary instruments for the implementation of ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá’s “Divine Plan” to spread the Bahá’í message around the world.
Before the widely scattered community could undertake so great a task, it
was necessary to establish decision-making administrative bodies capable
of mobilizing the necessary manpower and resources. Moreover, it was
essential that adequate time be allowed for these institutions to learn the
rudiments of Bahá’í administration and consultation.

Accordingly, it was not until 1937, sixteen years after the death of ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá, that Shoghi Effendi began systemically working on realizing the
objectives laid out in the series of letters sent by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá  to the
Bahá’ís of North America. In April 1937 the first seven-year plan was
launched with three major goals: (1) to establish at least one local spiritual
assembly in every state of the United States and every province of Canada;
(2) to make certain that at least one Bahá’í teacher was residing in each
Latin American republic; and (3) to complete the exterior design of the first

Bahá’í house of worship in North America building whose cornerstone had
been laid by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá  during his visit in 1912, and which, in many
ways, symbolized the international Bahá’í community itself. Despite the
obstacles created by the outbreak of World War II, this plan was
successfully completed on the centenary of the declaration of the Báb, in
May 1944.

Following a two-year interval, a second seven-year plan was launched in
1946. The focus of this effort was Europe, which at the time had only two
national spiritual assemblies: those of Great Britain and Germany. The plan
also called for the creation of local spiritual assemblies throughout Latin
America and a great multiplication of those in North America. The
successful conclusion of this plan in 1953 likewise coincided with a major
Bahá’í centenary, the one-hundredth anniversary of the inception of
Bahá’u’lláh’s mission in the Síyáh-Chál. One of the major goals of this
seven-year plan was the establishment of an independent national spiritual
assembly in Canada. This was achieved in 1948, and in 1949 was followed
by its incorporation by a special Act of Parliament, an achievement which
Shoghi Effendi pointed out was “unique in the annals of the Faith, whether
of East or West.”102

The two most impressive single achievements of this second plan had a
special connection with the North American Bahá’í community. April 1953
marked the formal dedication of the house of worship at Wilmette, Illinois,
which was to be the first of similar structures to be built on all five
continents of the globe. The designer was a French-Canadian architect
named Jean-Louis Bourgeois. His magnificent conception was hailed by the
Italian architect Luigi Quaglino as “a new creation which will revolutionize
architecture in the world. Without doubt,” he added, “it will have a lasting
page in history.”103 One other major triumph of these years was also a
building, a magnificent shrine to crown the stone edifice built by ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá to serve as a mausoleum for the Báb. The architect of this shrine was
another Canadian, William Sutherland Maxwell, with whom ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
had stayed during his visit to Montreal. The exquisite design, in which a
golden dome crowns a white marble arcade and rose-colored granite pillars,
has provided the Bahá’í World Centre on Mount Carmel with one of the
most beautiful landmarks on the shores of the Mediterranean Sea.

In 1953, without any lapse of time, Shoghi Effendi launched the Bahá’í
community on the most ambitious undertaking in its history-a global plan
which he termed a “Ten Year World Crusade.” This plan would conclude in
1963, the centenary of the declaration of Bahá’u’lláh in the Garden of
Riḍván. One hundred and thirty-two new countries and major territories

were to be opened to the faith and the existing communities in 120
countries and territories were to be expanded. National spiritual assemblies
were to be established in most countries in Europe and Latin America, and
vast increases were called for in the number of assemblies, believers, and
property endowments. This plan, like those before, was achieved on
schedule (indeed was far exceeded), but under circumstances very different
from any the Bahá’í community might have anticipated.

In early November 1957, while on a visit to England to purchase
furnishings for the Bahá’í archives building on Mount Carmel, Shoghi
Effendi contracted Asian flu. On November 4, he died of a heart attack,
leaving the Bahá’í world stunned and temporarily distracted, its ten-year
plan only half completed.

The Guardianship was theoretically a continuous one. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Will
and Testament authorized the Guardian of the Bahá’í Faith to appoint a
successor from among the direct descendants of Bahá’u’lláh but indicated
certain qualities such a successor must possess. Shoghi Effendi died without
designating a successor, as apparently no other members of the family met
the demanding spiritual requirements laid down in the Covenant of
Bahá’u’lláh and in the Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. There would,
therefore, be no second Guardian; the only other institution endowed with

the authority to assume the leadership of the Bahá’í community was the
Universal House of Justice—a body which had yet to be elected.104

Three interrelated factors provided an answer to the dilemma facing the
Bahá’í world: (1) from statements Shoghi Effendi had made, it was
apparent that he considered that conditions would be ready for the election
of the Universal House of Justice when the ten-year plan was successfully
completed; (2) in the meantime, the Bahá’í community would receive the
basic guidance it required from the detailed plan already laid down by
Shoghi Effendi; and (3) finally, in one of his last messages to the Bahá’í
world, he had named the Hands of the Cause as the “Chief Stewards” of the
faith and called on them to collaborate closely with the national spiritual
assemblies in assuring that the ten-year plan was carried out and that the
unity of the faith was protected.105

Heartened by this last message, the Hands of the Cause organized their
work around a series of annual “Conclaves.” These consultations produced
a number of major statements, including the formal declaration that Shoghi
Effendi had left no will and had appointed no heir to the Guardianship
(Conclave of 1957), and the announcement that the Universal House of
Justice would be elected by the membership of all the national spiritual
assemblies of the Bahá’ís of the world in 1963 (Conclave of 1959).

By April 1961 twenty-one new national spiritual assemblies were
established in Latin America, and a year later an additional eleven were
elected in Europe. The remaining goals of the ten-year plan were likewise
either accomplished or surpassed. In the spring of 1963, precisely one
hundred years after Bahá’u’lláh first declared his mission to a handful of
followers in the Garden of Riḍván, the members of the fifty-six elected
national spiritual assemblies around the world carried out the first election
of the Universal House of Justice. In a remarkable gesture of renunciation,
the Hands of the Cause disqualified themselves from serving as elected
members of the supreme administrative institution of the Bahá’í
community.

For Bahá’ís, the first election of the Universal House of Justice represented
an event of transcendent importance. After more than a century of struggle,
persecution, and recurrent internal crises, and through democratic electoral
processes, the Bahá’í community had succeeded in bringing into existence a
permanent institution for the guidance of all the affairs of the faith.
Moreover, its establishment had been conceived by Bahá’u’lláh himself and
was based strictly on principles laid down in his writings and in those of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. The cosmopolitan membership of the first Universal House
of Justice seemed particularly appropriate to the institution’s nature and

functions: the nine members from four continents represented three major
religious backgrounds (Jewish, Christian, and Muslim) as well as several
ethnic origins.106

Beyond its institutional importance, the establishment of the Universal
House of Justice symbolized the element which Bahá’ís regard as the
essence of their faith: unity. The emergence of the Universal House of
Justice as the unchallenged authority in all the affairs of the community
meant that the Bahá’í Faith had remained united through the most critical
period of a religion’s history, the vulnerable first century during which
schism almost traditionally takes root.

As the stories of Mírzá Yaḥyá, Muḥammad-‘Alí, and Ibrahim Kheiralla
amply demonstrate, many abortive efforts were made to divide the Bahá’í
community during this critical period. It is an impressive testimony to the
successive leadership of Bahá’u’lláh, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, and Shoghi Effendi,
that such efforts failed.107 With the establishment of an accepted permanent
authoritative body to which all individual believers and administrative
bodies at the local and national levels within the Bahá’í community were
subject, the unity of the community assumed an institutional form that
directly involved every believer.108

The election of the Universal House of Justice opened the way to the
resumption of two major activities initially undertaken by the Guardian: (1)
the creation of new institutions and administrative agencies as the needs of
a rapidly expanding faith dictated; and (2) the elaboration of new global
teaching plans for continuing work on ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s vision of a “spiritual
conquest of the planet.”

In 1964, the year following its first election, the Universal House of Justice
launched a nine-year plan that was completed on schedule in 1973, the
centennial anniversary of Bahá’u’lláh’s revelation of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas or
Most Holy Book. Since then, six international plans have been successfully
achieved under the guidance of the Universal House of Justice. The current
five-year plan, launched in 2001, begins a series of five-year plans that will
carry the Bahá’í community well into the twenty-first century.

5. Basic Teachings


THREE FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES

In discussing the teachings of the Bahá’í Faith, we turn first to an
examination of three basic principles: (1) the oneness of God; (2) the
oneness of humankind; and (3) the fundamental unity of religion.

THE ONENESS OF GOD

The Bahá’í belief in one God means that the universe and all creatures and
forces within it have been created by one single superhuman and
supernatural Being. This Being, whom we call God, has absolute control
over his creation (omnipotence) as well as perfect and complete knowledge
of it (omniscience). Although we may have different concepts of God’s
nature, although we may pray to him in different languages and call him by
different names—Allah or Yahweh, God or Brahma—nevertheless, we are
speaking about the same unique Being.

Extolling God’s act of creation, Bahá’u’lláh said:

All-praise to the unity of God, and all honor to Him, the sovereign
Lord, the incomparable and all-glorious Ruler of the universe, Who,
out of utter nothingness, hath created the reality of all things, Who,
from naught, hath brought into being the most refined and subtle
elements of His creation, and Who, rescuing His creatures from the
abasement of remoteness and the perils of ultimate extinction, hath
received them into His kingdom of incorruptible glory. Nothing short
of His all-encompassing grace, his all-pervading mercy, could have
possibly achieved it.109

Bahá’u’lláh taught that God is too great and too subtle a being for the finite
mind ever to understand him adequately or to construct an accurate image
of him:

How wondrous is the unity of the Living, the Ever-Abiding God–a
unity which is exalted above all limitations, that transcendeth the
comprehension of all created things!  . . . How lofty hath been His
incorruptible Essence, how completely independent of the knowledge
of all created things, and how immensely exalted will it remain above
the praise of all the inhabitants of the heavens and the earth!110

THE ONENESS OF HUMANKIND

The second basic Bahá’í principle is the oneness of humankind. This means
that the entire human race is one unified, distinct species, an organic unit.
This one human race is the “apogee of creation,” the highest form of life
and consciousness which God has created; for among God’s creatures, only
human beings have the capacity to be aware of God’s existence and to
commune with his spirit:

Having created the world and all that liveth and moveth therein, He
[God], through the direct operation of His unconstrained and sovereign
Will, chose to confer upon man the unique distinction to know Him
and to love Him-a capacity that must needs be regarded as the
generating impulse and the primary purpose underlying the whole of
creation. . . . Alone of all created things man hath been singled out for
so great a favor, so enduring a bounty.111

The oneness of humankind also implies that all peoples have the same
basic, God-given capacities. Physical differences such as skin color or hair
texture are superficial and have nothing to do with any supposed superiority
of one ethnic group over another. All theories of racial superiority are

rejected by Bahá’í teachings as founded on false imagination and
ignorance.112

Bahá’ís believe that humankind has always constituted one species, but that
prejudice, ignorance, power-seeking, and egotism have prevented many
people from recognizing and accepting this oneness. The essential mission
of Bahá’u’lláh was to change this situation and to bring about the universal
consciousness of the oneness of humankind. Bahá’ís believe that the
organic unit which is humankind has undergone a collective growth process
under the Fatherhood of God. Much as a single organism attains maturity in
successive stages of development, so humankind has gradually evolved
towards its collective maturity.

The basic expression of man’s social evolution is our capacity to organize
society on ever higher levels of unity with greater specialization of the
individual components, and with a consequent increase in the
interdependence and the need for cooperation among the specialized parts.
The family, the tribe, the city-state, the nation—these represent some of the
signal stages in social evolution. The next stage in this collective growth
process, representing the culmination of human evolution, is world unity:
the organization of society as a planetary civilization.

Shoghi Effendi spoke of this Bahá’í teaching in the following way:

The principle of the Oneness of Mankind—the pivot round which all
the teachings of Bahá’u’lláh revolve—is no mere outburst of ignorant
emotionalism or an expression of vague and pious hope.... Its message
is applicable not only to the individual, but concerns itself primarily
with the nature of those essential relationships that must bind all the
states and nations as members of one human family.... It implies an
organic change in the structure of present-day society, a change such as
the world has not yet experienced. ... It calls for no less than the
reconstruction and the demilitarization of the whole civilized world....

It represents the consummation of human evolution—an evolution that
has had its earliest beginnings in the birth of family life, its subsequent
development in the achievement of tribal solidarity, leading in turn to
the constitution of the city-state, and expanding later into the institution
of independent and sovereign nations.

The principle of the Oneness of Mankind, as proclaimed by
Bahá’u’lláh, carries with it no more and no less than a solemn assertion
that attainment to this final stage in this stupendous evolution is not
only necessary but inevitable, that its realization is fast approaching,

and that nothing short of a power that is born of God can succeed in
establishing it.113

Thus the principle of the oneness of humankind implies not only a new
individual consciousness, but the establishment of the unity of nations, of
world government, and ultimately of a planetary civilization. Accordingly,
it is not sufficient that humankind simply acknowledge its oneness while
continuing to live in a disunited world full of conflict, prejudice, and hatred.
We must express unity by building a truly universal and unified social
system based on spiritual principles. The achievement of such a system
represents the God-directed goal of human social evolution:

. . . the object of life to a Bahá’í is to promote the oneness of mankind.
The whole object of our lives is bound up with the lives of all human
beings; not a personal salvation we are seeking, but a universal one. . . .
Our aim is to produce a world civilization which will in turn react on the
character of the individual. It is, in a way, the inverse of Christianity,
which started with the individual unit and through it reached out to the
conglomerate life of man.114

Thus, from the Bahá’í point of view, the fundamental, spiritual purpose of
society is to create a milieu favorable to the healthy growth and

development of all its members.

Bahá’u’lláh proposed a detailed system for the establishment of world
unity, which is discussed in subsequent chapters of the present work. In a
general way, what he proposed was the creation of new social structures
based on participation and consultation. These new structures would serve
the primary purpose of eliminating conflicts of interest and thus reducing
the potential for disunity at all levels of society. The new structures
envisaged include a number of potent international organs of world
government: a world legislature with genuine representation and authority,
an international court having final jurisdiction in all disputes between
nations, and an international police force.

He taught that the creation of these new social structures must be
accompanied by the individual and collective consciousness of the
fundamental oneness of humankind:

Ye are the fruits of one tree, and the leaves of one branch. Deal ye one
with another with the utmost love and harmony, with friendliness and
fellowship.... So powerful is the light of unity that it can illuminate the
whole earth.115

And in yet another passage:

It is not for him to pride himself who loveth his own country, but rather
for him who loveth the whole world. The earth is but one country, and
mankind its citizens.116

Unity, in the Bahá’í conception, is a unity in diversity rather than
uniformity. It is not by the suppression of differences that we will arrive at
unity, but rather by an increased awareness of and respect for the intrinsic
value of each separate culture, and indeed, of each individual. It is not
diversity itself which is deemed the cause of conflict, but rather our
immature attitude towards it, our intolerance and prejudice. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
expressed this viewpoint in the following passage:

. . . differences are of two kinds. One is the cause of annihilation and is
like the antipathy existing among warring nations and conflicting tribes
who seek each other’s destruction, uprooting one another’s families,
depriving one another of rest and comfort and unleashing carnage. The
other kind which is a token of diversity is the essence of perfection and
the cause of the appearance of the bestowals of the Most Glorious
Lord.

Consider the flowers of a garden: though differing in kind, color, form
and shape, yet, inasmuch as they are refreshed by the waters of one
spring, revived by the breath of one wind, invigorated by the rays of
one sun, this diversity increaseth their charm, and addeth unto their
beauty....

How unpleasing to the eye if all the flowers and plants, the leaves and
blossoms, the fruits, the branches and the trees of that garden were all
of the same shape and color! Diversity of hues, form and shape,
enricheth and adorneth the garden, and heighteneth the effect thereof.
In like manner, when divers shades of thought, temperament and
character, are brought together under the power and influence of one
central agency, the beauty and glory of human perfection will be
revealed and made manifest. Naught but the celestial potency of the
Word of God, which ruleth and transcendeth the realities of all things,
is capable of harmonizing the divergent thoughts, sentiments, ideas,
and convictions of the children of men.117

Because the establishment of world unity and a planetary civilization
represents the consummation of humankind’s development on this planet, it
represents the “coming of age” of humanity, the maturity of the human race.
Shoghi Effendi expressed this idea as follows:

The Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh, whose supreme mission is none other
but the achievement of this organic and spiritual unity of the whole
body of nations, should, if we be faithful to its implications, be
regarded as signalizing through its advent the coming of age of the
entire human race. It should be viewed . . . as marking the last and
highest stage in the stupendous evolution of man’s collective life on
this planet. The emergence of a world community, the consciousness of
world citizenship, the founding of a world civilization and culture . . .
should, by their very nature, be regarded, as far as this planetary life is
concerned, as the furthermost limits in the organization of human
society, though man, as an individual, will, nay must indeed as a result
of such a consummation, continue indefinitely to progress and develop.

The different stages in humankind’s development are regarded as quite
similar to the stages in the life of an individual. The current stage is
described as that of adolescence, the stage immediately preceding full
maturity:

The long ages of infancy and childhood, through which the human race
had to pass, have receded into the background. Humanity is now

experiencing the commotions invariably associated with the most
turbulent stage of its evolution, the stage of adolescence, when the
impetuosity of youth and its vehemence reach their climax, and must
gradually be superseded by the calmness, the wisdom, and the maturity
that characterize the stage of manhood. Then will the human race reach
that stature of ripeness which will enable it to acquire all the powers
and capacities upon which its ultimate development must depend.119

Speaking of the age of humankind’s full maturity, Shoghi Effendi said:

That mystic, all-pervasive, yet indefinable change, which we associate
with the stage of maturity inevitable in the life of the individual ... must
... have its counterpart in the evolution of the organization of human
society. A similar stage must sooner or later be attained in the
collective life of mankind, producing an even more striking
phenomenon in world relations, and endowing the whole human race
with such potentialities of well-being as shall provide, throughout the
succeeding ages, the chief incentive required for the eventual
fulfillment of its high destiny.120

Of course, the history of humanity that we can observe is the history of our
collective infancy, childhood, and adolescence. Therefore, affirmed

Bahá’u’lláh, we tend to underestimate the true capacities of the human race.
But these latent capacities will become evident as humankind achieves its
maturity:

Verily I say, in this most mighty Revelation, all the Dispensations of
the past have attained their highest ... consummation....

The potentialities inherent in the station of man, the full measure of his
destiny on earth, the innate excellence of his reality, must all be
manifested in this promised Day of  God.121

In summary, the Bahá’í principle of the oneness of humankind means that
the human race represents an organic unit whose collective social life has
gradually developed by being reorganized on ever-higher levels of unity
(the family, the tribe, the city-state, the nation). The specific mission of
Bahá’u’lláh was to provide the impetus for the next stage of this social
evolution, namely the organization of human society as a planetary
civilization. This is to be achieved through the development of new social
structures which reduce and eliminate conflict of interest and by the
creation of a new level of human consciousness, that of the basic oneness of
humanity. Moreover, the unification of humankind represents the attainment
of the stage of maturity or adulthood in the collective life of humankind.

The Bahá’í community is seen as both the embryo and the prototype of the
future world civilization. It also provides the individual with an opportunity
to begin to live the experience of unity and to develop this new
consciousness. The subject will be treated in more detail in a later chapter.

THE ONENESS OF RELIGION

The third basic Bahá’í principle, the unity of religion, is closely related to
the principle of the oneness of humankind. Our discussion of the concept of
the organic unity of the human race has suggested that humanity is engaged
in a collective growth process quite similar to the growth process of an
individual: just as the individual begins life as a helpless infant and attains
maturity in successive stages, so humankind began its collective social life
in a primitive state, gradually attaining maturity. In the case of the
individual, it is clear that development takes place as a result of the
education received from parents, teachers, and society in general. But what
is the motive force in humankind’s collective evolution?

The answer the Bahá’í Faith provides to this question is “revealed religion.”
In one of his major works, the Kitáb-i-Íqán (the Book of Certitude),
Bahá’u’lláh explained that God, the Creator, has intervened and will

continue to intervene in human history by means of chosen spokesmen or
messengers. These messengers, whom Bahá’u’lláh called “Manifestations
of God,” are principally the founders of the major revealed religions, such
as Abraham, Moses, Buddha, Jesus, Muhammad, and so forth. It is the
spirit released by the coming of these Manifestations, together with the
influence of their teachings and the social systems established by their laws
and precepts, that enable humankind to progress in its collective evolution.
Simply put: the Manifestations of God are the chief educators of humanity.

With regard to the various religious systems that have appeared in human
history, Bahá’u’lláh has said:

These principles and laws, these firmly-established and mighty
systems, have proceeded from one Source, and are the rays of one
Light. That they differ one from another is to be attributed to the
varying requirements of the ages in which they were promulgated.122

Thus the principle of the unity of religion means that all of the great
religious founders—the Manifestations—have come from God and that all
of the religious systems established by them are part of a single divine plan
directed by God.

In reality, there is only one religion, the religion of God. This one religion is
continually evolving, and each particular religious system represents a stage
in the evolution of the whole. The Bahá’í Faith represents the current stage
in the evolution of religion.

To emphasize the idea that all of the teachings and actions of the
Manifestations are directed by God and do not originate from natural,
human sources, Bahá’u’lláh used the term “revelation” to describe the
phenomenon that occurs each time a Manifestation appears. In particular,
the writings of the Manifestation represent the infallible Word of God.
Because these writings remain long after the earthly life of the
Manifestation is finished, they constitute an especially important part of the
phenomenon of revelation. So much is this so, that the term “revelation” is
sometimes used in a restricted sense to refer to the writings and words of
the Manifestation.

Religious history is seen as a succession of revelations from God, and the
term “progressive revelation” is used to describe this process. Thus,
according to Bahá’ís, progressive relation is the motive force of human
progress, and the Manifestation Bahá’u’lláh is the most recent instance of
revelation.123

To put the Bahá’í concept of religion more clearly in focus, let us compare
it with some other ways in which religion has been regarded. On one hand
is the view that the various religious systems result from human striving
after truth. In this conception, the founders of the great religions do not
reveal God to us, but are rather philosophers or thinkers, human beings who
may have progressed farther than others in the discovery of truth. This
notion excludes the idea of a basic unity of religion since the various
religious systems are seen as representing different opinions and beliefs
arrived at by fallible human beings rather than infallible revelations of truth
from a single source.

Many orthodox adherents of various religious traditions, on the other hand,
argue that the prophet or founder of their particular tradition represents a
true revelation of God to humanity, but that the other religious founders are
false prophets, or at least essentially inferior to the founder of the tradition
in question. For example, many Jews believe that Moses was a true
messenger of God, but that Jesus was not. Similarly, many Christians
believe in Jesus’ revelation, but consider that Muhammad was a false
prophet and hold that Moses was inferior in status to Christ.

The Bahá’í principle of the oneness of religion differs fundamentally from
both of these traditional concepts. Bahá’u’lláh attributed the differences in

some teachings of the great religions not to any human fallibility of the
founders, but rather to the different requirements of the ages in which the
revelations occurred. In addition, he maintained that there has been a great
deal of human error introduced into religion through the corruption of texts
and the addition of extraneous ideas. Moreover, Bahá’ís consider that no
one of the founders is superior to another. Shoghi Effendi has summarized
this view in the following words:

The fundamental principle enunciated by Bahá’u’lláh, the followers of
His Faith firmly believe, is that religious truth is not absolute but
relative, that Divine Revelation is a continuous and progressive
process, that all the great religions of the world are divine in origin,
that their basic principles are in complete harmony, that their aims and
purposes are one and the same, that their teachings are but facets of
one truth, that their functions are complementary, that they differ only
in the nonessential aspects of their doctrines, and that their missions
represent successive stages in the spiritual evolution of human
society.124

THE BAHÁ’Í REVELATION – THE SACRED WRITINGS

Bahá’u’lláh’s writings include over one hundred books and tablets, most of
which were written under the difficult conditions of imprisonment
described earlier. This vast body of literature comprises the Bahá’í
revelation. The writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and the interpretations of Shoghi
Effendi have, for Bahá’ís, a derived but equally binding authority.

The subject matter of the writings of Bahá’u’lláh falls into several
categories: (1) In one category are basic concepts, typified by the Kitáb-i-
Íqán with its explanation of the theme of progressive revelation. (2) In
another category are principles of human life and conduct, as outlined in the
exhortations by Bahá’u’lláh speaking as God’s representative on earth. In
these he explained the nature and purpose of life, described its processes,
counseled men to act in accordance with the Divine Will, and gave both
warnings and promises related to human response. (3) A third category
consists of laws and ordinances which are similar to the counsels except
that, for Bahá’ís, they are binding and obligatory. (4) Further, Bahá’u’lláh
established social and administrative institutions, carefully setting the
limitations of their authority as well as their prerogatives and powers.

The last two categories, the laws and the institutions, together constitute a
system called the “Administrative Order of Bahá’u’lláh.” The purpose of
the Administrative Order is to safeguard the unity of the Bahá’í community

as well as to serve as an instrument for the establishment of world unity.
Later chapters of this book deal with the Administrative Order in greater
depth.

Other categories of Bahá’u’lláh’s writings that can be readily distinguished
are the devotional, the mystical, the philosophical, and the
historiographical. The variety is great and attests to the extraordinary range
of Bahá’u’lláh’s concern with the needs of the individual and society.

Most of the major principles to be found in these writings may be regarded
as auxiliary to the realization of the fundamental Bahá’í goal of achieving a
unified world order. Their application would serve to reduce conflict
between groups and between individuals and thus create a social climate
favorable to the development of unity. Shoghi Effendi provided a summary
statement of some of the major Bahá’í principles. It is quoted in full to
serve as a basis for further discussion:

The Bahá’í Faith recognizes the unity of God and of His Prophets,
upholds the principle of an unfettered search after truth, condemns all
forms of superstition and prejudice, teaches that the fundamental
purpose of religion is to promote concord and harmony, that it must go
hand-in-hand with science, and that it constitutes the sole and ultimate

basis of a peaceful, an ordered and progressive society. It inculcates the
principle of equal opportunity, rights and privileges for both sexes,
advocates compulsory education, abolishes extremes of poverty and
wealth, exalts work performed in the spirit of service to the rank of
worship, recommends the adoption of an auxiliary international
language, and provides the necessary agencies for the establishment
and safeguarding of a permanent and universal peace.125

It is in this context that certain of these principles will now be considered in
greater detail.

THE INDEPENDENT INVESTIGATION OF TRUTH

One of the main sources of conflict in the world today is the fact that many
people blindly and uncritically follow various traditions, movements, and
opinions. God has given each human being a mind and the capacity to
differentiate truth from falsehood. If one fails to use his reasoning capacity
and chooses instead to accept without question certain opinions and ideas,
either out of admiration for or fear of those who hold them, then he is
neglecting his basic moral responsibility as a human being.

Moreover, when people act in this way, they often become fanatically
attached to some particular opinion or tradition and thus intolerant of those
who do not share it. Such attachments can, in turn, lead to conflict. History
has witnessed conflict and even bloodshed over slight alterations in
religious practice, or a minor change in the interpretation of doctrine.

Personal search for truth enables the individual to know why he adheres to a
given ideology or doctrine. Bahá’ís believe that, as there is only one reality,
all people will gradually discover its different facets and will ultimately
come to mutual understanding and unity, provided they sincerely seek after
truth. In this connection, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá said:

Being one, truth cannot be divided, and the differences that appear to
exist among the nations only result from their attachment to prejudice.
If only men would search out truth, they would find themselves united.

And again:

The fact that we imagine ourselves to be right and everybody else
wrong is the greatest of all obstacles in the path towards unity, and
unity is necessary if we would reach truth, for truth is one.127

ABANDONING PREJUDICE AND SUPERSTITION

Bahá’u’lláh gave special attention to the problem of prejudice. A prejudice
is a strong emotional attachment to an idea, regardless of whether or not the
idea is reasonable. A common form of prejudice occurs when a person
strongly identifies with some group to which that person belongs and which
he or she regards as superior to other groups. Consequently, the person
maintains a negative image of all those outside of the group, without regard
for their individual qualities. Group prejudices can be based on racial,
economic, social, linguistic, or other such criteria. They cause conflict
because they create disunity between groups. The hatred created by
prejudice can, and often has, led to social unrest, war, and even genocide.
Bahá’u’lláh specifically counseled his followers to make an active effort to
rid themselves of all prejudices and superstitions about human nature which
breed such aversions.

In his primary ethical work, the Hidden Words, Bahá’u’lláh incites us to
reflect on this question:

O CHILDREN OF MEN!

Know ye not why We created you all from the same dust? That no one
should exalt himself over the other. Ponder at all times in your hearts
how ye were created. Since We have created you all from one same
substance it is incumbent on you to be even as one soul, to walk with
the same feet, eat with the same mouth and dwell in the same land, that
from your inmost being, by your deeds and actions, the signs of
oneness and the essence of detachment may be made manifest.128

THE UNITY OF RELIGION AND SCIENCE

A major source of conflict and disunity in the world today is the widespread
opinion that there is some basic opposition between science and religion,
that scientific truth contradicts religion on some points, and that one must
choose between being a religious person, a believer in God, or a scientist, a
follower of reason.

The Bahá’í teachings stress the fundamental oneness of science and
religion. Such a view is implicit in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s statement, quoted above,
that truth (or reality) is one. For if truth is indeed one, it is not possible for
something to be scientifically false and religiously true. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
expressed forcefully this idea in the following passage:

If religious beliefs and opinions are found contrary to the standards of
science, they are mere superstitions and imaginations; for the antithesis
of knowledge is ignorance, and the child of ignorance is superstition.
Unquestionably there must be agreement between true religion and
science. If a question be found contrary to reason, faith and belief in it
are impossible, and there is no outcome but wavering and
vacillation.129

Bahá’u’lláh affirmed that human intelligence and reasoning powers are a
gift from God. Science results from our systematic use of these God-given
powers. The truths of science are thus discovered truths. The truths of
prophetic religion are revealed truths, i.e., truths which God has shown to
us without our having to discover them for ourselves. Bahá’ís consider that
it is the same unique God who is both the Author of revelation and the
Creator of the reality which science investigates, and hence there can be no
contradiction between the two.

Contradictions between science and traditional religious beliefs are
attributed to human fallibility and arrogance. Over the centuries, distortions
have gradually infiltrated the doctrines of various religious systems and
diluted the pure teachings as originally given by the Manifestations who
were their respective founders. With time these distortions became

increasingly difficult to distinguish from the original message. Similarly,
unsupported speculations of various schools of scientific thought have at
times become more popular and influential than the results of rigorous
scientific research and have further blurred the picture.

‘Abdu’l-Bahá affirmed that religion and science are, in fact,
complementary:

Religion and science are the two wings upon which man’s intelligence
can soar into the heights, with which the human soul can progress. It is
not possible to fly with one wing alone! Should a man try to fly with
the wing of religion alone he would quickly fall into the quagmire of
superstition, whilst on the other hand, with the wing of science alone
he would also make no progress, but fall into the despairing slough of
materialism. All religions of the present day have fallen into
superstitious practices, out of harmony alike with the true principles of
the teaching they represent and with the scientific discoveries of the
time.130

In another passage from the same work, he affirmed that the result of the
practice of the unity of science and religion will be a strengthening of
religion rather than its weakening as is feared by many religious apologists:

When religion, shorn of its superstitions, traditions, and unintelligent
dogmas, shows its conformity with science, then will there be a great
unifying, cleansing force in the world which will sweep before it all
wars, disagreements, discords and struggles—and then will mankind
be united in the power of the Love of God.131

THE EQUALITY OF MEN AND WOMEN

Whereas many religious and philosophical traditions teach that women
should be subordinate to men in certain aspects of social life, or even that
women are naturally inferior to men, the Bahá’í Faith teaches the equality
of men and women. Both Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá stressed that
women have all the intellectual abilities of men and will in the future more
clearly demonstrate their capacity for intellectual and scientific achievement
in all aspects of human endeavor. The only reason why women have not yet
reached this level of achievement is because they have not received
adequate educational and social opportunities. Furthermore, men, because
of greater physical strength, have physically dominated women through the
ages and thus have prevented them from developing their true potential:

The world in the past has been ruled by force and man has dominated
over woman by reason of his more forceful and aggressive qualities
both of body and mind. But the scales are already shifting, force is
losing its weight, and mental alertness, intuition, and the spiritual
qualities of love and service, in which woman is strong, are gaining
ascendancy. Hence the new age will be an age less masculine and more
permeated with the feminine ideals, or, to speak more exactly, will be
an age in which the masculine and feminine elements of civilization
will be more properly balanced.132

An important aspect of world unity will be the attainment of a greater
balance between feminine and masculine influences on society. In fact, it
will be largely as a result of this greater feminine influence that war will be
eliminated and permanent peace attained:

In past ages humanity has been defective and inefficient because it has
been incomplete. War and its ravages have blighted the world; the
education of woman will be a mighty step toward its abolition and
ending, for she will use her whole influence against war.... In truth, she
will be the greatest factor in establishing universal peace and
international arbitration. Assuredly, woman will abolish warfare among
mankind.133

UNIVERSAL EDUCATION

As with many other themes in his teachings, Bahá’u’lláh provided practical
guidelines to his call for equality of opportunity between the sexes. People
are urged to assure the education of all children. If, however, financial or
other family difficulties prevent this in some instances, and if the
community cannot meet the need, preference must unhesitatingly be given
to the education of female children. This accomplishes two objectives. It
assists women to overcome the handicap of past inequalities. It also assures
that, since mothers are the first teachers in society, the next generation will
derive the greatest possible benefit from whatever education a family or
community can provide.

ECONOMIC JUSTICE: ABOLISHING THE EXTREMES OF POVERTY AND WEALTH

The unity of humankind foreseen by Bahá’u’lláh is unity based on justice.
One of the most striking examples of injustice in the world today is the
grave imbalance in economic and material conditions. A relatively small
percentage of humankind has immense wealth. This minority maintains
essential control over the means of production and distribution, while the
majority of the world’s population lives in dire poverty and misery. This

imbalance exists both within nations and between nations; some highly
industrialized nations hold immense wealth, while others remain deprived
and undeveloped. Moreover, the gap that separates rich and poor continues
to widen each year, which indicates that existing economic systems are
incapable of restoring a just balance. Bahá’u’lláh asserted that economic
injustice is a moral evil and as such is condemned by God. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
wrote, “When we see poverty allowed to reach a condition of starvation, it
is a sure sign that somewhere we shall find tyranny.”134

In the Hidden Words, Bahá’u’lláh addressed the perpetrators of tyranny in
these terms:

O OPPRESSORS ON EARTH!
Withdraw your hands from tyranny, for I have pledged Myself not to
forgive any man’s injustice.135

Speaking specifically of economic injustice, he said:

O CHILDREN OF DUST!
Tell the rich of the midnight sighing of the poor, lest heedlessness lead
them into the path of destruction, and deprive them of the Tree of
Wealth.136

One of the basic causes of economic injustice is excessive and wasteful
competition. Although limited competition no doubt served as a useful
stimulus to production during the period of history when means of
production were less developed, cooperation must now replace it. The
human and material resources at our disposal must be used for the long-
term good of all, not for the short-term profit of a few. This can be done
only if cooperation replaces competition as the basis of organized economic
activity.

Cooperation must occur at all levels of the community. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
explained that even a single enterprise should reflect the essential
partnership of workers and owners. Specifically, the workers in an
enterprise should all share in the profits of the enterprise: each worker
should receive his salary plus a fixed percentage of the profits. In this way,
both the workers and the owners are engaged in a cooperative venture in
which conflict of interest is eliminated. The present system in which all
profit goes to the owners creates conflict between owners and workers,
leading to economic imbalance, injustice, and often exploitation.

Concerning competition and power-seeking, Bahá’u’lláh wrote that:

Ever since the seeking of preference and distinction came into play, the
world hath been laid waste. It hath become desolate.... Indeed, man is
noble, inasmuch as each one is a repository of the signs of God.
Nevertheless to regard oneself as superior in knowledge, learning or
virtue, or to exalt oneself or seek preference, is a grievous
transgression.137

‘Abdu’l-Bahá said that cooperation gives life to society just as the life of an
organism is maintained by the cooperation of the various elements of which
it is composed:

the base of life is this mutual aid and helpfulness, and the cause of
destruction and non-existence would be the interruption of this mutual
assistance. The more the world aspires to civilization the more this
important matter of cooperation becomes manifest.138

Within the framework of an economic system based on cooperation, the
Bahá’í teachings accept the idea of private ownership of property and the
need for private economic initiative. Moreover, the economic principles
taught by Bahá’u’lláh do not imply that all individuals should receive the
same income. There are natural differences in human needs and capacities,

and some categories of service to society (education, for example) merit
greater recompense than others.

However, all degrees should be established within absolute limits. There
must be, on the one hand, a minimum income level that meets the basic
needs for human well-being and of which all are assured. If, for whatever
reason (incapacity or other misfortune), the revenue of a given individual is
inadequate to meet his recognized needs, he would be compensated from
the public treasury. On the other hand, there should be an absolute
maximum income level. Through progressive taxation and other measures,
an individual would be prevented from accumulating wealth beyond this
level. According to explicit statements of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, “millionaires”
would not exist in a society based on Bahá’í principles because it would be
impossible to accumulate vast and unnecessary wealth.

Certain differences in salaries would continue to exist in order to enable
society to encourage the efforts of those (such as doctors or farmers) whose
services are especially vital to the welfare of the community; but these
differences would be established within well-defined absolute limits in
order to guarantee that no one would suffer deprivation and that no one
would accumulate excessive wealth. Thus Bahá’í economic teachings
contain some elements in common with the various existing systems, but

they envision a new and unique economic order based on a just distribution
of goods and services and which, in its global scope, has no known
equivalent.139

THE SPIRITUAL FOUNDATION OF SOCIETY

In discussing economic and social questions, Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
stressed that the reorganization of economic activity to reduce conflict of
interest is only part of the solution. The ultimate root of economic injustice
is human greed. Thus attitudes must also change in a fundamental way. If
individuals remain selfish, immature, greedy, and unspiritual, even the most
perfect economic scheme will not work. A satisfactory solution to the
world’s present economic calamity lies in a profound change of heart and
mind which only religion can produce: “The fundamentals of the whole
economic condition are divine in nature and are associated with the world
of the heart and spirit.”140

This principle is seen as valid not only for economics, but for the whole
range of human activities and problems. The Bahá’í teachings insist that
man’s fundamental nature is spiritual, and that there can be no lasting
solution to any human problem that does not take this fact into account.
Everything is ultimately related to the spiritual purpose of human existence,

which is the knowledge and love of God, and the development of spiritual
qualities and virtues.

This is why Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá provided guidance covering
such a broad scope of human activities. There can be no sharp division
drawn between the secular and the religious aspects of life. All of life must
be lived from the spiritual perspective if it is to be lived successfully.

Since religion, represented by the progressive revelation of God to
humankind, has humanity’s spiritual dimension as its special focus, it
follows that only true religion can form the basis of society, and that all
purely human attempts to solve the world’s problems without reference to
religion and the will of God for humanity are doomed to failure. In this
connection, Shoghi Effendi wrote:

Humanity ... has, alas, strayed too far and suffered too great a decline
to be redeemed through the unaided efforts of the best among its
recognized rulers and statesmen—however disinterested their motives,
however concerted their action.... No scheme which the calculations of
the highest statesmanship may yet devise; no doctrine which the most
distinguished exponents of economic theory may hope to advance; no
principle which the most ardent of moralists may strive to inculcate,

can provide, in the last resort, adequate foundations upon which the
future of a distracted world can be built.141

AN AUXILIARY INTERNATIONAL LANGUAGE

The multiplicity of languages that characterizes the modern world is a
major impediment to world unity. On the level of practical communications,
the existence of so many different language groups cuts the free flow of
information and makes it difficult for the average unilingual individual to
obtain a universal perspective on world events. There is also the tendency
on the part of a given group or nation to be attached to its language and
literature and subsequently to consider its own as superior to that of other
peoples. This linguistic chauvinism frequently leads to conflict.

It is therefore not surprising that Bahá’u’lláh’s prescription for the
unification of humankind included the adoption of a universal auxiliary
language. He urged that one single language be taught as a second language
in all the school systems of the world. Thus, in one generation, everyone
would learn his or her mother tongue plus the universal language. This
world language could either be an invented one, such as Esperanto, or an
existing natural language. The advantage of a natural language is that a
certain portion of the world’s people may already have learned to speak it.

However, an invented language would have the advantage of being
emotionally neutral and of allowing for a more simplified and regular
grammar.142

Bahá’ís are committed to the principle of establishing such a universal
auxiliary language, but not to one specific language over any other, whether
natural or invented. The choice of the language to be used would be made
by an international committee of experts and ratified by the nations of the
world.

Bahá’u’lláh stressed that the universal language would be an auxiliary one,
i.e., that it would not suppress existing natural languages. The concept of
unity in diversity must be applied to differences of language in the same
way as it is applied to other differences. Since the pressures for the
assimilation of minority linguistic groups come from the natural
aggrandizement of majority language groups, the existence of a universal
auxiliary language would help to preserve minority languages and thus
minority cultural patterns.143

THE TWO ASPECTS OF REVELATION

Fundamental to an understanding of all Bahá’í teachings is a grasp of the
role that revelation plays in human history. In their discussion of the
concept of progressive revelation, Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá explained
that each revelation has two fundamental purposes. First, each serves in a
general way to increase our knowledge of God and of God’s Will for us, our
knowledge of others, and our knowledge of ourselves. But each revelation
comes at a particular time and place in social evolution, a time when
humanity is confronted with particular problems and has specific needs.
Thus each revelation has the secondary purpose of providing humankind
with practical guidance and the knowledge necessary to meet current
challenges.

The only real difference between the two purposes is that one is general and
the other specific. In the first instance, the Manifestation addresses
humankind on such universal themes and perennial aspects of life as
suffering, birth, death, fear, and love. Experiences in these areas are the
elements of every human life, in whatever time or place it is lived. In the
second instance, the Manifestation addresses humankind within the
dimensions of a given time and place.

Therefore, in order to fill the requirements of each new age, the guiding
ordinances of each revelation have two aspects: (1) the universal (or

eternal); and (2) the social (or temporary). ‘Abdu’l-Bahá described these
two aspects of religion as follows:

The divine religions embody two kinds of ordinances. First, there are
those which constitute essential, or spiritual, teachings of the Word of
God. These are faith in God, the acquirement of the virtues which
characterize perfect manhood, praiseworthy moralities, the acquisition
of the bestowals and bounties emanating from the divine effulgences—
in brief, the ordinances which concern the realm of morals and ethics.
This is the fundamental aspect of the religion of God, and this is of the
highest importance because knowledge of God is the fundamental
requirement of man.... This is the essential foundation of all the divine
religions, the reality itself, common to all....

Second, there are laws and ordinances which are temporary and
nonessential. These concern human transactions and relations. They are
accidental and subject to change according to the exigencies of time
and place. These ordinances are neither permanent nor fundamental. ...

The accidental or nonessential laws which regulate the transactions of
the social body and everyday affairs of life are changeable and subject
to abrogation.144

One of the major sources of conflict between different religious systems is
the failure of their followers to distinguish between the two aspects of
revelation. Since social laws are subject to change as humanity evolves,
believers are bound to become upset if they regard these laws as
unchanging absolutes. Jesus, for example, changed a number of Jewish
social laws, to the great distress of the orthodox followers of the Mosaic
dispensation.

Some of the Bahá’í principles discussed in the preceding sections of this
chapter fall into the category of social teachings. According to Baha’i
belief, the single most important social problem of our age is disunity.
Principles such as the establishment of a universal auxiliary language are
clearly intended as practical aids to the establishment of world unity.

However, unity is an expression of love, while disunity is a form of hatred.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá has said that love is the fundamental teaching given by God
to humanity and is a universal principle common to all religions. Thus the
many social problems related to disunity derive, in the final analysis, from a
lack of spirituality. Bahá’ís therefore regard many of the principles taught
by Bahá’u’lláh (e.g., the equality of men and women) both as expressions

of universal spiritual truths and also as essential factors in the solution of
current social problems.

6. God, His Manifestations, and Humankind


On the basis of the discussion of the Bahá’í teachings in the previous
chapter, the present chapter will look more deeply at what Bahá’u’lláh
taught about the great concerns that lie at the heart of all religions: What
does the Bahá’í Faith see as the purpose of human existence? What is the
true nature of humankind, and what role does religion play in our spiritual
development? What is “good” and what is “evil”? What are our
responsibilities to God, and what is the spiritual meaning of life? Finally,
what is really meant by the term “Manifestation of God,” and how does this
Bahá’í concept relate to ideas of divine revelation with which one may be
familiar from the teachings of other major faiths?

THE BAHÁ’Í CONCEPTION OF HUMAN NATURE

Many people live their lives without ever reflecting on life itself or its
meaning for them. Their lives may be full of activities. They may marry,
have children, run a business, or become scientists or musicians, without

ever obtaining any degree of understanding of why they do these things.
Their lives have no overall purpose to give meaning to separate events, and
they may have no clear idea of their own nature or identity, of who they
really are.

Bahá’u’lláh taught that only true religion can give purpose to human
existence. If there were no Creator, if human life were simply the chance
product of a thermodynamic system, as many in the world today assert,
there would be no purpose in life. Each individual human being would
represent the temporary material existence of a conscious animal who tries
to move through his or her brief life with as much pleasure and as little pain
and suffering as possible. It is only in relation to the Creator, and the
purpose which that Creator has fixed for his creatures, that human existence
has any meaning. Bahá’u’lláh described God’s purpose for humankind in
the following way:

The purpose of God in creating man hath been, and will ever be, to
enable him to know his Creator and to attain His Presence. To this
most excellent aim, this supreme objective, all the heavenly Books and
the divinely-revealed and weighty Scriptures unequivocally bear
witness.145

Life should be seen as an eternal process of joyous spiritual discovery and
growth: in the beginning stages of earthly life, the individual undergoes a
period of training and education which, if it is successful, furnishes the
basic intellectual and spiritual tools necessary for continued growth. When
one attains physical maturity in adulthood, he becomes responsible for his
further progress, which now depends entirely on the efforts he himself
makes. Through the daily struggles of material existence, we gradually
deepen our understanding of the spiritual principles underlying reality, and
this understanding enables us to relate more effectively to ourselves, to
others, and to God. After physical death, the individual continues to grow
and develop in the spiritual world, which is greater than the physical world,
just as the physical world is greater than the world we inhabit while in our
mother’s womb.

This last statement is based on the Bahá’í concept of the soul and of life
after physical death. According to the Bahá’í teachings, our true nature is
spiritual. Beyond the physical body, each human being has a rational soul,
created by God. This soul is a nonmaterial entity, which does not depend on
the body. Rather, the body serves as its vehicle in the physical world. The
soul of an individual comes into being at the moment the physical body is
conceived and continues to exist after the death of the physical body. The

soul (also called the spirit) of the individual is the seat or locus of his or her
personality, self, and consciousness.

The evolution or development of the soul and its capacities is the basic
purpose of human existence. This evolution is towards God, and its motive
force is knowledge of God and love for him. As we learn about God, our
love for him increases, and this, in turn, enables us to attain a closer
communion with our Creator. Also, as we draw closer to God, our character
becomes more refined and our actions reflect more and more the attributes
and qualities of God.

Bahá’u’lláh taught that this potential to reflect the attributes of God is the
soul’s essential reality. It is the meaning of humanity’s being created “in the
image of God.” The divine qualities are not external to the soul. They are
latent within it, just as the color, the fragrance, and the vitality of a flower
are latent within the seed. They need only to be developed. In the words of
Bahá’u’lláh:

Upon the inmost reality of each and every created thing He [God] hath
shed the light of one of His names, and made it a recipient of the glory
of one of His attributes. Upon the reality of man, however, He hath
focused the radiance of all of His names and attributes, and made it a

mirror of His own Self. Alone of all created things man hath been
singled out for so great a favor, so enduring a bounty.146

The Bahá’í writings refer to the gradual evolution or development of the
individual soul as “spiritual progress.” Spiritual progress means acquiring
the capacity to act in conformity with the Will of God and to express the
attributes and spirit of God in our dealings with ourselves and others.
Bahá’u’lláh teaches that the only true and enduring happiness for us lies in
the pursuit of spiritual development.

A person who has become aware of his or her spiritual nature and who
consciously strives to progress spiritually is called a “seeker” by
Bahá’u’lláh. Bahá’u’lláh described some of the qualities of the true seeker:

That seeker must, at all times, put his trust in God, must renounce the
peoples of the earth, must detach himself from the world of dust, and
cleave unto Him Who is the Lord of Lords. He must never seek to exalt
himself above anyone, must wash away from the tablet of his heart
every trace of pride and vain-glory, must cling unto patience and
resignation, observe silence and refrain from idle talk. For the tongue is
a smoldering fire, and excess of speech a deadly poison. Material fire
consumeth the body, whereas the fire of the tongue devoureth both

heart and soul. The force of the former lasteth but for a time, whilst the
effects of the latter endure a century.

That seeker should, also, regard backbiting as grievous error, and keep
himself aloof from its dominion, inasmuch as backbiting quencheth the
light of the heart, and extinguisheth the life of the soul. He should be
content with little, and be freed from all inordinate desire. He should
treasure the companionship of them that have renounced the world, and
regard avoidance of boastful and worldly people a precious benefit. At
the dawn of every day he should commune with God, and with all his
soul, persevere in the quest of his Beloved.... He should not wish for
others that which he doth not wish for himself, nor promise that which
he doth not fulfil. . . . He should forgive the sinful, and never despise
his low estate, for none knoweth what his own end shall be. How often
hath a sinner attained, at the hour of death, to the essence of faith, and,
quaffing the immortal draught, hath taken his flight unto the Concourse
on high! And how often hath a devout believer, at the hour of his soul’s
ascension, been so changed as to fall into the nethermost fire!

Our purpose in revealing these convincing and weighty utterances is to
impress upon the seeker that he should regard all else beside God as

transient, and count all things save Him, Who is the Object of all
adoration, as utter nothingness.

These are among the attributes of the exalted, and constitute the hall-
mark of the spiritually-minded.... When the detached wayfarer and
sincere seeker hath fulfilled these essential conditions, then and only
then can he be called a true seeker.147

Bahá’u’lláh explained that the fundamental, spiritual role of religion is to
enable us to achieve a true understanding of our own nature and of God’s
Will and purpose for us. The spiritual teachings sent down to us by God
through the Manifestations serve to guide us to a proper comprehension of
the spiritual dynamics of life. These principles enable us to understand the
laws of existence. Moreover, the very efforts we must make to conform to
the teachings of the Manifestations serve to develop our spiritual capacities.
For example, when one makes an effort to rid oneself of prejudice and
superstition in response to the teachings of Bahá’u’lláh, the result is an
increased knowledge of and love for other human beings, and this, in turn,
helps the individual to live life more effectively.

Bahá’u’lláh stressed that, without the coming of the Manifestations and
their revelation of God’s laws and teachings, we would not be able to grow

and develop spiritually. The spiritual meaning of life would remain hidden
from us, even if we made great efforts to discover it. This is why revealed
religion is seen by Bahá’ís as the necessary key to successful spiritual
living.

Speaking of the Manifestations and their influence on human spiritual
development, Bahá’u’lláh said:

Through the Teachings of this Day Star of Truth [i.e., the
Manifestation] every man will advance and develop until he attaineth
the station at which he can manifest all the potential forces with which
his inmost true self hath been endowed. It is for this very purpose that
in every age and dispensation the Prophets of God and His chosen
Ones have appeared amongst men, and have evinced such power as is
born of God and such might as only the Eternal can reveal.148

Since religion has a social dimension, Bahá’ís feel that prolonged
withdrawal from the world and from contact with society and one’s fellow
human beings is usually neither necessary nor helpful to spiritual growth
(although a temporary withdrawal from time to time may be legitimate and
healthy). Because we are social beings, our greatest progress is made
through living in association with others. Indeed, close association with

others in the spirit of loving service and cooperation is essential to the
process of spiritual growth. Bahá’u’lláh related God’s purpose for humanity
to the two aspects of religion, the spiritual and the social:

God’s purpose in sending His Prophets unto men is twofold. The first
is to liberate the children of men from the darkness of ignorance, and
guide them to the light of true understanding. The second is to ensure
the peace and tranquillity of mankind, and provide all the means by
which they can be established.149

In other words, humankind’s social development, if properly carried out,
should be a collective expression of our spiritual development:

All men have been created to carry forward an ever-advancing
civilization. The Almighty beareth Me witness: To act like the beasts
of the field is unworthy of man. Those virtues that befit his dignity are
forbearance, mercy, compassion and loving-kindness towards all the
peoples and kindreds of the earth.150

Concerning the soul or spirit of man and its relationship to the physical
body, Bahá’u’lláh explained:

Know thou that the soul of man is exalted above, and is independent of
all infirmities of body or mind. That a sick person showeth signs of
weakness is due to the hindrances that interpose themselves between
his soul and his body, for the soul itself remaineth unaffected by any
bodily ailments.... When it leaveth the body, however, it will evince
such ascendancy, and reveal such influence as no force on earth can
equal.

... consider the sun which hath been obscured by the clouds. Observe
how its splendor appeareth to have diminished, when in reality the
source of that light hath remained unchanged. The soul of man should
be likened unto this sun, and all things on earth should be regarded as
his body. So long as no external impediment interveneth between them,
the body will, in its entirety, continue to reflect the light of the soul,
and to be sustained by its power. As soon as, however, a veil
interposeth itself between them, the brightness of that light seemeth to
lessen.

. . . The soul of man is the sun by which his body is illumined, and
from which it draweth its sustenance, and should be so regarded.151

The soul not only continues to live after the physical death of the human
body, but is, in fact, immortal. Bahá’u’lláh wrote:

Know thou of a truth that the soul, after its separation from the body,
will continue to progress until it attaineth the presence of God, in a
state and condition which neither the revolution of ages and centuries,
nor the changes and chances of this world, can alter. It will endure as
long as the Kingdom of God, His sovereignty, His dominion and power
will endure.152

In commenting on the immortality of the rational soul, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
explained that everything in creation which is composed of elements is
subject to decomposition:

The soul is not a combination of elements, it is not composed of many
atoms, it is of one indivisible substance and therefore eternal. It is
entirely out of the order of the physical creation; it is immortal! 153

Bahá’u’lláh taught that humans have no existence previous to our life here
on earth. Neither is the soul reborn several times in different bodies. He
explained, rather, that the soul’s evolution is always towards God and away
from the material world. A human being spends nine months in the womb

in preparation for entry into this physical life. During that nine-month
period, the fetus acquires the physical tools (e.g., eyes, limbs, and so forth)
necessary for existence in this world. Similarly, this physical world is like a
womb for entry into the spiritual world. Our time here is thus a period of
preparation during which we are to acquire the spiritual and intellectual
tools necessary for life in the next world.

The crucial difference is that, whereas physical development in the mother’s
womb is involuntary, spiritual and intellectual development in this world
depend strictly on conscious individual effort:

The incomparable Creator hath created all men from one same
substance, and hath exalted their reality above the rest of His creatures.
Success or failure, gain or loss, must, therefore, depend upon man’s
own exertions. The more he striveth, the greater will be his progress.154

The Bahá’í writings often speak of the bounty or grace of God towards
humanity, but explain that an appropriate human response is always
necessary for God’s grace and mercy to penetrate the human soul and bring
about any genuine change within us: “No matter how strong the measure of
Divine grace, unless supplemented by personal, sustained and intelligent
effort, it cannot become fully effective and be of any real and abiding

advantage.”155 Thus, in the Bahá’í conception, salvation is not simply a
unidirectional gift from God to us, but is rather a dialogue, a collaborative
venture initiated by God but requiring vigorous and intelligent human
participation.

Since our basic nature is spiritual, our essential capacities are the capacities
of our souls. In other words, one’s personality, one’s basic intellectual and
spiritual faculties, reside in the soul, even though they are expressed
through the instrumentality of the body for the short duration of earthly life.
Some of the faculties that Bahá’u’lláh mentioned as capacities of the soul
are (1) the mind, which represents the capacity for rational thought and
intellectual investigation; (2) the will, which represents the capacity for
self-initiated action; and (3) the “heart,” or the capacity for conscious,
deliberate, self-sacrificing love (sometimes called altruism).

These faculties are unique to the human species. Animal and other forms of
life do not have a rational soul. Animal life expresses a form of intelligence
and affectivity, but it does not express the consciousness or the self-
awareness of humans. Animals are bound to act in certain ways because of
the instincts that form part of their physical makeup, but they do not have
the capacities of conscious thought, of rational investigation, or of will that

characterize a human being. An animal does not have a conscious sense of
the purpose of its existence.

The Bahá’í Faith explicitly teaches, however, that the physical human race
has indeed gradually evolved, passing from lower to higher forms until it
attained the present, mature human form. The earth has been the matrix for
the formation of the human race, just as the mother’s womb is the matrix
for the formation of the individual human being. In the words of ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá:

... man, in the beginning of his existence and in the womb of the earth,
like the embryo in the womb of the mother, gradually grew and
developed, and passed from one form to another, from one shape to
another, until he appeared with this beauty and perfection, this force
and this power. It is certain that in the beginning he had not this
loveliness and grace and elegance, and that he only by degrees attained
this shape, this form, this beauty and this grace.156

‘Abdu’l-Bahá nevertheless stressed that, throughout its long process of
physical evolution, the human race has always been a species distinct from
animal species:

... the embryo passes through different states and traverses numerous
degrees . . . until the signs of reason and maturity appear. And in the
same way, man’s existence on this earth, from the beginning until it
reaches this state, form and condition, necessarily lasts a long time, and
goes through many degrees.... But from the beginning of man’s
existence he is a distinct species. In the same way, the embryo of man
in the womb of the mother was at first in a strange form; then his body
passes from shape to shape, from state to state, from form to form,
until it appears in utmost beauty and perfection. But even when in the
womb of the mother and in this strange form, entirely different from
his present form and figure, he is the embryo of the superior species,
and not of the animal; his species and essence undergo no change.157

Thus, even in our lower form of physical existence when we resembled
some animals in superficial ways, humans were a distinct and superior
physical species, as well as being distinguished by the existence of the
nonmaterial rational soul which, as has been explained, is unique to
humankind.

However, the physical human body is composed of elements and functions
according to the same physiological principles as does that of an animal.
During our earthly life we are subject to much the same physical desires

and sufferings as an animal: hunger, sexual drive, fear, pain, anger, physical
and mental illness, and so forth. This produces a creative tension within us:
our physical needs and desires push us at times to act like animals, while
our spiritual nature draws us towards very different goals. Bahá’u’lláh
explained that the struggle to gain control of physical desires and to channel
them creatively is a necessary part of our growth process. It is by
harmonizing our spiritual and physical natures that we achieve
completeness.

If we do not make the effort to adapt our physical resources to our spiritual
nature, we can be taken over and dominated by physical passions. We can
become slaves to one or another of our appetites and thereby lose much of
our capacity to act in accordance with our spiritual nature. For example, a
person who is addicted to morphine or alcohol is not really able to develop
his spiritual capacities until he frees himself from his addiction. Similarly,
intense devotion to purely materialistic pursuits can rob us of the energy
and time needed to cultivate our essential, spiritual nature.

In contrast to a number of other religious doctrines and philosophies, the
Bahá’í Faith does not teach that man’s physical desires are “evil” or “bad.”
Everything in God’s creation is regarded as essentially and fundamentally
good. In fact, the very purpose of the human body and its physical faculties

is to serve as a proper vehicle for the development of the soul. As the
energies of the body are gradually brought under the conscious control of
the soul, they become instruments for the expression of spiritual qualities. It
is only undisciplined physical passions that become causes of harm and
hinder spiritual progress.

For example, the human sexual urge is considered to be a gift from God. Its
disciplined expression within the legitimate bonds of marriage can be a
powerful expression of the spiritual quality of love. However, the same
sexual urge, if misused, can lead one into perverse, wasteful, and even
destructive actions.

Since the body is the vehicle of the rational soul in this life on earth, it is
important to maintain and care for it. Bahá’u’lláh strongly discouraged any
form of asceticism or extreme self-denial. His emphasis was on healthy
discipline. Therefore the Bahá’í writings contain a number of practical laws
relating to the care of the human body: proper nutrition, regular bathing,
and so forth. Underlying these, as with many other aspects of Bahá’í belief,
is the principle of moderation: things that are beneficial when kept within
the limits of moderation become harmful when taken to extremes.

The Bahá’í writings acknowledge explicitly that certain physical factors
beyond the control of the individual, such as genetic weaknesses, or
inadequate childhood nutrition, can have a significant effect on one’s
development during his or her earthly life. But such material influences are
not permanent, and they have no power in themselves to harm or damage
the soul. At most, they can only retard temporarily the spiritual growth
process, and even this effect can be counterbalanced by a subsequent burst
of more rapid development. Indeed, the Bahá’í writings explain that it is
often in the individual’s determined and courageous struggle against
physical, emotional, and mental handicaps that the greatest spiritual growth
occurs, and the individual may come to view such handicaps as blessings in
disguise that have, ultimately, helped him or her grow spiritually. Thus,
admitting that physical conditions can affect, temporarily but significantly,
the spiritual growth process is far from believing, as many philosophical
materialists do, that we are totally determined by some combination of
genetic and environmental physical factors:

. . . movement is essential to all existence. All material things progress
to a certain point, then begin to decline. This is the law which governs
the whole physical creation.

. . . But with the human soul, there is no decline. Its only movement is
towards perfection; growth and progress alone constitute the motion of
the soul.

. . . The world of mortality is a world of contradictions, of opposites;
motion being compulsory everything must either go forward or retreat.
In the realm of spirit there is no retreat possible, all movement is bound
to be towards a perfect state.158

The theme of growth through struggle and suffering occurs at several places
in the Bahá’í writings. Although many of our sufferings result from careless
living and are therefore potentially avoidable, a certain amount of suffering
is necessary in any growth process. Indeed, we understand and accept that
suffering and self-sacrifice are essential components of achieving material
or intellectual success. Thus, we should not be surprised that the even more
important endeavor of achieving spiritual growth might also involve those
same elements:

Everything of importance in this world demands the close attention of
its seeker. The one in pursuit of anything must undergo difficulties and
hardships until the object in view is attained and the great success is

obtained. This is the case of things pertaining to the world. How much
higher is that which concerns the Supreme Concourse!159

This brings us to the Bahá’í concept of the relationship between good and
evil in man. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá describes it thus:

In creation there is no evil; all is good. Certain qualities and natures
innate in some men and apparently blameworthy are not so in reality.
For example, from the beginning of his life you can see in a nursing
child the signs of greed, of anger, and of temper. Then, it may be said,
good and evil are innate in the reality of man, and this is contrary to the
pure goodness of nature and creation. The answer to this is that greed,
which is to ask for something more, is a praiseworthy quality provided
that it is used suitably. So, if a man is greedy to acquire science and
knowledge, or to become compassionate, generous and just, it is most
praiseworthy. If he exercises his anger and wrath against the
bloodthirsty tyrants who are like ferocious beasts, it is very
praiseworthy; but if he does not use these qualities in a right way, they
are blameworthy.

... It is the same with all the natural qualities of man, which constitute
the capital of life; if they be used and displayed in an unlawful way,

they become blameworthy. Therefore, it is clear that creation is purely
good.160

The Bahá’í Faith does not, therefore, accept the concept of “original sin” or
any related doctrine which considers that people are basically evil or have
intrinsically evil elements in their nature. All the forces and faculties within
us are God-given and thus potentially beneficial to our spiritual
development. In the same way, the Bahá’í teachings deny the existence of
Satan, a devil, or an “evil force.” Evil, it is explained, is the absence of
good; darkness is the absence of light; cold is the absence of heat.161 Just as
the sun is the unique source of all life in a solar system, so ultimately is
there only one force or power in the universe, the force we call God.

However, if we, through our own God-given free will, turn away from this
force or fail to make the necessary effort to develop our spiritual capacities,
the result is imperfection. Both within ourselves and in society, there will be
what one might term “dark spots.” These dark spots are imperfections, and
‘Abdu’l-Bahá has said that “evil is imperfection.”

If a tiger kills and eats another animal, this is not evil, because it is an
expression of the tiger’s natural instinct for survival. But if a person kills
and eats a fellow human being, this same act may be considered evil

because we are capable of doing otherwise. Such an act is not an expression
of our true nature.

As relatively undeveloped creatures, we have certain intrinsic needs that
demand satisfaction. These needs are partly physical and tangible and partly
spiritual and intangible. It is God who has created us in this manner and
placed us in this situation. Because God truly loves us, he has provided for
the legitimate satisfaction of all our needs. But if, whether through simple
ignorance or willful rebellion, we try to satisfy some of our needs in an
illegitimate or unhealthy way, then we may distort our true nature and
generate within ourselves new appetites incapable of genuine satisfaction:

... capacity is of two kinds: natural capacity and acquired capacity. The
first, which is the creation of God, is purely good–in the creation of
God there is no evil; but the acquired capacity has become the cause of
the appearance of evil. For example, God has created all men in such a
manner and has given them such a constitution and such capacities that
they are benefited by sugar and honey and harmed and destroyed by
poison. This nature and constitution is innate, and God has given it
equally to all mankind. But man begins little by little to accustom
himself to poison by taking a small quantity each day, and gradually
increasing it, until he reaches such a point that he cannot live without a

gram of opium every day. The natural capacities are thus completely
perverted. Observe how much the natural capacity and constitution can
be changed, until by different habits and training they become entirely
perverted. One does not criticize vicious people because of their innate
capacities and nature, but rather for their acquired capacities and
nature. 162

Bahá’u’lláh said that pride, or self-centeredness, is one of the greatest
hindrances to spiritual progress. Pride represents an exaggerated sense of
one’s own importance in the universe and leads to an attitude of superiority
over others. The prideful person feels as though he is or ought to be in
absolute control of his life and the circumstances surrounding it, and he
seeks power and dominance over others because such power helps him
maintain this illusion of superiority. Thus, pride is such a hindrance to
spiritual growth because it impels the prideful individual on an endless
quest to fulfill the expectations of a vainly conceived and illusory self-
concept.

In other words, the key to understanding Bahá’í morality and ethics is to be
found in the Bahá’í notion of spiritual progress: that which is conducive to
spiritual progress is good, and whatever tends to hinder spiritual progress is
bad. Thus, from the Bahá’í viewpoint, learning “good” from “bad” (or

“right” from “wrong”) means attaining a degree of self-knowledge that
permits us to know when something is helpful to our spiritual growth and
when it is not.163 And this knowledge can only be obtained through the
teachings of the Manifestations.

Bahá’u’lláh repeatedly stressed that only revealed religion can save us from
our imperfections. It is because God has sent his Manifestations to show us
the path to spiritual development and to touch our hearts with the spirit of
God’s love that we are able to realize our true potential and make the effort
to be united with God. This is the “salvation” that religion brings. It does
not save us from the stain of some “original sin,” nor does it protect us from
some external evil force or devil. Rather, it delivers us from captivity to our
own lower nature, a captivity that breeds private despair and threatens
social destruction, and it shows us the path to a deep and satisfying
happiness.

Indeed, the essential reason for such widespread unhappiness and terrible
social conflict and crises in the world today is that humankind has turned
away from true religion and spiritual principles. The only salvation in any
age, Bahá’ís believe, is to turn again towards God, to accept his
Manifestation for that day, and to follow his teachings. Bahá’u’lláh pointed
out that, if we reflect deeply on the conditions of our existence, we must

eventually realize and admit to ourselves that, in absolute terms, we possess
nothing. Everything we are or have—our physical body and our rational
soul—all comes from our Creator. Since God has freely given us so much,
we have, in turn, an obligation to God. Bahá’u’lláh stated that we have two
basic duties towards God:

The first duty prescribed by God for His servants is the recognition of
Him Who is the Dayspring of His Revelation and the Fountain of His
laws, Who representeth the Godhead in both the Kingdom of His
Cause and the world of creation [i.e., the Manifestation] .... It
behooveth everyone who reacheth this most sublime station, this
summit of transcendent glory, to observe every ordinance of Him Who
is the Desire of the world. These twin duties are inseparable. Neither is
acceptable without the other.164

In another passage, Bahá’u’lláh reminded his followers that the duties
which God has given to us are only for our benefit: God himself has no
need of our worship or allegiance, for God is entirely self-sufficient and
independent of all his creation. We can therefore be certain that everything
God does is motivated uniquely by his pure love for us. There is no “self-
interest” on the part of God:

Whatever duty Thou [God] hast prescribed unto Thy servants of
extolling to the utmost Thy majesty and glory is but a token of Thy
grace unto them, that they may be enabled to ascend unto the station
conferred upon their own inmost being, the station of the knowledge of
their own selves.165

In summary, the spiritual reason for our life on earth is to provide us with a
training ground; our life is a period of growth during which we focus on the
development of our innate spiritual and intellectual capacities. Because
these capacities are faculties of our immortal soul, they are eternal, and we
must make great efforts to develop them. But such efforts are worthwhile,
since the soul is the only part of us which endures. Whatever promotes our
spiritual development is good, and whatever hinders it is bad.

God has sent the Manifestations to teach us the true principles that govern
our spiritual nature. In order to grow successfully, we must turn to revealed
religion and accept the teachings of the Manifestations. The result of this
growth process is that the individual is able to reflect more completely the
attributes of God and draw close to him. At the same time, the social
principles taught by the Manifestations, if truly applied, help create a social
milieu favorable to the spiritual growth process. Creating such a milieu is,
from the spiritual viewpoint, the very purpose of society.

Bahá’u’lláh sets before us the highest standard of morality and urges us to
strive with all our might to attain it. Since God has given us a free will, we
are, in the last analysis, responsible to God for our actions. God is just and
does not require of any of us that of which we are not capable. At the same
time, God is merciful and will always forgive any soul who is sincerely
sorry for past misdeeds or errors.

In a poetic passage, Bahá’u’lláh describes the actions of the moral
individual and urges his followers to live accordingly:

Be generous in prosperity, and thankful in adversity. Be worthy of the
trust of thy neighbor, and look upon him with a bright and friendly
face. Be a treasure to the poor, an admonisher to the rich, an answerer
of the cry of the needy, a preserver of the sanctity of thy pledge. Be fair
in thy judgment, and guarded in thy speech. Be unjust to no man, and
show all meekness to all men. Be as a lamp unto them that walk in
darkness, a joy to the sorrowful, a sea for the thirsty, a haven for the
distressed, an upholder and defender of the victim of oppression. Let
integrity and uprightness distinguish all thine acts. Be a home for the
stranger, a balm to the suffering, a tower of strength for the fugitive. Be
eyes to the blind, and a guiding light unto the feet of the erring. Be an

ornament to the countenance of truth, a crown to the brow of fidelity, a
pillar of the temple of righteousness, a breath of life to the body of
mankind, an ensign of the hosts of justice, a luminary above the
horizon of virtue, a dew to the soil of the human heart, an ark on the
ocean of knowledge, a sun in the heaven of bounty, a gem on the
diadem of wisdom, a shining light in the firmament of thy generation, a
fruit upon the tree of humility.166

THE MANIFESTATIONS

As we have already noted, the Bahá’í teachings hold that the motive force
in all human development is the coming of the Manifestations or Prophets
of God. There can be little disagreement that human history is strongly
influenced by the founders of the world’s great religions. The powerful
impact on civilization of Jesus Christ, the Buddha, Moses, or Muhammad is
seen not only in the cultural forms and value systems which arise from their
works and teachings, but is reflected in the effects that the example of their
lives has on humankind. Even those who have not been believers or
followers have nevertheless acknowledged the profound influence of these
figures on humanity’s individual and collective life.

The realization of the extraordinary impact on human history of the
founders of the major religions naturally leads to the philosophical question
of their exact nature. This is one of the most controversial of all questions in
the philosophy of religion, and many different answers have been given. On
the one hand, the religious founders have been viewed as human
philosophers or great thinkers who have perhaps gone further or studied
more profoundly than other philosophers of their age. On the other hand,
they have been declared to be God or the incarnation of God. There have
also been a multitude of theories that fall somewhere between these two
extremes.167

It is thus not surprising that the Bahá’í writings deal extensively with this
subject, which lies so close to the heart of religion. One of Bahá’u’lláh’s
major works, the Kitáb-i-Íqán, (Book of Certitude), sets out in some detail
the Bahá’í concept of the nature of the Manifestations of God.

According to Bahá’u’lláh, all of the Manifestations of God have the same
metaphysical nature and the same spiritual stature. There is absolute equity
among them. No one of them is superior to another. Speaking of the
Manifestations, he wrote:

These sanctified Mirrors, these Day Springs of ancient glory, are, one
and all, the Exponents on earth of Him Who is the central Orb of the
universe, its Essence and ultimate Purpose. From Him proceed their
knowledge and power; from Him is derived their sovereignty.... By the
revelation of these Gems of Divine virtue all the names and attributes
of God, such as knowledge and power, sovereignty and dominion,
mercy and wisdom, glory, bounty, and grace, are made manifest.

These attributes of God are not, and have never been, vouchsafed
specially unto certain Prophets, and withheld from others....

. . . That a certain attribute of God hath not been outwardly manifested
by these Essences of Detachment doth in no wise imply that they who
are the Day Springs of God’s attributes and the Treasuries of His holy
names did not actually possess it.168

As mentioned in the discussion of the principle of the oneness of religion in
chapter 5, Bahá’u’lláh explained that the differences which exist between
the teachings of the various Manifestations of God are not due to any
differences in stature or level of importance, but only to the varying needs
and capacities of the civilizations to which they appeared:

These ... mighty systems, have proceeded from one Source, and are the
rays of one Light. That they differ one from another is to be attributed
to the varying requirements of the ages in which they were
promulgated.169

In the strongest terms, he warned people not to take the variations in the
teachings and personalities of the Manifestations to imply a difference in
their statures:

Beware, O believers in the Unity of God, lest ye be tempted to make
any distinction between any of the Manifestations of His Cause, or to
discriminate against the signs that have accompanied and proclaimed
their Revelation. This indeed is the true meaning of Divine Unity.... Be
ye assured, moreover, that the works and acts of each and every one of
these Manifestations of God . . . are all ordained by God, and are a
reflection of His Will and Purpose. Whoso maketh the slightest
possible difference between their persons, their words, their messages,
their acts and manners, hath indeed disbelieved in God, hath repudiated
His signs, and betrayed the Cause of His Messengers.170

However, the Bahá’í doctrine of the oneness of the Manifestations does not
mean that the same individual soul is born again in different physical

bodies. Moses, Jesus Christ, Muhammad, and Bahá’u’lláh were all different
personalities, separate individual realities. Their oneness lies in the fact that
each manifested and revealed the qualities and attributes of God to the same
degree: the spirit of God which dwelled within any one of them was
identical to that which dwelled in the others.

Bahá’u’lláh offered an analogy to explain the relationship between the
different Manifestations and the relationship between each Manifestation
and God. In this analogy, God is likened to the sun because he is the unique
source of life in the universe in the same way that the physical sun is the
unique source of all physical life on earth. The spirit and attributes of God
are the rays of this sun, and the individual Manifestation is like a perfect
mirror. If there are several mirrors all turned toward the same sun, that
unique sun is reflected in each mirror. Yet the individual mirrors are
different, each having been made in its own form and distinct from any
other.

In the same way, each Manifestation is a distinct individual being, but the
spirit and attributes of God reflected in each are the same.171

The Manifestations represent a level of existence intermediate between God
and humankind. Just as humans are superior to animals because they

possess capacities that animals do not (i.e., the capacities of the nonmaterial
human soul), so the Manifestations possess capacities which ordinary
humans lack. It is not a difference in degree, but rather a difference in kind
which distinguishes a Manifestation from other humans. The Manifestations
are not simply great human thinkers, or philosophers, with a greater
understanding or knowledge than others. They are, by their very nature,
superior to those who do not possess a similar capacity.

It has been noted that human beings have a dual nature: the physical body,
which is composed of elements and which functions according to the same
principles as an animal’s body; and the nonmaterial rational and immortal
human soul. The Manifestations, Bahá’u’lláh taught, also have these two
natures, but in addition they possess a third nature unique to their station:
the capacity to receive divine revelation and to transmit it infallibly to
humanity.

Know that the Holy manifestations, though they have the degrees of
endless perfections, yet, speaking generally, have only three stations.
The first station is the physical; the second station is the human, which
is that of the rational soul; the third is that of the divine appearance and
the heavenly splendor.

The physical station is phenomenal; it is composed of elements, and
necessarily everything that is composed is subject to decomposition....

The second is the station of the rational soul, which is the human
reality. This also is phenomenal, and the Holy Manifestations share it
with all mankind.

. . . The spirit of man has a beginning, but it has no end; it continues
eternally.

. . . The third station is that of the divine appearance and heavenly
splendor: it is the Word of God, the Eternal Bounty, the Holy Spirit. It
has neither beginning nor end.... the reality of prophethood, which is
the Word of God and the perfect state of manifestation, did not have
any beginning and will not have any end; its rising is different from all
others and is like that of the sun.172

‘Abdu’l-Bahá explained that even the individual soul of the Manifestation is
different from that of ordinary people:

But the individual reality of the Manifestations of God is a holy reality, and
for that reason it is sanctified and, in that which concerns its nature and

quality, is distinguished from all other things. It is like the sun, which by its
essential nature produces light and cannot be compared to the moon.... So
other human realities are those souls who, like the moon, take light from the
sun; but that Holy Reality is luminous in Himself.173

The Manifestation then, is not simply an ordinary person whom God
chooses at some point in his natural lifetime to be his messenger. Rather, the
Manifestation is a special being, having a unique relationship to God and
sent by him from the spiritual world as an instrument of divine revelation.
Even though the individual soul of the Manifestation had a phenomenal
beginning, it nevertheless existed in the spiritual world prior to physical
birth in this life. The immortal souls of ordinary humans, on the other hand,
have no such preexistence, but come into existence at the moment of human
conception. Of the preexistence of the souls of the Manifestations, Shoghi
Effendi said:

The Prophets, unlike us, are pre-existent. The soul of Christ existed in
the spiritual world before His birth in this world. We cannot imagine
what that world is like, so words are inadequate to picture His state of
being.174

The Manifestation has the awareness of his reality and identity even from
childhood, though he may not begin his mission of openly teaching and
instructing others until later in life. Because they are the direct recipients of
revelation from God, the Manifestations possess absolute knowledge of the
realities of life. This innate, divinely revealed knowledge alone enables
them to formulate teachings and laws that correspond to human needs and
conditions at a given time in history:

Since the Sanctified Realities, the supreme Manifestations of God,
surround the essence and qualities of the creatures, transcend and
contain existing realities and understand all things, therefore, Their
knowledge is divine knowledge, and not acquired—that is to say, it is a
holy bounty, it is a divine revelation.

. . . the supreme Manifestations of God are aware of the reality of the
mysteries of beings. Therefore, They establish laws which are suitable
and adapted to the state of the world of man, for religion is the
essential connection which proceeds from the realities of things.

. . . the supreme Manifestations of God . . . understand this essential
connection, and by this knowledge establish the Law of God.175

No man can “become” a Manifestation of God. Each individual soul is
capable of being touched by the spirit of God and may therefore make
spiritual progress, as has been explained above. But the Manifestation
remains on an ideal level beyond that which even the most perfect man is
capable of attaining.

Extending the mirror analogy, the souls of ordinary people may also be
likened to mirrors—but, unlike the Manifestations, they are imperfect. In
other words, each human being can reflect something of God’s attributes,
but only in an imperfect and limited way. For ordinary human beings,
spiritual progress implies perfecting, cleansing, and polishing the mirror of
the soul so that it may reflect ever more clearly the attributes of God. In
several passages, Bahá’u’lláh explicitly used this example of “cleansing the
mirror” as an analogy for spiritual progress. The analogy emphasizes the
belief that we are created imperfect, but with an endless potential for
perfection; whereas the Manifestation is already in a perfected state of
being.

Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá taught that there are no levels of conscious
existence other than the three discussed above: human beings, the
Manifestations, and God. There is no hierarchy of demons, angels, and
archangels. Insofar as these terms have any significant meaning, they are

and archangels. Insofar as these terms have any significant meaning, they
are seen as symbolic of varying stages of human development, imperfection
being demonic and spirituality being angelic. The Manifestations are
already in a state of perfection, while other human beings are potentially
perfect in that each human soul has the potential to reflect the attributes of
its Creator. The ultimate state of perfection for us, as explained below by
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, is one of absolute servitude to God:

Know that the conditions of existence are limited to the conditions of
servitude, of prophethood and of Deity, but the divine and the
contingent perfections are unlimited.... As the divine bounties are
endless, so human perfections are endless. If it were possible to reach a
limit of perfection, then one of the realities of the beings might reach
the condition of being independent of God, and the contingent might
attain to the condition of the absolute. But for every being there is a
point which it cannot overpass . . . he who is in the condition of
servitude, however far he may progress in gaining limitless perfections,
will never reach the condition of Deity....

. . . Peter cannot become Christ. All that he can do is, in the condition
of servitude, to attain endless perfections....176

However, because we are capable of entering into communion with God
and thereby becoming aware of the spirit of God, we are also capable of
“inspiration.” The Bahá’í writings distinguish between inspiration and
revelation. Revelation is that infallible and direct perception of God’s
creative Word that is accessible only to the Manifestations, who transmit it
to humankind. Inspiration is the indirect and relative perception of spiritual
truth which is available to every human soul. It arises out of the context of
the spiritual life of a culture influenced by a Manifestation of God. Any
human is capable of being inspired by the spirit of God. But the experience
of inspiration is available to us because the spirit of God is mediated to us
through the Manifestations. In short: inspiration depends upon revelation.

Bahá’u’lláh explained that the Divine Will of God does sometimes choose
ordinary people as “prophets” and inspires them to play certain roles in
human affairs. Examples include the Hebrew prophets Isaiah and Jeremiah.
Still others have been inspired as “seers” or “saints.” Not even the prophets,
however, are anywhere close to the station of the Manifestations, who
provide humankind with God’s infallible revelation. The prophets are still
ordinary men and women whose powers of inspiration have been developed
and used by God. They are referred to as “minor prophets” or “dependent
prophets” in the Bahá’í writings. When this terminology is used, the
Manifestations are called “universal” or “independent” Prophets:

Universally, the Prophets are of two kinds. One are the independent
Prophets Who are followed; the other kind are not independent and are
themselves followers.

The independent Prophets are the lawgivers and the founders of a new
cycle.... Without an intermediary They receive bounty from the Reality
of the Divinity, and Their illumination is an essential illumination.
They are like the sun which is luminous in itself....

The other Prophets are followers and promoters, for they are branches
and not independent; they receive the bounty of the independent
Prophets, and they profit by the light of the Guidance of the universal
Prophets. They are like the moon, which is not luminous and radiant in
itself, but receives its light from the sun.177

Consequently, Bahá’ís consider philosophers, reformers, saints, mystics,
and founders of humanitarian movements as ordinary people. In many cases
they may have been inspired by God. Revelation, however, is the
endowment of the Manifestations alone, and it is the ultimate generating
force of all human progress.

THE BAHÁ’Í CONCEPT OF GOD

Who is the God thus revealed by the succession of Manifestations?
According to Bahá’í teachings, God is so far beyond his creation that,
throughout all eternity, man will never be able to formulate any clear image
of him or attain to anything but the most remote appreciation of his superior
nature. Even if we say that God is the All-Powerful, the All-Loving, the
Infinitely Just, such terms are derived from a very limited human
experience of power, love, or justice. Indeed, our knowledge of anything is
limited to our knowledge of those attributes or qualities perceptible to us:

Know that there are two kinds of knowledge: the knowledge of the
essence of a thing and the knowledge of its qualities. The essence of a
thing is known through its qualities; otherwise, it is unknown and
hidden.

As our knowledge of things, even of created and limited things, is
knowledge of their qualities and not of their essence, how is it possible
to comprehend in its essence the Divine Reality, which is unlimited? ...

. . . Knowing God, therefore, means the comprehension and the
knowledge of His attributes, and not of His Reality. This knowledge of

the attributes is also proportioned to the capacity and power of man; it
is not absolute.178

Thus for human beings the knowledge of God means the knowledge of the
attributes and qualities of God, not a direct knowledge of his essence. But
how are we to attain the knowledge of the attributes of God? Bahá’u’lláh
wrote that everything in creation is God’s handiwork and therefore reflects
something of his attributes. For example, even in the intimate structure of a
rock or a crystal can be seen the order of God’s creation. However, the more
refined the object, the more completely it is capable of reflecting God’s
attributes. Since the Manifestation is the highest form of creation known to
us, the Manifestation affords the most complete knowledge of God
available to us:

Whatever is in the heavens and whatever is on the earth is a direct
evidence of the revelation within it of the attributes and names of God,
inasmuch as within every atom are enshrined the signs that bear
eloquent testimony to the revelation of that Most Great Light. . . . To a
supreme degree is this true of man.... For in him are potentially
revealed all the attributes and names of God to a degree that no other
created being hath excelled or surpassed. . . .

. . . And of all men, the most accomplished, the most distinguished, and
the most excellent are the Manifestations of the Sun of Truth. Nay, all
else besides those Manifestations, live by the operation of Their Will,
and move and have their being through the outpourings of their
grace.179

Although a rock or a tree reveals something of the subtlety of its Creator,
only a conscious being such as man can dramatize God’s attributes in his
life and actions. Since the Manifestations are already in a perfected state, it
is in their lives that the deeper meaning of God’s attributes can be most
perfectly understood. God is not limited by a physical body, and so we
cannot see him directly or observe his personality. Hence our knowledge of
the Manifestation is, in fact, the closest we can come to the knowledge of
God.

Know thou of a certainty that the Unseen can in no wise incarnate His
Essence and reveal it unto men. He is, and hath ever been, immensely
exalted beyond all that can either be recounted or perceived. . . . He
Who is everlastingly hidden from the eyes of men can never be known
except through His Manifestation, and His Manifestation can adduce
no greater proof of the truth of His Mission than the proof of His own
Person.180

And in another similar passage:

The door of the knowledge of the Ancient Being hath ever been, and
will continue for ever to be, closed in the face of men. No man’s
understanding shall ever gain access unto His holy court. As a token of
His mercy, however, and as a proof of His loving-kindness, He hath
manifested unto men the Day Stars of His divine guidance, the
Symbols of His divine unity, and hath ordained the knowledge of these
sanctified Beings to be identical with the knowledge of His own
Self.181

Of course, only those who live during the time of the Manifestation have
the opportunity of observing him directly. It is for this reason, Bahá’u’lláh
explained, that the essential connection between the individual and God is
maintained through the writings and words of each Manifestation. For
Bahá’ís, the word of the Manifestation is the Word of God, and it is to this
Word that the individual can turn in his or her daily life in order to grow
closer to God and to acquire a deeper knowledge of him. The written Word
of God is the instrument that creates a consciousness of God’s presence in
one’s daily life:

Say: The first and foremost testimony establishing His truth is His own
Self. Next to this testimony is His Revelation. For whoso faileth to
recognize either the one or the other He hath established the words He
hath revealed as proof of His reality and truth. . . . He hath endowed
every soul with the capacity to recognize the signs of God.182

It is for this reason that the discipline of daily prayer, meditation, and study
of the holy writings constitutes an important part of the individual spiritual
practice of Bahá’ís. They feel that this discipline is one of the most
important ways of growing closer to their Creator.

Let us sum up: the Bahá’í view of God is that his essence is eternally
transcendent but that his attributes and qualities are completely immanent in
the Manifestations.183 Since our knowledge of anything is limited to our
knowledge of the perceptible attributes of that thing, knowledge of the
Manifestations is (for ordinary humans) equivalent to knowledge of God.184
In practical terms, this knowledge is gained through study, prayer,
meditation, and practical application based on the revealed Word of God
(i.e., the sacred scriptures of the Manifestations).

7. The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh


Many people have doubts about the existence of God because they are
unable to discover anything that proves to them that he does exist. How we
can know about God and be sure of his existence is certainly one of the
greatest philosophical and religious questions. In chapter 6, the Bahá’í
response to this question was discussed in some depth. The Bahá’í Faith
teaches that God has given us a clear sign of his existence and his love for
us: the Manifestations whom he sends from time to time to make his Will
known to humankind.

According to Bahá’u’lláh, God has promised that he will send a succession
of Manifestations to guide and instruct humankind. In the Bahá’í writings,
this promise is called “the Great Covenant.” The succession of
Manifestations or Messengers of God extends back to the dawn of time:
Moses succeeded Abraham; Jesus followed Moses; and Muhammad
appeared after Jesus. In this age, the promised succession has been fulfilled
by the advent of Bahá’u’lláh. Each of the other divine messengers, both

those known to recorded history and those the memory of whom has been
lost, has had an important role to play in the divine scheme of things.185

A covenant is an agreement or contract involving obligations by both
parties. God’s part in the Great Covenant is his promise of a succession of
Manifestations. Bahá’u’lláh taught that people, in response to this divine
undertaking, have a twofold obligation towards God: they must recognize
and accept the Manifestation when he comes, and obey and strive to put
into practice the teachings which the Manifestation gives. Bahá’u’lláh said,
“These twin duties are inseparable. Neither is acceptable without the
other.”186

It is for this reason that Bahá’ís of Jewish, Christian, or other religious
backgrounds do not consider that they have abandoned their former faiths in
becoming Bahá’ís. They believe they are responding to their obligations as
believers in and followers of whichever Manifestation of God founded their
own religious traditions. They have, so to speak, “kept the Covenant” in
recognizing the succession of God’s Manifestations instead of following
only one and holding onto his teachings as superior to all others. They
regard themselves as fulfilling the spiritual obligations they inherited from
their parent faith.

One other point about the Bahá’í concept of the Great Covenant should be
stressed. As the succession of the Manifestations had no beginning, neither
will it have an end. The Bahá’í revelation does not claim to be the final
stage in God’s direction of the course of human spiritual evolution. In the
words of Bahá’u’lláh: “God hath sent down His Messengers to succeed
Moses and Jesus, and He will continue to do so till the ‘end that hath no
end’....”187 The Bahá’í writings contain the assurance that, after “the
expiration of a full thousand years,” another Messenger or Manifestation of
God will appear to carry forward the never-ending evolutionary process.188

Within this all-embracing covenant there are other ties between God and
humanity which relate to specific stages in the evolution of humankind and
in the unfoldment of civilization. Both have gone through many stages, and
Bahá’ís believe that each one of the revealed religions has served to attain a
particular goal in the total process. Much as a growing child gradually and
progressively learns different skills (eating, walking, reading, working with
others, and so forth) in order to mature, so has humankind grown slowly
towards spiritual maturity by successively focusing attention on the
development of different spiritual capacities.

For example, through the revelation of Abraham, the Hebrews became
aware of the oneness of God and were able to explore the potentialities of

human development which this great truth revealed. In time the concept
came to influence profoundly the whole of the Western and Islamic
civilizations. Similarly, Moses revealed the “Law of God” to humankind,
the Buddha showed the way to achieve detachment from self, and Jesus
Christ taught the love of God and the love of one’s fellows. Bahá’u’lláh
explained that this gradual development of human spiritual consciousness is
both natural and necessary. The child must learn to walk before he can learn
to run and jump.

To accomplish a particular task, one needs to learn the appropriate means to
do so. According to Bahá’í belief, each Manifestation has provided those
who recognized his station with these essential means by making a
covenant between his followers and himself. In the Bahá’í teachings, this
covenant is referred to as the “Lesser Covenant.” It is reformulated by each
Messenger of God according to the changing needs of an evolving human
race. It is “lesser” not because it is unimportant, but because it functions
within the framework of the goals and purposes of the Great Covenant. The
Lesser Covenant might be called an “auxiliary covenant” or a “subsidiary
covenant,” since it serves as an aid to the larger, eternal purposes of God.189

As has been noted, Bahá’ís consider the specific mission of the Bahá’í
revelation to be the establishment of world unity. The Covenant of

Bahá’u’lláh, therefore, is directed toward this end. For Bahá’ís, world unity
must involve not only the emergence of a strong sentiment of fraternity and
love among all peoples, but it must also involve the creation of global
institutions necessary for the establishment of a harmonious and unified
social life for the planet. War must be permanently eliminated and universal
peace firmly established among all the nations and communities of the
earth.

In the Bahá’í writings, this vision of the future of humankind is called the
“World Order” of Bahá’u’lláh. Such a vision is breathtaking in its scope.
While most people would probably agree that this Bahá’í goal is a worthy
one, many would regard it as utopian to believe that such an ideal society
could ever be actually achieved. Moreover, many people feel that religion
should be concerned exclusively with the inner development of the
individual, and they are surprised to find a faith that places so great an
emphasis on humankind’s collective life, on forms of social organization,
and on the achievement of social goals.

The reason for the Bahá’ís’ confidence that the time for the unification of
humanity has come lies in their belief that world unity is the Will of God: it
is God who wants humankind to be united; he has created us with the
potential for unity and provided us the means to develop this potential. The

Covenant of Bahá’u’lláh is regarded as the primary God-given instrument
for releasing this spiritual potential and for the subsequent achievement of
world unity. This Covenant provides us with a spiritual power that creates
hope, changes hearts, and dissolves prejudices. It also provides a system of
social laws and institutions which operates on the basis of spiritual
principles and which relates them to the practical affairs of human life.
Through this system, Bahá’ís feel, humankind can create a global society
based on justice:

The world’s equilibrium hath been upset through the vibrating
influence of this most great, this new World Order. Mankind’s ordered
life hath been revolutionized through the agency of this unique, this
wondrous System—the like of which mortal eyes have never
witnessed.190

The principal role in laying the foundations of Bahá’u’lláh’s system was
played by his son, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. The part which ‘Abdu’l-Bahá played in
Bahá’í history was discussed earlier; the importance of his role in the
mission of Bahá’u’lláh is reflected in the fact that Bahá’u’lláh designated
him the “Center of My Covenant.” ‘Abdu’l-Bahá was given the authority to
interpret the Bahá’í revelation and was assured that his interpretation would
be infallibly guided by God.191 Bahá’u’lláh also left the direction of the

application of his teachings to his son, together with the responsibility of
making all decisions related to the founding of the institutions of
Bahá’u’lláh’s World Order. It was acting on this designated authority that
‘Abdu’l-Bahá produced the vast range of writings that are now included in
the basic literature of the Bahá’í Faith.

‘Abdu’l-Bahá in turn appointed Shoghi Effendi Rabbani as the Guardian of
the Bahá’í community and the interpreter of the sacred writings after him,
and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá supervised the creation of the first local spiritual
assemblies, destined to evolve into the fundamental institutions of the
World Order. The work of Shoghi Effendi made possible the establishment
of the Universal House of Justice.

The example of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s life demonstrated the practicality and
validity of Bahá’u’lláh’s teachings on individual spiritual life and
development. However, he is not regarded as another Manifestation or
Messenger of the station of the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh. While the authority of
a Manifestation comes directly from God and is part of his very spiritual
nature, the authority of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá was conferred on him by Bahá’u’lláh.
However, Bahá’ís consider ‘Abdu’l-Bahá to have been uniquely qualified to
serve as the perfect exemplar of the Bahá’í teachings, and Shoghi Effendi
described him in these terms:

He is, and should for all time be regarded, first and foremost, as the
Center and Pivot of Bahá’u’lláh’s peerless and all-enfolding Covenant,
His most exalted handiwork, the stainless Mirror of His light, the
perfect Exemplar of His teachings, the unerring Interpreter of His
Word, the embodiment of every Bahá’í ideal. ... in the person of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá the incompatible characteristics of a human nature and
superhuman knowledge and perfection have been blended and are
completely harmonized.192

The conviction of the practicability of world unity, coupled with a
dedication and willingness to work toward this goal, is probably the single
most distinguishing characteristic of the Bahá’í community. It is the most
obvious difference between the Bahá’í Faith and earlier revealed religions.
With regard to its spiritual teachings and basic doctrines, the Bahá’í Faith
has many points of contact with traditional religions, especially those of the
Semitic group (Judaism, Christianity, and Islam). But the Bahá’í focus on
achieving world unity and a world civilization, arising out of a faith in
Bahá’u’lláh’s Covenant with them, is both contemporary and unique. In a
widely read survey on the possibilities for world unity and global
civilization, American social scientist Professor Warren Wagar said: “. . . of
all the positive religions on the contemporary scene claiming divine

authority, the only one unambiguously and almost single-mindedly
consecrated to the job of unifying mankind is the Bahá’í Faith.”193

The special Covenant Bahá’u’lláh has made with humankind operates
through a system called the Administrative Order. We have already seen
that the teachings and writings of Bahá’u’lláh fall into a number of different
categories. Among the themes with which Bahá’u’lláh dealt are certain
basic concepts and doctrines, principles and exhortations for the guidance
of humankind, laws and ordinances regarded as essential to personal
development and social organization, and specific institutions that form an
integral part of the Bahá’í revelation and that cannot be dissociated from the
spiritual teachings.

The laws and ordinances on one hand, and the institutions of the Bahá’í
community on the other, together constitute the system called the
“Administrative Order” of the Bahá’í Faith. It is this Administrative Order
which provides the essential expression of Bahá’u’lláh’s Lesser Covenant
with humankind.194 The distinctive feature of the Lesser Covenant is the
fact that the founder specified the laws and institutions that are to govern
the community of his followers through history. Moreover, he explained in
his own writings, over his personal seal and signature, the exact nature of
each of these institutions: its limitations, its prerogatives, its function and its

role. The foundations of the system were laid by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and by the
Guardian of the Bahá’í Faith, Shoghi Effendi, both acting on the authority
explicitly conferred upon them by Bahá’u’lláh and in accordance with
Bahá’u’lláh’s written directives.

The two principal institutions of the Administrative Order, described by
Shoghi Effendi as its “pillars,” are the Guardianship and the Universal
House of Justice. The role that the Guardian performed and the nature of the
authority conferred upon him in the Covenant were considered earlier.
Although he is no longer living, his interpretations of the Bahá’í teachings
continue to hold the same degree of authority for the Bahá’í community as
they did during his Guardianship. The Universal House of Justice was
instituted by Bahá’u’lláh himself as the supreme legislative organ of the
Bahá’í Administrative Order. Regarding the relationship between the
Universal House of Justice and the Guardianship, the former has written:

It should be understood ... that before legislating upon any matter the
Universal House of Justice studies carefully and exhaustively both the
Sacred Texts and the Writings of Shoghi Effendi on the subject. The
interpretations written by the beloved Guardian cover a vast range of
subjects and are equally as binding as the Text itself.195

Bahá’u’lláh gave the name “Houses of Justice” to the central legislative
institutions of his faith. A House of Justice is comprised of nine adults
elected periodically by all adult believers in the community. Houses of
Justice will eventually be established on three levels: (1) local (a
municipality or distinct settlement); (2) secondary (usually national); and
(3) international. To date, this institution has emerged only at the
international level, through the first election of the Universal House of
Justice at an international convention held in 1963. It is this body which
today governs the Bahá’ís around the world. It is the sole legislative agency
of the faith and, according to explicit texts of Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá, its enactments have the same authority for Bahá’ís as do the texts
themselves. The difference is that the House of Justice has the right to
repeal and alter any of its enactments as the Bahá’í community evolves and
new conditions emerge, whereas the laws enshrined in the Bahá’í texts will
remain unchanged.

The administration of the Bahá’í Faith on the national and local levels is
presently handled through national and local “spiritual assemblies.” These
institutions are elected and function in a manner similar to the House of
Justice and will eventually be called secondary and local “Houses of
Justice.”

Bahá’ís believe that, while local and secondary Houses of Justice will be
under the guidance of God, the decisions of the Universal House of Justice
are uniquely inspired and authoritative. For them this institution represents
humankind’s supreme effort to reach up to God in a spirit of unity and
harmony. Bahá’u’lláh stated that God himself has made this possible and
will preserve the enactments of the Universal House of Justice from
error.196

There are also Bahá’í institutions at the continental, national, regional, and
local levels, some of them elective and functioning through corporate
consultation and decision making, others appointive and operating
principally through services performed by their individual members. This
system will be examined in greater detail in the chapter which follows.

The system of institutions forms an integral part of the Bahá’í Faith which
cannot be separated from the purely spiritual principles and teachings.
Bahá’ís believe that their Administrative Order represents the “nucleus” and
“pattern” of a new social order destined to bring about the unification of
humankind. Shoghi Effendi said of it:

. . . this Administrative Order is fundamentally different from anything
that any Prophet has previously established, inasmuch as Bahá’u’lláh

has Himself revealed its principles, established its institutions,
appointed the person to interpret His Word and conferred the necessary
authority on the body [the Universal House of Justice] designed to
supplement and apply His legislative ordinances.197

It is important to make a clear distinction between the Administrative Order
of the Bahá’í Faith and the future World Order conceived by Bahá’u’lláh. In
speaking of the World Order, Bahá’ís refer to the full effect which they
believe the teachings of the founder of their faith will eventually have on
the establishment of a world government, a lasting peace and a united
planetary civilization. This World Order obviously does not yet exist; rather,
it is the goal towards which the Bahá’í community is striving. But the
principal institutions of the Administrative Order already exist and function
as an integral part of the international community of Bahá’ís.

Shoghi Effendi gave a summary of Bahá’u’lláh’s vision of the future World
Order which we quote here in part:

The unity of the human race, as envisaged by Bahá’u’lláh, implies the
establishment of a world commonwealth in which all nations, races,
creeds and classes are closely and permanently united, and in which
the autonomy of its state members and the personal freedom and

initiative of the individuals that compose them are definitely and
completely safeguarded. This commonwealth must, as far as we can
visualize it, consist of a world legislature, whose members will, as the
trustees of the whole of mankind, ultimately control the entire
resources of all the component nations, and will enact such laws as
shall be required to regulate the life, satisfy the needs and adjust the
relationships of all races and peoples. A world executive, backed by an
international Force, will carry out the decisions arrived at, and apply
the laws enacted by, this world legislature, and will safeguard the
organic unity of the whole commonwealth. A world tribunal will
adjudicate and deliver its compulsory and final verdict in all and any
disputes that may arise between the various elements constituting this
universal system. . . . A world script, a world literature, a uniform and
universal system of currency, of weights and measures, will simplify
and facilitate intercourse and understanding among the nations and
races of mankind....

National rivalries, hatred, and intrigues will cease, and racial animosity
and prejudice will be replaced by racial amity, understanding and
cooperation. The causes of religious strife will be permanently
removed, economic barriers and restrictions will be completely

abolished, and the inordinate distinction between classes will be
obliterated....198

Bahá’ís do not believe that the World Order will be brought into being
solely through their efforts or through their faith. They believe that the Will
of God operates in many different ways and at various levels, in all corners
of the world and through all peoples, to bring about this great
consummation. The League of Nations and the United Nations are seen as
particularly important steps along the road to unification. Therefore many
Bahá’ís are active participants in United Nations activities and agencies as
well as in many other nonpolitical international movements. They do
maintain, however, that their faith and its Administrative Order have a
central and vital role to play in the process of the creation of a united world.

To understand how Bahá’ís view the relationship between their faith and its
Administrative Order on the one hand, and the goal of attaining world peace
and establishing a World Order on the other, it is helpful to remember that
they associate the future world civilization with the millennium or the
coming of the “Kingdom of God” mentioned in the sacred scriptures of
other religions. They believe that the establishment of world peace and
unity represents the establishment of God’s Kingdom on earth, the ultimate
triumph of good over evil as anticipated in symbolic terms in past religions.

They believe that it is God’s Will to bring about this World Order and that
such has been his intention throughout human history.

In some religious traditions, the establishment of the Kingdom of God is
associated solely with an act of God. It is assumed that humanity’s role in
the process will be essentially passive and that the advent of the Kingdom
will occur instantly, magically, and supernaturally.199

Bahá’ís believe that God is all-powerful and that he could certainly impose
his Kingdom on earth instantly if this were in fact his will. But Bahá’u’lláh
explained that God seeks to teach us certain lessons by the manner in which
the Kingdom is brought into being. Bahá’ís consider that present-day
societies fail to meet our real needs because they are founded on attitudes
and practices that are contrary to Divine Law. Thus, at the same time that
God is establishing his promised Kingdom on earth, he is also allowing us
to learn through experience—the experience of living with the
consequences of our own acts—the true nature of our capacities and
limitations. Bahá’u’lláh warned that it is only through our profound
realization and acceptance of past errors that we will be protected from
repeating the same tragic mistakes that have led to the present world
situation, with its perpetual menace of war and its suffering, exploitation,
and despair.200

Bahá’u’lláh envisioned the establishment of a World Order as occurring in
three successive stages. The first stage is a period of social breakdown and
widespread suffering, suffering greater in scope and intensity than any
previously known. Bahá’ís believe that this first stage is already well
advanced and that the turmoil presently afflicting the world will, in time,
test every human life and all existing social institutions. In his work The
Promised Day Is Come, Shoghi Effendi described this human suffering as
both “a retributory calamity” and “an act of holy and supreme discipline”
on the part of God:

It is at once a visitation from God and a cleansing process for all
mankind. Its fires punish the perversity of the human race, and weld its
component parts into one organic, indivisible, world-embracing
community. Mankind, in these fateful years ... is ... being
simultaneously called upon to give account of its past actions, and is
being purged and prepared for its future mission. It can neither escape
the responsibilities of the past, nor shirk those of the future.201

According to Bahá’í belief, the present period of suffering and difficulties
will culminate in a worldwide spiritual, physical, and social convulsion.

That crisis will mark the end of the first stage and the transition into the
second stage of God’s plan. Bahá’u’lláh referred to this crisis as follows:

“We have a fixed time for you, a people! If ye fail, at the appointed
hour, to turn towards God, He, verily, will lay violent hold on you, and
will cause grievous afflictions to assail you from every direction. How
severe indeed is the chastisement with which your Lord will then
chastise you!”202

The second stage in humanity’s progress towards the World Order will see
the accomplishment of the “Lesser Peace.” In the light of various statements
in the Bahá’í writings, it would probably be accurate to say that this second
stage is seen as the permanent cessation of war rather than as a positive and
complete global peace. The Lesser Peace is a term used to describe a
political peace, which would be concluded by the nations of the world
through international agreement. The fundamental feature of the Lesser
Peace is the establishment of international security safeguards to prevent the
recurrence of war among nations. These safeguards would be explicitly
outlined in a formal agreement supported by all the nations of the earth, and
based on the principle of “collective security” according to which all the
nations should arise collectively to suppress any aggressor nation.

Bahá’u’lláh has said: “Should anyone among you take up arms against
another, rise ye all against him, for this is naught but manifest justice.”203

‘Abdu’l-Bahá elaborated on this theme in the following passage:

They [the sovereigns of the world] must conclude a binding treaty and
establish a covenant, the provisions of which shall be sound, inviolable
and definite. They must proclaim it to all the world and obtain for it the
sanction of all the human race.... All the forces of humanity must be
mobilized to ensure the stability and permanence of this Most Great
Covenant. In this all-embracing Pact the limits and frontiers of each
and every nation should be clearly fixed, the principles underlying the
relations of governments towards one another definitely laid down, and
all international agreements and obligations ascertained.... The
fundamental principle underlying this solemn Pact should be so fixed
that if any government later violate anyone of its provisions, all the
governments on earth should arise to reduce it to utter submission, nay
the human race as a whole should resolve, with every power at its
disposal, to destroy that government. Should this greatest of all
remedies be applied to the sick body of the world, it will assuredly
recover from its ills and will remain eternally safe and secure.204

Bahá’ís believe that the Lesser Peace will follow very soon after the end of
the present period of suffering and social upheaval. Indeed, they maintain
that these latter tragedies will be the chief influence in driving peoples and
nations to put an end to war at whatever cost. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá predicted that
the foundations of the Lesser Peace would be securely established in the
twentieth century.205

The Lesser Peace is seen as the necessary prelude to a third stage in the
emergence of a World Order, a stage which will come about far more
gradually. Bahá’u’lláh called this final stage the “Most Great Peace.” Its
advent, he said, will coincide with the emergence of the Bahá’í World
Order. Shoghi Effendi’s description of this future World Order has already
been quoted in part earlier in this chapter. In another passage, he spoke of it
as the “ultimate fusion of all races, creeds, classes, and nations.” Whereas
the Lesser Peace will be achieved by the “nations of the earth, as yet
unconscious of [Bahá’u’lláh’s] Revelation and yet unwittingly enforcing
[its] general principles,” the Most Great Peace can come only “consequent
to the recognition of the character, and the acknowledgment of the claims,
of the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh.”206 Bahá’ís believe that it is during the
evolution from the Lesser Peace to the Most Great Peace that Bahá’u’lláh’s
mission will be fully recognized by the peoples of the earth and its

principles consciously accepted and applied by the generality of
humankind.

The Administrative Order of the Bahá’í Faith is seen as the “embryonic
form” of the future World Order. According to Shoghi Effendi, the
institutions and laws of the Bahá’í Administrative Order “are destined to be
a pattern for future society, a supreme instrument for the establishment of
the Most Great Peace, and the one agency for the unification of the world,
and the proclamation of the reign of righteousness and justice upon the
earth.”207

The vision of the Most Great Peace corresponds to a similar vision of
Habakkuk of the time when “the earth shall be filled with the knowledge of
the glory of the Lord, as the waters cover the sea” (Habakkuk, 2:14). It will
mark the “healing of the nations” promised in the Christian apocalypse
(Revelation 22:2). It will bring not only a world civilization, but also the
“spiritualization of the masses.” It represents the “coming of age of the
entire human race.”208

Speaking of the Most Great Peace, Shoghi Effendi said:

Then will a world civilization be born, flourish, and perpetuate itself, a
civilization with a fullness of life such as the world has never seen nor
can as yet conceive. Then will the Everlasting Covenant be fulfilled in
its completeness. Then will the promise enshrined in all the Books of
God be redeemed, and all the prophecies uttered by the Prophets of old
come to pass, and the vision of seers and poets be realized. Then will
the planet, galvanized through the universal belief of its dwellers in
one God, and their allegiance to one common Revelation, mirror,
within the limitations imposed upon it, the effulgent glories of the
sovereignty of Bahá’u’lláh ... and [be] acclaimed as the earthly heaven,
capable of fulfilling that ineffable destiny fixed for it, from time
immemorial, by the love and wisdom of its Creator.209

Bahá’ís perceive the Will of God to be working in two ways or on two
levels. On the one hand, there is the general Will of God which pervades
everything and which moves at the heart of every event in human history,
however apparently insignificant. All things, in the long run, serve God’s
goal of unifying humankind. For this reason, Bahá’ís warmly support many
universal and humanitarian causes and try to appreciate the positive
elements in other causes with whose philosophies they may not be in
complete accord.

On the other hand, Bahá’ís believe that their faith and its Administrative
Order represent a specific articulation of God’s Will for this age. Through
it, the spirit and pattern of unity have entered human affairs. Bahá’ís see
their primary task as the perfection of this God-given instrument. As the
influences of the new revelation begin to penetrate society as a whole, the
process of the evolution from the Lesser Peace to the Most Great Peace will
take place. People will come to recognize the Will of God for humankind
and will witness the establishment of God’s Kingdom on earth.

8. Administration and Laws


Bahá’ís consider one of the distinguishing features of their religion to be the
special Covenant of Bahá’u’lláh through which a future world order and
world civilization will come into being. They believe that the nucleus and
pattern of this future global system already exist in the laws and
Administrative Order conceived by the founder of their faith and
implemented and developed by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and Shoghi Effendi. For this
reason, Bahá’ís devote a great deal of time and energy to developing the
institutions of their community. These agencies of the Bahá’í administrative
order are not used only to solve problems and make collective decisions
within the community of believers; they are also steadily exercised and
refined so that their divinely endowed administrative potentials will slowly
emerge, just as human capacities emerge with instruction and continuous
effort.

This accounts for the great concern with administrative processes on which
many observers of the Bahá’í community have remarked. Bahá’ís believe

that God has redeemed one of the most humanly corrupted and abused
activities of modern-day civilization for divine purposes. They consider that
God intends that administrative service should become a spiritual pursuit,
blessing not only those who contribute directly to it, but the entire society
which depends upon it.210

INSTITUTIONS OF THE BAHÁ’Í FAITH

Under the direction of the writings of the Guardian of the Bahá’í Faith and
the authority of the legislative and executive role of the Universal House of
Justice, the organization of the Bahá’í community is structured around two
basic types of institutions: (1) those designed to make decisions with
respect to life and goals of the community; and (2) those which function to
protect the community and to contribute in special ways to the propagation
of the faith. The decision-making institutions are, essentially, the Universal
House of Justice, operating on the international level, and the spiritual
assemblies, which exist at both national and local levels. The
protection/propagation institutions are derived from the powers conferred
by the Covenant of Bahá’u’lláh on the Hands of the Cause of God and
expanded by the Guardian and then by the Universal House of Justice to
include boards of counselors and auxiliary boards. They advise, counsel,
encourage, and stimulate both the spiritual assemblies and individual

believers. These two branches of the Bahá’í administrative order are
hereafter discussed.

THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE AND THE SPIRITUAL ASSEMBLIES

In preparation for the eventual establishment in every city of a House of
Justice, as called for in the writings of Bahá’u’lláh, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá stated
that as soon as the number of adult Bahá’ís in any locality reaches nine or
more, an election should be held for the creation of a “Local Spiritual
Assembly” to serve as the governing body of the faith in that locality. Each
spiritual assembly consists of nine persons elected from among the full
adult membership in that local community. The tasks of the spiritual
assemblies include the supervision of all local Bahá’í activities, such as
propagation (teaching) of the faith, the conduct of educational programs, the
handling of local publicity and publishing, the conduct of devotional
services, the use of Bahá’í funds, the counseling of believers on the specific
requirements of the Bahá’í laws and teachings, and a range of other related
responsibilities.211

‘Abdu’l-Bahá supervised the establishment of the first spiritual assemblies
in Persia and in the West, and he guided them in their initial efforts. A great
deal of Shoghi Effendi’s time as Guardian of the Bahá’í community was

devoted to this same task. The body of administrative principles outlined in
the voluminous correspondence of these two designated interpreters has
been published in a series of books and manuals used throughout the Bahá’í
world. The guidance provided therein covers an extraordinary range of
subjects, and guarantees that the development of the Bahá’í community
over the coming centuries will be molded in the precise pattern conceived
by Bahá’u’lláh and those appointed by his Covenant to be its
interpreters.212

Spiritual assemblies have also been created on the national (or occasionally
on the regional) level. Their responsibilities are analogous to those of the
local spiritual assemblies, though far greater in scope and complexity. In
addition, they have the responsibility of supervising the work of the local
spiritual assemblies and of determining what concerns are the responsibility
of the local bodies and which ones must be handled at the national or
regional level.

While the membership of each local spiritual assembly is directly elected by
the members of its own local community, the national spiritual assembly
membership is chosen by means of a two-stage balloting system. All the
adult members of the Bahá’í community in a given district elect a specified
number of delegates. The number is dependent on the size and scope of the

Bahá’í community in that particular part of the country. Then the delegates
from the entire country meet at an annual national convention and elect the
nine-person membership of the national spiritual assembly from among all
the adults of the national Bahá’í community, regardless of whether or not
they are delegates to the national convention.

The electoral process by which Bahá’í spiritual assemblies come into being
contains a number of interesting and perhaps unique features. All voting is
done by secret ballot. Moreover, the Bahá’í teachings forbid any form of
electioneering, including the nomination of candidates. Each voter lists nine
different names on the ballot. After the votes are counted, those nine
individuals having the greatest number of votes are declared to be elected.
Any tie vote for the ninth member is broken by a subsequent ballot between
the tied individuals. This system removes the necessity for the nomination
and presentation of candidates, thereby giving maximum freedom of choice
to each elector and avoiding the power-seeking behavior inherent in many
other forms of election. It is assumed that all adult believers, once chosen
by the electorate, will be able and prepared to take up their duties as
members of the national or local spiritual assembly.

Elections occur each year in late April and coincide with the Bahá’í festival
of Riḍván. Then the elected spiritual assembly serves for one full year,

beginning immediately following its election or as soon there-after as is
feasible.

The spirit and form this process takes is perhaps best illustrated by the
following words of Shoghi Effendi:

If we but turn our gaze to the high qualifications of the members of
Bahá’í Assemblies, as enumerated in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Tablets, we are
filled with feelings of unworthiness and dismay, and would feel truly
disheartened but for the comforting thought that if we rise to play
nobly our part every deficiency in our lives will be more than
compensated by the all-conquering spirit of His grace and power.
Hence it is incumbent upon the chosen delegates to consider without
the least trace of passion and prejudice, and irrespective of any
material consideration, the names of only those who can best combine
the necessary qualities of unquestioned loyalty, of selfless devotion, of
a well-trained mind, of recognized ability and mature experience.213

One other important aspect of Bahá’í elections should be noted: As in many
other areas of his teachings (see, for example, the discussion on the equality
of the sexes in chapter 5), Bahá’u’lláh gave practical expression to a
spiritual command. He pointed out that minority races and ethnic groups

have been greatly disadvantaged by discrimination in many parts of the
world. Members of these minorities have never had the opportunity to
develop the qualities of mind which they nevertheless possess in equal
measure with more fortunate peoples. The Bahá’í community must
deliberately arrange its affairs so that, to the extent possible, these injustices
and handicaps are eliminated. In the electoral process, therefore, wherever
the qualifications for a particular office are balanced between a person
representing a minority group and some other individual, the elector is
bound by his or her conscience to vote for the person representing the
minority group. Similarly, if a tie vote occurs in a Bahá’í election and one
of the persons involved represents a minority, preference should be given to
him or her in the vote which breaks the tie.

The same basic electoral principles apply to the election of the membership
of the Universal House of Justice. In this case, the electors are the members
of the national spiritual assemblies of the Bahá’í world. Unlike the local and
national spiritual assemblies, however, the Universal House of Justice is
elected only once in five years, at an international convention held at the
World Centre of the Bahá’í Faith in Haifa, Israel.214

THE HANDS OF THE CAUSE, THE BOARDS OF COUNSELORS, AND THEIR DEPUTIES

This system of group decision making is supplemented by a number of
advisory bodies. During their lifetimes both Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
appointed distinguished believers to serve as Hands of the Cause in
propagating and protecting the Bahá’í Faith. The Will and Testament of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá provided that these functions should continue throughout the
Bahá’í dispensation; therefore Shoghi Effendi also appointed Hands of the
Cause, twenty-seven of whom were still living at the time of his death in
November 1957. The Will and Testament reads in part:

O friends! The Hands of the Cause of God must be nominated and
appointed by the guardian of the Cause of God. All must be under his
shadow and obey his command....

The obligations of the Hands of the Cause of God are to diffuse the
Divine Fragrances, to edify the souls of men, to promote learning, to
improve the character of men and to be, at all times and under all
conditions, sanctified and detached from earthly things. They must
manifest the fear of God by their conduct, their manners, their deeds
and their words.215

In the absence of a Guardian of the faith, there was no way in which other
Hands of the Cause could be appointed following the death of Shoghi

Effendi. The Universal House of Justice, however, is fully empowered by
the explicit terms of the Covenant of Bahá’u’lláh to create whatever
institutions it feels the evolution of the Bahá’í community requires. Since
the Will and Testament called for the functions performed by the Hands of
the Cause to be carried on as an integral part of the Administrative Order,
the Universal House of Justice created a specialized institution for this
purpose, an institution entirely separate from the elective system of spiritual
assemblies. This institution is known as the “Boards of Counselors,”216 and
its members serve on a continental level. The counselors are distinguished
believers who are appointed to terms of five years, and each continental
board has from eleven to nineteen members.

The Hands of the Cause, encouraged by Shoghi Effendi, had already
appointed groups of deputies on each continent, designated as auxiliary
boards by the Guardian. These subsidiary boards have been attached to the
boards of counselors by the Universal House of Justice, and they serve them
in the same way as they did the Hands of the Cause previously. Further, as
the Bahá’í Faith has grown very rapidly in recent years, the Universal
House of Justice has authorized each auxiliary board member to appoint
“assistants” to help him or her in carrying on the work at the local level.
Thus, parallel with the system of national and local spiritual assemblies, a

separate branch of the administrative order now exists to carry out
specialized functions at the continental, regional, and local levels.

THE RELATIONSHIP OF THE COUNSELORS TO THE SPIRITUAL ASSEMBLIES

There are two principal differences between the institutions that make up
the two branches of the Bahá’í administrative order. These differences
relate to their modes of operation and to the powers conferred upon them.
The spiritual assemblies are corporate bodies which come into being
through election by the Bahá’í community as a whole, and they function
through the normal process of majority decision. The counselors and their
deputies are individually appointed by the Universal House of Justice and
the boards of counselors, respectively, and they continue to function
primarily as individual servants of the Cause of Bahá’u’lláh. Although
spiritual assembly members may occasionally perform individual duties, as
elected officers for example, and though there is consultation between the
counselors and auxiliary boards, the assemblies remain essentially corporate
agencies, while the other institutions represent teams of individual
coworkers.

The second difference lies in the nature of the authority conferred upon
each one of the branches of the Bahá’í administration. The power to make

decisions concerning the life of the community resides solely with the
spiritual assemblies and ultimately with the Universal House of Justice. The
counselors and auxiliary board members advise the spiritual assemblies,
comment on their plans and do whatever is deemed necessary to stimulate
them, but their role is limited to these activities. The ultimate responsibility
and decision-making authority rest with the spiritual assemblies, as they are
the elected representatives of the Bahá’í community. It is this, perhaps more
than any other factor, which distinguishes the role of the Hands, the
counselors, and the auxiliary board members in the Bahá’í Faith from that
of a “clergy” (as it is commonly defined by other faiths). The Hands and
their successors, the counselors and auxiliary boards, have neither decision-
making authority nor sacerdotal functions; nor do they have a right to
interpret the sacred writings.217 Moreover, the counselors serve only for the
specified period of their appointment rather than for life.

Their role is, nevertheless, very significant. As individuals, they are chosen
because each has demonstrated a high degree of spiritual maturity and the
capacity to make valuable contributions to the life of the community. The
Bahá’í writings accord them a high rank in the membership of the
community, and both spiritual assemblies and individual believers are
expected to take advantage of the assistance which their experience can
provide.

THE INTERNATIONAL TEACHING CENTRE

In 1973 the counselors and auxiliary boards were brought together under
the direction of a single international institution functioning at the World
Centre of the Bahá’í Faith in Haifa, Israel.218 This institution is known as
the International Teaching Centre. Its membership consists of the surviving
Hands and a number of counselors appointed for this purpose by the
Universal House of Justice. In time, when all the Hands will have passed
away, the full membership of the Centre will consist of appointees of the
Universal House of Justice, and the institution of the Teaching Centre will
continue to function under the supervision of the House of Justice.

The principal duties of the International Teaching Centre are to coordinate
the activities of the various boards of counselors and to assist the Universal
House of Justice in developing the global plans through which the faith
expands. It may be helpful to note the distinction the Bahá’í writings make
between the spiritual station of individual believers and the rank which they
may hold or the function which they may perform in the Bahá’í community.
The Universal House of Justice has said:

Courtesy, reverence, dignity, respect for the rank and achievements of
others are virtues which contribute to the harmony and well-being of
every community, but pride and self-aggrandizement are among the
most deadly of sins.

. . . the ultimate aim in the life of every soul should be to attain
spiritual excellence—to win the good pleasure of God. The true
spiritual station of any soul is known only to God. It is quite a different
thing from the ranks and stations that men and women occupy in the
various sectors of society. 219

COMMUNITY LIFE AND THE “NINETEEN-DAY FEAST”

At the local level the activities of the Bahá’í community are centered on a
periodic all-community meeting called a “feast.” The dates for these
gatherings are the same for the entire Bahá’í world, and they are based on
the Bahá’í solar calendar, which originated with the Báb. This calendar
consists of nineteen months, each having nineteen days, making a total of
361 days.220 The four extra days of the solar year (five in leap years) are
designated as “Intercalary Days,” and they constitute a period of gift-giving,
hospitality, and festivity.221 The feast is held on the first day of each Bahá’í
month; thus there are nineteen feasts in the Bahá’í year.

The feast has three basic parts. The first is devotional and consists of the
reading of prayers and meditations, which may be taken not only from the
Bahá’í holy writings, but also from the scriptures of other revealed
religions. The second portion is administrative: the business of the
community is consulted upon by all those present, including youth and
children. The local spiritual assembly reports on those decisions it has made
that are relevant to the general life of the community; a treasurer’s report is
given; and the members of the community are encouraged to offer
suggestions, raise questions, or express their concerns in consultation with
the representatives of the local spiritual assembly. The spiritual assembly is
not bound to accept the recommendations put forward at the feast, but it
must consider them and report back to the community on the action taken in
each instance. The third portion of the feast is a social gathering. Together
with refreshments and informal fellowship, this portion may include
musical or other artistic presentations, games, and entertainment. All three
parts are necessary to the feast, and Bahá’ís are encouraged to see the
spiritual possibilities not only of the devotional, but also of the consultative
and social portions.

In most Bahá’í communities the feast takes place in private homes or in
small community centers. This is because these communities are not yet

large enough to warrant the investment in more elaborate facilities. The
pattern of community development envisaged by Bahá’u’lláh is capable of
accommodating communities of much larger size. It is intended that, in
time, each village or other locality will have its own “House of Worship”
(Mashriqu’l-Adhkár or “Dawning-place of the praises of God”). This house
of worship will become the center of Bahá’í community life, and around it
will be built a variety of supportive service agencies.222

BAHÁ’Í LAW: SPIRITUAL LIBERTY THROUGH DISCIPLINE

All of the Bahá’í institutions we have been discussing operate in
conjunction with a pattern of revealed law. Law, Bahá’u’lláh asserted, is the
foundation of all human society.223 Without it, order is impossible, and
without order, there is no framework within which the spiritual, cultural,
technological, and intellectual activities that depend on human interactions
can develop. Even personal freedom depends upon law. By surrendering a
degree of personal freedom to a commonly accepted system of laws, the
individual assists in the creation of an environment that returns far greater
benefits in terms of freedom than the personal investment it requires.

It is primarily the animal aspects of human nature that sound laws seek to
discipline. Earlier this subject was examined in some depth. It is necessary

here merely to note again the Bahá’í belief that our intrinsic spiritual,
intellectual, and moral capacities are liberated only when our physical
nature has been disciplined and refined as a reliable instrument. Whenever
the demands of the physical body prevail, our true nature remains hobbled
and imprisoned by our physical, animal nature.

The ultimate source of all law beneficial to spiritual development is the
successive revelations of the Manifestations of God.224 The laws revealed
by Moses, Jesus, or Muhammad are not merely regulations or moral
precepts. Because the Manifestation’s love for us touches our hearts, the
laws he gives are capable of remolding the human conscience. The
standards of right and wrong change in ways dictated by each successive
revelation, and upon this foundation society itself constructs new systems of
laws. “Think not,” Bahá’u’lláh stated, “that We have revealed unto you a
mere code of laws. Nay, rather, We have unsealed the choice Wine with the
fingers of might and power.”225

THE KITÁB-I-AQDAS, THE BOOK OF LAWS

In the light of this view of the importance of Divine Law, it is not surprising
to find Shoghi Effendi referring to Bahá’u’lláh’s book of laws, the Kitáb-i-
Aqdas (literally, the Most Holy Book) as “the most signal act” of

Bahá’u’lláh’s life, “the brightest emanation of the mind of Bahá’u’lláh” and
“the Charter of His New World Order.”226 The Kitáb-i-Aqdas lays down the
basic laws for the spiritual life of the individual and the membership of the
Bahá’í community. By any standards, it is an extraordinary document. A
thorough discussion on the subject is beyond the scope of the present work,
but three features in particular stand out: its comprehensiveness, its
progressive application, and the manner of its publication.

The laws of Bahá’u’lláh deal with a very wide range of individual and
community concerns. Among the subjects considered are prayer, fasting,
marriage, divorce, inheritance, education, burial, wills and testaments,
hunting, tithing, sexual relationships, care of the body, work, and eating
habits.

Both Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá emphasized that the application of laws
of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas was to occur gradually, as people develop the capacity
to respond to the requisite responsibilities. Training in certain of the laws
accelerates the process of spiritual maturity and makes possible the
application of still other provisions. Bahá’u’lláh explained this progressive
principle:

Know of a certainty that in every Dispensation the light of Divine
Revelation hath been vouchsafed to men in direct proportion to their
spiritual capacity. Consider the sun. How feeble its rays the moment it
appeareth above the horizon. How gradually its warmth and potency
increase as it approacheth its zenith, enabling meanwhile all created
things to adapt themselves to the growing intensity of its light. . . .
Were it all of a sudden to manifest the energies latent within it, it would
no doubt cause injury to all created things.... In like manner, if the Sun
of Truth were suddenly to reveal, at the earliest stages of its
manifestation, the full measure of the potencies which the providence
of the Almighty hath bestowed upon it, the earth of human
understanding would waste away and be consumed; for men’s hearts
would neither sustain the intensity of its revelation, nor be able to
mirror forth the radiance of its light.227

Guided by this, both the Guardian and the Universal House of Justice have
gradually introduced provisions of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas as the Bahá’í
community grows and matures. Clearly, the process will be a lengthy one.
Certain laws, Shoghi Effendi pointed out, have been “formulated in
anticipation of a state of society destined to emerge from the chaotic
conditions that prevail today.”228

The Kitáb-i-Aqdas is only nominally a “book.” More precisely, it is the core
of a vast body of literature in which the laws of the Bahá’í Faith are stated
and explained. The original volume in Arabic is a very small work.
Bahá’u’lláh supplemented it with a large number of writings which
elaborated the statements it contained, and he wrote commentaries on
certain questions advanced by nineteenth-century Persian Bahá’í scholars
who had read the work. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá added to these secondary materials
and provided further extensive interpretations and commentaries on the
provisions of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, just as Bahá’u’lláh had indicated would be
necessary. The entire corpus was then greatly increased by the detailed
interpretation of Shoghi Effendi, functioning in his role as the Guardian of
the Bahá’í community.

Therefore the specific provisions of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas can only be
determined by tracing their individual development through the entire
process of codification. Shoghi Effendi indicated that, ultimately, a
codification of the laws and ordinances of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas would be
completed and published. He himself worked extensively on it, translating
several passages of the original work, and leaving an outline of the Synopsis
and Codification with supplementary notes. In 1973, on the one-hundredth
anniversary of the completion of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas by Bahá’u’lláh, the
Universal House of Justice published the collected passages, as they had

been translated by the Guardian, together with a complete summary of the
topics dealt with in the original work, under the title Synopsis and
Codification of the Laws and Ordinances of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas. Then, in
1992, the Universal House of Justice published an extensively annotated
English translation of the entire text of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, together with
some of the supplementary commentaries of Bahá’u’lláh and the previously
published Synopsis and Codification.229

SPECIFIC LAWS OF THE KITÁB-I-AQDAS

A survey of some of the specific areas of human conduct to which the
provisions of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas have already been applied by the Bahá’í
community will indicate the general outline of Bahá’u’lláh’s instructions
and will illustrate the three features just mentioned.

PRAYER AND MEDITATION

One of the most important of the laws Bahá’u’lláh prescribed for individual
discipline is daily prayer and meditation. Compilations of the prayers of
Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá have been published in a great many
languages, and there exists in English a three-hundred-page volume

consisting entirely of Bahá’u’lláh’s meditations. These books serve as
resources for Bahá’ís in their devotional life.

Beyond the general injunction to pray and meditate, Bahá’u’lláh also
ordained an obligatory prayer to be said each day by every believer who has
attained the “age of maturity.”230 This obligatory prayer has three different
forms, and the individual is free to choose whichever form he prefers on
any given day. The so-called “Short Obligatory Prayer,” for example, is to
be said sometime between noon and sunset each day:

I bear witness, O my God, that Thou hast created me to know Thee and
to worship Thee. I testify, at this moment, to my powerlessness and to
Thy might, to my poverty and to Thy wealth. There is none other God
but Thee, the Help in Peril, the Self-Subsisting.231

ABSTENTION FROM ALCOHOL AND NARCOTIC DRUGS

Bahá’u’lláh taught that the use of alcohol and narcotic or hallucinogenic
drugs does harm to the higher physical and mental faculties, thereby
hampering spiritual development. Bahá’ís are forbidden to use them in any
form. The only exception to this is the right of a physician to prescribe
alcohol or drugs for conditions for which there is no known alternative

mode of treatment. There are no other prohibitions concerning food or drink
in the Bahá’í teachings. Smoking tobacco, for example, is not forbidden,
though it is strongly condemned as harmful to physical health and often
socially repellent.232

FASTING

As has been the case with other revealed religions, the Bahá’í Faith sees
great value in the practice of fasting as a discipline for the soul. Bahá’u’lláh
designated a nineteen-day period each year when adult Bahá’ís fast from
sunrise to sunset each day. This period coincides with the Bahá’í month of
‘Alá (meaning Loftiness), from March 2 to 21, inclusive. This is the month
immediately preceding the Bahá’í Naw-Rúz, or New Year, which occurs the
day of the vernal equinox, and the period of fasting is therefore viewed as a
time of spiritual preparation and regeneration for a new year’s activities.
However, according to the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, women who are nursing or
pregnant, the aged, the sick, the traveler, those engaged in heavy labor, as
well as children under the age of fifteen, are exempt from observance of the
Fast.233

ABSTENTION FROM BACKBITING

Besides the laws for the individual believer, Bahá’u’lláh laid down a
number of other social laws and principles. For example, backbiting and
criticism of others are condemned by him as extremely injurious to spiritual
health: “backbiting quencheth the light of the heart, and extinguisheth the
life of the soul.”234 Backbiting is considered to be criticism of others to
third parties, whether or not the criticism is maliciously intended. Members
of the Bahá’í community may take a concern about another’s actions, in
confidence, to their local spiritual assembly, but they must then leave the
matter in the hands of the spiritual assembly and refrain from further
discussion of it.

MARRIAGE

Marriage is regarded in Bahá’í law as both a spiritual and a social
institution. It affects not only the couple and their children, but also the
parents, grandparents, grandchildren, and other collateral relations. Indeed,
it affects (or in a healthy society should affect) all other community
associations that surround it. Consequently, Bahá’u’lláh placed great
emphasis on the education of the couple to learn to recognize the capacities
and limitations of one another, thereby providing them with a reasonable
amount of protection from making frivolous mistakes in their relations with
each other. A Bahá’í who wishes to marry must obtain the consent of his or

her living natural parents as well as those of the prospective spouse
(whether or not the latter is a Bahá’í). Unlike the tradition which long
prevailed in the East, parents do not have the right to choose a mate for their
sons or daughters. But unlike the conditions which presently exist in the
West, the couple is not free, by themselves and without the consideration of
their parents (who may be directly affected by the consequences of their
decision to marry), to make a decision which will intimately concern many
others.235

The Bahá’í teachings enjoin chastity before marriage, as the sexual instinct
is an endowment related to the procreation of children and the strengthening
of the marriage bond. For this reason, absolute faithfulness between the
partners within a marriage is another law to which the Bahá’í writings
attach great importance. While marriage is by no means compulsory for
Bahá’ís, it is strongly recommended as “a fortress for well-being.” Far from
being regarded as a special virtue, celibacy is viewed by the Bahá’í writings
as an undesirable limitation.236

The Bahá’í marriage service has no set form and may be extremely simple.
All that is strictly required is an exchange of the vow: “We will all, verily,
abide by the will of God.” The service must be authorized by a spiritual
assembly which has verified the parental consent and appointed witnesses.

Prayers and devotions chosen by the bride and groom, as well as music,
often complete the event.

PROVISIONS FOR DIVORCE

Divorce is permitted in the Bahá’í Faith, but it is strongly discouraged. The
normal difficulties of married life are designed to “purify the characters” of
the married couple and strengthen their union as the elementary building-
block of society itself. Nevertheless, the Bahá’í teachings recognize that
insoluble problems can develop in marital relationships where the couple
may be entirely unsuited to one another. Therefore, if an estrangement
between the Bahá’í husband and wife grows to the point where they are
seriously considering divorce, Bahá’í law provides an institution called the
“year of waiting”: the parties live separately for one year’s time, which
provides them the opportunity to obtain counseling and undertake efforts to
overcome the difficulties that have led to the marriage breakdown. Either of
the parties may take the problem to the local spiritual assembly, which then
meets with each of them and determines whether or not there is a
willingness to attempt a reconciliation. Should that possibility not be
apparent, the spiritual assembly will set the date of the beginning of the year
of waiting as the date on which the couple establishes separate residences.

During the course of the year of waiting, the spiritual assembly will, often
with professional assistance, attempt to help the couple to overcome their
difficulties. A Bahá’í divorce can be obtained only after the full year of
waiting is ended.

In a sense, one might consider this institution as a kind of “marriage
hospital” where ailing marital relations are treated and by means of which
the immediate pressures are temporarily removed and healing processes
introduced, until such time as the healthy forces in the union are able to
reassert themselves.

ABSTENTION FROM POLITICAL INVOLVEMENT

Yet another law upon which Bahá’u’lláh placed great emphasis is the
requirement that his followers strictly abstain from political involvement of
any kind. At a first glance, one might expect to find the members of the
Bahá’í community actively engaged in a wide range of political pursuits in
furtherance of its universal ideals. The opposite is in fact the case. Bahá’ís
are permitted to vote for any candidate who, in the privacy of their
conscience, they believe would make the most valuable contribution to the
society in which they live. Bahá’ís may also accept nonpolitical government

appointments. But they may not identify themselves with or campaign for
any political party or partisan movement.237

‘The reason for this is the basic Bahá’í belief that the fundamental challenge
to all people and nations today is the attainment of the unification of
humankind. Real social progress, Bahá’u’lláh taught, waits upon attainment
of this new level in the development of human civilization: “The well-being
of mankind, its peace and security are unattainable unless and until its unity
is firmly established.”238 Bahá’u’lláh held that political action, which is
necessarily partisan and divisive in nature, cannot hold the answers to
problems that are universal in their very essence. All political instruments,
he pointed out, are limited and particular, whether they be national, racial,
cultural, or ideological.

The Bahá’í principle of noninvolvement in politics does not prevent Bahá’ís
from taking public positions on purely social and moral issues when these
issues are not part of any partisan political debate. Indeed, over the years
Bahá’ís have been at the forefront of action on several social issues such as
racial equality and nondiscrimination.

The principle of noninvolvement in politics is closely related, both in belief
and practice, to the Bahá’í teaching of loyalty to government. Bahá’u’lláh

called upon his followers to obey the government in power at a given time,
and to refrain strictly from any attempts to subvert or to undermine it.
Should the government of a nation change, the Baha’i community must, in
the same spirit of faithfulness, give its loyalty to the new administration, in
every fashion consistent with the principle of political noninvolvement.239

THE UNDERLYING REQUISITE OF BAHÁ’Í COMMUNITY LIFE: CONSULTATION

Underlying all the laws and community structures in the Bahá’í Faith is a
group decision-making process called “consultation.” Essentially, Bahá’í
consultation involves a frank but loving exchange of opinions by members
of a group with a view towards the determination of the truth of some
matter and the establishment of a genuine group consensus. It is no
exaggeration to say that virtually every member of the Bahá’í Faith is a
student of the process of consultation. Shoghi Effendi said on this subject:

The principle of consultation, which constitutes one of the basic laws
of the Administration, should be applied to all Bahá’í activities which
affect the collective interests of the Faith, for it is through co-operation
and continued exchange of thoughts and views that the Cause can best
safeguard and foster its interests. Individual initiative, personal ability
and resourcefulness, though indispensable, are, unless supported and

enriched by the collective experiences and wisdom of the group, utterly
incapable of achieving such a tremendous task.240

Similar emphasis is placed on this principle in Bahá’í family life, and
particularly in the relationship between husband and wife. Even in purely
personal concerns, Bahá’ís are encouraged to seek consultation with others,
wherever the circumstances seem so to indicate. The Universal House of
Justice cautions, however, that:

It should be borne in mind that all consultation is aimed at arriving at a
solution to a problem and is quite different from the sort of group
baring of the soul that is popular in some circles these days and which
borders on the kind of confession that is forbidden in the Faith.... “We
are forbidden to confess to any person ... our sins and shortcomings, or
to do so in public, as some religious sects do. However, if we
spontaneously desire to acknowledge we have been wrong in
something, or that we have some fault of character, and ask another
person’s forgiveness or pardon, we are quite free to do so.”241

One of the best-known summaries of the Bahá’í pattern of consultation is to
be found in a passage from ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s writings which has become a
working document for the Bahá’í national and local spiritual assemblies:

The first condition is absolute love and harmony amongst the members
of the assembly. They must be wholly free from estrangement and
must manifest in themselves the Unity of God, for they are the waves
of one sea, the drops of one river, the stars of one heaven. . . . They
must when coming together turn their faces to the Kingdom on High
and ask aid from the Realm of Glory. They must then proceed with the
utmost devotion, courtesy, dignity, care and moderation to express their
views. They must in every matter search out the truth and not insist
upon their own opinion, for stubbornness and persistence in one’s
views will lead ultimately to discord and wrangling and the truth will
remain hidden. The honored members must with all freedom express
their own thoughts, and it is in no wise permissible for one to belittle
the thought of another, nay, he must with moderation set forth the truth,
and should differences of opinion arise a majority of voices must
prevail, and all must obey and submit to the majority. It is again not
permitted that anyone of the honored members object to or censure,
whether in or out of the meeting, any decision arrived at previously,
though that decision be not right, for such criticism would prevent any
decision from being enforced.... Should they endeavor to fulfill these
conditions the Grace of the Holy Spirit shall be vouchsafed unto them,
and that assembly shall become the center of the Divine blessings, the

hosts of Divine confirmation shall come to their aid, and they shall day
by day receive a new effusion of Spirit.242

One other interesting feature of the consultation of Bahá’í spiritual
assemblies is the deliberate aim of achieving unanimity of view. Majority
decision making is, therefore, regarded as a minimal requirement of Bahá’í
administrative consultation:

The ideal of Bahá’í consultation is to arrive at a unanimous decision.
When this is not possible a vote must be taken....

As soon as a decision is reached it becomes the decision of the whole
Assembly, not merely of those members who happened to be among
the majority.243

CONCLUSIONS

The laws we have discussed above and other fundamental laws and
governing procedures of the Bahá’í Faith represent a fiber of “tough-
mindedness” which runs through the entire fabric of the new religion.
Superficially, one might expect to find a preference for vagueness and
perhaps a lack of realism among the members of a faith focused on the goal

of the unification of humankind and the creation of a new global society
based on justice. Certainly the Bahá’í message is a visionary one, and
certainly members of the Bahá’í community are caught up in this vision. On
the other hand, they do not believe that the goal can be achieved without
very great sacrifice and effort, both by individuals and by entire societies.

They believe that the achievement of a world order and a world civilization
involves the creation of a new way of life which will discipline human
nature to the larger purposes of God. This discipline must affect the most
homely circumstances of life as well as the larger concerns of society. The
institution of marriage must be restored to its position as the foundation on
which civilization can flourish. Personal life must be spiritualized through
the disciplines of prayer, meditation, and service to others. Social habits
such as backbiting, which strike at the very roots of human association,
must be eliminated, and people must give up their fascination for such
barren pursuits as partisan politics in favor of learning cooperation and the
art of true consultation. New social structures involving a much greater
degree of individual participation must be implemented. It is the
contemporary failure to submit to these necessary (and inevitable)
disciplines, and to implement these new structures, that Bahá’ís regard as
surrender to wishful thinking and reliance on magical solutions for the
world’s critical problems. In the words of Bahá’u’lláh:

They whom God hath endued with insight will readily recognize that
the precepts laid down by God constitute the highest means for the
maintenance of order in the world and the security of its peoples. He
that turneth away from them is accounted among the abject and
foolish. We, verily, have commanded you to refuse the dictates of your
evil passions and corrupt desires, and not to transgress the bounds
which the Pen of the Most High hath fixed, for these are the breath of
life to all created things....

O ye peoples of the world! Know assuredly that My commandments
are the lamps of My loving providence among My servants, and the
keys of My mercy for My creatures.... Were any man to taste the
sweetness of the words which the lips of the All-Merciful have willed
to utter, he would, though the treasures of the earth be in his
possession, renounce them one and all, that he might vindicate the truth
of even one of His commandments, shining above the dayspring of His
bountiful care and loving-kindness.244

9. The Bahá’í Community


From earliest times, communities have been created around religious
beliefs. The early responses to the teachings of the Buddha, Jesus Christ,
and Muhammad are particularly dramatic examples of how many thousands
of persons were drawn into communities bound together by their faith, each
organized on the basis of principles and priorities laid down by the founder.
As these communities grew and proved themselves able to meet the needs
of the members, they came to embrace millions of adherents and eventually
gave rise to new states and cultures.

This has been the role of religion at even the most primitive stages of
human civilization. In his widely read study, The City in History, the social
philosopher Lewis Mumford said of the earliest forms of human settlement:

[They] have to do with sacred things, not just with physical survival:
they relate to a more valuable and meaningful kind of life, with a
consciousness that entertains past and future, apprehending the primal

mystery of sexual generation and the ultimate mystery of death and
what may lie beyond death. As the city takes form, much more will be
added: but these central concerns abide as the very reason for the city’s
existence, inseparable from the economic substance that makes it
possible. In the earliest gathering about a grave or a painted symbol, a
great stone or a sacred grove, one has the beginning of a succession of
civic institutions that range from the temple to the astronomical
observatory, from the theater to the university.245

The process of community-building is well advanced in the Bahá’í Faith.
During the first century of its existence, the Bahá’í community was
primarily concentrated in Persia where, as a proscribed and much
persecuted minority, it had little opportunity to experiment with the
teachings of its founder. Once the teaching plans were implemented under
the direction of Shoghi Effendi, however, and particularly as these plans
became global in scope, the collective life of the believers began to
manifest some of the “society-building” potentialities. Whether the Bahá’í
Faith will ultimately become the inspiration and guiding force of a new
advance in world civilization, as have other revealed religions, is something
only time will demonstrate. The important fact to note is that, as a result of
the activities of the faith since its inception in 1844, a global Bahá’í
community has come into existence and is now rapidly expanding. An

understanding of the Bahá’í Faith must include an appreciation of this
important development.

As we have already seen, the spiritual inheritance of the members of the
Bahá’í community is impressive. The history of the community since 1844,
with its martyrs, its sacrifices, its achievements, and its drama, can
genuinely be called heroic. The Bahá’í message is equally powerful:
Bahá’u’lláh’s teachings deal with a vast range of human concerns and
explore many of the most vexing issues in modern human thought. Few
would deny, either, that the Bahá’í administrative order is a remarkable
achievement, both in the way its principles are attuned to the faith’s aims
and in the success with which its institutions have been established in the
precise form planned by the founder. If one considers the history, the
teachings, and the Bahá’í administration as Bahá’u’lláh’s legacy to his
followers, the new faith has begun its life with great advantages.

What have the heirs of Bahá’u’lláh done with this inheritance? What kind
of community have they thus far been able to create as the result of their
efforts to emulate the heroes of their faith, to understand the founder’s
purpose and message, and to organize their collective life on the
administrative pattern laid down by him and by his appointed successors?

It may be helpful to begin with an examination of the physical size of the
community and the kind of expansion that has occurred since its inception.
While precise statistics are not available, there appear to be some five
million Bahá’ís around the world, of whom nearly half live in one or other
of the two largest national communities: India and Iran. The total figure is
not large when one considers the size of other religious movements that are
roughly contemporary with the Bahá’í Faith.246

The significance of the growth emerges only as one examines the nature of
the expansion that has occurred. It has been widespread. Today there are
over 11,000 elected local spiritual assemblies functioning in well over two
hundred independent states and major territories, and there are more than
127,000 centers where Bahá’ís, or Bahá’í groups, reside. It is estimated by
the Bahá’í International Community that this membership represents over
two thousand different ethnic and tribal minorities, many of whom live in
remote areas of the world: Pacific Islands, Arctic settlements, jungle
villages, and the Andean highlands. In their efforts to educate and organize
the highly diversified communities entrusted to their care, the more than
180 national or regional spiritual assemblies that have so far been
established have translated and published Bahá’í prayers and literature in
over eight hundred languages.

That a relatively small religious community should be cosmopolitan,
widespread, and highly organized at so early a stage in its history is an
extraordinary accomplishment. The same may be said of the community’s
success in establishing its credentials in the eyes of civil authorities. Far
from rejecting “the world” and the institutions that govern it, the Bahá’í
community has deliberately pursued a close relationship with civil
authorities as an integral part of its development. Through continuous
efforts in a series of global development plans, Bahá’í spiritual assemblies
at both the local and national levels have become legally incorporated in the
majority of countries where the faith has been established. The Bahá’í
marriage ceremony has secured formal recognition under a great many civil
jurisdictions, and, in various parts of the world, Bahá’í holy days are
beginning to gain similar status to that which is accorded those of other
major faiths in businesses, schools, and government offices.

In the United Nations, the Bahá’í International Community has steadily
expanded the status accorded to it by the Economic and Social Council
(ECOSOC). Its representatives participate in the wide range of international
conferences called by the various organs and agencies of the UN family,
thus helping lay the foundations of international accord and gaining an
opportunity for the Bahá’í community to share the faith’s universal
ideals.247

Much attention is given to ensuring that, to the extent circumstances permit,
the general public in all parts of the world is made aware of the existence of
the faith and the nature of its teachings. Publishing trusts in various
countries print and distribute a great variety of Bahá’í literature, ranging
from compilations of the writings of Bahá’u’lláh to scholarly commentaries,
popular books, newsletters, and magazines. Other media are also
extensively utilized: films, television programs and spot announcements,
radio broadcasts, newspaper articles and advertisements, pamphlets, posters
and manuals, correspondence courses, exhibitions, lecture series, and winter
and summer schools. In the spring of 1996, with electronic technology
opening up a new world of possibilities for the communication of
information and ideas, the Bahá’í International Community launched its
official Web site, THE BAHÁ’Í WORLD.248 The objective of all this
activity is to ensure that, in time, every person on earth will come in contact
with the message of Bahá’u’lláh.

One Bahá’í institution that has played a particularly prominent role in this
program of public education is the house of worship. Today there are Bahá’í
houses of worship on every continent, and a great many additional sites
have been purchased around the world for future construction of these
edifices, which are intended to play a central role in Bahá’í community life.

Around each, in time, will be constructed other agencies such as schools or
colleges, hostels, homes for the aged, and administrative centers. At the
present time, the houses of worship are not principally used for Bahá’í
community services. Rather, they are opened as places where individuals of
all religious backgrounds (or those professing no particular faith) meet in
the worship of the one God. Services are nondenominational and consist of
readings and prayers from the scriptures of the world’s faiths, with no
sermons or other attempts to cast these teachings in a mold of specifically
Bahá’í interpretation. Selections are often set to music and sung by trained a
capella choirs. The only requisite architectural features of a house of
worship are that it have nine sides and a dome, symbolic of Bahá’í
acceptance of all religious traditions and representative of the fact that,
although the participants may enter by different doors, they assemble
together in recognition of one Creator.

In many ways, the houses of worship are expressive of the attitude the
Bahá’í Faith takes towards its relationship with the rest of society. The
temples are open structures, filled with light. They are designed to express
the Bahá’í commitment to unity in diversity and to demonstrate the
practicality of the principle. In the case of the “Mother Temple of the West”
located in Wilmette, Illinois, the architect integrated several major

architectural traditions and wove together in his design the symbols of
several of the major revealed religions. In his own words:

When man-made beliefs are rooted out of all religions, we find only
harmony. Today, however, religion is foundering so much in
superstitions and human theories that it has to be defined in a new form
in order to become pure and spotless once more. It is the same in
architecture.... Now, in this new concept of the Temple is woven, in a
symbolical form, the great Bahá’í teaching of unity-unity of all
religions and of all mankind. We find there combinations of
mathematical lines, symbolizing those of the universe and in their
complex merging of overlapping circles, circles within circles, we can
describe the merging of all religions into one.249

In the architecture of the houses of worship can also be seen the Bahá’í
community’s optimism. Bahá’ís confidently expect that the generality of
humankind will eventually become followers of Bahá’u’lláh’s teachings.
They believe that, as the crises of the present age deepen, men and women
everywhere will be moved to search more seriously for truth; and if the
message of Bahá’u’lláh is properly presented, those who seek will respond
to its precepts in ever-increasing numbers. In their openness of design, their
integration of various architectural traditions, and their services free from

sermons and ritual, the Bahá’í houses of worship powerfully express this
spirit of optimism.

Thus far the optimism of the Bahá’í community seems fully justified. The
Bahá’í Faith is now one of the world’s most rapidly growing religious
systems. In April 1979 the Universal House of Justice announced that the
latest in the series of international teaching plans, the five-year plan
launched in 1974, had been successfully completed. Many of its goals were
surpassed, particularly with respect to the number of spiritual assemblies to
be formed and the number of localities to be opened. It was estimated that
the number of believers rose by over 40 percent during that five-year
period.

Whereas the most rapid growth during the previous nine-year plan had
occurred in Africa and Latin America, a marked lead had now been taken
by Bahá’í communities in Asia and the Pacific islands. Encouraged by these
results, the Universal House of Justice announced the immediate launching
of a new seven-year plan to be completed by spring 1986.250 By the time
Bahá’í delegates from around the world gathered in Haifa for the 1983
international convention, this new under-taking was also exceeding its
objectives.

The scope of the international Bahá’í community and the nature of the
expansion that has characterized it have been briefly surveyed. More
difficult is an examination of the internal life of the community. The most
direct approach is to attempt to view it through the experiences of its
members. How does one become a Bahá’í? What features particularly stand
out in the experience of a person who joins the Bahá’í Faith at this time in
its history?

Obviously, the answers will vary from individual to individual. Moreover,
there are likely to be significant differences of emphasis and priority in the
various regions of the world, causing relative differences in the experiences
of the membership. Nevertheless, the history of the Bahá’í Faith, its
teachings, and the unfolding administrative order represent a total context
that is essentially the same throughout the world, and this must inevitably
evoke certain consistent responses from those who embrace it, whatever
their ethnic origins.

With respect to the qualifications for Bahá’í membership, the Universal
House of Justice has written:

The prime motive should always be the response of man to God’s
message, and the recognition of His Messenger. Those who declare

themselves as Bahá’ís should become enchanted with the beauty of the
Teachings; and touched by the love of Bahá’u’lláh. The declarants
need not know all the proofs, history, laws, and principles of the Faith,
but in the process of declaring themselves they must, in addition to
catching the spark of faith, become basically informed about the
Central Figures of the Faith, as well as the existence of laws they must
follow and an administration they must obey.251

For those born into and raised by a Bahá’í family, the process of formal
enrollment is fairly direct. While the Bahá’í teachings condemn dogmatism
in child-raising, Bahá’í children are raised as members of the community.
They participate in most of the events of the Bahá’í calendar, study Bahá’í
history and the teachings of Bahá’u’lláh as well as the other great world
religions, and are encouraged to live by the standards of Bahá’í life
appropriate to their age.252 The emphasis the Baha’i teachings place on
contemporary social issues no doubt contributes to encouraging Bahá’í
youth to continue their spiritual and intellectual search within the Bahá’í
Faith. Nevertheless, they are free to reject such membership if they wish.
On reaching the “age of consent,” which in the Bahá’í community is fifteen
years of age, youths assume responsibility for their own individual spiritual
development. At approximately this age, youths indicate whether or not

they regard themselves as Bahá’ís and will continue to participate in the
Bahá’í community life.

In the case of those who come into the faith as adults, the decision to join
the community is most frequently reached as a result of informal
associations with believers. The community’s wide range of information
activities regularly attract thousands of interested inquirers to contact
members of the faith. Through small study group meetings or more
formally arranged presentations, inquirers are given the teachings and
objectives of the Bahá’í Faith as closely as their inclinations prompt them.
At some point, they may either spontaneously inquire about membership or
they may be invited by Bahá’ís to consider it. Should they request
membership, application is made to the local spiritual assembly of the area;
if that institution is satisfied that the applicants understand the implications
of membership and are prepared to assume the responsibility of living
according to Bahá’u’lláh’s teachings, they are enrolled. There are no rituals
or pledges, but the event may be the occasion for an informal celebration.

Once enrolled as a member of the Bahá’í community, the new believer is
caught up in two simultaneous processes: personal spiritual development
and the struggle of a very young community to understand and express the
ideals expounded in the teachings of its founder.

Prayer, meditation, fasting during the designated period of the year,
abstention from the use of drugs and alcohol, and the struggle to avoid
criticism and backbiting are the major elements of an explicit pattern of
individual discipline. Likewise, the Bahá’í community is embarked on a
long-term program of growth and expansion which demands concerted
effort and an attention to priorities and goals. The thrust of Baha’i belief
and practice emphasizes the reciprocal relationship between the individual
believer and the Bahá’í community.

The two challenges come together because of the emphasis the Baha’i Faith
places on service. Bahá’u’lláh taught that the highest expression of human
nature is “service.” Inner growth, “becoming one’s true self,” occurs as one
serves the ideal of the unification of humankind. The aim of all personal
spiritual discipline is to free the soul from a preoccupation with itself,
deepen the sense of identification with the whole of humanity, and focus
energy on discovering ways to serve the needs of others. The activities of
the Bahá’í community provide the individual a broad scope for such
service. In the absence of a clergy, the affairs of the community are
organized so as to encourage maximum participation by its entire
membership.

Participation is particularly encouraged in efforts to promote the expansion
of the faith. Bahá’u’lláh said that the greatest service which anyone can
render in this day is to “teach the Cause of God.”253 Each individual Bahá’í
is encouraged to share the task of taking the message of Bahá’u’lláh to the
many people who, Bahá’ís believe, can be receptive to it. The time,
‘Abdu’l-Bahá warned, is short. The crises that grip present-day society will
deepen and bring steadily more suffering and eventual destruction to
existing institutions. An alternative way of life must be developed within
Bahá’í communities, and this can only be done by vastly increasing the
numbers in all lands who have responded to the call of Bahá’u’lláh and
committed themselves to putting his teachings into effect.254

Not surprisingly, most newly enrolled members are eager to respond in
whatever way they can to this appeal. They have found something which
has given them great reassurance and purpose and they want to share it with
others. Despite the strong emphasis on teaching, however, proselytism is
explicitly forbidden.255  Bahá’ís, therefore, face a challenge to find ways of
sharing their beliefs that do not infringe on the privacy of others or offend
the customs of the society in which they reside. The result has been to
generate a great deal of experimentation, varying widely from one part of
the world to another and from individual to individual.

It is difficult to generalize regarding the nature of Bahá’í teaching activities.
In most Western countries, Bahá’ís teach as individuals or as families,
through the normal associations of daily life: conversations with neighbors,
friends, and fellow workers; acquaintanceships that arise out of shared
interests in public service projects; study courses or recreational activities;
and encounters at Bahá’í events that are open to the public. In many other
areas of the world, religion is the focus of much greater general interest, and
entire communities may become involved in discussing the new spiritual
teachings. Large-scale enrollments in the Bahá’í Faith have occurred in
Central Africa, South America, and Southeast Asia through visits by teams
of Bahá’ís who combine musical and dramatic presentations with talks or
study courses on the faith. In some social settings, the initiative may come
from the prospective listeners. North American Bahá’ís have found
themselves invited to speak to the congregations of black churches in the
southern states or to “share the Bahá’í message” in presentations made at
Native American powwows in the Canadian prairies. Bahá’í academics in
North America, in India, in the emerging nations of the Pacific, or in the
Caribbean may find themselves invited to lecture in colleges and
universities on the teachings of their faith.

The most common method used in spreading the teachings of Bahá’u’lláh,
however, is the “fireside.” The term originated with the early Bahá’í group

in Montreal, Canada, although the activity was already going on in a
number of centers.256 It describes small study groups held at regular
intervals in private homes, to which friends and acquaintances are invited.
This informal activity has been a prolific source of new members. It allows
inquirers to explore the Bahá’í concepts, laws, and teachings at their own
pace, free from the concern that their private spiritual search may be “on
display,” as might be the case in an open meeting. The arrangement also
strengthens ties that continue after a new member has joined the Bahá’í
community and permits the Bahá’í teacher to assist his or her integration
into the community.

A special form of teaching is the service Bahá’ís call “pioneering.” As there
is no clergy, neither are there professional missionaries who carry the
Bahá’í teachings to new localities. Rather, the Bahá’í Faith expands as a
result of the initiative taken by thousands of its followers who, individually
or in families, leave their homes to settle in new places. Pioneers are
expected to support themselves through their trade or profession and to
perform their Bahá’í services in their free time. Jobs are changed, houses
are sold and new ones found, second languages are learned, and many other
aspects of day-to-day life are reordered for the sole purpose of introducing
the Bahá’í Faith to some new town, district, or territory.

Pioneering may also involve moving to an entirely different country where
the faith is not yet firmly established. In each global teaching plan, the
Universal House of Justice identifies a list of countries which need the
assistance of community workers from elsewhere and specifies the number
required. In many of the plans, specific goals are assigned to the various
national Bahá’í communities; not infrequently three or four different
countries may be called upon to send pioneers to the same country or
region. As a result, a goal center in Finland or Haiti may have received
pioneers from Iran, France, Japan, and the United States. Entirely apart
from the resources these new arrivals represent, the host community’s
experience of the Bahá’í principle of “unity in diversity” is greatly enriched
(as is, no doubt, the experience of the pioneers arriving from abroad).

In this as in all its activities, therefore, the Bahá’í community depends
directly on the initiative and responsibility undertaken by individual
believers. No agency monitors the extent to which any person discharges
his or her obligation to teach the faith. While a spiritual assembly may
intervene if a particular individual’s teaching activities seem inappropriate
in some way, the response to the call of teaching is decided upon by the
believer in his or her own conscience. This is equally true of pioneering, a
service considered to be a great privilege. Each month, the pioneering and
teaching needs are shared with the members of each local Bahá’í

community at the nineteen-day feast, as well as at conferences and through
the community’s various publications. The initiative must come from within
the heart of the individual believer and from the consultation of the Bahá’í
family. The pioneer or pioneer family then approaches the administrative
agencies of the faith to consult on specific projects and goals.

Voluntary participation is also the key to the financing of the Baha’i Faith’s
many programs. At the beginning of the Bahá’í year, each local or national
spiritual assembly decides on the budget required to carry out the projects
for that particular year, whether related to teaching goals, property purchase
and development projects, administrative expenses, or community services.
These needs are then announced to the Bahá’í community in the same
manner as are the teaching and pioneering needs. The professional “fund-
raising” often associated with religious and charitable organizations is not
permitted in a Bahá’í community. Only general appeals may be made;
individual canvassing is prohibited. All contributions are voluntary, and
Shoghi Effendi strongly condemned anything suggestive of psychological
manipulation.257  Moreover, the contributions are kept confidential between
the individual or family and the treasurer of the institution to whom the
contribution is made.

Bahá’ís consider the opportunity of contributing to the Bahá’í Fund as a
spiritual privilege reserved for those who have recognized Bahá’u’lláh.
Consequently, no contributions in any form for the advancement of the
Bahá’í Faith can be accepted from persons who are not registered Bahá’ís.
Not infrequently, Bahá’í assemblies have donations pressed on them by
non-Bahá’ís who are appreciative of one or another of the community’s
programs. In such instances, the donors are urged to divert the funds to a
public charity. In the case of anonymous donations, the Bahá’í
administration puts the contributions into a public charity. Only with regard
to programs that serve the social, economic, or educational needs of society
in general can Bahá’í agencies accept and use funds from non-Bahá’í
sources. This policy heightens the individual members’ feeling of
identification with and personal responsibility for the work undertaken by
the community.258

The administration of the affairs of the Bahá’í community also offers many
opportunities for the individual’s response to the Bahá’í ideal of service.
The fact that the Bahá’í Faith is a layman’s religion impresses itself on new
members very soon after enrollment. They realize that they have joined a
community, not a congregation. The members of the community perform
not only the more humble tasks of “service functions,” but are also fully

responsible for the decision-making process, for planning, and for serving
as formal representatives of the community.

New members of the community quickly come to realize that their adopted
faith is in its formative stages. There is not only a great deal of room for
experimentation within the broad outlines laid down by the Bahá’í writings
and under the ongoing guidance of the Universal House of Justice, but there
is also an acute need for this experimentation in order to assure that the
rapidly evolving community can achieve its ambitious goals. If the new
believer has specific talents, these may soon be put to use. He or she may be
asked to teach a children’s class, to design newspaper advertising, to serve
on a delegation to the mayor of the city or to a government commission, to
host a nineteen-day feast, to assist in planning a regional conference, to take
part in a musical or dramatic event, to run a project, build a display, type
correspondence, assist with bookkeeping, set up a small library, or any one
of a variety of other community activities. To respond to the question:
“Why are we not doing such-and-such?” the answer more often than not is:
“Because up until now there’s been no one with the time or ability required
to undertake it.”

An active social life is a prominent feature of the Bahá’í community.
Reference was made in chapter 8 to the nineteen-day feast that forms the

basis of Bahá’í social community life at the local level and to the
importance which the Bahá’í writings attach to all aspects of this gathering.
The regional and national conventions are also occasions for consultation
on the affairs of the community and at the same time involve a great deal of
socializing among the believers of the region or the country.

In addition, the community regularly holds conferences of all kinds. Each
global teaching plan includes arrangements for a number of international
conferences in major centers. These are well-attended events, with Bahá’ís
coming in from many parts of the world to spend three to five days
celebrating recent teaching achievements, studying current trends and
needs, and acquainting themselves with new literature, audio-visual
resources, and other aids to community development. The Continental
Counselors (see chapter 8) are often featured speakers at these events, as are
leading Bahá’í scholars in various fields. The conferences also provide an
opportunity for Bahá’ís to experience firsthand the range of cultures
represented in the worldwide Bahá’í community through dramatic, musical,
and other artistic presentations. 259

This pattern is followed, to the extent resources permit, at the national and
regional levels as well. As a result, Bahá’ís generally benefit from an
unusual opportunity to get to know one another. The amount of traveling

these events entail tends to further provide members with an increased
exposure to the customs and social patterns of other societies than would
otherwise be the case. For many, no doubt, it also provides the occasion for
informal teaching of the faith and makes the possibility of an eventual
pioneer project both more attractive and less intimidating to the individual
or family who may be considering it.

No Bahá’í institution contributes more intensely to the spiritual and social
enrichment of the believers’ experience than pilgrimage. The Bahá’í
teachings encourage each believer to try, at least once during a lifetime, to
undertake a nine-day pilgrimage to the World Centre of the Bahá’í Faith in
Haifa, Israel. Increasing numbers of believers respond to this injunction, so
many in fact that there is now a significant waiting period.

The pilgrimage is considered one of the high points of any Bahá’í’s life. He
or she arrives in Haifa as one of a group of one hundred fifty or so believers
from all parts of the world. For nine days the group visits the holy places in
and around Haifa and Acre. Alone or in small groups they spend time in the
shrines of Bahá’u’lláh, the Báb, and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. They may visit the
homes inhabited by the founder of their faith during his exile and
imprisonment in the Holy Land and devote part of a day to touring the
magnificent Archives Building, where the original Bahá’í writings may be

examined and articles sacred to the memory of the central figures of the
faith and its early heroes and martyrs may be viewed. Portraits of the Báb
and Bahá’u’lláh, not otherwise on display, are also available for viewing.260
The close and still relatively informal bonds that unite the Bahá’í
community at this early stage in its growth are enhanced by a reception
given by the Universal House of Justice to each group of pilgrims and by
the opportunity the individual believers may have for an informal
association with the members of this supreme institution of their faith.

For the pilgrims, the experience is usually intense. Bahá’ís believe that in
many respects the pilgrimage represents one’s nearest approach in this life
to the World of God. In the words of a highly respected Bahá’í writer, the
former Anglican archdeacon George Townshend: “God has passed by” in
the revelations of the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh. At Haifa and Acre, the believer
is in contact with the most intimate traces of this divine passing, and the
experience brings his or her mind and heart to intensely concentrate on the
fundamental truths of the Bahá’í revelation.

The pilgrimage also provides individuals with an opportunity to further
enrich their social understanding of the global community of which they are
members. To spend nine days in close association with people from many
different cultures is a chance that is available only to a relatively small

number in modern society. To do so in an environment reminiscent of a
shared history of tragedy, sacrifice, and achievement is to intensely
experience the “global family” the revelation of Bahá’u’lláh has brought
into being. In addition, the pilgrimage is often an occasion for Bahá’ís to
undertake travel-teaching projects in other parts of the world, to visit friends
who are pioneering overseas, and to explore firsthand the possibilities of
undertaking such a project themselves.

Along with moral and spiritual training of this kind, Bahá’u’lláh placed
great emphasis on education in the arts and sciences. Bahá’ís are urged not
only to assure the best possible education for their children, but also to take
advantage of educational opportunities in society for their own continuing
development.

Knowledge is as wings to man’s life, and a ladder for his ascent. Its
acquisition is incumbent upon everyone. The knowledge of such
sciences, however, should be acquired as can profit the peoples of the
earth, and not those which begin with words and end with words. Great
indeed is the claim of scientists and craftsmen on the peoples of the
world.261

From its earliest days, the Bahá’í community in Persia took this injunction
very seriously. As a result, after the passage of three or four generations, the
community has reached a point where its members represent an important
percentage of the educated class in present-day Iran, although they number
only about 300,000 in that country.262 In a country where the literacy rate
has hovered under 40 percent, the Bahá’í community has enjoyed a literacy
rate of over 90 percent.

The Iranian example is being followed by Bahá’ís around the world, to
whatever extent local facilities make possible. One of the specific tasks that
recent international teaching plans have assigned to local and national
spiritual assemblies has been the provision of counseling for Bahá’í youth
to assist them in planning their education so as to be of maximum service
not only to their faith, but to humankind.263 Many Bahá’í summer and
winter schools offer programs of this type. They also take advantage of
whatever time qualified speakers can make available to conduct courses
relating to contemporary knowledge in the various disciplines to the
teachings of the Bahá’í writings. The example of mature scholars who have
successfully integrated science and faith in their own intellectual lives no
doubt serves as a strong stimulant to young believers to follow their
example.264

Where public schooling is inadequate or unavailable, local Bahá’í
communities begin educational programs of their own, particularly at the
elementary level. In India, the National Spiritual Assembly operates several
full-time Bahá’í schools offering courses at the primary, secondary, and
technical training levels. Correspondence courses for adults as well as for
children and youth are a major activity in many other national Bahá’í
communities. During the last international Plan thirty-seven different
national spiritual assemblies indicated that they had instituted similar
programs.

An aspect of education that has received marked attention from the earliest
days of Bahá’í history is the aesthetic. Bahá’u’lláh designated art a form of
worship to God, and the physical beauty of Bahá’í shrines, temples, and
gardens is one of the dominant impressions observers carry away from their
contacts with the Faith. Shoghi Effendi emphasized that it will be a matter
of centuries before anything that might be called “Bahá’í art” may be
expected to appear. It is only when a revelation has fully blossomed into a
new civilization that new art forms emerge which may be specifically
identified with it. At the same time, there is no doubt that the work of
contemporary artists who are Bahá’ís have been affected by Bahá’u’lláh’s
appeals for unity, harmony, openness, and optimism. The American Bahá’í

artist Mark Tobey—one of the most renowned painters of the twentieth
century—said of this influence on his work:

This universal Cause of Bahá’u’lláh which brings the fruition of man’s
development, challenges him and attracts him to see the light of this
day as the unity of all life; [it] dislodges him from a great deal of
automatic and environmental inheritance; [it] seeks to create in him a
vision which is absolutely necessary for existence. The teachings of
Bahá’u’lláh are themselves the light with which we can see how to
move forward on the road of evolution.265

Regarding the relationship of art to the future world civilization, Tobey
added:

Of course we talk about international styles today, but I think later on
we’ll talk about universal styles ... the future of the world must be this
realization of its oneness, which is the basic teaching as I understand it
in the Bahá’í Faith, and from that oneness, will naturally develop a
new spirit in art, because that’s what it is. It’s a spirit and it’s not new
words and it’s not new ideas only.266

Bahá’í musicians have been similarly influenced. Indeed, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
devoted a great deal of attention to encouraging the Bahá’í communities to
make good use of those individuals possessing musical talents:

The art of music is divine and effective. It is the food of the soul and
spirit. Through the power and charm of music the spirit of man is
uplifted. It has wonderful sway and effect in the hearts of children, for
their hearts are pure and melodies have great influence in them. The
latent talents with which the hearts of these children are endowed will
find expression through the medium of music. Therefore you must
exert yourselves to make them proficient; teach them to sing with
excellence and effect. It is incumbent upon each child to know
something of music....267

Such, then, are some of the features of the life of the Bahá’í community
which has taken up the legacy of the history, the teachings, and the
administrative institutions bequeathed to it by Bahá’u’lláh. It has been
established in virtually every country and territory on earth; it is
representative of a cross-section of humanity; and it remains devoted to the
mission entrusted to it by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá: “the spiritual conquest of the
planet.” The process of its expansion involves its individual members in
various types of participation, social interaction, and personal development.

This interaction and subsequent spiritual growth produce a sense of “global
family” and provide the community with a new identity distinct from that of
other religious traditions.

Bahá’ís see this community as not merely a collective, but as an organic
whole. The writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and Shoghi Effendi are studded with
the language of biological analogy: “efflorescence,” “evolution,” “germ,”
“seed,” “organic development,” “nucleus,” “generating influence,”
“assimilation.” Bahá’ís are encouraged to see themselves individually as
parts of a living, growing organism whose life systems are the laws,
teachings, and institutions created by Bahá’u’lláh. The Universal House of
Justice has emphasized that the development of the individual’s capacities
and sense of identification with the Bahá’í teachings depends upon his or
her ability to fully participate in the life of the community:

In the human body, every cell, every organ, every nerve has its part to
play. When all do so the body is healthy, vigorous, radiant, ready for
every call made upon it. No cell, however humble, lives apart from the
body, whether in serving it or receiving from it. This is true of the body
of mankind in which God “hast endowed each and all with talents and
faculties,” and is supremely true of the body of the Bahá’í World
Community, for this body is already an organism, united in its

aspirations, unified in its methods, seeking assistance and confirmation
from the same Source, and illumined with the conscious knowledge of
its unity.... The Bahá’í World Community, growing like a healthy new
body, develops new cells, new organs, new functions and powers as it
presses on to its maturity, when every soul, living for the Cause of
God, will receive from that Cause, health, assurance and the
overflowing bounties of Bahá’u’lláh which are diffused through His
divinely ordained order.268

10. On into a New Century


On May 29, 1992, the centenary of Bahá’u’lláh’s passing, the Brazilian
Chamber of Deputies convened in a special two-hour session to pay tribute
to his life and work. The Speaker read a message from the Universal House
of Justice, and spokespersons from all political groups represented in the
Chamber contributed appreciations. For Bahá’ís around the world, the event
provided another encouraging illustration of the extent to which their faith
is gaining recognition as an independent and respected religious voice on
the contemporary scene. What will likely prove to be more important still is
the fact that, in the process, the person of the faith’s founder is steadily
emerging from the obscurity which shrouded the first century of his
influence.

This had always been the case so far as efforts of individual believers to
introduce their religion to friends and inquirers had been concerned. From
the moment of the new faith’s inception, the prophetic claim of Bahá’u’lláh
had been the focus of most personal teaching activity. Bahá’í literature, too,
had concerned itself chiefly with presenting the mission of the faith’s two

founders in the context of the succession of divine revelations that had
prepared the way for them.

A parallel effort, however, had early been undertaken by organized
communities, in the West particularly, to provide a broader public with
more general information. As Bahá’í institutions consolidated themselves
throughout the world during the second half of the twentieth century, the
community’s official discourse had turned increasingly to the task of
demonstrating the applicability of the Bahá’í teachings to the problems
facing humankind: racial conflict, social and economic disparities, the
inequities handicapping women’s role in society, and the consequences of
religious and cultural prejudices.

The most developed expression of this social message appeared in October
1985, when, for the first time in its history, the Universal House of Justice
addressed a statement “to the peoples of the world,” under the title The
Promise of World Peace.269 Given the political circumstances of the
moment in history in which it was issued, its thesis was startlingly
optimistic; in the light of subsequent events on the world scene, it was also
to prove extraordinarily prescient. The establishment of international peace
was declared to be “not only possible but inevitable,” indeed “the next stage
in the evolution of this planet.” The challenge faced by the leaders of

humanity, the statement said, is to free themselves from the crippling view
that aggression and conflict represent behavior “intrinsic to human nature
and therefore ineradicable.” To turn away from this deeply rooted illusion
about human nature and to choose the course of peace “is not to deny
humanity’s past, but to understand it.”270 The statement argued that:

A candid acknowledgement that prejudice, war and exploitation have
been the expression of immature stages in a vast historical process and
that the human race is today experiencing the unavoidable tumult
which marks its collective coming of age is not a reason for despair but
a prerequisite to undertaking the stupendous enterprise of building a
peaceful world. That such an enterprise is possible, that the necessary
constructive forces do exist, that unifying social structures can be
erected, is the theme we urge you to examine.271

The document was distributed in many languages and hundreds of
thousands of copies to government officials and leaders of thought in
diverse fields of human endeavor, a dramatic demonstration of the
worldwide network the faith had developed. During the decade that
followed, the concepts it advanced became major themes in Bahá’í
discussion and public information activity. While explicit in identifying
Bahá’u’lláh as the author of the principles and concepts being advanced and

as the “Founder of the Bahá’í Faith,”272 the document made no attempt to
discuss the nature of either his mission or the divine authority he claims.

Since then, as the tribute paid by the Brazilian Chamber of Deputies
reflects, Bahá’í public discourse has come to focus much more directly on
the figure of Bahá’u’lláh, not only as the religion’s founder but as the author
of a trenchant body of thought on the nature of humankind and the
organization of human society. It is no doubt a sign of the Bahá’í
community’s growing confidence in its audience that its public discussion
of global issues and the teaching efforts of its individual members seem
now to be converging. In commemorating the centenary of Bahá’u’lláh’s
passing, the Bahá’í International Community produced a brief but widely
published introduction to his life and work, which opened with the
following words:

As the new millennium approaches, the crucial need of the human race
is to find a unifying vision of the nature of man and society. . . . For,
without a common conviction about the course and direction of human
history, it is inconceivable that foundations can be laid for a global
society to which the mass of humankind can commit themselves.

Such a vision unfolds in the writings of Bahá’u’lláh, the nineteenth-
century prophetic figure whose growing influence is the most
remarkable development of contemporary religious history.... The
phenomenon is one that has no reference points in the contemporary
world, but is associated rather with climactic changes of direction in
the collective past of the human race. For Bahá’u’lláh claimed to be no
less than the Messenger of God to the age of human maturity.... 273

The term “Holy Year” had been used by Shoghi Effendi in 1953 to
designate the centenary of the inception of Bahá’u’lláh’s mission in the
darkness of the Síyáh-Chál. Now, following this example, the Universal
House of Justice declared the period from April 1992 to April 1993 the
“second Bahá’í Holy Year” to mark both the hundred-year anniversary of
Bahá’u’lláh’s passing on May 29, 1892, and the inauguration of his
covenant in November of the same year. Several thousand believers
nominated from among the many hundreds of ethnic and national
backgrounds represented in the Bahá’í community came together at the
Bahá’í World Centre to pay tribute to the founder of their faith at the first of
these two commemorative events.

Six months later, a “World Congress” attracted to the Javits Center in New
York, “City of the Covenant,”274 the largest and most diverse gathering of

Bahá’ís ever to assemble, for a four-day celebration of the global expansion
which the unifying power of Bahá’u’lláh’s covenant is seen as having made
possible. Broadcasting links to subsidiary conferences in Buenos Aires,
Sydney, New Delhi, Nairobi, Panama City, Bucharest, Moscow, Singapore,
and Western Samoa were provided by a state-of-the-art network of eight
satellites.

An electrifying moment was that when the New York Congress was
addressed from across the globe by the conference of Bahá’ís assembled in
Moscow, who were participating for the first time in an international Bahá’í
event. On the final day, a video satellite link permitted the members of the
Universal House of Justice to speak directly to the gathering in New York
from their institution’s seat on Mount Carmel. In the words of a Canadian
Broadcasting Corporation executive who had helped put the program
together, “It opened up a new world of possibilities for a religion whose
basic principle is oneness.”

*   *   *

A parallel development that same year served further to concentrate
attention on the role of Bahá’u’lláh as the source of authority behind the
faith’s message. Reference has been made to the appearance in 1973 of a

synopsis and codification of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, Bahá’u’lláh’s book of laws,
preliminary work on which had been done by Shoghi Effendi.275 Over the
years that followed, work had slowly progressed on the complex and
demanding task of translating, codifying, and annotating the body of
material that would eventually constitute the published text. The conclusion
of the project, which had been eagerly awaited by the Bahá’í world for
many years, coincided with the events of the Holy Year.

Approximately two-thirds of the book had been translated into English by
the Guardian of the faith and published during his own lifetime, and the
remainder of the task was completed by a committee acting under the
supervision of the House of Justice. More demanding still, however, had
been the translation of supplementary and related texts by Bahá’u’lláh and
of further commentary by him on the original text, written in response to
questions put to him. This entire body of work had then to be “copiously
annotated,” in the words of Shoghi Effendi, with commentary on specific
passages, that derived its authority from explicit statements of ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá  and Shoghi Effendi as the book’s appointed interpreters. The result is
that, although the central document is only sixty-nine pages in its English
translation, the full text of the book, including both supplementary materials
and notes, runs to 251 pages.

It would be impossible to exaggerate the importance to the mission of the
Bahá’í Faith of this book, which Shoghi Effendi termed “the most signal
act” of Bahá’u’lláh’s mission and “the Charter of His New World Order.”276
While reiterating the truths of the great religions of the past, the Kitáb-i-
Aqdas is seen by Bahá’ís as laying the spiritual and moral foundation for
the age of humanity’s collective maturity, providing a system of laws, moral
precepts, and institutions designed to help bring into existence a global
commonwealth ordered by spiritual and moral principle.277

In this central text of his revelation, Bahá’u’lláh reasserts the sovereignty of
God as the sole authority governing moral life. God is the Source of all that
is; through his messengers in all ages he has revealed those laws and
principles that have been essentially responsible for the civilizing of human
nature. The autonomy of the individual is thus conditioned not only by the
limitations of the natural world he or she inhabits, but also by the spiritual
universe that transcends and animates it. Today, the human race is
witnessing the dawn of the age of justice promised in all the revelations of
the past. Through travail and suffering the peoples of the world are being
awakened to the possibilities that their common humanity confers. They are
being prepared to accept both their own oneness and their ultimate
dependence on the justice of a loving and unfailing Creator.

The Kitáb-i-Aqdas is the expression of this divine justice. “The purpose of
justice,” Bahá’u’lláh asserts, “is the appearance of unity among men.”278
Love, mercy, and forgiveness are qualities that must distinguish human
beings in their personal relationships one with another. For these qualities to
flourish as the distinguishing features of civilization, however, each
member of society and each component group must be able to trust that
they are protected by standards that apply equally to all. The concepts, laws,
and principles enunciated in the Kitáb-i-Aqdas are intended to provide the
spiritual bedrock of this assurance for the collective life of humankind.

In the introduction to the published text, the Universal House of Justice
explains:

As to the laws themselves, a careful scrutiny discloses that they govern
three areas: the individual’s relationship to God, physical and spiritual
matters which benefit the individual directly, and relations among
individuals and between the individual and society. They can be
grouped under the following headings: prayer and fasting; laws of
personal status governing marriage, divorce and inheritance; a range of
other laws, ordinances and prohibitions, as well as exhortations; and
the abrogation of specific laws and ordinances of previous
Dispensations.279

The introduction also provides an interesting word of explanation about the
style of language in which the Kitáb-i-Aqdas has been rendered into
English:

Bahá’u’lláh enjoyed a superb mastery of Arabic, and preferred to use it
in those Tablets and other Writings where its precision of meaning was
particularly appropriate to the exposition of basic principle. Beyond the
choice of language itself, however, the style employed is of an exalted
and emotive character, immensely compelling, particularly to those
familiar with the great literary tradition out of which it arose. In taking
up his task of translation, Shoghi Effendi faced the challenge of finding
an English style which would not only faithfully convey the exactness
of the text’s meaning, but would also evoke in the reader the spirit of
meditative reverence which is a distinguishing feature of response to
the original. The form of expression he selected, reminiscent of the
style used by the seventeenth century translators of the Bible, captures
the elevated mode of Bahá’u’lláh’s Arabic, while remaining accessible
to the contemporary reader.280

A discussion of the subject lies beyond the scope of this brief survey. It is
important to note, however, that only a relatively small part of the moral

and spiritual laws contained have so far been applied to the life of the
present-day Bahá’í community. Reference has already been made to the fact
that Bahá’u’lláh emphasized that the same progressive principle which has
governed the series of divine revelations throughout history guides also the
gradual application to the life of humankind of the requirements of the
revelation he has brought, comparing the process to the advent of spring.281
As those who recognize the new divine messenger begin putting into
practice the laws and principles he teaches, they develop the capacity to
understand and exemplify still other dimensions of the will of God. In the
case of the revelation of Bahá’u’lláh, as the House of Justice has
emphasized in the “Synopsis and Codification,” many of the laws of the
Kitáb-i-Aqdas are intended for a society which will emerge from the age of
turmoil and suffering through which the human race is now passing.

For Bahá’ís, the long-awaited appearance of “The Most Holy Book”
signaled a new stage in the evolution of Bahá’u’lláh’s mission, a stage in
which the concept of the messenger of God as lawgiver will assume
increasing importance in Bahá’í experience. Coming as it did at the moment
when the entire community was commemorating both the passing of the
founder of their faith and the inauguration of his covenant, the publication
of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas gave added impetus to the decision to direct attention
more explicitly to the one who is both the source of Bahá’í belief and the

reason for the deep sense of confidence in the future which characterizes the
faith’s adherents.

*   *   *

By the time the centenary took place, too, Bahá’ís throughout the world
were becoming aware of another important dimension of the spiritual
authority embodied in the cause to which they were committed. This was
the extension to all Bahá’í communities282 of the operation of the “Right of
God” (Ḥuqúqu’lláh), a form of monetary payment by all Bahá’ís to the
central authority of their faith and a strikingly imaginative means for the
achievement of Bahá’u’lláh’s mission at the global level. As was earlier
noted, the principle central to the financing of the work of Bahá’í
communities is voluntary participation.283 Each individual must decide in
the privacy of his or her conscience on contributions to be made to the
various Bahá’í funds. The apparatus of fund-raising which has become all
too familiar a feature of religious life in many lands is entirely forbidden in
the Bahá’í scriptures themselves. Solicitations or other forms of direct or
indirect pressure are excluded by the Bahá’í writings, nor can contributions
be received from persons who are not registered members of the Bahá’í
community.

Despite these scriptural constraints, the approach has proved highly
successful in meeting the needs of Bahá’í communities at national and local
levels. Similar contributions are made by Bahá’ís the world over to the
international funds of the faith. In an age which, he said, will witness the
working out of the inequities and divisions that have fractured the human
race, however, Bahá’u’lláh was at pains to ensure that the international
governing authority of his religion would have directly available to it the
material means needed to pursue the global tasks he had set for it, free of
dependence on national or local channels. It is this need that the Right of
God addresses.

It does this by supplementing the spiritual links that connect the individual
believer to the faith’s central authority, with an explicitly material one.
Drawing attention to Bahá’u’lláh’s analogy between the “body of
humanity” and the body of the individual human being, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
explains,

In surveying the vast range of creation thou shalt perceive that the
higher a kingdom of created things is on the arc of ascent, the more
conspicuous are the signs and evidences of the truth that co-operation
and reciprocity at the level of a higher order are greater than those that
exist at the level of a lower order....

. . . The more this interrelationship is strengthened and expanded, the
more will human society advance in progress and prosperity. Indeed
without these vital ties it would be wholly impossible for the world of
humanity to attain true felicity and success.

Now consider, if among the people who are merely the manifestations
of the world of being this significant matter is of such importance, how
much greater must be the spirit of co-operation and mutual assistance
among those [who have recognized the Revelation of God].... Thus
there can be no doubt that they must be willing even to offer up their
lives for each other.

This is the basic principle on which the institution of Ḥuqúqu’lláh is
established, inasmuch as its proceeds are dedicated to the furtherance
of these ends. 284

Today, the proceeds of the Right of God represent a major part of the
revenues financing the work of the Universal House of Justice and the
Bahá’í World Centre. They are expended, on the one hand, for the
promotion of Bahá’u’lláh’s teachings and the development of the faith’s

international institutions and, on the other, for the financing of an ever-
expanding program of development projects around the world.

As the name implies, the Right of God is not a contribution or donation.
Rather, for Bahá’ís, it represents a claim which God makes on everyone
who believes in his revelation, for the support of work that serves the
interests of the entire human race. It is tied not to income, but to
accumulated capital, and its operation will ensure a gradual equalizing of
the benefits of the possession of material wealth between Bahá’í activities
in richer parts of the world and those conducted in regions less
economically developed. Essentially, it calls on each believer to return to
God nineteen percent of whatever capital he or she has accumulated, after
all living expenses have been met and all debts settled. Such assets as the
residence, furnishings, and personal possessions of an individual or family
are not included in the calculation of capital wealth, and the determination
of the amount, the timing of the payment, and related issues are left to the
private conscience of the individual.

Even with respect to the obligation itself, as in other financial affairs of the
faith, Bahá’u’lláh forbade any form of solicitation by Bahá’í institutions;
nor does one individual become aware of what another has done. The law is
a summons to personal maturity and to identification of oneself with

humankind. “The Right of God is an obligation upon everyone,”
Bahá’u’lláh states, “however, it is not permissible to solicit or demand it. If
one is privileged to pay the Ḥuqúq, and doeth so in a spirit of joy and
radiance, such an act is acceptable, and not otherwise.” Further, “payment
of the Right of God is conditional upon one’s financial ability. If a person is
unable to meet his obligation, God will verily excuse him. He is the All-
Forgiving, the All-Generous.” By participating in this unique institution, an
individual believer, in the words of the founder of the faith, “purifies”
whatever wealth his or her personal circumstances have made possible and
contributes directly to the immense enterprise that Bahá’u’lláh has set as his
faith’s goal, the transformation of both the spiritual and the material life of
the planet.285

At this early stage in its operation, when the institution is just beginning to
become a familiar feature of the personal life of most Bahá’ís, it is likely
experienced chiefly as a spiritual principle disciplining personal attitudes to
the use of wealth. The long range implications, however, are breathtaking.
Shoghi Effendi envisioned the day when the trustees of the institution,
operating under the guidance of the Universal House of Justice, will
administer a complex of development agencies and investment funds which
will give practical effect to the principles of justice that lie at the heart of
Bahá’u’lláh’s mission. By making possible the direct participation of every

Bahá’í on earth—over and above any impulses of charity as well as any
national and cultural constraints—a process has been set in motion that
represents an entirely new approach to serving international development
needs.

*   *   *


The Holy Year satellite broadcast that had linked the World Congress with
simultaneous conferences in Bucharest and Moscow underlined the
importance of another development in the closing decade of the twentieth
century, a development which few Bahá’ís had expected to see in their
lifetimes. This was the dramatic restoration and efflorescence of Bahá’í
communities throughout Russia, central Asia, and eastern Europe which
had followed on the heels of the collapse of the Soviet Bloc. Prior to World
War II, through the energetic teaching efforts of Western Bahá’í travelers,
small communities of believers had been established in most of the eastern
European countries. Tattered remnants of these had survived both Nazi
occupation and Soviet repression. Indeed, in the years before the war, one
of the most distinguished and articulate voices in promoting Bahá’u’lláh’s
vision on the international scene had been Queen Marie of Romania.
Converted to the faith in the 1920s by the efforts of the indefatigable

American itinerant teacher Martha Root,286 Queen Marie had taken the
unusual step of arranging for her testimonies to the power of the Bahá’í
revelation to be published in newspapers in several parts of the world. One
such statement in 1926 read:

It is a wondrous Message that Bahá’u’lláh and his son ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
have given us.... It is Christ’s Message taken up anew, in the same
words almost, but adapted to the thousand years and more difference
that lies between the year one and today. . . .

I commend it to you all. If ever the name of Bahá’u’lláh or ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá comes to your attention, do not put their writings from you.287

No other country apart from Persia itself, however, had enjoyed so intimate
an association with the early history of the Bahá’í Faith, and indeed with the
person of its founder, as had Russia. Particularly outspoken among the
diplomatic representatives of several Western governments who in 1850
protested to Ṇáṣiri’d-Dín Sháh against the barbaric treatment of innocent
Bábí victims was Prince Dmitri Dolgorukov, ambassador of the Russian
imperial government. Dolgorukov, indeed, was credited by Bahá’u’lláh
with direct intervention on his own behalf when he lay facing death in the
Síyáh-Chál. Writing years later to Tsar Alexander II, the author of the

Bahá’í revelation called to memory this humanitarian act, assuring the
monarch that it would come to be seen as a spiritual treasure for the nation
and people in whose name it had been undertaken.

As already noted,288 Russian scholars had been among the earliest to
interest themselves in the Bábí and Bahá’í Faiths, their published works
contributing in no small way to attracting serious attention to the events
taking place in Persia. Proximity to the cradle of the Bahá’í Faith in Persia
had also assisted the early establishment in southern Russia of local Bahá’í
communities. In 1902, with the encouragement of the Russian government
and in the presence of the provincial governor, the first Bahá’í temple ever
erected was dedicated to worship in the city of ‘Ishqábád, in Ádhirbayján.
Russian Bahá’ís take justifiable pride, too, in the fact that their country was
the first to intervene directly to protect the civil rights of members of the
faith living under its jurisdiction. When Muslim fanatics murdered a
prominent Bahá’í in ‘Ishqábád, Russian authorities suppressed the attack
and a civil court condemned the murderers to death, a sentence that was
commuted to imprisonment only on the appeal of the local Bahá’í
community.289

With the collapse of Soviet rule, under which the faith’s activities had been
severely repressed,290 local Bahá’í assemblies proliferated throughout

Russia and the neighboring republics, consolidation of these reanimated
communities eventually adding some twenty new national assemblies in
this region of the globe. Hand of the Cause of God ‘Alí-Akbar Furútan, who
was born and grew up in Russia, had the satisfaction, at the advanced age of
eighty-six, of returning to Moscow for the election of Russia’s first national
spiritual assembly in April 1991. Today, Bahá’í literature is available in
most languages of the region, and Bahá’í institutions are engaged in an
energetic pursuit of the same forms of civil recognition that their
counterparts elsewhere have successfully achieved.

*   *   *


The last decade of the twentieth century tended to throw into sharp relief
the relevance of Bahá’u’lláh’s diagnosis of the ills of humankind and his
prescription for the healing of those ills. At a series of international
conferences organized by the United Nations, several of which were
designated “summits” because they were attended by heads of state,
national governments were urged to address crucial issues facing
humankind. These included the needs of the world’s children, the
environmental crisis, human rights, population issues, sustainable
development, the advancement of women, and the problem of human

settlements. The media gave the series wide attention, and several thousand
non-governmental organizations also took part. The Bahá’í International
Community was heavily involved in the majority of the events.

The willingness of the world’s decision-makers to focus attention on
precisely those themes that lay at the heart of Bahá’u’lláh’s message gave
the series of conferences a significance for Bahá’ís beyond the immediate
results. In effect, however feeble the international will to change and
however insubstantial some of the resolutions, the United Nations system
had determined—just one century after Bahá’u’lláh’s passing—that the
themes of his message do indeed represent the paramount realities facing
humanity. Many of the writings in which Bahá’u’lláh had laid out these
concepts had originally been addressed to such of his nineteenth-century
contemporaries as Queen Victoria, the German Kaiser, and the tsar of
Russia—whose world now seemed as remote as that of Agamemnon or
Mithridates.

By the time the series of meetings terminated in 1996, it had become
apparent to the faith’s leadership that a new initiative was called for to
explore more systematically the implications of Bahá’u’lláh’s teachings for
issues of social transformation, as well as to interpret the findings in the
language of contemporary international discourse. Accordingly, toward the

end of that year, the Universal House of Justice gave approval to a proposal
for the creation of a new Bahá’í International Community agency, the
“Institute for Studies in Global Prosperity.” Designed to provide a platform
for exchanges between Bahá’í scholars and specialists, on the one hand, and
their counterparts in a wide range of non-governmental organizations and
academic bodies, on the other, the new Institute took its cue from The
Prosperity of Humankind, a document that had been prepared by the Bahá’í
International Community in 1995 for the United Nations conference series.
Because the document spells out so explicitly the Bahá’í prescription for the
international community’s efforts to address the crisis confronting humanity
at century’s end, its contents merit particular attention.291

The statement notes in opening that, with the physical unification of the
planet in this century, “the history of humanity as one people is now
beginning.” This fact calls for “a searching reexamination of the attitudes
and assumptions that currently underlie approaches to social and economic
development.”292 Such reconsideration must begin, it is argued, with the
abandonment of two erroneous assumptions crippling all efforts to devise a
realistic development strategy, however well intentioned, however
generously funded. The first is faith in the ideology of dogmatic
materialism which the statement sees as having essentially disempowered
the vast majority of the earth’s peoples. The second is the related belief that

the generality of humankind cannot learn to assume the responsibility for
their collective future, but must resign such decision making to the hands of
elite groups committed to precisely the world view that has led humanity to
the brink of disaster. The statement is uncompromising in discussing both
issues. Of the prevailing doctrines of materialism, it says:

As the twentieth century draws to a close, it is no longer possible to
maintain the belief that the approach to social and economic
development to which the materialistic conception of life has given rise
is capable of meeting humanity’s needs. Optimistic forecasts about the
changes it would generate have vanished into the ever-widening abyss
that separates the living standards of a small and relatively diminishing
minority of the world’s inhabitants from the poverty experienced by
the vast majority of the globe’s population.293

With respect to the largely unstated assumption that the masses of humanity
should be viewed as essentially recipients of benefits from aid and training
originating from outside their world, rather than as conscious protagonists
in the struggle for global development, the statement points out:

Such an attitude misses the significance of what is likely the most
important social phenomenon of our time. If it is true that the

governments of the world are striving through the medium of the
United Nations system to construct a new global order, it is equally
true that the peoples of the world are galvanized by this same vision.
Their response has taken the form of a sudden efflorescence of
countless movements and organizations of social change at local,
regional, and international levels....

This response of the world’s people themselves to the crying needs of
the age echoes the call that Bahá’u’lláh raised over a hundred years
ago: “Be anxiously concerned with the needs of the age ye live in, and
center your deliberations on its exigencies and requirements.” The
transformation in the way that great numbers of ordinary people are
coming to see themselves—a change that is dramatically abrupt in the
perspective of the history of civilization—raises fundamental questions
about the role assigned to the general body of humanity in the planning
of our planet’s future.294

The Prosperity of Humankind will no doubt be seen in time as the spearhead
of a series of studies through which the Bahá’í community strives to apply
Bahá’u’lláh’s prescriptions ever more directly to the issues facing human
society. Various of its theses suggest the course that this endeavor may
follow. Urging, for example, that intellectual capacity must and can be

raised to levels far beyond anything the human race has so far attained, the
statement devotes particular attention to the role of knowledge, adding that
development strategy must take as a major goal the task of making it
possible for people of all cultures and nations “to approach on an equal
basis the processes of science and technology which are their common
birthright.” In view of the contempt in which spiritual truth of any kind is
held by many in the forefront of formulating development strategy, the
statement asks: “How much weight can be placed on a professed devotion
to the principle of universal participation that denies the validity of the
participants’ defining cultural experience?”295

With respect to economic issues, the statement sees a cause-effect
relationship between the emancipation of women and solutions to the
deepening economic crisis. It calls not merely for equality of access for
both sexes to employment, the ownership of wealth, and education, but for
“a fundamental rethinking of economic issues” that will draw on a far
deeper understanding of human relationships than that which currently
informs economic discourse. The approach needed, it says, is one that is
“strongly altruistic rather than self-centered in focus,” one in which
“millennia of experience have prepared women to make crucial
contributions.”296

*   *   *


Throughout history, great architecture has played a vital role in mobilizing
the social energy and commitment required for the accomplishment of
ambitious public goals. From civilization’s earliest stages, human societies
have felt it important to erect imposing edifices designed to exemplify the
ideals animating them as well as to serve as seats of the authority thus
projected. This has been particularly true of civil government, but the
phenomenon has in no way been limited to the political realm. This
perspective offers an insight into the importance that the founders of the
Bahá’í Faith have, from the outset of Bahá’u’lláh’s arrival in the Holy Land,
attached to the development of the religion’s World Centre. Envisioning the
emergence of institutions that would play a vital role in the process of the
unification of humankind, Bahá’u’lláh spoke in exalted terms of Mount
Carmel, which he termed “the Mountain of God,” addressing it in words
now familiar to Bahá’ís throughout the world:

“Render thanks unto thy Lord, O Carmel. ... Rejoice, for God hath in this
Day established upon thee His throne, hath made thee the dawning-place of
His signs and the day spring of the evidences of His Revelation....

“... Verily this is the Day in which both land and sea rejoice at this
announcement, the Day for which have been laid up those things which
God, through a bounty beyond the ken of mortal mind or heart, hath
destined for revelation. Ere long will God sail His Ark upon thee, and
will manifest the people of Bahá who have been mentioned in the
Book of Names.”297

The Bahá’í Faith enjoys an important advantage among the world’s
independent religions in that its spiritual and administrative centers are
located in the same spot on earth, the extensive properties bordering the
Bay of Haifa in the Holy Land and dominated by the Carmel heights rising
over the southern shore. Their focal point is the shrine at Bahjí, just outside
the ancient city of Acre, where the mortal remains of Bahá’u’lláh were laid
to rest in 1892. Title to locations associated with the founder’s life and
ministry has been painstakingly acquired by the Bahá’í community over the
years, and a program of meticulous historical restoration has further
enriched the experience of the thousands of Bahá’í pilgrims who are drawn
each year to the World Centre of their faith.

Across the bay and spreading over the slopes of Mount Carmel, there has
unfolded a breathtaking complex of monumental buildings, broad terraces,
running streams, fountains and luxuriant gardens which annually attracts

hundreds of thousands of visitors from all parts of the world. The buildings,
classical Greek in design,298 clad in gleaming marble and enhanced by
soaring corinthian pillars, house the Universal House of Justice and the
Bahá’í community’s other central administrative institutions.

Dominating the complex is the golden-domed shrine of Bahá’u’lláh’s
forerunner, the Báb, set in its own gardens and facing across the bay to
Acre.299 Referring to the ancient adage that the blood of martyrs is “the
seed of faith,” Shoghi Effendi has written that, in this day, the blood of the
Bábí martyrs is the seed not only of the faith of individual believers but of
the institutions of a new social order. Not surprisingly, therefore, the sites of
the international governing institutions of Bahá’u’lláh’s system have been
oriented on the last resting-place of the figure whom Bahá’ís regard as their
faith’s supreme martyr. The Báb’s remains had been rescued by his
followers immediately after his execution and brought with infinite risk and
difficulty from Persia to the Holy Land. On one of the several visits which
Bahá’u’lláh made to Mount Carmel in the closing two years of his life, he
himself chose the site for the tomb of his illustrious predecessor, and it was
‘Abdu’l-Bahá  who, a few years later, erected the simple stone structure that
still serves as an inner shrine.

Because Shoghi Effendi insisted on the principle that Bahá’í construction
programs should proceed only as the necessary funds are accumulated, the
process of building not only the Báb’s shrine, but the structures designed for
the administrative institutions of the faith proceeded painfully slowly, over
a period of several decades. The international archives had been built during
Shoghi Effendi’s lifetime, in 1957, and the seat of the Universal House of
Justice in 1983. By 1987, the Universal House of Justice concluded that the
way was open for the erection of the remaining edifices in the
administrative complex. At the same time, it approved a parallel project for
the construction of sweeping flights of stone and marble staircases
envisioned by Shoghi Effendi, ascending through nine garden terraces from
the foot of the mountain to the precincts of the shrine of the Báb, and, from
there, rising on through an additional nine terraces to the summit of the
mountain. This vast undertaking was completed at the century’s end, and a
series of celebratory inaugural events in 2001 marked this achievement.

Simultaneously with the completion of the construction work on Mount
Carmel the community has pressed forward with its ambitious teaching
activities and with a worldwide program of social and economic
development projects. The effort called for great financial sacrifice from a
still small community, the majority of whose members live in economically
underdeveloped lands. That this outpouring was readily elicited is a telling

demonstration of the understanding which the rank and file of believers
everywhere have of the significance of what was accomplished. For the
contemporary observer with a historical consciousness, the parallel with the
similarly motivated collective undertakings that raised the great cathedrals,
mosques, and temples of earlier eras is immensely compelling.

‘Abdu’l-Bahá confidently anticipated the day when the character of even
the surrounding region would undergo transformation. The twin cities of
Haifa and Acre, then situated at the two outer ends of the bay, would, he
said, merge in a single metropolis and would attract the establishment of
international institutions dedicated to the betterment of humankind.
Speaking of the majestic stairway destined to rise up the slopes of Mt.
Carmel, Shoghi Effendi spoke in equally visionary terms of the moral
influence that the faith’s World Centre would progressively exercise in the
conduct of international affairs. The day will come, he said, when world
leaders will reverently ascend the terraces leading to the shrine of the Báb
and lay the symbols of their power at its threshold.300

Today, Acre and Haifa have, as ‘Abdu’l-Bahá foresaw, merged into one
unbroken urban complex and appear at night, from the Mediterranean, as a
single carpet of light encircling the bay. Small contingents of heads of
government and other figures influential in human affairs have already

begun to make their way to Haifa for consultations with the governing
institution of a religious community which is demonstrating persuasively
the unifying potentialities inherent in Bahá’u’lláh’s message. Whatever the
immediate future holds, there is nothing in the vision of the founders of the
Bahá’í Faith that today seems any more improbable than what has already
been achieved. No observer of the historic moment when Bahá’u’lláh set
foot in the then remote Turkish penal colony of Acre over a hundred and
thirty years ago could have conceived the worldwide developments that
were to be inspired by the words of a despised exile condemned to
perpetual imprisonment and helpless to relieve even the thirst and hunger of
the members of his own family. It would be a bold observer who would
venture at this stage to dismiss the possibility that the enterprise thus begun
will eventually accomplish all of the other objectives which its founder has
set for it.

*   *   *


The global breakdown which Bahá’u’lláh foresaw has kept pace with the
progress of the undertaking he launched. In the face of what has already
occurred, it would seem rash, too, to discount his warnings about the course
that world events will follow in the years ahead. Suffering and social chaos

on a scale as yet inconceivable to humanity will, he said, finally bring the
peoples of the world to abandon inherited prejudices and hostilities out of a
common concern for simple survival. Speaking of the consolidation of the
“Lesser Peace,” he foresaw the time coming when all national governments
will find themselves forced by circumstances beyond their control to
surrender a substantial measure of state sovereignty to the process of
collective security. Should any government then take up arms against
another, it would be the obligation and right of the international community
not only to counter the aggression but to remove from power those
responsible for it. In the words of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá:

They [i.e., the heads of national governments] must conclude a binding
treaty and establish a covenant, the provisions of which shall be sound,
inviolable and definite. They must proclaim it to all the world and
obtain for it the sanction of all the human race. ….The fundamental
principle underlying this solemn Pact should be so fixed that if any
government later violate anyone of its provisions, all the governments
on earth should arise to reduce it to utter submission, nay the human
race as a whole should resolve, with every power at its disposal, to
destroy that government.301

The foundations of the Lesser Peace will have clearly emerged as a feature
of humanity’s collective life, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá said, by the end of this
century.302 If this does indeed prove to be the case, historians of the future
may well trace the inception of the process to the establishment of the
United Nations, whose Security Council was granted the vital peace-
keeping powers stubbornly denied to the abortive League of Nations. As the
century progressed, these powers were tentatively tested in various of the
world’s trouble spots; as it draws to a close, they have begun to express
themselves in the form of armed intervention against particularly blatant
instances of aggression. However uncertain some of the initiatives and
however unsatisfying some of the results, a historic corner in the relations
of national states to one another has already clearly been turned.303

Even this breakthrough, however, falls far short of the binding and
unconditioned global pact envisioned by Bahá’u’lláh and which, he said,
only a profound change in human consciousness will make possible. For
anyone familiar with the historical events which followed explicit warnings
delivered by him to individual nineteenth-century monarchs,304
Bahá’u’lláh’s description of world conditions that will drive humanity
across this threshold in the opening years of the next century, make sober
reading:

“The promised day is come, the day when tormenting trials will have
surged above your heads, and beneath your feet, saying ‘Taste ye what
your hands have wrought!”‘305

The civilization, so often vaunted by the learned exponents of arts and
sciences, will, if allowed to overleap the bounds of moderation, bring
great evil upon men.... Meditate on this, O people, and be not of them
that wander distraught in the wilderness of error. The day is
approaching when its flame will devour the cities, when the Tongue of
Grandeur will proclaim: “The Kingdom is God’s, the Almighty, the
All-Praised!”306

Equally emphatic, however, is Bahá’u’lláh’s assurance that humanity will
emerge from this greatest testing experience of its collective life, purged of
anachronistic habits and attitudes and welded into a single people,
committed to the arduous task of constructing a global commonwealth:

He Who is your Lord, the All-Merciful, cherisheth in His heart the desire
of beholding the entire human race as one soul and one body. Haste ye to
win your share of God’s good grace and mercy in this Day that eclipseth
all other created Days. How great the felicity that awaiteth the man that

forsaketh all he hath in a desire to obtain the things of God! Such a man,
We testify, is among God’s blessed ones.307

This is the Day in which God’s most excellent favors have been poured
out upon men, the Day in which His most mighty grace hath been
infused into all created things….

…. Soon will the present-day order be rolled up, and a new one spread
out in its stead. Verily, thy Lord speaketh the truth, and is the Knower
of things unseen.308

*   *   *


Ultimately, as with all the revelations of the divine throughout history,
Bahá’u’lláh’s message addresses itself to the individual heart and mind. In
its own words: “This is the changeless faith of God, eternal in the past,
eternal in the future.”309 It calls the individual to a more mature relationship
with his or her Creator, a relationship appropriate to a human race which
has entered on its collective coming-of-age. All of the spiritual issues with
which human consciousness struggles—the purpose of life, the discovery of

self, the development of one’s capacities—are recast in this new
perspective:

... O my brother, when a true seeker determineth to take the step of
search in the path leading to the knowledge of the Ancient of Days, he
must, before all else, cleanse and purify his heart, which is the seat of
the revelation of the inner mysteries of God, from the obscuring dust of
all acquired knowledge, and the allusions of the embodiments of
satanic fancy. He must purge his breast, which is the sanctuary of the
abiding love of the Beloved, of every defilement, and sanctify his soul
from all that pertaineth to water and clay, from all shadowy and
ephemeral attachments....

Only when the lamp of search, of earnest striving, of longing desire, of
passionate devotion, of fervid love, of rapture, and ecstasy, is kindled
within the seeker’s heart, and the breeze of His loving kindness is
wafted upon his soul, will the darkness of error be dispelled, the mists
of doubts and misgivings be dissipated, and the lights of knowledge
and certitude envelop his being. At that hour will the mystic Herald,
bearing the joyful tidings of the Spirit, shine forth from the City of God
resplendent as the morn, and, through the trumpet-blast of knowledge,

will awaken the heart, the soul, and the spirit from the slumber of
negligence....

. .. That city is none other than the Word of God revealed in every age
and dispensation.310

Epilogue:
The Challenges of Success


In the introduction, we noted an opinion tentatively advanced by Edward
Granville Browne, one of the first Western scholars to encounter the Bahá’í
Faith in Persia in the nineteenth century. Browne expressed his belief that
the young faith probably represented the beginnings of a new world
religion. It appeared to him to offer a unique opportunity for scholars to
examine in detail just how a new religion comes into being.311 As a result
of his initial investigations, Browne devoted much of his time over the next
three decades to a careful study of Bahá’í origins; he produced several
critical commentaries and published some English translations of major
pieces of Bábí and Bahá’í literature.

These efforts were not universally appreciated by Browne’s contemporaries.
Although his work attracted the sympathetic support of some of his
colleagues, others felt that he was giving disproportionate attention to what
they saw as merely a reform movement within the Islamic religion.312 In the

influential scholarly journal The Oxford Magazine, one reviewer went so far
as to denounce Browne’s Bahá’í studies as an “absurd violation of historical
perspective.”313

The history of the hundred years since Browne took up his study of the
Bahá’í Faith has vindicated his initial judgment. Slowly but certainly, a new
and independent religious system has taken shape and become established
in virtually every part of the world, a system distinct from the Islamic
milieu from which it emerged. It is no longer surprising to find modern
authorities on comparative religion, such as historian Arnold Toynbee,
including the Bahá’í Faith with Islam and Christianity as one of the world’s
independent religions.314 The same opinion has been expressed, although in
a rather different spirit, by official spokesmen for Islamic institutions. As
early as 1924, a Sunni Appellate Court sitting in Beba, Egypt, concluded in
a test case submitted to it for judgment, that: “The Bahá’í Faith is a new
religion, entirely independent [of Islam].... No Bahá’í, therefore, can be
regarded as a Muslim or vice versa, even as no Buddhist, Brahmin, or
Christian can be regarded a Muslim.”315

Bahá’ís believe that this new independent faith has the capacity to unite the
peoples of the world and will, in the distant future, make possible the birth
of a global civilization. It will do so, they emphasize, as their community is

able to respond to the tests created by its own success. The question of tests,
in the Bahá’í meaning of the term, needs special comment.

Tests, Bahá’u’lláh taught, are essential to human growth. If we are not
tested, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá said, the capacities latent within us, and which are our
eternal endowment, will never develop:

Were it not for tests, genuine gold could not be distinguished from the
counterfeit. Were it not for tests, the courageous could not be known
from the coward.... Were it not for tests, the intellects and faculties of
the scholars in the great colleges could not be developed.316

This concept applies also to the development of the Bahá’í community
itself. Shoghi Effendi wrote:

Indeed, the history of the first hundred years of its evolution resolves
itself into a series of internal and external crises, of varying severity,
devastating in their immediate effects, but each mysteriously releasing
a corresponding measure of divine power, lending thereby a fresh
impulse to its unfoldment, this further unfoldment engendering in its
turn a still graver calamity, followed by a still more liberal effusion of

celestial grace enabling its upholders to accelerate still further its
march and win in its service still more compelling victories.317

It will be helpful, therefore, to consider the new kinds of tests the Bahá’í
Faith is now beginning to encounter as an established religion with growing
recognition. The principal challenges facing the Bahá’í community include
(1) maintaining a unified community; (2) achieving universal participation;
(3) coping with increasing opposition; and (4) establishing a Bahá’í way of
life as a model that will serve the emergence of world civilization.

The single most important endowment of the Bahá’í Faith is its unity. One
of the primary goals of the Bahá’í community is to help bring about the
unification of the human race. In the eyes of a highly skeptical age,
therefore, the faith’s most interesting credential is the fact that it has passed
safely through the first critical century of its history with the unity of its
community firmly intact (i.e., it has not divided into sects).318 Alone, this
achievement distinguishes it among the religions of the world, as there is no
other significant religious movement of which the same can be said. Time
and again, in all forms of religious association, the process of schism has
taken hold in the early, most vulnerable stages, and the originating impulse
has had to continue its work through the efforts of often contending sects
and denominations.

For earlier world religions, the problem was somewhat less critical. Other
concerns had first claim on the energy and attention of the believers. In the
case of the Bahá’í Faith, however, unity is the hallmark of its claim to
divine origins. Bahá’u’lláh condemned in the strongest terms any attempt to
introduce the virus of party or factionalism into the community.319 There
are no sects or denominations in the Bahá’í Faith, whether “liberal,”
“orthodox,” or “reformed.” Diversity of view is seen as a function of the
individuality of consciousness. It is inhibited, not encouraged, by
factionalism. Thus, throughout the world, Bahá’ís are members of a single,
organically unified community.

‘Abdu’l-Bahá made it clear that he was not speaking here of differences of
opinion or failures in personal behavior, but rather of deliberate efforts to
create a schism by denying the authority established in the Bahá’í writings.
He termed one who does this a “covenant-breaker” and asserted that such a
person could no longer claim to be a Bahá’í or to have any connection with
the Bahá’í community.

What will happen now that the faith has begun very rapidly to expand its
membership around the world, among cultures and peoples radically
different from one another? Will it be able to maintain the same degree of

unity when some regional communities are decades ahead of others in the
integration of some of the faith’s teachings into their social structure, while
remaining decades behind others in terms of available resources and
administrative sophistication? Today we live in an era of bitterly intense
political pressures. Will the Bahá’í communities in countries currently
being torn apart by ethnic and cultural rivalries be able to continue to
expand their membership by attracting people from these numerous
contending backgrounds? The authority of the Universal House of Justice is
vital to the faith’s unity. Will it be able to maintain Bahá’í discipline in a
highly diversified and rapidly growing religious community during a time
of such widespread social break-down? For that matter, will the Bahá’í
community be able to maintain unity of belief by focusing on the
interpretations of the teachings of Bahá’u’lláh which have been provided by
the central figures of the Bahá’í revelation, including the Guardian, Shoghi
Effendi? 320

In one respect, the Bahá’í community is obviously far better equipped to
meet these challenges today than was ever the case in the past. No one with
a reasonably good understanding of the Bahá’í teachings and history could
plead confusion regarding the position of the Universal House of Justice as
the sole legislative authority for the community. The documentation is
complete and has been widely published; the entire body of believers

participates in the election of this institution along the lines laid down by
Bahá’u’lláh; and the Universal House of Justice itself has guided the
development of the global community through successive global teaching
plans in which all of the other agencies of the community have carried out
the roles assigned to them by the House of Justice.

Any vulnerability the faith may have at this point in its history is related
rather to the Bahá’í community’s rapid expansion and to the uncertain
world situation. In recent years, scores of thousands of new believers have
joined the faith annually, and this continuous increase in membership now
seems to be further accelerating. This is particularly true in the Third World.
Large sections of the global community consist of new members who have
come into the faith because of an “intuitive” recognition of Bahá’u’lláh as
the Messenger of God and because of the attraction exerted by the spirit and
the practical example of Bahá’í unity.

Many of these new believers are illiterate, and consequently the
consolidation of the growing community depends heavily on a network of
travel and communications which becomes daily more disrupted through
uncontrollable world events. Both ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and Shoghi Effendi
predicted that a time would come when, owing to the effects of a general
social disruption and eventual complete breakdown, communications with

the World Centre of the faith would be temporarily interrupted (as, indeed,
they were during World War I and World War II), from time to time and
perhaps over significant periods of time. Will the infant Bahá’í
administration be able to maintain the present unity of belief and action
during such periods?

The Bahá’ís are confident that it will. For them, the Covenant of
Bahá’u’lláh holds an absolute assurance that God will continue to preserve
the unity of his community as he has done through the vicissitudes of the
past years. Certainly, the agencies of the faith possess the scriptural
authority required to revoke the membership of any individual or group of
individuals who, after counseling and warning, attempt to create a schism.
Nevertheless, one thing is evident: the Bahá’í community is now moving
into a stage in its development where its painstakingly preserved unity will
be further subjected to powerful stresses.

A second challenge facing the community today is to secure the
participation of the mass of its members in the work of the faith. At first
glance, the issue hardly seems one which should preoccupy the members of
this faith. The Bahá’í community is a lay organization (i.e., without a
clergy); one of its distinguishing characteristics is the extent to which its

members, from the highly placed to the most humble, are already involved
in the conduct of its affairs.

This feature is not, however, merely a gratifying adjunct to its life. It is
essential to its survival and growth. The raison d’être of the Bahá’í Faith is
to build a new kind of society that can become the model for a global
civilization. It will succeed, at least in the eyes of its founder and its
adherents, only as it moves steadily along the path to the accomplishment of
this mission. Such progress depends on the mobilization of enormous
human and material resources. For a community so small, relatively
speaking, these resources can be made available only through the
willingness of all or the vast majority of the membership to take an active
part in the community’s programs. It was no doubt with such considerations
in view that the Universal House of Justice set “universal participation” as
one of the twin goals of its first global plans, the first of which was
launched in April 1964, a year after its first election.321 Elaborating on this
theme, the Universal House of Justice published the following statement:

. . . the participation of every believer is of the utmost importance, and
is a source of power and vitality as yet unknown to us...

. . . If every believer will carry out these sacred duties, we shall be
astonished at the accession of power which will result to the whole
body, and which in its turn will give rise to further growth and the
showering of greater blessings on all of us.

The real secret of universal participation lies in the Master’s [i.e.,
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s] oft expressed wish that the friends should love each
other, constantly encourage each other, work together, be as one soul in
one body, and in so doing become a true, organic, healthy body
animated and illumined by the spirit.322

This appeal has obvious applications to the life of the Bahá’í community in
the Western world. In the younger communities of Africa, South America,
Asia, and the Pacific, where the faith was introduced primarily by pioneers
and teachers from Iran and North America, the call for universal
participation has still another dimension: in these lands, the challenge is for
the large indigenous memberships of the Bahá’í community to assume full
responsibility for the administration of the faith in their countries, and for
its development along lines appropriate to the particular cultural
environment.

The Bahá’í community, as a whole, has already made impressive progress
in this direction. Early photographs of the national spiritual assemblies from
a number of these areas (indeed, even from some of the smaller European
nations) showed a high percentage of foreign pioneers. This has now
completely changed. There are few, if any, national communities where the
affairs of the faith are not fully in the hands of believers indigenous to those
parts of the world. Control of the administration of the Bahá’í community
is, however, only the first step. The challenge now is for the indigenous
membership of these large Bahá’í communities to assume full responsibility
for the many detailed activities required by the global plans devised by the
Universal House of Justice creating schools and community centers,
organizing economic development projects, and pressing ahead with the
establishment of closer ties with civil government authorities at all levels.

Nowhere is the challenge to participation greater than in the work of
spreading the Bahá’í message. Although the present rate of membership
growth would be considered impressive by most religious bodies, it falls far
short of generating the millions of supporters needed to realize
Bahá’u’lláh’s vision for his community. Clearly, this is because only a small
minority of the Bahá’ís are as yet directly engaged in teaching the faith to
others. In part, this may be an effect of the Bahá’í prohibition against
aggressive proselytism, a principle whose value few observers would wish

to dispute. Since many Bahá’ís are successfully attracting others without
violating this principle, however, it seems evident that much greater
participation is the real issue.

In short, the present situation opens up opportunities for the increased active
participation by thousands of Bahá’ís who might otherwise have remained
mere passive members of the community. Will this actually occur? Or will
the attractions and pressures of political and economic issues divert the
energies of the more able believers from the faith’s programs, as has
happened with the membership of a number of other religious
organizations? Can the indigenous members of the larger national
communities adapt the pattern of Bahá’í life imported by foreign pioneers
in a way that meets their regional needs while remaining faithful to
Bahá’u’lláh’s vision? Can they generate the human resources which the
international Bahá’í community so urgently requires to carry out its
ambitious programs?

Such challenges as those discussed above are the kind of positive
stimulation on which healthy organisms tend to thrive. Other challenges are
less attractive. There are people who are deeply opposed to the expansion of
the Bahá’í Faith and, in some cases, bent on its destruction. Bahá’ís,
generally, are disinclined to dwell on the subject, but it is one which is

addressed vigorously in the writings of their faith. Shoghi Effendi, for
example, said:

How can the beginnings of a world upheaval, unleashing forces that
are so gravely deranging the social, the religious, the political, and the
economic equilibrium of organized society . . . fail to produce any
repercussions on the institutions of a Faith of such tender age whose
teachings have a direct and vital bearing on each of these spheres of
human life and conduct?

Little wonder, therefore, if they [the Bahá’ís] ... find that in the midst
of this whirlpool of contending passions their freedom has been
curtailed, their tenets contemned, their institutions assaulted, their
motives maligned, their authority jeopardized, their claim rejected.323

Such attacks, to one degree or another, have marked the twentieth century
and a third of the young religion’s life. Recently, they have begun to grow
in seriousness and to demand an energetic and unified response from the
international Bahá’í community. In several Muslim countries, opposition
has taken the form of overt campaigns of suppression, and in Iran, the land
of the Bahá’í Faith’s birth, the result has been human suffering on a vast
scale.

The principal offense of the Bahá’í Faith in the eyes of the Shiah Muslim
clergy in Iran is its very existence. Fundamentalist Muslim theology regards
Muhammad as the last messenger whom God will send and Islam as the
final religion for all humankind. In this view, therefore, it is literally
impossible for any new religion to come into existence. Forced to deal with
the fact that the Bahá’í Faith not only exists but is rapidly expanding,
fanatical Muslims, particularly in Shiah Iran, have sought to picture it
variously as a “heresy,” “a political movement,” or “a conspiracy against
Islam” and regard the extirpation of the faith as a service to God.

Under the regime of the shahs, and in response to this pressure from the
clergy, the Bahá’í Faith was denied the civil recognition accorded to the
beliefs of the other three religious minorities in the country: Jews,
Christians, and Zoroastrians. Since civil rights in Iran were dependent on
the formal recognition accorded to one’s religious faith, this meant that the
more than 300,000 Bahá’ís, who outnumber the other three minorities
combined, had no recourse to the protections of civil law.

The result was to expose Bahá’ís to whatever injuries the ill-disposed
among the Muslim majority decided to visit upon them. Bahá’í cemeteries
were frequently desecrated by organized mobs, Bahá’í children were

commonly humiliated in class as “dirty Bábís,” Bahá’ís were denied
employment in several branches of the civil service, and many members of
the Faith were beaten, raped, and even killed in occasional outbursts of
fanaticism aroused by the Shiah Muslim clergy. Occasionally, in order to
distract public attention from political or economic concerns, the shah’s
regime would itself initiate persecution of the Bahá’ís as scapegoats. In
1955 one such organized persecution required the intervention of the United
Nations.324

Following the Islamic revolution in early 1979, the situation worsened.325
Under the direction of Shiah clergy now in control of the new government,
Bahá’í properties were seized, Bahá’í shrines were occupied by armed
Muslim bands and largely destroyed, the faith’s cemeteries were bulldozed,
members of the community were driven from their jobs and had their
pensions canceled and their savings expropriated, and Bahá’í children
throughout Iran were expelled from school. The new Islamic constitution
adopted in the fall of 1979 made the exclusion of the Bahá’ís from any civil
rights even more explicit than had the old imperial constitution.

In the summer of 1980 revolutionary committees began arresting the
members of the local and national Bahá’í Assemblies, as well as other
prominent believers, and sentencing them to death. Although an effort was

made by the regime’s spokesmen outside Iran to represent these killings as
the execution of “spies,” the indictments were explicit in identifying the
victims’ Bahá’í beliefs and memberships as the “crimes” for which they had
been sentenced, and each was offered his or her life in return for conversion
to Islam. The executions and other acts of persecution against Bahá’ís were
openly reported in the government-controlled press in Iran as the
suppression of “the Bahá’í heresy.”326 Finally, in August 1983, the Islamic
regime formally banned all Bahá’í religious, educational, and charitable
institutions in Iran. In obedience to the Bahá’í principle of submission to
civil authority in such matters, the National Spiritual Assembly of the
Bahá’ís of Iran disbanded all local spiritual assemblies and then announced
its own dissolution. Despite this compliance, the authorities began
imprisoning all former members of the disbanded assemblies, in effect
making the decree retroactive. The United States Congress heard firsthand
evidence that the prisoners were systematically tortured to secure
recantations and confessions of “espionage.”

The Bahá’í response to these attacks has taken two forms. When repeated
appeals to the successive Iranian revolutionary regimes met with no
response, a concerted effort was made to secure international intervention.
Beginning with a unanimous resolution in the summer of 1980 by the
Canadian Parliament, several national governments began pressing Iran to

halt the campaign of terror. The European Parliament followed suit in the
fall of 1980, and a succession of hearings by agencies of the United Nations
led to a series of annual resolutions, one of which, in March 1984,
established a mandate for investigation by the Secretary General. The
Congress of the United States twice denounced the persecution in
particularly strong terms.327

International pressure increased with each passing year, leading to growing
denunciation of the Iranian regime in the media and vigorous criticism by
successive United Nations rapporteurs. By 1994, it appeared that the central
authorities in Tehran were coming to regard the more gross abuses of the
human rights of Bahá’ís as unacceptably costly in terms of the political and
economic price entailed. The execution of members of the community and
imprisonments dropped off dramatically in favor of the continuing
campaign of harassment in the circumstances of everyday life. That the
regime had not changed its basic intent was exposed in 1993, when the
United Nations special rapporteur, Mr. Reynaldo Galindo Pohl, revealed to
the Human Rights Commission the text of a secret Iranian government
document outlining a program which it was hoped might suffocate the
Bahá’í minority while attracting minimal international attention.

An interesting aspect of the case of the Iranian Bahá’í minority is the
illustration it provides of the surprising effectiveness of the United Nations’
human rights system. While admittedly cumbersome and slow, the pressure
of unceasingly negative UNHRC evaluations and resolutions can have the
effect of isolating an uncooperative government and rendering its economy
and foreign policy vulnerable to a host of undesired consequences.328

In the long run, the most significant response will likely be that of the
Iranian Bahá’í community itself. Despite the attacks of the mullas, the
Iranian Bahá’ís have maintained their attitude of respect for Islam. To them,
the criticism that their faith might be antagonistic to Islam appears to be
particularly unjustified. They have pointed out that, in becoming Bahá’ís,
great numbers of believers from Christian, Jewish, Buddhist, or Hindu
backgrounds have also accepted the divine character of Islam and its
Prophet.

The community has also given conclusive evidence of its adherence to the
Bahá’í principle of respect for civil government and avoidance of
involvement in partisan politics. Although the most abused minority in
present-day Iran, Bahá’ís have refused to take part in the various civil
upheavals by which the political enemies of the Islamic regime have sought
to bring about its demise. Indeed, they initially refrained from appealing for

international intervention during the first year of the current persecution out
of a willingness to give the regime a chance to correct the abuses that were
occurring. The same policy, which Bahá’ís believe will be a long-term
protection for their Faith, had consistently been followed under the Pahlavi
dynasty.

From a purely objective point of view, the current ordeal in Iran may be
said to have had important benefits for the religion, however agonizing the
cost. The worldwide attention given to efforts to alleviate the suffering of
Bahá’ís has entailed a massive education of government officials,
academics, the media, and the general public in many lands about the nature
of the Bahá’í Faith and its aims and teachings. The very nature of the issues
involved has tended to throw into clear relief the peaceful and progressive
character of the Bahá’í community. For Bahá’ís outside Iran, the experience
of arising together to defend their fellow believers against an unprovoked
and barbarous assault has no doubt had a powerful consolidating effect on
the faith of its highly diverse membership. Above all, the heroic capacity
for self-sacrifice demonstrated by the Iranian believers has served as
convincing proof that the faith’s original spiritual impulse has in no way
abated. Once again, the ancient adage that “the blood of the martyrs is the
seed of the faith” is being demonstrated, this time before the television
cameras of the world.

Persecution of Bahá’ís has not been limited to Muslim societies. Like many
other religions, the Bahá’ís have also encountered hostility from totalitarian
regimes. In Nazi Germany the faith was officially banned and its activities
forbidden. This was primarily because of the Bahá’í teachings of racial
oneness. In communist countries, suppression was almost as complete.
Marxist theory, which denies the existence of God and of a rational soul,
and which seeks to account for all of humankind’s social history through a
philosophy of materialism, “defined” the Bahá’í Faith out of existence
without examination. There was no more room for a new revelation from
God in the Marxist cosmography than for earlier ones. In Soviet Russia, a
great many Bahá’ís were arrested and eventually exiled to Siberia; the
institutions of the faith were dissolved; its literature and archives were
seized; and a ban was placed on all of its teaching activities. The Bahá’í
house of worship in ‘Ishqábád, the first ever erected, was confiscated for
government use.329 The degree of suppression varied from one communist
country to another, but in all cases there were severe restrictions imposed on
the Bahá’í community’s continued existence.330

As with all other aspects of life in the East Bloc countries, the situation
changed dramatically with the collapse of the Berlin Wall. Since 1990, new
national spiritual assemblies have been formed in countries throughout that

region of the world, local spiritual assemblies are proliferating, and
energetic programs of translation and publishing are making Bahá’í
literature available in a wide range of languages.

Finally, the Bahá’í Faith has sustained a persistent onslaught from various
representatives of traditional Christianity, particularly from returning
missionaries.331 No area of Christian missionary work has been so barren
and so discouraging as the Islamic Near and Middle East. Over seventy
years ago Edward Granville Browne pointed out that a number of Christian
missionaries who had witnessed the failures of their efforts had begun to
resent the successes of the Bahá’í teachers who were working in the same
areas. This antagonism was exacerbated as the Bahá’í Faith began to make
significant progress in Western countries as well among persons of
Christian background. The response of the missionaries was to join with
their Muslim counterparts in publishing bitter attacks on Bahá’í motives and
practices. A faith which had been the object of barbarous persecutions in
the East now found itself subject in the West to gross distortions of its
history and teachings and efforts to represent it as hostile to Christianity.332

Organized attacks on the Bahá’í Faith by Christian churches have been
particularly severe in Germany. In 1953, the German Bahá’í community
applied for a parcel of land in Frankfurt for the erection of the first Bahá’í

house of worship on the European continent. Protestant churches in the area
organized a series of protest meetings, a campaign later joined by the local
Roman Catholic authorities. This pressure led to a six-year struggle merely
to procure a site and permission for construction.

Ultimately, the opposition proved not only ineffective but counter-
productive. The building permits were secured in 1959 for a design
submitted by the award-winning architect Teuto Rocholi, and in 1963
several thousand European Bahá’ís attended the formal dedication of the
building. Not surprisingly, the display of prejudice had the effect of
generating many newspaper articles and radio presentations sympathetic to
the Bahá’í community, eventually producing the most widespread public
education on the nature and teachings of the Bahá’í Faith that Germany had
so far experienced.

In 1981, Dr. Kurt Hutten, director of the Protestant publicity agency
Evangelische Zentralstelle für Weltanschauungssragen and author of
several anti-Bahá’í articles, seized upon an extraordinary monograph
produced by one Francesco Ficicchia, whose behavior had led to his
expulsion from the faith and who had made clear his intent to damage its
public reputation. Although the Ficicchia monograph was clearly malicious
and self-serving, and although its author lacked any relevant scholarly

credentials, the Zentralstelle’s publishing house produced an edition which
they widely distributed and represented as a piece of serious academic
research.

Eventually, three German Bahá’í scholars undertook the laborious task of
responding to the mass of polemic and misrepresentation in which the book
had freely indulged. Published by the respected independent house Olms
Verlag, their reply, Desinformation als Methode, constitutes a massively
detailed and documented work running over six hundred pages in length
and an invaluable source work for the Bahá’í community.333 As with the
crisis over the construction of the house of worship, the publishing attacks
appear to have benefited primarily the victims by accomplishing in a short
time what Bahá’í efforts alone could not have achieved for many years. The
debate has effectively focused German scholarly attention on the major
themes and primary sources of Bahá’í history and belief and cast grave
doubt on the credit of those who have gratuitously sought to injure it.

A recent crisis in another area has further reinforced the Bahá’í position in
Germany. In Tubingen, the legal administrator of the District Court denied
incorporation to the local Bahá’í assembly on the grounds that the three-tier
system of Bahá’í elected institutions was somehow incompatible with the
requirements of German law. The national spiritual assembly appealed the

decision to the federal constitutional High Court. In a landmark decision by
the latter body, it was held that the Bahá’í administrative order is an integral
part of the religion itself and thus not subject to the legal restrictions cited.

In a land where ecclesiastical opponents were seeking to cast doubt on the
faith’s status as a recognized religion, the wording of the judgment was
particularly significant:

In the present case it is not necessary to go more deeply into this, as the
character of the Bahá’í Faith as a religion and the Bahá’í Community
as a religious community is evident, in actual every day life, in cultural
tradition, and in the understanding of both the general public and the
science of comparative religion.334

However gratifying these victories have doubtless been for the Bahá’í
community in Germany and elsewhere, the intensity of the campaign
carried on against their religion by church organizations is a troubling
insight into deep-seated animosities that may well find other forms of
expression in the future.

Opposition represents a challenge that will assume new forms and
dimensions as the activities of the Bahá’í community expand and attract

greater public attention. The spirit in which the Bahá’ís meet these new
attacks and their response to the issues will have a profound effect on the
emerging international image of their faith and on the quality of life within
their own membership.

The maintenance of unity, the response to opposition, and the involvement
of the great majority of the members of the community in its work of
expansion would not, in themselves, fulfill Bahá’u’lláh’s purpose. Nor
would they be likely to convince humankind in general that the Bahá’í
revelation holds the answers to humanity’s future. This will happen only if
an increasingly skeptical age observes among Bahá’ís the features of a new
and more attractive way of life. In an often-quoted statement, Shoghi
Effendi said:

One thing and only one thing will unfailingly and alone secure the
undoubted triumph of this sacred Cause, namely, the extent to which
our own inner life and private character mirror forth in their manifold
aspects the splendor of those eternal principles proclaimed by
Bahá’u’lláh.335

There is little doubt that the Bahá’í community provides an attractive
alternative to much of what imposes itself on the attention of modern

society. From its earliest days, the character of the members of the faith has
generally won admiration and praise from observers. Edward Granville
Browne made the following observation in the late nineteenth century:

I have often heard wonder expressed by Christian ministers at the
extraordinary success of Bábí [i.e., Bahá’í] missionaries, as contrasted
with the almost complete failure of their own.... The answer, to my
mind, is plain as the sun at midday. [There follow some comments
critical of certain aspects of Christian sectarianism]....

To the Western observer, however, it is the complete sincerity of the
Bábís, their fearless disregard of death and torture undergone for the
sake of their religion, their certain conviction as to the truth of their
faith, their generally admirable conduct towards mankind, and
especially toward their fellow-believers, which constitute their
strongest claim on his attention.336

Present-day observers tend to be equally complimentary about the
community. A practical demonstration of full racial integration, a consistent
avoidance of religious controversy or criticism of other faiths, a freedom
from the taint of moral and financial scandal too often associated with
modern-day religious movements, the spread of the Bahá’í message without

recourse to aggressive proselytism, and a general reputation for hospitality
which the community has gained—each of these has helped to lay the
foundations of widespread respect.

Again, however, the augmenting crises in human affairs today present
awesome challenges to the Bahá’í community’s claim to represent a model
for radical social change. In Western countries, the public will be watching
to see whether, for example, Bahá’í family life represents a new beginning,
and the extent to which Bahá’u’lláh’s precepts are reflected in the lives and
attitudes of rising generations of Bahá’í youth and children. In Africa,
tribalism continues to frustrate the efforts of political and religious
movements alike to provide an appropriate identity around which a different
type of society can be organized. Do the Bahá’í communities in those
countries show signs of meeting this challenge? In many Asian cultures,
despite concerted programs of education, women remain in the essentially
inferior social position they have occupied throughout the centuries. While
Bahá’í communities have made great strides in breaking this pattern, can
Bahá’u’lláh’s teachings on the equality of the sexes so permeate these
communities as to open up to Bahá’í women the transformational role in
society which he envisioned for them?

Finally, can the Bahá’í community demonstrate the relevance of its beliefs
to the economic problems that are crippling the social and spiritual life of
humankind? Already, in several Third World countries, there are areas
where Bahá’ís are becoming a majority of the local inhabitants and where
their local assemblies are directly facing this challenge. At the 1983
international convention, the Universal House of Justice announced the
creation of a new Office of Social and Economic Development. Bahá’í
communities have been encouraged to begin “at the grassroots level” a host
of projects that will draw on the social and economic principles to be found
in Bahá’u’lláh’s writings. The Bahá’í International Community’s award-
winning periodical One Country, which regularly surveys these activities—
and which appears in English, French, Spanish, Chinese, Russian, and
German editions—enjoys a wide readership in the nongovernmental
community. Clearly, the community sees itself engaged in a process of
learning through experimentation in economic affairs, rather than as
offering an ideological system. These efforts will be an aspect of Bahá’í life
that will attract particularly sharp scrutiny in the difficult years that lie
ahead.

Such challenges will test to the utmost Bahá’í heroism and enthusiasm as
we move into the twenty-first century. Particularly will they test the
potential of the global Bahá’í community as a new social model. In the

years immediately ahead the followers of Bahá’u’lláh will have ample
cause to ponder deeply the statement in which the founder of their faith
drew the distinction between his mission and that of an earlier
Manifestation of God:

Verily, He [Jesus] said: “Come ye after Me, and I will make you to become
fishers of men.” In this day, however, We say: “Come ye after Me, that We
may make you to become the quickeners of mankind.”337

Appendix:
Edward Granville Browne


The name of Edward Granville Browne has a special place in the history of
the Bahá’í Faith’s first century. While studying medicine at Cambridge in
the 1880s, Browne became attracted to a field of research which he was to
make his life’s work: the literature and history of Persia. This in turn led
him to investigate the Bábí movement, which he first encountered in the
influential study by Joseph Arthur de Gobineau, Les Religions et les
Philosophies dans l’Asie Centrale. A trip to Persia followed in 1887-1888,
in consequence of which Browne set about the compilation and translation
of major pieces of Bábí and Bahá’í literature and the preparation of a
number of scholarly studies in the field. Several of these were published
under the auspices of the Royal Asiatic Society.

Browne’s researches eventually took him to Palestine where, in 1890, he
had the privilege of a series of four interviews with Bahá’u’lláh, two years

before the latter’s death. As idealistic as he was brilliant, Browne found
himself irresistibly attracted by the heroic story of the new faith. The effects
can be seen in reading the introduction to his translation of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s
Traveller’s Narrative338 and the lengthy paper entitled “Babism” published
in Religious Systems of the World.339

Unhappily, as time passed, Browne’s scholarly work became intertwined
with late Victorian political preoccupations. Because of his great admiration
for the Persian people, he longed to see them freed from the ignorance and
despotism under which the dual regime of the Shiah clergy and the Qájár
dynasty kept them. Consequently, he became an advocate of the so-called
“Constitutional Movement” in Persia.340 Browne raised money for the
movement in Europe, spoke widely on its behalf, and made his home at
Cambridge a way-station for Persian exiles. His liberal political sympathies
were greatly intensified by nationalistic ones: the Constitutionalists were
viewed in British imperialist circles as natural allies against tsarist Russia,
which supported the Qájár shahs.

Because Browne believed that the Bahá’í community (or “Bábí”
community, as he continued to call it) was the most cohesive progressive
force in Persia, he looked to it to take the lead in bringing about political, as
well as social, change. To his intense disappointment, the Bahá’ís refused to

be drawn into either domestic or international conflicts. The reason was
Bahá’u’lláh’s assumption of the prophetic role for which the Báb had
prepared the way and his refusal to compromise the universal nature of his
message for partisan political ends. Browne’s unhappiness is apparent in
words he wrote about Bahá’u’lláh’s statement on the oneness of
humankind:

Bahá’ism, in my opinion, is too cosmopolitan in its aim to render much
direct service to that revival [i.e., of Persian political life]. “Pride is not
for him who loves his country,” says Bahá’u’lláh, “but for him who
loves the world.” This is a fine statement, but just now it is men who
love their country above all else that Persia needs. [italics added]341

Only one small handful of Bábís were prepared, indeed eager, to assume the
political role which Browne had envisioned for them. They were the Azalís,
who had by this time abandoned their erstwhile leader, Mírzá Yaḥyá, to his
lonely exile on Cyprus and had suddenly metamorphosed into political
ideologists, journalists, and underground agents.342 In the process, they
entered into intimate correspondence with Browne and became, as he said,
his most trusted collaborators. It was these men, intensely ambitious for
political careers and blocked by Bahá’u’lláh from using the Báb’s legacy to

this end, who provided Browne with the documents on which he based most
of his later research.343

The effect was unfortunate from the point of view of scholarship. The Azalí
episode was of only passing significance in Bahá’í history, and key
documents on which Browne placed great reliance proved, in time, to be
spurious.344 Particularly regrettable was the importance which Browne was
induced to give to a strange document that he purportedly discovered in
1892 among the papers of the late Comte de Gobineau and that he later
published under its esoteric Persian title Kitáb-i-Nuqṭatu’l-Káf (“Book of
the Point of K”). The full story is beyond the scope of this note, but the
subject deserves a brief glance because of the effect which Browne’s
decision had in temporarily derailing the study of Bahá’í origins.

Ostensibly a history of the Bábí movement, the Nuqṭatu’l-Káf was
attributed by Browne to a respected Bábí martyr, Ḥájí Mírzá Jání, who had
been executed forty years earlier in 1852 and was known to have written a
personal memoir of some of the events in which he was involved. Browne’s
sole authority for this attribution was Mírzá Yaḥyá, already discredited
among most of his former associates; the manuscript itself bore no author’s
name.

Although excerpts from Jání’s lost record do indeed seem to have been
included, it should have been readily apparent to Browne that the martyr
could not have been the author of the Nuqṭatu’l-Káf. Apart from other
internal evidence, references are made in it to events which occurred in
1853-1854, over a year after Jání’s death. Moreover, there is considerable
reason to believe that the final version was put together sometime in the late
1860s and that a copy was forwarded anonymously to Paris, either to
Gobineau himself, or, after his death, to the Bibliothèque Nationale, which
had secured his collection of books. The collection is not mentioned in
Gobineau’s own book, Les Religions et les Philosophies dans l’Asie
Centrale (published 1865), where it certainly would have been treated as a
key source.345 A prominent Bahá’í scholar who at one point had worked
with a copy of the original Jání memoirs, Mírzá Abu’l-Faḍl Gulpaygani,
denied flatly that the Nuqṭatu’l-Káf was the document in question.

Since the text of the Nuqṭatu’l-Káf contains extravagant praise of Mírzá
Yaḥyá and seeks to deprecate the leadership which Bahá’u’lláh is known to
have exercised in events the book purports to describe, the manuscript may
represent an attempt by partisans of Yaḥyá to reinforce the latter’s fading
role in the late 1860s. The bizarre character of some of the theological
content, faithfully reflecting Yaḥyá’s known views, lends further credence

to this notion. Considerably more research will be required in order to
unravel the mystery of the document’s origins.

Browne, however, seized upon the Nuqṭatu’l-Káf as an authentic history of
the events which so deeply interested him. Against all of the objective
evidence, he appears to have been persuaded by his Azalí collaborators that
the Bahá’í community had deliberately suppressed this early account
because they wished to rewrite Bábí history in order to reinforce
Bahá’u’lláh’s claim. It is apparent from some of Browne’s own references
to the subject that he saw himself in the position of his contemporaries
among spokesmen for the so-called “Higher Criticism,” biblical scholars
who were simultaneously finding in the various Synoptic Gospels traces of
sectarian rivalries among the early Christians.346

Whatever the reason, the effect was to divert attention from critical
developments in the rise of the new religion. Perhaps sensing this, Browne
retained an association with the Bahá’í community to the last,
corresponding with ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, meeting him in both London and Paris
during his Western trip in 1911, and eventually contributing an obituary to
the January 1922 issue of the Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society. The
latter described the late leader of the Bahá’í Faith as one “who has probably

exercised a greater influence not only in the Orient but in the Occident, than
any Asiatic thinker and teacher in recent times.”

A valuable first step in assessing Browne’s contribution to Bahá’í history
was taken in 1970 by the British-Iranian scholar Hasan Balyuzi, under the
title Edward Granville Browne and the Bahá’í Faith. A full appreciation
must await future studies which will distinguish Browne’s enduring
scholarly achievements from the more ephemeral political activities of his
time. Whatever these researchers reveal, the study of Bahá’í origins has
been immensely enriched by the balance of scholarship and sympathy
which led a distinguished Western authority to record so meticulously his
firsthand experiences with the founders of the new faith.

Bibliography


BOOKS

‘Abdu’l-Bahá. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in Canada. Compiled by the National
Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Canada. Toronto: National Spiritual
Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Canada, 1962.
___. Paris Talks: Addresses Given by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in Paris in 1911. 12th
ed. London: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1995.
___. The Promulgation of Universal Peace: Talks Delivered by ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá during His Visit to the United States and Canada in 1912. Compiled
by Howard MacNutt. Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1922-1925; 2d
ed., 1982.
___. The Secret of Divine Civilization. Translated by Marzieh Gail and Ali-
Kuli Khan. Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1957; 1st ps ed., 1990.
___. Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Compiled by the
Research Department of the Universal House of Justice. Translated by a
Committee at the Bahá’í World Centre and Marzieh Gail. Haifa: Bahá’í
World Centre, 1978.

___. Some Answered Questions. Compiled and translated by Laura Clifford
Barney. Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1930; 1st ps ed. 1984.
___. Tablets of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá Abbas. Vol. 1. New York: Bahá’í Publishing
Society, 1909.
___. Tablets of the Divine Plan Revealed by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá to the North
American Bahá’ís. 1st ps ed. Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1993.
___. A Traveler’s Narrative Written to Illustrate the Episode of the Báb.
Translated by E. G. Browne. New ed. Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing
Trust, 1980.
___. Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing
Trust, 1944.
Afnán, Muḥammad, and Hatcher, William S. “Western Islamic Scholarship
and Bahá’í Origins,” Religion. Vol. 15, no. 1 (1985), pp. 29-51.
Algar, Hamid. Religion and State in Iran, 1784-1906. Los Angeles:
University of California Press, 1980.
Amanat, Abbas. Resurrection and Renewal: The Making of the Bábí
Movement in Iran, 1844-1850. Ithaca, NY; London: Cornell University
Press, 1989.
The Báb. Selections from the Writings of the Báb. Compiled by the
Research Department of the Universal House of Justice. Translated by
Habib Taherzadeh et al. Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 1976.

The Bahá’í Centenary, 1844-1944: A Record of America’s Response to
Bahá’u’lláh’s Call to the Realization of the Oneness of Mankind to
Commemorate the One Hundredth Anniversary of the Bahá’í Faith.
Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1944.
Bahá’í Education, A Compilation: Extracts from the Writings of
Bahá’u’lláh, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, and Shoghi Effendi. Compiled by the Research
Department of the Universal House of Justice. [Thornhill, Ont.]: Bahá’í
Community of Canada, 1977.
The Bahá’í Faith, Statistical Information, 1844-1968. Haifa: Universal
House of Justice, 1968.
Bahá’í Funds and Contributions. Compiled by the Universal House of
Justice. [Thornhill, Ont.]: National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of
Canada, 1970.
[Bahá’í International Community Office of Public Information, New York.]
Bahá’u’lláh. Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1991.
The Bahá’ís in Iran: A Report on the Persecution of a Religious Minority.
Rev. and updated ed. New York: Bahá’í International Community, 1982.
Bahá’í Prayers: A Selection of Prayers Revealed by Bahá’u’lláh, the Báb,
and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.
New ed. Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1991.
The Bahá’í World: A Biennial International Record, Volume 7, 1936-1938.
Compiled by the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United

States and Canada. New York: Bahá’í Publishing Committee, 1939.
The Bahá’í World: A Biennial International Record, Volume 8, 1938-1940.
Compiled by the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United
States and Canada. Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Committee, 1942.
The Bahá’í World: A Biennial International Record, Volume 9, 1940-1944.
Compiled by the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United
States and Canada. Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Committee, 1945.
The Bahá’í World: A Biennial International Record, Volume 10, 1944-1946.
Compiled by the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United
States and Canada. Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Committee, 1949.
The Bahá’í World: A Biennial International Record, Volume 11, 1946-1950.
Compiled by the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United
States and Canada. Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Committee, 1952.
The Bahá’í World: A Biennial International Record, Volume 12, 1950-1954.
Compiled by the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United
States. Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1956.
The Bahá’í World: An International Record, Volume 13, 1954-1963.
Compiled by the Universal House of Justice. Haifa: Universal House of
Justice, 1970.
The Bahá’í World: An International Record, Volume 14, 1963-1968.
Prepared under the supervision of the Universal House of Justice. Haifa:
Universal House of Justice, 1974.

The Bahá’í World: An International Record, Volume 15, 1968-1973.
Prepared under the supervision of the Universal House of Justice. Haifa:
Bahá’í World Centre, 1975.
The Bahá’í World: An International Record, Volume 16, 1973-1976.
Prepared under the supervision of the Universal House of Justice. Haifa:
Bahá’í World Centre, 1978.
The Bahá’í World: An International Record, Volume 17, 1976-1979.
Prepared under the supervision of the Universal House of Justice. Haifa:
Bahá’í World Centre, 1981.
The Bahá’í World: An International Record, Volume 18, 1979-1983.
Prepared under the supervision of the Universal House of Justice. Haifa:
Bahá’í World Centre, 1986.
The Bahá’í World: An International Record, Volume 19, 1983-1986.
Prepared under the supervision of the Universal House of Justice. Haifa:
Bahá’í World Centre, 1994.
The Bahá’í World: An International Record, 1992-1993. Haifa: Bahá’í
World Centre, 1993.
The Bahá’í World: An International Record, 1993-1994. Haifa: Bahá’í
World Centre, 1994.
The Bahá’í World: An International Record, 1994-1995. Haifa: Bahá’í
World Centre, 1995.

Bahá’u’lláh. Epistle to the Son of the Wolf. Translated by Shoghi Effendi.
Wilmette, Ill.:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1941; 1st ps ed. 1988.
___. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. Translated by Shoghi
Effendi. Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1939; 1st ps ed. 1983.
___. The Hidden Words. Translated by Shoghi Effendi. Wilmette, Ill.:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1939.
___. The Kitáb-i-Íqán: The Book of Certitude. Translated by Shoghi
Effendi. Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1931; 1st ps ed. 1983.
___. Prayers and Meditations. Translated by Shoghi Effendi. Wilmette, Ill.:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1938.
___. The Proclamation of Bahá’u’lláh to the Kings and Leaders of the
World. Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 1967.
___. The Seven Valleys and The Four Valleys. New ed. Translated by
Marzieh Gail and Ali-Kuli Khan. Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
1991.
___. The Summons of the Lord of Hosts: Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh. Haifa:
Bahá’í World Centre, 2002.
___. A Synopsis and Codification of the Laws and Ordinances of the Kitáb-
i-Aqdas, the Most Holy Book of Bahá’u’lláh. [Compiled by the Universal
House of Justice.] Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 1973.

Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Bahá’í World Faith: Selected Writings of
Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
1976.
___. The Divine Art of Living: Selections from Writings of Bahá’u’lláh and
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Compiled by Mabel Hyde Paine. Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1979.
Balyuzi, H. M. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá: The Centre of the Covenant of Bahá’u’lláh.
London: George Ronald, 1971.
___. The Báb: The Herald of the Day of Days. Oxford: George Ronald,
1973.
___. Bahá’u’lláh: The King of Glory. Oxford: George Ronald, 1980.
___. Edward Granville Browne and the Bahá’í Faith. Oxford: George
Ronald, 1970.
Bourgeois, L. Un Homme et Son Oeuvre. Toronto: Bahá’í Centre
Publication, 1973.
___. The Bahá’í Temple: Press Comments, Symbolism. Chicago: Louis J.
Bourgeois, 1921.
Brown, Ira V. “Watchers for the Second Coming, the Millenial Tradition in
America,” Mississippi Valley Historical Review. Vol. 39, no. 3, pp. 441-458.
Browne, Edward G. “Babism,” Religious Systems of the World: A
Contribution to the Study of Comparative Religion. Edited by W.

Sheowring and C. W. Thies. London: Swan Sonnenschein and Co.; New
York: Macmillan and Co., 1892.
___. A Literary History of Persia. Vol. 4, 1500-1924. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press, 1924.
___. Materials for the Study of the Bábí Religion. Compiled by E. G.
Browne. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1918.
___. A Traveller’s Narrative Written to Illustrate the Episode of the Báb.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1891.
Cole, Juan Ricardo. The Concept of Manifestation in the Bahá’í Writings.
Bahá’í Studies, vol. 9. Ottawa, Ont.: Association for Bahá’í Studies, 1982.
Collins, William P. Bibliography of English-Language Works on the Bábí
and Bahá’í Faiths, 1844-1985. Oxford: George Ronald, 1990.
A Compilation of Bahá’í Writings on Music. Compiled by the Research
Department of the Universal House of Justice. 2d ed. Oakham, England:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1983. No.4 of a series issued by the Universal
House of Justice. (Cover title: Bahá’í Writings on Music)
Consultation, A Compilation: Extracts from the Writings and Utterances of
Bahá’u’lláh, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Shoghi Effendi, and The Universal House of
Justice. Compiled by the Research Department of the Universal House of
Justice. Thornhill, Ont.: Bahá’í Community of Canada, 1980.
The Continental Boards of Counselors. Compiled by the National Spiritual
Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United States. Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing

Trust, 1981.
Corbin, H. En Islam iranien; aspects spirituels et philosophiques. Vol. 4.
Paris: Galimard, 1972.
Cross, W. R. The Burned-over District, The Social and Intellectual History
of Enthusiastic Religion in Western New York, 1800-1850. New York:
Cornell University, 1950. New York: Harper and Row, 1965.
Dahl, A L. “The Fragrance of Spirituality: An Appreciation of the Art of
Mark Tobey,” The Bahá’í World: An International Record. Vol. 16, 1973-
1976. Compiled by the Universal House of Justice. Haifa: Bahá’í World
Centre, 1978.
The Five Year Plan, 1974-1979, Statistical Report. Haifa: Bahá’í World
Centre, 1979.
A Fortress for Well-Being: Bahá’í Teachings on Marriage. Wilmette:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
1973.
Giachery, Ugo. Shoghi Effendi: Recollections. Oxford: George Ronald,
1973.
Gobineau, Joseph Arthur, Comte de. Les Religions et les Philosophies dans
l’Asie Centrale.
Paris: Didier, 1865; Paris: Ernest le Roux, 3d ed., 1900.
Hatcher, J. S., and Hatcher, W. S. The Law of Love Enshrined. Oxford:
George Ronald, 1996.

Hatcher, W. S. “Economics and Moral Values,” World Order. Vol. 9, no. 2
(1974), pp. 14-27.
___. “The Kitáb-i-Aqdas: The Causality Principle in the World of Being,”
The Bahá’í World, 1993-1994. Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 1994. pp. 189-
236.
___.  Logic and Logos. Oxford: George Ronald, 1990.
___. The Science of Religion. Bahá’í Studies, vol. 2. Thornhill, Ont.:
Canadian Association for Studies on the Bahá’í Faith, 1980.
___. The Concept of Spirituality. Bahá’í Studies, vol. 11. Ottawa, Ont.:
Association for Bahá’í Studies, 1982.
Hatcher, W. S., and Afnán, M.: See Afnán, M. and Hatcher, W. S.
Huddleston, John. The Search for a Just Society. Oxford: George Ronald,
1989.
___. The Earth Is But One Country. London: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1976.
Ḥuqúqu’lláh: The Right of God. Compiled by the Research Department of
the Universal House of Justice. Oakham, England: Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
1986.
The Individual and Teaching: Raising the Divine Call. Compiled by the
Research Department of the Universal House of Justice. Toronto: Bahá’í
Community of Canada, 1977.
Ives, H. C. Portals to Freedom. Oxford: George Ronald, 1973.

Johnson, Vernon Elvin, “The Challenge of the Bahá’í Faith,” World Order.
Vol. 10, no. 3,
p. 39.
Kunter, Dr. N. Letter dated 12 August 1959, British Bahá’í Journal. No.
141, p. 4.
The Local Spiritual Assembly. Compiled by the Universal House of Justice.
Toronto: National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Canada, 1970.
Martin, Douglas. “Bahá’u’lláh’s Model for World Unity,” The Bahá’í
World: An International Record. Vol. 16, 1973-1976. Haifa: Bahá’í World
Centre, 1978.
___. “The Bahá’ís of Iran under the Islamic Republic, 1979-1983,” Middle
East Focus. Toronto, vol. 6, no. 4, 1983.
___. “The Bahá’ís of Iran Under the Pahlavi Regime, 1921-1979,” Middle
East Focus. Toronto, vol. 4, no. 6, 1981.
___. “The Missionary as Historian,” World Order. Vol. 10, no. 3, 1976.
Miller, W. M., Bahá’ism, Its Origins and Teachings. New York and
Chicago: Fleming H.
Revell Company, 1931.
___. The Bahá’í Faith: Its History and Teachings. South Pasadena: William
Carey Library, 1974.
Momen, Moojan. The Bábí and Bahá’í Religions. Oxford: George Ronald,
1981.

Mumford, L. The City in History, Its Origins, Its Transformations and Its
Prospects. New York: Harcourt, Brace and World, Inc., 1961.
Nabíl-i-A‘ẓam (Muhammad-i-Zarandí). The Dawn-Breakers: Nabíl’s
Narrative of the Early Days of the Bahá’í Revelation. Translated and edited
by Shoghi Effendi. Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1932.
Nasr, S. H. Ideals and Realities of Islam. London: George Allen and Unwin
Ltd., 1966; Boston: Beacon Press, 1972.
The National Spiritual Assembly. Compiled by the Universal House of
Justice. Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1972.
Nicolas, A. L. M. Siyyid ‘Alí-Muhammad Dit le Báb. Paris: Librarie
Critique, 1908.
___. Le Béyan Persan. Translated from Persian by A. L. M. Nicolas. Paris:
Librairie Paul Geuthner. 40 vols. 1911-14.
Phelps, M. H. Life and Teachings of Abbas Effendi. New York and London:
G. P. Putnam’s Sons, 1903; New York: Knickerbocker Press. 2d rev. ed.,
1912.
Rabbaní, Rúḥíyyih. The Priceless Pearl. London: Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
1969.
Ráfatí, Vaḥíd. The Development of Shaykhí Thought in Shí’i Islam. Los
Angeles: University of California in Los Angeles, 1979.
Richards, J. R. The Religion of the Bahá’ís. London: S.P.C.K., 1932. New
York: Macmillan, 1932.

Ross, E. D. Great Religions of the World. New York: Harper and Brothers
Publishers, 1901.
Schaefer, Udo. The Light Shineth in Darkness: Five Studies in Revelation
after Christ. Translated from the German by Hélène Momtaz Neri and
Oliver Coburn. Oxford: George Ronald, 1977.
Shoghi Effendi. The Advent of Divine Justice. Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1939; 1st ps ed. 1990.
___. Bahá’í Administration: Selected Messages, 1922-1932. Wilmette,
Ill., Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1928, 7th ed. 1974.
___. The Bahá’í Faith, 1844-1952. Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
1953.
___. Citadel of Faith: Messages to America, 1947-1957. Wilmette, Ill.:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1965.
___. The Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh. Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing
Trust, 1934.
___. God Passes By. Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1944; 3d ed. 1974.
___. High Endeavours: Messages to Alaska. N.p. National Spiritual
Assembly of the
Bahá’ís of Alaska, 1976.
___. Messages to the Bahá’í World, 1950-1957. Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1951; 2d ed. 1971.

___. Messages to Canada. Toronto: National Spiritual Assembly of the
Bahá’ís of Canada, 1965.
___. Principles of Bahá’í Administration. London: Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
1950; 4th ed. 1976.
___. The Promised Day Is Come. Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1941;
1st ps ed. 1996.
___. The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh: Selected Letters. Wilmette, Ill.:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1938; 1st ps ed. 1991.
Smith, Peter. The Bábí and Bahá’í Religions: From Messianic Shí’ism to a
World Religion. London, New York, etc.: Cambridge University Press,
1987.
Ṭabáṭabá’í, ‘Allámah Siyyid Muhammad Ḥusayn. Shi’ite Islam. Translated
and edited with introduction and notes by Seyyed Hossein Nasr. Albany:
State University of New York Press, 1975.
Taherzadeh, Adib. The Covenant of Bahá’u’lláh. Oxford: George Ronald,
1992.
___. The Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh. Oxford: George Ronald. Vol. 1, 1974;
vol. 2, 1977; vol. 3, 1983; vol. 4, 1987.
___. Trustees of the Merciful. London: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1972.
Universal House of Justice. The Constitution of the Universal House of
Justice. Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 1972.

___. Messages from the Universal House of Justice, 1968-1973. Wilmette,
Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1976.
___. The Promise of World Peace: A Statement by the Universal House of
Justice. Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, n.d.
___. Wellspring of Guidance: Messages 1963-1968. Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1969; 2d ed. 1976.
Wagar, W. The City of Man: Prophecies of a World Civilization in
Twentieth-Century Thought. Boston: Houghton Mifflin Company, 1963.
Ward, A. L. 239 Days: ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Journey in America. Wilmette, Ill.:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1979.
Widengren, Geo. “Iranian Religion” Encyclopedia Britannica
(Macropedia). Vol. 9. 15th ed. 1981.
Wilson, S. G. Baha’ism and Its Claims. New York: Fleming H. Revell
Company, 1915.

PERIODICALS
British Bahá’í Journal
The Journal of Bahá’í Studies. Vols. 1-6, 1988-1995
Middle East Focus
Mississippi Valley Historical Review
Open Court
Seven Days

Star of the West
World Order

To Contact the Bahá’ís Near You

VISIT


http://www.bahai.org/

http://www.us.bahai.org


1 From a letter to Dr. N. Kunter, Avakat, Istanbul, Turkey, dated 12 August 1959. Published in
British Bahá’í Journal, no. 141, (November 1959), p. 4. The correct name of the religion is the
Bahá’í Faith, not “Bahaism.”
2 For a fuller discussion of Brown’s contribution, see Appendix.
3 Edward G. Browne, A Traveller’s Narrative Written to Illustrate the Episode of the Báb, p. viii.
Note: Complete bibliographical information for this book and all other works cited in this text will be
found in the bibliography.
4 Vernon Elvin Johnson, “The Challenge of the Bahá’í Faith” in World Order, vol. 10, no. 3 (1976),
p. 39.
5 “The Revelation proclaimed by Bahá’u’lláh, His followers believe is ... scientific in its method ...
religious truth is not absolute, but relative.” (Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh:
Selected Letters, p. xi 1938 ed..)

6 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Paris Talks, 40.16. For a detailed treatment of the subject of science and religion in
a Bahá’í context, see William S. Hatcher, The Science of Religion.
7 ‘Allámah Siyyid Muḥammad Ḥusayn Ṭabáṭabá’í, Shi’ite Islam, p. 76. Sunni Islam has also
disavowed any connection between itself and the Bahá’í Faith. As early as 1925, the religious court
of Beba, Egypt, issued the following decision: “The Bahá’í Faith is a new religion, entirely
independent, with beliefs, principles and laws of its own, which differ from, and are utterly in
conflict with, the beliefs, principles and laws of Islam. No Bahá’í, therefore, can be regarded a
Muslim or vice-versa, even as no Buddhist, Brahmin, or Christian can be regarded as Muslim or
vice-versa.” (Cited by Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 365.)
For a study of the relationship of the Bahá’í religion with Islam, see Udo Schaefer, “The Bahá’í
Faith and Islam,” in The Light Shineth in Darkness: Five Studies in Revelation after Christ, pp. 113-
132. As to the question of the Bahá’í Faith being a “sect” (above), see Schaefer’s discussion of this
question as it pertains to the model of the religious sect constructed by its modern fathers, Weber and
Troeltsch, in this essay, pp. 113-114.Schaefer, in the course of this discussion, remarks: “The Bahá’í
Faith, according to its own interpretation, does not aim to be a reform or a restoration of Islam, but
rather claims its origin in a new act of God, in a new outpouring of the divine spirit and in a new
divine covenant. The foundation of belief and of law is the new divine word revealed by Bahá’u’lláh.
This is why the Bahá’í is not a Muslim.” (Ibid., p. 114.)
8 Under the Pahlavis (1925-1979), the ancient name Iran replaced the designation Persia. This text
has used “Persia” in describing events of the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, and “Iran” in
reference to more recent ones.
9 “All men have been created to carry forward an ever-advancing civilization.” (Bahá’u’lláh,
Gleanings, p. 215.)
10 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, p. 217. For a discussion of this subject, see Juan Ricardo Cole, The
Concept of Manifestation in the Bahá’í Writings.
11 Why this attribution of orthodoxy to the Sunni branch of Islam should have been so fostered by
non-Muslim authors is itself a question of some significance. The most frequently cited reason for it
stems from the fact that, for a long time, Shiah Islam was simply unheard of in the West because of
the geographic remoteness of its major centers from Europe and the European colonies established
during the Crusades. For the Shiah point of view, see Ṭabáṭabá’í, Shi’ite Islam, pp. 9-16. A more
complete discussion is in Seyyed Hossein Nasr, Ideals and Realities of Islam.
12 For a brief but excellent introduction to the themes of pre-Islamic Iranian religion, see Geo.
Widengren, “Iranian Religion,” in Encyclopedia Britannica, pp. 867–872.
13 For recent scholarship on this doctrine, see Vaḥíd Ráfatí, The Development of Shaykhí Thought in
Shí‘i Islam, and Henri Corbin, En Islam iranieni aspects spirituels et philosophiques, vol. 4.

14 See, for example, Whitney R. Cross, The Burned-over District, and Ira V. Brown, “Watchers for
the Second Coming, the Millennial Tradition in America” in Mississippi Valley Historical Review,
vol. 39, no. 3 (1952), pp. 441–458.
15 It has been argued, usually by opponents of the Bahá’í Faith, that the Báb’s initial successes
encouraged him to move from modest claims to more ambitious ones. This clearly is not correct. The
statement made by the Báb in first disclosing his claim to Mullá Ḥusayn describes himself not only
as the Messenger of God, but specifically as the “Remembrance of God” and the “Proof of God,”
titles which unequivocally referred to the long-expected advent of the Hidden Imam. That his
audacious claim was understood by both his followers and the Muslim clergy was at once made clear.
One of the first of those to accept the Báb, Mullá ‘Alíy-i-Basṭámí, left Persia almost immediately
upon accepting the Báb in 1844, taking with him a copy of the Qayyúmu’l-Asmá’, and was arrested
on a charge of heresy shortly after his arrival in neighboring Baghdad. In January 1845, he was
formally condemned on this charge by an edict (fatvá) of the assembled Shiah and Sunni clergy. The
condemnation was based on his belief in one who claimed to be the source of a revelation like that of
the Qur’án, and the Báb as author was also condemned. For a full discussion of the subject, see
Muḥammad Afnán and William S. Hatcher, “Western Islamic Scholarship and Bahá’í Origins,” in
Religion, vol. 15 (1985).
16 See Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh: Selected Letters, pp. 123-128.
17 The four principal sources used for the history of the Bábí religion are Shoghi Effendi, God
Passes By; Hasan Balyuzi, The Báb: The Herald of the Day of Days; Nabíl-i-A‘ẓam (Muḥammad-i-
Zarandí), The Dawn-Breakers: Nabíl’s Narrative of the Early Days of the Bahá’í Revelation; and
Joseph Arthur, Comte de Gobineau, Les Religions et les Philosophies dans l’Asie Centrale.
18 Hamid Algar, Religion and State in Iran, 1784-1906, p. 19.
19 Gobineau said of Muhammad Shah and his chief minister: “Muhammad Shah, of whom I have
already spoken, was a prince with quite a special disposition—one which is quite common in Asia
but which Europeans have hardly seen, let alone understood.... His health had always been
deplorable; gouty to the last degree, he suffered continual pain and had very little relief from it. His
character which was naturally weak, had become melancholy and, as he was in great need of
affection but seldom experienced feelings of this kind within his family among his wives and
children, he concentrated all his affection on the old mulla, his tutor. He made him his only friend, his
confidant, then his all-powerful prime minister, and finally, with no exaggeration, his god.... The
Ḥájí, for his part, was a god of a very special kind. It is not absolutely certain that he did not himself
believe what Muhammad Shah was convinced of. In all situations, he professed the same general
principles as the king, and had in good faith instilled them into him.” (Les Religions et les
Philosophies, pp. 160-162, author’s own translation.)
20 Nicolas writes: “An anecdote shows which sentiments the prime minister obeyed when he
determined the will of the Shah. Prince Farhád Mírzá, still a young man, was the pupil of Ḥájí Mírzá

Áqásí. He further related: ‘One day as I was strolling with him in the garden and he seemed in a good
mood, I went so far as to ask him, “Ḥájí, why did you send the Báb to Máh-Kú?” He replied, “you
are still young and there are certain things you cannot understand, but you should know that if he had
come to Tehran, you and I would not be walking about at this moment free from all care in these
shady surroundings.”” (Siyyid ‘Alí-Muḥammad, Dit le Báb, cited in Nabíl-i-A‘ẓam The Dawn-
Breakers, pp. 231-232.)
21 See Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 21. Balyuzi provides a detailed description of the trial in
The Báb, pp. 139-145. See also Browne, A Traveller’s Narrative, pp. 277-290.
22 Caning on the soles of the feet as punishment or torture.
23 Cited in Balyuzi, The Báb, pp. 146-147.
24 For a full discussion of this subject, see Muḥammad Afnán and William S. Hatcher, “Western
Islamic Scholarship and Bahá’í Origins.”
25 Fragmentary early accounts by Western commentators in Persia repeat many of these stories
gleaned, it must be assumed, from the Muslim contacts on whom these observers were almost
entirely dependent for their understanding of the Persian language and their interpretation of religious
issues in the country. Momen has brought together (The Bábí and Bahá’í Religions, pp. 3-17) a
number of these reports, which include references to rebellion, nihilism, atheism, and community of
wives and property. It was only after scholarly study by Gobineau, Browne, Nicolas, and others who
could communicate directly with followers of the new faith, that these impressions were corrected.
26 Gobineau wrote: “A change of reign is always a very critical time in Central Asia. In Persia, in
Turkestan, in the Arab States, a period of anarchy sets in which can last for a long time, which takes
on a rather violent and turbulent character, but which always manages to keep law enforcement in
abeyance, according to the principle that the will of the sovereign has, for a greater or lesser period,
disappeared.... It is a watch which has stopped; the springs are not and should not be changed; but,
until it is wound up again by hand, it no longer works.
“Moreover, there are many passions and interests to arouse, stir up, and fan the flame of general
discord. If there are several claimants to the throne, they want disorder so as to increase their chances
of success and find themselves active supporters.” (Les Religions et les Philosophies, pp. 175-176,
author’s own translation.)
27 See Nabíl-i-A’ẓam, (Muḥammad-i-Zarandí), The Dawn-Breakers: Nabíl’s Narrative of the Early
Days of the Bahá’í Revelation.
28 See Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 47.
29 Several Western diplomatic representatives sought, unsuccessfully, to dissuade the prime minister
from his course, arguing that persecution could only further spread the teachings he feared. (See
Momen, The Bábí and Bahá’í Religions, pp. 71-72, 103.)
30 Cited in Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 52.

31 Momen, Bábí and Bahá’í Religions, (pp. 77-82) has brought together a number of eyewitness
accounts of the event, transmitted by Western commentators.
32 Cited in Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 53.
33 A. L. M. Nicolas, Siyyid ‘Alí-Muḥammad, Dit le Báb, cited in Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p.
55, author’s own translation.
34 Cited in Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 65. The Russian ambassador, Prince Dolgorukov, who
likewise witnessed these cruelties, denounced them in a personal interview with the shah as
“barbarous practices” which “did not even exist among the most savage nations.” The British chargé
d’affaires likewise protested to the Persian authorities against practices which “Her Majesty’s
Government had imagined to be confined to the barbarous tribes of ...Africa.” (Momen, Bábí and
Bahá’í Religions, pp. 100-101).
35 Cited in Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 65.
36 A French translation of the Bayán, Le Béyan Persan, was made by A. L. M. Nicolas, consular
representative of the government of France, who spent considerable time in Persia.
37 E. G. Browne, A Literary History of Persia, pp. 415-416.
38 Cited in Nabíl, The Dawn-Breakers, pp. 92-94. This is the source of the story, circulated by
Muslim opponents of the new faith, that a Bábí state would destroy all books. Once the separation
from Shiah Islam had been accomplished, Bahá’u’lláh rescinded bans of this type (see pages 76-77).
39 Qur’án, 3:104. See also 2:143.
40 The extent of this regression can be seen in the regime established in Iran by the Islamic Republic
after 1979, in which full effect was given to the Shiah Mullas’ conceptions of human nature and
human society.
41 Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, Foreword, p. xvii. See also pp. 24-25.
42 Shoghi Effendi, The Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 8. For more complete texts of statements the
Báb made on this subject, see the Báb, Selections from the Writings of the Báb, pp. 3-8 and pp. 153-
168.
43 Cited in Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 101.
44 For a retrospective view of the significance of the Báb’s mission, see Douglas Martin, “The
Mission of the Báb,” Bahá’í World, vol. 3 (1994-1995).
45 The principal authority used for the events of the life and mission of Mírzá Ḥusayn ‘Alí, known as
Bahá’u’lláh, is Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, chapters 5-8. A major biography has also been
written by H. M. Balyuzi, Bahá’u’lláh. Another valuable source is the series of studies of the
writings of Bahá’u’lláh produced by Adib Taherzadeh, The Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh, vols. 1-4.

46 The family was descended from one of the great dynasties of Persia’s pre-Islamic period of high
culture, the Sásáníán. Balyuzi, Bahá’u’lláh, pp. 9-11, provides details.
47 For a detailed report of the events of the conference see Nabíl-i-A’ẓam, The Dawn-Breakers, pp.
292-298.
48 Nabíl-i-A’ẓam, The Dawn-Breakers, p. 505.
49 Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 100.
50 See Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, pp. 77-78.
51 Edward G. Browne, “Bábísm” in Religious Systems of the World, pp. 352-353.
52 The Persian government’s own account, published in the official gazette, Rúznámiy-i-Vaqáyi‘-i-
Ittifáqíyyih, naively admits the innocence of Bahá’u’lláh and several other persons who had been
arbitrarily arrested, but states that they will be punished anyway: “Among the Bábís who have fallen
into the hands of justice there are six whose culpability not having been well established have been
condemned to perpetual imprisonment.” Bahá’u’lláh’s name is the second listed in the gazette
statement. (Momen, Bábí and Bahá’í Religions, p. 141.) Equally representative of conditions in
nineteenth-century Persia is the satisfaction the statement takes in describing the barbarous tortures
practiced on those victims who had been executed.
53 Mírzá Taqí Khán, the prime minister who had taken the lead in the anti-Bahá’í pogroms, had
himself been executed in 1853 at the order of the young shah, who was jealous of his growing power.
This was a not-infrequent fate of able administrators in the Qájár period of Persian history.
54 Cited in Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 101.
55 Cited in Shoghi Effendi, World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, pp. 146-147.
56 Even so, the order banishing Bahá’u’lláh from Persia (the original of which has survived)
mentions him alone, making no reference to Mírzá Yaḥyá.
57 See Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, chapters 7 and 10. See also ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, A Traveler’s
Narrative, p. 53.
58 See Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, chapter 10; Balyuzi, Bahá’u’lláh, pp. 112-114.
59 The Feast of Riḍván lasts twelve days, from April 21 to May 2, with the first, ninth, and twelfth
days being regarded as Bahá’í holy days. Bahá’í elections are held during this period.
60 The Turkish authorities at first resisted this pressure. ‘Alí Páshá, the prime minister, is quoted by
the Austrian ambassador, Count von Prokesch-Osten, as saying he had “great veneration” for
Bahá’u’lláh, considering him to be a “man of great distinction, exemplary conduct, great moderation
and a most dignified figure” (Momen, Bábí and Bahá’í Religions, p. 187).
61 For examples of the correspondence on the Bahá’í exiles between the Persian Foreign Office and
their ambassador in Istanbul, see Edward G. Browne, Materials for the Study of the Bábí Religion,

pp. 278-287.
62 See Adib Taherzadeh, Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh, vol. 2, pp. 161-162.
63 See Taherzadeh, Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh, vol. 1. Those who followed Mírzá Yaḥyá became
known as “Azalís” after a designation given to Yaḥyá by the Báb, Ṣubḥ-i-Azal.
64 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, p. 249. Bahá’u’lláh’s letters to the secular and religious leaders of the
world, both collectively and individually, have been compiled by the Universal House of Justice as
The Summons of the Lord of Hosts: Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh (Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 2002).
65 Momen, Bábí and Bahá’í Religions (pp. 198-200) lists a number of documents in the Ottoman
State Archives which relate to this campaign by Mírzá Yaḥyá. One of them is a report to the central
authorities from Khurshíd Páshá, the governor of Adrianople, who expresses the view that
Bahá’u’lláh had just cause to complain of the activities of Yaḥyá and his supporters.
66 Yaḥyá died in 1912, still an exile in Cyprus. The complete extinction of his fortunes is reflected in
a letter written to Professor Browne by one of Yaḥyá’s sons. Describing his father as bitterly
deploring the oblivion into which he had fallen, the son complained that it had been necessary to
arrange for Yaḥyá the customary Muslim burial under the direction of a local mulla, as “none were to
be found there of witnesses to the Bayán” (i.e., followers of the Báb). This same son subsequently
indicated his interest in selling the originals of a number of his father’s writings, but Browne declined
because “the prices demanded were, in my opinion, excessive…” (E. G. Browne, Materials, pp. 314-
315.)
67 Cited in Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 190.
68 Cited in Bahá’u’lláh, Proclamation of Bahá’u’lláh, pp. 95-96.
69 Cited in Shoghi Effendi, Promised Day Is Come, ¶163.
70 In 1870, the year after the above-mentioned letter to Pope Pius IX was delivered, the pontiff found
himself stripped of his role as an independent monarch. The forces of the Italian national revolution
compelled him to surrender the Papal States to King Victor Emmanuel. The pope then withdrew into
self-imposed retirement as the “prisoner of the Vatican.”
71 Cited in Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Bahá’í World Faith, p. 50.
72 Alistair Horne, a leading scholarly authority on the events referred to, said, “History knows of
perhaps no more startling instance of what the Greeks called peripateia, the terrible fall from prideful
heights. Certainly, no nation in modern times, so replete with apparent grandeur and opulent in
material achievement, has ever been subjected to a worse humiliation in so short a time.” (The Fall of
Paris London: Macmillan, 1965, p. 34.)
73 Shoghi Effendi devoted an entire book to this subject, The Promised Day Is Come. A prominent
Muslim academic who was to become the greatest scholar of the Bahá’í Faith in the Near East, Mírzá
Abu’l-Faḍl, was converted on seeing the fulfillment of these predictions.

74 See Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, p. 303. For a brief résumé of the contents of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, see
Bahá’u’lláh, A Synopsis and Codification of the Laws and Ordinances of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas.
75 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, p. 330.
76 Browne, A Traveller’s Narrative, pp. xxxix-xl.
77 For the full text of the documents involved, see Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Bahá’í World
Faith: Selected Writings of Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, pp. 204-210. This quotation is on p. 205.
78 Browne, A Traveller’s Narrative, p. xxxvi.
79 The details of the life of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá are taken from Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, chapters
14-21, and also from a biography by H. M. Balyuzi titled ‘Abdu’l-Bahá: The Centre of the Covenant
of Bahá’u’lláh.
80 Cited in Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 258.
81 Cited in Shoghi Effendi, World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 139.
82 The Bahá’í Centenary, 1844-1944, p. 139.
83 Browne, Materials, pp. 115-150.
84 See ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, sections 1 and 5 in particular. Christian
missionaries opposed to the Bahá’í Faith sought to argue that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá had added these social
teachings in consequence of his contact with the West. Browne, however, had already identified most
of them in the writings of Bahá’u’lláh as early as the 1880s (see Browne, “Bábísm,” pp. 351-352).
Since then, the translation and publication of major sections of Bahá’u’lláh’s writings have
demonstrated convincingly that it was from this source that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá drew his themes.
85 Green Acre served as the principal center of the Bahá’í Faith in North America until the election
of the first national spiritual assembly in 1925. The assembly established its headquarters at
Wilmette, Illinois, a suburb of Chicago and site of the house of worship which ‘Abdu’l-Bahá had
inaugurated.
86 For a more complete description of his visit to Canada and the United States and the collected
addresses and interviews given there, see ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in Canada; Balyuzi, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá; and Allan
L. Ward, 239 Days: ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Journey in America.
87 Montreal Star, September 11, 1912. See pp. 142-143.
88 The public addresses of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in North America are compiled under the title The
Promulgation of Universal Peace: Talks Delivered by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá during His Visit to the United
States and Canada in 1912.
89 An English translation of this document is ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.
90 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Tablets of the Divine Plan: Revealed by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá to the North American
Bahá’ís.

91 For a complete description, see the special commemorative issue of World Order, vol. 6, no. 1
(1971). The outpouring of love from the Palestinian people is especially significant. The Shiah
regime in present-day Iran has sought to picture ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s knighting by the British authorities
as having a political meaning. In fact, it was a belated and formal recognition by the British
authorities of a philanthropy that had already received its principal acknowledgment from the mass of
the public who were its beneficiaries.
92 Shoghi Effendi was a direct descendant of Bahá’u’lláh through his mother and of the family of the
Báb through his father.
93 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, pp. 25-26.
94 For a detailed study of the work of Shoghi Effendi, see Rúḥíyyih Rabbaní, The Priceless Pearl.
See also Ugo Giachery, Shoghi Effendi: Recollections. Dr. Giachery worked closely with Shoghi
Effendi on the physical development of the Bahá’í World Centre in Haifa.
95 See Bahá’í Administration; The Advent of Divine Justice; The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh:
Selected Letters; Messages to the Bahá’í World, 1950-1957; The Promised Day Is Come; Messages
to Canada; and Citadel of Faith: Messages to America, 1947-1957.
96 Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By. For a description of Plans, see below.
97 His translations include Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh; The Kitáb-i-Íqán: The Book
of Certitude; The Hidden Words; The Seven Valleys and The Four Valleys; Epistle to the Son of the
Wolf; and Prayers and Meditations.
98 Cited in Shoghi Effendi, Citadel of Faith, p. 30.
99 For an account of the queen’s conversion, see Rúḥíyyih Rabbaní, Priceless Pearl, Chapter IV.
100 The two communities separated in 1948 when Canada formed its own national spiritual
assembly, incorporated the following year by a special act of Parliament.
101 See Shoghi Effendi, Advent of Divine Justice, pp. 14-16.
102 Shoghi Effendi, Messages to Canada, pp. 12-13.
103 Louis J. Bourgeois, The Bahá’í Temple: Press Comments, Symbolism, p. 7.
104 See the Universal House of Justice, Messages from the Universal House of Justice, 1963-1986,
nos. 23 and 25.
105 A summary of the actions taken by the Hands of the Cause during the period of their
stewardship, 1957-1963, together with the full text of statements made at their annual Conclaves, is
provided in The Bahá’í World: An International Record, vol. 13, 1954-1963, pp. 333-378.
106 Subsequent elections of the Universal House of Justice have been held at five-year intervals
since 1963. The election is held during the period of the Riḍván celebrations.

107 A further attempt to create a schism occurred in 1960, before the first election of the Universal
House of Justice. One of the Hands, Charles Mason Remey, an American over eighty years of age,
suddenly advanced the claim that he was, in some fashion not explained, “the hereditary successor”
of Shoghi Effendi. Acting on the authority given them in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Will and Testament, his
fellow Hands expelled him from the Faith. Remey’s claim aroused little interest and he died in 1974,
ignored even by the small handful of people whom he had originally attracted.
108 In 1973, at the same time as the publication of the initial Synopsis and Codification of the Kitáb-
i-Aqdas: The Most Holy Book of Bahá’u’lláh, the Universal House of Justice promulgated its
constitution: The Constitution of the Universal House of Justice.
109 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, pp. 64-65.
110 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, pp. 261-262.
111 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, p. 65.
112 According to Bahá’í precepts, apparent differences between ethnic groups in certain areas of
cultural achievement are attributable to long-term differences in educational and cultural
opportunities as well as to the cumulative effects of racial prejudice and oppression.
113 Shoghi Effendi, World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, pp. 42-43.
114 Shoghi Effendi, quoted in William Hatcher, The Concept of Spirituality, p. 29.
115 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, p. 288.
116 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, p. 250.
117 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, 225.23-225.25.
118 Shoghi Effendi, World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 163.
119 Shoghi Effendi, World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 202.
120 Shoghi Effendi, World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, pp. 163-164.
121 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, p. 340.
122 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, pp. 287-288.
123 Bahá’u’lláh taught that the time interval between two Manifestations may be about one thousand
years. He also taught that the process of revelation will not stop with his revelation and that another
Manifestation will come after him, though not before the expiration of one thousand years from
Bahá’u’lláh’s coming. According to the Bahá’í writings, the process of revelation will continue
indefinitely into the future, and humankind will see the coming of a great many more Manifestations.
124 Shoghi Effendi, “The Faith of Bahá’u’lláh,” in World Order, vol. 7, no. 2 (1972-1973), p. 7.
125 Shoghi Effendi, World Order of Bahá’u’lláh (1944), pp. xi-xii.
126 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Paris Talks, 40.9.

127 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Paris Talks, 41.7.
128 Bahá’u’lláh, Hidden Words, Arabic, no. 68.
129 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 181.
130 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Paris Talks, 44.14.
131 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Paris Talks, 44.26.
132 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, cited in Star of the West, vol. 9, no. 7, p. 87.
133 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 108.
134 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Paris Talks, 46.11.
135 Bahá’u’lláh, Hidden Words, Persian, no. 64.
136 Bahá’u’lláh, Hidden Words, Persian, no. 49.
137 Bahá’u’lláh, cited in a letter from the Universal House of Justice dated March 27, 1978, The
Continental Boards of Counselors, p. 60.
138 Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Divine Art of Living, p. 108.
139 A detailed discussion of the Bahá’í position on economic questions is beyond the scope of the
present work. The interested reader is referred to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s statements on the subject. See
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Promulgation of Universal Peace, pp. 107, 216-217, 238-239; Paris Talks, no. 46;
‘Abdu’l-Bahá in Canada, pp. 31-36; Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Bahá’í World Faith, p. 288;
Gregory C. Dahl, “Economics & the Bahá’í Teachings” in World Order, vol. 10, no. 1 (1975), p. 19;
W. S. Hatcher, “Economics and Moral Values” in World Order, vol. 9, no. 2 (1974), pp. 14-27.
140 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 238.
141 Shoghi Effendi, World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, pp. 33-34.
142 There is an interesting historical connection between the Bahá’í Faith and Esperanto, the
language invented by Dr. Zamenhof. Dr. Zamenhof’s daughter, Lydia, was an active member of the
Bahá’í Faith, and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá praised her father for his accomplishment. While never stating that
Esperanto would become the universal language, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá did say it would significantly aid the
cause of world unity. At the very least, the successful invention of a viable language like Esperanto
shows that such a thing is possible, and thus that humankind is not limited to making a choice from
among the existing natural languages alone. This fact may serve to decrease resistance to the idea of
a universal language, regardless of what language, natural or constructed, may ultimately be chosen
by the nations of the world.
143 In this way, Bahá’ís feel that a universal auxiliary language will foster unity by facilitating
communication, while, at the same time, it will give universal access to the cultural wealth of
minority cultures—and, in fact, will preserve and protect them. This is a typical example of

Bahá’u’lláh’s way of promoting unity in diversity rather than mere uniformity for the sake of
convenience.
144 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Promulgation of Universal Peace, pp. 403, 404, 405.
145 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, p. 70.
146 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, p. 65.
147 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, pp. 264-265, 266.
148 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, p. 68.
149 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, pp. 79-80.
150 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, p. 215
151 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, pp. 153-155.
152 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, pp. 155-156.
153 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Paris Talks, 29.13.
154 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, pp. 81-82.
155 Shoghi Effendi, quoted in William Hatcher, The Concept of Spirituality, p. 9.
156 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 183.
157 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, pp. 183-184.
158 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Paris Talks, 29.4, 29.5, 29.10. However, there are inherent limits to human
spiritual development, whether in this world or the next. The Bahá’í writings affirm that we can
approach but never attain a state of absolute perfection. See our discussion below, in particular the
passage from the Bahá’í writings cited in note 32 of this chapter.
159 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, in Divine Art of Living, p. 92.
160 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 215.
161 Bahá’u’lláh explained that references to Satan in the scriptures of earlier religions are symbolic
and should not be taken literally. Satan is the personification of our lower nature which can destroy
us if it is not brought into harmony with our spiritual nature. There is, in fact, a well-known
philosophical problem concerning God’s goodness and omnipotence and the possible existence of a
Satan. This problem is discussed in some detail in both the writings of Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá.
In the same way, heaven and hell are, Bahá’u’lláh taught, not literal places. Rather, they
symbolize the psychological and spiritual states of being close to God or far from him. Heaven is the
natural consequence of spiritual progress, while hell represents the results of failure to progress
spiritually.
162 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, pp. 214-215.

163 In this connection, Bahá’u’lláh has said: “... man should know his own self and recognize that
which leadeth into loftiness or lowliness, glory or abasement, wealth or poverty.” (Bahá’u’lláh,
Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 35.)
164 Bahá’u’lláh, Kitáb-i-Aqdas, ¶1.
165 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, pp. 4-5.
166 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, p. 285.
167 An objective discussion of this fundamental question of the nature of what Bahá’ís refer to as the
Manifestation of God is made more difficult by traditional loyalties. Orthodox followers of each
Manifestation have tended to claim some kind of uniqueness or superiority for the founder of their
faith. For example, many Christians view Jesus Christ as God incarnate, consider Moses to be
inferior to him in some way, and regard Muhammad as an impostor. A majority of orthodox Jews see
Moses as the revelation of God to humanity and consider Jesus Christ to be a false prophet. Muslims
consider both Moses and Jesus Christ to be valid prophets, but the majority reject the Buddha and the
founders of other major faiths. For them, Muhammad was the last prophet whom God will send to
humanity, and revelation of the Divine Will ended with the Qur’án.
168 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, pp. 47-48. For a detailed discussion of this subject, see Juan R. Cole,
The Concept of Manifestation in the Bahá’í Writings.
169 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, pp. 287-288.
170 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, p. 59.
171 The analogy of the sun and the mirrors enables us to understand the Bahá’í interpretation of the
traditional notion of the “return” or “reappearance” of former Manifestations. The theme of return is
found in the sacred scriptures of all the major religions, often couched in highly symbolic language.
Western readers will be most familiar with the Christian expectation of the return or “Second
Coming” of Christ, based on certain passages of the Old and New Testaments of the Bible.
Bahá’u’lláh explains that the return alluded to in former scriptures is the return of the attributes and
spirit of God in the mirror of another Manifestation, not the return of the same human personality: “It
is clear and evident ... that all the Prophets are the Temples of the Cause of God, Who have appeared
clothed in divers attire. If thou wilt observe with discriminating eyes, thou wilt behold Them all
abiding in the same tabernacle, soaring in the same heaven, seated upon the same throne, uttering the
same speech, and proclaiming the same Faith…. Wherefore, should one of these Manifestations of
Holiness proclaim saying: ‘I am the return of all the Prophets,’ He, verily, speaketh the truth. In like
manner, in every subsequent Revelation, the return of the former Revelation is a fact, the truth of
which is firmly established....” (Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, p. 52) In this way, Bahá’ís consider that the
Manifestation Bahá’u’lláh fulfills the promise of the return of Christ, even though Bahá’u’lláh and
Jesus have distinct individual souls and, therefore, distinct human personalities.
172 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, pp. 151-152.

173 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 154.
174 Shoghi Effendi, High Endeavours: Messages to Alaska, p. 71.
175 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, pp. 157-159. This passage makes clear that God’s
laws are inherent in the structure of reality: the Manifestation understands these laws but did not
create them. Man can therefore discover some of these laws for himself, but other statements in the
Bahá’í writings indicate that we would destroy ourselves if left unaided (i.e., without Divine
Revelation) to discover all of them.
176 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, pp. 230, 231.
177 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 164.
178 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, pp. 220-221.
179 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, pp. 177, 179.
180 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, p. 49.
181 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, pp. 49-50.
182 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, pp. 105-106.
183 In this connection, Shoghi Effendi spoke of the Manifestation of Bahá’u’lláh as the “complete
incarnation of the names and attributes of God.” (See World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 112.)
184 In this regard, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá said. “The knowledge of the Reality of the Divinity is impossible
and unattainable, but the knowledge of the Manifestations of God is the knowledge of God, for the
bounties, splendors and divine attributes are apparent in Them. Therefore, if man attains to the
knowledge of the Manifestations of God, he will attain to the knowledge of God; and if he be
neglectful of the knowledge of the Holy Manifestations, he will be bereft of the knowledge of God.”
(See Some Answered Questions, p. 222.)
185 The subject of the succession of the Manifestations is the principal theme of the Kitáb-i-Íqán
(Book of Certitude). The concept of a covenant can be found in the scriptures of many religions. For
example, in the Bible, Genesis 17 describes God’s covenant with Abraham, saying that the latter
would become “the father of a multitude of nations.” The passage continues: “I will make you
exceedingly fruitful; and I will make nations of you and kings shall come forth from you. And I will
establish my covenant between me and you and your descendants after you throughout their
generations for an everlasting covenant, to be God to you and to your descendants after you”
(Genesis 17:6-7).
It is now evident that the covenant in question was not for the Jews and Christians alone (i.e., the
descendants of Abraham through his son, Isaac, by his first wife, Sarah), but was also for the
descendants of Abraham’s marriages to Hagar (see Genesis 16:15-16) and Keturah (see Genesis
25:1-2). As the Prophet Muhammad was descended from Ishmael, the son of Abraham and Hagar
(see Genesis 25:5-6), Muslims regard themselves co-heirs of the covenant of Abraham. Bahá’u’lláh

was descended from Abraham by the patriarch’s third wife, Keturah (see Shoghi Effendi, God Passes
By, p. 94). Thus Bahá’ís regard the covenant of Abraham as the motive force in the appearance of at
least five major Messengers of God: Moses and Jesus Christ (through Sarah, by Isaac), Muhammad
and the Báb (through Hagar, by Ishmael), and Bahá’u’lláh (through Keturah).
186 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, p. 331.
187 Bahá’u’lláh, cited by Shoghi Effendi in World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 116.
188 Bahá’u’lláh, Kitáb-i-Aqdas, ¶37.
189 Bahá’í scholars note that there are also references to the “Lesser Covenant” in the scriptures of
other faiths. In Deuteronomy 29:10-13, Moses made a “sworn covenant” with his followers, the
people of Israel, that God would be their protector and defender if they in turn would be “his people”
and obey his laws. An analogous pattern exists in the New Testament, evidenced in the promises
which Jesus gave to his followers that, if they obeyed his teachings, they would receive certain
powers and blessings. Christians were commanded, for example, to “go forth and teach all nations,”
“to observe all that I have commanded you.” In return, they were promised: “Ask, and it will be
given to you; seek and you shall find; knock, and it will be opened to you” (see Matthew 7:7-8 and
28:19-20).
190 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, p. 136.
191 Bahá’u’lláh said that: “When the ocean of My presence hath ebbed and the Book of My
Revelation is ended, turn your faces towards Him ‘Abdu’l-Bahá  Whom God hath purposed, Who
hath branched from this Ancient Root.” “... refer ye whatsoever ye understand not in the Book to
Him....” “The object of this sacred verse is none other except the Most Mighty Branch (‘Abdu’l-
Bahá).” (Cited by Shoghi Effendi in World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 134.)
192 Shoghi Effendi, World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 134.
193 Warren Wagar, The City of Man, p. 117.
194 Shoghi Effendi summarized the principal features of the Administrative Order in World Order of
Bahá’u’lláh, pp. 143-157.
195 The Universal House of Justice, Messages from the Universal House of Justice, 1963-1986,
23.19.
196 In his Will and Testament, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá said: “Unto the Most Holy Book every one must turn
and all that is not expressly recorded therein must be referred to the Universal House of Justice. That
which this body, whether unanimously or by majority doth carry, that is verily the Truth and the
Purpose of God Himself…. Whatsoever they decide has the same effect as the Text itself. And
inasmuch as this House of Justice hath power to enact laws that are not expressly recorded in the
Book and bear upon daily transactions, so also it hath power to repeal the same” (‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Will
and Testament, pp. 19, 20).
197 Shoghi Effendi, World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 145.

198 Shoghi Effendi, World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, pp. 203-204.
199 This traditional view has created some difficulty for modern exponents of what is termed “social
Christianity.” Beginning early in the twentieth century, a number of prominent Christian thinkers
developed the outlines of what they referred to as a “social Gospel,” in which the coming of the
Kingdom of God was interpreted as the creation of a just and peaceful society on earth. The effort
foundered on the opposing argument of traditional Christian thinkers that the Kingdom could be
established only through the return of Christ himself. Efforts toward social reform, in their view,
however beneficial, could not claim to represent anything more than humankind’s imperfect striving
after improvement. The controversy has been reawakened in our time through the controversy
between orthodox circles in the Christian Church and liberal elements influenced by the Marxist
diagnosis of the contemporary social condition.
Bahá’ís feel that the conflict is the result of a misunderstanding – on both sides. Since, according
to Bahá’í belief, Christ has returned in the Manifestation of Bahá’u’lláh, the worldwide movement
toward the building of a new society founded on humanitarian pursuits of improving the social
condition for humanity as a whole does represent the gradual establishment of the Kingdom of God
on earth through the active participation of its inhabitants.
200 See Shoghi Effendi, Promised Day Is Come, ¶6.
201 Shoghi Effendi, Promised Day Is Come, ¶6.
202 Quoted in Shoghi Effendi, Promised Day Is Come, ¶7.
203 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, p. 254.
204 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Secret of Divine Civilization, pp. 64-65.
205 See ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, 15.7. The Universal House of
Justice explains, in a letter of 29 July 1996 written on its behalf, that “the emergence of the Lesser
Peace will be a gradual process.”
206 Shoghi Effendi, Promised Day Is Come, ¶301.
207 Shoghi Effendi, World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 19.
208 Shoghi Effendi, Promised Day Is Come, ¶301, 302.
209 Shoghi Effendi, Promised Day Is Come, ¶302.
210 For example, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá said that “These Spiritual Assemblies are shining lamps and
heavenly gardens from which the fragrances of holiness are diffused over all regions.... From them
the spirit of light streameth in every direction. They, indeed, are the potent sources of the progress of
man….” (Cited by Shoghi Effendi in God Passes By, p. 332.)
211 For an introduction to the subject of the nature and function of Bahá’í spiritual assemblies, see
Adib Taherzadeh, Trustees of the Merciful.

212 For a more detailed examination, see the various compilations of the writings of Shoghi Effendi
on the subject of Bahá’í administration, including Principles of Bahá’í, Administration: A
Compilation; Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration: Selected Messages, 1922-32; The Local
Spiritual Assembly; and The National Spiritual Assembly.
213 Shoghi Effendi, Principles of Bahá’í Administration, p. 64.
214 The first election of the Universal House of Justice was held in April 1963.
215 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Will and Testament, pp. 12-13; also cited in Bahá’í World Faith, p. 444.
216 See a general statement by the Universal House of Justice dated June 24, 1968, and published in
Messages from the Universal House of Justice, 1963-1986, no. 59.
217 “Authority and direction flow from the Assemblies, whereas the power to accomplish the tasks
resides primarily in the entire body of the believers. It is the principal task of the Auxiliary Boards to
assist in arousing and releasing this power.” (Quoted from a letter of the Universal House of Justice
dated October 1, 1969, in The Continental Boards of Counselors, p. 37.)
218 See Continental Boards of Counselors, pp. 45-48.
219 Continental Boards of Counselors, p. 60.
220 See Bahá’í World, vol. 13, p. 751.
221 The four or five Intercalary Days are inserted into the Bahá’í calendar just prior to the final
month of the year, the month of the Fast, which begins on March 2 of each Gregorian-calendar year.
Besides the Feast days and the Intercalary Days, there are special Bahá’í holy days throughout the
year, on some of which work is suspended. Many of these holy days commemorate cardinal events in
the Faith’s early history, such as the birthdays of the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh.
222 See also chapter 9.
223 See Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, pp. 330-333, and pp. 335-336.
224 See ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Secret of Divine Civilization, pp. 94-99.
225 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, p. 332.
226 Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 213.
227 Bahá’u’lláh, Synopsis and Codification of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, p. 5.
228 Cited in Bahá’u’lláh, Synopsis and Codification, p. 7.
229 Opponents of the Bahá’í Faith, particularly those among Muslim and Christian clergy, have
attempted to suggest that by failing simply to translate and publish the text of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, the
leadership of the Bahá’í community had denied to the members of the community the opportunity to
follow Bahá’u’lláh’s injunction to “turn unto the Most Holy Book.” However, as has been noted,
Bahá’u’lláh was explicit in insisting that the only way in which his followers could turn to and follow
his teachings was through the interpretations of his authorized successor, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. ‘Abdu’l-

Bahá was equally explicit in conferring the sole interpretative authority after him upon Shoghi
Effendi. Throughout their respective ministries, for a period totaling sixty-five years, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
and Shoghi Effendi provided exhaustive interpretation of Bahá’u’lláh’s teachings for the guidance of
the Bahá’í community. Indeed, without this interpretation, it is impossible to imagine how the
principles and laws outlined in the Kitáb-i-Aqdas could have had so pervasive and widespread an
effect as has been achieved in only a few decades.
230 The Kitáb-i-Aqdas fixes the age of maturity at fifteen. It is upon reaching fifteen that the
individual believer assumes the full responsibility for his own spiritual life and development.
231 Bahá’í Prayers, p. 4.
232 See also Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Bahá’í World Faith, pp. 333-336, for a statement of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá on this subject.
233 During the Fast, Bahá’ís rise and eat breakfast before dawn. They then refrain from food or drink
until sunset of each day. The day often begins with family prayers, and the times which would
normally be spent preparing and eating meals during the daylight hours are frequently used for prayer
and meditation.
234 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, p. 265.
235 See A Fortress for Well-Being: Bahá’í Teachings on Marriage for a complete study of the Bahá’í
teachings related to marriage.
236 In his summons to the Christian clergy, Bahá’u’lláh said: “Say: O concourse of monks! Seclude
not yourselves in churches and cloisters. Come forth by My leave, and occupy yourselves with that
which will profit your souls and the souls of men…. Enter ye into wedlock, that after you someone
may fill your place. We have forbidden you perfidious acts, and not that which will demonstrate
fidelity. Have ye clung to the standards fixed by your own selves, and cast the standards of God
behind your backs? Fear God, and be not of the foolish. But for man, who would make mention of
Me on My earth, and how could My attributes and My name have been revealed?” (Cited by Shoghi
Effendi in Promised Day Is Come, ¶256.)
237 There are a number of statements in the Bahá’í writings on the subject of obedience to
government and of avoiding politics. See, for example, the Universal House of Justice, Messages
from the Universal House of Justice, 1963-1986, nos. 55, 77, and 173.
238 Cited by Shoghi Effendi in World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 203.
239 “In every country where any of this people reside, they must behave towards the government of
that country with loyalty, honesty and truthfulness.” (Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh revealed
after the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, pp. 22-23.)
240 Consultation: A Compilation, Extracts from the Writings and Utterances of Bahá’u’lláh,
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Shoghi Effendi, and the Universal House of Justice, p. 15.
241 Consultation, pp. 22-23.

242 Cited in Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration, pp. 22-23.
243 The Universal House of Justice, in Consultation, p. 21.
244 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, pp. 331-332.
245 Lewis Mumford, The City in History, p. 9.
246 The details of the expansion can be traced in The Bahá’í Faith, 1844-1952; as well as in The
Bahá’í World: A Biennial Record, vol. 7, 1936-1938; The Bahá’í World: A Biennial International
Record, vol. 8, 1938-1940; The Bahá’í World: A Biennial International Record, vol. 9, 1940-1944;
The Bahá’í World: A Biennial International Record, vol. 10, 1944-1946; The Bahá’í World: A
Biennial International Record, vol. 11, 1946-1950; The Bahá’í World: A Biennial International
Record, vol. 12, 1950-1954; The Bahá’í World: An International Record, vol. 13, 1954-1963; The
Bahá’í World: An International Record, vol. 14, 1963-1968; The Bahá’í World: An International
Record, vol. 15, 1968-1973; The Bahá’í World: An International Record, vol. 16, 1973-1976; The
Bahá’í World: An International Record, vol. 17, 1976-1979; The Bahá’í World: An International
Record, vol. 18, 1979-1983; The Bahá’í World: An International Record, vol. 19, 1983-1986; The
Bahá’í Faith, Statistical Information, 1844-1968; The Bahá’í World: An International Record, 1992-
1993; The Bahá’í World: An International Record, 1993-1994; The Bahá’í World: An International
Record, 1994-1995.
247 During the Seven-Year Plan (1979-1986), for example, the Bahá’í International Community
participated in well over 200 United Nations conferences, seminars, and meetings around the world.
248 THE BAHÁ’Í WORLD http://www.bahai.org
249 Cited in Louis Bourgeois, Un Homme et Son Oeuvre.
250 The details of the achievements of the five-year plan are outlined in The Five Year Plan, 1974-
1979: Statistical Report. Three successive plans covering the periods 1979 to 1986, 1986 to 1992,
and 1993 to 1996 were similarly successful in achieving the goals set out in them.
251 The Universal House of Justice, Messages from the Universal House of Justice, 1963-1986, 18.4.
252 See Bahá’í Education: A Compilation, Extracts from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá,
and Shoghi Effendi.
253 See the compilation titled The Individual and Teaching: Raising the Divine Call, Extracts from
the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, and Shoghi Effendi.
254 See Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, p. 277.
255 “If ye be aware of a certain truth, if ye possess a jewel, of which others are deprived, share it
with them in a language of utmost kindliness and good-will. If it be accepted, if it fulfil its purpose,
your object is attained. If anyone should refuse it, leave him unto himself, and beseech God to guide
him. Beware lest ye deal unkindly with him.” (Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, p. 289.)

256 The authors are indebted for this information to Mrs. Rúḥíyyih Rabbaní, widow of the late
Guardian of the Bahá’í Faith, whose mother organized the original firesides in Montreal. The
widespread use of the term no doubt owes much to its incorporation in the Guardian’s
correspondence.
257 See Bahá’í Funds and Contributions, p. 11.
258 The Bahá’í approach to financing the faith is summed up by the following passage in a letter
from Shoghi Effendi sent to the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United States in
1942: “We must be like the fountain or spring that is continually emptying itself of all that it has and
is continually being refilled from an invisible source. To be continually giving out for the good of our
fellows undeterred by the fear of poverty and reliant on the unfailing bounty of the Source of all
wealth and all good: this is the secret of right living.” (Cited in Bahá’í Funds and Contributions, p.
16. See also pp. 196-199.)
259 During the seven-year plan, international conferences were held in Montreal, Canada; Quito,
Ecuador; Lagos, Nigeria; Canberra, Australia; and Dublin, Ireland.
260 Shoghi Effendi discouraged the display of portraits of the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh, except during the
brief pilgrimage viewings, so as to avoid their becoming objects of veneration.
261 Bahá’u’lláh, Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, pp. 26-27.
262The achievement has had unexpected and unwelcome consequences during the political
upheavals in Iran. Representing so significant a segment of the educated classes, many Bahá’í
families had built successful careers in the civil service, the professions, and in business and industry.
This very prominence, however, attracted the hostility of revolutionary elements. With cruel irony,
the Bahá’ís found themselves accused of “profiting” from the former regime, despite the systematic
discrimination against them under the two Pahlavi shahs and despite their record of total abstention
from partisan politics.
263 The Iranian Bahá’ís have set an example for other communities with heavy pioneering
responsibilities by encouraging their youth to pursue courses of study which will make it especially
easy for them to find work in developing countries: in medicine, in nursing, in engineering, in
technical education, in agricultural sciences, and so forth.
264 In 1974 a group of Bahá’í students and university professors formed the Association for Bahá’í
Studies (ABS). It has since established the Centre for Bahá’í Studies in Ottawa, Canada, with
national affiliates around the world. The principal aim of the association is to develop courses and
resource materials for the study of the Bahá’í Faith in institutions of higher learning.
265 Cited by Arthur Dahl in “The Fragrance of Spirituality: An Appreciation of the Art of Mark
Tobey,” in The Bahá’í World, vol. 16, 1973-76, pp. 638-645. Tobey attracted another internationally
famous artist to the Faith, the British potter Bernard Leach.
266 Ibid., p. 644.

267 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, cited in Bahá’í Writings on Music, p. 7.
268 The Universal House of Justice, Messages from the Universal House of Justice, 19.4.
269 The Promise of World Peace: A Statement by The Universal House of Justice (Haifa: Bahá’í
World Centre, n.d.).
270 Promise of World Peace, pp. 1, 2, 3.
271 Promise of World Peace, pp. 3-4.
272 Promise of World Peace, p. 2.
273 Bahá’í International Community, Office of Public Information, Bahá’u’lláh, p. 1.
274 That is, where ‘Abdu’l-Bahá had proclaimed the Covenant during his 1912 visit. See p. 57
275 See pp. 156-164.
276 Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 213.
277 Comments here are based on articles by Douglas Martin, “The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, Its Place in Bahá’í
Literature,” and William Hatcher, “The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, The Causality Principle in the World of
Being,” in volumes 1 and 2, respectively, of the new Bahá’í World series.
278 Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 67.
279 Kitáb-i-Aqdas, pp. 4-5.
280 Kitáb-i-Aqdas, p. 10.
281 See pp. 157-158.
282 The law had been applied from the time of the faith’s inception to members of Bahá’í
communities in the Middle East.
283 See pp. 180-181.
284 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, in Ḥuqúqu’lláh: The Right of God, no. 61.
285 Ḥuqúqu’lláh, nos. 38 and 24.
286 See p. 67.
287 Toronto Daily Star, May 4, 1926.
288 See pp. 32-33.
289 See The Bahá’í Yearbook, vol. 1 (Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1980), p. 79.
290 See p. 226.
291 The Prosperity of Humankind, (New York: Bahá’í International Community, 1995).
292 Prosperity of Humankind, p. 2.
293 Prosperity of Humankind, p. 2.

294 Prosperity of Humankind, pp. 4-5.
295 Prosperity of Humankind, pp. 15, 16.
296 Prosperity of Humankind, pp. 16, 22.
297 Gleanings, pp. 15-16.
298 Shoghi Effendi selected the classical Greek style simply because of its Mediterranean origins and
because, he said, it had stood the test of time.
299 See p. 69.
300 Shoghi Effendi, Naw-Rúz message to the Bahá’ís of Persia, 1951, translated and published in
Mountain of the Lord: The Terraces and the Arc (Oakham, U.K: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1989).
301 Secret of Divine Civilization, pp. 64-65.
302 See pp. 142-144.
303 To mark the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations, the Bahá’í International Community
published a document titled Turning Point for All Nations (New York: Bahá’í International
Community, October 1995), setting out the Bahá’í prescription for the next stage in the organization’s
development.
304 Napoleon III, Kaiser Wilhelm I, Sulṭán ‘Abdu’l-‘Aziz, Pope Pius IX. See pp. 40-46.
305 Quoted in Shoghi Effendi, Promised Day Is Come, ¶3.
306 Gleanings, pp. 342-343.
307 Gleanings, p. 214.
308 Gleanings, pp. 6-7.
309 Bahá’u’lláh, Kitáb-i-Aqdas, ¶182.
310 Bahá’u’lláh, Kitáb-i-Íqán, pp. 192, 195-196, 199.
311 E. G. Browne, A Traveller’s Narrative, p. viii.
312 See, for example, E. Denison Ross, “Bábísm.” in Great Religions of the World, pp. 189-216.
Ross was a British orientalist and an academic friend of Browne.
313 Cited by E. G. Browne in his introduction to Myron H. Phelps, Life and Teachings of Abbas
Effendi, p. xiii, footnote 1.
314 See Introduction, footnote 1.
315 Cited in Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 365.
316 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Divine Art of Living, p. 91.
317 Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. xiii.

318 As the stories of Muhammad-‘Alí and Ibrahim Kheiralla (see chapter 4) indicate, the success of
the Bahá’í community in avoiding schism has not been due to any lack of attacks on its fundamental
unity. In addition to these two contemporaries of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, the history of the Bahá’í Faith since
the death of Bahá’u’lláh in 1892 has seen several attempts by prominent members of the Bahá’í
community to detach segments from it and set up factions loyal to themselves. None of these efforts,
however, attracted the support of any significant number of Bahá’ís, and most perished with the
deaths of those individuals who initiated them.
319 In his Will and Testament, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá (pp. 12-13) called upon the Hands of the Cause to
immediately expel from the faith any individual who was deemed to be deliberately attempting to
subvert the unity of the community. The test is to determine the individual’s attitude toward the
central institutions established in the Covenant of Bahá’u’lláh: “The sacred and youthful branch, the
guardian of the Cause of God, as well as the Universal House of Justice, to be universally elected and
established, are both under the care and protection of the Abhá Beauty i.e., Bahá’u’lláh, under the
shelter and unerring guidance of His Holiness, the Exalted One i.e., the Báb....Whatsoever they
decide is of God. Whoso obeyeth him not, neither obeyeth them, hath not obeyed God. ...”
320 The question is not hypothetical. In 1994, a small group of individuals, nominally members of
the United States Bahá’í community, conceived a plan to entirely recast the Bahá’í Faith into a kind
of sociopolitical ideology, with themselves as its interpreters. This agenda was to have been achieved
by dismantling the legacy of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and Shoghi Effendi and imposing on Bahá’u’lláh’s
writings a secular interpretation foreign to their obvious intent. Although aggressively pursued
through electronic network lists, the initiative failed signally to influence those Bahá’ís who became
aware of it. Its proponents eventually resigned from Bahá’í membership when their activities were
challenged by the faith’s institutions.
321 Universal House of Justice, Messages from the Universal House of Justice, 1963-1986, 14.8.
322 Universal House of Justice, Messages from the Universal House of Justice, 1963-1986, 19.4-
19.6.
323 Shoghi Effendi, Advent of Divine Justice, pp. 2-3.
324 For a full discussion of the persecutions during the Pahlavi period, see Douglas Martin, “The
Bahá’ís of Iran under the Pahlavi Regime, 1921-1979,” in Middle East Focus, vol. 4, no. 6, 1982, pp.
7-17.
325 The new regime’s views were expressed by Ayatollah Khomeini in an interview with Professor
James Cockroft of Rutgers University in December 1978, published in the U.S. journal of public
affairs, Seven Days, 23 February 1979, p. 20. The transcript of the interview was approved by the
Ayatollah and his aide, Dr. Ibrahim Yazdi:
Question: “Will there be either religious or political freedom for the Bahá’ís under an Islamic
government?”
Answer: “They are a political faction; they are harmful; they will not be accepted.”

Question: “How about their freedom of religion—religious practice?”
Answer: “No.”
326 In an interview with the government-controlled newspaper, Khabar-i-Junúb, Shiraz, Feb. 22,
1993, the Islamic religious judge who sent ten Bahá’í women and teenage girls to the gallows in that
city said: “Before it is too late Bahá’ís must recant Baha’ism. Otherwise the Islamic Nation will soon
... fulfill the prayer mentioned in the Qur’án: ‘Lord, leave not on earth a single family of infidels.’”‘
For a documented examination of the persecution, see The Bahá’ís in Iran: A Report on the
Persecution of a Religious Minority.
327 For a fuller discussion of both the persecution under the Islamic regime and the Bahá’í response
to it, see Douglas Martin, “The Bahá’ís of Iran under the Islamic Republic, 1979-1983,” in Middle
East Focus, vol. 6, no. 4, pp. 17-27, 30-31.
328 See Douglas Martin, “The Case of the Bahá’í Minority in Iran,” Bahá’í World, Series II, vol. 1,
(Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 1993) pp. 247-271.
329 It had been built in the late nineteenth century. The Soviet authorities eventually demolished it.
330 Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, pp. 361-362, summarizes the experience of the Bahá’í
community under Nazi and communist regimes.
331 See, for example, S. G. Wilson, Bahá’ism and Its Claims; J. R. Richards, The Religion of the
Bahá’ís; W. M. Miller, Baha’ism: Its Origins and Teachings (New York, Chicago: Fleming H. Revell
Company, 1931); R. P. Richardson, numerous articles, including “The Persian Rival to Jesus ...”
(August 1915) and “The Precursor, The Prophet and The Pope” (October 1915), in Open Court, a
journal of comparative religion.
332 Robert Richardson, “The Precursor, The Prophet and The Pope,” in Open Court, vol. 30
(November 1916), p. 626, says, for example, of the Bahá’í belief that the Manifestation of God is
infallible: “This doctrine, which can be characterized only as the most pernicious religious principle
that any human being has ever dared to set forth—the very principle which actuated the religious sect
known as the Assassins—had been consistently adhered to by Bábís and Bahá’ís through thick and
thin.”
333 1995; authors Udo Schaefer, Ulrich Gollmer, Nichola Towfigh.
334 Federal Constitutional Court, 5 February, 1991; 2 BvR-263/86.
335 Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration, p. 66.
336 E. G. Browne, in his introduction to Myron H. Phelps, Life and Teachings of ‘Abbás Effendi, pp.
xv-xx.
337 Bahá’u’lláh, cited in Shoghi Effendi, Promised Day Is Come, ¶293.
338 Edward G. Browne, A Traveller’s Narrative.
339 Edward G. Browne, “Babism” in Religious Systems of the World.

340 The Constitutionalists, a strange alliance of obscurantist Shiah mullas and radical secular
politicians, were the forerunners of the revolutionary movement that eventually brought the Ayatollah
Khomeini to power in 1979.
341 English introduction to Nuqṭatu’l-Káf cited by Hasan Balyuzi in Edward Granville Browne, p.
88.
342 The Azalís had refused to accept Bahá’u’lláh and continued to refer to themselves as “Bábís.”
Most of them appear, however, to have abandoned all religious attachments in favor of radical
political action in which their closest allies were, ironically, the same Shiah Muslim clergy who had
instigated the earlier massacres of Bábís.
343 The two who took the lead in this were Aḥmad-i-Rúhí and Áqá Khán-i-Kirmání, who had each
married a daughter of Mírzá Yaḥyá. They appear to have regarded Browne’s interest in Bahá’u’lláh
as a threat to their political agenda. Thus the aim of the documents they generated was to represent
Bahá’u’lláh as having usurped an authority that belonged in right to Yaḥyá. The extent of their
influence can be seen in Browne’s persistence in using the term “Bábí” to designate the community
that had long since adopted the name Bahá’í.
344 See, for example, Hasan Balyuzi’s discussion of two Azalí contributions in Edward Granville
Browne: “Hasht Bihisht,” pp. 19-21, 33-34, 80-84; and the Persian introduction to the Kitáb-i-
Nuqṭatu’l-Káf, pp. 70, 73-88.
345 Precisely how the manuscript eventually entered the Gobineau collection remains mysterious; no
evidence has yet come to light which would show that Gobineau himself ever had the item in his
possession or was familiar with its contents.
346 In this connection, Browne mentions the suggestion of one of his close friends in the British
Foreign Service, Sir Cecil Spring-Rice, that the relationship between Bahá’u’lláh and Yaḥyá was
perhaps like that between Saint Paul and Saint Peter (with reference to the former’s usurpation of the
primacy of the latter). In fact, as Browne had earlier noted, the only meaningful analogy between the
events of Christian and Bahá’í history was that the Báb fulfilled a role for Bahá’u’lláh not unlike that
which John the Baptist had fulfilled in preparing the way for Jesus Christ. The only part which a
pursuit of this insight would have suggested for Mírzá Yaḥyá was that played in Christian history by
Judas Iscariot, an idea which would have had little appeal for either Browne or his Azalí
correspondents.