THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1991-11-26

To the f ollowers of b ahá’u’lláh throughout the w orld

dear b ahá’í f riends,

on the occasion of the day of the covenant, amidst the dramatic events

within and without the faith which evince an accelerating momentum in

the concluding months of the Six year plan, and less than half a year from

the beginning of the long-anticipated holy year, we rejoice in conveying

this triple announcement to the entire b ahá’í world.

Seven new National Spiritual Assemblies will be formed at ri¤ván

1992: Angola in Africa; greenland in the Americas; and Albania,

the baltic States, bulgaria, hungary and poland in europe. The

emergence of the latter five will set a befitting seal on the victorious supplementary T wo year plan launched at ri¤ván 1990. in addi-

tion, the National Spiritual Assembly of the congo republic, after

a lapse of more than a decade due to political conditions, will be reestablished.

The office of þuqúqu’lláh has been established in the holy land

under the direction of the chief T rustee of þuqúqu’lláh, the hand

of the cause of god ‘Alí-m u¥ammad varqá, in anticipation of

the worldwide application of the law of þuqúqu’lláh next ri¤ván.

concurrent with this development are the steps being taken by

dr. varqá to organize regional and national boards of T rustees of 120.9

120.10

121.1

121.1a

121.1b

1986–1992  •  T h e  S i x  Y e a r  P l a n

27þuqúqu’lláh, following the example of the board already function-

ing in the u nited States.

At ri¤ván 1993, immediately following the holy year and during a

period which will witness the holding of the Seventh bahá’í inter-

national convention at the world center, a Three year plan will be

launched. The national goals of this global plan will be set through

consultations between the continental counselors and National

Spiritual Assemblies. The unusual character and rapidity of devel-opments both inside and outside the faith signify the necessity for

a short, flexible plan attuned to the dynamic nature of the times.

This momentous announcement, coinciding significantly with the open-

ing of a new term for members of the Auxiliary boards on all continents, is

indicative of the fresh flood of divine confirmations pouring upon the cur-rent efforts of the community of the most great Name in all parts of the

planet. The coincidence demonstrates anew the existence of tremendous

challenges and opportunities which must be met, and it calls attention to

the vital role to be played by these distinguished servants of the faith in

aiding the believers everywhere to attain further heights in the unfolding glory of our great cause.

we are moved to appeal to the followers of bahá’u’lláh in every land,

at this critical moment in the destiny of the cause and of humankind,

to make a supreme effort to gather the as yet unharvested victories in the

fast-fleeting days remaining to the Six year plan. let them do this that they

may enter, with a fit sense of triumph, the impending holy year—a period

charged with untold significance and pregnant with possibilities for major

advances of the faith of bahá’u’lláh, possibilities which can only faintly be

imagined as the centenary of h is Ascension draws closer.

our ardent hopes for you all are intermingled with our supplications

at the holy Threshold that the blessed beauty may, to an unprecedented

degree, rain down upon his loved ones his invigorating, victory-inducing

confirmations.

with loving b ahá’í greetings,

121.2

121.3

121.4

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

28122

The Role of Assemblies

in Dealing with Violations of Bahá’í Law

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]