THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1988-04-21

To the b aháís of the w orld

Ridván 1988

To the b ahá’ís of the w orld

dearly loved f riends,

At this resplendent, festive season, we greet you all in a spirit of renewed

hope.

A silver lining to the dark picture which has overshadowed most of this

century now brightens the horizon. it is discernible in the new tendencies

impelling the social processes at work throughout the world, in the evi-

47-1. pm, no. 85..47 .1

47 .2

48.1

48.2

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

82dences of an accelerated trend towards peace. in the faith of god, it is the

growing strength of the order of bahá’u’lláh as its banner rises to more

stately heights. it is a strength that attracts. The media are giving increasing

attention to the bahá’í world community; authors are acknowledging its

existence in a growing number of articles, books and reference works, one

of the most highly respected of which recently listed the faith as the most

widely spread religion after christianity. A remarkable display of interest in

this community by governments, civil authorities, prominent personalities and humanitarian organizations is increasingly apparent. Not only are the community’s laws and principles, organization and way of life being investi-

gated, but its advice and active help are also being sought for the alleviation

of social problems and the carrying out of humanitarian activities.

A thrilling consequence of these favorably conjoined developments is

the emergence of a new paradigm of opportunity for further growth and consolidation of our worldwide community. New prospects for teaching the cause at all levels of society have unfolded. These are confirmed in the early results flowing from the new teaching initiatives being fostered in a number

of places as more and more national communities witness the beginnings

of that entry by troops promised by the beloved master and which Shoghi

effendi said would lead on to mass conversion. The immediate possibilities

presented by this providential situation compel us to expect that an expan-

sion of the community of the most great Name, such as has not yet been

experienced, is, indeed, at hand.

The spark which ignited the mounting interest in the cause of

bahá’u’lláh was the heroic fortitude and patience of the beloved friends in

iran, which moved the bahá’í world community to conduct a persistent,

carefully orchestrated program of appeal to the conscience of the world.

This vast undertaking, involving the entire community acting unitedly

through its Administrative order, was accompanied by equally vigorous

and visible activities of that community in other spheres, which have been

detailed separately. Nonetheless, we are impelled to mention that an impor-tant outcome of this extensive exertion is our recognition of a new stage in

the external affairs of the cause, characterized by a marked maturation of

National Spiritual Assemblies in their growing relations with governmental

and nongovernmental organizations and with the public in general.

This recognition prompted a meeting in germany last November of na-

tional bahá’í external affairs representatives from europe and North Amer-48.3

48.4

48.5

1986–1992  •  T h e  S i x  Y e a r  P l a n

8ica, together with senior representatives of the offices of the bahá’í inter-

national community, intent on effecting greater coordination of their work.

This was a preliminary step towards the gathering of more and more Na-

tional Spiritual Assemblies into a harmoniously functioning, international network capable of executing global undertakings in this rapidly expanding field. related to these developments was the significant achievement of in-

ternational recognition accorded the faith through its formal acceptance last

october into membership of the Network on conservation and religion of

the renowned w orld w ide f und for Nature.

At one of the darkest periods in the prolonged oppression of the dearly

loved, resolutely steadfast friends in iran, Shoghi effendi was moved to

comfort them in a letter of astounding insight. “i t is the shedding of the

sacred blood of the martyrs in persia” he wrote, “which, in this shining era,

this resplendent, this gem-studded bahá’í age, shall change the face of the

earth into high heaven and, as revealed in the Tablets, raise up the tabernacle of the oneness of mankind in the very heart of the world, reveal to men’s eyes the reality of the unity of the human race, establish the most great

peace, make of this lower realm a mirror for the Abhá paradise, and establish

beyond any doubt before all the peoples of the world the truth of the verse: ‘. . . the day when the earth shall be changed into another earth.’” reflec-

tions like these, in adducing such wondrous future consequences from the

horrific suffering to which our iranian friends are subjected, illuminate the

opportunity and the challenge facing us all at this crucial moment in the

fortunes of the cause.

The great projects already launched must be pursued to their completion.

The Terraces below and above the Shrine of the báb and the Arc on mount

carmel must be completed, fulfilling the glorious vision of the efflorescence of god’s holy mountain; the second world congress must be held in the

city of the covenant to celebrate the hundredth anniversary of the inaugu-

ration of that covenant; the steadily advancing work on the translation and

annotation of the kitáb-i-Aqdas, the most holy book, must be brought to

publication; the interest shown by the friends in the law of þuqúqu’lláh

must be cultivated; the pioneers and traveling teachers must go forth; the expenses of the cause must be met; all objectives of the Six year plan must

be achieved.

but the paramount purpose of all bahá’í activity is teaching. All that has

been done or will be done revolves around this central activity, the “head 48.6

48.7

48.8

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

8corner-stone of the foundation itself,” to which all progress in the cause is

due.48-1 The present challenge calls for teaching on a scale and of a quality,

a variety, and intensity outstripping all current efforts. The time is now, lest

opportunity be lost in the swiftly changing moods of a frenetic world. let it

not be imagined that expedience is the essential motive arousing this sense

of urgency. There is an overarching reason: it is the pitiful plight of masses of humanity, suffering and in turmoil, hungering after righteousness, but

“bereft of discernment to see god with their own eyes, or hear his melody

with their own ears.”

48-2 They must be fed. vision must be restored where

hope is lost, confidence built where doubt and confusion are rife. in these

and other respects, The Promise of  World Peace is designed to open the way.

its delivery to national governmental leaders having been virtually com-

pleted, its contents must now be conveyed, by all possible means, to peoples

everywhere from all walks of life. This is a necessary part of the teaching

work in our time and must be pursued with unabated vigor.

Teaching is the food of the spirit; it brings life to unawakened souls and

raises the new heaven and the new earth; it uplifts the banner of a unified

world; it ensures the victory of the covenant and brings those who give

their lives to it the supernal happiness of attainment to the good pleasure of their lord.

every individual believer—man, woman, youth and child—is sum-

moned to this field of action; for it is on the initiative, the resolute will of the individual to teach and to serve, that the success of the entire com-munity depends. well-grounded in the mighty covenant of bahá’u’lláh,

sustained by daily prayer and reading of the holy word, strengthened by a

continual striving to obtain a deeper understanding of the divine Teachings, illumined by a constant endeavor to relate these Teachings to current issues, nourished by observance of the laws and principles of his wondrous world

order, every individual can attain increasing measures of success in teach-

ing. in sum, the ultimate triumph of the cause is assured by that “one thing

and only one thing” so poignantly emphasized by Shoghi effendi, namely,

“the extent to which our own inner life and private character mirror forth in

their manifold aspects the splendor of those eternal principles proclaimed

by bahá’u’lláh.”

48-3

48-1. w T, p. 10.

48-2. bp , p. 310.

48-3. bA, p. 66.48.9

48.10

1986–1992  •  T h e  S i x  Y e a r  P l a n

85beloved friends—you who are addressed by the best beloved, the blessed

beauty, as “the solace of the eye of creation,” as “the soft-flowing waters

upon which must depend the very life of all men”48-4—we urge you, with

all earnestness from the utter depths of our conviction as to the ripeness

of the time, to lay aside your every minor concern and direct your energies

to teaching his cause—to proclaiming, expanding and consolidating it.

you can approach your task in full confidence that this clear field of prog-

ress outstretched before you derives from the operation of that “g od-born

force” which “vibrates within the innermost being of all created things” and

which, “acting even as a two-edged sword, is, under our very eyes, sunder-ing, on the one hand, the age-old ties which for centuries have held together the fabric of civilized society, and is unloosing, on the other, the bonds that

still fetter the infant and as yet unemancipated f aith of b ahá’u’lláh.”

48-5

have no fear or doubts. The power of the covenant will assist you and

invigorate you and remove every obstacle from your path. “h e, verily, will

aid everyone that aideth him, and will remember everyone that remembe-

reth h im.”48-6

you have our abiding assurance of ardent and constant prayers for you

all.

49

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]