Excerpt from

Mohammed and Islam

by Ignaz Goldziher

pages 312-323

LATER DEVELOPMENTS. 				311

quently conceded by the ‘Ulema.1 Nevertheless, from  the practical point of view, the Wahhābites had to be  rejected as sectarians by orthodox Moslems, according  to whom anyone who separates himself from Ijma‘,  rejects what the general consensus of the Church in its  historical development has recognized as proper and  true. Older Sunna regulations are of no consequence,  for what is recognized by Ijma‘ becomes, eo ipso, Sunna.  That alone is Sunnitic, that is orthodox, which corresponds to the recognized general belief and general practice. That which is contrary to this Ijma‘ is heterodox.  Starting from these premises the orthodox Moslem must  conclude that the Wahhābites, though claiming to be  faithful to Sunna, through their opposition and rejection  of matters which are recognized in the four orthodox  sects, in part even demanded by them, are to be excluded  from orthodox Islam, precisely as the old Kharijites.  Since the twelfth century Ghazālī has been the final  authority for orthodox Islam. Against his teachings,  the Wahiābites in their literary opposition against  Meccan orthodoxy still raging to-day, oppose the doctrines of ibn Teimiyya which have been rejected by the  prevailing theology. ‘‘Hie Ghazālī, Hie ibn Teimiyya,’’  is the warery of this struggle. Ijma‘ has accepted Ghazālī and canonized him. Those who differ have broken  with Ijma‘ and must be condemned as heterodox, despite  their claim of being faithful and consistent followers of  Sunna.

X. The movement which arose in the Arabian peninsula and whose aims and effects we have just been considering, has its gaze fixed on the past, denying the  justification of the results of historical development, and  recognizing Islam only in the petrified form of the  seventh century. In contrast to this is a more modern  movement within Islam, which recognizes the religious

312 				 MOHAMMED AND ISLAM.

evolution of mankind, in fact has this belief as its starting point and vital idea.  This is the Babi movement  which had its rise in Persia.

It arose, it is true, from a form of Shī‘ism predominating in that country. In its historical development,  however, its fundamental ideas are connected with a  principle which we have come to recognize as the guiding thought of the Ismā‘ilian sect, namely the self-perfection  of the divine revelation through progressive manifestation of the great world-intellect.

In the beginning of the nineteenth century a new  branch was grafted on to the Imam doctrine of the Shi‘itic ‘‘Twelvers,’’ the school of Sheikhites whose adherents cherished a zealous worship of the ‘‘hidden Mahdī’”  and of the Imams preceding him. In a gnostic manner,  they hold these persons as hypostases of divine attributes, as creative potentialities. They thus give the  Imam mythology of the ordinary Imamiyya a greater  area, and in this respect are in line with the extremists  (ghulat, see above page 233).

In this group grew up the visionary youth Mirza  Muhammed ‘Alī of Shiraz (born 1820). On account  of his great ability and enthusiasm, he was recognized  by his companions as chosen for the highest calling.  This recognition of his fellow visionaries acted as a  strong suggestion to the spirit of the pensive youth. He  finally came to recognize himself as the embodiment  and manifestation of a supreme superhuman mission  within the development of Islam. From the consciousness of being a Bāb, that is ‘‘a door’’ by which the  infallible will of the hidden Imam, as the highest source  of all truth, reveals itself to the world, he soon came to  believe that in the economy of spiritual development he  was really the organ of the hidden instructor, the Imam  of the age. In other words, he himself was the new  Mahdī, whose coming had been foretold at ‘‘the end of

LATER DEVELOPMENTS.						 313

the first millennium,” after the twelfth Imam (260-1260) *  after Mohammed. He is Mahdī however, no longer as  the ordinary Shī‘ite conceives of this dignity, but (and  here he touches Ismā‘ilitie doctrines) as a manifestation  of the spirit of the world, as ‘‘the point of manifestation,’’ the highest truth, which, having taken on bodily  form in him, differs only in appearance, but is identical in  being with those previous manifestations of that spiritual  substance proceeding from God. He is the reappearance  on earth of Moses and Jesus, as well as the embodiment  of all other prophets through whose bodily appearance  in former aeons the divine world-spirit had manifested  itself. He preached to his followers opposition to the  Mullahs—in Persia more particularly, the Ulemas are  so-called—to their sanctimoniousness and hypocrisy, and  their worldly strivings. He even went so far as to  raise the revelation of Mohammed, which he interpreted  largely in an allegorical sense, to the highest level. The  practices of Islam, the minute laws on ritualistic purity,  etc., were little considered in his doctrine. Sometimes  others were substituted for them. Divine judgment,  paradise, hell and the resurrection had other meanings.1   In this he had predecessors in earlier spiritualistic  systems. Resurrection is every new periodic manifestation of the divine spirit in relation to a preceding one.  The latter comes to new life through its successor. This  is the meaning of the ‘‘meeting with God,’’ as the  future life is designated in the Koran.

It is, however, not only in dogmatic and legal conceptions that the young Persian visionary opposed the  petrified theology of the Mullahs.  With his proclamation he attacked the social relationships of his fellow  believers. His sympathetic ethics, the brotherhood of all  men, were offered in place of the wall of separation  between classes. He wished to raise women from the  low position in which actual conditions had placed her

* Of the Mohammedan era.

314 							MOHAMMED AND ISLAM.

in the name of tradition, to one of equality with man. He  begins this task by doing away with the obligatory veil,  and by rejecting the coarse conception of marriage as  it had developed in Moslem communities, as this development was not a necessary result of religious principles.  He connected the nobler conception of the marriage  relation with thoughts on the function of the family and  the reform of education.

The religious reforms of Bāb, therefore, included in  their aim the fundamentals of community life. He is a  social as well as a religious reformer, but as at the  beginning he started with gnostic and mystic views, the  latter element permeates his entire system by which he  builds up his view of the world. He combines a distinctively modern point of view with Pythagorian subtleties; like the Hūrūfis (page 268) he toys with combinations of the letters of the alphabet, and assigns a  numerical value to them. The number 19 possesses the  greatest importance and serves him as the point of  departure for ‘‘Gematria’’ (i. e., combinations of letters  according to their numerical value), which play a great  part in his speculation.

In regard to his own person he teaches his identity  with the prophets which preceded him, a conception  which has its roots in gnosticism, and even found an  expression in earlier schismatic movements in Islam.  Similarly he announces for the future a constantly  renewing manifestation of the divine spirit, embodied  for his days in his own person.2   Divine revelation is not  concluded either with Mohammed or with him. The  divine spirit reveals itself in a progressive chain of  periodical manifestations, which proclaim the divine  will in a steadily increasing maturity, according to the  progress of the times. Through such teachings Mirzā  Muhammed ‘Alī paved the way for the transformation  which took place in his community soon after his death.

LATER DEVELOPMENTS						 315

He has embodied the substance of his teachings in a  religious work regarded as sacred, and known as Bayan,  i. e., Interpretation. His doctrine, naturally, appeared  exceedingly dangerous from a political as well as from  a religious point of view. The founder and his followers  who gathered around him, among whom the heroine  Kurat al-‘Ain (comfort of the eye) arouses our sympathy, were unsparingly persecuted and proscribed,  pursued and turned over to the executioner.  Mohammed  ‘Alī himself was put to death in July, 1850. Those of  his followers who escaped the martyr’s death, whose  enthusiasm was increased by the persecutions which they  suffered, found an asylum on Turkish soil.

Soon after the death of the founder a split occurred  within the community, according as the followers recognized the one or the other of two pupils singled out by  the Bāb, as the authentic interpreter of the will of the  late leader. The minority gathered around Subh-i-ezel  (dawn of eternity) with headquarters in Famagusta  (Cyprus), who proposed to sanction the work of the  Bāb in the form given to it by the master. They are  the conservative Bābists. The others supported the  contention of the other apostle, Behā-Allāh (splendor of  God), who in the beginning of the sixties, during the  stay of the Bāb-exiles in Adrianople, declared himself  on the basis of a cyclic system, to be the more perfect  manifestation proclaimed by the master, through which  the latter’s own work would be raised to a higher level.  Mohammed ‘Alī was his precursor, his John, as it were.  The divine spirit had appeared in him to fulfill the  preparation made by the precursor. Behā is greater  than Bāb. The latter was the Kā‘im (the one who rises  up), Behā is Kayyūm (the permanent one); ‘‘He who  will appear,’’ the expression used by Bāb with regard  to his successor, ‘‘is greater than the one who has  already appeared.’3 By preference he calls himself

316 				MOHAMMED AND ISLAM.

mazhar or manzar, the revelation of God in which the  beauty of God is to be seen as in a mirror. He himself  is ‘‘the beauty of Allah,’’ whose face shines between  the heavens and the earth as a precious polished pearl.4   Through him alone the being of God can be known, whose  emanation he himself is.5  His followers actually invest  him with divine attributes, as illustrated in the extravagant hymns addressed to him which have been published  by E.G. Browne.6

On account of the quarrel which broke out between  his followers and the conservative Bābists, Behā and  his community were transferred to Akka, where he perfected his doctrine into a complete system in opposition  not only to the milet al furkān, the congregation of the  Koran, but also to the milet al bayān, i. e., the old Bābists  who would not accept his reform, who declined to pass  beyond the Bayān.

His teachings have been embodied in a number of  books and epistles in Arabic and Persian, of which the Kitāb akdas (Sacred Book) is the most important.7 For  his written declarations he claims divine origin. ‘‘Even  this tablet (referred to in one of his epistles), is a hidden writing which has been guarded from eternity among  the treasures of divine exemption, and whose characters  are written with the fingers of divine power, if you  would but know it.’’  Thus he conveys the impression  as though he did not reveal the whole wealth of his doctrine of salvation, reserving apparently some esoteric  thoughts for the innermost circle.  He maintains also  that certain teachings ought to be kept secret from  opponents.  In a certain passage he declares: ‘‘We must  not discuss this stage in detail, for the ears of our  opponents are directed toward us in order to over-hear,  while offering opposition to the true and everlasting  God. For they do not attain to the mystery of knowledge

LATER DEVELOPMENTS. 					317

and of wisdom of the one who arises from the horizon  of the splendor of divine unity.’’

This manifestation of the universal spirit in Behā, as  the fulfilment of the announcement of the original  founder, resulted in the abrogation of the revelation to  the Bāb in some essential points.  While the latter is  at bottom only a reform of Islam, Behā advanced  to the larger conception of a world religion which was  to unite mankind in a religious brotherhood.  As in his  political teachings he professes cosmopolitanism—emphasizing that there is ‘‘no preference to be given to  him who loves his country, but to him who loves the  world,”8  his religion in this matter was stripped of all  narrow sectarianism.

He regards himself as the manifestation of the world  spirit to ALL mankind.  With this in view he sends his  epistles, which form a portion of his book of revelations,  to the nations and rulers of Europe and Asia; and he  extends his horizon even to ‘‘the kings of America, and  to the chiefs of the republic’’; he proclaims ‘‘what the  dove coos on the branches of constancy.’’  In the eyes  of his followers he becomes a divine man filled with the  prophetic spirit, when in his epistle to Napoleon II  he announced, four years before Sedan, the Empire’s  approaching downfall.

With his cosmopolitan aims in view, he commanded  his followers to prepare themselves, by the study of  foreign languages, for the mission of apostles of the  world religion which was to unite all mankind and all  nations ‘‘in order that the interpreter of God’s cause  reaching the east and the west should announce it to the  states and nations of the world in such a way, that the  minds of men should be drawn to it, and mouldering  bones should be brought to life.’’  ‘‘By this means, unity  is to be brought about and the highest task of civilization

318 				MOHAMMED AND ISLAM.

accomplished.”9  The ideal means by which the  understanding of the world is to be won is a common  world language.  He wishes that kings and ministers  might unite in recognizing one of the existing languages,  or else create a new one as the universal language which  should be taught in all the schools of the world.10

He threw aside all limitations both of Islam and of  Bābism.  With regard to the latter, it is true, he did  not free his proclamation from all mystical speculations,  tricks of letters and numbers, which had gathered around  early Bābism.  His main interest, nevertheless, is  directed toward the building up of the ethical and social  factors.  War is strictly forbidden, only ‘‘in case of  need’’ is the use of weapons allowed; slavery also is forbidden, and equality of all men is taught as the nucleus  of the new gospel.11  In a revelation entitled Sūrat al Mulūk (Sura of the Kings) he severely reproached the  Sultan of Turkey for allowing such great differences in  power to exist among his people.12   In a reforming  spirit, he takes up the question of marriage relations  already considered by Bāb.  His ideal is monogamy, but  he makes concessions to bigamy, which, however, is to  be regarded as the limit of polygamy.  Divorce is  recognized, but modified in a humane spirit. The reuniting of those who have separated is allowed, provided  they have not married again;  in direct contrast therefore to the custom of Islam. The law of Islam is  regarded as completely superseded; new forms for  prayer and ritual are introduced, public prayer with its  liturgical forms (salāt al-jamā‘) is done away with.  Each individual prays alone (furādā).  Common prayer  is retained only for prayers over the dead. The kibla  (the direction of prayer) is not toward Mecca but toward  the place where the one is whom God has sent down  ‘as his manifestation.’’  When he wanders the kibla  wanders, until he takes up an abode somewhere. Bodily

LATER DEVELOPMENTS 						319

cleanliness, washing and bathing, are most emphatically  ordained, as religious duties, together with a warning  against bathing establishments such as those of the  Persians which are represented as very unclean.

With a stroke of the pen he strikes out the limitations  which Islam had laid upon the believers, without going  into any detail except in the case of certain laws of dress.  You may do anything which is not opposed to common  sense.13  Like his predecessor he is tireless in his war  against the ‘Ulemā who twist and check the will of God.  One is, however, to keep clear of disputes with religious  opponents.  The Behā religion recognizes no professional spiritual position.  Every member of this universal church should work toward a productive aim,  useful to the community.  Those who have the ability  should be the spiritual teachers of the community without compensation.14  The suppression of the corporate  business of teaching was demonstrated by the abolishment of the pulpit (minbar) in public gathering places.15

We will be disappointed if we expect to find Behā in  the camp of the liberals in political matters.  He surprises  us by fighting political freedom—‘We see that many  men desire freedom and boast of it: they are obviously  in error. . . . Freedom brings about confusion whose  fire is not extinguished.  Know that the origin and  appearance of freedom is animalic; man must be under  laws which guard him from his own barbarity, and the  harms which may be done by those who are false.  Indeed  freedom removes man from the demands of culture and  propriety.’’—and so on, in undisguised reactionary language.16  The adherents of the Behā do not even favor  the liberal political developments in Turkey and Persia,  but look with disfavor on the dethronement of the sultan  and the shah.17

The mission of the Behā Allāh passed after his death  (May 16, 1892), with only a few objections by the

320				 MOHAMMED AND ISLAM.

‘‘friends’’ (ahbāb), to his son and successor ‘Abbās  Effendi, called ‘Abd-al Bahā, or Ghusn Azam (the Great Branch).18 He carried the views of his father to a  comprehensive development. They are made to conform  more and more to the forms and aims of the intellectual  thought of the Occident.  The fantastic elements which  had still clung to the previous stage are made as mild as  possible, although not yet completely thrown off.  ‘Abbās  makes a wide use of the writings of the Old and New  Testament which he quotes for his purposes. In this  way he strives to extend the influence to still wider circles  than those to which the followers of his father had  appealed.

Since the appearance of ‘Abd-al Bahā the propaganda  has attained very remarkable results. A great number  of American ladies (the names of a few can be found  in the notes) made a pilgrimage to the Persian prophet  at the foot of Mount Carmel in order to bring to their  western homes words of healing from his own lips, words  which they had heard directly from the holy man.  The  best presentation of the teaching of ‘Abbās we owe to  Miss Laura Cliford Barney, who, living a long time in  the vicinity of ‘Abbās, took down his teachings in shorthand in order to bring them to the western world as  representing an authentic conception of the new Bahā  doctrine.19

The movement started by the Bāb is no longer to bear  the name of its founder. There has developed lately a  preference to call this offspring of the doctrine of Mirzā  Mohammed ‘Alí which is constantly spreading and leaving its rivals behind, Behā‘iyya, a name which the faithful give themselves in opposition to the unimportant  remnants of the conservative Bayān-adherents who are  gathered under other leaders.

The wide universalistic aim which characterizes it has  drawn its adherents not only from mosques, but from

LATER DEVELOPMENTS							321

churches, synagogues, and fire temples. A building for  public worship has lately been erected in Ashkābād near  the Persian boundary in Russian Turkestan.  A description of it has been given by an enthusiastic European  interpreter of Behā‘ism, Hippolyte Dreyfus.20  On the  other hand, the designation Behā‘ism embodies the idea  of religious free-thought, of the laying aside of the positive doctrine of Islam. As formerly the term Zindīk  meant an early Moslem whose religious views were influenced by Parseeism and Manichaeism, and as later the  name Failasūf (Philosopher), lately also Farmasūn  (franc-macon) without regard to a definite kind of backsliding from true Islam generally refers to a free-thinker,  so to-day in Persia, Behā‘ī is applied not only to this  latest development of the Bābi faith, but as Rev. F. M.  Jordan has remarked, ‘‘many of those who are given  this name are really nothing but ‘irreligious rationalists.’ ’’21  Since the adherents of this form of belief in  Persia and also in other Moslem lands still have every  reason to hide their completely anti-Mohammedan convictions from publicity and to claim the practice of  takiyya (above page 228), it would be difficult to offer  even approximately correct statistics as to the followers  of Bābiism in both its forms.  The statement of Rev.  Isaac Adams, one of the latest to picture Bābi conditions, that their number in Persia reaches three millions,  would seem to be exaggerated. This would mean almost  a third of the whole population of the country. ‘Abbās  Effendi himself in an interview in New York in July,  1912, said he could not give the number of the followers  of Behā‘ism.

Bābism, passing over into Behā‘ism. has undertaken  a serious propaganda. Its teachers and followers have  not hesitated to draw the consequences of their conviction that they are not a sect of Islam but the representative of a world-wide doctrine. Its propaganda has

322				MOHAMMED AND ISLAM.

not only spread far among those of Moslem faith (as far  as Indo-China) but with remarkable success is going  farther and farther beyond the boundaries of Islam. The  prophet of ‘Akka has found in America and in Europe  also, it is claimed, zealous adherents even among Christians.21  Through the spread of literature the attempt  is made to crystallize American Behā‘ism.  Its journalistic interpreter is a magazine known as the Star of the  West, which has appeared nineteen times every year  since 1910 (19 being the sacred number of the Bāb).  With Chicago as its center, it covers a wide area in the  United States, and it is in this very city that plans are  being formed for the erection of a religious gathering  place, mashrak al-Adkat, for the American Behās. A  considerable sum raised by the ‘‘Friends’’ has assured  the acquisition of a large piece of land on the banks of  Lake Michigan which was dedicated on the first of May,  1912, by ‘Abbās Effendi during his tour in the United  States.23  Jewish visionaries also have picked out from  the books of the Old Testament prophets the foretelling  of the Behā and ‘Abbās. According to them, wherever the ‘‘glory of Jahweh’’ is spoken of, the appearance of the Saviour of the world, Behā Allah is meant.  They find support in all the references to Mount Carmel,  in the neighborhood of which the Light of God shone for  all men at the end of the nineteenth century.  Nor have  they neglected to ferret out from the visions of the Book  of Daniel24  the foretelling and even the chronology of the  movement beginning with the Bāb. The 2300 year-days  (Dan. viii:14) at the end of which ‘‘the sanctuary shall  be cleansed’’ corresponds, according to their reckoning,  with the year 1844, of our era, the year in which Mirza  Mohammed ‘ Alī proclaimed himself as Bāb, and at which  time the universal spirit (Welt-geist) entered into a new  phase of its manifestation.

LATER DEVELOPMENTS. 					323

With the appearance of  ‘Abbās Effendi, the application  of Biblical interpretations went one step farther.  According to these he was foretold as ‘‘the child who will  be born to us, the son who will be given to us,’’ on whose  shoulders lie the responsibilities of a prince, and who is  the bearer of the wonder epithets in Isaiah 9:5.  As I  write these pages I listen to these Biblical proofs from  the lips of a Behā visionary who for two years has been  staying in my town. He was formerly a physician in  Teheran, and is endeavoring to find followers for his  faith here.  He feels in himself a special mission to my  country.  This fact is one more proof that it is not on  American soil alone that the extra-Mohammedan propaganda of the new Behā is directed.

XI. India offers a very special field for the consideration of a historical development of movements in Islam.  In this soil they are products of the peculiar ethnographic  conditions of this province of Islam, and offer many a  fruitful consideration for the historian of religion. We can merely touch upon them here, however.

Although the Ghassanide conquest in the eleventh century seriously maimed ancient Indian culture, the old  forms of religion maintain themselves in their primitive  form up to the present day in the very midst of ruling  Islam.  In spite of the great numbers which Islam owed  to the numerous converts from the circles of the Brahma  community, the Koran was not able actually to supplant  the Vedas.  Nowhere was Islam forced to show its tolerance to such a degree as in India.  The condition of the  population forced Islam to go beyond its fundamental  law, the law which permits far-reaching tolerance toward  monotheistic religions, but on the other hand commands  the unsparing destruction of idolaters in conquered lands.  In India, in spite of the war and destruction carried on  by the energetic and zealous Ghassanide Mahmud against

338 					   MOHAMMED AND ISLAM.

ce revéil un retour à I’ancien état de choses établis par le  prophète et préconcisé par lui" are to be recognized.  (Dr.  Rind Ghali,  “De la Tradition considérée comme source du  droit Mus.’’ 5.)   This tendency has called forth in late years  a great number of apologetic writings by Moslem theologians.

IV.  1. See Kuenen, ‘National Religions and Universal Religions.’’ 54.

VI. 1. Muh. Studien II, 277 ff. E. Doutté, ‘‘Les Marabouts’’ (Paris  1900; reprint from the  Revue de l’Hist. des Relig. XL and  XLI).  Cf. also my lecture ‘‘Die Fortschritte der Islam-Wissen-schaft in den letzen drei Jahrzehnten.’’  (Preuss. Jahrb. 1905  CXXI 292.298 = Congress of Arts and Science, Universal Expos.  St. Louis 1904, II 508-515.)

VIII. 1. Euting, ‘‘Tagebuch einer Reise in Innerarabion,’’  I (Leiden 1896) 157 ff.  For further literature on the Wahhābites, see  Th. W. Juynboll 1. c. 28, note 2.  The opposition of the Wabhābites  to all innovations not founded on the old uses of Islam has sometimes given rise to the misunderstanding, that their practices  are based exclusively on the Koran.  This error appears in the  otherwise excellent description of Wabhābitic tendencies by  Charles Didier,  ‘‘Ein Aufenthalt bei dem Gross-Scherif von  Mekka’’  (deutsche Ubers. Leipzig 1862)  222-255.  The same  error is made by Baron Ed. Nolde in his ‘‘Reise nach Innearabien, Kurdistan und Armenien’’  (Braunschweig 1895) where he states  that the Wahhābites ‘‘reject every tradition including also,  and primarily, Sunna’’ whereas just the contrary is the case.

2. Ibn Jubeir, “Travels’’2 ed. Wright-de Goeje 190, 13. IX. 1. Wetzenstein,                   	 “Reisebericht über Hauran und die Trachonen’’    (Berlin 1860) 150.

IX.  1. Kult. d. Gegenw. 128, 14-28.

2. Cf. Zeitschrift für Assyr. XXII 337.

3. “Sendschreiben des Behā Allah’’ ed. V. Rosen (St. Petersburg,     Academy 1908) I 112, 2-5.

4. Ibid. 19, 7; 94, 24.

5. Journ. Roy. As. Soc. 1892, 326-335.

6. Sendschreiben 71, 15;  82, 22;  84 below. The entire epistle  no. 34 is devoted to a polemic against the Bayāns.

7.  Ed. A. H. Toumansky (Mémoires de l’Académie imp. de St  Petersbourg 1899;  	VIII. Série Vol. III No. 6).

8. Sendschreiben 18, 21;  20, 14 ff.; 94 below; 93, 20.

9. Kitāb Akdas No. 212, 276. 468.

10. Miss Ethel Rosenberg, ‘‘Behāsm, its ethical and social teachings’’ (in Transactions                                                           	of the third Internat. Congr. for the  History of Religions. Oxford 1908, I 324).

11. Kitāb Akdas No. 164, 385.

12. Sendechreiben 54, 21 ff.

NOTES. 	 	   		         339

13. Kitāb Akdas No. 145, 155 ff. 324. 179. 252. 371. 386.

14. Miss E. Rosenberg 1. c. 323.

15. Hippolyte Dreyfuss, in ‘‘Mélanges-Hartwig Derenbourg’’ (Paris 1909)

421.

16. Kitāb Akdas No, 284-292.

17. Cf. the account in ‘‘Revue du Monde mus.’’ IX 339-341.

18. The portraits of Bchā and ‘Abbās, as well as the picture of the  tomb of the former in ‘Akka are to be found in a publication  hostile to Bābiism, bearing the title ‘‘Zustände in heutigen Persien, wie sie das Reisebuch Ibrāhim Beis enthüllt,’’ translated by  Walter Schulz (Leipzig 1903).  The picture of Subh-i-zel is to  be found in E. G. Browne, ‘‘The Táríkh-i-jadid or New History  of . . . the Bāb" (Cambridge 1893).

19. Cf. on her book and a survey of its contents Oscar Mann in  the Oriental. Literaturzeitung 1909, 36 ff.

20. Une Istitution Bèhaïe: ‘‘Le Machrequou’l-Azkār d‘Achqābād’’

(Mélanges-Hartwig Derenbourg 415 ff.).

21. In the compilation: ‘‘The Mohammedan World of to-day’’ 129.

22. See now the comprehensive article on Bābism and its history  by E. G. Browne in ‘‘Hastings’ Encyclopedia of Religion and  Ethics’’ II 299-308, which appeared after the compilation of  my manuscript. In this article will also be found the bibliography  of Beha’is in western countries. Hippolyte Dreyfuss, ‘‘Essai  sur le Behāīsme, son histoire, sa portée sociale.’’ Paris (Leroux)  1909, Roemer, die Bābi-Behāi (Potsdam 1911).

22a. The lectures given by ‘Abbās  Effendi in American cities published in the ‘‘Star of the West" No. III 12 (San Francisco).  “Wisdom Talks of Abdul Behā” at Chicago, April 30—May 5,  1912—where his dedication address is also given.

23. Miss Jean Masson in the January number 1909 of the American Review of Reviews reports the remarkable progress of Behāism, for which she claims the distinction of being the Ultimate Religion.

24. E. G. Browne in the Journ. Roy. As. Soc. 1892, 701.

XI. 1. Cf. Ibn Batūta, ‘Voyages" (Paris) IV 29; 223 on Indian provinces: ‘‘Most of their inhabitants are unbelievers," i. e. heathen (kuffār) under the protection of Moslems, taht al dimma also ‘‘ahl al dimma" (those standing under protection), as also Jews and Christians who merely pay the jizya are designated.  In the fourteenth century, an Islamic prince in India allowed the Chinese to erect a pagoda on Moslem territory in return for the payment of the jizya (Ibn Batūta IV 2).

2. On the mutual influence of Hinduism on Islam M. C. Westcott published an address in 1908, which is unfortunately inaccessible to me.

340 				   MOHAMMED AND ISLAM.

3. e. g. For the influence of the caste system see Kobler  ‘‘Zeitschrift für vergl. Rechtswissenschaft" 1891, X, 83 ff.  On the aversion to the remarriage of widows see Muh. Studien 11  883;  this aversion is also found outside of India in the province  of Jorjan Mukaddasī ed. de Goeje 370, 9.  Cf. further for such  phenomena, John Campbell Oman, ‘‘The Mystics and Saints  of India" (London 1905) 185-136.

4. T. Block in ZDMG LXII 654 note 2.

5. C. Snouck Hurgronje, ‘De Atjèhers" (2 vol.), tr. by A. W. S.  Sullivan (2 vol. Leiden 1906). The same ‘‘Het. Gayoland en  zejne bewoners" (Batavia 1903). R. J. Wilkinson, ‘Papers on  Malay subjects.  Life and Customs" (Kuala Lumpur 1908).  Cf.  “Revue du M. mus."  VII 45 ff. 94 f. 180-197.

6. T. W. Arnold, ‘‘Survivals of Hinduism among the Mohammedans of India" (Transactions of the third internat.  Congr.  Hist. of Rel. I 314 ff.).

7.  The literature of this widespread movement as well as the data  for

its extension and the statement of its results are given by Hubert Jansen,  ‘‘Verbreitung des Islams"  (Friedrichshagen  1897) 25.30.

8. About this work see Journ, Roy. As, Soe. XIII (1852) 310-372: “Translation of the Takwiyat-ul-Islam etc." (About Ahmed see  now the article in the Encyclopedia of Islam I 201b.)

XII.   1. Oman 1. c, 126.

2. Journ, Roy. As. Soc. 1907, 325, 485.  Grierson ibid. 501-503,  cf. Ibid.

1908, 248.

3. Oman 1. c. also places Kabir’s teachings under the influence of  Islam.

4. The same view is held by Oman 1. c. 132, M. Bloomfield, in his  ‘Religion of the Veda, the Ancient Religion in India" (American Lectures on the History of Religions, sr. VII 1906-7) 10 characterizes this religious system as ‘‘Mohammedanism fused with  Hinduism in the hybrid religion of the Sikhs";  against the view,  however, see A. Berriedale Keith in Journ. Roy. As. Soc. 1908 884. (Cf. also Revue du Monde mus. IV 681 ff. Antoine Cabaton,  ‘Les Sikhs de I’Inde et le Sikhisme" and ibid. IX 361-411:  J.  Vinson, ‘‘La Religion des Sikhs.’’)

5. Macauliffe in Actes du XIVe Congrés des Oricntalistes (Algiers  1905)

I 137-63.

6. Oman 1. c. 133.

XIII.  1. “Encyclopedia of Islam" I 89b. ‘The penitents of the Lebanon" (ibid. line 38) are not the Druses, but Islamic ascetics,  who dwell primarily in the Lebanon mountains. ‘‘Yākūt" IV  348, I.  Especially that part of the mountains (Province of Antioch and Massisa), known as al-Lukkām = (Amanus, see Lammens,