Simple Ways to Create
a Culture of Character
THE
RTU
PRO ECT™
Educator's Guide
LINDA KAVELIN POPOV
Author of The Family Virtues Guide

What people ■a:, about The Virtue■ Projea™, ..
·rherr are lots of band-aids out thtrt. Tht Virtut'I Project is the curt.
ltS ptnidl/in. 1• Lucindi Fns. M,1,yor, Piqua, Ohio
•Tht Virt'Wl"
Project is tht bat thing to comt along for childrtn and adultJ in a
long timt. • Janet Luhn, author, TIN Simpl, Livint GJJkb
'Its a trach", I folt that in onr hanJ I had a box of tools that I could gi~ to my
students -
acaMmir skills, tratk skills -
but my othtr hand was nnpry. Whm
I found Thr Virn,rs l'rojm, I thought 'This is wh,, gon in thr oth« h,nd. ••
Ray Tufn, tucher, Rrnron Alrcrn;nivt School, Rtnron,Wuhington
•W't-looked at all sorts of programs. Tht Virtues Projm stands out btcaust it is so
simpk. It cuts across cultural and rtlifiow barrirn and has had such positive
rr.Juih worki-witk. • Prt:cr Blanks, Healthy Commun.it.CS lniritiarive, N-
Zea.land
.. Wt havt significantly rtductd swpmsiom and havt fontastie p11rmuzl
support
for our discip/int approach. Tht Virtu.t'J Projtct U a ltty ingreditnt in tht for-
mu/4." Micharl Seltz, Vice Principal,
Robert Frost Middle:
School, Lvonia, MKhig.vi
Other books by Linda Kavelin Popov
The Family Virtues Guidr.
Simple Ways to Bring Out the Best in Our Children and Ourselves
Sa=d Moments:
Daily Meditations on the Virtues

r
THE VIRTUES PROJECT™
Simple Ways to Create a Culture of Character
Educator's Guide
LINDA KAVELIN POPOV
8700 Shoal Creek Boulevard
Austin, Texas 78757-6897
800/897-3202 Fax 800/397-7633
www.proedinc.com

(I 2000 by Unda Kaveli n Popov
Pu bl.shed by PRO-ED, Inc.
8700 Shoal Creek Boulevard
Austin, Texas 78757-6897
800/897-3202 Fax 800/397•7633
www.proedlnc.com
All rights reserved. No part of the material protected by this
copyright notice may be reproduced or used In any fonn or by
any means, electronic or mechanical, includln(I photocopying,
recording, or by .any Information storage and retrieval system,
without prior wrilten permission of the publisher.
Notice: PRO-ED grants permission lo the user of I his material to
m.ake unlimited copies of the first page of each Virtue. Student
Activity Sheets. Virtue, Voucher1 and Hug Noles for teaching
purposes. Dupllcallon of this material for commercial use Is
prohibited.
Vector Images Copyright 1998 by Corel Corporation and Core-I
Corporation Umited taken from Corel GALLERY•
.. 1,000,000.
The following lerms have been trademarked:
The Virtues Projl!Cl
The Ari of Spiritual Companioning
Spiritual Companioning
Printed In the United States of America
I 2 3 4 5 6 7 R 9 10
08 07 06 05 0-t

DEDICATION
Thjs book is affectionately dedicated to the memory of Alexina Keeling, a Virtues
Project mentor, who r~tored hope to so many children and youth, and aJways saw
the light of vinucs within them. Alexina, you arc my guiding light.

SPECIALT
To "Gi.-lfriendn
I Margery Clive, who nurtured the development of chis book with years
of patience and sc:rvicc to the goal of shaping character.
To my amazing husband., Dan, for his generous labor of love in preparing this book for
publication.
To my colleagues and friends at lnnncrchoicc Publishing and Jalmar Press: Editor
Susanna Palomares, for her encouragement, wisdom and friendship and Bradley Winch,
whose enthusiasm and integrity brought this book to fruition.
To the principals, teachers and youth workers from the United States, Canada, South
America, Austra1ia, New Zealand, and other countries for their cnthusia.sm for The
Virtua Project and their generosity in sha.ring their success stories.
To Jeanne Iler and my brother, John Kavelin, for their cxcdlcncc and perseverance in
helping to "make it beautiful".

Introduction
Five Strategies for
Creating a C.ulture
of Character
Table of Contents
Preface
How to Use This Book
Out Schools Are in Trouble
The Loss of Meaning
A Renaissance of Values and Virtues
Why Virtues? Why Not Values?
An Inclusive Approach
Background
A Holistic Approach to Character Education
Building a Community Safety Net
The Five Strategies of The Virtues Project
Chapter Summary
Xlll
XVI
X:Vlll
XVUl
X:Vlll
.
XIX
.
XIX
.
X:Xl
..
XXII ..
XXII
XXIV
XXV
Section
I: Slmple Ways to Create a Culture of Character
Strategy 1 - Speak
the Language of
the Virtues
Language Shapes Character
Speak the Language of Virtues co Acknowledge
Speak the Language of Virtues to Gui<le
Speak the Language of Virtues to Correct
ACT with Tact: Virtues in Student Evaluations &
Feedback
Cultural Change Begins with Leadership
Activicies
Virtues Diagram
Viitues Role Play
Name That Virtue
Secret Pal Program
Integrate Virtues Into Songs
Virtues Games
Fruit Salad
Wheel of Virtues
Virtues Jeopardy
Virtues Charades
From Shaming to Naming
Virtues Awards
School-wide Activities
Virtue of the Week Program
Chapter Su_mmary
Virtues Vouchers
Hug Notes
Table of Contents ..........................................................................
.
Vil

VIII
Strategy 2 - Recognize
Teachable Moments
Strategy 3 - Set Clear
Boundaries
Look for the Lessons
Hdp Students C..onnect Personally to Lessons
Support Mastery and Meaning
Turn Stumbling Blocks into Scepping Stones
Be: a Teacher, Not a Preacher
U$C Virtu-es, Nor Labels
Help Childrrn to Balance Their Virtues
Rename and Reframe
Be a Conscience Maker, Not a Conscience Breaker
3:l
Conscience Makers and Conscience Breakers
Recognize Teachable Moments with Special Needs Students
Ask Closure and [ntegration Questions
lnvolvl" the Family
Activities
"Virtues In Me" Book
Virtues Interview - StuMnt AC"tivity Shttf
Darkest Moments/Shining Hours
Best Friend Brainstorm
Virrue-s Integrity Profile
How Am I Doing? - Snuknt Activity Shttt
Virtue of the Day Reflection
Team Teaching
Personal Virtues Poster
Walk About
Magic Box
Mind Map Virtues to Solve Problems
4 9
Vinues Celebrity Party
Vinuc:-s "Vibes"
Symbols of Virtue
Friendship Chan • Student Activity Shttt
School-wide Activities
Community Service Pro.ect
Gem Tag Day
5 ;l
Guesl for ,he Day
5-3
Career Day
5:l
Character ll'ait of tbe Weck• Stutbnt Activity Shrrt
Chapter Summary
Create a Safe Haven
A Holistic Approach
An Educative Model of Authority
Authority is Leadership
What is Your Leadership Scyle~
Establish Restorative Justice by Listening
Restitution, Not Retribution
10 Guiddincs for Establishing Clear Bound.ari-es
The Virtues Project .....................................................................
.

Strategy 4 - Honor
the Spirit
Find the Natural Boundary
Keep Class Siu Manageable
Activities
Discws the-Vinuc of Assertiveness
Discuss Stranger Danger
Vision and Boundaries Posters
Restitution Fits My Mistake • SIUMnt
Arrivi,y Shrrt
c~.atc a Pnce Zone
Class Clran-Up
Send Home Vinucs Vouchcrs and Hug
Notes
School·widc Activities
Communicate Boundaries Clearly
Create P-eacc Squads
Chapter Summary
Inspiring SchO()I Spirit
Stt the Poten1ial
Create :a Shared VLSion Statement
Onc•Minucc Integrity Check
Model the Vinucs You Expect Others to Practice
Story Together
Focus on V~nues in the Arts
Riven of Respect, Cornucopias of Creativity
Feature Virtues in the Performing Arts
Apply Vjrtucs in Poetry
Play Vinucs Music
Yin un in Cerc:monics
Graduation
Awards Dinners
Retirement
Loss and Grief
Opening Circle
Closing Gratitude Circle
Talking Scick
Yarn 'IOss
Activities
Virtues Picks
Individual Pick,
Virtues Pick Sharing Circle
Gem Tags
Light a Candle
What Virtues Do We Bdng?
Inspirational Walk
Table of Contents ........................................................................
..
8S
9;
9S
9S
9S

Strategy 5 - Offer the
Art of Spiritual
Companioning™
Elders' Council
Gem Pick
Personal Virtues Posce-r
Persona1 Virtues Shield - Studnit Aetiuity Shrrt
Virtues lnregrfryTrce
Virtues Poetry- Student Activity Sh~rl
Virtues Songs
l 04
Virtues Journals
School-wide Activities
Virtues Asscmbli~
1 OS
Virtues Bulletin Board
Virtues Accyonym of Your School Name
A Virtues Garden
Virtues Appreciation Party Day
I 06
Chapter Summary
The Companioning Presence
Helping Children Make: Moral Choice1
The Magic Word
The Seven Steps of Spiritual Companioning
The Spiritual Companioning Process
~t Boundaries:
What If Kids Go Silent?
Companioning Someone in Anger
Don't Get Furiow, Get Curious!
A Fresh Approach to Conflict Resolution
Companioning as Problem Solving
How to Hold a Virtues Sharing Circle
One-Minute Counseling Strategies
Virruts Picks in Counseling
Companioning Grief
Companioning in Catastrophe
Companioning in Suicide Prevention
Activities
Sad-Mad-Glad-Scared Game
Pcc:r Peacemakers - Stwknt Activity Shrrt
School-wide Activities
Virtues-based Strategic Planning
Chapter Summary
Section Z: Virtues: The Gifts of Character
Introduction: How to Use This Section
The Virtues
Poster - Vinue.s: The Gifts of Character
The Virtues Project ..........................................................
u ••••••••••

Sectlo11 3: Resources
Virtues Project Website
Programs and Materials of Th<" Virtues Project
How to Order Materials
S<lect«I Bibi iography
Virtues Mwic Sources
Other lid-es from Jal mar Press/InnerChoice Publishing
Table of Contents ...............................................
,u, .. , ...................
.

Preface
When I was a young mother, raising my two boys in ruraJ South Carolina,
I was shocked and saddened to find my children coming home with valuB
which did not fit our family's beliefs. I remember when my younger son Craig,
in first _grade, came home wing racist words and making sweeping gcncraliz.a•
tions abour people of color. When I questioned him, trying to get to the root
of the logic, he spoke about "catching cooti~" and other phrasa he had heard.
When I asked, "But Craig, what about John?" naming his closest friend whose-
skin was a deep chocolate, hot said, in six-year-old logic, "Well, not him."
When I asked why, he said .. Cuz he's my best friend." We had long talks about
seeing with your own c:ycs and thinking with your own mind, and I didn't
hear anything more about the dangers of associating: with others whose skin is
a diffcrcnt color. My job of reaching respect. tolerance and unity was made
harder beause th,cse, virtues were not addressed at school.
I was also distressed by the fact that my older son was constantly overwhelmed
by the noise and confusion of the "open classroom" experiment, a methodol-
ogy which was launched without much understanding of the changes it r-c-
quired. There were no boundaries in the classroom. When I observed. his
"teaching area". children were running and shouting, my son among them.
The noise was deafening. My hcan went out to him and the other children
who were ill equipped to cope with the chaos. My heart went out to the
•
teachers too. I decided to do something about it.
The next day, I made a.n appointment with the prin-cipal. "I know this open
classroom thing isn't working, but what can I do?" he said, looking dejected.
I said, "Would you let me help in a small way?" "How?" he asked. "What is
your hardcstcla.5$, the one with the most disciplinary problems:?" He named
the first grade class. He knew that I was a psychotherapist, working with
children and families and he said "I don't know what you're going to do but
pl-case do it." I went to the first grade teacher, who had already raised a sweat
by 11 AM. The children were restless. One little girl kept flinging herself at
the ta.chef who kept saying, "Kimmy, stop ic." I said, "'I'd like to help you out
a couple of times a week. Give me your five 'most cha11enging' kids, the ones
who arc hardest co handle. I'll take them out for a couple of hours twice a
week." I will never forget chc look on her face. She almost cried. She pointed
th.em out, including Kimmy. A couple of days later, I arrived with drawing
paper and crayons, a box of raisins, and an idea.
Mrs. Johnson yelled out the names of the five children and they gathered
Preface .................................... u ..................................................
.
•••
XIII

XIV
apprehensively around me. I knelt down and said, "I'm going to take you to a
very speci.al place. You have been chosen by your teacher to come whh me."
They looked only ,l;ghrly less worr;c:d. They walked, hopped and meandrrc:d
behind m,e to a tiny supply room in which I had created a circle of child•sized
chairs. "Please sit down." As I looked at them, I did a quick scan of their
characteristics. Lc-roy, whose eyes whirl-cd. involuntarily appeared to have some
neurological impairment; Johnny was so hyperactive, he was liter.ally attempt·
ing to climb the wall behind his chafr: l(jmmy's clothes wen: shabby, her hair
unkempt, and her body movements agitated. I wondcr-cd. about possible abuse
or neglect; Raymond was slow and obese:; Timmy looked very angry. Kimmy
and Johnny were Caucasian, Leroy, Raymond and limmy African•American.
I sat on the floor before their little circle and said, "We're going to learn
together about three very special things, which everyone has inside. They arc
respect, patience, and .self.discipline." I looked only at the four who were
paying auention. I ignored Johnny, still standing in his chair but beginning to
tire from his wall climbing attempt$. He suddenly turned around and stopped,
perhaps to sec if I was watching him. I took advantage of the moment. "Sec
how Johnny is looking at me right now and paying anention? That's the kind
of respect I'm talking abouL" Johnny looked absolutely dumbfounded and
plopped down into a sitting position. I had his attention. "This class wiU be a
secret just between w, and when you learn these things - rcs~t.
patience,
and sclf--disciplinc- thcn you can teach them to the rat of your class."
Each week, I made words of raisins and popcorn, and when the children were
able to master the words themselves, the fC'Ward was to "car my words. n They
laughed and munched. The main focus of our time together was some simple
life skills to help them practice the three vinucs. Th,cy learned that when the
teacher asked for quiet. they were to "stop like a statue." They loved playing
statues and they understood. rhar it was a way to show respect in following
directions. They learned. that if they wanted to respond in class, instead of
jumping on the teacher, or shouting, they were to put one hand over their
mouth and the other in the air. This was a way of showing sdf--discipline.
While the others drew, Kimmy practiced "the magic circle of rcspec-t". Having
no .scn.sc of physical boundaries, she would literally jump on people-like a
monkey. 1 showed her the invisible circle of personal space which was a way of
showing respect for herself and others. When she was able to go for an entire
session without jumping on me or the other children, I would hold her in my
arms for a long hug at the end of the class. Johnny received special acknowl•
cd.gments for his .self-discipline when he made the effort to pay aucntion.
Raymond showed enthusiasm and excellence in recognizing words. They all
began to read within a few weeks. I received reports from Mrs. Brown that
thcsc children were showing "miraculous• changes.
The Virtues Project ····••u••··························•H••··
.. ···•··•····•·•·•·········

At the end of the term, with their drawings on resptct, patience and stlf.
discipline, the children paraded proudly into class. "We are your teachers for
today," Raymond announced. confidently. "We will teach you respect," said
Johnny, grinning from ear to ear. "We will teach you patience," said Kimmy,
smiling peacefully. Leroy and limmy went on 10 demonstrate the ]cft hand up
and right hand over mouth technique. We played Respect Statues with the
whole cl.ass. My kids. beamed with pride as the other children applauded
wildly. Based on that simple program of virtues development, the school
i.nstituted. an ongoing program called .. ABC: Aiding Behavioral Change"'.
Other voluntccn came forward to keep it going.
This early experience brought me hope and was the seed for The Vinues
Project, which my hwband, my brother and I founded. 16 ye-a.rs later in 1991.
It has become a grass roots movement spanning the globe, spreading the
philosophy that by focusing on the virtues - the best qua1itics within our
children - we can encour:ige them to be at their best.
We need ways to transform our schools into safe, happy learning environ•
mcnts. The purpose of The Virtues Project is to help develop a culture of
character where respect, patience, sclf.-disciplinc, tolerance and joy for learning
arc :imong th-e vinucs our children masrer. The character Nlucarion of our
children has become our first priority. It's time to make our schools caring
communities where all students arc encouraged. to live by the vinucs - the best
within them.
Linda Kavelin Popov

XVI
How to Use
this Boole
The Virtues Project Educator's Guide is drsigned to give educacors cools and
strategics to help them shape character by creating a positive. empowering
culture or environment in which children are learning and growing.Thcse-
stratcgies can hr easily integrated into the curriculum, the disciplinary system
and social atmosphere of any Khool or organization. The Virtues Project is a
positive, holistic program which has been used in many cuhurcs and countriies
throughout the world to bring out the best in children and adults.
This Guide highlights Examples of Excdlencc from schools around the globe
to give you concrete examples of how to apply The Virtues Project strategics
in your own school or program.
The activities al the back of each chapter and each vtnuc are designed. for a
wide range of age and grade lcv-ds, from K to 12. Many of them apply to all
ages. However, we leave it co you to decide which activities arc appropriate for
the age, social and cuhural group with whom you arc working and how to
adjwt the activities to fit your students.
Counselors will find Chapter Son the Art of Spiritual Companioning panicu•
larly useful in their work with students. It pr~ents a method which helps
students to "get to the heart of the matter" and call on the virtues of their
character 10 solve their own problems. h is a useful cool in grief work and
suicide prevention as well.
This Guide is divided into chree sections and contains:
Section I: Simple Ways to Create a Culture of Character
• A chapter on each of the Five Scra1egies of The Virtu~ Project.
• Methods for applying each strategy.
• Examples of Excellence from schools and programs throughout the world.
• Classroom activities, student activity sheets, and school•wide activities at
the end of each chapter.
• A Chapter Summary. with a lisc of key points.
The Virtues Project .....................................................................
.

Section 2: Virtues: The Gifts of Character
• 52 Virtues, from Assertiveness to Unity.
• How to use (he virtues for classroom and school-wide acriviries.
• A definition of each virtue, why practice ir. role-playing scenarios, signs of
success and an affirmation on 1he first page of each virtue.
• Suggested. activities., reflection questions, art projects, and .. quotable quotes"
which can be posted, on the second page of each virtue.
• A poster: "Vinucs: The Gifts of Character'" at the end of the section.
Section 3: Resources
• [nformation
on The Virtues Project website.
• Books and music about the virtues.
• Information on how to order Virtues Project materials.
• How to arrange for Virtues Project presentations and workshops.
How to Use this Book ...........................
u ......................................
.
. .
XVIL

XVIII
Introduction
•
E- Our Schools Are In Trouble
Too many schools have become war zones. The incidence of violence is alarm-
ing. The leading cause of death of youth in Nonh America is murder. Many
youth in Notth American cities go to school with weapons. Metal detectors
and .armed guards. arc needed at chc doors. Too many of our children are
technical wizards and moral incompetents. Studenu are dropping out of
school at an alarming r.ate. Teachers .arc increasingly scrcsso:I by chc threat of
violence and arc already overburdened by the demands of academic rcquirt:-
mcnu. We know that unless we get to the root causes of these problems. they
will persist and worsen.
,' •• The Loss of Meaning
A study our of the Harvard Center for Moral Education asked the question
"Why did you do it?' of youth jailed for committing random acts of violence.
Ninety pc-r cent of these youth said .. Because I was bored." Boredom is a
spiritual disease - the disease of mcaning)C$Sn~.
If loss of me2ning is the dise:ase, the cure must incorporate a way for young
people to connect with meaning and purpose. Thel'C' is a longing deep within
adolescents to make a ditference, to have impact. h comes from the develop-
mental urge to fulfill 1heir inna1e virtues of idealism, purposefulnes.$, and
c~civicy. It is che call of orly adulthood saying "Make your mark." When
that fierce idealism is nor given a positive focus through opporrunities for
young people to explore and experience what is meaningful in their lives, i1
seeks another channel.
• A Renaissance of Values
E- and Virtues
Thankfully, 1here is a renaissance of values and virtues to address the bean of
the maner. The purpose of life as described in all the world's wisdom tradi-
tions is the cultivation of the vinucs. There is norhing new about justice.
Thrre is nothing original ;;about love. Virtues are the oldest ideas in che world.
The Virtues Project ..................................................................... .

Yet, wc alt" spiritually and mora.lly parched for th~ 5implc, timeless practices.
Many tcachcn and administrarors arc finding that applying the .str.r.ttgics of
The Vinues Project is transforming the culturr in rhcir schools by helping
them to cr-cate a total environment of caring and rcs.pcct. They have replaced
discouragement with empowerment, having discovered that words such as
... lazy"', •stupid" ... no good"'. '"hopc-lcss''i and "'unacceptable" were literally de-
moralizing and -di1""Couragc•ing
their students. When they fill chcir classrooms
with encouraging words, such as .. helpful", .. exccllenc", .. compassionate", "'sc]f.
disciplined", ahd "land", they find that these bthaviors flourish.
•. Why Virtues? Why Not
Values?
Values arc what we value and care abouc. They could be anything. We may
value getting rich and famow, we may value being the best criminal the world
has ever SC'CD, we may value power over ochers, hue th:n doesn't mean wc wilJ
have good character. Also, values are culture-sp«ific. What some: familia or
cultures value, others don't. Vinues arc much more elemental than values.
While values arc culture-specific, virtues a.re universally valued by all cultures.
,i•• An Inclusive Approach
Sometimes educators get bogged down in their pursuit of character education
by che dilemma of how to incroducc va1ucs without offending people of
diverse belief systc-ms, including the religious and the non•tt-ligiow childtt-n.
How do we incroduce character education in a pluralistic society? How do we
safeguard against imposing the values of any one bcljcf system? A simple way
ro address this issue is by focusing on rhc development of vinucs.
We cannor afford to wait until rhe values debate is resolved. Too many of our
child.rcn arc: dying. And so this program a;idc·ncps chc debate and gcu on w,th
the bwincss of how to inspire chc courage-, honor, jwtice, and comp.mion in
our kids. All parents. of whatever faith or of no faith, support having their
children develop the inrcgricy of their character.
The strategies ofThc VinuC$ rroj~t arc a simple, proven methodology which
helps children to remember who they really arc, and to know that che purpose
of life is to have a life of purpose. Virtues ate the content of our character, the
elements of che human spirit. They exist within each child in potential. What
is needed is a method to help children act on the best within them. The
purpose of a true educator- which literally means .. one who leads fonh" - is
Introduction ·····••u••········· .............................................................
.
·virtut'S arr whati good
about us ...
Sharon, Age 6

xx
to awaken the: vinucs which already c:xist within a child. Th.is book is about
simple: ways to do that.
The: best time to awaken a child's qualities of character is in rhe early yean.
Early childhood C'ducarion is the ideal rime: ro introduce .an awareness of
vinues as the core oflifc:'s meaning, yet wc have found it is nc:vc:r too late: to
help them discover ir.
Virtue is alive and well within our children -
ir merely needs to be .awakened.
As 1his praclkc spreads., .. virtuc will triumph c:vc:rywhcrc" .
.,Culrivart Virtut' in your st/f. and Virtut' will bt real
Cultivat-t Virtut in thr family. and Virtut' wj/1 flourish.
Cultivat-t ViTNU' in the village, and Virtu-t will sprtad
Cultivat.t Virtut in the nAtion. and Virtue will bt abundant.
Cultivat-t Virtut in thr world and Virtut u.,i/1 triumph
nierywhnr. •
Lao Tsu
Th y·
P •
e 1rtues fOJeCt .. ~ ............................
,u.,
................................
..

Five Strategies
for
Creating a Culture
of Character
•
• 1 11. Backg
d
_
roun
The Virtues Project was honored as a model globaJ program for fan1ilies of all
cultures by the United Nations Stcrrtariat during rhc International Year of che
Family. The Virtues Project is nor about the practices or beliefs of any particu-
lar rdigion. It is based on the simple wisdom of the world's diverse cultures
and religions about living by the kst within us - courage, honor, jusrice,
kindness and all of our innate vinucs. Schools, businesses, diverse faith com•
munitics, prisons, counsdors, drug and alcohol recovery programs, anJ
families chroughout the world are using the Five Suategies ofThe Virtues
Project with transformational effect.
•
•
•
•
•
Teachers jn alternative schools for drop•outs and gang members found
that th,ey were-able to get through to students for the first time by naming
the virtues they saw in chem.
A young mother of four in Washington State went to a school after a
tragic shooting by a student, to offer healing. The whole community
rallied behind her "Virtuous Reality" campaign to put up post-ers of
virtues in storefronts, on buses, in school ha.llways and in homc:5,
Sixth grade students in Western Australia formed an "elders' council" of
students which met weekly to solve problems posted in the "'Virtues Post
Box" by other students, guiding them to the virtues th-ey felt would em•
power them co change their lives.
Schools in Russia, Eastern Europe, and Asia have adopted rhe strartgies as
the basis of their moral development curricula.
Boys & Girls (:lubs in the U.S. and Can;1.d;1.
an; using it to address the
spiritual component of ,heir mandate to help the whole child.
Five Strategies ................................
u ............................................
.
"Chart1c1er
iJ a
pn:fect/y tdticatrd
will"
Norvallis

"/ hrar and I forgrt
I set and f rtmtmbrr
I tk, and I unekntand"
Anonymous
NParrnts ""' be thr
grratnt assrt to studrnt
msiJl4nu. The involvrd
parent, n,m if umophiJ-
tirauJ in parenting, if
willing to work together
with thr school can
turn around II foiling
student.•
Micha.el C. Selrz.. Vice--
Principal, t:ros, Middloe
School, Livonia, Michigan
..
XXII
• A Holistic Approach to
E- Character Education
The Five Stratq;ic.s ofThe Virtues Project arc a means ICO transform the cul•
turc of our schools and provide simple (ools to use every day to make charac•
tcr tducation a n;nural pan of the child's cxpt"rience.
To create a culture of character, a school does not need to change the curricu•
lum or introduce a special curriculum. It is far more powerful 10 int-cgrate the
cultivation of vinues into the existing curriculum. the discipline synem, tht'
counseling experience, and daily classroom life. Children learn within the
context of what they experience in daily interactions.
his also important thac character education appC'al to the diver5,e: learning
styles which children have - visual, auditory, kinesthetic. clc. Throughout chis
guide there are Teaching lips and multj•sensory activirjes that help lo bring
out the best in students.
-• Building a Community
E Safety Net
Through the power of networking, i( is possible to create a true safety net for
our kids. Schools which have high In-els of parental involvement arc shown by
research to have the greatest success in transforming schools that have been
battle zones into peace zones. The unicy of teachers and parents, panicularly
when il is focused on positive vinue-s in the behavior of students, gives S{U•
dents the greaten opportunity for success. When parents and teachers are
singing the sam,e song, and speaking the same language - the virtuo-based
language of positivity - the self-esteem, idealism, respect, anJ safecy of stu·
dents increase dramatically.
Community volunteers who come in to offer assistance to teachers and
mentorship to students are one of the most powerful resources any school has.
More and more corporations are giving something back. Colleges and univer-
sities can provide student int-ern mentors from their education faculties. With
a Ihde training in the Five Strategies of The Virtues Project, a corps of dcdi-
ored mentors made up of parcnu, ciders, husin~ people and others in the
community can make a world of difference to our children.
The Virtues Project .................................................
u
•• , ••••••••••••••••

Example of Excellence
•virtue of the Week•:
A Tool for Pa~nt/Teacher
Partnerships
Nancy PortiU01 mother of five boys, in San Jose-, California,
initiated The Vinucs Project in their elementary school when she
sent not6 to her son's teachers naming the "'Virtue of the Week".
which they were working on at home and asking for teachers to
give her feedback about how the boys were doing. The teachers
sent home notes about ways they saw tlu: Pooillo boys practicing
the vinuc of the week. At ch(' rnd of the year, the boys made
gifts for their teachers and cards .2cknowl-tdging
the special
vinues which they appreciated in them. Nancy and Carlos
Portillo came to school with a cake for each teacher inscribed
with the virtues the boys saw in them. This simple acknowlcdft
mcnt process built self-esteem in the boys and their tcachcr.s, too!
Community
Mentors can:
• assist during recess and help keep it a Peaa Z.Onc
• be on call to help students resolve conflict or just have someone to
talk to about their problems
• be a compa.nion and guide for studencs in suspension
• provide job coaching
• serve as special presenters at job fairs
• offer summer employment for students.
Five Strategies ........................................................••...••...••.•..•....•.
XXIII

XXIV
• The Five Strategies of
E The Virtues Project
I. Speak the Language
of the Virtues
Language has grrar influence to empower or discourage. Sdf-cs1cc-m is built
when shaming or blaming language is replaced by n.aming the Virtues, our
innale qualities of characrer. Virtues arc u~d to acknowledge, guide and
correct. The Language of Virtues helps us remember what kind of people we
want co be.
2. Recognize Teachable Moments
This strategy is a way of viewing life as an opportunity for learning, recogniz-
ing our mistakes, our tests and challengies as opportunities co hone our vinues.
It is an approach to bringing out the ~t
in och other by asking, MWh.at can I
learn from chis situation?'", "Wbat Jo I need. to do differently next time?",
and .. How can l make it right?"
3. Set Clear Boundaries
Clc-ar boundaries, connected to a Shared Vision of the virtues with which we
want 10 near one another, help to prevent violence and create a safe learning
environment. Clear ground rules based on virtues build an atmosphere of
order and unity. This strategy offcn a p<>si(ive approach to discipline, cmph.--
sizing both assertiveness and res.torative justice. It helps us to identify what
bonom line behaviors will not be tolerated as well as how amends an be
made.
4. Honor the Spirit
School spirit grows through simple practices that illumine our sense of values,
such .as creating Shared Vision Statements. A school-wide moment of silence
each morning can bring :a .sense of peace to the day. Virtues Sharing Circles
allow us to refle<t on what matters to us. Participation in the arts honors
meaning and creativicy. Celebrations make special cv-ents meaningful. This
strategy helps us to address the spiritual dimension in a way 1hac res~ts our
diversity.
5. Offer the Art of Spiritual Companioning~
This is an art and skill which supports healing, encourages moral choice, and
allows the safe expression of feelings. It hdps in counseling, conflict resolu-
tion, and disciplinary situations. Companioning helps us co get to the heart
of the matter when individuals a~ in grief or crisis. Ir involves true presence
and listening, asking clarifying questions, which allow individuals 10 empcy
their cup, and then to solve their own problems with the help of the virtues.
The-Virtues Project .....................................................................
.

Summary of
Ideas
✓ Uac an inclmift,
Yirtua-bucd
approach to bring oa.t the bat in
1tudcnta.
✓ lntt:g:aate The Virtue, Project in.to your current cunicu.Ju.m and
diaciplinc aystcm. It doesn't haYC to be an additional program.
✓ Student, learn ia the contat
of n-cry day iatera.ctiom.
✓ Uoe the 5 Strategiea of The Virtaea Project u a &amowork for
poaithrc change.
✓ U,e m.,Jti-aeo1ory •pp.roaches which. appeal to di lcuning styfca
when focming on Tirtuea.
✓ Tap th.c power of partnenlup
between puenta and tcachr.n,
✓ Tap the raource
of potential mentor J among the citizen, and
bwincs,a
in your commu.nity.
Summary ...................................................................
,u,,, •••••••••••••
XXV

Section
Simple Ways to Create a
Culture
of Character

1 Speal< the
Language of the
Virtues
Language Shapes Character
The-way we speak and the words we use have great power. Language is the vcfliclc
for meaning. and above all else awakens the characccr-and shapes the s.df-cst«m of
our child~n. It shapes the very culture of our homes, schools and workplaces,
Words have the (X>""·cr
10 break a he-drt or inspire a dream. The Language=
of rhe
Virtu~ empowers children to act on the best wichin them. It is the main
ingredient in creating a rulture of character.
There is an expression among the Maori of New Zealand: "I sec you ... To sec a
child in light of his or her virtues is to nurrurc the moral champion within
rhat child. To sec a child as a bundle of problems and misbehavior is to
reinforce an already negative sense of self. Children tend to act according to
the way adults in thdr wor]d :see chem. An old blues song says uMy name is
trouble ... Many children come from environments where chey are seen as
'"trouble". Vinues arc in narc gifts within every child. Therefore, an educator
dois not have to impose the virtues from without, but rather awaken and
strengthen the virtues that are already there.
Teachers have enormous. power in children's lives. Thrir power comes primarily
from rhc value they 5tt in a child's being. and whether they see a child in a
negative light or in light of th-cir positive possibilities. The old expression
went, uS1icb and stones may break my bones, but names can never hun me."
The power that teachers and other caregivers have to shape a child's sensc-of
self. merely by che words they USC' about chat child. defies the validity of che
old saying. In truth, it should~
revised to 53Y uSticks and scones may break
my bones, but names can break my spirit ... We can choose co call children
names which deepen the rut of thefr negative bc-havior patterns, using words
like .. lazy", "stupid'", .. shy", .. mean". or "quitter", or we can call them by the
names of thdr inner strengths, calling them to chc vinucs of dcccrmination,
respect, friendliness, confidence, kindness and gentleness.. A cdevis.ion talk~
show host once said to me after h~ring me speak abou1 1he strategy of
Speaking the Language of the Vinues, "How can they turn away when you
call them by their nue names?"
Speak the Language of the Virtues ....................................................
..
"Thr n,ind is not a
vmrl to k jillrd but a
fi" ro br it;nit-td "
Plutarch

Firs( Nations people of Nonh America speak of the "Four Medicines" or-
personal powers we have:
The Power to SEE
The Power to HEAR
The Power to SPEAK
The Power to ACT
Using the Language of the Virtuc:5 as a framework for shaping character
involves more than speech. his a way of thinking, a frame of reference, and a
"frame of rcvcrcnc1t for rdaring to our-students in light of their innate
nobility. h indudes:
•
SEEING the vinues in each student. whether in :a sm:t.11
glimmer of possibility or a brilliant gem.
•
•
•
HEARING our students, using liStening skills which ca1I on
our own Kindness, (:ompassion and Justice.
SPEAKING with the power of virtues such as Enthusiasm,
Tacc, Honesty, love, and Gentleness .
ACTING with virtue, to model the virtues we are helping our
s;tudcnts to cultivate, including the Humility co recognize,
accept and le-.1.rn
from our own mistakC5. We don't need to be
.. paragons" of perfection, but paragons of vinue - modeling day
by day the will to cultivate, or perfect, our-own virtues. We can
even ask for help from our students. If we arc having a bad day
we can say "I'm going co really need your Hdpfulncss and
Cooperation roday because I'm not f«ling very Patient."
Awaken
the Virtues in Every Child
his really important 10 find Sl)METHING about each studt"nt which you
can legitimately appreciate and enjoy. Every child needs to see someone's eyes
light up in recognition. with a look which says "I sec you, and you maner to
me," At some point, almost every child. youth and .adult feels parchrd for
meaningful recognition. By identifying a virrue and narning it, you will see
1heir eyes light up in recognition - of their own value.
The Virtues Project ....................................................................... .

How to Speak The Language
of the Virtues
There are three fundamental ways to use the power of language to awaken the-
innate virtues in students, and thereby to bring out the best in them:
•
to ACKNOWLEDGE or praise them for a vinuc they have practiced
•
to GUIDE or prepare them to pracrice a virtue
•
to CORRECT or re-mind them when they have "forgotten"
themselves and failed to practice a virtue, when they h.avc don,c
something wrong or made a mistake.
• Speak the Language of the
Virtues to Acknowledge
The ohjrctive of ACKNOWLEDGING virtues is to help build aurhcntic self-
esteem and to ENCOURAGE virtun when you sec them.
Acknowledge
Excellence
and Effort
The first and perhaps mosc important way to speak the Language of the
Virtues is to acknowledge a virtue when you sec a student practicing it. Say it
when you sec it! When a student hears one of his or hc-r virtues acknowledged,
it awakens their awareness that they actually have this virtue, chat acting on ir
is a choice. and that they can choose to practice this virtue in other situations.
"I have this virtue. I can choose it, and I can use-it." The latin root of the
word "virtue" is "virtus" meaning strength, power, capacity, and energy.
Naming a virtue encourages its mastery and communicates 1he message '"You
have this power. I sec it in you ... Don't dilute the power of the acknowledgment
by adding a lecturcuc about how the child should uy harder. jw[ let the
acknowledgment stand.
Example of Excellence
Virtues Circle Time
&ola Whitcombc-, a relirving (substitute) teacher in the Kapiti region of
New Znland, minks carefully abou1 <he cla.s.srooms
she revisi<S
fitquendy
and decides which virtue she wants to use with the group the next time she
will be working in the das.s. One virtue she uses regularly is peacefulness.
She begins the morning Circle lime with a discussion about what
peacefulness is. She writes the virrue up on the whiteboard and tells the
children that she will be paying careful attention to peaccfulncs.s that day.
When she sees someone being peaceful she gives a virtues
acknowledgement and writes that child's name on the board. Soon
everyone's name is on che board. often with two or three ticks beside their
names to show how they havt practiced pcaccfufness during the day.
Speak !he Language of the Virlues ............................................. .
1 ~aching
lip
What7 Give a Virtues
/\cknowledgmenl
Why7 To encourage
and reinforce emerging
vinucs.
When7 When you see a
student • doing the nght 1
thing" by exhibiting or
practicing a virtue.
especially when it is a
new or challenging
virtue for them.
Example: ·James, you
ctre being very Peaceful
tOday in the Ge'1tle Wilf
I you-.
been playing.·
Say it whm you 1tr it!

Ureaching
Tip
Grve a Virtues
AcknOwtedgment to
a ~ally
aggressiv<!
student YA1o is no.v
being peacelul.
Example: "John. you
shOwed excellent sert•
Discipline today. You
were Peaceful aw Clay."
Of
"John. you had haW th<,
figll~ tOClay you had
yesterday. I see real
improvernert in your
setr-Discipfine to be
Peaceful.
Catch them In the Act of Committing a Virtue
Teachers, counS<"lors and administrators, with sufficien1 discernment. can spot
vinucs in even the most troubled child. h is like puning on a helmet and
miner's Jig.ht and entering a mine in which you know there an: hidd('n ~ms.
When you see a glimmer, shine your light on rha1 gtm of vinuc-. The-mon
powerful vinucs acknowleJgmen1s - those.-which have che greatest impact -
arc directed at vinucs 1hat a student is showing in an area which is a challenge
for ,he student, namely a ·growth" virtue. Adrnowledgc them for any
improvements in 1hcir growth virtues when you stt even sma.11
prog~s! By
naming thC' virtue, you .;1re encouraging 1hr srudrnt to bring i1 10 light, 10 lrt
i1 shine.
Sec the Glu, Half Fwll
Ar 11 ,onftwn(t u.1htrr I w11s tht ltrynott spralttr. a harried you.th
coordinator ,amt up and aslttd mt to do a U'Orltshop for tin youth u,ho
had a,,ompanitd thtir parrnlJ to the ,onftrrn,t. Wlu-n I wa!lud into
thr rwm, four young womrn of about twrlw to fourr«n i«rr on tht
floor in a parody of mrditarion, makint tht NOM
n sound a11d
Ltughing. I immtdiauly said. NPkas, bt rtsptrtfa/. This is an honored
pm,tiet by ropk of somt rrligions. • Tht ,oung u,omAn who apptartd
to IH leading 1hr others loolttd disgrunrkd, but she and thr orhtrs went
ba,lt to thrir stats. I btg11n rht virrun worltshop. Several timn in tht
first 20 minutn. Martha, tht samt girl. attrmpttd to gain tllltntion
[,om rh, othrr youth with humor. to distract thtm from small group
rxrrri.srs. Ea,h timr I would go ovtr to htr and whisper "This is a
rtllffl'nl
activity .. or "Plt,ut bt rnp«tfa/" and sht u'Ould srraighttn up.
FinaU} shr b«amr tngagtd in tht procm and wrnt along u•ith 1hr mt
of tht IV'(Jr/rshop without in,ieknt.
At tk tnd of rhr 90 min ult u'Orl!shop,
I brought out a btaurifo/ly
d«oratrd box c~ntaining 111nd
and ":(mu"' - beads of rolortd glass. I
said .. , u,ant to a,/t,,ou•kdgt you all for :,our tnthwimm and honesty
in sharing in this u1orltshop on 'Virtun, tht (iifts Within.' I will now
choou four p,op/r for spr.cial a,ltnowkdg,,1tn1J
for virtun I noticed
today.
N Tht first on.r I ,a/ltd up 1i•as Martha. Sht looltrd stunned, and
pa/rd iflstant/y. J,ht wa/Jrrd up to mt al tht front of thr roo'1l. / 11oti,rd
sht was shalting. l lookrd it,10 htr tyts and said. "Martha, pleast
ch<Jo1r
a gm,, I u111nt '" lwnor JO" for thr virtu~ '1/ obtdimct.
Whrnrwr I spokr to you today. you immrdiattly mpondrd obrdirntly.
So, taltt this ~m /Q wmitul Jo" that you art a gtm. • Sht '":an to ,,y
anJ smilt 111 tht samt timt. I als<J
honored tht btst bthawd child in
tht room whu c<Jntinually
r11i1~d IJtT hand in mpons, t<J qunrions, ln,r
'1ftm put it baclr down, s«ming 10 "'""' to giw orhm a chtznrt. I said
to brr, •1 honor you for your consideration and humility. YDu had Wts
of idtas and yrt you gaw othtrJ a ,hanct to sptalt. • Shr waJ abo
The Virtues Project ·····································••11•11••··········

moved, but Martha nrrtkd tbr adr,,owltdgn1r11t moJY. A bit
manipulative? Prrhaps. Bt1t my ;,,rrttt was to rri1,farrr tht positivrs 1
S'1W in htr rather th,111
focus o,i thr nrgativ,s.
Thr 11rxt day onr of thr boys found 1nt in thr ,011-fi"n,r hall in thr
midst of tu10 thowa,td proplr. "/Vt' bro, looking far you. I was up all
night. /in rrally upsrt ... "Whati upsruing :,011!" I askrd "/ fair that I
was dismprctfi,/ yntrrday. I laughed at Martha somrtim.n and I
u1asni rtsprtrful of u•h,tt J'"" u-rrr tra,hi ng 11s. It w11S ",,Jly
irflportant." "/ fargivr you. Th,111/t
you far rhr humility to apologize.
a
Hr continurd to look di1tra11ght
... What u•ou!J hrlp you to forgive
yo11rsrlf?" "First (If all, I will ntt•rr do it again to-any tra,hrr and
also ... fin go-ing to practict thr virt1'r of mptct. "~ sn1ilrd into tach
othtr J tyts.
Example of Excellence
Catch Them In the Act
A Montessori School principal in Victoria, British Columbia,
Canada had a seven year old with Atten1ion Deficit Hyperactivjcy
Disorder sitting in her oA-ice for 3 disciplin:ary ""lime Out"'.1'he child
w:as reading. The prin-cip:al looked up and s:aid "Annie, you arc: being
rc:ally Purposeful. You have been re-aJjng for quite a few minutes,
really concentrating ... The child's face lit up in aimaze-ment and
deli:ghir. She was so usd. to having her misbehavior commt-nted on but
rard)' heard wh:at she was doing right.
Latc-r in th,: W('tk,
th(' child's teacher came to th-e principal and sai.J
"What did you do to Annie? She has been extending htr a1tcn1ion
sp:an every day, working hard :H everything. behaving Peacefully. She
ch:angcJ dramatically. Wha.t did you do?n The principal explained the
power of seeing and :acknowledging che virtues in 3 child, particularly
one who rarely hears posirives. "We necr:I 10 let her know she isn't a
'disabled' child. She IS able - able to practice her vinue5 every Jay.
We need to acknowledge her when she doc."S."
Use The Language of Virtues to be Specific
The language of virtues. is specific, clear. and mun important of ;ill, e-.15ily
internalized. It builds authentic self-esteem without over-dependence on
approval. General terms, even when they are positive, do not hit the mark.
Terms su,h as "Good girl'", "Th:ar's a hoy", "Good on you", "Great ;ob", arc
too general for students to inrcrnaliu. These rerms promote'.' proplc-plcasing as
rhey only indicate that you are plC'.'ased
wi(h rhe student, withour giving them
Speak the Language of the Virtues ............................................. .

B
"You ran build
ch'1ra,trr by facwing
on ONE virtue at a
tim, in ordn-10 b,11,r
utukntand it. "
H~ey Sfntcs, Miss
Abbam~ c~nd id.uc
any specific information about what they did that was "excellent''. '"helpful'" or
"'crc,uivc", Gtving a specific vinucs acknowledgment is different than making
general scacemenu of praise which can create guile. his not helpful co label a
child in any way, positive or negative. Wt. don't say: "You're such a kind boy'".
We say ""It was kind of you to show our new student where to sit. I'm sure it
made him fed welcome."
Naming a specific virtue is a call to the child's character that resonates with her
deepest sel( The use of the virtue word "Purposcfulnt.s.( was much mort"
powerful than "Good girl. You're reading longer.'" The child can then say. ul
AM purposeful. I can be that way. I have it in me." It's in every one of us robe
wise, 10 lX" purposc:ful, to he kind, to he self-disciplined, and verbal
acknowledgment is one of 1hc ways 10 bring it to our awareness.
Example of Excellence
Peace In the Classroom
At Packakariki Primary &hool in New Zealand the teachers of the
Bilingual Unic work together with 40 children ;1ges five to cwclvc,
delivering a comprehensive program which includes instruction in
Maori as well as English. Mika Tawhara-Tamihana, che teacher of
rhe younger classroom, often gives Virtues Acknowledgements to
her children. "I use the strategics of The Virtues Projcc1 most
effrccively in my classroom. They help me in my efforts ar creating a
peaceful, harmonious environment for my children. Perhaps the
most important benefit that rhe Virtues have brought to me is my
own sense of peacefulness. h's easier to undcrscand whac the
children's real needs arc and how I need to respond. "fhis has
relieved a 101 of tension ...
Speak the Language of the
Virtues to Guide
The objective of GUIDING is to PREPARE students for a virruc rhcy need to
practice. It is often used in setting a boundary.
Use the Virtues
to Invite
Positive
Behavior:
Focus on Do's lnste~
of Don'ts
We often tell children whac we DON'T want them to do, thereby focusing
chem on the very behavior we intend for them to avoid. "'Don't run" suggesu
running. "Don'( fight" foc:uscs on fighting. "Stop that whispering" d~n•c give
The Virtues Project ......................................................................
.

them a positive focus for what you want from 1hem. Focwing on what we DO
want them to do is far more likely to obtain positive roults ... Be considerate.
W21k in the hallways• cncoungts rhem to walk. "You nttd. to work that out
peacefully encourages them to call up their peacefulness ... Please look at me
and listen respectfully" goes beyond an order to scop whispering and gives
them a -clearer, more positive idea of what is called for. "On our field rrip
today, what will hdp you to be:-patient on thar long bus ride?" "John, lee's sec
how peaceful you can be today. Whar would hdp you 10 be self-disciplined
about staying peaceful?"
When a positive statemenc of what we do want from thc-m is linktd to a
vinue, it has the greatest impact. h engages chcir moraJ and spiricu;al
awarrness. At times ask for a commirmcnt to pra(ti(c a virtue: •Please raise-
your hand to show you arc ready to be considerate.•
~eaching
Tip
Whal7 Gill,, \flrnJes
GUIDANCE
Why7 To focus and
guide beh.Mof.
Whffl7 When a child
needs guidance.
t>etore
the situatJOn in
whieh a paroculat
vtrtue 1s called for.
Speak the Language of the .
Virtues to Correct
U
Example: ·0ur,ng !he
te>t today. please
remember to be
ConStder ate of each
other and remain very.
very quiet Even one
pencil r anl,ng can
d1srract ~.
•
The objectivr of CORRECTING is to remind S(udencs of lhc virmes, when
they are miskhaving, when they have fail«I to choose a virtue or have simply
forgouen themselves.
Use the Virtues
to Build Conscience
Vinucs as guidance occun BEFORE an action. Virtues as correction OC(:Urs
AfTER an action has happc:ned that nccd.s correcting. The purpose-i$ not co
shame a scudenl into changing behavior. Sh.a.ming only undermines vinues
and harden$ che hean. A virtues correccion couches the child'$ conscience and
awaken$ the moral purpose of the change ,hat is called for.
When you correcl behavior by focusing on a virtue you arc practicing
Asscrtiven~ rather than aggression. You ar,e modelingJwtice. To say to a
student who is bullying others 'You're such a buJly. I'm calling your parents.
You just can't treat people that way.'" is name-calling, labeling, shaming and
non·-:5pccific.
It fails to educate. To say 10 a child who is bullying "Jim. you
need to be paccful. How ca.n you be a friend 10 other childrrn tven when
you'r-e angry? How would a friend aa? Whac kind of a person do you really
want co be with others?" This way you arc calling the student to che vinues of
r·
'
peacefulness and friendliness and holding out hope that he will indttd.
respond because he HAS the virtues within him.
Speak the Language of the Virtues ............................................. .
°1;eaching llp
Wh.at7 Give a Virtues
CORRECTION
Why7To stop
msl:>et'lalnor.
resfore
justice and build
conscience.
When7When
behavior is our of
ft With the virtoes.
when "'l"""""""''
is needed.
Ei<ample: "How
COUid the two of you
have worked this out
Peaceru11y
instead of
ligh1,ngr

At tht '°""
•f ""'Y
nzraningful
.action iJ the
intn11, a"d ti"" intent iJ
alu,ay, ,ef/«tiw •f ,n, of
rht virtues.
Replace Shaming
wJth Naming
Virtues
When we fill a classroom wi1h discouraging words, such as .. lazy", "stupid",
"'hopeless''. "unacceptable", we are liu:rally de-moralizing .and di.scouraging our
students. When we fill a classroom with encouraging words, such as helpful,
exccllen1, con1passiona1c, self.disciplined, kind, cooperative, we are inviring
and reinforcing chose bchavion. Above all, when we focus on virruc:s rather
chan judgmental scatcmcnts of good or bad, we are creating a contcxt for
characrcr, a climarc of meaning. At chc core of every meaningful action is the
inrenr, and 1ha1 intrnl is always. reflective of one of the virrucs.
From Shaming to Naming
A young pri,,,ary school trachrr in Nrw Zealand 1hartd htr story of
hou, shan,ing affect rd her ttJ a chi/J.· "Whrn I was six pars old. I had
troublr lrarning to rrad. Perhaps I was a bit dy1/exic. My trach" was
irritated with mt and qfhtr snuknrs whq wnr sluwer and having mort
difficulty. R,gularly sht would makt ont or tht othtr of UJ Jtand en a
chair in front of thr classroom a,,J say '/ am Jtt,pid. I eani rtad 'It was
thrn, whrn I waJ only six, that I rrsolvrd to brcomr a t-rachrr Jomrday
and tha1 I would 11rwr do this to childrrn. ,. Shr hm now gonr rvrn
farthrr with hrr drram ofinjlurncing rducation. $hr now trainJ oth"
rrach.m in the stratrgits ofTh~ Virrun Projrcr.
Name the Act, Not the Actor
How many of us had expe.riences of being shamed in school. which
discouraged us and became a self.fulfilling prophecy of failure, leading to a
lifelong battle with sclf•-tstctm? Humiliation discourages our srudtnu, while
the practice of naming vinues builds authcn1ic sdf•cstet:n1 and real conscience.
Holding a student accounrable for 1heir a1.:"1ions
in a firm, rcspec1ful way, and
in (he contcX( of their ability to choose vircues, is an open invitation to do the
right thing.
1t docs nor serve children in the cuhlvarion of their character co be "shamed.
blamed, or framed" fOr a mi~dt"n1e,1nor.
h serves 1hc:m to be held accountable,
to be held responsible, anJ c:nahlc:J 10 make amends and to focus on the
vinuc they were forgetting to prac1ic-c. When one child is aggressive co-ward
ano1hcr, after 1hc virtue is named - u~ually peacefulness or rcspc,t - justice
needs to be restored with an a,r of reparation.
The Virtues Project ......................................................................
.

How to Give a Virtues Acknowledgement
I see your
kindness
in helping our new
ent, John.
I honor you for your kindness
in the way you helped John.
I acl<JJOwlcdge
your
kindness
in the way you helped John.
That showed a lot of kindness
when you helped our new s1t11<lent.
It was
You wert being
Thank you for
kind of you lo help our new student.
kind
when you helped John today.
being kind when you p•ic·
1«<1 up my papers.
Speak the Language of the Virtues ............................................. .
Acknowledgements,
Guidance .and
Corrections each
have three
elements:
• An Opening Phrase
•A Virtue
• The Situation
I I

l - - -
ACT with Tact: Virtues in
Student Evaluations and
Feedback
When giving feedback such as reporr cards, it is encouraging for children co
receive a "Positivity Sandwich." ACT stands for Acknowledge, Correct, and
Thank. Sandwich suggestions for change or improvement between two
positives. Ending feedback with a positive helps to sustain self-esteem and
gives encouragement rather than discouragement. In this way, you can be
extremely honest while also being tactful about changes that are needed.
~:s:amplc:
We APPRECIATE in Arny:
Consideration, Kindness, Excellence
Amy shows kindness to new students. She is considerate of others
and ex1ends herself to be helpful. She is showing excellence in ma1h
lessons and in spelling, receiving high scar~ in all tests.
Amy's CHALLENGES are;
Assertiveness and Creativiry
Amy necd5 to learn to set clearer boundaries with more aggressjve
students and ask for help from our Peacekeepers Pacrol when she
needs it. She also needs to trust th.it she has the freedom to be
creative in some of her assignments. She does them reliably yet also
needs to have a bit of fun with her story writing and drawing.
We are THANKFUL for Amy's:
He]pfulness and [>urpost"fulness
Amy is helpful both to students and to teachers, has a strong, sens.e of
purposefulness. stays on track and take5 on every cask with a clear
focus on the goals of the lesson.
The Vjrtues Project .....................
u
...
, ...........................................
.

"A Paragon of Virtues"
You don'c need to be a paragon of perfection, but you do need to be a parJgon
or model of vircue. ModeJ che virtue you are asking students to practice. For
example, courtesy. If you want to bring a room of noisy students to order, you
,viii have more success by focusing on those who are sining respectfully and
quietly, rather than shouting at the ones who are making noise. "Thank you,
Andy, Mark, and Mary for the way you are siujng peaceful1y." When you want
to move from a small group activity and have the students return their
auention back co you, give a pre-arranged hand signal ro the <"lass th.3t ir is
time to bring their attention to you. Some teachers find it more peaceful to
ring a .small bell, play music, or raise their arm. with the children raising their
arms, as a signaJ for silence. Afcer giving che signal, you can say .. Jim, Tamara,
Jacob, thank you for being so courteous and respectful. You brought your
attention back to me right away." Focusing on those practicing che vinue and
the behavior you DO want is far more instructive and courceous than focusing
on those \•.:ho are showing behavior you do NOT want.
Cultural Change Begins
with Leadership
The impac1 of a 1eacher's in1egricy in living by and sincerely modeling 1he
virtues has even more effect than the words a reacher uses. If a teacher is
having an .. off" day, for example, asking for patience and kindness in a
humorous way is a great model of hun1ilicy and invices scudents to show some
generosity of spirit.
Schools wich successful climates of character are those whose leaders model the
fi,•e strategies, speak the language of virtues, appreciate sraff. use ACT with
Tact in performance appraisals and model the virtues of enthusiasm,
compassion, and justice themselves. When iichool administrators conduct
themselves in this way, it has a powerful effecr on staff. students, parents, and
the community.
For Administrators:
Include Appreciation
in
Your Staff Appraisals
The ACT wi1h Tact approach is for adults 100! Teachers need a posirivicy sandwich
as much as students, in receiving perforn1ance fet.xlb.ack.
It is said you can tell
anyone anything if you do it with tact. People tend to welcome inforn1ation about
their challenges when accompanied hy an accurate d<:Kriprion of their strengths in
the language of virtues. ·rhe SJJ11e format recommcnde-d for student reports is also
needed in giving periodic performance appraisals, appreciations and suggestions
for improvement to staff
Speak the Language of the Virtues ............................................. .
"What you arr sptaks so
loudly I .can't hear what
.
"
you Ort' sayJng.
Henry David Thoreau
''Men do not attract that
which thty want, but that
u,hich they arr. "
Anonymou$

Activities
As you are learning co "talk the talk and walk the walk" of vinue:s, you will
find your students following your example. Students tend to learn language
very quickly. particularly in their younger years. h is their "critical period" for
linguiscic development. The Language of Virtues is no exception. "ro teach
virtues language skills directly, you can have specific lessons on ir as well as
weave it into lessons you arc already giving.
These activities \Vork for a wide age range, so use your own judgment as co
which activities are appropriate-for the age group with whom you are working.
Virtues Diagram
Create a diagram of the "Virtue of the Week", using Signs of Success as the
elements.
Develop
'OUr ifl"-
Don't do
,
The Virtues Project ···•"h••··················••o••································

'
Virtues Role Play
Invite students ro describe a typical interaction, for ex:1n1ple, a fight on the
playground, before the students involved know about the Language of the
Virtues. Then role play what the same situation would look like using the
vi nues rather than aggression. Ask the class co think of other phrases which
each Student could have used to be assertive, or courteous, or honest, or
peaceful, in solving rhc problem.
Sc~nario Descriptlon: l)ne child shoves another one off the rings he has been
using. Teacher to class: "What virtues could the child who was on the rings
call on to solve this problem?" "What could the child say when he is being
peaceful and assertive?" Be prepared with suggestions suc:h as "I want to ask
you to be fair. I had the swing first, and in one minute, if you're patient, I'll
.
"
give you a turn.
,
Name That Virtue
Ar rimes. point out ro the class how rwo srudents have just used one or more
virtues to solve an actual prob]em. "Tanya and Juan just decided to use their
virtues instead of arguing with each other when they both wanted the same
book. \xrhat virtues are Tan)'a and Juan practicing?"
Secret Pal Program
In each group or class, place the names of all rnetnbets, includihg teachers and
volunteers into a decorated box. Include everyone. Each person draws a nan1e
at the beginning of the week, and keep~ track of virtues nocicc:d in thJt
individual. At the end of the week. these lists are read aloud.
My Secrel ral
(Name), ______
practiced these virtues in the week of (date) ____
.
VIRTUES
Kindness
Helpfulness
Friendliness
ACTIC)NS
She helped a student get up when she fell.
She erased the board.
She said "Hi". to lots of people.
Speak the Language of the Virtue~ ............................................. .

,
Integrate Virtues Into Songs
Youngtr: The Vinue in Our Class (sung to "The Farmer in the Dell").
You11gn-: "'Old MacDonald" had a vinues fa.rm ... and on this farm he had some
kindness, ei-ci-o. (See Resources Section for suggested music resource).
You,,grr and Okin-. "I Think You're Wonderful" (Substitute a virtue for
"wonderful" and sing a number of ver,cs); R«I Grammer, "Teaching rcace" album
and "Hello World" (See Resowces Section).
Younger and 0/Jrr. "Love is Like a Magic Penny." Keep adding new virtues in
place of Love, singing it several times with a different vinue each time.
Okur. "Oh, When We Act with Love and Tact" ro rune of"When the Saints
Come Marching In".
01.dn-. Teach them to sing .. Hero .. , accompanied by a tape of Mariah Carey.
Virtues Games
Virtues Fruit Salad
Objtctive: To teach the language of vinucs using whole body movement and
connecting with students' ]ifc experiences. This game can be used by one class
or as a whole school accivicy.
K,y Point:This game has been used with young children, older children and
adult groups as well. Ir is very energizing and enjoyable. It is most fun with a
large group, with everyone racing for a seat. but can work with small groups
too.
Materials nrrtbd: Poster with lisc of virtues (See Section 3) or individual
virtues posters around the room.
Room Arrangnn~nt: Arrange one chair for each student except leader. placed
in a circle. You can also do this game standing close together in a circle.
1. Designate a leader who stands in the center of a circle in which students
are standing close together or each has a chair. You can do this in a large
circle (more energy that way) or circles of six or seven.
The Virtues Project ..................................
u
....
, .............................
.

2. Give the houndaries: Instruct students that the boundarie5 for this game
are to practice integrity and honesty. "When the leader says a virtue you
have practiced today you MUST leave your chair (spot) and you cannot
go hack 10 the same chair (spot). If you have not practiced this virrue
today, be honesc and stay in your place. If you do not find another empty
pla-ce (or chair), you become the next leader. Tell the group in a loud
voice:
3.
1) How you prac6ced the vinue today
2) l'hink of a new virtue and say,
.. Who has practiced the virtue of ____
today?"
Then quickly fond a new place for yourself.
The first designated leader says: .. Today I practiced the virtue of
helpfulness when I helped my /\lorn make lunches for my brothers and
sisters. Today, who pr:icticed the virtue of ____
?" Whoever is left
standing after the scramhle to find new seats, says hows/heh~
practiced
chis vinuc. ·rhcn that person says "Today who practiced 1he vinue of
(names a different virtue)."
Wheel of Virtues (Version of Wheel of Fortune)
J,/atnials Nteded: Overhead projector, overheads for assemhlies, flip chart or
hlackhoard for classroom use.
J,urructions: Supplying the letters, rs t In e. put up a virtue word with the
re,t of its lrners blank, just as they do in the television show, "The Wheel of
Fortune".
_____
SS __ N (For COMPASSION)
Then, invite a )tudent to come up with four other letters. Write them onto your
overhead or board if they fir into your pre-selected virtue, e.g. C, A, R, D
C ___ ASS __ N.
Give exrra points to the student if he or she can give a definilion or c.·xample
of the virtue.
K~ Poi11t: You may wish to call on a student as a reward for showin~
improvement in a particular virtue, even a !.light improvement in gentleness,
for example, by a srudcnr who has challenges in that vinue. These students
necJ the mos:t self-estC'l"m building. V.ary rewarding challenged students b-y
also .acknowledging excellent srudenu. who are very confident, so that there is
balance in your acknowledgment system.
Speak the Language of the Virtues ............................................. .

Virtues Jeopardy
Instructions: Create "answers" based on information found in the Virtues
Section of this Guide.
Answer: "Showing you care about anyone or anything that crosses your path.,.
Have students compete to ask the right quesrion, for example: "What is
kindness?"
Kry Poi11t: You can mix academic questions with virtues questions. For
example: Category: Little Women
Answer: "The sister who showed courage and assertiveness to follow her
..
career.
Question: "Who was Beth?"
Virtues Charades
Invite one per.;on to pantomime a virtue S/he find< on a li<t you have placed
on the board or you n1ay use a Virtues Poster.
From Shaming to Naming
Objtctive: to create awareness of the power of our language to hurt or help
one another, to put each other down or life each other up.
Time Nttded: 20 minutes to 1/2 hour
Mat,rials N,,d,d: A board and chalk or flip chart and markers.
Instructions: Create rhe climate by introducing this exercise by speaking of the
power of words and writing "From Shaming to Naming" on the board. You
may wan't to write a quote on the hoard as well. such as, .. Sticks and stones
may break my b()nes, but words can break my spirit." Invite students to
express their own thoughts about what words can do, and how we feel when
various words are used about us.
Establish tht Boundaries: "We are going to show respect by listening without
comment to each other. and showing respect for what each person says. We
will also use our honesty and courage to tell our own Cl(perience,"
Prortdu": Draw five columns on the board or flip chart. Write the headings
as shown below above each column. Share: with the class a negative: label or
The Virtues Project ················•u••···••u•
.. •···· ..................................
.

"Put down" you were called by your peers when you were in school, ro set an
example and get the ball rolling. A, you share how you felt, you arc creating
safety for students to disclose their experiences. Write your label in the first
column and how you felt in the second. A,;k the students what virtue 1he
person could have used with you instead and how that word might have feh
to you .
• I
'
'
I
' I
OPTION: You can invite students to go into pairs or sharing circles of three to
share with one another a label or "Put Down" they have been called and how
it felt, or you can do this with the class as a whole. Put the above columns on
the 9oard.
l) Share wjch a partner or group a disrespectful label or put down you have
been called by others.
2) How did you fed when you were called that?
3) Describe che reason why others may have called you chis name. (e.g. were
annoyed by you, felt you were moving too slow, just trying to gee your
ancntion, felt you did something mean, or no reason, just abuse)
&k five people to call ou1 labels, (They will be things like "stupid", "useless",
"'jcrk"1 etc.) Write them down one at a time.
OPTION: If you prefer, you can make a boundary that no profanity will be
included, although it may be useful to hear the real experiences students have.
2nd Column: Ask each student who has volunteered a uput down" to share
how they felt when this label was used. 3rd Column: A.k them what reason
others may have had when using those terms on them. Write that in the 3rd
column. Begin by modeling an example of your own. "l was missing a loc of
Speak the Language of the Virtues .............................................
.
W, don't put rach othrr
down. Wt lift tach
oth~r up.

baskets, playing basketball.• Explain that sometimes bad names are wed on us
with no good. reason, other than pure disrespect.
4th column. Invite the group as a whole to come up with a virtue ochers could
have used instead of the negative label. one which would have "lifted chem
up" and helped them co focus on a virtue. e.g ... U$t your determination ...
when you missed the basket. Write those in the 4th column.
Ask fora commitmrnt: Ask the class, "How would our school be different if we
use virtues co lift each ocher up instead of put downs co discourage and
embarrass each other?" Ask for a show of hands of chose willing to make a
commitment to use only encouraging words for the rest of the day ... then for
the rest of the week.
Ask C/osurr and lntrgration Qurstions: "What was the most important thing
you learned from chis exercise?" "'What did you appreciate most abour rhis
exercist?.,,
Givt somt Virtues Acltnowkdgmtnts: "Ann, I wane to acknowledge you for your
courage to tell us your story." "'Paul, you showed real excellence in coming up
with the perfect virtue in a challenging situation."' "Class, I respect the
commitment you arc showing by agreeing to use only encouraging words
today! Our school will nor be the same.•
Kty Point: Be moderate when you give Virtues Acknowledgements - three: or
four at chc mo.st. You may wish to use this exercise when cc-aching ch-e virtue of
Respect.
OPTION: Close the Shaming 10 Naming exercise with a song such as
"I Think You're Wonderful" or "Home On the Range"
Home, home in our school
where we practice Respect every day
where niever is heard a discouraging word.
when we study, work, and play.
(or something to that effect. Make your own lyrics bas~ on the Virtue of the
Week!) (See Resource Section for music by Jennifer Russell, Rffi Grammar,
and Radha.)
The Virtues Project •···················••n••·······································

Example of Excellence
Virtues Awards
Betsy Lydie Smiili used iliis 2ctivity with 7!1, gnde students in
Bellevue, w .. hington.
Have a decorated shoe box in the classroom. Students nominate other
students for virtues they sec that student exhibit and tell how they
saw it. At the end of the week, the teacher scleccs three or four of the
nominees and awards each student with a ccnificacc with student's
name, class, teacher's name and dace, and the words '"We honor you
for practicing the virtue of ____
.. " Make sure chat all students
receive an award or two during the year. You can we Virtues
Vouchers for this accivicy. Beuy says, '"They loved it!"
Speak the Language of the Virtues ................................•..•..........

School-wide Activities
,
'Virtue of the Week'' Program
•
Introduce the "Virtue of the Week" at School Assemblies
•
Crcarc an overhead of the Affirma,ion or Signs of Success for the Vircue of
the Week.
•
Havc a skit bascJ on ... What would it look like? .. scenarios in the Virtues
Seccion.
•
Sing a song related co the virtue or wcavc the virtue into a well known
song.
•
Recite rhc Affirmation together.
•
Have tcachcn acknowledge particular students for the Virtue of the W«k
by reoding aloud Virtues Vouchers, with examples of students practicing
the virtue. Have students stand when they are receiving chcir virtues
acknowl«lgmcnt. The student then gc,s 10 take rhc Virtues Voucher
home.
•
At the last assembly of the week, invite one of the classes or an individual
student to choose rhe virtue of the next week.
Skits
Many schools offer nudent skits over the P.A. system, in school assemblies,
and in the classroom. Often older students will perform for younger classes.
Older classes can take turns being responsible for doing a skit at the beginning
of each day. either over the public announcement system or in an assembly.
They can role-play one of the scenarios from the .. What would it look like?"
section of each of the virtues.
Daily Readings
Each morning, a student reads from the virtue chosen for the week. Some
schools read a section of the virtue each day in Assembly or over the P.A.
system:
Monday: What is the virtue?
Tuesday: Why practice- it?
Wednesday: How do you practice it?
Thursday: Signs of Success
Friday: The Affirmation.
The Virtues Project ., ..
0,
...............................................................
.

Quiet Time - A Virtues Morning
Some schools follow the reading by one minute of silent reAec1ion throughout
the school to focw on che Virtue and what has been re-ad.
Focus on the Affirmation Each Day
Read the Affirmation at the beginning of each day, with all students reciting it
aloud. his hdpful to have the Affirmation posted in classrooms or in the
assembly as an overhead slide or large poster.
Group Discussion
Following the daily reading or skit, or at a cime when students are ready for a
pe:aceful break in regular academics. invite them to share cheir own
experiences of being neared without the Virtue and then with che Virtue, for
example, times they have experienced intolerance and tolerance in their lives.
IMPORTANT: Ser a boundary before the discussion begins that no names
are to be mentioned. You want to avoid backbiting during all discussions.
Virtues Rap
Have a class compose a rap song on the Virtue of the Week and present it at
Assembly.
Computer Posting
Jf you have a computer system in your school, put a quotation from the Virtue of
the Week on as a screen s.aver to pop up when people turn on the computer.
Post Virtues Banners and Posters in Hallways
Place in a central hallv:ay a banner of the Virtue of the Week. For example,
"Our School (Scout Troop, Camp, etc.) is a PEACE Zone: We give up the
love of power for the power of love." or "lNTEGRl'lY:
We walk our talk."
You can invite students to make more elaborate posters for the cJassroom,
using the Signs of Success of each virtue or Poster Points given with each
virtue. Some teachers have one poster per week which remains displayed in the
classroom to illustrate the Virtue of the Week.
Signs of Virtue
Some communities highlight a virtue per week or per monrh with the
participation and sponsorship of local businesses. Have students rake signs
with one line definicions of the Virtue of the Week out into the community co
go into store windows, on bank displays. sides of buses etc.
Speak the Language of the Virtues ............................................. .
Ucelleace

Chapter Summary:
Speak the Language of Virtues
✓ Acknowledge virtues when you see them,
panicularly the emerging growth virtues.
✓ Guide students to practice a virtue when you
know they arc about to need it.
✓ Correa misbehavior by naming the virtue
involved - replace shaming with naming.
✓ Focus on what you DO want, not what you don't
want.
✓ Use virtues language to be specific.
✓ Name the act, not' the actor.
✓ ACT with Tact in student and staff evaluations -
make a positivity sandwich.
✓ U~ a multi•knsory
approach in introducing
vinucs into your regular curriculum and
through games, songs and special activities.
✓ Have a "Virtue of the Weck" Program.
The Virtues Project ......................................................................
.

____
showed _____
when s/he ___
_
Name
Virtue
ActiOtl
Signed: ___
_
_____
showed _____
whens/he ___
_
Name-
Viirtue
Ac(ion
Signed: ___
_
____
showed _____
whens/he ___
_
, ame
Virrue
Aaion
J. Date:
~r~
----
Signed: ___
_
_____
sbowed _____
whens/he ____
_
Na.mt
Virtue
Actil1n
SignecL
___
_
Reprnducihl..:. © 2000 by Linda Kavelin Popov. Puhli:o;hcd by PRO-ED. lnc

•
~ ~ ~ e.,n~
G"'c/4>
• Gtv& "A
Kl.ti! r..-
~
To: _____
for A
Growing in the Vinue of __
•
by ______
G,
4" To: _____
for A
Gro\\·ing in th.c Vinuc of __
.by
y
Y UccUing in the Vinuc of __
A
•
by
y
Y Excelling in the Vinue of __
A
.by
q,
C-.., To: _____
for ,A
q, To: _____
for A
Growing in the Vinue of __
in,,.,
A
by ______
....,
•
~;owing in the Vinuc of
~
~
&celling in !he Vinue of __
•
•
by
~
•
~
Excelling in the Virtue of __
•
•
by
q.,
A
Sign«!: __
_
' .
q,
,· ... ·,y
A Y A r'
R,;"('11',-tocihle.
0 2{11NI
hy I.ind.I K;nrlin Pupn· Puhh..tlcd tt,. PRO-ED. l,11,;.

z Recognize
Teachable
Moments
<' •.
Look for the Lessons
Every day, dudng classes, in the lunch room and in the playground, there are
Teachable- Moments. These are moments in which students can be helped co
mast" their virtues and to understand the mraning of
• what they are learning
• wha.c they are doing
• how they are interacting with others.
Ac che hearc of meaning - at the core of why we do things - there is always a
virtue. Students d.o not necessarily need special classes on character. I.n fact, it
is best if most of their lessons on virtue occur within the context of daily
learning and living. Virtues are the best [ools for developing social skills, since
they embody the reason one must interact weH with others - to be kind, to be
caring, co be a good friend, to be respectful and so on.
Ask virtues-oriented questions on subjects you are teaching.
"Wha, virtues did you notice in this historic event we just read about?"
"In the book we read, what vinues did you notice in the main character?"
"What do you think gave her the courage to do what she did?"
"What could the main character have said or done instead of running away?"
"What virtue would have helped him to do that?"
Even very young children can identify the virtues in a story when a teacher
asks, for example, "What virtues would Peter Rabbit be acknowledged for?"
"Which virtues does Peter need to be called to?" "What virtues might Mother
Rabbit be acknowledged for?" "What was Peter's teachable moment? What
virtue did he need to learn?"
Children can role play che characters, giving each other virtues acknowledg-
ments and corrections in the Teachable Moments.
Recognize Teachable Moments ..................................................
.
"lift is for karning our
lnsom."
Tiingit Eld~r
Teaching Tip
Link Teachable
Moments about
virtues to history-.
literature. and other
academic subjects.
''Intrlligrnct plus
characttr - that is tht
goal of trw education. •
Manin Luthc:r King. Jr.

u
Teaching Tip
There are two ways
to Recognize Teach-
able Moments:
1 J Acknowledge
effort in acquiring a
virtue.
21 Remind or call a
student to account·
ability for a virtue
which is needed.
Virtues art tht curricu-
lum of character and
Trachabk Momrnts arr
tht ksson plA11s.
Help Students Connect
Personally to Lessons
Value is added to a lesson when you invite students to connect the Teachable
Moments they see in the lives of individuals or characters they are hearing or
reading about to their own experience. Helpful questions to ask are:
• When have you had similar challenges?
• What virtues did you need at those rimes?
• When have you experienced courage in your own life?
Support Mastery and
Meaning
Recognizing Teachable Moments is intimately linked to Strategy 1: Speak the
Language of tht Virtues. Ir is an attitude toward life as a process in which each
of us is a life-long learner. Some of ,he most important lessons students receive
in school go beyond academics. Teachable Moments are moments of aware-
ness - awareness of the meaning-of what is happening and the virtue which is
at the heart ofit. It is asking the questions: What happened? What can be
learned from ,his? What virtues need to be practiced?
Recognizing Teachable Moments is a perspective in which we see the "stuff
chat happens" day-co-day as grist for the mill of character. Vir1ues are the
content of our charac,er, and Teachable Moments are the "lesson plans" for
shaping our virtues. Our courage grows when we are afraid and "do ic any-
way." Our excellence is developed when a task is challenging and we give our
best to it. Our responsibility, forgiveness and determination grow when we
own up to a mistake, and then make it tight. Speaking about virtues in Teach-
able Moments stimulates mastery of our inherent character traits and attaches
.
.
meaning to our acuons.
When a normally aggressive child behaves peacefully, that is a Teachable
Moment in which to acknowledge their peacefulness. This increases their
awareness that they are growing stronger in a challenging virtue. "You were
very peaceful during recess, Malcolm." When rhe same child "forgets" about
peacefulness and acts aggressively, that is a Teachable Moment in which to
remind him to behave peacefully: "How can you get your friend's an-cnrion
peacefully?"
The Virtues Project ......................................................................
.

Turn Stumbling Blocks Into
Stepping Stones
Students' awareness of their inner strengths is gready enhanced whenever a
teacher recognizes the context or meaning of a siruation in light of the virtu-es~
and when che ceacher mpcccfully guides chem 10 call on chac vircu,. Self-
esteem grows as children make choices to do the right ching. Making the most
of the Teachahle Moments char occur every day also builds morale-because: it
cakes che scing ouc of making miscakes. When we are really challenged by life,
that is the best time for us to hone our virtues. Sometimes mistakes are our
bcsr teachers.
Positive encouragement by focusing on students' "'growth virtues" supports
them to keep improving in an area that is challenging for them. It draws their
awareness to what they are doing right. If you feel the growth shows real
efforc, send home a "Virrues Voucher" or a • Hug Noce" (found on pag<S 25
and 27).
When a scudenc who has problems with self-discipline by calking 100 much in
class has a less disruptive day, catching them in an act of self-discipline
c-ncourages mas[ery. "'Jane, I noric«l your self-discipline today. You W('re
.
.
"
qune auenuvc.
• Be a Teacher, Not a
E Preacher
The number one challenge most teachers have is student discipline. How do
you get students to behave so that you can teach them? How can you keep
your a11en1ion balanced berween che kids who have behavioral problems and
the majority who are easier to teach? It is easy co succumb to the habit of
preaching at students to embarrass them into behaving properly. The practice
is generations old. However, lccturcucs and .. guihing" simply don't work vrry
well or for very long. le is especially important not to use the Language of
Virtues to moralize. e.g. "-Why can't you be more peaceful?", which is sham-
ing. What works far bener is calling them to their vinues - their sclf-discj-
pline. their ttSpect, their cooperation. "How can you be more peaceful?" is a
way to show respect for the .student and respect for the Language of Virtues.
()nc.- of the greatest gifts you an give your students is your commitment to
bringing out the best in them. When you see times of misbehavior, forgetful-
ness, or disrespect on the pan of a stude'nt as a Teachable Moment in which to
inspire them ro call on a virtue, everything changes. Most of the time, a
Recognize Teachable Moments
......... ·-······················ ................. .
~ «a.chrr who ean
aroi« a f«lingfor on,
singk good action ...
a«omp/ish,, mo,r than
h, who fills our mmwry
with rows ,,,,,J rows of
natunzl obj,m, ,iassifi,d
with"""" 11nd
fonn. •
Goethe
-- I'
I
~ Teaching Tip
Recognizing Teach-
able Moments is a
Wei'/ to refocus
behavior on the
Virtue that IS needed.
When a student is
acting in an unac-
ceptable Wi!rf. taCI·
fully call chem 10 a
virtue or ask them
what virtue they
need
El<ample: Studenc is
being aggressive:
"You need to remem-
ber to be Gentle.-
Student is ·zoning
our; "Focus. Amos.
Be Purposeful:
•

scudent's resiscancc melcs, and someching inside chem resonaces with the virtue
you have named. For example, if a scudent has an over-stuffed desk, use it as a
Teachable Moment. Inscead of criticizing, ask "What would hdp you to keep
you desk orderly?"
Asking .. What virtue do you need?" can help studencs to recognize the Teach-
able Moment, whether they arc facing an academic chaJlenge or at a time
when they need to change their behavior. For example, if a student is irritable,
ask "What virtue do you need today?" and "How can I support you?"
It can be helpful to have visuals of the virtues around, such .as a poster listing
the vircues (Sec Resource Section) or the names of individual virtues as posters
with colorful borders.
The Virtues Project ......................................................................
.

Example of Excellence
What Virtue
Did You Forget?
Ray Tufts, while serving as assistant principal at an alternative
school in Renton, Washington, wich high risk students, many of
whom had been expelled from other schools and had criminal
records, found that Recognizing Teachable Moments helped
scudents save face ,vhen being disciplined. He put a Virtues Poster
with the 52 virtues in every class room and had one in his office.
When a student was sent to his office for discipline, he would first
companion them co hear the story of what happened from their
point of view. Then he would point to the Virtues Poster and ask,
"What virtues were you forgetting?" or "What virtues would have
helped you co do the right thing?' The studenc identified one or
two virtues. Ray then invited the student to make reparation and
asked "How can you fix this by using these virtues? What would
rhat look like?" The student left with a sense of encouragement
rather than feeling shamed, having recognized a Teachable Moment.
Ray says: "Public schools know how to set boundaries, but they
doo'c know how to establish relevant consequences. They arc
obviously ineffective because they don't change behavior. They're
not using rhe problems as a 'Teachable Moment'. For example, I
can't believe that schools arc still using suspension as a punishment
for misbehavior. What docs that teach? If you want a week off,
misbehave! Companioning
rakes rime, bur then the kid realizes
chat you care about his moral development. He learns that
misbehavior is an indication that he forgot a virtue - not that he
lacks tr - and he can change his behavior by knowing the virtue he
needs to praccice, so he can succeed next time he's in a similar
situation. You want to create an environment so supportive that
the student doesn't want to disappoint you."
Use Virtues, Not Labels
How easy it is to slip into shaming or embarrassing a student who has consist-
ently failed to turn in homework, and brings it in one day. For example, a
reacher might be sarcastic: "Hey, 'Day Lace', it's about time you remembered
your homework." Instead, the teacher has the opportunity to recognize the
Recognize Teachable Moments ..................................................
.
.. In a/J situatiom, it is
my "spo11se that tkci~s
whether a crisis will he
tscalat,d or rk-ncalattd
and a ehi/d h11maniud
or de-humani:ud ..
Haim Ginou
You want tt> crtatt an
environment so supportive
that th, studrnt dorsnr
want to disappoint you.

"W,. have to tk,ply
touch oursrlvts and each
oth,r so that thn, thing,
do not btcomr tritr,
campy. or dated. Th,
qutJtion tit tht bast is
'Who are wt and what
arr wt hrrr far?'"
Ann Bock
student's mastery at that moment, by saying "Niki. good reliabi1icy! You
turned in your homework on time." In speaking the language of Virtues in
this Teachable Moment, you are reinforcing the practice of the virtue the
student has shown and are giving them an anchor for tht" meaning of whac
they have done. 'l'he meaning is in their reliahiliry, or self-discipline, or order-
liness - the personal practices which produced the act itself. The value of this
approach is that it goes way beyond managing behavior in the classroom. le
inspires studt'.'nts to act on the gifrs within.
• Help Children to Balance
Their Virtues
If a student is strong in one virtue, he or she may need help in balancing it
with a complementary virtue. For example, you would not want to reinforce
excessive "teacher's pet" behavior even if a student is being helpful to you
personally. This behavior isolates the student from others and is a manifesta-
tion of people-pleasing. You would call on your own tact and while acknowl-
edging the student's helpfulness, encourage them to be friendly to others or
generous in giving others a chance to be helpful. When you see such a student
reaching out to ochers, that is when a Virtues Acknowledgment, such as "'You
were being friendly today" is helpful in cultivating the balancing quality that
the child needs.
-•
~ Rename and Reframe
Example of Excellence
Rename and Reframe
Joyce Boykin is a primary school teacher in the Solomon Islands.
She has transformed her students by renaming and reframing their
personaliry traits into virtues of character. She is an excellent model
of a teacher who .. AC.ls with Tact". For examp~e. students in chat
culture are trained ro "be seen and not heard", so they tend to be shy
and quiet in the classroom. Joyce wantt'.'<l to encourage them to be
assertive and offer their opinions. So, she acknowledges them for
being peaceful and obedient instead of shaming them hy calling them
"shy" and then calls them to their less developed vinue of assertive-
ness and confidence.
The Virtues Project ······················•·o••········-·····························

To Rename and Reframe, here are four simple steps.
I} Think of the student you have, whose hchavior challenges you.
2) Rename their basic char;1ctcr trail as a vinue.
(e.g. stubbornness"" determination: talking hack= honesty}
3} Identify the virtue you want to encourage then, to practice.
4) Pur it into a positive sentence.
Example: Wich an active, restless student, '"Enoch, you have great enthusiasm.
Now you need to he purposeful and focus on your reading," With a student
who ccnds to talk back. "Maria. l appreciate your honescy a hour your opinion.
How can you say that in a more respectful or courteous way?"
• Be a Conscience Maker, Not
a Conscience Breaker
One of the goals of a virtues•oriented educator is to help students build a
strong conscience. Conscience is the regulator of character, the still small voice
that keeps us doing right and \\tJrns us against dotng wrong. Punicive ap~
proaches to character building - che historic precedent in schools throughout
the world - have produced a combination of
• tC:-ar of authority
• people-pleasing
• rebellion
• free-Aoati:ng guih.
Many young people today believe thar something is right "as long as you don't
get caughc". We are in danger of a moraf morass with so many youth failing to
grasp the importance of taking personal responsibility for their actions by
practicing honesty, integrity, reliability and other virtues. In some schools anJ
programs, where authority is used too harshly, s.tu<lents tend lo be extrenu~·ly
passive, and only the most confident succeed.
Shaming Discourages Excellence
Many First Natiotu aborigi11,1/
children in the United States, ltl11ada.
and Australia, were taken fron1 their fan1i/ie1 and ph1c.rd in residential
,chools in thr early I 900). Disciplinr was so hanh th11t, according to
Charlott, H .. a member of the Tlinget nation in Canada. "Yo11
learned
sy1ten111tic
n1ediocrity. so tlJtlt JO" u1ould11't be noticed Yo" did 1101 u1,u1t to
draw attention to yourself. so even ac,1de,11ically
yo11 11.1011/dr,'t exc.red or
foil, j,ut bra, mediocre a, pos,iblr. Of co,,ne. that 11nderscorrd
thrir belief
Recognize Teachable Moments ....••• ,u.u••••••••••••••••••••••--•••••••• ......

'N a teacher, I possess a
trtmtndous power
to malrr a child) lift
rnis,rab!t or joyous.
I can bra tool oftorturr
or an instrumrnt of
•
•
•
1nsp1rat1on.
I can humiliate or
humor, hurt or heal."
Haim Ginott
}6
that Indians arr inte/lectualiy inferior. Wt wtrt just trying to Ix as invis.-
ibk as possibk to avoid kntrling on a stont floor for hours or having our
brad, shavrd " Shaming childrm in any way has a similar impact- it
discburagts txcrllmce.
The Virtues Project advocates an cducarivc approach ro character building in
which a healthy conscience is srimulared and nurtured. The Teachable
Momenr for thoS(' who work wirh children is to recognize teaching behaviors
thar are shaming and those ,hat are empowering. The Language of the Virtues
is a tool with which teachers can respond in an empowering rather than a
demoralizing way.
Example of Excellence
Sometimes It Takes Some Looking
From Tammy Goff, fifth grade teacher in Lantern Lane Elemen-
tary School in Missouri City, Texas.
"We had a new s1uden1 in our fifth grade ,his year. He had many,
many problems. He was very impulsive, quick to get into a fight or
argument, would never hold himself accountable. constantly blamed
01hers, never had hi, homework, consrandy earned after-school
derenrions - you get the picture.
Halfway through 1he school year his reacher began 10 allow more
time for Students to give one another virtues acknowledgments after
the morning an nounccmc-nr abouc the Virtue of the Week. For
several weeks, students raised their hands, acknowledged. someone in
the class for a virtue and then wrote the virtue on a gem shape kept
on the class bulletin board. In all that rime, no one acknowledged
,his boy.
One day, he raised his hand and asked, "Can I acknowledge myself?"
His 1e.acher said, "Of course you may, Fred."" He did, and said
something quite accurate about himsel( Then classmates began to
notice linle things he did and also s1artcd to acknowledge him.
Gradually he became more responsible. He was in far less trouble. l
cannot say he was a model honor studenc, but the change was
dramatic from the standpoint of al1 staff members who interacted
wirh him. Best of all, his vision of himself improved. He was
empowered."
Th V
P •
e 1rtues roJect ...................................................................... .

Conscience Makers and
Conscience Breakers
The Vinues Project strategy of Recognizing Teachable Moments replaces
practices that demean and demoralize students with prac,ic-cs chat empower
them to build a scrong conscience.
I
I
I
I
• ' ' '
'
'
'
•
;· ..
'
' I
I
I
I
I ' '
• -,
·-
-----
·--
' '
•• -, .. . ·' .
I '' " '
'
. ,.
Recognize Teachable Moments ..................................................
.

Example of Excellence
Virtues
Charts
~off Smith of 1hc Ludgvan Primary School in Cornwall. Eng·
land uses Vi.nues Charts wi(h 9 and 10 year olds in his school. He
begins wirh a Virtues Sharing Circle about the Virtue of rhc Weck.
"We use circle time co encourage class discussion anJ problem
solving. I strongly fed that che virtues encompass these objectives
but perhaps more imporrantly. maintain a positive focus to the
"
acnv1ty.
"In order to encourage the recognitjon of virtues in others, I use
Virtues Vouchers (s« page 25) which children can fill in, detailing
the virtue they observed in another, and post into a "Virtue Box".
This gives thrm funhcr material with which to encourage each
01her during Circle lime. I also use a Friendship Chart (s« page
51 in the Activities Section following)."
Example of Excellence
"SNECA"
SNECA (creaced by Madison C. Munroe. 3rd grade teacher in
Litdc Rock, Arkansas). When misbehavior occurs, rcmcm~r how
co curn caterpillars into a burtcrflics.
,. '
.:/}IA
S.N.E.C.A.
Stop
the behavior
Name
the virtue
Explain
briefly how this behavior affected others
C:Onsequence
give an immediate consequence
Amends
encourage the child 10 make reparation.
Th
V
P
•
e irtues
roJect •....•...... ~ ........................................................
..

Recognize Teachable
• Moments
with Special Needs
E Students
Tnchers and aides working wi1h special nttds students, rven inJividuals who
are severely intellectually challenged, find 1ha1 1hq arc very responsive to
virtues language. Whenc:'Ver
you s« progress made by one of chese uudcn1s,
usr a vinue in your acknoY.rledgmenc.
"Sally. you were really perscvtring in
putting your sweater on today. h was hard hut you did it!" When chings aren't
going so well, use the virtues language to define the Teachable Momc:nt, and
ro invite the student to call on one of her virtues: "Sa1ly. be patienc. You can
do i1." If Sally throws down chc sweater in frustration, you can say "Sally,
puuing on that sweater is hard. isn't ir?! Whar would help you find 1he perse~
veran(e 10 tty again?"
Ask Closure and Integration
Questions
Asking questions which encourage closure: and integration at the end of a
class, activity or lesson helps students to glean the Teachable Momcn1s or
lessons of tha1 activicy. These arc not dosed questions calling for a yes or no
answer such as "Did you like tha1 activity?" or "Was that hclpfu] to you?"
Rather they are open-ended question!! which help studenu.10 intcgr;ne the
mc.a.ning of what h.as occurred. Most closure and integration qucnjons arc
worded positively. Positive wording helps nudents integrate thinking and
feeling, head and heart .
•
.. What .,,,:as most helpful?"
.. What did you appreciate about this class?""
.. What v,ras meaningful to you about 1his story?"
.. How was chis for you?"
.. What i:s clearer for yuu after 1his 1-.:ssont
"What do you chink was the n1ost in1portant thing you k·Arnc.-d
1oday~"
~ Involve the Family
Schools rhar arc most successful in chara1.:tc:r c:duca1ion encour.agc parental
involvement. When children set character development goals, encourage
parenu to senJ in examples of 1imcs when children arc "'caught in the ace" of
praccicing one of these vin uc.-s.
Recognize Teachable Moments ..................................................
.

There are creacivl" ways to involve families in a vision of vinucs in school. Let
families panicipa(e in focusing on "The Virtue of chc Weck" and accivdy
contribute cheir own creativity to it.
Send home Virtues Vouchers or Hug Notes. Think of the difference it will
make to the self-esteem of parenc.s when you send a note home about a child's
behavior, and instead of anacking their character by listing their faults and
failings, you encourage them ro dn-elop their character by naming the vjnues
they need to be "working on". Sending home a Virtues Voucher will give the
parents an anchor for their own self-esteem. because when 1heir child shines, it
rcfleccs on them too! You can take it one step further and encourag-c parents to
spot it in their child and rcpon back to you~ This sprrads the virtucs--oricnted
mentorship you are providing. Ir models for the parenr a face-saving way to
bring out the best in their children.
Example of Excellence
Family Time
This example comes from Colegio Bolivar in Argentina.
Each week one student's family takes responsibility to make a ten
minute presentation on the Virrue of the Weck. Families do skits,
make videos, create posters, and compose songs. Then they come-co
school and trach chem r-o chefr child's class. Afterward, lhe family is
givt-n vinut'$ :acknowledgments and appreciations by the class.
The Virtues Project ...............................
u ...
, ................................
..

Activities
'Virtues
in Me'' Book
At the beginning of the year, have students make a "Virtues In Me" book.
Modify this so chat i1 is appropriate for younger and older students. Have
children pastc a photograph of themselves on the cover of their books, or draw
a self-portrait if a photograph is nor available. If possible, use a Polaroid
camera to take a picture of each child. Then have chem decorate the cover.
Some ideas art:
•
Make a Virtues Acronym of their name, e.g. MARGERY. Make this the
opening page in their "Virtues in Me"' book.
Merciful
Assertive
Responsible
Generow
Excellent
Respectful
Yowie what creacivjry!
•
Write and draw rwo to four of their best developed virtues (Strength
Vinues), as well as two to four virtues in which they need to grow and
develop (Growth Virtues),
•
Write a poem or story about a Strength Vinue or a Growth Virtue.
•
Make a family cree showing Strength Vinucs they fed each member has.
•
A goal sh<"et showing:
I.
A Growth Virtue they want to work on.
2.
What actions will they take?
3.
What will it look like, sound like, a.nd feel like?
Recognize Teachable Moments .................................................. .

Example of Excellence
'Virtues Interviews"
Ray Tufts used Vinues Interviews al an alternative school in
Renton, Washington.
Afterward he asked uWhar did you appreciacc about this c-xcr-
c:ise?" a bit worried about how his stuJcnts would reac1. "The first
time I did this in class, I thought, 'This is kid stuff. they won'c
like it.' I had chem do an exercise where you interview each other,
look for the-virtues in eac;:h other, and then inuoduce your part-
ner by describing their virtues. In that 15 minu1~ the room was
just intense, they were so in tune with it. Afterwards I asked a
closure and integration question 'What did you think of that?'
One big kid, a k.id whose clothing and posture were very defiant,
he stood up and said, "I really like this, because it makes you
think of your real self,' Another girl said. 'I want 10 change my
virtues.' She had decided there were qualities that would makt' ht"r
a better person and she wanted to start devt"loping them right
away!"
Virtues Interview
Thi5 activity is idt"al for che beginning of the year, co St"t a tone of virtues
awareness.
See nex1 page for Student Activity Shec1. Instruct scudents to be prescn1 to
each ocher with grcou respcc1 and deep listening without ,casing, interrupting,
advising or comparing. l'hcy need not tJ.ke any notes. Just listen and be really
prcs.cnt When the :icrjviry is con1ple1ed, ask a closure question such as:
"What did you appreciate abou1 this ac1ivicy?"
The Virtues Project ......................................................................
.

..
• Student Activity Sheet
VIRTUES INTERVIEW
Choose a partner and take rums interviewing one wocher. Do not write or take not-es.
Just be present and listen.
I. Name someone you admire. This person n1ay be a figure in his1ory or
a person in your life. What is the core virtue this person practices? What
attracts you to this virtue?
2. Name one of your own strength virtues, one which is strong and
well-developed in you. Say a few words abou1 how you live it.
3. Name a virtue you need to grow, one that is under-developed in you.
Say a few words about how i1 is needed in your life.
4. Whal is one of the bigges1 challenges in your life righr now? Whar
virtues would help you to meet this challenge?
5. What are your hopes for this school term?
6. What is a source of Joy in your life at this time?
7. Virtues Acknowledgment.
Interviewer, please give your partner a virtues acknowledgn1ent by
telling them a virtue you notice in them and specifically how you see it.
"( want 10 acknowledge you for the virtue of ____
and 1he way
you show it is _________________
."
ikpro,b:,bk-. Cl 20ll0 by Linda Ka,·thn P1.1po1.
Puhli,IM-d
by PRO-ED. 1111:

Teaching lip
Use ,he ART of
Bound.arics:
Aucrtivcncss. (by doing
what's right for yo11),
Respect (by ,isrcning
and being present
without teasing,
comparing, ad.vising.
or interrupting) and
Trust (by keeping
confidential .any
information shared).
Darkest Moments/Shining
Hours
(This exercise can be done in Circle lime for the whole class or in small
groups of three co five.)
,
1. Describe one of your darkest moments (during your holiday, at school this
week, with your friends). What vinu~ were needed?
2. Describe one of your shining moments. What virtues were involved?
3, As each person in your group finishes sharing, the others arc to give them
a virtues acknowledgement. "I sa:w your virtue of __
in the way you
•
•
r
Best Friend Brainstorm
Brainstorm the qualities of the mos1 disappainting friend you e-ve-r had or
could have and the qualities of the besc friend you ever had or could have-.
Ask the group afterward how these qua1ities relate to vinues. Write on a board
or flip chart the virtues they come up with, first for the disappointing friend,
then for the best friend.
K-ty Point: Virtues art 1hc-basis for character, and good character is what
makes for good relationships.
,
Virtues Integrity
Profile
This can be done very simply with young-er children and in a more detailed
form for older students. Encourage 90 Day Goal Seuing. Every chr« months
have students revisit and revise their pc-rsonal and academic goals. including
che virtues they want to develop.
The Virtues Project ··········••u•········
...............................................
.

Student Activity Sheet
Name: ________
_
Dare: _____
Period: ___
_
How Am I Doingl
(An honest look at my _____
Quarter of my _____
Year)
I. How well did I meet my expectations for myself this quarter?
2. How could I have been a better student?
3. My most important learning so far chis year of school is:
4, My most important learning so far in this class is:
5. In my opinion, this class would be better if:
6. Two things I would do if I were the teacher are
a.
b.
7. In my opinion, my most outstanding virlues are:
_______
and _______
,
8. I am still working 10 grow in the following virtues:
_______
and _______
.
AlhpuJ fo,m Anl'U'
B«&, &qi,oUI /11ni8J' Hitl, Sd-1. Kmt, W.,,J,ingto,r.
U.5.A.

,
' Virtue of the Day Reflection
(This. is an exercise=
designed by Joyc.e Boykin of the Solomon Islands in the
South Pacific.)
One of 1he ways to recognize Tcachablc Moments is 10 be aware of the ways
we arc practicing a particular virtue and ways we have yet 10 practice ii. Joyce
has two cans in her classroom. Can# I contains small cards with the name of
each student. She takes one out, reads aloud the student's name and then
places his or her name card in Can #2. 1·his student gets to pick the Virtue of
the Day in her classroom. She docs this activity ac Virtues Circle lime, which
is scheduled mid~morning as a way to help children become peaceful and
focused. ·rhey sit on a mat and do the following:
1. Read the--definition of che Virtue of the Week from a Virrue Card or from
this Guid-c.
2. Have a brief class discussion -of the virtue. describe when they have seen it
in others, a public figure they know who practices it, or how they practice
it themselves.
3. Ask students to close their eyes while you read "Signs of Success" from the
v;nue page, slowly and one at a time. The-reason for this is to pre-serve
modesty, and eliminate competition. Instruct them to raise their hands
when they recognize that they are practicing a Sign of Success most of the
time, and to keep their hands down if they are not.
4. Read each Sign of Success and pause afterward. Let (hem know "Oh, this
one is a challenging one for most of us." .. Lo,s of you are doing chis."
"Most of you, etc."
At the end of the day, Joyce stands by the door, :smiles and acknowledges each
student for a vinuc she noticed in them th.at day.
Team Teaching
Have students form teams and each take a virtue. They are to:
I.
Create a name for their team incorporating a virtue. e.g ... Purposeful
Porpoises"', '"Respectful Raspberries", etc.
2. They will make a T-Chart a.s follows:
The Virtues Project ......................................................................
.

Purpoacfulnaa
la Not
I,
3. They then read the Vinuc definition to rhc class, "Wh.1c is Kindness?".
and sharc their T.Chan
4. Role Play the Virtue under '"What would it look like if. .. ?" scenarios
found on the first page of ea.ch Virtue.
Example of Excellence
A Personal
Virtues
Poster
At Packakariki Primary School in New Zealand the teachers of
the Bilingual Unit work together with 40 children ages 5-12,
delivering a comprehensive program which i ndudes instruction
in Maori as well as English. These cwo teachers use virtuC'5 in
their program both in Maori and in English. At the beginning of
the yca.r, Miki Rci.kihana, who teaches tht:" older children, worked
with them abouc snting gools and developing qualities of character.
I. He poned Virtues Cards (See Resource Section) on the
wall, and each day reviewed the characteristics of particu·
lar virtues that he felt were imponant in his classroom.
2. Then he had the children choose two or three vircues that
they wanted to practice during the year and create 2
poster with an illustration of themselves practicing these
qualities.
3. Underneath the poster, the children wrote in English or
Maori an affirmation for themselves. Examples: "This
year I will practice bc-ing respectful and assertive ... "This
year if I see people fighcing I will try to help them calm
down, and bring them co other people who arc respectful
and friendly,"
Recognize Teachable Moments ................................................•..
.. I ust tht srrattgies of
Th, Virtu,s Project to
c-ret1u a peaceful,
hannonious mviron-
n1e1,r far my childrtn.
Prrhaps thr most im_por-
,a,,t br11rfit it has
bro11ght to ,,,, is my
own stns-t of ptacrfol-
ntss. It's tasier to under-
stand what tht ,hildrr11's
rral nerds arr and how I
tlt-td to rtsponJ. This
has rl'lirv,d a lot ofstrtss
far mt."
Mika Tawhara-Tamihana

,
Walk About
,
Walk about your classroom or 1he playground or anywhere you are on duty.
Ek on the lookout for virtues that students are practicing, go over to them and
give them a simple Virtues Acknowledgment. Examples:
'"You rwo are playing so peacefully 1oday:
•That is a really creative sand castle you built."
'"I sec you arc using lots of self-discipline today, focusing well on your
wor-k." "That is a friendly thing to do."
Then be on tht" lookout for virtues that are nttdcd.
(To students wrestling and getting rough) "'You cwo nttd to be pcacdul."
('IO a student who seems distracted) "Please call on your Determina-
tion to finish your assignment."
.. Be Respectful. Watch your language."
Some teachers give out Virtues Tickets to children who have been caught in
the act of practicing virtues. Teachers who repon using Virtua Tickets add
that it is imponanc (Ogive all the children a Vir(UC$ li<;kct. Afi:er che children
become used to this process, they will ask for extra cickers so chey themselves
can catch che reacher .and other children in the act of committing vinu~!
F
Magic Box
This exercise: was adapted by lk1h Lrw of Paek.akariki, New Zealand from a
popular Theater Sports game. It works very well in exploring 2 vinue with
children or adults.
Model ii first. "What's in My Box? Peacefulness." Begin by speaking bril"fly
about what peacefulness is and how this vinue helps you in times of confu•
sion, saJnas, or anger.
ln1roduce the game by pretending that you have a box in front of you. Model
how big it is with your hands and des.cribe what your box looks like, what it is
wrapped with, the colors, the texture. Then open your box and find some-
thing that will help you find peacefulness the next time you arc feeling con•
fused, worried, or annoyed. T-ell about the item, what it looks like, feels like,
The Virtues. Project ....................................................................
, ..

sounds like. smells like - whacevcr Is appropriace and adds to the concrecencss
of the image. Tell in what way chis thing will help you to find your own peace-
fulness. Then close the bolt again. Expla•n char rhis is a magic box chat can
change its shape and size and the gift ,hat is wirhin it. Everyone chat holds it
will find something special just for them. Then pass the box to the next person.
Mind Map Virtues
to Solve Problems
l. Have students write a brief Jescrip1ion of a problem or concern on a slip of
paper and place it in a box.
2. Choo5e one situation.
3. On the board, have a student crc:uc a Mind Map with the situation in the
center.
4. As a group, brainstorm six vinues needed to solve the problem. Place them
around the prob!em.
5. Brainstorm specific things to say or do llnder each virtue.
Virtues
Celebrity
Party
I. Think of sevt-ral famous or well-known people who are recogni1.rd for their
positivt-qualitit"S. They can be people from a faith tradition or historical
figures or famous people of any kind.
2. Make a name tag for each person, or have the students make them.
3. ChooSt" a group of actors with the rest of the group as audience. Have each
child pick one of the name tags and put it on. Each ~rson pretends s/he is
that person and must act like that person. picking one vjnue that mo:st cxcmr
plifics that person's character.
4. Have somt-dress-up dothes available, including hats, scarves, wigs. caps.
jackets, to help them get into the character. Pretend that all the chara(,:ters are
at a parcy together. They must intt-racc using the virtue they have chosen for
the person rhcy arc pretending to be. Aftet they havt been at the party and
interacred for fivt-to ten minutes or so, freeze the action. The audience must
guess which virrut-~ch characrer was acting out. For example, Martin Luther
King Jr. mighr ace out courage, Mother Teresa compassion, ere.
Recognize Teachable Moments
u .. , .............................................
.

Virtues 'Vibes''
c~ativity supplied by Ann Bock of Sequoia Junior High School, Kent,
Washington.
Each student takrs a sheet of paper, folds it into quancrs, and puts their name
on one panel. Then they add three vinucs or .. gifts" the world needs now on
the other three panels. A hole is punched in the center and the sheet is hung
from 1hc ceiling with yarn. Ir will vibrate in the air, causing virtues "'vibra·
tions" to fill the classroom.
Symbols of Virtue
Children learn about vinucs rhrough visual symbols. Invite them to think
creatively about symbols for each "Virtue of the Wttk". For example, the
Bridge o(Compassion or a Rainbow of Respect. Deco.rate your walls with
their creacions.
,
The Virtues Project ············································•H••·······

Student Activity Sheet
Instructions: Each day, fill in the nan1e of at least one person with whom
you were friendly in one of the ways listed on the chart below. In the
bottom column, show how you were a friend to yourself. Recite rhe affir-
mation "I Am Friendly" each morning.
51w,J..,,.
lime with
I listened
to
I hdp,J
lultd .
her/himsdf
lfuund...,.
thing llili
about m=ll
Friendship
Chart
Wctl.of
Mondar
Tuesday Wcdnaday Thanday
Friday
I am friendly.
Today I will smile and say hello to other people,
I will share myself and show interest in others.
I like myself and I know I can make new friends.
Wcditnd
;1

School-wide Activities
Community
Service Project
,
Plan .a service project for your community that involves the entire school. This
is best ifit comes from 1he students chem~lvcs. This is a significant opporru~
niry for uudcnu to learn thac through Idealism. Service and Unity, .a small
group of pt'.'Ople can make a big difference.
Example or Excellence
"The Gift of Service"
This projn:t was. sha~d by Jan Maslyk, a teacher in Morinville,
Alberta, Canada
'"In June, Service was our last virtue for the year. Our practice of
Service culminated with a school•wide effort to rai~ money and
collccr school supp~ics for a VC'ry poor special needs school of 54
students in Gren.ad.a, South America. The sis1er of a teache-r in
Grenada lives here in Morinville and she approached w ju.st as
we were looking for a final project! We: talked to the teacher in
Grenada over the intercom and all out Sludcnrs from Grades 1 ·5-
listencd as she described her wonderful Sludents but just how
poor they were and how they lacked~"" nary books with all the
pages in them. They had to color with little bits of wax crayons
and write on every piece of paper or cardboard they could lay
their hands on.
Our Hudents were swept away with the gift of giving and raised
$500.00 in two weeks and collec::tcd 52 boxes of books. school
supplies, paints, and lots more! Further, what was also amazing
was that I called a Canadian afrline and they said yes to shipping
$1700.00 worth of supplies for frcc! In this. economic climate
this is just about unhn.rd of anymore. We wctt all very happy
and in awe of how something good gives impetus to more 'good-
ness'. We will continue to phone and correspond with her this
"
ear.
The Virtues Project ......................................................................
.

,
Gem Tag Day
Every student, teacher and administrator wears a namc:tag in the shape of a
gem with. only their name on it. As the d.ay goes on, proplc "ccnch each other
committing virtues'" and write the vinue rhey notice someone practicing on
their gem u.g. This builds $Clf-cst«rn. Have $tudcnts make on-c for their
p.arencs, siblings and hoUMhold members and do rhc s.amc for them.
Guest for the Day
'
•
'
Have a guest from the communiry come to speak to clas5cs or at an as.u:mbly.
A fire.fighter, palicc officer, anin, sPons figure, mwician, etc. Ask students to
name the vinucs they feel are c:ssc:ncial
to this person's success. Invite .nudcnts
to do this in chc form of Vinucs Acknowledgments to the guest. They will
probably want to com-c back next y~r and do it .again! Once in a whilt, have
one of the to.chcrs, a kitchcn worker, or someone else who works in your
school or program ~rve as the "guest speaker''".
,
Career Day
When you have a day dedicated to Jcarning about career.i, have each guest
s~ker wear a gem-shaped name rag and speak about the virtues they need to
do their jobs with excellence. A1so, encourage leachers and students co fill the
guest's. gem tags with virtues they notice in them and the work chey do.
Recognize Teachable Moments .................................................. .

Example of Excellence
The Virtues Club
Susan Lake, a board member and long time volunteer of The Bor5 & Girls Club of the Twin
Cities, Minnesota, shares how thc:y are applying The Virtues Project .
.. Hcl'C' is how we arc incorporating l'hc Vinucs Project into the clubs in the Twin Citi-es. I
cannot tell you what an c-xciting process rhis has b«n for me. ·ro set it coming together is a
dream come truc!n
• Whc-o a child or youth (6 to 18 years old) joins a Boys & Girls Club (Cost $2.00 per year),
the firn step is .an orientation tour for the child/youth and parenc(s). They receive inform.a•
tion on sports programs, Camp Voyager, Kaleidoscope Theater, Kids Cafe and, of course,
The Virtues Program. Children chooS(' which venues they wanr to participate in. If they
choose to participate in The Virtues Program - and chc paren1s arc willing to suppon them
- rhcy will be given a copy of Thr Family Virturs Guidr and a deck of Virtues Cards for
home use. There is genrral participation in The Virtues Projrct by all staff and Club mem-
bers. A Vinue of the Month poster is displayed in rhe club. The: staff focuses on rhis Virtue
alJ month applying the Five Virtues Strategies.
• For chose chjldren who voluntarily select The Virtues Program. a class is given once a week.
The class size is limited to 20 and always has a waiting Jiu. Our boundary is that if a par-
ticipant misses two classes, they must rrcurn to the waiting list and someone on the waiting
list is let in.
• Each child is given a "Virtues Passport'". This IS the most important part of the program. It
looks like a blue passport with their picture, and their date of"depanure" (when they began
the program). Children work on one virtue each month for a year. They have the•r passport
"stamped", if they have completed their commitment, at rhe end of the month.
Progr.1m Step~ are:
1. Each participant enlists four adults sponsors to observe and supPort them for the entire
month (two from B&G Club, 2 from the community at large - minister, parent, teacher,
coach. etc-.)
2. Sponsors agree 10 observe the young person as much as possible during the month and
encourage them co demonstrate che Virtue of the Month in nery way.
,3. Youth are presented with Virtues Tags they have earned, to be threaded on a "bathtub"
chain and worn as a necklace:. The tags are different shapes and colors with the virtues
inscribed on them.
4. An Honors Banquet is held at the end of the year and every youth participating in The
Virtues Program is recognized. Also 1heir parent(s) are awarded a special Virtues Bracelet.
The Virtues Project ................................................
~ ..................... .

Student Activity Sheet
Character Trait of the Week
Write the virtue on the line below. Using a dictionary or Virtues
Sheets, write the definition of the character rrait:
Fill in the blanks. Make your ans,vers thoughtful! You may be
asked to explain your choices. These will be shared in class. Du
your best!
This virtue is ___________
.
(Color)
Ifit was a flower, it ,vould be a
It is a-----------·
(Animal)
A time of day that reflects this virtue is ______
..
When I think of this virtue, I think of ______
.
It tastes like----------·
This virtue is ________________
_
_______________
. (Your ou1n ide,1)
Looks Like
Sounds Like
Feels Like
Ad.1p1rd from Toowoomb.a An~ic.1.n Ac.M!1:my,
Austr.111.1 .ind Ciuu, Hti¢11s [)i\tnct, C2liforni.1. U.S.A. flh.inlo IO Jo W111i.inu).
Rc-pro,Ju,:1hk. 0 2fNNI t>y l.ind.:i Kavthn Pop"-
PuN1"'"1 hy PRO-l:.IJ. In,;.

Chapter Summary:
Recognize Teachable Moments
✓ Connect virtues with academic lcuons.
✓ Catch them doing it right. Notice and acknowledge effort.!I to improve.
✓ When a virtue i.s mis.sing. caJI .students to accountability. Ask tactfully
"What virtue do you need?"
✓Bea teacher, not a preacher. Invite respect by giving respect.
✓ Be a conscience maker, not a ~nscicncc
breaker. Avoid habits that shame
and humiliate. Use virtues, not labels.
✓ Use time out construcrivcly by having studenu refocw on the vinue
need~
(the "Courtesy Comer", not the "Naughty Nook").
✓ Help children to learn which virtues balance each other: Truthfulness and
Tact, Forgiveness and Justice, Compassion and Assertiveness.
✓ Re<:ogni~ Tc;u;:hablc Moments with special needs students - it will em-
power them.
✓ Ask closure and inttgration questions at end of a lesson plan or the end of
the day. "Whac did you appreciate most ... ?"
✓ Involve the family in focwing on vinucs. Send home Vinucs Vouchers and
Hug Notes. Invite parents to make presentations on the Vinue of the Wttk.
The Virtues Project ......................................................................
.

3 Set Clear
Boundaries
•
~
Create a Safe Haven
What are teachers to do?
... when violence and hrroism arc merged in the imagt$ children sec iti
films and television
... when the leading cause of death of youth aged 15 to 24 in Nonh
Amertca is murder
... when students show flagrant disrespect to teachers
... when fights ~tween students are life threatening
... when violence occurs unpredictably in peaceful rura1 towns.
Clear boundaries based on res.pcct, pc.ace, and justice are like a fence of safety,
within which there is freedom. The v•nucs of peace, justice, respect, caring,
kindness, gendencs.s and so on are the guideposts. The consequences are the
wire and wood. A student who breaks through che boundary meets the conse-
quences and. is then invited back to the safccy of the boundaries. &tablishing
boundaries based on virtues helps to create safe havens, where srudents feel
free to learn and teachers fed free to teach.
A Virtues Project school offers
Naming virtues, not shaming
Mentorship. not censorship
Reflection, not rejection
~stitution, not rcuibution
Fences of Safety
A middle school began the par without thr fencing in p!Acr around the
pUIJ ground Uachrrs noticed that !tids gn:,vitaud toward thr middk of
1hr Jllrd. playing within t1 mrher mra/1 radius. Onc-r thr /mer Wt'nt in
th,y played throughout th, yard. Th, boundary gave thmt a sens, of safery
That is thr main purpo1t for setting boundttrir1.
Set Clear Boundaries ...............................
••···············--······--····--·
"The moral state of our
chi/,drrn har bcromt a
NltionJJJ mtngmc, .,
Marion Wrighr Edelman •
Oiklrcn's Dcfcnx fwKI
lfstutkn,s don't ft,/
safe. th,y arr not fr,, to
l,arn. Jfe,achm doni
ft,/ safe. th,y ar, not
foe to uach.

"Nations riu a11d fall
with thr character of
their peoplr. If 011r
nation ii u, Jurvivr an.d
prosprr, then pratnt
a,uifaturt ritiuns must
bt conuniurd to high
Jta,ulards and valurs."
N,uion,1) School 8oo1rJs
Association, USA
"Thr Virtun Project has
given w a language to
usr when empowrn·ng
kids ro change behaviors
that get them into
rroubk. Wr haw
significantly rrducrd
swprnsionJ and ha~
fanrastic parental
1upport for our
di1cipline approach. The
t1irtu~s
arr a !try
ingrtdi,nt in 1ht
fonnufa ...
Mich.1d Schz
• A Holistic Approach
The most holistic approach to preventing violence is co create a culture of
character, an atmosphct<" of inclusive fricndliness, mutual trust, caring, and
kindness where the~ virtues arc valued as much as academic achievement.
Integral to a culrurc of caring is a disciplinary system based on peace and
justice, focused not on retribution but restitution. The way authority is used -
the lcadt'.'rship nyle of teachers and admjnistrators - is the key in creating a
cuhurc of character.
An Educative Model of
Authority
The Virtues Projccl teaches that authority should never be-a power struggle,
never be about dominance or people-pleasing. The core principk· of vinucs-
based discipline is:
ALWAYS USE AUTHORITY IN SERVICE OF LEARNING.
The most empowering way to we authority is by seeing it as mcntorship for
learning. Authority can be used to hdp chjldren develop virtues which arc the
life skills chey nttd all their lives: Cooperation -grtting
along togrther~ Justice
- treating yourS-('lf and others fairly; Peacefulness - solvLng problems without
violence; Kindness - treating each other in a caring way; Respect - everyone is
valuc-d.
Authority needs to he used to d~dop che gifts within, just as :1 good coach
usrs discipline co help an athlete d-evelop all of his or her talents and strengths.
The authority of a m-cntor is not abused in service of an aduh's need to be in
control. It is used 10 build champions.
·11,e goal of C"ffectivc au1horicy is to ,nable children to d~elop ch,ir own inn,r
aurhotily, .a sense of personal responsibility and .accountabilicy. It empowers
1hem to make conscious moral choices.
The-Virtues Project ............................................................
u
.......
.

Example or Excellence
Discipline as n-ansformation
Midaael C. Seltz, Vice Principal of the Robtn Frost Middle School in Livonia, Michigan
shares a. Virtues Project approach to discipline.
Frost has initiated a disc;ip-linc
program unlike any othe-r in the District. Discipline is viewed
ht-re .as a positive opportunity to teach behavior for Jjving, not as punishmeru. The fram~ork
for this education are the virtues, including such fr~uendy called upon d1aracter-builders as
respect, obedience, self-discipline, detachment, honesty and responsibility.
Each incident that involves a di:sc~plinc referral or report is typically channelled through my
office. The framework for intervention involves first n~focusing the student's energies away
from a defensive posture and into sclf-refl«tion. The'.' student is given an explanation of the
missing or misapplied virtue that resulted in the office referral and then is encouraged co
examine chat panicular virtue in depth.
Students arc given packecs which borrow heavily from Vinues Project matcriaJs.
A paraprofes.siona] is available to assist students in completing them.
The Virtues Packets;
1} Give the definicion of the virtue in quesrion {What is kindness?).
2} Ask the student to apply the virtue to a variecy of situations (What would kindness look
like if. .. ?).
3} Invite the nudcnr ro re-enact the situation which got them into trouble by correctly
applying the virtue to the situation. This is done in writing.
4) Once the packet is complete, the student must then discuss the problem and solution with
a counsdor and parent.
5) All parties sign the completed packet.
6) Fin.ally the student returns to whomever s/he has offended or hurt, or to the person who
made the referral, and discusses the matter with them. At this point apologia and/or
reparations are made, as directed by the Assistant Principal, with. input from the offended
staff member.
In serious or repeat bchavioraJ matters. the Assistant Principal contacts parents by phone. The
Language ofVinucs again provides the fram-ework for rhe discussion. Parental reaction has
been notably more peaceful and less defensive using this approach. Suspensions were reduced
last year by more than 40%.
Set Clear Boundaries .................................................................. .

We haw to givt up
being a pal who
somrtimn rducatr1 in
ordn to bt 11n rducator
who somttimn can bt
a pal.
"Doni l«k thmr up.
Lift thnn up. •
Jesse
jaclcson.
Authority
is Leadership
The element which most shapes-the culture or climate in a classroom is the
lradnship ttylr of the 1eachers and adminisrrators. Do they use their authority
to overpower or to empower? Are thry merely punitive or are they educative?
If we are willing to accept rhe rcsponsihiliry of kadmhip as srrvirr, we must
sacrifice the wish for our students to like and agree with us at all times. A good
coach doesn't consult an arhlc-tc about whether he feds up to a regimen of
running every morning at ftve o'clock. A good coach takes the responsibility
to take the athlete to the edge.
There is a lot of confusion among teachers about an appropriate way to use
authority. It is almost a dirty word in some education circles, being associated
with an outmoded authoritarian approach. In the educative model of author-
icy. the boundades are rules for living - not mere retaliations or punishments.
Don't put kids down. Uft them up.
The l.anguage of virtues is specific, dear, and most important of all, easiJy
internalizc:d. le bui1d.s authentic sclf-e.sr«m without over-dependence on
:approval General terms, even when they are positive, do not hit the mark.
Terms such as "Good girl,n "That's a boy," "Good on )'Ou," "Great job," are
too general for students to internalize. These terms promote people-pleasing as
they only indicate that you are pleased with the s1udent, without giving them
any specific information about what they did that was "a.c:dlent", .. helpful" or
... ,ra.civc". Giving a specific virtues acknowledgment is diffcn!nt than making
general statements of ptaik which can create guilt. It is not hclpfu! to label a
child in any way, positive or negative. We don't say: ... You're such a kind boy".
We say "It was kind of you to show our new student where to sit. I'm sure it
made him feel welcome."
Dominance taken to the extreme
is cruelty masquerading
as authority.
Authority as Abuse
I rrm,"1brr a third gr,,dr uachrr u1ho"1 u,r nil cal/rd "Airs. Axt~ On tht
first day of school rnch yrnr, sht uioukl ;pot lht un111sptctit1g
1ihling of o,u
ofLut par's "worst brharrrd" studr11ts, drag thr poor rhild to thr front of
tlK classroom by thr scroff of his or hrr nrck and say .. , had your brothtr in
he" kvt par. Hr was a holy trrror. I pt1t him in his placr and madt his
life misrrablr, and fin putting you in yo"r pl.act right 11ow!
&"",t up to 1hr
front whrrr I c1111 watrh you." What injustict, prtjudict at1d abusr. What
11rgativiry!
The Virtues Project ..................................................................... ..

Authority wed harshly docs not show students what we DO want chem to do,
only models violence to them. Some schools around the world continue the
prac;ticc of caning and humiliating children for not giving correct answers.
Old Men with B;g Ears
In Fiji. The Virturs Projtct is !Hing taught in many villager. In one
villagr, during a Virruts worlt1hop,
a group of tldm wr" a.sited to draw
,,lf-pomaill ofth,,.,,,/.,,, as rhik/"n. Thry all dmu uirk figum wi1h
largt tan. Thr facilitator nottd that thry did indttd haw quit.f ptndulow
ear lobes. ·what does this tkpict?" the facilitator aJlttd The r/dn, "p/i,td,
'"Wh,tn wt' wt'rr small, our tars wrrr puikd su fiercely .and so oft.fn that
thty arr quitt owniud. "Tl,,trr was laughter at that moment, but lattr. ""
tltkr btgan to wt,p and U1id. "How I wish I ~Duul raist my thildrm owr
again, with tht vinun instead of vioknct. All thry rrally n.ftd is ckar
boundan·n."
A classroom without boundaries Js a leaderless group.
In other places, the pendulum has swung to passiviry. or the over-democratiza-
tion of the classroom, where students arc given too much freedom, with
frequent arguments occurring and teachers unwilling to set limits, unaware of
how helpful the exercise of their authority would be.
A student without boundaries Is like a person without a job
description.
The energy has nowhere to direct i1Self. Most students want to do a good job.
be a "good" nud-enc, buc withoul clear expectations or boundaries are uncer-
tain what that looks like. Can you imagine showing up for a new job one day
and the boss says, "Do a good job. n and then leaves, without filling you in on
what a good job would look like?
If there Is a tac:k of clear, just and loving authority In the
classroom, kids will BECOME the authority.
Many schools have found that boundaries based on virtues call deeply lo the
students' spirit, including the "'tough" ones. ·rhey show remarkable willingness
ro follow the rules when there is no shaming in che classroom but rather the
naming of virtues like respect, consideration, peacefutness, and caring. The
best results are achieved not when authority is repudiated but when it is used
in light of iu true purpose - to create a safe, orderly place to learn.
Set Clear Boundaries ................................................. u ....
, ..........
.
HWe low working with
virtutJ in our school.
Mo1t ptopk brlitllt tht
only way lo mpond to
midak 1chool $11«:bnts
is
with Gntapo taclics. "
Tammy Guff, 51h gr.ide
1cachcr, Mi§50uri City,
T=-

(:_·~
What is Your Leadership
Style?
One way to view authority and leadership
is on a continuum of effectiveness
from the
least effective
to the most effective.
\1~1-
Educative
Democratic
Dominant
~
~o~~fiifvo
Least
Most
What clC'ments of the following describe your nyle~ Whar do you want co
keep? What do you want co change?
Permissive
Pal
• It is important to me to be a friend to my students.
• I often have difficulty gening students' attention.
• I go with the flow and prefer not co have dass rules.
• I don't often structur~ my lesson plans or daily schedule.
• I often feel behind and overwhelmed..
• I resort lo videos or films to disuact the students when they get restless.
• I sometimes have to call in a Dominant Dictator to restore peace.
Intent: To be a paJ co students, to maintain spontaneicy, fun and cra.civicy.
Ma.in Refrain: "What do you want to do?
Results: Chaos reigns. Classroom tends to be noisy, messy, a difficuh place to
learn, over•stimul;;ning co both teacher and student. Teacher and students get
irritable and exhausted.
Leading Virtues: Kindness, Friendliness
Challenge Virtues: Assertiv-tn~. Orderliness
The Virtues P,oject ....................................................................... .

Side-stepping Slider
• I start off permissive but slide to dominancc when things get our-of-hand.
• I have no consistent approach to discipline.
• 1 sometimes feel conrrollcd and tyranniz«f by students.
• I feel angry when scudent:s abuse the freedom I give them.
• There is chaos in my ciassroom most of the time.
• I often feel hurt and misunderstood.
• I often feel my class is out-of-conuol.
• I rcsis1 being too auchorit.arian.
Intent: To protect studencs' self--csteem: to be loved and vaJued by students.
To prevent opprnsive mechods of discipline.
Main Refrain: ... don't understand why you kids can't ~have!"
Resulu: Classtootn is often disorderly and chaotic, students are disrcspcccful.
An atmosphc~ of frequent stress, especially for students with learning challenges.
Leading Virturs: Gentleness. Kindness. Love
Challenge Virtues: Confidence, Assenivc-ncss, Orderliness
Dominant Dictator
• Conuol is my goal.
• Criticism is my method.
• I am often sarc.astic. "If you can't remember to bring your home-
work, then you can't Kmcmbcr to cat your lunch."
• I sometimes reson to physical force.
• I Frame, Shame and Blame students. "Listen, Bozo, if you have
bc-ucr chings to do, maybe you ought 10 go do chem."
• I use punishments and swpcnsions frcciuendy.
Intent: To maintain control. To maintain high s1andards of excellence.
Main Refrain: • ll<awc I said ,o."
Results: While there may be more quiet and stability in your classroom than
some ochers, there is also a con$(ant tension in your ttlationships with uu-
dents. You hive to conrinually accclerarc your punishments to kttp an upper
hand. You fee-I exh.austM. They rest"nr you and you resent rhem. You often
fantasize about a different line of work.
Leading Virtues.; OrderlinC$$, Excellence
Cha1lcnge Virtues: Respect, Kindness, Trust, Asscnivenas without bullying.
Set Clear Boundaries ............................................................ ,u,,,.

Democratic
Diplomat
• I consult scudents about every decision.
• I give choices without boundaries.
• Sometimes my .nudcncs seem overloaded by choice and responsibiliry.
• There arc frrquenc deb.arcs and arguments, but isn·, that healthy~
• There is sometimes roo much talking in my classroom.
• Tasks often 1ake 100 long and sometimes don't ge1 done.
Intent: To show justice and equality aho~ all; to empower students to think
for themselves.
Main Refrain: "WhJt do you thinkt
Results: Equaliry at chc cosc of effeccivencs.s and dliciency. Classroom is
animatctf and engaging, Scuden1s learn co 1hink for themselves and resolve
conflic1 cquitahly. 1-lowever, s1udenu sometimes fc-cl anxious without suffi-
cient strucrur-c or auchoriry. Learning and curriculum contcnr is sometimes
shon-ch:angcd.
Leading Vinucs: Jus1icc, Creativity
Challenge Vinucs: Assenivencss, Orderliness, Moderation
Empowering Educator
• I focus on virtues to remedy any conflict or behavior problem.
"How can you express your anger peacefully?"
• Our class bounda.rics a.re clearly posrcd on the wall.
• I give choices within boundaries.
• I give immroiatc con~ucnccs. ifboundario arc violatro.
• I 41Jways call "~rpe-trators." back to the vinuc afier a consequence.
"Arc you ttady to be peac-cful now?"
• Most of 1he 1ime I am able to balance caring and assertiveness.
• I show love and respect to my students.
• I e-xpecc respect at all cimcs.
ln1en1: To pcrmic freedom within boundaries, 10 create an orderly, joyful place
of learning. To focus on the Teachable Momc-nt and the child's capacicy for
char:accer development.
Main Re(rain: "'\'Qha1 virtue do we need to call on?"
Results: Peaceful sense of relaxed order, enthwiasm in students and tcacht-r,
:Strong bond of aff«tion between t-eachc-r and studcnu and among srudcnu.
Leading Virtues: Confidence, Assertiveness, Kindness, En1husiasm
Challenge Virtues: Determination to remain consistent in enforcing conse-
qucncc-s of boundaries. Assertiveness .abou1 non-nc:gotiablcs.
The Virtues Project .....................................................................
.

L_
__
Establish Restorative
Justice by Listening
When a child comes to you complaining of an injustice, listen. Restor.ative
justice can be in the form of a brjef intervention.
When a teacher or administrator identifies the virtut"s needal in a disciplinary
situation, they ar-c=
instantly helping 10 focus the student's awareness on mran-
;,,g .and masury. W'hat did the scudenu' action mean? What was the meaning
or intent behind their behavior? They always have a reason, and at times that
reas-0n needs to lx heard brforr you can redirect them to a virrue they could
have used to replace helpless anger or auention-Sttking hehavior. What virtue
could the student have called on? Refocusing the studen1 on the virtue is a
non-shaming, empowering way to structure any disciplinary action.
Example of Excellence
Listen First
Ray Tufts of the Renton Alu:·rnative School, Renton, Washington
worked with some challenging scudencs, among them high school
drop-outs, gang members, and drug dealers.
'When a fight broke out or a student was sent co his office for
discipline;, firs1; he would say "I want co hear what happened, from
your point of view ... He listened. He reflect-cd the feelings ex·
pr~s«i ... So you were really angry when John stole your home-
work. Then you pounded him.n Then, he would look up at the
Virtues Poner and say, "What virtue could you have used to stay
out of trouble! To handle that situation better?" "'I guess I forgot
peacefulnes.s." "Yes. exactly. So, how could you have handled it
peacefully and aho bttn assenive in standing up for your rights?"
"I could have ... " The student would come up wich a new idea
based on the virtues and Ray would say, "Lee's see how peaceful and
a.sscnive you can be the rest of today. And whon do you need to do
to make it up with John? What do you need from John?"
In chis manner, students were ahle co master their inner gifts, learn
to practice virtues and restore justice. The disciplinie problems at
the school wtrc: reduced by more than half.
Set Clear Boundanes .................................................................. .
"U,i/ns rrstitution
,omn from insidt' the
p~rson it will not hrnl. ..
Di:ane Gossen. Founder of
M:ik.ing_
h Rig.hi
'~aching
np
oon·1 tell them what
to do. ask them hOIN
they want to be.
' J
Example: Not
·George, share those
blocks with Jose.· but
~George and Jose.
hCM' can you play
fairfy with those
bk>cks. 7" This is how'
you d\Ndken the child~
integnry, generos,ty.
and confidence. not
by giving quKk
sok.lt1ons to problems
but by 1nv1t1ng
them
to find virtues-based
so1u11ons.

"It is b,,,,,. to wok far
long term solutiom than
just mnow the offmder
ftt,m 1hr situah·on ...
Diane Gossen
" Tr ..
aching Tlp
Use your vision
statement as a
rererence point for
dis.ciP,ine. (.see
Chapter 4 for how to
create a vision
statement)
Example: Ask "What
do we believe at our
school about hOIN
teachers are
tre-.atedr • ... about
hOYJ Wf!: treat each
Olherr
"What would respect
sound like flook like.
feet hke/ in this
Sltuat.ionr
____
,
Restitution, Not
Retribution
True discipline happens inside out instead of outside in. Children already have
goodness - the virtues - within them. It dotS not have to be imposed from
without - it can be awakened from within. Instead of using coercion and
force. a teacher or counselor who expresses clear, firm expectations based on
virtues will see exc;cllent results. This .approach builds self.esteem while elimi-
nating and healing aggressive or disrcspcctful behavior.
The purpose of virtues.based discipline is rcstor.ativc jwticc, not retributive
justice. In retributive justice rhe teacher or administrator is a dnrctive asking:
• What wa.,; the crime?
• Who did it?
• How should they be punished?
In restorative justice, the teacher or administrator is a mmtor asking:
• Whathappe-ned?
• Who was hun~ (including the p<"rpetrator)
• What do they need?
For full restitution to be made, the questions to be asked are:
• What virtue could have bttn practiced.?
• What amends can ht made?
(Sec the dialogues in Chapter 5 on Spiritual Comp,nioning in conffict i=lution.)
Restorative jwticc is a procas which challenges w to rcnalw.te some tr.1di•
tional ways of handling discipline. Th~ definitions may help to make the
distinction between traditional retribution and the restorative justice approach:
• Retribution: to pay back, especially to punis-h,
• Reparation: to make amends, to compensate for something lost.
• Responsibility: to respond ably, to be accountable.
• Restitution: to give back something that has bttn 105t or taken, to
restore, to reimburse.
• Restoration~ to give back, to restore health and consciowncss, to rebuild.
• Reconciliation: co make friendly again, to settle 2. quand, to make content
The Virtues Project .....................................................................
.

Many schools focw only on retribution, the one principle chat docs not
restore justice, either co the offender or che victim of an offense.
In the ideal process of reuorative justice, students:
1. Take responsibility fur what they do in order to ...
2. Make ratitution which r~ults in ...
3. Reconciliation, which is to make friends again, which ...
4. Restores the relationship and restores the offender to the community.
Forgiveness alone is not enough. Justice requires that there be some amends,
fixing of the problem, with the offender tak.ing responsibility instead. of merely
being punished. ln the ideal situation, there is also reconcili.ation, restoring of
friendship and contentment on all sides with the OUt(.:ome,
Example or Excellence
Restitution Works
Jeff Grumley, a restitution counselor, woOO with a large inner city
school in Illinois.
He found in one large school that with the inuoduction of restorative
jwticc in the discipline system, there wa.s drop of discipline referrals
from 4076 to 2438: 40% within two years! Academic performance
rose 20% in thost classrooms where the preventive approach of
restitucion was wed by teachers over those that did not use it in their
classroom management approach. As discipline problems decrease,
la.rning increases. Jeff says: "Even though students had already re-
ceived a consequence before I mer with them rhc first year, over 95%
studencs chose to 'make ic right' and repair the damaged rclat~onship
with their teachers wichout any cxcrinsic motivation. There was no
need to dangle a carrot in front of studencs like reduced suspension
time as an incentive to mend broken rdationships with their tcachcn
a.nd peers. Values or brlicfs do not have to be implanted. n
Set Clear Boundaries ...................... u .........................................
..
"Rntoratiw justice is
murh more than jwt
forgivmtss and
rtdrmption. it also
in110lves
reconciliation
and the reparation of
damaged rrbttiQruhips
-
rrlariomhips
bttwttn
11ictims. offe,ulm dnd
tht community. "
Evan Enns (serving titn-e in
prison for bank robbery
and murder)

P'!)' aJtmlUm ., Pm,,n,;,m
• 1 O Guidelines for
,r • Establishing Clear Boundaries
The following virtues-based guidelines for setting boundaries are helping
schools in many communities and cultures ro significantly reduce discipline
probJems and aggression, at 1hc same rime crea1ing a climate ofkindncs.s,
gcnden-ess, safety and self--esreem. One of the things needed in a discipline
system based on Restorative Justice is some clear ground rules, jncluding the
"bonom line behaviors,.. which will not be tolerated. in your school. Having
these ground rules in place is an important way to create a safe haven.
1. Be Moderate
Choose a few ground rules and make them nick. There should be no more
chan chm: to five. Yow school Vuion is your guiding light. Your boundaries are
the behaviors that suppon Ulose principles and include the bonom line behaviors
that arc not acceptable. Long lists of rules arc too hard to learn and memorize.
Keep your list of boundaries short and also measurable. Fur example,
Our School Vision: We show respecc for ourselves and othen by treating
people, feelings, and things with resptct. Together we nay safe.
Our School Rules.: We have zero tolerance for:
1. Drugs and alcohol on our premises.
2. Damage to property.
3. Rough play, threau, harassment, weapons or anything resembling weapons.
4. Leaving school grounds without permission.
5. Throwing rocks or any other harmful ob;cct.
2. Be Specific
The ground rul,es for your classroom need to be relevant to your specific
expectations. The rules for your school should be specific to the nttds of your
parricubr population, based on behaviors you sec and the behaviors you want
to sec.
The Virtues Project .....................................................................
.

Example or Excellence
Leave Your Gang Identity at the Door
An inner city Soys & Girls Cluh in Minnesota has a boundary
about leaving gang identity at the door so that within the program,
everyone is united on a level playing field. SheiJa Oehrlein, Club
Director cxp]ains:
"The rule about hats varies at each of the clubs. One of the clubs
has a ban on hats altogether. In the other two clubs, hats may be
worn, but only if the bill of the hac is worn suaight - hack or
forward. They cannot be worn cocked to either side. Hats, as well
as bandannas (or 'tags' .as they arc commonly called) can be worn
to indicate gang affiliation. By wearing a hat of a certain color,
with the bill facing left or right, members can indicate which gang
they belong to. They can do 1hc same by rolling up a panr leg,
which we also do not allow. We do not exclude known gang mem-
bers from participating at the club, but we prohibit them from
'representing' their gang affiliations. The dub is neutral territory,
and cannot be claimed. or marked. as belonging co any one group or
gang.
Members wearing their hats, panes, rags etc. inappropriately arc
asked to straighten the ha{, remove rhe rag. or roll down the pant
leg. If they refuse, they arc asked ro leave. Sometimes, we hold the
irem (har or rag) unril che end of the day if the member "forgets"
and we have to ask her/him more than once or twice in a day."
3. Be Positive. Base Rules on Virtues
Avoid expressing rules in the negative. In your daily interactions, guide chil-
dren to what you DO want them to do instead of warning them abouc whac
you OONT want them to do. "Don'ts" put ideas in their heads!
Focus awareness on the virtues in your Vision Statement (See Chapter 4).
which is your shared commitment to how you want to treat one another.
Positivt ruks DO hd/1
Nrr,arirr
rnla DONThrlp
BE CONSIDERATE. Walk in 1he hall,. No running in 1he hall,.
SE KIND to people. fedings and things.
No hurting people, fttlin~ or things.
BE RF.SPECfFUL ~n aaions and words.
No talking back to teachers or cursing.
BE CAREFUL. S1ay safe.
No unsafe behavior.
WE ARE PEACEMAKERS.
We use words No fighring.
instead of fists.
Set Clear Boundaries .................................................................. .

".,.kt tht punishment fit
tht crimt."
William Cilbcn
"lfthr ,hild un't
stn1ngrr by thr 11mends
that thry makt, it iJn't
•
•
•
rtstttutton.
Diane" Gos1en
4. Give Specific,. Relevant Consequences
When a bonom line n~arive behavior occurs, that is a time to bring in a
consequence. Make sure-that whatc:vc-r consc-qu-c:nce
occurs is very .specific and
fining to rhe offense. It is best if che con~uence
is in 1hc form of amc-nds.
chosen by the student. For example, if someone puts gum under their desk,
they arc violating .. Rrs~t
for things." Ask them how they feel it would be
fair to make amends. (c-.g. Ch~k for gum under all the desks in the class and
dean it off?) 1k sure il is fair and in proponion to the "crime". Children tend
to come up with overly harsh and punitive amends for 1hemse-lvcs. so be sure
they arc being fair to themselves. Herc arc some examples of amends that .2re
fining and fair:
• Dc.uruction of property ~ replacement of propc-rty.
• Punching - apology and doing a service for the person.
• Dropping someone's lunch on the floor - giving up one's own lunch.
• Leaving school grounds - buddy to accompany for two days.
Serious infractions of school boundaries nttd to h.ave pre.Jerermincd consc·
quences such as:
• lime wich the Assistant Principal.
• Notification of parents.
• Suspension, either in school or out of school with .a plan for mcntonhip
and rtstoration such as described above (page 59) in Frost MiddJc School.
5. Use Consequences
which are Educative, not Punitive:
Restorative.
not Retributive
The goal of correction is to rntorc jwtict" and ro restore che child to the
community or to chr group, to repair tht' relationship, nc;>c
isolate the pcrpe·
tr.a1or, 10 huiJd charac1cr in the long term, not ;us1 get rid of the problem and
the J)"f~trator.
Transformational lime Out: Replace 1he "Naughty Chair" with the-Courtesy
Corner. Focus on lime Out .2s a recovery in order to rejoin the group and
r«over their councsy, respect, cooperation or wha.1c-ver
virtue they h.avc
momentarily forgoucn or fail~ to practice.
Give Restorative Suspensions: When an in-school swpension is called for,
give them a copy of che virtue they nc-cdcd (from Section 2) and have them
retell or rewrite how chc event would have gone if they had practiced lhe virrue.
The Virtues Project .....................................................................
.

When an out of school suspension is needed, in addition to any legal steps
that arc necessary, offer the following:
• Provide a voluncccr mentor lo work with che individual who will:
Do a .. Virtues Pick".
Do a Vinues Integrity Profile with the individual to assess their
strength virtues and their challenge virtues.
Help rhc srudcnt to make a plan for reparation.
• Student then returns to school with plan in hand.
Example of Excellence
"I See You·
Alexina Keeling of Cleburne. Texas. to whom this book is dedi-
cated, was a volunteer whom the principal of the school called on to
mentor students when they were susp<"ndcd from school. Alexina
met with them, spoke co chem of their innarc virtues. She would
always say "Do you know who you really are? You have many gifrs
inside." She would do \'inues Picks with them, read co chem from
Tht Family Virlli1tJ
Guidt, and help chem work through how they
could make amends. These boys had served time in jail in the past
and were pretty hopeless before they met Alexina. After meeting
with her rhcy would come back to Khool rntored and ready to
restore justice to those 1hey had offended. She made a big difference
to youth with her service .and encouragement.
6. Be Consistent
Assume that cllildrcn will tcsc the limits. sometimes forget the rules, or just be
having a bad day. Regardless of che reason for the lapse, truscwonhiness de-
mands that the bonom line rules be-aucomatically c:nforccd, Thi$ is noc a cimc-
for mercy, but justice. Students will only trust chose rules that arc: constanc
and consistent. So, only make bottom line rules you can en.force.
Make reinforcement of 1he Vision and its boundaries a nun1ber one priority,
particularly at the beginning of the school year. Bring parents and community
members in as. volunteers to help enforce boundaries during r~cess and in large
classes.
Set Clear Boundaries ........ u ..................
u ...
, ................................
.
"Central to tht procaJ
oftraniformation and
rrconci/iation is thr
rrL11io11ship
btrwern
Pictim. offendrr, and
• •
rommun1ty.
Mo, ri.ie! Hddley. Ph 0

Rtj/ertion. not Rtj«tion
7. Communicate
Rules Clearly
Post the Boundaries and make sure that parents receive a copy. Use visuals as
"noetic integrators" - the int~ration of meaning. Use humor. One ccsc of
effective rules is, how easy arc they to memorize? Clever sayings or rhymd
will help, such as, "On time every time." "We dare to care."
• Have a student handbook which has the school vision on an opening
page, and givn the bonom line rules and consequences.
• When introducing the rules at the beginning of the year, remember to
keep them short, sweet, and positive - focused on the virtues.
• Aher students have consulted on 1hc shared vision, post it in hallways and
common areas.
• Have students create posters with che vision statement.
• Ask students reminder questtons, especially at the beginning of the school
year.
"When the betl rings, what do we do?"' (We gather our things and get
r~dy 10 leave,)
"Wha1 virtues do we pr.actice?"' (Orderliness and counes:y.)
8, When Students Receive Consequences, Be Sure They
Understand
the Reason.
Aftc-r a time out in the Counc-sy Corner, always caJI them back to the virtue
which lapsed. "What is a friendly. respectful way you could have goncn Mary's
attention?• .. Att you ready to he respectful now?" "Arc you ready to play
peacefully now?"' "'What will you do to make amends to Mary?" "I know you
can do it." This tells them they belong in the group.
Following a swpension, ask the scudenc "What was your Teachable Moment
in this situation?"(what did they learn), "What virtue did you ncc:J?'" and
then ask them to present their plan for restitution. This is NOT the time for a
lcc1un:ne on why they should practice the virtue that was originally violated.
It is a time to companion them about wha1 they have learned, and to rcspccc-
fully hear how they plan to make amends.
The Virtues Project ···············••H••····••u••·
.. ·••u••"···························

Example of Excellence
Boundaries
Based on Virtues
Winnie Ponga teaches Japanese to young teenagers. She found
she was needing to give detention to some young.,;ters because of
their behavior. She remembered the process desc;:ri~ in Tht
Family Virtut.f Guidr abouc what to Jo whe-n children have re-
ceived a consequence. She first would ask the children to tell her
why they were in detention. Then she showed. them the Virtues
Poster and talked about how each person has virtues within chem.
She asked the children co wricc on a piece of paper some virtues
they saw in1hemselves. Then she asked them what they thought
they might do differently in class the next day so that they would
not have to have detention again. They could talk about it first
then write it down.
Finally, the children were askcd to choo~ which virtues they
would need the next day to help them. Winnie had excellent
results in working with che children this way. The depth of under-
standing and ability to c;hoose-whil;h virtuc-s the children saw they
would need was surprising. They chose Trust, FriendHness, Confi•
dence rather chan things like Responsibility, Peacefu1ness
or Self-
disciplinc. Winnie notes how important it is to acknowledge the
children the next time they show effort in changing their behavior.
9. Make Bottom Line Rules Non-Negotiable
Ground Rules arc your bottom Hnc. They must be things that arc non-negoti-
able so that everyone is clear that there is zero tolerance for chem. Be sure co
think .about this before you make something a rule.
Example: Pose only the positive Vision Statement on school wa11s. "'Our
school is a peace zone. We use peaceful language and work out problems
peacefully." Also. send home a newsletter and give students a sheet called
.. Our Bottom Linc" or "BoundariC$ Supporting Our Vision" which, as briefly
as possible, liH the behaviors that will not be pcrmitced co breach school safety
and integrity, such as making thrcau, carrying weapons, or destruction of
propcny. Explain the consequences for infringement of chc ground rules.
Set CJear Boundaries ............ ••u••··
....••...•..•..•..•...••....•...••...••••••••••

Example of Excellence
High Standards at Harlem Academy
Edward and Ann Yrpe:ntcr had a dream of giving some rea1
education co kids in the ghettos of New York. They began
Harlem Ac1demy. They recruited from the kids on the suecc,
whom chey called u5 per centers .. because they had a S% chance
of making it to their 21st birthdays. They were drug dealers,
g.ang members, prostitutes, inro ~cry kind of crime. The private
school was funded and so enrollment cost nothing in terms of
dollars.. The con of cnrol1mcnt was willingness to commit 100%
to the boundaries of tht' school, which included.:
Cleanliness - Come dressed dean. Be clean and sober. Zero
tolerance for drug usage in our school.
Rdiability- On time every cimc.
Peacefulness -We arc on each other's side. This school is a vio-
lence-free wnc.
The Carpenters and their teachers did not hesitace to enforce the
boundaries which were non-negotiable and whose consequences
were immediate suspension or expulsion. Students learned
quickly that the boundaries stuck. Those who remained, were on
fire with commitment to the school and enthusiasm for what
they were lc-arning. Harlem Academy had 98% success rate in
their students going on to a university. They taught history from
the pt-rspecrive of indigenous pcoplts, in(luding fe.au: of black
individuals often left out of history books, helped students learn
about 1heir own cultural heritage-, developed fierce pride and
loyal()' and awarcnc-ss that there were options other than life on
the strecl. The clari1y of the boundaries Wll a major ingredient in
the success of rhis project.
1 O. Make Your Expectations
Clear
Practice the virtue of assertiveness in day-to-day interactions by:
I) Making your personal boundaries dear,
"I will listen 10 whacever you have: to say if you say it rcspccrfu11y.,.
2) Making decisions without pressure.
When you are undecidetl, take your time. "I'll think about it and let
you know."
The Virtues Project .......................................
H.,,
.........................
.

3) Giving consent within boundaries.
Say "Yes, if ... " If, for example, students ask for a pizza pa:ny. rather
than thinking co yourself "I'm already ovcrlwded. I ju.s1 don'1 ha\le the
time or energy for this," you can take some 1ime to consider ir and
then say .. Yes, if. .. You turn all your homework in on time for a wttk, I
don't have co do the work, you raise the money for it, you organize the
voluntttn, ii~ on a Friday afternoon."
4) Using quick, gentle, prt•4grttd ways to call students to attention.
You can waste a lot of breath yelling for them to be quiet or you can
arrange a pre•agrttd signal that whenever they sce or hear it, they arc
to immediately .. freeze", become silc-nt, and 1urn their ancntion to
you. Some ways to do this arc:
Ringing a chime or bell
Playing mwic
Raising your arm in the air (as. soon as they 5tt' it they arc to
do the same)
When they are first learning the signal, acknowledge those that do it
quickly for their excellence, cooperation or respect.
5) Acknowledging the cooperation of those who respond positivc-ly to a
boundary.
When you have given the class a direction, such as bringing their
attention back to you, acknowledge thoS<: who respond first - °'Excel-
lent cooperation, Maria, Karen, James. You're loolcing right at me."
This is more effective than paying anentjon to those who have not yet
fe$ponded- .. Frederick, didn't you hear me? Stop what you're doing
and pay attention.•
6) Putting your regular expectations into clc.ar boundaries.
If there arc ddinjtc times you want complete silence. for example, cell
them wh-cn chose times arc and have a signaJ for it, such as .a sign you
put up. Ma.kc sure ro be moderate about this bc:a~
noise and talking
is a creative pan of learning. Whatever matters ro you, you arc the
manager of the classroom. Communicate your bound.arid clearly and
students will coopcratc-.
Set Clear Boundaries ............................................. u .. , ................ .

Example of Excellence
Taking Care of Materials
Radha, a Vinues Project facililator and renowned composer of children's songs in New
Zealand, has come up with excellc:nt exampld of how to set specific boundaries in the
context of what children arc doing:
Books
I) We take care of the books, so the: pag-es are noc ripped.
2) We keep the books dean - safe front drinks, paint, crayons, etc.
3) We return the books to the agrec=d area (shelf. mattress, ere.).
4) We share the books, and l"t otht"rs sec the pictures.
We practice Rcsvvnsibility!
Examples
ofYinues to Look for and Acknowlcd~
in our Children
Gentleness - "You're being gentle with the books!"
Orderliness - "Goodt That was orderly of you to put the books away in such a
neat order."
Consideration - "That w.ui considerate of you to move over s.o Alex could sec the
pictures!"
Peacefulness - "] could see how peaceful and quiet you were during the story."
Play Dough
1) We keep the dough off the floor and in the right areas (table, play-stove, etc.).
2) We use our own dough, not taking other people's.
3) We kttp rhe dough dean.
4) We respect our health by not earing the dough.
We a« rrspcctful!
Ex-amples
ofYinucs to Look for and Acknowledge
in our ChildRn
Cleanliness - "You're k«ping the Aoor clean keeping the dough on 1he table and
your hands cl-can by washing them aftcrr
Creativity - "You arc bting creative with your play-dough, making something a
new way!"
Forgiveness - "That was forgiving of you to pardon John when he took some of
your dough!"
Paticncc- "I can sec you're being very patient waiting for ;;a turn with the dough."
The Virtues Project ............................................................
.......
.

•
E Find the Natural Boundary
Safety Line
Whtn I WtU ltllching adults at II summtr family confrrrnct crotrr in
Albm4. 0."""4. th, word WAS spr,ad tl,;,t a ml>DU
an,/ h,r calf wtrt in
the mradow. All thr chi/drm camr pouring out of their clann to s« thnn.
Moo~ ,an IN tLingrrous, and liltt 11n1 animal, an np«ially pronr IO
anaclr or trampk '"'J('nt u,h(, gtts 11t11r II calf. Trachtrs wnr ~Dint,
"Doni grt too clo~. • Whik tht childrrn war namprdint clostr and c/bstr
to th, m,ad,,w, I io,,it,d around fa, a natu,al b,,unJ.z,y an,/ noti<td th,
mown part of rhr grass just at thr edgr of the mtatlow. I calkd out twicr:
"Stop at the rdgr of thr gr@.
Skly safo. "I ran to the rdgr of the gra» mysr/f
and lay d,,wn on my stomach to lo,,/, at the m,ou,. All th, rhildrrn did th,
SllrM. Not onr child s«pprd a foot over tht boundary. It was quit, a sight,
too, watching th, n,oou, grazing on g,,,ss an,/ /ow m, br,znrlm. Thty
dancrd arul prancrd 11way on thrir tklicak kgs. TIN-n. of""''"· I toolt the
opportunity to Mltnowkdgr tht chi/d,rn: •You werr ""°' mpctfol "f tN
boun,/,,,y ,n,J •f the moou,. •
,' •. Keep Class Size Manageable
If possible have small classes, One of the general boundaries which is m«cing
with success is to have smaller school unirs and smaller classes so that teach-
ers can get to know the children individually. This allows the teacher to have
the energy to respond in empowering ways to them because they arc not lost
in a sea of faces. Nothing succ-ttds like a caring relationship bctwccn teachers
and students.
Dudpline wit.la Vinua ia a Piece oE CAKEf
There arc many virtues a teacher needs to model each day in order to
awaken those virtues within his students. and just for the sake-of
practicing them himself. Tact, respect, love, and creativity go a long
way. The virtues arc at the hearl of good discipline.
The 4 iogrodicnta we make DISCIPLINE a piece of CAKE!
Confidence in wing your authority in a mentoring way.
A sscrtivcncss in establishing your ground rules.
K indn~ in the way you treat students.
Enthusiasm for who and what you arc ta.ching.
Set Clear Boundaries ...........................................................•.......
"ft IUJn't m1an 12 thing if
it ain't got that swing. "
Duke-E•ogton 15. ~
Mils

""'
.....,
••
Activities
r
Discuss Assertiveness
Read the vinuc. rhen discuss ways nuden1s can DC'
asscrrive at .school and at
home. Distinguish between Aggression, Passivity and Assertiveness as ex-
plained in the virtue of Assertiveness in Section 2.
Discuss Stranger Danger
• What arc some of our boundaries that keep us s.afe?
.
• What would you do if a stranger Jrives to school and invites you co get in
his or her car?
• Who would you cell?
• How can you protect yourself from strangers on the Incrrnre
Vision and Boundaries Posters
,
Each clasnoom may have specific boundaries. Each teacher is free to sc:-t
his or her own. Get creative with the rules by involving students in design-
ing a border for the boundaries list. This gives chem ownership. his also
hdpful co have students create simple posters wich your Vision Staremenc,
to be prominl"ntly displayed. In fact, you may want to keep them focust"d
on the positiv~ by jun posting your Vision Statement,
The Virtues Project .....................................................................
.

Student Activity Sheet
Restitution Fits My Mistake
Mark each :restitution that fits the person's mistake with the word "Yes". Mark "No" if
it does not fit. Remember restitution tries to put things back the way they were= or
better. If that is not possible, ic tries to repair the need violat-ed. Also, it hrlps the
person get stronger in their area of weakness. Then write che virtue that was needed
beside each example.
Virtue
Action
Yes or No
Needed
I. I said a bad word so I will pick up the garbage. (Dor,i1fir!)
2. I stepped on the plants so I will plant new ones. (Dor, it fir!) __
3. I ripped up her paper decoration so I will give her mine
and make a new one. /Dor, it Jill)
4. I pushed him so I will give him candy. (Do,s itfitO
5. I cook the teacher's time so I will help her in her room.
(Dots it fit?)
6. I took his pencil so I will clean the chalk board. (Dor, irfit?)
7. I rook their ball at recess and ended the game. Tomorrow
I will follow rhe rules. (Dor, irfit!)
8. I crashed into him on my bike so I will help serup bike
safety week. /Doe, it fit!)
Adaptrd with pnminiun ftr,m Rrstillltion far Tmu Vidro Guidr lloolt b:, Dianr Co,srn. (S« !inDurtT1)

r Create a Peace Zone in Your
Classroom for Solving Conflict
Use a special mat large c-nough for two or more 11:0 .sic in a circle and have
,
.. Peace Talks". Put up a sign whcrr the mat is located; .. Peace Speaks" or .. Peace
Place". Teach children how to solve problems by focusing on the virtue in-
volved. with boch childr-cn taking turns. Put up a sign like this one-:
Peace Place
1. Take turns truthfully telling your c,cpericncc of what happen«!.
2. Listen mprctfolly to the other person's view.
3. Share how you honntiy felt.
4. Crt•tivtly find a vinuc you each need.
5. Usejustict and Fo,givnms to decide what amends need co be made.
6. Practice Commihnnlt to decide how 10 do it diff-crently next time.
Congratulations! You ha~ solved a problem Pr4«follf.
Class Clean-Up
• Keep a neat, orderly and pl~ing classroom - it calms th~ mind and
soothes the spirit.
• Have students ere-ate visuals or pos1crs of a Vision Statement and thr
Boundaries. Hang in an open spol.
Send Home Virtues
Vouchers and Hug Notes
Reward Effort and Improvement. Aw.ard special privileges co boch those who
rxcel in .a particular virtue and those who show the most change-and effort.
You want to be fair and just to bo1h 1he na1urally excelling studcnu and those
for whom any improvement is a big cffon.
The Virtues Project ....................................................................
,,

School-wide Activities
Communicate
Boundaries Clearly
1. Send home both the Vision Statement (next chapter) and the boundaries
of your school in a bulletin or other form. Tell parcnts how imponant
they are as helpers and mentors in keeping school a safe and enjoyable
learning environment.
2. Sponsor a slogan contest rdlectingyour VtSion Statemenc and Boundaries.
3. In a school assembly. have students do skits basro on the School Rules.
,
Create Peace Squads
,
Set up Peace Squads of responsible students to keep the peace and detect and
incervene in any conflict or roughhousing that occurs. Identify peacekeepers
with a sash or a jacket so that other students un call on them when in trouble.
Example of Excellence
Kids Helping Kids
Brentwood Bay EJcmcntary School in British Columbia,
Canada has a pcacckeepc-rs group called '"Ambassadors" who
wear yellow jackets with the name "Ambassadors" on them.
When any child feels picked on or in need of help, after ,hey
have u:sffl their "WlT" - I) Walked away or 2) lgnore-d the
aggressor, or 3) Tried to Talk it ouc, and rhe aggression persists,
they call for one of the Ambas.sadors. The boundary for ambas-
sadors is that jf physical violence is inYolved, they obtain the
help of an adult to intervene.
Carol Kenway, coordinator of chc program, explains thac chis
goes beyond a role of conflict management. "Our kids arc really
good at inclusion. If they s« a student who is alone, they get
games going, or invite them to just "hang out' with them. They
arc wonderful with our special needs nudcnts as well. ..
Set Clear Boundaries ....................................................
♦••••••••••••••
~

Chapter Summary:
Set Clear Boundaries
✓ Base your discipline l)'Stcm on restorative justice.
✓ Always use authority in service of learning.
✓ Sec your authority as leadership and be aware of yow own leadership style.
✓ Establish rrstorative jwticc by listening.
✓ Make virtues the reference point for discipline.
✓ When you .set boundaries:
• Be moderate - have only fou.r or five rules.
• Be specific - focus on the behaviors specific to your situation.
• Be pasitive - base rules on vinucs. and word them positively when
you c.an.
• Give specific, relevant consequences for bottom line behaviors.
• Use consequences that are educative - not punitive; restorative-
not tttributive.
• Be consistent.
• Communicate rules clearly.
• When studenu nccin a con.sequence, be sure they undcntand
the virtue involved.
• Make bottom line rules non-nrgotiablc.
• Be assertive in making your expectations clear.
✓ Find the natural boundary.
✓ Keep class siz.e manageable.
✓ Create student Peace Squads to keep your school sare.
Th V
P •
e 1rtues roJect .....................................................................
.

4 Honor the Spirit
~ Inspiring School Spirit
The word .. spiriruaJ" is now included in many educ:nion mandates as one of
the aspects of a child's ntttis. Among the definitions of "spirit" in Webster's
New World Dictionary is .. essential quality", "animating principle", .. life, will,
thought." I( defines school sp-irit as "cnthwiastic loyalty". Ocher useful ways to
think of "spiri rual" in the context of c-ducation is that which pr-nains to:
• a sense of meaning ilnd purpose
• beliefs and values
• mastery of the vi nues in our character.
This chapter offers several ways to enhance school spiri1 and specific methods
for .addr~sins the spi .. i1ual needs of children in an inclusive and unifying way.
In this multi-cultural world. focusing on vinues is a respectful way to address
meaning and thl· mastery of character, which arc basic clements of spiritualicy.
Virtues give us a common Janguage for addressing th-e spiritual dimension.
This is essential in a pluralistic society in which children may or may not be
rcliginus. and if religious, arc likely to be of ditfcrcnt religions. Religion is a
specific code or synem of belief. Values arc things we think arc imponant and
rtnd co be culture-specific. Vircucs are universally valued by all cuhun.:s.
The= most empowering way to create a safe, caring. respectful learning environ•
mcnt is not only 10 require it but to inspire it. We can inspire n1caning and
mastery as well as "enthusiastic loyalty" 10 our school or organiza1ion in m.iny
ways such as:
1. Seeing chc potential virtues in all children
2. Creating shared Vision S1a1ements
3. Modeling the virtues we-expec:1 children to practice
4. Sharing stories, which arc chc keepers of meaning
5,. Focusing on virruts in the arrs
6. Having ceremonies 10 mark beginnings. endings and special rimes..
Honor the Spirit .........................................................................
.
"Whrn I di,cover n,y
'why" to live. thrn my
'how' to /iv, will ju1t
naturally follow. ..
Jim P.Jluch. Author

•
E See the Potential
"TM wholly
fon,tioning
human bting strlu
mtaning in ti'mu of his
fe/1,,w hu"'4n bting,.
but h, don not fi n,J this
mtanint '"'l.m anJ
until he kams to rrr111
orhn-humAns with
concn-n and mptct. • G.
E. Rrnniir, Prin(ip~.
D-i;covcry School.
Campbtll Rivc-t, BC,
Unada
In speaking the Language o(Vircucs and finding the Teachable Moments each
day, we arc Honoring the Spirit in our students. The only thing which allows
us to do those chings is our willingness to look at every child in tcrms of their
pott"ntial.
Example of Excellence
See the Potential
Dr. Magdalene Carney, in her early Y"ars as an educator, was
assigned to an inner ciry classroom in Octroit in the middle of
the year. All the principal told her was that the former teacher
had left suddenly. and that this was a class of .. special" nudcnts,
She w:ilked in on bedlam, spitballs Hying through 1he air, f«1 on
desks. the noise deafening. She walked to the front of the class•
room and opened the anendancc book. She looked down the lis1
of names and saw beside 1hem numbers from 140 10 160. •oh,"
she thought ro hcrst"lf. •No wonder they aft' so high•spirircd.
These children have excepciona1 IQs." She smilcd and brought
them to order.
At first, the students failed to turn in work. Assignmr'nts that
were handed in were done hastily and sloppily. She ~n
to
speak to them about their inn.ate excellence. their gift,cdncss,
telling them that she cxp«ted nothing shon of rhe best work
from them. She kept reminding them of their rnponsibility to
we all the extra intelligence they had been given. Things began
to change, The children sat up tall, they workN diligently. Their
work w;u creative, prrcist", origin.al. One day, the principal was
walking by and happened. to look into the classroom. He ob•
srrvcd students in rapr anc-nrion, composing ~ys.
La1cr, he
called Mag into his office.
"'What h.ave you done to these k.ids?" he .asked. '"Their work has
surpassed all che rtgular grades.'" "Well, what do you exp«t?
They're gifted, aren't they?" u{~iftcd?! They're the special-needs
students - behavior disorderc.J and retarded." "Then why arc
their IQs so high on the ancndancc shcce" "Those aren't their
lQs. Those arc their locker numbers!" "Whar~~r." said Mag.
The Virtues Project ...................................
u
................................
.

Create a Shared Vision
Statement
One of the best ways to inspire true school spirit and high morale i$ to give
children owncr:ship in the school or d;w Vision Scaccment. This is done by
involving them in shaping the vision. A classroom which ha.s taken the rime
to form a shared vision of the virtues they choose to live by has a frame of
reference - and a frame of "rev<'.'rc-ncc.,
- for what is cruly valued by the
group itself.
1) Ask your class to consult cogcthrr or form small groups to sharc the
btlicfs in their families about how peoptc ought co treat each other.
Write them down.
2) Ask chem: how do we want to treat each other in our school?
3) Brainstorm chc main themes or vinucs of these= beliefs and list on a
board. e.g .... We respect each other." "'We car,e ahout each other." uWe
play fair."
4) Ask the class to identify up to four virtues which capture rheir main
bc)jefs about how we want to act toward one another in this class.
5) Create a simple sentence incorporating these virtues. Make sure all agree
that this is the vision ro which they can commir themselves.
"We show kindness and rcspttt for people. bodies,
feelings and things. We enjoy learning. n
A vision statement for the school gn be establ ishcd in a similar way or by
reviewing the class vision statements and incorporating thtm in a few words
for the entir~ school. h should ~:
• Brief
• Easy to memoriic
• Focused on virtues
• Posred where i1 can be dearly set"n a1 all times
This example from a middle school in the United States is provided by
Diane Gossen, author of Rrsritution: RrJtructuring School DiJciplinr".
"West School is a familycommiu«l to achievement
through mutual dignicy and respect."
Honor the Spirit ...... u .................................................................
.
"Morr important than
being succmfu/ is
being JigniftcanJ.
Significance means
ma/tjng a contribution
to othrrs ...
S1~n Covey, Author,
H;ghty Effirtiw Pr,,pl,
:4n o,m,rof pm,mtion ;,
iwrth a pound of onr. •
Anonymom

• You a" not hrrt to
mtN/y ma/tr a living.
You arr Mrr-in ordrr to
tnahlt 1ht world to livr
,now amply. with
greater vision, with a
finu spirit ofhoµ and
achirvrm,nt. )'(Ju art
htrr to rnn'ch tht world,
and you impowrish
youn,/f if you fo,g,1 1h,
nTand."
'll'uodruw Wil§On
~
~ One-Minute
Integrity Check
A Vision Statemen1 is the guiding light for your discipline system. che refer-
en(,e point :to turn to when wmeone h;is acted unkindly or thoughtfes5ly.
Whenn>cr we nc:cd to check our own inrcgrity- how wdl we arc refleccing rhc
vision we have agreeJ to -we need only look at the Vision Statement and ask
ourselves if our actions were in k«ping with it. It ~rvcs as a reference point
for daily Teachable Moments. For example, let's say your school Vision State-
ment is: "We arc-friends who treat each other with kindness, We treat people,
things and fc-c-lings
with rcsp«t and care."
Jim has just taken another child's pencil and won't give it back. Jim's teacher
can ask questions such as:
"Jim. whac do we believe about the way we treat people and things~"
"Jim. was that kind to rake Manuel's pencil? We-re you showing r<'spect?,,.
"How could you have done that kindly?"
"How can you fix it now?"
"What will you do differcndy next time?"
You can also do an "Integrity Check" by having a poster of che 52 Virtues in
your room and asking the class .. Ur's make an integrity ch-eek. %at virtue do
we need right now?"
School spirit grows when teachers share leadership with students, when disci-
pline is not teacher-centered but virtues-centered. Taking the tin1e, ideally :u
the beginning of the ~ar, ro create a Vision Statement for the classroom or for
the entire school is an investment in a peaceful, joyful school environment. It
provides a reference point for the code of behavior.
Th v·
P
•
e irtues roJect ..................................................................... .

Example of Excellence
Making Chol<es
Edith Gulland, Victoria. British Columbia, Canada introduce-d a
value system into her school, which hdpeJ children learn 10 make
choices. One student made a poster, stating in his own words:
Making Choitcs
"A chojce is a decision.
We make choices all our lives.
Our choices. mak<' us what we arc."
Mark. Grad<' 2
Ms. Gui land 5ai.J to another student in her junior year of high school:
"The va1ue system S<cms to have been useful to you, Lewann."
Lrwann: "'It's likt" a new way of living. When I came 10 Discovery
r.u)age School and I learned about thr: value system, I was living
but not chis lif<".
This is a new life. h's like the tree reaching for
the sky and -everything around. In the old life I was like a t1"3.cking
dog, able to do only one thing - think about the bird. Prople like
a tracking dog are the same all the time. They arr in the same
place - doing and chinking che same things Jay in and day out.
Bue people like che tree have to do something different every day
to get these neat new f-eelings. His 'place' expands. It's like collect-
ing knowledge."
Edith describes 1hese as che steps in helping children develop the
Value Syscem (Shared Vision):
1) We make choices from among
2) alrernatives in terms of
3) consequences because of what
4) we value (or prize or cherish).
5) We then puhlicly affirm our choice.
6) We chen act according to our choices.
7) We then practice ac,ing consistently with our choices until i1
becomes pan of our habits to practice what we preach.
Honor the Spirit ........................................................................
..

"Whoever tells the
Jtorin tkfinrs th~
l
..
(U turt'.
David W1hh
Model the Virtues You
Expect Others to Practice
Being a model of virtues doesn't mean being perfect. It means you hold your~
self accountable to the same vision uau:ment that everyone has agreed to.
Your saving grace, as a teacher, whom the children watch constantly to learn
what is really important, is the practice of your humilicy. Wh~
You don't
have to be perfect. You only have to he willing to keep learning and growing,
just like your students. Everyone has bad days. Sometimes that is a perfect
time to model the virtue of humility and ask for the children's patience be·
cause you don't have much yourself that day.
•
Example of Excellence
A Model of Humility
Atusa R., a 6th grade teacher in Vancouver, Canada, tells of a
time she lost her ten1per with her class. She came in the next day
ftt"ling very regretful abou[ it and decided to apologize co her
students. She said "I must apologize: co you. I lo.st my patience
yesterday and I am really sorry." "Mrs. R." one student said, .. We
forgot our obedience and we .arc sorry." "I promise to be more
patient wirh you," she said. "We promise to be more obedient io
you," che student said. The ochers nodd-ed.
Au~.s;,.
says they were about to present a ski1 on one of the virtues
at a school membly and did an exceptionally excdlent job.
"'After that day, the bond in our dass became so strong. Ii was
wonderful. A Teadlahle Moment for all of us."
E Story Together
Stories, of course, always hold a group's attention, no matter what age chey
arc. The magic words "()nee upon a lime ... "' have all eyes and hearts focused
on what comes next. S1or•es embody the values of our culture. Stories also
help children to define their own values and be-come consciow of cheir virtues.
The sharing of personal stories about themselves, their own expcrjences, and
their families is one of the ways to awaken students' sense of meaning. Invit-
ing their personal stories during regular lessons on hi$tory or li,crature sea.sons
The Virtues Project .....................................................................
.

those lessons with meaning. When personal stories are shared at Circle Time
rel a tcd to virtues such as rhe "Virtue of thr: Weck", it suppons a culture of
character far more efT«cively than merely policing behavior.
Example of Excellence
'What
Color Am I TodayT'
Ann Bock, a leache.r at Sequoia Junior High School in Kent, Washington,
offered her students a very creative way to share-1hcir story, in terms of how
they arc feeling on a givc-n day. Studenu could chooSC"
one or more-shc-ets of
colored pa~r in pink. gr«n and blue and write the virtues which fit their
feelings that day.
"I'm in the pink wirh (virtu,e) because.,," meant they were feeling happy,
confident, at home, comfortable wirh a particular virruc-."
"I'm in the green. growing my (virtue), because ... " meant they were feeling
thankful for some growth or positive change in themsclvc=s.
"I have the blues with (virtue) be-cause ..... meant they were having a bad day,
exptriencing difficulty, not feeling well, or in some way challenged by a virtue.
Examples:
"I am in the-green with Tolerance today b«ause when someone rujned part of
my lunch, I showed Tolerance by no[ getting in a fighl wilh him."
One 6th grade student wrote: "I have the blues with peacefulness, because I am
tired even though I got nine hours last night. I have a headache, an earache, a stuffy
nose:, a sort throat, I'm losing my voicc .. .l am in the: blue with peacefulness also
because I have on a sweater, turtleneck and a fleece and I am still cold. I really wish
chat I was at home as;lccp instead of here at school. That's why I'm not ~ceful."
Ano1her student wro1e: ul am in the green with tolerance today. I think I
showed tolerance today when $0mrone ruined my lunch .and I showed toler-
ance by not getting in a fight with him. I am in the blue because of how mean
and cold-hearted people can be."
A student wrote: "I am in the pink with unity. My unity comes from scouting
with my troop. We do team working courses and building projecu. I am in the
pink with enthusiasm because I love to help out with what people need."
Honor the Spirit ·············••u••······
................................................
.

"Thr prrcrption of
beauty is a moral trst. "
Henry D,1vid Thorc.1u
Virtues Pick as Storying Together
One way co .. story together" (an expression in the Solomon Islands) is to do a
Virtues Pick once a week, in which someone in the class pulls a Virtue Card
(conu.ining a definition of rhe virtue and Signs of Success), out of a box or
bag. it is read aloud to the class and each person tells a story of a tim-e he or
she practiced this virtue. They can do this as a whole class or in small groups.
You may want to follow this up with drawing or poetry writing about the
virtue. This activity is meaningful to children and adults of a.II ages. More on
this in the Activicy Section at the end of 1his chapter.
~.·
r-
Focus on Virtues in the Arts
Rivers of Respect,. Cornucopias of Creativity
In Jevdoping the virtues, it is very helpful to have visual cues in the environ~
ment. Noctic integration - the integration of meaning - occurs best when
children create and set visuals of the virtues around them. Visual themes tied
to the "V~rtut of the Weck" help to make virtues a narural element of the
culture. According to Eugene Bcdlcy, principal of El Camino Real School in
California and a pioneer in virtues-b-a.scd character education, children need
symbols of the virtues to make: them real - a bridge of compass.ion, a river of
respect. or a road 10 respcc1, a heart of kindness. I{ is also helpful to hang
Virtues Posters listing the: 52 virtues described in this book.
Feature- Virtues In the Performing Arts
Form a group of"Virtuous Reality Players" to write plays or put on plays that
illustrate virtue. All meaningful plays do. This is a powerful way to reinforce:
th-e virtues in your cnvironm-cnt. This activity goes well when you arc studying
historical figures,
Apply Virtues
In Poetry
Au1hor Shelley Tucker teaches many ways to connect virtues and creative
writing. (Stt .. Give a Virtue: a Personality" work sheet in Activities section of
this chapter.) Post virtues stories and poems on bulletin boards. Write poems
about the virtues which are special about your school and post them.
The Virtues Project ...•••............. u
................................................
,

Example or Excellence
Virtues Mural
The Petroglyph Elementary School in Albuquerque, New Mexico,
under the guidance of an teacher, Sarita Birkey (originally from
Nepal). or-ganiu-d an an project to promote multi-cultural aware-
ness. One hundred 4ch and 5th grade children painted a 40 foot
long muraJ, while listening to music from M<"xico, Ntpal, Russia,
England, United. States, Malaysia, Africa, Israel, England and other
countries. The theme of the mural was "Launching Virtues". Stu-
dents painted a mural of hot air balloons of many colon and de-
signs, each representing a different vinuc, such as uni(}', caring,
respect, courtesy, patience, etc. People of varied cultures launching
the balloons from around the world were also featured in the mural.
Other learning activities were woven into the mural project. For
example, before being introduced ro the virrue of uni[)', they sang
the "Hawaiian Unity Song". They discussed. whar is meaningful in
their own lives about the virtue b.cfore painting it. They often
discussed current trends and issues while they painted. Some stu-
dents made a suggestion that they honor Israeli Prime Minister
Yjrzhak Ra.bin for his peace message to the world, after they learned
that he-had been ass.a.ssinatcd. They decided to add a fL1g of Israel
nexr to the Aag of the United States painted on one of the balloon
gondolas in the mural. They chose a world balJoon and named it
"Our mother Earth is the home of one human family. n Some stu-
dents wrote a story about the mural and shared it with the rest of
the an elm.
The activity cultivated an awe-inspiring sense of community and
inspired such enthusiasm and creativicy, that many students wanted
to paint through recess. The students often spoke with wonder and
appreciation during the project: '"Oh, how beautiful your balloon
looks!" "I didn't know I was a good artist ... '"Can I work with a
partner?" "What a fun way to learn!"
Play Virtues Music
There are a number of excellent virtues CDs, some with song books, listed in
the Resources at the back of this book. Singing a virtues song related to the
Virtue of the Week ar .assemblies is another way lo build school spirit.
Honor the Spirit .........................................................................
.
"What is beautiful iJ
moral, that is (II/ thrre
.
. "
IS 10 It.
Gusuvc Aaubcr1

•.
c'--~ Virtues in Ceremonies
Graduation: This is a perfect time 10 honor ~ach student for one or more
virtues he or she ha'i contributed to chc wellbeing of (he $Chool or virtues in
which they shine. Let this also he a cirnc when students honor teachers and
administrators as well as con1n1unity voh1nteoers. The sirnpl6t way to honor
someone is with a Vinues Acknowledgment. They can be written on gem
shaped tags as a kccpsakc.
Awards Dinnen;: [nclu<le award ... for virtut'S in addition to Excellence, such as
Friendliness, Determination, and Caring.
Recirement: Virtut's acknowledgments arc also a meaningful way to honor a
teacher or adtninislralot
who is retiring. Have someone record the-acknowl•
edgments and put them on a beautiful card made by the srudents.
loss and Grief: If a studenl or teacher dies, having an honoring ceremony for
them, by inviting various children and adults. to tell nories about chem and
share che vinues they saw in thc:m. is a healing way to bring closure.
Opening Circle: To open a retreat, 1he §Chool year, or a camp, form a standing
circle. Each per.son says their name, where they are from, and a virtue they
bring to this gathering. "My name is Juan Lopez. I live on Delaney Street, and
I bring Tolerance."
Example of Excellence
Trust Game
Janet Jack.,on of Taupo New Zealand creatc..J this exercise for
Session 1 of lhe Standing Strong Program:
"The aim is to become more familiar with t=ach other by
sharing about ourS('lves ...
• Brief history of the Standing Strong Program.
• Brief introduction of lhe Facilit:U orff utor.
• Trust Game "Clever Brave and Strong".
"We're going to do this by sharing personal inforn1acion
about ourselves ...
• History of my name:
I) What is my na,ne?
2) Who gave me: my name?
3) What doc:s my name mean?
4) How do I feel .about it?
5) Something I want to share about myself ...
6) The Virtue I bring with me coday is ...
The Virtues Project ..................................................................... .

Example of Excellence
Honoring Each Other
Janine Roy of Rogers FJementary School in Victoria, British Colum-
bia, Canada, shares two n::i.mples of how they are applying virtues.
"After Linda came co our school in October 1998, our entire staff
became committed co teaching The Virtues Project at our S(:hoo).
• We posted each Vlnue on a card and displayed them in the main hall
of th< school.
• We dedicaced a central bulletin board as our "Vinucs Board" and
displayed an work, stories and id('JS ahout th(' Virtues.
• Every cwo weeks we select a virtue to focus on. We present it at our
bi-monthly assembly in a variety of ways. I am always looking for
inventive, meaningful ways to prcsc:nt the vinue. -when we came co
"Thankfulness" around Thanksgiving. I simply put a blank poster
sh~ and a pen on our '"Virtues Board" in the main hall. and told the
students that they could list things on che paper they were thankfu1 for.
lbis was everyone's bulletin board, and everyone was welcome to write
on it. By the end of the first day. I was surprised to 6nd that the paper
was full and I had to put up mo« paper. f.ach day th< page was filled
with notes from srudenu and staff abouc thin~ they were chankful for.
By the t-nd of thc-week, th~ entire bulletin board was full and I had to
post the filled charu on the w.alls
around the bulletin board! It was a
wonderful sight to sec how thankful we aU were for family, friends. and
our school.
On the last day of school, as the Grade 7 studt"nts stood outside-thdr
classrooms teary-eyc-d about leavjng our school and moving on to
Junior High. one studc-nt took a vinucs card - "Caring" - off the
display in the main hall .and attae::hcd the card onto a fdlow srudc-nr
who really had embodied ca.ring a1 our school. One by one, each
student took a card and carefully placed ~t on another studen1. so that
after a few minutes. every Grade 7 student was wearing a vinue. Arm
in arm, they walkod off wearing their virtues. It was .an amazing sight! I
hope you revel in these stories and savour our suoco.sc.s because they
became possible because oflbe Virtues Project."
Oosing Gratitude Circle: An excellc-nt way to close a school year, a retreat or
a camp session is with a Graticude Cirde. Everyone stands in a circle. Each
person has their hands clasped in front of them, fingers laced togecher to form
Honor the Spirit .. u ............
H••······················"'····"························

"Tk uacher ii•ho walki
among /,is or her 1tudma
givn nDt Df o,~i wisdom
but rathrr of 011/s faith
and lovingnns. /fhe or
shr is hu:krd wiH, he or
k Joa 11ot bui JO" r11ter
rh, how, of his or h,r
w;,,/,,m, but mth.r /,ad,
you to 1h, 1hmho/J of
your own mi'1d For thr
vision ()f onr µno11 k,uls
not itJ willtJ to another
pm,n. •
Kah.Iii Gibu.n
a graticude "basket", Each is inviced to say one word or phrase describing a gifr:
they are taking from our cime cogether. If they wish to pass ,hey just wave
thrir hands toward the next person. Examples of chings people say are
"Friendship". "Wisdom", "KindnCM of my teachers". "Knowing myself'.
Optional: Then have everyone hold hands and play or sing a song.
Talking Stick: As a closing circle, you can pass any obj«t, with each person
who passes it co the next saying a Vinues Acknowledgment ro that pers.on.
Yarn Toss: Form a large circle. Someone holds a ball of yarn in one hand and
holds and keeps the end in the other hand, then tosses it across the cirde
saying ... , now commit to the virtue of,.," The person who cacchcs it holds the
line 1aut, keeps a hold on it and tosses the ball to someone else saying" I now
commir to prac,ice 1he virtue of ..... Ahrrnative "I release (fear) and claim my
(courage)." The tossing of the yarn continues until there is a large weaving
across the circle. Children like to get under the canopy of yarn. Play a song
when the toss is over while people wave the yarn canopy, moving ic: up and down.
EJ<ample
of EJ<cellence
The Glf1 of Virtues
Sue Ngametua. a teacher at the Leamington Primary School in Cam·
bridge. N-ew ualand, did a special Vinues Acknowledgment session for
her students ac the end of the school year .
.... taught a vinue each week, after explaining what this involved to the
principal and the parents of the children I was teaching. At our parent/
teacher interviews half way through the year, the father of a student was so
enthusiastic ahout my teaching virtues co his child, he :said 'This is what
school shou1d be t<".lching! E.ach Monday we wait for our son to come
home and tell w what the virtue of the week is and to hear all abou1 it."' At
the end of the year I received a gift from thi.s family - a ~uciful hand-
made angel with stuffed wings, bearing ii plaque saying No. I Teach.a 1998.
At the end of the ceat.:hing yt"'.ar,
l"J.ch child took turns sitting at the front of
the class, individually about five or six. srudents each day, and the other
children acknowk..Jg<.-d
that child with the vinues they had shown
throughouc the year. ·1his is to he done for the teacher as well.
When finished. the child l'l'Ceives a written list of their vinue5 Jnd then
rypes them into the computer. Their name is wrirten in bold leners at the
top of the page. and the list of their vinues underneath. They choose a
piaurc that relates to them, and put a border around it. his then mounted
on a coloured card and laminatcJ. This is a gift to each ~rson from the
U."acher and che class. I treasure my own!"
The Virtues Project .....................................................................
.

Activities
.
Virtues Picks
Using Virtues Cards when you arc in a counstling s-tssion with a child or in a
Vinucs Sharing Circle can be an enioyab]c and revcrcnt way to focus on
opportunities for action and change. Receiving a panicular virtur is nt."vcr a
cond<!nlnation. It is either an invitation or an affirmation.
Individual Pickl
This activiry is hdp(ul to adulcs as well as children. Take out tbc Virtues
Canis. Shuffie them gendy and have a student pick one without looking. They
can be holding a quesrion or problem in mind, asking "What virtue will hdp
me solve this problem?" or simply be open to "Whac virtue do I n~d today?"
Spend a few moments reading and reflecting on it. Keep it in mind through-
out the day. If you are doing this with an individual studcnt, you may want to
pick one yourself to mod.el how co do it. This, then, becomes a small sharing
circle.
Virtues Pie.Ir. Sharing Cirdc
You can do this in two ways:
I) Pick one virtue. read it aloud and invite each person ro share a time he or
she practiced chis virtue or how i• speaks to them today. Remember the
bound.aries of a Virtues Sharing Circle: Assertiveness - people can pass.
Respect- listen in complete silence and be derply present. Trust - What we
say here stays here.
2) Have each person pick. Have the virtues in a small decorated box or bag
and pass it around rhc circle, each person replacing the Virtue Card when
1heir turn is over. Or you can fan the cards and have each person pick one.
Create a small sharing circle of three persons or a whole group, depending on
time av.ail.able.
While the-others remain silent each person shares.
I. Reading the Vinuc Card aloud or listening while someone else reads it.
Honor the Spirit .........................................................................
.

2. Sharing how this vinue speaks to chem in the light of what is happening
in their life.
3. Sharing what gift this virtue offers. either as an affirmation of what they
are already doing or as an invitation to do somethtng new.
4. Others in the sharing circle remain silent and deeply present, and when
the s~aker is finished, they acknowledge the person for a virtue they see
in him or her, relevant to what they have just shared. If time is limiced,
have only two people give acknowledgments.
5, Then the next person shares, and so on, until each person has had a turn.
Sharing Circles of three persons in a Vinucs Pick take about fifteen minutes.
Gem Tags
Have children cut out various shapes of gems - pearls. diamonds, and so on
from varied color construction paper, or have them color their own.
After the shape is cut out, have them print their name in big letters in the
center of the gem tag.
Allow them to d«orate them with glitter, glue, and colored markers.
Explain that to<by everyone will wear their gem•shaped nametag to remind
them that they have the gems of virtues within themselves.
Light a Candle
Some teachers find that just by lighting a candle for a spccia1 quiet time of
reflection or story telling becomes a routine which studtnrs look forward to.
You can do this as a w:ay to stan a virtues sharing circle or a special sharing
umc-.
' What Virtues Do We Bring?
This is an alternative to Light a Candle. Do it without tht candle. Each
person ~ys $Omething he or she is lookjng forward to from Khool this ytar
and then says a virtue they bring to school or to this class.
'
The Virtues Project ....................................................................
..

"My name is Susan.
I look forward to math.
I bring the virtue of kindness."
As each person shares, the rest of the clas.s.
says "'Welcome, Susan." or "Thank
you, Susan."
Inspirational
Walk
Go for an inspirational walk around the school grounds. Find an object such
as a flower, s.pider, tree, leaf, the sky, etc., and focus your attention deeply on
it. You may wish to journal abour it, or write a poem about fr. What don the
object say to you? What lessons does it offer? Ask "What is. your gift for me?"
"'What virtue do you show me?"
Example: If you focus on ants, you may write a short poem about the virtues
of Diligence and Uniry and how they would help you in your tife-right now.
The boundaries for this acriviry are:
• Do chis by yourse]f.
• Remain silent,
• Focw your full anention on the object.
• Use paper and pen if you choose to.
• Rerurn to the classroom and write about your experience for a few minutes.
• Then share with a partner or in a small group what your experience was like.
Do this as a Virtues Sharing Circle, with complete silent attention to each
other, followed by Vinues AcknowlMgments after each person shares. "Kelly. I
see your humility to learn from the ants.'"
Elders' Council
This is a form of problem-solving which calls on the wisdom of children to
help each orher wirh their problems. The following Example of Excellence
illustrates how to do it.
'
Honor the Spirit .........................................................................
.

Example of Excellence
Elders' Councll
Mah.shid Jones ofW-rsccrn AustraJia dacribc:s this reverent activity
which her 6th graders crraccd. Each week children anonymously
write on slips of paper a problc-m they arc facing. They place it in a
Virtues Mail Box. Once a Wl"t'.'k, five ciders. appointed by 1hc class
from their classma1es, don robes (dress-up clothes such as scarves
and large coars brought from home) and sit in a semi-circle in front
of the da.~'i:.
They pull slips. from the mailbox. read the problem
aloud to the class and then share 1heir wisdom on what virtues will
hdp 10 solve the problem. It is helpful to have a Virtues Poster hung
in 1he room for the "elders"" reference.
Example of Excellence
Gem Pick I
To address the tactile needs of children, Sue Hazelhurst of Australia
crc.:ue-d
this activity.
Prepare a bJacl<linc master with the drawing of an oudine of two
pn,plr/chilJren. Write underneath the first figure "This person is
practicing virtues" and under the second figure .. This person is not
. .
.
..
pract1c1ng virtues .
Ask each chilJ to glue sf)me gliucr on the heart of each figurt, and
cover the second figure wich tracing pJpcr. (ic-t C'Jch child co talk
about what the activity reprtsenu to him/her. For me it represents .an
empowering image in that we all havl" 1hr virtues insidr w; we just
need to polish thrm by using them.
My dauW\ter once said she was ton tired to pra,cice courtesy (and say
1hank you). Wi1h the above picture in mind I ackno\\-·lcdged
her
cirNJness hut s1ill askrd her to find counL-sy. I said "'"rhis is an oppor-
tunity to learn how to find courtesy even though you are tired - to
Jig Jeep. because I know it's in there."' It took a while hut she eventu-
ally found it and from this experience we both learned that she could
overcome other emot•ons to practisc: ii vinue. Tltis leads to cmpowcr-
menr hcc:ausc shie" learned thac she could chooir how to behave in tha1
situation anJ that I believed. in her ahiliry.
The Virtues ProJect .....................................................
..............
.

Example of Excellence
Gem Pick 2
This alSQ comes from Sue HaulhurH in Australia.
Fill two thirds of a container with rice (or similar) and add scvC'ral
prr1cnd gemstones - the more the merrier. Ask a child to "Think
of a vinue 1hat is really easy for you to find today". Child responds
with "Love". '"Look, there it is right on 1he top; you pick out the
gem of Love-." Child selects a gem from near the cop of the rice :ind
is fascinated when you say that it is the Love gemstone. Now ask
"Can you tell me a virtue that is really hard for you 10 find today?"
Child says "'Patience". "()kay, now I want you to put your hand
d«p into the container anJ SCC' if you can dig down d«p and find
Paciencc for me ...
Child pu11s out a gem. "Wow. there is palience. l honor you for
digging dtt>p and finding patience."' Do rhis acriviry with each
child and then talk about how on s.ome da)'$ it can be-very diffic·ulc
10 find any vinues .and we have to struggle all day and on other
days it's ~y.
My daughter {who is four now) said last week that she was digging
to find a particular virtue and was iust not quite reaching it. As she
said this she was mimicking with her hand as if she was trying to
.reach into her heart ro find the virtue but her hand just could n'1
quite reach. This activity is great for children, adults and grandpar-
ents aged ~™'·ecn 3 - 93. It can change the paradigm of many
par-enu from thinking that th~ have to fill up their child with
good bc-havion rather than to draw forth those desirable ones
which they alrc:ady pos~s. I showed this accivicy co the principal of
my daughter's school and he asked all che ccachers ro offer it to
every child in the= school.
To sum up, when we practice virtues our gems shine through anJ
when we don't practicc vinucs ic is hard to see rhem.
Honor the Spirit ... u .. ,, ...............................................................
..

Personal Virtues Poster
Example of Excellence
Character Commitments
At Paekakariki Primary School in New Zealand the teachers of the
Bilingual Unic work together with 40 children ages 5-12, delivering
a comprehensive program which includes instruction in Maori as
well as English. These two teachers we Virtues in their program both
in Maori and in English. At the beginning of the year, Miki
R.eikihana, who teaches 1hc older children, worked with chem about
scning goals and developing qualities of character.
1. He posted. Virtues Cards on the waH, and each day reviewed the
characteristics of particular virtues thac he felt were important in
his d~room.
2. Then he h.ad the children choose cwo or three virtues. that they
wanted to practice during the year and create a poster with an
illustration of chcmsclves practicing these qualities.
3. Underneath the poster, the children wrote in English or Maori
an affirmation or commitmen1 for themselves. Examples: "'This
year I am practicing Respect and Assertiveness ... "Thi5 year if I
see people fighting I will try to help chem calm down, and bring
them to other people who arc respectful and can help."
Example of Excellence
Virtues Success Posters
Janet Jackson, coordinator of the '"Standing Strong Program" in
Taupo. New Zealand, created a beautiful poster herself, which
served as a model for the young women in her group. Thq followed
her example and rook hours to develop virtues posters, which she
then la.minared. Each poster gave a number of key words or poinu
from the definitions or Slgn.s of Succcs.s of the virtue found in this
Guide. For 1hcse students, it was a rcvcren1 and dttply personal
acuv1cy.
.
The Virtues Project .....................................................................
.

Student Activity Sheet
Personal Virtues Shield
1. In the upper left quadranr, write the name of a Strength Virtue- one in which you have
excellence, one of yout best. Then draw a symbol or picture to represent this. virtue.
2. In the upper righc quadrant, write a virtue in which your family shows excellence and draw
a symbol or picture for ir.
3. In the lower left quadrant, write the virtue "Joy" and draw a symbol or picture of what
.
.
gives you Joy.
4. In the lower right quadrant, write a Growth Virtue - one which is a challenge for you, one
you need co grow and cuhivacc, and draw a symbol or picture for it.
5. In the center, draw a symbol chat represents you. Example: If you love horses, draw a horse
or a horseshoe.
6. In a Virtues Sharing Circle, or with the class as a whole, talk about your shield. Ochers in
the circle give Virruc:s Acknowicdgmenu 10 each person as he or she finishes sharing.
My
Strength
Virtue
Symbol
of
Me
My
Family's
Virtue
What
Gives
MeJoy
My
Growth
Virtue
Reproducible. C 2(XX) by Linda K.awlin Pop(,-\-. Pubh~
by PRO-ED, Inc.

ExampJe of ExceJlence
Virtues Graffiti
The Connaught Heights Community School in New West
Minster, British Columbia, Canada had a graffiti day in which
they painted a brick wall onto large pieces of canvas and inscribed
the core vinues of their school with various expressions about them
onto the "wall". These now hang in their all-purpose room.
Virtues Integrity
Tree
Have a tree made of paper or an actual tree in a common area, and encourage
students to catch each other in the act of committing a virtue, to hang a paper
or felt fruit representing the Virtue of the Weck, inscribed with anorher
student's name, saying what they did to show that virtue. "I honor name for
the virtue of ___
. S/he showed virtue when s/h~ _________
,"
Of course, teachers may wish to have one in their individual classrooms as
well.
AJcernative for Younger Children: Create a Virtues Fruit Tree
Make a sign for the tree which says .. Virtues are the fruits of good character".
Construct the tree out of paper or felt. Have children cur shapes of fruits out
of construction paper or felt. Write the names of virtues on each fruit. Asser-
tive Appfes. Kind Kiwis, Respectful Raspberries, Moderate Melons, etc. The
names of children can be wriuen on small leaves and when noticed practicing
one of the virtues, the name of a student is attached ten1porarily to a particu-
lar fruit. Virtues Fruit stickers or badges with the name of the virtue reinforce
an ace of kindness or courage or generosity.
Key Point: Use stickers n1odcrately or it will too easily turn into a competition
for who has the mosc stickers.
The Virtues Project .....................................................................
.

Student Activity Sheet
Virtues Poetry
Give a Virtue a Personality
Choose a virtue __________
.
Then, answer the following questions pretending you are the virtue.
Be sure to write in complete sentences.
Example:
I. I am Creativity
2. I live in the sky, trees and wind.
3. My favorite colors move between the lines in a rainbow.
Choose a few or all of these questions to answer.
I. Virtue, what is your name?
2. Where do you live?
3. What are your favorite colors?
4. What clothes do you like to wear?
5. What is your job?
6. Who are your family and friends?
7. Where do you go on vacation?
8. What is your favorite holiday?
9. How do you feel?
10. How do you move?
Adaptttl fo,m Shelby Tucltrr, author of•Pain1ing tlu Slty: Writing Pottry with ChiUrtn•
Reproducible. 0 2000 by Linda.
Kavdin Popov. PubliJlcd by PRO-ED. Inc.

r
Virtues Songs
Sing a song about the "Virtue of the Weck" in school Assembly. (Sec sugges-
tions for virtues music in Section 3.)
,
Virtues Journals
Have students choose a virtue which is very important to them and create a
journal. It can include drawings, thoughts, cxpericncc:s, poetry and so on.
•The taste of peace is like ... "'
"The sound of peace ... "
"The touch of peace ... "
"The smell of peace ... •
"'The color of peace ... "
The Virtues Project .....................................................................
.

School-wide Activities
Virtues Assemblies
Read a Vinues Affirmation and have srudenrs recite it aloud. Then have one
minute of silence to reflect on the virtue. This sets a tone of reverence and
peacefulness. For more ideas see Chapter 1.
Virtues Bulletin Board
Have a bulletin board for The Virtue of the Week in each class.room, in the
library, or a common area with drawings, murals, poems, essays, and journ.al
entries from students.
Make a Virtues Acronym
of Your School Name
When making a Virtues Acronym use actual virtues words whenever possible,
since they have a special meaning and exert a powerful influence.
South Central High School
Service
Caring
Honor
Spirit
Frost School
Friendliness
Respect
Order
Service
Truth
Honor the Spirit .........................................................................
.

A Virtues Garden
Crt"ate a Virtues Garden for your s.chool. Patient Petunias, Respectful Raspber-
ries. Determined Dahlias. The design, planting and maintenance and the
beauty of the garden will add much co your school spirit.
Virtues Appreciation Party Day
This activity may be done sometime near the end of the year. Have each
sludent, ceacher, administrator, staff and volunteer on Virtues write their
name on a Virtues Voucher (see page 25). Pass chem around in paper hags or
baskets at an Assembly. If you are in a large school, do this in smaller units to
be sure everyone knows each other and can write a virtue they observed
about whoever they receive. INCLUDE EVERYBODY! (every staff person
and volunteer as well as students). Afcer each person has filled one out, they
arc to find rhe person and give the Voucher co him or her. You can use gem-
shaped rags and allow orhers ro add virtues. This way everyoric gets at least
one apprcc1at1on.
The Virtues Project .....................................................................
.

Chapter Summary:
Honor the Spirit
✓ S« the potential in cv•ry child. Look for their
✓ Create a Shared Vision statement for your class-
room and/or school. Use your Vision Statement
and Virtue5 Poster to do one minute Integrity
Checks ... What do we believe?" "What vinues do
we need right now?"
✓ Model the virtues you expect children to practice.
✓ Focus on vinues in the arts.
✓ Share stories - the keepers of meani.ng.
✓ Have ceremonies at special times, such as the
!,,ginning and end of the school year.
Honor the Spirit .........................................................................
.

5 Offer the Art of
Spiritual
Companioning
TM
•• E The Companioning
Presence
Th~ Att of Spiritual Companioning was best described by a young First
Nations mother who used ic as a communication tool with her two children
hue found the words .. spiritual companioning" difficult to remember. On the
third day of a workshop in Northern Canada she came in and said. KYou know
that thing worked so well with my kids! But I can't remember how you say it. I
call it 'walk along'."
Companioning is walking along with another, not pushing or pulling them,
but being present to them and offering chem clarifying questions which help
them to find their own wisdom. It is called "spiritual" because it goes beyond
problem solving to the meaning, intent and vircues of a situation. h strength-
ens character by calling on the virtues at the heart of the mancr. It is not about
giving quick solutions.. It is abouc listening so chac che one being heard can
hear himself and find his own clarity. le is a form of reverent curiosity based
on the belief that the wisdom needed to resolve a problem, a loss, a disapp
pointmenc is within us rather than something to be imposed from someone
else. Spiritual companioning is given in a spirit of nust in che other person's
process, seeing others as spiritual champions capable of learning their life
lessons.
The best present you can give is the gift of your presence - your undivided
attention. The quality of your attention is directly proportionate to che degree
of your concentration, even if iris for a few moments. A caring presence is
often the only thing someone needs co "feel better" in a moment of sadness or
frustration. Feeling better is often just a matter of feeling heard, having an
opportunity to empty one's cup. A1ways at the bottom of chat cup is rhe pearl
of cruth. At times a more active and complete form of companioning is
needed co emp()' the cup of confusion, sadness or anger, and then to reflect on
che virtues needed to refill the cup and gain some resolution.
Offer the Art of Spiritual Companioning
....................................
.
"It's in rvrryont of us
to b~ wise."
Proverb
'Jkqua/i,yof
y,u,
attmJion i., dirrctly
propmtionl1te"'
th, dtg,r,
of your concmJ>r1tion.

"To listrn anothrr's soul
into a co11ditio11
of
disclos"rr and discovery
"'aJ br almost thr
g,7atest service that a11y
hu,,1011 bei11g ever
prrfonm for aT1othrr.
"
Douglas Sreen
I I 0
Companioning is an empowering way to meet the needs
• to he seen
• to be heard
• to he taken seriously
• to tell our stories and have them valued
• to find meaning and purpose in what is happening
• to get to the heart of the matter
Companioning is useful when someone
•
• has been sent 10 you for discipline
• has strong feelings - sad, mad, glad, or scared
• is confused
• has a moral <lilemn1a
SPIRITUAL COMPANIONING
IS NOT
A fix
A rescue
Curing
Advice
Sympathy
Telling
Victim-based
Walk Along
Respect
Caring Presence
Listening
Compassionate Detachment
Asking
Virtues-based
Helping Children to Make
Moral Choices
One of the most intport.1.nt ways to build character is to support .a child's
capacity to make moral choices. Spiritual Companioning is an art and a skill
with which to support children to discover their own wisdom and discern-
ment. h is quite a contrast lo the typical approach taken by most ca.ring
people when a child has a pro-hlcm to be solved or a strong feeling ahout
something. Usually we try to solve-the-prc;1hlem as quickly as possible - giving
the child our wisdom - "Why don't you just ... ?" Or we resist and distract them
from their strong feelings. "Let's get you some water." "Don't cry. Ir's Okay."
The Virtues Project .....................................................................
.

•
~· The Magic Word
l"hc magic word in companioning is "Whaf", and sometimes "How". Playing
deccctive and asking Who. When, Where, Why questions is very rimr con~
suming and sets you up to be the judge, jury 2nd problem solver. In
companioning, the reference pojnr is not your judgment but the hcan. mind
and character of the one being linened to. Follow their lead. If they say "This
stinks". ask "What stinks?" If they say "I had the best holiday ever :ask "What
made it the best?"
The Perfect Twin
I was asked to consult with a bright 6-year old who had suddenly stopped
writing and was refusing to continue. When I sat down with her, she had a
cynical look on her face and rolled her eye, as if thinking "Here come,
someone else trying to force me to write." This is what transpired:
"Jean, I understand something is going on with writing?"
"Yes, and I know, I won't gel a good job if I don't write.•
"Well, maybe. but I'm interested in what you are feeling abou1 it."
She looked surprised.
Jean: '1 hate it."
"What do you hate?"
Jean: "That scurid black line."
"Oh, the black line."
Jt<an: "Yes I hate, hate, hate it."
(My voice gc-tting intense to match hers) "What is it abouc that hateful
black line?!"
.. J can't make my letters the way I wane rhem."
"How do you want them?"
"Like my sister's."
"Oh, your sister makes them the way you would like them."
"I hate that."
"What do you hate about it?"
She smiles a sly smile. "We're twins and I'm better at everything than she
is, except for writing."
"Oh" I smile back. "Whar docs ir mean to you not to do something bt-uer
than she does it?"
"I don't know. I just don't like it. And I'm ncVer going to write again."'
"Can you show me the black line?"
She pulls out a lined paper (with faint blue lines). The writing is in black
ink. The straight parts of her letters are shaky.
"So, show me the black line."
Offer the Art of Spiritual Companioning ................................... ..

She points to her letters. "They're yucky.•
"How arc they yucky?•
Jean: "All squiggly.•
"Pretty squiggly.•
Jean: "I hate 1ha1!•
I pounded on the desk with the flat of my hand. "Horrible squiggly black
line."
She pounded and we chanted that for a while. Then we both laughed.
"'What do you hate most abouc that black line, Jean?"
Jean:
.. I can't
do
them
over
if I
make
a
mistake
. .,.
"So what would allow you to do them over?"
She thinks and t~cn looks amazed. "A pencil with an eraser!"
"Will your teacher allow that?"'
Jean:" Yes."
"I get the sense you arc very confident in everything you do."
Jean:" Yes, I am."
"Wh•t would give you the confidence and humility 10 accept that it is ok.y
ro ma.kc mistakes~ Or even not do t:Very single thing better than your
sister?•
She smiled ,nd said, "It would be fair wouldn't it?•
I smiled back. "What has been helpful to you about talking?•
She said "Now I know what to do about mistakes and they're okay anyway."
I said "I know a linle song: 'It's okay to make mistakes. That's the way we
learn." She repeated it.
I said "Jean, I respect you for your sense of excellence - wanting co give
your best to everything - and your creativity in thinking of a new way to
write. And I appreciate your humility co realize you don't have to be
perfect.•
Jean: (with a huge grin)"Thanks~! [s listening the be-st thing you do?"
Jean's teacher rcponcd that she had no further problems and that Jean was now
using a pencil. Companioning took approximately 10 minutes. Hours had. already
been spent in parent teacher conversations and attempts to bribe, cajole and force
Jean to write-.
Spiritual Companioning is an attitude reflecting deep respect, which
• requires deep listening and concentrated attention
• will only be effective if you are free of an "agenda" or predetermined outcome
• is meant to support, not rescue or control
• uses receptive silence and questions skillfully
• requires trust in the other's process.
The Virtues Project .....................................................................
.

Prepare Yourself
To prepare yourself for spiritual companioning, you need to call on two
virtues. They are Compassion and Detachment. Think of them as a protec-
tion, both for you and the person to whom you are listening. Compassion
allows your caring to flow to the other person. Detachment keeps you from
taking on their feelings or their problem.
The 7 Steps of Spiritual
Companioning
There ar-e sev-en steps in full spiritual companioning. You do not always nerd
to use all of chem. but when you are taking the time to companion someone,
particularly in grief or with a moral dilemma, these are aspects of the process.
1 . Open the Door
If you arc initiating the conversation, ask door opening questions such as:
"What's up?"
"'What's happening?"
'"What lS ict'
"What kind of day are you having?"
Physically moving closer to a person in a compassionate way or just turning
your eyes co them giving compassionate attention is often che besc way to
open che door.
2. Offer Receptive Silence
Receptive silence gives ochers the space to speak fully. to tell you the whole
story without interruption. Be fully present with deep concentration on the
person.
3. Ask Cup-Emptying
Questions
Your goal is help them empty their cup and get to the heart of the matter by
asking questions that are open ended and show the utmost non-judgmental
curiosity. Take your lead from the speaker. Use their words and their way of
describing things. Don't turn the "volume" up or down. Meet them at their
level of energy.
Offer the Art of Spiritual Companioning .................................... .

Use "what", "how" and "when" questions, not .. why", Asking .. Why .are you
crying?" or "'Why did you do that?" can feel )jke an interrogation, or a request
for an instant analysis. It creates defensiveness. It also encourages disconnec-
tion from feelings. Asking "Who" is not helpful as it is inform.ation-gathering
so that you can make a judgment about the situation. Rather ask "What
hurts?" "How does it hurc?" "When do you feel hurt?"
Ask open-ended questions. Don't put words in their mouth. such as "Are you
scared?" .. Are you having a good day?''
Examples:
"What is that like for you?"
"What worries you?"
"How is that for you?"
"What is your main worry?"
"What does it mean to you?"
"What is the hardest thing about chis?"
"When do you feel most (sad, discouraged, etc.)?"
Children often answer "I don't know.• Ask "Wha, don'1 you know?" or "What
confuses you?" They often stop saying it when they trust that you really want
to hear their truth.
4. Focus on Sensory Cues
Reflect their feelings, follow their lead, use their language, and concentrate on
the sensory or perceptual cues - their body language. If they are blowing out
their breath, ask "What are you blowing away?" If they are crying, ask "What
are those tears?" If they are holding their arms around themselves, ask "What
are you holding onto?" If they are describing something physical, like, "He hit
me on my arm ... look al: the arm and if you notice anything, say it. "It looks
swollen.'" or "It's red." Don't derracc or distract-give
attention. If they arc
describing something, repeat hack to chem phrases that describe their physical
sensations. "When I jumped in the water. it went up my nose!" .. Water in
your nose!" and picture it happening as you speak. Be with them.
5. Ask Virtues Reflection Questions
In the cup•emptying part of companioning, you arc following the other's lead.
You are helping chem get to the heart of the matter. After that. it is time for
you to take the iead and help them refill their cup with their ov.·n virtues, to
ask questions that lead them to their own answers. Help them co balance the
v•rtues they need and reflect on what virtues will help them.
The Virtues Project .....................................................................
.

·Wh.111 would be• kind .1nJ .aucniw w.1y lo w-lvC' ,hil?•
•What Jon your intcgriry t<II you? What f«ls like the right thing to Jo?"
•\Vh.11 "'ould give-you 1hc cour.a~ 10 ... ~•
·'Wb.11 is J f.1ir "'1Y for you 10 mJkC' .1.mcnill?•
"What do you n«d!"
•How c.1n l supporr you?•
6. Ask Closure and Integration
Questions
Thnc- rt\"O quntions help 1hc-pc-rwn 10 in1c-gr,11c-
1hinking .and fttling .anJ 10
reach clo.urc.
"\1''hat h ... be-en h,lpful ,hout 1,lking!"
•~'h.11 is. clc-.1ttr 10 you no".-?•
7. Give a Virtues Acknowledgment
Ah-.,.a)'S
c-nJ "·i1h ,1. vi nun .acknO\\·lcJgc-mcn1.
•1 Stt your cour.1~. • •1 honor
)'OU for your lor.alry 10 rour fric-nJ .anJ your in1(J;riry 10 Jo 1hc righ11hing.•
"You ,howcd humility in ••king mpon,ibiliry for wh,1 you JiJ."
◄
Open 1hr
Door
"Whats
tiappenngr
The
Spiritual Companioning
Process
Off,,
Rn:cp1i>-c
Silrncr
~
0~ olt.-
~
,~· ·:' .. 1
-. ~---
Ask Cup
F.mp1ying
Qucs1ions
-w11a1s111e
hardest
thngr
Focu1 on
Sensory Cun
"What are
tho1e
tear1r
AslVinucs
Rdlcction
Quc:stion,
"What would
g~youthe
courage ... 7.
Ask Oo,11tt
& ln1cgn1ion
Qut11ion1
rt>◊
v'lJ
"Whatwa1
helplurT
"What IS
cleare,T
Offer the Art of Spiritual Compan1on1ng ....................................
.
Give a Vlftllrs
A,kn.,,.-1,dgmrnt
·1 hOnor you
for your
loyalty to
your friend."

Alu.,,.. aluxr_ys
md wuha
virtua admowkdgm,mt
•
b
Set Boundaries
Companioning is an attitude. Many companioning sjruacions arc very brief,
such as looking at a wound and comm<nting on how it looks, "Thar's r<ally
swollen ... or asking "'How was that for you?" However, it is imponanc to set
boundaries around whrn you companion. Do not attempt to companion if
you do not have the time or energy at that moment. If you have limited time
bur do want to offer your artencion, set a boundary for how long you can
listen and tell the person "I can spend ten minutes with you, .. or "I only have
two minutes bur I will give you my full attention for that time." Or you can
choose to set another time to companion the person. When the ten minures
(or whatever your limit is) is almosc up, bring the process to closure with a
closure and integration question: .. Our time is almost up so I want to ask you,
'Wha, has b,,n helpful about ,alking?'"
In a regular counseling session, set boundaries around time and keep them.
Don't expect the person who is talking to do it. Take responsibility for allow-
ing time for closure. Give a warning. "We have a f~ minutes left. What do
you need to say?" Make sure co allow time for a closure and incegration ques-
tion "What's clearer for you after talking today?" And always, always end with
a Virtues Acknowledgement, specifically related to what you have observed in
them in relation to what they have shared ... I really see your courage for facing
this tough problem .... "I honor you for your honesty with yourself."
~ What If Kids Go Silent?
The best way to companion someone who is silent is to adjust your own
attention so that you are focused in a warm. compassionate, detached. way.
They will feel your tension if you are waiting for them to say something. They
will also fc,,I the p,accfulness of your sil,nt companioning. Don't try co make
them talk or ke<ep them happy. Ke<p them company. Ask doo, opening qu,s-
tions. "Whac's happening with you?" If the silence continues, ask "What's the
hardest thing about talking?" If you arc running out of rime and they arc still
silent, say "Whatever it is seems really hard 11:0 talk about. I just want you to
know I'm here if you need me ...
-• Companioning
Someone in
F Anger
Have you ever been challenged. by an angry parent whose child "can do no
wrong"? Felt helpless when two angry students wouldn't stop fighting? !ken
angry yourself and felt no one was listening, bur only stone-walling you and
The Virtues Project .....................................................................
.

trying to calm you down? These are times when companioning can bring
down walls of resistance and anger. Bear in mind that companioning is not
agreeing or disagreeing. It is hearing someone's point of view fully, as a de-
tached, compassionate listener. making no judgments, just totally curious to
"hear it all". We do have to stop behavior if it is aggressive, but if someone
raises his voice in anger, and you feel it is the appropriate time for you to
companion him, ask cup-emptying questions. Bear in mind chat most anger
stems from helplessness and an individual feeling chat their sense of justice has
been offended.
"I hate this f--ing school!"
"\Vhac do you hate?.,.
This is not che time 10 give a lecturette about respectful language. Somecimes
it is more important to hear the truth and companion the feelings. Most of
che cime, companioning calms the person quice quickly, knowing they are
being heard.
Don't Get Furious, Get
Curious!
If a child is expressing anger toward you, you want to avoid escalating the
anger by reacting with your own. You need to model detachment and respect,
especially at times like chis. The companioning attitude can help. First, deter-
mine whether you want to companion them or to use this as a straightforward
Teachable Moment and invite chem to be respeccful, cooperacive or decached
in accepcing something you have said or done. You may decide 10 ask some-
ching like "I can sec that you are upsec. What would help you to detach and
accept this situation right now?" If you decide it is a good idea to companion
chem, ask a cup empcying quescion and chen listen - don't argue or explain
away their point of view. Get curious about what their perception is.
Companioning does not imply agreement with what the person is saying, only
respect for their right to sec ic that way.
"Thac's not fair. I shouldn't have decention for this."
"Whac isn't fair abouc it?"
"I wasn't rhe only one chat was doing it."
"You weren't the only one."
"Ri h "
g (.
"So, what would feel fair to you?"
""Give detention to all of us."
"John. I see your sense of justice here. I'll give it some thought. What I ask
you 10 do is 10 think about your responsibility as a leader. How you could
have been more responsible in this situacion? Please write out your choughcs
and we'll talk later."
Offer the Art of Spiritual Companioning
._ ....... -.. -.................. _ .. _ ..
Companioning is not
agrtting or disagr,ring.
It i, htaring ,om,on,i
point of vi,w folly.

. • A Fresh Approach to
F Conflict Resolution
Companioning is an excellent tool for keeping the peace, whether used by an
adult or a peer. Ir is effective in violence prevention and conflict resolution.
Many schools have Peace Squads or "Quality Control" Teams (Virtues being
the great qualities the school is encouraging) made up of students. They wear
idencifying sashes or jackets and can be called on in any conflict sicuacion.
They also patrol, looking for ways to be of help.
Companioning may take more time than giving a quick consequence or an
adult resolving the problem externally, bur it is worth the rime in prevention
and character huilding. Sometimes it actually takes less rime than traditional
methods of stepping in when children are fighting. Companioning gives them
virtues-based life skills which will help them manage themselves better in
the future.
There are three basic companioning questions to ask when two individuals are
fighting or in conflict.
I. Ask what happened:
"What happened?" or "What's happening?" (Door Opener) Have them
rake turns and speak one at a time,
2. Listen 10 each person's feelings:
"What arc you feeling?" or "What did you want by doing 1ha1?" (Cup-
Emptying)
3. Help them make an,ends:
"What do you need?" "How can you make it right?" "What would be a
peaceful way 10 do chat?" "What would be fair to hoth of you?" (Virtues
Reflection Questions)
When they do resolve their problem, honor each of them for a virtue they
showed - for example, truthfulness for telling the truth, peacefulness for
finding a peaceful solution, creativity for finding a new way 10 solve the
problem, humility for accepting the Teachable Moment or responsibility for
owning the mistake.
Th V
P
•
e 1rtues roJect .....................................................................
.

Example of Excellence
Peace Ambassadors
Brentwood Elementary, in British Columbia, Canada has student
ambassadors go through several weeks of training in conflict resolu-
tion. When they come across conflict between students, (other than
physical violence where an adult is summoned) they ask a series of
questions:
I. Define the problem
"What happened. John?" "Anne, now please tell what
happened."
"What did you want?" '"What were you thinking when you
took the ball?"
2. Repeat the problem back
"You mean you wanted 10 play?"
3. Brainstorm solutions
"Whac do you need?" "How can you solve this so it's fair 10
both of you?"
4. Agree on a solution
5. Ask them to report how it is working.
Here is an example of a Peace Squad coming upon two kids fighting
over a basketball:
PS member: "What's happening? Please take turns and each tell your
point of view. You first."
Studenc A (victim): '"He grabbed the ball and I had it first."
Student B (perpetrator): "Did not"
PS: (Ignoring student B): '"So he grabbed it? "
Student A: "Yeah and that's not fair."
PS: "You had the ball and it didn't feel fair 10 you, is 1ha1 right?"
Studenc A: "Righc."
PS: Turning to Student B "So, what happened?"
S1udenc 8: •1 was just playing. He's a dweeb."
PS: "How did you feel he was a dweeb?"
Student 8: "I was just kidding around."
PS: "So, you wanted 10 have fun with him?"
Offer the Art of Spiritual Companioning .................................... .

As a companion and a
ptac,mak,r, mak, sur-r
that both th, victim and
th, perp,trator are
rtstor,d by th, amend,.
Student B: "Yeah."
PS: "So grabbing the ball didn't work?"
Student B: "No."
PS: "So what would have been a respectful way to get to play with
h. ,.
,m.
Student B: "I could have asked instead of taking the ball."
PS: (To Student A) "How would you have liked him 10 show you
respect?"
Student A: "Ask me, 'Can I play?' and if I want 10 I will.•
PS: (To Student B) "What would respect look like if he didn't want to
play with you?"
Student B: "Go find son1eone else."
PS: "Right on! Good flexibility. l want 10 acknowledge you both for
your honesty in telling what happened, your assertiveness about your
rights (addressing Student A) and your humility (addressing Student
B) for owning your mistake. What would feel fair right now?"
Student A: "He can play."
PS: "Excellent friendliness!"
If bodily or property damage is involved or feelings are hurt, there need 10 be
cwo distinct steps during the Virtues Reflection stage:
I) Ask both the victim and the perpetrator
"How could you have handled this ... ?"
Peacefully
Assertively
Kindly
Gently
Respectfully
2) Ask how amends can be made.
"How can you make it right?"
"How can you fix ir in a just way?"
"What do you need from hi n, to make amends!"
"How will you make amends?"
"What can you (the victim) do to help the unity between you?"
As a companion and a peacemaker, make sure that both the victim and the
perpetrator are restored by the amends. Kids tend to be very punitive toward
their own actions. Often, they will respond to "How can you make it right?"
by saying they should receive the same abuse they gave. If they took someone
else's lunch, they are apt to say they should go without lunch the next day.
Guide them to come up with amends that repair the relationship and
The Virtues Project ......................................................................
.

strengthens them as well as the victim, rather than retaliates against themselves
for the crime.
Then, end with a Virtues Acknowledgment: "Thank you for being ...
Honest in acknowledging your part."
Peaceful in working it out together."
Responsible in the way you are being accountable for your actions."
Companioning as Problem
Solving
Companioning helps in problem solving as it is solution-oriented rather than
blame-oriented. It focuses on the virtues in the Teachable Moment, rather
than just making the problem go away, which it usually doesn't! The following
example from a Texas middle school illustrates it well.
Example of Excellence
A Miracle of Companioning
Tammy Goff was a 5th grade teacher in Lantern Lane Elementary
School, Missouri City, Texas, when this occurred in her classroom.
She and her principal had just returned from a Virtues Project work-
shop.
"My students were composing raps on racism as a culminating
project for one of our novels. We discussed ahead of time what
virtues would be needed in order to successfully complete the project.
Enthusiasm was high on everyone's part. One group fell apart and
found it impossible to do. I said co myself, 'OK Tammy, you have
just finished Virtues training. If what you believe is ever going 10
work, now is che time to apply it.' So I did. I spent some time with
the four students in this group and we companioned each ocher and,
through listening, got to their concerns. After they got co the heart of
the matter and did some virtues reflection, they were able 10 name
some virtues which would help them complece che project and they
set to work again. About I 5 minutes later, as I worked with anocher
group, I felc a cap on my shoulder. 1 turned around to see four beam-
ing faces. They were completely finished, did an excellent job and felt
completely happy with themselves for applying the virtues so well.
Kyle, whose face I will always remember, looked at me in joyous
astonishment and said, 'Mrs. Goff, these virtues are a miracle'"'
Offer the Art of Spiritual Companioning
................................... ..

How To Hold a Virtues
Sharing Circle
A Virtues Circle is one form of sharing circle. Make it clear that this activity
requires great respect and trust. Have tissues available if the topic is personal.
You may wtsh ro choose a topic such as .. What friendship means to me" or
you may want to have a circle in which individuals share freely whatever is on
their minds and hearts. Follow these guidelines:
I. Complete silence without any "cross talk" while each student is sharing.
You may wish to use an object to pass, such as a feather or talking stick.
2. Set a time for each person to speak if your time is limited, e.g. one to three
minutes each.
3. People have the right to pass.
4. The only time others can speak is at the end of each participant's turn by
giving Virtues Acknowledgments. When each person is finished speaking,
one or more in the circle will acknowledge the virtues they see in that
person in light of what they have shared.
"I honor you for the virtue of __ in the way you __
."
5. Confidentiality is of the utmost importance. All information shared is to
be kept in complete confidence, saying nothing at any time about what
anyone has shared.
Have the following boundaries:
Boundaries
I. Respect: We listen in complete silence as each one shares.
2. Compassion and Detachment: We have compassion for the
feelings of others without taking their feelings on.
3. Trust: What we say here stays here.
4. Appreciation: We give each other virtues acknowled.gments.
You may want to use a symbol for companioning, such as imagining a veil
placed over 1he heart made of both compassion and detachment: The veil
allows compassion to flow out but detachment keeps us from 1aking on ochers'
feelings. Invite studenrs to place one hand over their hearts before the circle
begins, to remind them of the veil of compassion and detachment.
The Virtues Project .....................................................................
.

One-Minute
Counseling
Strategies
Set a boundary for yourself that you will only listen when you have attention
co give. If you are too distracted, it's best co ask chc child to be patient and
wait until you have a free mon1ent. If you do feel you have a bit of attention,
it is honest to say ~•1 have one minute co listen. I'll give you the best attention I
can in that minute. What"s happening?" Companioning gives new meaning to
the expression "undivided attention."
Allow the child to en1pty her cup. then ask her "What virtue would help you
right now?" or "'What virtue do you need co call on?" If you feel you see a
particular virtue needed you can ask "What would help you to have the
(specific virtue) to solve chis?" Here is an example of a primary student mak-
ing snowflakes.
"I can't do this. It's too hard."
"What's hard?"
"'I don't understand it."
"What don't you understand?"
"How to cut the shapes."
"What would help you to feel confident cutting the shapes?"
.. Show me."
"Okay, now you try it. Good assertiveness to say what you
needed."
•u
,
Virtues Picks in Counseling
A Virtues Pick is a method being used by counselors to call on the positive
qualities within che student. Ir can be a fun activity or a reverent one. Have a
deck of Virtues Cards with brief definitions of the virtues. (See Resource
Section for how to obtain a set.) After the student has shared a problem with
you, have chem pick a virtue which "can help you."
• Have chem "blind pick" the virtue without looking and then read it aloud.
• Ask "How can this virtue help you? How does it speak to you?"
• When che child is finished sharing. give a Virtues Acknowledgment of a
quality you see them beginning to grasp or one they are showing in rela-
tion to what they have shared. You may also want to pick a virtue and
share with chem.
Offer the Art of Spiritual Companioning ................................... ..

~ Companioning Grief
When a death or loss occurs ic is important co provide a safe haven for the
grief responses children and adults have. This is a time to use Receptive Silence
for the most part. To just be with the person. They need to:
I. Empty their cup, including tears. If physical touch assists them in this
process and is welcomed, offer it. Follow their cue. Put a hand on their
shoulder or hold out your hand. If they move toward you, give more
couch, if away, allow the space.
2. Talk about it. Often they will repeat the same story over and over. Encour-
age this by listening and repeating sensual cues. Student: "My Dad was
just lying there. His eyes were open." Counselor: "His eyes were open."
3. Go into the pain with them through your attention, then lead them out of
the pain, with a question such as ""What do you need?" "What did you
love most about your Dad?"
4. Always, end with a Virtues Acknowledgement. "I see how much you love
your Dad."
Companioning in
Catastrophe
If there is a catastrophic event, such as a fire, violence, or son1ething involving
the endangerment or loss of many people, people need a safe place to express
their emotions. Set up Virtues Sharing Circles where each person who wishes
to has an opportunity to say how this has affected chem, their biggest concern
etc. There need be no reply, just people acknowledging each person after he or
she speaks either with "Thank you, John" or, ifit feels right, a Virtues Ac-
knowledgement from one or rwo people in the group.
The Virtues Project .........................
~, ..........................................
.

Exctmple of Excellence
A Healing Circle
I was keynote speaker at a conference called "Remember the
Healing" for First Nations communities in British Columbia. On
the second day of the conference, several members of a particular
community were informed chat three people in their small home
town had just died, one of illness, two in accidents. I was invited to
attend a special Healing Circle with Winston Wuttunnee, an cider
who chanted and set a sacred atmosphere by burning sage. People
needed to cry silently. A drummer joined the circle and played a
grieving song. That released more tears. Then, when they were
ready, each person was invited to speak of what was in their heart.
Some wept and cried bitterly. Young students were present who
seemed numb until they spoke in the circle. That released their
tears. They spoke of the shock and the things they will remember
about the friends and relatives they had lost. Sometimes people
needed to be held and allowed to cry. This was a very healing and
sacred experience for everyone present. It pointed out the need,
after a catastrophe, to allow safe space for people to be and feel.
The boundary of a Healing Circle, where people speak one at a
rime, is essential.
Companioning in Suicide
Prevention
Counselors dealing with suicidal ideation or threats need to be able to help the
person get to the heart of the matter. There is always an issue such as a failed
relationship, anger at a friend or relative, a loss, a failure, a sense of isolation.
Naturally you don't want to take on counseling responsibilities for which you
are not prepared. However, in the course of counseling, there arc times when
you may find yourself in the position of dealing with suicidal statements. The
goal, as in all companioning, is to help the person empty their cup and get to
the pearl of truth which always lies at the bottom. When they can hear their
own truth, it gives them freedom to choose another way to deal with it.
Offer the Art of Spiritual Companioning
...................................
..
12S

Companioning iJ, at the
very !ell.lt, the first step
.
.
.
,n any 1nter11entto11.
Companioning
Someone Who Threatens Suicide
"I jusc don't wane to live anymore."
1'What don't you want (0 live with?"
"I can't eat. I can't sleep."
"What's keeping you awake?"
"My boyfriend lefc me. How could he do chac?"
Receptive silence,
"Whal hurt:ir;
n1ost?"
"We were going steady and he just dumped me."
"!)umped you."
Tears.
"What is the hardest thing about being duntped?"
"I feel like nothing."
"What does that nothing feeling like? Where in your body do you feel it?"
"Here," Holding her scomach.
"Empty there."
"Yes. And it hurts!" (Cries again)
After sufficient cup empcying. You need to begin bringing her attention
back out.
"What do you need 10 help you deal wich chis pain?"
"My friends."
"Friends help."
"V
.,
1es.
"Melissa, what would give you the courage to Jive through this?"
(Laughs) "Knowing it's noc the end of the world."
"Can you assure me that you will do nothing co take your life?"
"I'm not sure."
"What's clearer for you after talking?,.
"l"hat I will live through this."
"I need you to promise that you will literally live through ,his.•
"I promise."
"Melissa, I want ro honor you for your cour;tge to deal with this. and
having the assertiveness to ask for help."
Contpanioning is. at the very least, the tirst step in any intervention. as ir
honors the inner strengths of the individual, no matter how young, ro exam-
ine their own experience. find their own answers. heal their own \vounds. and
learn healthy ways to handle life's challenges.
The Virtues Project .....................................................................
.

Activities
Sad-Mad-Glad-Scared Game
Make up cards with faces representing each of these words and the words as
well. Place them in the center of a circle and model for students by doing this
yourself.
I. Choose a card (they can be face up or face down).
2. With everyone listening in Virtues Sharing Circle format, say "I feel SAD
when I .. ." or") feel GLAD when I. . ." Say something specific, e.g. "I feel
SAD when I have a cold and have to miss a day of teaching." (Only say it
if it's true!)
3. After a few rounds of each person sharing after picking a card, have the
person to the left acknowledge the person to their right for a virtue they
noticed in them while they were sharing.
(Activity created by Judi Morin, S.S.A.)
\ I
Glad
Mad
Sad
Scared
Offer the Art of Spiritual Companioning .................................... .

Student Activity Sheet
Peer Peacemakers
Role play a situation in which two people are arguing. Two of you are the
fighters and two are the Peer Peacemakers. Here are the steps for the
Peacemakers to follow:
I. Open the Door: "What's happening between you? Please take turns."
2. Cup-Emprying: "What was (hardest, mean, unfair)" - take cues from
the individual.
3. Focus on the sensory cues: "What happened to your body? Your ribs
~"
are sore.
4. Virtues Reflection: "What virtue do you need from the other? What
virtue can you call on for yourself?"
5. Restoration Commitment: "What do you need to make it right?"
6. Closure and Integration: "What's been your main Teachable Mo-
;," "Wh
'
I"
ment.
ats c earer to you now.
7. Virtues Acknowledgment of both parties.
Discussion Questions
How did it feel watching chis?
What would have happened without this Peacemakers' help?
What was one of the effective things you saw the Peacemakers do?
What could they have done to improve their approach?
What was the best thing about the Peacemakers?
Describe a time you wish you had had the Peacemakers around to help.
Reproduci~. 0 2lXU by Llnda K.avelin J>oi)o\t. Pubtished by PRO-ED, Inc.

School-wide Activities
Virtues-Based
Strategic
Planning
These questions may be used with strategic planning activities conducted with
your school or club. These questions are effective with children and adults and
reflect all five strategies ofThe Virtues Project:
• What are our strongest virtues at (name of school or club)?
• What virtues do we need to develop more (at our school or club)?
• What are the three main Teachable Moments facing us?
• What boundaries do we need to sec to feel safe and learn well?
• Who/What isn't being heard?
• What needs to be heard?
• What did you appreciate most about this activity?
Offer the Art of Spiritual Companioning .................................... .

Chapter Summary:
Offer the Art of Spiritual Companioning
✓ Be fully present - it's the gr-eatest present you can give.
✓ Don't try to fix or rescue. Give the student a chance to own and solve
the problem and make moral choices.
✓ Use the magic words "What" and "How" to ask open-ended questions.
✓ Don't put words in their mouth. Listen to what they have to say.
✓ Respect and trust the wisdom others have to solve their own problems.
✓ Prepare yourself for counseling by using Compassion and Detachment.
✓ In counseling sessions, use the seven steps of Spiritual Companioning:
• Open the Door with open-ended questions.
• Offer Receptive Silence.
• Ask Cup-Emptying Questions.
• Focus on Sensory Cues.
• Ask Virtues Reflection Questions.
• Ask Closure and Integration Questions.
• Always end with a Vinues Acknowledgment. This restores
dignity after someone has opened up to you.
✓ Set boundaries about your time and attention.
✓ Use companioning to diffuse anger by hearing the feelings and justice
issues involved.
✓ Use companioning for conflict resolution, problem solving and strate-
gic planning.
The Virtues Project .....................................................................
.

Section 2
Virtues:
The Gifts of Character

How to Use This
Section
There are 52 virtues in this section, each containing the following parts:
• Whac is ic?
• Why practice it'
• How do you practice it?
• Signs of Success
• An Affirmation
Daily Readings
One way to use these five parts is to read one per day in your classroom or over the P.A.
system to stimulate awareness of "The Virtue of the Week" Program. See other ideas in
the School-wide Activities in "Chapter One: Speak the Language of the Virtues".
Discussion
and Role Play
The first page of each virtue also contains "What would (the virtue) look like if ... ?"
scenarios. There are cwo ways 10 role play these:
I) Discuss what the situation would look like if the person were not practicing the
virtue. Then have students role play che situation positively showing what it would
look like if the virtue were being practiced. Some people believe chat role playing is
so powerful in internalizing an experience that it is best not 10 role play the negative
situation first, but only to discuss it.
2) Alternatively, role playing "before" and "after" the practice of the virtue can be
humorous and impress students with the negative consequences of failing 10 prac-
tice a virtue and the positive consequences of doing so.
The Virtues Project

The Virtues Project
Each virtue also contains an Activity Page made up of the following:
Virtues Activities
Activities with the vinuc - some starter ideas for ways to focus on the virtue
in your group or class.
Virtues Reflection Questions
These questions arc designed to help students to reflect on the meaning and
mastery of the virtues in their own lives and the feelings they experience with
or without the practice of the virtue.
Drawing the Virtue
This feature has suggestions for arc projeccs related to chc virtue.
Poster Points
These are a list of phrases which students may find useful in creating a poster
about the virtue. Of course, they may create their own.
Quotable Quotes
There arc at least five quotes for each virtue, one or more of which you may
want 10 hang in your classroom or read aloud each day of the school week.
They arc intended to inspire studenrs and teachers to practice the virtue.
At the end of Section 2 is a poster of "Vinues: The Gifts of Character" which
you may wish 10 copy or enlarge and have the children color.

Virtues:
The Gifts of Character
Assertiveness ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
Caring .,.,u••·············· .............................. .
Cleanliness ·······••u••···············••u••············
Commitment
••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
Compassion ............................................ .
Confidence ............................................. .
Consideration . . . .. . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . .. . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cooperation ........................................... .
Courage .................................. u, .. , •••••••••••
Courtesy .................................................
.
C
..
reat1v1ty ................................................ .
Detachment .......... u, .. , ........................... .
Determination •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
Diligence ................................................
.
Enthusiasm ........................ , ................... ..
Excellence ............................................... .
Flexibility ............................................... .
Forgiveness ............................................. .
Friendliness •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
Generosity .............................................. .
Gentleness .............................................. .
Helpfulness ............................................. .
Honesty ..................................................
.
Honor ....................................................
.
Humility _. ..............................................
.
Idealism .................................................
..
Integrity ......................................... .
Joyfulness .............................. u••······
Justice ............................................
.
Kindness .........................................
l.ove ...............................................
.
Wyalty ........................................... .
Moderation .....................................
Modesty ......................................... .
19.3
Orderliness ...................................... 203
Patience ...........................................
Peacefulness ..................................... 207
Perseverance .................................... 209
Purposefulness ................................. 211
Reliability ........................................ 213
Respect ............................................
21 S
Responsibility .................................. 217
Self-discipline .................................. 219
Service .............................................
Tact .................................................
Thankfulness. ................................... 225
Tolerance ······················~···"············
Trust ..............................................
.
Trustworthiness •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
Truthfulness ................................... .
Understanding ................................ 23 5
Unity ..............................................
Poster: "Virtues: The Gifts of Character" ...... 239
The Virtues Project

What Is Assertiveness?
Being assertive means being positive and confi-
dent. It begins by being aware that you are a
worthy person with your own special gifts. When
you arc assertive you think for yourself and ask for
what you need. You have the self-confidence 10
tell the truth about what is just.
Why Practice It?
Wichour a~serciveness. we would be passive.
allowing others 10 bully us or lead us into trouble.
We would have a hard time saying no. We would
be afraid to tell if someone is hurting us. Without
assertiveness, \\'e might he too aggressive, bullying,
figh1i ng or 1rying to con 1rol 01hers. When we arc
assertive. ochers respect us and we respect others.
We s1and up for wha1 is righ1.
How Do You Practice It?
When you are assertive, you are your own leader.
You stand up and speak ou1. You don't accep1
unfair or hurtful treatment. You set boundaries
about what you will and will not do, and get help
when you need it. You share your true feelings -
1actfully. You express your one-of-a-kind ideas,
opinions and talents. You make a difference in the
world in your own special way.
The Virtues Project
What would Assertiveness
look
llke If ...
w You start co feel inferior around some
popular kids/
w An aggressive person starts to bully you?
• Your teacher asks the class for opinions
about a story?
• A friend asks you to go somewhere you
don't really want to go?
w A group tries to convince you to do
something harmful'
w A stranger invites you for a ride?
Signs of Success
Congratulations' You are praclicing Assertiveness
when you ...
• Think for yourself
• Share your own ideas and feelings
w Tac1fully tell others what you really think
• Choose no1 10 allow 01hers 10 lead you
into trouble
• Ask for what you want and need
"' Expect respect at all rimes
Affirmation
I an, asstrtivr. I think far mysr/f and do what I for/ is
right. I an1 my ou•n lradrr. I ,xprct rrsprct at all
timr,. I /rtt/y ""P"'' my own itkas.

Q
Q
Q Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Mind Map
Make a mind map showing the personal
boundaries you need in order to stay safe, to
stay healthy, to get what you need, e.g. I walk
away from trouble, I get help if I am threat-
ened. I speak up about what I need.
Role Play
Describe a situation of someone being disre-
spectful, such as breaking in front of some-
one in line at a movie theater. First discuss
what it would be like to be too passive, then
discuss what it would be like to be too
aggressive, then role play the situation using
assertiveness, an approach which is firm but
tactful and courteous.
Virtues
Refl-tlon
Questions
Q What happens co people that are too passive?
Q What happens to people that arc too aggres-
sive?
Q What is the difference between aggression and
assertiveness?
Q Name three things to do when someone is
bullying you.
Q What would you say and do if a stranger
asked you to go with him or her?
Q When do you find it difficult to say no?
Q What arc three ways to avoid a fight?
Q What can a bossy person do to become more
respectful?
Q What can a bully do to become a friend?
I 36
The Virtues Project
Dr.awing Assertiveness
• •
II
Draw a picture about "Stranger Danger•.
VI!.~
~
Poster Points
Q Expect respect.
Q Express Yourself.
Q Stand Up Speak Out.
Q Sec Clear Boundaries.
g Lead Your Llfe.
Quotable
Quotes
"Sine, you art lilt, no othtr b,ing tvtr
ertat,d sine, 1h, b,ginning of tim,, you an:
incomparable.• Brenda U.land
"Yts, l can!"Sammy Davis Jr.
"This abov, all - to thin, own s,lf b, trut,
and it must follow as th, night th, day. thou
canst not thm IN fals, to any man.·
William Shakespeare. Hamler
"ff a man dots not lt,,p pact with his com-
panions, ptrhaps it is b,caus, h, hear, a
differrnt drummn: Ltt him sttp to th, music
which h, hears, how,v,r m,asun:d or far
away.•
Henry David Thoreau
"No on, can malt, you fo,l inferior without
your consent. •
Eleanor Roosevelt

What Is Caring?
Caring is giving love and attention to people and
things tha1 ma11er 10 you. When you care abou1
people, you help chem. When you do a careful
job, you give it your very best effort. You treat
people and chin gs gently and respeccfully.
Why Practice It?
Without caring. nothing and no one matters. If
someone is hurt or sick, no one will help them.
When people have an "I don'1 care atticude, they
do a sloppy or incomplete job. Things break and
people are hur1. Caring people help others feel less
alone. Because they care, others trust them. Caring
makes the world a be11er and safer place.
How Do You Practice It?
You care for others when you show love and
concern by doing kind things for them. Ask them
how they are and what 1hey chink. When 1hey are
sad, ask "How can I help?" You handle things wich
concrol and gentleness. You give your bes1 10
everything you do. When you take care of your-
self, you 1rea1 your body with respect. You keep
yourself clean and healthy. You take care of your
needs.
The Virtues Project
What would Caring look llke
., ...
• You are doing a chore for your family?
v You notice that one of your friends looks
sad'
v You come home after school and start
talking 10 your mocher?
• It is your job to take care of a pet?
lit You are doing a school assignment?
• You feel upse1 abou1 someching 1ha1 is
hard 10 talk about?
Signs of Success
Congratulations! You are practicing Caring when
you ...
• Treat others, yourself and the earth
with care
w Look at people and listen closely
• Handle 1hings carefully
,. Are gencle and loving with anyone or
anything placed in your care
• Trea1 your body with respec1
w Work with enthusiasm and excellence
Affirmation
I car, for others and myself I pay wving attention to
rh, nerds ofproplt and animals. I givt my be,r to
,v,ry job.

Activities with Ca~tqg
i,.
,.
1,;1 ~~'
!/:f'/-1
.)-• flf, •- '
zt l Activities
with Care
U Brainstorm everything a class or family pee
needs.
Q Do a project focused on caring for the earth,
such as cleaning up a neighborhood screet.
I.I Offer help to an elderly person.
I.I Think of someone in your class or your family
and do caring things for them for a week.
Then share what changes you noticed.
Virtues
Reflectlon
Questions
0 How can you tell when ochers care about you?
g How do you feel when others act uncaring?
Q Name 1hree caring things you have done this
week.
Q Name a character from a book or story and
describe what they care about mos1?
Q Look at a news.paper or magazine and find
stories about people who need care. Think of
a way you and others can be of help.
Q Name three ways you can care for the earth.
(e.g. recycle, reuse, reduce)
Drawing
Caring
Draw a picture of 1he people you care about.
Draw a picture of people caring for the earth.
Make a "Caring" Collage.
The Virtues Project
"-#
~
Poster Points
II Show that you care.
I.I Caring is a special way of loving.
Q Yes, I care.
I.I Giving my best.
Q Earth is our home. Let's rake care of our
home.
Quotable
Quotes
"Peopk do,it care how ffluch you k,iou• u,itil
they know how much you care. "Unknown
"Charity btgins at homt. "T,rcnc<
"Caring ,n,1tters n1ost. "Hugd
"How shall u1e expect charity tou1ard others,
when u1e are uncharitable to oursel11es?"
Thomas Bro-wne
"Tht c11rt ofl111111an
lift ,111d
h11ppi11es,,
11,id
not their destru,·tio11, is the first and only
legitiff1ate object of good gover11111t11t.
"
·rhon,as Jefferson
"Evtry part of thi, tarth is sacred to my
people. Every ,hini11g pi11e needle, every
sa11dy
shore, every mist in the dark r,,oods,
every clearing and hun1n1ing insect is holy in
the 111eff1ory
and ,,perienre of my ptopk. "
Chief Seanle's lener co Presidc-nt of U.S.A. 1885

Q
Q
Q
g
Q
g
g
g
g
g
Q
g
Q
g
g
g u Q
g
g
Q
Q
Q
What Is Cleanllness?
Cleanliness means washing often, keeping your
body clean, and wearing clean clothes. Cleanliness
in your mind is concentrating your thoughts on
things that are good for you. You can "clean up
your act" by deciding 10 change when you have
done something you aren't proud of or have made
a mistake. Staying clean also means keeping your
body free of harmful drugs.
Why Practice
It?
Keeping yourself clean makes you nice to be
around. Cleanliness protects you from disease.
Washing your hands before you eat and after you
go 10 the bathroom keeps away germs that cause
disease. When a room is clean and orderly, your
mind feels clean and uncluttered too. A clean
mind keeps you feeling peaceful.
.
.. .:•-.
.
. . -·
. . .
'
-
•
How Do You Practice
It?
Cleanliness is washing often and brushing your
teeth. It is putting things away after you use them
and keeping things in order. If you make a mis-
take, clean it up. Make amends and then act
differently. Avoid looking at, listening to, or eating
things that harm you. Only put into your body
and your mind things that make you healthy.
The Virtues Project
What would Cleanllness
look
llke If ...
• You haven't been able to find your shoes
for three days because your room is so
messy?
• You notice that unwelcome thoughts are
sticking in your mind?
• lt is time for bed and you're so sleepy you
don't feel like brushing your teeth?
" Your desk at school is cluttered with
papers .
v Someone offers you drugs .
• You broke a promise to a friend.
Signs of Success
Congratulations! You are practicing Cleanliness
when you ...
• Keep your body fresh and clean
v Put things away after you use them
• Do your share to keep your home neat
and clean
• Put only healthful things in your body
• Use clean language
v Clean up your mistakes
Affirmation
1 krrp myself fresh a1Jd ckan. 1 put "'Y things a11d
my lift in ordrr. I am willillg and able to clean up
my mistakes.

Activities llith Clcatzlitzcss
•
"-~
Activities
with Cleanllness
~
Poster Points
Q "Clean Up Your Act"
• Name a mistake you have made that you
Q Clean body. Clean thoughts. Clean slate.
regret. How did you feel afterwards? How did
it affect others?
Q I clean up my mistakes.
• Describe how you could have cleaned up
the mistake? What could you have said or
Q Drug Free Zone.
done to make amends?
Q Choose a school or neighborhood area and
clean it up.
Q Study pollution in your local community or
elsewhere in the world. Define ways this can
be changed or cleaned up.
Q Talk about physical health and hygiene.
Virtues Reflectlon
Questions
Q What does it feel like to be in a messy room?
Q How does it affect your mind? Your sense of
well-being?
1,/ How does it feel to be in a clean, orderly
room? What effect does this have on your
ability to think clearly?
Q Brainstorm what to do and say when another
student or an adult is selling drugs.
II
Drawing Cleanllness
Draw a picture of a child or animal that has
become dirty. Draw a second picture showing
the figure clean and neat again.
Draw three ways you keep your body clean.
Q Garbage in, garbage out.
Q The earth is our home. Let's keep it clean!
Quotable
Quotes
"Our ryes may see some uncleanness, but let
not our mind stt things that arr not cltan.
Our ears may hear some uncleanness, but I.rt
not our mind hear things that arr not cltan."
Shin10 saying
"Cltan and sobtr. • 12-Step l'rogram
"Bid thrm u,a,h their facts and keep their teeth
clean. "Shakespeare (Antony & Clropatra)
"Let me relllember that there is nothing more
soothing than the sound o_,f running u,ater,
tven ifit ir only in my bathN,b."
Anne Wilson Schaef
"Live pure, speak true, right wrong ... ,.
T~nnyson
The Virtues ProJect

Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
What Is Commitment?
Commitment is caring deeply about something or
someone. It is the willingness to give your all to a
frienJship, a task, or something you believe in. It
is the ability to make decisions and follow through
on chem. It is keeping your promises.
Why Practice
It?
Without commitment, we just drift along, with
no idea where we are going. We change our
minds. We give up easily if things get too hard.
We break our word. We give up on people we care
about if they disappoint us or make a mistake.
When we are commiu:ed. people can counc on us
to keep our promises. With commitment we can
achieve great things.
How Do You Practice
It?
Commitment is thinking carefully about what you
want to do, deciding to do it, then giving it
I 00%, holJing nothing back. You don't allow
problems to stop you. You go the extra mile. You
only make promises you can keep. Being a com-
mitted friend is choosing your friends wisely, then
sticking together through good times or had.
Commitment makes you trusrworthy. It leads you
to success.
The Virtue~ Project
IU
NEEDED
What would Commitment
look
llke If ...
• You are doing a chore at home?
" You promised to bring in some macerials
for a class project?
• You fall asleep before finishing an assign-
ment chat is due tomorrow?
• Someone asks you if you will take respon-
sibility for a big job?
• Your friend does something annoying and
won
1t apologize?
" You want 10 learn a new sport but worry
you may not be good enough?
Signs of Success
Congratulations! You are practicing Commitment
when you ...
• Think before you make a promise
• Keep every agreement you make
w Make decisions confidently
• Go the extra mile
• Give I 00% to everything you do
• Are faithful to people you care about
Affirmation
I practice commitment. I makr good decisions and
givr my all to whatrvrr I do. I kerp my agreernents.
I am a faithfal frirnd

Activities with CeJ~~tf,~ctzf,
Make a Commitment
Choose a virtue and make a commi1men1 10
practice it for a week. Share with your class at
the end of the week how it felt and what
changed as a result.
Virtues
Reflectlon
Questions
.,_~
~
Poster Points
Q Go for i11
Q Give I 00%.
Q A Promise Keeper.
Q Always a friend.
'J' Dreams do come true.
Q Name some athletes who show commitment.
..
Quotable
Quotes
•
How do they express ir?
Q What does it feel like to be able to count on
someone complerely?
Q What does it feel like when someone breaks a
promise?
Q How do you decide what promises you want
co make?
Q How do you know when you do not want to
agree to something?
Q What are you committed to?
Q What virtues help you to keep your agree-
ments?
Drawing
Commitment
Draw your idea of something you really want
in your life.
The Virtues Project
"Until one is committed. there is hesitancy. the
chanct to drau1 hflck, afu,ays ineffertit1eness.
Concerning all acts of initiative and creation
thrrt is onr rlemrntary truth, the ignorance of
u•hich kills countless ideas and splrnded plans:
that the moment onr tkfinite/y con1mits
oneself, then Pro,,idencr moves too. All sorts of
things occur to one that u1ould never otheru,ise
have occ11rred.
"Joh.1nn \'C'olfgang \'on (~oethe
"Co111n1in11e111 isn't son1ethi11g
that just hup-
pens by chunce. Con1111itme11t
is a capacity.
and it grou,s as a 1n11s1:le
grou1s, by being
exercised. "Charlone Jollo B~ck
"Put your heart, n1ind, and soul into even your
s1nallest acts. That is the secret of success."
Swami Sivananda
"Nothing def/ares co111,11itn1e11t
faster than
broken agreements. "
GJy Hendricks and Kate Ludeman
"Never doubt that a sn,nll group of thoughtful,
con1n1itted
citize11s
cn11 change thr world
lntked it's the only thing that er,er has."
t,..1JrgJrec
J\leade

What Is Compassion?
Compassion is having kind feelings toward some-
one who is hurt or troubled. It is caring deeply
and wanting to help, even if you don't know
them. It is being kind and forgiving to someone
who has hurt you.
Why Practice It?
When people feel hurt or in trouble. they often
feel alone. Feeling alone can make things even
worse. Without compassion the world is a hard
and lonely place. Being compassionate helps us to
feel less alone. Compassion helps us to be under-
standing of others and ourselves.
How Do You Practice It?
Compassion begins by noticing when someone
seems sad or troubled. Put yourself in their place
and ask how you would feel if it were happening
to you. Think about how you can help. Take time
to listen, and then say kind things like "What are
you sad about?" and "How can I help?" Be forgiv-
ing when others make mistakes. Be a friend when
someone needs a friend.
The Virtues Project
What would Compassion
look
llke If ...
v Your dog is caught up in his leash?
• A friend is confused about what the
teacher said?
• Your mother is sick in the hospital?
• A new student is lonely and feels left out?
v Your father seems really tired after work?
• Your brother's best friend just moved
away~
Signs of Success
Congratulations! You are practicing Compassion
when you ...
w Nocice when someone is hurt or needs a
friend
• Imagine how they muse be feeling
• Take time to show that you care
• Ask how they are and listen patiently
• Forgive others when they make mistakes
u Do some service to help a person or an
animal in need
Affirmation
J havr compassio11. I notice when so,neone is hurt or
nrrds my help. I take the time to show that I care.

Activities with C8~pawwt8:tz
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Service Project
Q As a group, think of a way to serve people in
your community who may be lonely or need
some help.
Q Look up newspaper articles that show people
in need. Decide on a project you can do to
help.
Q Write a letter to someone who is sick at
home
Virtues
Reflectlon
Questions
Q What does compassion feel like inside?
~ When have you felt compassionace towards
someone you didn't know?
Q What does it feel like to be lonely?
Q Name three ways you can help a new student
to feel less lonely?
11 What would you do to be helpful and show
compassion if your parent were in hospital?
Drawing
Compassion
Draw a picture of a compassionate person
helping a person or animal in trouble.
The Virtues Project
~~
~
Poster Points
Q My heart is full of compassion.
Q Do for others what you would have them do
for you.
Q I care.
Quot.all:tle Quotes
"If your compassion do;s not inclutk yourself.
it i1 incompkte . .. Jack Kornfield
"Walk a mik in my shoes. "Song
"To 'listen' another's soul into a condition of
disclosurt and discovery may b, almost th,
greatest service that any human being ever
pnfarm,d for another. • Douglas Steen
" ... no man can live for himself a!.one. "
Rou Parmenter
"[Man] is immortal ... b,caus, h, has a soul, a
spirit capabk of compassion and sacrifice and
endurance. "William Faulkner
"Th, individual is capabk of both great
compassion and great indijfrrenc~. He has it
within his mean, to nouri,h th, former and
outgrow the latter. ,. Norman Cousins
"Don't do unto other, a, you would have them
do unto you. Th,y may have different tastes."
George Bernard Shaw
"Let no on, ever com, to you without kaving
better and happier. n Mother TtTC'5,3

e)
ec
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
What Is Confidence?
Confidence is having faich in something or some-
one. It is a kind of trust. When you have self-
confidence, you trust char you have what ic cakes
co handle whatever happens. You feel sure of
yourself and enjoy crying new things. When you
are confident in others, you rely on them and
confide in them.
Why Practice It?
Without confidence, fears and doubts hold us
back. We feel worried and uncertain, and afraid of
making a mistake. With confidence, we try new
things and learn all che time.
How Do You Practice lt1
Practicing confidence, is knowing you are worth-
while whether you win or lose, succeed or fail. You
feel sure of yourself and gladly learn from your
mistakes. You don't allow doubt or fear to stop
you. You try lots of new things and discover what
you are best at. You think positively. You have
confidence in life, trusting that all things work
together for good.
The Virtues Project
What would Confidence
look
llke If ...
• Your friends invite you to play a game you
have never played before?
• You are asked to give a speech in front of
your class?
• You try out for a sport and don't get
picked?
• You did something that really upset your
mother?
w You received a very low score on a math
test?
• You sec someone with lots of friends and
wish you were one of them?
Signs of Success
Congracularions! You are practicing Confidence
when you ...
• Remember tha1 you are worthwhile
whether you succeed or fail
• Arc willing to try new things
w Discover your talents
• Learn from your mistakes
•
Arc free of worry
• Think positively
Affirmation
I am confidrnt. I love to try 11ew things and I give
them thr best I havr to givr. I apprrciatr "'Y gifts. I
wkomr new possibilities.

Activities with CeJtzfti&tzc&
Activities
with Confidence
Q lnvi1e your s1uden1s 10 se1 a goal of mee1ing
one new person they have been wanting to
ge1 10 know. Ask 1hem 10 describe how a
confident person would go abou1 getting to
know someone new.
Q
Ask chem co reflect on something new they
would like 10 try.
Q Ask them to journal about the smell, the
taste, the feel, the sound of confidence.
Virtues
Reflection
Questions
Q Name one of the most confident people you
know. What do you 1hink gives them confi-
dence?
Q When do you mos1 need your confidence?
Q When do you feel most confident!
'1 What are you best a1? What gave you 1he
confidence co do it the first time?
II Drawing
Confidence
Draw a picture of yourself doing some1hing
wi1h confidence.
The Virtues Project
~~
~
Poster Points
Q
Q
Q
Q
Think positively.
Go for it!
Why not?
Just say YES!
Quotable
Q11otes
•w., learn wisdom from failure much more
than success. W., often discover what WILL do
by finding out what will NOT do. "
SJmu'°I Smiles
"If wt art not folly ourselves, truly in the
prtsrnt momrnt. we miss rvrrything ...
Thich Nhar Hanh
"Only a person who has faith in himself is able
to be faithfal to others. " Erich Fromm
"You srr thi11gs; and you sa_y 'Why?• But I
drea"' things that never were; and I say 'Wiry
not?"' George Bernard Shaw
"Shoot for the 1110011. Eve11 if you mi,, it you
will land a"1011g thr stars. " Les Brown
"Dream lofty dream,, and a, yo11 dream, ,o
shall you brcomr. " Anonymous
"Everyone ha, inside ofhin, a piect of good
ntws. Th, good news is that you don't know
how great you ca11 bt! How 1111,ch
you ca11 lovt!
What you can accomplish! Aud what your
potential is!" Anne Frank

What Is Consideration?
Consideration is being thoughtful about other
people and their feelings. It is thinking about how
your actions affect them and caring about how
they feel. It is paying attention 10 what other
people like and don't like, and doing things that
give them happiness.
Why Practice
It?
When people behave selfishly and don't practice
consideration, other people feel hurt. If we play
music too loud. or forger someone's birthday, or
leave things around that people can trip on, we are
being inconsiderate. When we are considerate,
others know they are important 10 us. We bring
them happiness, and they feel like making us
happy too.
How Do You Practice
It?
Consideration begins by noticing what people
need and thinking about how your actions are
affecting them. You care about how they feel. You
act as if other people are just as important as you
are. You do little things to bring happiness to
others. In giving a gift to someone, think carefully
about what would please char person. Give tender
attention to people who are sad.
The Virtues Project
What would Consideration
look
llke If ...
w Your brother is feeling bored because he is
sick and has to stay in bed'
w You and your parents have very different
tastes in music and how loudly it should
be played?
• Your best friend"s birthday is coming up?
w You ate entering the front door at school
and realize someone is right behind you?
w Your teacher is carrying an armload of
materials?
•
You have just come home from school and
your grandmother is taking a nap?
Signs of Success
Congratulations! You are praccicing Consideration
when you ...
w Respect other people's needs and
feelings
w Consider orhers' needs as important as
your own
w Stop and think how your actions will
affect others
w Put yourself in other people's shoes
w Give tender at tent ion
w Think of little things to bring others
happiness
Affirmation
I am considerate of others. I stop a11d think about
how my actions affect the,n. I do thoughtful things
that bring happiness to others.

Activities with
~
m
Activities
with
Consideration
11 Make a Mind Map of the people you care
about most and thoughtful things you can
do to bring them happiness.
II Spend a day being considerate of everyone
who crosses your path. The next day share
what that felt like and what effect it seemed
to have with your friends, at home, on the
street, in school.
11 Think of someone who needs help or kind-
ness and do something thoughtful.
Q Choose a counselor, teacher, or administrator
and without telling them anything, do consid-
erate things for that person for a week. At the
end of the week, ask them what they noticed.
11 Secret Pal: Each student draws a name out of
a box and does something considerate for
that person during the week. At the end of
rhe week, everyone finds out who their secret
pal was.
Virtues Reflection
Questions
Q What is one of the most considerate things
anyone ever did for you?
11 What was the best surprise you ever received?
1,1 What is one of the most considerate things
you have ever done for someone else?
II How can you tell what is the best gift to give
someone?
Q Name three considerate things you can do
that will make a big difference to your family.
Q Commit 10 doing them! After a week, report
on the differences you noticed.
The Virtues Project
Drawing
Consideration
Draw a picture of yourself doing some-
thing considerate for someone at home.
"-~
~
Poster Points
1,1 Consider this.
1,1 Do unto others.
1,1 Give a little.
1,1 A little consideration goes a long way.
1,1 Consideration brings happiness.
Q Give surprises.
Quotable
Quotes
"'Let them at all times concern thtmselvts with
doing a kindly thingfar on, ofth,ir fellows,
offering to someone love, consideration,
thoughtful help." 'Abdu'I-Baha
"Try a littk t,ndtrnrss, • Song Title
"Th, brst portion of a good man's lift,
his littk, nam,kss, unremembered acts
Of kindness and of love ... William Wordsworch,
.. Lines Composed Abovt-Tintern Abbey"
"No on, can sincerely try to h,lp another
without h,lping himself• Anonymous
"Lif, lived just to satisfy yourself never satisfies
anybody.• Vic Kitchen

What Is Cooperation?
Cooperation is working together for the good of
everyone. It is a willingness to respect others and
to follow rules which keep everyone safe and
happy. Cooperation is being helpful to one an-
other, sharing the load. It is joining others in order
co do something that cannot be done alone.
Why Practice
It?
Without cooperation, people disturb others. They
don't care about the rules, and they don't seem to
care about others. When we work together, we can
often accomplish more than each of us could do
alone. When we cooperate, we can do great
things.
•
•
How Do You Practice It?
Being cooperative is being willing co go along in
order to get along. We are respectful of the rules.
We consider other people's needs. We look for
ways to be helpful, and we ask for help when we
need it. Cooperation helps us bring together the
ideas of many so chat a new idea can come to
light. Working together, we can make any place a
safe and happy one.
The Virtues Project
What would Cooperation
look
llke If ...
• You have a project to do for school and
don't have all the information you need?
• You notice that there is some bullying
going on in rhe playground?
"" You need to move something heavy?
w You are asked to participate in a group
discussion?
w A new teacher seems nervous and doesn't
know the rules yet?
~ You don't agree with something your
teacher has asked the class to do?
Signs of Success
Congratulations! You are practicing Cooperation
when you ...
• Work well with others
• Freely offer your help and ideas
• Follow the rules
• Do your part to keep a safe, happy
•
environment
• When you disagree, do it peacefully
• Ask for help when you need it
Affirmation
I am cooperative. I work and play well with others.
I r,,p,ct th, ruk,. I keep "'y,e/f and others saft.

Aetiiities 11ith
Ct!JfiJf)c~atit!Jtz
" "
Trust Walk
Form pairs and blindfold one person. The
other is to lead them gently and carefully
around the room, making sure they do nor
bump into anything or anyone. Then they
change roles.
Yarn Toss
Make a design out of yarn or string by
forming a circle and tossing a ball of yarn
across to others. Hold onto one part of the
string while tossing the ball and keep hold-
ing the parts of the string that come to you.
Option: As each individual tosses the yarn,
they say aloud a virtue they like to practice.
"I like Cooperation." "I like Kindness."
Cooperative
Hide and Seek
(From Th,Joyfa/Chil,/by Peggy Jenkins)
Two children, hand in hand, begin as the
seekers, and each time they find someone he
or she joins hands with them. The game
ends with all children holding hands.
Virtues
Reflectlon
01,1estlons
lo/ When have you needed someone else's help to
do something difficult?
\I When have you helped someone else to do
something they could not do without you?
Q Describe what it is like when there is no
cooperation in a group.
lo/ Describe what it is like when there is coopera-
tion in a group.
Q What can you do with ochers you cannot do
yourself?
Name three things that can be done coopera-
tively to stop all bullying.
The Virtues Project
JI Drawing
Cooperation
In a group, using a large sheet of paper,
make a mural or drawing of people
doing things together. Decide who will
draw what before you start. Come up
with one general idea and then give
each other rhe freedom to be creative in
your own ways.
"-#
~
Poster Points
\I Go along to get along.
Q Together we can do great things.
\I
Be a safe-keeper.
Quotable
Quotes
"Wr mu,t help one another; it i, the law of
naturt. " Frc-nch Proverb
"By uniting w, ,tand. by dividing w, fall. ·•
John Dickenson (The Liberty Song)
"Wr must try to tru,t one another. .. and
couprratr. " Jomo K-c:nyana
.. Cooperation is doing u1ith a smile what you
have to do anyu1t1y.
" Anonymous
':A,kingfor hrlp doe, not mean that u,e are
uieak or incompetent. ft usually indicat.es an
advanced kvrl ofhone,ty and intrlligence."
Anne Wilson Schacf
"Oh, I get by with a little help from my
friends. " Paul McCartney

g
y
g
Q
Q
y
g
g
y
y
Q
y
g
y
g
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
y
Q
What Is Courage?
Courage is personal bravery in the face of fear. It is
doing what needs to be done even when it is really
hard or scary. Courage is going ahead even when
you feel like giving up. Courage is needed in
crying new things. his adn1itting mistakes and
then doing the right thing. Courage is the
strength in your heart.
Why Practice It?
Without courage, people would only do what is
easy. No one would try new things. Everyone
would do what everyone else is doing, to avoid
standing our - even if they knew it was wrong.
Fear would be in charge. With courage, you can
face any situation. Courage helps you to do great
things.
,
How Do You Practice 117
Courage helps you to do the right thing. When
you feel afraid, name the fear and then let it go.
Then do what you really want to do. Admit
mistakes and learn from them. Keep trying. Stand
up for what you know is right even if all your
friends are doing something wrong. Ask for help
when you need it. Let courage fill your heart.
The Virtues Project
What would Courage look llke
If ...
• You are asked to speak at a school assembly?
" All your friends want you to try some-
thing, like stealing or smoking, and you
feel it is wrong?
" You see another child being teased or hurt
by other children/
" You do something you are sorry for, like
breaking one of your mother's plates and
no one knows who did ic?
• You feel scared of the dark when you're
trying to go to sleep? (What help do you
need?)
w You want 10 learn a new sport, like swim-
ming, but it is scary.
Signs of Success
Congratulations! You are practicing Courage when
you ...
•
Do what is right for you even when it
is hard or scary
w Find strength in your heart even when
you are afraid
• Are willing co try new things
w Admit mistakes and learn from them
w Make amends when you do something
wrong
w Ask for help
Affirmation
I hav, courag,. I am willing to try new things.
I admit mistakes and learn ftom th,m. I listen to my
heart. I hav, the courag, to do th, right thing.

Activities with c~u~agc
Courage Collage
Make a collage of pictures of people
showing courage.
Courage Commitment
Each person (including the teacher) chooses
something that will require courage to do
and sets a goal to do it in the next three
days. At the end of the week, share your
experiences with one another. It might I,.,
calling someone and clearing up an old
problem, it might I,., trying a new activity,
like skating, that you have never done
before. The boundary is that it must keep
you safe, and not I,., foolhardy. Even ifit
doesn't go just right, shate the Teachable
Moment together.
Virtues
Reflectlon
Questions
Q
When in your life have you needed the most
courage?
'1 What helps you when you feel afraid?
Q
Name three people you know or from history
who had great courage.
1,1 What jobs require physical courage?
Q
What jobs require other kinds of courage?
Drawing
Courage
Draw a picture of yourself doing something
chat requires. courage.
The Virtues Project
\I!.~
~
Poster Points
'1 Do the right thing.
1,1 Feel the fear and do it anyway!
'1 My heart is full of courage.
Q
Brave heart.
'1 Take a risk.
Quotable
Quotes
"We cannot escape fear. We can only transfon11
it into a companion that accompani,, us 11n all
our exciting adventures. " Susan Jeffers
"Heart, b, brav,. Jfyou cannot b, brav,, just
go. Love's glory is nor a small thing." Rumi
., Lift shrinks or expands in proportion to on($
courage. " Anais Nin
"With c11urag,,
you will dare to take risks,
hav, th, strength to be compassionat, and the
wisdom to be humbl,. Courag, is the founda-
tion of integrity.'" KC"shavan
Nair
"Lift is either a daring adventure, or nothing. "
Hdrn Keller
"Look fear in the face and it will cease to
troubk you ... Sri Yuk(cswar
"Jfyou don't go out on a limb, you're never
going to g,t the fruit. " Anonymous
"Jfyou think you'rt too small to do a big thing,
try doing small things in a big u•ay. "
Anonymous

What Is Courtesy?
Courtesy is being police and having good man-
ners. 1r is a gracious way of speaking and acting
which gives ochers a feeling of being valued and
respected. le is greeting others with respect.
"Please, "Thank you", "Excuse me", "Hello",
"Goodbye", "You're welcome" are not just words.
They are courteous expressions chat show people
you respect them and care about them.
Why Practice It?
When a person doesn't practice courtesy, people
feel insulted and disrespected. They think this
person is rude and ignorant, not caring about
anyone or anything. Practicing courtesy gives
people a sense that they are valued. Courtesy is
Hke a magnet. le makes you anracrive to others.
How Do You Practice It?
Courtesy is remembering your manners. Speak
politely. Wait your turn. Instead of interrupting
someone, say "Excuse me," and then wait pa-
tiently for them to give you their attention. Greet
people pleasantly. When you are courteous, you
make requests instead of demands. Bring courtesy
home. Your family needs it most of all. Courtesy
helps life 10 go smoothly.
The Virtues Project
What would Courtesy look llke
If ...
• You are meeting someone for the first
time?
\ii Your mother is having a conversation and
you want to speak to her?
w You are at a birthday party and the cake is
being served?
•
You answer the phone and the caller asks
to speak to your sister?
• You have walked into class late?
" Your feel annoyed at your brother?
Signs of Success
Congratulations! You are practicing Courtesy
when you ...
•
Show others that you value and respect
them
w Remember to treat elders, parents, teach-
ers, and children politely
'lot Think about how your actions affect
others
" Eat, speak and move graciously
" Make requests instead of demands
" Greet people with a smile
Affirmation
I anz courteous. I speak and act in a polite u,ay.
l show other, that l value and rrsprct them.

Activities with
Ceia~t&'i,~
Q
Q
Q Q g
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
g
g
g
Q
g
g
g
Q g
g
g
Phone Courtesy
1) Have a phone-answering role play. Show
discourteous ways to answer the phone first,
then courteous ways (a) at home (b) at a
friend's house (c) at an office.
Have students praccice with a partner until
they come up with expressions with which
they feel comfortable. then do it for the
class. (e.g .. "Jones residence, Chris speaking.")
2) If you answer che phone and someone
wants to speak to the adult in the house,
and she has said she does not want to talk to
anyone, what is a courteous and honest way
to tell that to the caller. (Avoid lying and
saying "She's not home". Could be an
expression such as "Shes not available right
now." or "She can't come co the phone at
the moment. May I rake a message?")
Virtues Reflection
Questions
How do you and your friends show courtesy
when you greet each other?
How does it feel to you when someone is not
courteous? When someone is courteous?
How does it feel to you when you are not
courteous? When you are courteous?
How do ('<'Opie tend to react if you disrespect
them by forgetting courtesy?
Q What can you do if you have "slipped" and
forgotten to be courteous?
Q Who in your family needs more courtesy from
you?
Q What is the difference berween making a
demand and making a request? (You may
want to role play the "before" and "after". first
without courtesy, then with courtesy.)
1 54
The Virtues Project
Drawing
Courtesy
Draw a picture of rwo animals greeting
each other without courtesy, then greet-
ing each other with courtesy.
~~
~
Poster Points
~ Remember your manners.
\f Courtesy smooths the way.
Q Smile! It's easy.
Q Take courtesy home.
Q Just say, "please".
Quotable
Quotes
"lift is not so short but that there is always
time enough far courtesy." Ralph \X'aldo Em,c-rson
"If a man bt gracious and courteous to stran-
gers. it shows he is a citizen of the world."
Francis Bacon
"Use a sweet tongue, courtesy. and gentleness
and thou ,11nyest
rr1n11age
to guide"" elephan1
by a hair: ,. Sa'di
"Politeness is to do and StlJ the kind~st things
in the kindest way.•• Anonymous
"Most smil.es are started by another smile. ••
Anonymous
"Of all the things you wear, your expressiorr
is
the most important. " Janee Lane

What Is Creativity?
Creativity is the power of imagination. Creativity
is a way to develop your special talents. It is seeing
someching in a new way, finding a different way
to solve a problem. Creativity is using your imagi-
nation to bring something new into the world.
Why Practice It?
Without creativity, life would be boring. There
would be no inventions or advancement in the
world. Things would just stay the same. We
wouldn't have cars, planes1 computers1 dance or
music. The arts bring joy to the world. Sciences
bring cures for disease and new ways to get things
done. Creativity helps us to be all we can be.
How Do You Practice It?
You practice creativity by developing your gifts to
the fullest. Find out what interests you and what
you are good at. Learn and practice, so your
talents will get better and better. Do ordinary
things in creative ways. Expose yourself to beauty
in nature and in the arts. Be open to inspiration.
Remember to take time for dreaming.
The Virtues Project
What would Creativity
look llke
If ...
" You wish you could play an instrument?
w You get an idea for designing a new toy?
• The method you use for cleaning your
room takes too long?
" You wonder if you could write a poem?
" A friend is having a birthday and you don't
want to spend much money on a gift?
w You are spending too much time watching
television?
Signs of Success
Congratulations! You are practicing Creativity
when you ...
" Discover your gifts
w Use knowledge and training to develop
them
w Think of new ways to make things
work better
w Use your imagination
• Take time for dreaming
i;i
Do things in your own creative way
Affirmation
I am creativ,. I hav, special gifts and I an, willing to
tkv,lop them. I use my imagination. I am open to
inspiration. I am happy to be n1yself

Activities with c~&attvtt~
Activities
with Creativity
g
Write a poem or a make up a song. Create a
dance. Make up a skit.
g
Tell a progressive story, by starting it and
allowing different students to finish it.
"Once upon a time there was a __
and
(he, she, it) was very __
... and they lived
happily ever after."
g
"Thingamabob": Take some ordinary objects
such as discarded cereal boxes, macaroni,
toilet paper rolls, etc. and have students
make one large interesting object out of
them, or each do one small creation.
'1 Read "Stone Soup" by Marcia Brown and
talk about how creativity saved the soldiers.
Virtues
Reflectlon
Questions
'1 Name three people in history who have done
creative things that have made a big difference
in our lives today.
~ What does your mother create? Your father?
Your teacher?
~ What are some new ideas you have come up
with?
'1 What is a talent you would like to have?
How will you find out? How can you develop
it? Read a story about someone such as Tho-
mas Alva Edison, Albert Einstein or Madame
Curie and ask the group to say what about
them was creative?
'1 Describe a prohlem you know about. What is
a creative way ro solve it?
The Virtues Project
Drawing
Creativity
Draw a picture of yourself doing something
creative (dancing, singing, doing a science
project, coming up with a new invention).
~#
~
Poster Points
~ Express yourself.
~ Be all that you can be.
Q Discipline in service of a vision.
'1 One of a kind.
g
A gifted child.
Q
Expose yourself to beauty.
~ Play with ideas.
Quotable
Quotes
'"Without this playing u•ith fantasy no creative
work has ever yet come to birth. The drbt w,
ow, to tht play ofi",agination is incalculabk. •
Girl Gustav Jung
" ... Whatrv.er you can ck,. or dream you
can ... brgin it. Bold11ess
has genius, pou•er. and
magic in it . ., Johann Wolfgang von GO<"thc
II "'ani lift is dyed the color of his imagina-
tion. " ~1arcus Aurelius
"Therr comeJ that myJterious rnerting in lift
u,hen Jomeonr acknowledges u1ho u1e are and
what we can be, igniting th, circuits of our
highest potential • Rusty B,rkus
"Insanity is when u,e ke,p doing th, same
things expecting different r,sults. •
Albert Einstein

What Is Detachment?
Detachment is experiencing your feelings without
allowing your feelings to control you. It is choos-
ing how you will act in a situation rather rhan just
reacting. Wirh derachn1en1 you are free to do only
what you choose to do. Detachment is using
thinking and feeling together, so you can make
smart choices.
Why Practice It?
People never know what to expect from someone
who is nor detached. Without detachment, you
just react and let your feelings control you. Anger
can pop out without warning. With detachment
you don't have to react. You can decide what you
are going to do. Detachment brings self-confidence.
It helps you to be moderate. h helps you to be
your best self.
How Do You Practice It?
Detach men I helps you 10 decide how you are
going to act, even when you have very strong
feelings. 11 is like going to a calm, peaceful place
within your mind and looking at what is happen-
ing without getting swept away. Whenever you
have a strong feeling about something or some-
one, stop and ask yourself"Whar am I feeling?"
and "What do I really wane ro do?" Take time our
when you need it. Look. Choose. Act.
The Virtues Project
-o\
/
- -
I \
What would Detachment
look
llke If ...
• Your mother asks you do to some chores
and you feel like playing video games
instead?
• Your sister takes your best sweater without
asking and you feel really mad?
w You really want to join a team and it doesn't
happen?
• Someone teases you or tries to start a fight?
• You see chat half of a cake is left and you
feel like eating all of it?
w You are really upset because your best friend
disappointed you?
Signs of Success
Congratulations! You are practicing Detachn1ent
when you ...
• Take rime out before doing something
you would be sorry for
w Look at your feelings before deciding
how to act
•
Use chinking and feeling together
w Act instead of react
w Reflect before taking action
• Choose to do what is right
Affirmation
I am drtached I am au•arr-of my ft,/i11gs and choos, "'Y
actiom with drtachmmt. I do what is right far 111,.
I choose to b, my best ,,If no matter u,hat happrm.

~
Activities
with Detachment
Q Make a list of the things that annoy you. Set
a goal to detach from each of these and think
about what will help you to detach. Don·1
name names. This list is just for you.
Q
Name three life situations chat need detach-
ment in order to live happily. (e.g., Someone
who has a chronic illness, or is in a wheel
chair).
Virtues
Reflection
Questions
Q What are some of the hardest times for people
to be detached?
Q
Name a time you needed lots of detachment.
Q
What are the best things about detachment?
Q What happens if we don't practice detach-
ment?
Q What would you change in your life and your
behavior if you only had one week to live?
II Drawing
Detachment
Draw a scene of yourself showing detachment.
I 58
The Virtues Project
VI'~
~
Poster Points
Q
Look. Choose. Act.
Q
Smart choices.
g-
I don't react. I acl.
Q
Detach and go within.
Q
Stop and think.
Q
Use thinking and feeling together.
Quotable
Quotes
"Ntver unckrtakt reflection and action inde-
pentbntly. " l'ablo F,;,,,
"Let go and !rt God" Alcoholics Anonymous
"He who binds to himself a joy doth the
winged lift destroy,
but he who kisses the joy as it flies
lives in eternityi sunrise ... William Blak,e
"You always have the choice to take all things
evenly, to hold onto nothing, to receive each
irritation aJ if you had only ftftee11 r11in11tes
to
live. " Tolbert McCarroll
"When there is son1ething u,1rong u,irh evt'ry~
onr, thert: is soniething wrong with you. "
Anonvmous
•
"Life is like a11 orchestra - if a 111011 u,ants to
lead, he httS to tun, his back to the crou•d •
Lawrence W'clk
"Do not look back in anger. or faru,ard in fear,
but around in au1arrnrss." James Thurber

What Is Determination?
Determ inarion is focusing your energy and efforts
on a task and 1hen sticking with it until i1 is
finished. Determination is using your will power
10 do something when i1 isn'1 easy. You are de1er-
mined to meet your goals. Even when it is really
hard, or you are being tested, you slill keep going.
Why Practice It?
Wi1hou1 de1ermination, 1hings don't ge< done.
People give up easily and don't ask for help when
they need it. With determination. even che hardest
task becomes a challenge we are willing to accept.
We do things that matter in the world. With deter-
mination, we can make our dreams come true.
I
• I I (
How Do You Practice It?
Decide wha1 is impor1ant 10 you. Then use your
will power to make i1 happen. Finish wha1 you
s1ar1. If obs1acles come up, deal wi1h 1hem, and
ge1 back on 1rack. If you ge1 discouraged or dis-
1racted, remember your goal. Ask yoursclf"What
do I need?" Then star! again. It feels good to meel
your goals!
The Virtues Project
What would Determination
look llke If ...
w You are trying 10 learn to ride a bike?
w You are doing a really hard homework
assignment and it is due tomorrow?
w You are building a model for your Dad's
birthday and it ge1s complicated?
w You want to become good at a sport or art?
w You decide 10 work on a new virtue and
keep slipping into your old habi1s?
w You are doing a job for your mother and
TV distracts you!
Signs of Success
Congratulations! You are practicing Determination
when you ...
w Believe what you are doing is important
w Set goals for yourself
1o1 Focus your attention on what you are
doing
w Resis1 being distrac1ed
w Keep going ifit ge1s difficult
w Ask for help when you need it
w
Finish what you scare
Affirmation
lam determi11ed.
l set goals and keep goi11g until
l achieve them. l get thi11gs do,ie, I stay 011 purpose.

Song
"The ltsy Bitsy Spider went up the water spout.
Out came the rain and washed the spider out.
Out came the sun and dried up all the rain
And the itsy bitsy spider went up the spout
Drawing
Determination
Draw a picture of yourself having
achieved one of your life goals with
determination.
Puppet
Play
Using puppets, tell a story of a very discour-
aged animal who never gets anything done
and a friend who encourages the animal to be
determined. Show the puppet changing from
giving up co having enthusiasm and determi•
nation. Example: Character has a hard job to
do and feels like giving up. Winter is coming
and a bear needs to dig his den. An ant needs
to gather food.
\L~
~
Poster Points
Stories of Determination
The Ant and the Grasshopper.
Tell a story about Helen Keller.
Virtues
Reflection
Questions
ll
Name a character from a book who succeeded
because of his or her determination.
II
Name an historical figure who showed great
determination. (Examples: Helen Keller,
Albert Einstein, Rick Hansen.)
Q What would it be like to play a sport without
determination? With determination?
Q When have you needed the most determination?
Q What is your biggest distraction? What helps
you to resist it?
Q Name three of your personal goals in life.
The Virtues ProJect
Q
Q
Q
Q
I set goals.
I get things done.
Keep on keepin' on,
I finish what I start.
Quotable
Quotes
"KttjJ on kttpi11' on .. African American Proverb
'Jin ,11gk miss,, s,v,nty p,r cent of his strikes.
Wiry should I expect to do b,ttrr?"
Sophy Burnham
''just do it!" Anonymous
"Th, difference betu•een tUtermination and
stubbornness is that one con-1es
from a strong
will and the other fro111 a strong wo11 i. "'
Anonymous
''Strong rea,om make strong 11ctiom. "
Anonymous
"Character is a pe,ftct/y educated will. "
Novalis

What Is Diligence?
Diligence is working hard and doing the best job
you possibly can. When you are diligent, you take
special care to do things step by step. You chink
and move carefully to make sure things will turn
out right. Being diligent is being industrious,
giving all you have to give to whatever you do.
Why Practice
It?
Without diligence, people act lazy and don't get
much done. They act as if what they do doesn't
count, rush ch rough it or just do the least amount
possible. Diligence helps you to get things done
with excellence and enthusiasm. Diligence leads to
success. When you are diligent about the things
you do, people rely on you and trust you to give
your best effort.
How Do You Practice
It?
You practice diligence by deciding what you can
do and then giving it all you have to give. You
treat each action as important and do things
carefully, one step at a time. You don't rush
through things. You give them your full attention.
Diligence takes patience. When you work hard,
you can accomplish wonderful things.
The Virtues Project
What would DIiigence
look llke
If ...
• You are washing the dishes for your family?
w You are doing an assignment you find
boring?
w You want to be a musician?
• Some friends ask you to come out when
you have a job to do?
w You feel like taking a break in the middle
of a job?
w You have an idea for something you want
to build?
Signs of Success
Congratulacions! You are practicing Diligence
when you ...
1ot Pay attention to what you are doing
w Do things carefully, step by step
w Practice to the point of excellence
w Give your ahsolute best to what you do
• Work hard
w Don't give up
Affirmation
I am diligent. I work hard. I 111ork
carefi,lly. I give
my best to whatever I do.

Activities with 1>ili~&:tzcc
~
Activities
with Dlllgence
Give nudencs a task thar involves intricate
sorting, such as different shapes of heads.
or a sewing prl)jt"ct. Invite tht'm to J-o it
wi1h diligence.
Virtues
Reflectlon
Questions
w Whac do dishes look like when they are done
withour dilig-ence?
Q What do dishes look like wh,en they are done
wich -diligence?
W What difference could diligence make in your
fururie success~
Q Name three successful people and describe
how they showed diligence in thelr careers.
Q Name some jQbs in wh,c;:h diligenc::e
is enen-
tiaJ.
Y Whar would it be like if people did a rusht'd,
cardess job of
• building a bridge
• performing an operation
• painting a house
• working in a laboratory.
~
Drawing
DIiigence
On one side draw someone doing an impor-
tant job-without diligence, on the other with
diligence.
I 62
The Virtues ProJect
-~
~
Poster Points
"
Giving my best.
W (~iving my all.
lit A careful and thorough worker.
U Hard work leads ro success.
~
~
Quotable
Quotes
"'L.rarning is not artait1rd by cha11cr, it must bt
roughr for with ardor and attended to with
diligence." Abigail Ad.am~
"Diligrncr iJ the mothrr of good fartu11r ...
Cervantes
"'Fdilure a11d success are ,rot accitk11ts, but 1hr
striclat jwticr. " Alexander Smirh
"E1•erythi11g
conies to the onr u,/,o u,aits, ifh<
Ul(Jr/u u1hik ht u1aits ... Anonymow
"'Luck is what happr11s whrn preparatio11 mttts
opportu11ity." Elmer U"rtcrm.a.n
·rhe trouble u•ith opporrrarity is that it ofiett
cotttts disguised as hard r,1ork ... Anonrmous
"'~11ius is JO% i,upiration, 90% perspira-
tion." Thom.IS Alva EJi§(Jn

Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
What Is Enthusiasm?
Enthusiasm is being inspired- full of spirit. It is
being cheerful and happy. le is doing something
wholeheartedly, with zeal and eagerness - giving
I 00% to what you do. Reing enthusiasric is being
excited about something, looking forward to it. le
comes from having a positive attitude.
Why Practice It?
Everything becomes boring lo a person without
enthusiasm. A person without enthusiasm be-
comes boring, too. Enthusiasm is catching. When
you are enthusiastic, other people like to be
around you. Enthusiasm makes life more enjoy-
able.
+
..........-
-----
How Do You Practice It?
Enthusiasm is a positive attitude. When you enjoy
whatever you are doing, even the dullest job can
be fun. Use your imagination to find ways to
enjoy what you are doing. Take time for simple
pleasures and enjoy the wonders of life. Show
enthusiasm to others by celebrating with them
when something wonderful happens. Your enthu-
siasm shines through your smile.
The Virtues Project
What would Enthusiasm
look
llke If ...
w You particularly like a dish your mother or
father cooks?
w You like a new song a friend played for
you?
w Your brother did well in a sport?
w You are bored and tired of sitting around
at home?
1i1 You look outside one night and see the
scars?
w You have a big chore to do for your family?
Signs of Success
Congratulations! You are practicing Enthusiasm
when you ...
w Let yourself enjoy looking forward co
something
w Think of imaginative ways co get
things done
w Do things wholeheartedly
" Smile, laugh and enjoy what you do
w Enjoy the wonders of I ife
w Are full of positive spirit
Affirmation
I am fi,II of enthusia1m. I look on the bright 1itk.
I give I 00% to u,hatever I do. I use my imagination.
I am open to the wonder, in store far me today.

Activities Vlith
I:9,zt}zustas~
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
-·
r. .
•
.:-,
",
'
. . ·,
Activities
with Enthusiasm
Q
Do a game such as musical chairs, once
wichouc enthusiasm, once with. Then talk
about how it felt different each time.
Q
Take a simple object, like an apple or a chair
and describe it twice: First, as if it is the most
boring thing in the world and second, as if it
is the most delightful, wonderful thing.
8,.1\
~
Virtues
Reflection
Questions
Q
How do people wichout enthusiasm look,
sound, act? (Their faces, their movements,
their voices)
Q
What do enthusiastic people look like?
Ii
What activity do you do with enthusiasm?
Q
What are you enthusiastic about for the
future?
Q
What kinds of work or careers require enthu-
siasm?
Q
What difference can enthusiasm make if you
have a boring joh 10 do?
Q
What helps you get back to enthusiasm when
you are bored or sad?
It Drawing
Enthusiasm
Draw something you are really looking for-
ward to doing when you are older.
Draw a picture of a bored, boring person and
a cheerful, enthusiastic person.
The Virtues Project
VI!.~
~
Poster Points
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Wow!
That's great!
Full of spirit.
Simple Pleasures.
What a great day!
Life is fun.
Quotable
Quotes
''Enthwiasm, n. I.a. Rapturow intertJt or
excitement. b. Ardent fondness. 2. Something
that inspirtJ a lively interest. /Greek
enthousiauin, to be inspired by God}. •
The American Heritage Dictionary
"When an optimist gets th, u,orst ofit, he
makes thr brst of it. " Anonymous
"Lift is fun . .. Benjamin Hoff
"To be succesifi,l th, first thing to do is fall in
love with your worlr. " Sister Mary Laurena
"ft dont mean a thing ifit aint got that
su,ing," Duke Ellington and Irving Mills
"Man is just about as happy as hr makes up his
mind to br." Abraham Lincoln
''All that we need to make us rrally happy i,
Jomething to be rnthu,iastic about. •
Ch.1 rles Kingsley

e
What Is Excellence?
Excellence is doing your besl. It is giving your very
best to any task you do or any relationship you
have. Excellence is effort guided by a noble purpose.
It is a desire for perfection. The perfection of a seed
comes in che fruil. When you practice excellence,
you bring your gifts to fruition.
Why Practice
It?
Excellence is the key to success. People who don"t
practice excellence just do things half way. Usually
they don't have very exciting or fruitful lives.
Doing your best helps you find out what talents
you have. You may discover something no one has
ever thought of before. When you practice
excellence, you can make a difference in chis world.
How Do You Practice
It?
When you practice excellence, you are not content
to give less than your best - to big things and little
things. You give careful attention to every job, and
to the people you care for. You learn from your
mistakes, so you can do better next time. Day by
day, you strive co improve. We can't excel at
everything. Discover your own talents and give
chem your best.
The Virtues Project
What would Excellence
look
llke If ...
w You are cleaning up the classroom?
w You are learning to play a new instrument?
• You keep arguing with your friend?
w You get tired in che middle of a job?
• You compare yourself to others?
• You realize that you have made too many
promises and have roo much co do?
Signs of Success
Congratulations! You are practicing Excellence
when you ...
w Give your best co whatever you do
w Give your best to relationships
w Set noble and realistic goals
w Remember to plan and practice
w Don't cry to do everything
w Develop your special gifts
Affirmation
I givr my best to the u,ork I do. I give my best to
othrn. I dart to set nobk goals. I choose excellencr in
all thing,.

Actiiiti11 rlifh t~ecllctzec
Q
Q
Q
Q
"
"
"
Q
Q
"
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
"
Q
O "
"
Make an Excellence
Moblle
Using a coat hanger, cards and string, make a
mobile about yourself listing your most
excellent virtues - chose that are your
strengths - as well as things you do with
excellence.
Virtues
Reflectlon
Questions
Q
Name a time that you needed excellence but
chose to give up instead.
Q Name a time you chose to practice excellence.
o Name a character from a story or lesson you
have been learning. How did they show
excellence? What difference did it make?
w How would things have turned out without
excellence?
Q
List the names of three famous people who
excel in their field. How do they show it?
Q What do you think they have done to become
excellent?
Drawing
Excellence
Draw yourself doing some of the things you
do best.
Draw people doing three different kinds of
work. (for example, nurse, farmer, house
builder} Write or tell what would happen if
they didn't practice excellence. Then write or
tell what would happen if they did practice
excellence in their work.
I 66
The Virtues Project
~~
~
Poster Points
11 It's okay to make mistakes. That's the
way we learn.
Q At my best.
Q l"he key to success.
Q
Day by day I'm getting becter and better.
o Excellence in all things.
Q
Growing our gifts.
Quotable
Quotes
"J db th, very best I know how - th, very best
I can; and I mean to keep doing so until the
end. " Abraham
Lincoln
"Dost thou reckon thyself a puny fonn, when
within thtt tht univtrst is folded?" Imam A]j
''May you discover your own special abilities
and contributt them tou,ard a better world . ..
Charlene Cosranzo
"Attention to little things i, a gre,rt thing. "
S1. John Chrysostom
"Its a fanny thing about lift: if you refuse to
accept anything but the very best you will very
ofttn gtt it. " W Som~rser
1\1.augham
"When love and skill work together, expect a
masterpiece. " John Ruskin
"The oak ,leep, in the acorn; the bird waits in
the egg ... dreams are the seedlings of realities."
Anonymous

e) t
What Is Flexlblllty?
Flexibility is being open to change. It means not
always having to have your own way. It is being
open to the opinions and feelings of others. With
flexibility, you are willing to change your mind. If
somechi ng doesn't work, you try a new way. Flex-
ibility is making changes for the better.
Why Practice
It?
Without flexibility, people keep doing things the
same old way when new ways are needed. They
become rigid. They get angry and upset when
things don't go their way and try to control ocher
people. When you are flexible, you adjust and
adapt. You bend like a tree in the wind. You keep
making positive changes.
How Do You Practice
It?
When you practice flexibility, you let go of bad
habits and learn new ones. When you see a need
for change, look inside and find the virtue you
need. Then practice it little by little, day by day.
Try new, creative ways to get things done. Accept
the things you cannot change. Go with the flow.
When you are flexible, you enjoy surprises.
The Virtues ProJect
What would Flexlblllty
look
llke If ...
" You keep making the same mistake over
and over?
w You decide you want co change one of
your habits?
" Your family had something fun planned
and it was cancelled at the last minute?
w You notice that some of your friends are
avoiding you?
" The way you are doing a job isn't working
very well?
w You can't stand the way one of your
friends is acting?
Signs of Success
Congratulations! You are practicing Flexibility
when you ...
"" Learn fron1 your mistakes
" Are willing to change bad habits
w Try imaginative new ways to do things
" Don't insist on always getting your own
way
w Can adjust when something unexpected
happens
w Go with the flow. Trust the unexpected.
Affirmation
I ,1m flexible. I keep changing/or the better. I look for
new ways to do things. I we/collie surprises.

Activities with Yl&~i1'tltt~
Flexlbility
Chain
Have children make a chain by holding
hands, then get themselves into a knot, by
stepping over hands etc. or weaving in and
our. Then have them straighten our the
chain without dropping hands.
Drawing Flexlblllty
Make two drawings on a sheet of paper:
First. draw a tree that is likely to be blown
down in a wjndstorm. Then, draw a tree
chat is likely to survive the storm, (e.g., oak
and willow).
How Many Ways?
VI'!.#
~
Poster Points
Put on some music and ask everyone to do
one morion trying to be as different from each
other as possible, e.g., hands clapping, turning
in a circle, bending knees up and down.
Tell a Story with Puppets
Have children divide into groups and make
puppets, then have a show in which one
puppet is very rigid and wants everything to
go his or her way. A friend shows him how
to become flexible and how friends like to be
around someone who can be flexible.
Virtues Reflectlon
Questions
Q What is it like to be around people who are not
flexible?
Q
Name some habits or ways of behaving which
do nor show flexibility.
Q
Name some actions that do show flexibility.
Q
Name some sports or arts chat require flexibil-
ity. Do some stretches and toe touches.
Q
Discuss how many ways you could prepare or
cook a vegetable you like to eat. (e.g. boil,
bake, fry, ear raw, in strips, whole, mixed with
other vegetables).
The Virtues Project
II
"
" "
"
I bend bur do not break.
Go with the flow.
I welcome surprises.
Change for the better.
Day by day, little by little.
Quotable
Quotes
"Go with the flow.
n Anonymous.
"/ bend but do not break. n Jean dr la Fontaine
';II man should ,nd,t1vor to be pliant a, a rted,
yet hard a, cedar wood ... The Talmud
"Do I contradict myself Very u,,/f then I
contradict myself (I am l,,rg,, I contain
mu/titud,s). • Wal, Whitman
"/ learn,d when hit by in,,. to a.,k th, right
question: 'What next?' instead of"Why mr?'•
Julia Cameron
"Chang, is just an attitude away. " Anonymous

What Is Forgiveness?
Being forgiving is giving someone another chance
after they have done something wrong, knowing
chat everyone makes mistakes. It is making amends
instead of taking revenge. It is important to forgive
yourself, too. Forgiving yourself means to stop
punishing yourself or feeling hopeless because of a
mistake. Forgiveness is moving ahead, ready co act
differently, with compassion for yourself and faith
that you can change.
Why Practice It?
Everyone does hurtful things at one time or
another. If someone is not forgiving, others feel
worried around chat person. Without forgiveness,
we judge and criticize others instead of giving each
ocher a chance to improve. Forgiveness is the best
way to encourage ourselves and ochers to cake
responsibility for our actions, to try harder and to
change for the better.
How Do You Practice It?
Forgiveness is having the courage to face a mistake
that you or someone else has made. You may feel
sad, guilty or angry. Let your feelings come, and
then let them go, like leaves passing by in a
stream. Avoid revenge. Decide what amends need
to be made. If someone repeatedly hurts you,
forgiving them won't help. You need to stop giving
them chances co hurt you. Humbly learn from
mistakes. Sometimes mistakes are our best teach-
ers.
The Virtues Project
What would Forgiveness
look
llke If ...
•
Your friend accidentally broke one of your
belongings?
w Your mother is late picking you up from
school?
• You did something you feel is very bad?
•
Your brother repeatedly takes something
of yours without asking?
• A friend lost her temper at you and later
apologized?
• You decide you want to stop the habit of
criticizing?
Signs of Success
Congratulations! You are practicing Forgiveness
when you ...
w Remember that everyone makes mistakes
• Take responsibility for your own mistakes
•
Share your feelings without taking revenge
•
Stop giving uncaring people the chance to
hurt you
•
Accept people without judgment or
crtt1c1sm
"
Make amends instead of punishing your-
self with guilt
Affirmation
I am forgiving of others and my,e/f I a,n willing to
give and receive amends. I karn from my mistakes.
I have the power to ketp changing for the better.

Forgiveness
Fire Circle
This powerful cercn1ony has been done with
all ages, from pre-school through adult. There
are aherna(ives without fire. If fire is nor
available, have each person shred their paper
and release it into a basket. Have someone
agree to cake chem and burn 1hen1.
I. Read from this Guide about che vircuc of
Forgiveness and say chat all of us have done
things we regret or are sorry for.
2. Set a boundary chat silence will be kept
chroughout this exercise. There will be no
sharing. Ir is ro be done privately and indi-
vidually. No one else will look at whac we are
•
purnng on paper.
~
lKJ
Virtues
Reflection
Questions
Q
When do you find it most difficult to forgive?
What blocks you from being forgiving? What
would help you to replace chose habits wich
true forgiveness?
Ii
What virtues help you to keep from retaliat-
ing when someone hurts you?
Q
Name three chings you could do 10 make
amends if you break a promise co your mother?
Q When a friend huns you, what amends do
you need chem 10 make?
Drawing
Forgiveness
Draw cwo scenes: (I) friends not being forgiving,
(2) friends being forgiving.
3. Pass ouc slips of paper and invite individu-
als to write or draw something rhey feel very
guilty about. Do one yourself.
"-#
~
Poster Points
4. In a safe, outside area, have a small fire.
Q Starting over.
With older children, you can invite some 10
Q A clean slate.
be the fire makers, and some 10 be responsible
Q Turning the other cheek.
for dousing the fire with water afterward. All
Q To err is human, co forgive, divine.
is to be done in complete silence. Have wood, n,,.~
paper, kindling. n1a1ches available. Form a
circle and say "When you are ready. release
your mistake to the fire of forgiveness. If it is
appropriate in your secring, say a prayer for
forgiveness ... Forgive us these mistakes. Make
them our teachers. Help us to replace thcn1
with new ways of being and acting."
5. Come back in and invite each person to
write or draw a commitmen(. "'I commit to ... "
involving a virtue and an action which will
replace che mistake. Ir could be a form of
making amends. Close with a closure and
integration question "What did you appreciate
about 1his exercise?~
The Virtues Project
Quotable
Quotes
"Forgiveness
is not dn occasional act, it is a
pemutnent attitude. •• ~tanin Luthc=r King
"It is by forgiving that one i, forgiven."
Mother Teresa
"To err is hu,na11, to forgive, divine."
AJc:xander
rope
''One of the most important trips a man can
make is in meeting the other fellow halfway. •
Anonymous
"!/you haven't forgiven yourself something,
how can you forgive others?" Dolores Huerte

e)
What Is Frlendllness?
Friendliness is being a friend. It is taking an inter-
est in ocher people. le is going out of your way to
make others feel welcome or co make a stranger
feel at home. When you ate friendly, you happily
share your belongings, cin1e, ideas, and feelings.
You share the good times and the bad times to-
gecher. Friendliness is the best cure for loneliness.
Why Practice
It?
Friendliness keeps you and ochers from feeling
lonely or left out. It helps people feel that they
belong. When something good or bad happens, it
feels good co share it with a friend. Friendships
don't just happen -
they are made by people who
are willing 10 be themselves with each other.
How Do You Practice
It?
Friendliness begins with liking yourself and believ-
ing you have something to share with others. Be
kind to people you don't know. You can be
friendly just by walking down the hall, looking
into people's faces, and smiling. They will prob-
ably smile back. Show your friends you are glad to
see them, by asking how their day is going and
sharing your news with them.
The Virtues Project
What would
Friendliness
look
llke If ...
w
You see someone who is new at school
looking lonely?
w You wish you could make friends with a
popular student at school?
w Your parents invite a family to dinner
whom you have never mer?
w One of your friends looks like she has
been crying?
w You are walking past someone who looks
strange and dresses differently?
w You wish you had more friends?
Signs of Success
Congratulations! You are practicing Friendliness
when you ...
w Like yourself and realize you have a lot
to offer
w Smile and greet son1eone you don't
know
w Get to know someone and let them get
to know you
w Show an interest in others
w Show caring when a friend needs you
w Are friendly co people who look and
act different
Affirmation
I am friendly. I smile and greet people. I show an
interest in others. I like myself and k11ou1 that my
friendship is u,orth a lot.

A Friendly
Week
"'-#
~
Poster Points
Make a commitment together as a class 10 be
friendly to at least one new person a day for a
week and share about it on the last day of the
week. Questions to ask are:
• What was hard about it?
• What was easy about it?
• How did it feel 10 be friendlier?
• Did you meet anyone you would not have
met before?
• How has your friendliness helped make our
school/club/camp a better place?
Virtues
Reflection
Questions
Q What are some of the challenges or obstacles
to being friendly?
Qi What are the characteristics of a best friend?
'1 What would a good friend do if someone was
sad?
'1 How can you be friendly with someone without
making it into a "best friends" situation?
'1 What happens when cliques form and they are
unfriendly to everyone else?
Q
Name three things you can do to have more
friends.
II Drawing
Frlendllness
Draw a picture of people being friendly.
The Virtues Project
'1 A friend through good times and bad.
'1 Always a friend.
Q
Friendliness is contagious.
Q
There are a lot of interesting people our
there.
Quotable
Quotes
"Dont walk in font of mr
I may not follow
Dont walk brhi11d mr
I may not kad
Walk brsitk mr
And just br nzy ftir11d. "
Albe-rt Camus
"Th, fti,11dship that ca11 erase has 11,ver brr11
real. • St. Jerome
"Th, b,st u•ay to hav, a fo,nd is to br onr. •
Pc-ggy Jenkins
ii ftir11d love, you r11ough to ,upport you and
to confront you. " Anonymous
"'Tht u,or/d is /ikr d 111irror
Rrjkcti11g u•hat you do,
And if your face i, s1>1iling
It smiks right back at yo11. •
Unknown
"To bra ftirnd, ren1embrr that u,r arr hu"1a11
mag,1rts: that like attracts like a11d that as wr
•
•
g1 Vt Ult gtt,
Wilfred Pt"terson

What Is Generosity?
Generosity is giving and sharing. It is giving freely
because you want to, not with the idea of receiv-
ing a reward or a gift in return. Generosity is
being aware chat there is plenty for everyone. It is
seeing a chance to give what you have and then
giving just for the joy of giving. It is one of the
best ways to show love and friendship.
Why Practice It?
Without generosity, people act uncaring, refusing
to share their belongings, their time, and their
friendship. People who need help feel helpless
because no one will give them what they need.
When we give freely, especially if a sacrifice is
involved, our spirit grows strong. When one
person is generous, other people want to be
generous too.
How Do You Practice It?
When you are generous, you think of ways to
share what you have. You think about what people
need and do things to give them happiness. You
share your ti me, your ideas, your things, or your
money. When you give away something that is
really special to you, that is a very generous way to
show love. I, feels good to give freely, just for che
sake of giving.
The Virtues Project
What would Generosity
look
llke If ...
v A friend comes over to play the day after
your birchday and you have a new toy?
• Someone who has broken your things
before wants to borrow your favorite
thing?
• Your father is cooking dinner and needs
someone to set the table, and you're
watching a good TV show?
• A student in your class has forgotten her
lunch and doesn't have any money?
• Someone's birthday is coming up and you
wonder what to get him?
• You learn that there are children some-
where who are hungry and do not have
enough clothing?
Signs of Success
Congratulations! You are practicing Generosity
when you ...
• Are thoughtful about the needs of others
v Notice when son1eone needs help
"' Give freely without expectation of reward
•
Give fully without holding back
w Are willing to make sacrifices for others
•
Use wisdom about sharing treasured
belongings
Affirmation
I am generous. I look far opportunities to give and to
share. Th,,-, is plenty of tim, far thoughtfulness.
I giv, freely, folly. and joyfully.

Activities with G-c~c~6'i>tty
\ ~~ Generosity
List
,· ~a-~e a list of ways you can be generous
• ~~--With your time and energy
• with your belongings
Think of something generous to do for some-
one in your family and do it!
Gift Wish Box
Decorate a small recycled box or tissue con-
tainer. Make some paper hearts and write on
each of then1 some gifts you wish to give
others, such as an act of service (washing the
dishes, setting the table}, or a roy you are
willing to share for a day. Let someone take a
heart out of the box, and then be generous!
Virtues
Reflectlon
Questions
Q
When do you find it most difficult to share?
When do you feel like sharing?
Q
How do you feel when someone does not
share with you? How do you feel when some-
one does share with you?
Q
What helps you to be generous?
Who is it hard to be generous to? Who is it
easy to be generous to?
Q
Have you ever sacrificed something that was
important to you? How did that feel?
Q
When is it important to balance generosity
with assertiveness about what you choose to
share?
Q
What boundaries do you need to set with
people who are not gentle with your things?
Q Name three ways you can be generous at
home today.
The Virtues Project
Drawing
Generosity
Draw three of your favorite things. Are
these things to share or things to keep
only for your own use? (Deciding that is
up to you!) Include one thing that you
are willing to share.
''-#
~
Poster Points
Q
Giving freely, giving fully.
Q Giving joyfully.
Q
Sharing yourself.
Q The more we give the more we have.
Quotable
Quotes
'"What gors arou11d comrs arou11d. • Unknown
'"One of the marks of tn,e genius is a quality of
abundance." Carherine Drinker Bowen
i4 lllan ofhu,nanity is ont who. in seeking to
,stablish himself. finds a faothol,/ far others
a11d who, tksiring attai11,11e11t
far hi",s,lf.
helps others to attdin." Confucius
II cheerfi,I gil'er dors 11ot count the cost of
u,hat he gives. His heart is set on pleasing and
cheering hin1 to whon, thr gift is given. "
Julian of Norwich
"The more one gii,es, the "1ore one has. •
Chin<"~l"
Proverb
'"Whatever you give to others is also a gift to
your1elf •• Sanaya Roman

What Is Gentleness?
Gencleness is acting and speaking in a kind.
considerate way. It is using self-control. in order
not to hurt or offend anyone. You can be gentle
with people and animals in the way you touch
them and the way you speak to them. You handle
things carefully so they will not break or be hurt.
When you think gentle thoughts, it makes the
world a safer, gentler place.
Why Practice
It?
Without gentleness, things get broken and people
feel hurt. It is easy to become too rough or say
things we are sorry for. People are very sensitive
beings. l\lany things are delicate and fragile, but
feelings are the most fragile of all. When you are
gentle. people and things stay safe.
How Do You Practice
It?
Gentleness is moving wisely, touching softly,
holding carefully. speaking quietly and thinking
kindly. You have to think about being gentle.
Otherwise, it is easy co become coo rough, move
too fast or say hurtful things. When you feel mad
or hurt, instead of hurting someone back, talk
things out peacefully. When you think kindly and
gendy, people will see the gentleness in your eyes.
The Virtues ProJect
What would Gentleness
look
like If ...
w You want to touch or hold a baby?
o You have something ro tell your friend and
worry that his feelings might be hurt?
v You are setting che table with your family's
best dishes?
" You walk into your classroom and start to
slam the door?
w You find an injured animal?
w You're wrestling too roughly with a friend?
Signs of Success
Congratulations! You are practicing Gentleness
when you ...
w Make it safe for people and animals to be
around you
w Touch carefully
v
Speak with a soft voice
v
Express your feelings peacefully
w Take 1in1e out when you don't feel gencle
v
Think gentle thoughts that make you
smile inside
Affirmation
I am gentft'. I think, speak and act u,ith gentleness.
I shou• cart far people t111d
far e,,,rythi11g
I touch.

Activities with Gctztlotzcw'D
Activities
with Gentleness
Q
Bring a small animal into class and have
students take turns holding it gently.
Q
Invite students to write or tell a story about
a bully who learns to be gentle.
Q Take a few quiet moments, 10 stroke 1he
back of your hand with your fingertips very,
very gently, as if you were stroking a kitten.
Then reverse and stroke the other hand.
Nocice how gentle you feel now.
? Virtues
Reflection
Questions
•
Q When is it most important to be gentle with
people?
Q How does it feel when someone is rough or
unkind to you?
Q How docs it feel to be rough and unkind?
Q
Name three things you need to remember if
you are going to handle something delicate?
Q What do you need to remember when you
pick up a baby?
Q What other vinucs can help you to be gentle?
Q
How would you keep your gentleness if you
felt annoyed when someone bumped in10
you?
Q
How could you tell your friend someching
that isn't pleasant for him co hear? (e.g., he
needs a bath, she is coming over to your house
too often, you feel like being with someone
else for a while.)
The Virtues Prqiect
II Drawing
Gentleness
Draw a picture of some baby animals that
need lots of gentleness.
"-#
~
Poster Points
Q
Easy does it.
Q
Q
Q
Q
Grntk as a dovr.
Soft as a ftathrr.
Taking cart.
A light touch.
Quotable
Quotes
"Urr a rwttt tongue, courtesy, and gtntknesr,
and thou mayrst managt to guidt an rkphant
by a hair. " Sa'di
"/ want a kinder, grntkr nation.• George Bush
"Th, gr,at of tarth, how softly do th,y /ivr. •
Ruth Tenney
"Thtrt ir certainly romrthing in ang/ing ... that
trnds to product a gtntlrn,ss of spirit. and a
purt rrrtnity of mind. •
Washington Irving (referring to fishing)
"Tht grntlr mind by gtntk dt,ds is known.•
Edmund Spensc-r
"Th, quality of mercy is not strained,
ft dropptth tvtn as tht gtntk rain from htavrn
Upon th, place beneath: it is twicr blrssrd; ft
bkrstth him that givts and him that takrr. •
William Shakespeare (The Merchant of Venice)

tzcss
g
g
g
g
g
g
g
g
g
g
g
g
g
g
g
g w w w w w w w
What Is Helpfulness?
Helpfulness is being of service. It is doing useful
things for people, such as things they cannot do for
themselves, something they do not have time to do,
or just li,rle things 1ha1 make life easier. It is impor-
tant to be helpful to ourselves too, by taking care of
our bodies. There are times when we need help
from others. That is a good time to ask for help.
Why Practice It?
We all need help sometimes. We need people to
teach us, and people 10 give us their strength or
ideas. Sometimes we just need a friend 10 talk to.
If there were no helpfulness, there would be no
cooperation. When we practice helpfulness we gee
more done. We make each ocher's lives easier.
How Do You Practice lt7
When you are helpful, you care about others. You
don't wait co be asked. You notice what needs co
be done and just do it. If you cannot figure out
what someone needs, ask chem "How can I help?"
or "What do you need?" Remember co help
yourself by eating healthy foods, exercising and
getting plenty of rest. And remember to ask for
help when you need ic.
The Virtues Project
What would Helpfulness
look
llke If ...
o A friend is carrying a whole pile of books?
• le is time for dinner and your mother
could use help?
• You notice chat a friend looks sad?
o Your best friend asks you if he can copy
your homework?
• An older person just slipped and fell?
g
You see a student surrounded by a group
who don't look friendly?
Signs of Success
Congraculacions! You arc practicing Helpfulness
when you ...
w Notice when someone needs help
•
Do a service without being asked
• Give people what they need, not always
what they want
•
Listen 10 someone who needs to talk
" Care for your own needs
• Ask for help when you need it
Affirmation
I am h,Ipful. I look for ways to be ofs,rvicr. I car,
for other, and myself I look for helpful ways to make
a difference.

•
Activities with Rclpfbl,zciti>
I.I I.I I.I g
g
I.I I.I g
g
g
I.I g
g
g
I.I I.I I.I g
I.I I.I I.I g
g
Making
a Difference
Discuss wha1 would be helpful 10 your school
and design a projec1 10 make a difference.
Remember 10 ask permission before you do i1.
~#
~
Poster Points
g
Show that you care.
Virtues
Reflection
Questions
Q Caring is a special way of loving.
g Yes, I care!
I.I Giving my best.
I.I How are you helpful a1 home?
I.I Describe a time you helped an animal.
I.I Name three ways you could be: more helpful
a1 home.
I.I How would you be: helpful to a substi1ute
teacher?
I.I When have you needed help and how did it
feel?
I.I Was it easy or difficult to ask for help?
Q Whal was i1 like 10 receive help?
I.I When have you been helpful 10 someone
outside of your family?
Q
How can you tell if what someone asks you to
do for them is helpful or not?
I.I What is the most helpful way to respond if
someone is injured?
Drawing
Helpfulness
Draw a picture of a person or an animal who
needs help and someone helping them.
The Virtues ProJect
Q Earth is our home. Let's take care of our
home.
Quotable
Quotes
"/ would hrlp othm out offtllowfrrling. •
Rohen Burron
"if/ can stop on, Htartfton, br,aki11g
I shall not /iv, in vain
if I can rasr onr Life thr Achi11g
Or cool on, Pain
Or htlp ont fainting Robin
Unto his Ntst again
I shall not livr i11 vain. •
Emily Dickinson
"No 011r can sincerely try to h,lp anorh,r
without helping himself" Unknown
"01,, I grt by with a /in/, hrlp from my
ftirnds. • John Lennon •nd Paul ~lcC,nncy
"/ rxprct to pass through this world but oner;
any good thing therefore that I ca11 do, or any
kindnrss that I can show to any ft/low crea-
ture, kt mr do it now; kt mt not dtftr or
n,gl,ct it, for I shall not pass this way again. "
Anonymous

What Is Honesty?
Being honest is being open, trustworthy and
truthful. When people are honest, they can be
relied on not to lie. cheat, or steal. Honesty is
telling the truth. It is admitting mistakes even
when you know someone might be angry or
disappointed. Being honest means that you don't
pretend to be something you are not. With hon-
esty, you can trust things to be as they appear.
Why Practice It?
Honesty is important because it builds trust.
When people lie~ ot cover up mistakes, others can't
trust them. When people aren't honest with them-
selves, they pretend that son1ething doesn't matter
when it does or they exaggerate to impress ochers.
When you are honest with yourself, you accept
yourself as you are. When you are honest, others
can believe you.
How Do You Practice It?
When you are honest, you don't try to fool your-
self or others. You say what you mean and mean
what you say. You only make promises you can
keep. Be trustworthy in all your dealings, refusing
to lie or cheat. Admit your mistakes and fix them.
Be honest with yourself and you will be honest
with others. You don't need to make things up to
look good - you're already good - honest!
The Virtues ProJect
What would Honesty
look llke
If ...
w- You broke one of your mother's favorite
things by accident and are afraid she will
be mad?
• You find yourself exaggerating about how
well you did in sports?
w Your sister asks you if a new dress looks
good on her and you think it doesn't?
w You say something cruel to someone and
later tell yourself he deserved it?
w You forgot to do your homework and the
teacher asks where it is?
~ Some friends try to convince you co steal
candy from a srore?
Signs of Success
Congratulations! You are practicing Honesry when
you ...
w Say what you n1ean and mean what you say
" Make promises you can keep
Q
Admit your mistakes
•
Refuse to lie, cheat, or steal
" Tell the truth tactfully
• Arc true to yourself and do what you know
is right
Affirmation
I am honest. I can be trllsted to keep rny u•ord.
I admit my mistakes. I ttll the trllth. kindly and
tactfully. I have no need to iff1press other,. I accept
mys,lf as I arn.

Activities lfith K~tzcj;t~
Q
Q
Q
Q Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Role Play
Drawing
Honesty
Draw an example of someone practicing
honesty.
Have a role play of a pie salesperson crying
to make a big impression, making big claims
for what is for sale, and how people react.
Then have a role play of the same person
describing what is for sale with honesty. "~
'4111' Poster Points
Virtues
Sharing Clrcle
With a par1ner share a time you did not
prac1ice honesty and how it felt and a time
you did practice honesty and how it felt. Give
each ocher vir1ues acknowledgmenls when you
are finished. "I see your (vir1ue) in the way
you (action or behavior)."
Story
Read a story about "Honest Abe" Lincoln and
how his simple honesty won people's admira-
tion and respect.
Virtues
Reflectlon
Questions
Q
When is it the most difficult to be honest?
Qi Name a time you practiced honesty.
Q
How do you feel when someone exaggerates?
Q
Why do we want to impress others by exag-
gerating?
Q
What would it feel like to always tell the
truth and keep our word?
Q
How does honesty help friendship to grow
strong?
O Why is it important 10 be honest?
The Virtues Project
Q Honest!
Q Nothing but the tru1h.
Q What you see is what you get.
Quotable
Quotes
"Every man tak,s car, that his neighbor shall
not chrat him. But a day comes whm h, brgins
to carr that hr dors not cheat his neighbor.
Th,n all gors w,ll •
Ralph Waldo Emerson
"If rach befo" his own door ,wept. the vi/lag,
would br ckan. •
Sconish proverb
"Fin, words and an insinuating apprarancr
art 1tlaom as.sociattd with true virtut."
Confucius
"Honrsry is contagious, just lik, dishon,sry is
contagious. W, nerd mo" honrsry in thr
world. " Anne Wilson Schacf
"To dream of thr prrson you would /ik, to b, is
to wast, thr prrson you a". • Anonymous

What Is Honor?
Honor is living with a sense of respect for what you
believe is right. It is living by the virtues, showing
great respect for yourself, other people, and the
rules you live by. When you are honorable, you
don't have to feel ashamed of who you are or what
you are doing. You are worthy of respect. You set a
good example.
Why Practice It?
Without honor, people act disrespectfully and do
things which make them and others feel ashamed.
They just do what they want without caring about
the virtues or whether it is right or wrong. 'When
someone is honorable, ocher people trust them to
do what is right. Their word of honor means they
will do exactly whac they promise. People respect
and look up to someone who is honorable.
How Do You Practice It?
When you act with honor, you do the right thing
regardless of what others are doing. You keep your
promises, without anyone reminding or nagging
you. You honor your elders by speaking respect-
fully to them. You honor yourself by being your
best, practicing your virtues every day. When you
act with honor, you set a good example, not to be
admired, but just because it is the right thing to do.
The Virtues Project
What would Honor look llke If ...
w Your friend told you a secret?
• You are mad at your mother when she asks
you to do something?
w A friend cries co gee you to steal some
money co go co a movie?
• You find some money in the school hall-
way?
• Everyone is teasing a child in the play-
ground?
w You promised to practice your instrument
while your parents are out?
Signs of Success
Congratulations! You are practicing Honor when
you ...
w
Practice your virtues
•
Keep your word
•
Respect the rules you want to live by
w Do what you believe is right no matter
what
• Set a good exan,ple for others
w Avoid doing things which make you feel
ashamed
Affirmation
I am honorablt. I keep n1y agrrt111en1s
a11d treat
others with respect. I live by the virtues. I care about
doing th, righ1 thi11g.

Activities with
Keitzei~
~
•
'
Code of Honor
Create a code of honor for your school or class
chat reflects che values and ground rules you
have.
quadrant one of your strength virtues, in
the top right quadrant one of your fami-
ly's strength virtues, in the lower left, the
word "Joy", in the lower right one of your
challenging or "growth" virtues. one that
needs to grow. Draw a symbol or illustra-
tion of the virtue in each quadrant.
Virtues
Reflectlon
Questions
Q
Name a character front a story or film who
lives honorably?
VI'_.,.
~
Poster Points
Q
Name a person you know you can trust
because that person is honorable.
Q
Name three things that are in your personal
code of honor, the rules you want to live by.
Q
How can you make sure to keep your agree-
ments?
Q
How could you be honorable after making a
mistake?
Q
Practice honoring people in your class by
saying "I honor you for the virtue of ... (name
a virtue you see in them.) and I see it in you
when you .. ."
Q
How can you be loyal to your friends and
honorable to what you think is right even
when they don't?
Drawing
Honor
Create your personal shield of honor, the
virtues that are in your own code of honor
and drawings that represent these strengths.
Do it in four quadrants. Put in the top left
The Virtues Project
Q
On my honor.
Q
Word of honor.
Q
Code of honor.
Q
Doing the right thing.
Quotable
Quotes
"If ptace cannot be n1aintained u1ith honor, it
is no longer peace. " John Russell
'"My honor is dearer to n1e than my life. "
Ctrvanrc-s
"Piety requires us to honor truth above our
friends.•• Unknown
"There is no pi/lou1 so-soft as a clear con-
•
••
•
sc1enct. frcnch proverb
"Jfyou wou/Jni write it and sign it, don't say
. ..
II.
Anonymous
"lfyou seek u,hat is honorabk, what is good,
what is the truth of your lift, all the other
thing1 you could not i,nagine come .as a matter
of course.
n Oprah Winfrey

What Is Humlllty?
When you are humble you don't act a.s if you are
more important than other people. You are happy
to serve others and think other people's needs are
important. You don't expect others or yourself to
be perfect. You don't criticize others or yourself.
You admit mistakes and learn from them. Some-
times mistakes are our best teachers.
Why Practice It?
Wirhour humility, people act as if what rhey have
to say and do is much more important than what
anyone else is saying or doing. With humility,
instead of comparing ourselves to others. we are
grateful for what we can do. Humility helps you
to keep learning. It helps you to treat others as
equals. different yet equal. Humility can keep you
free from prejudice.
How Do You Practice It?
To practice humility, don't worry about impressing
other people. Just be yourself and do your best.
Instead of worrying over failures or mistakes, be
eager co learn from them. Ask for help when you
need it. When you are wrong, admit it, and then
change your behavior. Strive to be a little better
today than you were yesterday. When you do
something wonderful, humility reminds you to be
thankful instead of boastful.
The Virtues Project
What would Humlllty look llke
If ...
• You notice that you can run much faster
than your friend?
• You notice that your friend usually gets
better marks than you?
w You make a big mistake and hurt some-
one's feelings?
• Your brother does a chore and you think
he could have done a better job?
• You have a habit you feel ashamed oP.
• You have a problem rhar you cannot solve?
Signs of Success
Congratulations! You are practicing Humility
when you ...
.., Consider che needs of others as important
as your own.
• Apologize and make amends when you
hurt others.
•
Learn from your mistakes and keep chang-
ing for the better.
• Ask for help when you need it.
v Are doing your best jus, to do it. not to
. impress anyone.
u Are grateful instead of boastful.
Affirmation
I am humbk, / learn ftom my mistakes. IM not
judge other, or n1yself I value my ability to keep
growing and learning.

Activities with Ka~iltt~
Q
Q Q
Q
Q
Q
Q Q
Q
Q
Q Q
Q
Q
Q
Q Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Humble Tea
Have a tea party and have people take turns
serving one another.
? Virtues
Reflection
Questions
•
Q What is one of the "best" mistakes you ever
made - one that taught you the most.
Q How can you show humility when you hurt
someone else's feelings?
Q Name three ways 10 make a true apology.
Q What helps you 10 accept your mistakes and
move on?
Q Name cwo things you could do to be of
service to someone in your family.
Q What does it feel like co be criticized and
blamed?
Q What does it feel like to be around someone
who always thinks they know more than
you?
Q What does it feel like to hide a mistake you
have made?
Q What would give you the courage to admit it
and make amends?
J 84
The Virtues Project
Drawing
Humility
Draw a picture of a team of athletes
who have won a game, being thank-
ful and sharing their happiness
together.
Poster Points
Q Free to be you and me.
Q Learning life's lessons.
Q Looking for the teachable moments.
Q Willing to keep learning.
" Quotable
Quotes
"Th, lift which is not examined is not worth
living. • Pla10
"No on, is better than anyone ,Is,, and no on,
r,ally b,lin1,s that. • Tolbert McCarrol
"Wt com, n,arot to th, grtat whm w, ar,
grtat in humility.• Rabindath Tagore
"Humility is to make a right estimate of one's
self." Charle, Haddon Spurgron
"Th, jint ttst of a r,ally great man is his
humility.• John Ruskin

What Is Idealism?
A person with ideals is a person who really cares
about what is right and meaningful in life. When
you practice idealism, you have beliefs that mean
something to you and you follow chem. You don•,
just accept things the way rhey are. You want to
make a difference. Idealists dare to have big
dreams and then act as if they are possible.
Why Practice It?
People without ideals or dreams live as if nothing
matters very much. They have no dreams of what
is possible. They settle for whatever happens.
Without idealism, the world's problems would
never change. When you practice idealism, you
trust that tomorrow can be better than today. You
see what is possible and act 10 make it happen.
How Do You Practice It?
Idealism begins by picturing what you would
ideally like to see happen. It could be a vision of
what you will do when you grow up or of some-
thing you want to achieve now. It could be a
dream of having the best friend ever, or a new
invention, or making the world a better place.
When you practice idealism, you have dreams and
then act to make the ideal real. You make a plan
and step by step, your dream can come true.
The Virtues Project
What would Idealism look llke
., ...
" You would like to see your school free of
prejudice?
w People tell you your dream is impossible?
w You want to make the ideal gift for your
mother?
w You feel somewhat hopeless about achiev-
ing a goal?
•
You don't know what you really care
about?
v You have a dream of becoming a great
musician or athlete?
Signs of Success
Congratulations! You are practicing Idealism when
you ...
w Really care about what you value in life
v Dare to have big dreams
" Have a vision of what is possible
" Have a plan to make your ideals real
• Take action to make your dreams come
true
" Do something to make a difference in the
world
Affirmation
/ /iv, by my idtals. I btlitvt in my dreams. / havt
faith that anything is possible.

Aetivities with id&alts~
Collage of Dreams
II Drawing
Idealism
Draw an ideal picture of yourself doing
something you would love co do.
An excellent exercise to draw forth Idealism,
to focus on goals and dreams. Use phocos,
words and pictures from old magazines, glue,
paste, sparkles, ecc. co have students make a
collage of the core virtues ther want in their
lives, including chose they wane to develop
n1ore fully. You may wish to make up strips
of paper with the names of the 52 virtues on
chem as well. When che collages are done,
give plenty of time for each student co share
and describe chei r collage to the group, and
have cwo or three people in the group give
che student a virtues acknowledgment when
they are finished speaking. When students
display these in their bedrooms or on class-
room walls, chey are reminded of their ideals.
~~
~
Poster Points
• ,
Virtues
Reflection
Questions
Q What is your ideal picture of how this school
(or camp or troop, etc.) can be?
Q Whac are some of your dreams for your
future?
Q
What are some of rhe ideals or values of your
family?
Q
What would you like to be when you grow up?
Q
What plan would help you to succeed?
Q
Name three people you know or in history
who have made a difference in the world?
Q What are chree things we could do as a group
to make a difference in our school or town?
"
If you could do anything you wanced, whac
would you achieve?
The Virtues Project
Q
I have a dream.
Q
Daring ro dream.
Q Making a difference.
Q A dream of one world.
Quotable
Quotes
"I hav~ a dream. •• Manin Luther King
"Humanity at last is divided into ju11 three
class,,.· tho,, u•ho DREAM, those who DO,
and tho,, who DO WHAT THEY DREAM.
And in the end it is only these last that count. "
Dr. H.C. Goddard
"The difference brtwren a dream and the
vision is the u1ork pUln." Stu.1.rc
Schrotdtr
"Hold fast to dreams for if drea,ns die, life is ti
brokrn-u•ing,d bird that cannot fly "
Langston Hughes
"Lravr everything a little better than you
found it. " Anonymous
"Adventure is r,Jk u1ith a purpose. "
Roben f\..h:Clure
"What gift and enduring achievement has the
world tvtr accomplish,d that was not based on
idea/isn1." Sir Wilfred Lauritr
"Shoulders back, bead up, look the fat11rr in
the rye. " Maya Angdou
"You are never given a drean, without al.so
being given the pou1er to make it true.»
Richard Rach

What Is Integrity?
Integrity is standing up for what you believe is
right, living by your highest values. le is being
honest and sincere with ochers and yoursel( You
are integrous when your words and actions march.
You don't fool yourself into doing what you know
is wrong. You fill your life and your mind with
things that help you to live a good, clean life.
Why Practice
It?
Without integrity, no one would be able to trust
each other to do what they say they are going to
do. Integrity helps us to listen to our conscience,
to do the right thing, co tell the truth. When
people act with integrity, they stand for some-
thing. Ochers believe them and rely on them.
Integrity gives us self-respect and a peaceful heart.
How Do You Practice It?
You practice integrity by chinking about the
virtues chat matter co you and doing your best to
live by chem. When you make a mistake, you
clean it up. You don't follow the crowd. You chink
for yourself. You don't say one thing and do
another. You do che right thing even when no one
is watching. Even when it is hard to do the right
thing, you stand strong.
The Virtues Project
What would Integrity
look llke
If ...
w All your friends are going to a movie your
parents don't want you to see?
w You promised your friend you would keep
her secret?
w The teacher has left the room?
w You find a jacket at school and it's nicer
than yours~
" Ocher people are cheating on a test?
" You have agreed to do a job and it be-
comes too hard?
Signs of Success
Congratulations! You are practicing Integrity when
you ...
w Think about what virtues you care about
w Stand strong for what you believe
w Willingly clean up mistakes
w Do the right thing even when it is hard
" Think for yourself and avoid temptation
w Are your own leader
Affirmation
I havr integrity. I 1nea11 u,hat I say and say u1hat
I me1111.
I sta,zd up for what I feel is right. I am my
ou,n leader.

Role Play
Discuss situations chat tempt us to cheat, lie
or compromise our principles such as finding
something we really like that doesn't belong to
us. Then role play the scenario showing what
it would look like with the practice of integrity.
What I Stand For
Make a list of three to five virtues that are
most important in your code of honor, the
ones you want to live by.
Virtues
Reflectlon
Questions
g
What would a friendship be like without
integrity?
g
What would a friendship be like if both
people were integrous?
g
How do people feel around someone who
doesn't do what they say they will do?
g
What would help you to do the right thing
even if others are trying to lead you into
tempcatLon?
Q
When is it hard for you to practice integrity?
When is it easier for you to practice integrity?
g
What do you think are the most important
virtues?
Drawing
Integrity
Make an integrity collage of the virtues you
care about, with pictures and words.
The Virtues Project
g
g
g
g
g
g
g
g
g
VI!.~
~
Poster Points
g
Doing the right thing.
g
Standing strong for what I believe.
g
Standing up for justice.
g
What you see is what you get.
g
I mean what I say and say what I mean.
Quotable
Quotes
"Th, only thing 11,c,,sary
for th, triumph of
roil is for enough good men to do nothing. "'
Attributed to Edmund Burke
"If w, don't stand for so"1ething, we1/ foll for
anything. • Vic Kirchen
•w,. can chang, our whou lift and th, atti-
tude ofp,opuaround us simply by changing
ours~/ves. " Rudolf Drcikurs
"In matters ofstyk, swiffl with the current, i11
matt,rs ofprincipu, stand like a rock."
Thomas Jefferson
"Character is destiny . ., Hcradilus
"Rrmorst is tht rcho of lutt i1irtue . ..
Bulwar Lyton
"Compromisr to plea,, other, is not as good as
integrity that annoys others. " Hu.1.nchu Daoren
"What you are speaks so loudly, l cant hear
what you're sdying." RAiph Waldo Em,rson

What Is Joyfulness?
Joyfulness is being filled with happiness. 11 is a
peaceful sense of well-being. Joy is inside us all. I,
comes from an appreciation for the gifts each day
brings. Joy comes when we are doing what we
know is right, and when we laugh and see the
humor in things. Joy is the inner sense that can
carry us through the hard times even when we are
feeling very sad.
Why Practice 117
Without inner joy, all our feelings are determined
by what is happening 10 us. When things are going
well, we feel glad. When things are going wrong,
we feel bad. Without joyfulness, when the fun
stops, our happiness stops. When we are joyful,
things still happen 10 us, some good and some
bad. If we are joyful, down deep we stay calm and
serene. We look forward to things changing for the
better.
. '
How Do You Practice 117
Joyfulness is looking forward to your day, knowing
it will be good. Whatever you are doing, do it
with a joyful heart. Find ways 10 have fun in your
work and in your play. When good things happen
to you, enjoy them fully. When sad things happen,
let the sadness come and then let it go. Find the
gift in what is happening - is this a way 10 become
stronger? Something new 10 learn? Enjoy your life!
The Virtues Project
))
What would Joyfulness
look
llke If ...
• Your father asked you to clean out the
garage?
• A friend you like a lot moves away!
• You have a difficult homework assignment?
• You spend some time thinking about your
life?
• You feel sad and down?
• You have a free day with no plans?
Signs of Success
Congra1:ulacions! You are praccicing Joyfulness
when you ...
w Look inside for happiness
• Enjoy whatever you are doing
v Appreciate the gifts in your life and in
yourself
"' Find creative ways to enjoy your time
• Have a good sense of humor
w Feel an inner peace even when things are
tough
Affirmation
I am thankfal for the joy I fie/ inside. I enjoy my
work and my play. I appreciate the gifts this day holds
for me.

Activities with ~8~fal:qcss
Q
Q
Q
Q Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
~\A* Virtues
Sharing
Clrcle
Sit or stand in a circle and each person
shares one thing that they enjoy, or char
brings them joy.
Joy Icebreaker
Have individuals move around the room
and stand in front of another person, look
into their eyes and ask "What gives you
joy?" Then their partner asks them the
same question. They then move to the
next person and give a new answer.
Virtues
Reflection
Questions
Q What gives you joy?
Q Name three activities you enjoy.
Q
How can you practice joyfulness when things
aren1c going well?
Q What cheers you up when you feel down?
Q
If you had a whole day in front of you. what
would be the most enjoyable way to spend it?
Q
How can you enjoy a boring cask?
Q
Share a funny thing chat happened to you.
Q
Share one of the most enjoyable times you
ever spent with your family.
Drawing
Joyfulness
Make a collage or poster of the things in your
life which give you joy.
The Virtues Project
Q
Q
Q
Q Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
"'-#
~
Poster Points
Q Joy gives us wings.
\I
My heart is full of joy.
Q
I enjoy life!
Q
Life is good.
Quotable
Quotes
''joy gives u.r wings! At times ofjoy our smngth
is mort vital, our intellect keener, and our
u11tbntanding ks, clouded We ,eem better
abk to cope u1ith the world and find our
sphere ofi1,jlutnce. •~ 'Abdu'I-Baha
''joy is an inside job. " Don Blanding
"He who binds to himself a joy
Doth the u,inged life destroy:
But he u,/,o kis,rs thr joy as it flirs
Lives in Eternity's sunn·se. "
William Blake
"There is no such thing as the pursuit of
happine,s. there is 011/y the di,covery ofjoy."
Joyce Grenfell
''joy is the presence of love far self a11d far
other,, a state of gratit11de a11d cornpassion, an
nu•areness of being connected to our highrr stJf
""d ofbei11g 011r with rvcrything."
l\·ggy Jenkins

What Is Justice?
Practicing justice is being fair in everything you do.
It is seeing with your own eyes and not judging
something or someone by what other people tell
you. Being just is standing up for your rights and
the rights of other people. It is taking responsibility
if you make a mistake and making amends. Justice
means that every person's rights are protected.
Why Practice It?
Without justice, people get away with hurting or
taking advantage of others, and keep on doing it.
Without justice, the world can be a cruel and
dangerous place. People are judged by their gen-
der, race or religion. When justice is practiced,
everyone has a fair chance to be seen for who they
are. If someone is accused of something, they get a
chance to tell their side. With justice, everyone
gees a fair share.
L:h-Oh
How Do You Practice It?
If someone is hurting you, it is just to stop them.
It is never just for strong people to hurt weaker
people. If you hurt someone else, fix the problem
by making amends. Investigate the truth for
yourself instead of listening to others. Instead of
prejudging, see people as individuals. Don't accept
it when someone acts like a bully, cheats or lies.
Being a champion for justice takes courage. Some~
times when you stand for justice, you stand alone.
The Virtues Project
'
I
What would Justice
look llke
If ...
w You are with a group and they start to
gossip?
• Everyone is teasing a child who looks
different?
.., Someone makes a remark to you about
people of another race?
• An older child keeps getting rough with
you?
• Something is missing from your room and
you think your brother took it?
w You are ceasing someone and cause their
lunch to fall on the floor?
Signs of Success
Congratulations! You are practicing Justice when
you ...
" Think for yourself
• Avoid gossip and backbiting
•
Refuse to prejudge -
see people as indi-
viduals
w Own up to your mistakes and accept the
consequences
v Share fairly with others
• Stand up for people's rights, including
your own
Affirmation
I act with justice. I stand up far the rights of others
and myself I have no need to pretend or defend
I choose to make an1e11ds.

Activitiel Vlith
e5uslie&
Gossip Line
Play the game of"telephone" where some-
thing is whispered down the line from one
person to another. See how che sentence
changes when it comes out the other end.
Discuss how this is like gossip and backbit-
ing. Spreading rumors supports injustice.
Come up with tactful things to say when
you don't wish to participate in gossip.
Make a Justice Plan
As a class, make a plan for justly resolving
conflict~ such as a Peace Corner. See activities
under Chapter 3 Setting Clear Boundaries.
Virtues
Reflection
Questions
Q
What is it like to receive prejudice?
Q
Why do people judge one another like chat?
Q What would you do if you saw bullying? How
would you stay safe while doing something to
stand up for the rights of those being hullied?
U
What are some times you have wished for
justice?
'-' What are some dmes you have admitted a
mistake and cleaned it up?
Q
How can you cell when you have made
amends that fit ,he mistake?
Q
What are some houndaries or ground rules
1ha1 keep us safe?
19 2
The Virtues Project
Drawing
Justice
Draw a picture of people of different
colors practicing justice together.
"#
~
Poster Points
Q
No need to pretend or defend. Make
amends!
Q
Q
Q
Q
Color blind.
One family.
Play fair.
Stand up for Justice.
Quotable
Quotes
'.ii man u,/Jo knows he has con1n1itted a
mistake and dorsni ron-ect it is comn1itti11g
another mistake. " Confucius
"What goe, around comes around."
Anon\·n1ous.
"True pe,1ce is not 111err/y the absence of ten-
sion. It i, the presence ofjustict. "
Martin Luther Kini;'!:
"There is a limit at which forebearance ceases
to bt a virtt,e ... F.JntonJ Burkr
"Hear one siM, and you will be in tht dark;
hear both sides, and al/ ,,,if/ be clear. "
Halihunon
110ne injustice c,1111101
be redressed by another
injustice." Sergio Vieir.1. Oe Mello

e)
What Is Kindness?
Kindness is showing you care, doing some good to
make life better for others. It is being thoughtful
about people's needs. Kindness is showing love
and compassion to someone who is sad or needs
your help. Kindness is treating yourself and others
gently. le is caring about the earth and all living
things.
Why Practice 111
Without kindness, no one would listen when
people or animals need help. Everyone would be
looking out for himself. The world is lonely
without kindness. When someone reaches out to
another in an act of kindness, it helps them both.
People's lack of kindness to the earth damages the
air, water and the land. This causes people and
animals to suffer, too. Being kind allows us to feel
connected co everything and everyone.
How Do You Practice lt1
You practice kindness by noticing when someone
or something needs care. Become sensitive co the
world around you. Use your imagination to think
of things that give others happiness. Find out what
habits harm the earth and choose kinder ways to
live. When you are tempted to be cruel, to criti-
cize: or tease, decide not co do it. Speak kindly
instead. Greet people kindly. Take good care of
your pets.
The Virtues Project
What would Kindness look llke
If ...
w A new student comes into your class and
looks lonely?
• You stare teasing your brother and he is
getting upset?
• Some kids you have been playing with
start ceasing a boy with big ears?
• Your cat has some burrs in her fur?
v Your mother seems tired lately?
• You see someone in a wheel chair coming
toward you?
Signs of Success
Congratulations! You are practicing Kindness
when you ...
., Give tender attention to someone who is
sad or needs help
w Do things co give ochers happiness
1o1 Practice habits chat help the environment
(reduce, re-use, recyle)
w
Resist the temptation to be cruel
w Accept people who are different
Affirmation
I am kind. I look for ways ro h,lp others. I show
kindness to any person or animal I stt. I do all/ can
to take car, of the earth.

Environmental
Kindness
Choose an in1proven1cnc project such as
picking up trash and do it as a field trip.
Virtues
Reflection
Questions
\I
What do most people do when they see
someone with a disability or who looks
different?
\I
How docs it feel to be ignored, teased, etc.?
\I What would be a kind way to treat someone
who is disabled?
U Nan1e three ways we can be kind to animals.
Q
Think of someone who needs your kindness
today. What can you do to be kind?
\I What would you say or do if someone is not
being kind to you?
Q
How have you shown kindness to people or
animals?
11 Drawing
Kindness
t......J~
Draw a picture of yourself being kind to a
person or an anima1.
Make a poster with exan1ples of Recycling,
Reusing, Reducing, e.g .. Reducing: just turn-
ing off the tap while we brush our teeth can
save lots of water.
The Virtues ProJect
"~
'6
Poster Points
\I
Kind eyes.
\I Kind smile.
Q
Kind words.
11 Kind deeds.
II
Be Kind to Mankind.
Quotable
Quotes
"When you plant a lettuce, ifir does not grou1
well, you don't b!dme th, lettuce. You look for
reasons it is not doing u,e/l. ft ,nay need
firtiliur or n1ore water or kss Hill. You never
b!dme th, l,ttuce. Yet if we have problems with
our friends or fan1ily. we bla1r1e
the other
person. But if we know hou1 to take care of
them, they u•i/1 gro11•
z,,ell, like the lettuce.•
Thich Nhat Hanh
"That best portion of a good n1a11's lift
His little. nan1eless.
11nren1en1bered
acts
of kindness and of love." \'<'.\'(l_ \X'ordswonh
"The lost, best fruit ,vhich conies to perftctio11,
even in the kindliest soul, is tenderness tou,ard
the hard. forbearance tou•ard the u1,forbeari11g,
u1am1th of heart tou1ard the cold ... " Richter
"Let no one e11tr con1t to you li'ithout ll'aving
better ,111d happier. Be t/,e living e.>,:pression
of
Gods kindness; kindness i11 your face. kindness
in your eyes. kindners in your smik, kindness
.
. ..
1n your u1am1 greet111g. Mother Teresa
"There is a grace of ki11d listening as u,ell as a
grace ofki11d speaking.• Anonymous
"If so111eo11e
listens or stretches out a h,111d, or
whispers 11 kind word of e11courage111e11t,
or
atten,pts to understand a lonely person. ex~
traordi11ary
things begi11 to happen. "
Lorena (;irzatlis

What Is Love?
Love is a special feeling chat fills your heart. You
show love in a smile, a pleasant way of speaking, a
thoughtful act or a hug. Love is treating people
and things with special care and kindness because
chey mean so much to you. Love is treating ocher
people just as you would like them 10 treat you -
with care and respect.
Why Practice
It?
Without love, people feel alone. When they don't
feel they matter to anyone, they become unhappy.
Somecimes they act angry and don't let others get
close. Everyone wants to be liked. Everyone likes
to be loved. When you are being loving, you help
ochers co feel imporcant. They become gentler and
kinder. Love is contagious. le keeps spreading.
How Do You Practice
It?
Love is putting yourself in someone else's shoes
and caring about what they feel. le is accepting
chem, loving them just as they are. You can even
be loving to people you don't know, just by caring
about what happens to them and sending loving
thoughts. Sharing is a way to show love. Share
your belongings, your time and yourself. Love is
chinking about how you want to be treated and
treating others the same way.
The Virtues Project
What would Love look llke If ...
w You start to get upset with yourself about
something you have done?
w You want to do son1ething thoughtful
when your father is sick?
w Another child is acting cranky?
w You notice a baby bird has fallen from its
nest?
.,; You love your ceacher and wane to show ic?
w You have a special object that you really
care about?
Signs of Success
Congratulations! You are practicing Love when
you ...
w Treat others as you would want them to
treat you
w Say kind and loving things
" Share your things and yourself
w Show affection
" Think loving thoughts
w Take good care of the things you love
Affirmation
I am a loving penon. I shou, n1y love u•ith thoughtji,l
acts. kind words and affection. I treat others the UJtlJ
I want to b, treated.

Acti"iti11
1tith L~vc
Show and Tell
Invite students to bring in something they
love. Have a "Show and Tell". Have chem
explain how they treat chis special object
lovingly.
Virtues
Reflectlon
Questions
Q
What are three ways you ean show love for
people?
Q What are three ways you can show love for
animals?
Q
Name some things you love other than people
or animals?
Q
What do you love to do?
Q
What happens when you do a task with love?
Q How do you wish people treated you?
Q Name three ways you treat people lovingly?
Drawing
Love
Draw a house and put in it all the people you
love. It could be anyone, even someone you
don'c know personally, someone famous or
someone in history.
The Virtues Project
"'!>
'6
Poster Points
Q Love is all that matters.
4il Love lasts.
Q Love is kind.
4il Love is gentle.
Q
Love is patient.
Q Love is humble.
Quotable
Quotes
"Your tlZ.fk is not to s,,k for lov,, but m,rrly to
,,,k and find all the barrim within yourself
that you hav, built against it. • Rumi
"Lov, do,sn~ just sit thtrr likt a stont; it has to
b, made, like brrad, rrmade all th, tim,,
made new.• Ursula K. Le Guin
"Lovt currs ptopk- both the onN who give it
and the ones who receive it . .. Karl Menninger
"Spread lov, everywherr you go, first in your
own house ... Mother Teresa
"Only lovt tnabks humanity to grow, because
lov, mgendtrs life and it is thr only form of
energy that lasts forron:. • Michel Quoist
"Lov, is thr only fore, capahk of transforming
11n memy into a fri~nd." r-..tanin
Luth~r King

Whal Is Loyalty?
Loyalty is staying true to someone. It is standing
up for something you believe in without wavering.
It is being faithful to your family, country, school,
friends or ideals - when the going gets tough as
well as when things are good. When you are a
loyal friend, even if someone disappoints you, you
still hang in there with them. Loyalty is staying
committed.
Why Practice It?
You cannot count on disloyal people to stay
friends, because when problems happen, they go
away. They o~en change their minds about what
they believe to be important. When you practice
loyalty, people know they can count on you.
People who are worthy of your loyalty can trust
that they will never stand alone. With loyalty, you
build friendships that last forever.
How Do You Practice It?
You practice loyalty by committing 10 a person, or
a belief. Choose your friends carefully, so you can
be friends for a long time. If someone cries lo use
your loyalty for a bad purpose, or hurts you over
and over, you need 10 decide if it feels right 10 go
on being loyal. Stand up for your family and
friends when others act unjustly. When you are
loyal you are worthy of trust.
The Virtues Project
What would Loyalty look llke
If ...
• One friend tries to get you 10 turn against
another?
• You are invited to join a group that doesn't
want your friends around?
• You see a friend steal and he asks you 10 lie
for him?
• You believe in your religion and people
make fun of it?
w Someone starls teasing and pushing your
sister in front of you?
i;,
A friend suggests you "borrow" from your
Mom's purse?
Signs of Success
Congratulations! You are practicing Loyalty when
you ...
• Stand up for people and ideas you believe
• ,n
• Are a faithful friend through good times
and bad
w Don't allow loyalty to lead you into trou-
ble
w Don't lee ochers come between you and
your friends
w Are loyal 10 yourself
Affirmation
I am loyal to the people and ideas I care about. I 11111
a friend through good timrs and bad. I am loyal to
what I know is right. I do not allow friendship to
lead me into trouble.

Activities 11ith Lei~all~
~
(KJ
A Sign of Loyalty
Have a demonstration of the various "hand-
shakes" you know about.
Virtues
Reflection
Questions
\I
How do you know you want to be friends
with someone?
\I What is good about having a loyal friend?
\I Are there times when it would be loyal to tell
a secret a friend told you?
\I What is it like when a friend is not loyal to
you?
Q What would you do if a friend asked you 10
do something you felt was wrong?
How can you be loyal co yourself?
Q When do you know it is time to end a friend-
ship'
Name three things about a friend to whom
you would be loyal forever?
11 Drawing
Loyalty
'--UL-'
Draw a picture of an animal you chink of as
loyal.
The Virtues Project
Q
Q
\I
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
"-~
~
Poster Points
Q Stand by your friends.
\I
Friends are forever.
\I
A friend through all kinds of weather.
Q Side-by-side.
Quotable
Quotes
"In thy face I see the map of honour, truth and
loyalty.• William Shakespeare
"The best mirror is an old friend."
George Hebctr
'ii true friend loves you enough to support you
and to confront you. n Anonymous
"Wordr are easy, like the wind;
Faithfal friendr are hard tu find •
Richard Barnfield
"Only the person who has faith in himself is
ab/, to be fairhfal to others. " Erich Fromm
"No medicine is more valuable ... than a friend
to u1ho,11 u1r may turn for conrolation in time
of troubl.e -
and 1vi1h u1hom we "'"Y
share
our happiness in ti111es
ofjoy. •
St. AelrecJ of Rievaulx

What
Is Moderation?
Moderation is creating balance in your life be-
tween work and play, rest and exercise. Ir is having
or doing enough of something - nor roo much.
nor 100 lirrle, bur what's just right for you. If you
study all the time or play all the time it is not
being moderate. Moderation is being in charge of
your time and using self-discipline to keep from
doing too much or too little.
Why Practice
It?
Moderation helps us to sray balanced. so rhar we
are not controlled by our desires. Without mod·
erarion, we can overdo things like talking, or
eating. \Y/e can start to get addicted to things and
want more even when it can hurt us, like eating
too much chocolate or drinking too much alcohol.
Without moderation we wouldn't do our fair
share. When we practice moderation we make a
choice co be the way we want to be.
How Do You Practice
It?
You practice moderation by knowing your own
limits and what you need to function at your best.
People are different. For some eight hours of sleep
is enough, for others, it is too little. Watch your-
self co make sure you stay balanced and don't let
something begin to rule your life, such as TY.
computer games, food or a person. When you
practice moderation, you are content to have just
what you need.
The Virtues Project
What would
Moderation
look
llke If ...
v You like someone so much you start
calling her up every day?
v You open the cookie jar and find your
favorites?
v You stay up late to read or play but then
feel sleepy in rhe morning?
v You are spending all your free rime playing
computer games and don't see your friends
anymore?
v You spend all your money on chocolate
bars?
w You notice you are talking too much?
Signs of Success
Congratulations! You are practicing Moderation
when you ...
"' Know what you need and get enough -
no more, no less
v
Take care of your health
• Use self-discipline to stop yourself from
overdoing
v Balance work and play in your life
1.1 Know your own limits and set boundaries
for yourself
"' Are content with enough
Affirmation
I am mod,rat,. I""' thnnkfal and cont,nr to get
what I need. Work ,tnd play are balanced in my life. I
don't overdo or underdo but find what's just right far
me.

Design Your Life
Drawing
Moderation
Make a cartoon strip with several drawings
showing a moderate day.
Create a Mind Map of the way you spend
your time and notice how balanced it is. Put
plus marks from I to S by the amount of
rime you spend working or studying, help-
ing in the house, playing, spending time
with friends or on the phone, TV or com-
puter time, exercise and rest. In which areas
do you need to spend less time? In which
areas do you need to spend more?
~~
~
Poster Points
ta
Moderation
Story
Tell the story of Goldilocks and the Three
Bears.
Vlnues
Reflection
Questions
Q What are some of the things we can get ad-
dicted ro or just overdo?
Q What happens to us when something like food
or a person rules our lives?
Q What are some of the easiest foods for you to
get addicted to?
Q What happens to people who drink too much
alcohol?
Q What is it like when someone talks too much?
Q What happens if someone talks too little?
Q How much sleep do you need and how can you
be sure 10 get it?
Q Name three ways you can take better care of
your health.
The Virtues Project
Q Not 100 hot, not too cold.
Q Not too much, not too little.
Q Just right.
Q Living a balanced life.
Q Easy does it.
Q Enough is enough.
Quotable
Quotes
"Easy Doe, /1. " Slogan of Alcoholic, Anonymous
"Motkration is the silken string running
through the pearl chain of all virtues. •
Jos,ph Hall
"Enough is enough. • Anonymous
"Motkration in all things. • Terence
"Conscienct is a still small voice that make.s
minority "forts." Frank1in P. Jones
"The best of b/es,ings, a contented mind. •
Horace
'Ju,t as nature needs balance, people need
balanct. • Anne Wilson Schaef
"W't-art not human doings, wt art hu'11an
brings. • John Bradshaw

What Is Modesty?
Modesty is having self-respect. When you practice
modesty, you are not showy or boastful. Modesty
comes when you have self-acceptance and quiet
pride. Modesty is to value yourself and to have a
sense of respectful privacy about your body. Mod-
esty is also accepting praise with humility and
gratitude.
Why Practice It?
Without modesty, people do things to attract
attention. They brag and boast. They dress in a
way chat is disrespectful to themselves and their
bodies. They even allow others to take advantage
of chem in disrespectful ways. Without modesty
people don't set boundaries about how they wish
co be couched or not couched. With modesty,
people respect themselves and others respect
them, too.
How Do You Practice It?
Modesty is being comfortable with yourself. It is
knowing you have special gifts and that others do
as well. You practice modes<y by not letting ocher
people use you. You are respectful of your body
and your privacy, and you expect others to be, too.
If anyone touches you in a way that doesn't feel
right, tell an adult you crust. Don't keep it a secret.
When you are modest, you enjoy dressing in a way
that shows self-respect.
The Virtues Project
•
What would Modesty
look llke
If, ..
• A friend tries to convince you to buy a
revealing outfit because everyone else is
wearing it?
e Someone starts to tease you and tickle
your private parts?
•
You played really well and your team won
the game?
• Someone wants to kiss you and you don't
want them to?
• You feel like bragging about something
good you did?
• You feel uncomfortable about the way a
relative is touching you?
Signs of Success
Congratulations! You are practicing Modesty when
you ...
• Are comfortable being who you are
•
Respect yourself
•
Do not permit anyone to abuse your body
• Set boundaries about your right to privacy
•
Dress in a way that feels right 10 you
.., Share your victories without boasting
Affirmation
I am motkst. I have no n,,d to brag. I dr,,, in a way
that ,hows r,spect for myself and others. I protect
myself.from disr,spectfol attention.

Activities with ~eiics~~
;1} Dress Code
"~
'41'
Poster Points
1alk about how a dress code can help people
to dress in a way that shows respect for their
bodies and for others. If your school has a
dress code. make an illustrated poster of the
rules.
Virtues
Reflection
Questions
How would it feel to be on a team and have
someone else take all the credit for a win?
How can you show modesty if you have made
a great play in a game?
How could you enjoy your victory and still be
modest?
Name three ways to protect yourself from
unwanted touching by others?
What would you do if someone in your family
touched you inappropriately?
W What is your favorite outfit, one that feels like
• '
II "
">
its rea y you .
II Drawing
Modesty
Draw people on a team sharing the glory with
each other.
The Virtues Project
'1 Expect respect.
Q
Share the victories.
Q Thankful, not boastful.
'1 Share the glory.
Q
Dress for success.
Quotable
Quotes
"Wr come nea"st to the great when we a"
great in hull1ility. " Rabindrath
Tagore
"W, do not poss,ss our homrs, our children, or
even our own body. They are given to us for a
short while to treat with care and respect, "
Jack Kornfield
"/ discovered I always have choices and some-
timn it's only a choice of attitude. "
Judith M. Knowhon
.. J cannot and u1ill not cut my conscience to fir
thiJ year's fdShion.s." Lilli.in Hellman
"Never esteem anything as of advantage to you
that u,i/l 111ake
you brrak your word or lose
your self respect."
Marcus Aurelius Antoninus

What Is Orderliness?
Orderliness is being neat, and living with a sense
of harmony. It is being organized and having a
place for things when you need them. Orderliness
is planning something so that it works, doing it
step by step instead of going in circles. Orderliness
is putting first things first, and taking care of
things you need to do.
Why Practice It?
When people are orderly, they get things done
efficiently, without wasting time and effort. With-
out order there is confusion, and it is easy to lose
things. People who need to do things quickly and
skillfully need to be very orderly. What would
happen if doctors and fire-fighters misplaced the
tools they need to save lives? When you are orderly
you can find a solution to any problem.
How Do You Practice It?
Decide how you want to arrange the space around
you to keep it orderly and attractive. Have a place
for your things and put them away when you
finish using them. Orderliness helps you do things
efficiently, by making a plan and following it, step
by step. Orderliness can help you solve even
difficult problems. Divide them into small parts and
handle them one at a time. Order around you creates
order inside you. It gives you peace of mind.
The Virtues Project
fiJ
What would Orderllness
look
llke If ...
w You look at your room and see a big mess?
w You finish playing with a game that has
lots of pieces?
" You find it really hard to deal with some
problem?
w You're running around the school yard and
hear the bell?
g
You're on a hike and don't know where to
put the trash from your lunch?
w You have a big job to do?
Signs of Success
Congratulations! You are practicing Orderliness
when you ...
w Have a place to put each of your things
w Put your things away in the same place
each time
w Have a plan before your begin any job
w Solve problems step-by-step
w Create a harmonious space chat gives you
peace of mind
w Appreciate the beauty and order of nature
Affirmation
I live thi, day with order. I do thing, step by step.
I create beauty and harn-1011y in my space and in
my life.

Activities with 0~qc~Ittzcs;s;
Beauty and Order
• In teams, organize and neaten your class-
room space. Decide what would beautify it.
• Make a plan for putting your own space at
home in order.
•
Drawing
Orderliness
Draw a picture of che perfect bedroom wich
exactly what you would like to have in it and
everything placed jusc where you want ic.
An Orderly
Plan
~VI!.#
Poster Points
Brainstorm a problem such as how to elimi-
nace bullying and come up wich a seep-by-seep
Q A place for everyching.
plan.
Q
Everything in ics place.
fi
Step-by-Step
• Write down each step of your morning
rouune.
• Write down each step of how to prepare
your favorite snack.
• List the chings you want to do this weekend
and put chem in order of prioricy.
Virtues
Reflectlon
Questions
Q
What does it feel like to be in a messy place?
Q What does it feel like to be in a clean, orderly
place?
Q What is our responsibilicy ro the earth in
preserving order and beaucy?
Q What happens inside you when you keep
things around you in order?
"
Whac are some problems that feel difficult to
solve?
Q
Name three seeps you can take to solve one of
chose problems.
Q
Whac would you like co do in a more orderly
way?
The Virtues Project
Q Step-by-step.
Q All my ducks in a row.
Q
Harmony in my life and in my space.
Quotable
Quotes
"Th, journ,y of a thousand miks begins with
a sing/, st,p. • Confucius
"Order and simplification ar, th, first step,
toward ma,tery of a subject- th, actual enemy
is tht unknown. .. Thomas Mann
';..trt and science cannot n:ist but in minutely
organiud particulars. • William Blake
"Order is not a prrr,urt which i, imposed on
society from without, but an equilibn'um
which is set up from u,ithin. "
Jo~ One-go Y Gasscc
"Jfyou doni know whrrt you're going, any
road will take you the,,. " Lewis 8. Carroll

What Is Patience?
Patience is quiet hope and trust, expecting things
10 turn out all right. Patience is being calm and
tolerant when difficulc things happen. It means
showing acceptance when you or others make
mistakes. Patience is doing something now so that
later it will bear fruit, like planting a seed and
waiting for it to grow. Patience is a commitment
10 the future.
Why Practice It?
Without patience people want everything NOW.
They complain when unpleasant things cannot be
helped. They act mad when things don't go their
way. When people practice patience, they can wait
without complaining. They forgive others and
themselves for mistakes. They make the world a
kinder, gentler place.
How Do You Practice It?
Practicing patience is accepting things you cannot
control, like the way other people act, or even an
illness or handicap you have to live with. Patience
is waiting without complaining. When you are
patient, you show gentleness when you or ochers
make mistakes. You set goals and persevere until
your goals are won. You picture ,he end in ,he
beginning. You know cha, good things take time.
The Virtues Project
What would Patience
look llke
If, ..
• Your mother is very late picking you up and
you have been waiting for a long time?
• You decide you want to be a lawyer when
you grow up?
"' You want to grow some vegetables?
Iii You start to get annoyed when your sister
forgers 10 put back something she
borrowed?
" You wish you were caller?
• You have an illness that keeps you from
playing your favorite sport?
Signs of Success
Congratulations! You are practicing Patience when
you ...
w Calmly 1olera1e a delay or confusion
w Are willing to wait for things you want
•
Set goals and stick with chem until ,hey
are finished
•
Do something now that will help you in
the future
• Accept things you cannot change with
humor and grace
• Are tolerant when mistakes are made
Affirmation
I am pati,nt. I am gentle with others and myself
when w, mak, mistak,s. I wait calmly. I trust that
things will tun, out right.

Activities with ~'B:ttcrzec
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Window
Garden
• Have a window box garden in which
children can plant some colorful and fast
growjng flowers such as nasturtiums and
marigolds as well as some herbs to bring
home co cheir parents.
• Have children bring flowers they grow to
share with other classrooms.
• Name the various flowers by virtues
names: Moderate marigolds, Patient
pecun1as, etc.
Virtues
Reflection
Questions
Q When do you find it hard to be patient?
Q What can you do to be patient when someone
is lace?
Q
Name three things you can do now that will
help you to have an excellent career?
Q
What would help you to be more patient with
family members?
Q What are seeds doing when they are under-
ground and we can't see them?
Q
What do seeds need in order to grow?
Q What do you need in order to grow your
patience?
Drawing
Patience
Draw a beautiful garden.
The Virtues Project
"-.;
~
Poster Points
Q
All will be well.
Q
Wait for it.
Q Take life as it comes.
Quotable
Quotes
"/1atiente a11d perseverance have a magical
effect before which difficulties disappear and
obstacles vanish." John Quincy Adam,
"/ want patience and I want it now!"
Anonymous
"Help "' always to be hopefol gardeners of the
spirit 1vho krrou, that u,ithout darkness nothing
co111e,
to birth a, u,i1ho11t
light nothingflou,er,."
rv1.1y
Sanon
"/'',1tience,
patience. patience is u1hat the sea
teaches.•• Anne t,.1orrow Lindburgh
"Patience ,nay be defined as that q11ality of/if,
u,hich 111akrs
suffering cr.rativr,· 1111d
i"1patir11cr
a, that whereby s11fferi11g
beco111es
a destructive
Jore~. •• Robc:-n
Llewdyn
'"Patience
and diligence, like faith, re111ove
11101111tai11s."
WilliJnl Penn

What Is Peacefulness?
Peacefulness is an inner sense of calm. h comes
especially in quiet moments of reflection or grati-
tude. It is getting very quiet and looking at things
so you can understand them. Peacefulness is a way
of approaching conflict with others so that no one
is made wrong. Ir is being fair to ochers and your-
self. Peace is giving up the love of power for the
power of love. With peacefulness. everyone wins.
Why Practice It?
Practicing peacefulness helps to create a calm mind
free from worry. When you are peaceful, you
respect others and their differences. People around
you feel calm and safe. Without peace, no one is
safe. People get hurt. Fighting doesn't solve prob-
lems, and no one ever really wins a war. With
peacefulness, any problem can be solved. Peace in
the world begins with peace in your heart.
How Do You Practice 117
To find inner peace, become very still and think
peaceful thoughts. Observe and think about your
feelings, like anger, instead of acting with anger.
To be a peacemaker, use peaceful language instead
of name-calling, yelling or gossiping. Avoid ag-
gressive or violent actions. Talk things our and
listen to che ocher person too. Then look for a
peaceful solution. Peacemakers find there are lots
of creative ways to solve any problem. Violence
never solves anything.
The Virtues Project
I
-
tL
·i-t
te,-
I
.~-,,,
-J!l!llr
-, .. ~
·~
What would Peacefulness
look
llke If ...
w Your brother bursts into your room and
seeps on a model or painting you just
finished?
w There are students of another race and
religion in your class and some of your
classmates are making fun of chem?
w You start to worry about a problem and
find it is on your mind all the time?
w You feel really angry about someone
treating you unfairly?
w Some children start to cease you and
asking you to fight?
w You decide to start a daily practice of
prayer or reflection?
Signs of Success
Congratulations! You are practicing Peacefulness
when you ...
w Create inner peace with a regular time to
pray, meditate or reflect
111 Use peaceful language even when you are
angry
w Speak gently and respectfully
w Avoid harming anyone
111 Appreciate differences
w Find peaceful solutions to every problem
Affirmation
I am pearefol l use peacefi,l language and find peacefid
solutions
to any problem that ariser. I find my inner
peace and let it cany "'e gently through th, day.

Activities with ~caccfltltzcss
Quiet Time
Have a quiet time in which you close your
eyes and imagine being in a place of peaceful-
ness and beauty such as a beach, a mountain
top, a forest - a place to find inner peace.
Peace & Gratitude
Journal
•
Write a poem about peace.
• List five things you feel grateful for.
• Notice how peaceful you feel afterward.
Virtues
Reflectlon
Questions
Q What can people like you and me do to
create peace in the world?
Q What gives you a sense of peace?
Q When do you find yourself feeling most
angry?
Q
How can you handle your anger peacefully?
Q Name three things you can do if you see a
fight starting?
Q How would things change at home for you
if you became a peacemaker?
Q
How can you become peaceful when you
are worried?
The Virtues Project
Drawing
Peacefulness
Imagine a beautiful, peaceful place to go
in your imagination when you need to
become peaceful. Draw it.
Draw a picture of the world at peace.
VII'_~
~
Poster Points
Q Giving up the love of power for the power
of love.
Q Peacemaker.
Q Let's 1ry peace for a while.
Quotable
Quotes
,.Contrntion does not profit a people. "
Brigham Young
"Conflict, when it is not resolved with violence,
spurs growth and k,,ps lift intn-esting. •
Starhawk
"Hav, calm thoughts. Picture calm scenes.
Recall calm sounds. And guess u•hat you 1/ be
feeling .... " Paul Wihon
·•Everything that irritates us about others can
lead us to an u1ukrsta11ding
of ourselves. •
Carl Jung
"!',ace is n1ore in1portant than all justice: and
peace was not made far the sake of justice, but
justice for the sake ofprace. •• M.1nin Lu1her
"We sho"ld have mon-peace if wt would not
busy ounrlves with th, sayings and doings of
others. "' Thomas a'Kcmpis

c~s
c~a-qec
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
What Is Perseverance?
Perseverance is being purposeful and steadfast. It is
sticking to something, staying committed, no
matter how long it takes or what obstacles appear
10 stop you. A good example is the story of the
tortoise and the hare. Even though the tortoise was
slower than the hare, he won the race because he
persevered - he didn't let anything stop him or
distract him. He kept on going.
Why Practice It?
Without perseverance, people give up on things
easily. They don't keep their promises. When we
persevere, people can depend on us to finish what
we start and to keep our commitments. When we
persevere, we stay friends even when rhe friend-
ship is tested. We don't give up until a problem is
solved.
How Do You Practice It?
You practice perseverance by committing to
someone or something. Choose your commit-
ments wisely and then stick with them. When you
commit to a task, pace yourself, and be persistent,
doing it step-by-step. Stand by your friends even
when they aren't much fun, or are having a hard
time. When trouble or doubts come up, be like a
strong ship in a storm. Don't let yourself become
battered or blown off course. Just ride the waves.
The Virtues Prqject
What would Perseverance
look
llke If,,,
•
You begin to feel bored being with a long-
time friend?
•
You are in the middle of a hard job and
begin to feel tired?
•
You have spent a lot of time practicing a
sport or dance and doubt if you have what
it takes?
•
Your family is hiking to the top of a
mountain and you don't think you can
make it?
w You are doing something you have never
done before and are afraid you won't get it
right?
• Your best friend moves away and you don't
wan c to forget each other?
Signs of Success
Congratulations! You are practicing Perseverance
when you ...
• Think before deciding to commit to
someone or something
• Pace yourself
• Set goals and stick with them until they
are completed
w Take one step at a time, remaining steady
• Don't let doubts or tests blow you off
course
• Stand by your friends and loved ones
Affirmation
I have perseverar,ce.
I keep a steady pace i11 what
I choose to do. I keep or, keeping on. I finish what
I start. I am a loyal ar,d cnr,1mitttd .frier,d.

A Story of Perseverance
Share the Aesops fable of the Tortoise and
the Hare and discuss.
Virtues
Reflection
Questions
When in your life have you been like the
Hare?
Q When in your life have you been like rhe
Tortoise?
V
How c:an you tell if you want to con1mit to a
new friend?
Q What qualities do you look for in a friend?
Q
How do the following jobs need perseverance?
What would happen if people in these roles
did not persevere?
Parent
Fire-figh,er
Professional Athlete
-reacher
lnvencor
> Drawing
Perseverance
II
Draw a picture of someone doing a ;ob that
takt'.'~ perseverance.
21 o
The Virtues Project
°""#
~
Poster Points
Q
Keep on keepin' on.
Q I finish whar I start.
Q Riding the waves.
\I
A winner never quits.
Quotable
Quotes
.. ~.Ul'l'ess
.fo111es
in cans. fililure co,nes in
can is.'' fre-d Seeh·
•
"Just dour gi,•e up tryi"g to do what you really
u,a11t to do. Wherr thrre's lol'e and i11spir,1tio11,
I don 'r think you can go wrong. " Ell.1 J:iu.ge-rald
"Never giv, up'"
Ono frank (Anne Frank's farhcr)
"The sensr of oblig,1tio11
to coutiuue is present
;,, all of11,. A d11ry to strive is the d11ry of 11,
a//. f felt a call to that dufJ(" Abr.1h.1n1
Lincoln
''Ket>p
Oil keepi11' on." African•Amc.-rican
saying
"Nothiug ;,, 1/,e u•orld ,,,,, t,rke the pla,, of
Pt'rsiste,u·e.
T:1/ent u•i/1 not; uothing
is 111ort'
co111111011
th,111 unsucces~ful 111.e11 u,irh
talent ... l'ersistenct' and dett>rn1i
nation alone
.
..
are 01111upotr11t. Anonyn1ous
"Nrr1er let 111e be burdened u1it/, sorrou, b_y uot
.
..
st,1rllng oz•er. N.tti\lc A,ncri'"a.n
crJJitiun
"1dke everything as it conies; the u1,1ve p,Hses.
deal zi1ith the next one. " TOm 1·homson
'l'i u 1i11ner nez•er quiu
,111d II quitter
ne11t'r
u1i11s. ·• Unknown

What Is Purposefulness?
Being purposeful is having a clear focus, instead of
being confused or unsure of what you are doing or
why you are doing it. You are acting purposefully
when you have a goal you are working coward. You
concentrate your mind and your efforts so that
something good will happen as a result. Some
people just lee things happen. A purposeful person
,11akes things happen.
Why Practice
It?
Without a sense of purpose, people scatter their
energies and their attention. Without knowing
why they are doing something - the purpose -
they easily give up. When you choose to be pur-
poseful, you can achieve great results. Motivation
con1es easily because you know why you are doing
something. You have a positive atcitude and don't
let obstacles stop you from doing what is impor-
tant.
How Do You Practice
It?
Being purposeful begins with setting a vision or a
goal for what you want to accomplish. Knowing
why it is important is your purpose. With your
goal in mind, do things one at a time, with as
much care and concentrarion as you can. Don't let
yourself get scattered in many directions, crying to
do everything at once. Stay focused on your purpose.
The Virtues Project
What would Purposefulness
look llke If ...
• You decide 10 build or create something
that is difficult?
v You are crying to finish your homework
and find yourself day-dreaming?
... A friend comes over while you are doing
your chores?
w You start to feel scattered doing coo many
things at once?
1o1 You want to learn to play an instrument?
• You find it is really hard 10 practice a
virtue?
Signs of Success
Congratulations! You are practicing Purposefulness
when you ...
w Have a clear vision of what you want to
accomplish
w Know why you arr doing it
• Focus on a goal
.., Get back on purpose if you get sca[tere<l
or distracted
.., Do things one at a time and finish what
you start
.., Persevere until you get results
Affirmation
I am purposefi,I. I a1n c/e,1r about u,/,ar I am doing
and why. I ,111y
focused Of/ my goa/s. I knou, I can
accomplish great things.

Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
,,
; What is Your Purpose?
? •
Name a goal which is important to you and
say why.
What Have You Done So Far?
Name three things you have accomplished so
far in your life (e.g., as a baby you learned 10
walk).
A Purposeful
Challenge
Practice saying purposefulness three times
fast.
Virtues
Reflection
Questions
Drawing
Purposefulness
Draw symbols or pictures of three goals
you want to accomplish in the next
three months, or make a collage using
magazine pictures and words to stand
for your three-month goals.
~~
'4'
Poster Points
Q Living on purpose.
Q
Keep your eyes on the prize.
Q A designer life.
Quotable
Quotes
Q Name three famous or successful people. How
do you think they practiced purposefulness?
"lfyou don't know whtrt you'" going, any
road will tak, you ther,. • Lewis B. Carrol
"lfyou always do what you always did, you'll
always g,1 what you always got. • Lait Ribeiro
Q What are the biggest distractions when you
are trying 10 get something done?
Q
What can you do to stay focused?
Q What is something you are purposeful about?
Q
How imporcant is a sense of purpose to suc-
cess?
Q When do you find it easiest to concentrate
and stay focused?
Q Make three goals you would like 10 accom-
plish in the next three months.
The Virtues Project
"Ev,ryone should carefully observe which way
hi, heart draw, him, and then choose that way
with all his strength. " Jewish proverb
"Th, secret of getting ahead is getting started.
The secret of getting started is b"akingyour
overwhelming task, into small, manag,abk
tasks, and then starting on the first on,. "
Mark Twain
"Always act, always walk, always proceed.
Neither stand ,ti// nor go back ... " S,. Auguscine
"Strong "asons make strong actions.•
Unknown

e) T
What Is Rellablllty?
Reliability means that others can depend on you
to keep your commitments. Reliability is doing
something that you have agreed to do in a predict-
able way, without forgerring or having to be
reminded. When you practice reliability, you really
care about doing what you said you would do.
Other people can relax knowing it is in your
reliable hands.
Why Practice It?
When people are unreliable, others can't rrusr
them to keep their promises. If airplanes, trains or
buses are lace, passengers can miss imporcant
appointments. If someone keeps forgetting to do
what they said they would do, they let people
down. When you are reliable, people can trust you
to show up on time, be where you promised to be,
to put tools away, to get the job done.
How Do You Practice It?
You practice reliability by making agreements you
can keep. Then do everything in your power to do
what you agreed 10 do. Give your best elfon to every
job, and take your responsibil iries seriously. Plan
ahead and leave enough rime to finish what you
start. If problems arise, find another way. Return
what you borrow. Most of all keep your word.
The Virtues Project
What would Rellablllty
look
llke If ...
• You agreed to be home by a certain time
and a friend invites you to do something
fun?
w- It is your turn to do the dishes and you're
not in the mood?
• You promised your Mom you would brush
your teeth after breakfast and the school
bus is coming?
• Some friends arc building a clubhouse and
you agreed to bring the nails, but discover
your parents don't have any?
• Your part of a team report is due tomor-
row and you feel too sleepy to finish it?
• You borrow one of your father's tools?
Signs of Success
Congratulations! You are practicing Reliability
when you ...
•
Make promises you can keep
• Treat your agreements seriously
•
Plan ahead
w Do your best
w Finish on rime
w Find another way if obstacles occur
Affirmation
I am reliable. I keep my promis,s. Oth,rs can depend
on me. Nothing can stop m, ftom giving my b,st.

Activities with ~&Jta~tltt~
-<~
Activities
with Rellablllty
I.I Name the things you do on which others rely.
(Feed your pet, make your bed).
IJ
Nan1e the things you do on which you rely.
(Brush your teeth, rcn1cn1bcr your hon1e-
work).
I.I Describe your morning routine. How reliable
are you about gening out of the house on
time? What would help you to be reliable?
Virtues Reflection
Questions
What would happen to pets if their owners
were unreliable?
IJ
How do people feel about people who keep
forgetting to do what they promised'
What helps you to remember to be reliable
about returning borrowed things?
How can reliability help you in your future
job?
O What is important about reliability?
U
What does reliability have to do with success?
Drawing Rellablllty
Draw a picture of yourself taking care of a
responsibility reliably.
The Virtues Project
"-~
~
Poster Points
Q
You can count on me.
1,1 I'm here for you.
1,/
Regular as clockwork.
Q On time every time.
1,1 Consistently dependable.
Quotable
Quotes
"Thr shifts of Fortun, test thr rrliability of
friends. " Cict-ro
';.In honest mans u,ord is as good as his bond. "
CC'rvanrc-s
';.Ind I to n1y pkdged u,ord am true.
I shall not fail that rendezvottJ. " Alan S.eger
"Thr only time you cant afford to fail is the
last time you try. " CharlC's KC"ncring
"Le,tn on 111r,
u,/1e11
you're not strong. Ill br
your friend. Ill help you carry 011." Song
"C'hoices
and follow through, that is all that
separates the 'champions'from the 'also rans.'"
Jim Paluch

What Is Respect?
Respect is an attitude of caring about people and
treating them with dignity. Respect is valuing
ourselves and others. We show respect by speaking
and acting with courtesy. When we are respectful
we treat others as we want to be treated. Respect
includes honoring the rules of our family or
school, which make life more orderly and peaceful.
le is knowing that every man, woman and child
deserves respect, including you.
Why Practice It?
Without respect for rules, we would have confu-
sion. People would treat each other rudely and
violate each other's privacy and other rights.
Respect helps people to feel valued. Elders deserve
special respect because they have lived longer and
learned many of life's lessons. Self-respect is mak-
ing sure no one hurts you or abuses you, even an
elder. When you respect yourself, others respect
you, 100.
How Do You Practice It?
Think about how you would like others 10 treat
you and treat them with the same dignity. How
would you like others 10 speak to you, treat your
belongings, and your right to privacy? If you want
10 use someone else's things, ask, and then take
good care of chem. Express even your strongest
feelings in a peaceful way. Treat yourself as you feel
others deserve to be treated. You deserve it too!
The Virtues Pro1ect
What would Respect look llke
If ...
w You want to use your friend's bike but she is
not around to ask?
w Your grandparents come over and scare
giving you advice?
• You find yourself talk.i ng back co a teacher?
" Your brother is in the bathroom and you
need to ask him a question?
w There is a rule at school you don't agree
with?
• An older person starts touching you inap-
propriately?
Signs of Success
Congratulations! You are practicing Respect when
you ...
• Treat ochers as you want to be treated
w Speak courteously co everyone
• Take special care of other people's belong-
. ,ngs
w Are receptive to che wisdom of elders
" Honor the rules of your family, school and
•
nanon
•
Expect respect for your body and your
rights
Affirmation
I dm rtsperrfal f lredt other, dt1d myself dS we deserve
to be treated. I show courtesy to everyone. / /eJrn
from the wisdom of my elder,.

Activities with 'R&~p&ct
~
rKI
Road Respect
Describe what it would be like 10 be in a car
if no one respec1ed the rules of 1he road.
Respect for Your Body
Discuss the difference between "safe touch"
and "inappropriate touch". What should
children do if they feel someone is not
respecting 1hcir body? It happens in many
families. I. ·rcll someone you trust. 2. Say
no. 3. Get help from an adult. 4. Keep
telling until someone helps you.
R. E. S. P. E. C. T.
Put on a song like Aretha Franklin's
"R.E.S.P.E.C.T." or "Respect" from the Vir-
tues CD and dance 10 it.
Virtues
Reflectlon
Questions
Q
Name three ways you already practice respect.
Q Name three ways you could show more respect.
Q What are ways we need to respect our bodies?
Q How irnportant is privacy to you?
Q
How can you se[ boundaries to protecc your
privacy?
'1 How would you show respect if you disagree
with the teacher?
Q How do you feel when people treat you
disrespectfully?
Q
How do you feel when people treat you
respectfully?
Q Name the school rules. How do they help
keep things peaceful and orderly?
2 I 6
The Virtues Project
Drawing
Respect
l..:.....LILJ Make a shield showing four ways you want
to be treated wi1h respect.
Make a chart of ways 10 show respec1 for
your hody- things that keep your body
healthy.
\ii!.#
~
Poster Points
Q Expect Respect.
Q R. E. S. P. E. C. T.
Q
Respec1 Yourself. Respect Others.
Q
Respec1 Our Planet.
Quotable
Quotes
"Tak, car, of your r,putation. its your most
v11/UAb/e dSJtt. •• Anonymous
"Th,,-, is a longing among all propk to hav, a
sms, of purpose 11nd u•orth. To s11tisf, th11t
common longing in all of us u,e must "spect
rach other. • Chief Dan George
"Respl'ct is treating your body with the sa"'"
car, you would giv, any oth,r valuabk and
i"eplaceablr object. " Chcric-Caner Scott
"Your body is your ,,,hick far life. A, long as
you arr hrre, livt in it. lovt, honor. rrsptct.
11nd ch,rish it, treat it w,//, and it will s,rv,
yo11 in kind " Suzy Pru<lJen
"No on, ca11 mak, you ft,/ inferior without
your consent." Eleanor Roosevdc
"When I "'p,ct others, othm "sprct mr, and l
/ii,, that. • 6th grad<r in California

Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q u Q u Q u u Q
Q u Q
Q
What Is Responslblllty?
Being responsible means that others can depend
on you, You are willing to be accountable for your
actions, When things go wrong and you make a
mistake, you make amends instead of excuses,
When you are responsible, you keep your agree-
ments. You give your best to any job, Responsibil-
ity is the ability to respond ably, It is a sign of
'
growing up,
Why Practice It?
When you take responsibility for your own ac-
tions, others can trust you. When people are nor
responsible, they break their promises, fail to do
what they said they would do and let people
down. People who make excuses instead of amends
keep making the same mistakes. When you are
responsible, you get things done with excellence.
How Do You Practice It?
When you agree to do something, like homework,
watching a younger child, or a ;ob around the
house, you take it as your responsibility, You don't
agree to do things which are too hard, or that you
don't really have time for. When you make a
mistake, you don't get defensive, You learn from it
and you fix it, You are ready and willing to clear
up misunderstandings,
The Virtues Project
~ ..
.....
,..
I
•··_
,
•
-
'
What would Responslblllty
look llke If ...
• You have a regular job at home and you
would rather watch TV or read'
•
You have a lot of homework to do but a
friend just came to play?
•
You just broke something in your friend's
house but no one saw you?
w You promised a friend you would get
together after school, but then remem-
bered you have a music lesson?
v You are watching your little sister in a
store while your mother finishes shopping?
wi You notice your parents working hard to
keep the house clean?
Signs of Success
Congratulations! You are practicing Responsibility
when you.,,
• Take your agreements seriously
•
Respond ably by doing things to the best
of your ability
• Are willing to do your part
• Admit mistakes without making excuses
• Are willing to make amends
w Give your best to whatever you do
Affirmation
I arn responsibu, I give my best to all that I tUJ and
k,,p my agreements. I uarn from my mistakes. I am
willing to make amends.

Activities with ~&i>fJtitz~tl-Jtltt~
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q w Q
Q
Q
Q w w w Q w w Q
Q
Q
Q
g
Q
~""'-~:Ing
Responsible
Make a list of ways you can do your part to
help with the responsibilities in your home.
Drawing
Responsibility
Draw a picture of yourself doing something
with excellent responsibility.
Fill in the Blanks
"- #
.
,.,).
Poster Points
When I do my chores I am being H ______ '411'
and R.__
_________
.
Q The ability to respond ably.
i;
At my best.
When I admit mistakes I am showing the
virtues ofH ______
and
R _____________
.
When I make amends, that is a J ___ way to be.
Virtues Reflectlon
Questions
Q What is the responsible way to respond when
you make a mistake?
Q What is the Teachable Moment (the virtue to
be learned) when someone:
• forgets their homework?
• doesn't do a chore they have promised co do?
• tells a secret ,hey promised not 10 tell?
• broke a promise 10 bring back a borrowed toy?
Q
What are some ways to make amends for these
mistakes?
Q What does it feel like inside when you do
something wrong?
Q What does it feel like inside when you admit
responsibility?
Q What are some things you are responsible for
now chac you weren'c when you were younger?
g
What is a teacher responsible for? Wbat is a
student responsible for?
The Virtues Pro Ject
g
A Promise Keeper.
'' Quotable
Quotes
"Lift is a succession of lessons which must be
livtd to bt undtrrtood." Helen Keller
"Lift do,snt require that w, b, the best - only
that we try our best. " H. Jackson Brown, Jr.
"To /iv, is to change. To ht p,,fect is to hav,
changed often. " Henry Cardinal NC'wman
"We have to accept the consequences of every
tkrd, word, and thought throughout our
lijeti,ne. " Elisabeth KuhlC'r
Ross
"My lift is an i11jluence on every life ,nine
touches. Whether I realiu it or not, I arn
respor,sibk and accountabk for that influence."
Ron Baron
'ii man can fail t1111ny
times, but he isn
1t a
failurt until he begins to bla,nt sorn,body ebt. "
Anonyn10U!i

Ii!)
Ii!)
lSCl
What Is Self•Dlsclpllne?
Self-discipline means self-control. h is getting
yourself to do what you really want to do, rather
than being tossed around by your feelings like a
leaf in the wind. You don't lose control of yourself
when you feel hurt or angry, bur decide how you
are going to talk and what you are going to do.
With self-discipline, you rake charge of yourself.
Why Practice It?
When you practice self-discipline, you are control-
ling your own behavior so others don't have to.
Self-discipline brings you freedom. You get things
done efficiently and have order in your life. With-
out self-discipline, we procrastinate. We eat things
we shouldn't. We lose control of our emotions.
Then people feel hurt. With self-discipline, life is
more peaceful.
'
~
4;;i-~~
e.
<°J
How Do You Practice It?
Observe your feelings and thoughts, then decide
how you are going to behave. If you feel angry,
instead of yelling or hitting, you can acknowledge
your anger, then use a calm voice to tell someone
you are angry and why. It is your choice. Create
routines that bring order and peace to your day,
such as when to wash, exercise, work and play. Set
limits for yourself. like time on the phone, how
much TV you watch, the number of sweets you
eat - enough but not too much.
The Virtues Project
What would Self•Dlsclpllne
look
llke If ...
" You have put off doing a big job for some
rime?
o You are really angry when your brother
starts wresding with you?
o Your family has a rule of two sweets after
school but no one is watching?
w You notice you arc watching 100 much TV
and feeling lazy?
.., You decide you need a new daily routine?
w You keep getting punished for breaking a
rule?
Signs of Success
Congratulations! You are practicing Self-Discipline
when you ...
.., Use detachment so your emotions won't
control you
" Speak and act caln1ly when you are hurt or
angry
w Get things done in an orderly, efficient way
w
Create routines for yourself
• Do what is expected without people
having to watch over you
1o1 Do things on time
Affirmation
I have self-discipline. 1 use my time well and get
things done. I choose my actions u•ith detachment.

Activities with ~clf-6.Dii>cipliizc
~ '! Personal Map
Make a map or how you spend your time on a
typical day, illustrating what you do, where
you go, ending with going to bed. Discuss
rhings you wane to keep in your roucine and
things you would like to change.
Virtues
Reflectlon
Questions
"
What are some problems we might have ir we
didn't use self-discipline?
Q
What are some of the benefits of self-disci-
pline?
g What does it reel like to lose control or our
emotions?
Q
When is it most difficult to feel in control of
our emotions?
Q
Name three things you can do to stay in
charge of yourself when you feel angry?
Q
How can you stop yourself from watching too
much TV?
Q
What could you do instead?
Drawing
Self-Dlsclpllne
Draw someone doing a ta.sk or job that re-
quires a lot of self-discipline.
The Virtues Project
" " " " " " " " "
~~
"4"
Poster Points
Q
My time is my own.
"
My choice.
g
I am the captain of my ship.
v Plan Ahead (with last letters crowding the
margins).
g
Being in charge of myself
g
Being my own leader.
Quotable
Quotes
"[ a111 thr 111astrr
of my fare: la,,, thr cap1ain
of my soul. " William Ernest Hc.-nlc-y
"J+ocrastination is tht thief of tifflt
..
Edward Young
.. , doni u1ait far moods. You accoff1plish
1101hi11g
if you do that. Your mi11d 111ust
k11ou•
it has to get down to u1ork. • Pc.arl Buck
"What it lits in our powtr to do, it lits in our
pou1tr not to do. " Aristotle-
"Ht who conquers othi-rs is strong. Ht u1ho
to11q11rrs
hi111Selfis
mighty." Lio-Tz,
"Discipli11e
puts back in place that so111rthi11g
i11 tts which shou/J serve but ,~•ants to n,k. "
A. C.1rthusi.1n
"Co11siste11ry
is the kry to true succrss ... tht
propu who get the b,n,r gradrs, are the ones
who are co11sistent/y
selfdisciplined."
Jim P;;iluch

What Is Service?
Service is giving to others and wanting to make a
difference in their lives. It is looking for ways to be
helpful instead of waiting to be asked. The needs
of others are as important to you as your own.
When you work with a spirit of service, you give
any job your best effort. You make a real contribu-
tion. People who want co be of service can change
the world.
Why Practice It?
Without service, no one would be there to help
when someone needed help unless they were going
to be paid or had some selfish motive. With an
attitude of service, we do our work with heart.
People feel our compassion. When we are being of
service, we accomplish everything that has co be
done without anyone having to ask. We give our
best.
How Do You Practice It?
When you want to be of service, watch to see what
help people need. Then do something to help.
Look for little ways to make life easier or happier
for them. When you work, do it in a spirit of
service, giving it your very best. You can serve the
earth by nor wasting things, re-using and recy-
cling. There are lots of wonderful things you can
do co make a difference in che world.
The Virtues Project
What would Service look llke
If ...
w It is raining and your mother is coming up
the road without an umbrella'
• You have a job to do for your family?
• You wonder how you can serve the world
when you grow up?
w You notice your family throws away a lot
of garbage?
w A new student in your school looks a little
lost?
w Your teacher is struggling to carry an
armful of materials?
Signs of Success
Congratulations! You are practicing Service when
you ...
w- Want co make a difference in the world
•
Look for opportunities co be of service
to ochers
•
Think of thoughtful things to do to
help your family and friends
•
Work with enthusiasm
11 Don't wait to be askc<l when some-
thing needs doing
" Do your part to care for the earth:
recycle, reduce and re-use.
Affirmation
I look for opportunities to br ofsrrvicr. l do 11ot UJait
to bt asked. I am thoughtfol ofothen. I makt a
difference in the world.

Activities Ylith
'i,c~-vtcc
Service Project
I. Brainstorm the needs students see in their
town or in the world. Ask "What touches
your compassion?"
2. Choose a simple act of service that can
make a difference and is respec1ful to those
who will be helped.
3. Create 1ask force groups in your class to
do different parts of it, keep a log of ac1ivi-
ties, and report each week.
4. Be sure to celebrate the con1pletion of
your service project, with a simple ritual like
a gratitude circle. "[ am thankful for ... I am
glad we could .. ." or a party.
Virtues
Reflectlon
Questions
Q How do you feel when you do something of
service for someone else?
Q
Name three ways your parents are of service
to you.
Name three ways you are of service co your
family?
Q What difference does ir make ro do your
work with a spirit of service?
Q How do you show you care about others?
Q Name people you know about who need
others to help them.
~ Drawing
Service
'-'-...U.JJ Draw someone doing an act of service for
someone or something.
The Virtue5 Project
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
'IL~
~
Poster Points
Q Ar your service.
Q Reduce, re-use, recycle.
Q
I r's a small world.
Q Taking care of each other and our world.
Quotable
Quotes
"Everybody can be gr,at ... because anybody can
1rrvr. You doni hazir to have a collrgr tkgrer to
servt. You dont havt to makt your ,ubjtct and
verb agr,t to strvt. You only nted a heart foll
of grace. A soul generated by love."
Manin Luther King. Jr.
"Great works do not always /ir in our u1ay, but
every moment we may do little ones excelkntly,
that iJ, with great love. " S,. Francis de Sales
"/ long to accompli,h a great and nobk 111,lt,
but it is my chief dury to acco111p/ish
small
tasks as if they wtre great and nobk. •
Hd('n K-cller
"The real value of your life can only be gauged
by u•hat it givts to the world. "
Sir \X'ilfr('J Grenfell
"The need for devotion to 1011,ething
outside
ourselveJ is even n1ore profound than the need
for con,panionship ... we all must have ,om,
purpose in life; for no man can /iv, for himself
alone. " Ross P;irmcntcr

What Is Tact?
Tact is telling the truth kindly, with consideration
for how your words will affect others. It is knowing
what to say and what is better left unsaid. Tact is
thinking before you speak. When you are tactful,
you don't cease or point our people's differences to
embarrass them. You are as careful about others'
feelings as you would like them to he of yours.
Why Practice
It?
When people do not practice tact, they are rude
and blunt. They go around saying whatever pops
into their heads. They may tell the truth, but they
do it in a way that hurts or embarrasses others.
People get mad. You can lose friends if you forget
to act with tact. When you are tactful, others find
it easier to hear what you have to say. Tact builds
bridges.
Small one.
are the best
eating!
/
~
How Do You Practice
It?
You practice tact by being kind when you tell the
truth. Stop and chink before you speak. Don't
react - act with tact! Tact is especially important
when you feel angry or upset. Rather than just
shouting out your feelings, take time to calm
down, and then share your feelings diplomatically.
With tact, you can tell people almost anything and
they will be thankful to hear it.
The Virtues Project
What would Tact look llke If ...
w You meet someone who has a handicap?
., You feel really mad at your brother about
something?
w You get upset when your teacher does
something you think is unfair?
w Your friend asks you if you like her strange
haircut?
., While you are with a group of friends,
they begin gossiping about someone?
" You are hugging your father and notice he
has bad breathi
Signs of Success
Congratulations! You are practicing Tact when
you ...
., Think before you speak
., Decide if it is better to tell the truth or
keep silent
w Often keep unpleasant or critical
thoughts to yourself
w Become sensitive to other people's
feelings
w Tell the truth kindly and gently
., Treat people who look different as you
would treat anyone
Affirmation
I act with tact. I think before I speak. I am consid-
erate of other people's feelings. I tell the truth
kindly and gently.

Activities 11ith
Yael
Q
Q g
Q
II
Q
Q
Q
II
II II
II
Q
Q
Q
II
Q
Q
II
Q
II
Q
Q
•
•
Tact List
~:~.,
Make a list of times you especially need tact.
Act with Tact
Read a story or show a video and have stu-
dents give "Act with Tact" feedback (see page
12), a Positivity Sandwich in which they:
I) Acknowledge some virtue or positive
qualiry in the main character
2) Correct by describing what the character
could do co improve
3) Thank the character by saying something
they appreciated about him or her.
Virtues
Reflection
Questions
g When did you feel embarrassed by something
someone said tactlessly?
g
How do people feel when they have a handi-
cap or physical difference and people tease
them?
g
How do you think they would like co be
treated?
II What will you do the next rime you come
across someone who looks different?
"
Come up with a tactful way to respond when
others start gossiping and you don't want to?
"
How would you tell something difficult to
your best friend?
II When do you need people 10 be tactful with
you?
Drawing
Tact
Draw someone with a handicap being treated
normally and in a friendly manner.
~#
~
Poster Points
11 Telling the trurh kindly.
Q
Don't react -Act with Tact'
II
A gentle tongue.
II Think before you speak.
Quotable
Quotes
"l/50 million peopk say a foolish thing, it is
still a foolish thing. " Anatol, Franc,
"Don't talk unless you can improve the silence.•
U:ur~nce Coughlin
"loose lips sink ships. " Govcrnmcnc slogan,
World War II
"Tact is after all a kind of mind reading."
Sa rah Orne Jcwct r
"Gossip is mischievous, light and easy to raise.
but grievous to brar a11d hard to get rid of No
gossip ever dies au,ay entirely. "
Hesiod 700 B.C.
"Let no 011r br willing to speak ill of the
absent ... S. Proprnius
"H, never repented that hr had hrld his
tongue, but often that he had spoken. " Plu,arch
II Name three ways you can be more tactful with
people in your family.
The Virtues Project

a
fl&SS
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
g
g
g
g
g
g
g
g
g
g
g
g
g
g
g
g
g
What Is Thankfulness?
Thankfulness is being grateful for what you have.
It is an attitude of gratitude for learning, loving,
and being. It is appreciating the little things which
happen around you and within you every day. It is
having a sense of wonder about the beauty of this
world. It is being aware of the gifts in your life.
Why Practice It?
Thankfulness brings contentment. It helps you
find the good things in whatever happens. With-
out thankfulness people can become negative.
They wish things were different. They whine and
complain when they don't have everything their
own way. They envy other people. With thankful-
ness, we keep a positive outlook. We can see the
good in our lives and in whatever happens.
\ ~
r
t
How Do You Practice It?
Being thankful is appreciating the things you have
and the people you care about. Show your appre-
ciation when someone does something kind for
you. Focus on the good things about your life and
count your blessings often. Even when things go
wrong, you can be thankful if you find the lessons
to be learned. Let others give to you. Expect the
best in every situation.
The Virtues Project
' )
What would Thankfulness
look
llke If ...
• You feel sad and defeated because of your
problems?
w You wish you were more like a popular
person you know?
• You go for a walk in a place of beauty?
• Your mother does something kind for you?
w You worry that you don't have the right
clothes?
• You are thinking about your day?
Signs of Success
Congratulations! You are practicing Thankfulness
when you ...
• Have an attitude of gratitude
w Are receptive to gifts
w Appreciate your own abilities instead of
envying others
• See the difficulties of life as opportunities
to learn
• Appreciate the beaury of this world
w Count your blessings every day
Affirmation
I am thanltfal for th, many gifts within mt and
around mt today. I apprrciat, my life. I look for
tht kssons. I rxptct th, btst.

Activities with Y}zatzkfultzc55
~;x9f Gratitude
Clrcle
Form a standing circle, and ask each person to
clasp their hands together in front of them,
arms straight, forming a "Gratitude Basket".
Each person can speak or pass. To pass ,hey
just wave their basket toward 1he next person
in ,he circle or say "Pass". Each person says, "In
my Gratitude Basket, I have ... (my best friend),
(my puppy) or they can say "Something I am
thankful for is ... ." This is an excellent way 10
end a school year or a camp session. 11 does not
take long, since the boundary is that people
only say one word or phrase.
Thankfulness
Ice Breaker
Walk around the room and when you come
to someone, ask '"Marie, whac are you
graceful for?" Marie then asks you the same
question. Move on to the next person, until
everyone has shared with several others.
Each time someone is asked the question.
s/he needs to give a new answer.
Gratitude
Journal
Each day write three things for which you
are grateful.
Virtues Reflectlon
Questions
~ What relationships or people arc you thankful
for and what is it about chem chat you appre-
ciate?
Q Who would you like to thank? How would
you like to thank them?
Q What things in your life are you most thank-
ful for?
Q \Vhat is someone like who rarely, if ever,
ex.periences gratitude?
The Virtues Project
Q When is it hardest for you to be thankful?
Q What would help you to be thankful at times
like chat?
Q
What are you most thankful for about
yourself?
~ Describe a difficult time in your life and
name the lesson or virtue you learned from it.
Drawing
Thankfulness
• '
Make a poster or collage of things or people
in your life for which you feel thankful.
\#!.~
~
Poster Points
Q An attitude of gratitude.
Q An optimist to the end.
Q Look on the bright side.
Quotable
Quotes
"Have an anitudr of gratitude."
Alcoholics Anonymous Slog.an
"For what has been - thanks! For what ,hall
be - yes!.. Dag Hammcrskold
"Every morning, when u,c u1ake "P• w~ have
24 brand new hours to live. What a precious
gift!" Thich Nhat Han
"Normal day, let me be au•art' of thr treasure
"
you a".
~{ary Jean Iron
"\Vt-receive more than we can ever give. "
Sir Thomas More
"The more ~
give, the more u,i// come to us. "
Peggy Jenkins

What Is Tolerance?
To be tolerant is to accept differences. You don't
expect others to think, look, speak or act just like
you. Tolerance is being free of prejudice, knowing
that all people have feelings, needs, hopes and
dreams. To be tolerant also means to accept things
you wish were different with flexibility and patience.
Why Practice 117
People who don't practice tolerance cannot stand
to have anything differ from what they want and
expect. Tolerance helps them accept things as they
are. People without tolerance judge others by the
way they look, sound, or dress. They decide who
can be a friend and who can't. When people are
teased or left out, they feel sad and lonely. When
we are tolerant, we don't allow differences to drive
us apart.
•
How Do You Practice lt7
Practicing tolerance is showing respect and appre•
ciation for differences. You don't judge or tease
someone who is different. You make them feel at
home. You show forgiveness when someone makes
a mistake. Tolerance does not mean being passive
and letting someone hurt you. When that hap-
pens, you need assertiveness. When you are toler-
ant, you have patience and flexibility to accept the
things you cannot change with good grace.
The Virtues Project
What would Tolerance
look llke
If ...
" A new student comes into class wearing
clothes you have never seen before?
• Others are making fun of someone be-
cause all he cares about is math?
• Your mother picks you up late for the
third time this week?
• Another student keeps asking to share
your lunch?
• You're on a school trip and it is hot and
uncomfortable?
• Your sister has a really annoying habit she
can't seem to change?
• A student keeps bullying you on the
playground?
Signs of Success
Congratulations! You are practicing Tolerance
when you ...
• Accept differences
• Are free of prejudice
• Don't complain when uncomfortable
conditions can't be helped
u Make others feel included by reaching out
in friendliness
u Change yourself instead of trying to
change others
• Accept people the way they are, faults and all
Affirmation
I am tokrant. I overlook people's
faults. I appreciate
diffe"nce,. I accept th, things I cannot change u•ith
good grace.

Activities with 18lc~aizC'c
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
~;.,-x-9f
Virtues
Sharing
Clrcle
Have s1uden1s form 1riads. (This can be done
with 1he class as a whole if i1 is small.) Have a
sharing circle aboul how i1 feels 10 be judged
and crilicized by 01hers, how i1 feels when a
friend or relative doesn'1 forgive us for a
mis1ake we have made. Then share how it feels
to be 1rea1ed with tolerance and unders1and-
ing. End the circle with Virtues Acknowledg-
ments.
Drawing
Tol•rance
I .Write Tolerance at the top of a sheet of
paper. 2. Draw a line down the middle of
the paper. 3. On one side, draw a picture of
a rime others treated you without Tolerance:
a 1ime you fel1 prejudged, excluded, or
treated inrolerandy. 4. On the other side,
draw a picture of a time Tolerance was being
prac1iced 1oward you, when others included
you, 1reated you with friendliness and
understanding.
fi
Virtues
Reflection
Questions
\I!.~
~
Poster Points
Q Of1en we need to balance one virtue with
another. Name a situation in which it would
be foolish to be too 1oleran1, when instead
you would need 10 be asser1ive.
Q
If someone wanted to play cards wi1h you and
your friend, and you were in 1he middle of a
game, how could you be tolerant and
assertive al me same lime? What would you say?
Q Whal would you do if someone offers you
drugs?
Q
Name three kinds of prejudice (e.g., sexism,
racism, etc.)
Q What is it like for someone who feels ex-
cluded because they are differen1?
Q
What would you say if someone made a racist
remark in front of you?
Q
Name 1hree things people can do to spread
Tolerance ins1ead of prejudice.
Q
What are some things in your life 1ha1 call for
a tolerant atlitude? (Things you wish were
different.)
The Virtues ProJect
Q Lei's appreciate our differences.
Q
Unity in diversity.
Q We don't pu1 each other down. We lift
each 01her up!
Q Accepting 1he 1hings I canno1 change.
"Ltt yountlvtJ bt divtJttd of pr,judict. "
Brigham Young
"Give to evny human bting every right that
you claim yourself" Robert G. Ingersoll
• ... practice tolerance and live together
l1J good
neighbors.• United Nations Chatter
·w, may have comt hert on different ships,
but wtrt' all in the same boat. »
Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.
uDisagrennents have been part of our rel.ation-
1hip - along with forgivtne,s - l1J we are
totally different personalities and love alway,
•
•
"mains.
Claudette Renner
"Everybody smile, in tht ,ame language. •
Anonymous

What Is Trust?
Trust is believing in someone or something. It is
having confidence that the right thing will happen
without trying to control it or make it happen.
Sometimes it is hard to trust when life brings
painful experiences. Trust is being sure, down
deep, that there is some good in everything that
happens.
Why Practice It?
Without trust, you always feel you have 10 control
things 10 make them curn out right. You worry
over what ochers are doing and worry about things
you cannot control. Trusting others leaves you free
to concentrate on the things that you need to do.
Trusting yourself is an important part of growing
up. Instead of worrying over every mistake, you
do your best and rrusc ic co be enough.
How Do You Practice 117
Trust brings a positive a11i1ude coward life. By
having confidence chat things will go righc, you
help co make it true. When you cruse, you relax
and let go of worries. Even when difficult things
happen, they can help you grow stronger and
learn new things. Trust people co keep their
promises unless chey keep breaking chem. It is
foolish co trust people who keep breaking prom-
ises. Start trusting chem only when they choose
to be trustworthy.
The Virtues Project
What would Trust look llke If ...
w
You are worried chat you won't make any
friends ac school chis year?
w A friend makes a promise to you?
.., You start co worry chat it will rain on your
picnic tomorrow?
• A person who has lose your chings in che
past wants co borrow your favorite music
cape?
o You stare to feel really scared about some-
thing bad happening?
• You worry chat you're not good enough at
a sport?
Signs of Success
Congratulations! You are practicing Trust when
you ...
• Believe ch ere is some good in everything
cha I happens
• Look for the lesson in painful experiences
~ Let trust rake away your worries
• Know chat your best is good enough
w Trust others unless you have good reasons
not to
• Don't nag, worry, or try to take control
Affirmation
I trust that there is some good in everything that
happens. I have no need to control orhrn. All ftar
and worry are released. I fie/ at peace and know
1 am nor alone.

Activities with r~a~t
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
~
Trust Walk
"
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
""-~
~
Poster PolntJ/
Have students pair up, with one of them
blind-folded while the other gently and
carefully leads them around a field or a room.
Then they reverse roles. Talk about how it felt
to trust someone to lead you and how it felt to
be the leader?
• •
Virtues
Reflection
Questions
Q
How can you tell if you can trust someone
or nor?
Q What helps you 10 trust 1ha1 things will turn
out right?
Q
Name something you do that you really trust
yourself to do well. It could be something
simple you do every day.
-Q Name a rime it j5 difficulc for you co trust that
things will be okay.
Q
What would it look like to balance trust with
assertiveness in your relationsh•ps?
Q
What do you trust a good friend to do?
II
What would you do if someone was not
trustworthy and kept asking you to trust him?
11 Drawing
Trust
'-'---IJ.LJ
•
Draw a picture of a sunrise. You can always
crust the sun to come up when it is supposed
co rise.
The Virtues ProJeCt
Q
Friendship is a Sacred Trust.
Q I trust in life.
o All will be well.
Q
Rain brings a rainbow.
Quotable
Quotes
"/ will t,II you that tber, bav, been no failures
in my lift ... There have been SOffle tremendous
kssons. " Oprah Winfrey
'ils ioon l1J you trust yourself. you will know
how lo live.,. Goethe
"For what has been - thanks!
For what ,hall be - trust. " Dag Hammarskjold
"Every day. in every u•ay. I'm getting better
and brttrr." Emile Couc
"When we trust a, far l1J we can, we often find
our,e/ves able to tn,st at least a little farther."
r..iark Gibbard

What Is Trustworthiness?
Trustworthiness is being worthy of trust. People
can count on you 10 do your best, to keep your
word and 10 follow through on your con1mic-
ments. Others can rely on you. They can trust that
if it is at all possible, you will do what you said you
would do, even if it becomes really hard. When
you are trustworrhy, ochers can be sure of you and
you can be sure of yourself.
Why Practice It?
Wichouc trustworthiness, agr«ments and promises
don't mean anything. If we aren't trustworthy,
people never know if they can believe us or count
on us. When we practice trustworthiness, people
don~t have co check up on us to see if we .are doing
something we promised to do. They can relax,
knowing we keep our promises. Trustworthiness is
the key 10 success in anything we do.
How Do You Practice It?
When you are trustworthy, you stop and chink
before making a promise, 10 be sure it is some-
thing you really want co do and are able to do. You
abide by the rules, even when no one is watching.
When you make a promise, you keep your word
and do your best. You persevere, no macter how
hard it becomes, because it is very important to
you co be worthy of the trust of others. When you
are trustworthy, you have integrity.
The Virtues ProJeCt
What would Trustworthiness
look llke If ...
w Your mother sent you co the store and
asked you co bring back the change?
• Your realize the grocer made a mistake and
you underpaid?
• Your friend told you a secret that she
doesn't want anyone else to know?
• You promised to do a chore but get dis-
rracced by TV or a book?
• Someone asks you 10 do something that
you know in your heart is too hard for
you?
• Some friends cry 10 convince you 10 take
something that doesn't belong 10 you?
Signs of Success
Congratulations! You are practicing
Trusrworthiness when you ...
• Think before you promise something 10
be sure you can do it
• Remember what you promise others
w Keep your promises even when they
become hard 10 do
• Abide by the rules even when no one is
watching
• Let nothing stop you fron1 keeping your
word
• Do your best and finish what you start
Affirmation
I am trustworthy. I keep my promises. I keep my
word I am u•orthy of the trust others place in me.

Actiiities 11ith
~
" " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " " "
lffl
Be a Promise Keeper
Think of a. promise you can make to someone
in your family or in this class, one that you
can actually accomplish. Follow through on it
this week and share the results at the end of
the week. Name three things you can do to be
sure to remember ic and follow through on it.
Relay Race
Have a Trustworthiness relay race, in which
everyone runs as fast as they can, carrying an
object to a goal and running back to pass it
on co the next runner.
Virtues
Reflection
Questions
Q
Why do friends need to be trusrworthy?
Q What is it like to find out that someone broke
a promise to you?
Q How easy would it be to trust this person the
next cime a promise is made?
Q
How would life in your home be if you were
trusrworthy all the time?
Q Why is it important for people in the world of
work to be trustworthy? (A car manufacturer,
a farmer, a waitress, a storekeeper, a doctor)
Q
How does trusrworch iness attract success?
Q Everyone makes mistakes. When you are
trusrworthy, how do you handle them?
Q What helps you to be trusrworthy?
Q
Name three times you have practiced
trustworthiness.
The Virtues Project
Drawing
Trustworthiness
Draw a person doing a job in which it is
important to be trusrworthy.
"-~
~
Poster Points
Q
Promise keeper.
g-
You can count on me.
Q Always reliable and dependable.
Q
Being worthy of trust.
Quotable
Quotes
"Never tsteem anything of advantage to you
that will makt you brrak your word or lost
your self-respect." t,..f.i.rcus.
Aurcliw An,oninus
"You are a guardian of th, steds for the world
to come. All that has gone beforr and all that is
yet to come is within you ... You are running in
a r,/ay. This is the momtnt you havt betn
chosen to hold tht torch. You cannot r,just to
run. " Tolbcn McCarrol
"If you fear that peopk will know, don't do it.•
Chincsr Proverb
"If you think you can, or if you think you can't,
you rt' right. " Anonymous.
"You do not attract what you want but what
..
you are. Anonymous
"To be trusted is a greattr compliment than to
be loved. " George MacDonald

Whal Is Truthfulness?
Truthfulness is being honest in your words and
actions. You don't tell lies, even 10 protect yourself
from getting into trouble. You don't listen to
gossip and prejudice. You see with your own eyes
and make up your own mind about what is true.
Being true 10 yourself means being who and what
you are, without exaggerating co impress others or
trying 10 look like something you are not. It is
being yourself, your true self.
Why Practice It?
Without rrurhfulness, no one can tell if someone
is lying or telling the truth. They cannot be
trusted 10 tell what is a story and what really
happened. They get imagination mixed up with
reality. When people are rrurhful, they say what
they mean and mean what they say. Trurhfulness
builds trust. People know where they stand with a
truthful person.
How Do You Practice II?
Always choose 10 tell the truth. If someone asks
your opinion, give it - tactfully! When you make a
mistake, admit it rather than trying to cover it up.
Instead of listening 10 gossip, find out the truth for
yourself. Recognize the difference between fantasy
and reality. If you start telling a story, stop and tell
what really happened. Let people see you as you
are, without trying 10 look more important. You are
truly wonhy just as you are.
The Virtues Project
Whal would Truthfulness
look
llke If ...
•
Someone tells you that your best friend is
saying mean things about you and doesn't
want to be your friend anymore?
• You find yourself making excuses 10 cover
up a mistake?
" You feel like exaggerating how well you
did in a sport event?
• A friend asks you what you think of the
strange outfit he is wearing?
•
Someone makes a comment about all
people of a different race?
o You feel like making up a fantastic story to
scare your licde sister?
Signs of Success
Congratulations! You are practicing Truthfulness
when you ...
•
Speak only the truth
•
Practice justice by investigating the truth
for yourself
•
Don't let others tell you what 10 think
• Can tell the difference between fact and
fantasy
-i-
Admit it when you have made a mistake
" Know you are enough - don't exaggerate
or deceive (O impress others
Affirmation
I am trnthfal. I speak the truth. I see rhe truth with
my own ,yes, I have no need to in1prtss others or
exaggeratt. I am content to be my true self.

Aetivit iel with r~at}zfb:ltzci,i>
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
~, \ • r",. .~:~e or False
Make up a list of true staten1ents, such as
"The grass is green" mixed with outrageous
statements. such as "Money grows on trees."
and have students check true or false boxes.
Story
Read or tell the Acsops Fable of "The Boy
Who Cried Wolf" and discuss how the boy
feh and what he can do to make amends.
Ask "What would you do to make it right if
you told a lie?"
~
Virtues
Reflection
tKJ Questions
Q
What it would feel like to have a good friend
tell you a lie?
Q
What does the liar feel after telling a lie?
Q \Why do we :sometimes cry to exaggerate what
we do or what we have?
Q
How does truthfulness help our relationships?
Q
What are some things you truly care about?
Q
What are some things you truly like to do?
Q
What would you do or say if someone began
gossiping or saying prejudiced things in front
of you?
>
11 Drawing
Truthfulness
Make a collage or drawing co show several of
1hc virtues you truly have, that describe your
1rue self.
The Virtues ProJect
Q
Q u Q u Q
Q
Q
Q
\Ill'_~
~
Poster Points
Q The truth shall set us free.
U True to my word.
Q True to myself.
Quotable
Quotes
"This above all - to thin, own stlfbt trut,
and it mmt follow, as thr night thr day. thou
canst not thrn br fa/sr to any nran. •
William Shakespeare
"Tri/ thr truth. Do it now.• \X'crncr Erhard,
T rurh is tht stcrtt of eloquence and of virtue,
thr basis of moral authority. it is thr highest
summit of art and lift. • H.F. Amici
"If a man dots not kerp pact with his conrpan-
ions. perhaps it is because he hears a diffe"nt
drunrmrr. lrt him strp to thr n11uic which hr
hran. howtvrr "1rasured or far away. ..
Henrv David Thorc-au
"Truth txisrs. Only lies art inv,nttd."
(;tor~es Braque
"To /110, truth for truth) sake is thr principal
part of human perfection in this u,orld, and
tht sttd-plot of all othtr virt11ts. " John Locke
i411 e:..·aggeration
is a trnth that has lost its
ttniptr. • K.ihlil G ibran
"Br truthfol, gentlr and f,arlrss." M.K. Ghandi

What Is Understanding?
Understanding is thinking clearly. It is using your
mind so that you can see the truth about things. It
is paying careful attention and thinking abou1
things in order to see their meaning. Understand-
ing is also having empathy and showing compas-
sion. Understanding gives us the power 10 think
and learn and also to care.
Why Practice It?
Without an understanding mind, there would be
no learning. People who don't practice under-
s1anding don', use their minds fully. Life is dull
and boring because they just do the least amount
of learning or 1hinking. People who use thei, heads
to understand and solve problems, have great
insigh1s and wonderful ideas. People who use ,heir
hearts to understand show compassion and forgive
people fo1 their mis1akes.
C
How Do You Practice It?
To practice understanding, you pay close atten-
tion. Look, lis1en and 1hink. When faced with a
difficult problem, you reflect and reason it out
until che answer becomes clear. You resist distrac-
tions. You concentrate your mind to help you see
the whole picture and to understand the meaning
of what you see. You open your heart to under-
stand how people feel and put yourself in their
shoes. You understand chat we all make mistakes.
You are willing to be forgiving.
The Virtues Project
What would Understanding
look llke If ...
w You are listening to a story?
w You have a difficult math problem'
w
Your teacher is explaining how to do
something new?
w You are trying to do your homework and
watch TV at the same time?
• Your mother has been irritable for a week?
w Your friend forgers co n1eec you after
school?
Signs of Success
Congratulations! You are practicing Understanding
when you ...
\I
Concentrate and pay close attention
w Reflect on the meaning of things
w See the whole picture
w Resist distractions
\I
Put yourself in other people's shoes
•
l'orgive others and yourself when you
make mistakes
Affirmation
I /,az•t an u11dtrst1111di11g
mind. I co11ce11trate
and
pay attelltion so that I call think clearly. I ha,,, an
u11dersta11di11g
heart. I h,11,e e111pathy
for other
peopk' s fteli11gs.

Activities
with
Understanding
Read a story and have students empathize
with the characters and ask • If you were X,
how would you feel?" Together, make a list
of feelings on the board - sad, mad, glad,
scared, embarrassed, confused, happy, and
so on.
Read about Albert Einstein and discuss his
late blooming as a student and as one of the
greatest thinkers in the world.
Virtues
Reflection
Questions
Q What happens when we don't pay attention?
Q
Share with a partner some of the things you
find easy co understand and some that you
find difficult to understand.
Q What can you do when you have trouble
understanding something in school?
Q What are your biggest distractions?
Q Name three things you can do to help you
concentrate your mind.
Q What is one of the most important things you
have ever learned?
Q
What <lo you think great inventors do to
come up with new ideas?
Q When have you felt empathy and understand-
ing for an animal or a person?
Q When someone makes a mistake, what would
help you to be understanding?
The Virtues ProJect
Drawing
Understanding
Draw yourself doing something that you
understand how to <lo well.
~~
~
Poster Points
" " "
Q
"
Look. Listen. Think.
A reflective mind.
A compassionate heart.
Aw.ake and aware.
Seeing the whole picture.
Quotable
Quotes
.. If one is master of one thing and unt:knta,1th
on, thing w,/4 on, has at th, sam, rim,
imight into and undentanding of many
things."' Vincent Van Gogh
"What tht heart undenta ,id, today. th, head
untkrstands tomo"ow . .. Anonymow
"It is obvious that to b, in rarn,st in s,,king
truth is an indisptnsabl, requisite for finding
it ... John Henry, Cardinal Newman
"Of count understanding of our fallow b,ings
is important. But this undtntanding b,com,,
fruitfo/ only wh,11 it is sustain,d by sympa-
thetic ft,ling in joy and sorrow. • Alben Einsr<in
"Undtrstafldiflg a p,rsofl do,s 1101 mtafl
condofling: it oflly m,am that on, do,, not
accuse him as if ont wt'rt ... a judge pfac,d
abovt him. • Erich Fromm

What Is Unity?
Unity helps people work and live together peace-
fully. When you practice uniry, you feel connected
to everyone and everything. Uniry brings har-
mony, like the music made by the different instru-
ments in an orchestra. Unity comes when we value
each each person, "fhe joy of one is the joy of all.
The hurt of one is the hurt of all. The honor of
one is the honor of all.
Why Practice It?
Without uniry, differences scare people and drive
them apart. Without uniry, each person stands
alone. When we come together in unity, we coop-
erate. We work roge[her ro accomplish more than
any one of us could by ourselves. We feel a sense of
unity wirh all living things. and do our part co care
for the earth.
How Do You Practice It?
When you practice uniry, you look at your
prejudices and are willing 10 let them go. Unity
doesn't mean being the same. Just as every leaf on
a tree has a unique design, each person on this
earth is someone special. When you practice
uniry, you see the specialness in each person. not
as a reason to fight or be scared, bur as a gift.
Working in unity with others gets things done
efficiently. Uniry is solving cannier peacefully by
listening and finding solutions.
The Virtues Project
What would Unity look llke If ...
" You see a student in your school who
wears a special head-dress or clothing in
obedience to his religion?
" You notice that all your friends toss their
crash into the creek?
" You become angry with a brother or sister
and feel like saying hurtful things?
" You overhear someone teasing a child of a
different race and calling her names?
•
Someone tells you an ethnic joke and you
are tempted to tell it to someone else?
• The teacher gives you an assignment to do
with a group?
Signs of Success
Congratulations! You are practicing Unity when
you .. ,
-w Trear all people as members of one
human family
w See the gifts in differences
" Refuse to join in when others express
prejudice
" Solve conflict through listening and
finJing solutions
w Care for the earth anJ all living things
• Act like a peacemaker wherever you go
Affirmation
I am in unity u1ith others. I appreciate differenctJ.
I do not support pr1"dice. I am a peacemaker. I care
far the earth and a// living things.

Activities with tJf'!tt~
(OlderJ Unity Hammock
In groups of 10 or so, have srudenrs form two
lines, facing one another. They then grasp
each other's wrists firmly. Have one end of the
line bend their knees, allowing son1eone to
gently "fall" back across the bridge or "ham-
mock" of arms. The individual then closes his
or her eyes and listens as others name virtues
they see in the person. e.g., "I see Juan's
kindness." "I see Juan's reliahiliry."
Tug of Peace
Two teams try to pull rope to their side
through the power of their uniry.
Q
How do differences make things go better in
a family?
U
Name three ways you are different from
your favorite friend.
"
Name three things you share.
I.I What can you accomplish in uniry with
others you cannot do alone?
Drawing
Caring
Make a poster representing the unity of
humanity.
Unity Ice Breaker
c,"-
~
.
.
.
Poster Points
Hand out pictures or words naming different
animals. then ask students co find their group
Q United we stand. Divided we fall.
by making the sounds their animal makes.
Unity Orchestra
Find your own unique sound and make a
rhythm "song". Listen to the sound of all of
you together, unified in your diversity.
~
Virtues
Reflection
~
Questions
Q
How can people who are different get along?
Q
What would it be like if every instrument in
an orchestra made the same sound?
'1 What would it be like if every person looked,
sounded and thought alike?
Q
How do differences cause problems in a
family?
The Virtues Project
Q
One Human Family.
Q
Unity in Diversity.
Quotable
Quotes
"Of i1 truth, men are my;ti,:11lly
11nited;
i1
mysterious bo11d of brotherhood makes all men
ont. " Thon1.ts Carlylr
"United we ,1a11d. divided we fall. "
Slogan of th-e American Revolution
"When u1e learn to con1e together, we are
'"hole. " Anne: Cameron
"11,, only reality is that we all love each other;
everything else i, illmion. • Arnold Patent
"011e 1011ch
of nat11re make, the whok world
kin. " William Shakrspeare, Hamlet

Virtues:
The Gifts of Character
Assertiveness
Integrity
Caring
~~~- Joyfulness
Cleanlinest
~~ .. -·, :-.iwit.ice
Commitment
• -
-_ .. • Kindness
Comp~sioft
, - ~ . ~.~-~~.V¢
Conficlence
• ~"' - '" ~ teyally~
Considt!:@tio'1
, I· Z::JRi~~tion
c,lfpe JfiO.n~ . • •e2.aesty
.~
C:ou@g . . 7~ ...
~~~-~-.
* ,• Q.rele_j.ij-,ei -
Cpurtesy
- --<ZA ---
; Pajience-
-
.
.
\'.
.
.·
.
. .t
'.-
____ ,.,,...
\
Cr-atJvitYtJt --
• . ~~~ ·_ ~,.,~~cefu~,_,,
De·ta~ment,
~~- ~-~e~~ever~at~
D,etermination(.
_-,~-r ... ._.,
Jirjfoiefulness
Diligell$~w~~~
- ~
,;Reliability
Enthusiasm
• ·-•• Respect
Excellence
Responsibility
Flexibility
r,iFJ
Self-discipline
Forgiveness
Service
Friendliness
...
i..,":':/;g/1, Tact
Generosity
• .i Thanl«fulness
Gentleness
~
Tolerance
Helpfulness
· Trust -
Honesty
Trustworthiness
Honor
Truthfulness
Humility
Idealism
Understanding
Unity
Copyright 2000 by The Virtues Project, Inc.
Reproducible. © 2000 by Linda Kavelin Popov. Published. by PRO-ED, Inc.

Section 3
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Resources
• Virtues Project Website
• Programs and Materials of The Virtues Project
• How to Order Materials
• Selected Bibliography
• Virtues Music Sources

Virtues Project Website
Virtues Project Website - www.virtuesproject.com
See our website for:
• a catalog of materials
• ordering information
• a schedule of upcoming trainings
• a list of facilitators
• informalion on scheduling workshops and presencacions
• our e-mail address and to send a message.
Programs of
The Virtues Project™
Our programs incJude:
• Conference presentations by Linda Kavelin Popov and Dr. Dan Popov
• Professional development workshops for teachers, counselors, and parents
• Comprehensive programs to develop a "Community of Character"
• Community development and healing projects
• Virtues Project Facilitator Intensive Workshops
Materials of
The Virtues Project
Materials of The Virtues Project include:
• The Family Virtues Guide - available from booksellers everywhere
• Sacred Moments: Daily Meditations on the Virtues - available from book
sellers everywhere
• Virtues Cards - used in Virtue Picks at home and at school.
• Poster: "Virtues: the Gifts Within" of the 52 virtues in Thr Family
Virturs Guidr - full color 24" x 36"
Resources ········································••H••····································

• Poster: "Virtues: rhe Gifrs of Character" of rhe 52 virtues in Th, Virtue,
Projtct Educdtori Guide
• Audio Tapes of ralks by Linda Kavclin Popov and Dr. Dan Popov
• Videos of rhc 13-episode Television Series: "Virtues: A Family Affair"
based on the Five Strategies of The Virrues Project
• Music CDs: "The Virrues Songs" - a companion to Th, Family VirtutJ
Guide
• Wallet Cards - scr of 20, listing 52 virtues
The Virtues Project .....................................................
.

Selected Bibliography
Bartlett, John & Kaplan, Justin, Bartktts Familiar Quotations, 16th Edition,
Little Brown & Co., ISBN 0-316-08277-5
Clive, Margery, Cultivating Charact,r: An Educators &sourc, Program for th,
Virtues (Companion book to Th, Virtun Project Educators Guide), Published
by the Author, 1999, Dallas,TX.
Orders: See www.virtuesproject.com or e-mail at: margeryclive@hotmail.com
Gossen, Diane Chelsom, R,srirution: Restructuring School Disciplin,, New View
Publications, 1996, Chapel Hill, NC, ISBN 0-944337-36-8
Jenkins, Peggy, Ph.D., Th, ]oyfal Child: A Sourc,book of Activitits and Ideas for
R,kasing Childr,n'r Natura/Joy, Harbinger House, Inc.,Tucson, AZ, 1989,
ISBN 0-943173-16-7
Palomares, Susanna et al, Th, Sharing Circ/, Handbook, 1992, Innerchoice
Publishing, Spring Valley, CA, ISBN 1-56499-007-9
Pepper, Margaret, ed. Th, Harp,r Religious and Inspirational Quotation Com-
panion, Harper & Row, New York, NY, 1989, ISBN 0-06-016179-5
Popov, Linda Kavelin, Sarrtd Moments: Daily Meditations on th, Virtues,
Penguin/Putnam, Plume label, New York, NY, 1997, ISBN 0-452-27811-2
Popov, Linda Kavelin, with Dan Popov, Ph.D., and John Kavelin, Th, Family
Virtues Guide: Simpk Wiiys to Bring Out tht Btst In Our Chilar,n and Ourstlvts,
Penguin/Putnam, Plume label, New York, NY, 1997, ISBN 0-452-27810-4
Tucker, Shelley, Painting th, Sky: Writing Poetry with Children, 1995, Good
Year Books, Harper Collins, New York, NY
Wilson, Paul, Tht Littk Book of Calm, Plume/Penguin, New York, NY, 1996
Resources ...............................................................
u
................
.

Music Resources
Grammer, Red, .. Ttaching P,ac,•: Red Note Records, 5049 Orangeport Rd.,
Brewerton, NY 13029 (800) 824-2980, www.redgrammer.com
Radha, "Virtues In Mr': New singing games and musical activities for chil-
dren, many of them favorite traditional songs given a delightful new twist.
Radha's previous recordings have won several music industry awards in New
Zealand. Detailed Teaching Notes accompany the recordings.
"Sing th, World Arountl', an uplifting album for children by Radha & the
Kiwi Kids, centered on the bonds of our universal human family. Easy-listen-
ing songs about Love, Caring, Truth and Peace.
To order or receive a free UCA catalog contact Universal Childrens Audio,
Box 52-076 licahi Bay, Porirua, New Zealand. Tel: 64-4-2399971, Fax 64-4-
2399976, e-mail: uca@clear.ner.nz
Russell, Jennifer, "The Virtues Song,; a musical companion to The Family
Virtues Guidt. A 3 CD or cape set with songs on each of the 52 virtues in
reggae, gospel, country & western and other diverse styles. This ablum re-
ceived The National Parenting Center Seal of Approval and Parents' Choice
Award, Sugarbone Records.
The Virtues Project ................
u
.....................................................
.

Character EducationNirtues/SeJf-Esteem
The Virtues Project-rM was honored by the
United Nations as a model program for families
o,f all cultures. Now, The Virtues Project™
Educator's Guide offers character awakening
activities and practices for Grades K - 12 to
counselors, teachers, caregivers, and youth leaders.
Features
Benefits
•
52 Virrues honored by all cultures and
traditions as the ''best within us"
•
The uVirrue of ch.e Week
11 Program
•
Success stories and sai11ple activities from
schools, day care centers, Boys & Girls
Clubs, scour troops and youth progran1s
drawn from around the globe
•
Proven n1erhods for creating a culntre of
character in a classroom, a school or a club
•
IO Guidelines for School-Wide Discipline
based on Restorative Justice
•
Tips for the Transformation of Bully Behavior
•
Innovacive 1nethods for Peer Mentoring
•
Offers easy-to-use character awakening
activities and practices for all grade levels
•
Helps children develop the virtues - the
gifts of character
•
Inspires Excellence, Respect, Compassion,
Justice, and Cooperation in children of
all ages
•
En1powers children ro n1ake moral choices,
deal wirh grief and loss, and resolve
problems with their own inner strength
•
Teaches students to Jift each other up
instead of put each other down
If Includes one-minute counseling strategies
that work
"The Virtues Project is one of the best things to happen to the Boys & Girls Club.
It helps us respectfully address the spirit of our kids and gives new hope to us all."
Susan Lake. Board Member and volunteer.
Boys & Girls Club. Twin Cities, Minnesot~
Linda Kavelin Popov is Presidenr and co-
founder of~rhe Virtues Project, lnc. She is a
psychotherapist. ol"gainiz.atiortal cons1.Jtarir and
trainer who f.1eilirares character education in
schools, communiries, corporarions, governn1enc
agencies, child and youth programs, and prisons
in rnany councries. She has appeared on
ntunerous lV shows, indllding The Oprah
Sbow, and is the co-producer and principal of
"Virrues: A Fanlily Affaii', a 13 episode TV
series. She authored die inceniational be t- eller
Th(' Ft1rnify Virtues Guicu.
8700 Shoal Creek Boulevard.
Austin, TX 78757-6897
www.proedinc.com
Order Number 11717