THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1987-03-10

To an individual b ahá’í

dear b ahá’í f riend,

1987 and has asked us to convey on its behalf the following in response to

the points you have raised.

it is not advisable for bahá’í institutions or individuals to initiate actions

designed to prod government leaders to urge their government or the lead-ers of other governments to convene the world conference called for by bahá’u’lláh and echoed in The Promise of  World Peace. T wo points should

be borne in mind in this regard: (1) because of the political gravity of the

decisions implied by this call and the differing political attitudes which it evokes, such actions on the part of the bahá’í community would embroil

the friends in partisan politics. There is quite a difference between identi-

fying, as does the peace Statement, the need for a convocation of world

leaders and initiating the political processes towards its realization. (2) in

the writings of the faith (e.g., the closing passages of The Promised Day Is

Come), it is clear that the establishment of the lesser peace, of which the

conference of leaders will be a related event, will come about independently

of any b ahá’í plan or action. This is not to say that b ahá’ís should be inert.

indeed, bahá’ís may promote the concept of the lesser peace with all that

it implies without engaging in the political processes which its realization

will require.

The house of justice feels that the task before the bahá’ís is to prepare

the ground for the transition from the present system of national sover-eignty to a system of world government. This requires a number of related

activities which have been indicated in the goals of previous and present plans of the community based on ‘Abdu’l-b ahá’s Tablets of the divine plan.

The activities which will indirectly prepare the world to make the final stride

include the following.

The establishment as rapidly as possible of firmly grounded, efficiently

functioning local Spiritual Assemblies in every part of the world, so that

seekers everywhere will have a point of reference to which they can turn for 18.1

18.2

18.3

18.4

1986–1992  •  T h e  S i x  Y e a r  P l a n

29guidance and for the Teachings of the faith. This implies a vast increase in

bahá’í membership. Although the canadian and many other bahá’í com-

munities have achieved remarkable progress, much work is required to bring

the bahá’í institutions all over the world to the degree of maturation that is

needed.

A second important activity is the deepening of the believers, of all ages,

in their understanding of and obedience to the Teachings of the faith. A

third is the proclamation of the faith to all strata of society, and in par-

ticular to those in authority and to leaders of thought so that those who hold the direction of peoples in their hands will learn accurately about the

nature and tenets of the faith and will grow to respect it and implement

its principles. A fourth is the promotion of bahá’í scholarship, so that an

increasing number of believers will be able to analyze the problems of man-kind in every field and to show how the Teachings solve them. A fifth is the

development of relations between the bahá’í international community and

the united Nations, both directly with the highest united Nations institu-

tions and at a grass-roots level in areas of rural development, education, etc.

These different activities, which began a long time ago and are still go-

ing on, coupled with the presentation of The Promise of  World Peace to the

leaders of the world, will gradually bring about circumstances which will indicate the direction of subsequent actions. The house of justice will ad-

vise the bahá’í world when the time is ripe for such actions. The unpredict-

ability of certain events in the world, which are likely to change the current course of certain processes, makes it impracticable for the house of justice

to respond with precision to some of your questions.

The house of justice in its message to the bahá’ís of the world dated 2

january 1986 referred to Shoghi effendi’s perception of a dialectic of victory

and crisis in the organic life of the cause. This indicates the instrumentality

of the forces of opposition which will help to bring about, over a period of time, conditions necessary for the local and National Spiritual Assemblies

to act effectively as local and National h ouses of j ustice.

The stages of the evolution of these institutions, which will synchronize

with the establishment of the lesser peace, are indicated in the writings of

the beloved g uardian, such as in the following extract:

Not only will the present-day Spiritual Assemblies be styled differ-ently in future, but they will be enabled also to add to their present functions those powers, duties, and prerogatives necessitated by the 18.5

18.6

18.7

18.8

18.8a

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

0recognition of the faith of bahá’u’lláh, not merely as one of the rec-

ognized religious systems of the world, but as the State religion of an

independent and Sovereign p ower.

(The World Order of  Bahá’u’lláh, pp.	6–7)

your specific question about whether or not bahá’ís in North America

“are permitted to run for election to school boards, town or municipal coun-

cils, hospital boards and for local enforcement officer positions” should be

answered by the National Assemblies concerned.

The completion of the buildings on the Arc “which will synchronize

with two no less significant developments—the establishment of the lesser

peace and the evolution of bahá’í national and local institutions—the one

outside and the other within the bahá’í world”18-1 speaks, as you have rightly

perceived, “to the readiness of the bahá’í Administrative order to manage

the ever-growing and complex affairs of the cause as well as an increased

capacity to interface with the non-b ahá’í world and its institutions.”

regarding the question in the final paragraph of your letter, the follow-

ing reply was written on behalf of the beloved guardian in a letter dated 14

march 1939 to an individual believer.

your view that the lesser peace will come about through the political

efforts of the states and nations of the world, and independently of

any direct bahá’í plan or effort, and the most great peace established

through the instrumentality of the believers, and by the direct opera-

tion of the laws and principles revealed by bahá’u’lláh and the func-

bahá’í Super State—your view on this subject is quite correct and in

full accord with the pronouncements of the guardian as embodied in

the “u nfoldment of w orld civilization.”18-2

The fact that the bahá’í institutions will not be directly involved in the

eventual convocation of world leaders and in effecting the political unity

of nations does not mean that the bahá’ís are standing aside and waiting

18-1. mbw , p. 74

18-2. See wob, pp. 161–206.18.9

18.10

18.11

18.11a

18.12

1986–1992  •  T h e  S i x  Y e a r  P l a n

1for the lesser peace to come before they do something about the peace of

mankind. indeed, by promoting the principles of the faith, which are indis-

pensable to the maintenance of peace, and by fashioning the instruments of

the bahá’í Administrative order, which we are told by the beloved guardian

is the pattern for future society, the bahá’ís are constantly engaged in laying

the groundwork for a permanent peace, the most great peace being their

ultimate goal.

with loving b ahá’í greetings,

Department  of tHe secretariat

19

Execution of Two Bahá’ís in Iran

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]