THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

2015-12-29

To the Conference of the Continental Boards of Cou

209

35

29 December 2015

To the Conference of the Continental Boards of Counsellors

Dearly loved Friends,

35.1 The Plan upon which the Bahá’í world embarked nearly

five years ago is in its closing stages; the final tally of its accom-

plishments grows still, but will soon be sealed. The collective

effort it inspired has called for wholehearted reliance on those

powers with which a benevolent Lord has endowed His loved

ones. Gathered with you at this moment of reflection, we are conscious of a determination among the friends to bring the

current Plan to a fitting conclusion, and of an eagerness to

advance further along the path that experience has marked out.

35.2 The considerable distance already travelled along that

path is evident from the present Plan’s most striking outcomes.

The ambitious goal of raising to 5,000 the number of clusters where a program of growth, at whatever level of intensity, is

under way looks set to be achieved in the months that remain

before Rid .ván 2016. In many scores of clusters, there are over

a thousand inhabitants—sometimes several thousand—taking

part in a well-established pattern of activity that embraces

ever-larger numbers, raising communities whose habits of thought and action are rooted in Bahá’u’lláh’s Revelation.

Worldwide, half a million individuals have now been enabled

to complete at least the first book in the sequence of courses,

an extraordinary feat that has laid a sure foundation for the

system of human resource development. A generation of youth is being galvanized into action by a compelling vision of how

they can contribute to building a new world. Marveling at what

they have seen, leaders of society in certain places are pressing the Bahá’ís to make their programs for educating the young

widely available. Faced with increasing complexity, Bahá’í

institutions and their agencies are finding ways to organize the

210

FRAMEWORK FOR ACTIONactivities of rising numbers of friends by promoting collabora-

tion and mutual support. And the capacity for learning, which

represented such a priceless legacy of previous Plans, is being

extended beyond the realm of expansion and consolidation to

encompass other areas of Bahá’í endeavor, notably social action

and participation in the prevalent discourses of society. We see a community fortified with the gifts of strength and hard-won

experience that come from two decades of unremitting effort

focused on a common aim: a significant advance in the process of entry by troops.

35.3 That this process must go much further, there can be no

doubt; nevertheless, developments demonstrate that a signifi-

cant advance has already occurred. It has prepared the friends

of God for a more exacting test of their capabilities, one that

will also make great demands of your institution as you rally

them to meet its requirements. In this coming Plan, which will conclude at the threshold of the second century of the Formative

Age of the Faith, we will call the believers everywhere to the

immense exertion necessary to bring to fruition the seeds that have been so lovingly and assiduously sown and watered in the

five Plans that preceded it.

The emergence of a program of growth

35.4 The unfoldment of the process of growth in a cluster, while

naturally possessing unique features in every instance shaped by the receptivity of those who are exposed to the divine teachings,

conforms to certain shared characteristics. Many of these were

discussed in our message to your 2010 conference, in which

reference was made to a series of milestones that mark progress along a path of development. A collective understanding of

what is required for the friends in a cluster to pass the first of

the milestones we described, and then the second, has grown over this period.

35.5 In the Five Year Plan now ending, the task facing the

believers has been to apply all that had been learned from

previous Plans to the work of extending the process of growth

to thousands of new clusters. What this has shown is that

much depends on the ability of the institutions to draw on

help from friends in other clusters, reinforcing the actions of an existing Bahá’í community by, for example, arranging the

support of visiting teaching teams or tutors. In many places,

the institute process begins with the assistance of believers from

211

reaching out to the local population, youth in particular, and

supporting them as they start to engage in service. Efforts to

stimulate activity in a cluster, especially one that has not yet

been opened to the Faith, are greatly enhanced if one or more

individuals settle there as homefront pioneers, concentrating their attention on part of a village or even a single street where

there is heightened receptivity. Well over 4,500 believers have

already arisen to serve in this way during the present Plan, an astonishing accomplishment.

35.6 Whatever the combination of strategies used, the chief

aim is to initiate a process for building capacity within the

cluster through which its inhabitants, prompted by a wish

to contribute to the spiritual and material well-being of their

communities, are enabled to begin offering acts of service. Once

this fundamental requirement is met, a program of growth has emerged. Essential, of course, is the support of Auxiliary Board

members and their assistants, whose close involvement from the

first stirrings of activity helps the friends to maintain a clear and united vision of what is needed.

Strengthening the pattern of action

35.7 Before long, there forms a nucleus of friends in a cluster

who are working and consulting together and arranging activ-

ities. For the process of growth to advance further, the number

of people sharing this commitment must rise, and their capacity

for undertaking systematic action  within the framework of

the Plan must correspondingly increase. And similar to the development of a living organism, growth can occur quickly

when the right conditions are in place.

35.8 Foremost among these conditions is an institute process

gaining in strength, given its centrality to fostering the move-ment of populations. The friends who have begun studying

institute materials, and are also investing their energies in or -

ganizing children’s classes, junior youth groups, gatherings for collective worship, or other related activities, are being assisted to proceed further through the sequence of courses, while the

number of those starting their study continues to rise. With

the flow of participants through institute courses and into the field of action being maintained, the company of those who are

sustaining the growth process expands. Progress relies to a large

extent on the quality of the efforts of those serving as tutors. At

212

FRAMEWORK FOR ACTIONthis early stage, most of them might still be drawn from other

clusters, but at the same time, a few local friends are being

raised up who, as their capacity for action increases, begin to

help others study the materials of the institute. Efforts to usher

in the first cadre of tutors from the cluster should steer a path

between two undesirable outcomes. If individuals proceed through the courses of the institute too hastily, the capacity to

serve is not sufficiently developed; conversely, if study is overly

prolonged, the process is robbed of the dynamism essential to its advancement. In differing circumstances, creative solutions

have been used to achieve the necessary balance, ensuring that,

within a reasonable period, some among those residing in a

cluster are enabled to serve as tutors.

35.9 Of course, it is not the provision of training by itself that

brings about progress. Efforts to build capacity fall short if arrangements are not swiftly made to accompany individuals

into the arena of service. An adequate level of support extends

far beyond encouraging words. When preparing to take on an

unfamiliar task, working alongside a person with some experi-ence increases consciousness of what is possible. An assurance

of practical help can give a tentative venturer the courage to

initiate an activity for the first time. Souls then advance their understanding together, humbly sharing the insights each

possesses at a given moment and eagerly seeking to learn from

fellow wayfarers on the path of service. Hesitation recedes and

capacity develops to the point where an individual can carry

out activities independently and, in turn, accompany others on the same path.

35.10 Where the institute is concerned, the flow of participants

through its courses creates a growing need for them to be

systematically supported as they begin serving as teachers of

children, as animators, and as tutors. Opportunities naturally

arise for those among the core of believers who have already

gained a measure of experience in the educational activities to assist those who are newer to them. An individual’s readiness

to help others move forward in their efforts to serve might

lead to specific responsibilities being assigned to him or her. In this manner, coordinators of each of the three stages of the

educational process gradually emerge as needs demand. Their

actions are always motivated by a desire to see capacity develop

in others and to foster friendships founded on cooperation and

reciprocity.

213

range of undertakings; from the earliest courses, participants

are encouraged to visit their friends at their homes and study

a prayer together or share with them a theme from the Bahá’í

teachings. Arrangements for supporting the friends in these

endeavors, which may have been largely informal, eventually prove inadequate, signaling the need for an Area Teaching Committee to appear. Its principal focus is the mobilization of

individuals, often through the formation of teams, for the con-

tinued spread of the pattern of activity in a cluster. Its members

come to see everyone as a potential collaborator in a collective

enterprise, and they appreciate their own part in nurturing a spirit of common purpose in the community. With a Committee

in place, the efforts already under way to convene gatherings

for worship, to carry out home visits, and to teach the Faith can now expand considerably. You will need to encourage National

Spiritual Assemblies and Regional Bahá’í Councils, as much

as training institutes, to remain alert to when conditions in a

cluster call for organizational arrangements to assume a definite

shape—neither acting prematurely nor unduly delaying the appearance of formal structures.

35.12 Just like individuals, the agencies emerging in a cluster need

assistance as they take up their duties. The help that Auxiliary

Board members provide in this regard is essential, but it is also

an important responsibility of Regional Bahá’í Councils or,

where no Council exists, of the National Spiritual Assembly

itself, and it is a pressing concern for training institutes as well. The capacity to serve ably at the cluster level increases when

spaces are created in which the believers involved can study

guidance, reflect on their actions in its light and draw insights therefrom, and also become connected with the wider body of

knowledge being generated in surrounding clusters and further

afield. Instead of formulating plans in the abstract, consul-

tations conducted in such spaces often aim at capturing the

reality of the cluster at that particular moment and identifying the immediate next steps to facilitate progress. Those serving at

the regional or national level may do much to advise the friends

and expand their vision of what can be accomplished, but they would not seek to impose their own expectations on the

planning process; rather, they are helping the believers who are

laboring in a cluster to gradually enhance their ability to devise

and implement a course of action informed by the experience

214

FRAMEWORK FOR ACTIONaccumulating at the grass roots of the community and familiar -

ity with actual conditions. In order to develop the capacity of

cluster agencies to learn and to act systematically, regional and

national institutions need to be conscientious and methodical

in their own efforts to assist them. Your auxiliaries’ support for

this work will ensure that each element of the growth process attains the requisite characteristics and that the integrity and

coherence of all the endeavors are maintained.

35.13 The impulse to learn through action is, of course, present

among the friends from the very start. The introduction of quarterly cycles of activity capitalizes on this emerging capacity

and allows it to be steadily reinforced. Although this capacity

is specifically associated with the reflection and planning phase

of a cycle, especially the reflection gathering that regulates its pulsating heartbeat, it also comes to be exercised at all other

points of the cycle by those pursuing related lines of action. We

note that, as learning accelerates, the friends grow more capable of overcoming setbacks, whether small or large—diagnosing

their root causes, exploring the underlying principles, bringing

to bear relevant experience, identifying remedial steps, and

assessing progress, until the process of growth has been fully

reinvigorated.

35.14 Central to the pattern of action evolving in a cluster is the

individual and collective transformation effected through the

agency of the Word of God. From the beginning of the sequence

of courses, a participant encounters Bahá’u’lláh’s Revelation in

considering such weighty themes as worship, service to human-

ity, the life of the soul, and the education of children and youth. As a person cultivates the habit of study and deep reflection

upon the Creative Word, this process of transformation reveals

itself in an ability to express one’s understanding of profound concepts and to explore spiritual reality in conversations of

significance. These capacities are visible not only in the elevated

discussions that increasingly characterize interactions within

the community, but in the ongoing conversations that reach

well beyond—not least between the Bahá’í youth and their peers—extending to include parents whose daughters and sons

are benefiting from the community’s programs of education.

Through exchanges of this kind, consciousness of spiritual forc-es is raised, apparent dichotomies yield to unexpected insights,

a sense of unity and common calling is fortified, confidence that

a better world can be created is strengthened, and a commit-

215

gradually attract ever-larger numbers to take part in a range

of community activities. Themes of faith and certitude surface

naturally, prompted by the receptivity and experiences of those

involved. What is clear, then, is that as the institute process in a

cluster gains momentum, the act of teaching comes to assume greater prominence in the lives of the friends.

35.15 As progress continues, the rising capacity for meaningful

conversation is harnessed in the plans of the institutions. By

the time cycles of activity have formally emerged, this capacity

is being further stimulated through the expansion phase that

does so much to determine the outcome of each cycle. The

precise objectives of each expansion phase vary, of course, depending on conditions in the cluster and the circumstances

of the Bahá’í community. In some instances, its main aim is to

increase participation in the core activities; in others, readiness to enroll in the Faith is discovered. Conversations about the

Person of Bahá’u’lláh and the purpose of His mission occur in

a variety of settings, including firesides and visits to homes. The

actions undertaken during this phase allow abilities developed

through studying the relevant institute materials to be exercised and refined. As experience grows, the friends become more

adept at discerning when they have found a hearing ear, at

deciding when to be more direct in sharing the message, at removing obstacles to understanding, and at helping seekers to

embrace the Cause. The approach of working in teams allows

the friends to serve together, offer mutual support, and build

confidence—but even when carrying out actions individually,

they are coordinating their efforts to greater effect. Their focus and investment of time endow this short but decisive phase

of the cycle with the intensity it demands. This spirit of high

resolve serves to multiply the community’s powers, and in each

cycle the friends learn to depend more and more on the potent

confirmations from the divine realm that their actions attract.

35.16 Five years ago, most of the clusters where an intensive

program of growth had been established were those where a

reasonable number of Bahá’ís already lived, often geographical-

ly spread out. Efforts on the part of those believers to advance

the work by inviting the participation of friends, coworkers,

extended family, and acquaintances did much to raise the level of activity throughout the cluster. Indeed, widening the circle

of participation in this way has become a familiar aspect of

216

FRAMEWORK FOR ACTIONBahá’í life and remains essential. At the same time, experience

indicates that, for growth to accelerate through a steady flow of

new participants entering the institute process, more is required.

The pattern of community life has to be developed in places

where receptivity wells up, those small centers of population

where intense activity can be sustained. It is here, when carrying out the work of community building within such a narrow

compass, that the interlocking dimensions of community life are

most coherently expressed, here that the process of collective transformation is most keenly felt—here that, in time, the soci-

ety-building power inherent in the Faith becomes most visible.

35.17 Therefore, a significant task facing you and your auxiliaries

at the outset of the coming Plan will be to assist the friends everywhere to appreciate that, for existing programs of

growth to continue to gain strength, the strategy of initiating

community-building activities in neighborhoods and villages

that show promise must be widely adopted and systematically followed. Individuals serving in such areas learn how to explain

the purpose of those activities, how to demonstrate through

deeds the purity of their motives, how to nurture environments where the hesitant can be reassured, how to help the inhabitants

see the rich possibilities created by working together, and how

to encourage them to arise to serve the best interests of their

society. Yet, recognizing the real value of this work should also

increase awareness of its delicate character. An emerging pattern of action in a small area can easily be smothered by too much

outside attention; accordingly, the number of friends who move

to such locations or visit them frequently need not be great since, after all, the process being set in motion is essentially

one that depends on the residents themselves. What is required

from those involved, however, is long-term commitment and

a yearning to become so familiar with the reality of a place

that they integrate into local life and, eschewing any trace of prejudice or paternalism, form those bonds of true friendship

that befit companions on a spiritual journey. The dynamic that

develops in such settings creates a strong sense of collective will

and movement. Over time, the cluster as a whole and its centers

of intense activity will infuse one another with the heightened understanding that comes from efforts to apply the teachings

in different contexts.

35.18 As the friends in a cluster continue to reinforce and expand

the community-building activities taking shape around them, it

217

elements of a system necessary for growth to be sustained are

now in place. Reaching the second milestone along the contin-

uum of development, which we described to you five years ago,

is accompanied by advances qualitative, but also quantitative—

such as a rise in the number of those involved in conversations that enable receptivity to be discovered and nurtured, in how

many homes are being visited, in core activities and partici-

pation, in how many individuals are beginning the sequence of courses or supporting others as they gain the confidence

to serve. Attendance at gatherings to mark the Nineteen Day

Feast and Bahá’í Holy Days is being fostered by Local Spiritual

Assemblies. Such advances are the more visible signs of a much

finer development: the gradual spread, within a population, of a pattern of community life based on Bahá’u’lláh’s teachings.

And, naturally, the number of believers grows.

35.19 In the last five years, the path that leads to the emergence

of an intensive program of growth has become more readily discernible. It must be earnestly pursued. In the Plan that will

commence this Rid .ván, we are calling for growth to be accel-

erated in all clusters where it has begun. Notwithstanding the natural ebb and flow characteristic of an organic process, there should appear a clear arc of progress over the course of twenty

cycles. This combined effort should seek to raise the number of

clusters where a program of growth has become intensive to 5,000 by Rid .ván 2021.

35.20 We set this objective before the Bahá’í world conscious

that it is truly formidable; that a herculean labor will be

required; that many sacrifices will have to be made. But faced

with the plight of a world that suffers more each day bereft of

Bahá’u’lláh’s elixir, we cannot, in conscience, ask anything less

of His devoted followers. God willing, their exertions will prove worthy to crown a hundred years of toil and set the stage for

exploits as yet unimagined that must adorn the second century

of the Formative Age.

35.21 In the coming months, you will be initiating consultations

with National Spiritual Assemblies to assess with them the

implications that this global goal holds for their respective

communities, a process of consultation which has to be quickly

extended until it reaches the grass roots. Action must then en-

sue. We anticipate that progress will be more swiftly achieved in regions where one or more intensive programs of growth have

218

FRAMEWORK FOR ACTIONbeen sustained for some time, as these offer a valuable source of

knowledge and experience and represent a reservoir of human

resources as efforts are made to strengthen surrounding areas.

Pursuit of this goal will also result in the emergence of new

programs of growth, often in unopened clusters that neighbor

those where a significant advance has occurred. Such a flow of assistance finds its origin in the imperatives laid out in the

Tablets of the Divine Plan.

Embracing large numbers and managing complexity

35.22 Whereas, when a program of growth is nascent in a cluster,

there might be a handful of individuals who are involved in its promotion and those who are participating might come from

only several households, by the time a program has become

intensive, these figures, as one would expect, have grown:

perhaps tens of individuals active in the work of expansion and consolidation, while those participating might well surpass a

hundred. But being able to reach out to large numbers—mobi-

lizing a hundred people or more, whose service connects them with many hundreds or even thousands—requires the capacity

to adapt to a substantial increase in complexity.

35.23 As the growth process continues to gain intensity, the

friends’ efforts to engage in meaningful conversations bring them into many social spaces, allowing a wider array of people

to become familiar with the teachings and consider seriously

the contribution they can make to the betterment of society.

In addition, more and more homes are provided as venues for community-building activities, making each a point for the

diffusion of the light of divine guidance. The institute process

comes to be supported by a growing number of friends serving capably as tutors who, cycle after cycle, offer the full sequence

of institute courses between them, at times with marked

intensity. Thus, human resource development proceeds with

minimal interruption and generates a constantly expanding

pool of workers. While it continues to draw on a diverse range of the cluster’s inhabitants, those taking its courses in the

greatest numbers are often the youth. The transformative effect

of studying the Word of God is experienced by the many whose lives are touched in some way by the community’s activities.

And as the flow of people beginning a path of service swells,

considerable progress is made in all aspects of the communi-

ty-building efforts of the friends. Animators of junior youth

219

fueling an expansion of these two vital programs. Children are

enabled to move from one grade of the classes to another, while

groups of junior youth progress from year to year and ground

their learning in service to society. Cluster agencies, bolstered

by the support of Local Spiritual Assemblies, encourage and foster the natural passage of participants from one stage of the

educational process to the next. An educational system with all

its component elements, capable of expanding to welcome large numbers, is now firmly rooted within the cluster.

35.24 This kind of progress requires the concerted efforts of

the friends wherever in the cluster they reside. Nevertheless,

experience in the present Plan demonstrates that a pattern of

action that is able to embrace large numbers comes chiefly from

working to bring more neighborhoods and villages—places

where the convergence of spiritual forces is effecting rapid change within a body of people—to the point where they can

sustain intense activity. A core of individuals from within each

is assuming responsibility for the process of building capacity in its inhabitants. A broader cross section of the population is

being engaged in conversations, and activities are being opened

up to whole groups at once—bands of friends and neighbors,

troops of youth, entire families—enabling them to realize how

society around them can be refashioned. The practice of gath-ering for collective worship, sometimes for dawn prayers, nur -

tures within all a much deeper connection with the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh. Prevailing habits, customs, and modes of expres-sion all become susceptible to change—outward manifestations

of an even more profound inner transformation, affecting many

souls. The ties that bind them together grow more affectionate.

Qualities of mutual support, reciprocity, and service to one

another begin to stand out as features of an emerging, vibrant culture among those involved in activities. The friends in such

locations help the cluster agencies extend the growth process

to different parts of the cluster, for they are eager to introduce

others to the vision of transformation they have themselves

already glimpsed.

35.25 In the course of their endeavors, the believers encounter

receptivity within distinct populations who represent a particu-

lar ethnic, tribal, or other group and who may be concentrated

in a small setting or present throughout the cluster and well

beyond it. There is much to be learned about the dynamics

220

FRAMEWORK FOR ACTIONinvolved when a population of this kind embraces the Faith

and is galvanized through its edifying influence. We stress the

importance of this work for advancing the Cause of God: every

people has a share in the World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, and all

must be gathered together under the banner of the oneness of

humanity. In its early stages, the systematic effort to reach out to a population and foster its participation in the process of

capacity building accelerates markedly when members of that

population are themselves in the vanguard of such an effort. These individuals will have special insight into those forces and

structures in their societies that can, in various ways, reinforce

the endeavors under way.

35.26 As growth in the cluster advances further, greater demands

are being placed on the organizational scheme of the training

institute. Additional coordinators are now required, some

of whom might focus their efforts on a particular part of

the cluster. However, this need not result in another layer of

administration. Much can be achieved through collaboration, as coordinators start to work together in teams, sometimes

drawing on the help of other capable individuals. The ongoing

interactions and exchange of experience within these teams constantly enriches understanding and increases the efficacy of

their service. The coordinators are also discovering that their

efforts can be much enhanced if the friends serving as teachers

of children, as animators, and as tutors who live in close

proximity to one another are able to meet in small groups, in the settings where they serve, and assist each other.

35.27 Meanwhile, the Area Teaching Committee is rising to a

new level of functioning. It is engaged in a more thorough

reading of circumstances in the whole cluster: on the one hand,

accurately assessing the capacities of the community and the

effects being produced by sustained growth, and on the other,

understanding the implications of various social realities for community building in the long term. In the plans it makes each

cycle, the Committee relies heavily on those shouldering the

greatest share of the work of expansion and consolidation, but given that the number of those connected in some way with the

pattern of activity is now large, a variety of questions become

more pressing: how to mobilize the entire company of believers

in support of teaching goals; how to organize systematic home

visits to the friends who would benefit from deepening and discussions that connect them with the community; how to

221

junior youth; how to build on the interest of those who have

shown goodwill towards the Faith but have yet to take part in

its activities. Promoting the widespread holding of devotional

meetings is another concern, so that hundreds of people,

eventually thousands, are engaged in worship in the company of their households and their neighbors. Ultimately, of course,

the Committee looks to continually extend the reach of the

community’s endeavors so that more and more souls become acquainted with the message of Bahá’u’lláh. In managing the

complexities involved in its own work—which includes gather -

ing and analyzing statistical data, as well as a diversity of other tasks—the Committee draws on the help of individuals beyond

its own members. These complexities also require increasingly close collaboration with Local Spiritual Assemblies.

35.28 For its part, and in response to growing numbers attending

activities, the Local Assembly is enhancing its capacity to

discharge the many responsibilities it carries on behalf of an ex-

panding community. It seeks to create an environment in which

all feel encouraged to contribute to the community’s common

enterprise. It is eager to see the cluster agencies succeed in their plans, and its intimate familiarity with the conditions in its area

enables it to foster the development of interacting processes

at the local level. With this in mind, it urges the wholehearted participation of the friends in campaigns and meetings for

reflection, and it provides material resources and other assis-

tance for initiatives and events being organized in the locality.

The Assembly is also attentive to the need for new believers

to be nurtured sensitively, considering when and how various dimensions of community life are to be introduced to them. By

encouraging their involvement in institute courses, it aims to

ensure that from the very beginning they regard themselves as protagonists in a noble endeavor to build the world anew. It

sees to it that gatherings for the Nineteen Day Feast, Holy Day

commemorations, and Bahá’í elections become opportunities

to reinforce the high ideals of the community, strengthen its

shared sense of commitment, and fortify its spiritual character. As numbers in the community grow larger, the Assembly gives

thought to when it could be beneficial to decentralize such

meetings so as to facilitate ever-greater participation on these

important occasions.

222

FRAMEWORK FOR ACTION35.29 A notable characteristic of advanced clusters is a mode of

learning that permeates the whole community and acts as a spur

to the rise in institutional capacity. Accounts that offer insight

into a method, an approach, or a complete process continually

flow to and from pockets of activity. The cluster-wide reflection

meeting, at which so much of this learning is presented, is often complemented by meetings for smaller areas, which generate a stronger feeling of responsibility among those attending. This

sense of collective ownership becomes more apparent from

cycle to cycle—the force released by a united body of people

taking charge of their spiritual development over generations

to come. And as they do so, the support they receive from regional and national Bahá’í institutions and their agencies is

experienced as an unceasing flow of love.

35.30 A natural outcome of the rise both in resources and in con-

sciousness of the implications of the Revelation for the life of a population is the stirrings of social action. Not infrequently,

initiatives of this kind emerge organically out of the junior

youth spiritual empowerment program or are prompted by

consultations about local conditions that occur at community gatherings. The forms that such endeavors can assume are

diverse and include, for example, tutorial assistance to children,

projects to better the physical environment, and activities to improve health and prevent disease. Some initiatives become

sustained and gradually grow. In various places the founding

of a community school at the grass roots has arisen from a

heightened concern for the proper education of children and

awareness of its importance, flowing naturally from the study of institute materials. On occasion, the efforts of the friends

can be greatly reinforced through the work of an established

Bahá’í-inspired organization functioning in the vicinity. However humble an instance of social action might be at the

beginning, it is an indication of a people cultivating within

themselves a critical capacity, one that holds infinite potential

and significance for the centuries ahead: learning how to apply

the Revelation to the manifold dimensions of social existence. All such initiatives also serve to enrich participation, at an indi-

vidual and collective level, in prevalent discourses of the wider

community. As expected, the friends are being drawn further

into the life of society—a development which is inherent in the

pattern of action in a cluster from the very start, but which is now much more pronounced.

223

demonstrates that the process which brought it about is strong

enough to achieve and sustain a high degree of participation in

all aspects of the capacity-building endeavor and manage the

complexity entailed. This is another milestone for the friends

to pass, the third in succession since the process of growth in a cluster was begun. It denotes the appearance of a system for extending, in center after center, a dynamic pattern of

community life that can engage a people—men and women,

youth and adults—in the work of their own spiritual and

social transformation. This has already come about in around

two hundred clusters, covering a range of socioeconomic circumstances, and we anticipate that, by the conclusion of the

coming Plan, it will be observable in several hundred more. It is

a future to which the friends laboring in thousands of clusters elsewhere can aspire.

35.32 In some of the clusters where growth has advanced to

this extent, an even more thrilling development has occurred.

There are locations within these clusters where a significant

percentage of the entire population is now involved in com-

munity-building activities. For instance, there are small villages

where the institute has been able to engage the participation of all the children and junior youth in its programs. When the

reach of activity is extensive, the societal impact of the Faith be-

comes more evident. The Bahá’í community is afforded higher standing as a distinctive moral voice in the life of a people and

is able to contribute an informed perspective to the discourses

around it on, say, the development of the younger generations.

Figures of authority from the wider society start to draw on the

insight and experience arising from initiatives of social action inspired by Bahá’u’lláh’s teachings. Conversations influenced by

those teachings, concerned with the common weal, permeate an

ever-broader cross section of the population, to the point where an effect on the general discourse in a locality can be perceived.

Beyond the Bahá’í community, people are coming to regard

the Local Spiritual Assembly as a radiant source of wisdom to

which they too can turn for illumination.

35.33 We recognize that developments like these are yet a distant

prospect for many, even in clusters where the pattern of activity embraces large numbers. But in some places, this is the work

of the moment. In such clusters, while the friends continue to

be occupied with sustaining the process of growth, other di-

224

FRAMEWORK FOR ACTIONmensions of Bahá’í endeavor claim an increasing share of their

attention. They are seeking to understand how a flourishing

local population can transform the society of which it is an

integral part. This will be a new frontier of learning for the

foreseeable future, where insights will be generated that will

ultimately benefit the whole Bahá’í world.

Releasing the potential of the youth

35.34 The marvelous exploits of the youth in the field of service

are one of the finest fruits of the present Plan. If any proof were

needed of the extraordinary potential that the youth possess, it

has been incontrovertibly delivered. In the wake of the youth

conferences convened in 2013, the surge of energy which was

imparted to the work being carried out in clusters demonstrates clearly how the community of the Greatest Name is able to give

shape to the highest aspirations of young people. How pleased

we are to see that, following the participation of more than 80,000 youth in these conferences, an additional cohort of over

100,000 have joined them in taking part in numerous encoun-

ters held since then. Measures to encourage the full engagement

of these growing contingents in the activities of the community

must constitute a major component of the new Plan.

35.35 The enthusiastic participation of the youth also highlighted

the fact that they represent a most responsive element of every

receptive population to which the friends have sought to reach

out. What has been learned in this regard is how to help young

people become aware of the contribution they can make to the

improvement of their society. As consciousness is raised, they increasingly identify with the aims of the Bahá’í community

and express eagerness to lend their energies to the work under

way. Conversations along these lines kindle interest in how the physical and spiritual powers available to them at this time

of life can be channelled towards providing for the needs of

others, particularly for younger generations. Special gatherings

for youth, now occurring more frequently at the level of the

cluster and even the neighborhood or village, have proved to be ideal occasions for bringing an intensity to this ongoing

conversation, and they are an increasingly common feature of

cycles of activity in many clusters.

35.36 Experience suggests that a discussion about contributing

to the betterment of society fails to tap the deepest springs of

motivation if it excludes exploration of spiritual themes. The

225

fellow souls, must be harmonized with the notion of “being,”

of increasing one’s understanding of the divine teachings and

mirroring forth spiritual qualities in one’s life. And so it is that,

having been introduced to the vision of the Faith for humanity

and the exalted character of its mission, the youth naturally feel a desire to be of service, a desire to which training institutes

swiftly respond. Indeed, releasing the capacity of the youth is,

for each training institute, a sacred charge. Yet fostering that capacity as it develops is a responsibility of every institution of

the Cause. The readiness youth demonstrate to take initiative,

whatever lines of action they choose, can obscure the fact that

they need sustained support from institutions and agencies in

the cluster beyond the early steps.

35.37 Youth also support each other in this regard, coming

together in groups to engage in further study and discuss their

service, to reinforce one another’s efforts and build resolve,

looking to ever extend the circle of friendship more widely.

The encouragement offered in this way by a network of peers

provides young people with a much-needed alternative to those siren voices that beckon towards the snares of consumerism

and compulsive distractions, as well as a counter to the calls to

demonize others. It is against this backdrop of enervating mat-erialism and splintering societies that the junior youth program

reveals its particular value at this time. It offers the youth an

ideal arena in which to assist those younger than themselves to

withstand the corrosive forces that especially target them.

35.38 As youth advance along the path of service, their endeavors

are integrated seamlessly into the activities of the cluster, and as a consequence, the entire community thrives as a cohesive

whole. Reaching out to the families of young people is a natural

way of strengthening community building. Institutions and

agencies are being challenged to increase their own capacity in order to find ways of systematically realizing the potential of

the youth. With a greater awareness of this age group’s circum-

stances and dynamics, they are able to plan accordingly—for instance, providing opportunities for youth to study courses

intensively, perhaps immediately upon the conclusion of a

youth gathering. The infusion of energy from a vibrant band

of youth allows the tempo of the work within the cluster to be

accelerated.

226

FRAMEWORK FOR ACTION35.39 While it is right to expect great things from those who have

so much to give in the path of service, the friends must guard

against adopting a narrow outlook on what development to

maturity entails. Freedom of movement and availability of time

enable many youth to serve in ways that are directly related to

the needs of the community, but as they advance further into their twenties, their horizons broaden. Other dimensions of a coherent life, equally demanding and highly meritorious, begin

to make stronger claims on their attention. For many, an imme-

diate priority will be further education, academic or vocational,

according to the possibilities before them, and new spaces for

interaction with society open up. Moreover, young women and men become acutely conscious of the exhortations of the

Supreme Pen to “enter into wedlock” that they may “bring

forth one who will make mention of Me amid My servants” and to “engage in crafts and professions.” Having taken up

an occupation, youth naturally try to contribute to their field,

or even to advance it in light of the insights they gain from

their continued study of the Revelation, and they strive to be

examples of integrity and excellence in their work. Bahá’u’lláh extols those “that earn a livelihood by their calling and spend

upon themselves and upon their kindred for the love of God,

the Lord of all worlds.” This generation of youth will form families that secure the foundations of flourishing communities.

Through their growing love for Bahá’u’lláh and their personal

commitment to the standard to which He summons them will

their children imbibe the love of God, “commingled with their

mother’s milk,” and always seek the shelter of His divine law. Clearly, then, the responsibility of a Bahá’í community towards

young people does not end when they first start serving. The sig-

nificant decisions they make about the direction of their adult

lives will determine whether service to the Cause of God was

only a brief and memorable chapter of their younger years, or a fixed center of their earthly existence, a lens through which all

actions come into focus. We rely on you and your auxiliaries to

ensure that the spiritual and material prospects of the youth are given due weight in the deliberations of families, communities,

agencies, and institutions.

Enhancing institutional capacity

35.40 The demands of the present Plan—establishing thousands

of new programs of growth and fortifying existing ones—

227

selves, a feat of strength and coordination. Meeting them was

made possible through a shared spirit of collaboration among

the Plan’s three protagonists—the individual, the community,

and the institutions. This spirit was the prerequisite for every

important undertaking, including special initiatives to settle pioneers in selected countries and, of course, the organization

of 114 youth conferences. A prevalent attitude of joyful service,

flexibility, and detachment from personal preferences lent even routine administrative activities a sacred quality. The fresh

demands of the coming Plan will, undoubtedly, test the capacity

of Bahá’í institutions further still, but no matter what, they will

surely preserve this unified spirit among all who work together.

35.41 As indicated earlier, the movement of clusters along a

continuum depends on there being a commitment from the institutions to guide and support cluster agencies and provide

resources as necessary. This work is a critical responsibility

of Regional Bahá’í Councils and regional training institutes.

The number of Councils in the world rose from 170 to 203 in the last five years, reflecting the growing need and the

rising capacity for work to be undertaken at this level, and in

some countries where Councils are yet to be formed, specific steps were taken to build experience in anticipation of their

emergence, such as the appointment of regional teams. In some

regions that stretch across a large territory, Councils have

made arrangements for nurturing the development of groups

of adjoining clusters. Meanwhile, in smaller countries that do not require the establishment of Regional Councils, National

Assemblies are increasingly giving thought to ways of helping

clusters advance, in some instances by forming a working group charged with this task; you are encouraged to stimulate

learning in this area, with the aim that, in due course, formal

structures can be defined that would assume this responsibility

in much the same way that Councils do in other countries. And,

as is the case with Councils, we envisage that any such structure which emerges at the national level will benefit from interaction

with the institution of the Counsellors.

35.42 To discharge their duties effectively, regional and na-

tional institutions will need to remain fully acquainted with developments at the grass roots and what is being learned

in the clusters whose progress they oversee. Timely access to

information about the movement of clusters and the work of

228

FRAMEWORK FOR ACTIONthe institute in their jurisdictions is required for institutions to

support their agencies and take the many decisions that con-

cern, for instance, the deployment of pioneers, the allocation of

funds, the creation and promotion of Bahá’í literature, and the

planning of institutional meetings; it allows them to accurately

read the reality of their communities and act on the basis of clearly understood needs when marshaling the energies of the

friends towards meeting the exigencies of the hour. At various

intervals a National Assembly, in consultation with you, may find it advisable to formally adopt and disseminate certain

aspects of the lessons that have been learned, especially in

relation to organizational schemes at the cluster and regional

levels. The need to stay well informed about the community’s

accumulating experience holds particular implications for National Assemblies in larger countries that have several

Regional Councils, notably so when the Assembly has devolved

to Councils the work of administering the institute. Here, new arrangements at the national level have sometimes been

necessary to provide the Assembly with cogent analysis of what

is being learned across all regions.

35.43 Of course, a National Spiritual Assembly ultimately has

responsibility for fostering all aspects of a Bahá’í community’s

development. Although it pursues various lines of action itself,

in many cases it fulfills this responsibility by ensuring that

Regional Councils or specialized agencies are able to take steps

to advance areas of endeavor entrusted to them. As the capacity of the friends increases and the size of a community grows,

the work of a National Assembly in its manifold dimensions

becomes commensurately more complex. Therefore, and  in view of the magnitude of the task before the institutions in the

coming Plan, National Assemblies—as well as Councils—will

benefit from periodically considering, in collaboration with you,

whether their administrative operations, and indeed elements of

their own functioning, could be adjusted or enhanced in ways that would better support the growth process.

35.44 Attaining a higher level of functioning is similarly a press-

ing concern of training institutes. The community’s efforts to

fortify programs of growth in thousands of clusters and sustain

their intensification will place heavy demands on these agencies.

Their focus, of course, is the unfoldment of the three stages

of the educational process they oversee and the strengthening of the process of learning associated with each, so that both

229

extend them to ever-growing numbers are constantly rising.

While it is important that institutes attend to day-to-day

operational matters, the scale of what must be accomplished

requires that they also become occupied with considerations of

strategy. Training institute boards need to maintain an ongoing consultation with national or regional coordinators, as well

as with Auxiliary Board members, about how an activity in

a cluster gains strength, how it can be adequately resourced, what approaches prove effective in different settings, and how

experience can be shared. We have in mind a systematic and

concentrated effort by this collaborative group to gather and

apply insights emerging from the grass roots regarding the

promotion of children’s classes, junior youth groups, and study circles. Addressing other dimensions of the institute’s work—

such as schemes of coordination at the cluster level, enhancing

the capacity of coordinators, and the management of statistics and finances—will be essential too. In your work with training

institutes, you will no doubt wish to arrange that they draw on

the experience of other institutes in the same part of the world.

Sites for the dissemination of learning about the junior youth

program also offer a rich source of insight for the institutes of nearby countries or regions.

35.45 As institutions and agencies seek to accelerate the processes

of expansion and consolidation in every land, the question of

financial resources will surely claim increased attention. Indeed,

an important aspect of enhancing institutional capacity over

the coming years will be the ongoing development of local and

national Funds. For this to occur, the generality of the friends must be invited to consider afresh the responsibility of all

believers to support the work of the Faith through their own

means and, further, to manage their financial affairs in the light of the teachings.

35.46 The future civilization envisaged by Bahá’u’lláh is a pros-

perous one, in which the vast resources of the world will be

directed towards humanity’s elevation and regeneration, not

its debasement and destruction. The act of contributing to the

Fund, then, is imbued with profound meaning: it is a practical

way of hastening the advent of that civilization, and a necessary one, for as Bahá’u’lláh Himself has explained, “He Who is the

Eternal Truth—exalted be His glory—hath made the fulfillment

of every undertaking on earth dependent on material means.”

230

FRAMEWORK FOR ACTIONBahá’ís conduct their lives in the midst of a society acutely

disordered in its material affairs. The process of community

building they are advancing in their clusters cultivates a set of

attitudes towards wealth and possessions very different from

those holding sway in the world. The habit of regularly giving

to the Funds of the Faith—including in-kind contributions particularly in certain places—arises from and reinforces a

sense of personal concern for the welfare of the community and

the progress of the Cause. The duty to contribute, just like the duty to teach, is a fundamental aspect of Bahá’í identity which

strengthens faith. The sacrificial and generous contributions of

the individual believer, the collective consciousness promoted

by the community of the needs of the Fund, and the careful

stewardship of financial resources exercised by the institutions of the Faith can be regarded as expressions of the love that

binds these three actors more closely together. And ultimately,

voluntary giving fosters an awareness that managing one’s financial affairs in accordance with spiritual principles is an

indispensable dimension of a life lived coherently. It is a matter

of conscience, a way in which commitment to the betterment

of the world is translated into practice.

35.47 We direct these statements to you in recognition of the

unique responsibility that you,  your deputies, and their assistants shoulder in helping the friends to advance their un-

derstanding in numerous areas, not least, of course, with respect

to the dynamics of growth. As we have previously indicated, in

the institution of the Counsellors the Bahá’í community has a system through which the lessons learned in the remotest parts

of the planet can benefit the worldwide process of learning in

which every follower of Bahá’u’lláh can take part. As a pro-gressively deeper understanding of the Five Year Plan emerges

among the believers over time, insights that arise from applying

the guidance are recognized, articulated, absorbed, and shared.

In this regard, an immense debt of gratitude is owed by the

community of the Greatest Name to the International Teaching Centre, which has done so much in recent years, and with such

diligence, to lovingly nurture and energetically promulgate a

mode of learning that has now become well established.

35.48 The essential elements of the coming Plan, like those that

came before it, are straightforward. Nevertheless, a profound

understanding of its various facets requires an appreciation

of the sophisticated set of operations through which a cluster

231

the relevant guidance that the friends in general, and institu-

tions and their agencies in particular, can depend on you to

illuminate their deliberations by calling attention to pertinent

considerations. Clearly, however, the need to assist the friends

in at least 5,000 clusters where the pattern of action is being intensified will be a considerable challenge, one with implica-

tions for your own mode of functioning—but more especially

for that of Auxiliary Board members. Clusters that are in the front ranks of the growth process in their areas will inevitably

claim a large share of their time; also, administrative arrange-

ments at the regional level will more frequently require their

support. They are concerned with much of what occurs in the

community; attentive both to the development of each stage of the educational process and to the strengthening of the cycles of

activity, they promote coherence among the lines of action being

advanced in a cluster and fan into flame a passion for teaching. In the exercise of their responsibility to foster learning and to

help the friends enter the arena of service, they draw heavily

on the training institute, aspects of whose work align closely

with theirs. But their other duties are equally demanding. As

such, they will need to consider how, in order to fulfill those wide-ranging responsibilities, they can draw on the help of their

assistants more extensively and more creatively. Assistants, of

course, may be assigned any task—simple or complex, general

or highly specific—and this versatility constitutes a distinctive

strength. While some assistants might be occupied with the development of a local community, others might be given tasks

that relate to an entire cluster. By properly orienting them,

guiding them as capacity expands, and gradually increasing their duties, Auxiliary Board members will be able to better

exploit the possibilities that exist. Much is sure to be learned

as a result, and you are encouraged to derive insights from the

experience of your auxiliaries.

A period of special potency

35.49 The systematic pursuit of the Plan in all its dimensions

gives rise to a pattern of collective endeavor distinguished not only for its commitment to service, but also for its attraction

to worship. The intensification of activity which the next five

years requires will further enrich the devotional life shared by

those who serve side by side in clusters around the world. This

232

FRAMEWORK FOR ACTIONprocess of enrichment is already much advanced: witness, for

instance, how gatherings for worship have been integrated into

the core of community life. Devotional meetings are occasions

where any soul may enter, inhale the heavenly fragrances,

experience the sweetness of prayer, meditate upon the Creative

Word, be transported on the wings of the spirit, and commune with the one Beloved. Feelings of fellowship and common cause

are generated, particularly in the spiritually heightened conver -

sations that naturally occur at such times and through which

the “city of the human heart” may be opened. By convening

a gathering for worship at which adults and children of any

background are welcome, the spirit of the Mashriqu’l-Adhkár

is evoked in any locality. The enhancement of the devotional

character of a community also has an effect on the Nineteen Day Feast and can be felt at other times when the friends come

together.

35.50 Holy Day commemorations hold a special position in this

regard. The Tablets recited, and the prayers, stories, songs, and sentiments voiced—all of them expressions of love for those

sacred Figures Whose lives and missions are being remem-

bered—stir the heart and fill the soul with awe and wonder.

During the Five Year Plan about to commence, there will occur two momentous occasions of this kind: the two-hundred-year

anniversaries of the Birth of Bahá’u’lláh and of the Birth of the

Báb in 2017 and 2019 respectively. These glorious Festivals will be opportunities for Bahá’ís in every land to attract the

largest possible number of  believers, their families, friends,

and collaborators, as well as others from the wider society, to

commemorate moments when a Being peerless in creation, a

Manifestation of God, was born to the world. Celebrating these bicentenaries is sure to increase appreciation for how the ob-

servance of Holy Days, now according to a calendar that unites

the friends of God everywhere, strengthens Bahá’í identity.

35.51 Over the coming years, the community will, in fact, encoun-

ter a series of anniversaries, concluding with the Centenary

of the Ascension of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in November 2021, which

will close the first century of the Formative Age. Next year the

Bahá’í world will mark one hundred years since the first of the

Tablets of the Divine Plan flowed from the pen of the Master. In these fourteen Tablets, revealed during one of humanity’s

darkest hours, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá laid out a charter for the teaching

work that defined its theatre of action as the entire planet. Held

233

launched at the instigation of the Guardian was assigned to

the Bahá’ís of North America, the Divine Plan has continued

to unfold over the decades since as the collective capacity of

Bahá’u’lláh’s followers has grown, enabling them to take on

ever-greater challenges. How wondrous the vision of the Plan’s Author! Placing before the friends the prospect of a day when

the light of His Father’s Revelation would illuminate every

corner of the world, He set out not only strategies for achiev-ing this feat but guiding principles and unchanging spiritual

requisites. Every effort made by the friends to systematically

propagate the divine teachings traces its origins to the forces

set in motion in the Divine Plan.

35.52 The coming global endeavor to which the friends will be

summoned calls for the application of proven strategies, system-atic action, informed analysis, and keen insight. Yet above all, it

is a spiritual enterprise, and its true character should never be

obscured. The urgency to act is impelled by the world’s desper -

ate condition. All that the followers of Bahá’u’lláh have learned

in the last twenty years must culminate in the accomplishments

of the next five. The scale of what is being asked of them brings

to mind one of His Tablets in which He describes, in striking terms, the challenge entailed in spreading His Cause:

35.53 How many the lands that remained untilled and uncultivat-ed; and how many the lands that were tilled and cultivated,

and yet remained without water; and how many the lands

which, when the harvest time arrived, no harvester came

forth to reap! However, through the wonders of God’s favor

and the revelations of His loving-kindness, We cherish the hope that souls may appear who are the embodiments of

heavenly virtue and who will occupy themselves with teach-

ing the Cause of God and training all that dwell on earth.

35.54 The systematic efforts of His loved ones throughout the

world aim at the fulfillment of the hope thus expressed by the

Blessed Perfection. May He Himself reinforce them at every

turn.

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]