The Style of the
Kitab-i-Aqdas
ASPECTS OF THE SUBLIME
by
Suheil Bushrui
UNIVERSITY
PRESS
OF MARYLAND

Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data
Bushrui, Suheil B.
The style of the Kitab-i-Aqdas : aspects of the sublime /
by Suheil Bushrui
p.
cm.
ISBN 1-883053-08-0
1. Baha' Allah, 1817-1892. Kitab al-Aqdas. 2. Bahai Faith.
I. Title.
BP360.B95 1994
297'.9382-dc20
94-40159
CIP
Copyright© 1995 by Suheil B. Bushrui. All rights reserved. This
book may not be reproduced, in whole or in part, in any form
(beyond that copying permitted by Sections 107 and 108 of the
U. S. Copyright Law and except by reviewers for the public
press), without
written
permission
from the publisher,
University Press of Maryland, P.O. Box 34454, Bethesda, MD
20827.
ISBN 1-883053-08-0

Dedicated to the memory of
Mu}:tammad 'Ali Faiii
Distinguished Baha'i teacher and scholar

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
In the preparation of this volume I have received much
valuable assistance from both institutions and individuals.
I should like first to express my thanks to the National
Spiritual Assembly of the Baha 'is of Austria and the
Gesellschaft fur Baha 'i-Studien, who provided the oppor-
tunity for the present essay to be written and encouraged
its publication; to Mr. and Mrs. Louis Maani of Babbage-
Simmel and Associates for their generous support; to Dr.
Miles L. Bradbury, Professor of the History of Religion in
America at the University of Maryland, for his insights
and suggestions; to the Center for International Develop-
ment and Conflict Management
at the University of
Maryland and to its director, Dr. Edy Kaufman, for creat-
ing the atmosphere in which this work could be accom-
plished; and to Dr. jur. Udo Schaefer for his meticulous
review of the final manuscript.
I owe a special debt to the following for valuable
advice generously given: Dr. Mona Grieser; Dr. Richard
Grieser; Mr. John Huddleston; Dr. Mark Perry; Dr. Habib
Riazati; and Miss Haideh Yazdani.
I am also grateful for help received from my students in the
World Order Studies Program (Landegg Academy): Miss
Mona Mehregani, Mr. Arnn Natarajan, and Mr. John Watson.
My greatest debt, of course, goes to the two Arabists
whose advice has been indispensable: Dr. Albert Mutlak,
whose lexicographic expertise served well in verifying
the accuracy of terminology used in both English and
Arabic; and Mr. Mark Hellaby, whose many astute edito-

The Style of the Kitab-i-Aqdas
rial suggestions and remarks in matters of detail are greatly
appreciated and have, no doubt, enormously improved
the original text.

FOREWORD*
LIKE MOST OF the world's major religions, the Baha'i Faith
has at its centre a sacred text which enjoins upon the
believer a code of laws regulating his relationship to the
world around him, to his fellow human beings, and to
God. That text is the Kitab-i-Aqdas, the Most Holy Book.
Among the unique features of the Baha'i Faith is that
reliable transcriptions of its sacred texts were produced
under the supervision of their Author, rendering their
authenticity
beyond
doubt. The Kitab-i-Aqdas
is no
exception, having been transcribed on several occasions
during the lifetime of Baha'u'llah Himself.
To understand the Kitab-i-Aqdas fully, it is necessary
to consider the historical and cultural background to its
revelation, especially the events of the decade beginning
in 1863. In this year Baha'u'llah, the Founder of the Baha'i
Faith, declared Himself to be the latest Messenger of God
to humankind,
the Promised One of all ages, Whose
advent had been proclaimed by His Predecessor, the Bab,
and dramatically depicted in the Holy Scriptures of earlier
religions. This momentous declaration, made before a
group of His most intimate associates in the Rig.van Gar-
den on an island in the River Tigris, is today celebrated by
* For definitions of Arabic terms cited, I have relied on the following
dictionaries: lbn Manzur, Lisan al- '.Arab (Beirut, 1956); Al-Fayruz-
abadi, Al-Qamus al-Mul;zft (Cairo, 1954); Al-Zabidi, Taj al- '.Arus min
Jawahir al-Qamus (Kuwait, 1965); Butros al-Bustani, MuM
al-Mul;zft
(Beirut, 1870); I;Iasan al-Karmi, al-Had{ (Beirut, 1991).

The Style of the Kitab-i-Aqdas
Baha'is around the world in the most important of Baha'i
festivals, the Feast of Ricj.van, extending from April 21 to
May 2.
In 1867, Baha'u'llah inaugurated
the public world-
wide proclamation of His message by despatching the
first in a series of Epistles to the kings and rulers of the
world. Among the most majestic and commanding
sections of the Kitab-i-Aqdas, revealed barely a decade
after the Ricj.van declaration, is an extended passage also
addressed to the crowned heads of the world. In it,
Baha'u'llah declares Himself to be the "King of Kings,"
the "sovereign Lord of all," and the "Desire of all
nations," and bids those who are but the "emblems of His
sovereignty" to "forsake [their] palaces" and hasten "to
gain admittance into His Kingdom." His mission is not to
"lay hands on [their] kingdoms" but rather to "seize and
possess the hearts of men." 1
In the Kitab-i-Aqdas Baha'u'llah proclaims in ringing
tones both the advent of the "Day of God" and the revela-
tion of the "Most Great Law." Near the beginning of the
book, He affirms the paramount importance of His laws
and ordinances, "the lamps of My loving providence
among my servants, and the keys of My mercy for My
creatures," to His grand redemptive purpose for human-
kind. It is to the task of delineating the salient features of
this "Most Great Law," this "unique [and] wondrous
System," this "new World Order" that the Kitab-i-Aqdas
is primarily devoted. 2
Baha'u'llah, The Kitab-i-Aqdas (Haifa: Baha'i World Centre, 1992),
K82, p. 49; K103, p. 57; K82, p. 49; K83, p. 50; K83, p. 49. All translated quo-
tations are taken from the above text, which is numbered throughout by
paragraph ('K' refers in each case to the appropriate paragraph number).
Ibid., K81, p. 49; K88, p. 52; K3, p. 20; K183, p. 86; K181, p. 85.

Aspects of the Sublime
Throughout
the history of human civilization, the
enactment of laws has been recognized as fundamental to
the organization of a just and humane society. From the
Code of Hammurabi to Montesquieu's Esprit des lois, laws
have been regarded as enshrining the most cherished
values and beliefs of those who frame them, serving to
protect the rights and prescribe the responsibilities of the
citizen, and to facilitate the relationship between the
individual and the state. Even Plato, having depicted the
ideal polity in his Republic, felt constrained to write a more
detailed account of its actual judicial structures in order to
ensure its workability. The Norsemen of the ninth and
tenth centuries, far from being the lawless freebooters of
the po]?ular imagination, had such respect for the law that
the proceedings of the 'Thing' (assembly) always opened
with an obligatory recital of their code of law from start to
finish. Many of the most influential writers during the
period of the French Revolution, as well as those who
tried to put their ideas into practice, had a legal training,
as did Goethe, whose polymathic interests ranged across
the breadth of western culture and science to Persian
poetry and eastern religion and philosophy.
Law not only furnishes
a society with concrete
guidance on daily life and dealings with others, but also
provides a core for the development in that society of a
rich and humane scholarly tradition built around the
exposition of the law. The same is true in religions, where
the importance of law is greatly reinforced by the belief
that it represents an expression of God's will for His
creatures, while its observance is accounted a mark of
righteousness
in the believer. With or without this
directly religious sanction, however, laws provide fixed
points of reference and a source of underlying stability for

The Style of the Kitab-i-Aqdas
communities
during
periods
of social and political
upheaval.
It was during just such a period in history that the
Kitab-i-Aqdas was revealed. By the second half of the
nineteenth century the Ottoman Empire, which included
the prison city of 'Akka where Baha'u'llah was for long
confined, had entered upon a period of rapid decline. A
major factor in this decline was the ethnic and religious
conflict in European territories such as Greece, Serbia,
Montenegro and Bulgaria, where new states were assert-
ing their independence
and struggling to break away
from Ottoman hegemony. The storm clouds were gather-
ing that would eventually engulf the world in the tempest
of the Great War, precipitating the disintegration of the
Ottoman Empire in the process. It was a moment of stern
crisis in human affairs that, paradoxically, provided the
setting for the revelation of the Kitab-i-Aqdas, Baha'u'llah's
Charter for a new civilization.
Baha'u'llah's
ministry is marked by a progression of
interweaving calamities and triumphs, culminating in the
final ascendancy of His Faith and teachings over the combined
destructive forces of His persecutors and opponents. It was
in a dark and pestilential prison, surrounded by convicted
felons and under almost unbearably oppressive condi-
tions, that He received the first intimations
of His
world-redeeming
mission some twenty years before the
revelation of the Kitab-i-Aqdas. "During the days I lay in
the prison of Tihran," He records, "though the galling
weight of the chains and the stench-filled air allowed Me
but little sleep, still in those infrequent moments of
slumber I felt as if something flowed from the crown of
My head over My breast, even as a mighty torrent that
precipitateth itself upon the earth from the summit of a
lofty mountain. Every limb of My body would, as a result,

Aspects of the Sublime
be set afire. At such moments My tongue recited what no
man could bear to hear." 3
Several months later Baha'u'llah was exiled from His
homeland to Baghdad where, in spite of the inauspicious
circumstances of His arrival, He gradually attracted the
notice of the local clergymen, government officials and
eventually townspeople, winning through the regal dignity
of His demeanour, the innate radiance of His character,
the seemingly inexhaustible fund of His knowledge, and
the love He lavished on all He met, their heartfelt loyalty,
respect and admiration. After ten years in Baghdad, on
the eve of His declaration in the Ricjvan Garden prior to
leaving that city, He was surrounded by a grieving multi-
tude of well-wishers who would scarcely consent to let
him go. This period in Baghdad also witnessed the revela-
tion of some of the most significant of His Works,
especially notable among which are The Hidden Words, a
series of aphoristic utterances epitomizing the 'inner
essence' of the ethical teachings of past religions, and the
Kitab-i-fqan {The Book of Certitude), described by its
translator as "of unsurpassed pre-eminence among the
writings of the Author of the Baha'i Revelation." 4 In the
latter book, Baha'u'llah propounds the concept of the
continuity of Divine Revelation, affirming that the Divine
Manifestations such as Abraham, Jesus and Mu]:i.ammad
are one in essence, and demonstrating how the eschatological
passages of previous scriptures may be accorded metaphor-
ical interpretations.
Baha'u'llah, Epistle to the Son of the Wolf (Wilmette: Baha'i Publish-
ing Trust, 1988), p. 22.
Baha'u'llah, The Hidden Words (Wilmette: Baha'i Publishing Trust,
1990), p. 3; Preface by Shoghi Effendi in Baha'u'llah, Kitab-i-lqan (Lon-
don: Baha'i Publishing Trust, 1982), p. 2.

The Style of the Kitab-i-Aqdas
During this same period He also succeeded in sub-
stantially restoring the fortunes and unity of the scattered
and demoralized Ba.bi community, of which He was at
that time the leading member, if not the titular head.
Nevertheless, the growing tide of respect and veneration
for Baha'u'llah caused consternation in the Persian govern-
ment, whose representations at the Sublime Porte resulted
in further exiles, first to Constantinople
and then, in
December 1863, to Adrianople (Edirne).
By now Baha'u'llah had won the acceptance of the
majority of the Ba.bi community as the Promised One
Whose advent had been foretold by the Bab. This done,
He addressed Himself, towards the end of the period of
His sojourn in Adrianople, to _the task of proclaiming His
mission to the world at large, thereby inaugurating the
next major phase in the progressive unfoldment of His
mission. His chosen medium was, as noted, a series of
weighty Epistles addressed both collectively and individ-
ually to the kings and rulers of the earth, including
Napoleon III, Queen Victoria, Kaiser Wilhelm I, Tsar
Alexander II, the Austrian Emperor Franz Josef, the
Ottoman Sultan 'Abdu'l-'Aziz
and the Qajar Monarch
Na~iri'd-Din Shah. In majestic and commanding tones,
yet with all due decorum and respect befitting the rank of
kingship, He called upon them to set aside their differ-
ences, to work towards peace and unity, to establish
practical mechanisms
for the resolution
of disputes
amongst nations, and to do all in their power to facilitate
fruitful interchange between peoples. Baha'u'llah addressed
similar messages to the ecclesiastics of both Christendom
and Islam, challenging them to consider dispassionately
His claims, and urging them to rise to the challenge of the
hour and accept their full measure of responsibility as
spiritual mentors of their communities. Again, the calam-

Aspects of the Sublime
ity of banishment had proved but the harbinger of a fresh
triumph for Baha'u'llah-the
proclamation of His infant
Faith on a heretofore unprecedented
scale. With the
passage of time these messages, largely rejected by their
recipients, have proved but too true in their prophetic
admonitions and warnings, notably those foreshadowing
the fall from power of Napoleon III in France and the
occurrence of widespread bloodshed in Germany.
Even as this mighty proclamation was being blazoned
to the world, plots were being hatched to bring about the
third and final banishment in Baha'u'llah's ministry, this
time to the "Most Great Prison" of' Akka. For a number of
years He and His followers were kept there in strict
confinement,
subjected to galling deprivations,
and
exposed to the contempt and mockery of the guards and
populace alike. Yet this new and seemingly crippling
adversity, compounded in its early stages by the tragic
death of Baha'u'llah's
second son, was once again the
prelude to a period of marvellous fecundity. As the
rigours of His confinement lessened, Baha'u'llah
was
progressively able to devote Himself to the elaboration of
the true nature of His mission, a task He fulfilled in a
ceaseless stream of Tablets, pre-eminent among which
stands the Kitab-i-Aqdas, revealed approximately five
years after His arrival in 'Akka.
The revelation of the Kitab-i-Aqdas may thus be seen
as marking the inauguration of the third and final phase
in the unfoldment of Baha'u'llah's mission. His identity as
the Promised One of the Bayan and of all past religions
had been disclosed and accepted by the greater part of the
Babi community; the tidings of His mission had been
publicly proclaimed
far beyond the confines of that
community to those whose exalted rank best qualified
them to convey it to humanity at large; and now the warp

The Style of the Kitab-i-Aqdas
and woof of His newborn Cause, its practical implications
for the individual believer, for society, and for the world
at large, were elaborated in a document constituting the
blueprint of a revolutionary new world order, designed to
usher in a golden age of human civilization and to herald
the establishment of the Kingdom of God on earth.
In general terms, the laws of the Kitab-i-Aqdas may be
said to fall within five differ~nt categories: those prescrib-
ing religious and personal observances and duties such as
prayer, fasting and pilgrimage; those regulating matters
of personal status such as marriage, divorce and death;
those prohibiting certain wrongful actions and defining
penalties for their commission; those providing for the
new social structures of Baha 'u' llah' s World Order through
the establishment of such institutions as the House of
Justice and the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar;
and those imparting
general spiritual counsels such as may be found in the
sacred Scriptures of the other great world religions.
Within this broad categorization
there is inevitably a
degree of overlap; although
the marriage laws, for
instance, are centred on the bride and groom, they have a
broader social impact in that they aim to preserve unity
both within and between families. The rules of intestate
succession, likewise, have a clear bearing on social
organization since they contain certain stipulations for
the replenishment of the public treasury from the shares
of 'absent heirs'.
Although the Kitab-i-Aqdas clearly addresses in the
first instance a particular set of cultural circumstances,
presuming the reader to possess a sound command of
Arabic and to be intimately familiar with the Qur'an, the
Islamic Shari'ah, and the Writings of the Bab, its scope is
plainly and avowedly universal, as may be gathered from
such provisions as that enjoining the establishment of a

Aspects of the Sublime
House of Justice in every city, and that calling upon the
"members of parliaments throughout the world" to select
a single language and a single script "for the use of all on
earth." 5 Undoubtedly the rationale behind certain enact-
ments may be better apprehended when viewed against
the background
of the particular
practices they are
intended to address, but such specific references and
associations no more affect the ultimately global rele-
vance of the Book than do the many references in the
Gospel to Jewish scripture and observances. The abroga-
tion of slavery in the Kitab-i-Aqdas, though it may profit-
ably be contrasted with the situation existing under the
Islamic and other religious traditions, nevertheless stands
on its own as constituting an authoritative and universal
declaration of the sacred and inviolable right to individ-
ual liberty and the preservation of human dignity: "It is
not for him who is himself a servant to buy another of
God's servants." 6
A comparative study of the laws of the Kitab-i-Aqdas
and those of the Bayan offers illuminating insights into
the nature of the complex and mysterious interrelation
between the Ba.bf and Baha'i Faiths. In the Kitab-i-Aqdas
and elsewhere, Baha'u'llah explains that the laws of the
Bayan were revealed with the specific intention of reliev-
ing the Promised One of the need Himself to elaborate a
code of laws, albeit they were made subject to, and contin-
gent upon, His sanction and approval. Accordingly, some
of these laws were adopted by Baha'u'llah, some accepted
with modification, others rejected outright. For example,
the Bab's law requiring the consent of both parties to a
marriage has been accepted with the additional require-
Kitab-i-Aqdas, K189, p. 88.
Ibid., K72, p. 45.

The Style of the Kitab-i-Aqdas
ment of the consent of the couple's parents. On the other
hand, the fine of 19 mithqals of gold for "anyone who was
the cause of sadness to another" has been explicitly
abrogated in the Kitab-i-Aqdas. 7 At one point in the
Kitab-i-Aqdas, the Bab is even represented as calling
upon the Promised One to modify a particular facet of a
law that had been previously prescribed in the Bayan.
Throughout the Kitab-i-Aqdas, in fact, an impression is
conveyed of its laws having emerged as the result of a
kind of dialectic process between the Bab and Baha'u'llah.
The Kitab-i-Aqdas was first published during the
lifetime of Baha'u'llah in a lithographed edition as part of
a larger compilation of His Writings (Bombay 1890-91),
and again during the ministry of 'Abdu'l-Baha
in a
printed version of this same edition (Bombay 1896-97).
However, despite the appearance of various manuscript
transcriptions and non-Baha'i editions of the Work since
1873, it has not hitherto been freely and generally avail-
able to Baha'is. This was not out of any desire or purpose
to conceal its contents from either the Baha'i community
or the world at large, but in keeping with Baha'u'llah's
own counsel that the provisions of the Kitab-i-Aqdas
should be implemented only with discretion and when
prevailing conditions permitted. For many years those
who succeeded Baha'u'llah as Head of the Baha'i Faith-
'Abdu'l-Baha,
the Centre of the Covenant, and later
Shoghi Effendi, the Guardian of the Baha'i Cause-felt
that the embryonic state of the Baha'i community's devel-
opment did not as yet warrant the formal release of the
book in its entirety to the believers. Nevertheless, exten-
sive passages from it were available in both hemispheres
Ibid., K148, p. 73.

Aspects of the Sublime
for many years, and the complete text was always easily
obtainable from a variety of sources.
It was not until the year 1953 that Shoghi Effendi took
the first step towards producing a full translation of the
Book, announcing his intention to prepare a synopsis and
codification of its provisions as one of the goals of his
worldwide Ten-Year Crusade spanning the years 1953-63.
His passing in 1957 supervened before he was able to
complete this task, but work on the project was resumed
by the newly-elected Universal House of Justice as part of
its Nine-Year Plan (1964-73). With the aid of the substan-
tial body of notes Shoghi Effendi had left, the Universal
House of Justice published in 1973 a volume comprising
not only the synopsis and codification itself, but also a
selection of passages from the Kitab-i-Aqdas translated
by the Guardian, together with a preface, an introduction,
and some explanatory notes and references. Finally, a full
English translation of the Kitab-i-Aqdas, accompanied by
copious annotations, a number of supplementary texts, a
brief glossary, and the previously published synopsis and
codification, as well as a preface, introduction,
and
description
of the Kitab-i-Aqdas taken from Shoghi
Effendi's God Passes By, was published in 1992, in fulfill-
ment of one of the goals of the Six-Year Plan spanning the
years 1986-92.
Schematic in character, the Kitab-i-Aqdas is a summary
of "matters which constitute the foundation of the law of
God." 8 Tablets subsequently
revealed by Baha'u'llah
flesh out these laws in some respects, but during His
lifetime He made it clear that an element of flexibility was
desirable in their formulation. The task both of elaborating
the legislative principles established in the Kitab-i-Aqdas
Ibid., p. 4.

The Style of the Kitab-i-Aqdas
and elsewhere, and of determining precisely how they
should be applied in practice, He explained, would in
time devolve upon the Universal House of Justice, which
would be empowered to modify or rescind its own legis-
lation in accordance with the particular exigencies of each
age. The seminal and thematic approach of the Kitab-
i-Aqdas, and its terse encapsulation of whole areas of
jurisprudential inquiry, defining the spirit rather than the
letter of the law, are guarantees of its flexibility and will
ensure the enduring applicability of its provisions far into
the future. In view of its character as sacred sculpture,
however, the actual text of the Kitab-i-Aqdas is not open
to modification, for Baha'fs believe that the Divine Law
brought by a Manifestation of God may be rescinded only
by another Manifestation of God. By ruling out the possi-
bility of this occurring before the expiry of a full thousand
years, the Kitab-i-Aqdas reaffirms by implication the
basic Baha'i belief in progressive Revelation.
Quite apart from its unique position in Baha'i litera-
ture, the Kitab-i-Aqdas is also noteworthy from a purely
secular point of view for the prodigious eloquence of its
language. Much of it is composed in a species of rhymed
prose-a
highly regarded literary form marked by rhyth-
mic cadences and the frequent use of terminal rhymes-
that recalls, but is quite distinct from, the language of the
Qur'an. It is a superb example of that polished style of
writing characterized by the Arabs as 'easy yet unattain-
able': a style, in other words, whose effortless flow belies
the consummate mastery that has gone into its composi-
tion. A feature of this style is the extraordinary concision
of many of its utterances. Faced with the almost impossi-
ble challenge not only of faithfully reproducing the sense
and meaning of the Kitab-i-Aqdas, but also of conveying
something of its matchless eloquence, the translators

Aspects of the Sublime
were fortunate in having before them the example of
Shoghi Effendi. As the introduction tells us, he opted in
his renderings for a form of expression "reminiscent of
the style used by the seventeenth-century translators of
the Bible," enabling him to capture the elevated mode of
Baha'u'llah's Arabic in a form accessible to the contempo-
rary reader. 9 Nevertheless, the problem of "striking the
right balance between beauty and clarity of expression on
the one hand, and literalness on the other," the introduc-
tion continues, "is one of the major issues with which the
translators have had to grapple and which has caused
repeated reconsideration
of the rendering of certain
passages. "10
It is now the task of teams of translators in different
countries around the world to render the Kitab-i-Aqdas
into their own native tongues, basing their renderings
upon the authorized English translation but referring as
need arises to the text of the original. The special difficul-
ties encountered by the English translators are no less
likely to pose a challenge to these other translators. Their
daunting task is to convey in a foreign language the unique
qualities of a book concerned not only with mapping out
a new way of life for the individual and society, but with
bringing about a future state of "true understanding in a
spirit of love and tolerance" throughout the world. Even
now, work is continuing on these translations, which are
expected to start becoming available in the very near
future. Also undergoing preparation at the present time is
an Arabic edition of the 1993 English translation of the
Kitab-i-Aqdas, comprising all its separate sections. A feature
of this latter will be an aesthetic and partially illuminated
Ibid., p. 9.
10 Ibid., p. 10.

The Style of the Kitab-i-Aqdas
transcription of the Kitab-i-Aqdas executed in a beautiful
calligraphic hand, in conformity with a long-standing
Arabic and Islamic tradition of calligraphic excellence in
the production of scriptural works.
Intended for a wide readership and not merely for
believers, the publication of the Kitab-i-Aqdas stands out
for Baha'is as a truly epoch-making occurrence, the single
most significant event since the election of the Universal
House of Justice in 1963. Since the Book was released to
the English-speaking
world nearly two years ago, the
Baha'i community is still in the process of absorbing its
initial impact, of familiarizing itself with its contents, and
of coming to terms with some of its more immediate and
striking implications. Naturally, the release of each previ-
ously untranslated
Work in the Baha'i canon affects
Baha 'is deeply and refashions their overall conception of
their Faith. In all probability no book, however, will entail
so intense a learning process as the Kitab-i-Aqdas, insofar
as it is simultaneously
an epitome of the tenets of
Baha'u'llah's Cause, a digest of His Law, and the Charter
of His New World Order.

Introduction
0 leaders of religion! Weigh not the Book of
God with such standards and sciences as are
current amongst you, for the Book itself is the
unerring Balance established amongst men. In
this most perfect Balance whatsoever
the
peoples and kindreds of the earth possess must
be weighed, while the measure of its weight
should be tested according to its own standard,
did ye but know it.11
THESE RESOUNDING WORDS from the Kitab-i-Aqdas repre-
sent a warning, not only to 'leaders of religion', but 'to
anyone who would attempt to judge by worldly standards
that which is wholly beyond measure. Accordingly, no
analysis of the Kitab-i-Aqdas can be undertaken without
reference to this passage. We must recognize that what we
are dealing with is not a book like other books to which
conventional critical criteria can be applied. No Baha'i
scholar can afford to ignore the numerous warnings in the
Kitab-i-Aqdas that relate to scholarship. For example:
Beware lest ye be hindered by the veils of glory
from partaking of the crystal waters of this
living Fountain. 12
Take heed that ye dispute not idly concerning
the Almighty and His Cause ... 13
11 Kitab-i-Aqdas, K99, p. 56.
12 Ibid., KSO, p. 38.
13 Ibid., K177, p. 84.

The Style of the Kitab-i-Aqdas
... among the people is he who layeth claim to
inner knowledge, and still deeper knowledge
concealed within this knowledge. Say: Thou
speakest false!14
We have permitted you to read such sciences as
are profitable unto you, not such as end in idle
d •
t t'
1spu a ion ...
Whoso interpreteth what hath been sent down
from the heaven of Revelation, and altereth its
evident meaning, he, verily, is of them that have
perverted the Sublime Word of God, and is of
the lost ones in the Lucid Book.16
Scholars are also required to pay due heed to the
comprehensive notes that supplement the text of the
Kitab-i-Aqdas, including one of particular relevance in
this context:
Individual interpretations based on a person's
understanding
of the Teachings constitute the
fruit of man's rational power and may well
contribute to a greater comprehension of the
Faith. Such views, nevertheless, lack authority.
In presenting their personal ideas, individuals
are cautioned not to discard the authority of the
revealed words, not to deny or contend with the
authoritative interpretation, and not to engage
in controversy; rather they should offer their
thoughts as a contribution to knowledge, makin9
it clear that their views are merely their own. 1
This passage, in my view, effectively sounds the keynote
of Baha'i scholarship.
14 Ibid., K36, p. 31.
15 Ibid., K77, p. 48.
16 Ibid., KJOS, p. 57.
17 Ibid., n130, pp. 221-2.

Aspects of the Sublime
The fact that this field has of late been largely dominated
by Western scholars has placed a certain restriction and
limitation on understanding, preventing a more profound
appreciation
of the aims
and purposes
of Baha '£ scholar-
ship. If indeed Baha'i scholars wish to render the greatest
service to the Faith, the rich legacy of research in Arabic
and Persian must surely be translated into English and
other languages. The work of Baha'i scholars throughout
the world should likewise become accessible, and recog-
nition be accorded to the fact that it is not only people
with academic training who are capable of conducting
meaningful research: "The understanding
of His words
and the comprehension of the utterances of the Birds of
Heaven are in no wise dependent upon human learning.
They depend solely upon purity of heart, chastity of soul,
and freedom of spirit." 18
The time has come for Baha'i scholars everywhere to
examine their consciences and determine how best they
can render service in accordance with the dictates of the
Kitab-i-Aqdas, the language of which, however lofty,
never strays into the realm of inaccessibility insofar as our
attempts in this contingent world to apprehend 19 the
Divine Revelation are concerned; for the meaning of its
exhortations is clear and unequivocal.
The purpose of this essay is to comment in general
terms on the sublime style of the original Arabic text of the
Kitab-i-Aqdas, with reference to the Qur'an and, to a
lesser extent, the Bible. Naturally, any attempt to render
18 Kitab-i-lqan, p. 135.
19 In the Dispensation of Baha'u'llah (see The World Order of Baha'u'llah
[Wilmette: Baha'i Publishing Trust, 1991), p. 100), Shoghi Effendi lays
down the distinction between' comprehending' the Baha'i Revelation and
'apprehending' the same. He says the former is impossible and the latter
should be the object of our constant endeavour.

The Style of the Kitab-i-Aqdas
the Divine Writ into another tongue, even if it captures the
meaning, can convey but little of the style and sublimity
of the original language. Unlike Islam, however, the
Baha'i Faith was blessed with an authorized and divinely-
assisted interpreter
and an inspired translator in the
person of Shoghi Effendi, who was able to put at least one
third of the Kitab-i-Aqdas into a suitably dignified and
elevated English style. No other religion has had its scrip-
tural treasures translated into a universal language, as has
the Baha'i Faith, within so very short a period of time
since the inception of the Dispensation. It should be
noted, however, that this same divinely-appointed inter-
preter, Shoghi Effendi, wrote the following in the preface
to his translation of the Kitab-i-fqan:
This is one more attempt to introduce to the
West, in language however inadequate,
this
book of unsurpassed pre-eminence among the
writings of the Author of the Baha'i Revelation.
The hope is that it may assist others in their
efforts to approach
what must always be
regarded as the unattainable goal-a
befittinij
rendering of Baha'u'llah's matchless utterance. 2
We now have a complete English rendering of the
Kitab-i-Aqdas, published by the Baha'i World Centre,
Haifa, under the guidance of the Universal House of
Justice. Not only is it an accurate rendering of the mean-
ing and words of the Book, but the spirit flows through it
with such abundance
that both heart and mind are
profoundly touched. However, it must never be forgotten
that Baha'u'llah's
own words remain immutable and
matchless, and in translating them we must be scrupu-
lous, like Shoghi Effendi, not to allow the cumbersome
2° Kitab-i-lqan,
p. 2.

Aspects of the Sublime
apparatus of academic pedantry to impede the flow of
their spiritual bounty.
With this in mind, and in the light of the warnings I
have quoted, I feel I must acknowledge that my approach
here may well be defective in many ways. Born as we are
so near to the time of the revelation of the Kitab-i-Aqdas,
we will continue to be the "generation of the half-light,"
as Shoghi Effendi has described us. I must therefore stress
that my remarks constitute no more than a personal
assessment which can never purport to be a guide for
others to follow. Above all, I intend to let the Kitab-i-
Aqdas speak for itself. If I can impart a small glimpse of
the richness of the Arabic original, I feel that I shall have
accomplished my goal. For example, writing about the
sublimity of the Baha'i Revelation, Shoghi Effendi says,
"Such testimonies bearing on this theme are impregnated
with such power and reveal such beauty as only those who are
versed in the languages in which they were originally revealed
can claim to have sufficiently appreciated."
21 Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Baha'u'llah, p. 103 (my italics).

I
THAT WHICH WE call 'sublime' in religious literature can
be conveyed only in a very special kind of language which
may be characterized as 'sacred language', and which is
virtually indefinable in nature. It is distinguished, however,
by the fact that, unlike any other kind of language, it
encompasses all three modes of cognition: analysis, intui-
tion, and revelation. If poetry reveals the passions of the
human heart, then sacred language reveals those passions
of the heart and soul. It embodies a universal message that
transcends form, melody and rhythm, and ultimately tran-
scends even language itself.
Among all the languages of the world, Arabic is
unique in being a sacred language, the repository of a
great religious tradition, which has been preserved intact
as a 'living language' over many centuries up to the
present day. The great Semitic family of languages to
which Arabic belongs includes such ancient languages as
Aramaic, Syriac, Ethiopic, Phoenician and Hebrew. Yet if
we contrast the course of these various tongues to Arabic,
we find that Phoenician has disappeared altogether; of
Aramaic and Syriac barely anything remains; Ethiopic
never progressed beyond the confines of Ethiopia; while
for centuries Hebrew maintained only a flicker of life
within the confines of Jewish communities before being
resuscitated and considerably expanded as the language
of modern-day Israel.

Aspects of the Sublime
As for the great representatives of other venerable
families of languages, such as Latin, Greek and Sanskrit,
none of these is used colloquially today. Arabic is the only
language belonging to a formerly great and multi-
national civilization that survives to this day as a living
language. Classical Arabic is still used in every Arab
country for all formal and literary purposes, as well as
representing
that which is holy and sacred to many
millions of Muslims, Arab and non-Arab alike throughout
the world.
Furthermore, although the literature of India, China,
Persia, Ancient Egypt and indeed modern Europe is
replete with numerous instances of what may be termed
'sacred language', Arabic has an inherent quality which-
as I shall now attempt briefly to demonstrate-lends
extra
power to the expression of the religious vision. The same
vision can indeed be expressed in various ways in other
languages. But for those who are acquainted at firsthand
with the treasures of Arabic religious literature, it is diffi-
cult to conceive how anything could rival the subtlety,
eloquence, range, versatility, incisive truthfulness, and
poignant beauty of Arabic as a means of expressing the
profoundest spiritual truths. Hence the unique status of
Arabic as the language of the revealed Word in both the
Qur'an and the Kitab-i-Aqdas.
Why, then, is Arabic so special? What gives it its
particular genius? Arabic, like other Semitic languages,
derives words from roots composed usually of three
letters. However, to a greater degree than other Semitic
languages, Arabic modifies these roots through the
addition of further letters either before, after or within the
roots. This feature of the language invests individual
words with a highly derivative and associative character
that adds to them whole layers of meaning and innuendo in

The Style of the Kitab-i-Aqdas
a manner not normally found in other languages. In partic-
ular, it makes Arabic the perfect vehicle for the symbolic
and the metaphorical.
Perhaps no language has a greater capacity for variety
and richness of expression than does Arabic. It contains,
for example, a wealth of synonyms, and an extraordinary
breadth of vocabulary expressive of multitudinous
and
subtle differentiations
of sense in the realms of both
feeling and action. •
The Arabist Hamilton Gibb observes that "Arabic is
unique in having carried over its superluxuriant vocabu-
lary to play an important part in the literature of a highly
developed civilization." 22 Eloquence was always highly
prized by the Arabs: the traditional Arabic maxim, 'The
beauty of a man is at the tip of his tongue', emphasizes the
importance they attach to chaste and beautiful expres-
sion. Similarly, when the Prophet Mul;tammad was asked
"Where does beauty lie?" He replied, "Upon the tongue."
The Writings of Baha'u'llah are themselves replete with
references to the power of 'utterance', a subject to which
I shall return.
Arabic words frequently contain many levels and
areas of meaning which cannot be fully conveyed in trans-
lation by means of single-word equivalents. For example,
the Arabic term for poetry is shi' r, signifying both 'feeling'
and things related to the spirit, the soul, and the inner
being. The word for literature, adab, also means 'courtesy',
indicating that it is not merely a vehicle of expression, but
a reflection of the values that inform it. In origin, the term
was coined to denote a body of writings, composed in a
22 Gibb, H.A.R., Arabic Literature (Oxford: Oxford University Press,
1974), p. 4.

Aspects of the Sublime
variety of styles, that defined the correct conduct and
behaviour of princes, administrators and others.
When one speaks Arabic, one is not merely engaging
in communication. Rather, it is a spiritual experience. The
Arabic language is synonymous with a devotion to the
manner of expression, a delight in the rhythm and music
of speech, and a sensuous revelling in the texture of
words. The Arabs call its effect on those who hear it
'lawful magic' (al-si!Jr al-!Jaldl), which is the same as the
'sorcery' described in the following verse of the Qur'an:
And so, when the truth came to them from Us,
they said, "Behold, this is clearly nothing but
sorcery!" 23
In fact, 'enchantment' is closer to the real meaning of the
Arabic word si!Jr, but in the context of the quoted passage
'sorcery' serves to convey the pejorative flavour of the
word used as a description of the Truth. The same word
occurs in the following Ijadith., or saying, of the Prophet
Mul:rnmmad:
And some forms of utterance have the power of
magic. [my translation]
Arabic has been described by one of the most eminent
English scholars in the field of oriental studies, Sir Edward
Denison-Ross, as "one of the noblest products of the
human brain." 24 It is a remarkably musical tongue, and
23 Qur'an, X:76. All translated quotations are taken from The Message
of the Qur'an, translated and explained by MUQammad Asad (Gibraltar:
Dar al-Andalus, 1984, reprinted 1993). This, the most recent English ren-
dering of the Qur'an, is in the author's view the most accurate of all the
translations available. All square brackets in quotations from Asad's
translation are his.
24 Denison-Ross, E., Eastern Art and Literature (London: Earnest Benn,
1928), p. 53.

The Style of the Kitab-i-Aqdas
even its prose has qualities of poetry. It is highly onomato-
poeic, many of its words suggesting their own meaning.
Notwithstanding its great written body of literature, Arabic
is primarily a language for the ear-and
indeed, early
Arabic poetry and the Qur'an itself were originally meant
for listeners rather than readers. The possibilities for
rhyming are infinite, and until very recently a feature of
Arabic verse was that the rhyme (al-qafiyah) was expected
to remain the same throughout even the longest poems.
These are just some of the features that made Arabic
the ideal vehicle for divine revelation. The Arabic term
denoting the acme of linguistic excellence and achieve-
ment is i'jaz, which literally signifies 'language defying
imitation'. It is applied exclusively to the Qur'an, which
contains a number of significant references to the language
in which it was revealed:
These are messages of a revelation clear in itself
and clearly showing the truth: behold, We have
bestowed it from on high as a discourse in the
Arabic tongue, so that you might encompass it
with your reason .
.. . this is Arabic speech, clear [in itself] and
clearly showing the truth [of its source].
Thus, then, have We bestowed from on high
this [divine writ] as an ordinance in the Arabic
tongue .
... thus have We bestowed from on high this
[divine writ] as a discourse in the Arabic
tongue ...
... a discourse in the Arabic tongue, free of all
deviousness ...
... in the clear Arabic tongue .
.. . a divine writ .. .in the Arabic tongue ...

Aspects of the Sublime
... a divine writ, the messages whereof have
been clearly spelled out as a discourse in the
Arabic tongue ...
.. . We have revealed unto thee a discourse in the
Arabic tongue ...
Consider this divine writ, clear in itself and
clearly showing the truth: behold, We have
caused it to be a discourse in the Arabic tongue,
so that you might encompass it with your
reason. 25'
Unfortunately, the complexities of the Arabic language
and the immense problems involved in translating the
revealed Word have made it practically impossible for
Western scholars to "encompass the Qur'an with their
reason." And although the Kitab-i-Aqdas is in many ways
more readily approachable than the Qur'an, no Western
scholar can hope to achieve a profound appreciation of it
purely through the acquisition of academic skills. Clearly an
extra quality is called for, a quality of spiritual receptivity,
perceptiveness and intuition. Otherwise there is a danger
of falling into the same trap as did those who, in the early
years of Islam, attempted to evaluate the Qur'an in terms
largely of its outward form, oblivious of that mystical
"fragrance of inner meanings" 26 spoken of by Baha'u'llah
in the Kitab-i-Aqdas.
Having attained the distinction of being chosen as the
language of Revelation in the MuJ.:tammadan Dispensa-
tion, the special position of the Arabic language has been
further consolidated and enhanced in our time through its
having been singled out for the place of honour in the
25 Qur'an, XII:1-2, XVI:103, XIII:37, XX:113, XXXIX:28, XXVI:195,
XLVl:12, XLI:3, XLII:7, and XLIII:2-3. The word 'discourse' in the first
Qur'anic passage refers to the Qur'an itself.
26 Kitab-i-Aqdas, K158, p. 76.

The Style of the Kitab-i-Aqdas
Baha'i Revelation. The introduction to the Kitab-i-Aqdas
elaborates this theme:
Baha'u'llah enjoyed a superb mastery of Arabic,
and preferred to use it in those Tablets and
other Writings where its precision of meaning
was particularly appropriate to the exposition
of basic principle. Beyond the choice of language
itself, however, the style employed is of an
exalted and emotive character, immensely com-
pelling, particularly to those familiar with the
great literary tradition out of which it arose. 27
In point of fact, no less than approximately
sixty
percent of Baha'u'llah's Tablets and other Writings were
revealed in "the perspicuous Arabic tongue," as He desig-
nates it, in contradistinction
to the "luminous Persian
tongue" in which the remainder of His Writings was
revealed. Baha'u'llah further emphasized the pre-eminence
of Arabic in the following hitherto untranslated Tablet,
which I paraphrase as follows:
It is beloved of God that all should speak in
Arabic, which is the richest and vastest of all
languages. Were anyone to be aware of the
richness
and vastness
of this perspicuous
tongue, he would choose it as a universal
language of communication. The Persian tongue
is a beautiful language, and in this Dispensation
God hath chosen to speak in two languages:
Arabic and Persian. However, Persian is not as
rich as Arabic; in fact all the languages of the
earth seem limited when compared to the
Arabic language. What We have mentioned
here is merely what is preferable. However,
Our purpose is that the peoples of the earth
should
choose a universal
language
from
amongst the languages spoken by all mankind.
27 Ibid., Introduction, p. 9.

Aspects of the Sublime
This is what God hath ordained, and this is
what will benefit all mankind, did they but
know. 28
This emphasis on the importance of Arabic was reiter-
ated by 'Abdu'l-Baha. A Tablet He addressed to one of the
believers includes the following:
0 beloved servant of God, at one time you were
studying Arabic. This indeed is very useful, and
you should undoubtedly continue to do so in
order to acquire the skills and ability to commu-
nicate with eloquence and clarity in the Arabic
language. Most certainly exert every effort to
learn the Arabic language so that you can attain
complete competence and proficiency enabling
you to read and write it with equal facility. 29
Shoghi Effendi for his part continued to lay emphasis
on the significance of Arabic in the Baha'i: Dispensation,
and on its importance as a key affording access, once
mastered, to the sacred texts in their original form. In a
letter written on his behalf, he sent the following exhor-
tation to the Baha'fs of Iran, encouraging them to make
provision for the instruction of their children in Arabic:
Make sure that Baha'i schoolchildren in their
early years learn Arabic. For this is in accor-
dance with the words of the Ancient Beauty in
which He considers Arabic as the perspicuous
tongue and through it He revealed the majority
of His holy verses, laws and ordinances, prayers
28 Quoted in Persian by Ali Akbar Furutan, Lughat-i-Fu:;~a va Lughat-
i-Nawra (Dundas, Ontario: Persian Institute for Baha'i Studies, 1992), pp.
22-3. With regard to the Persian language, 'Abdu'l-Baha states: "The Per-
sian language shall become noteworthy in this cycle; nay, rather, the peo-
ple shall study it in all the world" (Tablets of 'Abdu'l-Balui, Vol. II [Chicago,
Baha'i Publishing Society, 1915], p. 307).
29 Furutan, Lughat-i-Fu:;~ va Lugl!.at-i-Nawra,
pp. 23-4 (my paraphrase).

The Style of the Kitab-i-Aqdas
and scientific tablets. The rewards for accom-
plishing this are abundant in the estimation of
God, and its results will be of great benefit to
the entire community. 30
30 Ibid., pp. 24-5 (my paraphrase).

II
THERE ARE THREE basic characteristics which distinguish
every Divine Revelation. Firstly, it explains truths such as
the nature of God, the human condition and the world
around us; secondly, it directs us towards right conduct
and warns us to eschew evil; and thirdly, to those who
have faith and accept its guidance, it imparts the good
news of forgiveness, purification
and salvation, and
provides a fresh impetus to the march of human progress
and civilization. Underpinning all of these is the ability of
the Divine Revelation both to create and to transform.
The vitality of men's belief in God is dying out
in every land; nothing short of His wholesome
medicine can ever restore it. The corrosion of
ungodliness is eating into the vitals of human
society; what else but the Elixir of His potent
Revelation can cleanse and revive it? Is it within
human power, 0 J:Iaki'.m, to effect in the constit-
uent elements of any of the minute and indivis-
ible particles of matter so complete a trans-
formation as to transmute it into purest gold?
Perplexing and difficult as this may appear, the
still greater task of converting satanic strength
into heavenly power is one that We have been
empowered to accomplish. The Force capable
of such a transformation
transcendeth
the
potency of the Elixir itself. The Word of God,
alone, can claim the distinction of being endowed

The Style of the Kitab-i-Aqdas
with the capacity required for so great and far-
reaching a change.31
The idea of revelation, in the sense of the revealed
Word of God, is an ancient one that predates Islam by
many centuries and is illustrated in a variety of cultures.
Although little tangible evidence survives, scholars cite
examples as old as the Code of Hammurabi from the 18th
century B.C.; the revealed texts of Abraham which are
mentioned in the Qur'an 32; the Deuteronomic text of King
Hezekiah, also known as the law book of Josiah, Hilkiah
and Huldah 33; the "word of the Lord" revealed to Jeremiah34;
and the law book of Ezra. 35 By the time of the Council of
Jamnia in 100 A.D., to the idea of revelation had been
added that of the inviolable sanctity of the revealed Word,
which previously had been characterized by Jeremiah as
a flame of fire that cannot be imitated, stolen or misrep-
resented, and whose truth cannot but be revealed to the
world. 36 This notion of the integrity of revelation leads
naturally to that of the integrity, or essential unity, of the
religions with which each particular outpouring of revela-
tion is associated, and to the concept that these outpour-
ings constitute
the cumulative
spiritual
heritage
of
mankind, bequeathed down the ages from Dispensation to
Dispensation in ever more liberal measures.
31 Gleanings from the Writings of Baha'u'llah (Wilmette: Baha'i Publish-
ing Trust, 1982), XCIX, p. 200.
32 Qur'an, LXXXVII:18-19. For material concerning the history of Rev-
elation and the style of the Qur'an, I am indebted to Isma'il R. and Lois
Lamya' al Faruqi, The Cultural Atlas of Islam (New York: Macmillan, 1986).
33 II Kings, XXII:8-20.
34 Jeremiah, XXXVI:20ff.
35 Ezra, VII: 14.
36 Jeremiah, XXIII:29.

Aspects of the Sublime
As the most recent in this series of successive outpour-
ings of Divine guidance to humanity before the advent of the
Babi and Baha'i Dispensations, Islam occupies an especially
revered station in the eyes of Baha'is. In Shoghi Effendi's
words:
As to MuQammad, the Apostle of God, let none
among His followers who read these pages,
think for a moment that either Islam, or its
Prophet, or His Book, or His appointed Succes-
sors, or any of His authentic teachings, have
been, or are to be in any way, or to however
slight a degree, disparaged.
They [the Baha'i teachers] must strive to obtain,
from sources that are authoritative and unbiased,
a sound knowledge of the history and tenets of
Islam-the
source and background
of their
Faith-and
approach reverently and with a
mind purged from pre-conceived ideas the
study of the Qur'an which, apart from the
sacred scriptures of the Ba.bi and Baha'i Revela-
tions, constitutes the only Book which can be
regarded as an absolutely authenticated Repos-
itory of the Word of God.37
Such a degree of integrity is found exemplified in the
Scriptures of the Baha'i Revelation. But whereas in the
Islamic Dispensation the authenticated Repository of the
Word of God comprised a single volume-the
Qur'an; in
the Baha'i Dispensation it comprises the whole body of
the Writings of Baha'u'llah, embracing the equivalent of
no less than one hundred volumes. Of this vast corpus of
Writings, the Kitab-i-Aqdas, although pre-eminent among
Baha'u'llah's other Writings as the 'Most Holy Book' of
His Dispensation, and the Work in which the basic laws
37 Shoghi Effendi, Guidance for Today and Tomorrow (London: Baha'i
Publishing Trust, 1953), pp. 119, 226.

The Style of the Kitab-i-Aqdas
and ordinances of His Revelation are propounded, consti-
tutes but a single element. It would, however, be mislead-
ing to refer to it merely as a book of laws; more accurately
it is the charter of a future civilization, establishing the
spirit rather than the letter of its constitutional, social, and
legal framework. Yet even such a characterization as this
falls short of doing justice to the Book, as the following
Words of Baha'u'llah reveal:
Think not that We have revealed unto you a
mere code of laws. Nay, rather, We have
unsealed the choice Wine with the fingers of
might and power. To this beareth witness that
which the Pen of Revelation hath revealed. 38
The use in this passage of the significant Qur'anic term
ra"f:z{q
makhtum (here rendered 'choice Wine'), suggests
that Baha'u'llah is identifying the Kitab-i-Aqdas as the
'pure wine' promised to the truly virtuous in the eighty-
third surah of the Qur'an:
Behold, [in the life to come] the truly virtuous
will indeed be in bliss: [resting] on couches,
they will look up [to God]: upon their faces thou
wilt see the brightness of bliss.
They will be given a drink of pure wine
whereon the seal [of God] will have been set,
pouring forth with a fragrance of musk.
To that [wine of paradise], then, let all such
aspire as [are willing to] aspire to things of high
account: for it is composed of all that is most
exalting-a
source [of bliss] whereof those who
are drawn close unto God shall drink. 39
As the fulfillment of this promise, the Kitab-i-Aqdas
38 Kitab-i-Aqdas, KS, p. 21.
39 Qur'an, LXXXIII:22-28.

Aspects of the Sublime
represents the epitome of the concept, first propounded
by Jeremiah, of the Divine Ipsissima Verba, or the Very
Word of God. And as such, the Arabic of the original text
is sacred language of the very highest order, sublime in
form and content.
FORM
Let us first consider the sublime form of the Kitab-i-
Aqdas. Concise in form, yet rich in meaning and sense, it
contains the elements of both shi'r (poetry) and saj'
(rhymed prose) but transcends the limitations of each. Its
expressions possess an integrity and absolute precision
that lie beyond the bounds of literary analysis. Vivid use
is made of similes, metaphors, metonymy, and other
linguistic embellishments,
exemplifying that form of
consummate skill in the use of Arabic which is termed
bad{', signifying 'the art of sublime and innovative expres-
sion'. The hallmarks of this form of writing are its match-
less precision, its graceful but compelling flow, its chaste
economy of diction, its inimitable craftsmanship and its
prodigious mastery of the language in all its multifarious
ramifications. Majesty is combined with grace, refine-
ment with simplicity, strength with delicacy, power with
beauty, and authority with compassion. And the text is
unimpaired by-indeed
all the more effective for-its
lack of a conventional literary structure.
CONTENT
The sublime content of the Kitab-i-Aqdas, on the other
hand, is evident in its palpable embodiment of the impor-
tant Baha 'f principle of the conformity of faith and reason;
its view of man as a rational and noble being whose true
destiny on earth can be realized only through recognizing
His Creator and obeying His commandments. It upholds

The Style of the Kitab-i-Aqdas
a pattern of moral living consecrated to, and sustained by,
the establishment of justice, the pursuit of righteousness,
and the practice of refinement. Over and above the edifi-
cation and redemption of the individual, it lays special
emphasis on the harmonious relationship between individ-
uals, on the one hand, and between the individual and
society on the other. The fundamental values it inculcates
are therefore unity, equity and moderation, all of which it
regards as spiritual in essence, and not merely of social
significance alone. Its message is unific in character,
universal in scope, and ecumenical in spirit. It invites
mankind to accept it with both heart and mind. It creates
a New World Order and a peerless legislative system,
centering around the institution of the House of Justice, in
which is vested responsibility both for guaranteeing the
welfare and for promoting the development of the society
and the community over which it presides.
The sublime congruence of form and content in the
Kitab-i-Aqdas produces an effect, such as can generate a
radical transformation in those who receive the Word and
reverently peruse it.
STYLE
In the Suriy-i-Haykal (Surah of the Temple) Baha'u'llah states
the following (which I again paraphrase from the Arabic):
Say: We have revealed Our verses in nine differ-
ent styles, each style signifying the sovereignty
of God, the Ever-Living, Who determineth what
is true or false. One single style would certainly
be sufficient proof for all that are in Heaven and
all that are on earth. But most people are heedless.
Had We so wished, We would have revealed
verses in other styles too numerous to reckon.40
4o Atl!ar-i-Qalam-i-A'la,
Vol I (fihran: Baha'i Publishing Trust, 1963), p. 19.

Aspects of the Sublime
Although no elucidation of these "nine different styles"
was forthcoming from the Pen of Baha'u'llah Himself (at
least, so far as is at the present known), they have been
tentatively identified by the distinguished Baha'i scholar
Jinab-i-Facjil-i-Mazindaranf as follows:
1. Tablets with the tone of command and authority.
2. Those with the tone of servitude, meekness
and supplication.
3. Writings dealing with interpretation of the old
Scriptures, religious beliefs and doctrines
of the past.
4. Writings in which laws and ordinances have
been enjoined for this age and laws of the
past abrogated.
5. Mystical Writings.
6. Tablets concerning matters of government and
world order, and those addressed to the
kings.
7. Tablets dealing with subjects of learning and
knowledge, divine philosophy, mysteries
of creation, medicine, alchemy, etc.
8. Tablets exhorting men to education, goodly
character and divine virtues.
9. Tablets dealing with social teachings. 41
For Baha'fs no less than for Muslims, it is a basic tenet
of belief that the very form in which the Word is cast
represents one of the major signs or proofs of a Divine
Revelation. In other words, the revealed Word proves
41 Quoted by Adib Taherzadeh, The Revelation of Balui'u'llah, Vol. I
(Oxford: George Ronald, 1976), p. 43.

The Style of the Kitab-i-Aqdas
itself by its own transcendent
and inimitable quality, as is
in fact stated in the Kitab-i-Aqdas:
This is the Most Great Testimony, by which the
validity of every proof throughout the ages
hath been established ... 42
Many other such pronouncements
in the text confirm the
sublimity of its station in this respect:
... My commandments are the lamps of My
loving providence among My servants, and the
keys of My mercy for My creatures. Thus hath
it been sent down from the heaven of the Will of
your Lord, the Lord of Revelation. 43
Take heed lest the word "Prophet" withhold
you from this Most Great Announcement, or
any reference to "Vicegerency" debar you from
the sovereignty of Him Who is the Vicegerent of
God, which overshadoweth all the worlds. 44
Give ear unto the verses of God which He Who
is the sacred Lote-Tree reciteth unto you. They
are assuredly the infallible balance, established
by God, the Lord of this world and the next.
Through them the soul of man is caused to wing
its flight towards the Dayspring of Revelation,
and the heart of every true believer is suffused
with light.45
The Lote-Tree (Sadratu'l-Muntaha'),
here signifying Baha'u'llah
Himself, is an Islamic image symbolizing
the heavenly
limit beyond which neither man nor angels can pass in
their attempts to attain to the presence of the Almighty or
to comprehend
the nature of the Great Beyond.
42 Kitab-i-Aqdas, K183, p. 86.
43 Ibid., K3, p. 20.
44 Ibid., K167, p. 80.
45 Ibid., K148, p. 73.

Aspects of the Sublime
The style of passages like those cited above is deliber-
ately compressed and allusive rather than discursive and
explicit, and the imagery and symbolism they contain are
so deployed as to open up before the listener or reader
whole new realms of meaning, and to fire the imagination
through their vividly evocative power.
The Kitab-i-Aqdas contains, of course, innumerable
other signs and tokens of its Divine origin, in much the
same way as, in the Qur'an, the "book of the world" is
described as replete with signs and wonders, all eloquent-
ly testifying to the Divine providence which has brought
them into being:
And among his wonders is the creation of the
heavens and the earth, and the diversity of your
tongues and colours: for in this, behold, there
are messages indeed for all who are possessed
of [innate] knowledge! 46
Enumerating various signs of the truth of His Father's
Revelation, 'Abdu'l-Baha cites in one of His Epistles the
eloquence and profundity of Baha'u'llah's words and the
speed with which they are revealed:
Among His signs are: the excellence of His
utterance, the eloquence of His elucidation, the
ceaseless flow of His Revelation, in words, in
wise sayings, in [holy] verses, in sermons, in
communion and prayer, and in His explanation
of clear verses and interpretation of figurative
verses. 47
The greatest of all His signs, however, is the majestic
person of Baha'u'llah Himself. He is the proof beyond
which no other proof is needed; He stands transcendent,
46 Qur'an, XXX:22.
47 Min Makatfb 'Abdu'l-Bahti, Vol. I (Rio de Janeiro: Baha'i Publishing
Trust of Brazil, 1982), p. 100. Paraphrased from the original Arabic.

The Style of the Kitab-i-Aqdas
majestic and sublime, holding sovereign sway over all. In
the Islamic Dispensation, the Qur'an had challenged critics
and detractors of the new Revelation to produce a single
surah, or chapter, comparable to those of the Qur'an:
And if you doubt any part of what We have
bestowed from on high, step by step, upon Our
servant [Mul;tammad], then produce a surah of
similar merit, and call upon any other than God
to bear witness for you-if
what you say is
true! 48
Now, in the Baha'i Dispensation, Baha'u'llah confronts
His critics with their inability to match not simply His
words, but His own August Being in all its aspects:
0 ye leaders of religion! Who is the man
amongst you that can rival Me in vision or
insight? Where is he to be found that dareth to
claim to be My equal in utterance or wisdom?
No, by My Lord, the All-Merciful! 49
The implication of the rhetorical question in which these
challenging words are framed is, of course, that Baha 'u 'llah
is peerless and inimitable in His capacities and accom-
plishments. History records that all who attempted to set
themselves up as equals of Baha'u'llah were ultimately
discomfited
and met with ignominious
failure. For
Baha'u'llah spoke with the Tongue of God, and in the
pure mirror of His Being was reflected the light of Divine
and unfading glory.
The vocative as exemplified, for instance, by the words
prefacing His address to the clergy-"O
ye leaders of
religion" (Ya ma'shar al-'Ulama')-is a linguistic device of
peculiar force and efficacy in Arabic. Again and again it is
48 Qur'an, 11:23.
49 Kitab-i-Aqdas, KlOl, pp. 56-7.

Aspects of the Sublime
resorted to by Baha'u'llah. In this way He apostrophizes
specific groups of people as a means of investing His
admonitions to them with great potency and directness.
The device is clearly effective in lending force and
poignancy to Baha'u'llah's
rhetorical challenge to the
'Ulama' referred to above. Naturally, this challenge to
recognize Baha'u'llah's
unassailable
pre-eminence
is
addressed in the first instance to the 'Ulama', since it was
they who had arrogated to themselves the position of sole
guardians of God's Faith and exclusive arbiters of Divine
Truth for humankind. In a very real sense, they held the
spiritual destinies of their followers in their hands, as is
affirmed elsewhere in the Kitab-i-Aqdas by the statement:
"Had ye believed in God when He revealed Himself, the
people would not have turned aside from Him, nor would
the things ye witness today have befallen Us.1150 Their
abject inability to rival Baha'u'llah in vision or insight, or
to equal Him in utterance and wisdom, if not already
clearly implicit in the sense of incredulity conveyed by the
rhetorical question in which Baha'u'llah
frames His
challenge to them, is then emphatically asserted by the
witheringly dismissive quality of the following negation:
"No, by My Lord, the All-Merciful." The utter insignifi-
cance of their arrogant pretensions when brought face to
face with the supernal splendour of the Ancient of Days
is then vividly expressed by the assertion:
All on the earth shall pass away; and this is the
face of your Lord, the Almighty, the Well-
Beloved,51
itself an echo of the Qur'anic words:
so Ibid., K166, pp. 79-80.
51 Ibid., KlOl, p. 57.

The Style of the Kitab-i-Aqdas
All that lives on earth or in the heavens is bound
to pass away: but forever will abide thy
Sustainer's Self, full of majesty and glory.52
Asad's phrase, "thy Sustainer's Self," is a translation
of wajhu Rabbi-ka, meaning "Face of thy Lord," as
rendered more accurately in this case by Arberry:
All that dwells upon the earth is perishing, yet
still / abides the Face of thy Lord, majestic,
splendid. 53
This apparent allusion to the Qur'an provides a partic-
ularly good illustration of the way Baha'u'llah's language
invests Qur'anic phrases or expressions with various
whole new dimensions of meaning. In the present case,
the Qur'anic "Face of thy Lord," which becomes in a sense
the face of Baha'u'llah Himself, reminds us that in His
Dispensation, as in preceding Dispensations, mankind
has the privilege, so long as He is alive, of gazing on the
Face of God Himself, and of entering as nearly into His
presence as is possible on this earthly plane.
Not only is God's Messenger for this day and age
peerless in His knowledge, understanding
and insight,
but He is also "the Dawning-place of God's Cause" and
the sole exemplar of the "Most Great Infallibility." He is,
moreover, "the infallible Balance" (Qistas al-Huda)54 an
expression in which again the word Qistas, used in the
Qur'an merely in its concrete meaning, 55 is here invested
with a new dimension of figurative meaning, as it becomes
52 Qur'an, LV:26-7.
53 Arthur J. Arberry, The Koran Interpreted (New York: Macmillan,
1955), p. 252.
54 Kitab-i-Aqdas, K47, p. 36 and K183, p. 86.
55 Qur'an, XVII:35 and XXVI:182.

Aspects of the Sublime
a symbol for the Manifestation of God, the Judge and
Arbitrator of what is true and what is false.
LITERARY DEVICES
Just as the style of the Qur'an was totally new to the Arabs
of the Prophet's time, albeit embodying the quintessential
soul and spirit of their language, so too the Kitab-i-Aqdas
constitutes a veritable miracle of innovation. It is divided
into several hundred verses, which in the English version
have been grouped into numbered paragraphs.
They
adhere to no specific literary form in Arabic, being richer
than prose but without the elaborateness and mannerisms
of poetry. The style is therefore a delicate blend of features
belonging to both prose and poetry, of music tempered by
the discipline of precise and unequivocal expression.
There is alliteration, assonance, repetition, and onomato-
poeia. The timbre of the music differs from subject to
subject, but remains integrally associated with the digni-
fied sonority, the stirring rhythms and the lilting cadences
of the Arabic language in which it is framed. Witness the
mounting crescendo and final satisfying resolution evi-
dent in the structure of the following verse:
They who eschew iniquity and error, who
adhere to virtue, are, in the sight of the one true
God, among the choicest of His creatures; their
names are extolled by the Concourse of the
realms above, and by those who dwell in this
Tabernacle which hath been raised in the name
of God.56
The linguistic subtleties of Arabic are infinite, and
place at the disposal of the skilled craftsman a host of
rhetorical figures and devices which he may deploy to
56 Kitab-i-Aqdas, K71, p. 45.

The Style of the Kitdb-i-Aqdas
brilliant effect. The following provides an example of
alliteration, the repetition of a certain consonant (in this
case 'j') throughout successive words (ijlal, jalal, jamal):
Thus hath the decree been inscribed with
majesty [ijlal] in this glorious [jalal] Tablet by
Him Who is the Dawning-place of Beauty
Uamal].57
As previously noted, Arabic offers abundant possibil-
ities for assonance, the reiteration of certain vowel sounds
throughout successive words. The contrast of qu$UT (palaces)
with qubur (graves), in the context of Baha'u'llah's
stem
reminder to the King of Prussia that:
The All-Merciful brought them down from their
palaces to their graves58
is dramatically heightened by their similarity in sound, a
similarity which adds piquancy and a certain aphoristic
quality to the antithesis they express.
An outstanding feature of the rhythm of the Kitab-i-
Aqdas is its use of different repetitive beats-double,
triple, or quadruple-in
a manner which can only imper-
fectly be reproduced in English. A double beat, for instance,
is heard running
throughout
the following series of
contrasting couplets:
Truly, the Lord loveth union and harmony and
abhorreth separation and divorce. Live ye one
with another, 0 people, in radiance and joy.59
A triple beat, by contrast, is found in the following
eloquent passage, whose latter portion reinforces the
central proposition of its earlier portion by means of three
57 Ibid., K68, p. 44.
58 Ibid., K86, p. 51.
59 Ibid., K70, p. 44.

Aspects of the Sublime
structurally similar sentences which serve cumulatively
to create an effect of great emphasis.
Let none, in this Day, hold fast to aught save
that which hath been manifested in this Revela-
tion. Such is the decree of God, aforetime and
hereafter-a
decree wherewith the Scriptures of
the Messengers of old have been adorned. Such
is the admonition of the Lord, aforetime and
hereafter-an
admonition
wherewith
the
preamble to the Book of Life hath been embel-
lished, did ye but perceive it. Such is the
commandment
of the Lord, aforetime and
hereafter; beware lest ye choose instead the part
of ignominy and abasement. 60
These passages exemplify the power of rhythmic repeti-
tion, used to maximum effect in the Kitab-i-Aqdas.
Another richly expressive device in Arabic is that of
juxtaposition and antithesis, as in the following example:
Know ye that the embodiment of liberty and its
symbol is the animal. That which beseemeth
man is submission unto such restraints as will
protect him from his own ignorance, and guard
him against the harm of the mischief-maker. 61
By placing the word bayawan (animal) immediately before
insan (man), the Arabic original of this passage effectively
emphasizes the demarcation
and distinction between
animality and humanity-a
distinction which can so easily
be lost or blurred if man's behaviour is not restricted by
certain limitations and constraints. With the removal of such
constraints, the distance, figuratively speaking, between
humanity and animality is perhaps no greater than the
difference in sound between insan and bayawan.
60 Ibid., K138, pp. 68-9.
61 Ibid., K123, p. 63.

The Style of the Kitab-i-Aqdas
Metaphor
Another important rhetorical device of which ample use
is made in the Kitab-i-Aqdas is metaphor, by means of
which abstract concepts are expressed in concrete terms:
... We have unsealed the choice Wine with the
fingers of might and power. 62
... My chosen servants ... are the stars of the
heaven of My loving providence and the lamps
of My guidance unto all mankind. 63
The eye of His loving-kindness shall everlast-
ingly be directed towards thee ... 64
The eye of My loving-kindness weepeth sore
over you ...
Cast away that which ye possess, and, on the
wings of detachment, soar beyond all created
things. 66
In this last extract, the metaphor of 'wings', symbolizing
freedom and detachment, is further developed by the
verb 'soar', converting the metaphor into an analogy
whereby a person who has achieved detachment from the
world is likened to a bird soaring in the heavens.
Another noteworthy feature of the language of the
Kitab-i-Aqdas is the frequent use it makes of the names
and attributes of Almighty God, which constitute an
important element of both Qur'anic and Baha'f diction,
and are expressed throughout
the text of the Kitab-i-
Aqdas by both allusion and explicit mention. Among the
62 Ibid., KS, p. 21.
63 Ibid., K117, p. 61.
64 Ibid., K93, p. 54.
65 Ibid., KlOO, p. 56.
66 Ibid., K54, p. 39.

Aspects of the Sublime
most frequently occurring of these names and attributes are,
for instance, those illustrated in the following formulae:
He, verily, is Almighty and Omniscient 67
The All-Possessing, the Most High 68
The Mighty, the Pardoner 69
Combinations
of these attributes
frequently serve to
round off the verses of the Kitab-i-Aqdas, and in this capac-
ity provide a recurrent musical refrain, or closing cadence,
which sounds throughout the length of its text.
Another designation for the Almighty is He "Who
ruleth over all mankind, 1170 the Arabic original of which
Malik al-Riqab, signifies literally "the possessor of the necks."
Clearly, 'necks' is here used metonymically for 'mankind',
implying that man stands in the same relation to God as
a vassal to his lord. The term Malik (Lord), despite the
paramount importance of the Divine attribute it expresses,
occurs on only two or three occasions in the Qur'an, 71
whereas in the Kitab-i-Aqdas, by contrast, it has developed
into one of the central appellations of the Divinity. Follow-
ing are some of the combinations in which it is used:
The Lord of all mankind 72
The Lord of Names 73
The Lord of all Religions 74
67 Ibid., K6, p. 21.
68 Ibid., K2, p. 20.
69 Ibid., KB, p. 22.
70 Ibid., KB, p. 22.
71 Qur'an, 1:4 and III:26.
72 Kitab-i-Aqdas, K16, p. 25; K26, p. 28 and K154, p. 75.
73 Ibid., K49, p. 37.
74 Ibid., K36, p. 32.

The Style of the Kitab-i-Aqdas
The Lord of all worlds 75
The Lord of the beginning and the end 76
The Lord of being 77
The Lord of all creation 78
The Lord of ... Grace 79
The Lord of Judgement 80
The Lord of ... Majesty 81
The Lord of the seen and the unseen 82
The Lord of Splendour 83
The Lord of the Throne above and of the earth
below 84
The Lord of Utterance 85
Alternation of Person
A linguistic device of untold significance in the Kitab-i-
Aqdas is its alternation between the third person singular
and the first persons singular and plural in referring to the
authoritative
source whence various prescriptions and
exhortations have flowed-a
feature whose evident pur-
75 Ibid., KlO, p. 23; K44, p. 35; K85, p. 50; K98, p. 56 and K138, p. 69.
76 Ibid., K16, p. 25 and K28, p. 28.
77 Ibid., K139, p. 69.
78 Ibid., K73, p. 45.
79 Ibid., Kl4, p. 24.
80 Ibid., K18, p. 26 and K56, p. 40.
81 Ibid., Kl4, p. 24.
82 Ibid., Kll, p. 23 and K98, p. 56.
83 Ibid., K13, pp. 23-4.
84 Ibid., K86, p. 51.
85 Ibid., KBB, p. 52.

Aspects of the Sublime
pose is to give forcible expression to the almost indistin-
guishable identity of God and the Manifestation of His
Cause.
Personification
Personification, the device by which an inanimate object
or corporate entity, such as a place or group of people, is
invested with a human character, is another striking
feature of the text. For example:
Consort with all religions with amity and
concord ... 86
The device is especially powerful in some of the prophetic
passages of the Kitab-i-Aqdas, as for example:
... We hear the lamentations of Berlin ... 87
and in reference to the land of Ta, present-day Tihran:
Let nothing grieve thee, 0 Land of Ta ... Rejoice
with great joy, for God hath made thee "the
Dayspring of His light" ... 88
The feature naturally occurs often in conjunction with
apostrophe, which was considered briefly in the foregoing.
KEYWORDS
One of Baha'u'llah's Tablets contains a particularly strik-
ing reference to the symbolic language of the Kitab-i-Aqdas:
Blessed the palate that savoureth its sweetness,
and the perceiving eye that recognizeth that
which is treasured therein, and the understand-
86 Ibid., K144, p. 72.
87 Ibid., K90, p. 53.
88 Ibid., K91-2, pp. 53-4.

The Style of the Kitab-i-Aqdas
ing heart that comprehendeth its allusions and
mysteries. By God! Such is the majesty of what
hath been revealed therein, and so tremendous
the revelation of its veiled allusions that the
loins of utterance shake when attempting their
description. 89
Among the important symbols and keywords running
through the Kitab-i-Aqdas is that used in the very desig-
nation of the work, Kitab-i-Aqdas, to denote its literary
form, viz. kitab, the Arabic word for 'book'. Although
indisputably
the word 'book' provides the standard
English rendering of kitab, it is equally the case that kitab
has various resonances and layers of meaning absent
from its stock English equivalent. The word originates
from the root kataba which, as most Arabic lexicographers
agree, means 'to assemble' or 'to put together a number of
elements in order to express clear and complete meaning'.
In addition to kitab, a host of other words derive from
kataba. When its constituent letters are reversed in order,
kataba becomes bataka, which means 'to cut' or 'to cut off',
as in the threat recorded of Satan in the Qur'an, that he
would mislead mankind and order them to cut off the ears
of their cattle:
... they will cut off the ears of cattle ... 90
Kuttab, on the other hand, is a place where young
students or pupils come together, while katfbah is a battal-
ion or division of soldiers; both words denote types of
gathering or grouping, the former with a peaceable, the
latter with a warlike purpose. Maktab, further, is an educa-
tional foundation, a place where, in the broadest sense,
89 A Synopsis and Codification of the Kitab-i-Aqdas,
(Haifa: Baha'i World
Centre, 1973), p. 3.
90 Qur'an, IV:119.

Aspects of the Sublime
associations and connections are established between the
elements of knowledge and of the world at large. This
expansive sense of maktab is elevated to a truly cosmic
level in a passage occurring towards the end of the Kitab-
i-Aqdas where mention is made of the "School of God,"
or, more fully, the "School of Transcendent Oneness,"
which, as Baha'u'llah
affirms, He entered "ere [God]
created heaven and earth" and "before the letters Band E
were joined and knit together."
We, indeed, set foot within the School of inner
meaning and explanation when all created
things were unaware...
We, verily, set foot
within the School of God when ye lay slumber-
.
mg ...
Having graduated from this primordial and cosmic
seminary, Baha'u'llah was of course in no need of the
formal schooling offered by any earthly academy; indeed,
as He states in an earlier passage of the Kitab-i-Aqdas:
We have not entered any school, nor read any of
your dissertations. Incline your ears to the
words of this unlettered One, wherewith He
summoneth you unto God, the Ever-Abiding. 92
Here there is another echo from the Qur'an, for the term
used by Baha'u'llah, in describing Himself as "this unlet-
tered One," is precisely that used by Mul:tammad in
describing Himself as the "unlettered Prophet." Clearly,
however, it is in only a very limited sense that either of
them was 'unlettered',
and the expression may thus be
accounted for on the grounds that the learning evinced by
both Mul:tammad and Baha'u'llah was Divine in origin
and not to be gauged by human standards. When one of
91 Kitab-i-Aqdas, K175-7, p. 83.
92 Ibid., K104. p. 57.

The Style of the Kitab-i-Aqdas
His Arabic Tablets was impugned by a critic objecting to
the particular use Baha'u'llah had therein assigned to the
word qina' (veil), Baha'u'llah composed in reply an exten-
sive disquisition on the use of this word in Arabic, demon-
strating an astonishing command of the language and a
dazzling erudition in its literature. The Lawh-i-Qina '{Tablet
of the Veil), which is the name of the Tablet in which this
disquisition occurs, constitutes in its entirety an abiding
testimony to the prodigious innate knowledge possessed
by Baha'u'llah despite His lack of formal schooling.
All these words, then-maktab,
bataka, kuttab, katib,
and kataba-are direct cognates of kitab, and as such add
to its meaning extra resonances and echoes in a cumula-
tive manner which cannot be either paralleled or imitated
in the English language. Such is the versatility and almost
universal quality of the word kitab in Arabic that practi-
cally every activity of a human being can in some manner
be subsumed
under the heading
'book': hence, for
example, it is perfectly in order to speak of 'the book of
walking', 'the book of sleeping', 'the book of marriage',
and so forth. The various categories of religious obser-
vances, pursuits, and interests may likewise each be
characterized generically as a book: 'the book of prayers',
'the book of pilgrimage', 'the book of creation', of 'life', of
'death', of 'victory', of 'defeat', of 'animals', of 'agricul-
ture', and so on. Length or size is also immaterial in
judging whether something qualifies for the designation
'book': a weighty tome, a flimsy fascicle, a single broad-
sheet-all
these may aptly and correctly be described in
Arabic as kitab, or 'book'. Accordingly it is applied equally
in Baha'i terminology to lengthy works such as the
Kitab-i-Badi' (The Wondrous Book) or the Kitab-i-lqan
(The Book of Certitude), and to very short ones such as the
Kitab-i-'Ahd (The Book of the Covenant).

Aspects of the Sublime
Interestingly,
the grammatically
definite form of
kitab-al-kitab-is much more nearly rendered by its gram-
matically definite English equivalent-'the
Book'-than
is the grammatically indefinite kitab by grammatically
indefinite 'book', for now a clear sense of Divine or Holy
Writ enters into the word in both languages. Thus, almost
at its outset the Qur'an describes itself as the 'Divine Writ'
or 'the Book' par excellence.93
Yet more portentous
and far-reaching
than the
concept of 'the Book' is that of the 'Mother Book', a
Qur'anic concept which is again taken up and amplified
in the Kitab-i-Aqdas in the following words:
This, verily, is the heaven in which the Mother
Book is treasured ... 94
The term 'Mother Book' generally signifies the central
book of a religious Dispensation, as for example the
Qur'an for Muslims, the Bayan for Babis, and the Kitab-i-
Aqdas for Baha'is. According to Shoghi Effendi, it is also
a "collective term indicating the body of the Teachings
revealed by Baha'u'llah." In a looser sense, 'Mother Book'
is also the Divine Repository of Revelation. 95
In line with this latter sense, one of the most signifi-
cant uses of the word kitab in the Kitab-i-Aqdas is as a
designation of the Manifestation of God Himself. The
'Book' in the Qur'an is the Divine Message revealed
through the Prophet Mu]:,.ammad; but in the Kitab-i-
Aqdas, following the Bayan, it has become Baha'u'llah
Himself, Who, in contrast to the 'Silent Book' of Revela-
tion, is characterized as 'the Living Book':
93 Qur'an, 11:2.
94 Kitab-i-Aqdas, K103, p. 57.
95 Ibid., n129, pp. 220-1.

The Style of the Kitab-i-Aqdas
Take heed lest ye be prevented by aught that
hath been recorded in the Book from hearken-
ing unto this, the Living Book ... 96
... neither the Scriptures of the world, nor all the
books and writings in existence, shall, in this
Day, avail you aught without this, the Living
Book, Who proclaimeth in the midmost heart of
creation: "Verily, there is none other God but
Me, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise." 97
Corollary to the concept of the 'Book' is that of the
Logos: kalimah in Arabic, the 'Word' in English-that
same
mystic Word made familiar to the English-speaking
world by a particularly striking and majestic passage of
the King James Bible:
In the beginning was the Word, and the Word
was with God, and the Word was God.98
The Word is in a sense the epitome, the supreme and
quintessential symbol, of the message promulgated by
each Manifestation of God. It signifies at once His teach-
ings, His authority, and His creative power to revitalize
and make all things new:
Arise to further My: Cause, and to exalt My
Word amongst men. 99
Your spirits would be so transported by His
Word as to throw into commotion the Greater
World-how
much more this small and petty
one!100
96 Ibid., Kl34, p. 67.
97 Ibid., K168, p. 81.
98 John, 1:1.
99 Kitab-i-Aqdas, 1<38, pp. 32-3.
lOO Ibid., KSS, p. 39.

Aspects of the Sublime
Another keyword, appearing in the very opening
words of the Kitab-i-Aqdas, is Ijakim, the 'Supreme
Ruler'. It can also mean 'judge' or 'one who decrees laws
or ordinances'. Ijukm, a word expressing both the quality
and function of a Ijakim, and also a particular 'ordinance',
'decree' or 'judgement' such as a Ijakim would be entitled
to pass, is applied in a general sense in the Qur'an to the
book as a whole:
Thus, then, have We bestowed from on high
this [divine writ] as an ordinance in the Arabic
tongue.101
But it might be applied with equal propriety to the
Kitab-i-Aqdas, replete as it is with particular instances of
IJukm in the more restricted sense provided above. "Thus
hath the sun of Our commandment [l:iukm] shone forth
above the horizon of Our utterance," Baha'u'llah states at
one point in the Kitab-i-Aqdas, "Blessed, then, be those
who do Our bidding." 102
Another very important Arabic word related to Ijakim
is IJikmah which, although customarily rendered into
English simply as 'wisdom', retains many elements of its
cognate IJukm, described above, as it signifies primarily
'what prevents or restrains from ignorant behaviour', and
has thus come to denote a form of practical wisdom in
which perfect understanding is given tangible expression
through nobility of conduct and excellence of deed. Further,
l:iikmah may even signify that perfect blend of 'knowledge
and the doing of good things' exemplified by the 'gift of
prophecy' or the 'prophetic office', and it is in this sense
that the word occurs in the following Qur'anic passage:
101 Qur'an, XIII:37. See also VII:87 and X:109.
102 Kitab-i-Aqdas, K108, P· 59.

The Style of the Kitab-i-Aqdas
And [He] will impart unto thy son revelation,
and wisdom, and the Torah, and the Gospel
Again and again throughout His Writings, Baha'u'llah
impresses upon His followers the importance of evincing
this quality of practical wisdom, often using it in such a
sense as to make it virtually equivalent to the English
'prudence' or 'caution'. The peoples of the world are still
largely immature, Baha'u'llah advises us, and if we are to
demonstrate the wisdom He enjoins upon us, we must
offer the new healing Message humbly and lovingly,
tempered
and rendered
palatable with the milk of
mildness, moderation, clemency and compassion.
Some of these senses of 'wisdom' are suggested in the
following extract from Baha'u'llah's Tablet of Wisdom:
The beginning
of Wisdom and the origin
thereof is to acknowledge whatsoever God hath
clearly set forth ... 104
•
and also in the following excerpt from His Words of Wisdom:
The essence of wisdom is the fear of God, the
dread of His scourge and punishment, and the
apprehension of His justice and decree. 105
By its own testimony, the Kitab-i-Aqdas constitutes a
repository and embodiment of Divine Wisdom, and the
intimate connection of such 'wisdom' with the concept of
the 'Law', or ]:zukm, is illustrated by its assertion that "We
school you with the rod of wisdom and laws ... 11106
103 Qur'an, III:48.
104 Writings oJBalui"u'llah,
A Compilation, (New Delhi: Baha'i Publishing
Trust, 1986), p. 246.
lOS Ibid., p. 248.
• l06 Kitab-i-Aqdas, K45, p. 36.

Aspects of the Sublime
A word with which b-ikmah is frequently coupled, and
which is associated with it in more than one passage of the
Kitab-i-Aqdas, is baytin, signifying 'the gift of intelligent
speech, power of expression, capacity to grasp the relation-
ships between things and explain them clearly'. Like
b-ikmah it is no less a quality of Divine Revelation than an
attribute which we are all called upon to acquire and
exemplify to the best of our abilities:
Thus hath it been decreed in this Tablet from
whose horizon hath shone the day-star of
wisdom and utterance. 107
Assist ye the Lord of all creation with works of
righteousness, and also through wisdom and
utterance. 108
Where is he to be found that dareth to claim to
be My equal in utterance or wisdom?109
The incalculable potency of human utterance for good
and redemption is emphasized in a particularly striking
analogy set forth in the latter portion of the Kitab-i-Aqdas,
according to which the human tongue is accredited with
the same capacity metaphorically to 'build up'-that
is, to
revive and rehabilitate-the
human heart as that possessed
by the human hand in rearing physical structures:
In truth, the hearts of men are edified through
the power of the tongue, even as houses and
cities are built up by the hand and other
means.110
107 Ibid., K33, p. 30.
108 Ibid., K73, p. 45.
l09 Ibid., KlOl, pp. 56-7.
no Ibid., K160, p. 77.

The Style of the Kitab-i-Aqdas
Closely affiliated to the word bayan is its near cognate
tibyan. Although some doubt exists as to the precise distinc-
tion in sense between these twin forms, it has been
suggested that the former denotes 'perspicuity of mean-
ing', the latter 'clarity of exposition'. Both words feature
in the Kitab-i-Aqdas, though not in such a way as to
contrast the one with the other, or to indicate the precise
respects in which they differ in meaning from each other.
That Baha'u'llah was nevertheless using them with exact-
ness and precision is surely indicated by a statement
made by Him in the Suriy-i-Haykal, in which, by drawing
a direct comparison between tibyan and bayan, He signi-
fied His full awareness of the nice semantic distinction
between the two words:
Rally ye to the Cause of your Compassionate
Lord. For the blade of the sword of elucidation
[tibyan] is sharper
than that of utterance
[bayan], and much more elevated, if ye but
ponder the Words of My Lord. 111
Another metaphor used extensively by Baha'u'llah
throughout His Writings, and of particular significance in
the Kitab-i-Aqdas, is that of water. In a peculiarly senten-
tious and evocative statement, Baha'u'llah reminds us that:
Ye are all created out of water, and unto dust
shall ye return. 112
Inevitably our minds turn to the familiar and hallowed
formula enunciated in the Bible: "All go unto one place;
all are of the dust, and all turn to dust again," 113 yet we
pause questioningly at the initial substitution of 'water' for
111 Quoted in Arabic inAthar-i-Qalam-i-A'la, op. cit., p. 16.
112 Kitab-i-Aqdas, K148, p. 73.
113 Ecclesiastes, III:20.

Aspects of the Sublime
'dust'. Our puzzlement is dispelled, however, when we
set the statement in its Qur'anic as well as its Biblical
context, for the Qur'an informs us in corroboration of the
Biblical tradition, not only that:
We have created [every one of] you out of
dust ...
but also that:
... We made out of water every living thing ... 114
A wonderful marriage is thus effected between two
contrasting religious traditions, and a synthesis attained
which constitutes at once a penetrating and poignant
memento mori, and a scientifically accurate epitome of the
generation and extinction of human life. Water images
generally-of
rain and showers, streams and rivers, but
above all of seas and oceans-form
an especially promi-
nent and suggestive motif running throughout the whole
corpus of Baha'u'llah's Works. The ocean also appears in
the Qur'an, but generally speaking, with one or two
exceptions, such as the following celebrated analogy, its
presence is a physical and a concrete one:
If all the sea were ink for my Sustainer's words,
the sea would indeed be exhausted ere my
Sustainer's words are exhausted! And [thus it
would be] if we were to add to it sea upon
sea.115
•
In the Baha'i Revelation, by contrast, and in the Kitab-
i-Aqdas in particular, the ocean has become a potent and
all-pervasive metaphor for the Revelation itself, as wit-
nessed by the following stirring and evocative extracts:
114 Qur'an, XXII:5 and XXI:30.
115 Ibid., XVIII:109.

The Style of the Kitab-i-Aqdas
Thus have the billows of the Ocean of Utterance
surged, casting forth the pearls of the laws
decreed by the Lord of all mankind. 116
Ponder ye this verse, and judge equitably
before God, that haply ye may glean the pearls
of mysteries from the ocean that surgeth in My
Name, the All-Glorious, the Most High. 117
Immerse yourselves in the ocean of My words,
that ye may unravel its secrets, and discover all
the pearls of wisdom that lie hid in its depths. 118
So deeply pervasive and powerful is this image of the
ocean throughout the Kitab-i-Aqdas that it is as if the very
language of the Book has assumed something of the
character of the ocean, paralleling its ebb and flow, its rise
and fall, its restless surging energy. Perhaps, in contem-
plating this analogy, we may go far in understanding why
the Kitab-i-Aqdas has assumed the form it has, in which
concrete legislative provisions intermingle with lofty,
abstract spiritual utterances; for if its legislative ordinanc-
es are to be considered as showers of pearls cast forth by
the Most Mighty Ocean, then it is only natural that after
each such discharge, the onrushing waters should have
time to recede, to recoup their forces, and once more to
rush forth laden with fresh treasures to cast forth over
mankind.
Another basic symbol of which only scant use is made
in the Qur'an,
but which is further developed by
Baha'u'llah in His Writings, is that of the 'Key' (miftaJ:,.). In
the Qur'an the keys of the knowledge of things unseen
were stated to be in the possession of God:
116 Kitab-i-Aqdas, 1<26, p. 28.
117 Ibid., K137, p. 68.
118 Ibid., K182, p. 85.

Aspects of the Sublime
For, with Him are the keys to the things that are
beyond the reach of a created being's percep-
tion ... 119
In the Kitab-i-Aqdas, however, we are provided with
the following remarkable intimation in a passage alluding
to a celebrated Islamic ljadfth. It identifies the purpose of
creation, stating that a metaphorical key-that
of God's
love-may
now be available to us, affording some faint
inkling of the ineffable mystery of the Hidden Treasure:
God hath made My hidden love the key to the
Treasure; would that ye might perceive it! But
for the key, the Treasure would to all eternity
have remained concealed; would that ye might
believe it! 120
Arguably, the image in Baha'u'llah's Writings which
most potently symbolizes His creative role as the Author
of a new religious canon is that of the Pen (qalam)-the
central instrument of revelation. The "Pen of the Most
High" 121 is the term by which the Source of Revelation,
whether in the Baha'i or preceding Dispensations, is
customarily designated in the Writings of Baha'u'llah,
and while it is clear that the term can, in a sense, refer to
none other than the Manifestation Himself, it is still
remarkable how frequently in the Writings of Baha 'u'llah
His Pen is assigned an individual personality of its own,
accredited with human emotions, and apostrophized,
exhorted, reproached, cajoled, and otherwise dealt with
as if it were an entirely independent and sentient being.
The Kitab-i-Aqdas itself contains more than one example
119 Qur'an, VI:59.
12° Kitab-i-Aqdas, KlS, p. 24.
121 Ibid., K2, p. 20; K16, p. 24; K24, p. 27; K86, p. 51; K136, p. 68; K142, p.
71 and K175, p. 83.

The Style of the Kitab-i-Aqdas
of this conception of a living, 'self-willed' pen, as in
Baha'u'llah's
statement
that "We .. .in Our wisdom,
withheld Our Pen," 122 or in His exhortation to the Pen of
the Most High to "Move Thou upon the Tablet at the
bidding of Thy Lord." 123 The enormous metaphorical
significance that would come, in the Baha 'f Dispensation,
to be invested in the image of the Pen, is only dimly
foreshadowed
in the Qur'an, notably in the following
passage, considered to embody the very first outpouring
of Revelation to the Prophet MuJ::,.ammad:
Read-for
thy Sustainer is the Most Bountiful
One who has taught [man] the use of the pen-
taught man what he did not know! 124
The importance of the image of the 'Pen' throughout the
Kitab-i-Aqdas may be gauged from the following assem-
blage of extracts in which it features:
Hear ye not the shrill voice of My Most Exalted
Pen?125
These are the ordinances of God that have been
set down in the Books and Tablets by His Most
Exalted Pen.126
Turn ye, 0 people, unto that which hath pro-
ceeded from My Most Exalted Pen. 127
Thus biddeth you the Lord of creation, the
movement of Whose Pen hath revolutionized
the soul of mankind. 128
122 Ibid., K98, p. 56.
123 Ibid., K175, p. 83.
124 Qur'an XCVI:3-5. See also LXVIIl:l, XXXl:27 and IIl:44.
125 Kitab-i-Aqdas K41, p. 34.
126 Ibid., Kl7, p. 25.
127 Ibid., K179, p. 85.
128 Ibid., K54, p. 39.

Aspects of the Sublime
Think ye that ye have recognized the Pen where-
with your Lord, the Lord of all names, comman-
deth you? 129
Thus, by His mercy, hath the commandment
been recorded by the Pen of justice. 130
The following is one of the most eloquently expressive
passages in the entire Book:
Blessed is the one who discovereth the fragrance
of inner meanings from the traces of this Pen
through whose movement the breezes of God
are wafted over the entire creation, and through
whose stillness the very essence of tranquillity
appeareth in the realm of being. 131
A singularly beautiful and captivating symbol of the
Manifestation found throughout the Writings of Baha'u'llah,
but for which there is no Qur'anic precedent, is that of the
songbird, variously represented as a dove and as a night-
ingale. The implication, of course, is that the words
uttered by the Manifestation have the same intoxicating,
soul-entrancing quality as do the ethereal accents of these
two songsters, so celebrated in Persian and Arabic poetry.
Following are some extracts from the Kitab-i-Aqdas in
which these images are employed:
Hearken ye ... unto that which the Dove is
warbling on the Branch of Eternity ... 132
When the Mystic Dove will have winged its
flight from its Sanctuary of Praise ... 133
129 Ibid., K55, p. 39.
130 Ibid., K72, p. 45.
131 Ibid., K158, p. 76.
132 Ibid., K88, p. 52.
133 Ibid., K174, p. 82.

The Style of the Kitab-i-Aqdas
Thus hath the Nightingale sung with sweet
melody upon the celestial bough, in praise of its
Lord, the All-Merciful.134
Equally intoxicating, but this time to the sense of taste,
figuratively speaking, is the 'Choice Wine' alluded to in
the Qur'an as the beverage of the righteous in Paradise,
but now for the first time unsealed and proffered to the
denizens of this mortal realm. Not only is it our senses of
taste and hearing that are ravished in this new Revelation,
however, for Baha 'u 'llah has also repeatedly enjoined upon
us to inhale the inebriating fragrances which have been
diffused by His Revelation and which are now wafting
abroad, and to gaze upon the sublimely beautiful specta-
cle of the Beloved arrayed in His new attire. 135 It is as if
all the choicest and most refined sensations the world has
to offer have here been marshalled and combined to
convey a sense of supernal and ineffable delight at the
blissful consummation of the advent of the Promised Day.
THE MYSTIC REALM
Part of the lyrical, rhapsodic, ethereally uplifting quality
of the Kitab-i-Aqdas surely resides in the tantalizing
glimpses it provides us into that realm of supreme felicity
beyond our ken, to which all our paltry actions on this
worldly plain are tending-a
realm so bright, so pure, so
sanctified, so radiant with love and joy, that if we could
but gain some glimpse of it we would surely yield up our
lives in longing to attain it. This supernal realm must
remain largely veiled from our mortal perceptions, but at
least the Kitab-i-Aqdas clearly intimates to us its exist-
134 Ibid., K139, p. 70.
135 Ibid., K4, p. 20; K7, pp. 21-2 and K136, pp. 67-8. See also K4, pp. 20-
1; K38, pp. 32-3; K116, p. 61; K137, p. 68 and K142, p. 71.

Aspects of the Sublime
ence, extending the promise that if we abide by its
prescriptions then we too may be able to taste of its felic-
ity. Indeed, the Kitab-i-Aqdas even offers us the promise
of a foretaste of this mystic realm-a
foretaste which is
afforded, significantly, by the Divine verses themselves,
in which those who recite them in the most melodious of
tones will perceive "that with which the sovereignty of
earth and heaven can never be compared." 136
The concept of a mystic realm inaccessible to human
understanding
is expressed in both the Qur'an and the
Kitab-i-Aqdas by the word g]iayb, which signifies in one
sense "all those sectors or phases of reality which lie
beyond the range of human perception and cannot, there-
fore, be proved or disproved by scientific observation or
even adequately comprised within the accepted catego-
ries of speculative thought." 137 The Qur'an informs us, as
already noted, that the keys to this hidden realm are in the
Hand of God, and the Kitab-i-Aqdas expands upon this by
telling us further that the source of God's knowledge of
things unseen is "a Tablet which the eye of creation hath not
seen, and which is revealed to none except His own Self." 138
In the Qur'an the concept of a heavenly Tablet is
limited to that of the 'Preserved Tablet' (al-Lawl:z
al-Mal:zfu?-)
in which is recorded the original of the Qur'an. In the Kitab-
i-Aqdas, however, reference is made to this same Qur'anic
'Preserved Tablet', which is at once the source of God's
knowledge of things unseen and the record wherein is
preserved an account of our actions on earth. The essen-
tially static Qur'anic concept is thus broadened and imbued
with a new dynamic quality, awakening us to the fact that
136 Ibid., K116, p. 61.
137 Asad, op. cit., n3, p. 4.
138 Kitab-i-Aqdas, K39, p. 33.

The Style of the Kitab-i-Aqdas
the purpose of the 'Preserved Tablet' is not to crystallize for
all time the text of the Qur'an in the precise form in which
it was revealed; and that whatever suggestion of perma-
nence or safeguarding is conveyed by the expression, is
perhaps to be attributed to the enduring nature of the
truths it enshrines, or else interpreted as referring to the
quality of the Divine Writ, which is eternal and incorrupt-
ible-hence
the reference in the Kitab-i-Aqdas to the
"changeless Faith of God. 11139
That the Qur'an is not the final and immutable expres-
sion of God's will for men is in fact intimated in that Book
itself by the veiled promise it contains that one day its
'elucidation' or 'interpretation' will come:
[And God will say] " ... for indeed, We did con-
vey unto them a divine writ which We clearly,
and wisely, spelled out-a
guidance and a
grace unto people who will believe."
Are [the unbelievers] but waiting for the final
meaning of that [Day of Judgment] to unfold?
[But] on the Day when its final meaning is
unfolded, those who aforetime had been obliv-
ious thereof will say: "Our Sustainer's apostles
have indeed told us the truth! Have we, then,
any intercessors who could intercede in our
behalf? Or could we be brought back [to life] so
that we might act otherwise than we were wont
to act?"
Indeed, they will have squandered their own
selves, and all their false imagery will have
forsaken them. 140
Needless to say, no such explanation as is promised here
was forthcoming from the Prophet Himself, from His
139 Ibid., K182, p. 85.
14D Qur'an, VII:52-3. See also LXXV:16-9.

Aspects of the Sublime
successors, or from subsequent generations of believers.
Clearly, since the Qur'an was in a certain sense a vehicle
conveying insights into that unseen realm whose keys are
held by God, it would be impossible for this promise ever
to be fulfilled by any mortal agency; and this promise,
therefore, can hardly be considered otherwise than as a
prophecy of a future Revelation vouchsafing yet clearer
insights into that same unseen realm as yet indistinctly
disclosed in the Qur'an. Further confirmation of the
progressive nature of Divine Revelation is provided by
the Qur'anic statement that:
Every age has had its revelation: God annuls or
confirms whatever He wills [of His earlier
messages]-for with Him is the source of all
revelation.141
Each age, then, is blessed with a Dispensation appro-
priate to its own particular exigencies, and each Revela-
tion constitutes at once an affirmation and a continuation
of that which it succeeds. As the Holy Book of the Dispen-
sation immediately preceding that inaugurated by the
Bab, it is not surprising that there should exist so close a
relationship between the Qur'an and the Kitab-i-Aqdas,
and that the wording of the latter should so frequently
reflect that of the former, although invariably investing it
with a fresh dimension of meaning. This process of elabo-
rating and expounding the meaning of an earlier scripture
is evident in other holy books too, for the Qur'an retells
stories from the Old and New Testaments, while Christ in
the Bible makes reference to the Ten Commandments given
to Moses and the whole corpus of Jewish Law. It is especially
notable that, in contrast to the Bible and the Qur'an, no use
is made in the Kitab-i-Aqdas of the parable for the exposition
141 Ibid., XIII:38-9.

The Style of the Kitab-f-Aqdas
of religious truth; rather, it communicates its message
directly through the pure medium of the Word itself.
The essential oneness of the Manifestations
of God
necessitated by this conception of the progressive unfold-
ing and cumulative exposition of religious truth is unequiv-
ocally affirmed in the following extract from one of the
Tablets of Baha'u'llah:
Beware, 0 believers in the Unity of God, lest ye
be tempted to make any distinction between
any of the Manifestations of His Cause, or to
discriminate against the signs that have accom-
panied and proclaimed their Revelation. This
indeed is the true meaning of Divine Unity, if ye
be of them that apprehend and believe this
truth. Be ye assured, moreover, that the works
and acts of each and every one of these Manifes-
tations of God, nay whatever pertaineth unto
them, and whatsoever they may manifest in the
future, are all ordained by God, and are a reflec-
tion of His Will and Purpose. 142
Here is the same thought expressed in a passage from the
Kitab-i-Iqan:
... behold them all as the bearers of one Name,
the exponents of one Cause, the manifestations
of one Self, and the revealers of one Truth ... 143
In conformity with this conception of the essential
oneness of the Manifestations of God, and of the progres-
sively developing and expanding nature of the message
They bring to mankind, Baha'u'llah advances no claim to
the finality of His own Revelation, and indeed, by His
assertion in the Kitab-i-Aqdas that, "Whoso layeth claim
to a Revelation direct from God, ere the expiration of a full
142 Gleanings from the Writings of Balui'u'llah, XXN, p. 59.
143 Kitab-i-lqan, p. 102.

Aspects of the Sublime
thousand years, such a man is assuredly a lying impos-
tor," 144 He positively forewarns us to anticipate the
coming of a new Revelation once the first millennium of
the Baha'i Era has expired.
Here, then, we are confronted by another aspect of the
omniscience of the Manifestation of God, for, according to
Baha'i belief, not only is He uniquely qualified to unravel
the mysteries of the preceding Revelation, but He is also
endowed with a preternatural ability to probe the future
and to discern the course of coming events; even as the
Bab had done with respect to the Revelation of "Him
Whom God shall make manifest" in prophesying, for
instance, that, "He is the One Who will under all condi-
tions proclaim: 'Verily, there is none other God besides
Me, the One, the Incomparable, the Omniscient, the All-
Informed' ,"145 a prophecy which receives literal fulfill-
ment in the Kitab-i-Aqdas.
This mysterious and unique capacity of the Manifes-
tation, both to elucidate the Message of His Precursors
and to presage the advent of His Successors in the
prophetic office, is of course fully in harmony with the
Baha'i conception of the Manifestations of God as one and
the same in spirit, but distinguished from each other in
respect of their physical appearance, of the circumstances
and exigencies of the age in which they live, and of the
comparative fullness and intensity of the message with
which they have been charged. It is this understanding
which lies at the very heart of the Baha'i belief in progres-
sive Revelation, that forever-renewing process of growth,
development and change. Each successive outpouring of
Divine guidance leads to a heightening of spiritual aware-
144 Kitab-i-Aqdas, 1<37, p. 32.
145 Ibid., K143, p. 71.

The Style of the Kitab-i-Aqdas
ness; the changeless essence is revealed to us in a multi-
tude of different forms, but behind and beyond them all
the reality of that essence remains inviolable, its continu-
ity reflected in the world of nature, the world of matter,
and the world of spirit.
The perspicuous and inimitable language of the Ki tab- i-
Aqdas moves us by its tender grandeur, its sublime compas-
sion, self-defining and dazzlingly universal; it combines the
power of the mysterious with that of the direct and the
specific. It has an ethereal atmosphere all its own, an
ineffable pervasive harmony, a majestic surging rhythm
reminiscent of its depth and power. A kind of inevitable
relation exists between its component parts, and its words
and phrases are redolent of thoughts that live and
breathe. Its language is productive of a host of feelings
and evokes a myriad of sensations. It addresses pre-
eminently the human heart, as befits that which is the throne
and emblem of the Divine in man. The Book in its entirety
constitutes a supreme outpouring of heavenly bounty, a
treasury of unfailing sustenance and guidance, and a token
of God's boundless mercy to mankind. Awesome and
exalted as are its themes and purposes, the passion and
sublimity of the language in which the Book is cast are
nevertheless fully capable of sustaining its lofty tenor-nay,
of enhancing those themes and purposes and setting them
off to their fullest advantage.
Notwithstanding that the foregoing remarks have concen-
trated on particular features and individual passages, the
Kitab-i-Aqdas must be taken as a whole. There can be no
partial analysis, fragmentation or dissection of the Word
that has infinite meaning, and that can never be compre-
hended by the finite mind. Indeed, no amount of analysis
or explanation is capable of probing the secret of this
miraculous creation.