THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1972-03-01

To all National Spiritual Assemblies

Dear Bahá’í Friends,

107.1 In these days when music and singing are playing such an important and effective part in the teaching work, we feel it appropriate and timely to share with you the enclosed compilation of extracts from the Writings of our Faith on the subject.

107.2 We leave it to your discretion to decide in which manner and to what extent to share the attached extracts with the friends and communities under your jurisdiction. With loving Bahá’í greetings,

THEUNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

108 Dedication of the Mother Temple of Latin America, Panama City, Panama

19 M ARCH  1972

To the Beloved of God gathered in the Conference called on the occasion of the Dedication of the Mother Temple of Latin America Dear Bahá’í Friends, 108.1 With praise and gratitude to God the whole Bahá’í world acclaims the dedication of the Mother Temple of Latin America, an edifice which glorifies the Cause of Bahá’u’lláh at that point where, the beloved Master asserted, “the Occident and the Orient find each other united through the Panama Canal,” where “The teachings, once established ..., will unite the East and the West, the North and the South.”

108.2 This historic project, in a hemisphere of infinite spiritual potentiality, fulfils one of the most important goals of the Nine Year Plan, and brings untold joy to the hearts of the friends in every land.  Privileged are they who share in the raising of this glorious Silent Teacher with deeds of loving generosity and sacrifice.  A crown to the labors of all those who have striven to establish the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh in Latin America, this Mashriqu’l-Adhkár, the rallying point for the Bahá’ís of those lands, whether they are of the blessed Indian peoples or represent the other races whose diversity enriches the nations of that hemisphere, will be a fountainhead of spiritual confirmations, and this mighty achievement will endow the Bahá’í Community with new and greater capacities, enabling the friends in Latin America, and particularly in this privileged land of Panama, to win victories that will eclipse all their past achievements.

162108.3 The threefold task to which your attention is now directed comprises the proclamation, expansion and consolidation of the Faith.  We urge you to concentrate your deliberations not only on the exchange of ideas for the prosecution of this task, but on ways and means for fostering collaboration among the Bahá’í Communities of Central and South America so that the most fruitful harvest may be gathered in all three aspects of the teaching work and enable you to achieve your remaining goals of the Nine Year Plan.

108.4  Our loving, ardent prayers will be offered at the Sacred Threshold, that the Almighty may inspire your discussions in this historic Conference and crown all your efforts with victory. THEUNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

109 Release of a Compilation on Bahá’í Schools and Institutes

10 A PRIL  1972

To all National Spiritual Assemblies Dear Bahá’í Friends, 109.1 In view of the increasing importance of Bahá’í summer schools, a number of excerpts from the writings of the beloved Guardian have been compiled which set forth objectives to be attained by and principles underlying the operation of this institution.  Many of these objectives and principles apply to Teaching Institutes, and a section of quotations from the Universal House of Justice on these Institutes is included.

109.2  We share these extracts with the friends in the hope that they will be assisted and guided in the development of these vital institutions of the Faith.

With loving Bahá’í greetings,

THEUNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

110 Riḍván Message 1972

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]