THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1999-02-25

To all National Spiritual Assembliesdear b aháí f

The year 2000 will conclude the hundred years that ‘Abdu’l-b ahá de-

scribed as “the century of light.” his perspective on the twentieth century

offers bahá’ís and bahá’í communities an opportunity to participate mean-

ingfully in many of the activities and discussions expected to take place

around the world over the coming two years.

asked the bahá’í international community’s office of public information

to prepare the enclosed document, “ who is writing the future?” As you

will see, it both examines the events of the twentieth century in the light

of bahá’u’lláh’s Teachings, and relates these developments to the challenges

facing humanity at century’s end. its purpose is to serve as a source of ideas,

perspectives, images, and language that will stimulate a wide range of cre-ative responses among b ahá’ís.291.4

291.5

292.1

292.2

1996–2000  •  T h e  f o u r  Ye a r  Pl a n

657The sponsorship of millennial activities will, of course, be the concern

of non-b ahá’í groups, but the house of justice believes that such activities

can be seen by bahá’ís and the bahá’í communities as creating occasions

whose effectiveness can be enhanced by bahá’í contributions. given the

great diversity of our community’s resources, National Spiritual Assemblies

will want to ensure that ample latitude is given for a wide range of responses

by individual believers and groups. Artists, writers, musicians and drama-

tists will no doubt find the enclosed document highly stimulating and will readily identify ways in which its themes can be introduced into activities organized by government agencies and various private bodies. it is likely that

programs of scholarly associations will also present a range of opportunities for qualified believers to draw attention to bahá’í perspectives on the cur-

rent world situation. your Assembly may wish to address special messages

to groups in your own country, adapting elements of the document’s theme to this purpose.

in order that such efforts enjoy broad support within the bahá’í com-

munity, it will be important for the friends to understand the message being

communicated. consequently, consideration should be given to ways of

incorporating the material in the enclosed document into bahá’í summer

school programs and local study activities.

As you will note, “ who is writing the future?” has been cast in the form

of a message addressed to non-b ahá’í readers. This has been done primarily

in order to make the material most readily useful to bahá’ís participating in

the various events marking the beginning of the new millennium. Should your Assembly feel, however, that the document would also be useful as a

booklet or brochure, there is no objection to your publishing it. in that case,

although the design is left to your discretion, the text should be used in its present form, without editing, commentary, or supplementary material.

whatever their various forms of belief, our fellow human beings are

looking to the immediate future with mingled feelings of tentative hope and deep anxiety. This circumstance offers bahá’ís a unique opportunity to

share with them the Teachings that give meaning to this critical moment in

human history.

with loving b ahá’í greetings,

for Department  of tHe secretariat292.3

292.4

292.5

292.6

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

658293

Appointment of Continental Counselor for Australasia

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]