The

Prisoner

and

the Kings

OTHER WORKS BY WILLIAM SEARS

Books

Release the Sun

God Loves Laughter

Thief in the Night

The Wine of Astonishment

The Flame (with Robert Quigley)

A Cry From the Heart

All Flags Flying

Prince of Peace

Run to Glory

Tokoloshe

In Grandfather Barn

Reminiscences I

The Half-Inch Prophecy

Reminiscences II

Plays

The Black Harvest

Dad Cashes In

The Undoing of Albert O’Donnell

The Turning of the Worm

Teleplays

Dilemma in Donegal (with Robert Quigley)

Kid Gloves

In the Park (with Paul Ritts)

The

Prisoner

and the Kings

How One Man

Changed the Course of History

by

William Sears

Bahá’í

PUBLISHING

Wilmette, Illinois

Copyright © 2007 by the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the

United States.  All rights reserved.

The first edition of The Prisoner and the Kings was issued in 1971 by General

Publishing Company Limited, Toronto.  The revised second edition was

published in 2007 by Bahá’í Publishing, 415 Linden Avenue, Wilmette, Illinois

60091-2844.

Printed in the United States of America on acid-free paper ∞

10 09 08 07	4 3 2 1

ISBN 10:  1-931847-41-X

ISBN 13:  978-1-931847-41-4

Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data

Sears, William.

The prisoner and the kings:  how one man changed the course of history

/ by William Sears.—Rev. 2nd ed.

p. cm.

Includes bibliographical references (p. ) and index.

ISBN-13:  978-1-931847-41-4 (alk. paper)

ISBN-10:  1-931847-41-X (alk. paper)

1.  Baha’u’llah, 1817–1892.  2.  Prophecies.  I.  Title.

BP392.S35 2007

297.9’3092—dc22

2006051749

Cover and book design by Suni D. Hannan

Contents

Preface to the First Edition	vii

Preface to the Second Edition	ix

Prologue	xi

1  The Assassins	5

2  The Prisoner	11

3  The First Kingdom Falls	31

4  The Second Kingdom Falls	47

5  The Third Kingdom Falls	63

6  The Fourth Kingdom Falls	75

7  A Kingdom Stands	87

8  The Exile	95

9  The Fifth Kingdom Falls	105

10  ‘Akká	115

11  The Sixth Kingdom Falls	141

12  The Prison Opens	155

13  Falling Kingdoms Everywhere	169

14  And All The King’s Men	179

15  The Heart of the World Afire	203

Appendix	215

Notes	237

Bibliography	247

Index	251

[Blank page]

Preface to the First Edition

I have no doubt that someday soon talented and trained his-

torians will record everything associated with the unique story

told in these pages.  The present author is not a historian.  He

makes no pretense of having set down a detailed or definitive

historical picture of this turbulent period.

Yet, so powerful was the impact of these events upon me

when I first encountered them that I felt impelled to share as

much as lay within my power, however inadequate the attempt.

I have outlined only a few of the more arresting themes run-

ning through the whole remarkable drama.

Future historians will properly evaluate these events, and

will undoubtedly recognize in this story some of the chief

motivations for many of the revolutionary changes that have

taken place in the world since the middle of the nineteenth

century.

William Sears

“Cherokee Smoke”

Palm Springs, California

November 12, 1969

[Blank page]

Preface to the Second Edition

The Prisoner and the Kings offers a compelling look at the col-

lapse of kingdoms and empires by juxtaposing commonly

known history against the lesser-known story of the life of

Bahá’u’lláh and His addresses to those kings and rulers that

warned of their undoing.  Bahá’u’lláh, the Prophet-Founder

of the Bahá’í Faith, was a prisoner of the Ottoman Empire for

most of His life.  His bold pronouncements to the leaders of

some of the world’s mightiest nations might be surprising con-

sidering his status as a prisoner, but there is no doubt that the

fates of these rulers followed the course that Bahá’u’lláh pre-

dicted for them.

The author, William Sears, was renowned during his life as

a storyteller, and this book is written in his distinct, informal

style.  He did not intend it as a scholarly investigation of his-

tory, but rather as a brief and exciting glimpse into the dra-

matic parallels between the fate of monarchs and that of one

whose life and teachings would come to change the world.

As Mr. Sears explained, future “trained historians” will shed

more light on the events related in this book, but it was his

excitement and enthusiasm for this epic story that compelled

him.  In composing this narrative, he drew on a variety of his-

torical sources, including primary texts and Bahá’u’lláh’s own

writings.  Endnotes are included for many of the references,

though in some cases Mr. Sears included quotations ascribed

to individuals that are meant to represent an impression of

their thoughts and sayings, but are not direct quotes.

Thirty-five years after its initial publication in 1971, the story

of The Prisoner and the Kings remains engaging and relevant.  In

preparation for this new edition, the book has undergone some

additional editing, and chapter 15 has been updated to reflect

changes and growth in the Bahá’í community.

Of particular interest is the fact that many of the transla-

tions of Bahá’u’lláh’s writings that are included in this book

were available only as extracts at the time of the book’s initial

publication.  However, the recently published compilation The

Summons of the Lord of Hosts contains not only full transla-

tions of Bahá’u’lláh’s direct addresses to rulers such as Napo-

leon III and Pope Pius IX, but also the Súriy-i-Mulúk (Tablet

to the Kings), which deals with Bahá’u’lláh’s teachings on the

necessities of kingship and the requirements of Just rule.  The

Prisoner and the Kings serves as a complement to those original

texts, and certainly anyone interested in the history that this

book recounts will want to look to those writings, in addition

to the available historical accounts.

A short note on the system of transliteration of Persian and

Arabic names is also due, since the system used in this book

differs from some others in its use of accents (“á” and “í”)

instead of overline (“ā” and “ī”), along with a few other differ-

ences.  The names of individuals and some locations were trans-

literated following this style, for example “Tihrán” and

“Násiri’ir’d-Dín Sháh” are used in place of the perhaps more

familiar “Tehran” and “Nasiruddin Shah”

Mr. Sears’s widow, Marguerite Reimer Sears, oversaw the

preparation of this new edition, but sadly passed away shortly

before work completed.  She wished to express her gratitude to

those who assisted her:  Enayat Rohani for arranging the scan

of the original book so it could be revised; Bill Barnes and

Shirley Macias, who offered additional editing and revision;

and Lorana Kerfoot, who proofread the revised book before it

was passed to Bahá’í Publishing for publication.

Prologue

The Prisoner and the Kings tells the story of the greatest mys-

tery of modern times.  Between 1867 and 1873 a solitary pris-

oner in a Turkish penal colony wrote a series of letters to the

kings and emperors of the day that predicted with amazing

accuracy the course of modern history:  the fall of nations, the

overthrow of individual monarchs, the decline of religious in-

stitutions, the rise of world communism, the birth of the State

of Israel, and the threat of nuclear contamination.

The Prisoner was Bahá’u’lláh, one of the most remarkable

figures in this or any age.  What was the secret behind this

handful of amazing communications?  What was the source of

the Prisoner’s knowledge?  And what did the letters have to say

about us and our future?

[Blank page]

The

Prisoner

and the Kings

[Blank page]

1  The Assassins

[Blank page]

Panic in the streets!

The Assassins

The uniform of Kaiser William I was splendor itself.  His shin-

ing helmet glistened like a second sun as the royal carriage

rolled majestically along the tree-lined avenues of Berlin.

The king smiled to himself.  Where was there another mon-

arch to rival him?  He had humiliated France beyond his wild-

est dreams of vengeance.  He had become the first Prussian

king to rule the united German states as emperor.

Yes, there was reason to be pleased.

Suddenly the tranquil scene was shattered by the blast of a

gun!  A bullet plunged into the metal headgear of the kaiser,

who slumped back onto the seat of his carriage, dangerously

wounded.  Panic ran through the streets of Berlin.

“Assassin!  Assassin!”

William I would recover.  The shot that had nearly ended

his life, however, marked the opening of a series of disasters

that struck his fellow monarchs in both Europe and the Ori-

ent.  Most of the latter were not so fortunate as William.

Far away in Constantinople, a second king sat proudly on

his throne.  He, too, was both pleased with himself and totally

unaware of a strange web of death that was gathering about

the kings of the earth.

Sultán ‘Abdu’l-‘Azíz, ruler of the vast Ottoman Empire, had

surrounded himself with a protective network of spies.  They

reported everything that might arouse the slightest suspicion

of opposition to the crown.  The sultan’s enemies, however,

were equally thorough.

Suddenly and without warning, the palace corridors were

alive with hurrying feet:  “Revolution!”

Color drained from the king’s face.  ‘Abdu’l-‘Azíz’s cries for

help echoed, unanswered, along the corridors.  There was no

place to hide.

The leaders of the revolt laid violent hands on him and

imprisoned him within his own palace.  There the fate that

was pursuing the kings of the world overtook him.  Early one

morning, the “slayer” appeared.

With a thrill of horror word ran through the streets of

Constantinople:  “Assassin!”

A third king was marked for the same fate.

Alexander II Nicolaevitch, czar of Russia, was not pleased

with himself.  He lived in daily fear for his life.  Guards pa-

trolled outside his door.  Even they were suspect, and were

changed constantly.  Every dish of food was tasted first by ser-

vants.  The imperial bedchamber was searched each night be-

fore the czar would retire.

Stories of the king’s obsession with fear circulated among

his subjects.  Alexander tried to disprove such damaging ru-

mors by riding openly through the streets.  In his heart, though,

he dreaded these journeys and was constantly on the alert,

watching for the unseen enemy.

The inevitable day came.  There was a threatening movement

in the crowd, and suddenly a bomb exploded in the path of the

royal carriage.  Guards seized the suspected assassin, and

Alexander dismounted from his carriage to interview the pris-

oner.  Before he could protect himself, the assassin’s accom-

plice threw a second bomb, which exploded at the czar’s feet.  The

crowd, appalled, fled in panic.  Mortally wounded, Alexander II

was carried back to his palace.

Before the afternoon was out, the whisper ran from one

end of St. Petersburg to the other:  “Assassin!”

A fourth king, on another continent, was caught up in the

same whirlwind.  Násiri’d-Dín Sháh, king of Persia, went bliss-

fully on his way to offer prayers on the eve of his great Jubilee

Festival.  The shah* had carefully planned each step of this

great celebration.  It was to glorify his name and would be his

eternal monument in history.

Suddenly, without warning, while the king was at prayers, a

pistol shot echoed through the sacred shrine where the king

prayed.  Násiri’d-Dín Sháh fell to the floor.  The chanting hushed.

The royal tragedy of Berlin, St. Petersburg, and Constantinople

had been reenacted in Tihrán.  Another king lay dead.

Cries of panic rang out among the royal party.  Courtiers

ran to and fro, not knowing what to do.  The prime minister,

who had accompanied the shah, was devastated by the unex-

pected turn of events.

The news must be concealed, at least until after the Festi-

val,” he ordered.  “No one must know!”

The shah’s body was carried secretly back to his carriage.

The grand vizir climbed in behind the king, supporting the

dead weight.  He held the shah’s body erect.  Frozen in the si-

lence of death, indifferent to the revelry around him, the king

of all the Persians was driven back to his palace on the eve of

his great Jubilee.

*  Persian term for king.

Bonfires lighted the night skies.  Banners waved everywhere.

Trumpets flourished, cymbals crashed, the crowd cheered; all

proclaimed the might and majesty of Násiri’d-Dín Sháh, who

had described himself as the “king of kings”  Gay festive band

music blared out noisily as the carriage rolled on noiseless

wheels through the streets.

Once within the palace gates, the shah’s terror-stricken min-

isters passed along the dread words:  ‘Assassin! Assassin!”

2  THE PRISONER

[Blank page]

Summon … the nations unto God.

The Prisoner

What fate bound together the tragic kings of Germany, Rus-

sia, Turkey, and Persia?  Why had violence struck them down

in almost the same hour?

Their story is one of the great dramas of our generation.

Why haven’t we heard more about it?  These were not mythi-

cal kings.  Their overthrow and destruction was not part of a

historical novel.  It was not a suspense story taken from the

pages of popular fiction.

These were ruling monachs.  They, and later their thrones,

were swept away in a titanic upheaval that engulfed and

swamped no less than twenty kingdoms in half a century.  In-

deed, the fate that overtook them has since seemed to pursue

their elected successors in the republics that took the place of

their fallen thrones.

The link binding together the four kings and their associ-

ates was a Prisoner, a solitary condemned figure in a cell in a

Turkish fortress on the coast of Palestine.  It would have been

hard to find a candidate less likely to challenge the rulers of

the world, or anyone more helpless, than the Prisoner Who

arose to challenge them all.

Two of these same kings had already brutally persecuted

and humiliated Him.  Although determined to silence Him,

they had been totally unsuccessful.  Attempts to kill Him de-

veloped into almost a comedy of errors.  Every stroke the kings

devised to eliminate the Prisoner seems, in retrospect, to have

raised Him and lowered themselves.  Gradually, it was they

who became prisoners and He who became, as one British

historian has said, “The object of a love that kings might envy

and emperors sigh for in vain.”1

There has never been a story like it.  The Prisoner was stoned

three times.  He was scourged until His skin was broken and the

blood flowed from His body.  He was weighted down with chains;

a one-hundred-pound iron yoke lacerated His shoulders and

scarred Him for life.  His feet were locked in stocks.  He was

chained to His companions and to the floor of His prison.  He

was poisoned three times.  The edicts of kings stripped Him of

His wealth and position.  He was torn away from his relatives

and friends and banished from His native land forever.  On four

separate occasions He was exiled, each exile more cruel than the

previous one.  At last the kings banished the Prisoner to the most

dreaded penal colony in the Near East, a place in which they

felt certain He would perish.  The final imprisonment locked

Him up in a fortress surrounded by moats and battlements.  He

was encircled by enemies in an inhospitable climate, an area

rampant with disease.

The kings were confident that the Prisoner would die and

be heard of no more.  That should have been the end of the

story.

In fact, it was only the beginning.  In the midst of death

and suffering, the Prisoner foretold the coming collapse of the

dynasties of each one of these kings.  He described the inevi-

table extinction of their empires.  His prophecies had a preci-

sion that was frightening.  One solitary condemned exile, writ-

ing from prison in the historic “Holy Land” warned the kings

of coming doom.  One mysterious figure reached out His hand

into both Europe and Asia and “shook the kingdoms” until

the structure trembled and fell.

Yet, in spite of all that He had suffered at the hands of

these rulers, the Prisoner offered to help them prevent the

coming calamity.  Had the rulers heeded His words, they could

have avoided their fate.  Instead, a flock of monarchs has van-

ished, one by one, from the contemporary scene.

Who was the Prisoner?  And what did a condemned exile

have to do with four of the mightiest monarchs of his day?

The Prisoner declared that He had everything to do with both

kings and governments.  He told them plainly that His mis-

sion in life was to awaken the rulers of the earth to their social

and spiritual responsibilities in a new age.  The Prisoner said

He was an instrument sent to protect the rights of the down-

trodden and underprivileged.  He challenged the kings in these

words:  “If ye stay not the hand of the oppressor, if ye fail to

safeguard the rights of the downtrodden, what right have ye

then to vaunt yourselves among men?”2

The Prisoner called upon the kings and leaders of men to

unite in an energetic, worldwide effort so that the peoples of

the earth might attain social justice and peace:  “Arise thou

amongst men in the name of this all-compelling Cause, and

summon, then, the nations unto God.”3

Why should any king pay attention to such ravings?  Who

would believe a madman who announced publicly the col-

lapse of the world’s greatest kingdoms?  If He couldn’t even

save Himself from prison, how would He be able to control

the destinies of kings?

Yet that is precisely what He did.

Kings were shut up in prison and the Prisoner was released.

Monarchies were overthrown and vanished while the Prisoner’s

ideals have permeated the thinking of all humankind.  It hap-

pened exactly as foretold in the letters from the prison cell in

Palestine, and it happened with frightening precision, step-

by-step, until each despot was dethroned, each king was shorn

of his power, and the dynasty of each monarch was forever

extinguished!

It is one of the most remarkable stories of our times.

Give me a chance to

fling my stone in His face!

The Drama of the Báb

The story begins in Persia, in 1844.  Despite the country’s long

history of cultural achievement, Persia in the nineteenth cen-

tury was a land of almost unequaled corruption and deca-

dence.  The shah was a despot, his government conducted by

an equal mixture of graft, flattery, and brutality.  Day-to-day

control of affairs was in the hands of venal politicians and

fanatical clergymen.

Suddenly, at this lowest ebb in the country’s history, a spiri-

tual revolution broke out.  No other nation in modern history

has experienced anything like the nine years that followed.  A

radiant young man called the Báb (Arabic for “door” or “gate”)

arose to declare that the “Day of God” had dawned.

All over Persia, tens of thousands of people flocked to the

new cause.  The most ardent of them were students from the

colleges and seminaries.  For a moment in history, it looked as

though the entire nation would accept the Báb’s teachings of

social justice and spiritual regeneration.

The clergy and the courtiers prevented this from happen-

ing.  Realizing that their own privileges were endangered, they

persuaded the shah that the Báb was a threat to the state.  Al-

though the Báb had shown every respect for civil authority,

the shah chose the side of his advisers and launched a cam-

paign of terror.  Thousands of the Báb’s followers were hounded

throughout the country, betrayed, tortured, and massacred.

Finally, on July 9, 1850, the Báb was executed.

One of the Báb’s leading supporters was a young nobleman

Who took the title “Bahá’u’lláh” (Arabic for “glory of God”).

Because of the prominence of His family and the respect that

His own life had won Him at the Persian court, Bahá’u’lláh

was not killed in the general massacres.  His leadership of the

persecuted “Bábís” (as the Báb’s followers were called), how-

ever, made Him a marked man.

Highly placed opponents of the Báb appeared determined

to put Bahá’u’lláh to death.  He was widely admired, however,

and there was no believable pretext on which so prominent a

personality could be condemned.

The needed pretext came in 1853, when two ignorant youths

fired a shot at the king as he emerged on horseback from his

palace.  Immediately the responsibility was placed on all the

followers of the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh.  Implacable hostility swept

the nation.  All attempts to inquire into what had really hap-

pened were cast aside.

The shah, his ministers, the clergy, and the people united

in relentless hate, delighted to have at last an excuse for anni-

hilating the One Whom they had come to fear as a danger to

the state.

Many who were merely thought to be friendly or sympa-

thetic to the new faith were arrested and slain, unless they

were wealthy and could fill the coffers of their persecutors.  In

Bahá’u’lláh’s case, the authorities knew that the sentence of death

and His execution must be done with cunning.  Bahá’u’lláh

and His family were still highly respected in the land.  His

father had been a highly esteemed and honored minister of

state.

During those hectic days when one of the waves of perse-

cution reached its peak, Bahá’u’lláh was a guest of the new

prime minister, Mírzá Áqá Khán.  He should have been safe

there.  This same prime minister was understood to have prom-

ised the Báb that he would protect the innocent victims of the

king’s wrath if the Báb would help the minister.  The Báb had

done so.  Now Mírzá Áqá Khán faced the crisis of having to

redeem that pledge.

No one knew better than the prime minister that Bahá’u’lláh

was innocent of any crime.  Unhappily for the soul of this

troubled minister, his loyalties constantly fluctuated back and

forth throughout his career.  One moment he would be in-

spired to try and help the mistreated followers of the Báb, the

next he would cringe in fear, dreading the loss of his position.

He would then begin attacking them.  In the end, fear pushed

out courage and decency.  It also precipitated the downfall and

disgrace of the prime minister.

At first, Mírzá Áqá Khán tried to effect a reconciliation be-

tween the shah and Bahá’u’lláh.  He sent a warm letter to

Bahá’u’lláh in Karbilá, Iraq—where Bahá’u’lláh had been ex-

iled briefly by the previous prime minister—telling Him of

these plans and inviting Bahá’u’lláh to return to the capital.

For a month Bahá’u’lláh was the honored guest of Mírzá Áqá

Khán.  During this time a great number of notables and digni-

taries from Tihrán flocked to meet Bahá’u’lláh.  So much at-

tention and honor was paid to Him that it aroused the envy

and fury of His enemies.

Bahá’u’lláh was a guest in the village of Afchih when news

came of the attempt made on the life of the shah.

He condemned the act in the strongest terms, but He also

refused to listen to the pleadings of the prime minister’s brother,

who urged Him to flee into hiding in the neighborhood.  In-

stead, Bahá’u’lláh set out on foot for the shah’s residence, the

headquarters of the Imperial Army in Níyávarán, to prove His

innocence.  He refused even the offer of an armed escort.

When Bahá’u’lláh reached the village of Zarkandih He was

met and conducted to the home of the acting secretary of the

Russian minister, Prince Dolgorukov.  The news of Bahá’u’lláh’s

arrival was conveyed at once to Násiri’d-Dín Sháh.  The king

was greatly amazed at Bahá’u’lláh’s boldness in coming directly

to his encampment.

Prince Dolgorukov proposed to Mírzá Áqá Khán that he

protect Bahá’u’lláh in his own residence from the enemies who

sought His destruction.  The prime minister was afraid to ex-

tend any further consideration to Bahá’u’lláh for fear he might

permanently lose his own position and prestige.  Bahá’u’lláh

was therefore delivered into the hands of a group of His en-

emies among the military.

They stripped Him of His headgear.  Barefoot, bareheaded,

and in chains, Bahá’u’lláh was marched the full distance from

Shimírán to Tihrán under the blazing sun.  Several times along

the way, His outer garments were torn from His body by the

soldiers and the mob.  He was struck by the officers accompa-

nying Him, overwhelmed with abuse and ridicule, and pelted

with stones and refuse.

As Bahá’u’lláh was approaching the capital, a fanatical old

woman rushed from the crowd with a stone in her hand.  Her

whole frame shook with rage as she raised the stone, but the

procession was moving too rapidly for her to keep pace.  She

tried to overtake them, shouting, “I entreat you!  Give me a

chance to fling my stone in his face!”

Bahá’u’lláh saw her hastening after Him.  He halted the guard

long enough to give the old lady her chance, saying:  “Deny her

not what she regards as a meritorious act in the sight of God.”4

He bringeth out those which are bound with chains.

The Black Pit

Bahá’u’lláh was thrown into a subterranean dungeon called the

Síyáh-Chál, the “Black Pit”  There He was to spend four months.

The dungeon was pitch black.  Bahá’u’lláh was led along a

gloomy dark corridor, then down three flights of stairs to the

underground pit.

His body was bent so that He could be chained to the floor.

His captors also chained Him to His companions, and His

feet were placed in stocks.

Bahá’u’lláh’s fellow prisoners numbered about 140.  Among

them were thieves, highwaymen, and assassins.  There was no

outlet from the pit other than the one door they had entered.

It was alive with rats, and a hotbed of disease.  Chill, damp,

and fever-ridden, the dungeon stank abominably from the

constantly accumulating filth.

For three days and three nights Bahá’u’lláh received no food

or drink.  Two chains, each weighing nearly one hundred

pounds, which were famously used only for punishing the most

notorious criminals, were in turn fastened around His neck.

An iron yoke lacerated His flesh.  Sleep was impossible for Him.

Shortly after Bahá’u’lláh entered the prison, it became evi-

dent that there was no basis for the suspicions against Him.

Still, He was kept chained in that loathsome place.  Each day,

the jailer would open the door, sending a shaft of light to

penetrate the gloom, and would call out the names of those

who were to be executed that day in the public square.  The

misery and suffering that befell these innocent victims of the

wrath of their sovereign can hardly be imagined.

It was in that pestilential prison that the mission of Bahá’-

u’lláh began.  Just as the dove had descended upon Christ in

the river Jordan, heralding the beginning of His ministry, so

did that same Holy Spirit touch Bahá’u’lláh in that odious pit,

into which He had been cast by the king of Persia.

Bahá’u’lláh wrote of that occasion, saying, “One night, in a

dream, these exalted words were heard on every side:  ‘Verily,

We shall render Thee victorious by Thyself and by Thy Pen.

Grieve Thou not for that which hath befallen Thee, neither

be Thou afraid, for Thou art in safety.  Erelong will God raise

up the treasures of the earth men—who will aid Thee through

Thyself and through Thy Name, wherewith God hath revived

the hearts of such as have recognized Him.”5

Long afterward, Bahá’u’lláh, in a letter to Násiri’d-Dín Sháh,

spoke of the days which He had spent in that dark prison.  He

recalled the twenty long years during which He had borne in

patience further imprisonments and banishments.

In spite of all this, Bahá’u’lláh still addressed the shah

with patience, forgiveness, and loving-kindness, saying, “O

King, …  Of a verity, God hath made thee His shadow

amongst men, and the sign of His power unto all that dwell

on earth.  Judge thou between Us and them that have

wronged Us without proof. …  They that surround thee

love thee for their own sakes, whereas this Youth loveth

thee for thine own sake, and hath had no desire except to

draw thee nigh unto the seat of grace, and to turn thee

toward the right hand of justice.  Thy Lord beareth witness

unto that which I declare.”6

Bahá’u’lláh’s words warned Násiri’d-Dín Sháh that if he did

not withdraw his hand from injustice, all his pomp would

vanish.  His wealth would be turned into poverty, and his glory

into abasement.  Bahá’u’lláh made it plain that the Word of

God could not be restrained by the walls of prisons, and that

He would come forth from prison to claim His kingdom,

which was in the hearts of men.  There could only be sorrow

and despair, Bahá’u’lláh said, for a king who would not be

warned.  He wrote:  No doubt is there whatever that these

tribulations will be followed by the outpourings of a supreme

mercy, and these dire adversities be succeeded by an overflow-

ing prosperity.  We fain would hope, however, that His Maj-

esty the Sháh will himself examine these matters, and bring

hope to the hearts.  That which We have submitted to thy

Majesty is indeed for thine highest good.  And God, verily, is a

sufficient witness unto Me.”7

The shah’s only interest, from the beginning, was that he

should hear no more about Bahá’u’lláh.  The shah’s mother

was far more inflamed with anger against Him.  She branded

Bahá’u’lláh as the would-be murderer of her son and was de-

termined to put Him to death.  One of the strangest features

of the story is that she and all her fellow conspirators were

unable to convince the shah to give the order for Bahá’u’lláh’s

death.  They broke their spears against a seemingly invisible

armor of the spirit surrounding Him.

By coming “out of prison” and through “exile” Bahá’u’lláh

would fulfill promises from the scriptures of all religions, just

as He had fulfilled them by being cast into prison.  Bahá’u’lláh

would be freed and would proclaim His mission to the kings

of the world.  His followers would publicize His fame in every

corner of the planet, sharing His letters to the kings with the

heads of state in all parts of the world.

In the light of these events, the words from the world’s scrip-

tures of the past become even more striking.

There is no description of these events in all of the Old

Testament that is more fascinating than that in Job and the

Psalms.  They tell of Bahá’u’lláh’s imprisonment in the “pit,”

His “sufferings,” His “deliverance,” and the worldwide proc-

lamation of His Faith.

The book of Job, in one single chapter, describes a prisoner

who will be cast into a “pit,” who will have His feet placed “in

stocks,” who will undergo great suffering and “pain,” who will

be “innocent,” who will be touched by the “breath of God”

and “utter” a message of “knowledge” and “wisdom” for man-

kind, who will be “delivered from the dungeon,” from the

plots of His “enemy,” whose newfound knowledge will come

in the night” in a “vision,” and who will “speak” to man not

“once” but “twice.”

This incredible account is matched by a similar description

of the prisoner in the Psalms.  He will be delivered from a

“horrible pit,” in His mouth God will put “a new song,” His

coming will be mentioned “in the volume of the book,” He

will not “conceal” His message, but will proclaim it to “the

great congregation” of the world.

Job also said, “I know that my redeemer liveth, and that he

shall stand at the latter day upon the earth.”  Job promised

that this great One would “break in pieces mighty men” and

“lead princes away spoiled.”  This same Job prophesied that

the “lightnings” of the Lord would come in the last days and

say:  “Here I am!”

On May 24, 1844, the day following the birth of the Bahá’í

Faith, Samuel F. B. Morse sent his first formal telegraph mes-

sage flashing from Washington to Baltimore:  “What hath God

wrought!”  The press of that day spoke of it as the “lightnings

of Job.”

Explorers have found Mycenae, Troy, and Cuzco with far

fewer clues to go on than we have been given in our search for

the Promised One, Bahá’u’lláh.  The gold to be found in the

teachings of Bahá’u’lláh outvalues them all.

I do not know Him.

Sounds in the Night

During His four months’ imprisonment in the darkness of

that dungeon-prison, Bahá’u’lláh constantly cheered the hearts

of His companions.  He encouraged them to remain confi-

dent.  He assured them that nothing could prevent the future

triumph of God’s faith.

Bahá’u’lláh, recalling those hours in the Black Pit, wrote:

“We were all huddled together in one cell, our feet in stocks,

and around our necks fastened the most galling of chains. …

No ray of light was allowed to penetrate that pestilential dun-

geon or to warm its icy coldness.  We were placed in two rows,

each facing the other.  We* had taught them to repeat certain

verses which, every night, they chanted with extreme fervor.”8

Bahá’u’lláh taught His fellow prisoners to chant the praises

of God.

One row would chant, “God is sufficient unto me:  He, ver-

ily, is the All-Sufficing!”

The second row would reply, “In Him let the trusting trust!”

The sound of their voices pealed out in the early hours of

dawn.  The echo of their singing was so loud that it resounded

up from the depths of that dungeon and rang out across the

square to the royal residence.

The sound awakened Násiri’d-Dín Sháh.  It alarmed him.

He could not determine what the noise was, nor from where

it came.  The shah sent a courtier and inquired:

* Bahá’u’lláh refers to Himself here with the royal “we”

“What is the meaning of this sound in the night?”

Násiri’d-Dín Sháh was told that it was the chanting of

Bahá’u’lláh and His companions in the Black Pit prison.

“In spite of their sufferings,” the shah was informed, “these

mad ones sing the praises of God.”

The king turned away in silence.  He could not understand

such enthusiasm in the face of the horrors and the threat of

death with which he knew they were surrounded.  He felt

uneasy.

It would have unsettled him entirely had the shah been able

to read the future.  On the very site where he now listened to

the God-intoxicated voices of Bahá’u’lláh’s companions, a pen

would soon set down the signature that would wipe away for-

ever the dynasty of Násiri’d-Dín Sháh and all the Qájár kings.

Kings of Persia would live to see the shattering fulfillment

of the prophecies pronounced against them by Bahá’u’lláh,

Whom they had condemned to imprisonment and exile.

In spite of the plots to destroy Him, no evidence whatso-

ever could be found implicating Bahá’u’lláh in the crime of

which He was accused.

This forced His enemies to devise fresh schemes in order to

assure Bahá’u’lláh’s death.  They sent for a young man named

‘Abbás.  He had been assisting them by pointing out the follow-

ers of the Báb on the streets of Tihrán, and they decided to use

him to implicate Bahá’u’lláh in the attempt on the shah’s life.

‘Abbás had met Bahá’u’lláh many times in the past.  The

authorities promised ‘Abbás a generous share of the money

that they would be able to confiscate from Bahá’u’lláh’s pos-

sessions, if only ‘Abbás would point to Bahá’u’lláh and say,

“Yes, he too is guilty.”

“We need only one such witness,” they told him.

The mother of the shah was particularly insistent.  “What a

humiliation for me!” she deplored.  That the mother of the

shah should not be able to inflict on a prisoner the punish-

ment which he deserves.”

The old queen promised ‘Abbás a rich reward if he would

betray Bahá’u’lláh into her hands.  She ordered the young man

to go into the pit and look into Bahá’u’lláh’s face.  She told

him that he would see in that face the would-be murderer of

her son.

‘Abbás was led into the presence of Bahá’u’lláh, not once,

but several times.  Each time the young man met Bahá’u’lláh,

he stood transfixed, gazing upon the Prisoner’s face, but then

said, “I do not know Him.”

And then he would turn away and leave.

No threat or promise of riches could persuade him.

Pain and suffering

were written on His face.

The Weight of Chains

Bahá’u’lláh’s enemies failed in all their attempts to destroy Him.

Yet the publicity that the charges had received among both

the public and foreign embassies required some action.  When

they realized they would be unable to execute Him publicly,

they resorted to cunning, deciding upon poison.

A few of those in authority, hoping to curry favor with the

shah’s mother and perhaps receive a generous and grateful gift

of money, hatched a plot to kill Bahá’u’lláh secretly before He

was released from prison.  They intercepted the food that was

being sent to Bahá’u’lláh and mixed it with what they felt would

be a fatal dose of poison.

Even this attempt failed.

Bahá’u’lláh became desperately ill, and His agonies in that

dungeon were greatly increased.  He suffered from severe ill-

health for years because of this poisoning attempt, but to the

frustration of His enemies He did not succumb to it.

Bahá’u’lláh’s eight-year-old son, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, visited His

father while Bahá’u’lláh was a prisoner in the Síyáh-Chál.

‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s account of that meeting tells how terribly al-

tered Bahá’u’lláh appeared.  Pain and suffering were written

on His face.

‘Abdu’l-Bahá recalled that sad and moving scene:  “His hair

and beard [were] unkempt, His neck galled and swollen from

the pressure of a heavy steel collar, His body bent by the weight

of His chains.”  The sight made a never-to-be-forgotten im-

pression on the mind of a sensitive boy.9

This was but the beginning of nearly half a century of such

persecution and suffering.

‘What seems incredible about the story to us today is that at

no time did Bahá’u’lláh’s persecutors lay any formal charges

against Him.  At no time was He given the opportunity of a

proper trial.  None of the sufferings inflicted on Him resulted

from a conviction for any crime.  A lifetime of banishment,

abuse, and imprisonment was inflicted on Him solely on the

personal authority of two royal dictators.

The demand that Bahá’u’lláh’s story makes on us goes far

beyond one of mere human sympathy.  The life of the Mani-

festation of God is as prophetic as His teachings are.  In Jesus’

sufferings were prefigured those of the peoples of the Medi-

terranean world who had rejected His message of peace and

brotherhood.

Were millions of men in the twentieth century to follow

Bahá’u’lláh down the path of exile, humiliation, imprison-

ment, and suffering to which the leaders of men had con-

demned Him?

The answer lay with the rulers who held the real power in

the world of the nineteenth century the kings and leaders

of the great nations of Europe:  France, Britain, Russia, and

Germany.

To these men the Prisoner addressed Himself.

[Blank page]

3  THE FIRST KINGDOM FALLS

[Blank page]

Not liberty, equality, and fraternity,

but cavalry, infantry, and artillery.

The Mighty Bell

“O King of Paris!  Tell the priest to ring the bells no longer. …

The Most Mighty Bell hath appeared.”1  These were the open-

ing words of a letter that Bahá’u’lláh addressed to Napoleon

III, the emperor of France and nephew of Napoleon I.  The

Prisoner told the emperor that this “Mighty Bell” was Him-

self and that He had come so that the “world might be quick-

ened, and all its peoples united”!2

A remarkable sequence of events brought Bahá’u’lláh from

the Black Pit of Tihrán to the Turkish fortress of ‘Akká on the

coast of the Mediterranean, from which He wrote this letter.

Not the least remarkable feature of the story is the precision

with which these events had been foretold in the scriptures of

three world religions.

We will want to return to those events when we consider

the fate of Násiri’d-Dín Sháh and the Persian monarchy.  The

shah was not, however, the first ruler to receive a specific sum-

mons from the Prisoner.  That ruler was Napoleon III, the most

powerful monarch of his day.  It may help, therefore, if we

jump ahead a few years in time to the story of this king’s his-

toric encounter with the Prisoner.

Bahá’u’lláh wrote not once but twice to Napoleon.  It is re-

ported that he cast the first letter aside angrily and ridiculed

its contents.  Napoleon was the first Western ruler to whom

the Prisoner sent one of His history-making letters.  He was

also the first ruler to be caught up in the rushing winds about

which the letters spoke.

In the very year when the Báb first announced the advent

of the Prisoner, 1844, Louis Napoleon was inspired to write a

treatise on the elimination of poverty.  The king appeared to

be in tune with the spirit of the teachings of the Prisoner.  The

abolition of extremes of poverty and wealth was one of the

basic principles that the Prisoner urged the kings of the earth

to bring about.

“March at the head of the ideas of your century,” Napo-

leon III reportedly declared, “and these ideas follow and sup-

port you.  March against them and they overthrow you.”

In sixteen years the emperor led his nation into three wars

that ruined France economically.  Louis Napoleon was given

the opportunity to become an instrument to advance the wel-

fare of mankind but was unable to put aside his own desires.

His fate intertwined with that of the Prisoner time and again.

In the year of Louis Napoleon’s death, 1873, the Prisoner

wrote His greatest book, the Kitáb-i-Aqdas,3 which contained

yet other appeals to the kings and rulers of the earth, includ-

ing a special message to the presidents and rulers of the re-

publics of the West.  He also laid down the fundamentals for

a peaceful and ordered society and described the institutions

by which this goal could be accomplished.  Napoleon III pro-

fessed to be a leader dedicated to such aims for social justice.

Throughout his career Louis Napoleon was motivated, he

said, by “a social, industrial, commercial, humanitarian idea.”

When Napoleon III turned away from those principles, his

downfall began.

The Prisoner wrote from the fortress-city of ‘Akká:  “O King

of Paris …  We tested thee, and found thee wanting. …  Hadst

thou been sincere in thy words, thou wouldst not have cast be-

hind thy back the Book of God. …  We have proved thee through

it, and found thee other than that which thou didst profess.”4

There is no place here for a detailed study of the relation-

ship between the Second Empire and the rise of the world-

wide following of the Prisoner.  This story can do no more

than give a few brief kaleidoscopic glimpses into those events

that should have shaken and awakened the world.

It is our great loss that the world remained asleep.

The scratchings of a Pen.

The Hidden Scroll

If anyone had suggested that Louis Napoleon’s predecessor,

the great Napoleon I, would be turned back from his first con-

quests by a “pimple,” the fortress of ‘Akká, he would have

been considered unbalanced.  Yet Napoleon I himself admit-

ted that he had been beaten, not by the British or the Turks,

but by a “grain of sand” known as ‘Akká.

When, half a century later, a contemptible Prisoner of the

Turks sent out a message from that same city predicting col-

lapse of the entire Napoleonic dynasty, the world was equally

unimpressed.

Bahá’u’lláh, it was said, enchanted those who came to visit

Him in that prison-city.  The Turkish officials at first found

this amusing.  Especially so when a respected French agent of

Louis Napoleon’s government became a devoted friend of this

condemned Prisoner.

The influence that the Prisoner gradually began to exert

over all those who came to see Him became so great, however,

that the guards grew suspicious of every visitor.  Each one was

kept under careful scrutiny.  None was allowed to carry mes-

sages either to or from the Prisoner.

In spite of this close surveillance, it was not possible to pre-

vent the Prisoner’s second historic letter to Napoleon III from

leaving the prison-city.

The letter was carried by a visitor.  Though the guards searched

him thoroughly, still they found nothing concealed on his per-

son.  The visitor must have smiled to himself as he hurried away,

confident that the guards would never think to search beneath

his hat.  He walked nonchalantly through the streets of ‘Akká,

carrying in that hiding place Bahá’u’lláh’s letter.

The letter was delivered to the French agent in ‘Akká, who

made the necessary translation and arranged to put the letter

into the hands of the emperor.

The fate of a king, a nation, an empire, and a dynasty were

all foretold on that scroll of paper hidden beneath the head-

dress of a visitor to a condemned Prisoner in the fortress of

‘Akká.

Thine empire shall pass from thine hands,

as a punishment for that which thou hast wrought.

The Day of Reckoning

The court of Napoleon III was the talk of all Europe.  It was

no make-believe king whose dramatic fall the Prisoner had

predicted.

The ceremony and pageantry of Napoleon’s court had be-

come the envy of his neighbors.  His contemporaries were over-

whelmed by his lavish display.  His ship rode on the crest of

the waves.  He himself could hardly believe his own good for-

tune.  It surpassed even his fondest dreams.  Napoleon III would

make of his kingdom what he wished.  Every golden door was

opening—the world was his!

The Prisoner addressed Napoleon, “It beseemeth the king

of the age to inquire into the condition of such as have been

wronged, and it behooveth him to extend his care to the weak.”5

Napoleon III was interested in the strong, not the weak, in

the rich, not the poor.  Least of all was he interested in the

denizens of Turkish prisons.  He was in fact the ally of those

same Turks against the czar of Russia.  The Crimean War had

been his chance to avenge his uncle, the great Napoleon I,

and the emperor had no desire to incur the disfavor of his

Turkish allies.

Louis Napoleon’s actions said plainly:  “Don’t bother me with

trifles! The world is at stake!”

It was Napoleon’s own world that was at stake.  And he had

already lost it.  Following the initial contempt shown by Louis

Napoleon, the Prisoner wrote in his second letter to the French

emperor, “O King! …  Arise, and make amends for that which

hath escaped thee.  Ere long the world and all that thou

possessest will perish, and the kingdom will remain unto God,

thy Lord and the Lord of thy fathers of old.  It behooveth thee

not to conduct thine affairs according to the dictates of thy

desires.”6

The Prisoner warned the emperor that unless his misdeeds

were immediately corrected he would pay a terrible penalty:

“For what thou hast done, thy kingdom shall be thrown into

confusion, and thine empire shall pass from thine hands as a

punishment for that which thou hast wrought.”7

The day of reckoning was on its way.

We see abasement hastening after thee.

The Swift Decline

It was the beginning of the end for the Napoleonic dynasty.

Napoleon III had provoked the Crimean War in order to sat-

isfy his inner anger against the Russian emperor.  He had longed

to rip up the treaty of 1815 and avenge his uncle’s disaster at

Moscow.

Another great inspiration of Napoleon III’s reign had been

to establish an empire in Mexico.  He had conceived the gran-

diose idea before becoming emperor.  Napoleon envisioned for

himself a “new Constantinople” on the Isthmus of Panama.

He would be a monarch in both the East and the West and

would establish his influence in the center of America.

Oddly enough, Bahá’u’lláh had promised Napoleon III al-

most that exact reward if the king would devote himself to

the cause of unity and justice for all mankind.  The Prisoner

wrote, “O King of Paris! …  Arise thou to serve God and help

His Cause.  He, verily, will assist thee with the hosts of the

seen and unseen, and will set thee king over all that whereon

the sun riseth.”8

Napoleon III made no attempt to assist the Prisoner or lis-

ten to his words.

Napoleon III’s American venture came to a dismal failure,

and all of his subsequent attempts at expansion were over-

taken by the same fate.

Suddenly, the old days of glory were gone.  Earlier he had

defeated both Russia and Austria in the Crimean and Italian

wars.  He had surpassed two of the most feared military pow-

ers in all Europe and had astonished the entire world.  When

Prussia and Austria went to war with one another in 1866,

Napoleon III sat on the sidelines.  He planned to intervene on

the “proper” side at the “proper” time—that is, on whichever

side would bestow upon him the greater benefit.

He guessed wrong and placed his fortunes with Austria,

which Prussia overwhelmed swiftly and decisively.  Napoleon’s

error was the first of a host that were to multiply and haunt

him as his prestige declined.

It is written in the Bible that God punishes the kings and the

nations.  Louis Napoleon is almost a classic example of this prin-

ciple at work.  In reality, kings and nations punish themselves.

They bring on their own sufferings by their wrong decisions.

In this Day of God, whenever a ruler acts unjustly in order

to assure his own advancement or prestige, or that of his coun-

try or people, at the expense of others, the decisions made to

achieve that ignoble end plant the seeds of disaster.  The more

opposed these decisions are to the fundamental Laws of God

concerning justice, the greater will be the disasters and the

more certain the downfall of all those who make such deci-

sions.  However long the process, the end is always the same.

The Prisoner tried to explain this basic principle to the lead-

ers of the world.  His mission was to call their attention to the

Laws of God.  If they disobeyed them, the resulting punish-

ment would be brought on by their own wrong decisions.  That

is how God “punishes” the kings and the nations:  they punish

themselves.

Kaiser William I, ruler of Austria, later declared that this

war of 1866, during which Napoleon III sat on the sidelines,

was the ruin of France.

The kaiser remarked that Napoleon should have attacked

from the rear.

It was too late.  The “shining hour” had passed, and Napo-

leon III had no refuge now except in war.  Already he was risk-

ing an imminent revolution at home.  In July 1870, Napoleon

III led his nation into war against Prussia.

The French minister of war proudly declared that France

expected a great and total victory.  History shows how pathetic

this decision was—wrong decisions on all sides became the

trademark of Napoleon III.

Chaos reigned unchecked:  “Frequently soldiers and even

generals went astray, not able to find their places.  ‘Have ar-

rived at Belfort,’ telegraphed General Michel on July 21st.

‘Can’t find my brigade; can’t find the general of the division.

What shall I do?  Don’t know where my regiments are.’  It has

been observed that this document is probably unique in mili-

tary records.”9

The fulfillment of the promise made to Napoleon III by

the Prisoner of the Holy Land had begun:  For what thou

hast done, thy kingdom shall be thrown into confusion. …”10

In an attempt to prevent mutiny, Napoleon joined the army

personally, along with his young son.  Exhausted by the pres-

sures on him, and with his health undermined by agonizing

attacks of kidney stones, the emperor was barely able to stay

on his horse during parade.  It is said that he rouged his cheeks

to disguise his pallor from the troops.

Napoleon III advanced with his army into oblivion.

The French agent in ‘Akká became a follower of the Pris-

oner when he saw the devastating fruition of those very proph-

ecies that he himself had translated into French and forwarded

to Napoleon III.

They … made Us, with glaring injustice,

enter the Most Great Prison.

The Tide Turns

When we contrast the life and position of Bahá’u’lláh with

that of Napoleon III at the beginning of the emperor’s reign,

then witness how their positions were completely reversed at

the end, we begin to understand the true significance of the

warning that the Prisoner sent to the king:  “Hath thy pomp

made thee proud?  By My Life!  It shall not endure; nay, it shall

soon pass away, unless thou holdest fast by this firm Cord.

We see abasement hastening after thee, while thou art of the

heedless.”11

Words that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá used in another connection seem

to apply with a special aptness to Napoleon III of France:

“This glory shall be turned into the most abject abasement,

and this pomp and might converted into the most complete

subjugation.”12

It would be difficult to imagine a contrast greater than that

between Napoleon III and the Prisoner.  In the year 1852, Louis

Napoleon had been raised up to become emperor of France.

In that same year, Bahá’u’lláh was arrested in far-off Persia

and was marched for miles, bareheaded and barefoot in the

blazing sun.  He was led through a screaming mob of enemies.

He was without food or drink during those hours when Na-

poleon III dined sumptuously in the capital of a brilliant

empire.

In January 1853, Napoleon III married the Spanish Count-

ess Eugenie de Montijo.  The emperor’s life was just becoming

settled and his family established securely on the throne of

France.  In that same month, the Prisoner was uprooted from

his home, robbed of His position and wealth, and banished

forever from His native land.

The higher the tide of Napoleon III’s power, the lower had

seemed to ebb the fortunes of the Prisoner of the Holy Land.

Bahá’u’lláh was exiled like Abraham, stoned like Moses,

scourged like Christ.  He was imprisoned, chained, poisoned,

and persecuted from city to city.  At last He had arrived at that

most dreaded of all Turkish prisons, the fortress of ‘Akká, stand-

ing in the shadow of Mount Carmel, a Hebrew name mean-

ing the “Vineyard of God.”  From that prison-city, He had

sent His second letter to the emperor of France.

From that point on, with swift strokes from the hand of

destiny, the Prisoner was raised up, and His teachings spread

into every corner of the planet, while the emperor was toppled

from the heights and his grandeur entirely eclipsed.

We shall never know what thoughts went through Louis

Napoleon’s mind as he was taken prisoner by a foreign king,

following his defeat at the battle of Sedan.  Did he recall those

words once directed to him by the Prisoner of ‘Akká?  It is

unlikely that Napoleon III grasped any part of the spiritual

revolution that was already agitating the face of society.  He

was blind even to the part he, himself, was playing in this

unfolding drama.

God shall, assuredly,

judge with truth.

The First Kingdom Falls

The letters to Napoleon III from the prison-city of ‘Akká con-

tained several ominous prophecies.

The Prisoner prophesied that He would soon change for-

tunes and fates with all tyrant monarchs.  Their positions in

life, He said, would be reversed through the power of Almighty

God.  There was no king whose fate fitted those words better

than Napoleon III of France:  “Hearken, O King, to the speech

of Him that speaketh the truth. …  The tribulations that have

touched Us, the destitution from which We suffer, the various

troubles with which We are encompassed, shall all pass away,

as shall pass away the pleasures in which they [the King’s Min-

isters] delight and the affluence they enjoy.”13

The Prisoner described the great reversal that would take

place:  “The days in which We have been compelled to dwell

in the dust will soon be ended, as will the days in which they

occupied the seats of honor.  God shall, assuredly, judge with

truth between Us and them, and He, verily, is the best of

judges.”14

Louis Napoleon lived to see these words come true.

The Prisoner had written:  “O King …  For what thou hast

done, thy kingdom shall be thrown into confusion. …  Com-

motions shall seize all the people in that land.”15

Paris was besieged by the Germans.  All resistance melted

and the city capitulated.  The French people were shocked by

the cardboard collapse of their military might they blamed

the emperor.  The Franco-Prussian War was followed by civil

war, a period called the “terrible years” that exceeded in feroc-

ity the war itself and left scars on the French mind, which

affect France to this day.  Confusion seized the entire nation,

and suffering from famine, revolution, and disease took thou-

sands of lives in Paris, Napoleon’s “City of Light.”

The Prisoner had told Napoleon:  “We see abasement has-

tening after thee … a punishment for that which thou hast

wrought.”16

The emperor became the most thoroughly hated man in

all of France.  Mobs in Paris cried out for revenge against

him and blamed him for the humiliation of France.  Em-

press Eugenie barely escaped with her life, and the monar-

chy was extinguished.

Napoleon had one son, Prince Eugene Louis Jean Joseph,

who had been educated in England.  Even after his own fall,

Napoleon III hoped for a future restoration of the Napoleonic

throne with his son as emperor.  Mercifully, he did not live to

see the prince killed in the far-off Zulu war fought between

the blacks and whites in South Africa.

The Prisoner’s prophecies had indeed been “terrible” to

one of “the kings of the earth” as the Bible had centuries

earlier warned.  The prophet Isaiah, in a single chapter,

declared that a day would come when the kings would be

punished.  The Lord, Isaiah warned, would turn the earth

“upside down” in that day, and He would “scatter” the inhab-

itants.  The “haughty” and proud ones would “languish” away

because of their wickedness.17

In order that there might be no mistake about whom Isaiah

was speaking, the Prisoner Himself had written:  “I am the

One Whom the tongue of Isaiah hath extolled. …  Blessed be

the king whose sovereignty hath withheld him not from his

Sovereign, and who hath turned unto God with his heart.”18

Napoleon III had failed to meet the test of God and “went

down to dust.”  He suffered the fate foretold for such kings by

Isaiah so long, long ago:  “And it shall come to pass in that day,

that the Lord shall punish the host of the high ones that are

on high, and the kings of the earth upon the earth.”19

The first kingdom had fallen.

[Blank page]

4  The Second Kingdom

Falls

[Blank page]

He went down to dust in great loss.

The God of Battles

On June 18, 1871, Kaiser William I, emperor of Germany,

entered Berlin at the head of his victorious troops.  It was a day

of great rejoicing.  Napoleon III’s armies had been crushed.

William I was a national hero in Germany—he was becom-

ing legendary.  As the clattering hoofbeats of victory rang

through the streets of Berlin, the emperor was the cynosure of

all eyes.

He had achieved almost every dream.  He had become, in

turn, prince, king, and now emperor of a united Germany.

There was no one to challenge him.

And then one voice was raised in warning.  From His far-off

prison cell, Bahá’u’lláh reminded the kaiser of what had be-

fallen the emperor of France.  He warned William that exactly

the same fate awaited him if he did not follow the counsels

that God was offering to the kings of the earth and devote

himself to the service of unity and justice.

The Prisoner addressed these words to William I:  “O King

of Berlin! … remember the one whose power transcended

thy power [Napoleon III], and whose station excelled thy sta-

tion.  Where is he?  Whither are gone the things he possessed?”1

The victor, like the vanquished, was given the opportunity

to respond to the call of God.  Kings were trustees of God and

were responsible for that trust.

The Prisoner warned Kaiser William I not to forget the les-

son given to the world by the tragic fate of Napoleon III.

“Think deeply, O King,” Bahá’u’lláh wrote, “concerning him

[Napoleon III], and concerning them who, like unto thee,

have conquered cities and ruled over men.  The All-Merciful

[God] brought them down from their palaces to their graves.”2

The emperor, however, had always been convinced that

Prussia was the rightful head of all Germany.  He had always

believed that only one thing would ever put her there:  the

force and power of a mighty army.  History appeared to have

proved him, not the Prisoner, to be right.

But the Prisoner was not only counseling the kings of the

world, He was also warning them.  Kaiser William I of Ger-

many was no exception to the following warning of God:  “O

Oppressors on earth!  Withdraw your hands from tyranny, for

I have pledged Myself to never forgive any man’s injustice.”3

Up to the time of his accession to the throne, William had

spent his entire time in the army.  He has been described as

militaristic and autocratic to the very extreme.  He admitted

that he believed only in the “God of battles.”

The Prisoner warned the emperor:  “O King of Berlin. …

Take warning, and be not of them that are fast asleep.  He

[Napoleon III] it was who cast the Tablet [letter] of God be-

hind him. …  Wherefore, disgrace assailed him from all sides,

and he went down to dust in great loss.  Think deeply, O King.

…  Be warned, be of them who reflect.”4

Be united, O kings of the earth, for thereby will

the tempest of discord be stilled amongst you.

The Sound of War

William I did not listen to the warning from the Prisoner of

`Akká.  His death delivered Germany into the hands of his reck-

less and arrogant grandson, the young William II.  The new

kaiser embarked on a cause that was directly opposed to almost

every one of the Prisoner’s counsels.  Instead of bringing peace

and tranquillity to his people and nation, he set in motion the

forces of a military machine that was to engulf his nation in

disaster.  In the end, it was to shatter the peace of the world.

In 1898 Kaiser William II visited the Holy Land.  The king

was within a few miles of the prison-city where the Prisoner

had addressed the historic message to his grandfather that fore-

shadowed the downfall of the Hohenzollern dynasty.

During that visit to the Holy Land, Kaiser William II allied

himself with one of the Prisoner’s most notorious persecutors,

the sultan of Turkey.  When he arrived in the Holy Land, one of

the gates of Jerusalem was torn down and widened so that proper

respect and honor could be paid to this visiting monarch.

Very different had been Bahá’u’lláh’s arrival in the Holy

Land.  His party of exiles had been crowded into a small boat,

delayed for hours, and then transported across the bay to the

fortress-city of ‘Akká.  He was marched through the streets,

humiliated by the mob, and finally cast into the fortress-prison.

Seventy-eight persons were crowded into one room with

Him.  They were all deprived of food and water.  Most of them

fell ill with malaria or typhus, and some died.  All of this came

by the edict of a sultan of Turkey, a throne on which William

II now lavished his praise.

The kaiser on that occasion described himself as a friend of

the caliph, `Abdu’l-Hamíd of Turkey, and published the news

of his affiliation with Turkey while in Jerusalem.  He was proud

of this new partnership of kings:  kaiser and sultan would stand

against the world.

But the kingdom of each of these friends was soon to col-

lapse almost simultaneously, and their dynasties were to dis-

appear forever in almost the same hour.

How aptly the Prisoner’s words apply to William II during

those days that the king spent in the holy city, Jerusalem.  The

kaiser made no effort to seek out the Prisoner or to inquire

about Him.  In fact, the kaiser ignored everything to do with

the Prisoner and His teachings.  If they had ever crossed the

king’s mind, no doubt he dismissed them as nonsense.  The

ravings of a religious fanatic had nothing to do with him, an

absolute monarch.  William dealt in more important things

like war.  His fellow rulers would have agreed heartily; they

had better things to do than visit prisoners.

Bahá’u’lláh’s words challenged these assumptions:  “O kings

of Christendom! …  Ye welcomed Him* not, neither did ye

seek His Presence, that ye might hear the verses of God from

His own mouth, and partake of the manifold wisdom of the

Almighty....  Ye have, by reason of your failure, hindered the

breath of God from being wafted over you, and have with-

held from your souls the sweetness of its fragrance. …  Ye,

and all ye possess, shall pass away. …  Ye shall …  be called to

account for your doings.”5

* Jesus Christ

Powerful language.  Very annoying to kings.  Disturbing and

upsetting to us as well, perhaps.  Humanity as a whole has tended,

as an initial reaction, to automatically reject anyone who claims

to speak in the name of God.  Yet our civilization, particularly

its moral values, arose from the teachings of God.  This was the

authority with which Moses and Christ had spoken in the past.

The rights and privileges of

all men must be protected.

The Unsheathed Sword

The solution to the problems of the world as expressed by the

Prisoner and by William II could not have been more directly

opposed.

The Prisoner wrote, “O kings of the earth! …  Compose

your differences, and reduce your armaments, that the bur-

den of your expenditures may be lightened, and that your

minds and hearts may be tranquilized.”6

William II, on the other hand, agitated differences among

his neighbors.  He increased his armaments.  He laid each day a

heavier burden upon his peoples, unsettling a civilized nation

with dreams of war and bloodshed.

The Prisoner declared, “O kings of the earth! …  Heal the

dissensions that divide you, and ye will no longer be in need

of any armaments except what the protection of your cities

and territories demandeth.”7

William II established war as the religion of his country.

He loathed any suggestions concerning disarmament or peace.

He scoffed at the conclusions arrived at by the Hague Peace

Conference in 1898.  Commenting on one of them, the kaiser

frankly admitted he despised all such peace conferences.

He showed his contempt in these words:  “I trust in God and

in my unsheathed sword, and I—on all resolutions of inter-

national conferences.”

The advice of the Prisoner was exactly opposite to such an

attitude.  He said the “peace and tranquillity of the world”

depended upon the leaders of mankind coming together in a

“vast assemblage.”  They must consult in a spirit of good will

upon this all-important matter, peace.

The Prisoner wrote, “Such a peace demandeth that the Great

Powers should resolve, for the sake of the tranquillity of the

peoples of the earth, to be fully reconciled among themselves.

…  We fain would hope that the kings and rulers of the earth,

the mirrors of the gracious and almighty name of God, may

attain unto this station, and shield mankind from the onslaught

of tyranny.”8

A clash between the vision of the Prisoner and that of the

Hohenzollern kings was inevitable.

We desire that the differences of race be annulled.

The king of kings and

the “King of Kings”

Kaiser William II lay with considerable elegance and diplo-

macy during the early days of his reign.  He was particularly

fond of invoking divine approval, and called upon Christ

Himself when he assumed the kingship.  Summoned to the

throne of his fathers, it was with eyes raised to the King of

Kings that he claimed to assume the scepter.

Like his grandfather before him, William II ignored all ad-

vice.  He scorned all warnings.  He knew where his duty lay.  He

didn’t need the counsel of others to tell him that Germany

must be supreme.

The Prisoner had advised the rulers of men otherwise:  “O

kings …  God hath committed into your hands the reins of

the government of the people, that ye may rule with justice

over them, safeguard the rights of the downtrodden, and pun-

ish the wrongdoers.  If ye neglect the duty prescribed unto

you by God in His Book, your names shall be numbered with

those of the unjust in His sight.  Grievous, indeed, will be

your error.”9

But Kaiser William II was unmoved by wise counsel and

words of caution, from whatever source they might come.  “I

regard myself as an instrument of heaven,” Kaiser William

told his people.  “I go my way without regard to the events or

opinions of the day.

He possessed a rage for personal power so great that he could

no longer tolerate the annoyance of sharing decisions, even

with his famous chancellor Otto von Bismarck.  In March 1890,

following a bitter crisis, William II forced Bismarck’s resigna-

tion.  The king was overjoyed.  He was at last sole ruler, “mas-

ter of both big and little matters” (to quote his own words).

In that very same year, 1890, in the valley of ‘Akká, in the

Holy Land, the place described by Hosea as a “door of hope”

for mankind, the Prisoner received a visit from a well-known

British scholar, Professor Edward Granville Browne of Cam-

bridge University.

During that interview, the Prisoner spoke of just such “ru-

inous wars” as the kaiser was contemplating.  He spoke of the

“fruitless strifes” that plagued Europe and the world.  The Pris-

oner said, “We see your kings and rulers lavishing their trea-

sures more freely on means for the destruction of the human

race than on that which would conduce to the happiness of

mankind.”10

No greater challenge to the views of Kaiser William II could

be found than these words spoken by the Prisoner to Professor

Browne on that occasion:  “Let not a man glory in this that he

loves his country; let him rather glory in this, that he loves his

kind.”11

While the kaiser was plotting the conquest of his neighbors

by force, the Prisoner was reemphasizing His words of unity

and peace.  He told Professor Browne:

Thou hast come to see a prisoner and an exile. …  We

desire but the good of the world and the happiness of the

nations; yet they deem us a stirrer-up of strife and sedition

worthy of bondage and banishment. …  That all nations

should become one in faith and all men as brothers; that

the bonds of affection and unity between the sons of men

should be strengthened; that the diversity of religion should

cease, and differences of race be annulled—what harm is

there in this? …  Yet so it shall be; these fruitless strifes, these

ruinous wars shall pass away, and the “Most Great Peace”

shall come....  Do not you in Europe need this also?12

Meanwhile, in Europe, Kaiser William II of Germany re-

joiced at the downfall of his chancellor, Bismarck.

There were no longer any restraints upon the kaiser.  He

announced exultantly that the course remained as it was—

full steam ahead!

The scourge of Europe.

Disaster Course

It was a disaster course.

The fate predicted by the Prisoner for all such unjust kings

was soon to overtake the entire Hohenzollern dynasty.  It struck

initially at the emperor to whom the Prisoner had written his

first dire warnings.  Later, it engulfed his successor, Kaiser Wil-

liam II, and abolished their rule forever.

William I sustained three attempts on his life.  Although he

recovered, he lived in constant fear of renewed attacks until

his death.  His peace of mind was gone.

It was William II, however, who has to accept the guilt for

ushering in the catastrophe that was to dethrone him and his

dynasty.  It would be naive, of course, to blame the kaiser alone

for the advent of World War I.  He was but one of many con-

tributing causes.  There is, however, no doubt that this was a

war for which he longed.  It was a war that he schemed to

hasten in every way possible.  Germany, under his goading,

constantly demonstrated its military might to the world, until

at last the first blow was struck.

The might of the Kaiser’s armies was immediately victori-

ous on almost every front.  His early triumphs appeared to

have overpowered his adversaries.  There seemed little doubt

that Germany would have a quick and conclusive victory.

The news of these resounding triumphs flashed around the

world.  Stories of the German victories found a very welcome

reception in certain quarters of Persia, the Prisoner’s home-

land.  These easy and astonishing successes of the advancing

army of Kaiser William II led to the ridicule of the Prisoner

and His Faith.

The Prisoner had written, “O banks of the Rhine! We have

seen you covered with gore, inasmuch as the swords of retribu-

tion were drawn against you; and you shall have another turn.”13

The Prisoner warned the emperor of Germany of the fate

that would overtake his nation and capital city if the king

followed in the foolish footsteps of Napoleon III, who had

already gone “down to dust.”

Bahá’u’lláh had written, “Think deeply, O King. …  Be

warned, be of them who reflect. …  We hear the lamentations

of Berlin, though she be today in conspicuous glory.”14

The kaiser and the world may have paid little attention to

the Prisoner’s prophecies about Germany, but his enemies in

Persia had not forgotten.  This was their hour of delight.

The news spread rapidly.  It was too good to keep:  “His great

prophecy about Germany has proved to be false!”

“Where are the lamentations of Berlin?”

“Are the banks of the Rhine covered with blood?”

“Has Germany had even one turn, let alone a second?”

The devoted followers of the Prisoner remained silent as

the German army advanced.  What could they say? The

Prisoner’s ominous words about Germany had remained un-

fulfilled.  The Rhine had not been a scene of slaughter.  In-

stead, Berlin was in “conspicuous glory.”

Exactly the opposite of what the Prisoner had prophesied

was taking place in Germany.  The kaiser was sweeping all be-

fore him.  In many quarters, the might of the kaiser’s armies

was considered to be well-nigh invincible.

The magnificently trained divisions of the German High

Command became the scourge of Europe.  Under the ban-

ner of “Gott mit uns!” (“God is with us”) they rolled over all

opposition.  They delighted their friends and terrified their

enemies.  They were making a laughingstock of the Prisoner’s

predictions.

God did indeed appear to be with the kaiser.

The teeth of the tiger are drawn,

and he is banished forever.

The Inglorious Exit

The tragic events that succeeded these early triumphs proved

that the Prisoner’s words had been no idle prediction.

Every beholder with “eyes to see” was soon to gaze upon

the awesome fulfillment of every one of His pronouncements.

The consequences, long delayed, were all the more severe.

The Prisoner had written, for all who doubted the potency of

God to achieve His ends, “Dost thou believe thou hast the power

to frustrate His Will, to hinder Him from executing His judg-

ment,  or to deter Him from exercising His sovereignty?  Pretendest

thou that aught in the heavens or in the earth can resist His

Faith?  No, by Him Who is the Eternal Truth!  Nothing whatso-

ever in the whole of creation can thwart His Purpose.”15

Those words soon came true.

The war, which had begun so impressively for Germany,

suddenly soured on every front.  Unforeseen reverses, swift and

fatal, overtook the kaiser and all his armies.  Suddenly, the war

was lost.

The “terms of a treaty notorious in its severity” crushed the

life out of the German people.  It shrouded their hopes for the

future.  The “lamentations of Berlin” were heard on every side.

The Prisoner’s enemies in Persia now bitterly regretted hav-

ing called attention to those fate-laden words contained in

His prophecies.

Even more remarkable than the “lamentations of Berlin” was

the promise that the Prisoner had directed to the banks of the

Rhine.  Because of its aggressive military policy, Germany suffered

not once, but twice.  She was crushed in both world wars.

Two times the banks of the Rhine were “covered with gore.”

Twice the “lamentations” were heard around the world.  The

German nation did have “another turn,” when not only the

“swords of retribution” were raised against her a second time,

but bombs as well.  Nations shattered the Nazi empire of Adolph

Hitler, leveling many parts of the capital city, Berlin.16

On November 11, 1918, newspaper headlines in Berlin

flashed the news:  “Kaiser abdicates!”

The dumbfounded and war-weary emperor had not yet even

been informed.  On Sunday, November 10, one day before the

armistice, William II had fled ignominiously to Holland, his

train slipping quietly away from the station at Spa into the

early morning fog.

The kaiser transferred to an automobile at the Dutch bor-

der.  It must have been a humiliating experience.  Not only had

his armies surrendered, but there, at Dutch customs, the kai-

ser had to surrender his sword to the customs officer.  The teeth

of the tiger had been drawn, and he was banished from his

homeland forever, exactly as the Prisoner had been banished.

Taylor, in his history, states, “There have been more tragic

and more disgraceful exits from the stage of history, but few

more inglorious.”17

God promised to destroy the king and the princes.

The Second Kingdom Falls

The Hohenzollern dynasty passed away.  With it vanished many

of their fellow kings and princes.  Before November 15, 1918,

the princes of all the German states had abdicated, and all

other contemporary German thrones had fallen.  The king,

the crown prince, and all the lesser princes of Germany were

removed completely and permanently from their places of

honor.

The empire of the Hohenzollerns toppled to the dust.  Its

official death-knell was sounded November 28, 1918, when

William II signed a formal act of abdication, which ended his

rule both as Prussian king and German emperor.

This document brought to an end the 250-year reign of

oppression by the powerful Hohenzollern dynasty.  The con-

stitution that followed swept away forever the German mon-

archy.  It carried into oblivion with it all the imperial princes,

and scattered forever all the lesser kings of German states,

along with their attendant princes.

Around the world, clergymen saw in these cataclysmic events

the fulfillment of Biblical prophecies.  But the truth is far greater

than any of them grasped.  The prophet Jeremiah, speaking of

the latter days, said that God promised, “And I will set my

throne in Elam [Persia], and will destroy from thence the king

and the princes.”18

The Prisoner had come from Persia, which Jeremiah called

Elam, and He had already delivered the commands whose re-

jection had led to the destruction of the kings and princes of

two great nations.

The entire story of Bahá’u’lláh has its roots deep in the scrip-

tures of all the great religions.  In the fate of the other mon-

archs to whom Bahá’u’lláh directed His appeal was to be the

fulfillment of even more remarkable promises and warnings.

In Germany, the second kingdom had fallen.

5  The Third Kingdom

Falls

[Blank page]

One of thy ministers extended Me his aid.

The Czar-Liberator

No other chapter in the story of the Prisoner and the kings

has such elements of classic tragedy as that concerning Russia

and its unhappy monarch, Alexander II.  It is difficult to feel

much sympathy for the emperor of France, the vain and vul-

gar Louis Napoleon.  It is nearly impossible to feel it for the

Hohenzollern kaisers, whose arrogance played so great a role

in dragging humankind into the horrors of World War I.

It is not difficult to feel sympathy, on the other hand, for a

man whose weakness and timidity led him into fatal errors.

All of us on occasion feel weak and timid.  Unhappily, how-

ever, those who accept positions of great trust and power, and

who derive the benefits of such position, also must accept its

obligations.  The only alternative is to surrender the position

and retire to a less demanding role in human affairs.

Alexander II was in many respects a remarkable man.  He

was certainly a most unusual czar.  With few exceptions his

predecessors had been hard, brutal autocrats ruling their vast

domain with an iron fist.  One of the most famous, Peter the

Great, had killed his own son.  Another, the notorious “Ivan

the Terrible,” had literally bricked his enemies up alive in the

walls of the Kremlin.

Alexander was repelled by this family history.  He was essen-

tially a good-natured and compassionate man who abhorred

suffering.  Further, unlike other members of the Romanov fam-

ily, he had been educated by a French tutor.  As a result, he

had adopted a number of very liberal and progressive ideas.

To many, his accession was hailed as the dawn of a new day.

Russia’s greatest social problem was the serfdom of those who

toiled in misery on the estates of the great lords.  The second

most urgent problem was the lack of anything like democratic

government.

Alexander was known to favor extensive reforms in both

these areas.  Relatively early in his reign he astonished the world

and alarmed the aristocracy by abolishing serfdom through-

out Russia.  This was four years before the United States abol-

ished the even worse institution of Negro slavery.  Alexander

followed this progressive act with others designed to begin a

gradual and more equitable distribution of land, so that peas-

ants could own their own farms and have a voice in govern-

ment.  The millennium appeared to be on its way in Russia.

Alexander was hailed as the “czar-liberator.”

It was to this remarkable emperor that Bahá’u’lláh addressed

one of His most loving and moving appeals.  The Russian gov-

ernment had already shown its potentiality for good some years

earlier when its minister was the one major foreign figure in

Tihrán to intervene directly on behalf of the persecuted Pris-

oner of Násiri’d-Dín Sháh.  The consul addressed the court

openly, denouncing what he called “the absurd falsity” of the

charges against Bahá’u’lláh.

Subsequently, upon Bahá’u’lláh’s release and exile, a Russian

official accompanied the party as far as the Turkish border.  With-

out doubt, such intervention was both a comfort and an aid to

the little band of exiles.  Bahá’u’lláh foretold a great station for

the czar if he would in like manner try to help humanity.

Bahá’u’lláh directed these words to Alexander:  “Whilst I

lay, chained and fettered, in the prison … [in Persia] , one of

thy ministers extended Me his aid.  Wherefore hath God or-

dained for thee a station which the knowledge of none can

comprehend.”1

The place of prestige would not be automatically conferred.

The czar would have to labor industriously to attain it.  He

would have to be of service to his fellow man, and exert his

efforts to bring the hearts of men back to God, and to ac-

quaint the world with the message of unity and justice that

Bahá’u’lláh brought.

But God would help him—Bahá’u’lláh assured Alexander:

“Thy Lord is, in truth, potent over all things.  He giveth what

He willeth to whomsoever He willeth.”2

Would the czar-liberator listen?

How great hath been My patience.

Hearken Unto the Voice

Bahá’u’lláh called upon Alexander II to take the leadership in

raising the moral and ethical standards of men:  “O Czar of

Russia. …  Arise thou amongst men in the name of this all-

compelling Cause, and summon, then, the nations unto God.”‘

Bahá’u’lláh told the czar that there was no refuge for any

man in this day save in God.  “He, verily, ordaineth what He

pleaseth.  Thy Lord truly preserveth whom He willeth, be he

in the midst of the seas, or in the maw of the serpent, or be-

neath the sword of the oppressor.”4

In that same letter, Bahá’u’lláh said that He had heard the

wishes that the czar had spoken secretly in his heart in prayer.

Bahá’u’lláh promised Alexander that God was willing to grant

the king his desire if he in turn would be faithful to his trust

as a true king.  Bahá’u’lláh declared, “We, verily, have heard

the thing for which thou didst supplicate thy Lord, whilst se-

cretly communing with Him.  Wherefore, the breeze of My

loving-kindness wafted forth, and the sea of My mercy surged,

and We answered thee in truth.”5

It was as though the Emperor Tiberius Caesar received a

promise from Christ that if he would accept His message and

proclaim it, Caesar would be the envy of the past, present,

and future.  It was a promise similar to that which Bahá’u’lláh

had offered to Napoleon III, who had refused it and had fallen

from his high place.

Thus, for a moment, Czar Alexander II Nicolaevich was at

the threshold of a greatness unrivaled in the recorded history

of royalty.  He could have had the support and guidance of a

Messenger of God in his actions.  Alexander only needed to

stretch forth his hand in help to the Promised One Whose

coming had glorified the pages of the czar’s own sacred

scriptures.

Eager that the king should understand this and not miss his

golden opportunity, Bahá’u’lláh repeated His entreaty:  “Again I

say, Hearken unto My Voice that calleth from My prison. …

that thou mayest perceive how great hath been My patience.”

Bahá’u’lláh foresaw an unrivaled position for the czar.  The

king needed to take but one step to make it a reality.

Bahá’u’lláh wrote, “O Czar of Russia. …  By My Life!

Couldst thou but know the things sent down by My Pen, and

discover the treasures of My Cause … thou wouldst, in thy

love for My name, and in thy longing for My glorious and

sublime Kingdom, lay down thy life in My path. …  Blessed

be the king whose sovereignty hath withheld him not from

his Sovereign, and who hath turned unto God with his heart.”7

Certainly Alexander needed such reassurances, as his re-

forms had engulfed him in trouble.  On the one hand, the

nobility and clergy were violently opposed to his policies, which

would cost them land and influence.  They undermined the

czar in every way they could.  On the other, a new generation

of revolutionaries who believed in nothing but terrorism had

arisen.  They felt confident that the czar would fail.  They could

see no way in which he could ever hope to mobilize the mass

of the ignorant and superstitious peasantry behind his throne.

The peasants loved the czar, but they understood nothing and

were entirely disorganized.  The terrorists waited expectantly

for the moment they could launch a national revolution.

Alexander became desperate.  The one powerful group on

whom he had relied were intellectuals in the government and

the schools.  These men, however, saw in the situation only a

chance to make their personal reputations.  They quarreled

among themselves for position and influence.

The czar realized that his program was built on shifting

sands.  Where could he find the moral and spiritual force that

would enlist the mass of the Russian people in the cause of

social change?  The people were intensely religious, and social

reform (he thought) had no religious content at all.  Religion,

the only power that could move Russia’s millions, seemed ir-

relevant.  Certainly the religion of the Orthodox Church was

little more than a mass of crusted superstitions and rituals.

There is no more tragic and ironic story in history.  At the

very point in time that a spiritual authority for social change

was desperately needed, that authority had been given.  Chris-

tianity and the earlier religious revelations had been addressed

to individuals.  Now, through Bahá’u’lláh, God was speaking

to nations, economic classes, racial groups, and institutions.

And He was speaking on the very problems that were convuls-

ing the world.

It is impossible to imagine the effect that would have en-

sued in Russia had the czar, “the little father of the people,”

the deeply trusted head of Russia’s vast family and of the church

itself, announced the return of Christ and the inauguration

of the kingdom of unity and justice.  Nothing could have stood

in his way.

Alexander hesitated, vacillated, and then decided.  He ig-

nored the message of the Prisoner of ‘Akká and gave in to the

pressures of his nobles.  He had waded into the stream and

now staggered fearfully back to the familiar shore.

The words of Bahá’u’lláh to the czar ring in our ears:

“Couldst thou … discover the treasures of My Cause … thou

wouldst, in thy love for My Name, and in thy longing for My

glorious and sublime Kingdom, lay down thy life in My path.”8

A great trembling seized and

rocked the foundations of that country.

The Third Kingdom Fails

The House of Romanov fell, as had the Houses of Napo-

leon and Hohenzollern.  Its fortunes declined with progres-

sive swiftness until World War I.  Bolshevism arose during

that fiery upheaval, shook the throne of the czars, and then

abolished it.

The last years of the reign of Alexander II were given over

to terrorism and unexampled violence.  Alexander reversed his

liberal policies and inaugurated a program of repression that

was taken up and expanded by his two autocratic successors.

The czar lived in fear of his life.  Living itself became a daily

ordeal.  Alexander would not leave the palace except under

heavy guard.  He preferred not to leave at all.  He ordered his

quarters to be searched carefully each night before retiring for

fear of concealed assassins.

On March 13, 1881, the czar was riding in his carriage along

one of the central streets of St. Petersburg near the Winter

Palace.  The fatal day had arrived at last.  A series of small bombs

was exploded in his path.  His vehicle overturned, and the blast

shredded the king’s carriage.  Alexander survived, and was

questioning the would-be assassin when the latter’s accom-

plice threw another bomb directly in front of the czar’s feet.

Alexander died a few hours later in his room at the royal

palace.

The next Romanov, Alexander III, was cut from a more

tyrannical pattern, and his successor Nicholas II—the last of

the czars—was equally rigid but, unhappily for him, far less

able.

What had been a general growing discontent among the

masses now became an organized revolt.  Both intellectuals and

peasants arose against the czar.  Their hatred finally erupted in

the midst of World War I as the flame of revolution swept

across the land—a revolution unparalleled in modern history.

It challenged all age-old principles.  It upended ancient and

time-honored institutions and spread havoc, destruction and

death on every side.  The death-throes of the Romanov dy-

nasty have been described in these words:

A great trembling seized and rocked the foundations of

that country.  The light of religion was dimmed.  Ecclesi-

astical institutions of every denomination were swept away.

The state religion was disendowed, persecuted and abol-

ished.  A far-flung empire was dismembered.  A militant,

triumphant proletariat exiled the intellectuals, and plun-

dered and massacred the nobility.  Civil war and disease

decimated a population, already in the throes of agony

and despair.  And, finally, the Chief Magistrate of a mighty

dominion, together with his consort, and his family, and

his dynasty, were swept into the vortex of this great con-

vulsion and perished.9

This brought to an end the line of kings that had ruled

Russia for three hundred years.  They, too, had turned a deaf

ear to the words of the Messenger of God:  “O ye rulers of the

earth! …  Hearken unto the counsel given you by the Pen of

the Most High, that haply both ye and the poor may attain

unto tranquility and peace.  We beseech God to assist the kings

of the earth to establish peace on earth. …  Beware lest ye

disregard the counsel of the All-Knowing, the Faithful.”10

The House of Romanov collapsed, and the dynasty of which

Alexander Nicolaevitch II had been so proud came to an end.

The czars had not “stayed the hand of the oppressors,” nor

had they “safeguarded the rights of the downtrodden.” In the

wake of this disaster, every prophecy that Bahá’u’lláh, the

“Glory of God,” had uttered concerning the fate of oppres-

sive monarchs had been fulfilled.

When we look back over this tragic history and the failure

of faith that set it in motion, Bahá’u’lláh’s words to Alexander

II and through him to the government of Russia seem among

the most poignant that He wrote:  “Beware lest thy desire de-

ter thee from turning toward the face of thy Lord. …  Beware

lest thou barter away this sublime station. …  Beware lest thy

sovereignty withhold thee from the Supreme Sovereign.”11

And how relevant to the Romanov tragedy and its unhappy

inaugurator, Alexander, seem the words of the Old Testament

prophet Haggai concerning this day:  “I will shake all nations,

and the desire of all nations shall come:  and I will fill this

house with glory, saith the Lord of hosts. …  I will overthrow

the throne of kingdoms …  and I will overthrow the chariots,

and those that ride in them.”12

The third kingdom had fallen.

[Blank page]

6  The Fourth Kingdom

Falls

[Blank page]

We have found thee clinging to the Branch,

and heedless of the Root.

The End of the Holy Roman Empire

“The Empire of the Hapsburgs disintegrate and disappear from

the face of the earth entirely?  Never!  There has always been an

Empire as long as Europe itself has existed.”

These might have been the words of any observer in Eu-

rope during those days in which Bahá’u’lláh addressed a spe-

cial message to Franz Josef, the autocratic ruler of the Austro-

Hungarian monarchy.

It would vanish as a mist before the rising sun.

Who could believe such a thing about the Holy Roman

Empire?  The empire had suffered many vicissitudes; it had its

problems, some of them very serious.  But it held together the

entire economic structure of central Europe.  The Danube was

Europe’s highway and marketplace, and the Hapsburg Em-

pire was its protector.  No matter how desperate conditions

got, its subject peoples would not bite off their noses to spite

their imperial faces.  Yet the empire did vanish, “like a mist,”

and it vanished overnight.

Emperor Franz Josef journeyed to the Holy Land to pay

tribute to Christ.  He passed within a short distance of the

prison in which Bahá’u’lláh was being held captive.

The prison city of ‘Akká, called Acco in ancient times, is a

site referred to by Hosea, who had prophesied that it would

be a “door of hope” for mankind.  Isaiah prophesied that this

city would be a “place for the herds” of the flock of the Lord,

“for my people that have sought me.”

Franz Josef did not seek out Bahá’u’lláh nor inquire con-

cerning Him, despite the reputation as a reformer and saint

that Bahá’u’lláh’s life had won among European writers and

diplomats.

From that prison-city Bahá’u’lláh addressed His historic

words to Franz Josef:  “O Emperor of Austria!  He Who is the

Dayspring of God’s Light dwelt in the prison of ‘Akká, at the

time when thou didst set forth to visit the Aqsá Mosque [in

Jerusalem].  Thou passed Him by, and inquired not about Him,

by Whom every house is exalted, and every lofty gate un-

locked.  We, verily, made it a place whereunto the world should

turn, that they might remember Me, and yet thou hast re-

jected Him Who is the Object of this remembrance.”1

The first reaction of almost anyone who had not investigated

Bahá’u’lláh’s Faith might be to say, “Who could blame the em-

peror? If I were king and anyone spoke such words as those to

me, I would ignore them.  Such a claim is preposterous.”

Yet an answer like this is not possible for anyone who really

believes in one of the world religions.  Christians, Jews, Mus-

lims are people who believe that God does speak through

Messengers and that His Messengers have always made the

same kind of announcement.  These Messengers have always

been persecuted, and God has promised to send One, in the

fullness of time, who will be a “Prince of Peace.”  The Chris-

tian church is based on exactly that same “preposterous” claim

by a so-called madman Who was too “weak” to save Himself.

Christ’s words were also branded as false in His day.

Franz Joseph believed that.  He heard Mass every day.  Every

day he listened to the familiar story of Jesus, Who had been

rejected by Herod and Pilate.  Every day, he appealed to God

to keep His promise, “Thy will be done, on earth.”

The problem with promises given us by God, as the Phari-

sees found two thousand years ago, is that, inevitably, God

will keep them.

To Franz Joseph, Bahá’u’lláh wrote, “We have … found

thee clinging unto the Branch and heedless of the Root.”2

We have come to unite and weld together

all who dwell on earth.

Break in Pieces

The royal visit of Emperor Franz Josef to the Holy Land was

one of pomp and ceremony.  The cost of such pageantry

throughout his empire of drones and princes was sustained by

the labor and sacrifices of the neglected people of his realm.

Franz Josef, like his fellow monarchs, was heedless of

Bahá’u’lláh’s words:  “Know ye that the poor are the trust of

God in your midst.  Watch that ye betray not His trust, that ye

deal not unjustly with them and that ye walk not in the ways

of the treacherous.”3

Bahá’u’lláh must have been sorrowed by the conduct of the

emperor, who came so near the object of his keenest desire.

Yet His sorrow was even greater for humanity.

He comforted the downtrodden, saying that even if every ruler

opposed the Revelation of God, this would sooner or later bind

together all men in a common effort toward a common goal:

peace and freedom.  The leaders of men could either hasten or

delay its fulfillment, but they would be powerless to stop it.

From the prison-city of ‘Akká, Bahá’u’lláh wrote, “We, ver-

ily, have come to unite and weld together all that dwell on

earth.  Unto this beareth witness what the ocean of Mine ut-

terance hath revealed amongst men, and yet most of the people

have gone astray.”4

He had “come to the Holy Land” from the “east” by “way

of the gate” as foretold in those passages of scripture honored

by the emperor of the Holy Roman Empire.  Franz Josef, one

of the most powerful monarchs of that era, brushed shoul-

ders with the Prisoner of ‘Akká, yet was still oblivious of His

words to the leaders of men:  “It is incumbent upon thee to

summon the people, under all conditions, to whatever will

cause them to show forth spiritual characteristics and goodly

deeds, so that all may become aware of that which is the cause

of human upliftment.”5

Bahá’u’lláh, a prisoner, could not visit Europe, but the

emperor of Austria came to the Holy Land and passed under

His shadow.  They were not destined to meet.  Bahá’u’lláh’s

words to Franz Josef were to remain unheeded until history

could look back upon their fulfillment.

Bahá’u’lláh declared that the day was approaching when men

would “behold the Daystar of justice shining in its full splen-

dor” and no one could prevent its “shining.”  He wrote, “Who

is there that can put out the light which the snow-white Hand

of God hath lit?  Where is he to be found that hath the power

to quench the fire which hath been kindled through the might

of thy Lord?”6

Certainly no king would be able to prevent the rise and

spread of His Faith or to dim the light He had ignited in the

hearts of His followers.  Bahá’u’lláh Himself wrote, “The fierce

gales and whirlwinds of the world and its peoples can never

shake the foundation upon which the rock-like stability of

My chosen ones is based.”7

“Thus instructeth thee” the Messenger of God for this day

from the “grievous Prison.”  Neither kings nor peoples could

hold back the rising sun of His teachings.  They were God-

directed for the betterment of all humankind.  Bahá’u’lláh

wrote, “Members of the human race!  Hold ye fast by the Cord

which no man can sever.  This will, indeed, profit you all the

days of your life, for its strength is of God, the Lord of all

worlds. …  Though encompassed with a myriad griefs and

afflictions, We have, with mighty confidence, summoned the

peoples of the earth. …  This Holy Land hath been men-

tioned and extolled in all the sacred Scriptures. …  Whatever

hath come to pass in this Day hath been foretold in the Scrip-

tures of old.”‘

Jeremiah, speaking of the great One Who would come from

Persia in “that day” to destroy “the king and the princes” also

foreshadowed the fate of those nations that opposed Him:

“Thou art my battle axe and weapons of war:  for with thee I

will break in pieces the nations, and with thee will I destroy

kingdoms.”9

The fall of the fourth kingdom was under way.  No nation,

no empire, was to “break in pieces” in such a dramatic and

permanent fashion as that of the kingdom of the Hapsburgs.

Ye, and all ye possess, shall pass away.

The Fourth Kingdom Falls

The rumblings of an internal disintegration heralded the earth-

quake that threatened the kingdom of Franz Josef.

Bahá’u’lláh’s counsel to the kings of the earth concerning

the rights of their subjects was this:  “Shouldst thou cause riv-

ers of justice to spread their waters amongst thy subjects, God

would surely aid thee with the hosts of the unseen and of the

seen, and would strengthen thee in thine affairs.”10

The actions of the emperor of Austria-Hungary were di-

rectly opposite.  Rivers of justice did not “flow” through the

land, and Franz Josef was neither “aided” nor “strengthened”

in the deepening crises that began to engulf his rambling em-

pire in the late nineteenth century.

The fate that awaited such kings was described in these words

by Bahá’u’lláh:  “Ye continue roving with delight in the valley

of your corrupt desires.  Ye, and all ye possess, shall pass away.”11

It has been said of the rule of Franz Josef that “repeated

tragedies darkened his reign.”12  Calamitous events succeeded

one another with alarming persistence.

His brother, Maximilian, was defeated, imprisoned, and

shot to death by a peasant revolution in Mexico.  His son,

Crown Prince Rudolph, disgraced the royal family and fi-

nally perished in a dishonorable affair.  His wife, Empress

Elizabeth, was assassinated in Geneva.  The archduke Francis

Ferdinand and his wife were struck down by assassins in

Sarajevo.  This very tragedy was the spark that ignited the

great world war.  Shortly after, Franz Josef himself succumbed

to death.

The death of the emperor brought to a close a reign “unsur-

passed by any other reign in the disasters it brought to the

nation.”  Composed of conglomerate states, races, and lan-

guages, the Holy Roman Empire relentlessly began to disinte-

grate.  “All that was left of the once formidable Holy Roman

Empire was a shrunken republic that led a miserable exist-

ence.”13  The tiny Austrian republic was taken over by Hitler

and restored in 1945 as the uneasy meeting ground of four

armies of occupation.

The words of Bahá’u’lláh echoed from His prison cell in

the Holy Land out across the Mediterranean Sea.  They found

their dire fulfillment in the overthrow of the dynasty of the

Hapsburgs, sweeping away both king and princes alike.

The Hapsburgs, like their fellow monarchs, punished them-

selves by wrong decisions.  The first error, the rejection of the

Messenger of God, was spiritual.  Moral errors followed in such

areas of concern as peace and justice.  Finally, very obvious

political miscalculations completed the work.  Forgetful of both

God and man, men of power seek to exalt their own position,

party or nation; and, as this is contrary to the spirit of justice

and love, they bring about their own downfall—some rap-

idly, some slowly, all inevitably.

The Messenger of God is the lawgiver for His day.  Those

who break the laws pay the penalty.  In secular society, those

who ignore or break the established laws suffer the consequences

of their own neglect.  These outer laws are a mirror of the

realm of the moral, ethical, and spiritual Laws of God that

are the foundation and basis of all life on earth.  Therefore the

punishment is more severe and is worldwide, as the offenders

are both the leaders and the people of the earth.

When the sun rises, all life on the planet must adjust it-

self to the new day.  Flowers open their blossoms to the gradu-

ally warming sunlight.  Should the blossoms neglect to open

until the noonday sun beats down upon them, they would

be destroyed.

In like manner, kingdoms and peoples that have refused for

over a century to open their hearts to the Sun of truth for this

Day, Bahá’u’lláh, promised throughout their own holy books,

now find themselves endangered through their refusal to ad-

just to the light and heat of a new Day.

The new springtime came with the birth of the Bahá’í Faith

in 1844.  The spring has come and passed.  The icy indiffer-

ence and cold snows of opposition should have melted ages

ago; now this glacial-like neglect is powerless to resist the sum-

mer-heat of the Sun of Bahá’u’lláh’s teachings.  Helpless be-

fore the blazing rays, it melts and floods, and sweeps away all

before it.

How startling and apt appear the words of the prophet

Zephaniah when we consider the fate of Emperor Franz Josef

and his family.  Zephaniah prophesied the coming of “the

great day of the Lord” when the Lord would be in His “holy

mountain.”

Franz Josef visited that mountain and, as we have seen, passed

within the shadow of the prison of ‘Akká.  In Bahá’u’lláh’s own

words, the Emperor had not even “inquired” about Him.

Now the king and the princes of the royal House of

Hapsburg were no more.  Such a time had been envisioned by

the prophet Zephaniah, who said, “I will also stretch out mine

hand upon … them that are turned back from the Lord; and

those that have not sought the Lord, nor inquired for him. …

And it shall come to pass in the day of the Lord’s sacrifice, that

I will punish the princes, and the king’s children.”14

The fourth kingdom had fallen.

[Blank page]

7  A Kingdom Stands

[Blank page]

If this is of God, it will endure.

A Kingdom Stands

“O Queen in London!  Incline thine ear unto the voice of thy

Lord. …  All that hath been mentioned in the Gospel hath

been fulfilled.”1

Bahá’u’lláh addressed these words to Queen Victoria of Great

Britain.  In His letter to the queen, Bahá’u’lláh once again linked

His Message with that of Christ.  He said that the city of ‘Akká

had been “honored by the footsteps” of the Promised One.2

In this day, Bahá’u’lláh said, the people of the world had

the opportunity to “inhale the fragrance” of the Revelation of

God, and to become “inebriated with the wine of His [the

Messenger’s] presence.”3

Bahá’u’lláh praised Queen Victoria for two far-reaching re-

forms undertaken by the British government.  He wrote, “We

have been informed that thou hast forbidden the trading in

slaves. …  This, verily, is what God hath enjoined in this

wondrous Revelation.  God hath, truly, destined a reward for

thee, because of this.  He, verily, will pay the doer of good,

whether man or woman, his due recompense.”4

In yet another part of His letter to the queen, Bahá’u’lláh

said, “Thou hast entrusted the reins of counsel into the hands

of the representatives of the people.  Thou, indeed, hast done

well, for thereby the foundations of the edifice of thine affairs

will be strengthened, and the hearts of all that are beneath thy

shadow, whether high or low, will be tranquilized.”5

Bahá’u’lláh deplored the state of the world.  He longed to

see mankind at peace, developing the creative talents of every

heart.  Bahá’u’lláh attributed much of man’s suffering to the

insincerity and greed of political leaders.

He wrote, “We behold it [the world], in this day, at the

mercy of rulers so drunk with pride that they cannot discern

clearly their own best advantage, much less recognize a Rev-

elation so bewildering and challenging as this.  And whenever

any one of them [leaders] hath striven to improve its condi-

tion, his motive hath been his own gain, whether confessedly

so or not; and the unworthiness of this motive hath limited

his power to heal or cure.”6

Bahá’u’lláh prescribed the remedy that could heal the ills of

the world:  “O Queen in London. …  That which the Lord

hath ordained as the sovereign remedy and mightiest instru-

ment for the healing of all the world is the union of all its

peoples in one universal Cause, one common Faith.  This can

in no wise be achieved except through the power of a skilled,

an all-powerful and inspired Physician.”7

In what spirit did the queen receive Bahá’u’lláh’s letter?  Ac-

cording to one written account:  “Queen Victoria, it is said,

upon reading the Tablet [letter] revealed for her, remarked:  ‘If

this is of God, it will endure.’”8

Like Gamaliel, the leading rabbi who refused either to con-

demn Christ or to accept Him, the queen preferred to leave

history to take its course.

Of all the rulers to whom Bahá’u’lláh wrote, Victoria was

the only one who responded in any manner, however limited.

She is also the only one of those monarchs who did not un-

dergo a series of afflictive dynasty-destroying disasters during

her reign, and whose kingdom has survived.

Queen Victoria died on January 22, 1901, during the South

African Boer War.  She had ruled her people for over sixty-

three years, the longest reign known in British history.  Victoria

had indeed been blessed with a reign that was in sharp con-

trast with those of her fellow rulers.

There was, however, to be a far more direct link between

the queen and the Prisoner.  An even greater “reward” was to

come to one of Victoria’s descendants.

The queen’s granddaughter, Queen Marie of Romania, sub-

sequently became a devoted follower of the Prisoner of ‘Akká.

Several testimonies to Bahá’u’lláh’s Faith have been left by the

pen of this royal convert.  Publicly the queen proclaimed, “If

ever the name of Bahá’u’lláh … comes to your attention, do

not put [His] writings from you. …  Let their glorious, peace-

bringing, love-creating lessons sink into your hearts as they

have into mine. …  Seek them and be the happier.”9

She later wrote, “It is Christ’s message taken up anew, in

the same words almost, but adapted to the thousand years and

more difference that lies between the year one and today.”10

Canadian Bahá’ís were delighted that it was in a letter to a

Canadian newspaper, the Toronto Star, that the queen’s public

declaration was first made.

There is also a second link between Queen Marie, the first

member of royalty to embrace the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh, and

the kings to whom Bahá’u’lláh directed specific letters.  Queen

Marie of Romania was the granddaughter of both Queen

Victoria and Alexander II of Russia.  Victoria was the sole

monarch to make even the slightest response to Bahá’u’lláh’s

message.  Although Alexander II was himself indifferent, it was

one of his ministers who made an effort, however futile, to

rescue Bahá’u’lláh from His persecutors.

The granddaughter of these two monarchs was the first of

the line of kings to recognize and accept the mission of

Bahá’u’lláh, a mission that its author stated would eventually

secure the allegiance of most of the human race.

What blessings would have come to the nation whose ruler

had truly heeded the words that Bahá’u’lláh addressed to them?

What blessings would have come to all humankind?

Bahá’u’lláh Himself promised, “How great is the blessed-

ness that awaiteth the king who will arise to aid My Cause in

My Kingdom, who will detach himself from all else but Me!”11

Bahá’u’lláh told one of the kings that if it had not been for

the “repudiation” of the religious leaders and the conspiracy

of the rulers, He would have given them guidance that would

have “thrilled and carried away the hearts”—guidance that

would “cheer the eyes” and “tranquilize the souls” of men.

Bahá’u’lláh severely censured those kings who refused to

make any effort to investigate the truth of His Faith.  Their

failure was reflected and repeated in their neglect of their re-

sponsibility to God for the welfare of their people and the

peace of the world.

We should not, however, make the mistake of thinking

that this condemnation represented a criticism of kingship

itself.  Much less can it be regarded as an attack on estab-

lished government.

Bahá’u’lláh foretold the day when just kings and other rul-

ers would arise and seize the opportunity that earlier leaders

had so tragically missed.  Bahá’u’lláh wrote, “Erelong will God

make manifest on earth kings who will recline on the couches

of justice, and will rule amongst men even as they rule their

own selves.  They, indeed, are among the choicest of My crea-

tures in the entire creation.”12

Bahá’u’lláh described the blessing that such leadership would

bring to the entire planet:

O concourse of the rulers of the world!  There is no force on

earth that can equal in its conquering power the force of

justice and wisdom …  Blessed is the king who marcheth

with the ensign of wisdom unfurled before him, and the

battalions of justice massed in his rear.  He verily is the or-

nament that adorneth the brow of peace and the counte-

nance of security.  There can be no doubt whatever that if

the daystar of justice, which the clouds of tyranny have

obscured, were to shed its light upon men, the face of the

earth would be completely transformed.13

In Queen Victoria’s case, we are so familiar with the halo of

respect surrounding her and her throne that we are in danger

of overlooking an important historical fact, one that has far-

ranging implications for our story.

When Victoria ascended the throne in 1838, the British

monarchy was at the lowest ebb in its history.  Her grandfather

George III had been insane.  Her uncle George IV was a na-

tional disgrace, the inspiration for the vulgar nursery rhyme

“Georgie Porgie.”  Her immediate predecessor, her second

uncle, William IV, was publicly mocked during his lifetime,

and on the day of his funeral was described by the London

Times as “only a common sort of person.”

Victoria was a young, inexperienced woman, the last mem-

ber of a junior branch of the family.  She appeared to have

little to commend her.  It was common knowledge in London

that she would be the last British monarch and that Britain

would follow France, the United States and other “progres-

sive” nations in establishing a republic.

In fact, Victoria was to rule for sixty years and leave the

monarchy more secure than it had ever been in its history!

Bahá’u’lláh clearly indicated that even the slightest response

to God’s call would bring very great blessings.  The tiniest ray

of light penetrating the camera lens can imprint upon the

receptive film an entire picture.  The mind is staggered at the

potential that could be released by a mass response to the di-

vine summons.

Unlike Queen Victoria and her government, the other Eu-

ropean monarchs had been far removed from the will of God.

They had experienced the full effect of their neglect of their

trust and the irrelevancy of their pursuits.

The nineteenth-century monarchs who were the exact an-

tithesis of Bahá’u’lláh’s teachings, however, were the kings of

Persia and Turkey.

They not only failed to make the slightest response to

Bahá’u’lláh’s words, but actively joined forces repeatedly to

persecute, imprison, and exile the Messenger of God.  Within

one of these two empires, over twenty thousand of the early

followers of the Bahá’í Faith were slain in the most barbarous

fashion.

These next two kings were described by Bahá’u’lláh, one as

“the Prince of Oppressors,” the other as occupying the “Throne

of Tyranny.”

He said that God would make them “an object lesson for

the world.”14

8 The Exile

[Blank page]

A wholesale massacre!

The Ruined House

In considering the encounter between the Messenger of God

and the rulers of the leading Western nations, we have skipped

ahead of events in the Near East.  Before going on to the story

of the fifth kingdom, let us glance quickly back at these events,

which brought Bahá’u’lláh out of His native land and pre-

pared the way for His announcement to the kings.

Bahá’u’lláh was still imprisoned in Tihrán’s “Black Pit”

when an event occurred that appeared certain to lead to His

release.  The would-be assassin of Násiri’d-Dín Sháh had en-

listed the help of a half-demented youth.  During the course

of the persecutions, these two persons were arrested, and

the former finally confessed his guilt.  He alone had been

involved from the beginning, and his only helper had been

his pathetic companion.

As soon as the confession was obtained, a representative of

the prime minister went immediately to take down the words

of that confession.  The Russian ministry seized the opportu-

nity to send its translator along because of its interest in

the Prisoner.  The confession, therefore, received impressive

authentication.

Bahá’u’lláh’s enemies were enraged.  The thought that

Bahá’u’lláh might escape from the dungeon when He had been

so close to the grave infuriated them.

Before Bahá’u’lláh was released, these conspirators besieged

the shah with the new plans that they had contrived.  They

assured the king that they would be able to involve Bahá’u’lláh

in grave troubles.  They were confident that these intrigues

would ensure His death.  The shah, pressed by his mother and

accustomed to doing as he wished with those he feared, agreed

to their schemes.

He summoned the prime minister and told him to send

several detachments of soldiers to Bahá’u’lláh’s home district

of núr.  These soldiers were told that they were being sent to

suppress dangerous “disturbers of the peace.”  It was expected

that this sudden assault would generate widespread confusion

and perhaps incite opposition from the villagers.  The plan

was to blame Bahá’u’lláh for these fresh uprisings and then

brand Him as an agitator of political revolt.  Bahá’u’lláh’s sum-

mer home was in the village of Tákur, in the district of Núr.

Although the prime minister, as soon as he heard the in-

structions, knew very well that the plan was directed against

Bahá’u’lláh, he did nothing to prevent it.

A detachment of soldiers was placed under the command

of an officer named Mírzá Abú Tálib.  As soon as his troops

reached the village of Tákur, Mírzá Abú Tálib told them to

prepare for an all-out attack.

The surprised and defenseless people of the village, upon

becoming aware of the soldiers’ approach, sent representatives

to appeal to the officer.  They asked him to give them some

reason for such an onslaught.  Mírzá Abú Tálib refused to see

them.  Instead, he sent a curt message:  “I am charged by my

sovereign to order a wholesale massacre of the men of this

village, to capture the women and to confiscate all property.”

The soldiers attacked the house of Bahá’u’lláh as their ini-

tial act.  Bahá’u’lláh had inherited the beautiful summer resi-

dence from His father, a minister of the crown, and the build-

ing was known to be furnished with objects of great value.

Mírzá Abú Tálib ordered his men to break open everything

and take away the contents.  He instructed that what could

not be carried away should be burned or demolished.  The

walls of the rooms were disfigured beyond repair.  The beams

were torn down, the decorations destroyed, and the house was

left in ruins.

From this opening assault, the troops went on to demolish

the homes of other people in the village, after which the en-

tire town was set on fire.

This deliberate provocation, premonitory of similar schemes

that twentieth-century tyrants were to use on a large scale

against peoples they wished to destroy, was expected to incite

fierce opposition.  It was assumed that Bahá’u’lláh and His sup-

porters would attempt to arouse the district against the gov-

ernment.  The uprising would then be crushed, and Bahá’u’lláh

condemned for treason.

It is Our purpose … to abolish … war,

and bloodshed, from the face of the earth.

Out of the Pit

The new conspiracy failed.  Bahá’u’lláh and His family showed

no inclination to incite opposition to the crown.  And now

that His innocence was at last made public, the opportunity

to discredit and kill Him had passed.  His enemies realized to

their chagrin that it was no longer possible or wise to hold

Bahá’u’lláh a prisoner.

A minister of the crown was sent to summon Bahá’u’lláh

from “the Pit.”  He was ordered to appear before the au-

thorities so that He might be informed of His freedom.

The minister, Hájí ‘Alí, had once been a friend of Bahá’-

u’lláh.  When he saw that foul prison where Bahá’u’lláh had

been kept, with its filth and its vermin-infested floor, he

was very distressed.

“May Mírzá Áqá Khán be accursed!” he shouted, denounc-

ing the prime minister.  But when he looked upon Bahá’u’lláh,

Whom he had loved and respected, he burst into tears.

Bahá’u’lláh’s hair was matted and dirty.  His clothes were torn.

His shoulders were festered from the chains that had weighed

down His neck.

Hájí ‘Alí wept aloud.  He turned to Bahá’u’lláh in great sor-

row.  “God is my witness,” he told Bahá’u’lláh.  “I never real-

ized you were being subjected to such treatment.”

Hájí ‘Alí could not bear to look upon the torn and soiled

garments in which Bahá’u’lláh was clothed.  He took off his

own fine cloak and started to place it over Bahá’u’lláh’s shoul-

ders, entreating Him to wear it.  Since He was a member of

one of Persia’s oldest noble families, it seemed wrong for

Bahá’u’lláh to appear at court in the condition in which the

minister had found Him.

Bahá’u’lláh refused.  He preferred, He said, to appear before

them in the same clothes in which He had been cast into the

dungeon.  He would wear the garb of a prisoner, a garb that

other innocent people still wore.

He knew that the sufferings He and His friends had sus-

tained in the Síyáh-Chál were but a prelude to far greater

troubles yet to come.  Once the shah and the clergy realized

that He was not merely a prominent Bábí, but the One Whom

the Báb had foretold, a veritable flood of tribulations would

engulf Him from all sides.

Bahá’u’lláh recalled those pregnant months in the Síyáh-

Chál when later He sent His letter to Násiri’d-Dín Sháh from

the prison of ‘Akká.  He wrote, “O King!  I was but a man like

others, asleep upon My couch, when lo, the breezes of the

All-Glorious were wafted over Me, and taught Me the knowl-

edge of all that hath been.  This thing is not from Me, but

from One Who is Almighty and All-Knowing [God].  And

He bade Me lift up My voice between earth and heaven, and

for this there befell Me what hath caused the tears of every

man of understanding to flow.”1

The guards conducted Bahá’u’lláh from the dungeon-prison

to the seat of the imperial government, ushered into the pres-

ence of the prime minister, Mírzá Áqá Khán.

The conscience of Mírzá Áqá Khán must have been stricken

at the sight of Bahá’u’lláh, Whose treatment had been so severe

that none who knew Him would now have recognized Him.

The prime minister had failed to redeem his promise to the

Báb.  He had not protected and safeguarded the Báb’s follow-

ers.  Instead, the leading minister in the land had himself con-

ducted and masterminded a carnage that European historians

would describe as “unparalleled.”  The Austrian military attaché

has written, “My pen shrinks in horror in attempting to de-

scribe what befell those valiant men and women.”2

Mírzá Áqá Khán had proved false to his vows to both the

Báb and Bahá’u’lláh, but he was still not prepared to face his

conscience.  Instead, he spoke harshly to Bahá’u’lláh to cover

his own shame.

“If you had taken my advice,” he told Bahá’u’lláh, “and cut

yourself off from the Faith of the Báb, you wouldn’t have

suffered this agony and indignity.”3

Bahá’u’lláh looked into his eyes and replied simply, “Had

you, in turn, followed My Counsels, the affairs of the govern-

ment would not have reached so critical a stage.”4

Who will ever know the thoughts that coursed through the

mind of Mírzá Áqá Khán?  Did he recall the earlier occasion

when, stricken with illness, he had heard the doctors give up

all hope of his recovery?  Did he recall how his friend,

Bahá’u’lláh, had visited and cared for him?  Did he remember

his statements that Bahá’u’lláh had restored him to health?

Did he reflect upon those prophetic words that he himself had

once spoken to his own son about Bahá’u’lláh?  “My son, those

who now honor us with their lips would condemn and slan-

der us if we failed for a moment to promote their interests.  It

is not that way with Bahá’u’lláh.  Unlike other great men around

us, he attracts a genuine love and devotion that neither time

nor enemies can destroy.”

Was the prime minister thinking of those hours of agoniz-

ing choice when Bahá’u’lláh had been a guest in his home,

and he had delivered Him to the Black Pit in order to protect

his position as chief minister of the land?  Was he still hearing

the sounds of the joyful chanting of those martyrs who had

been slain in the most fiendish manner conceivable in the public

square of Tihrán?

We shall never really know.  We do know that the prime

minister was deeply disturbed by Bahá’u’lláh when He came

up out of that dungeon.  He was shaken at the sight of what he

had done to One from Whom he had received only kindnesses,

on so many occasions.  He could not remain antagonistic in

that face-to-face encounter.

Mírzá Áqá Khan made yet another of his pitiful periodic

efforts to atone for the past.  The warning you gave,” he told

Bahá’u’lláh, “has come true.  What do you now advise me to

do?”

Bahá’u’lláh replied that the prime minister should order the

provincial governors to end the persecution of the innocent,

to cease plundering their property and dishonoring their

women.  The government should abandon its feeling that it

had the right to persecute the Báb’s followers simply because

of their religious beliefs.

This time, Mírzá Áqá Khán did not hesitate.  On that same

day he issued an order to the governors of the realm instructing

them to cease all their actions against the followers of the Báb.

Násiri’d-Dín Sháh was not reconciled to Bahá’u’lláh’s re-

lease from prison.  He could no longer tolerate his victim’s pres-

ence in Persia.  Accordingly, he issued an immediate edict for

the banishment of Bahá’u’lláh.  Within ten days, on January

12, 1853, Bahá’u’lláh began the exile that was to take Him

forever out of His homeland and lead Him at last to the side

of Mount Carmel, the “Vineyard of God,” in Israel.

Stripped of all His possessions, Bahá’u’lláh was given inad-

equate provisions and clothing for the cold wintry journey

over the snowbound mountains of western Persia into Iraq.

The king and clergy were satisfied.  At least they were rid of

a hated enemy.  The wings of death hovered about Bahá’u’lláh’s

Faith.  To every eye, both the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh had been

defeated.  The redeemer of men, the unifier of the world,

Bahá’u’lláh, appeared to be a colossal failure.

Násiri’d-Dín Sháh was confident that he had wiped out the

new Faith.  In fact, the opposite proved true.  By sending

Bahá’u’lláh into exile, Násiri’d-Dín Sháh made certain that

the bright light of history would be shed upon every event

associated with Bahá’u’lláh’s exile.  Future historians would

study every word and action concerning that historic journey.

By banishing Bahá’u’lláh to Iraq, once the ancient land of

Babylon, the shah drove his Prisoner by enforced exile to the

historic site near where Ezekiel had seen his “vision” of the

“Glory of God” by the ancient river Chebar.5

By his edict, Násiri’d-Dín Sháh assured that Bahá’u’lláh

would be exiled to the very spot where Ezekiel had made his

prophecy concerning the One Who would come to the Holy

Land from “the East,” by way of “the gate.”6

Bahá’u’lláh was on His way!

9  The Fifth Kingdom

Falls

[Blank page]

His hand is stretched out, and who shall turn it back?

Assassin!  Assassin!

The hour had now come for the king of Persia himself to

experience the retribution that his actions had entailed.

Násiri’d-Dín Sháh was soon to be made, as promised by

Bahá’u’lláh, “an object-lesson for the world.”1

It happened on the occasion of the great jubilee celebration

organized by the shah to honor his own station.  The king

looked forward to this occasion as his most glorious hour.  He

had elaborately planned to inaugurate a new era, one that he

hoped would perpetuate his name in history.

The shah was greatly impressed by European civilization.

Unlike his predecessors, he had visited France and other West-

ern nations and sought to be remembered as the ruler who

modernized Persia.

History had other plans.

Násiri’d-Dín Sháh went into the shrine of ‘Abdu’l-‘Azím, a

venerated shah and a holy figure of Islam, to offer prayers on

the eve of this historic occasion.  Tomorrow, he told himself, he

would campaign to woo back the affections of his subjects.

Bonfires lighted the night skies.  Banners proclaimed the

titles of the king.  Trumpets and cymbals and drums declared

on all sides the might and majesty of Násiri’d-Dín Sháh, the

king of Persia.

Suddenly and without warning, the hand of the assassin

struck.  The royal sovereign fell dead on the pavement of the

shrine.  His ministers and companions were thrown into a

panic, paralyzed by what had happened.

In order to delay the news of the shah’s slaying, they carried

his body from the shrine, and propped it up in the royal car-

riage.  The dead king was supported by the prime minister him-

self as the carriage rolled through the streets.

The banners waved, the band struck up the music, the intimi-

dated crowd shouted aloud its empty praise of a king it neither

loved nor respected.  The great jubilee festival was underway.  It

proclaimed a king who had become a propped-up corpse.

The shah’s terror-stricken ministers, not knowing who might

be next, passed along the dreaded words that were to become

the signature of our modern political age:  “Assassin!  Assassin!”

The assassination of Násiri’d-Dín Sháh was at first blamed

on the followers of the Báb.  Like the Christians in ancient

Rome or the Jews under Nazism, whenever any difficulty arose

anywhere in the kingdom, the Bábís, and later the Bahá’ís,

were the primary suspects, targets, and victims.  The actual

assassin was a certain Mírzá Ridá, a follower of the notorious

revolutionary Siyyid Jamálu’d-Dín-i-Afghání, who was a bit-

ter and outspoken enemy of the Bahá’í Faith.

The fiendish minds, which had slain more than twenty thou-

sand of the followers of this Faith, could not believe that their

victims did not spend their days and nights in hatred, plotting

revenge against their slayers.  It was what they themselves would

do, why not the Bahá’ís?

How little they knew of Bahá’u’lláh’s teachings.  He had

denounced violence and had forbade the taking of life “It

is better to be killed than kill.”2  His teachings threw the integ-

rity of His followers into sharp contrast with the cruelty and

prejudice of Persia’s rulers.  Shortly before Násiri’d-Dín

Sháh’s death, a renowned teacher and poet called Varqá had

been seized, along with his twelve-year-old son, Rúhu’lláh.

The two Bábís were held together in the prison of Tihrán.

A brutal officer, the Hájibu’d-Dawlih, forced the son to stand

and watch as he thrust a sword into the stomach of the boy’s

father.  Unable to make Varqá plead for mercy, the enraged

officer began to hack the father to pieces before the eyes of his

son.  Then he turned to Rúhu’lláh.

“Now will you recant your faith?” he asked.

The boy’s refusal was firm:  “Never!  Never!”

Frustrated with anger, the Hájibu’d-Dawlih seized a rope

and strangled the child.

It is not surprising that Bahá’u’lláh included the people of

Persia, who had so ruthlessly persecuted His Faith in His dec-

laration that no one could dim God’s shining light in the hearts

of men once it had been ignited.  He said, “Give heed to My

warning, ye people of Persia! …  He [God] shall perfect His

light, albeit ye abhor it in the secret of your hearts.”3

The House of the Qájár dynasty began to collapse about its

kings.  All the efforts to buttress it and prevent its downfall

ended in failure.

The words of Isaiah the prophet seemed to echo from past

centuries:  “The Lord hath broken the staff of the wicked and

the scepter of the rulers. …  For the Lord of hosts hath pur-

posed, and who shall disannul it? and his hand is stretched

out, and who shall turn it back?”4

The dynasty of Násiri’d-Dín Sháh was rapidly approaching

extinction.  The walls were caving in on all sides.  Soon every

last one of its mighty kings and princes would be buried be-

neath the avalanche.

This is the hour that no one can hold back!

Prince of Oppressors

In one of His warnings, Bahá’u’lláh foreshadowed the fate

that overtook the Persian dynasty:  “Ye shall, erelong, dis-

cover the consequences of that which ye shall have done in

this vain life, and shall be repaid for them. …  This is the

day that shall inevitably come upon you, the hour that none

can put back.”5

The rulers of the Qájár dynasty, more than any other kings,

were responsible for trying to crush the Revelation of God.

From the hour of its birth until their own downfall, the Qájár

rulers never once softened their implacable hostility.

Bahá’u’lláh did all in His power to awaken these rulers to

their opportunity as emblems of justice, not of hatred:  If the

rulers and kings of the earth, the symbols of the power of

God, exalted be His glory, arise and resolve to dedicate them-

selves to whatever will promote the highest interests of the

whole of humanity, the reign of justice will assuredly be es-

tablished amongst the children of men, and the effulgence of

its light will envelop the whole earth.”6

Bahá’u’lláh had placed a grave responsibility upon the shoul-

ders of Násiri’d-Dín Sháh personally, describing the shah as a

“Prince of Oppressors.”  Násiri’d-Dín Sháh had been person-

ally responsible for the martyrdom of the Báb.  He was equally

responsible for the banishments and lifelong persecutions of

Bahá’u’lláh.  Finally, he had given approval to the unjust slay-

ing over a long period of time of thousands of innocent fol-

lowers of the new Revelation.

Once again the Bible provides fascinating echoes of the

events surrounding the story of Bahá’u’lláh.  Is Násiri’d-Dín

Sháh the “king of fierce countenance” who Daniel said would

appear “in the latter time,” the “king” who would “destroy”

the “holy people?”

Was he the king who Daniel said would “stand” against the

“Prince of princes” of the Lord?  Was this the “king” who would

be “broken” by this Redeemer of men Who, in a “time of

trouble” such as the world has never seen, would “stand up”

and deliver the “children” of God?7

One thing is certain, the day in which the king of Persia

would be “broken” at last arrived.

Wait thou, therefore, for

what hath been promised.

The Fifth Kingdom Falls

Bahá’u’lláh wrote to one of the ministers of Násiri’d-Dín Sháh

a message that applied to the throne, the court, and the people

of Persia.  Although He had wished for them prosperity, secu-

rity, and an everlasting sovereignty, they had rejected this heri-

tage:  “Erelong shall your days pass away, as shall pass away the

days of those who now, with flagrant pride, vaunt themselves

over their neighbor.  Soon shall ye be gathered together in the

presence of God, and shall be asked of your doings, and shall

be repaid for what your hands have wrought, and wretched

the abode of the wicked doers!”8

To any sincere individual, Bahá’u’lláh said that such deeds

could only bring remorse:  “By God! Wert thou to realize what

thou hast done, thou wouldst surely weep sore over thyself,

and wouldst flee for refuge to God.”9

When all His entreaties and admonitions were disregarded,

Bahá’u’lláh wrote these ominous words:  “Wait thou, there-

fore, for what hath been promised … for this is a promise

from Him Who is the Almighty, the All-Wise—a promise

that will not prove untrue.”10

Násiri’d-Dín Sháh’s assassination was the first sign of the

revolution that was to depose his successors and extinguish

the Qájár dynasty.

Muzaffari’d-Dín Sháh, the successor to Násiri’d-Dn Sháh,

was a weak and timid creature who was forced to sign the

constitution that limited the royal powers.  His successor,

Muhammad-‘Alí Sháh, precipitated a revolution that led to

his deposition.

Finally, Ahmad Sháh, “a mere cipher and careless of his

duties,”11 ascended the throne.  Anarchy increased, and the

nation’s financial condition, which had long been deplorable,

now approached bankruptcy.  The king had practically aban-

doned the country.  He preferred the life of the European capi-

tals to the stern duties of kingship.  While the shah was abroad

on one of his visits, parliament deposed him and proclaimed

the extinction of the Qájár dynasty.

The House of Qájár had occupied the throne of Persia for

130 years.

The document that ended the dynasty was signed in 1925.

This final humiliation took place in the government buildings

that stand but a stone’s throw from the site of that under-

ground prison into which Násiri’d-Dín Sháh had cast Bahá’-

u’lláh.  From that prison the sound of the voices of Bahá’u’lláh

and His fellow prisoners had been heard by Násiri’d-Dín Sháh,

the “Prince of Oppressors.”  Their song rang out in the hours

of dawn and disturbed the shah as they chanted their prayers

in praise of God, assured of that future victory:  “In Him let

the trusting trust!”

Bahá’u’lláh had kept His promise.  The fifth kingdom had

fallen.

[Blank page]

10  ‘Akká

[Blank page]

Great is the Cause, and great the Announcement!

The Announcement

Bahá’u’lláh’s exile to Iraq in the Ottoman Turkish Empire did

not leave Násiri’d-Dín Sháh or the Persian clergy in peace.

Iraq contained a number of Muslim shrines that Persians were

accustomed to visiting.  The Persian clergy became concerned

that the little party of exiles would begin to attract large num-

bers of these pilgrims to the new Cause.

The shah’s government therefore began to bring pressure to

bear on the sultan’s ministers to move the Prisoner further

away from the Persian borders.  The Turkish and Persian em-

pires had been antagonistic to one another, and the persecu-

tion of the exiles was one of the few points on which these

two tyrannies agreed.

Accordingly, on April 22, 1863, Bahá’u’lláh was advised that

He was to leave at once and move with His companions to the

imperial capital, Constantinople.

Before this enforced departure, Bahá’u’lláh made the first

formal declaration of His mission.  The day of “one fold and

one Shepherd” had arrived,1 He said, and He was the one

awaited by the followers of all the world’s religions.

This historic announcement took place in a garden outside

the city of Baghdad.  It was made during the twelve days be-

tween April 21 and May 2, 1863, and is celebrated by Bahá’ís

today in every part of the world as the holiest and most joyful

event in the entire Bahá’í calendar.  It is called the Festival of

Ridván (Arabic for “paradise”).

Visitors flowed constantly from Baghdad to that famous

garden so that all might make their last farewell to the Visitor

Whom they had come to love dearly.  It was hard to believe

that these were the people who such a short time before had

readily believed the slander spread about the exiles by agents

of Násiri’d-Dín Sháh.

A large concourse of people, men, women, and children,

thronged the approaches to Bahá’u’lláh’s house in Baghdad on

the day of His departure for the Garden of Ridván outside the

city.  They came from all directions for one last glimpse of

Him.  City officials, clergymen, merchants and notables, as

well as the poor and the orphaned, the beggars and the out-

casts, all watched Bahá’u’lláh depart out of their city amidst

weeping and lamentation.

The huge crowds that surrounded Bahá’u’lláh on the day

of His departure from the Garden of Ridván were even

more impressive.  Mounted on a red roan stallion which

His loved ones had purchased for His journey, Bahá’-

u’lláh rode through the weeping crowds.  They pressed in

on Him from all sides.  Clothed in majesty and surrounded

by love, Bahá’u’lláh began the first stage of His historic

exile to Constantinople.

Bahá’u’lláh left forever the valley of the Tigris and

Euphrates rivers, the spot where Ezekiel had seen the “Glory

of God” in his vision.  Bahá’u’lláh was now beginning His

circuitous route westward to Israel.

His fame as a saint and teacher preceded Him.  The same

tokens of respect and devotion that were showered upon

Bahá’u’lláh in Baghdad now followed Him all along the route

of His travels northward.  The journey to the port city of

Sámsún on the Black Sea took 110 days.  As Bahá’u’lláh passed

through the villages en route, a welcoming delegation would

be waiting.  They would rush out to meet Him immediately

before His arrival, while another delegation would accompany

Him for some distance as He departed out of their village.

Bahá’u’lláh and His companions came at last to the Black

Sea.  Sighting the shores of the sea from His caravan, Bahá’-

u’lláh wrote a moving Tablet alluding to the “grievous and

tormenting” sorrows that still awaited Him.2

The group was put on board a Turkish steamer on which

they crossed the Black Sea, and three days later they disem-

barked at the famous port of Constantinople.  The great capital

city of Turkey had once been called the “Dome of Islam.”  Be-

cause of the injustices and cruelty of Sultán ‘Abdu’l-‘Azíz, it was

to be described by Bahá’u’lláh as “the throne of tyranny.”3

Bahá’u’lláh knew that His brief hours of joy and rest were at an

end and that His torments were to begin again:  two further

banishments were still to come, and renewed attempts would

be made on His life.  All of these attempted assassinations would

be unsuccessful.

Bahá’u’lláh, in the years ahead, would arrive at last in Israel

and would walk on the side of the “Mountain of God.”  He

was traveling to the Holy Land, as promised by Isaiah, “by

way of the sea.”  In one single chapter of praise for the Prom-

ised One of the last days, Isaiah declares that this “chosen”

Servant of the “seed of Abraham” was that “righteous man

from the east” Whom God had raised up to “rule over kings”

and Who would “pass safely” to His destination, Israel, “even

by the way that he had not gone by his feet.”4  The Old Testa-

ment prophet Micah had also foreseen the journey “from sea

to sea” on the way from the East to the Holy Land, where He

would redeem mankind.5

But who was there to read and understand and come to His

aid?

The Grand Vizir turned the color of a corpse.

The Throne of Tyranny

After the long and taxing journey to Constantinople, Bahá’-

u’lláh was permitted to remain in the capital less than four

months.  The sultan of Turkey could not tolerate in the capi-

tal city the kind of honor that had been paid to Bahá’u’lláh

along the route of His journey from Baghdad.  Only the

person of the king was considered a suitable object for such

attention.

Bahá’u’lláh was summarily banished once again.  This sud-

den and cruel further banishment represented “a virtual coali-

tion between the Turkish and Persian imperial governments”

against one man and His tiny band of companions, their wives

and children—less than eighty persons in all.  This time,

Bahá’u’lláh did not accept the edict meekly.  He replied with a

forceful letter of His own.

On that very same day, Bahá’u’lláh sent His reply by special

messenger of ‘Alí Páshá, the prime minister of the sultan.  This

special messenger, Shamsí Big, delivered the letter personally

into the hands of ‘Alí Páshá.  He has left the following eyewit-

ness account of that meeting:

“I know not what that letter contained for no sooner had

the Grand Vizír ‘Alí Páshá perused it that he turned the color

of a corpse, and said:  ‘It is as if the King of Kings were issuing

his behest to his humblest vassal king and regulating his

conduct.”

Shams’ Big added, “So grievous was the condition that I

backed out of his presence.”6

The order for Bahá’u’lláh’s departure was executed at once.

Bahá’u’lláh, His family and His companions unprepared, be-

gan their third successive banishment.  Some rode in wagons,

some on pack animals.  Others sat silently among their few

remaining possessions, atop of carts pulled by oxen.

It was a bitter cold December morning when the Turkish

officers pushed them along their way.  Bahá’u’lláh Himself de-

clared that the cruelty and abasement that were heaped upon

Himself and His companions during that exile were unneces-

sary and unpardonable.  He has testified that none of those

who accompanied Him had the necessary clothing “to protect

them from the cold in that freezing winter.”

Nabíl, who accompanied Bahá’u’lláh on the journey, re-

called, “A cold of such intensity prevailed that year, that no-

nagenarians could not recall its like.”  Animals froze and per-

ished in the snows.  “To obtain water from the springs, a great

fire had to be lighted in their immediate neighborhood, and

kept burning for a couple of hours before they thawed out.”7

It is not surprising therefore that Bahá’u’lláh addressed Sultán

‘Abdu’l-‘Azíz in strong language:  “Hearken, O King, to the

speech of Him that speaketh the truth. …  Bring thyself to

account ere thou art summoned to a reckoning. …  Thou art

God’s shadow on earth.  Strive, therefore, to act in such a man-

ner as befitteth so eminent, so august a station. …  Let thine

ear be attentive, O King, to the words We have addressed to

thee.  Let the oppressor desist from His tyranny, and cut off

the perpetrators of injustice from among them that profess

thy faith. …  Be not forgetful of the law of God in whatever

thou desirest to achieve, now or in the days to come.”8

On the eve of His departure from Constantinople, Bahá-

u’lláh wrote to the Persian ambassador, who had incited the

Turkish authorities to bring about His banishment by alarm-

ing their fears of the exiles.  Bahá’u’lláh recalled to the

ambassador’s mind the more than twenty thousand followers

who had already given their lives for this Faith in Persia.  He

explained the futility of trying to stamp out the fire of the

love of God in men’s hearts by persecution:  “What did it profit

thee, and such as are like thee, to slay, year after year, so many

of the oppressed, and to inflict upon them manifold afflic-

tions, when they have increased a hundredfold. …  [God’s]

Cause transcends any and every plan ye devise.”9

Then Bahá’u’lláh made a promise that time and history

would soon bring to fulfillment:  “Know this much:  Were all

the governments on earth to unite and take My life and the

lives of all who bear this Name [Bahá’í], this Divine Fire would

never be quenched.  His Cause will rather encompass all the

kings of the earth, nay all that hath been created from water

and clay. …  Whatever may yet befall Us, great shall be our

gain, and manifest the loss wherewith they shall be afflicted.”10

Bahá’u’lláh and His companions traveled toward Adrianople

through snow, rain, and storm.  At times they were forced to

make night marches, but at last they reached their destina-

tion.  This was the furthest point in Bahá’u’lláh’s repeated ex-

iles.  He called it the “remote prison.”

Bahá’u’lláh was the first of the founders of the great re-

vealed religions to touch upon European soil.  This was yet

another way in which Bahá’u’lláh’s mission linked together

both the East and the West.  Bahá’u’lláh was the first of these

Messengers of God to proclaim His Faith from the West as

well as from the East.

Násiri’d-Dín Sháh had imprisoned Bahá’u’lláh in the Black

Pit in Tihrán, His native city.  There Bahá’u’lláh’s ministry had

begun.  Bahá’u’lláh had been banished to another land to si-

lence His tongue and weaken His influence.  In the famed val-

ley of the Tigris and Euphrates rivers, Bahá’u’lláh had for-

mally declared the purpose of His mission to His companions

and to the world.  Alarmed at the Prisoner’s growing prestige

and power, Násiri’d-Dín Sháh had conspired with Sultán

‘Abdu’l-‘Azíz to banish Him to Constantinople, farther yet from

the circle of His relatives, friends, and followers.  The kings

sent Him to another continent, Europe.  There, in the midst

of the “throne of tyranny” Bahá’u’lláh, in the capital city of

Constantinople, launched the first stage of the public procla-

mation of His mission to the world.

Now Bahá’u’lláh was banished yet again, this time to a remote

outpost where it was felt He would be powerless to influence

anyone of importance.  He would be cut off from the world.  There

in Adrianople, contrary to the schemes of kings, Bahá’u’lláh’s

mission reached its high-point.  He wrote His historic Tablet to

the kings and rulers of the world.  There He launched in its

flood-tide the proclamation of His Faith to the world on a scale

unprecedented in the religious history of mankind.

Every persecution, every suppression designed by the kings

to render Bahá’u’lláh impotent, however devastating in the

physical sufferings He sustained, was followed by a greater

outpouring of teaching and spirit.  Sufferings the kings de-

vised for their Prisoner proved only to be preludes to a greater

unfolding of God’s purpose for mankind.

The greatest suffering, and the full unfolding, lay ahead.

He that sitteth in the heavens shall laugh.

The Final Banishment

For nearly five years Bahá’u’lláh was a prisoner and exile in the

remote provincial city of Adrianople.  During those turbulent

years Bahá’u’lláh survived three more attempts on His life.  His

enemies twice tried to poison Him and conspired to have Him

slain in the public bath.  All were unsuccessful.

Bahá’u’lláh now turned to the task of revealing God’s guid-

ance for the governments as well as the peoples of the world.

Some of His most important and extensive writings date from

this period.  Nabíl, the Bábí historian, writes, “A number of

secretaries were busy day and night, and yet they were unable

to cope with the task [of transcribing the Revelation].”11

Bahá’u’lláh during His lifetime wrote over one hundred

volumes, which dealt with the various problems facing man

and his society.  One of the most fruitful periods of His entire

mission was during His days in Adrianople.  Bahá’u’lláh Him-

self affirms the copiousness of His writings during those

months in Turkey, saying, “That which hath already been re-

vealed in this land [Adrianople] secretaries are incapable of

transcribing.”12

On another occasion, Bahá’u’lláh declared, “In those days

the equivalent of all that hath been sent down aforetime unto

the Prophets hath been revealed.”13

These writings were part of the historic worldwide procla-

mation of His Faith to the kings and rulers of the earth.  This

proclamation had its first beginnings in Constantinople, when

Bahá’u’lláh sent His powerful letter to the prime minister of

Sultán ‘Abdu’l-‘Azíz following the king’s decree banishing Him

to Adrianople.  This proclamation reached its zenith in

Adrianople.

There Bahá’u’lláh wrote His most momentous letter to the

crowned heads of the world.  For “the first time He directed

His words collectively to the entire company of the monarchs

of East and West.”14  Bahá’u’lláh warned these rulers that “di-

vine chastisement” would “assail” them “from every direction”

if they failed in their responsibility to consider the new social

and spiritual principles that God was revealing for a united

world.  Bahá’u’lláh prophesied the triumph of this Cause even

if “no king be found who would turn his face towards [God].”

Those who took the time to listen to His words and grasp

the significance of His teachings were deeply moved.  The es-

sence of His message to the kings and rulers of the world, and

to the peoples of the earth, can be found in those writings

that streamed constantly from His pen during those years in

Adrianople.

Social justice was the basis of almost every instruction that

Bahá’u’lláh issued to the leaders of men.  He constantly urged

those in authority to shield and shelter the needy ones.  He

encouraged them to protect the rights of the underprivileged

and to uplift and instill hope in the downtrodden.  In Bahá’-

u’lláh’s own words:  “O Ye Rich Ones on Earth!  The poor in

your midst are My trust; guard ye My trust, and be not intent

only on your own ease.”15

And in another place, “Tell the rich of the midnight sigh-

ing of the poor. … to be poor in all save God is a wondrous

gift, belittle not the value thereof; for in the end it will make

thee rich in God.”16

This “most glorious phase” in Bahá’u’lláh’s mission is filled

with His counsels for the protection of the peoples of the world.

It will forever remain as the “zenith” of His ministry on earth.

Bahá’u’lláh urged all the leaders of the world to unite in a

program that would forever end the unjust extremes of wealth

and poverty.  This was more than a hundred years ago!  He

wrote, “O ye rulers of the earth! …  Hearken unto the counsel

given you ...  that haply both ye and the poor may attain unto

tranquillity and peace.  We beseech God to assist the kings of

the earth to establish peace on earth.”17

During these fateful days in Adrianople, Bahá’u’lláh “arose

with matchless power” to proclaim the mission ‘with which

He had been entrusted.”18  He broadcast it to the rulers of

men in both the East and the West, those leaders who held

the reins of temporal power in their grasp.

Bahá’u’lláh was Himself “bent with sorrow” and still suffer-

ing from the effects of the last attempt on His life.  He was

well aware that a further banishment was impending.  In spite

of all these obstacles and perils, the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh dur-

ing this period began to shine “in its meridian glory” and to

demonstrate the power with which it was invested.19

The Turkish government now yielded entirely to the pres-

sure of the Persian ambassador and decided to send the exiles

to a place that would both isolate them and assure their early

deaths.  A decree was issued commanding Bahá’u’lláh’s fourth

banishment to the dreaded penal colony of ‘Akká.

The companions of Bahá’u’lláh were seized by the authori-

ties in their homes and on the streets of Adrianople in a sur-

prise arrest.  They were questioned, deprived of their papers,

and flung into prison.  Several times members of the group

were summoned before the authorities and questioned con-

cerning the exact number of Bahá’u’lláh’s family and friends.

Rumors ran through the village that “they were to be dispersed

to different places or secretly put to death.”20

Sultán ‘Abdu’l-‘Aziz had been assured by his ministers that

neither Bahá’u’lláh nor His Faith could survive in the pesti-

lential atmosphere of ‘Akká.  This fortress-city was the most

dreaded prison in all the Turkish empire.  The sultan’s advisors

felt confident that Bahá’u’lláh would soon perish in that vile

place.  In fact, they were taking part in a spiritual drama that

the prophets of the past had foreseen and described.

By banishing Bahá’u’lláh to ‘Akká, these enemies believed

that they were carrying out the orders of their ruler, Sultán

‘Abdu’l-‘Azíz.  In reality, they were instruments for the fulfill-

ment of promises made by God in sacred scripture long

before.

Although Bahá’u’lláh’s companions, until almost the last

moment of their departure from Turkey, were uncertain where

He would be sent, Bahá’u’lláh Himself, the “Ancient Beauty,”

the object of so many wonderful and thrilling prophecies in

the holy books of the past, was only too aware of His ultimate

destination.  He knew where He would ultimately be banished

years before the event.  As far back as the first years of His

banishment to Adrianople, Bahá’u’lláh had already alluded to

His future arrival at the fortress-city of ‘Akká.

Bahá’u’lláh wrote about the worldwide triumph of His Faith

that would follow that historic arrival.  During those earliest

years in Turkey, Bahá’u’lláh also hinted at the importance and

significance of that future historic landing at ‘Akká.  His words

were, in reality, a prophecy.  He wrote, “Upon Our arrival, We

were welcomed with banners of light, whereupon the Voice

of the Spirit cried out saying, ‘Soon will all that dwell on earth

be enlisted under these banners.”21

Tell the king that this territory

will pass out of his hands.

The Journey by Sea

On August 12, 1868, Bahá’u’lláh and His family began their

four-day journey to Gallipoli, the first stage of their final ban-

ishment.  They were escorted by a Turkish captain and a de-

tachment of soldiers.  The party stopped en route at several

towns.

At Káshánih, Bahá’u’lláh began one of His most famous

letters to the kings of the earth.  It was completed a short time

later, at Gyawur-Kyuy.  Before leaving Turkey, Bahá’u’lláh made

it clear that He would never forget that land.  He asserted that

He had “deposited beneath every tree and every stone a trust,

which God will erelong bring forth through the power of

truth.”22

The significance of these words was soon to become apparent.

Bahá’u’lláh and His companions finally reached Gallipoli,

where they spent three nights.  This was to be their last stop in

Turkey.

Even at that late hour, Bahá’u’lláh gave ‘Abdu’l-‘Azíz one

final opportunity to repent of his past actions.  Bahá’u’lláh sent

a verbal message to the king through a Turkish officer named

‘Umar.

Bahá’u’lláh requested that Sultán ‘Abdu’l-‘Azíz grant Him a

ten-minute interview during which the king could make any

test he wished, so that he might determine for himself the

truth or falsehood of Bahá’u’lláh’s Faith.  The request was not

granted.

Not one of Bahá’u’lláh’s attempts at such a confrontation

with the kings, their ministers, or the clergy had ever been

accepted.

Bahá’u’lláh prepared to depart for ‘Akká, a city that had

once been part of the ancient land of Canaan.  According to

sacred scripture, Canaan was the land that would be inherited

in the last days by one of the “seed” of Abraham.

Bahá’u’lláh was descended from Abraham through His third

wife, Katurah.  How tender and beautiful is this story of

Abraham and His seed, Bahá’u’lláh.  How closely Their mis-

sions were bound together.  How remarkably Their stories par-

allel each other.

In the valley of the Tigris and Euphrates rivers, Abraham

proclaimed the oneness of God.  In that same valley, Bahá’u’lláh

proclaimed the oneness of all religions, races, and nations.

Abraham was exiled from that valley to the land of Canaan.

Bahá’u’lláh followed the same exile to that same land, where

He completed His teachings and laws for the salvation of all

humanity.

In a Tablet revealed on the eve of His banishment to the

penal colony of ‘Akká, Bahá’u’lláh declared, “Had Abraham

attained it [this day], He too, falling prostrate on the ground

… would have cried:  ‘Mine heart is filled with peace, O Thou

Lord of all that is in heaven and on earth!  I testify that Thou

hast unveiled before mine eyes all the glory of Thy power and

the full majesty of Thy law!’”23

The hour had come at last for Bahá’u’lláh to leave Euro-

pean soil and begin His journey to the Holy Land.  When

Hasan Effendi, the officer who had escorted Him from

Adrianople, was taking his leave of Bahá’u’lláh, the Turkish

captain was given yet another message for the sultan:  “Tell the

king that this territory will pass out of his hands, and that his

affairs will be thrown into confusion.”24

Bahá’u’lláh wanted Sultán ‘Abdu’l-‘Azíz to know that on

this occasion, He was speaking not as a prisoner and an exile,

but as a Messenger of God.  He was addressing the king with

the same authority with which Moses, Christ, and Muhammad

had spoken of old.  One of His followers, Áqá Ridá, recorded

that scene for posterity:  “To this [statement] Bahá’u’lláh fur-

thermore added:  Not I speak these words, but God speaketh

them.’ In those moments He was uttering verses which we,

who were downstairs, could overhear.  They were spoken with

such vehemence and power that, methinks, the foundations

of the house itself trembled.”25

Bahá’u’lláh embarked for ‘Akká via Egypt.  The Persian am-

bassador promptly informed the Persian consul in Egypt that

the Turkish government had withdrawn its protection over

the followers of Bahá’u’lláh.  “You are now free to treat them

as you please,” was the essence of this information forwarded

by that persistent enemy.

The threats and trials that faced Bahá’u’lláh as He headed

toward His final exile were so grievous that He warned His

companions about the dangers and hardships that lay ahead.

Bahá’u’lláh urged those who did not feel stout-hearted

enough to face the sufferings yet to come to feel free to leave

for any destination that they might desire.  Those who chose

to accompany Him, Bahá’u’lláh said, would find it impossible

to leave in the future.  Bahá’u’lláh warned them that “this jour-

ney will be unlike any of the previous journeys.”26

If a bird flies over ‘Akká, it dies!

The King of Glory Enters the Gate

On August 21, 1868, Bahá’u’lláh and His companions were

taken on board an Austrian-Lloyd steamer bound for the Holy

Land.  The ship touched first at Modelli and Smyrna.  At Alex-

andria, Bahá’u’lláh was transferred to another ship that stopped

at Port Said and Jaffa.

On August 31, the vessel arrived at the port of Haifa.  It

anchored at sea below the foot of Mount Carmel, the “Nest

of the Prophets” and the “Vineyard of God.”

The “Glory of God” had come home at last!

He had come “by way of the sea,” as promised in sacred

scripture.  He had crossed the Black Sea, and now the Medi-

terranean Sea to arrive in a land “sanctified by the Revelation

of Moses, honored by the lives and labors of the Hebrew pa-

triarchs, judges, kings, and prophets.” It was revered “as the

cradle of Christianity”; honored as the place where Zoroaster

conversed ‘with some of the prophets of Israel”; a land associ-

ated with the “night journey” of the Apostle of Islam,

Muhammad; a land linked with the Founders of Judaism,

Christianity, Zoroastrianism, Islam, and now with both the

Herald and Founder of the Bahá’i Faith, the Báb and

Bahá’u’lláh, Whose remains are entombed there.27

David not only described ‘Akká as the Strong City in his

Psalms, he also predicted that the “king of Glory” would come

through the “gates” and “not keep silence.”

And at last He had come!

Hosea had described ‘Akká as “a door of hope.” Isaiah fore-

told that ‘Akká would be a refuge for the “herds” of God to lie

down in with safety in the last days.

By the action of His enemies, Bahá’u’lláh, the exile of

Baghdad, of Constantinople, and Adrianople, was to spend

the last third of His entire life, and over half of the duration

of His earthly mission in that sacred land.

Bahá’u’lláh’s son ‘Abdu’l-Bahá was also a prisoner on that

historic occasion.  He wrote of Bahá’u’lláh’s arrival in that land:

“It is difficult to understand how Bahá’u’lláh could have been

obliged to leave Persia, and to pitch His tent in this Holy

Land, but for the persecution of His enemies, His banish-

ment and exile.”28

The shah of Persia and the sultan of Turkey, the two su-

preme temporal rulers of the destinies of both Sunni and Shia

Islam, had imprisoned Bahá’u’lláh in what they considered

the ultimate prison.  They had shut Him up in a city so forlorn

that it was described as “the metropolis of the owl.”  So un-

sanitary and foul was the atmosphere of the fortress-city with

its prevalence of malaria, typhoid, and dysentery that it was

said in a proverb, “If a bird flies over ‘Akká, it dies!”

In retrospect, these attempts on the part of the kings to

destroy Bahá’u’lláh seem merely pathetic.  The scriptures of

the major religions make clear why every one of these efforts

ended in disaster.  In spite of the repeated and combined efforts

of kings and clergy to prevent it, the Glory of God appeared

at last on the side of God’s holy mountain, Carmel.

These rulers of the world were foiled at every step.  They added

immeasurably to Bahá’u’lláh’s cup of sorrow, but they were pow-

erless to prevent Him from fulfilling His destiny.  That had been

foretold.  Every step along the way, Bahá’u’lláh fulfilled proph-

ecy after prophecy from the holy books of those kings until, in

spite of them, He came at last to God’s “holy hill.”

This story itself, this tragedy of blind kings, had been clearly

foreshadowed in the book of Psalms.  The prophecy declared:

The kings of the earth set themselves, and the rulers take

counsel together, against the Lord. …  He that sitteth in the

heavens shall laugh:  the Lord shall have them in derision.

Then shall He speak unto them in His wrath. …  Yet have

I set my king upon my holy hill of Zion. …  thou shalt

dash them in pieces like a potter’s vessel.  Be wise now there-

fore, O ye kings:  be instructed, ye judges of the earth. …

Blessed are all they that put their trust in Him.29

The king of Turkey had failed to put his trust in Bahá’u’lláh.

No matter how often that assistance had been offered to him,

the king had rejected it.  The judges, ministers, and leaders of

that land, following the lead of their sovereign, were not wise in

their judgments.  Their downfall and disappearance from living

history was even then being fashioned by the Hand of God.

All of them shall be slain except one,

who shall reach the plain of ‘Akká.

The Banquet-Hall of God

The arrival of Bahá’u’lláh in ‘Akká began the final phase of

His forty-year long ministry, a period of time itself repeatedly

emphasized in sacred scripture.  Bahá’u’lláh had come to the

heart of Judaism and Christianity.  Already His exile had taken

Him to the “strongholds” of Islam.

It is hard to understand the ignorance of these rulers of

Islam, Sultán ‘Abdu’l-‘Azíz and Násiri’d-Dín Sháh, concern-

ing the references so prevalent throughout their own sacred

writings, to all these events.  Unlike the kings of Christendom,

these rulers of Islam, as many of their titles indicated, were an

integral part of the religious system.  Yet they were oblivious

of the traditional prophecies recorded in their own holy

books—prophecies that they had brought to a staggering ful-

fillment by their own cruel acts against Bahá’u’lláh.  Their atti-

tude speaks volumes about the sincerity of their belief in their

own faith.  For example:

Muhammad, the Prophet of Islam, had referred glowingly

to this very prison-city of ‘Akká.  He called it “A city to which

God hath shown His special mercy.”  And in another place He

described it as a city “by the shore of the sea whose whiteness

is pleasing unto God.”30

From the traditional prophecies so highly honored in the

sacred writings of both Turkey and Persia could be found these

further astonishing words that ‘Abdu’l-‘Azíz and Násiri’d-Dín

Sháh might have done well to ponder:

“Blessed the man that hath visited ‘Akká, and blessed he

that hath visited the visitor of ‘Akká.”

“He that raiseth therein the call to prayer, his voice will

be lifted up unto Paradise.”

“The poor of ‘Akká are the kings of Paradise and the

princes thereof.”

“A month in ‘Akká is better than a thousand years else-

where.”31

Why? No one really understood the mystery until Bahá’-

u’lláh’s arrival.

And finally, one of the most remarkable prophecies of all.

It is especially significant when one studies the history of the

martyrdom of the Herald of Bahá’u’lláh’s Faith, the Báb.

Some twenty thousand of His followers were slain—a fate

that Bahá’u’lláh Himself escaped time after time in Persia,

Iraq, and Turkey.  He was the only intimate of the Báb to

escape Persia.  The prophecies spoke repeatedly of the One

Who would appear in the year 1260 (ad 1844 ).32  He would

be the first of two such Messengers.  One of these traditional

prophecies foretells the martyrdom of this holy Messenger

and many of His followers, and declares, “All of them shall

be slain except One Who shall reach the plain of ‘Akká, the

Banquet-Hall of God.”33

After reaching the “plain of ‘Akká” Bahá’u’lláh had written

to the kings of the world concerning that mighty banquet-of-

God that He had offered to them for the nourishment and

unity of mankind.  Bahá’u’lláh said, “He Who is the Uncon-

ditioned is come. …  that He may quicken all created things

… and unify the world, and gather all men around this Table

that hath been sent down from heaven.”34

The arrival of Bahá’u’lláh in the Holy Land fulfilled as well

the astonishing prophecies from the book of Micah.  Micah,

as had Isaiah and Daniel, foretold both the first and second

coming in the glory of the Father, Bahá’u’lláh.  The prophe-

cies fulfilled by Bahá’u’lláh seem almost a road-map of spiri-

tual life.  They describe His journeys from Persia to Mount

Carmel.  These prophecies alone should be evidence enough

for all humankind.

Micah prophesied that in the last days, when corruption

and hatred have filled the earth, the Redeemer will come from

Babylon to Israel.  Bahá’u’lláh was exiled to Israel from Baghdad,

near the site of ancient Babylon.  Then in the course of one

chapter Micah gives an amazing answer to those who ridi-

culed him, saying:  “Where is the Lord thy God?”35

“In that day also, he shall come even to thee from Assyria.”

Bahá’u’lláh came from what was once in the midst of the

Assyrian empire.

“In that day also he shall come even to thee … from the

fortified cities.” Bahá’u’lláh came from the fortified city of

Constantinople to the fortified city of ‘Akká.

“In that day also he shall come even to thee … from the

fortress even to the river.”  Bahá’u’lláh came to the ancient river

Belus from the fortress of ‘Akká when He was released from

prison.

“In that day also he shall come even to thee … from sea to

sea.”  Bahá’u’lláh came across the Black Sea in exile to Con-

stantinople, and across the Mediterranean Sea on His last ex-

ile to the Holy Land.

“In that day also he shall come even to thee … from moun-

tain to mountain.”  Bahá’u’lláh came from a mountain in the

valley of the Tigris and Euphrates rivers (from ancient Babylon)

to Mount Carmel, in Israel.

In the next verse, Micah says the “land shall be desolate”

when the Redeemer arrives.  ‘Akká was described as the most

desolate of cities” at this time.  After Bahá’u’lláh’s coming

that arid, “desolate” area began slowly to “blossom as the

rose.

In the following verse, Micah says that this “Lord of Salva-

tion” will “feed” his flock “in the midst of Carmel.”  Bahá’u’lláh

announced on the side of Mount Carmel that all the prophe-

cies had been fulfilled.  The World Center of His Faith has its

headquarters “in the midst of Carmel,” from where Bahá’-

u’lláh’s teachings are now going out into all parts of the planet

to “feed” the peoples and nations of the world.

In the next verse, Micah says that God will “shew unto him,”

the Redeemer, “marvellous things” for forty years.  Bahá’u’lláh’s

mission lasted exactly forty years, during which time He shared

with the kings and leaders of men the “wonderful things” He

had been “shewn” by God.

Micah prophesied that in the last days the “house of the

Lord” will be “established” in the mountain, many nations

will “flow” unto it, and the “law” shall “go forth” and Israel

shall become “a strong nation.”  In Bahá’u’lláh’s own words,

“These passages stand in need of no commentary.”36  Their

truth is self-evident.

Is there anywhere in history a more remarkable story?  One

would expect the banners to be flying and the bands to be

playing and the hearts of men singing with joy at the arrival

of the Promised One of all Ages on the side of God’s holy

mountain.  What really happened?

Bahá’u’lláh has written about His arrival in that dreaded

prison, saying, “None knoweth what befell Us, except God,

the Almighty, the All-Knowing.”37

So grave and critical were the first nine years of His impris-

onment in that penal colony, that Bahá’u’lláh wrote, “Know

thou, that upon Our arrival at this Spot, We chose to desig-

nate it as the ‘Most Great Prison.’  Though previously sub-

jected in another land [Persia] to chains and fetters, We yet

refused to call it by that name. …  Ponder thereon, O ye

endued with understanding!”38

But He assured His followers that “Though afflicted with

countless tribulations, which We have suffered at the hands of

Our enemies, We have proclaimed unto all the rulers of the

earth what God hath willed to proclaim, that all nations may

know that no manner of affliction can deter the Pen of the

Ancient of Days from achieving its purpose. …  The hosts of

the earth can never dismay Thee, nor can the dominion of all

peoples and nations deter Thee from executing Thy purpose.”39

The decree exiling Bahá’u’lláh to ‘Akká was dated July 26,

1868.  The text was read publicly, soon after Bahá’u’lláh’s ar-

rival, in the principal mosques of the city, as a warning to the

population.

The sultan feared that the people of ‘Akká might fall under

the seemingly magic charm of Bahá’u’lláh’s spell as had the

people in Baghdad and Adrianople.  The king was determined

that this time Bahá’u’lláh and His companions should be made

objects of derision and hatred by the inhabitants of the city

of ‘Akká.  The sultan resolved to make no mistake this time.

His decree condemned Bahá’u’lláh, His family, and His

followers to perpetual banishment.  It also “stipulated their strict

incarceration and forbade them to associate either with each

other or with the local inhabitants.”40  The townspeople of

‘Akká were encouraged to persecute and humiliate Bahá’u’lláh,

His family, and His friends in every way possible.  These cap-

tives were describeed to the people as enemies of both God

and man.

By these acts of hatred, the sultan set the final seal on the

extinction of his own outward splendor.  All these events led

to the doom of imperial Turkey, the “throne of tyranny.”

[Blank page]

11  The Sixth Kingdom

Falls

[Blank page]

Abandon not the interests of thy people.

A Warning

Sultán ‘Abdu’l-‘Azíz, head of the Turkish House of ‘Uthmán,

had conspired with the shah of Persia on three successive oc-

casions against the Messenger of God, in Whose coming he

claimed to believe.  Every day the sultan, as caliph of Islam,

read the Qur’án, in which the divine promise was made.

Whenever information concerning Bahá’u’lláh and His com-

panions reached the ministers of the sultan, it was immedi-

ately distorted and twisted into false accusations against Him.

Bahá’u’lláh and His fellow-exiles were represented to the king

as “a mischief to the world” and as “deserving of every chas-

tisement and punishment.”1

Bahá’u’lláh wrote to Sultán ‘Abdu’l-‘Azíz, warning him

against such deceit on the part of his advisors:  “Beware, O

King, that thou gather not around thee such ministers as fol-

low the desires of a corrupt inclination … and manifestly

betrayed their trust.”2

Bahá’u’lláh was concerned more with the effect that such

unjust ministers would have upon the welfare of the king’s

subjects rather than upon Himself.  Bahá’u’lláh wrote, “Aban-

don not the interests of thy people to the mercy of such min-

isters as these. …  He that acteth treacherously towards God

will, also, act treacherously towards his king.  Nothing what-

ever can deter such a man from evil, nothing can hinder him

from betraying his neighbor, nothing can induce him to walk

uprightly.”3

He understood only too well the graft with which the

sultanic empire was riddled and knew how gravely the poor

people suffered at the hands of these greedy and corrupt min-

isters of state.  Bahá’u’lláh strongly emphasized this grave dan-

ger in His letter to Sultán ‘Abdu’l-‘Azíz, saying, “Take heed

that thou resign not the reins of the affairs of thy state into

the hands of others, and repose not thy confidence in minis-

ters unworthy of thy trust. …  Beware that thou allow not the

wolf to become the shepherd of God’s flock, and surrender

not the fate of His loved ones to the mercy of the malicious

…, and walk not in the paths of the oppressor.”4

Bahá’u’lláh counseled the king to be personally responsible

for the welfare of his people.  He warned the sultan not to

permit others to seize his power and to use it unjustly by per-

secuting those beneath them.  “Seize thou, and hold firmly

within the grasp of thy might, the reins of the affairs of thy

people, and examine in person whatever pertaineth unto them.

Let nothing escape thee, for therein lieth the highest good.

…  Thou canst best praise Him [God] if thou lovest His loved

ones, and dost safeguard and protect His servants from the

mischief of the treacherous, that none may any longer op-

press them.”5

These warnings went unheeded.  ‘Abdu’l-‘Azíz, enormously

self-indulgent, surrendered all practical concerns into the hands

of some of the most ambitious and amoral politicians in his

domains.  They could assure him stability and prosperity, he

felt.

In fact their greed and injustice were to pull the sultan and

his throne down when they themselves fell.

“Leave it to God and history to judge between us.”

The Strong City

The tempo of Bahá’u’lláh s call to the rulers of the world was

greatly increased and intensified during these “days of stress.”

The greater His sufferings, the more forceful was Bahá’u’lláh’s

call to the world to arise and eliminate all prejudice and

injustice.

He wrote, “O kings of the earth!  We see you increasing

every year your expenditures, and laying the burden thereof

on your subjects.  This, verily, is wholly and grossly unjust.

Fear the sighs and tears of this Wronged One, and lay not

excessive burdens on your peoples.”6

And, in one of His most moving denunciations of such

tyrant kings as Sultán ‘Abdu’l-‘Azíz of Turkey, Bahá’u’lláh

wrote, “Do not rob them [your people] to rear palaces for

yourselves; nay rather choose for them that which ye choose

for yourselves.  Thus We unfold to your eyes that which

profiteth you, if ye but perceive.”7

He urged the leaders of men to look upon their subjects as

their most important and valued asset.  He said, “Your people

are your treasures.  Beware lest your rule violate the command-

ments of God, and ye deliver your wards to the hands of the

robber.  By them ye rule, by their means ye subsist, by their aid

ye conquer.  Yet, how disdainfully ye look upon them! How

strange, how very strange!”8

Bahá’u’lláh’s strong defense of the rights of the poor and

downtrodden against the mighty rulers of earth was yet an-

other of those remarkable events that had been foreseen so

long ago in sacred scripture.  The Old Testament had proph-

esied, “O give thanks unto the Lord. …  To him which smote

great kings …  Who remembered us in our low estate …  And

hath redeemed us from our enemies.”9

Bahá’u’lláh had done just that.  The time for the redemp-

tion of all the peoples of the earth from such enemies had

arrived.  The hour for the “smiting” of great kings had come.

Sultán ‘Abdu’l-‘Azíz ignored Bahá’u’lláh’s counsels.  In spite

of all His warnings, the sultan permitted his ministers to con-

tinue their persecution of the Prisoner and His companions.

Bahá’u’lláh then forecast the inevitable retribution that would

soon overtake the king, reminding the sultan in these words,

“Ye failed utterly to take heed … ye waxed more heedless.

…  Be expectant, however, for the wrath of God is ready to

overtake you.  Erelong will ye behold that which hath been

sent down from the Pen of My command.”10

Bahá’u’lláh’s words to the leaders of humanity made it un-

mistakably clear that this grave worldwide struggle, in which

entire kingdoms were involved, was not a conflict between

Himself and those who were in authority.  It was a planetary

clash between those who loved the things of God and those

who loved the things of men.  It was an inevitable battle be-

tween physical and moral forces.  It was a struggle between the

material and the spiritual; between age-old inequities on the

one hand and true justice on the other.

All the tragedies now engulfing the world had come about

because humankind had turned away from God and was

drowning in purely materialistic concerns.  Humanity’s ani-

mal nature was in ascendancy, and until people turned to God,

they would continue to suffer greater tragedies and more vio-

lent calamities.  For this reason, Bahá’u’lláh called upon the

kings to assist Him in rescuing humanity from this threatening

disaster.  He could only point the way and give the guidance.

The leadership must come from the temporal rulers.

He challenged the sultan, his ministers, and his priests to

examine the Bahá’í teachings with an open mind.  He made it

plain that if this Faith was true, there was no king who could

prevent its rising.  No man can hold back the sun of a new day.

Bahá’u’lláh also pointed out that if this Faith was not the

truth, then a sincere and thorough examination by the sultan,

his ministers and priests would immediately reveal its fraudu-

lent nature, and they would easily be able to vanquish it.

What were they afraid of finding out by an open and sin-

cere investigation?

Bahá’u’lláh wrote, If this Cause be of God, no man can

prevail against it; and if it be not of God, the divines [religious

leaders] amongst you … will surely suffice to overpower it.”11

Sultán ‘Abdu’l-‘Azíz was not interested in investigating any-

thing Bahá’u’lláh might have to say.  He was only interested in

silencing Him.  The sooner the better.  The sultan had signed

the edict banishing Bahá’u’lláh to the fortress of ‘Akká so that

he might put an end to His memory.

Even at that late date, Bahá’u’lláh was still trying to open

the eyes of the king and the clergy by showing them the re-

markable fulfillment of the promises from their own holy

books.  Bahá’u’lláh had been brought into the “Strong City”

hailed by David by the edict of the sultan.  Bahá’u’lláh pointed

out that this was one of the least prophecies fulfilled by the

acts of His enemies.  Bahá’u’lláh said, simply and bluntly, to

leave it to God and history to judge between them.

Soon will We .lay hold on the Chief

who ruleth the land.

A Roll of Drums

Sultán ‘Abdu’l-‘Azíz, the “self-styled vicar of the Prophet of

Islám and the absolute ruler of a mighty empire” was the first

among the Oriental monarchs to sustain the impact of God’s

retributive justice.”12

Bahá’u’lláh was not content to send only a verbal warning

to the king of Turkey and his ministers.  He also put it in writ-

ing.  In forceful, unmistakable language, for all men to see,

Bahá’u’lláh foretold their imminent downfall.

The prime minister, ‘Alí Páshá; the foreign minister, Fu’ád

Páshá; and the Persian ambassador, Mírzá Husayn Khán, had

all conspired in securing Bahá’u’lláh’s successive banishments.

Fu’ád Páshá was described by Bahá’u’lláh as the “instigator”

of the fourth and final banishment to the prison of ‘Akká.

Fu’ád Páshá, to satisfy his foreign policy aims with relation

to Persia, encouraged his fellow conspirator, ‘Alí Páshá, to excite

the fears and suspicions of Sultán ‘Abdu’l-‘Azíz.  The sultan needed

little encouragement.  There was nothing vague or ambiguous

about the words Bahá’u’lláh addressed to these ministers.  It

was an open challenge.  Bahá’u’lláh directed it specifically to

the ministers of the Turkish state.  He warned them, and

through them all leaders in a similar position of authority,

about what would happen to those who were unjust and un-

scrupulous in their discharge of public trust:  “It behoveth

you, O Ministers of State, to keep the precepts of God …

and to be of them who are guided aright. …  Ye shall, erelong,

discover the consequences of that which ye shall have done

in this vain life, and shall be repaid for them.”13

Bahá’u’lláh added the following words:  “The days of your

life shall roll away, and all the things with which ye are occu-

pied and of which ye boast yourselves shall perish. …  This is

the day that shall inevitably come upon you, the hour that

none can put back.”14

Fu’ád Páshá was the first to feel the sting of requital.  Within

a year following Bahá’u’lláh’s arrival at the prison-city of ‘Akká,

the foreign minister was struck down while on a trip to Paris,

and he died at Nice, his plotting and ambitions perishing with

him.

Bahá’u’lláh directed a second letter to the Turkish prime

minister, ‘Alí Páshá.  He described that minister as the type of

leader who in every age denounces and persecutes the Mes-

sengers of God.  ‘Alí Páshá, like Násiri’d-Dín Sháh of Persia,

regarded himself as the hope of Turkey.  His modernization

program was to make the ramshackle empire a powerful na-

tion.  Far from weakening the sultan’s dictatorship, this pro-

gram would give the government still greater control.

He foretold the ruin of the prime minister and warned ‘Alí

Páshá not to be misled because of his present authority and

high position, but to meditate on the significant premature

death of his colleague.  Bahá’u’lláh foreshadowed the calami-

ties that would soon strike both the prime minister and the

sultan himself.  Bahá’u’lláh wrote openly of those forthcom-

ing tragedies so that all the world might know that He had

clearly predicted their downfall.  Bahá’u’lláh wrote, “Soon will

We dismiss the one [‘Alí Páshá] who was like unto him [Fu’ád

Páshá] and will lay hold on their Chief [Sultán ‘Abdu’l-‘Azíz]

who ruleth the land.”15

The prophecy was dramatically fulfilled.  Without warning,

‘Alí Páshá was suddenly shorn of all his power.  He was sum-

marily dismissed from office and shortly afterward died in com-

plete oblivion.  The political career that was to be the “hope of

Turkey” had been short-lived.

Bahá’u’lláh also prophesied concerning the city of Adria-

nople.  He described the tragedies that would befall the city

and its peoples because of the neglect of justice not only by

the king and his ministers, but by the people themselves.

Bahá’u’lláh’s words now echo like a roll of drums:  “The day is

approaching when the Land of Mystery [Adrianople], and what

is beside it shall be changed, and shall pass out of the hands of

the king, and commotions shall appear, and the voice of lam-

entation shall be raised …  by reason of that which hath be-

fallen these captives at the hands of the hosts of oppression.”16

Another of His prophecies foretold, “The course of things

shall be altered, and conditions shall wax so grievous, that the

very sands on the desolate hills will moan, and the trees on

the mountain will weep, and blood will flow out of all things.

Then wilt thou behold the people in sore distress.”17

These words pointed out to ‘Abdu’l-‘Azíz that he, like his

fellow-rulers, had time and time again ignored the needs and

requirements of this present day.  But the ruler was unmoved by

the sufferings of his people.  He was totally uninterested in any

suggestions for reform that came from the pen of the Prisoner.

In order that the sultan should have no doubt whatsoever

about the meaning of His words, Bahá’u’lláh stated, “Soon

will He [God] seize you in His wrathful anger, and sedition

will be stirred up in your midst, and your dominions will be

disrupted.  Then will ye bewail and lament, and will find no

one to help or succor you.”18

Like those of Napoleon III and other monarchs, this proph-

ecy was fulfilled with terrifying swiftness.  ‘Abdu’l-‘Azíz’s mis-

rule, of which his mistreatment of Bahá’u’lláh was a classic ex-

ample, drove elements in the empire to desperation.  They were

not inclined, as Bahá’u’lláh was, to trust in God for redress.

We noted earlier in this book the events that followed.  With-

out warning a palace revolution overthrew the imperial gov-

ernment.  The sultan, whose very person was regarded as sa-

cred, was seized by rude hands and imprisoned.  The revolu-

tionaries deposed him in favor of his nephew, ‘Abdu’l-Hamíd,

whom they believed they could rule.

The one remaining problem was what to do with the fallen

monarch.  The once all-powerful head of church and state had

become merely an embarrassment.

The problem was solved in the same way that ‘Abdu’l-‘Azíz

had solved his own problems.  Early one morning the wretched

king heard footsteps enter the room in which he was held.

They were the last thing he heard.

Fear God, inhabitants of the city.

The Sixth Kingdom Falls

Through the reign of ‘Abdu’l-Hamíd II uprisings increased in

both intensity and violence.  Finally, in 1909, an army sent by

the Young Turks of Salonika marched in revenge upon the

capital.  It punished all who had opposed its plans for reform

and took steps to deal with the new sultan.

‘Abdu’l-Hamíd was deserted by his friends and condemned

by his subjects.  He was already hated by his fellow sovereigns

of Europe.  The sultan was forced to abdicate his throne and,

like ‘Abdu’l-‘Azíz, was made a prisoner of the state before be-

ing sent into perpetual exile.

Thus, ‘Abdu’l-Hamíd II, as had his uncle before him,

suffered the same punishments that they had inflicted upon

Bahá’u’lláh and His family.  An even more terrible fate awaited

the imperial ministers who had encouraged the kings in their

injustice and had profited handsomely in the course of doing so.

On one single day in 1909, no less than thirty-one leading

ministers and officials were arrested and condemned to the

gallows.  Among the thirty-one were some of the most notori-

ous enemies of Bahá’u’lláh’s Faith.

Constantinople itself, which had been honored as the splen-

did metropolis of the Roman Empire, and which had been

made the capital of the Ottoman government, was abandoned

as a capital city by the revolution.  The city was stripped of its

pomp and glory.  Even its ancient name was dropped in favor

of the colloquial “Istanbul.”  Ankara became the new capital.

The fate of Constantinople brought sharply to mind

Bahá’u’lláh’s words.  He had spoken of the condition in which

He found the city of Constantinople and its peoples when

He arrived there as a Prisoner:  “We found, upon Our arrival

in the City, its governors and elders as children gathered about

and disporting themselves with clay. …  Our inner eye wept

sore over them, and over their transgressions and their total

disregard of the thing for which they were created.”19

There was none to listen among the people of Constan-

tinople.  Bahá’u’lláh warned that the city would feel the fire of

divine reprisal.  “God, assuredly, dominateth the lives of them

that wronged Us, and is well aware of their doings.  He will,

most certainly, lay hold on them for their sins.  He, verily, is

the fiercest of avengers.”20

Constantinople lost in theory, as well as in fact, the posi-

tion held well-nigh uninterruptedly for six centuries—that of

the headship of a vast empire.  The Ottoman Empire was

ended.  The revolutionaries were determined that the capital

should be dishonored as well.

“No longer,” they announced, “will Constantinople exact a

tragic tribute of lives and treasure.”

The mosques of the capital were deserted.  The pride and

joy of them all, the peerless St.  Sophia, was converted into a

museum.  The Arabic tongue, the language of Muhammad,

was banished from the land.

Bahá’u’lláh’s words ring clearly for those who have “ears to

hear”:

O Spot that art situate on the shores of the two seas

[Constantinople]! The throne of tyranny hath, verily, been

established upon thee, and the flame of hatred hath been

kindled within thy bosom. …  We behold in thee the foolish

ruling over the wise, and darkness vaunting itself against the

light.  Thou art indeed filled with manifest pride.  Hath thine

outward splendor made thee vainglorious?  By Him Who is the

Lord of mankind!  It shall soon perish, and thy daughters and

thy widows and all the kindreds that dwell within thee shall

lament.  Thus informeth thee the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.21

How similar are Bahá’u’lláh’s words to those that the perse-

cuted Christ pronounced against Jerusalem “because thou

knowest not the time of thy visitation.”

The break was final and complete.  The new capital of Tur-

key was transferred to Ankara.  Constantinople, the “Dome of

Islám,” hailed by Constantine as the “New Rome,” high-rank-

ing metropolis of both Rome and Christendom, “revered as

the seat of the caliphs” of Islam, was relegated to the station

of a provincial city, was stripped of all its pomp and glory, “its

soaring and slender minarets standing sentinel at the grave of

so much vanished splendor and power.”22

The sixth kingdom had fallen.

12  The Prison Opens

[Blank page]

No need to ask in whose presence I stood.

Mount Carmel

Long before the extinction of the Ottoman Empire, the Pris-

oner of ‘Akká had won the spiritual battle over His persecu-

tors.  The slander spread against Him by fearful or ambitious

politicians in Constantinople had been able to prejudice the

people and officials in ‘Akká against Bahá’u’lláh before His ar-

rival.  Now, however, these same people had several years of

direct experience with their Visitor.

His patience, His forbearance, and His wisdom had capti-

vated the hardest hearts.  Although few had even the dimmest

conception of His mission, they regarded Bahá’u’lláh as a saint

Whose presence was a blessing to the entire province.

The decree of banishment had never been repealed, but it

had become a dead letter.  Bahá’u’lláh was still nominally a

prisoner, but the doors of the prison-city had been opened to

Him by the officials in ‘Akká who had come to know His true

worth.

Bahá’u’lláh was at last free to walk on Mount Carmel.  There

He chose the site for the future shrine of His Herald, the Báb.

Bahá’u’lláh arranged for the sacred remains of the Báb to be

brought from Persia to the Holy Land.

Gradually, all elements of the population began to recog-

nize Bahá’u’lláh’s innocence of the crimes imputed to Him.

Slowly the true spirit of His teachings penetrated through the

“hard crust of their indifference and bigotry.”1

The leading clergyman of ‘Akká, Shaykh Mahmúd, a man

notorious for his bigotry, became converted to the Faith of

Bahá’u’lláh.  He was fired with enthusiasm to compile all the

many traditional prophecies from the writings of Islam con-

cerning the significance of the city of ‘Akká and its “Visitor.”

In more recent years, clergymen of all faiths have followed his

example.

Men of letters, Christians and Jews as well as Muslims,

sought His presence.  Professor E. G. Browne of Cambridge

University visited Bahá’u’lláh and was granted four successive

interviews.  He wrote of those hours, saying:  “It was, in truth,

a strange and moving experience, but one whereof I despair

of conveying any save the feeblest impression.”2  Professor

Browne declared that he underwent unparalleled spiritual joys.

Perhaps men might disbelieve his words, Browne said, but if

they ever came in contact with the spirit of Bahá’u’lláh, it

would be an experience they would remember all the days of

their lives.

Browne described one of his interviews with Bahá’u’lláh in

these words:  “The face of Him on Whom I gazed I can never

forget, though I cannot describe it. …  No need to ask in

Whose presence I stood, as I bowed myself before One Who

is the object of a devotion and love which kings might envy

and emperors sigh for in vain!”3

He will break the yoke from off the necks of men.

The Center of the Covenant

Bahá’u’lláh passed from this world in His home outside the

city of ‘Akká on May 29, 1892.  His mission had been fulfilled.

Although not even His followers were aware of its extent, He

had laid the foundations of a worldwide community that would

provide the pattern for the “new order in human relations”

that the kings had so tragically rejected.

The people of ‘Akká knew only that they had lost some-

thing from their midst that was irreplaceable.  A huge crowd

of people from all religions and all walks of life thronged the

fields that surrounded Bahá’u’lláh’s dwelling.  An eyewitness

wrote, “a multitude of the inhabitants of ‘Akká and of the

neighboring villages … could be seen weeping, beating upon

their heads and crying aloud their grief.”

Bahá’u’lláh, in His own written Will and Testament, ap-

pointed ‘Abdu’l-Bahá (a title meaning “Servant of Bahá’u’lláh”)

as the interpreter of His teachings in a document called the

Kitáb-i-‘Ahd (“The Book of My Covenant”).  Bahá’u’lláh made

‘Abdu’l-Bahá the center of that Covenant.

‘Abdu’l-Bahá took up Bahá’u’lláh’s appeal to the leaders and

peoples of the world.  He traveled extensively throughout

Europe and America in 1911 and 1912 trying to awaken hu-

manity to the dangers threatening it.

Upon arrival at the prison-city of ‘Akká, Bahá’u’lláh is re-

ported to have said to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, “Now I concentrate on

My work writing commands and counsels for the world of the

future; to thee I leave the province of talking with and minis-

tering to the people.”4

The book of Psalms spoke of such a “Covenant” that would

be established for all generations” by the Lord of Hosts in the

day when God would “scatter thine enemies” and “beat down

his foes.” Psalms declared of that day, “I have made a cov-

enant with my chosen. …  Also I will make him my first-born,

higher than the kings of the earth … and my covenant shall

stand fast with him. …  It shall be established forever as the

moon.”5

‘Abdu’l-Bahá was not a Messenger or “Manifestation” of

God as were Bahá’u’lláh, Christ, and the other founders of

the great religions.  His role in spiritual history is, in an impor-

tant sense, a mystery.  On the one hand ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s life is

the perfect example for those who have recognized Bahá’u’lláh.

It is the proof that Bahá’u’lláh’s teachings are the sane and

creative way for people to live in the new age.

On the other hand, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá is also the architect of the

system of administrative institutions conceived and outlined

by Bahá’u’lláh.  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá superintended the formation of

the first of these democratically elected bodies on the pattern

designed by Bahá’u’lláh.  For the first time in history, a Mes-

senger of God has brought not only spiritual teachings and

social principles, but also model institutions.

It is because of this unique role conferred on ‘Abdu’l-Bahá

by Bahá’u’lláh’s own pen that He is so revered and loved by

Bahá’ís everywhere.

The story of the arrival of Bahá’u’lláh, at Mount Carmel

in the Holy Land, there to establish this covenant with hu-

manity for all time, is so beautiful and powerful that it is

impossible not to share also the echo of Isaiah to the words

of the book of Psalms above.

The greatest of the Hebrew prophets proclaimed,

And the Redeemer shall come to Zion. …  This is my cov-

enant with them, saith the Lord. …  Arise, shine; for thy

light is come, and the glory of the Lord [Bahá’u’lláh] is

risen upon thee … darkness shall cover the earth, and gross

darkness the people:  but the Lord shall arise upon thee, and

his glory shall be seen upon thee. …  For the nation and

kingdom that will not serve thee shall perish; yea, those

nations shall be utterly wasted …  and thou shalt know that

I the Lord am thy Savior and thy Redeemer.6

In ‘Akká, the persecutions that had begun under ‘Abdu’l-

‘Azíz reached their culmination under his successor, ‘Abdu’l-

Hamíd II, before the fall of the Ottoman monarchy.  ‘Abdu’l-

Bahá refused to allow these new threats to interfere with His

assistance to the ill and the destitute.  Each day He visited the

orphan, the sick, and the downtrodden.  Throughout His life,

He serenely refused to allow His troubles to prevent Him from

visiting in person those souls who needed His help.

One night early in the winter of 1907, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá had a

dream.  He told His friends about it.  He had seen a ship cast

anchor off ‘Akká.  From it flew a few birds.  When they ap-

proached, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá saw that they resembled sticks of dy-

namite.  The birds flew toward Him and circled above His head.

‘Abdu’l-Bahá was standing in the midst of a great multitude

of the frightened people of ‘Akká.  Suddenly, the “birds” re-

turned to their ship without exploding.

A few days later a ship appeared on the horizon and an-

chored in the Bay of Haifa.  It had brought from Constan-

tinople another imperial investigation commission.  It consisted

of four officers, headed by one, Arif Bey.  This commission

was invested with plenary powers to summarily dispose of

‘Abdu’l-Bahá in any way they deemed fit.  Among the com-

mission’s members were outspoken enemies of Bahá’u’lláh and

His Faith.

All telegraph and postal services in Haifa were immediately

seized.  The commission dismissed any official suspected of

being friendly with ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, including the governor of

the city.  They placed guards over ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s house.  En-

couraged by this show of force, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s enemies flocked

to the commission sessions to do their part in assuring His

downfall.  Even some of the poor, whom He had so long and

so bountifully succored, now forsook Him because of their

fear of reprisals.

Once again wild reports about ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s fate spread

through Haifa and ‘Akká:  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá was to be taken on

shipboard as a prisoner; He might be cast into the ocean at

sea, or banished to the sands of Africa, or even nailed to the

city gates of ‘Akká.

‘Abdu’l-Bahá, His tranquillity unshaken, told some of the

Bahá’ís who still remained at ‘Akká:  “The meaning of the dream

I dreamt is now clear. …  Please God this dynamite will not

explode.”7

I will work a wonder which ye will not

believe even though it be told to you.

God’s Gun

One evening, just before sunset, the ship, which had been ly-

ing off Haifa, weighed anchor.  It headed for ‘Akká.  The news

spread rapidly.  The commission had boarded the vessel.  It was

expected that they would stop at ‘Akká long enough to take

‘Abdu’l-Bahá on board.

Anguish seized the family of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.  The few believ-

ers who were left in the city wept with grief at the thought of

separation from Him.  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá could be seen at that tragic

hour calmly walking alone and silent in the courtyard of His

house.

With the setting sun, the sky darkened and the lights of the

ship could be seen clearly.  Suddenly the ship changed her

course.  She swung about and was now obviously sailing di-

rectly for Constantinople!

The dynamite had not exploded!  Rather, dynamite of a

different kind had been detonated.  In the capital city, the

Young Turks had revolted and swept aside all royal resistance.

‘Abdu’l-Hamíd II had been deposed, and a puppet-king was

set up in his place.  The ship that was to carry ‘Abdu’l-Bahá to

certain death instead conveyed those who condemned ‘Abdu’l-

Bahá back to Constantinople, to their own destruction.

The gun that had touched off the Young Turk Rebellion

not only removed the threat from over ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s head,

but it also freed Him from an imprisonment that had lasted

for over fifty years.  The imprisonment had begun when ‘Abdu’l-

Bahá was but a child of nine.  It ended when He was sixty-

four.

After gaining his freedom, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá carried the Faith

of His father to Africa, Europe, and America.  These apostolic

journeys will remain forever unique in the annals of religious

history.  Imagine! The son of a Messenger of God visiting and

speaking in cathedrals, churches, synagogues, schools, uni-

versities, addressing lord mayors, presidents, educators, phi-

losophers, entering the homes of millionaires and the slum-

dwellings of the poor!

‘Abdu’l-Bahá was entertained by princes, maharajas, and

noblemen.  He spoke to leading clergymen in both England

and America, to Theosophists, agnostics, materialists, spiri-

tualists, Christian Scientists, social reformers, Hindus, Sufis,

Muslims, Buddhists, and Zoroastrians, as well as Catholics,

Protestants, and Jews.

Secretaries of state, ambassadors, congressmen, members

of parliament, ministers of state, presidents of universities,

famous scholars, military leaders, and socialites all met Him

and heard His message of unity.

For eight long months ‘Abdu’l-Bahá traveled coast to coast in

the United States and Canada proclaiming His Father’s Faith

from pulpit, platform, and press.  Whatever the future may hold,

it will never be possible for people to say they did not have the

opportunity to hear about the Revelation of God to our age.

Why did not millions instead of thousands listen and

believe?

Perhaps a clue can be found in the book of Habakkuk, who

prophesied that the “knowledge of the Lord” (Bahá’u’lláh)

would “cover the earth as the “waters cover the sea.”  Habakkuk

also declared, “Behold …  regard, and wonder marvelously:

for I will work a work in your days which ye will not believe,

though it be told you.”8

During the First World War, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá wrote His his-

tory-making Tablets of the Divine Plan, which called on the

followers of Bahá’u’lláh to carry the message of world unity

and social justice to every corner of the globe, however re-

mote.  They responded by the thousands.  The community of

Bahá’u’lláh is now established in more than one hundred thou-

sand centers in over 236 independent nations and major

territories.

It is little wonder that students of past scriptures should

begin to become interested in words of Daniel, which have

found remarkable fulfillment in the story of Bahá’u’lláh.  Not

only did Daniel predict the overthrow of kings, he also proph-

esied, “And in the days of these [wicked] kings shall the God

of heaven set up a kingdom, which shall never be destroyed

…  it shall stand forever.”9

These things Daniel pictured as taking place in a period

that many Christian Bible scholars have said must have begun

in 1844, the year of the birth of the Bahá’í Faith.

‘Abdu’l-Bahá has said of the downfall of ‘Abdu’l-Hamíd:

“God removed the chains from my neck and placed them

around the neck of ‘Abdu’l-Hamíd.  It was done suddenly—

not in a long time—in a moment as it were.  The same hour

that the Young Turks declared liberty, the Committee of Union

and Progress set me free.  They lifted the chains from my neck

and threw them around the neck of ‘Abdu’l-Hamíd.  That

which he did to me was inflicted on him.”10

Of the weapon that had fired off the Young Turk revolt in

such forceful terms, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá said, “That was God’s gun.”

The face of Him on whom I gazed,

I can never forget.

The Envy of Kings

This was not, however, the end of the story.

During World War I, the Turkish commander-in-chief of

the military forces in the Holy Land was Jamál Páshá.  This

suspicious and ruthless officer established a harsh and com-

plete military dictatorship.  In such a regime there was no place

for One Who taught that all men were one and that justice is

the Will of God for our age.

Jamál Páshá subjected ‘Abdu’l-Bahá to repeated insults and

indignities and threatened to destroy the tomb of Bahá’u’lláh.

He openly boasted that if the Turkish Army was forced to

evacuate Haifa, he would “crucify ‘Abdu’l-Bahá on Mount

Carmel.”

The British followers of Bahá’u’lláh were alarmed when this

news reached them.  They enlisted the aid of some of the cabi-

net members, including Lord Curzon, who had written in

1892, the year of the death of Bahá’u’lláh, praising the “sub-

lime” devotion of the early followers of His Faith.

Through Lord Curzon’s intervention, Lord Lamington wrote

to the Foreign Office explaining the importance of ‘Abdu’l-

Bahá’s position.  On the day of the receipt of this letter, Lord

Balfour sent a message to General Allenby in Egypt.  He in-

structed the general to “extend every protection and consider-

ation to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, His family and His friends.”

Allenby’s army entered Palestine and Jerusalem ahead of

schedule.  His surprise entry routed the Turkish forces.

Christian Arabs, unaware of the significance of Bahá’u’lláh’s

Faith or of His words to the rulers of Turkey, pointed proudly

to the protection that God had given to them and to the Holy

Land in that critical hour.  It was the Hand of God raised up

to save them, they said.  It came through General Allenby,

they explained, whose very name showed him to be an instru-

ment of the Lord.  The name “Allenby” was akin to “Al Nabi,”

which in Arabic means “The Prophet.”  For half a century these

same people had remained unaware of the significance of the

presence of Bahá’u’lláh and His Faith in their midst.

General Allenby issued instructions to the officer in com-

mand at Haifa to insure ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s safety.  After the cap-

ture of Haifa, Allenby sent a cable to London.  He requested

the authorities to “notify the world that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá is safe.”

The plot of the Turkish commander, Jamál Páshá, was frus-

trated.  Defeated in battle, he fled from the country.  He was

later slain while traveling as an exile in the Caucasus.

The fate of Jamál Páshá was only a minor footnote in the

turbulent history of the period.  Even the collapse of the Turk-

ish regime in the Holy Land seemed somewhat anticlimactic.

Of far greater importance was the response of the world to

the Message of God.  That Message had been proclaimed in

four continents as a result of the widely publicized travels and

writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.  The most powerful of the despots

who had stood between humankind and the Messenger of

unity had been swept aside.  New governments and new na-

tions had come into existence.

Many of the leading statesmen, reformers, and thinkers of

this new world had met and talked with ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.  Many

of them had paid extravagant tribute to His wisdom and char-

acter, and to the vision in His father’s Revelation.

Now the opportunity for action had come.  Republican gov-

ernments and constitutional monarchies held the power for-

merly held by the Hohenzollerns and Romanovs.  What would

they do with it?

13  Falling Kingdoms

Everywhere

[Blank page]

Twenty years have passed, O Kings!

Falling Kingdoms Everywhere

The words of Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá made it clear that

it was not merely the recipients of specific letters who were

summoned by God.  All the kings and rulers were responsible

for the trust that they had accepted.  And the day had come

when this trust must be answered by acts of justice.

To no other group did this apply so specifically as it did to

kings.  The subsequent decline in the fortunes of royalty and

the disappearance of so many thrones can be understood only

in relationship to their neglect of the Message of God.

Bahá’u’lláh warned them of the great loss they would sustain

if they did not heed the counsel given them:  “O Kings of the

earth! …  Ye examined not His Cause when to do so would

have been better for you than all that the sun shineth upon,

could you but perceive it.”1

Bahá’u’lláh searched in vain for that great leader of men

who would be willing to make any sacrifice necessary in order

to uphold justice; not for the East or the West, the rich or the

poor, the light or the dark, the Jew or the Gentile, but for all

men who lived in this one homeland, the planet.

Bahá’u’lláh extolled the greatness of such a leader of men:

“How great is the blessedness that awaiteth the king who will

arise to aid My Cause. …  Such a king is the very eye of man-

kind. …  the fountainhead of blessings unto the whole world.”2

Through half a lifetime Bahá’u’lláh waited patiently for such

a king or leader to arise.  He longed to witness in His own

lifetime, if possible, the fruits of such heroic action.  The world,

He declared, could have become another world, and the people

another people, if they had responded to His call.

Instead of the Most Great Peace,” humankind would now

have to content himself with the “Lesser Peace.” Humanity,

because of its lack of response would have to win its way to

the goal of a united and peaceful world through suffering.  No

king, however, and no nation arose in answer to His call.  At

last Bahá’u’lláh was moved to declare, “Twenty years have

passed, O kings … ye, nevertheless, have failed to stay the

hand of the aggressor.  For is it not your clear duty to restrain

the tyranny of the oppressor, and to deal equitably with your

subjects, that your high sense of justice may be fully demon-

strated to all mankind?”3

The leaders of men had permitted the “wolves” to inflict

“injustice” upon their “sheep.” Therefore, the hour of retribu-

tion could be put off no longer.  Bahá’u’lláh made a startling

declaration.  “Power,” He announced, had been “seized” by

God from the kings, and the “winds of despair” would soon

“assail” them from every direction.  Bahá’u’lláh wrote of those

tyrant kings, saying, “They have been seized by their fore-

lock, and yet know it not.”4

Only two years expired between the time that Bahá’u’lláh’s

first letters to the kings were delivered and ignored and the

time the first kingdom was overthrown.  The French mon-

arch, Napoleon III, who had twice repudiated Bahá’u’lláh’s

counsel, and who had deliberately insulted Him, was the

first to be toppled from his throne.  He was followed by an

endless line of his fellow monarchs during the subsequent

decades.

The following, in chronological order, is a partial list of

significant events related to Bahá’u’lláh’s historic pronounce-

ments to the crowned heads of the world and of the fate that

overtook some of the major kingdoms of the world.

Fall of the French Monarchy (1870)

Assassination of Sultán ‘Abdu’l-‘Azíz (1876)

Assassination of Násiri’d-Dín Sháh (1896)

Overthrow of Sultan ‘Abdu’l-Hamíd II (1909)

Fall of the Portuguese Monarchy (1910)

Fall of the Chinese Monarchy (1911)

Fall of the Russian Monarchy (1917)

Fall of the German Monarchy (1918)

Fall of the Austrian Monarchy (1918)

Fall of the Hungarian Monarchy (1918)

Fall of the Turkish Monarchy (1922)

Fall of the Qájár Dynasty (1925)

Fall of the Spanish Monarchy (1931)

Fall of the Albanian Monarchy (1938)

Fall of the Serbian Monarchy (1941)

Fall of the Italian Monarchy (1946)

Fall of the Bulgarian Monarchy (1946)

Fall of the Romanian Monarchy (1947)

Fall of the Egyptian Monarchy (1952)

Fall of the Iraqi Monarchy (1958)

Fall of the Yemenite Monarchy (1962)

Vast and awesome is the spectacle that greets the eyes of

those who survey the field over which the requiting wind of

God has blown since the beginning of Bahá’u’lláh’s mission.

Volumes have been written by historians and politicians on

the subject of these falling empires.  In vain, scholars have tried

to explain this spectacle in terms political or historical forces

alone.

Magazines and syndicated news articles have celebrated the

glories of the Victorian and Edwardian ages with their color-

ful kings and unrivaled pageantry, but they have searched

unavailingly to uncover the fateful forces that drove them to

their end.

No one, when Bahá’u’lláh wrote His first letter from far-off

Adrianople in 1867, could have foreseen the worldwide col-

lapse of an institution that had been regarded as the central

pillar of every civilization in history.  The popular mind could

not imagine a world without monarchies.  No sane historian

or political philosopher would have been prepared to make

such a prediction.

It was left to the Messenger of God to announce publicly,

and around the world, the long, final curtain-call of the kings.

All the great houses shall have an end.

From the Top of Carmel

With the completion of Bahá’u’lláh’s announcement to the

kings, the great and dreadful Day foretold by Jeremiah had

dawned and was rising towards the fury of its noonday heat.

Jeremiah prophesied concerning the Day of the Promised One.

He told us what God would do to the tyrant and unjust kings

of the earth:

Take the wine cup of this fury at my hand, and cause all the

nations to whom I send thee, to drink it. …  And all the

kings of the north, far and near, one with another, and all

the kingdoms of the world, which are upon the face of the

earth. …  Thou shalt say unto them, thus saith the Lord of

hosts …  drink ye, and be drunken, and spue, and fall and

rise no more because of the sword which I will send among

you. …  Ye shall not be unpunished:  for I will call for a

sword upon all the inhabitants of the earth, saith the Lord

of Hosts.5

The punishment was far advanced.  Gone were the Houses

of Hohenzollern, Hapsburg, Romanov, Bonaparte, ‘Uthmán,

and Qájár.  Gone were most of the lesser dynasties and king-

doms that once ruled the earth.  The ‘whirlwind” that Isaiah

had promised would come and blow away kings and princes

had now swept across the entire face of the earth.

Perhaps no Old Testament prophet had foreseen that com-

ing royal disaster more clearly than Amos.  It was this same

Amos who had so accurately described the physical events that

took place at the time the Báb, the Herald of the Bahá’í Faith,

faced a death regiment of 750 muskets.6

Amos prophesied, as had Isaiah before Him, that in the

“day of the whirlwind,” the “king” and “his princes” would go

into captivity.  There would be a “famine” and a “thirst” for

hearing the “words of the Lord.”  A disillusioned mankind,

godless and materialistic, would helplessly “run to and fro” in

search of the “words” of God, never finding them.7

In that day, Amos declared, the Lord would “roar” from

Zion and the “top of Carmel” would “wither” at His pres-

ence.8  Bahá’u’lláh’s words now echo ominously through empty

palaces:  “O kings of the earth. …  If ye pay no heed unto the

counsels that, in peerless and unequivocal language, We have

revealed in this Tablet, Divine chastisement shall assail you

from every direction, and the sentence of His [God’s] justice

shall be pronounced against you.  On that day ye shall have no

power to resist Him, and shall recognize your own impotence.

Have mercy on yourselves and on those beneath you.”9

It is the astonishing assertion of God’s Messenger to our

age that the time for the punishment of all forms of aggres-

sion had come.  No aggressor, no matter how powerful, can

cope with the forces loose in the world:  “God hath not blinked,

nor will He ever blink His eyes at the tyranny of the oppres-

sor.  More particularly in this Revelation hath He visited each

and every tyrant with His vengeance.”10

From His captivity in ‘Akká, that “door of hope” promised

by Hosea, Bahá’u’lláh, in the final years of His life, surveyed

the world, its peoples, and their response to His summons.

After many long years of continuous entreaty, Bahá’u’lláh was

able to say with assurance, although no doubt with sadness:

“We verily have not fallen short of Our duty to exhort men,

and to deliver that whereunto I was bidden by God, the Al-

mighty, the All-Praised.  Had they hearkened unto Me, they

would have beheld the earth another earth.”11

The proofs had been delivered.  The prophecies had been

fulfilled.  The seals were opened.  The Promised One of every

religion, nation, and people had discharged His God-given

mission in a global proclamation, a worldwide announcement

such as the eyes of mortal man had never before witnessed.

Bahá’u’lláh, in the closing days of His earthly mission de-

clared, “Is there any excuse left for anyone in this Revelation?

No, by God, the Lord of the Mighty Throne! My signs have

encompassed the earth, and My power enveloped all mankind.” 12

[Blank page]

14  And All the King’s Men

[Blank page]

Soon will the present-day order be rolled up.

The Legacy of the Kings

The Hapsburgs and Hohenzollerns are gone, but their legacy

remains.  And, alas, all humankind are their heirs.

Tragically, it has not been only kings who have failed to

respond to the needs of a new age and to its divine Spokes-

man.  When the First World War ended, only one head of

state arose to champion the kind of world that Bahá’u’lláh

had envisioned.

Years earlier, in His announcement to the kings, Bahá’u’lláh

had called for the formation of an international tribunal to

judge between the nations.  In the middle of the nineteenth

century the idea seemed revolutionary.

Even more revolutionary were the features that He proposed:

“The rulers and kings of the earth must needs attend it, and,

participating in its deliberations, must consider such ways and

means as will lay the foundations of the world’s Great Peace.”1

The tribunal was not to be merely a conference, a place for

discussion.  It was to have powers to enforce peace, powers

derived from the cooperative action of all governments:  “Be

united O kings of the earth. …  Should any one among you

take up arms against another, rise ye all against him, for this is

naught but manifest justice.”2

During the 1919 peace conferences, Woodrow Wilson,

president of the United States, called for a League of Na-

tions to assure the permanent peace of the world.  The

president’s daughter showed keen interest in the new

Revelation.  Whether through this link, or merely because

his own ideals were so closely attuned to the spirit of the

age, President Wilson called his fellow statesmen to join

with him in this first modest experiment in international

control.

What followed is a familiar and tragic story.  Betrayed by

the diplomatic ambitions of other nations, cruelly disappointed

by the attitude adopted by many of his own countrymen, this

“tragically unappreciated” statesman saw his dream wrecked.3

His own life was given in a fruitless attempt to secure the sup-

port of the United States for the newly created world body.

When the League came into existence, it lacked the teeth

to make its decisions effective.  Long before night fell on Eu-

rope in 1939, the “League of Peace” had become an interna-

tional mockery.

Bahá’u’lláh’s words to “the elected representatives of the

people in every land” contain ominous and very clear warn-

ings to the successors of the monarchies:  “Regard the world as

the human body which, though at its creation whole and per-

fect, hath been afflicted, through various causes, with grave

disorders and maladies. …  Its sickness waxed more severe, as

it fell under the treatment of ignorant physicians, who gave

full rein to their personal desires.”4

The reminder of the ruin brought by the reckless military

adventures of the fallen kings fell on deaf ears.  Throughout

the world the only solutions advanced for the problems in

which society has been steadily sinking have been political, or

at best social and economic.  Until very recently all sugges-

tions that the roots of the disorder are spiritual have been

treated with impatience or ridicule.

How ominous, in the age since Hiroshima, are these words

of the Prisoner of ‘Akká, uttered a century ago, “Strange and

astonishing things exist in the earth but they are hidden from

the minds and the understanding of men.  These things are

capable of changing the whole atmosphere of the earth and

their contamination would prove lethal.”5

And finally:  “Oppression will envelop the world.  And fol-

lowing a universal convulsion, the sun of justice will rise from

the horizon of the unseen realm.”6  “Soon will the present-

day order be rolled up, and a new one spread out in its stead.

Verily, thy Lord speaketh the truth, and is the Knower of

things unseen.”7

How odd that our civilization should have left

the spiritual realm almost totally unexplored.

A New View of History

And what about us?  What about the millions of people who

make up the “mankind” that Bahá’u’lláh sought to protect

from the ignorance of kings and despots?

Bahá’u’lláh’s message is directed not only to governments

but also to each individual human being.  How odd that our

civilization, which harnessed the atom, probed space, discov-

ered so many miraculous secrets of nature, and made so many

brilliant advancements in all the sciences, should have left the

spiritual realm almost totally unexplored.

How did it happen that humanity, with its gigantic resources

and unequaled brilliance, missed the most important truth of

all:  a moral and spiritual understanding of history?

The real purpose of life, the Bahá’í teachings point out, is

the development of a praiseworthy character.  The building

of moral and ethical virtues is the true business of life for

both people and nations.  Anything that advances this goal is

of value and should be encouraged.  Anything that hampers,

delays, or prevents it is useless and should be discarded.  All

life revolves around this goal.  It is the reason for existence.

Every event in life depends for its ultimate usefulness and

value on its direct or indirect connection with this main pur-

pose.  It is worthwhile if it forwards this great theme.  It is

worthless if it does not.

Any philosophy that does not advance in some way this

perspective of life is futile.  Any person who devotes himself to

something else, such as acquiring wealth, seeking pleasure or

luxury, or chasing ambition, reputation, or conquest, and

thinks of that goal as having in itself an independent value

and importance separate from the spiritual and moral motiva-

tion of his life is, sooner or later, doomed to disillusionment

and unhappiness.

Such a person is without a real purpose in life.  He will be

prone to depression and self-destruction in one form or an-

other.  He will gradually destroy himself physically or morally

or both, through despair or through the excessive physical plea-

sure by which he seeks in vain to escape his destiny.

That is the tragedy that is taking place on a planetary scale

today.

No one loves us.  Not our mothers, our fathers, our chil-

dren, our wives, our husbands, our sweethearts.  No one.

Our families and friends love only the inner qualities we

possess—kindness, generosity, compassion, tenderness, love,

justice, fairness, gentleness, consideration; these are the things

they love.  As we increase these qualities in our lives, their love

for us increases.  As we lose these virtues, their love for us with-

ers and dies away.

And what is true of individuals is also true of nations or civi-

lizations.  To acquire these inward moral and ethical virtues is

the real business of life, for both the individual soul and society.

Every other goal is meaningless by comparison.

The world today has lost most of these virtues.  It continues

to lose more.  Both men and nations are drifting on the tide of

empty materialism.  Something must reverse the current.  That

is why Bahá’u’lláh has come.  That is the mission of His Faith.

The churches can find no remedy because they have lost

their Divine Physician, Christ.  His Spirit left them over a cen-

tury ago when He returned in the glory of the Father,

Bahá’u’lláh, and the churches and their leaders turned their

back on Him—just as they had the first time.  The same is

true of each of the other great religions of the past.

Had this not been the case, the clergy of the world’s reli-

gions would have responded to the Message for which they

claimed they had been yearning for centuries.  Because the

Messenger spoke directly to them, individually and collectively,

as clearly as He addressed the kings.

He spoke, for example, to Pope Pius IX.  And the story of that

brief encounter and its reverberations in modern history may well

be the most dramatic chapter of the entire spiritual drama.

Bahá’u’lláh told the pope that He was the Father Who had

been promised by Christ, the Son.  The very One the pope

was awaiting; the One in Whose Name the pontiff held his

position.

There has been only a century of silence from the church.

But the seeds were sown, and let us see what took place a

hundred years later.

O Supreme Pontiff!

Echoes from the Past

How many Christians have made a study of the now famous

pastoral letter of Pope John XXIII, the encylical Pacem in Terris

(“Peace on Earth”)?  Most Protestants perhaps couldn’t have

cared less.  But how many Catholics are aware of its contents?

For the origins of this encyclical, which had such far-reach-

ing effects on the two-thousand-year-old Roman Catholic

Church, we must turn back to the words Bahá’u’lláh addressed

to Pope John’s predecessor Pius IX in 1869.

Bahá’u’lláh told the pontiff bluntly that the “Father” had come

as promised by the “Son,” Jesus the Christ.  Bahá’u’lláh said that

He was that Father.  The response was less than joyful.

Perhaps that attitude was understandable a hundred years

ago—regrettable, but understandable.  The world head of any

religion is not likely to be stirred to his depths when his posi-

tion of eminence is challenged—especially by such a seem-

ingly preposterous claim, written from a penal-colony prison

by a condemned exile.

Caiaphas didn’t go into spasms of ecstasy when Christ told

him He was the “Son of God.”  And he met Jesus face to face.

Instead, he called Christ a blasphemer.

We can imagine then the reaction generated by Bahá’u’lláh’s

letter to the pope.  No one even bothered to call Him a blas-

phemer, although His claim was even more presumptuous than

Christ’s.  Nor did the Curia exhibit the annoyance and alarm

that had been aroused among several of the kings.  Instead, a

curtain of silence descended around the entire subject.

Then, in the exact year and exact month of the one hun-

dredth anniversary of Bahá’u’lláh’s Declaration to the world pro-

claiming that the sacred promise in all the Holy Books had

been fulfilled, Pope John XXIII issued his encyclical letter,

which “received worldwide acclaim.”

The praise was justified.  Not only did the encylical deal

with the problems facing the world, but Pope John himself

was a true lover of his fellow man, a saintly human being.

In that encyclical, the supreme pontiff spoke of the follow-

ing subjects:

World peace

A world community

Search after truth

Universal education

Equality between men and women

The oneness of humankind

The oneness of God

The harmony of science and religion

Disarmament

A warning concerning atomic energy

A spiritual solution to the economic problem

Do these ideas sound familiar?

They are one and all principles of the Bahá’í Faith.  They are

teachings and counsels that Bahá’u’lláh had given to the kings

and religious leaders of the world more than a century previous.

The pontiff finally spoke out, exactly one hundred years afterward.

How powerfully those words of Bahá’u’lláh, spoken so long

ago to a pope in Rome, now ring through the halls of history

after a century:  “O Supreme Pontiff).  Incline thine ear unto that

which the Fashioner of moldering bones counseleth thee.”8

Pope John XXIII, because of his sincere love of humanity

and his wise guidance to a troubled world, received the Nobel

Prize for peace.  He was admired and lauded in all parts of the

world by both public and press.

Yet he had no more than echoed, faintly at that, and only

after a hundred years, the teachings of Bahá’u’lláh.  He had

done no more than to share with humanity ideals that had

been denied to the world for a century by the leaders of men,

both religious and secular.

What was Bahá’u’lláh’s reward?

He was scourged, chained, banished and imprisoned for

nearly half a century.  He was denounced as an enemy of reli-

gion and civil order.

The most bitter and persistent of those denouncing His

teachings, whether in Persia, Turkey, or the Near East, had

been the clergy.  The Muslim clergy indeed had taken the lead,

but it is an unhappy fact that those who did most to spread

these early slanders were Christians, missionaries who feared

the loss of their jealously guarded flocks.

Their church, however, had only begun to experience the

delayed effects of the Revelation they had so long awaited.

Emerge from your palace!

More Echoes from the Same Pen

It is almost impossible to turn to any great event taking place

in the religious world today without tracing its inspiration to

the words that Bahá’u’lláh addressed so long ago to the eccle-

siastics of the nineteenth century.

How many Catholics are aware of the significance of the

visit of Pope Paul VI to the United Nations?  How many Chris-

tians are aware of the spiritual implications of the pope’s visit

to the World Council of Churches in Switzerland?  Or to

Kampala, Uganda? All of these events have their roots in

Bahá’u’lláh’s letter to Pope Piux IX.

Bahá’u’lláh called upon the pope to “arise in the name of

thy Lord.” He urged the Pope to “emerge” from his “palaces”

and “speak forth the praises of thy Lord betwixt earth and

heaven.” Bahá’u’lláh urged Pope Pius IX to “sell the embel-

lished ornaments” he possessed and “expend them in the path

of God.”9

Bahá’u’lláh was not asking the pope to do anything He had

not already done Himself in a fuller measure.

When the hour came for Bahá’u’lláh to carry out the bid-

ding of the Almighty, He was in the “hey-day of His life.”  Yet

He flung aside “every consideration of earthly fame, wealth

and position.”10  Bahá’u’lláh was a nobleman of the province

of Núr in Persia.  He had everything our world prizes so highly.

Bahá’u’lláh cast them all aside, although He knew only too

well where such a decision would lead Him.

During those hours when Pope Pius IX rode the crest of

popularity and sovereignty, Bahá’u’lláh had fallen from the

highest to the lowest estate, from wealth to poverty, from

freedom to imprisonment.  Bahá’u’lláh thanked God for

such “tribulations” saying, “The throat Thou didst accus-

tom to the touch of silk Thou hast, in the end, clasped

with strong chains, and the body Thou didst ease with bro-

cades and velvets Thou hast at last subjected to the abase-

ment of a dungeon.”11

Bahá’u’lláh now urged the pontiff to follow this example.

He told the pope to leave his “palace” and to assist the Father,

and to “proffer” His teachings to the “people of all faiths.”12

In the prison-city from which Bahá’u’lláh sent His letter to

Pius IX, He wrote, “The Ancient Beauty [Bahá’u’lláh] hath

consented to be bound with chains that mankind may be re-

leased from its bondage, and hath accepted to be made a pris-

oner within this most mighty Stronghold that the whole world

may attain unto true liberty.  He hath drained to its dregs the

cup of sorrow, that all the peoples of the earth may attain

unto abiding joy, and be filled with gladness.”13

Such tasks should have been the business of the pope as

well.  The pope declared himself to be the vicar of Christ on

earth.  Bahá’u’lláh told him that the Promised One Whom he

awaited had come.  The returned Christ was standing before

his eyes.

Bahá’u’lláh warned the pope not to reject Him because

His name was different than he expected:  “O Pope …  Be-

ware lest any name debar thee from God. …  Dwellest thou

in palaces whilst He Who is the King of Revelation liveth in

the most desolate of abodes?  Leave them unto such as desire

them, and set thy face with joy and delight toward the

Kingdom.”14

Pope Pius IX did none of these things.  The pope was soon

to suffer the same loss of his worldly kingdom as had the secu-

lar rulers.

In those days, Pius IX was a temporal as well as a spiritual

king.  As with his fellow monarchs, however, he found himself

caught up in the forces released by the “Day of God.”  In 1870,

only a year after Bahá’u’lláh had revealed His epistle to Pius

IX, King Victor Emmanuel II suddenly declared war with the

Papal States.  The royalist troops had entered Rome and seized

it.

The following morning, as the cannonade began, the pope

ordered the white flag to be hoisted above the dome of St.

Peter.  The pope shut himself up in the buildings left to him

and declared himself to be “the Prisoner of the Vatican.”

“Rome, the ‘Eternal City, on which rest twenty-five centu-

ries of glory,’ and over which the Popes had ruled in unchal-

lengeable right for ten centuries, finally became the seat of the

new kingdom, and the scene of that humiliation which

Bahá’u’lláh had anticipated and which the Prisoner of the

Vatican had imposed upon himself?’”

The commands of God in the directive to the pope, how-

ever, remained to be carried out.  The fall of Pius IX did not

change the obligation on those who declared themselves the

vicars on earth of Jesus Christ.  Pope John XXIII was the first

pontiff, unwittingly, to carry out the role assigned to the pa-

pacy.  His successor, Pope Paul VI, had carried this response

much further, and much less willingly.  Paul VI answered

Bahá’u’lláh’s century-old “summons” to “emerge” from the

Lateran “palace” and go out “amidst the peoples of the world.”

He visited Africa, Asia, Latin America, North America and

Europe, thus breaking with twenty centuries of papal

tradition.

One of the most important visits of Pope Paul VI was to

the United Nations headquarters in New York City.  There he

did “speak out” among the leaders of men.  He did “exhort”

them to “justice” and to be mindful of the things in the holy

book of God.16

Why is this particular event interesting to the student of

Bahá’u’lláh’s story?

For the following reasons, to give only a few:  Bahá’u’lláh,

in His writings, called upon the kings and leaders to establish

an international body such as the United Nations.  Later, His

son ‘Abdu’l-Bahá visited New York City, and while there ex-

plained the significances of Bahá’u’lláh’s Covenant with the

peoples of the world.  New York City, the United Nations’

world headquarters, has been named in the Bahá’í writings as

the “City of the Covenant” of Bahá’u’lláh.  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá also

visited California.  While in the shadow of San Francisco,

‘Abdu’l-Bahá said that California was worthy to raise the first

banner of International Peace.  In San Francisco, some thirty

years after His visit, the United Nations Charter was written,

and the blue and white flag of the United Nations, a symbol

of peace, was created.

How remarkable that in this involuntary manner a pope

had answered God’s century-old “summons.”

While addressing the United Nations, Pope Paul VI, like

John XXIII before him, echoed the very principles that

Bahá’u’lláh had given to the world so long ago.

It is a tragedy for us all that it took over a hundred years.  It

is a greater tragedy that the pontiff, a sincere and holy man,

was far too late for his words to have any effect.

Only one thing could have made his address relevant.  He

could have repeated Bahá’u’lláh’s words to his predecessor:  “He

Who is the Lord of Lords is come. …  He hath stored away

that which He chose in the vessels of justice, and cast into the

fire that which befitteth it.”17

The pope’s rendezvous with history, however, was not yet

complete.  Two other specific tasks had been appointed to his

office.  His predecessors had let them pass, and God would

wait no longer.

Impelled as by an unseen hand, he proceeded on the course

laid out for him a hundred years earlier.

Enter into wedlock, O people, that ye may bring forth

one who will make mention of Me amid My servants.

O Concourse of Priests!

Bahá’u’lláh invited Pius IX to visit Him in the Holy Land.

If the pope loved and remembered Christ, he would open

his heart to Bahá’u’lláh.

“Reliance” on God would be the only “provision” he would

need for such a journey.18

It was clear that if he were truly waiting, truly seeking, the

pope would not fail to investigate a claim that had the stupen-

dous moral authority that Bahá’u’lláh’s reputation was now

giving to His words.  If the pope did not come himself, there

were hundreds whom he could send.

The journey was never made.  There was only silence from

the church—a century of silence.

Then, one hundred years later, Pope Paul VI visited the

Holy Land.  Again breaking all precedent, and for reasons that

were never made clear, he left Rome and visited the land to

which the Messenger of God had summoned his predecessor.

Paul VI was accorded a huge welcome, similar to that which

had greeted Emperor Franz Josef and Kaiser William I so long

before him.  It was hailed as a great event in the press.  After

150 years of no pope leaving Italy, one had come at last to the

Holy Land.

Bahá’u’lláh came as a prisoner and an exile, despised and

imprisoned.  The vicar who sat on His throne and held that

seat of honor in the Promised One’s name, against the day of

His return, was showered with praise and blessings.

It was a century too late.  The Promised One was no longer

there.  Nor did Pope Paul VI seek to investigate the flourishing

center whose shrines and gardens covered the slope of Mount

Carmel in memory of the Prisoner of ‘Akká.

During the visit of Pope Paul VI to Israel, news arrived at

the World Center of the Bahá’í Faith announcing that the

teachings of Bahá’u’lláh were well established all over the world.

(More than 2,100 tribes, races, and ethnic groups in more

than one hundred thousand localities on the planet are en-

rolled under the banner of Bahá’u’lláh.)

This had been envisioned by Habakkuk:  “For the earth shall

be filled with the knowledge of the glory of the Lord, as the

waters cover the sea.”19

The press, television, and radio were all reporting the wrong

story.  But that had happened before, too.

There on the side of Mount Carmel stood the seat of that

“Kingdom” which the pope and more than 500 million Catho-

lics extolled daily in their prayers.

The Kingdom had come.  God’s Will had been done on earth

as promised in the Lord’s prayer.  The Christ-promised King-

dom had appeared in the exact spot foretold in passage after

passage from the holy book revered by the pope and his people.

But, unhappily, neither Catholics nor Protestants were aware

of it.

Surely the echo of Bahá’u’lláh’s voice must have reverber-

ated through those holy hills on the occasion of Pope Paul’s

visit.  Like rolling thunder those words must have resounded

through Zion, Jerusalem, Bethlehem, and Nazareth, where

they were originally uttered:

O Pope! …  Lo!  The Father is come.20

O Concourse of patriarchs!  He Whom ye were promised in

the Tablets is come.21

O Concourse of archbishops!  He Who is the Lord of all

men hath appeared.22

O Concourse of bishops! …  He Who is the Everlasting

Father calleth aloud between earth and heaven.23

O Concourse of priests!  Leave the bells, and come forth,

then, from your churches. …  The Lord is come in His

great glory!24

O Concourse of monks! …  Come forth by My leave …

Thus biddeth you the King of the Day of Reckoning. …

Enter ye into wedlock, that after you someone may fill your

place.25

O Concourse of Christians! …  Ye call upon Me, and are

heedless of My Revelation …  O people of the Gospel! …

Verily, He (Jesus) said:  “Come after Me, and I will make

you to become fishers of men.” In this day, however, We

say:  “Come ye after Me, that we may make you quickeners

of mankind.”26

Ironically, Bahá’u’lláh’s letter to Pope Pius IX had repeat-

edly warned the pontiff not to make the same mistake the

high priests and religious leaders made in the days of Christ.

Bahá’u’lláh wrote, “Thou, in truth, art one of the suns of

the heaven of His names.  Guard thyself; lest darkness spread

its veils over thee, and fold thee away from His light.”27

Christ Himself had warned against such a calamity.  In the

chapter of Matthew in which Jesus gave so many proofs of the

time of His coming, He also warned that the sun shall be

“darkened, and the moon shall not give her light, and the

stars shall fall from heaven, and the powers of the heavens

shall be shaken.”28

The meaning, Bahá’u’lláh explained, is clear.  The “moons”

are those religious leaders who take their light from the “Sun”

of Christ.  Such “moons” and “stars” fade away each morning

when the Sun of a new day dawns.  In like manner, when the

“Sun” of Christ returns, the Sun of the past day is “darkened.”

If the “moon” refuses the Light of the new Sun, it too is “dark-

ened” and sheds no light on the problems of men.29

This was the meaning of Bahá’u’lláh’s words when He en-

treated such religious leaders not to turn away from Him:  “Ye

are the stars of the heaven of My knowledge.  My mercy desireth

not that ye should fall upon the earth.”30

One more task remained to the itinerant and record-break-

ing Pope Paul VI.  He visited the World Council of Churches

in Switzerland in June 1969, thus bringing together leaders

from both the Catholic and Protestant faiths.  That visit took

place one hundred years after Bahá’u’lláh had urged the pope

in Rome to do precisely that:  to offer His teachings to the

other religious leaders of humankind.

First “drink” of the words yourself, Bahá’u’lláh had instructed

Pius IX, then “proffer” them to the “peoples of all faiths.”

The World Council of Protestant Churches had met be-

fore.  During one of their international gatherings, the press

reported that the delegates found it impossible to reach a vote

on the subject of Christ’s return.  Delegates from 163 denomi-

nations from 48 countries “disagreed sharply and fundamen-

tally” on the question of “whether the Christian hope for the

establishment of God’s kingdom can be fulfilled in this world

or only after the second coming of Christ.”31

He had come, and He had gone!

For sixteen decades, the Báb, Bahá’u’lláh, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, and

the followers of Bahá’u’lláh in all parts of the planet, have

been telling the Christian world that Christ has already re-

turned.  He has come and He has gone, just as He said in the

Bible that He would.  Christ cautioned that although “all eyes

shall see His glory,” He would come “as a thief in the night.”32

The parable He told made it clear that the divine “thief” would

have come and gone! It happened over a hundred years ago!

And that is why a world body of the Christian faith spent

hours debating whether they could establish Christ’s King-

dom now or only after He returned.  That is why a Catholic

pope broke all precedents and went to meet with them.

Tragically, they had nothing to say to one another when

they met.  The pope did not, in fact, understand the im-

pulse that had sent him there.  And he demonstrated no

awareness of the one message that could have had any rel-

evance for his audience.

And so they all went home.

Ye shut up the kingdom of heaven against men.

Blind Leaders

Bahá’u’lláh has written thus of the clergy of His time:  “When

We observed carefully, We discovered that Our enemies are,

for the most part, the divines.”33

He addressed them directly, “How long will ye … level the

spears of hatred at the face of Bahá? … follow not your de-

sires which have altered the face of creation.”34

Bahá’u’lláh tried to open their eyes and ears so they might

hear that “new song” spoken of by Isaiah.  He said, “Purify

your ears that they may hearken unto the Voice of God. …

Can any one of you race with the Divine Youth in the arena

of wisdom and utterance, or soar with Him in the heaven of

inner meaning and explanation? …  Can the one possessed of

wooden legs resist him whose feet God hath made of steel?

Nay, by Him Who illumineth the whole of creation!”35

Bahá’u’lláh offered an ocean of proof to the religious leaders

of all Faiths that He was the One they awaited.  Yet many not

only rejected Bahá’u’lláh, but they actively opposed, persecuted,

and tried to stamp out both Bahá’u’lláh and His teachings.

Almost without exception, religious leaders have taken the

lead in holding shut the door whenever their followers be-

came interested in the Message of Bahá’u’lláh.

Their attacks on the Revelation and their willingness to re-

tell slanders passed on to them by Muslim clergy carry dis-

couraging echoes of similar actions in the early days of Chris-

tianity by the same sort of religious opponents.

No wonder Bahá’u’lláh was to write to such clergymen:  “O

ye that are foolish yet have a name to be wise! Wherefore do ye

wear the guise of the shepherd, when inwardly ye have be-

come wolves, intent upon my flock?”36

It is also not surprising that Christ Himself would warn

against such unseeing shepherds of His flock.  Jesus said, “Let

them alone:  they be blind leaders of the blind.  And if the

blind lead the blind both shall fall into the ditch.”37

Yet Bahá’u’lláh in no way sought to degrade or belittle the im-

portance of the world’s religious leaders.  Rather, He praised unre-

servedly those religious leaders whose actions and conduct con-

form to their words.  He has said that “The guidance of men hath,

at all times, been and is dependent upon these blessed souls.”38

Of such a sincere religious leader, whatever his religion or

denomination, Bahá’u’lláh has also written, “The inmates of

Paradise, and the dwellers of the sacred Folds, bless him at

eventide and at dawn.”39

Such spiritual giants, whether Christian, Jewish, Muslim,

or of any other religion, are “as the spirit to the body of the

world,” Bahá’u’lláh declares, and “as an eye unto the world.”40

It was two Christian clergymen from the missionary field

who first introduced the Bahá’í Faith to America in 1893 at

the World Parliament of Religions.  One wrote a paper de-

scribing the “Christ-like” sentiments of Bahá’u’lláh, the other

read the document to the assembled audience.

Over four hundred outstanding clergy of the Muslim Faith,

some of them the most illustrious in the land, recognized and

accepted the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh as the promised Messengers

of God.  They made great sacrifices for their Faith.  Many were

killed for their beliefs.

Clergy of all Faiths have since embraced the teachings of

Bahá’u’lláh, from Catholic priests to Buddhist monks.  But in

almost every instance they have been shunned by their former

colleagues, belittled, ridiculed, persecuted, and in some in-

stances killed.

It is too late to patch up and sew together a pathetically

fragmented Christianity.  Hundreds and hundreds of sects in

a patchwork quilt of curious variations compete with each other

for the Body of Christ.  Even the hopeful signs of an ecumeni-

cal drawing together is but the unwitting result of Bahá’u’lláh’s

Message of oneness.  Almost against their will the unifying

forces of life drive these broken and tattered pieces before the

wind toward one common destination—unity.

And if all the multitude of Christian sects were to unite,

there would still remain Jews, Muslims, Buddhists, Hindus,

Zoroastrians, agnostics, atheists, and primitive peoples.  Bahá’-

u’lláh is reaching out an embrace to all religions and all peoples,

not just to Christianity alone.

Bahá’u’lláh was saddened at the apathy of the Christian

masses who had been given so many opportunities, yet who

stood by indifferently while multitudes from other religious

heritages entered the Faith of God ahead of them:  “O people

of the Gospel!  They who were not in the Kingdom have now

entered it, whilst We behold you, in this day, tarrying at the

gate. …  Open the doors of your hearts. …  Will ye bar the

doors of your houses in My face?”41

In a poetic reference to His own appearance as foretold in

Christian scripture and to His exile to the land of Jesus, where

His Kingdom was established, He asks, “O Bethlehem!  This

Light hath risen in the orient, and traveled towards the

occident, until it reached thee in the evening of its life.  Tell

Me then:  Do the sons recognize the Father, and acknowledge

Him, or do they deny Him, even as the people aforetime de-

nied Him [Jesus]?”42

[Blank page]

15  The Heart of the

World Afire

[Blank page]

Why should these be exempt?

A Spiritual Revolution

Nearly 150 years ago, Bahá’u’lláh warned that a spiritual revo-

lution would invade in every land every institution of the

human social order.  However painful the process, He warned

against efforts to defend standards and institutions that,

by their very existence, keep people from becoming aware

of the need for a new social order based on the Revelation of

God.

The principles of the Bahá’í community are plain:

If long-cherished ideals and time-honored institutions, if

certain social assumptions and religious formulae have ceased

to promote the welfare of the generality of mankind, if

they no longer minister to the needs of a continually evolv-

ing humanity, let them be swept away and relegated to the

limbo of obsolescent and forgotten doctrines.  Why should

these, in a world subject to the immutable law of change

and decay, be exempt from the deterioration that must needs

overtake every human institution? For legal standards, po-

litical and economic theories are solely designed to safe-

guard the interests of humanity as a whole, and not hu-

manity to be crucified for the preservation of the integrity

of any particular law or doctrine.’

The truth is, entire civilizations perpetuate themselves long

after the Spirit that gave them birth and relevance has departed.

We are asking of our present-day civilizations, both East and

West, the vitality, enthusiasm, purity, uprightness and cour-

age of their youth while they are suffering from the diseases of

old age.  Hardening of the spiritual arteries has set in.  Tradi-

tional religion in each case has dug down deep into its barrel

of spiritual resources and has come up empty.

Both religious and government leaders continue to make

adjustments in the old institutions to try and make them rel-

evant.  These leaders are confident that the problems are only

temporary.  They are sure they will find a solution to these

passing crises if their people are only patient enough.

The representatives of the established order seem somehow

incapable of accepting that we cannot go back to the past or

try to solve problems only on a local or national level.  Any

solution to the crying needs of humanity that is not planetary

in its scope is doomed to failure.  Sectarian religion similarly

has no relevance in an age where unity is essential for survival.

It is no longer possible to launch our rockets on the oats we

feed our horses.  A world society is erupting beneath our feet

and shaking down the cultural walls behind which we still try

to hide.

The world is not suffering from a “temporary maladjust-

ment” in its life.  It is suffering from the “death-pangs” of an

old, effete, worn-out order.  We have become a profit-making

world instead of a welfare-producing world.  We have become

oblivion-seeking people instead of a truth-seeking people.

The tremendous resources of our planet are largely expended

on weapons of war and defense, not on health, education,

and the elimination of poverty.

How is it possible for any people to turn for guidance con-

cerning peace and welfare to agencies that have been devel-

oped for the ends of war and destruction?

Bahá’ís see the current social breakdown as an irresistible

natural process.  It could have been prevented, and the tran-

sition could have been made peaceful and productive if only

the leaders of nations had turned to the source of all civiliza-

tion.  Since they did not, the revolt is sweeping away the good

with the bad.  It seems too difficult and painful to weed out

the good trees from the forest of diseased ones.  So let it all

fall together.

Yet Bahá’ís are firmly obedient to the governments of the

nations in which they reside.  Bahá’u’lláh Himself com-

manded them to behave “with loyalty, honesty and truth-

fulness” to the governments of their countries.2  The teach-

ings of Bahá’u’lláh’s Faith demand not only that the Bahá’ís

be loyal to their government, but also forbid any involve-

ment in any political movement, apart from the individual’s

right to decide his vote in the privacy of his own conscience.

Bahá’ís everywhere have a “sacred obligation to promote, in

the most effective manner, the best interests of their govern-

ment and people,”3 without associating themselves with the

diplomatic policies or pursuits of any government.  True pa-

triotism, they believe, need not conflict with a person’s su-

preme loyalty to God and to the welfare of the one human

race.

Within this clear and undeviating framework, the Bahá’ís

of the world labor energetically to change those things that

are wrong and unjust.  They use all the channels that are open

to them.  Above all, however, they seek to change hearts, for

until we have a new world conscience we cannot have a new

world society.

The writings of Bahá’u’lláh’s Faith say that the “most vital

duty” given to every Bahá’í is to “purify” his character.4  Every

Bahá’í is commanded to conduct himself in such a manner

that he will stand out amongst the people of the world be-

cause of his moral qualities.  These seemingly impossible goals

are within the individual’s reach for only one reason.  Bahá’u’lláh

has created, and God sustains, a true community, a society fit

for human beings to live in.

In this day, Bahá’u’lláh says, God loves and aids “those who

work in His path in groups.”5  Like a healthy body, the com-

munity of Bahá’u’lláh provides the spiritual nourishment that

each individual, as a cell in an organism, requires.  There is no

other way to live.

Far from being negative, the Bahá’í community realizes

that the painful ills now afflicting present-day society are

the “death pangs” of a dying civilization.  They are being

accompanied by the “birth pangs” of a new civilization,

which is the organic world community, the “Ark of human

salvation” now rising in strength and beauty upon the ruins

of the old.6

Increasingly, it is young people who seem most able to grasp

the necessity for this change.  Ironically, it is this element of

society, regarded as most irresponsible and violent, which best

understands that humankind’s urgent need is for moral and

spiritual regeneration.

They will experience an emotion

they are not likely to forget.

Rebels of God

Bahá’u’lláh’s community has been driven by youthful energy

and zeal since its earliest days.  The Herald of the Bahá’í Faith,

the Báb, was but twenty-five when His mission began.  He

was only thirty when an execution squad of 750 soldiers lev-

eled their rifles at Him.  The companion who died with Him

on that occasion, head upon His breast, was only eighteen.

The overwhelming majority of the Báb’s chief disciples were

young.  The first was twenty-seven, the last nineteen.  Behind

the dramatic dialogue between the Messenger of God and the

kings of the world, hundreds of youths of both sexes willingly

laid down their lives for the redemption of mankind.  That is

how the Revelation was born.

In one inspiring encounter, a handful of young men, 313

in number, “unequipped yet God-intoxicated students, mostly

sedentary recluses of the college and cloister” suddenly found

themselves “pitted in self-defense against a trained army, well

equipped, supported by the masses of the people, blessed by

the clergy, headed by a prince of the royal blood” and backed

“by the resources of the state.”7

These early idealistic followers of the Báb rose up as one

soul against the corruption and hypocrisy of their society.  Their

spiritual rebellion against injustices became the “seed” which

already is beginning to yield its fruit in the shape of a world-

encircling Order whose purpose is to assure the welfare and

identity of every human being.

It was no small thing.  The French author Renan, in Les

Apôtres, described one of the dramatic episodes in the rise of

the Bahá’í Faith as “a day without parallel perhaps in the his-

tory of the world.”8

Over twenty thousand followers were killed in Persia alone.

More of these early believers were slain in one year than there

were Christians martyred by official Roman decree in the most

terrible eight-year-long persecution by the Emperor Diocletian.

Lord Curzon of Kedleston wrote, “Of no small account,

then, must be the tenets of a creed that can awaken in its

followers so rare and beautiful a spirit of self-sacrifice.”9

The spirit that animated and inspired these youthful de-

fenders of the Bahá’í Faith was so moving that Professor E. G.

Browne of Cambridge University said, “it can hardly fail to

affect most powerfully all subjected to its influence.”  “Should

that spirit once reveal itself to them,” he added, “they will

experience an emotion which they are not likely to forget.”10

Bahá’u’lláh Himself was but twenty-seven when He first

began teaching in His native province and thirty-six when His

ministry began.

‘Abdu’l-Bahá was nine when He first understood the great

station of His father.  He was a small child when He saw

Bahá’u’lláh beset with pain and suffering under the iron-yoke

of chains in the Black Pit prison.  He was nineteen when He left

Iraq in exile with His father.  He was only twenty-four when He

arrived at the prison-city of ‘Akká and Bahá’u’lláh turned over

to Him the responsibility of dealing with the outside world.  He

was still young when Bahá’u’lláh passed away and the weight of

the entire Bahá’í world fell upon His shoulders.

‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s youngest brother, Mírzá Mihdí, was but

twenty-two when he sacrificed his life in the prison of ‘Akká

so that the gates of the prison might open and the Spirit of

Bahá’u’lláh’s Revelation touch the hearts of all mankind.

Shoghi Effendi, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s grandson, was only twenty-

five when he was appointed as the Guardian of the Faith and

assumed leadership of the global community.

The messenger who carried Bahá’u’lláh’s powerful letter to

Násiri’d-Dín Sháh was scarcely more than a boy, only seventeen.

His family despaired of his conduct.  They considered him to be

what many people today would probably call a delinquent.

Yet he was chosen by Bahá’u’lláh over a crowd of volunteers

for this great mission.  Alone, and on foot, he walked the en-

tire distance from the prison on the Mediterranean Sea to

Tihrán, the capital of Persia, a journey of four months.

His name was Áqá Buzurg.  He was known as Badí‘ (which

means “wonderful”).  He delivered the letter to Násiri’d-Dín

Sháh, was arrested, and branded and tortured for three suc-

cessive days.  And finally he was beaten to death, and his body

was thrown into a pit.

Bahá’u’lláh Himself declared that “the spirit of might and

power was breathed” into that youth.  He praised Badí‘ for

three years in His writings, saying that his example was as “salt”

in the spiritual food needed by humanity.11

All over the world, in Africa, Asia, Australia, the islands of

the South Pacific, Latin America, North America, and Europe,

the number of young people embracing the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh

increases each year.  Those in their teens and twenties make up

the majority of the new “recruits” for Bahá’u’lláh’s spiritual army.

In the Bahá’í community there is no generation gap any

more than there is a distinction between races or classes.  The

tragic lack of communication that causes the rift in our sick

society need not exist if each individual is accepted on his

own merits without regard to age or race, sex or culture.  A

disciple of the Báb, a youth of nineteen, who was the first to

suffer persecution on Persian soil, was accompanied through

every humiliation by an elderly man who miraculously with-

stood one thousand lashes on his back.  They suffered together,

fellow believers, side by side.  It is the same the world over.

Youth is not mainly a time of life, but a state of mind.  Years

can wrinkle the skin, but losses of ideals can wrinkle the soul

and wither the spirit of man, whatever his age—young or old.

The hour of final victory

A World Community

Bahá’u’lláh did not come to any one group of people.  He came

to the entire world.  His Faith calls upon “young and old alike”

to make the teaching of His healing, world-redeeming Faith

the dominating passion of their lives.  Bahá’u’lláh offers a chal-

lenge that is today testing the determination, stamina, selfless-

ness, sacrifice, and devotion of people of every race, culture,

nation, and position in life.  The following words are those of

Bahá’u’lláh s great-grandson, Shoghi Effendi, the Bahá’í Faith’s

appointed Guardian, who inspired and led the worldwide

spread of the Message of God:

Under whatever conditions, the dearly loved, the divinely

sustained, the onward marching legions of the army of

Bahá’u’lláh may be laboring, in whatever theater they may

operate, in whatever climes they may struggle, whether in

the cold and inhospitable territories beyond the Arctic Circle,

or in the torrid zones of both the Eastern and Western Hemi-

spheres; on the borders of the jungles of Burma, Malaya and

India; on the fringes of the deserts of Africa and of the Ara-

bian Peninsula; in the lonely, far-away, backward and sparsely

populated islands dotting the Atlantic, the Pacific and the

Indian Oceans and the North Sea; amidst the diversified tribes

of the Negroes of Africa, the Eskimos and the Lapps of the

Arctic regions, the Mongolians of East and South East Asia,

the Polynesians of the South Pacific Islands, the reservations

of the Red Indians in both American continents, the Maoris

of New Zealand, and the aborigines of Australia; within the

time-honored strongholds of both Christianity and Islám,

whether it be in Mecca, Rome, Cairo, Najaf or Karbilá; or in

towns and cities whose inhabitants are either immersed in

crass materialism, or breathe the fetid air of an aggressive

racialism, or find themselves bound by the chains and fetters

of a haughty intellectualism, or have fallen a prey to the forces

of a blind and militant nationalism, or are steeped in the

atmosphere of a narrow and intolerant ecclesiasticism—to

them all, as well as to those who, as the fortunes of this fate-

laden Crusade prosper, will be called upon to unfurl the stan-

dard of an all-conquering Faith in the strongholds of Hin-

duism, and assist in the breaking up of a rigid age-long caste

system, who will replace the seminaries and monasteries act-

ing as the nurseries of the Buddhist Faith with the divinely-

ordained institutions of Bahá’u’lláh’s victorious Order, who

will penetrate the jungles of the Amazon, scale the moun-

tain-fastnesses of Tibet, establish direct contact with the teem-

ing and hapless multitudes in the interior of China, Mongolia

and Japan, sit with the leprous, consort with the outcasts in

their penal colonies, traverse the steppes of Russia or scat-

ter throughout the wastes of Siberia, I direct my impas-

sioned appeal to obey, as befits His warriors, the summons

of the Lord of Hosts, and prepare for that Day of Days

when His victorious battalions will … celebrate the hour

of final victory.12

Peoples of all ages, by the hundreds and by the thousands,

from all races and nations, are answering that call.

“The Word of God,” Bahá’u’lláh has said, “has set the heart

of the world afire.  How regrettable if you fail to be enkindled

with its flame!”13

Appendix

[Blank page]

Have the stars fallen?  Say:  Yea, when He Who is the

Self-Subsisting dwelt in the Land of Mystery.  Take heed,

ye who are endued with discernment!  All the signs

appeared when We drew forth the Hand of Power

from the bosom of majesty and might.

The Prisoner and the Kings has told of the sad but inevitable

fate of those in supreme temporal authority who failed to heed

the call of Him ‘Who was the embodiment of all authority,

the Manifestation of God, Bahá’u’lláh.  So drunk were these

rulers with pride and vainglory that they had stopped their

ears to any call but self-interest and self-aggrandizement.  Hence

when the call came to each of them to bow their knee before

God’s Vicegerent upon earth they had no capacity to hear it.

Grave indeed were the consequences, not just for them, as

you have read, but also for all humankind.

Bahá’u’lláh clearly stated that had the kings responded to

His Message, the Most Great Peace could have been estab-

lished in His lifetime, for He would be on earth to counsel

them.  Alas, they did not respond, and so He warned them:

“If ye pay no heed unto the counsels which, in peerless and

unequivocal language, We have revealed in this Tablet, Di-

vine chastisement shall assail you from every direction, and

the sentence of His justice shall be pronounced against you.

On that day ye shall have no power to resist Him, and shall

recognize your own impotence.”1  When they still did not hear-

ken to His Message, He stated in terse and unequivocal lan-

guage:  From two ranks amongst men power hath been seized:

kings and ecclesiastics.”2  From that moment the downfall of

the mightiest potentates in the world proceeded with a speed

astonishing to all.  And none knew why.  This is spiritual his-

tory that still needs to be written in detail.

The process did not end with those to whom Bahá’u’lláh

addressed specific messages.  Governments all over the world

have been thrown into confusion and consternation, unable

to resolve internal problems, unwilling, for the most part, to

unite in a common effort to establish peace and prosperity for

all.  They are both visionless and impotent to deal with the

problems of the world.  The root of the world’s unrest was

accurately described by Shoghi Effendi, Guardian of the Faith,

in the early days of the world’s Great Depression:

Is it not a fact—and this is the central idea I desire to empha-

size—that the fundamental cause of this world unrest is at-

tributable, not so much to the consequences of what must

sooner or later come to be regarded as a transitory dislocation

in the affairs of a continually changing world, but rather to

the failure of those into whose hands the immediate desti-

nies of peoples and nations have been committed, to adjust

their system of economic and political institutions to the

imperative needs of a rapidly evolving age?  Are not these in-

termittent crises that convulse present-day society due pri-

marily to the lamentable inability of the world’s recognized

leaders to read aright the signs of the times, to rid themselves

once for all of their preconceived ideas and fettering creeds,

and to reshape the machinery of their respective governments

according to those standards that are implicit in Bahá’u’lláh’s

supreme declaration of the Oneness of Mankind—the chief

and distinguishing feature of the Faith He proclaimed?  For

the principle of the Oneness of Mankind, the cornerstone of

Bahá’u’lláh’s world-embracing dominion, implies nothing

more nor less than the enforcement of His scheme for the

unification of the world—the scheme to which we have al-

ready referred.  “In every Dispensation,” writes ‘Abdu’l-Bahá,

“the light of Divine Guidance has been focussed upon one

central theme. …  In this wondrous Revelation, this glorious

century, the foundation of the Faith of God and the distin-

guishing feature of His Law is the consciousness of the One-

ness of Mankind.”3

However, there have been two monarchs who did read aright

the signs of the times and responded to the message of

Bahá’u’lláh.  The first, Dowager Queen Marie of Romania,4

early in this century, and the second, His Highness Malietoa

Tanumafili II of Samoa, in 1968.  His Highness is the first

reigning monarch to embrace the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh.  About

such noble souls Bahá’u’lláh has said,

How great the blessedness that awaiteth the king who will

arise to aid My Cause in My Kingdom, who will detach

himself from all else but Me! Such a king is numbered with

the companions of the Crimson Ark—the Ark which God

hath prepared for the people of Bahá.  All must glorify his

name, must reverence his station, and aid him to unlock

the cities with the keys of My Name, the omnipotent Pro-

tector of all that inhabit the visible and invisible kingdoms.

Such a king is the very eye of mankind, the luminous orna-

ment on the brow of creation, the fountain-head of bless-

ings unto the whole world.  Offer up, O people of Bahá,

your substance, nay your very lives, for his assistance.5

As Bahá’u’lláh clearly states, the Bahá’ís owe such rulers their

wholehearted aid and support, even their lives.  To them is due

our praise and our reverence.  We feel, then, a responsibility to

bring to the readers of The Prisoner and the Kings some tribute

to these magnificent souls to round out the story.  But far be it

from us to venture this.  Rather, we have decided to excerpt

tributes from the Guardian about Queen Marie and the sa-

lient facts that led to her conversion and public statements

about the Faith.  About His Highness Malietoa Tanumafili II,

we have reprinted the article from The Bahá’í World, volume

15, which includes his personal letter avowing his belief in

Baha’u’llah, as well as the announcement to the Bahá’í world

of his declaration as a Bahá’í.

Let us also say in passing that the author of this book, Hand

of the Cause of God William Sears, met the Malietoa and

they became friends.

Queen Marie of Romania

Who is the sovereign, excepting a single woman, shining in

solitary glory, who has, in however small a measure, felt

impelled to respond to the poignant call of Bahá’u’lláh?

Who amongst the great ones of the earth was inclined to

extend this infant Faith of God the benefit of his recogni-

tion or support?6

Eldest daughter of the Duke of Edinburgh, who was the

second son of that Queen to whom Bahá’u’lláh had, in a

significant Tablet, addressed words of commendation;

granddaughter of Czar Alexander II to whom an Epistle

had been revealed by that same Pen; related by both birth

and marriage to Europe’s most prominent families; born in

the Anglican Faith; closely associated through her marriage

with the Greek Orthodox Church, the state religion of her

adopted country; herself an accomplished authoress; pos-

sessed of a charming and radiant personality; highly tal-

ented, clear-visioned, daring and ardent by nature; keenly

devoted to all enterprises of a humanitarian character, she,

alone among her sister-queens, alone among all those of

royal birth or station, was moved to spontaneously acclaim

the greatness of the Message of Bahá’u’lláh, to proclaim

His Fatherhood, as well as the Prophethood of Muhammad,

to commend the Bahá’í teachings to all men and women,

and to extol their potency, sublimity and beauty.

Through the fearless acknowledgment of her belief to

her own kith and kin, and particularly to her youngest

daughter; through three successive encomiums that consti-

tute her greatest and abiding legacy to posterity; through

three additional appreciations penned by her as her contri-

bution to Bahá’í publications; through several letters writ-

ten to friends and associates, as well as those addressed to

her guide and spiritual mother; through various tokens ex-

pressive of faith and gratitude for the glad-tidings that had

been brought to her through the orders for Bahá’í books

placed by her and her youngest daughter; and lastly through

her frustrated pilgrimage to the Holy Land for the express

purpose of paying homage at the graves of the Founders of

the Faith—through such acts as these this illustrious queen

may well deserve to rank as the first of those royal support-

ers of the Cause of God who are to arise in the future, and

each of whom, in the words of Bahá’u’lláh Himself, is to be

acclaimed as “the very eye of mankind, the luminous orna-

ment on the brow of creation, the fountainhead of bless-

ings unto the whole world.”

“Some of those of my caste,” she, in a personal letter,

has significantly testified, “wonder at and disapprove my

courage to step forward pronouncing words not habitual

for crowned heads to pronounce, but I advance by an inner

urge I cannot resist.  With bowed head I recognize that I

too am but an instrument in greater Hands, and I rejoice in

the knowledge.”

A note which Martha Root, upon her arrival in Bucha-

rest, sent to her Majesty and a copy of Bahá’u’lláh and the

New Era, which accompanied the note, and which so ab-

sorbed the Queen’s attention that she continued reading it

into the small hours of the morning, led, two days later, to

the Queen’s granting Martha Root an audience, on January

30, 1926, in Controceni Palace in Bucharest, in the course

of which her Majesty avowed her belief that “these teach-

ings are the solution for the world’s problems”; and from

these followed her publication, that same year on her own

initiative, of those three epoch-making testimonies which

appeared in nearly two hundred newspapers of the United

States and Canada, and which were subsequently translated

and published in Europe, China, Japan, Australia, the Near

East and the Islands of the seas.

In the first of these testimonies she affirmed that the writ-

ings of Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá are “a great cry toward

peace, reaching beyond all limits of frontiers, above all dis-

sensions about rites and dogmas. …  It is a wondrous mes-

sage that Bahá’u’lláh and His Son ‘Abdu’l-Bahá have given

us!  They have not set it up aggressively, knowing that the

germ of eternal truth which lies at its core cannot but take

root and spread …  It is Christ’s message taken up anew, in

the same words almost, but adapted to the thousand years

and more difference that lies between the year one and to-

day.” She added a remarkable admonition, reminiscent of

the telling words of Dr.  Benjamin Jowett, who had hailed

the Faith, in his conversation with his pupil, Prof. Lewis

Campbell, as “the greatest light that has come into the world

since the time of Jesus Christ,” and cautioned him to “watch

it” and never let it out of his sight.  “If ever,” wrote the

Queen, “the name of Bahá’u’lláh or ‘Abdu’l-Bahá comes to

your attention, do not put their writings from you.  Search

out their books, and let their glorious, peace-bringing, love-

creating words and lessons sink into your hearts as they have

into mine. …  Seek them and be the happier.”

In another of these testimonies, wherein she makes a

significant comment on the station of the Arabian Prophet,

she declared:  “God is all.  Everything.  He is the power be-

hind all beings. …  His is the voice within us that shows us

good and evil.  But mostly we ignore or misunderstand this

voice.  Therefore, did He choose His Elect to come down

amongst us upon earth to make clear His Word, His real

meaning.  Therefore the Prophets; therefore Christ, Muham-

mad, Bahá’u’lláh, for man needs from time to time a voice

upon earth to bring God to him, to sharpen the realization

of the existence of the true God.  Those voices sent to us

had to become flesh, so that with our earthly ears we should

be able to hear and understand.”

In appreciation of these testimonies a communication

was addressed to her, in the name of the followers of

Bahá’u’lláh in East and West, and in the course of the

deeply touching letter which she sent in reply she wrote:

“Indeed a great light came to me with the Message of

Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. …  My youngest daughter

finds also great strength and comfort in the teachings of

the beloved Masters.  We pass on the Message from mouth

to mouth, and all those we give it to see a light suddenly

lighting before them, and much that was obscure and per-

plexing becomes simple, luminous and full of hope as

never before.  That my open letter was a balm to those

suffering for the Cause, is indeed a great happiness to me,

and I take it as a sign that God accepted my humble trib-

ute.  The occasion given me to be able to express myself

publicly was also His work, for indeed it was a chain of

circumstances of which each link led me unwittingly one

step further, till suddenly all was clear before my eyes and

I understood why it had been.  Thus does He lead us finally

to our ultimate destiny. …  Little by little the veil is lift-

ing, grief tore it in two.  And grief was also a step leading

me ever nearer truth; therefore do I not cry out against

grief!”

In a significant and moving letter to an intimate Ameri-

can friend of hers, residing in Paris, she wrote:  “Lately a

great hope has come to me from one ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.  I have

found in His and His Father, Bahá’u’lláh’s Message of faith,

all my yearning for real religion satisfied. …  I mean:  these

Books have strengthened me beyond belief, and I am now

ready to die any day full of hope.  But I pray God not to

take me away yet, for I still have a lot of work to do.”

And again in one of her later appreciations of the Faith:

“The Bahá’í teaching brings peace and understanding.  It is

like a wide embrace gathering all those who have long

searched for words of hope. …  Saddened by the continual

strife amongst believers of many confessions and wearied

of their intolerance towards each other, I discovered in the

Bahá’í teaching the real spirit of Christ so often denied and

misunderstood.”  And again, this wonderful confession:

“The Bahá’í teaching brings peace to the soul and hope to

the heart.  To those in search of assurance the words of the

Father are as a fountain in the desert after long wandering.”

“The beautiful truth of Bahá’u’lláh,” she wrote to Martha

Root, “is with me always, a help and an inspiration.  What

I wrote was because my heart overflowed with gratitude for

the reflection you brought me.  I am happy if you think I

helped.  I thought it might bring truth nearer because my

words are read by so many.”

In the course of a visit to the Near East she expressed her

intention of visiting the Bahá’í Shrines, and, accompanied

by her youngest daughter, actually passed through Haifa,

and was within sight of her goal, when she was denied the

right to make the pilgrimage she had planned—to the keen

disappointment of the aged Greatest Holy Leaf who had

eagerly expected her arrival.  A few months later, in June,

1931, she wrote in the course of a letter to Martha Root:

“Both Ileana and I were cruelly disappointed at having been

prevented going to the holy Shrines. … but at that time we

were going through a cruel crisis, and every movement I

made was being turned against me and being politically

exploited in an unkind way.  It caused me a good deal of

suffering and curtailed my liberty most unkindly. …  But

the beauty of truth remains, and I cling to it through all

the vicissitudes of a life become rather sad. …  I am glad to

hear that your traveling has been so fruitful, and I wish you

continual success knowing what a beautiful Message you

are carrying from land to land.”

After this sad disappointment she wrote to a friend of

her childhood who dwelt near ‘Akká, in a house formerly

occupied by Bahá’u’lláh:  “It was indeed nice to hear from

you, and to think that you are of all things living near Haifa

and are, as I am, a follower of the Bahá’í teachings.  It inter-

ests me that you are living in that special house …  I was so

intensely interested and studied each photo intently.  It must

be a lovely place …  and the house you live in, so incredibly

attractive and made precious by its associations with the

Man we all venerate.”

Her last public tribute to the Faith she had dearly loved

was made two years before her death.  “More than ever to-

day,” she wrote, “when the world is facing such a crisis of

bewilderment and unrest, must we stand firm in Faith seek-

ing that which binds together instead of tearing asunder.

To those searching for light, the Bahá’í teachings offer a star

which will lead them to deeper understanding, to assur-

ance, peace and goodwill with all men.”

Martha Root’s own illuminating record is given in one

of her articles as follows:  “For ten years Her Majesty and

her daughter, HRH Princess Ileana (now Arch-Duchess

Anton) have read with interest each new book about the

Bahá’í Movement, as soon as it came from the press Re-

ceived in audience by Her Majesty in Pelisor Palace, Sinaia,

in 1927, after the passing of His Majesty King Ferdinand,

her husband, she graciously gave me an interview, speaking

of the Bahá’í teachings about immortality.  She had on her

table and on the divan a number of Bahá’í books, for she

had just been reading in each of them the Teachings about

life after death.  She asked the writer to give her greeting to

… the friends in Iran and to the many American Bahá’ís,

who she said had been so remarkably kind to her during her

trip through the United States the year before. …  Meeting

the Queen again on January 19, 1928, in the Royal Palace

in Belgrade, where she and HRH Princess Ileana were guests

of the Queen of Yugoslavia—and they had brought some

of their Bahá’í books with them—the words that I shall

remember longest of all that her dear Majesty said were

these:  ‘The ultimate dream which we shall realize is that

the Bahá’í channel of thought has such strength, it will serve

little by little to become a light to all those searching for the

real expression of Truth.’ …  Then in the audience in

Controceni Palace, on February 16, 1934, when her Maj-

esty was told that the Rumanian translation of Bahá’u’lláh

and the New Era had just been published in Bucharest, she

said she was so happy that her people were to have the bless-

ing of reading this precious teaching. …  And now today,

February 4, 1936, I have just had another audience with

Her Majesty in Controceni Palace, in Bucharest. …  Again

Queen Marie of Rumania received me cordially in her softly

lighted library, for the hour was six o’clock. …  What a

memorable visit it was! …  She also told me that when she

was in London she had met a Bahá’í, Lady Blomfield, who

had shown her the original Message that Bahá’u’lláh had

sent to her grand-mother, Queen Victoria, in London.  She

asked the writer about the progress of the Bahá’í Move-

ment, especially in the Balkan countries. …  She spoke too

of several Bahá’i books, the depths of Íqán,* and especially

of Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, which she said

was a wonderful book! To quote her own words:  ‘Even

doubters would find a powerful strength in it, if they would

read it alone, and would give their souls time to expand.’

…  I asked her if I could perhaps speak of the brooch which

historically is precious to Bahá’ís, and she replied, ‘Yes, you

may.’  Once, and it was in 1928, Her dear Majesty had given

the writer a gift, a lovely and rare brooch which had been a

gift to the Queen from her royal relatives in Russia some

years ago.  It was two little wings of wrought gold and silver,

set with tiny diamond chips, and joined together with one

large pearl.  ‘Always you are giving gifts to others, and I am

going to give you a gift from me,’ said the Queen smiling,

and she herself clasped it onto my dress.  The wings and the

pearl made it seem ‘Light-bearing’ Bahá’í! It was sent the

same week to Chicago as a gift to the Bahá’í Temple … and

at the National Bahá’i Convention which was in session

that spring, a demur was made—should a gift from the

Queen be sold?  Should it not be kept as a souvenir of the

first Queen who arose to promote the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh?

However, it was sold immediately and the money given to

the Temple, for all Bahá’ís were giving to the utmost to

forward this mighty structure, the first of its kind in the

United States of America.  Mr. Willard Hatch, a Bahá’í of

Los Angeles, Calif., who bought the exquisite brooch, took

it to Haifa, Palestine, in 1931, and placed it in the Archives

on Mt.  Carmel, where down the ages it will rest with the

Bahá’í treasures.”

*  The Kitáb-i-Íqán, the foremost doctrinal work of Bahá’u’lláh.

In July, 1938, Queen Marie of Rumania passed away.  A

message of condolence was communicated, in the name of all

Bahá’í communities in East and West, to her daughter, the

Queen of Yugoslavia, to which she replied expressing “sincere

thanks to all of Bahá’u’lláh’s followers.”  The National Spiritual

Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Persia addressed, on behalf of the

followers of the Faith in Bahá’u’lláh’s native land, a letter ex-

pressive of grief and sympathy to her son, the King of Ruma-

nia and the Rumanian Royal Family, the text of which was in

both Persian and English.  An expression of profound and lov-

ing sympathy was sent by Martha Root to Princess Ileana, and

was gratefully acknowledged by her.  Memorial gatherings were

held in the Queen’s memory, at which a meed of honor was

paid to her bold and epochal confession of faith in the Father-

hood of Bahá’u’lláh, to her recognition of the station of the

Prophet of Islám and to the several encomiums from her pen.

On the first anniversary of her death the National Spiritual

Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United States and Canada dem-

onstrated its grateful admiration and affection for the deceased

Queen by associating itself; through an imposing floral offering,

with the impressive memorial service, held in her honor, and

arranged by the Rumanian Minister, in Bethlehem Chapel, at

the Cathedral of Washington, DC, at which the American

delegation, headed by the Secretary of State and including

government officials and representatives of the Army and Navy,

the British, French and Italian Ambassadors, and representa-

tives of other European embassies and legations joined in a

common tribute to one who, apart from the imperishable re-

nown achieved by her in the Kingdom of Bahá’u’lláh, had

earned, in this earthly life, the esteem and love of many a soul

living beyond the confines of her own country.7

His Highness Malietoa Tanumafili, II

The following is from appeared under the title “First Head Of

State Embraces The Cause Of Bahá’u’lláh,” in The Bahá’í World,

volume 15, pp. 180–3.

That His Highness Malietoa Tanumafili II, the first reign-

ing monarch to embrace the Cause of Bahá’u’lláh, should

do so during the year marking the centenary of the revela-

tion of the Súriy-i-Mulúk8 and that he should openly de-

clare his faith to his fellow believers during the days mark-

ing the one hundredth anniversary of the revelation of the

Kitáb-i-Aqdas9 must surely be recognized as one of the most

significant events in the evolution of the Formative Age.  It

is also most interesting that his country, Western Samoa, is

located in the middle of the vast Pacific Ocean bringing to

mind the prophecy of Bahá’u’lláh about His revelation that

should they attempt to conceal its light on the continent, it will

assuredly rear its head in the midmost heart of the oceans, and,

raising its voice, proclaim:  “I am the life giver of the world!”10

The events leading up to the acceptance of the Faith by

His Highness began with the decision of the Universal

House of Justice to present a deluxe edition of The Promul-

gation of Bahá’u’lláh to today’s reigning monarchs and heads

of state.  The Malietoa was one of the one hundred and

forty-one to receive this book, re-stating Bahá’u’lláh’s Own

announcement to the kings and rulers of His day.

The Hand of the Cause Dr. Ugo Giachery, who was in

Samoa on his return from the Intercontinental Conference

in Sydney in October, 1967, was requested by the National

Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the South Pacific Ocean

to present The Proclamation of Bahá’u’lláh to the head of

state of Western Samoa, which he was glad to do.  An ap-

pointment was made, and in the late afternoon of October

27, 1967, His Highness Malietoa Tanumafili received Dr.

Giachery and the National Spiritual Assembly representa-

tive, Mr. Virgil Wilson, at a newly built Samoan fale on a

tiny ofd shore island at Letulatla Lefata.  It was at this spot

that His Highness had some years before been invested with

the title “Malietoa.”

His Highness offered Dr. Giachery his chair and after

exchanging courtesies the book was presented on behalf of

the Universal House of Justice.  The Malietoa was greatly

pleased to receive it and thoughtfully leafed through its

pages.  The Hand of the Cause explained what the volume

contained and drew attention to the list of kings and rulers

to whom the original Tablets had been addressed.  Through-

out the conversation which lasted for almost ninety min-

utes many questions about the Faith were answered and

His Highness expressed great interest in the Bahá’i Teach-

ings.  As Dr. Giachery prepared to take his leave, the Malietoa

grasped his hands and expressed the hope that he would

return some time for another visit.  No one knew at that

time how soon this hope was to be realized.

In early December, 1967, Dr. Giachery reported that he

had recently received two letters from the American pio-

neer, Mr. Virgil Wilson, in which he stated that on more

than one occasion the Malietoa had stated his desire to join

the Faith.  Because of the importance of the possibility that

one of so high a rank and occupying a station which had

been so greatly exalted by Bahá’u’lláh would embrace the

Cause, the Universal House of Justice asked the Hand of

the Cause Dr.  Ugo Giachery to return to Western Samoa to

discuss this matter with His Highness.

The first historic meeting with the Malietoa took place

at his official residence in Vailima on Monday, January 16,

1968.  Dr. Giachery reports, “On arrival at the main en-

trance a triumphal chant was heard and His Highness rushed

in person to the automobile with outstretched hands, bid-

ding us welcome.  After the exchange of greetings, he led us

along the main staircase to the large reception hall where

we were seated…” During the course of the conversation

which followed, the Malietoa declared, “I am a Bahá’i … I

believe in Bahá’u’lláh.”

Afterward the Hand of the Cause cabled the Universal

House of Justice:

“hearty welcome joyful conversation confirm con-

viction. …

It is noteworthy that it was this Malietoa’s great-great-

grandfather, Malietoa Tavita, who accepted Christianity in

1830 in response to the teaching work of John Williams of

the London Missionary Society.

On February 11, 1968, another meeting took place at

the private residence of the Malietoa.  His Highness showed

keen interest and asked many questions as Dr.  Giachery

reviewed with him the principles of the Faith and its ad-

ministration.  Again he stated that he believed in Bahá’u’lláh

and His Revelation.  Within the hour, Dr. Giachery cabled

the Universal House of Justice:

“todays interview confirms heartfelt acceptance …”

Later, on February 19, 1968, the Malietoa wrote the

Universal House of Justice expressing appreciation for “the

beautiful and precious volume containing some letters ad-

dressed by Bahá’u’lláh, the exalted Founder of the Bahá’í

Faith, to the rulers of His time …,” and added:

“This gift is immensely appreciated because it has assisted

me in better understanding … the Teachings of Bahá’u’lláh,

which I have fully and wholeheartedly accepted.  I do con-

sider myself a member of the Bahá’í Faith, even if at this

time I do not deem it necessary to make a public declara-

tion, but I do hope that your prayers at the Holy place of

our Faith will attract upon me the divine assistance needed

to carry on my duties and to increase my spiritual powers

which will make of me a just and honored ruler.”

The Universal House of Justice replied:

“That the first ruling monarch should declare his whole-

hearted acceptance of Bahá’u’lláh during the centenary of

Bahá’u’lláh’s proclamation brought great happiness to our

hearts.  Our souls are filled with feelings of awe and won-

derment as we contemplate the fulfilment, in this day, of

some of the prophecies of Bahá’u’lláh regarding the kings

and rulers of the world. …

“The historic significance of your membership in the

Bahá’í Faith has been recorded in our annals.  We fully ap-

preciate your feeling not to make a public declaration at the

present time.  We shall await word from you before inform-

ing the Bahá’ís of the world of this momentous event in

the history of our Faith, which will fire their hearts with

new zeal and enthusiasm enabling them to rise to new

heights of endeavour in their God-given role in the quick-

ening of mankind.”

Five years and one month later, His Highness made

known to his fellow believers his faith in Bahá’u’lláh.

A transcription of the Malietoa’s letter letter is below.

March 31, 1973

Greatly esteemed members of the Universal House of

Justice, much admired Hands of the Cause of God,

respected Counsellors and honoured delegates attending the

Third International Convention

My spiritual Brethren:

It is a joy for me and for my fellow Bahá’ís of the Samoan

Islands in the heart of the Pacific, to be with you in spirit and

with the friends of the God throughout the world, in cel-

ebrating this most significant first century of the revelation

of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, the Most Holy Book of Bahá’u’lláh.

We pray for the success of the historic convention now

being held in the shadow of the Mountain of God in the

Holy Land.  Although we are unable to be with you in per-

son on this memorable occasion, our hearts share with you

these never to be forgotten days and the knowledge of the

tremendous victories won for the Faith of God.

To the north, to the south, to the east and to the west, to

the most populous and to the most remote places, we send

our fond greetings and cherished love.  May the spirit cre-

ated by your gathering at the Holy Shrines pave the way for

the rapid establishment of the Kingdom of God on earth

and the unity of all the peoples of the world.

Alofa tele atu lava matou uma I Samoa nei.11

[signed] Malietoa Tanumafili II

Following the Malietoa’s letter to the Universal House of

Justice, it released the following message to the Bahá’ís of the

world:

7 May 1973

To the Bahá’ís of the world

Dear Bahá’í friends,

It is now possible to share with you all the news of an

event which crowns the victories with which Bahá’u’lláh has

blessed His followers during the Nine Year Plan, an event

of which the true significance will be fully understood only

in the course of centuries to come:  a reigning monarch has

accepted the Message of Bahá’u’lláh.

Among those to whom The Proclamation of Bahá’u’lláh

was presented in 1967 was His Highness Malietoa Tanuma-

fili II, the Head of State of the independent nation of West-

ern Samoa in the heart of the Pacific Ocean.  His Highness,

who had already heard of the Faith, showed immediately

that the sacred Words had touched his heart, and the Uni-

versal House of Justice thereupon asked the Hand of the

Cause Dr. Ugo Giachery, who had presented the book to

him, to return to Western Samoa for further audiences with

His Highness.  Following this visit the Malietoa conveyed

his acceptance of the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh to the Universal

House of Justice and became the first reigning sovereign to

enter beneath the shade of this Cause.

In its Ridván 1967 message the Universal House of Jus-

tice announced that it would present to Heads of State

around the world a collection of Tablets Bahá’u’lláh ad-

dressed to the kings and rulers of the world a century be-

fore.  His Highness Malietoa Tanumafili II was one of the

recipients.

His Highness decided, with the full agreement of the

Universal House of Justice, that it was not propitious to

make his declaration public at that time.  He has been vis-

ited from time to time by Hands of the Cause and other

believers, and continual touch with His Highness has been

maintained by the House of Justice through Mr. Suhayl

‘Alá’í, a member of the Continental Board of Counsellors

for Australasia.  Gradually the Malietoa has let it be known

to those around him that he has accepted Bahá’u’lláh.  Now

he has judged the time ripe to share this wondrous news

with his fellow-believers in all parts of the world, by ad-

dressing to the International Bahá’í Convention the gra-

cious and inspiring message of which a copy is enclosed

with this letter.12

With loving Bahá’í greetings,

The Universal House of Justice

NOTES

[Blank page]

Chapter 2

1.  E. G. Browne, quoted in J. E. Esslemont, Bahá’u’lláh and the New Era, p. 39.

2.  Bahá’u’lláh, Súriy-i-Mulúk, ¶13, in Summons of the Lord of Hosts.

3.  Bahá’u’lláh, Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, p. 57.

4.  Nabíl-i-A‘zam, The Dawn-Breakers, p. 608.

5.  Bahá’u’lláh, Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, p. 21.

6.  bid., p. 40.

7.  Bahá’u’lláh, Súriy-i-Haykal, ¶230, in Summons of the Lord of Hosts.

8.  Nabíl-i-A‘zam, The Dawn-Breakers, pp. 631–2.

9.  J. E. Esslemont, Bahá’u’lláh and the New Era, p. 59.

Chapter 3

1.  Bahá’u’lláh, Súriy-i-Haykal, ¶131, in Summons of the Lord of Hosts.

2.  bid., ¶142.

3.  The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, the “Most Holy Book,” Bahá’u’lláh’s book of laws for

the new dispensation and the world commonwealth.

4.  Bahá’u’lláh, Súriy-i-Haykal, ¶137, in Summons of the Lord of Hosts.

5.  Bahá’u’lláh, quoted in Promised Day Is Come, ¶123.

6.  Bahá’u’lláh, Súriy-i-Haykal, ¶137, in Summons of the Lord of Hosts.

7.  bid., ¶138.

8.  bid., ¶131-3.

9.  C. D. Hazen, Europe Since 1815, p. 199.

10.  Bahá’u’lláh, Súriy-i-Haykal, ¶138, in Summons of the Lord of Hosts.

1.  bid.

12.  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, quoted in Promised Day Is Come, ¶225.

13.  Bahá’u’lláh, Súriy-i-Mulúk, ¶58, 79, in Summons of the Lord of Hosts.

14.  bid., ¶79.

15.  Bahá’u’lláh, Súriy-i-Haykal, ¶138, in ibid.

16.  bid.

17.  Isaiah 24.

18.  Bahá’u’lláh, Súriy-i-Haykal, ¶164, in Summons of the Lord of Hosts.

19.  Isaiah 24:21.

Chapter 4

1.  Bahá’u’lláh, Kitáb-i-Aqdas, ¶86.

2.  bid.

3.  Bahá’u’lláh, Hidden Words, Persian, no. 64.

4.  Bahá’u’lláh, Kitáb-i-Aqdas, ¶86.

5.  Bahá’u’lláh, Suriy-i-Mulúk, ¶15, in Summons of the Lord of Hosts.

6.  bid., ¶8.

7.  bid.

8.  Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, no. 117.

9.  Bahá’u’lláh, Suriy-i-Mulúk, ¶21, in Summons of the Lord of Hosts.

10.  Baha’u’llah, quoted in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, A Traveller’s Narrative, p. xi.

11.  bid.

12.  bid.

13.  Bahá’u’lláh, Kitáb-i-Aqdas, ¶90.

14.  bid.

15.  Bahá’u’lláh, Suriy-i-Mulúk, ¶85, in Summons of the Lord of Hosts.

16.  Ironically, the Hohenzollern Crown Prince, William, served in a Nazi mo-

tor division and was captured by the French.  The youngest son of Kaiser William

II, August Wilhelm, also appeared in the ranks of the Nazis and fell with them.

17.  See A. J. P. Taylor, The Hapsburg Monarchy, 1809–1918.

18.  Jeremiah 49:38.

Chapter 5

1.  Bahá’u’lláh, Súriy-i-Haykal, ¶158, in Summons of the Lord of Hosts.

2.  bid., ¶170.

3.  bid., ¶160.

4.  bid.

5.  bid., ¶158.

6.  bid., ¶162.

7.  bid., ¶170.

8.  bid., ¶162.

9.  Shoghi Effendi, Promised Day Is Come, ¶138.

10.  Bahá’u’lláh, Súriy-i-Haykal, ¶178, in Summons of the Lord of Hosts.

11.  bid., ¶158.

12.  Haggai 2:7, 22.

Chapter 6

1.  Bahá’u’lláh, Kitáb-i-Aqdas, ¶85.

2.  bid.

3.  Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, no. 118.5.

4.  Bahá’u’lláh, Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, p. 24.

5.  bid., p. 27.

6.  Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, no.  163.2.

7.  bid.

8.  bid., no. 164.7.

9.  Jeremiah 51:20.

10.  Bahá’u’lláh, Suriy-i-Mulúk, ¶64, in Summons of the Lord of Hosts.

11.  bid., ¶15.

12.  Shoghi Effendi, Promised Day Is Come, ¶146.

13.  bid., ¶147.

14.  Zephaniah 1:4-8.

Chapter 7

1.  Bahá’u’lláh, Súriy-i-Haykal, ¶171, in Summons of the Lord of Hosts.

2.  bid., ¶172.

3.  bid., ¶171.

4.  bid., ¶172.

5.  bid., ¶173.

6.  bid., ¶175.

7.  bid., 11176.

8.  Shoghi Effendi, Promised Day Is Come, ¶163.

9.  Queen Marie of Romania, quoted in God Passes By, p. 391.

10.  bid.

11.  Bahá’u’lláh, Kitáb-i-Aqdas, ¶84.

12.  Bahá’u’lláh, quoted in Promised Day Is Come, ¶185.

13.  Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, no. 112.

14.  Bahá’u’lláh, quoted in God Passes By, p. 225.

Chapter 8

1.  Bahá’u’lláh, Epistle to the Son of the Wolf p. 11.

2.  Quoted in God Passes By, p. 79.

3.  Mírzá Áqá Khán, quoted in ibid., p. 105.

4.  Bahá’u’lláh, quoted in ibid.

5.  Ezekiel 8:4.

6.  Ezekiel 43:1-2.

Chapter 9

1.  Násiri’d-Dín Sháh, quoted in Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 225.

2.  Bahá’u’lláh, quoted in Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 198.

3.  Bahá’u’lláh, Súriy-i-Mulúk, ¶96, in Summons of the Lord of Hosts.

4.  Isaiah 14:5,27

5.  Bahá’u’lláh, Súriy-i-Mulúk, ¶26, in Summons of the Lord of Hosts.

6.  Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, no. 112.

7.  Daniel 8:23–25.

8.  Bahá’u’lláh, Súriy-i-Mulúk, ¶98, in Summons of the Lord of Hosts.

9.  bid., ¶99.

10.  bid.

11.  Shoghi Effendi, Promised Day Is Come, ¶171.

Chapter 10

1.  John 10:16.

2.  The text of this Tablet can be found in Bahá’í Prayers, pp. 319–27.

3.  Bahá’u’lláh, Kitáb-i-Aqdas, ¶89.

4.  Isaiah 41.

5.  Micah 7:12.

6.  Shamsí Big, quoted in Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 160.

7.  Nabíl-i A‘zám, quoted in ibid , p. 161.

8.  Bahá’u’lláh, Súriy-i-Haykal, ¶58, 69, 72, 81, in Summons of the Lord of

Hosts.

9.  Bahá’u’lláh, quoted in Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 160.

10.  bid., pp. 160–61.

11.  Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 171

12.  Bahá’u’lláh, quoted in ibid.

13.  bid.

14.  Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 171.

15.  Bahá’u’lláh, Hidden Words, Persian, no. 54.

16.  bid., nos 49, 51.

17.  Bahá’u’lláh, Súriy-i-Haykal, ¶178, in Summons of the Lord of Hosts.

18.  Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 170.

19.  bid.

20.  bid., p. 179.

21.  Bahá’u’lláh, quoted in Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 184.  Author’s note:

One hundred years later, the author of this book was present at the centenary

commemoration of Bahá’u’lláh’s arrival in the Holy Land.  Already His prophecy

had come true.  News was being shared from all parts of the earth announcing the

entry of great numbers of new Bahá’ís into the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh.  They were

flocking to His standard in America, Asia, Europe, North and South America, Australia, and in the islands of the Pacific, Atlantic and Indian Oceans, and the

Mediterranean and Caribbean Sea.  Peoples and races in all nations, especially

among the youth of the world, were embracing the Bahá’í Faith in over thirty

thousand centers, in almost every section of the world.  Indeed, all segments of

humanity were now “enlisting” beneath the “banner” of Bahá’u’lláh’s Faith.

22.  Bahá’u’lláh, quoted in Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 181

23.  Bahá’u’lláh, quoted in Shoghi Effendi, World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 105

24.  Bahá’u’lláh, quoted in Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 181.

25.  Áqá Ridá, quoted in ibid.

26.  Bahá’u’lláh, quoted in ibid., p. 182.

27.  Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 183.

28.  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 32.

29.  Psalms 2:2–12.

30.  Muhammad, quoted in Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, p. 177.

31.  bid., p. 179.

32.  The year 1260 in the Muslim calendar (the one used in both Persia and

Turkey) was the year 1844 of the Gregorian calendar.  For the many repeated

references to the year 1260/1844 from both Christianity and Islam, see William

Sears, Thief in the Night, pp. 8-28.

33.  Islamic hadith, quoted in Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 184.

34.  Bahá’u’lláh, Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, p. 46

35.  See Micah 7.  Thief in the Night devotes an entire chapter to the incredible

story of the fulfillment of these prophecies; see pp. 117–23.

36.  Bahá’u’lláh, Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, p. 146.

37.  Bahá’u’lláh, quoted in Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 187.

38.  bid., p. 185.

39.  Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, no. 115.6.

40.  Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 186.

Chapter 11

1.  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, A Traveller’s Narrative, p. 54.

2.  Bahá’u’lláh, Súriy-i-Mulúk, ¶58 in Summons of the Lord of Hosts.

3.  bid., ¶59-60.

4.  bid., ¶61.

5.  bid., ¶62-63.

6.  Bahá’u’lláh, Sriy-i-Haykal, ¶179, in ibid.

7.  bid.

8.  bid.

9.  Psalms 136:1, 17, 23, 24.

10.  Bahá’u’lláh, Lawh-i-Ra’ís, ¶9, in Summons of the Lord of Hosts.

11.  Bahá’u’lláh, Súriy-i-Mulúk, ¶86 in ibid.

12.  Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 158.

13.  Bahá’u’lláh, Súriy-i-Mulúk, ¶26 in Summons of the Lord of Hosts.

14.  bid., ¶36.

15.  Bahá’u’lláh, Lawh-i-Fu’ád, ¶13, in ibid.

16.  Bahá’u’lláh, Súriy-i-Ra’ís, ¶5, in ibid.

17.  bid.

18.  Bahá’u’lláh, Lawh-i-Ra’ís, ¶7, in ibid.

19.  Bahá’u’lláh, Súriy-i-Mulúk, ¶26, in ibid.

20.  bid., ¶53.

21.  Bahá’u’lláh, Kitáb-i-Aqdas, ¶89.

22.  Shoghi Effendi, Promised Day Is Come, ¶245.

Chapter 12

1.  Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 191.

2.  E. G. Browne, quoted in H. M. Balyuzi, Edward Granville Browne and the

Bahá’í Faith, p. 53.

3.  bid., p. 56.

4.  Bahá’u’lláh, quoted in Lady Blomfield, The Chosen Highway, p. 64.

5.  Psalms 89:3, 27, 28, 37.

6.  Isaiah 59:20, 21; 60:1, 2, 3, 12, 16.

7.  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, quoted in Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 270.

8.  Habakkuk 1:5.

9.  Daniel 2:44.

10.  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 224.

Chapter 13

1.  Bahá’u’lláh, Súrih-i-Mulúk, ¶3, in Summons of the Lord of Hosts.

2.  Bahá’u’lláh, Kitáb-i-Aqdas, ¶84.

3.  Bahá’u’lláh, Súrih-i-Mulúk, ¶20.

4.  Bahá’u’lláh, quoted in Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 230; Baha’u’llah,

Gleanings, no. 110; ibid., no. 18.1

5.  Jeremiah 25:15, 26-29.

6.  See William Sears, Release the Sun, pp. 278–79, for an account of this dra-

matic event, described by the French author A. L. M. Nicholas as something

“unique in the annals of the history of humanity.”

7.  Amos 1:14–15, 8:11.

8.  Amos 1:2

9.  Bahá’u’lláh, Súrih-i-Mulúk, ¶12, in Summons of the Lord of Hosts.

10.  Bahá’u’lláh, quoted in Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 224.

11.  Bahá’u’lláh, quoted in Shoghi Effendi, Promised Day Is Come, ¶9.

12.  Bahá’u’lláh, quoted in Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 220.

Chapter 14

1.  Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, no. 117

2.  Bahá’u’lláh, Súriy-i-Haykal, ¶182, in Summons of the Lord of Hosts.

3.  Shoghi Effendi, Advent of Divine Justice, ¶119.

4.  Bahá’u’lláh, Súriy-i-Haykal, ¶174, in Summons of the Lord of Hosts.

5.  Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets, p. 69.

6.  Bahá’u’lláh, quoted in Shoghi Effendi, Promised Day Is Come, ¶287.

7.  Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, no. 4.2.

8.  Bahá’u’lláh, Súriy-i-Haykal, ¶118, in Summons of the Lord of Hosts.

9.  bid., ¶105, 118.

10.  Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 67.

11.  Bahá’u’lláh, quoted in ibid., p. 109

12.  Baha’u’lláh, Súriy-i-Haykal, ¶103, 105, in Summons of the Lord of Hosts.

13.  Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, no. 45.

14.  Bahá’u’lláh, Súriy-i-Haykal, ¶102, in Summons of the Lord of Hosts.

15.  Shoghi Effendi, Promised Day Is Come, ¶38.

16.  Bahá’u’lláh, Súriy-i-Haykal, ¶179, in Summons of the Lord of Hosts.

17.  bid., ¶126.

18.  bid., ¶120.

19.  Habakkuk 2:14

20.  Bahá’u’lláh, Súriy-i-Haykal, ¶113, in Summons of the Lord of Hosts.

21.  Bahá’u’lláh, Proclamation, p. 92.

22.  bid., p. 93.

23.  bid.

24.  Bahá’u’lláh, Lawh-i-Aqdas, in Tablets, p. 13.

25.  Bahá’u’lláh, Proclamation, p. 92.

26.  Bahá’u’lláh, Súriy-i-Haykal, ¶127, in Summons of the Lord of Hosts.

27.  bid., ¶106.

28.  Matthew 24:29.

29.  See Bahá’u’lláh, Kitáb-i-Íqán, ¶31-42.

30.  Bahá’u’lláh, Lawh-i-Aqdas, in Tablets, p. 14.

31.  Chicago Daily News, August 26, 1954.

32.  John 3:10.

33.  Bahá’u’lláh, Proclamation, p. 76.

34.  bid., p. 75.

35.  bid., pp. 75–76.

36.  Bahá’u’lláh, Súriy-i-Haykal, ¶225, in Summons of the Lord of Hosts.

37.  Matthew 15:14.

38.  Bahá’u’lláh, Proclamation, p. 79.

39.  bid., p 76.

40.  Bahá’u’lláh, Proclamation, p. 78.

41.  Bahá’u’lláh, Súriy-i-Haykal, ¶128, in Summons of the Lord of Hosts.

42.  Bahá’u’lláh, Lawh-i-Aqdas, in Tablets, p. 14.

Chapter 15

1.  Shoghi Effendi, World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 42.

2.  Bahá’u’lláh, Bishárát, in Tablets, p. 23.

3.  Shoghi Effendi, World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 65.

4.  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections, no. 2.7.

5.  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, in Bahá’í World Faith, p. 400.

6.  Shoghi Effendi, Advent of Divine Justice, ¶19.

7.  Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 38.

8.  Renan, Les Apôtres, quoted in Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 80.

9.  Lord Curzon, quoted in ibid.

10.  Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 81.

11.  bid., p. 199.

12.  Shoghi Effendi, Messages, pp. 37–38.

13.  Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, p. 316.

Appendix

The epigraph for this chapter is from Bahá’u’lláh, Ishráqát, in Tablets, p. 118.

1.  Bahá’u’lláh, Súriy-i-Mulúk, ¶12, in Summons of the Lord of Hosts.

2.  Bahá’u’lláh, quoted in Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 230.

3.  Shoghi Effendi, World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 36.

4.  For a detailed and well-written account of the story of Queen Marie’s con-

version to and public acknowledgment of her faith in Bahá’u’lláh, please see

Della L. Marcus, Her Eternal Crown.

5.  Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, no. 105.7.

6.  Shoghi Effendi, Promised Day Is Come, p. 13.

7.  Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, pp. 389–95

8.  Súrih of the Kings, a Tablet revealed by Bahá’u’lláh in Adrianople that

deals with the responsibility of kingship.  An English translation is available in

The Summons of the Lord of Hosts.

9.  See chapter 3, note 3.

10.  Bahá’u’lláh, quoted in Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 253.

11.  Translation from Samoan:  “Loving greetings from all of us here in Samoa.”

Bibliography

[Blank page]

Works of Bahá’u’lláh

Epistle to the Son of the Wolf.  1st pocket-size ed.  Translated by Shoghi

Effendi.  Wilmette, IL:  Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1988.

Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh.  Translated by Shoghi Effendi.

Wilmette, IL:  Bahá’í Publishing, 2005.

The Hidden Words.  Translated by Shoghi Effendi.  Wilmette, IL:  Bahá’í

Publishing, 2002.

The Kitáb-i-Aqdas:  The Most Holy Book.  1st pocket-size ed.  Wilmette, IL:

Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1993.

The Proclamation of Bahá’u’lláh to the Kings and Leaders of the World.

Haifa:  Bahá’í World Center, 1967.

The Summons of the Lord of Hosts:  Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh.  Wilmette, IL:

Bahá’í Publishing, 2006.

Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh revealed after the Kitáb-i-Aqdas.  Compiled by the

Research Department of the Universal House of Justice.  Translated

by Habib Taherzadeh et al.  Wilmette, IL:  1988.

Works of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá

A Traveller’s Narrative Written to Illustrate the Episode of the Báb.  Trans-

lated by E. G. Browne.  New edition.  Wilmette, IL:  Bahá’í Publishing

Trust, 1980.

The Promulgation of Universal Peace:  Talks Delivered by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá dur-

ing His Visit to the United States and Canada in 1912.  Compiled by

Howard MacNutt.  2nd ed.  Wilmette, IL:  Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1982.

Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.  Compiled by the Research

Department of the Universal House of Justice.  Translated by a Com-

mittee at the Bahá’í World Center and Marzieh Gail.  1st pocket-size

ed.  Wilmette, IL:  Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1996.

Some Answered Questions.  Compiled and translated by Laura Clifford

Barney.  1st pocket-size ed.  Wilmette, IL:  Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1984.

Works of Shoghi Effendi

The Advent of Divine Justice.  1st pocket-size ed.  Wilmette, IL:  Bahá’í

Publishing Trust, 1990.

God Passes By.  New ed.  Wilmette, IL:  Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1974.

Messages to the Band i World 1950–1957.  Wilmette, IL:  Bahá’í Publishing

Trust, 1971.

The Promised Day Is Come.  1st pocket-sized ed.  Wilmette, IL:  Bahá’í Pub-

lishing Trust, 1996.

The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh:  Selected Letters.  1st pocket-size ed.  Wilmette, IL:  Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1991.

Compilations of Bahá’í Writings

Bahá’u’lláh, the Báb, and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.  Bahá’í Prayers:  A Selection of Prayers

Revealed by Bahá’u’lláh, the Báb, and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.  New ed.  Wilmette, IL:  Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1991.

Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.  Bahá’í World Faith:  Selected Writings of

Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.  2nd ed.  Wilmette, IL:  Bahá’í Publishing

Trust, 1976.

Other Works

The Bahá’í World:  An International Record, vol. 15, 1968–1973.  Prepared

under the supervision of the Universal House of Justice.  Haifa:  Uni-

versal House of Justice, 1975.

Balyuzi, H. M.  Edward Granville Browne and the Bahá’í Faith.  Oxford:

George Ronald, 1970.

Blomfield, Lady [Sara Louisa].  The Chosen Highway.  London:  Bahá’í Pub-

lishing Trust, 1940.

Esslemont, J. E.  Bahá’u’lláh and the New Era:  An Introduction to the Bahá’í

Faith.  Wilmette, IL:  Bahá’í Publishing, 2006.

Hazen, C. D.  Europe Since 1815.  New York:  Henry Holt and Co., 1910.

Marcus, Della L.  Her Eternal Crown:  Queen Marie of Romania and the

Bahá’í Faith.  Oxford:  George Ronald, 2000.

Nabíl-i-A‘zam [Muhammad-i-Zarandí] .  The Dawn-Breakers:  Nabíl’s Nar-

rative of the Days of the Bahá’í Revelation.  Translated and edited by

Shoghi Effendi.  Wilmette, IL:  Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1932.

Sears, William.  Release the Sun.  Wilmette, IL:  Bahá’í Publishing, 2003.

____.  Thief in the Night.  Oxford:  George Ronald, 1961.

Taylor, A. J. P.  The Hapsburg Monarchy, 1809–1918:  A History of the Aus-

trian Empire and Austria-Hungary.  Chicago:  University of Chicago

Press, 1941.

INDEX

[Blank page]

A

‘Abbás (witness against Bábís),

24–25

‘Abdu’l-‘Azíz, Sultán (ruler of

the Ottoman Empire)

assassination of, 5–6, 149, 171

Bahá’u’lláh’s messages to,

119–20, 127, 128, 141–42, 144, 148

banishes Bahá’u’lláh to

Adrianople, 118

banishes Bahá’u’lláh to

‘Akká, 125, 145

banishes Bahá’u’lláh to

Constantinople, 115,

121

downfall of, 146

‘Abdu’l-Bahá (Servant of

Bahá’u’lláh; son of

Bahá’u’lláh)

in ‘Akká, 130, 159–62, 208

as architect of Bahá’í

institutions, 158

on Bahá’u’lláh’s arrival in

Holy Land, 130

as Center of the Cov-

enant, 157

on downfall of ‘Abdu’l-

Hamíd II, 163

dream of, 159–61

safety of, assured by

British, 164–65

as Servant of Bahá’u’lláh,

157

service to sick and poor, 159

Tablets of the Divine

Plan, 163

visit to Bahá’u’lláh in

Black Pit, 26

world travels of, 157, 162, 165, 190

Abdu’l-Hamíd II (ruler of

Ottoman Empire), 50, 149–50, 161, 171

Abraham, 127, 128

Abú-Tálib, Mírzá (Persian

officer), 96–97

Acco.  See ‘Akká

Adrianople

Bahá’u’lláh banished to,

117–22

Bahá’u’lláh’s prophecies

about, 148

Bahá’u’lláh’s writings

while in, 122–24

Ahmad Sháh, 110

‘Akká

Bahá’u’lláh in, 33–34,

49–50, 125–32, 155,

157–58, 174

decree banishing

Bahá’u’lláh to, 125, 136–37

as “door of hope,” 54, 75, 130, 174

foulness of, 130–31

Bahá’u’lláh’s writings

while in, 31–32, 99

Albanian monarchy, 171

Alexander II (czar of Russia)

assassination of, 6–7, 69

Bahá’u’lláh’s letter to,

64–67, 71

as czar-liberator, 63–64

downfall of, 67–69

Alexander III (czar of Russia), 70

‘Alí Páshá (prime minister of

Turkey), 118–19, 123, 146–48

Allenby, Edmund (British

general), 165

Amos, book of, 173–74

Ankara, 150, 151

Áqá Buzurg (Badí), 209

Áqá Khán, Mírzá (prime

minister of Persia)

and Bahá’u’lláh’s release

from Black Pit, 99–101

betrayal of Bahá’u’lláh, 16–17

Áqá Ridá (follower of

Bahá’u’lláh), 128

‘Arif Bey (Turkish officer), 160

Austrian monarchy, 75–83, 171

B

Báb, the

announces coming of

Bahá’u’lláh, 32

declaration of the “Day

of God,” 14

martyrdom of, 15, 108,

174, 207

remains moved to Mount

Carmel, 154

Shrine of, 155, 192

Bábís

Bahá’u’lláh as leader of,

15, 207–8

blamed for death of

Násiri’d-Dín Sháh,

106–7

slaying of, 133, 208

Badí (Áqá Buzurg), 209

Baghdad, 115–16, 136

Bahá’í Faith

belief in new world order,

203–6

birth and spread of, 163

World Center of, 192

youth as driving force in,

206–10

Bahá’u’lláh

in Adrianople, 117–24, 172

in ‘Akká, 33–34, 49–50,

125–32, 155, 157–58,

174

arrest of, 17–18, 40

in Baghdad, 115–16, 136

banished to Adrianople,

118–22

banished to ‘Akká, 125

banished to

Constantinople, 115,

116–17

banished to Iraq, 101–2

in Constantinople, 115,

117, 150–51

death of, 157

declaration of, 185

home in Núr, 96–97, 187

as leader of Bábís, 15

link to kings and rulers,

11–14, 21

as Messenger of God, 26,

27, 121, 128, 158,

174, 198, 215

and Mírzá Áqá Khán,

16–17, 99–101

mission of, 19, 115, 183,

208

on Mount Carmel,

155–56, 158–59

on oneness and unity,

127, 185, 198, 216–17

poisonings of, 25 26, 122

as Promised One, 188

revelation of God to,

19–20

in Síyáh-Chál, 18–19,

23 26, 95, 98

sufferings of, 12, 26, 40,

98–99, 186

teachings of, 106, 127,

182–83, 185, 186

verbal messages to

‘Abdu’l-‘Azíz, 127, 128

visit with E. G. Browne,

54–55, 156, 208

Will and Testament of,

157

Bahá’u’lláh, letters and

writings

to ‘Abdu’l-‘Azíz, 119 20,

141–42, 144, 148

about formation of

international tribunal,

179, 190

about Germany, 56–59

in Adrianople, 122–24

and ‘Akká, 11–14, 78–79,

136

to Alexander II (czar of

Russia), 64–67, 71

to ‘Alí Páshá, 118–19,

123, 146–48

and Bible prophecies, 43

on Christian scripture,

199

to clergy of world

religions, 183–85,

187–89, 194–95,

196–97

on departing Turkey,

126 27, 128

to elected representatives

of the people, 180

on embracing the Bahá’í

Faith, 217

on fate of Qájár dynasty,

108

to Franz Joseph, 75–79

to Fu’ád Páshá, 146–47

to kings and rulers, 12-

13, 33, 34, 50–54, 80,

90–91, 108, 126–27,

134, 143, 144–45,

16970, 215

on “Most Great Prison,”

136

to Napoleon III, 31–37,

39–40, 41–42

to Násiri’d-Dín Sháh,

20 21, 99

to people of Persia, 107

to Persian ambassador in

Turkey, 120

to Persian minister,

109–10

to Pius IX, 183–89,

191–92, 194

praising religious leaders,

197

and prophecies about

demise of kings and

rulers, 173–74

on revelation of His

mission, 19–20

on sorrows awaiting

Him, 117

to Victoria (queen of

Great Britain), 87–88,

91–92

Balfour, Lord, 164

Bible prophecies.  See indi-

vidual books and

prophets by name

Bismarck, Otto van, 54

Black Pit.  See Síyáh-Chál

books, of the Bible.  See

individual books by

name

Browne, Edward Granville,

54–55, 156, 208

Bulgarian monarchy, 171

C

Caiaphas, 184

Canaan, 127

Carmel, Mount.  See Mount

Carmel

Chinese monarchy, 171

Christ

dove appears to, 19

as Messenger of God, 75,

158

pronouncement against

Jerusalem, 151

return of, 151, 194, 195,

197

Christianity, 130, 197

clergy.  See Muslim clergy;

world religions, clergy

of

Committee of Union and

Progress, 163.  See also

Young Turks Revolution

Constantinople, 115, 117,

150–52

Crimean War, 35, 36, 37

Curia (Roman Catholic

Church), 185

Curzon, Lord, 164, 208

D

Daniel, book of, 109, 163

Danube River, 75

David, in book 0f Psalms, 130

“Day 0f God,” 14, 38, 189

de Montijo, Eugenie (empress

of France), 40, 42

Diocletian (Roman Emperor),

208

Dolgorukov, Prince (Russian

ambassador), 17, 64–65, 95

E

Egyptian monarchy, 172

Elizabeth (empress of Austria), 80

Eugene Louis Jean Joseph,

Prince (son of Napo-

leon III), 43

Eugenie (empress of France),

40, 42

Ezekiel, b00k of, 102

F

Francis Ferdinand (archduke

of Austria), 80

Franz Joseph (emperor of

Austria), 75–83

French agent, in Holy Land,

34, 39

French monarchy, 31–43, 171

Fu’ád Páshá (foreign minister

of Turkey), 146–47

G

Gallipoli, 126, 127

Gamaliel (rabbi), 88

German monarchy, 171,

242n16

William I, 5, 47–48, 55

William II, 49–60

“Glory of God,” 15, 71, 102,

116, 129, 131.  See also

Bahá’u’lláh

H

Habakkuk, book of, 192

Haggai, book of, 71

Hague Peace Conference of

1898, 52

Hájí ‘Alí (Persian minister), 98

Hájibu’d-Dawlih (Persian

officer), 107

Hand of the Cause, 218, 230

Hapsburg dynasty, 75–83

Hasan Effendi (Turkish

officer), 128

Hatch, Willard, 226

Hitler, Adolph, 58–59, 81

Hohenzollern dynasty.  See

German monarchy

Holy Land

‘Abdu’l-Bahá in, 164–65

Bahá’u’lláh’s exile to, 78,

79, 102, 117–18,

128–30

Franz Joseph’s visit to,

75, 77–78

Pope Paul XI’s visit to, 192

in religious scripture, 78,

79, 102, 117–18, 130,

134–35

remains of the Báb

moved to, 155

William II’s visit to, 49–50

Holy Roman Empire, 75–83

Hosea, book of, 75, 130, 174

House of Romanov, 69–71

Hungarian monarchy, 171

Husayn Khán, Mírzá (Persian

ambassador), 146

I

Ileana, Princess (daughter of

Queen Marie of

Rumania), 223, 224

Iraqi monarchy, 172

Isaiah, book of, 43, 75, 107,

117, 130, 159, 173, 196

Islamic clergy, 15–16, 99, 101,

115, 155, 197–98

Islamic prophecies, 132–33,

133, 245n32

Istanbul, 150.  See also

Constantinople

Italian monarchy, 171

Ivan the Terrible, 63

J

Jamál Páshá, 164, 165

Jeremiah, book of, 60, 79, 173

Jesus Christ.  See Christ

Job, book of, 21–22

John XXIII (pope), 184, 185,

186, 189

K

Katurah (wife of Abraham),

127

Kingdom of God, 193

kings and rulers.  See

Bahá’u’lláh, letters and

writings; individual

kings and rulers by

name

Kitáb-i-‘Ahd (Book of My

Covenant), 157

Kitáb-i-Aqdas (Most Holy

Book), 32, 228, 232, 241n3 (chap. 3)

Kitáb-i-Íqán (Book of Certi-

tude), 226

L

Lamington, Lord, 164

Laws of God, 38, 81

League of Nations, 179–80

Les Apôtres (Renan), 208

letters of Bahá’u’lláh.  See

Bahá’u’lláh, letters and

writings

M

Malietoa Tanumafili II (king

of Samoa), 217, 228-

34

Manifestations of God.  See

Bahá’u’lláh; Messen-

gers of God

Marie (queen of Romania),

89–90, 217, 218–27

Maximilian (brother of Franz

Joseph), 80

Message of God, 165, 169, 210

Messengers of God

Bahá’u’lláh as, 121, 128,

198, 215

as founders of world

religions, 158

as law-givers, 81–82

persecuted, 76, 147

Micah, book of, 117–18, 134–

35

Michel (general in army of

Napoleon III), 38–39

Mihdi, Mirza (Bahá’u’lláh’s

son), 208–9

Morse, Samuel B., 22

Most Great Peace, 170, 215

Most Great Prison, 136.  See

also ‘Akká

Mount Carmel (Vineyard of

God)

Bahá’u’lláh arrives at,

40–41, 101, 129–31

prophecies about, 135,

174

Shrine of the Báb, 155,

192

Muhammad (Prophet of

Islam), 130, 132–33

Muhammad-‘Alí Sháh (king of

Persia), 110

Muslim clergy, 15–16, 99, 101,

115, 155, 197–98

Muzaffari’d-Dín Sháh (king of

Persia), 110

N

Nabíl-i-‘Azam (Bábí historian),

119, 122

Napoleon III (Louis, emperor

of France)

Bahá’u’lláh’s letters to,

31–37, 39–40, 41–43

court of, 35

downfall of, 36–37, 38-

43

treatise on the elimina-

tion of poverty, 32

Násiri’d-Dín Sháh (king of

Persia)

assassination of, 7–8,

105–6, 171

attempted assassination

of, 95

Bahá’u’lláh’s letter to,

20 21, 99

Bahá’u’lláh’s messenger

to, 209

banishes Bahá’u’lláh to

Iraq, 101 2

and chanting from Síyáh

Chál, 23 24, 111

execution of the Báb and

Babis, 108

mother of, 21, 25, 96

orders attack on Tákur,

96

persecution of

Bahá’u’lláh, 21

National Spiritual Assembly of

the Bahá’ís of the

United States and

Canada, 227

Nicholas II (czar of Russia), 70

Núr (Bahá’u’lláh’s home

district in Persia), 96,

187

0

oneness, concept of, 127, 185,

198, 216–17

Ottoman Empire, 149–51

P

Paul VI (pope), 182, 187, 189–

195

“Peace on Earth” (Pacem in

Terris, papal encycli-

cal), 184

Persian ambassador, 120, 125,

146

Persian minister, 98

Persian officers, 96–97, 107

Peter the Great, 63

Pius IX (pope), 183–89, 191–

92, 194

Portuguese monarchy, 171

“Prince of Oppressors.”  See

Násiri’d-Dín Sháh

Prisoner, the.  See Bahá’u’lláh

“Prisoner of the Vatican,” 189

Promised One, 22, 188.  See

also Bahá’u’lláh

prophets.  See individual

prophets by name

Psalms, book of, 21, 22, 130,

131, 144, 158, 159

Q

Qájár dynasty, 105–11, 171

Qur’án, 141

R

“remote prison,” 120.  See also

Adrianople

Renan (French author), 208

Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh, 122,

179, 194, 197, 207, 209

Revelation of God, 77, 87,

108, 162, 203

Rhine River, 56, 57, 58

Ridá, Mírzá (assassin of

Násiri’d-Dín Sháh), 106

Ridván

Festival of, 115

Garden of, 116

Romanian monarchy, 172

Romanov, House of, 69–71

Root, Martha, 220, 223,

224–27

Rudolph (son of Franz

Joseph), 80

Rúhu’lláh (son of Varqá), 106–7

Russian ambassador, 17, 64–

65, 95

Russian monarchy, 63 71, 171

S

scriptures, of world religions,

21, 31, 60, 76, 115,

130, 131, 175

Sears, William, 218

Serbian monarchy, 171

Shamsí Big (messenger), 118–19

Shaykh Mahmúd (clergyman

of ‘Akká), 155–56

Shoghi Effendi (Guardian of

the Faith; Bahá’u’lláh’s

great-grandson), 210–

12, 216–17

Síyáh-Chál (Black Pit), 18–19,

23 26, 95, 98

slavery, 87

Spanish monarchy, 171

St. Sophia (mosque in

Constantinople), 151

Súriy-i-Mulúk (Súrih of the

Kings), 121, 228, 248n8

T

tablets.  See Bahá’u’lláh, letters

and writings

Tablets of the Divine Plan

(‘Abdu’l-Bahá), 163

Tákur (Bahá’u’lláh’s home

village), 96

telegraph, 22

“throne of tyranny,” 92, 117,

151.  See also ‘Abdu’l-

‘Azíz, Sultán (ruler of

the Ottoman Empire)

Tihrán, 17, 18, 209.  See also

Black Pit (Síyáh-Chál)

Toronto Star, 89

Turkish ministers and officers,

127, 128, 146, 150, 160

Turkish monarchy, 141–52, 171

U

‘Umar (Turkish officer), 127

United Nations, 187, 190

United Nations Charter, 190

unity, 204

‘Uthmán, house of, 141–52, 171

V

Varqá (Bábí teacher and poet),

106–7

Victor Emmanuel II (king of

Italy), 189

Victoria (queen of Great

Britain), 87–89, 91–92

W

Will and Testament of

Bahá’u’lláh (Kitáb-i-

‘Ahd; Book of the

Covenant), 157

William I (emperor of Germany)

attempted assassinations

of, 5, 55

Bahá’u’lláh’s letter to, 47–48

on Napoleon III, 38

William II (emperor of

Germany)

rise and fall of, 53–60

visit to Holy Land, 49–50

war as religion of, 51–52

Wilson, Woodrow, 179–80

World Council of Churches, 195

World Council of Protestant

Churches, 195

World Parliament of Religions,

198

world religions.  See also

Muslim clergy

clergy of, 60, 183, 186,

196, 198

scriptures of, 21, 31, 60,

76, 115, 130, 131, 175

World War I, 70, 164

writings of Bahá’u’lláh.  See

Bahá’u’lláh, letters and

writings

Y

Yemenite monarchy, 172

Young Turk Revolution, 149,

151, 163–64

Z

Zephaniah, book of, 82–83

Zoroaster, 130