THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1993-06-27

To the b ahá’ís of the w orld

dear b ahá’í f riends,

integral to the success and development of the cause of god is the

continual deployment of pioneers and traveling teachers throughout the

world. during the course of the Six year plan more than 4,000 bahá’ís left

their homes to serve as either short-term or long-term pioneers in other lands. This is an indication of the increased mobility that the modern world provides, and of the believers’ eagerness to advance the cause wherever the

need is greatest. it suggests that new methods must be adopted to make the

best use of this massive flow of b ahá’ís.

we have therefore decided, in consultation with the international Teach-

ing center, to adopt a new pattern for the pioneer call for the Three year

plan.

The essence of this method is that friends may arise from anywhere in

the world to pioneer to any other part of the world. There are very few places where long-term and short-term pioneers and traveling teachers are

not needed. but the needs vary in nature, intensity and urgency. To help

each volunteer to choose his or her goal, a list of four categories has been

prepared to indicate the particular needs. These four categories comprise countries and territories where:

1. there are now especially fertile opportunities for the rapid spread of the f aith that must be urgently met;

2. the faith is established, but pioneers are needed to stimulate the

process of growth and to assist in the opening of new centers;

3. the process of expansion and consolidation has a significant mo-mentum, but there is a need for pioneers who can undertake specific tasks, such as arousing the interest of prominent people, strengthen-

ing the communities in certain areas, or assisting with projects of

social and economic development;

4. pioneers are greatly needed, but entry is difficult because of restric-tions on bahá’í activity, lack of security, or other circumstances.

These conditions present a need for believers who will resourcefully seek out opportunities for pioneering.159.1

159.2

159.3

159.3a

159.3b

159.3c

159.3d

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

0The list is attached to this letter for the information of every bahá’í.

Additional detailed information about many of the countries is being sup-

plied to National Spiritual Assemblies and also to the continental boards of

counselors and continental pioneer committees. both the list and detailed

information will be periodically updated as the outflow of pioneers and

traveling teachers begins to meet current needs. Notification of areas of

especially urgent concern will also be supplied from time to time.

many National Assemblies have offered, among their international col-

laboration goals, to raise up a given number of pioneers and traveling teach-

ers during the Three year plan. but, as indicated above, even from those

countries which have specified no such goal, the friends should feel free to offer their services.

Any bahá’í who has the urge to serve as a traveling teacher, or as a pioneer

for a short or long term, should immediately contact his (or her) National Spiritual Assembly or appropriate national committee to obtain advice and additional information. he can also consult a counselor or Auxiliary board

member, and write to a continental pioneer committee. Through prayer

and consultation, and after considering his own particular experience, in-clinations and possibilities, he can choose his goal area and, confidently relying on the confirming power of bahá’u’lláh, set out to serve the cause

of his lord in distant lands.

There are still vast areas of the world where no bahá’ís have set foot.

There are millions desperately thirsting for this water of life. There are

countries where believers are laboring day and night to foster the growth of

the tree of the cause, and are in urgent need of reinforcements. it is our

fervent prayer at the Sacred Threshold that stalwart, self-sacrificing friends

will arise and that a wave of pioneers and traveling teachers will surge forth to raise the banner of the cause and reinforce the cohorts of god in every

land.

with loving b ahá’í greetings,

159.5

159.6

159.7

1993–1996  •  T h e  Th r e e  Ye a r  Pl a n

1160

Securing Building Contractors

for Mount Carmel Projects

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]