THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

2000-07-20

To the friends gathered at the Asian international

karachi, p akistan, 21–23 j uly 2000

dear b ahá’í f riends,

we send our loving greetings to the friends gathered at the international

bahá’í youth conference held in karachi at this central stage of the T welve

month p lan.

our confident hope is that the youth, both in pakistan and throughout

Asia, will increasingly be one of the strongest instruments in advancing

the process of entry by troops. for this to happen, bahá’í youth, like all

bahá’ís, need to fortify their faith by immersing themselves repeatedly and

frequently in the study of the creative word of god. one of the major

purposes of training institutes is to help make this enrichment possible. our

hope is that great numbers of youth will not only participate in the courses

of the institutes, but will themselves assume the responsibilities of tutors

and facilitators. Such a development will serve both bahá’ís and the wider

society in your countries.

Now that the knowledge of the name of the faith has spread widely,

and ever more people are becoming aware of its Teachings, the public in many places is watching the bahá’í community to see how these life-giving

principles of bahá’u’lláh are affecting the daily lives of his followers. The

verities of the faith must become increasingly demonstrated in the way its

adherents serve humanity, champion justice and promote unity. in a letter

written to a National Spiritual Assembly on his behalf shortly before his passing the beloved g uardian explained:

The bahá’ís are the leaven of god, which must leaven the lump of

their nation. in direct ratio to their success will be the protection

vouchsafed, not only to them but to their country. These are the im-

mutable laws of g od, from which there is no escape. . . .

338-1

338-1. lg, no. 454.338.1

338.2

338.3

338.3a

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

72The challenge facing you at this important gathering is to consider how

you can become this leaven, an example to masses of people who are des-

perately seeking somewhere to turn for spiritual help.

As you are aware, the T welve month plan emphasizes the importance

of the bahá’í education of children and junior youth. youth, who are so

often the role models of their younger siblings and friends, have a unique opportunity in this regard. in responding to this opportunity, you will be

astonished how you yourselves will be enriched.

As you consult together over the next few days, drawing upon the wis-

dom and experience of counselors vicente Samaniego and rosalie T ran,

you may be sure that our prayers will be surrounding you.

with loving b ahá’í greetings,

339

Message to the Youth Conference

in Vancouver, Canada

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]