THE MAJOR OPUS

This is an analysis of the story of the journey of two parallel movements to
the holy land in 1868, one Iranian group, the other German. Did they
complement each other? One came to search and the other one came to fulfill.




1. Index
2. Acknowledgment







3. Forewords








4. Introduction







CHAPTER I
5. Renovation of the Old Garment





CHAPTER II
6. The Wurttembergers
a. The First Generation



b. Arrival







c. Return of the Jew the Holy Land




d. The Land and Conflict of the Hosts



CHAPTER III
7. The Second Generation






CHAPTER IV
8. The Third Generation






CHAPTER V
9. Haifa – some early descriptions by the Templers


10. Haifa – some early descriptions from Baha’i sources



CHAPTER VI
11. Baha’u’llah’s Visit to Haifa






CHAPTER VII
12. Temple of Thy Lord






CHAPTER VIII
13. Jerusalem








CHAPTER IX
14. Shkinah & Arc of the Covenant





CHAPTER X
15. Kingdom of God







ANNEX I
16. Tablet of Hirtik







a. Comparative Translations




b. Some Analyses I Faruq Izadinia




c. Some Analyses II Muhammad Afnan



ANNEX II
17. The Tablet of Hardegg – Stephen Lambden




ANNEX III
18. Tablet of Carmel







ANNEX IV
19. The Circle of Cypress Trees





ANNEX V
20. German Quotations on Templer Houses



ANNEX VI
21. The Templer Record No. 385





ANNEX VII
22. The Early Templers in Haifa





23. Abdu’l-Baha’s recorded comments on the German Templers




The mystic and wondrous bride, hidden ere this beneath the veiling of
utterance, hath now, by the grace of God and His divine favour, been made
manifest even as the resplendent light shed by the beauty of the Beloved. I
bear witness, O friends! that the favour is complete, the argument fulfilled, the
proof manifest and the evidence established. Let it now be seen what your
endeavours in the path of detachment will reveal. In this wise hath the divine
favour been fully vouchsafed unto you and unto them that are in heaven and
earth. All praise to God, the Lord of all Worlds.1



1. Baha’u’llah, The Hidden Words of Baha’u’llah, pp. 51,52

ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

Many years ago, Mr. Hartmut Grossmann2, gave a talk on the German Templers
at the BWC where he showed many pictures of their early life in Haifa. His talk and
later on passing to the writer all his studies and slides made me very thankful to him
who even furthered my interest in the topic.

I owe my deepest appreciation and heartfelt thanks to my brother Faruq, who all
along stood ready for any historical data available on the topic and indeed shared
openly his valuable storage of memories and written articles with me. He also
provided me with his study on the German Templers3.

Special thanks to Dr. Danny Goldman4, who shared generously his library for the
study of this work as well as providing copies of every paper he had written or has
been written on the topic in his possession. Guiding me throughout my study and
even afterwards, to get the most accurate relevant non-Baha’i documents available
to him.

My appreciation is extended to Mr. Peter Lange 5 , with whom there was an
extensive correspondence for almost six months. Peter very kindly answered all my
relevant questions and clarified much of the concepts regarding the Society today.

Monika Strasser6 who also facilitated me with some relevant historical books
concerning the movement, especially the unpublished manuscript of her mother,
Mrs. Martha Strasser, which of course was of much interest to the writer.

My special thanks should go to Mrs. Haide Martha Otto 7 , who during our
coinciding period of voluntary service at the Baha’i World Center, showed a special
interest in the topic of the German Templers, herself from German background,
whatever German would be very close to her heart. Martha helped organizing bits
and pieces of this history together. Very patiently she would put hours and hours of
her time in this matter, often during her afterhours and weekends. It was she who
called the project as “Major Opus”. The title of this work is a remembrance of the
lunch hour period of those days that were shared within a passion of knowledge of
the German Templers and their relationship with the Baha’i Faith. Her constant
encouragement from start to the end most appreciatively accompanied this work.

My appreciation also extends to Mr. Andrew Blake8, who from the early days of

2. Hartmut Grossmann (1933-2017), ex-member of the Universal House of Justice (2003-2008)
3. Understanding Divine Words, published in Persian, Safineh Erfan, vol. 14, Irfan Colloquium - 2011
4. Danny Goldman, scholar, researcher, and lecturer in Historical Architecture. His PhD thesis: The
Architecture of the Templers in their Colonies in Eretz-Israel, and their Settlements in the United States,
1860-1925.
5. Once President of the Templer Societies of Germany as well as Australia
6. Monika Strasser, Australian Templer Society
7. Haide Martha Otto, Baha’i colleague at the Baha’i World Centre
8. Baha’i colleague at the BWC, horticulturist from Australia

our service at the BWC had shown enormous interest in the Baha’i Gardens and
compiled the most interesting study of the ‘plants life’ at the BWC. His way of work
has always been quite inspirational during the period of service together. The benefit
this study received from him has been priceless.

My thanks also go to the Library of the Baha’i World Center where I could get few
rare items related to the German Templers. After the conclusion of this historical
research work9. My entire collected books, papers, articles, and essays related to
the topic were donated at their disposal for future researchers.

My sincere thanks are extended to Joerg Klingbeil of the Office of Templegesellschaft
in Deutschland for his help to verify the route the Templer’s took in 1868 from
Germany to the Holy Land and many other details.

Also, my appreciation to Violetta Zein who prepared the map of the travel route of
the two groups of Templers and Baha’is in a very artistic way, which became the
cover of this study.

Most appreciation goes to my niece, Hedyeh Khoshaeen, for all her dedication to
illustrate the manuscript with tens of pictures corresponding to this study.

Some other acknowledgements and appreciations are also being mentioned on the
section of Forewords.

Pretoria, April 2023





9. Concluded in May 2012

FOREWORDS

In 2007, while serving at (OSAR)10,  I came to learn that there is doctoral thesis
on the German Templers’ architecture, by Danny Goldman. After securing a copy,
I found it a thorough study of over 700 pages on the architecture of the German
Templers in all their seven establishments around the land of Palestine11.

I was interested to know if the Shrine of the Bab built in (1900 – 1908), had
received any German influence as per its original design12, as, it was built during
the time of the Germans’ architectural peak of glory, where their famous architect,
Jacob Schumacher was designing unique buildings with many interesting details
common to the building of the nine-room Mausoleum. It could have been that
there was some kind of communication between the two movements on technical
level or the involvement of German professionals in the design of the Shrine13.
But there was little if any so far in the Baha’i Writing or in the records, such as
Abdu’l-Baha’s Tablets or any other believer communications for that matter. But
what is certain, is that the Master Abdu’l-Baha sought the intervention of the
German and Ottoman engineers’ when He decided to build the Shrine14.

Danny Goldmann also sent me some quite interesting papers he has written
on different topics related to this Movement. His works were my prime motivator
in my research work and of my intention of finding out about the relationship of
the two parallel movements’ existence in the Holy Land. If this matter was
interesting for Danny Goldmann from architectural, social and physical planning
points of view, my interest was around their spiritual quest, their findings and their
ultimate fate. Analysis of the reason of this movement by emigrating from
Germany and coming to the Holy Land, and after three generations of hard work,
only good name remains from them and evidence of their services. They were
good and pious Christians.

Peter Lange15 , helped me with a better understanding of the movement’s

10. OSAR – Office of Shrine and Archives Restoration -2005 – 2011.
11. German Templers arrived in Haifa, Palestine in late October 1868 and after 80 years, they were deported
to partially to Germany and most to Australia. Their colonies were: Haifa, Jerusalem, Jaffa, Sarona,
Wilhehma, Bethlehem and Waldheim.
12. The Shrine of the Bab consists of two sections, the building of original 9 rooms and the Superstructure.
13. The written and unpublished brief of the travel of the remains of His Holiness the Bab, by Mirza
Asadu’llah Isfahani, p. 31, there is a mention that sometime after the front row of the rooms of the Shrine
was completed, Abdu’l-Baha decided to give the rest of the work to contract to a Protestant builder (at the
time most probably the Germans were the Protestants builders in Haifa), to pursue the rest of the
construction work. Though there is mention of the other Baha’i builders at the time, i.e. Ustad Ali-Ashraf,
Ustad Abdu’l-Karim, Ustad Aqa Bala, Husayn Effendi and Ustad Muhammad-Ali. No more references are
seen in this regard in any other source.
14. For example, the design of the underground water reservoir located at the northwest of the Shrine, which
resulted a twice failure when handled by the local German and Ottoman engineers, and as a result, as is
indicated by Abdu’l-Baha in one of His Tablets, He Himself successfully directed this specific work, now on
the Terrace 10. It is a huge underground water reservoir, existing to its perfection after well over a century.
15. President and Archivist of the Society in 2001-2007 overseeing activities both in Germany and Australia

present-day
activities,
as
well
as
finding
important historical data, which were crucial for
the study. He had to delve into many archives to
find notes to cover the questions.

Monika Strasser on the other hand, helped
with some precious books mostly product of
Australian’s
branch
and
her
mother’s
unpublished memoirs, where she almost brush
painted the second generation’s decades of
Haifa Templers, remembering when she as a
child, and together with other children frequently
met Abdu’l-Baha in the streets of the Colony in
Haifa16.

Irene Bouzo’s doctoral thesis on the Case
study of Assimilation and Adaption of the German
Templers to the new Australian Society, a study
of the Templer group in Australia, where she did
an excellent analysis of ‘after arrival’ to their new Home in Melbourne and their
lives today. As for their spiritual activities, they have a free Christian society
conducting prayer sessions and reading the Bible, giving talks open to all. There
are of course, no formal church activities.

At this point, it should be mentioned that efforts
were done to bring to the attention of the Templers
to cast an alternative look at the original
philosophy of their founders and assimilate the
reason of their Movement from Germany to
Palestine and be convinced that the whole
movement was not a futile effort, but it had a
profound meaning and a fulfillment goal. There
were many sacrifices and losses for such a
specific aim, and that, there are so much evidence
that this movement was divinely oriented and had
a function to fulfill, which according to the Baha’is,
was the preparation for the accomplishment of the
Christ’s promise of His return. Their most
important accomplishment was the establishment
of their colony in Haifa, from the top of Mount
Carmel to the sea, facing the city of Akka, on the
other side of the bay. Part of their land on Mt.

16. She remembered the occasion when He gave her a chocolate and a little gold coin to her sister. She
mentions that they loved the old man and always were looking forward to seeing Him again.
George David Hardegg,
the founder of the German
Colony in Haifa and for
whom Baha’u’llah
revealed the Tablet of
Hirtik (Hardegg)

Carmel were acquired by the Baha’is and developed to become the icon of the
city of Haifa. This mountain was first visited by Baha’u’llah on August 31, 1868,
two months before the arrival of the Templers.

As a result of the research, it could be concluded that this movement had three
generations’ activities in the Holy Land:
It started in Germany by Reverend Christopher Hoffmann17 as the spiritual
leader, who had a vision of building the Temple of God – being physically or
spiritually in Jerusalem and probably meeting Christ in His second coming. Rev.
Hoffmann needed a prime mover, an administrator of his thoughts, who would
materialize the abstracts into reality.

Georg David Hardegg18, the administrative leader who became attracted into
this philosophy of Hoffmann while he was going through his prison sentence back
in Germany for his ideas against the political policies at the time, where soon
after his release he joined the Templers’ movement and organized the exodus of
the Templers from Germany to the Holy Land.

Hoffmann and Hardegg as the Templers’ leaders, who were already in their
mid-fifties, set their goal and embark on their project, though they were already
in deep disagreement on the fundamentals of their philosophy and the leadership
of the group. It took only seven years since their arrival to the Holy Land for the
foundation of the movement to shake to schism. In 1875, Hardegg left the
movement and took with him one third of the Templers. The Hardegg’s
breakaway group lacked a spiritual guide to conduct their daily transactions, i.e.,
marriages, funerals, etc. therefore, they opted to go to church again, hence the
term "Kirchlers"19. The other two third who remained as Templers, demeaned the
breakaway group as Kirchlers or Churchgoers. Since the Templers breakaway
from the State Lutheran Church, they did not establish another church as, they
were all expecting the coming of Christ Who would lead them to His New Way.
Yet, the Kirchlers could not affiliate themselves with any other church, which
caused further division.

The schism in the original group also shook their thoughts and philosophy, to
the point that Rev. Hoffmann, who set his vision in the coming of Christ that was
never materialized to his expectations, and building the Temple in Jerusalem,
which could not materialize neither physically nor spiritually, therefore, he had to
develop and further his religious philosophy, changing it several times, this, as a
result, profoundly affected the second generation of the Templers were left after
the death of their leader in bewilderment and lack of one clear spiritual line to

17. Gottlob Christoph Jonathan Hoffmann Dec. 2, 1815 – Dec. 8, 1885
18. Georg David Hardegg co-founder of German Templers April 2, 1812 – July 1, 1879
19. Church goers. In their philosophy church was no more relevant, as they had to adhere to the imminent
coming of Christ, therefore, the concept of place of worship was meaningless.

follow, finally made of their organization a socio/religious group in Australia 20 .
Once Rev. Hoffmann passed away in 1885, no one could fill his empty seat.
There was not a leader left with spiritual vision. From then on, the movement
stood in the hands of the elders of the movement who had to forget the original
twin goals of meeting Christ in the Holy Land
and rebuilding the Temple in Jerusalem, as a
result they only satisfied themselves with their
daily life of a good Christian. 21

They questioned: Was the total movement a
failure? This un-answered matter remains as a
puzzle to them even now.

Probably
Rev.
Hoffmann
missed
the
movement of the migration of the first Jewish
Aliyah 22  around the later part of his life in
1880s, where masses of Jews started to return
to the land of their ancestor and through
purchasing land, claiming their ownership of
Palestine and assiduously developing the long
neglected land of their ancestors, a clear
fulfillment
of
the
biblical
prophecy,
the
gathering of the Jews from all over the world in
their own homeland. Yet, it was just the
beginning.

FIRST GENERATION23
The first-generation leaders of the Templers’
movement could be historically paralleled with
the
movement
of
Baha’i
Faith,
when
Baha’u’llah 24 , the sole leader of the Baha’i
movement, with one set of divinely ordained principles to be disseminated around
the world, remaining the basic divine philosophy ever after, was banished
together with some 70 of His followers to Palestine.


20. Temple Society Australia formed in August 1950 as an autonomous Christian Community
21. There were other leaders after Hoffmann, first it was Christoph Ludwig Paulus, then it was Christoph
Hoffmann II, later Christian Rohrer, followed by Phillipp Wurst and finally Nikolai Schmidt in 1941.
22. Aliyah means ascending, going further up, Aliyot is the plural. Coming back to the Promised Land was
the highest goal and purpose of the Jewish nation. The first Aliyah between 1882-1903, the second Aliyah
between 1904-1914, although the migration of the Jews to the Holy Land never stopped. The mass migration
happened after the WWII, mostly between 1948-1951 when independence was proclaimed in 1948. The
fluctuation varied each year. Many Jewish families arrived Palestine between WWI and WWII.
23. 1868-1885 (17 years)
24. The Baha’i group, led by Baha’u’llah, arrived in Haifa/Akka, Palestine on 31 August 1868, exactly two
months before the arrival of the Templer group.
Der Herr ist nahe “The coming of the
Lord is near”. The Pfander family
built the house around 1869/1871.
Their
granddaughter
Wilhelmine
Pfander Deininger b. 1887, claimed
she saw Baha’u’llah in her house,
when He was seeking medical
treatment at their home in 1891, that
is when she was four or five years
old.

Hoffman died some seven years before Baha’u’llah and Baha’u’llah outlived
Hardegg for some thirteen years, who came as the closest Templer to identify
Him as the Figure they have been expecting all
along, but remained aloof of its Truth, though
received a mighty Tablet from Baha’u’llah
answering
his
questions,
which
will
be
discussed in future pages.

The passing of Rev. Hoffmann in 1885 and
with Hardegg already dead by then, the
transition period to the early part of the 1890s,
could be considered as the end of the first
generation of the Templers’ Movement.

In April 1891, when Baha’u’llah visited Haifa
for the fourth and last time25, due to His illness,
he was attended by a Templer’s physician. The
story is being recorded by David Ruhe26 in his
book, Door of Hope27:
“In the house with the prophetic inscription
‘Der Herr ist nahe’ a little girl was born, probably in 1886/7, her name Wilhelmine
Pfander; she married to become Mrs.
Deininger. In 1977 the wife of
Gerhard Schmelzle, a Templer born
in Haifa who had gone to Australia
with his parents and had there
become a Baha’i in his maturity,
sought Mrs. Deninger at her home in
South Australia and inquired about
her childhood in that house. The aged
woman clearly recalled the tent on the
open land next door, that Holy Place,
which is now marked by a circle of
cypresses. While Baha’u’llah and His
companions were there, when she was ‘four or five’, she recounted, He had a
brief illness and had been invited into the Pfander home for a time while He was
seen by the Templer doctor, possibly Dr. J. Schmidt28. She recalled having seen

25. Baha’u’llah visited Haifa at His arrival to the Holy Land, and three subsequent times in 1873, 1890 and
1891.
26. David Ruhe (1914-2005), ex-member of the Universal House of Justice (1968-1993)
27. Door of Hope, p, 29 George Ronal Publishers, 1983
28. “Dr. Schmidt was born 1850 in Gnadenfeld, Molotschna District, Southern Russia. He was of Mennonite
faith, converting around 1890 to Templer faith in the German settlement of Olgino, North Caucasus, and
migrating to Palestine in 1874, where he opened a medical practice in Haifa Templer Colony. He worked as a
merchant there as well. He was very much appreciated by the inhabitants of the settlement. He also was
English and Russian Consul.” (Peter Lange, Archivist Templers, email May 12, 2020, to the author)

Baha’u’llah in the room at the north-west corner of the ground floor.”

SECOND GENERATION29
The second generation of Templers were led by the elders as mentioned in
footnote 20. Hoffmann’s and Hardegg’s children were intermarried, and
grandchildren, became more engaged in the professional life, pursuing all kinds
of agro/industry and became fully involved in economic life. One of Rev.
Hoffmann’s sons, a physician, became Catholic 30 , due to lack of any clear
spiritual guideline.

The Kirchler cousins continued with their involvement in the churches they
have chosen and like the Templer counterparts, got involved in professional life
as well. The division created became resolved in a later stage when they moved
to Australia and changed the character of the movement altogether becoming an
independent faith community.

The second generation of the Templers
could also be paralleled to the period when
the Abdu’l-Baha31 became the leader of the
Baha’i Faith immediately after the passing
of His Father Baha’u’llah, in 1892.  He was
the Centre of the Covenant of Baha’u’llah,
and as the Leader of the Baha’i Faith for 29
years, pursued the goals set by His Father.
Abdu’l-Baha associated closely with the
Templers, and later became a resident of
their neighborhood. Master, as He was
generally called, conducted business with
the Templers, buying some lands He
needed to build the Shrine of the Bab and
some other transactions. He often visited
them in their houses, giving them gifts,
especially to their children who He liked
them very much. There were some
interactions between the members of the
household of Abdu’l-Baha with Templers’
families. In their records there have been
some Baha’i children attending German
schools, as a multinational educational
center. In their multinational school, there

29. 1885-1921 (36 years)
30. See Paul Sauer, The Holy Land Called, 1991.
31. Abbas Effendi, (1844-1921) known as Master, titled Himself as Abdu’l-Baha, servant of Baha (Glory),
rejecting many other titles given to Him.

might have been some Persian children, where the only Persians at the time,
were those of Persian Baha’i families, although not necessarily directly related to
the Abdu’l-Baha.

This second generation period of the Templers could be considered in 1890,
around the date of the passing of their leader, Rev. Hoffmann, and this could have
ended in 1921, (the date when Abdu’l-Baha passed away), which coincides with
the period when the Germans who were exiled to Cairo, Egypt in 1918 -for a
period of over two years, after their war enemies, the British, had taken over the
Holy Land after the WWI. Then the German Templers were partially brought back.

The second Aliyah was around this period where another mass of Jewish
adherents returned to Palestine from Europe, although this influx never ceased
since it started even up to the present time.

Both Baha’u’llah and Abdu’l-Baha had predicted that soon the Jews will be
coming back to claim their land and will develop this land will, because it was a
biblical promise for which they have been awaiting to return since they were
exiled. Abdu’l-Baha had many friends among the Jews too. Israel’s Yitzakh Ben
Zvi the second President to be, together with his wife, while touring areas of the
land of Palestine on bycicle, met Abdu’l-Baha at His gardens in Bahji, the
outskirts of Acre. He invited the couple in for tea. Ben Zvi recalled it later when
he became more familiar with the Baha’i movement in the land of Palestine,
especially remembering of the kindness of the Master.

THIRD GENERATION – Involvement with the Jews
The period of the third generation of the Templers could be considered from
1921-1948 corresponding to the period of post-Abdu’l-Baha, which parallels to
the period where His grandson Shoghi Effendi32 was appointed the Guardian of
the Baha’i Faith.

The third generation of the Templers battered spiritually but quite well
established administratively and highly regarded businessmen and in fact,
they became masters of the land, mostly educated and well-off people, with
social clubs, football teams, having their own successful Bank established in
1925, various hotels and industries, etc. interacting with Palestinians, especially
with the youth of the families, mastering their language too. Their agricultural
product’s fame already passed the borders of the Holy Land well received the
European and American markets.


32. Shoghi Effendi (1897-1957), the grandson of Abdu’l-Baha, the only Guardian of the Baha’i Faith (1921-
1957). His prime responsibility was to develop and beautify the gardens surrounding the Baha’i Shrines,
expand the horizons of the Faith throughout the world, translate into English the Holy Writings of the Faith,
and prepare the administration of the Baha’i World for its future under the guidance of the elected body of
the Universal House of Justice (1963).

However, during their time, after the WWI, the politics in new Germany were
changing, which directly affected the group of Templers in the Holy Land. After
all, they were also German nationals and had allegiance to their motherland. The
Nationalist movement of the New Germany had influenced the group to the extent
that even before the WWII, there were already many Templer’s youth conscribed
to the Nationalist movement which resented the governing British in Palestine,
who had the mandate by League of Nations to act as the protectors of the land.
The British government in the Holy Land was observing some skirmishes
between the new Jewish inhabitants and the Templers. The Palestinians also did
not like the coming of the Jews to their land claiming it for themselves. This trio
dilemma was becoming a real problem for the British to keep the land calm and
peaceful for all three sides. But as the number of persecution and to the point of
extermination of the Jews of Germany and Europe came to its climax by the
German National Socialist party, the Jews of the Holy Land also did not tolerate
the existence of German Templers, who considered them as their enemies in
their in ancestral Jewish land, although there was no problem between the
German Templers and the Palestinian inhabitants.

As years rolled on, life became more difficult for the Germans residing in the
Holy Land’s seven German Templers’ Colonies. If they would not leave their
adopted land, they would be having a similar fate as the Jews were having in
Germany and if they would be leaving, where would they go? The British
protection of Germans became itself a dilemma, as the German Nationalist
Movement turned against the British too, giving even more reason to exile

Germans either back to Germany in exchange for the Jews, or to another British
Colony. Finally, they were gathered and put into a ship and banished first to
Cyprus and later to Australia, although the exile process had started gradually
from 1939 to 1948.

When the last remnants of the Templers were leaving the Holy Land in 1948
coincided with the decision of Shoghi Effendi for the beautification of the Shrine
of the Bab in the same year by building a superstructure over the original building,
becoming an icon of the Baha’i Faith on Mount Carmel in Haifa. This work also
coincided with the declaration of the independence of Israel as the Jewish State,
which surprised the Palestinians.

As much as Shoghi Effendi appreciated and used the professional hands of
the German Templers in many of his development enterprises as did his
Grandfather, Abdu’l-Baha, such as the restoration of the Mansion of Bahji, as he
believed in their precise and thorough work and as cordial as he was, yet he did
not associate with the German Templers like his grandfather did, in fact his
association with the Palestinian neighborhood has been minimal too, this is due
to his high agenda of compressed and complex duties of his 36 years of
guardianship. There was no spare time for him to engage himself unless in urgent
and necessary matters or official occasions, instead he established an institution
called International Baha’i Council33 to handle all the domestic issues within
Israel. He had the work of ever-growing world Faith that had multiplied many
folds. Most of his time was spent in the creation and beautification of the gardens,
meeting the constant flow of the pilgrims, reading and answering tremendous
amount of daily correspondence with the local and national institutions as well as
the individuals around the Baha’i World, dealing with internal affairs of the Faith,
writing his messages to the Baha’i World, establishing the Faith’s administration
system and last but not least, translating the tremendous amount of original
Writings of the Faith into English making them available to Western believers.
Nevertheless, he maintained his good relationship with the head of the State in
Israel David Ben Gurion34.


33. The institution of International Baha’i Council was established in 1951 in Haifa, Israel, comprising of nine
individuals appointed by Shoghi Effendi. The second IBC was elected by the NSA members around the
world in 1960, which became the prelude for the election of the first Universal House of Justice in April 1963.
34. David Ben Gurion, the primary national founder of the State of Israel and its first Prime Minister (1886-
1973), became Prime Minister in 1948 to practically 1963. Shoghi Effendi invited him and his wife to visit
the Shrine of the Bab on Mt. Carmel and received the couple, together with his wife Mary Maxwell, known
by her given Baha’i name as Ruhiyyih Khanum.

INTRODUCTION

Once in Haifa, one cannot miss the great beauty of the German Colony with
Swabian 35  architecture adapted to the climate of Palestine of the Nineteen
Century, extending from the Mediterranean Haifa Bay to the skirts of Mount
Carmel. Every discerning eye can see the order and beauty that characterizes
the culture behind it. Well-chosen spot of the utmost delightfulness, unsurpassed
design of town planning scheme where agriculture covered the mountainous
side, industry at the seashore and other business and residential in the middle.

Every curious mind likes to find out more about the history behind this small
Colony and the narrative of those who built it. What brought them out of Germany
and what made them love a foreign land – often with harsh climate - so far away
from their own, to a total assimilation to a new culture, a new language, a new
climate, and a new way of life? What did they do while there and what happened
to them to make them leave for good?

The fascinating story behind this Messianic and Millenaries group of originally
some handful families taking an arduous trip, accepting all kinds of hardships just
to settle in a foreign land for the sake of the promise of their Lord and their
religious freedom, Who would either to appear soon, -or searching for Him if He
has already appeared in no other place on earth than Holy Land’s Jerusalem-,
as they believed. A strange land that everything was foreign to them, language,
culture, food, comfort and much more. Yet, what made them determine to stay
and never to look back? Such a movement could not have been something purely
manmade for sure. It had to be a divine mandate through the group. The new

35. Swabians (German: Schwaben, singular Schwabe are Germanic people who are native to the region of
Swabia. – Wikipedia

land did not offer them anything materially, therefore, it could only be a sublime
spiritual concept they had, the coming of the Lord Christ in the Glory of the Father,
and these pious people got to be there when it would happen.

This group of devout Christians, who were determined to leave their church
and all its dogmas, sell, or give away their belongings and embark to venture a
new rewarding life in the land of the Prophets, called The Holy Land, as their
ultimate destination, Jerusalem, (just as the Adventists did the same type of
preparation in 1844 throughout America expecting the return of Christ). It was
headed by the reverend Christoph Hoffmann as the spiritual founder of the
Templers movement and lead by Georg David Hardegg, the administrator of the
movement. The two stalwarts considered the twin leaders, who lead the group to
the port of Haifa in Palestine, arriving on the 30th of October 1868.

The geographic roadmap of their travel would have been interesting to have,
yet Peter Lange, the Archivist of the organization answered to this question:
“You are asking about the roadmap of the first Templers travelling to Haifa,
Palestine, in the end of 1868. I can give you an account of what Christoph
Hoffmann has written in his book “Mein Weg nach Jerusalem” (“Jerusalem
Journey”), Volume 2, published 1884 in German language. The party comprised
several members of the family of Christoph Hoffmann and Georg David Hardegg.
Thea started from Wuerttemberg by way of a steamship down the Danube to
Vienna, and from there further on the Danube through the Iron Gate to the first
Turkish town of Ruschtschuk36. From there they took the railway line to Warna,
Bulgaria, and from there the ship across the Black Sea to Istanbul (which was
called Konstantinopel at that time). Here they had planned to make further
negotiations with Turkish authorities regarding the establishment of settlements in
Palestine. The last leg of their tour was by steamship to Beirut, and from there to
Haifa (Caifa, as it was called at that time.
This route was not used, of course, by later Templer travellers to Palestine. At
first, migraters used to go by train from Wuerttemberg to Triest, Italy and from there
by boat to Egypt and Palestine37”.

Just two months prior to their arrival, another handful families from the east,
were exiled to the desolate and fortress city of Acre in Palestine through the
Ottoman government in collusion with the Persian government. They did not
come at their own volition, but they were captives in the hands of their
oppressors. They were Persians38. Coincidentally both groups were from racially
Aryan background!

The Leader of this movement was Husayn-Ali Nuri, titled Baha’u’llah, the Glory

36. Now Bulgarian city
37. Peter Lange email to author May 10, 2020
38. They arrived on 31 August 1868

of God, Who claimed that He has received the latest message of God, a special
message for the east and the west; a message of Unity of Mankind, “to bring
together all those who were of His fold and all those who were not of His fold”39,
but had to be brought together and be united as one Fold and one Shepherd;
which was the promise Lord Christ.

As much as the Germans had every material mean to be the masters of the
land, establish themselves freely and associate with the people of their new
environment, purchase land and build their buildings, do commerce and use all
their consolidated abilities for expansion, do agriculture and at the same time
build up and prepare themselves for the a much better life; yet, the other group
was on the contrary, had no liberty of movement in and out of the ruin fortress
and prison city of Acre. They had no means and no material facility to arrange for
a better physical life, to make a more comfortable living, although Baha’ullah was
son of a Minister of State and had grown in a very comfortable life, as was His
wife Asiyeh, daughter of a prominent state minister, but all their properties were
confiscated to the point of total poverty when they were banished from Iran. They
were prisoners by strict orders of the two monarchs, the Shah of Iran and the
Sultan Ottoman Empire40!

On that historic day of 31 August 1868, when Baha’u’llah stepped out of the
ship41 to the land of Haifa, there was a turning point for then the small village of
Haifa. There was an encounter between Baha’u’llah and the Mount Carmel.
There was a conversation between the two, one as the Creator and the other as
the creation, the conversation that has been penned down by Baha’u’llah
Himself42.

The soil of Haifa became blessed by the footsteps. He stayed for only for few
hours and history was made. Soon their sailboat arrived and took them from the
village of Haifa to the fortress city of Acre across the bay, the most desolate city
on earth, reaching there in the evening of the same hot day of 31 August to be
led to their filthy and lonely cells of the barracks.

It is an interesting history behind these two movements on this spot. Was there
any contact or encounter between the two groups? What made one comfortable
group to lose everything they owned and be exiled out of the land they loved and
what made the other group as poor as they were, become prominent in this land
in a later stage.


39. John 10:14
40. Nasirid’Din Shah of Qajar (1931-1896) and Sultan Abdu’l-Aziz of Ottoman (1830-1876)
41. The Austrian Lloyd liner
42. See Annex III, Tablet of Carmel

CHAPTER I

Renovation of the Old Garment (Story of the two movements)
It is the philosophy of the Baha’i Faith that civilization neither has start nor end.
It is ever advancing phenomenon without its beginning being divulged nor its end.
In Baha’u’llah’s words referring to the continuous divine revelation: “This is the
changeless Faith of God, eternal in the past, eternal in the future”43 , Just as
schooling, with grades pre-starting
formal education, with parental
training, and continues ever after
as long as mankind lives – learning
does not stop. Parents are stage
teachers, relatives are other stage
teachers, and formal teachers are
of course other stage teachers,
passing mankind from one grade to
the next, teachers follow teachers’
way beyond maturity and stands to
receive
mentors
to
guide
throughout the life towards an
unfolding destiny in one way or
another.

Humanity is blessed to have
permanent divine Guides. Those souls selected by the Almighty, were given the
special task of guiding humanity for a period of time in the history. Once mankind
achieves maturity for that period, then the next divine Guide appears for the next
stage to continue revealing the precepts of God. This is trend of the Almighty, it
has been so in the past and will be so in the future.

When the divine Teacher was physically absent instead, the role was played
by those erudite in the faith, and they sheltered all those in need. They were
called priests, pastors, mullas, etc., they were the guiding lamp while there was
darkness.

As the path to ‘knowledge’ is only one path, the Teachers, to follow the
command of guiding humanity, have always indicated that their way is the only
way, i.e., outside of their guiding hand, there is no other true way.  One of them
said “the heavens and earth will pass by, but My message will not change”,
another one said, “No one comes to Heaven except through Me”, and other
similar sayings have been recorded in almost every religious philosophy. The
path of learning is the same; it is the continuation of the previous path.


43. Kitab-i-Aqdas
A painting of the Haifa German Templers colony
showing the Haifa Bay, circa 1900

Yet, those who played the self-claimed role of a guide –all kinds of priests-
while the Teacher was absent for multiple reasons, such as lust of leadership,
institutionalization of their role, prestige acquired among those who have blindly
followed them as true leaders, etc. have always prevented the pupils –the general
public- from knowing when the next Teacher claiming His station. It is for this
reason that sects were created, and schisms took place in every religion, and
cults came about. This is a fact well documented in recorded history of many
denominations. Controlling the minds of people unfortunately, became their
prime interest, fragmenting the religious precepts. (It should be noted that the
Baha’i Faith is an exception in falling into schism because priesthood institution
has been abolished. Baha’u’llah appointed in writing the Centre of His Covenant
with His followers to prevent any schism, the matter that was not happened in
the previous religions).

It is known to the followers of diverse religions, that time will come when
humanity goes beyond the adolescence and will reaches its age of maturity and
all will be gathered under one shelter, the barriers will be eliminated and humanity
will be united, i.e., ‘one flock, one Shepherd’, cults will merge towards one goal.

There was a set time for the ‘maturity of humanity’. The mid-nineteenth century
of the Christian Era was the commonly expected to be that ‘time’ when such a
process would start. Prophecies regarding the fulfillment of such a philosophy
can be found in many well-researched books. Foremost among them, the reader
can study the “Book of Certitude”44 revealed by Baha’u’llah and “Some Answered
Questions”45 by Abdu’l-Baha. The Messianic and Millenary groups all awaited the
mid-nineteenth century as the appointed time, each one according to the
calculations made from their own holy book.
The consensus date was the early years of 1840s and particularly the year of
1844 AD, where in most parts of the world in both east and the west, where there
was an anticipation and expectation in one form or another coming of Christ on
the clouds, or the appearance of the Promised One, the Lord of the Age, the
Mahdi, the Fifth Buddha, the Tenth Avatar, etc.


Brief History of Baha’i Movement
It was the year -1844 - when a young man of 24, by the name of Siyyid Ali-
Muhammad from Shiraz, Persia, claimed to be the Lord of Age, the Messiah. His
title: the Bab, the Gate. What happened to Him is quite dramatic. Let’s have a
brief look at the Nineteenth Century: Backward Iran was at the mercy of the Qájár
dynasty which, hand in hand with a corrupt clergy, oppressed the population to
such a degree that, if the word of freedom from the shackles of superstition and

44. Kitab-i-Iqan or The Book of Certitude, revealed by Baha’u’llah, Baha’i Publishing Trust, UK
45. Some Answered Questions, Abdu’l-Baha, Baha’i Publishing Trust, Wilmette, Illinois

ignorance was not pronounced by the Báb loud and clear, the fate of the noble
people of Iran would have been taken to a total annihilation. His timely call
revolutionized the whole country and the region. People who were begging their
Lord to put an end to atrocities of the government, clergy, and their own misery
they were enduring, took the call of the Bab as the answer to their prayers. Many
thousands wholeheartedly came forward, accepted the new Message, and freed
themselves from the yoke of the Shi’ite clergy and corrupt government, and over
twenty thousand believers sacrificed their lives in the path of the new message.

Soon the Báb was arrested, imprisoned, and exiled to the remotest corners of
Iran. Only six years after proclaiming His message, the Dawn of a New Day,
promising soon of the coming of the Father, the promised Lord, He was put to
death and severe persecution against His followers intensified; rivers of blood
were flowed in almost all the regions of Iran and the challenged clergy struggled
not lose its reign of power, called to an uprising against the message of the Bab.
But the new Message had already caused a deep chasm among the clergy, which
initiated slowly their downfall from which they never recovered their full trust, even
by force. Everywhere the people lost their faith in them. Clergy were doomed,
never to regain their power in the New World, in the New Civilization, except by
force to keep imprisoning the minds of the people. Nevertheless, clergy became
thing of the past pertaining to the dark ages.

The Bab and His youthful companion, Anis were put to death by a regiment of
750 soldiers and their mingled bodies were kept hidden for fifty years, changing
places many times - from mosques to villages to cemeteries to houses of
believers, until they were finally transported with great pain and care to the Holy
Land, Haifa, Palestine in 1899. The Persians lost forever the opportunity of
hosting the Messenger of God in their own land, a resting place for the Lord of
the Age46, Whom they had invoked for so long and implored God to send Him
soon to lead their way to the freedom they sought.

The persecution of the Bábís after the martyrdom of the young Prophet, the
Báb 47. intensified, repeating the history again, all the disciples and the prominent
followers were arrested and put to death. Fear of the New Religion was so
intense that even spelling any word relating to it was tantamount to losing one’s
life, one’s family and all his possessions. The clergy and the hostile mob were
everywhere backed by the power of the corrupt governors, and anyone known
as Bábí, would atrociously put to death. Killing of the Bábís was considered
receiving a high reward both in this world and in the next. This order instigated
the mob to track innocent people to kill them and plunder their possessions, so
they could also claim their reward from the government or the clergy and be
assured of a high place in the heaven.

46. Sahibu’zaman, the Lord of the Age, the Twelfth Imam, the Promised One.
47. As it is to some degrees in this present time, under the Islamic Republic of Iran.


After a few Bábís tried to avenge the Báb by attempting to kill the Shah,
Nasirid-Din of Qájár – the King of Iran – the real perpetrator, the only remaining
prominent Bábí, Mírzá Husayn-Ali, later titled Baha’u’llah, son of a prominent
minister at the court of Fath-Ali Shah48, was arrested, put in underground filthy
dungeon 49 and after four months together with His family became exiled to
Baghdad.

While imprisoned in an atrocious underground dungeon in Tehrán, Baha’u’llah
perceived the first Divine intimations. Those Bábís chained next to Him could
clearly feel the change in Him while listening to His melodious, divine utterances.
Four months later He was freed from the dungeon to be exiled together with His
family to Baghdad, Iraq, the neighboring country under the Ottoman rule. In the
middle of a severe winter, they left Iran forever - never to see it again. He was
36.

The end of His ten years’ stay in Baghdad is marked by His open Declaration
to His companions that He is the Promised One of all ages, the Universal
Manifestation of God, He was the Glory of God50, the Shah-Bahram51, the Fifth

48. Nasirid-Din Shah’s father
49. Called Siyah-chal or black pit. July-September 1853
50. Christ in the Glory of the Father, the Promised One for the Christianity
51. The expected Promised One for the Zoroastrian Faith

Buddha52 , The Lord of the Hosts53 , the Tenth Avatar54 , the Reviving Spiritual
Power of the whole of humanity. Soon His fame in Baghdad had reached all the
corners of Iraq that alerted the Islamic clergy again both in Iraq and in Persia.
Thousands of believers, who had been in hiding after the waves of persecutions,
came to see Him to pay their respect and their allegiance to Him.

The annoyed clergy sought advice from the Shah, urging him to either ask the
Ottoman Sultan ‘Abdu’l-Aziz to send Baha’u’llah back to Iran to put Him to death,
or exile Him even farther from the borders of Iran. Complying with the second
alternative, Baha’u’llah was banished to the seat of the Court, Constantinople55.
He arrived there in 16 August 1863 and only after few months, on first of
December 1963, He again was exiled, this time to the farthest European section
of the territory, the town of Adrianople 56 , in the vicinity of Bulgaria, where
Baha’u’llah remained until August 1868 in exile together with His family.

Edirne is the place where Baha’u’llah addressed the kings and prominent
rulers of the world of His time, each one addressed with a mighty Tablet (Letter),
revealed in their names, inviting them to investigate this New Revelation, to
become united for the sake of humanity and to root out their differences once
and for; not to waste their most precious possessions, which are their people, but
to strive for their advancement and care for their wellbeing. They should leave
behind all blind religious, racial and patriotic prejudices, and promote the unity of
mankind57.

Even this period was not free from severe tests. Baha’u’llah was becoming the
point of attraction to all. His dignity, His words and exhortations were having a
great influence upon the people of Edirne high and low. The host government
decided to exile the Community even farther. Baha’u’llah and His companions
were sent to the foul dungeon of Acre58. The arrival of Baha’u’llah in the Holy
Land occurred on the 31st of August 1868 when He first touched the shores of
Haifa.

This is how Baha’u’llah, the Founder of the New Faith, reached to the remote
city of ‘Akká, fulfilling the ancient prophecies about the importance of this
desolate place. He had proclaimed His Message in Baghdad in 1863. He
proclaimed again His mission while in Adrianople to the Kings and the Rulers of
His time, Kaiser Wilhelm of Prussia, Franz Joseph of Austria, Queen Victoria of

52. The expected Promised One for the Buddhist Faith
53. Messiah or the Lord of the Hosts for the Jewish Faith
54. The Tenth Avatar, as promised by the Hindu Faith
55. Constantinople later was called Islambul – the abode of Islam, and finally to Istanbul.
56. Adrianople, later Edirne
57. See ‘The Summons of the Lord of Hosts’, Baha’i World Centre, 2002
58. The fortified and ruined city of Acre or Akka, Palestine. Its barracks were used to imprison the most
criminal people of the Ottoman Empire.

Great Britain, Tsar Alexander II of Russia, Napoleon III of France, the Pope Pius
IX head of the Church of Christianity and other religious leaders, as well as to the
Kings and the leaders of America, telling all Who He was. Later, from His prison
cell in ‘Akká He continued writing tablets to kings and rulers.

CHAPTER II

The Württembergers –
The First Generation

Set your mind on God’s kingdom and His
justice before everything else59.

Their aim was to build the Temple of God
on earth, not so much a building made of wood
and stone, no, they wished to be a holy people,
in whom God Himself would dwell according to
the words of the Apostle, don’t you know, that
you yourselves are God’s temple and that
God’s Spirit lives in you?
These people were well aware of the
promises of the Old Testament, but claimed for
themselves, as God’s people, some of the
things promised to Israel as a nation…60

This chapter deals with the Movement of the Templers, who, like many other
Messianic groups, were expecting the coming of Messiah in mid-1800.

It is interesting to note that although Christoph Hoffmann, the founder of the
mentioned movement, did not set a specific date for the establishment of the
Kingdom of God but he did believe that it would be established in 1826.  Yet,
Georg David Hardegg, the co-founder of the movement, explicitly indicated the
date as 1861, that the millennium reign would start in 1869.  However, these
dates never became a dogma of the movement61, Only a few years later Hardegg
received a Tablet from Baha’u’llah, in answer to his questions he put to Him, as
who He claims to be62.

Eighty years of laboring in the Holy Land in different capacities by three
generations of highly dedicated and determined people, who strove to develop a
neglected and abandoned land to a high standard, elicits the admiration to all
who appreciated the results of this excellent achievement. The outstanding
talents of these industrious people established a solid foundation on which the
Jews could build their own country. There was a vision and goal to achieve. In
the annals of history, an enviable memory of this hard-working religious group
has remained, which is inseparable from what the Country of Israel is standing
for today. This is the story of a group of Württembergers from Southern Germany
who initiated a movement, which is generally known as The German Templers63.

59. Motto of the Templers, See: Memories of Palestine, p.38
60. Nelly Schumacher, see: When it Rains out of a Blue Sky, p. 8
61. Benjamin Zev Kedar paper “From Religious Messianic to Political Messianic”, Chronicle of Utopia, p. 22.
62. See Annex 1
63. German Temple Society - not to be mistaken for the Knights Templar, a Crusader Order of the 11th
century who wanted to liberate Jerusalem from the infidels. Templers aimed to rebuild the Temple in
Jerusalem.

Their basic concern was the “return of the people to the code of ethics of the
Mosaic law” which would pave the way for the coming of the Messiah.  Unless
and until the ‘rebirth’ of social life did not happen, going to the Promised Land to
Jerusalem to rebuild the Temple, was not possible 64 .  There was a strong
confrontation by the Lutheran State Church, which ultimately expelled the group
from church membership. Sauer writes in his monumental book:

“…Hoffmann could not and would not be silent of these ‘life-and-death
questions, he would, as he declared in the “Warte”65, continue the struggle he
had been entrusted with by God’s will, until a fundamental inward transformation
of man within the meaning of the Bible had been achieved.”66

Hoffmann was convinced that, in Sauer’s words: “The present Muslim
inhabitants, they thought, were incapable of bringing Palestine back on her feet.
Islam, so they judged, was to blame for the present disastrous state of the
country”67.

The founder of the German Templers, Christoph Hoffmann, records in his
book, 68  “Because the Jews rejected Christ, they are not considered as the
Chosen People of God anymore, therefore, they are not to develop Jerusalem
and the Holy Land in general”, he felt that: “This important task is now being given
to the Templers, believing that the German Templers are the ‘Chosen People’ and
the onus is on them to fulfill the prophecy.

Which authority took away the title from the Jews and who gave it to the
German Templers? He was determined that God had given this mandate to this
pious group and transferred them from Germany to the Holy Land to perform this
highly important task.

During his exploratory visit to Jerusalem, via Jaffa in February 1858, Hoffmann
together with Hardegg and Bubeck, observed the physical and spiritual condition
of the Holy City of Jerusalem, found it deplorable and in urgent need of attention.
This could only be achieved by a group of dedicated Christians, who would care
to value the importance of the ‘Capital of the World’. The trip to the Holy Land
determined that he and his followers should prepare themselves spiritually for the
trip, as they were heading for a desolate land in which they would need to work
hard to materialize the will of God. For this reason, on his return, he urged the
farmers, and craftsmen to play a leading role, to till the land and produce food, to
build roads and houses and later settlers with other professions would follow.

64. Baha’u’llah clearly mentions in the Tablet of Hirtik, addressing the questions of Mr. Hardegg that in fact
it is He Who will rebuild the Temple. Annex II
65. Timeline of the Temple Society – Tempelgessellschaft in Germany
66. The Holy Land Called, p.31
67. Ibid. p. 33
68. “Orient and Occident” in 1870

Yehiel Mikhel Pines writes: “…among them are architects, some of whom are
artists; craftsmen working in stone, wood and iron, some of whom established
steam mills, others who earn their living as tutors…”69

If this vision and the love for development of the Holy Land, the land of Jesus
and the Holy City had not been in their hearts, what other prime motive could
have been so strong as to initiate an exodus of hundreds of already established
people and move to a desolate land?

In the 19th century many Messianic groups around the world were expecting
the Second Coming of Christ to happen soon. In this prediction the place where
it would happen was not clear, to some, expected be in Jerusalem, the City of
God, the Holy City, the Quds.

Johann Albrecht Bengel70, predicted the date of 1836 A.D. for the coming of
the Messiah.

Yaron Perry wrote in his paper entitled “The Templer Settlement in the
HolyLand 1868 – 1948” 71  …” many, including Hoffmann, being himself a
Württembergian Pietist, continued to uphold the idea of ‘gathering the people of
God in Jerusalem’ in the fervent belief that the Christian Messiah would come to
life in the Holy Land and the new millennium was approaching”72.

The predicted year came and passed and there was no sign of the ‘Coming of
the Son of Man on the Clouds’, nothing was seen or heard. Yet, Hoffmann was
convinced that this would happen sooner or later, therefore, people should be
ready, world should be ready. As the Second Coming of Christ could happen
anywhere in the world, and anytime, there was no reason why it would not be the
Quds, Jerusalem, the heart of the Holy Land, the land of the Prophets. He
proposed a spiritual preparation, or in his words, ‘Building the Temple’ in
Jerusalem. To receive Christ, both the human Temple as well as God’s Temple
should be ready. Then, the goal was set, it was Jerusalem, the Holy City
mentioned in the Bible many times.

“The basic religious outlook of the followers of the Templers’ movement was
to gather together a new Christian community – God’s People – in the Holy Land
that would live by original Christian ethics and create a reformed society…The
‘Temple’ in the Society’s name did not refer to the worldly Temple to be rebuilt in
Jerusalem, but to every person who was seen as a temple inhabited by the Spirit
of God…the vision was based on the verse: “Know ye not that ye are a temple of

69. Chronicle of a Utopia, p.7
70. Lutheran pietist from Württemberg, Germany 1687 – 1752
71. Chronicle of Utopia, p.26
72. Ibid, p.33

God, and that the Spirit of God dwelleth in you?”73,74.

The third important co-founder of the Temple Society was Christopher Paulus,
who was a brother-in-law of Hoffmann. In Paulus’s publication “Insight into the
Prophecies of St. John’s Revelation”, Sauer expands:

“Paulus made calculations predicting the appearance of the Antichrist and the
Second Coming of Christ. Although Hardegg considered the exact timing of the
apocalyptical events inessential, he arrived at similar conclusions as far as the
analysis of the spiritual, political, social, and economic conditions of Europe was
concerned. Hoffmann concerned himself much less with such speculations. The
recognition that the present time was one of regeneration, which prepared the
coming of the Antichrist, sufficed him and, therefore, made the bringing together
of God’s people an urgent necessity.”75

Professor Yossi Ben-Artzi of the University of Haifa, who wrote many research
papers on the Templers wrote:

“…Hoffman and his followers sought to right the social and spiritual ills that
corrupted society and the established Church in Germany. They hoped to
accomplish this by returning to the simplicity of the faith of the Original
Christianity, believing that the Millennium was at hand and that fulfillment of the
biblical prophecy of the Messiah’s coming was imminent. Hoffman’s group made
the prophets’ vision of rebuilding Jerusalem a cornerstone of its doctrine… The
rebuilding of “Jerusalem” was the article of faith underlying the Templers’ ambition
to come together in the City of God. Therefore, the Friends of Jerusalem, as they
were called, set up a program, according to which ‘God’s People’76 would gather
in Palestine where, through the purity and perfection of their actions – conducted
in the spirit of the First Christians – they would serve as an example to the world
and raise up the people of the Land from corruption to prepare for the Second
Coming and to build the Temple in Jerusalem. (It is from the desire to fulfill this
last aspiration that the group later took the name of Templers, by which they are
now generally known)." 77

Benjamin Zev Kedar on the same topic wrote:
“The idea of convening the people of God receives another boost from the
growing interest in Palestine, following the events in Bethlehem that served as

73. Sara Turel: Chronicle of a Utopia, p. 7
74. Corinthians 3:16
75. Ibid, p.34
76. ‘das Volk Gottes’
77. “The Case of The German Templers in Eretz-Israel, from Ideology and Landscape in Historical
Perspective
[Note: The Friends of Jerusalem officially called themselves Templers from 1861 onwards; they never
meant “the temple in Jerusalem” to be anything but a spiritual Temple. See 1Cor3:16; Eph2:19-22; 1
Peter2:5].

the pretext for the Crimean War. Up until now, Hoffmann has argued that the
people of God must convene “somewhere on Earth”; the events in the East
proved him with a sign…that the people of God must gather in Palestine, in
Jerusalem. The same conclusion, after all, is suggested by the literal
understanding of the prophecy that Hoffmann now embraces. Both introspection
and external events now point in the same direction, towards Jerusalem; and this
conjunction if inner and outer occurrences will fill Hoffmann with absolute faith
that he has chosen rightly”.78

And again:
“The people of God, however, does not yet exist; it must be convened, and
soon. The gathering must be territorial in nature, for a person cannot be cleansed
and purified while living under the influence of a sinful society, and the territory
must be Palestine, because the Scriptures have determined so, and also
because the people of God can only emerge on the land of its ancestors,
surrounded by material evidence of the divine acts. Palestine is the eternal
province of God’s people, but the people has yet to gather, and its rightful terrain
is not yet available”.79

In his analysis Kedar continues:
“…Hoffmann differs from Bengel in two important ways, First, unlike Bengel,
he does not fix a date for the arrival of the Kingdom of Heaven, although he
believes that the world is indeed facing pre-messianic tribulations. Second,
Hoffmann believes that gathering God’s people and establishing the Kingdom of
Heaven on earth is within man’s reach…”80


TEMPLERS ARRIVAL TO HAIFA
Gottlieb Samuel Ruff, one of the old Templers in his memoirs writes about how
the group came to Haifa:
“In Galilee, on the southern reaches of the Plain of Akko (Zebulon) at the foot
of Mt. Carmel lay a small, walled-in Oriental town named Hepha (Caifa), later
Haifa, which led a wretched existence in the shadow of the ancient fortress of
Akko (Acre), a garrison city and a Pasha’s seat of government across the bay.

“East of the town of Haifa, the two founders of the Temple Society, Georg David
Hardegg and Christoph Hoffman with their families -ten adults and three children-
set foot on the soil of the Holy Land – Palestine – in the evening of 30 October
1868. They had to spend the night on the open beach with their luggage because
the city gates had already been closed. The next day they found shelter in the
Russian Hospice (hostel). They were welcomed by Mr. J.C. Breisch, who had

78. Chronicle of a Utopia, pp 17-18, quoted From: Religious Messianism to Political Messianism – paper.
79. Ibid.
80. Ibid, p. 19

travelled ahead of them, and by the surviving settlers Bez, Heuschele and
Hessenauer 81 . Led by Ludwig Hipp and the four mission cadets Eppinger,
Heuschele, Hochstetter and Sonderecker, they had tried in 1865 to establish an
agricultural settlement in two dilapidated former native villages near Nazareth…
Due to the unaccustomed climate and primitive living conditions, thirteen of the
nineteen adults had died in quick succession within three years, which forced
them to abandon their settlement project.

“Despite this failed first attempt at settlement that claimed such a heavy toll of
life and property, the two Templer leaders decided to proceed with the work they
had begun. In the middle of the narrow coastal plain, vacant and untilled, of 1km
width but rapidly widening between the town of Haifa and the north-western
corner of Mt. Carmel and extending to the west for about 5km, a piece of land -
15 Morgen82 was acquired and subdivided according to a plan by Hardegg into
12 lots of 1-1/4 Wurttemberg Morgen each83 . Since real estate could not be
registered in the names of foreign nationals under Turkish law, the name of a
friendly native was put forward as the owner of the land.

“On 23 September 1869, a year after the two leaders arrived, the foundation
stone for the first building of the first Templers settlement was laid near Caifa with
appropriate religious solemnity and in the presence of the members of the Temple
Society, the Prussian Vice-Consul Ziphos84 from Acre, several officials and some
Arab friends…

“The successive groups of Templers left Wurttemberg through Trieste and
navigated towards Egypt through Mediterranean Sea towards Haifa.

“Also in 1869, four more groups of Templer emigrants left for Palestine. The
first of sixteen persons, was under the leadership of Mr. Breisch, who had made
the trip once before…

“The second group, under the leadership of Mr. Stecher, an Elder, also
consisted of 16 persons, who departed on 6 September.

“The third group, coming from America, included the engineer Jakob
Schumacher, the builders Carl Ohldorf and O. Gemmer, they were joined in
Stuttgart by several Wurttemberg tradesmen including Wilhelm Gohl,
winegrower, and road maker -cobblestone layer- and others. They left Stuttgart
on 11 October.


81. Of the failed settlement of Samuniyeh and Chnefiss
82. German land measurement unit between 2 to 10 metric dunums
83. One morgen approximately 3000m2
84. A Greek national

“The fourth and last group of that year left Stuttgart on 22 November 1869…

“Two decades had passed since the two leaders Hardegg and Hoffmann had
set foot on the soil of Palestine. The once deserted coastal plain from settlement
to its limits at the northwest edge of the mountain had been transformed into a
cultivated grain growing area. The slopes of Mt. Carmel as well as the plain on
its summit had been transformed from scrubby forest into one large vineyard.

“Of the six larger and five smaller Templers settlements85, Haifa was the first
and the largest, and also the best placed from a developmental (economic), as
well as from a health (climatic) point of view…”86


Return of the Jews to the Holy Land
“…Israel, scattered all over the world, was not reassembled in the Holy Land
in the Christian Cycle; but in the beginning of the cycle of Baha’u’llah this divine
promise, as is clearly stated in all the books of The Prophets, has begun to
become manifest. You can see that from all parts of the world tribes of Jews are
coming to the Holy Land; they live in villages and lands which they make their
own, and day by day they are increasing to such an extent that all Palestine
become their home”87.

At the same time when the movement of the Templers was shaping up, a
parallel Jewish movement was also taking place in Europe to bring the Jews back
to their ancestral and Promised land, and that would have happened when the
Messiah was already in the Holy Land.  After all, they believed it had been their
land, and they were the ‘chosen people of God’ promised in the Bible. Prior to
the coming of the Jews to the Holy Land, both Baha’u’llah and Abdu’l-Bahá, had
predicted the coming of the Jews, as referred prophecies of the Bible: “For you
[Israel] a people holy to the Lord your God. The Lord your God has chosen you
out of all peoples on the face of the earth to be His people, His treasured
possession”88.

Could the Jews have come the Holy Land prior to the German Templers? Not
according to the divine decree. It required a hardworking, mono-cultured people
with exceeding love for a promised land to come and help to develop it, cultivate
it, make it productive and build on it. Later on Jews would come, as they did,
came to learn and to continue. But now, not a mono-cultured people came, but
people from every nationality and background, i.e., multi-cultured with zeal and
enthusiasm, considering it as their holy land, believing that they are those who

85. The latter refer to what could be termed footholds in towns such as Nazareth and Tiberius
86. Recollection of an old Templer, The Ruffs in Haifa – by: Gottlieb Samuel Ruff – Templer Record
Supplement No.4, June 2009, TSA, Heritage Group, pp. 1- 2
87. Abdu’l-Baha: Some Answered Questions, p. 75
88. Deuteronomy 7:6

are been promised by the Bible. Therefore, the role of the German Templers was
to show them how and what to do anywhere in the Holy Land throughout. The
German Templers employed many Jews in their farms, in all their seven
establishments89. And the Jews, who were acquiring land in different parts of Holy
Land, knew well, that sooner or later the onus of developing their land would be
on them. They were yearning to touch the Land they were forced out over two
millennium. All along “Next Year in Jerusalem” was their farewell and motif.

The second generation of the German Templers was observing how fast the
Jews were arriving in the Holy Land, but this did not alarm them. They continued
their development work, as they had a duty to fulfill. They trained both Jews and
local inhabitants. Jews had a divine mission - that is why they had to learn fast
and work hard to develop the land which was holy to them.


The Land and Conflicts
The Holy Land has played an interesting role throughout history. It had been
conquered by many nations: Babylonians, Persians, Greeks, Romans,
Egyptians, Turks, and others.  When the first generation of Templers arrived, it
was in the hand of the Turks, whose Sultan had banished Baha’u’llah to ‘Akká.
Turks were not interested in this specific land per se. Strategically it was a
buffer zone; it was important to maintain it because of the Mediterranean
Commerce, as well as keeping the Egyptians at bay. Skirmishes always
happened between the two nations.

Just prior to Baha’u’llah’s exile to ‘Akká, Ibrahim Pasha of Egypt conquered
‘Akká, the gateway to Palestine, and exiled ‘Abdu’lláh Pasha, the Ottoman
Governor of Palestine to Egypt. That was in 1831 A.D. After only nine years, the
combined forces of Austria and France came by sea to the rescue of the Turks
and overthrew their Egyptian governor Ibrahim Pasha. But this time, although
‘Akká and consequently Palestine was again in the hands of the Turks, the
fortified city remained severely destroyed and abandoned, in such a way that
‘Akká became in the words of Baha’u’llah, ‘the most desolate land’. The war had
destroyed it. The war had decimated its population. That seat of governors was
converted into a hip of rubbles. The Turkish government lost all interest in
developing it again. Instead, it was used to keep their most dangerous prisoners
within its fortified walls, the Al-Jazzar and Abdu’llah Pasha’s palace walls
surrounded by a deep moat now used as a dungeon to house Baha’u’llah for over
two years in its barracks, and remained as such even during the British control
until after the WWII when the Jews of the land, slowly started to bring it out of its
ashes again.


89. Haifa & Jaffa (both in 1869), Sarona (1871), in Rephaim, outskirts of Jerusalem (1873), in Wilhelma
(1902), in Bethlehem of Galilee (1906) and in Waldheim (1907)

The Württembergers, prior to their arrival to Holy Land, stopped over in
Istanbul to negotiate some land to be acquired for their settlements with the
Ottoman government. Their six months’ waiting, however, did not bring much
result and they were told to negotiate the land with the inhabitants of the towns
where they would be settling. James Huber90, who knew the Württembergers
back from Germany, was familiar with the group.  Although he himself was
residing in Nazareth, he wrote to Hoffmann that their best chance of getting land
would be in Haifa and urged them to come to the Holy Land through the town of
‘Akká to Haifa and not via Jaffa91.  Although Jaffa had a port with a wharf for small
vessels to dock and was the gateway to the Holy City of Jerusalem, but the sea
was often very rough. The German Templers accepted Huber’s suggestion and
docked in Haifa via Akka.

Could the coming of the German Templers to Haifa have happened prior to the
coming of Baha’u’llah to Haifa? It is a matter of belief of course to answer to this
valid question, which only the history can respond, and that, only after the
fulfillment of the fact. Therefore, the suggested answer is no, it could not have
happened, thus, as there needed to be a Divine reason for the fulfillment of a
prophecy, a divine promise. The mere stopover of the German Templers in
Istanbul to negotiate for a piece of land, had changed their original plan of coming
to the Holy Land through the sea gate of Jaffa and establish themselves there
and their way to Jerusalem would have been easier.  Then, what about Mount
Carmel and its meeting with its Lord? What about the establishment of the future
Throne of the Lord over it? What about the Sea-Land-Mountain Highway from
the Haifa Bay to Mount Carmel? And the establishment of the Seat of the Divine
World Order, how would these happen? The chain links are all divinely put
together and each one is connected to the next without any alteration, people
only become instruments for the fulfillment of the prophecy. The German
Templers had a divine mission to fulfill even though they were not aware of it. It
was the reason of their movement and had to be fulfilled thus.

Of course, at the time no one could have imagined for what purpose each
group was forming itself, yet, after a while it all become quite clear. The Turks
were confident of their possession of Palestine, yet they lost it to the British. Was
there any divine reason for it? Of course, otherwise the prophecies would not
have happened. Once the German Templers had fulfilled their mission, they had
to evacuate the land, although they had never thought of leaving Palestine
voluntarily. They loved the Land; they had worked hard to developed it; they
accepted it was their own dear home.

Yet, obliviously, the group had to side with the politics of the day in Germany

90. A Christian missionary from the Church Missionary Society of Germany
91. Jaffa's port was not a deep-water port, the ships had to anchor outside of the port and the passengers
and lading had to be brought over by small boats.

who were at war with the British and were exterminating the Jews all over in
Europe. The Jews were already shaping their land and could not tolerate those
who were persecuting them in the land spared for them. They forced the
Germans out with the determination of never having them back again in their
adoptive land and took over their settlements 92 . By that time, the German
Templers had already fulfilled their divinely ordained mission, i.e., responding to
the Divine Call, building the Kings’ Highway93, -the Carmel Avenue94- where it
would lead to the spot where the Temple of God was being built, but not by them.
They were initiating the foundations for the development of the Holy Land.

The second generation were not at all like those first-generation Templers who
had come to build the ‘Temple’ and seek for Christ in person, instead, they
became industrialists and landowners, contractors both with the British, now
governors of Palestine and with the French in neighboring countries, as well as
engaging in other enterprises. They declared that the original goal of the Founder
of the Mission, Hoffmann, was not achievable, therefore, building the ‘Temple’
was no longer a priority. The younger generation was not at all interested in the
original religious ideology, which had been the prime mover of their forefathers.
Hofmann/Hardegg were divinely guided to settle in the Holy Land - could their
arrival to Haifa have been for any other purpose than was becoming evident? By
then, the land for the Temple of God was already visited by Baha’u’llah Himself
and identified by Him and Abdu’l-Baha, His Centre of Covenant, Who was already
building the foundations of that Holy Temple, where the Most Holy Remains of
the Prophet of God, the Bab95, martyred in Iran in 1850, was on its way to be
settled in the heart of Mount Carmel, above the colony of the Germans,
overlooking the city of Haifa.

The German Templers were systematically evicted from the Holy Land in
different stages between the years 1930 to 1948 due to the reason mentioned
earlier, when the embryonic State of Israel was being formed and eventually
created in 1948. The British gave the Templers the choice of going back to
Germany, although some were exchanged for the imprisoned Jews, or exiled to,
Australia. The majority preferred to be resettled in a new country rather than
going back to Germany, which the gap of separation of generations was already
wide, and they were going to be alien in the Country of their ancestors and also
Germany, was totally devastated after WWII and there was no prospect for them
anymore anyway.


92. In a later stage the government of Israel paid USD 13 million to the TSA as the price of their settlements.
93. It is an allusion to the saying of Abdu’l-Baha that in future Kings will dock their ship at the Haifa Bay and
walk through to the foot of the Mt. Carmel, there taking their crown down and climb the steps to the Temple
of the Lord, the Shrine of the Bab.
94. Today, Ben Gurion Ave.
95. Prophet martyr, the forerunner of Baha’u’llah, who was shot by the government of Iran in July 1850 in
Tabriz, Iran. His remains were transported with difficulty to Haifa in 1899.

Once in Australia, they were not allowed to build settlements for themselves
anymore as they had done in Palestine. The period of building settlements was
over, and there was no purpose or goal to pursue such an idea in a foreign land.
They had to integrate in the Australian society and soon become citizens of the
host country. Today, the new generation identifies itself more as Australians than
Germans, and most of them have forgotten their forefathers’ faith’s philosophy
altogether and not even practicing the language of their forefathers. Yes, they are
Templers, they are faithful citizens, quite pious Christians, but there is no goal for
them to fulfill anymore. They have become part of the Free Christian Society with
no special goal or aim to achieve, except being good Christians, which they
already are.

The below statement was worded by Peter Lange, once president of the
Society:
“…we are not content with our spiritual life which has lost so much of its
intensity compared with the Templers founding generation. The secular life which
most of us are living must have more spiritual value in the future. This is a
common goal with many Christians of other denominations. In the days of our
Palestine settlements, our Templers’ schools had been responsible for exercising
this spiritual life among young Templers. In our days we are aiming to achieve
this goal by divine services, seminar work, confirmation classes in our
communities in Germany and in Australia. We experience that many young
people are looking for circles in which they can find this spirituality.”96

Defeated?
Here are the sighs of a second-generation Templer who loved the land of the
of the forefathers’ choice, i.e., the Holy Land, but were deprived of having it. The
glow of the spirit, once vibrant had dimmed their common desire:

“Palestine, the land of my choice, and the newly formed State of Israel had
ruthlessly and mercilessly thrown us out, along with all other German
residents…Now I stand at the threshold of my life, cheerfully ready to step on to
the bridge that leads from time to eternity, and ready to leave the world with its
“bliss and grief”. I am ready to return that which is immortal within me, my Divine
heritage, the talent that had been entrusted to me, to the One from Who it came
and Who owned it during my time on earth and Who will own it in eternity. I am
ready to give my body over to decay in God’s acre, in the plot of peace where
parents and siblings have found their last resting place before me, my body,
which was only the shell and mortal frame for the real, true, immortal and Divine
Self within me”97.

The Jews, on the other hand, as promised in the Bible, the ‘Chosen People’,

96. Peter Lange to the writer, dated June 2011
97. Gotthilf Hornung, Memories of Palestine, - An old Templer reminisces, p. 36.

claimed their land and are fully in charge of developing it. It was a Divine promise
that had to be fulfilled. Every stumbling block would be smoothened before the
Divine decree98.

Of the seven German Templers settlements, only one prominent name has
survived. The German Colony in Haifa, which as some believe is one of the most
beautiful spots on earth. The industrious Germans were led by Georg David
Hardegg, co-Founder of the movement, who was the first leader of the Templers
in Haifa had personally surveyed the acquired land in 1869, walked over Mount
Carmel for days, praying for divine guidance, an inspiration.

Coincidentally he was facing ‘Akká, where Baha’u’llah was already in prison,
when he conceived the idea of connecting the main road from the Mountain to
the Sea, where he would have the vineyard at the heart of the Mountain, the
factories next to the Sea, and the land in between to be developed for residential,
commercial, and educational purposes. He was building the Kings’ Highway,
where in future, as Abdu’l-Baha worded, the Kings would dock at the shore, walk
along the Highway towards the Mountain, put their crowns to one side and climb
the steps of the Terraces towards the Shrine of the Bab, the Temple of the Lord,
the Shkinah, as it had been prophesied.  Here the luminous remains of the Bab
are deposited in the heart of Carmel, as the Shkinah in the Sarcophagus of the
Covenant.  Some divine prophecies have been fulfilled, while other prophecies
still to be fulfilled.
For each step to be fulfilled and achieve the goal, an intervention of a person
or a group is required, nothing else remains after its accomplishment, only good

98. Bible prophecy. Footnote 87

memoirs, as what would remain from a tree seed in the soil after it is planted, is
the roots, holding the divine Lot Tree of the Divine Covenant. it will grow roots
and stems and continue to develop to its natural form!

Encounter of the two groups
Hardegg had heard of Baha’u’llah and His claim through the Persian Baha’is
who came to visit their Lord in ‘Akká prison and settled in Haifa for a period,
serving the Cause in any capacity they could. Hardegg became interested in
meeting Baha’u’llah and wrote a letter asking Him about His claim. He received
a mighty Tablet from Baha’u’llah that was loud and clear in answer to his
questions saying Who He was.  Baha’u’llah exhorted him to study the Message
thoroughly, and not to miss the opportunity of knowing his Lord as it had
happened to the Jews in the time of Jesus. Though of his high regards,
unfortunately he could not understand the true meaning of the wordings of Tablet,
written in Arabic, which he received in a poor translation by the already mentioned
Christian priest Huber.

In another Tablet to Vargha99, Baha’u’llah wrote an important statement about
the Templers:

“The Community of Prussians (Templers), although declaring that we have
come to this Land to get into His presence, “as it has been recorded in our
Scriptures that the coming of the Lord is near or has already passed”,
nevertheless, they are not aware.
The world is in a stupor…Today sun testifies, sea cries loud, land informs all.
Intoxicating effects of the world has influenced them to an extent that they are
lost in themselves, how much less their awareness of this Lofty Station, and the
knowledge of a station which is the ultimate goal and desire of those who are
close to the Lord…”100

The reader is referred to read the Tablet to Hardegg –Tablet of Hirtik- as the
annexure to this study to see how clearly Baha’u’llah answered his questions, but
of course, one needed to be proficient in intrinsic Arabic language to understand
that mighty Tablet.

Momen101 writes an interesting finding of Professor Alex Carmel, where the
latter finds number of articles, which were appeared Suddeutsche Warte102:

“I can give notice of yet another spiritual phenomenon which can strengthen

99. Ali-Muhammad Varqa was one of His disciples, who together with his 12-year-old son Ruhullah were
killed by a governor in Iran.
100. Tablet to Varqa – Pazhuheshnameh, vol.2, no 1, Autumn 1997, p. 122, provisional translation
101. Moojan Momen, The Babi and Baha’i Religions, 1844-1944, p. 236, GR Pulishers, 1981
102. in the German Templer’s Journal that was the first mention in Schumacher’s letter (q.v.) and was
published in the issue of 29 June 1871 (p. 101)

our belief. This concerns 70 Persians, who have been banished to ‘Akka on
account of their beliefs. Mr. Hardegg has already spent considerable time and
effort trying to discover the actual basis of their belief and had dealings with them
through an interpreter just yesterday. He has found that these people base
themselves on the Holy Scriptures and, like us, are waiting the hour of
Redemption in God’s Kingdom. The home of this movement is the Persian
border-country near Baghdad. The greater part of these Persian friends of the
Bible is still to be found in their homeland. Since the Shah was unable to suppress
the movement, he has taken captive the leaders and sent them into exile ever
further from their homeland until they finally arrived in ‘Akka, where they now live
imprisoned. These people have endured the ordeals and agonies of the first
Christians, have no connections with any European missionary society and have
their simple Bible beliefs untouched by European influence…Could the signs of
the times be clearer? What could more happen to show us what times we are
living in? Let us on the other hand consider recent events in Paris and then no
one will fail to realize that God’s plan is rapidly nearing its completion.”

‘Abbás Effendi, titled Abdu’l-Bahá –the Servant of Baha-, the Son of
Baha’u’llah and Cente of His Covenant, met Hardegg in person in Acre, perhaps
more than once. Hardegg was quite impressed by this young man, then 27 or 28
years of age, of His vast knowledge and His depth in interpreting the Holy
Writings. That is why perhaps Hardegg wrote an article about this movement,
which appeared on the Suddeutsche Warte103. Hardegg’s article was as follows:

“In the town of Haifa by Carmel live a few Persians, who earn their living as
metal and woodworkers. They stand out on account of their sensible and friendly
faces and their Persian dress. They are members of Persian sect, the leader, and
members of which, together with wives, children and servants, to the number of
about 80 souls, are confined by the Ottoman Government to ‘Akka, three hours
from here. An acquaintance sprang up between myself and these Persians in
Haifa and, in the course of our exchanges, I received the impression that these
people, despite all the obscurity of their knowledge, were seeking the truth.
“In order to be more accurately informed, I sought an interview with the leader,
Baha’u’llah, which may be translated as; the Light or the Illuminator of God’104;
his family name is Nuri, formerly large landowners in Persia. The interview took
place on 2 June in ‘Akka with the son of Baha’u’llah, ‘Abbas Effendi, a man of
twenty-seven years, one of the educated inhabitants of ‘Akka acting as
interpreter.
“I opened by saying to ‘Abbas Effendi that if my communication with him would
bring about difficulties with the authorities, I would leave it to his discretion to
discontinue. To this he replied: in Persian there is a saying: beyond black, there

103. Momen, ‘The Babi and Baha’i Religions, 1844 – 1944 (pp. 236-238, quoting: (pp. 113-14) on 20 July
1871“It shows that Hardegg had met ‘Abdu’l-Baha long before the interview at which Huber was present…
104. Baha’u’llah means ‘The Glory of God’

is no other color, i.e. after so much suffering it could hardly become worse.
This then is his story:
“About 23 years ago there appeared in Persia a simple merchant Hadratu’l-
Bab 105  who through the reading of the Holy Scripture of the New and Old
Testament had suddenly shown forth higher enlightenment and gifts, in a most
noticeable way, and was waiting for the coming of the Messiah. He acquired
followers.
The King of Persia, to whose notice this came, summoned him. He answered
him: the King should organize a debate between his wise men and Hadrat. This
took place and the wise men could not refute him. Meanwhile the king had to go
to war and gave the order that Hadrat should be locked in prison.
After the war the king came home and died, his son ascended the throne.
Meanwhile the sect in Persia had grown stronger and the new king, in order to
stop it spreading, had Hadrat put to death. It is said that he prophesied his fate
three days before his death in the presence of some of his disciples. One of these
desired to die with him. Yet in spite of this the sect continued to spread. The king
then ordered a general persecution and extermination in which, in the course of
time 18,000 persons were killed, amongst whom some were tortured to death,
for example, the skin was dissolved from their heads, on which inflammable
material was poured and ignited, or a hole was bored in their chest with a
bayonet, into which a candle was thrust and set light to. Yet all this did nothing to
quench the movement.
Hadratu’l-Bab had designated Baha’u’llah to continue his work.
It happened then that someone attempted to kill the king with a pistol shot.
Since the pistols were loaded only with light shot, the king was not harmed, but
he succeeded in convincing himself that Baha had hired the murderer. When
summoned he explained to the king that this was not the case and that if he or
his people had wished to kill the king, they would have found a better way than
birdshot. The European ambassadors, namely the Russian, intervened in the
case too; Baha was released, but the ambassadors advised him to make his way
under the protection of the Sublime Porte to Baghdad.
This he did; but now the new light began to spread through Baghdad too. That
day Pilate and Herod became friends; the Persian and Turkish Governments
began to co-operate in persecuting the sect. Baha’s possessions in Baghdad
were confiscated too, and he was sent to Constantinople, together with his
followers; there it was thought best to confine him to Adrianople, since Rumelia
or the European part of Turkey offered more certainty against the spreading of
the contagion. But because of their conduct they found friends there too. Now it
was decided to send Baha and his followers to ‘Akka. The European Consuls in
Adrianople offered to prevent this, but Baha explained to them that if they thought
it good to take steps on his behalf, they should do this without his petition and
independently from him, but that he was decided to follow the decree of God.
Thus, he came to ‘Akka.

105. The Bab, Mirza Ali-Muhammad, the forerunner of Baha’u’llah. Hadrat means His holiness.

In Persia the sect is at present left in peace. When I came to Haifa in Nov.
1868, I found the Persians here already.
I hope and expect that the German Kaiser as the successor of Charmelange
and Frederik the Great of Prussia will cause his influence in the East to spread
and make itself felt in favor of justice and freedom of conscience; the Sublime
Porte will, I think, come to realize, if it is of such persuasion, that the new Empire
and its subjects are not hostile to it.”

The above statement shows that the interpreter was not of the caliber to
translate Abdu’l-Baha’s descriptions correctly. But regardless of the translation,
Hardegg found certain truth in the Baha’i message and tried his best to help it.


Schism in Templers Order (Templers and Kirchlers – church goers)
Soon after, in 1874, Hardegg left the Templers Movement, disillusioned with
Hoffmann’s way of thinking. One third of the Templers sided with him while the
other two third remained with Hoffmann, who (1875) took away all the offices
from Hardegg. The basic problem between the two leaders of the Templers was
based on a difference of opinions and more clearly, on the leadership.  Although
Hardegg has been a faithful follower of Hoffmann’s movement - at one time he
had even taken the reign of the Movement into his hands – yet the rift was getting
deeper as time passed. According to Kedar:

“…the crux of Hardegg’s belief was the idea that man had both the ability and
the duty to strive for the acquisition of “spiritual gifts”, i.e., of charismata in the
original sense, which refers to supernatural abilities such as prophesying,
performing miracles and exorcising demons”106.

It is not known at all if Hardegg tried to persuade Hoffmann on the newfound
Faith to be explored, as in that time the relationship between the two leaders was
getting to the lowest point. It is not known either if Hoffmann ever had a chance
to explore the Baha’i doctrine or even to try to get to know his Persian neighbors,
though in his writings there are quite a few statements on peace, love and unity,
resembling Baha’u’llah’s teachings.

Yet, there have been profound disagreement between the two leaders. This
matter had been discussed in length by the Templers themselves, for example
Gottlob David Sandel in an article on Georg David Hardegg107, Revolutionary and
Co-founder of the “German Temple Society” indicates:

“Without doubt a certain obscured rivalry of the leadership of the “Temple” also
played a part here. Hardegg did not afford enough consideration to Hoffmann’s

106. Chronicle of a Utopia
107. Recollection of a Templer

entitlement to authority and priority. The latter made the proposal, which might
well not have been made in full sincerity, that Hardegg should not only carry out
the founding of the settlement in Palestine alone, but also become the spiritual
leader of it, a position for which Hoffmann had been chosen…Hoffmann hints in
his memoirs that Hardegg did not trust him…”

Gottlieb Samuel Ruff also mentions108:
“Hardegg’s exit from the Temple Society also entailed a split in the Haifa
community. According to my research, while 48 recognized Christoph Hoffmann
as president, 12 of almost 60 families sided with Hardegg. After his death in 1879,
theirs became a lost Cause. Lutheran missionaries looked after them now and
then, until the Prussian Jerusalemsverein began to care for them and provided a
Pastor and teacher. Before that, they were forced to continue sending their
children to our Templer school.”

“From 1868 on, Hardegg’s relation with the council of the Templers Society,
and especially with Hoffmann, had increasingly deteriorated. Also, within the
Templers Community of Haifa there was no lack of tensions. The Haifa
Community, without doubt, owed its rapid growth largely to the initiative and
determination of its Head. However, his stubbornness and authoritarian style of
leadership offended many a settler. The council of the Temple Society in
Germany suspected, not without reason that Hardegg endeavored to procure the
top position for his community and to take over the leadership of the Temple
movement. Therefore, when assigning funds, they deliberately placed Haifa at a
disadvantage. The result was a permanent deficit in the finances of the
Community. Another concern was that Haifa was experiencing a separate
development in spiritual-religious aspects. It became imperative that an
agreement between the two Heads of the Temple movement should be reached.
When negotiations were initiated between Hoffmann and representatives of the
Haifa Community, it became apparent that the envisaged joint leadership of the
Temple Communities in Palestine.  This was not possible as long as Hardegg
and Hoffmann disagreed on fundamental religious questions. As Hardegg
refused to submit to Hoffmann’s spiritual authority, he had no other alternative
but to tender his resignation as head of the Templers Community of Haifa. On
31st March 1874, he acted accordingly. At the same time, he resigned his
membership of the Temple Society. A third of the members of the Haifa
Community followed his example.

“Hardegg’s withdrawal from the Temple Society, in which he had been active
for 20 years, was a hard blow to the small Community. However, as Hoffmann
succeeded in establishing his position as spiritual leader unchallenged, the
Community survived the crisis in spite of the grievous loss of so many members.
In the first place, Hoffmann too, had seriously considered resigning from his

108. Recollection of an old Templer, p. 9

offices as Head of the Community and the missionary institutions of Jaffa, since
the establishment of the Palestinian Templer Communities meant that the task
he had taken on the Kirschenharddthof had been accomplished. An
overwhelming vote in his favor, however, had changed his mind. For the time
being, the leadership of the reduced Haifa Templer Community was assumed by
Jacob Schumacher, who had emigrated to Palestine from America. After his
death in 1891, Friedrich Lange, who came from Southern Russia, took over. It is
essentially due to the efforts of these two men that conditions in Haifa gradually
improved and the Community received a fresh impetus.”109

The following additional information on the subject is also confirming:110
“…However, in June 1874 the Temple denomination underwent a schism.
Temple leader Hardegg and about a third of the Templers seceded from the
Temple Society, after personal and substantial quarrels with the other leader
Christoph Hoffmann.
“The schismatics around Hardegg searched to join another Christian
denomination. To this end they addressed the Lutheran Church of Sweden
(1874) and the Anglican Church Missionary Society (1879), but both refused to
take care of the schismatists. In 1878 Hardegg and most of the schismatists
founded the Temple Association (Tempelverein), but after Hardegg’s death in the
following year the cohesion of its adherents faded.”

Miller, et.al111, published in 1963 has researched the revolutionary character
of Hardegg (1812 -1879). It is indicated that even back in Württemberg, as early
as 1867, the two leaders had deep differences, and quotes Hoffmann who
admitted a year later, that Hardegg had broken away from Hoffmann.
Nevertheless, he accompanied him to the Holy Land and became the sole leader
of the movement putting aside Hoffmann as only the spiritual leader of the group.
This is why, as soon as the opportunity arose in 1869, Hoffmann moved to Jaffa
to start a new settlement, far away from Hardegg in Haifa. Hardegg would
undermine Hoffmann and would not recognize him as a leader. The rivalry
between the two for leadership added the last straw to the already deep rift and
made the separation inevitable. Hardegg always adhered to his way of thinking,
and nothing would shake his ideology of ‘gifts of the spirit’, which to him was the
essence of the ‘Temple’. It would descend on them, once the group was gathered
in the Holy Land where it would be the commencement of the Kingdom of God
on earth. Whereas Hoffmann’s idea was to build the Temple, to create the
Kingdom of God on Earth.  Kedar explains the concept of ‘Temple’ thus:

“What is this Temple from which Hoffmann’s movement will derive its name?
It is not a material edifice, but the condition of God dwelling among his people, a
holy people of priests. This people will experience the Kingdom of Heaven on

109. Templer Record Supplement #4, Recollections of an old Templer, TSA Heritage Group, June 2009
110. Wikipedia, Immanuel Church (Tel Aviv-Yafo) , p.2
111. Biographies from Swabia and Franconia, vol. 9,

earth: “We hope,” Hoffmann writes, “for the happiness of a life in paradise, which
will give us the privilege of being forever in God’s immediate presence, while
enjoying the full force of life and all the purity, greatness and glory of which
humans are capable, without ever suffering from any harm.”112

But Hoffmann kept changing his mind from one concept to the next and never
had a clear-cut guiding idea for his group.

At the end, the exhausted active Hardegg was excluded from office, but he
never complained, he busied himself with other things, and watching how his
dreams were only illusions and they never became reality. As a result of a heart
attack on the 9th of July 1879, Hardegg’s earthly life came to an end.  He was 67
years old.  His followers interred him in the Templers’ Cemetery in Haifa with a
simple marble cross on which it says: “Fear God and give glory to Him”.

Gertrude Wassermann-Deininger, a Kirchler – follower of Hardegg - at the
time, mentions that two evangelist missionaries, Blaich and Seitz together with
Hardegg, after severing their ties with the Templers, initiated the founding of the
Reichsbruderbund113
Gottlob David Sandel in his article on the life of Georg David Hardegg, mentions
Hardegg’s involvement in this Evangelical organization114:
“Some friends, especially the former German Consul Friedrich Keller,
surrounded him and formed a group that joined the "Evangelical National
Brotherhood", which had been founded in the meantime by the Templer
"evangelists" Blaich and Seitz, an organization which aspired to similar aims as
the Temple Society and, especially in Germany, admitted ex-members disaffected
with Hoffmann’s leadership.”115
Max Miller, et.al, mention that Hardegg was busy writing and publishing many
essays on religious studies, such as the Wahabites 116  and “an essay was
dedicated to the Persian sect of the Baha’is117 ”. In the late sixties on Mount
Carmel, Hardegg maintained friendly neighborly relations with their leader.”
However, Master Abdu’l-Bahá, whom he met in the late sixties, was in ‘Akká and
not on Mount Carmel. Abdu’l-Bahá could not leave the perimeter of ‘Akká before
1875, only to go to the Ridvan Garden at about two kilometers away from Akka
and later to Mazra’ih, at about eight kilometers –both within the greater Akka
environs- where he secured a more pleasant environment for His beloved Father.

112. Kedar, Chronicle of a Utopia, p 18
113. German Brotherhood.
114. Recollection of an old Templer,
115. Revolutionary and Co-founder of the German Temple Society 1812 – 1879
116. A Sunnie sect of the Saudis.
117. The Persian Sect of the Baha’is and their Refuge in Akko and on Mount Carmel

It is not known if He ever left ‘Akká before this period and went to Haifa. There
should have been more than one meeting between the Master and Hardegg in
‘Akká, otherwise how could they be friends only by one meeting, and how he
could have been the link between Him and the Germans, as Abdu’-Baha
indicates. The article he wrote and published in the Templers’ organ, “Die Warte”,
concerning the Baha’i Faith, was published as early as 29 June 1871, maybe the
very first article that had ever been written in a Western magazine by a non-
Baha’i118.

While Abdu’l-Baha was in Stuttgart back in 1912, in a meeting with the Baha’is
of the city he mentioned the following:


“Among the people who emigrated to Haifa there were many from Stuttgart
and the region around Stuttgart.  The leader or chairman of this colony, Mr.
Hardegg, is a friend of mine.  When I was a prisoner, he visited me.  At that time
I was not allowed to leave ‘Akká.  Mr. Hardegg always showed me a great deal
of love and was the link between the Germans and me. The German colonists
did not have contacts with the local inhabitants; they only associated with Abdul-
Bahá and the Baha’is.  They had a German coachman in charge of transportation
between ‘Akká and Haifa. On each trip he came to see me.  But restrictions for
the prisoners were so severe he was not allowed to speak with me. His superiors
did not permit him to visit me.  So, he would stand in the street opposite the house
in which I lived, looking for me; and when he saw me he smiled and I nodded
back with a smile; this was the extent of our communication. This story shows
you that I am an old friend of the Stuttgarters.  Actually, we are related.  And now
I have come to return your visit. In fact, we are the members of one family.  The
love of Baha’u’llah has united us all”119.

From then on Hardegg’s followers were called ‘Kirchlers’ or Church goers as,
they started to go back to their original Lutheran Church, from which all had
separated almost two decades earlier. Although the Kirchlers remained in the
Holy Land, their associations with the cousin Templers were strained. The rift
between the two groups was deep and it remained thus until they left the Holy
Land altogether.  Hoffmann remained as the Head of the Community until he
passed away in 1885 in Jerusalem where his remains were buried in the Templer
Cemetery. Both leaders passed away before Baha’u’llah.

For the ‘Friends of Jerusalem’ the concept of ‘Temple’ was confusing. Some
believed what Hardegg had intended, namely ‘the spiritual gifts’, while others
looked toward Hoffmann’s idea of ‘Kingdom of Heaven’. Hoffmann, as the leader
of the movement, did not see the ‘spiritual gifts’ in himself.  It was this sole idea
of lacking such powers that encouraged Hardegg to demote Hoffmann from his

118. Momen, Babi and Baha’i Religions, vol.1, p. 236
119. Quotation: - Mein Herz ist bei euch,  Abdul Baha in Deutschland  -by Werner Gollmer, Bahá’í Verlag
1988, pp44-45, translated by Martha Otto.

leadership of the movement, thus bringing the long-standing tensions between
the two leaders to an end.

Yaron Perry, in his paper makes an interesting observation:

“How then did it happen that the “gathering of the people of God” – the
grandiose plan that was to bring salvation to the whole world – was reduced in
the end to only seven colonies in the Holy Land? The causes for their failure are
to be found with the Templers themselves. The most decisive factor in the
conversion of the “grand plan” to a limited colonization endeavor stems from the
gradual weakening of religious fervor exhibited in the second and third
generation. The vision of the founding fathers to bring about a “spiritual temple”
in the Holy Land slowly diminished. Equal weight can be given to the failure of
the Society to bring a “million settlers” to the Holy Land, a goal they set for
themselves already at the end of the fifth decade of the 19th century.
“This was confirmed by Alex Carmel at the conclusion of his pioneering
research on the Temple Society when he quotes the Swiss poet, Hans Brugger,
who spent some years of his youth in the Holy Land. Brugger wrote how he loved
to observe the old Templer leader Hardegg, who towards the end of his life sat
on the balcony of his home gazing at the bay of Haifa: “Hardegg looked towards
the west as if he were seeking to welcome the multitudes of his grazing flock that
were to follow in his path to the Holy Land and it didn’t happen…”120

There are some points in the above quotation worth analyzing about Templers’
expectations in general and Hardegg’s expectations in particular. It is ironic that
Hardegg was looking to the ‘west’, he in fact, might have been looking towards
Acre, where the Lord was in the barracks, where he had already gone to meet
with Him unsuccessfully. Perhaps Hardegg’s expectation was on the defeat he
had experienced, hence Hardegg’s disappointment in his last days.

Danny Goldman, a scholar, and a researcher on the matter of the Templers,
wrote the following on this topic:

“Here is what I think of the question you have presented. It depends on what
basis you evaluate the whole German enterprise in the Holy Land. If you judge it
by the bottom line only, the outcome was that they have disappeared from the
Eretz-Israel arena. This is true. But there are other criteria, by which their
enterprise can be considered a success.
For example: The last settlement attempts by westerners in the Holy Land
before the Templers were the crusaders. This was 700 years before the
Templers, with a lot of backups from their countries and a lot of resources. They
too found themselves being pushed out by the Moslems, in the 13th century. The
town where you live, Acre, was their last foothold, before they disappeared from

120. Chronicle of a Utopia, ‘The Templer Settlement in the Land of Israel’ Yaron Perry

the region to Cyprus and back to Europe. Now consider the Templers, that had
no state support and did it only on their own and succeeded in establishing civil
settlements that prospered. They found themselves being kicked out of the region
because of major forces that were beyond their control.
Also consider the immense contribution that their enterprise has made for the
development of the county: they developed farming, tourism, industry,
architecture and new settlements, something, which was unheard of in Ottoman
Palestine.
So, there you have it, in my assessment we cannot say that the Templer
settlement was a failure, it was indeed tragically ended, by others, and by historic
processes, but the mark that they have left here was profound and is now being
appreciated by most scholars”121.

Writer’s Point of view
From the point of view of a Baha’i, the Templers movement, as a messianic
group, maintains its high position among all other messianic groups, who took
the trouble and leaving everything behind and make an arduous attempt to travel
to the Holy Land. Both leaders, and of course more Hardegg than Hoffmann who,
did not seem to have had any contact or interest in other neighbouring groups,
i.e., the Baha’is, while in Haifa and later on in Jerusalem, to start a serious
contact. However, Hoffmann in his writings, one can see his open-mindedness
and mention of similar trends as in the Baha’i Writings, for example, when
Hoffmann was asked who the People of God were in his estimation, were they
his movement? He answered:

“What we have to consider and discuss is not whether, and how, we might
make a move to the Promised Land but whether, and how, we are able to become
a People of God. For let us not deceive ourselves: “We are not this People yet.
This requires a complete change of our total lives and a rebirth of all that is,
through the power of God’s Word.”122

But it is Hardegg who wrote to Baha’u’llah. He met with the Master Abdu’l-
Bahá; he is the one who envisioned and brought about the Templers Colony in
Haifa where later on Baha’u’llah Himself chose the spot exactly above and in
continuation of the main road of their settlement in 1891 where Hardegg had
traced his main road from the Mountain to the Sea.

On this matter Abdu’l-Bahá in a Tablet to Áqá Mírzá ‘Abdu’l-Husayn Afnán123
writes:

“…The Blessed Beauty124 was in Haifa on many occasions and ordered the

121. Email to the writer, July 2010
122. Orient and Occident, vol. 1
123. One of the early believers and one of the relatives of the Bab, the Prophet fore-runner of Baha’u’llah
124. One of the titles of Baha’u’llah

friends to acquire a piece of land on the slopes of Mt. Carmel of great beauty and
fairness, and He used to express His happiness in that area which is of utmost
beauty and liveliness as one of the best places in this region. Truly a similar place
could not be found in the whole world...”125

Abdu’l-Bahá started moving permanently to Haifa in 1907, although He has
been on and off living in Haifa before the end of the 19th Century in the three
rented houses that He had acquired for His visitors and pilgrims and Himself to
oversee the commencement of the most important undertaking namely, the
building the Shrine of the Bab as envisioned by His Father. Throughout His
remaining life, until 1921, he had very cordial relations with the Templers, visiting
their homes quite frequently and associating with them.  Sometimes he had
refreshments with them, sitting and conversing in their homes. This is also
attested in the memoirs of the Templers who have mentioned this relationship.
The Master did buy some land on Mount of Carmel from them. Eventually, the
Templers had a high regard for the Baha’i Leader. Once the news of the passing
of Abdu’l-Bahá reached them, the entire students of the Templer school rose to
their feet, while the funeral procession was passing by, which had never been
done for any other religious leader by the Templers attested by them.

Despite the philosophical character of the Templers, and although they were
neighbours, they never came to investigate the Baha’is and their claims nor the
Baha’is attempted to teach them. The faith of the first generation was shattered
after the mentioned split and remained so, for the rest of the Templers’ lives. They
were more interested in redeeming their faith, in either of the two groups - the
Templers and the Kirchlers - and adhered to the dictates of their leaders. The
closest they ever came to the Baha’i Faith was Hardegg’s interaction with the
Master and his subsequent letter to Baha’u’llah, the answer he received, but did
not understand much of its contents, as recorded by Baha’u’llah Himself.



125. Rahiq-i-Makhtum, Vol. II, pp. 100/101. Provisional translation

CHAPTER III
The Second-Generation Templers
“You could never have wished for a better
childhood than we had in Haifa, feeling
protected within a very close-knit and caring
community, whom you could depend upon in
times of need. It was a very sheltered, almost
isolated life, but we were introduced to German
customs and traditions at a very early age, and
it was instilled in us that being German meant
you had to behave perfectly at all times,
because if you did something wrong or
behaved badly, people wouldn’t say that a
certain person had done this or that, but they
would put the blame on a German person…”126

The relationship of the Templers with the Baha’is has always been of friendship
and respect. There is a letter from R. Loytved-Hardegg to a certain Nicola, written
from 90491 Nurnberg, Oedenberger Strasse 41, dated 28 February 1996, which
reads:

Dear Nicola,
Omi and I were happy about your and Frederik’s letter, also about the
interesting overview of your professional responsibility and that of those entering
a profession. I am returning the information brochure as well as some
photographs, which a lady sent.
Your request to report what we heard about the Bahais during my youth in
Haifa, especially about their leader (son of the founder) whom we children called
“God of the Persian” and in the Turkish-Arab area he had the name Abbas
Effendi; Effendi in Turkish means ‘Mister’.  Whatever “Abbas” means and in which
language I have forgotten, the same with the original Persian names. The father
of our Persian God had developed a new creed in Persia, very close to the
Christian religion, with a strong emphasis on charity and truthfulness, if I
remember correctly. I give you more details if I knew where my notes are hidden.
If I should find them again occasionally you shall learn about the exact story of
the founder.

Here is now everything I remember precisely: the father of our Persian God,
after proclaiming his creed in his sermons and printing a kind of bible (my father
owned one of them as well as the translation into German) was threatened with
capital punishment in Persia. The Turkish Sultan, as the head of the
Mohammedans, granted him asylum restricted to Akko (formerly Ptolemais). At
this time the German colony was founded in Haifa under the leadership of my
great-grandfather Georg David Hardegg. Neighbourly relations developed
between him and the Baha’i founder, which also included the German Vice
Consul Friederich Keller and others. These let to the subsequent permission on

126. Memories of a life in Palestine – Martha Strasser, p. 23

the part of the Turkish government that the family of the Baha’i founder was
allowed to accept the offer of the German colony to move into their area. I then
met the son, Abbas Effendi when he was already a white-haired man from 1910
to 1918. This son was a dignified, but also friendly and open-minded member of
the German colony and the construction of the Baha’i temple (also resting place
for the father), which he completed on the slopes of Carmel above the German
colony, was an enriching monument.

Abbas Effendi loved the German children, and they loved him. When he left
his beautiful house for a walk, all the children, especially the pre-school children,
gathered near the “Persian God” who was walking in a white flowing gown with
a white scarf around his white hair, with friendly blue eyes and holding a white
rose from his garden in his hand. Then he would stop and speak to the children
in fairly good German127. Of course, he also had his darlings, obviously it was
light blond and blue-eyed children. For example, my younger sister Gerda
received a golden coin, I a tin coin. Gerda used to be white-blond and blue-eyed
in her childhood my hair and eye colour was brown. The Arabs used to call Gerda
‘Maaze abjad’ (white kid, as an endearing term). As an old man I received my
almost embarrassing compensation from a very nice American Baha’i lady in
Moschi’East Africa. When she heard that I had known Abbas Effendi and often
shaken his hand, she took mine, knelt down and kissed it.
Enough good news! With a cordial hug dear Nici.128

P.S. By the way, Abbas Effendi was a great admirer of my mother to whom he
gave very beautiful Persian needlework. In Berlin my mother still used a large
shoulder wrap made of fine wool and decorated with small pink roses – not as a
scarf, but mostly as a decorative tablecloth.129

The above letter shows how good relation the Baha’is had with their German
neighbours. They would extend any help if Abdu’l-Baha required. Some of the
good memoirs have been kept in the Templers’ books for posterity.

The second generation of the Templers/Kirchlers, during the lifetime of the
Master, Abdu’l-Bahá, were more occupied with establishing their economical and
professional status rather than a religious one as it was mentioned earlier. After
the death of Hoffmann, although there were ‘elders’ who led the community’s
spiritual affairs and were elected as presidents of the Society, none were
interested in searching for the ‘Coming of the Lord’ anymore.

The third generation of the Templers/Kirchlers who lived during the lifetime

127. It is not known if Abdu’l-Baha ever spoke German.
128. Signature illegible
129. Translated by Martha Otto – July 2010

of the Guardian, Shoghi Effendi130 who kept on living in the same house of his
grandfather Abdu’l-Baha131, were more into mundane affairs and totally distanced
from the original ideals of the Society.

Gottlieb Ruff affirms:
“As far as my own, the third generation is concerned; one could perhaps say
that the religious aspects were pushed into the background by economic and
national issues”132.

Regardless of what the Württembergers’ movement may have gone through,
there has been fulfilment! They came to fulfil what the Divine Will had spared for
them. This is a different perspective, but certainly they achieved goals beyond
their expectation not yet acknowledged by thoroughly. Once the station of the
Bab as the returned Son, and Baha’u’llah as the Father become clear to them as
the sincere Christians, then they will find the glory of their movement. They are
not castaway people in the far south corner of Australia. Their coming to the Holy
Land was in the Divine Plan a sublime goal and it was accomplished to its
fullness. Once the fulfilment achieved, they had to become like the seed
underground, although apparently nothing is left of them in Israel except a name,
yet the glory of the fruits of their movement is quite manifest.

Templers’ Achievements from the point of view of a Baha’i.
The Templer achievements can be analyzed as follows:

1. While the community was originally together, they succeeded in
creating their most valuable settlement in Haifa133. Land identified and
acquired by them, was later on the land chosen by Baha’u’llah for the
establishment of the Temple of the Lord – Shrine of the Bab. This was
the goal to be achieved although it may not be seen today in the thinkers’
circles as a Templers’ achievement, yet it has a profound significance
once the station of the Bab is known and His glorious mausoleum and
its surrounding gardens now manifest on Mount Carmel. The mere fact
that such a place came into existence, that the Supreme Manifestation
of God walked on it, climbed the mountain, and pointed out the spot
where the remains of the ‘the King of the Messengers134, the Bab’ should
be buried, is something no other messianic group can ever boast to have
achieved. Of course, if one could identify the Bab with the return of

130. Shoghi Effendi was appointed by Abdu’l-Baha as the Guardian of the Faith after His passing in 1921.
Shoghi Effendi administered the affairs of the Faith worldwide for 36 years until he passed away in London
on November 1957.
131. Number 7 Haparsim Street, Haifa
132. Recollection of an old Templer, The Ruffs in Haifa – by: Gottlieb Samuel Ruff – Templer Record
Supplement No.4, June 2009, TSA, Heritage Group, p. 25 – 27.
133. and in a lesser degree in other six colonies
134. Baha’u’llah mentions the Bab as ‘the King of the Messengers’ in the Tablet of Ahmad.

Christ, who He really was, then the importance of this work for which the
whole movement took place will become manifest and their total success
could be declared as Christians. This could be considered as a spiritual
achievement of the Templers, although they still are not aware of it.

2. The curiosity of Hardegg to know Baha’u’llah, although he never
even came to know Him personally and could not recognize His lofty
claim, yet Baha’u’llah revealed one of one of the ‘most sublime Tablets’
answering his questions as a leader of Christian denomination. Although
questions of Hardegg are not at hand, but from the tone of the Tablet of
Baha’u’llah in answering his questions, it becomes clear what he had
asked. This Tablet is known as the Tablet of Hirtik135, which has been
revealed in Arabic. This is an achievement for the Templer Leader.
Although he could not grasp the contents of what Baha’u’llah revealed
for him, because of lack of efficiency in polished Arabic language, which
could be called kind of failure, yet, the contents would satisfy any
theologian with Christian background. As Shoghi Effendi mentions, the
Tablet of Hirtik together with the Tablet to the Pope Pius IX and the Tablet
to the Christians136, known as the Most Holy Tablet, are the three Tablets
of Baha’u’llah claiming His Station as Christ in the Glory of the Father.

Suggested Hardegg’s questions to Baha’u’llah could have been the following:
-
Why the ungodliness of the people of the earth
-
What is the Significance of the Mt. Carmel
-
What was the station of Saint Peter?
-
Who Baha’u’llah claimed to be.
-
Darkness which has envelop the world of humanity.
-
The return of Christ

The reader can jump to page 80 to read the translation of the Tablet addressed
to Hardegg by Baha’u’llah.

3. The other achievement of the Templers is in fact their hard work in
an inhospitable and totally neglected land for which they set themselves
such a high standard of improvement especially in agriculture, one result
of their efforts become known worldwide as Jaffa oranges. They set the
example for the ‘chosen people – the Jews’ to see, learn and follow how
a land should be developed that would become most fruitful.137 The

135. As the word Hardegg was pronounced in German Language sounding Hirtik, this remained as the
identifying name in the Works of Baha’u’llah.
136. Addressed to a Christian clergy -Faris Effendi
137. For this see the paper written by Yaron Perry under the title of ‘The Templer Settlement in the Land of
Israel 1868 – 1948, and Dr. Danny Goldman’s paper with the title of “Planning and Building the Templer
Colonies”, both published in the “Chronicle of Utopia”. In both articles, the authors describe how the German

Templers’ experience in all areas became very valuable to the Jews to
follow, and in fact it did go beyond the borders of Palestine to the
neighboring countries as well.
Once the Jews became proficient with the concept of developing this
Land and were well established, working hard with love and enthusiasm,
they began to compete with the German Templers in all areas.


What Baha’u’llah said about the Templers:
In a Tablet to Haji Mirza Haydar-Ali Isfahani 138 , Baha’u’llah discloses the
following regarding the Templer Leader, Hardegg139:

“In all the Books there is mention of Revelation in this Promised Land, as well
as in its surroundings; and a group from other countries have come to this Holy
and Blessed Land and have established themselves and say that the ‘coming of
the Lord is nigh and we have come to understand and receive Him’,
notwithstanding, they are in the greatest negligence. Their chief, few years ago
wanted to come to the Holy presence, but in His Holy Threshold this wish was
not accepted, nevertheless a Mighty and Holy Tablet was especially revealed for
him, and in that Tablet, is being documented whatever would save any fair-
minded man and would lead any messenger to his destiny, although the truth of
the word: ‘it would not touch anyone except the pure ones’ becomes clear.
Anyway, they did not understand a drop from the Ocean of meaning and are still
waiting, as the group before them are still waiting”140.

This Tablet to Haji Mirza Haydar-Ali was revealed, as Baha’u’llah Himself
testifies, ‘a few years ago’. It is suggested that this Tablet has been revealed after
1873, when first Templers’s leader came to know the Persian Baha’is in Haifa
and became curious to know Baha’u’llah and His claim. Seemingly, Hardegg did
not follow-up with the Baha’is on that specific claim, though he met with Abdu’l-
Baha at least twice or even more as recorded by Abdu’l-Baha, when He met with
the Baha’is is Stutgart. Most probably the schism of the Templers into two groups,
kept Hardegg worried and bewildered of the future of his Kirchler group. During
all that time Abdu’l-Baha was in prison and confined in Akka, restricted His
movement to interact more with the Templers. Abdu’l-Baha was only released
from prison in 1908, some thirty years after the passing of Hardegg in July 1879.

Ra’fati in an article about Baha’u’llah’s stay in Haifa indicates:
The existence of the German Colony, which in principle was established on
the soil of Haifa because of the yearning and desire of knowing the Promised

Templers helped them to build their Jewish settlements (Kibbutzim), with construction material supplied to
the Jews by the Germans.
138. One of the stalwarts of the Baha’i Faith during the time of Baha’u’llah and Abdu’l-Baha.
139. Provisional translation by the writer.
140. Ganj-e Shaygan, p. 172 – A.H. Ishraq-Khavari, 124 B.

Christ and hailing the coming of the Heavenly Father, became worthy of His
physical presence, in fulfilment of the promise given in the Tablet of Hardegg,
which was addressed to their leader. The members of the German Templers,
despite their yearning to know the Promised Christ, interpreted and deciphered
the promises of the Holy Bible about His Holiness, however, as the coming of
Baha’u’llah to Haifa was not according to their expectations, they became veiled
and failed to recognize Him. In a Tablet Baha’u’llah addressed Ali-Muhammad
Varqa, clearly mentions this141:

“This Servant testifies to what God testifies and confesses to what the Pen of
the Most High confesses…the Prussian (German) Society in spite of their
confession to their coming to this Land has been receiving Him in His coming ‘as
has been mentioned in our books in which the coming of the Lord is nigh, or it
has just passed’, nevertheless are not aware. The world is being filled with the
stupor of negligence. Once these words were heard from the Mouth of the Will of
the Owner of the people (God)…Today the sun testifies, the sea cries loud, the
earth broadcasts. The stupor of want has enveloped the people in such a way
that they are neglectful of themselves let alone of this Station and the knowledge
of a station which is the highest desire of the chosen and sincere ones…”142

The provisional translation of the Tablet to Hardegg, penned by Habib
Tahirzadeh, et.al, is recorded in Annex I. There are two more translations
available. The missionary Zeller did an inadequate translation of this Tablet for
Hardegg. His translation and the translations of Steven Lambden together with
the one of Habib Taherzadeh, are recorded comparatively at the end of this study.

In His mighty Tablet to Baha’u’llah addresses Hardegg five times as ‘friend’
and He calls him: ‘O thou accomplished man of understanding’ and again ‘O
thou who art wise and discerning’. In answering Hardegg, Baha’u’llah tells him
‘It behooveth your honor to attentively consider the Word of God’. Right
from the start of the Tablet Baha’u’llah indicates where these Words are coming
from: these are the ‘Words of God’, which suffice for the whole of mankind. And
then He gives the example of Jesus, Who as soon as heard the ‘Word of God’,
became enraptured and embraced the ‘truth’. This is what beseems the ‘great
men’. And He says that this is – the Word of God - which has been promised to
the people of all nations. He then continues addressing Hardegg that: ‘He verily
is the One Who shall build the Temple of the Lord’. Therefore, it is not
Hoffmann or Hardegg or the Templers’ that would build the Temple. It is only Him
Who shall build the Temple of the Lord, this being the building of the character of
men, which is the prime mission of Baha’u’llah through His teachings for all
mankind, because according to Baha’u’llah, only the Word of God can re-build

141. Ra’fati, Baha’u’llah in Haifa, Pajuheshnameh vol. 3, p. 122, Autumn 1997
142. Provisional translation by the writer.

the character of men143. The physical Temple, as the Shrine of the Bab, is also
being built on Mt. Carmel.

Baha’u’llah addresses Hardegg and clearly says that ‘the people will see Him
but will not recognize Him’. This is exactly what happened with the Templers.
Baha’u’llah stayed with them and associated with them for a period of three
months in 1891, when He was visiting Haifa for the last time. They saw Him, and
yet, they did not recognize Him as He clearly indicated. If there is no discerning
eyes, by what means one can recognize the Christ in the Glory of the Father? In
this Tablet, Baha’u’llah mentions of the ‘The Mystery of Reversal’144 , which
caused the most learned people at the time of Jesus to reject Him, whereas an
illiterate fisherman without any kind of knowledge could recognized Him. And if
Hardegg would have pondered this in his heart, he would have understood what
happened in the past, when all but a few came to know Him. Baha’u’llah tells
Hardegg that the ‘Truth’ is too obvious to be obscured, if he would only open
his inner eyes. But if he misses the opportunity, it will not come back to
him again’, and this is exactly what happened to Hardegg. He missed the
opportunity of knowing and recognizing the ‘Father’ for Whom he had gone
through all the troubles from the moment he joined the Templers movement.

When Hardegg, in his letter to Baha’u’llah, asked about the ‘darkness that has
enveloped the whole world’, Baha’u’llah confirms this ‘darkness’ by saying: “We
testify that it pervadeth all mankind”. Then He suggests to Hardegg how to
come out of this darkness, He answers: “Indeed, this is true… Verily darkness
is but idle fancies and vain imaginings whereby people are deterred from
drawing nigh unto the Kingdom when it was manifested at the bidding of
God”. Baha’u’llah then, gives the example of the Mirrors145, and the light that
shines on them: “However, the radiance of the light which is shed upon the
mirrors would vary according to the diversity of forms and colors.”
Answering his next question on the return of Christ, He answers by saying that
there is no difference between the ‘Spirit’, i.e., Jesus, and Baha’u’llah. Again, He
confirms thus: “It is the manifestation of the light of Divine Unity amongst
men and the wondrous sign of the Ancient of Days amidst the peoples of
the world”.
At the end Baha’u’llah gives an inestimable and precious promise to Hardegg:
“Wert thou to ponder a while upon that which We have imparted unto thee
and to fulfill whatsoever hath been mentioned with perfect constancy,
surely there shall appear from thy person that which hath appeared in the
past”. In other words, had Hardegg recognized Him, He would have made him
into another Peter. But alas, this never happened. Hardegg did not even come

143. More on the Tablet of Hardegg see Annex I
144. The Mystery of Reversal or Sirr-I Tankis. from those who is more expected, less performs, while from
those less expected perform fully, like the high Jewish priests could not recognize Christ, but Peter, a poor
fisherman could.
145. The Manifestations of God – the Prophets

close to recognizing Baha’u’llah, the Glory of God, as the ‘Father’ whom he was
expecting.

In this Mighty Tablet, Baha’u’llah explains His station in many ways.  A
discerning eye would at least capture one of the many signs mentioned in this
Tablet.

How Hardegg could have missed the claim of Baha’u’llah and have missed
recognizing His station through the veils or clouds obscuring his vision, should
be analyzed in different points of view:
a. Baha’u’llah was exiled to the prison of Akka stigmatized as ‘the God
of Persians’, obviously not a favorable title for the Christians and
consequently for the Muslims who both have an arguable concept of
‘Allah’, ‘God’, ‘Jesus as the Son of God’ Promised One, etc. Therefore,
the concept of ‘The God of Persians’ would be in conflict with their limited
understanding and totally confusing for them. He was aloof of that.

b. The ‘assemblage of Persians of Akka/Haifa’ in spite of being known
as a group of ‘peace loving’ people during the first arrival of Baha’u’llah
and His entourage, went through a short period of turmoil, where few
mischief makers instigated and committed improper acts, involving
some of the fellow Baha’is, resulting an effect on the community in
general. For a short while the news obliterated the peace of the Baha’is
in the larger community. This subject became the theme of the day and
Baha’u’llah went through a period of anxiety. The effect of the news
reached many corners of Palestine, inclusive to Haifa, hence the
German Templers, who heard of this highly surprising matter146.

c. The encounter of the German Templers and the Baha’is of
Haifa/Akka occurred sometime shortly after this episode. Most likely, the
correspondence between Hardegg and Baha’u’llah took place after the
incident. Although Baha’u’llah’s claim and His peace message could not
have deterred Hardegg of coming forward and inquire more about Him
and His claimed message.

d. Although Hardegg received the answer to his quest in Arabic, and
he was somehow familiar with this language, yet, the missionary Zeller,
who has been in the land many years before him, did the translation of
the Tablet into English for him, the language which Hardegg was also
familiar with. Obviously both men were not versatile in high literary

146. The four followers of Azal, jealous half-brother who were sent along with Baha’u’llah to Akka by the
Ottoman Government, while in Akka committed so many atrocities that some of the believers decided to kill
these four and the involvement of government on the subject made an unfavorable situation which affected
the reputation of the Baha’u’llah for a short period of time. Read Baha’u’llah the King of Glory.

Arabic, as, there are some areas of translation which Zeller has missed
the true meaning of some words, such as the word  ‘arf, smell’, he has
taken it as ‘ ‘orf, knowledge’, the other word is ‘anam, people’ he has
taken it for ‘niam, sleeping ones’, the word of ‘hadir-e-varqa, singing of
the dove’ is being taken for ‘the sound of the leaves of the trees’, etc147.

e. Hardegg himself in that period was going through a difficult situation
with regard to the leadership of the Movement with Hoffmann. Possibly
the consequence of investigating seriously the New Message could
have been even more detrimental and difficult for the schism in the
German group. Hoffmann was the spiritual leader, and indeed it was up
to him to investigate the New Message and not Hardegg, but the gap
between the two was too wide for any suggestion, if ever!


147. See the translation of Zeller of the Tablet of Hirtik as an annex

CHAPTER IV

The Third Generation
“We have been through Hell. Mama was shot in
the forehead and is in the Scottish hospital in
Nazareth. Uncle Karl Aimann and Aunt Regina
were shot dead before the eyes of their
children…We were only allowed to go into the
house again to get the most essential of our
clothes. All other Germans from the colonies
are to be transported out of the country with
us”148.

The third generation Templers was quite distant from all the religious
convictions of the first generation or in fact from any high ideals. Almost a third of
them were recruited into the new German National Socialist party, later known as
the Nazi Party. Some participated knowingly in the political issues of the time and
many possibly unknowingly were involved in the persecution of the Jews in
Germany. The Jews who were returning to their own future country, were already
bitter and could not tolerate Germans in their midst. Although, the peace-loving
religious group was concerned about their work, yet some negative elements
among them were also filled with Nazi ideology.  As a result there was a threat
that the Templers were to be exterminated if they did not leave the country. The
British governing body had defeated the Ottomans and come to power after WWI
as an entity responsible for the lives of the inhabitants of Palestine in general.
They decided to send out all the Germans, giving them the choice of Germany
or Australia. A small percentage accepted to be sent back to the land of their
ancestors in exchange for imprisoned Jews, whereas the majority were sent off
to Australia, to be integrated to the Australian community. There they had no
opportunity of building new settlements as they had done in the Holy Land. The
Jews were also determined that this group should never come back again to
settle on their land. Some years later, this third generation was compensated for
the value of their settlements, which they left behind.  Surprisingly, eighty years
after living in the country of their choice with so much hardship and achieving
greatly as a result of their hard work, now, there was a big vacuum. They
questioned, why? What have they done to be expelled from the land they adored
so much? All the sacrifices, hardships that they have gone through came to
naught. Although they spoke German and were of German descent, yet their
actual country was Palestine, they were born and raised there; they had all the
right to live there. Yet, it was not to be as they wished, and they were expelled.

If the analyzing scholars on the matter, consider eighty years of service of the
German Templers’ a ‘failure’, maybe their terminology should be reconsidered.

The following analogy could shed some light on this subject. When a gardener

148. Gertrude W-Deininger, Here we have no lasting city,. p. 69, September 1947

plants a seed, it is not up to the seed to decide what it is going to do in its new
environment; it has one thing to do, to grow by its own nature. As it starts to grow
roots, it simultaneously produces stems and leaves. The seed itself disappears
for good. Once the tree has grown out of the seed, nothing of the original seed is
left behind anymore, except its conversion into strong roots and a mighty trunk,
producing fruit proceeding from the original seed. The gardener is the only one
who knows the reason for planting the seed. He knew that this seed would be
sacrificed, but he also knew that in some years to come he will have a harvest of
fruit for the posterity.

If this analogy could be referred to the group of the Templers, then, there is no
concept of ‘failure’ of their existence in Palestine for eighty years. Although
originally the group left Württemberg with a Messianic ideology, this ideology
went through a metamorphosis over the years, and in the end, it did not much
resemble the original goal. Even during the time of Hoffmann and Hardegg, both
before and after the rift between the two, the goal was taking different shapes.
Like a tree that takes different shapes from the time of plantation to the time of
giving fruit and even after that period it keeps on changing shape. Therefore, it
could be argued that the outcome of the Württembergers’ project after eighty
years did not resemble the original gathering of the people in Jerusalem or the
Holy Land.  They had come to expect the coming of their Messiah and the
building of the Temple. For sure it did not happen the way they were expecting it
to happen, but it was a process that continued to its total fulfillment, as it was
mentioned above.

Dr. Richard O. Hoffmann, then President of the Temple Society and grandson
of the founder of the Society wrote in March 1985:

“Naturally, the loss of our Palestinian settlements caused us deep sorrow. We
loved them, because we had a happy life and felt secure there. Furthermore, they
were the result of 80 years of industrious and peaceful development work. We
did not, however, regard the settlements with the specific faith of the founding
generation, who believed in a literal interpretation of biblical prophecies with
regard to a concrete historical situation. For this reason, the end of our Templer
Communities in the Holy Land, though it meant the sad loss of our home, was
not a religious catastrophe for the Temple Society and its members. In Australia
they were reunited in the “Temple Society Australia”, and in Germany in the
“Tempelgesellschaft in Deutschland e.V”149.

The above quotation sounds despondent, yet from another perspective it can
be seen as an achievement and fulfillment to total satisfaction. The fruits it yields
will remain with humanity for all posterity yet to be discovered. As long as the

149. Introduction to the book of ‘The Holy Land Called’, by Paul Sauer, published by the Temple Society
Australia.

Baha’i Faith will remain, the mention of the German Templer will accompany.
Their history is eternal.

CHAPTER V

Haifa – Some early descriptions by Templers
Martha Strasser Beck a second generation Templers writes in her memoirs
about Haifa:

“At the time when the first Templer immigrants decided to establish a colony
or settlement, Haifa was still a small, romantic, Arabic fishing village, bordered
one side by the sea. Immediately behind the village rose the steep incline of
Mount Carmel that in places reached a height of 552 meters. As a glance at the
map will show, Haifa is a peninsula jutting out to sea. From many places at the
top of the mountain one has a view of water on both sides, and looking across
the beautiful bay towards Arce, an old Crusader fortress, one can even see as
far as the snow-capped peak of Mt. Hermon in Lebanon, and just beyond Acre
the white cliffs of “Ras Al Naqura” are visible.

“The wide plateau of Mt. Carmel stretches in an easterly direction towards the
Plain of Jesreel and towards the west it ends in a cape, falling sharply into the
sea. Arabs call this cape “Ras-el-Krum”, but we called it “das Karmeleck”. Atop
the hill is a lighthouse, which used to guide ships heading for Haifa, around the
reefs that surround the “Karmeleck”. The main feature on the hill is “Stella Maris”
the Carmelite Monastery”150.

Gertrud Wassermann-Deininger another early settler describes in her book the
early life of the Templers in Haifa:

“Each time when the foundation stone for a new house was laid in the colony,
all the Templers congregated and prayed for God’s blessing and protection for
the new building…So gradually the German colony developed, spreading slowly
from the sea to the foot of Mt. Carmel. Many were ill, until they got used to the
climate, and many died. Many things were lacking, especially a competent
doctor. Many families were poor, often lacking the bare necessities. When I was
small my parents could only afford enough to enable my mother to cook a hot
midday meal every second day, and that consisted of a pot of broad beans, which
seemed delicious to us. In the evening there was a piece of turnip or some
carrots. The seed fruit of the carob tree was a treat for us, and so were
mulberries…” 151

Alfred Goodrich-Fresh said the following about Haifa in his book:

“The German colony – a picturesque European village – has wide streets
planted with trees, well-kept roads and gardens gay with flowers. The houses

150. Memories of a Life in Palestine, p.23
151. Here We Have No Lasting City, pp. 15/16

seem to have been transplanted here from some venerable old place in Europe,
with a quotation of the Bible in black letters above each front door. In terms of
cleanliness, trade, industry and agriculture, Haifa, the settlement is in fact a
German town”.
“The Bay of Acre extends to the north with all its memories harking back to the
times of crusades, while directly below lies Haifa which with all its gardens may
well present the loveliest and most thriving picture imaginable in Palestine”152.

Anna Bulach who was born in the Haifa settlement in 1877 wrote in her
memoirs:

“The community house was one of the first houses built in the German
settlement in Haifa. The numerals 1869 were written above the front door, and
the following text had been chiseled into the keystone: “If I forget thee, oh
Jerusalem let my right hand forget its skill” [Psalm 137:5]. This probably indicated
the direction of the path along which the settlers of the Temple Society intended
to proceed”153.

Haifa - some early Baha’i observations:

The Master’s Houses in Haifa154 in the vicinity of the German Colony:

152. In a Syrian Saddle” (Matthew’s Colonial Library, London 1905, quoted by Theodora Wieland in her
article published in the book of “Memories of Palestine”, p.8
153. Memories of Palestine
154. Abdu’l-Baha had three houses rented in Haifa for His day-to-day business. In one He kept the
sarcophagus, which had just arrived from Burma for later to be placed in the vault of the Shrine housing the


“The Master’s house in Haifa, where Khan (Ali Quli Khan 155 , later His
secretary) first saw Him, was a ‘block’ or so from the beach and from the
embarcadero built for the arrival of Kaiser Wilhelm II the year before, in 1898.
The house was not isolated, there were other houses around it and it gave on a
street roughly parallel with the sea and extending to the German Colony street –
the place where the German Adventists once lived, looking for the Lord to appear
on Mount Carmel, the Mountain of God.
In those days Abdu’l-Baha ’s confinement in ‘Akká, not yet re-imposed as it
would be later because of the never-ending conspiracies of the Covenant-
breakers, was less strict. Every week the Master could go to Haifa and spend a
few days there in order to supervise the excavating for the foundation of the Bab’s
Tomb on the slopes of the mountain. The family remained in ‘Akká and the Master
would spend the night in His rented house.

As the work required more and more of His time, He came more often to Haifa.
He therefore rented a second small house on the avenue known as the German
Colony, lined by stone houses with sacred Scriptural verses over their doors,
about the coming of the Lord. This avenue led directly from the sea front to the
foot of the mountain. And here Khanum, His sister, the Most exalted Leaf156, or
one of His daughters and a son-in-law, could stay and look after Him, and He
would pass the night.
At the time of Khan’s arrival, the first rented house was used by Abdu’l-Bahá
as an office and a place where He could receive the pilgrims and other visitors.
A flight of brick steps led up from the street to an open courtyard surrounded on

remains of the Bab also recently brought to Haifa/Akka. The constant guests that would arrive from Europe
or America, would stay a night or two in those houses as well. He would finally build His own house in the
vicinity of the German Colony, number 7 Haparshim Street.
155. Ali-Quli Khan, later became Charge D’Affairs of Iran in Washington.
156. Bahiyyih Khanum, His only sister was four years His junior.

three sides by rooms; and a door giving directly on the streets was the one to the
Master’s reception room. Here there was an iron bedstead where He sometimes
rested in the daytime. At first there had been two beds here and Jinab-i-Furughi157
slept in one of them. Besides several chairs, the room’s other furniture consisted
of a large table at one side, on which Abdu’l-Bahá kept writing materials, papers,
some flowers, rose-water and a plate heaped with rock candy158.
The room next to this one, measuring about fourteen by sixteen feet, was a
kind of storeroom for household and other articles – brooms, odds and ends.
Against the wall, beside a barred window giving onto the courtyard, stood a table
of plain wooden boards with a raw, wooden backless bench, on which Khan was
apt to lie down and sleep at night, and wooden pegs for his few spare clothes
dotted the rough wall. In one corner, away from the window, rested a large
sarcophagus especially built to order by the Baha’is of Rangoon, Burma, and
sent by them to the Master, to hold the sacred remains of the Báb, which as
directed by the Master had recently been brought out from their hiding places in
Persia. This sarcophagus was to be transported to the Tomb of the Bab as soon
as the Tomb was completed and ready to receive the holy dust. This, the room’s
most prominent feature, was in a sort of wooden packing case, and Khan himself
was greatly surprised when told – in after years by a trusted attendant of the
Master’s – that as he sat at his table near the window and did his translations
month after month, the sacred remains of the Báb and His companion159 , so
recently brought out of Persia, may well have been here in this very room. His
informant was apparently Muhammad-Ali (the caretaker), and looking back over
the room in memory, Khan gathered that, for a time at least, the sacred remains
could have been hidden in the beautiful, carved – he thought empty –
sarcophagus. The date of Khan’s tenure was sometime 1899, perhaps late
spring.
At the back of the house was a room where travelers could stay temporarily,
before leaving for ‘Akká, and next to this, also with barred windows on the back
street, was the room of Siyyid Taqí Manshadi, to whom all the mail was assigned
by Abdu’l-Bahá. His room was piled high with letters, papers and packages
relating to this perennial task of reaching out to the world and linking the Baha’is
to their heart and center. He allowed no one except Khan to enter this room.
Manshadi would carry the mail to the post office or ship, and in his famous, child-
like handwriting – well-known everywhere – he would enclose a brief, bare
account of Baha’i news with the Tablets – laconic, but all the news. A small cha’-
i khanih was adjacent to this room160.


157. Mirza Mahmoud Foroughi, one of the early stalwart believers in the Faith.
158. Why the Master liked to give the Baha’is rock candy we do not know. Perhaps it was because it would
last and they could save it, as Khan did throughout life. Or perhaps, as we sometimes think, it was a symbol,
because in the East candy is put in the mouth of a sheep before it is ritually sacrificed)
159. Muhammad-Ali, titled Anis (dear one), the companion of the Bab, who was martyred together with the
Bab on 9 July 1850, his body was merged inseparably with that of the Bab.
160. Marzieh Gail, Summon Up Remembrance, p 110/111, Tea-house where tea was prepared


Construction of the Shrine on Mount Carmel
Habíb Moayyed161, who became a medic in Beirut sponsored by Abdu’l-Bahá
and attended the sick for many years in Haifa, ‘Akká and Abu-Sinan, compiled a
book with the title “Memoirs of Habíb”. Being in Haifa at that time (from 1907 to
1915 he stayed in the presence of the Master Abdu’l-Baha on and off, making
many observations about Abdu’l-Bahá and his contacts with the Germans and
their Colony. There are some stories that are apt to be related here, quoting
Abdu’l-Baha Who said:

“We built the Shrine of the Báb on different terraces162 so that the visitors
coming from the sea can reach it. Paths will be built, and flower gardens will be
made; verdant trees will be planted, and the German Colony will become as the
flower garden of the Shrine of the Bab.  This Shrine was built despite the
opposition of Sultan ‘Abdu’l-Hamíd and his people who acted on his orders.
Where is Nasirid-Din Shah, who should resurrect from his grave and see?  He
wanted to exterminate the Cause with his sword. He told Hájí Karím Khan163, the
head of the Shaykhí at the time, who wrote a refutation book against the Bábí
Faith every year, that your book is no good my sword will uproot the Bábís’, not
the book…  Now We have built the Shrine and the Sacred Body has found its
abode, let us see what will happen from now on…”164

Acquiring the required land
Again, Abdu’l-Bahá tells the story of how difficult was to get a piece of land He
wanted for the Shrine’s surrounding:

“The Commander of Haifa a sworn enemy of the Faith, was opposed to the
construction of the Shrine of the Báb and told the registrar that the building in
question on Mount Carmel, South of Haifa, was ‘an unknown building’ and its
existence ‘was against the order’, and, because it was on the outskirts of the
town, the Sultan himself should approve its construction.  The registrar wrote a
note indicating, that because of political restrictions, a construction permit could
not be issued.
The Governor of ‘Akká, and Salih Effendi the engineer, who were of our
acquaintance, asked one of the members of the top officials of Haifa to
investigate and report.  He reported back that ‘there should be no objection to
the construction. There are only six rooms [on this project], and on Mount Carmel,
this is not going to be the only building, there is a huge church (Carmelite) and
the Germans also have their buildings, therefore there is no political restraint’.
The Governor received the report and sent it to the Commander of Haifa.  The

161. One of the youths arrived from Iran to attend Abdu’l-Baha in His many works.
162. At the time there were only some terraces from the bottom of the Mount Carmel to the Shrine of the
Bab, today, there are nine terraces below the Shrine and nine above, and each one with its own beauty.
163. Leader of the Shayki sect of Islam, an inveterate enemy of the Faith at the time in Iran.
164. Memoirs of Habib, p. 313-314, translated from Persian.

Commander rejected the report and said this matter should be decided directly
by Sublime Porte in Istanbul. They wrote that Abdu’l-Bahá wants to build a Shrine
for the Báb, and because of the questions they asked, the matter became an
issue. It is obvious what kind of enemy ‘Abdu’l-Hamíd was, and that he was
expecting any excuse to act upon [us].
I decided to go and visit the Commander Myself in his office to silence him in
this regard. I tried hard. He said, ‘I have no enmity with you, but I am afraid I will
be held responsible later on’. I asked him ‘what is that restrains you?’  He
answered that ‘only I know’. I asked him ‘what negative consequences would this
have?’ He said, ‘only I know’. We left the office together thinking that if I would
accompany him to his home, he might reconsider his decision and the result
would be positive. We reached home and I saw that nothing had improved. We
entered the building. He climbed the first, the second and the third step, and
suddenly he fell and died. I called him, ‘Commander, Commander, Commander!’
to no avail, he was dead.
After his death, we started the construction of the building. We did not have an
access road to the building. The existing path was in a very bad condition. We
wanted to open a path, but the owner of the land would not give us permission to
do so. He was instigated by the enemies of the Faith (the Covenant breakers)165
and was adamant. Finally, after two months he accepted, but later the person
who was working for the Germans approached him and changed his mind, telling
him that these people have to pay a lot of money for this piece of land, therefore,
break your promise. He asked for more money. This postponed the project for
another three months. It was very difficult, but finally he accepted. Again, the
enemies made him change his mind; he started with some excuses and broke
his agreement again. He asked for all the trees on the land, I accepted to give
them all to him. He asked for a borderline to be drawn by a wire so that we don’t
get onto his land. I told him if he agreed, I would make a dividing wall between
the properties. Again, he broke his agreement and asked for a trusted person to
be the arbiter. He himself suggested Sádiq Pasha166. We agreed to meet Sádiq
Pasha at his home. I went there and he never showed up. It was a rainy day.
Sádiq Pasha himself went for him in the rain and when he came back, he was
soaked and muddy. He was quite angry because he was told that he was not at
home.  This made me extremely sad; I did not eat or drank even tea, did not even
meet anyone, and in the darkness of the night I was saying the prayer of the Bab
silently over and over again all night until early in the morning I fell asleep.
Around noon when I woke up, one of the believers approached me saying ‘the
interpreter of the Consul of the German Society167, and his nephew have been
here since early morning waiting for you’. The nephew of the Leader said: ‘There
is a piece of land owned by a German lady who is ready to sell it. You can take

165. The Covenant Breaker were those members of Abdu’l-Baha’s family that opposed Him and became
His sworn enemies during His lifetime and the time of the Guardian Shoghi Effendi.
166. Officer of the governor.
167. Christoph Hoffmann II, the grandson of the Founder of the German Templers.

as much as you need of this land’.
As sad as I was the previous night, I became very happy. Together we went
to the registrar’s office. I saw that all the sale documents were signed and sealed
by the leader without any conditions. I told the nephew of the leader that I may
also buy some land from him, so that we also do business with you. He said, ‘we
are here to serve you not to do business. We have come to take the burden from
you, not for interest or commission. As we heard you have had some problems,
we have come to serve you’.
Anyway, we completed the
purchase of the land, and then I
had a wall built.  A path was
opened and despite the enmity of
‘Abdu’l-Hamíd, the Shrine was
built. Then We received the
marble
sarcophagus
ordered
from Bombay which had a gilded
calligraphy
of
the
Greatest
Name. It arrived at the Customs
Office. I did not want them to
open it, and it was not opened…
Where is Nasirid-Din Shah to
come here and see the blessed
Body, which had no rest for fifty
years, because of him - and now
is resting here?168


Kings’ Highway
Again, on another occasion He said:
“We should recognize this bounty and speak out in His praise. In the days of
the Blessed Beauty and His Highness the Bab, no one came to understand who
they really were, as we now know. In the future kings on foot, will be walking,
while holding pots of flowers and bunches of florae over their heads and will come
to visit the Shrines…”169 This of course is reference to the road leading to the
Shrine from the sea, which is being referred to as the ‘Kings Highway’.


Promise to crucify Abdu’l-Baha…
On the occasion when Jamal Pasha170, asked Him about the Germans171:

168. Memoirs of Habib, pp. 314 – 317, translated from Persian.
169. Ibid, p. 317
170. The general of the Ottoman Army who promised to either slay or crucify Abdu’l-Bahá.
171. Due to lack of exact dating of different anecdotes in the book, it is difficult to identify the related people
with stories.  After G.D. Hardegg had left the Society in 1874, Christoph Hoffmann, the Founder of the
Movement, took the leadership of Haifa Colony too, and in 1884, five years before he passed away, his

“He asked Abdu’l-Bahá who built the German Colony? Abdu’l-Bahá answered:
‘The grandfather of the present leader who is living in Haifa, built the German
Colony. He created a religious cult, which was based on the imminent return of
Christ. He built this Colony so that when Christ appeared, he would go to visit
Him.’ Jamal-Pasha upon hearing this story became very angry saying: ‘A new
cult? If he had been here, I would have sorted him out’. Then Jamal Pasha asked
Abdu’l-Bahá what had weakened the Ottoman Empire. He answered: The
existence of many cults. The Pasha asked: ‘What is the remedy?’ Abdu’l-Bahá
answered: ‘The remedy is that the heads of the different cults and sects of Islam
in the Ottoman Empire should come together and consult about one religion and
become united in all aspects”.172


…And sincere the Germans concern
The same author has written of the concern the leader of the German Templers
had for the life of Abdu’l-Bahá:
“When Jamal Pasha went to Jerusalem, due to the constant instigations of the
Covenant breakers his animosity increased again and he promised if he
conquered Egypt soon, he would crucify Abdu’l-Bahá on his return. Then, in a
sneering manner he added: “Whatever Abbas Effendi decides either choose to
be hanged or to be crucified; I will do as He wants.’” The President of the German
Society came to the presence of Abdu’l-Bahá and said: “I am very sad and very
concerned because Jamal Pasha has sworn that he is going to crucify you and
has asked me to take care of you until his return”. Abdu’l-Bahá answered: “You
should not be disturbed or sad; it is alright, because he has put the condition of
‘if’ to this matter. The condition is ‘if’ he is back triumphant from Egypt, ‘if’ he is
going to drown the British in the Suez Canal; then there is no problem, we are
also ready to give our blood, too”173.

Two days later the same President of the German Society rushed to His
presence and repeated that he was worried about Him.  Abdu’l-Bahá asks him:
“What is the news?” The German Leader said that yesterday Jamal Pasha was
fighting the British around the Suez Canal, but today there was a telegram from
him from Bi’r al-Sab174; this matter had greatly disturbed him because there is a
distance between the battlefield and Bi’r al-Sab!  Abdu’l-Bahá answered: “This is

brother-in-law Christoph Paulus became the leader until 1890 when he retired. After him Christoph
Hoffmann II became head of the Community until his death in 1911, when Christian Rohrer took the
leadership and when he died in 1935 his deputy Philipp Wurst, and upon his death six years later in 1941
Nikolai Schmidt became President of the German Templers. Source: History of the Temple Society,
http://home.vicnet.net.au/.
172. Memoirs of Habib, p. 318, translated from Persian.
173. The Book ‘The Servant, The General & Armageddon’ written by R & D Maude, a most informative book
in its peculiar style, mentions that the taking Haifa by the British forces came so suddenly that the orders of
Jamal Pasha could not be executed.  For more information read the chapter ‘The Battle for Haifa’ of the
same book.
174. Beersheba, Be’er Sheva in Hebrew, biblical town southern Israel, now a city in Negev, Israel

very simple, and you should not be worried at all; I will explain it to you.  When
the Pasha felt that the fire of the British was burning and they were winning, he
became afraid and fled and fled and fled and by the most convenient way got
himself to Bi’r alSab.”  The German Leader thought a bit and then said: “I agree
with you, it seems it can only be the way you said”175
And soon Jamal Pasha died, and his solemn promise died with him!

Tabernacle of Universal Peace
“This same blood-thirsty Jamal Pasha, who in 1917 took one third of the
Ottoman troops to the Suez Canal to defeat the British, was himself defeated
together with his German allies and could never do what he promised to the
enemies of the Faith, which were the blatant Covenant breakers and their
associates in the Holy Land. Sometime earlier these same enemies of the Faith
had bribed the Pasha with the only big tent of the Baha’ullah176.  According to
Abdu’l-Bahá, this same tent had been mentioned many times in the Old
Testament as the ‘Tabernacle of the Universal Peace’, which should be raised on
Mount Carmel where the representatives of the nations would get together to
consult about bringing peace to humanity.  Abdu’l-Bahá was very sad about this
great loss”177.

Many times, Abdu’l-Bahá had described in the gatherings of the friends what
will happen around Mount Carmel. On one occasion in 1908, Habib Mo’ayyed
recounts:

“This Holy Mountain of God is the ultimate hope of the Prophets, and all those
circumambulating the precincts on High have expressed the glad tidings
concerning this Revelation and this Spot as well as their ultimate desire to be
present on such a Day and see for themselves the greatness of that Day.  On
this spot the Tabernacle of the Most Great Peace will be raised and the
foundation of the New World Order will be laid.  All these barren lands will be
developed. The Jewish people, who for almost two thousand years have been
scattered, will gather, come to the Holy Land and enter the Cause of God.  From
here the Spiritual Civilization will encircle the world and bring prosperity and
comfort to humanity…”178

In the same account as above, Abdu’l-Bahá says:
“Look at the madness of the governments of Iran and the Ottoman Empire,
how they banished Baha’u’llah from Iran to Baghdad, then to Islambol179, then to

175. Ibid, p. 320
176. Baha’’u’llah had three tents for His travels. The only remaining of those three is being kept in the
Archives of the BWC for special occasions.
177. Habib’s Memoirs, pp. 207 & 238
178. Ibid, p. 61
179. Islambol meaning abode of Islam. Today it is called Istanbul, previously called Constantinople.

Rumili 180  and ‘Akká, to exterminate the Faith of Baha’u’llah. But they were
unaware of doing the greatest service to the Cause of Baha’u’llah. They handed
the Holy Land to His Highness and didn’t understand why.
The Jewish People will embrace the Blessed Cause because there is no other
way out for them.
The future of Mount Carmel is very bright. I can see now that the whole of
Mount Carmel is one area of light, and there are a thousand ships docked at the
Haifa Bay, and I see the
Kings of the earth with
crowns of flowers in their
hands, in prayer and
meditation,
facing
the
Most
Holy
Shrine,
sobbing
and
walking
towards the Shrine of the
Most High181.
When
a
crown
of
thorns was placed on the
head of His Holiness
Christ, He could see with
His
inner
eyes
the
humility and humbleness
of
the
Kings
and
Emperors of the earth
before Him, which no one
else could have seen that time.  Now besides Mount Carmel being covered in
light, I can see Houses of Worship, hospitals, schools, places for the needy and
orphanages, and all kinds of wellbeing organizations being built on it.”182

Mount Carmel
And again Abdu’l-Baha says about the future of Mount Carmel:
“…I have seen many places; nowhere is the weather as mild as at the Shrine
of the Bab.  Soon this mountain will be developed; fine buildings will be built on
it. The Shrine of the Bab will be built in a most glorious way.  Gardens will be
made with flowers of different hues.  Terraces will be built.  From the bottom of
the mountain to the Shrine there will be nine terraces and nine more terraces will
be built from the Shrine to the top of the mountain.  From the sea to the Shrine
there will be one road; everything will be beautified with gardens and flowers.
The pilgrims, who come by ship, will see the dome of the Shrine.  Removing their
crowns, the kings of the earth, as well as the queens of the world, while
respectfully coming to see the Shrine of the Báb carrying bouquets of flowers,

180. Rumili, the European section of Turkiye, today, Edirne, and before it was called Adrianopolis.
181. Shrine of the Most High is referred to the Shrine of the Bab on Mt. Carmel.
182. Habib’s Memoirs, p. 322

they will kneel and prostrate on the ground and offer their crowns to Him…”183

In the book of Memoirs of Habib, there is a story of a building belonging to a
German Templer that stood between the German Colony and the path to the
Shrine. This building was blocking the access. The story goes like this:

“There was a building between the mountain and the German Colony which
Abdu’l-Bahá wanted to buy and demolish it to open the path. The enemies and
the Covenant-breakers were stopping the sale. One of these people had told the
owner not to sell the building now, as Abdu’l-Bahá should be obliged to pay a lot
more for it. The Templer became greedy and did not sell his building.  When
Abdu’l-Bahá heard about this, he commented “don’t worry, don’t pay any
attention, this building will be demolished in the near future”.
When the triumphant British Army entered Haifa, in order to clear a path for its
army, the commander ordered the demolition of that same building and the path
was opened”184, 185.

183. Ibid, pp 57/58
184. Ibid, pp. 385/8
185. Checking the German Colony outline map, drawn by Schumacher, the engineer of the time, he said
the house had belonged to the Pfander family, one of the early settlers in Haifa. Yet, Dr Ruhe in his book,
Door of Hope, p 227 has a story about the Pfander family’s house: “In the house with the prophetic inscription
‘Der Herr ist nahe’ ‘The coming of the Lord is at hand, is still standing in perfect shape. Therefore, the
building in question should have been another house.

CHAPTER VI

Baha’ullah’s visits to Haifa

Baha’u’llah’s four visits to Haifa of which three were done with previous
planning. According to what Ra’fati:

“His Holiness Baha’u’llah, as per testimony of many Writings at hand, totally
agrees with what is written in the Old and the New Testaments concerning the
importance of Mount Carmel, and He was fully aware of the prophecies regarding
it in Jewish and Christian literature. His mentioning of Mount Carmel in His Most
Holy Book, The Kitáb-i- Aqdas, which was revealed at the beginning of His arrival
in the Holy Land, testifies to it:
“This is the day on which Kalim186 reached the Ancient Light…This is the day
in which the Garden of God187 rushed with yearning to see Him…”
“The revelation of these Writings in the Book of Aqdas and other Writings,
show that right from the beginning of His arrival in the Holy Land, Baha’u’llah was
aware of the Mountain of God on which He would build the Temple, the Holy
Shrine of the Bab. His trips to Haifa were in fulfillment of the prophecies in the
Holy Books of the past”188.

He mentions the coming of the German Templers and the consequently the
establishment of their colony at the foot of Mt. Carmel that became worthy of
receiving the Glory of God, i.e., Baha’u’llah.  Thus, the prophecies indicated in
the Tablet of Hirtik189 , which had been revealed earlier, were fulfilled. Ra’fati
mentions the following from the Pen of Baha’u’llah:

“…The Society of the Prussians190, although they testify that their coming to
this Land was to receive the Revelation, as it had been mentioned in our Books
that His coming is nigh or has already passed, yet they are not aware of it. The
world is drawn in negligence. One day these words were heard from the mouth
of the Will of the Owner of Humanity191…Today the sun testifies, the ocean cries
aloud, the earth informs (of this Truth). The stupor of negligence of the people
has enveloped them to such a degree that they are not aware of anything except
themselves, let alone of this Station and the knowledge of such a Station that has
been the highest desire of angels and those near to God”192.


186. Title of Moses, He Who spoke with God.
187. Allusion to Mount Carmel
188. Rafati. Pajuheshnameh, Persian Journal of Baha’i Studies, vol. II No. 1, 1997.
189. Tablet to Hardegg
190. Referring to the German Templers.
191. Alluding to God, the Almighty.
192. The same reference as 175.

According to Ra’fati, the Revelation of the Tablet of Carmel193 as a Charter of
ordinances for the interment of the remains of the Bab in the Mountain of God,
happened when Baha’u’llah was immersed in a sea of tribulations due to what
was happening to His followers in Iran. This by itself testifies that nothing in this
world can ever become a barrier to the fulfillment of divine prophecies.

In that Charter, the Tablet of Carmel, He mentions that soon “the City of God
which is descended from Heaven” and “the Ark of God will sail on Thee” will be
established upon thee. The meaning of the ‘City of God’ is the establishment of
the Temple of God, i.e., the Holy Shrine of the Bab, and the meaning of the ‘Ark
of God’194 is the establishment of the Ark of the Laws of God, which it is the
source of the infallible body of the Universal House of Justice. The Ark of God
next to the City of God in the heart of the Carmel has already been established
in fulfillment of the prophecies by devotional efforts of His followers from all over
the world.

There were four visits of Baha’u’llah to Haifa:
1. His very first visit was on the 31st of August 1868, when the Austrian
ship Lloyd Triestino docked early in the morning by the shore of Haifa195,
to send those destined to the fortress of ‘Akká with a sailboat. In the
afternoon of the same day Baha’u’llah and all other passengers stayed
in Haifa for a few hours before taking off to their destination, i.e., the city
of Acre. For this visit, Ra’fati196 mentions the following from the Pen of
Baha’u’llah:

“Verily His Temple was established upon the Mountain of God at the
beginning of His arrival; to this testify whatever has been written in the
Books of the Messengers. Verily both sea and land were privileged by His
footsteps and seeing Him and smelling His luminous robe…197”

2. His second visit to Haifa happened almost fifteen years later, on the
6th of August 1883. This trip lasted a few weeks and is mentioned by His
Pen of Glory in another Tablet with words such as “the Desire of Carmel
aimed to visit the Mountain of God as is being mentioned in the past
Books” 198 . On this trip Baha’u’llah stayed at a hotel in the German
Colony. This could have been the Karmel Krafft Hotel. This building was

193. In April 1891 Baha’u’llah visited Haifa for the last time and once on Mt. Carmel, He revealed a Tablet in honour
of the Mount Carmel, which is a conversation between the Creator and the creation, see annex 2.
194. The physical Ark on Mt. Carmel consist of five buildings related to the New Revelation of Baha’u’llah, namely
the Seat of the Universal House of Justice, the seat of the International Teaching Centre, the seat of the Study of the
Holy Texts, the International Archives building and the International Library, which still to be built.
195. Due to the building up of silt at the port of ‘Akká, no ship could have docked there, therefore, Baha’u’llah
and His entourage had to be taken to their destined confinement by a small and uncomfortable boat.
196 Vahid Ra’fati, scholar, Baha’i World Centre
197. See Annex 2, Tablet of Carmel
198. Ra’fati, Pajuheshnameh, A Persian Journal of Baha’i Studies, vol. II No. 1, 1997, Reference 7

located at the northern corner of Jaffa Street and Ben Gurion Avenue199
and since it has been demolished.

Ra’fati mentions another Tablet revealed in honor of Haji Abdu’l-
Hamid of Zarqan in September of the same year, thus:

“…for a few days the Mountain of God became the seat of the
Temple, and this is the Station which had been mentioned in the past
Books. The voice of the Spirit200 had been raised in this place and all
the other Prophets have told of this Station. This is the Mountain of
God. Since its creation until now, it has been waiting to see Him;
thanks be to God that it has attained its desire and the Voice was
raised…. Whatever was written in the Books of God have become
manifest. Happy those who understand, and woe betide the
negligent”201, 202.

3. The Third Visit to Haifa happened seven years later the 1st of April
1890.  The very next day He recorded that “Thanks to the Desire of the
Worlds that in the middle of tribulations, the banner of speech was raised
up…yesterday, 10 of Sha’aban 1307203, the Lord of Creation204 moved
from the shore of Akka to Haifa and arrived during the night…”  In the
same Tablet, prior to these words, He prays for humanity saying: “…The
mercy He offered has surpassed a cup or a gallon measure, now the
revelation is manifest as a scale of ocean upon ocean205.  We pray the
All-Glorious God to give pure motive to mankind so that no one would
remain without a share and would not be deprived of His ever-generous
bounties…” And then He adds: “…O people, His Holiness the Desired
One206 has manifested Himself, today is the day of the lovers and the
time to be inflamed with the fire of unity. From the unity of the hearts, a
tender fire will be lit. By the life of the Desired One, that fire is present
and flows in all created things…Friends should strive to tear asunder the

199. Originally Carmel Avenue
200. Allusion to His Holiness Jesus Christ, Ruhullah, the Spirit of God is His title in the Islamic and Baha’i
literature.
201. The terminology of ‘Temple’ is used for the being of the Manifestation of God, and also, to the place
where the remains of the Manifestation of God is being deposited. Abdu’l-Baha refers to the Shrine of the
Bab as the Temple of God, as, the remains of the Holy Manifestation of God is being put to rest in that place.
And reference of Baha’u’llah to Himself as the ‘Temple’, again, is allusion of Manifestation of God.
202. Ra’fati, Pajuheshnameh, Persian Journal of Baha’i Studies, vol. II No. 1, 1997, p. 87. Also see Annex
2, Tablet of Carmel. This is provisional translation.
203. First of April 1890.
204. The Manifestation of God, is the Lord of Creation in each and every cycle He appears, representing
the Godhood. It was the case of Moses, Christ, Muhammad and all the other Manifestation of God when
they were commissioned by the Almighty to appear on earth and disseminate His mighty Will. Here, it is
alluded to Baha’u’llah Himself, the Father, the Glory of God.
205. This refers the Revelation of Baha’u’llah in compared to the previous revelations. According to Christ,
‘He will guide you to All Truth. The ocean upon ocean is all Truth.
206. Referring to Baha’u’llah Himself, the Desired of all Nations

veils of the people with their wisdom and speech, until all would be able
to see the signs of might and glory and speech from the hands of the
Cause with no veil and cover…”207

It is recorded that Baha’u’llah stayed in Haifa for two weeks because He had
Professor Edward G. Brown208 as His guest from 15th to 20th of April of the same
year when he was entertained in the Mansion of Bahji on the outskirts of the city
of Acre209 and recorded the following after he had attained to His presence:

“The face of him on whom I gazed I can never forget, though I cannot describe
it. Those piercing eyes seemed to read one’s very soul, power and authority sat
on that ample brow; …No need to ask in whose presence I stood, as I bowed
myself before one who is the object of a devotion and love which kings might
envy and emperors sigh for in vain210!”

Ra’fati indicates that when Baha’u’llah arrived in Haifa, He stayed in His tent
on a vacant land close to Beit Zahlan, next to the Community Hall of the Templers
where is still standing today as the Haifa Museum. This was the very first building
Hardegg built in the Colony.  It was used as their spiritual gathering place211. The
said vacant land was in front of the Oliphant House, # 16 Ben Gurion Avenue in
the German Colony, soon He moved to the house that belonged to Sir Laurence
Oliphant212.

4. Baha’u’llah’s Fourth Visit to Haifa happened some fifteen months
after His third visit, on the 27th of June 1891. Ra’fati, in his research,
refers to a Tablet where He mentions this trip; it is recorded that:
“…These days the throne of the Temple is in Haifa, together with some
friends and pioneers and travellers. Thank God that they all practice
righteousness and are illumined with the light of detachment, and every
day they are in His presence, this is an incomparable bounty…”213

Baha’u’llah’s return to Acre must have been around the beginning of August

207. Ra’fati, Pajuheshnameh, Persian Journal of Baha’i Studies, vol. II No. 1, 1997
208. British Orientalist (1862 – 1926), who visited Baha’u’llah in person for few days in Baha’u’llah’s
residence in Bahji outskirts of Acre, in 1890.
209. British Orientalist of Oxford University. See Baha’u’llah King of Glory, GR Publishers, 1980
210. See, Edward Granville Brown and the Baha’i Faith, H.M. Balyuzi, GR Publishers, 1975
211. The Templers did not believe to have a church, as the coming of Christ was close and they did not
need a physical church, but a gathering hall would suffice for their gathering and a place for schooling their
children.
212. Laurence Oliphant 1829-1888 British South African, author, traveller, diplomat and military personnel.
He was the only British who was allowed to live among the German Templers in their colony. Accordingly,
to the house he occupied was owned by a German Templer, by the name of Oldorf, who came to Haifa with
the American Templer. He was a carpenter. Later he had sold his house to Oliphant and moved to Ashdod”.
He was already dead two years earlier when Baha’u’llah arrived in Haifa and moved to the Oliphant House
during His stay in Haifa.
213. Ra’fati, Pajuheshnameh, A Persian Journal of Baha’i Studies, vol. II No. 1, 1997, see the fourth visit.

1891, as He celebrated the Twin Birthdays of the Bab and of Himself in the
Mansion of Bahji, on the 7th and 8th of August.  Therefore, His stay in Haifa had
been, according to Ra’fati, around forty days.

On this trip, Baha’u’llah also stayed in the Beit Abyad, a house belonging to
Elyas Abyad which was in the proximity of the German Colony, and on land to
the East of that building He raised His tent, too214.. Later, He raised His tent on a
separate vacant land215.

His fourth visit to Haifa, according to Ra’fati, was longer and more important.
At that time Baha’u’llah again visited Mount Carmel and the French Convent,
which had been established at the top of the mountain facing the Mediterranean
Sea. He also visited the Cave of Elijah216 that is in a lower part of the same
location as the Convent.

Right at the top of the Mount Carmel, where the Guardian, Shoghi Effendi, was
able to purchase some land for the future Baha’i Temple in the Holy Land, is the
spot where Baha’u’llah in His last trip revealed the Tablet of Carmel mentioned
earlier and in its vicinity, He pointed to Abdu’l-Baha the showing the exact location
of the future Shrine of the Bab.

Identifying the location of the Shrine
Husayn Eqbal217, one of the companions of Baha’u’llah, was present at the
time and has related to posterity his observations when the Heavenly Father,
Baha’u’llah, was seated in the shadow of a cluster of young cypress trees.  His
Son, Abdu’l-Bahá was also seated next to Him, while other companions were all
around them. Pointing out to His son Abdu’l-Baha, by His finger the land He
should purchase, and where the remains of the Báb were to be buried. At the
time, according to one account the specific land to be purchased pertained to a
Christian Arab, Elias Modavvar218*, while the land on which the cypress trees
were planted owned by Wilhelm Deiss, though this is quite ironic, how could an

214. The building today is a branch of Mercantile Discount Bank, at the corner of Allenby Street and Italian
Lane.
215. A piece of land of about 50mX20m at the corner of Hagefen Street and Morad Keramim Lane in the
German Colony, which today has been converted into a beautiful small garden by the Baha’i World Centre.
On the exact place of the tent some cypress trees have been planted on the exact spot where His tent had
stood and is owned by the Baha’i World Centre.
216. There are two caves of Elijah, the upper one next to the Convent and lower one, which is the main
cave. The Cave of Elijah is a pilgrimage place for Jews, Christians and Muslims. Master Abdu’l-Bahá also
stayed in its vicinity for over a month. David Ruhe, Door of Hope, pp. 186-188.
217. Eqbal’s memoirs were recorded in an article by Badi Bushru’i, Ahang Badi, numbers 3&4, year 28,
1973 Persian.
218. Muhammad-Ali Faizi, Malaka’i-Karmel (The Queen of Carmel), p.44, Baha’i National Institute, Iran
*Note: Seemingly the pieces of land acquired by Abdu’l-Baha for the Shrine of the Bab on Mt. Carmel were
purchased from the German Templers. Clarification is needed as to Elias’s land within the Templers’
properties.

Arab own land within the Templers’ land. There are only few meters of distance
between the two spots, i.e., the cypress circle and the Shrine. On the map drawn
by the Engineer Schumacher only the Templers owned that land.

In Ra’fati’s article mentioned earlier, there is a Tablet from Abdu’l-Bahá
addressed to Mírzá Áqá Afnán219, a relative of the Báb, mentioning this particular
piece of land, which was the choice of Baha’u’llah, and that He was very eager
to have it purchased at any cost. He liked it for its physical beauty as the Master
put it but of course its spiritual significance was at that time known only to
Baha’u’llah. It took several years in the mid-1890s before the Master Abdu’l-Bahá
was able to secure that land.

In the same above source,
Abdu’l-Bahá mentions that
He asked the friends of
Rangoon to prepare a one-
piece sarcophagus from the
best alabaster, which the
region
was
famous
for.
Abdu’l-Baha
Himself
sketched the design of the
sarcophagus and sent it to
them; the final product in
1899, with many difficulties
reached its destination in
Haifa. The friends of India
had also asked to prepare a
fine coffin from the best
Ebony wood of India 220 ,
which was installed in the
same sarcophagus. Abdu’l-
Baha had also instructed His
brother-in-law,
Mírzá
Asadu’lláh in 1897 to go to
Iran
to
bring
the
Holy
remains of the Bab in a
special box, which have
been hidden for fifty years
since His martyrdom in July
1950,
in
many
different
places and take it to the Holy Land, i.e., to Akka with utmost respect in such a
way that the contents of the box would not be detected by any one friends of

219. The Afnans are the relatives of the Bab, literary means twigs of the main trunk.
220. Ebony wood, which seemingly becomes petrified after hundred years.

foes. This had to be brought in by the instructions of Abdu’l-Baha on a ‘running
throne’221.

While writing the Tablet, Abdu’l-Bahá had already started the construction of
the Shrine on Mount Carmel in 1899. He asked the addressee of the Tablet, to
come and participate in the basic earthwork of the foundation, which accordingly,
has many merits and heavenly blessings. He adds that He is so happy to see
that a permanent place is being prepared for the Divine and luminous Holy
Temple of the Bab, which had received so much maltreatment from the foes for
so many years, and He thanks God for the means prepared for the final interment
with utmost glory which will become the place of wonder for humanity.

Again, in a separate Tablet addressed to another relative of the Báb, Mírzá
Muhammad-Baqir Afnán, in whose honor the water reservoir was built next to the
Shrine by the Master. He gives a progress report, thanking God for the lower
section (vault) of the Shrine has been completed most delicately.  Also, the plot
of land above the present one has also been purchased to prevent others to buy
and build over it. This piece of land He mentions is the same where the cypress
trees are located, where the Blessed Beauty rested under their shade. This piece
of land according to Ruhe belonged to a Templer by the name of Wilhelm
Deiss222.

Ra’fati writes in his article that the commencement of this construction, was
prophesied by Baha’u’llah in the Tablet of Hardegg revealed some nineteen years
earlier:

“Both land and sea have rejoiced at the glad tidings of the land of God and all
nations have been promised the advent of Him Who will purge the ills and
infirmities of the world. He verily is the One Who shall build the Temple of the
Lord. Blessed are they that recognize the truth”223.

And in another Tablet to a certain Baghdadi, He writes:
“…verily the land of Shaam 224  testifies to the sanctity of God, Who has
manifested Himself. Verily the Mount of God is vibrating by the breezes of His
presence. It is being named Carmel225, which calls, saying, verily the Builder of
the Temple has come and has sanctified everything, happy those who reach and
see”226.


221. The running throne was a seat for kings and queens carried by at least four people. The Arc of Covenant
had been carried by the Jews from Egypt to the Holy Land in the early years of their arrival.
222. The Door of Hope p 193. More on this piece of land see the chapter on the Cypress Trees.
223. Provisional translation.
224. Comprises of Damascus, Beirut, Ashkelon and the Holy Land.
225. Carmel literary means the vineyard of God, Carm and Il. Orchard, garden.
226. Ra’fati, Pajuheshnameh, mentioned earlier.

Referring to the above Tablet, the Tablet of Carmel as mentioned earlier, is a
conversation between the Creator and the created one, between the Lord, the
Builder of the Temple, and the Mountain of God, upon which the Temple was
going to be built. There are many prophecies in this Tablet such as: the building
of the Temple, i.e, the Shrine of the Bab, and the completion of the Ark of God,
the Seat of the Universal House of Justice - from where the Law of God will be
disseminated to every part of the earth - and its ancillary buildings (the
International Teaching Centre, the Centre of the Study of Texts, the International
Baha’i Archive and the International Baha’i Library, together with the nineteen
Terraces, are the fulfillment of this Holy Tablet of Baha’u’llah.

CHAPTER VII

TEMPLE OF THE LORD
The Shrine of the Bab
Abdu’l-Baha clarified that in this
Revelation, The Bab as the ‘Son’ and
Baha’u’llah as the ‘Father’. The Bab -the
Forerunner of Baha’u’llah’s Revelation-
was identified in the Baha’u’llah’s
Writings as ‘The King of Messengers’.
He was the Prophet Founder of the Babi
Revelation that was declared on 23 May
1844 in Shiraz, Iran, and at the same
time He announced the coming of
Baha’u’llah, the return of Christ in the
Glory of the Father, ‘Whom God shall
make manifest’. And as per the Islamic
traditions, the Bab’s claim is of being the
‘Lord of the Age’, in other words, the
expectation is to have the ‘Lord of the
Age’ to come and prepare the path for
the coming of the ‘Father’227.

The exalted station of the Bab
required having a mausoleum befitting
to His rank, the rank of ‘the Lord of the
Age’. For this, a magnificent preparation was needed:
1. Should be in the Holy Land, as identified by the Bible.
2.
Should be in Haifa, as identified by Baha’u’llah.
3. Should be on the Mount Carmel, as identified By Baha’u’llah, where
the German Templers were also expecting.
4. Should be built by the Branch, as identified by the Bible. Abdu’l-
Baha had been titled ‘The Most Mighty Branch and Shoghi Effendi, the
Chosen Branch’228.

The conditions were met. The Holy Land was the land for the Temple of the
Lord, where the Father had already arrived. The city was chosen by the Father
Himself to be in Haifa, on the Mt. Carmel, mentioned in the Bible. He chose the
spot even before the German’s arrival, contemplated in the Tablet of Carmel in
His visit to Haifa back on 31 August 1868. The German Templers’ most
meritorious accomplishment was to establish themselves – through Hardegg –

227. There is a striking similarity between the two Manifestations of God, i.e. Jesus Christ and The Bab.
The reader might want to investigate on the life of Bab 1819 – 1850 to see the similarities.
228. Under the instructions of Baha’u’llah, His son Abdu’l-Baha and His grandson Shoghi Effendi built the
Temple on Mr. Carmel. Abdu’l-Baha built the rooms and Shoghi Effendi built the superstructure over it.

to the already chosen spot by the Father, Who made His choice public by
showing to the Branch where the Temple should be built, that was in April 1891
in His last visit to Haifa. The ‘Branch’ remained to make the move, to secure the
land, which was shown to Him by the ‘Father’; have the remains of the ‘Lord’ to
be transferred from the land of His martyrdom – Iran – to the Holy Land; have the
marble sarcophagus prepared as the permanent resting place of the holy remains
of the Bab. All these happened when He, Abbas Effendi, Abdu’l-Baha ‘the Most
Mighty Branch’, was in the severest persecution and imprisonment in Acre.

Around 1896 Abdu’l-Baha secured the required land, and four years later in
the early 1900, the holy remains of the Bab, after being in hiding places for half
a century were brought to Haifa. In 1901, He started to have the excavations of
the Lord’s Temple. In the same year, the Ottoman government again imposed
restrictions on His liberty to be able to move freely around, and He was to return
to the prison city of Acre, confined for another seven years before in 1908, as a
result of the Young Turks Revolution, He was finally released and freed once for
all, together with all the other political and religious prisoners. But in the
meanwhile, He was directing the construction of the Shrine from Acre. Only a
year later, in 21 March 1909 He ended His task by placing the remains of the Bab
in the Sarcophagus in the underground vault at the presence of east and west
believers, securely sealed, and announced to the Baha’is around the world that
the Temple of the Lord is being completed by placing the Shkinah into the Arc of
the Covenant in the bosom of the Mt. Carmel.

The early building was a simple elegant six rooms structure with a style, which
had its influence from the east and the west, especially from the actual Templer
architecture. And in about 20 years later, His successor, Shoghi Effendi, His
grandson, the Chosen Branch, completed the building by adding identical three
more rooms at the south side of the building, completing the nine rooms, and it
took another 28 years before a competent Canadian architect, Sutherland
Maxwell229, designed the superstructure of the Temple of the Lord in its utmost
beauty and perfection crowned with a golden dome. It was in 1953, on the
hundredth anniversary of the declaration of Baha’u’llah’s new Revelation, that the
completed Temple was inaugurated. Only in early 2001 the 19 terraces were
completed, thus, the Temple of the Lord, the Queen of Carmel, shined as the icon
of the Baha’i world.

Florence Breed, one of the early western believers wrote the following as her
observations:
“…Bordering the road were ‘the thrifty little homes and gardens of the German
farmers’, whose now dead fathers, had established the colony to wait here for the
coming of the Lord’. She wrote of the Tomb as ‘an imposing structure…two

229. Canadian Architect William Sutherland Maxwell had become the father-in-law of Shoghi Effendi in
1937.

stories high…and which will, when finished, I understand, have an added story’.
She could not, of course, have visualized its future golden dome, which would
make this Shrine ‘the Queen of Carmel’. But she wrote of ‘Abdu’l-Baha’s
achievement in building this Tomb though Himself a captive – He the ‘humblest
and mightiest servants of Baha’u’llah’. She told how one day, the Baha’i prophecy
said, ships of all nations were to ride down at the blue Gulf of Akka, and how, up
gleaming flights of white marble stairs, pilgrim kings, gifts in their hands, would
be climbing to this Shrine230.
“In the sitting-room downstairs He continued: ‘When obstacles stopped us on
all sides and calamities hemmed us in, we started building the Bab’s holy Tomb
on Mount Carmel’231.

Shoghi Effendi, the Guardian of the Baha’i Faith had beautified surrounding
the edifice with unique gardens to the utmost possible way, and it was until 2001
that the Temple of the Lord, supreme terraced gardens were completed to its
perfection. Millions of admirers from around the world have visited it reverently,
admired its beauty, simplicity, and spirituality.

This is the Temple of the Lord – The Queen of Carmel - and its brief history
envisioned and inspired by The Father, Baha’u’llah the Glory of God, built by the
Branch, Abdu’l-Baha, as the Bible testifies, holding in its bosom the remains of
the youthful Prophet, the Bab, the forerunner of Baha’u’llah, embellished by
Shoghi Effendi, the Guardian, and adorned by 19 Terraces at the ministry of the
Universal House of Justice, the perpetual leader of the Baha’i Faith.

230. Marzieh Gail, quoting her mother, Summon Up Remembrance, p.223. GR Publishers
231. Ibid, p. 256

CHAPTER VIII
Jerusalem
The Abode of Peace! Place of most holy for the Jews, which kept them
together in diaspora for centuries. Always ‘next year in Jerusalem’ was the only
hope that they strived and lived for. The significance of the ‘Abode of Peace’ is
indeed of most significant for all the three major Faiths, Jews, Christians and
Muslims. This has been the most contentious place on earth in the religious
history, and it is a holy city for them all. The true love these three Faiths have for
the city is not describable. The Temple of Solomon, which contained the Holy of
Holies was kept there, the Lord Christ was crucified and His holy remains were
kept there, and according to the traditions, Prophet Muhammad reportedly had
ascended to heaven from the most holy Temple of the Jews, Temple of
Solomon232 , thus this City becomes the third most holy place for them after
Mecca and Medina.

Christoph Hoffmann together with some Templers, moved the Jerusalem with
the intention of one day to build the Temple of the Lord there, in the meanwhile,
working on the real temple, which is the moral life of the adherents, which they
called the real Temple.

Jerusalem in Templers’ words
Christoph Hoffmann in his book233 dedicates a whole chapter to the reason
why Jerusalem is the preferred place on earth where the ‘Building of the Temple’
should begin.

Although Christ has prophesied that: “The time is coming when you will
worship the Father neither on this mountain, nor in Jerusalem”234 . So, where
else? Indeed, that is the decision of the Glory of God.

In the words of Hoffmann: “The Temple Society certainly does not intend to
revive the Jewish superstition that was condemned by divine judgment and claim
that Jerusalem is holier and a better place for worship than any other place on
earth. Rather, we abide by the saying of Christ that genuine worshipers will
worship the Father in spirit and in truth…Of course, it does not follow from this
that Jerusalem alone should be excluded from the worship of God. On the
contrary, if the Temple is to be built everywhere, then clearly it may not only be
built in Jerusalem, but indeed should be built there. The judgment of God, which
decreed that Jerusalem and Palestine were to be destroyed by the Gentiles, was
not meant to last forever, but according to Christ’s own words only until the time
of the Gentiles fulfilled235. There will and must come a time when the Temple will

232. Al-Aqsa Mosque has been built over the ruins of the King Solomon’s Temple 1035 AD.
233. Orient and Occident,
234. John 4:21
235. (Luke 21:24)

be rebuilt in Jerusalem, too, in other words, when the spiritual and material
conditions ordained by God will be established there. An integral part of this
process will be the introduction of religious observances and consequently the
designation of holy places of public worship “236.


“These considerations, which indicate that Jerusalem and Palestine, just as
much as any other country, deserve to be the location for Christian activity aimed
at spreading the knowledge of God, or, to use the common expression, for
missionary activity, adequately justify the Temple Society’s endeavor in this
country: it has exactly the same rights as the Catholic monasteries and the
Protestant missions in Palestine. These considerations, in fact, constitute a
perfectly good reason for preferring Jerusalem and Palestine to any other place,
because, as mentioned above, carrying out Christ’s work in this country would
be an even greater testimony for the power of Christ’s spirit than if the same goal
were pursued and attained in any other country.237

“It is all the more remarkable then that our plan to establish the Temple in
Jerusalem has been met with the greatest opposition by the representatives of
the Protestant missions, especially by the Mission of Basle…in Württemberg…Of
course, Jerusalem and Palestine have a far greater significance for the Temple
Society than simply being preferred as a field of activity… and the best way to
spread Christian knowledge of God amongst all nations, is to establish a Temple
in the spirit of Jesus Christ in Jerusalem, which involves rebuilding the city and
the country…238


“…the Temple Society believes in the possibility and necessity of a complete
fulfillment of everything the prophets predicted about Jerusalem. Whether this
Jerusalem of the future, the center of Salvation, of the spiritual and moral
improvement of all humanity, is to be located at the site of the old Jerusalem in
Palestine or at some other place on earth – this is a question of secondary
importance…239


“Our task, however, and the need of our time, is to build that Temple in
Jerusalem, which is described in Revelation 11, and on which the prophets of
Israel, particularly the last three, Haggai, Zechariah and Malachi, threw some
light in connection with the reconstruction of Jerusalem and the Temple after the
return of Israel from Babylon240.



236. Occident and Orient”, p.80 of 94
237. (Ibid, p. 81)
238. (Ibid, p. 82, 83)
239. (Ibid, p.89)
240. (Ibid, p.91)

Jerusalem - City of Peace241 - in the Baha’i Literature

Abdu’l-Bahá explained what in reality the meaning of the word ‘Jerusalem’ is:
“…it is not a city built of clay and stone, yet, it means the inner part of the
‘religion of God’, the Holy of Holies, and as such, it should be achieved in the
heart and the soul, and people should not only be satisfied with the physical
conditions of the Holy City. While the real Jerusalem is being built within, this will
last forever, while thousands of temples and cities will come and go with no traces
whatsoever left of them. The Holy of Holies, the Religion of God, does not accept
any change and does not go out of fashion. What is meant by the Holy City, is
the laws and ordinances of the religions which accept change and are renewed
in each dispensation. That is why in the Bible the word of ‘New Jerusalem’ is
being pronounced, which of course is not another city but another chapter in the
successive revelation of religions with new sets of laws and ordinances, and
which is also called ‘the Heavenly Jerusalem”242.

241. Jerusalem is often called Zion; Mount Zion is the hill on which the fortress of the city was built. Wikipedia
242. Abdu’l-Baha, Some Answered Questions, Chapter 18.

CHAPTER IX

Shkhinah - The Arc of Covenant
Shkinah is a Hebrew feminine word, its Arabic version is Sakinah, which
means to settle or dwell. It relates to the feminine attributes of God, Sophia. In
Arabic the word Sakinah is a feminine name.  It is recorded that the great
granddaughter of Prophet Muhammad, the daughter of Imam Husayn, was
named Sakinah as, accordingly she was the first woman being named thus. It
also has the connotation of peacefulness and serenity.

This terminology has been used in
Judaism, Christianity, Islam, and in the
Baha’i Faith. Although in Judaism this
word is not in the Scripture, yet its concept
is being widely used in the Talmud by
Rabbinic scholars. Its connotation is the
physical presence of God. The word
frequently
used
by
Baha’u’llah
as
‘Sakinatu-llah’, where God resides.

The Torah reports that Shkhinah is
what caused prophets to prophesy and
King David to compose his Psalms. The
Shkhinah manifests itself as a form of joy
connected with prophecy and creativity243
The Talmud also reports “that The Shkhinah does not rest amidst laziness, not
amidst laughter, not amidst lightheadedness, not amidst idle conversation.
Rather, it is amidst the joy associated with a mitzvah (a meritorious or charitable
act) that the Shekhinah comes to rest upon the people…Thus the Shkhinah is
associated with the transformational “Spirit of God”244 …

The Shkhinah in the New Testament is commonly equated to the presence or
indwelling of the Spirit of the Lord245 in the believer, drawing parallels to the
presence of God in Solomon’s Temple.

Some Christian scholars believe that the Glory of the Lord and Shkhinah are
the same thing and therefore, the Messiah is the Shkhinah’s presence.

When God inscribed by lightning the Ten Commandments on two Tablets of
rock through the Prophet Moses, these were kept in a box called ‘The Ark of the
Covenant’, indicating the Covenant of God with the people of Israel. The box to
be described below was kept under a Tabernacle, a tent, to be protected at all

243. (Pesachim 117a).
244. Wikipedia on Jewish understanding of Shkhina.
245. (Generally referred to as the Holy Spirit, or Spirit of Christ)

times. Once however, the Shkhinah, the Ark of the Covenant, was placed in
Solomon’s Temple, the use of the Tabernacle came to an end246.

It is also said that when the Israelites begged Moses that they wanted to
always have the presence of God with them, God ordered Moses to build a box
wherein He would be dwelling. That was the Ark of the Covenant.

Aba Eban the former prime minister and scholar of the history of Israel
described the Ark:
“According to the Bible, the Israelite invaders carried with them the Ark of the
Covenant, an acacia-wood box measuring about 4 feet long, 2 ½  feet wide, and
2 ½ feet high. Covered with gold both inside and out, the Ark was “defended” by
two golden cherubim, poised at either end with wings outstretched. When the
Israelites encamped, the Ark was lodged within a richly decorated tabernacle that
was itself protected by a tent of ram and goats’ skins and guarded by Levites.
When the Israelites marched, the Ark marched with them, supported on two
wooden staves that slipped through four gold rings attached to its feet, two on
each side. After Joshua settled in Shiloh, the Ark resided there, too, but even
then, it was often carried into battle. On one such occasion, near Eben-Ezer, the
Ark fell into the clutches of the Philistines, but to them, the Bible tells us, it brought
only evil; when they installed it in their temple at Ashdod, their chief god Dagon
toppled from his pedestal and was shattered. Eventually, David brought the Ark
to Jerusalem, where it was later housed in Solomon’s Temple, within the Holy of
Holies, the most sacred of all Jewish shrines. But the Bible makes scant mention
of the Ark thereafter, and by the time of the prophets it seems to have been lost.
Thus, we know neither the ultimate fate of the Ark nor the exact nature of its
contents. However, the early Israelites conceived the Ark of the Covenant when
they settled in Canaan.  What were contained in that sacred chest were an
essential idea, a covenant, and an agreement that defined the responsibilities of
human beings and their relationship with God. It was a mutual relationship. If they
would fulfill His commandments, He would protect and sustain them…”247

Sakinatu’llah, where the spirit of God resides.
Many of the words belonging to the older Divine Revelations are being revived
in the Revelation of Baha’u’llah. In this regard He frequently mentions the word
of Sakinatullah whenever He speaks about His own presence or that of the Bab
in a specific place. For example, in a Tablet, addressing the recipient who
apparently had lost his house and possessions, He refers to His own departure
from the house of Baghdad, and says: “…it happened to you as it happened to
the
sarcophagus
(the
house)
in
which
dwelled
Sakinah
(Shkhina)
(Baha’u’llah)…”248

246. “…Lord said that He would dwell in a thick darkness.” (1Ki. 8:12)
247. Aba Eban, “Heritage”, p. 38
248.  “Ad’iyyih Mahboub”, pp. 93-99 – A book containing some of the writings of Baha’u’llah in Persian and
Arabic.

The Ark of the Covenant is the dwelling place of Shkhina, where the Holy of
Holies resides. According to Abdu’l-Baha, the Holy of Holies is an inseparable
part of the Ark of the Covenant, and this is eternal, renewed only by the dwelling
place, otherwise, “This is the ancient Faith of God, eternal in the past, eternal in
the future”, as Baha’u’llah explains.

Abdu’l-Bahá describes this matter extensively:
“…the Law of God is divided into two part; one is the fundamental basis which
comprises all spiritual things, that is to say, it refers to the spiritual virtues and
divine qualities; this does not change nor alter: it is the Holy of Holies which is
the essence of the Law of Adam, Noah, Abraham, Moses, Christ, Muhammad,
the Bab and Baha’u’llah, and which lasts and is established in all the prophetic
cycles. It will never be abrogated, for it is spiritual and not material truth, it is faith,
knowledge, certitude, justice, piety, righteousness,
trustworthiness, love of God, inward peace, purity,
detachment, humility, meekness, patience, and
constancy. It shows mercy to the poor, defends the
oppressed, gives to the wretched, and uplifts the
fallen.
“These divine qualities, these commandments, will
never be abolished; nay, they will last and will be
established forever and ever. These virtues of
humanity will be renewed in each of the different
cycles; for at the end of every cycle the spiritual Law
of God, that is to say, the human virtues, disappears,
and only the form subsists.
“Thus, among the Jews, at the end of the cycle of
Moses
which
coincides
with
the
Christian
manifestation, the Law of God disappeared, only a
form without spirit remaining. The Holy of Holies
departed from amongst them; but the outer court of
Jerusalem – which is the expression used for the form of the religion – fell into
the hands of the Gentiles. In the same way the fundamental principles of religion
of Christ, which are the greatest virtues of humanity, have disappeared, and its
form has remained in the hands of the clergy and priests. Likewise, the
foundation of the religion of Muhammad has disappeared, but its form remains in
the hands of the official ‘Ulamá priests249.

Thus, the meaning of the terminologies used in the Revelations of the past
and their true meaning by the advent of this Revelation becomes quite obvious.

Ezekiel’s prophecies are quite interesting when compared with the Revelation
of the Babi/Baha’i Faiths:

249. Abdu’l-Baha, Some Answered Questions”, chapter “Influence of the Prophets
Hardegg’s autographed picture.

“And behold, the glory of the God of Israel came from the way of the east; and
his voice was like a noise of many waters; and the earth whined with his glory…
And the glory of the Lord came into the house by the way of the gate250 whose
prospect is toward the east…And I heard him speaking to me out of the
house…and he said to me, Son of man, the place of my throne, and the place of
the soles of my feet, where I will dwell in the midst of the children of Israel forever,
and my holy name, shall the house of Israel no more defiled,…”251

Further in it continues speaking of the Shkhina: “And many nations shall be
joined to the Lord in that day, and shall be my people; and I will dwell in the midst
of you, and you shall know that the Lord of hosts has sent me to you…”252

The Shkhinah, is the place of the Temple (the Shrine of the Bab), where His
holy Remains are being kept. Notwithstanding, the Most Holy Shrine for the
Baha’is, is the Tomb of Baha’u’llah, the Lord of the hosts, outskirts of Acre, Israel.



250. The Bab, meaning gate
251. Eze. 43:2 to 43:7, (emphasis added).
252. Zek. 2:11

CHAPTER X

Kingdom of God
“Tear asunder, in My Name, the veils that have grievously blinded
your vision, and, through the power born of your belief in the unity
of God, scatter the idols of vain imitation. Enter, then, the holy
paradise of the good pleasure of the All-Merciful. Sanctify your
souls from whatsoever is not of God, and taste ye the sweetness
of rest within the pale of His vast and mighty Revelation, and
beneath the shadow of His supreme and infallible authority. Suffer
not yourselves to be wrapt in the dense veils of your selfish
desires, inasmuch as I have perfected in every one of you My
creation, so that the excellence of My handiwork may be fully
revealed unto men. It follows, therefore, that every man hath been,
and will continue to be, able of himself to appreciate the Beauty of
God, the Glorified. Had he not been endowed with such a capacity;
how could he be called to account for his failure?”253

The writings of Christoph Hoffmann are quite focused on the ‘Building of the
Kingdom of God on Earth’. During his life he wrote several books on Peace,
Orient & Occident and many essays all leading to the same final thought, all
leading his sublime vision to the theme of the Kingdom of God.

In conclusion, according to the ‘Prayer of the Lord, Thy Kingdom come…’, the
Templers as well as most of the Christian churches and independent religions,
seek this unique matter and all try to see the Kingdom of God be established on
earth, when mature humanity would live and would conduct its affairs on justice,
fairness, love and understanding. To get to this end, according to the Baha’i
teachings, this is a process and not an event. This process has obviously started
since the dawn of the New Revelation, where a line is drawn between its start254
and onward, giving an ever-growing impulse to the whole of creation, of whatever
background, sciences, arts, music, literature, inventions and discoveries, which
are all through the new breath infused in the conscience of Mankind.

To close this research work, it is to mention that certainly the Templers had a
station as they were the only one group among hundreds of Millenarists and
Messianic movements, who came face to face255 with Baha’u’llah, Who claimed
to be ‘the Father’ and also with His Center of Covenant ‘the Branch’, Abdu’l-Baha,
for many years, dwelling in their midst.

As per the teachings of the Baha’i Faith, the relationship of the Faiths of God,
i.e. Judaism, Christianity, Islam and the Baha’i Faith and many others fits in a
simple analogy, consider is a school with different grades where each grade has
its own teacher and its own textbook to prepare the students for the forthcoming

253. Baha’u’llah; Gleanings of the Writings of Baha’u’llah, p. 143
254. The Baha’i Revelation starts on 23 May 1844, when the Bab declared His mission.
255. In 1890 when Baha’u’llah got sick in Haifa spent a night or two at one of the Templer’s home. Indeed
a scant members of the group did see Baha’u’llah face to face.

higher grade, where the students once have been capacitated by the previous
teacher, will be looking forward to see the new teacher and the new text. Nothing
will be contradictory among the different grades, but everything complementary.
All teach the same truth according to the capacity of the students in each grade.
And according to Baha’u’llah, the grades of the school of humanity are infinite,
“This is the changeless Faith of God, eternal in the past, eternal in the
future” therefore, as long as humanity exist, there will be new teachers and new
texts containing the new words of God, as God is infinite, so is His teachings.
The Teachers’ way in any specific period, is the only way to capacitate the
students, and His book is the only book for that matter, and until the students get
to the next grade, they will face the same process, repeating again the same truth
but of course in a higher degree.

Annex I
TABLET OF HIRTIK – Addressed to Georg David Hardegg

Story behind the finding of the Tablet
Though the Tablet of Hirtik has been mentioned in the writings of Shoghi
Effendi as “one of the most famous Tablets of Baha’u’llah”, as recorded in the
article of, Faruq Izadinia on ‘Understanding the Divine Word’256 referring to the
Tablet of Hirtik. he writes, this Tablet was identified by M. Momen, after he found
the translation of the same by the missionary Zeller in the 1870s. The Research
Department of the Baha’i World Center confirmed the true addressee of the
Tablet of Hirtik as Georg David Hardegg, and its nature was in accordance to the
reference of Shoghi Effendi’s remarks mentioned above. The revelation of this
Tablet by the pen of Baha’u’llah has possibly been in 1872.

Having said that, up to date, there is no official translation of this Mighty Tablet,
which according to the beloved Guardian, together with the Most Holy Tablet257
(1870), and the Tablet to the Pope Pius IX (1869) , are the mightiest Tablets
revealed by the Pen of His Manifestation addressing the Christendom. There are,
however, some attempts done by some individuals in translating it to English.
First attempt was done by Reverend John Zeller, who at the request of Hardegg,
made an inadequate translation. According to Izadinia, there are seven
misunderstandings by Zeller while attempting to make the translation available
to Hardegg. The seven analyzed points will be mentioned in a later stage.

The second attempt was by Stephen Lambden, who has an interesting story
of how he came across this Tablet in its Arabic language. He mentions his story
in his article258, also see annex III.

“On first coming to know something of the nature of the Lawh-i-Hirtik through
the note on it in ‘Abd al-Hamid Ishraq Khavari’s Ganj-i-shaygan, I wrote to the
Baha’i World Centre in Haifa requesting a copy for detailed study. On receipt of
typed copy I began to try to work out what consonants H-R-T-K might signify, as
they were evidently neither indicative of an Arabic nor a Persian construction.
Ignoring the pointing and guessing that it might indicate the name of the recipient
of the letter, the name Hardegg eventually sprang to mind. I then consulted
Moojan Momen’s book, The Babi and Baha’i Religions, and was delighted to find
that what was obviously a very garbled translation of the Lawh-i-Hirtik had been
forwarded by the missionary Rev. John Zeller (c. 1830- 1902) to English Church
Missionary Society and identified as a letter of Baha’u’llah to Hardegg.
Furthermore, as Zeller’s letter forwarding Baha’u’llah’s Lawh-i-Hirtik was dated

256. See ‘Safine Erfan # 14, p. 401, Asr-i-Jadid Publishers, Darmstad, Germany - 2011
257. Tablet to the Christians, see The Writings of Baha’u’llah, p. 175, Baha’i Publishing Trust, India - 1986
258. Stephen Lambden and Kamran Ikbal, Light of Irfan, vol. 4, pp. 97-100,
http://irfancolloquia.org/pdf/lights4_lambden_ekbal.pdf

July 8, 1872, it may be inferred that the Lawh-i-Hirtik was written between late
1868 (when both Baha’u’llah and Hardegg arrived in ‘Akka and Haifa
respectively) and 8th July 1872. It was thus most probably between 1871 and
early 1872 that Baha’u’llah addressed this Tablet to the Templer leader.”

And finally, Habib Taherzadeh, et.al.259, a scholar par excellence, who at the
time of finding of the Tablet was residing in Haifa, a master in Arabic language,
with the help of some other of his erudite friends of the Baha’i World Center made
another translation though not published in any form. A friend, graciously supplied
the writer with a copy of the same. However, not unless the official translation of
this Tablet is available, the accessible literature can only help to appreciate the
nature of this important work of Baha’u’llah.

At continuation, the translation of Habib Taherzadeh:

“In the Name of God, The Ever Blessed
Thy sealed letter hath reached the presence of this Wronged One and from it
have We inhaled the fragrance of thy devotion towards God, the Help-in-Peril,
the Self-Subsisting. We beseech God to acquaint thee with that which is latent in
the inscribed Tablet and to enable thee to hearken unto the melody of the Dove
warbling upon the branches and to perceive the murmur of the water of life which
through the power of wisdom and utterance gusheth out of the well-spring of the
Will of the Lord of mankind.
O friend! It behoveth your honor to attentively consider the Word of God and
to appreciate its ascendancy and sweetness, for verily it sufficeth all the dwellers
of the earth. The first one260 to believe in Him Who was the Spirit261 became
enraptured by the Word his Lord had uttered, and through the potency of His
Word he turned unto Him and embraced the truth, wholly detached from the
worldly things that men cherish. Thus beseem the leviathans of the Most Great
Ocean.
O thou accomplished man of understanding; O thou who art wise and
discerning! Know thou of a truth that selfish desires have deterred the generality
of mankind from turning their faces towards God, the Lord of Names. Whoso
beholdeth with the eye of insight will be moved to testify and bear witness to the
truth, exclaiming: Glorified is my Lord, the Most Exalted. Both land and sea have
rejoiced at the glad tidings of the land of God and all nations have been promised
the advent of Him Who will purge the ills and infirmities of the world. He verily is
the One Who shall build the Temple of the Lord. Blessed are they that recognize
the truth.
When appointed Hour is come, Carmel will raise her voice and cry aloud.
Methinks she trembleth before the stirrings of the breeze of God. Well is it with

259. Habib Taherzadeh and Ali Nakhjavani
260. Saint Peter, the Apostle
261. Jesus Christ

them that perceive. Were any one to incline his inner ear he would readily
observe the Rock 262 crying out, bearing witness unto the ever-abiding Lord.
Blessed the man that hath discovered the sweet savors of this utterance and set
his face towards the Kingdom, rid of all attachments to the world, inasmuch as
when that which is mentioned in the Book will come to pass, thou wouldst find
the people seeing with their eyes but recognize not.
O friend! Consider thou the Mystery of the Great Reversal263, symbolizing the
sign of the Sovereign, for it hath caused the exalted among the people to be
abased and the abased to be exalted. Moreover, call thou to mind the
circumstances at the time if the coming of Jesus when the divines, the learned
and the men of letters rejected Him, while he that was only a fisherman directed
himself towards the Kingdom. This is the meaning of that which is expressed by
way of allusions and mysteries amidst the shadows of the words. Verily, great,
immensely great, is the Cause of God. Peter, the Apostle, despite his exalted
position and lofty station, did hold his tongue when he was interrogated264.
Indeed, shouldst thou, wholly for the sake of the Lord, ponder in thy heart on
that which occurred in the past, thou wouldst behold the light shining resplendent
before thy face and wouldst make it the object of thy constant attention. For the
Truth is too obvious to be obscured by veils265 and the path too conspicuous to
be concealed by darkness and the certitude too securely established to be
wrapped up in false imaginings. They that have suffered themselves to be kept
back are but the ones who have followed the promptings of their own selfish
desires and are in this Day, lying fast asleep. Ere long will they be roused from
their slumber, will rush forth, but alas shall discern naught. Well is it with him that
inhaleth the fragrance the moment it is diffused. Verily he hath attained unto that
which the sincere servants of God have attained.
Know thou, moreover, that We found the letter S, which occurreth in the word
‘sulh’266, to have been adorned with the ornament of the vertical Alif267 which is
glorified in the widely disseminated Tablet. And when the effulgent light of this
heavenly Word shone forth, the portals of heaven were flung open and the
Kingdom of Names was manifested and the Revelation of God fulfilled through
the appearance of the letters H and ‘A after their having been linked up with the
horizontal Alif bejeweled with the point268 [B linked with Ha – Baha] – the Point
out of which the treasured Name hath been revealed, and the hidden Mystery
unraveled and the preserved Secret divulged. It is the point from which all created
things have been generated and thereunto have returned. Thereupon We
witnessed the Word utter a word which is common to the vocabulary and

262. Dome of the Rock, Referring to Aqsa Mosque in Jerusalem, the third holiest place for the Muslims.
263. The high will become low and the low will become high.
264. Referring to denying Christ three times.
265. The truth of the sun is the sun itself, does not need any other proof.
266. Solh in Arabic means peace.
267. Alif is the first letter, i.e., ‘A’. Salih – the Righteous One, referring to Jesus’ remarks to Peter when He
asked Peter why do you call me the Righteous, as there is only one Righteous Who is in the Heaven.
268. The word point means dot. In Arabic/Persian alphabet, the letter ‘B’ is the horizontal Alif with one dot
under the character, while ‘P’ has three dots under the character and ‘T’ has two dots above the character.

language of every nation. And no sooner had it been uttered than there shone
forth above the horizon of its utterance a Luminary, before whose effulgent
splendor the sun in the heavens did obscure. Then the Word exclaimed: Verily
the head of seventy is now attired with the crown of forty, which is linked up with
seven before ten269 There at the Word groaned aloud, saying: How strange to
see the house unmindful of the landlord, and the son ignoring his father, and in
like manner the eager soul turning away from the shelter and abode he hath been
seeking.
O thou who soarest in the atmosphere of true understanding! He who hath
known the fluid that is solid and hath recognized that which is still and yet it
soareth, the Seen and the Unseen, the Resplendent and the Hidden, such a man
is so carried away by the radiance of His glory that he will soar on the wings of
longing in the atmosphere of divine presence, of holiness and reunion.
As regards that which your honor hath mentioned about darkness, We testify
that it pervadeth all mankind. Happy is he who is illumined by the light that shineth
resplendent from the horizon of the mercy of his Lord, the Most Exalted. Verily
darkness is but idle fancies and vain imaginings whereby people are deterred
from drawing nigh unto the Kingdom when it was manifested at the bidding of
God, the Lord of the realm on high.
As to the remark thou hast made concerning the view expressed by so-and-
so to the effect that there is no difference between us on the subject of Spirit270
Indeed, this is true, inasmuch as Spirit is sanctified from being harmed by the
outburst of human discord and is exalted above the insinuations of evil
suggestions. It is the manifestation of the light of Divine Unity amongst men and
the wondrous sign of the Ancient of Days amidst the peoples of the world.
Whoever turneth thereunto hath verily turned unto Him Who hath bestowed it,
and whoso breaketh off from it hath broken off from Him Who generated it and
hath given a voice unto it. Verily He hath been supreme above all that hath been
and shall be and He now is what He hath ever been. However, the radiance of
the light, which is shed upon the mirrors, would vary according to the diversity of
forms and colors271.
O friend! Should a token of the hidden secret, which is enshrined in mysteries,
be divulged, the souls of them that have clung to the things current amongst men
and cast away that which is with God would be sorely perturbed.
O friend! Wert thou to ponder a while upon that which We have imparted unto
thee and to fulfill whatsoever hath been mentioned with perfect constancy, surely
there shall appear from thy person that which hath appeared in the past272.
O friend! This Bird is fallen into the clutches of tyranny and sedition, unable to
find itself a nest wherein it could abide, nor is there a space to wing its way unto
it, yet, despite such conditions it summoneth mankind unto the eternal life. Well

269. According to Abjad numerology: ‘A amounts 70, M to 40, Z to 7 and I to 10 – hence the word Mu’azzi
the Comforter.
270. Referring to Jesus Christ, the Spirit of God.
271. Referring to different Manifestations of God, i.e., Abraham, Moses, Jesus, Muhammad, etc.
272 That Hardegg will become Peter like, the Apostle.

is it with the attentive ear.
We entreat God to gather us within a single court and to graciously enable us
to do that, which is pleasing and acceptable unto Him.
Signed, The Wronged One” 273


Three Comparative existing translations
There are merits in other translations, though the concepts be different and
the words to carry the true understanding of the original be different. Therefore,
at continuation a comparative translation of the three available versions
paragraph by paragraph, where the letters HT stands for Habib Taherzadeh, ST
for Stephen Lambden and Z for John Zeller.274

Paragraph One: H.T.
In the Name of God, The Ever Blessed
Thy sealed letter hath reached the presence of this Wronged One and from it
have We inhaled the fragrance of thy devotion towards God, the Help-in-Peril,
the Self-Subsisting. We beseech God to acquaint thee with that which is latent in
the inscribed Tablet and to enable thee to hearken unto the melody of the Dove
warbling upon the branches and to perceive the murmur of the water of life which
through the power of wisdom and utterance gusheth out of the well-spring of the
Will of the Lord of mankind.

Paragraph One: S.L.
In the name of God, the Most Holy
Thy sealed letter arrived before the Wronged One. There from did We catch a
fragrance of thy sincerity towards God, the Protector, the Self-Subsisting. We
entreat God that He might inform thee of that which is concealed in an inscribed
Tablet; might enable thee to hearken unto the cooing of the Dove upon the
branches and murmuring of the Water of Life which hath flowed with Wisdom and
Explanation from the spring of the Will of the King of Existence.

Paragraph One: Z.
In the name of God the most high!
Exalted teacher!
Your sealed letter to the oppressed arrived, and we recognized from the same
your uprightness towards the Almighty all-preserving God. We ask God, that He
may reveal to you the hidden knowledge written upon a tablet and let you hear
the rustling of the leaves from the tree of knowledge and the murmuring of the
waters flowing from the essence of the creator ruling over all with wisdom and
intelligence.

273. Sometimes Baha’u’llah alluded to Himself as ‘Mazlum’, the Wronged One, the One Who has been
treated unjustly, The Oppressed One.
274. Note: Moojan Momen in his book Babi and Baha’i Religions, 1844-1944 has Zeller’s partial translation.
The writer thanks him for having facilitated the remaining and unpublished paragraphs.


Paragraph Two: H.T.
O friend! It behoveth your honor to attentively consider the Word of God and
to appreciate its ascendancy and sweetness, for verily it sufficeth all the dwellers
of the earth. The first one to believe in Him Who was the Spirit (Jesus) became
enraptured by the Word his Lord had uttered, and through the potency of His
Word he turned unto Him and embraced the truth, wholly detached from the
worldly things that men cherish. Thus beseem the leviathans of the Most Great
Ocean.

Paragraph Two: S.L.
O beloved one! It is necessary that thine eminence contemplate the Word of
God, the grandeur and sweetness of which sufficeth all the worlds. The first of
those who believed in the Spirit (Jesus) was enraptured by the Word of his Lord
and through it turned and believed, detached from whatsoever the people
possess. Such action is incumbent upon the fishes of the Most Great Ocean.

Paragraph Two: Z.
It is your first duty to contemplate the work of God whose excellence and
sweetness fills the worlds. He who believes in the Spirit receives him, he will be
clothed with the word of righteousness and through the same he will receive and
believe, though he may be cut off from all that is in the hands of men. This is
necessary even for the great fishes in the greatest sea.

Paragraph Three H.T.
O thou accomplished man of understanding; O thou who art wise and
discerning! Know thou of a truth that selfish desires have deterred the generality
of mankind from turning their faces towards God, the Lord of Names. Whoso
beholdeth with the eye of insight will be moved to testify and bear witness to the
truth, exclaiming: Glorified is my Lord, the Most Exalted. Bothe land and sea have
rejoiced at the glad-tidings of the land of God and all nations have been promised
the advent of Him Who will purge the ills and infirmities of the world. He verily is
the One Who shall build the Temple of the Lord. Blessed are they that recognize
the truth.

Paragraph Three: S.L.
O thou informed mystic knower and insightful religious leader! Know thou that
base passion hath hindered most mortals from turning their faces unto God, the
King of Names. Such, however, as gaze with the eye of insight, shall bear witness
and seeing, exclaim, ‘Praise be unto my Lord, the Most Exalted.’ Land and sea
hath rejoiced at the Beneficence of God. The nations were given the promise
regarding the appearance of the Healer of Infirmities. He, assuredly, is the
expected Builder of the Temple. Blessed be such as are possessed of mystic
knowledge.


Paragraph Three: Z.
Oh, you learned experienced and clear-sighted teacher, know, that indulgence
prevented most mortals from approaching to God who rules the heavens. He,
however, who wants to see, perceives the light, which testifies, so that he may
exclaim: Praise be to the Lord, the Most High! The righteousness of the Lord is
made known to land and sea; he has promised the restorer of all errors! He builds
the temple, and blessed are those who can comprehend it.

Paragraph Four: H.T.
When appointed Hour is come Carmel will raise her voice and cry aloud.
Methinks she trembleth before the stirrings of the breeze of God. Well is it with
them that perceive. Were any one to incline his inner ear he would readily
observe the Rock crying out, bearing witness unto the ever-abiding Lord. Blessed
the man that hath discovered the sweet savours of this utterance and set his face
towards the Kingdom, rid of all attachments to the world, inasmuch as when that
which is mentioned in the Book will come to pass, thou wouldst find the people
seeing with their eyes but recognize not.

Paragraph Four: SL.
When appointed time came, Carmel cried out, trembling as if shaken by the
breezes of the Lord, Blessed be such as hearken! Should anyone with the ear of
the inner nature, the same would assuredly hear the cry from the Rock. It verily,
proclaimeth in a most elevated voice and beareth witness unto the Eternal God.
Blessed be such as catch a fragrance of the Utterance and turn unto the
Kingdom, detached from the contingent world. When that which is mentioned in
the Holy Books hath come to pass, thou shalt see the people beholding but not
understanding.

Paragraph Four: Z
When the appointed time has come, Carmel will break out in joy as if moved by
the gentle breathing of the Lord, blessed are those who hear it! He who walks
with open ears receives an answer from the rock. He shouts with a loud voice
and bears witness to the eternal God. Blessed is he who finds the knowledge
and is free of all doubts! If that appears, which is written in the books, men will
see and not comprehend.

Paragraph Five: H.T.
O friend! Consider thou the Mystery of the Great Reversal, symbolizing the sign
of the Sovereign, for it hath caused the exalted among the people to be abased
and the abased to be exalted. Moreover, call thou to mind the circumstances at
the time if the coming of Jesus when the divines, the learned and the men of
letters rejected Him, while he that was only a fisherman directed himself towards
the Kingdom. This is the meaning of that which is expressed by way of allusions

and mysteries amidst the shadows of the words. Verily, great, immensely great,
is the Cause of God. Peter, the Apostle, despite his exalted position and lofty
station, did hold his tongue when he was interrogated.

Paragraph Five: S.L
O beloved one! Behold the mystery of the reversal on account of the symbol of
the Ruler for He hath made the exalted ones their lowly ones and their lowly ones
their exalted ones. And call thou to mind the fact that when Jesus came, He was
rejected by the divines, the learned and the educated. He who was a mere
fisherman, on the other hand, entered the Kingdom. This is the mystery of what
was mentioned in the heart of the words by means of intimations and allusions.
Great, great is the Cause! Peter the Apostle, in spite of his excellence and the
eminence of his station, held back his tongue when asked about it.

Paragraph Five: Z
My dear friend! Contemplate the mystery of assimilation (tankis) the type of the
leader (ar-rayyis) whereby the exalted is debased and the debased is exalted.
Consider also, that when Jesus appeared he was denied by the learned, the wise
and the educated, and fishers received the Kingdom. Thus, was fulfilled what had
been indicated in obscure words by types and signs. The matter is great and
important; for Peter the Apostle according to his excellence and supremacy
pronounced the word, when he was asked.

Paragraph Six: H.T.
Indeed, shouldst thou, wholly for the sake of the Lord, ponder in thy heart on that
which occurred in the past, thou wouldst behold the light shining resplendent
before thy face and wouldst make it the object of thy constant attention. For the
Truth is too obvious to be obscured by veils and the path too conspicuous to be
concealed by darkness and the certitude too securely established to be wrapped
up in false imaginings. They that have suffered themselves to be kept back are
but the ones who have followed the promptings of their own selfish desires and
are in this Day, lying fast asleep. Ere long will they be roused from their slumber,
will rush forth, but alas shall discern naught. Well is it with him that inhaleth the
fragrance the moment it is diffused. Verily he hath attained unto that which the
sincere servants of God have attained.

Paragraph Six: S.L.
Shouldst thou consider sincerely what hath heretofore come to pass, for the sake
of the Lord alone, thou wilt assuredly see the Light shining before thine eyes. The
truth is too manifest to be wrapped up in veils, the Path too open to be enveloped
in darkness and the Certainty too evident to be obscured by doubts. Those who
have been held back are the ones who have followed their lusts and are today
slumbering, sleeping. They shall wake up and run around but find no place to
hide. Blessed be such as catch the fragrance of Truth, then awaken, that they

might attain whatsoever the sincere servants attained.

Paragraph Six: Z
When you consider past events in the light of the Lord you will see his light appear
before your face and before your eyes. Truth is too clear to be covered by veils
and the road too open to be hidden by obstructions and faith by obscure
meanings. Those who have erred, have followed their lusts and are now among
the slumbering and sleeping; they awake, run, and are not to be found. Blessed
is he who finds knowledge, and being uneasy penetrates as others of the
redeemed servants of God…

Paragraph Seven: H.T.
Know thou, moreover, that We found the letter S, which occurreth in the word
‘sulh’ (peace), to have been adorned with the ornament of the vertical Alif (Salih
– the Righteous One), which is glorified in the widely disseminated Tablet. And
when the effulgent light of this heavenly Word shone forth, the portals of heaven
were flung open and the Kingdom of Names was manifested  and the Revelation
of God fulfilled through the appearance of the letters H and ‘A after their having
been linked up with the horizontal Alif bejeweled with the point [B likned with Ha,
the Point out of which the treasured Name hath been revealed, and the hidden
Mystery unraveled and the preserved Secret divulged. It is the point from which
all created things have been generated and thereunto have returned. Thereupon
We witnessed the Word utter a word which is common to the vocabulary and
language of every nation. And no sooner had it been uttered than there shone
forth above the horizon of its utterance a Luminary, before whose effulgent
splendor the sun in the heavens did obscure. Then the Word exclaimed: Verily
the head of seventy is now attired with the crown of forty which is linked up with
seven before ten. There at the Word groaned aloud, saying: How strange to see
the house unmindful of the landlord, and the son ignoring his father, and in like
manner the eager soul turning away from the shelter and abode he hath been
seeking.

Paragraph Seven: S.L.
Know thou that We saw the exterior letter S’ad ( ص) in the Word “Peace” (S’ulh’).
It, verily was adorned with the ornament of the upright letter “A” ( ا) and is what
hath assuredly, been mentioned in an Outspread Tablet. And upon the
manifestation of the lights of that Divine Word, the Gate of Heaven was opened,
and the Kingdom of the Names appeared. And this matter was completed through
the letter “H” ( ه) after which it was united to the leveled letter “A” (alif) which was
adorned with the point (. of the letter “B” =  ب) from which the Treasured Name,
the Hidden Mystery and the Guarded Symbol (بهاء = Baha) emerged. It, verily, is
the Point (.) from which existence hath appeared and unto which it hath returned.
The We saw the Word which uttered a Word which every community found to be
according to its own tongue and language. When that Word was uttered, a Sun

shone forth from the Horizon of the Announcement, the Light of which eclipsed
the sun of the heavens. It said, ‘The head of seventy hath been adorned with the
crown of the forty and been united with the seven before the ten’. Then it
lamented and it said, ‘What is this that I see? The house doth not recognize its
master neither doth the son pay heed unto his father; nor likewise is the hopeful
seeker cognizant of his place of refuge and heaven.

Paragraph Seven: Z
Zeller has not been able to understand and translate the paragraph 7.
Zeller's translation of paragraph 7 is as follows:
You may know that the letter Sad ( ص) contained in the word [صالح] is perfected
by Alif [ا] for it is mentioned in the revealed tablet.  At the appearance of the
splendour of the divine word the door [ باب] of heaven opened and the Kingdom
of heaven approached; and after the issue of the letter h [ هـ] which being united
with Alif was perfected in the point.  We received the hidden name, the covered
mystery, the dark type.  The point is the bliss into which all things return.  Upon
this we saw that the word was speaking through the word, and this was made
known to different religious communities according to their languages and
tongues, then appeared a sun surpassing and obscuring in splendour of the sun
of heaven and shouted. The leader of the seventy has been crowned with the
crowns of the forty; and seven comes before ten.  At the same time, it groaned
and said: What is it that I see the house whose owner does not know it, neither
does the son turn to his father, nor the oppressed to his deliverer.

Paragraph Eight: H.T.
O thou who soarest in the atmosphere of true understanding! He who hath known
the fluid that is solid and hath recognized that which is still and yet it soareth, the
Seen and the Unseen, the Resplendent and the Hidden, such a man is so carried
away by the radiance of His glory that he will soar on the wings of longing in the
atmosphere of divine presence, of holiness and reunion.

Paragraph Eight: S.L.
O thou who soarest in the atmosphere of mystic knowledge! Whoso knoweth the
One in Whose Person what floweth yet exhibiteth solidity; what soareth yet is at
rest; what is manifest yet concealed and what is resplendent yet veiled, shall be
seized by the attraction of the divine Effulgences to such an extent that he will fly
on the wings of yearning in the atmosphere of nearness, holiness and reunion.

Paragraph Eight: Z.
Oh, thou bird in the heights of science; he who knows how water crystallizes, he
who knows the silent happiness, the secret assurance, the covered rise of the
sun, he draws in the rays of light in such a manner that he flies with the wings of
desire in the atmosphere, approaching the completion of holiness.

Paragraph Nine: H.T.
As regards that which your honor hath mentioned about darkness, We testify that
it pervadeth all mankind. Happy is he who is illumined by the light that shineth
resplendent from the horizon of the mercy of his Lord, the Most Exalted. Verily
darkness is but idle fancies and vain imaginings whereby people are deterred
from drawing nigh unto the Kingdom when it was manifested at the bidding of
God, the Lord of the realm on high.

Paragraph Nine: S.L.
With regard to that which thine eminence hath mentioned concerning the
darkness, We bear witness that it hath encompassed the creatures. Blessed be
he who hath been illumined by the Light which shineth forth from the horizon of
the Mercy of his Lord, the Most Holy. The darkness is the vain imaginings by
virtue of which the people were prevented from turning towards the Kingdom
when the King of the Divine Realm appeared with the Cause of God.

Paragraph Nine: Z.
What you learned Sir, have mentioned with regard to the darkness of ignorance
is confirmed by us, for the same encircles the sleeping. Blessed is he, who sees
in the horizon the rays of the morning with the mercy of the most Holy Lord.
Darkness is the illusion of the sleeping, who thereby are prevented from the
pilgrimage towards the Kingdom which the Almighty Ruler revealed by His
express order.

Paragraph Ten: H.T.
As to the remark thou hast made concerning the view expressed by so-and-so to
the effect that there is no difference between us on the subject of Spirit. Indeed,
this is true, inasmuch as Spirit is sanctified from being harmed by the outburst of
human discord and is exalted above the insinuations of evil suggestions. It is the
manifestation of the light of Divine Unity amongst men and the wondrous sign of
the Ancient of Days amidst the peoples of the world. Whoever turneth thereunto
hath verily turned unto Him Who hath bestowed it and whoso breaketh off from it
hath broken off from Him Who generated it and hath given a voice unto it. Verily
He hath been supreme above all that hath been and shall be and He now is what
He hath ever been. However, the radiance of the light, which is shed upon the
mirrors would vary according to the diversity of forms and colors.

Paragraph Ten: S.L.
As for what thou hast mentioned, that a certain person hath supposed that there
are no differences between us with regard to the Spirit (Jesus), this is indeed the
truth inasmuch as the Spirit (Jesus) is sanctified beyond being overwhelmed by
differences or encompassed by symbolic expressions. He, verily, is the Light of
Oneness among mankind and the sign of the Ancient of Days among the peoples.
He who turneth unto Him (Jesus) hath turned unto He (God) who sent Him

(Jesus) and who rejecteth Him had rejected He who caused Him to be made
manifest and to speak forth. He hath ever been what He was and will ever remain
the same as what He was; only the Effulgence of His Theophany in the Mirrors
varies on account of Their different forms and colors.

Paragraph Ten: Z.
We fully agree to your words with regard to the spirit and see that there is no
difference between us. The spirit is too pure to be attained by differences, neither
can it be comprehended by outward signs, for he is the appearance of the light
of unity among creatures and the symbol of progress between nations. He who
receives him, receives him who has sent him, and he who opposes him, opposes
him from whom he proceedeth. He is what he is and remains what he has been,
but his rays differ according to the purity of the mirrors and according to the
difference of forms and colours.

Paragraph Eleven: H.T.
O friend! Should a token of the hidden secret, which is enshrined in mysteries be
divulged, the souls of them that have clung to the things current amongst men
and cast away that which is with God would be sorely perturbed.

Paragraph Eleven: S.L.
O beloved One! Should a hint of the secret, which was veiled in mystery be
disclosed, the hearts of those who cling unto what they possess and cast away
what is with God would be thrown into confusion.

Paragraph Eleven: Z.
Oh friend, when the symbol is revealed to those who may be convinced, then the
hearts of those will tremble, who have robbed what they possess and thrown
away what belongs to the Lord.

Paragraph Twelve: H.T.
O friend! Wert thou to ponder a while upon that which We have imparted unto
thee and to fulfill whatsoever hath been mentioned with perfect constancy, surely
there shall appear from thy person that which hath appeared in the past.

Paragraph Twelve: S.L.
If thine eminence would ponder upon what We have set forth for thee and rise up
according to what hath been mentioned with the greatest steadfastness, there
would, verily, be manifest from thee what was previously made manifest.
Paragraph Twelve: Z.
Honoured Sir! When you consider what we told you, then will come to pass
through you that which formerly happened.

Paragraph Thirteen: H.T.
O friend! This Bird is fallen into the clutches of tyranny and sedition, unable to
find itself a nest wherein it could abide, nor is there a space to wing its way unto
it, yet, despite such conditions it summoneth mankind unto the eternal life. Well
is it with the attentive ear.

Paragraph Thirteen: S.L.
O beloved one! This Bird is ensnared betwixt the talons of oppression and
hypocrisy, and seest no nest wherein he might dwell nor any retreat unto which
he might wing his way. In such a state doth He summon mankind unto everlasting
life. Blessed be the attentive ear!

Paragraph Thirteen: Z.
Oh friend! The bird is in the claws of oppression and wickedness and findeth no
nest where he may rest nor space where to flee to. In this condition the creature
supplicates for life everlasting. Blesses is the ear that hears and the eye that
sees!

Paragraph Fourteen: H.T.
We entreat God to gather us within a single court and to graciously enable us to
do that which is pleasing and acceptable unto Him.

Paragraph Fourteen: S.L.
We ask God that he might bring us together in the same place and might assist
us in what He loveth and is well-pleasing unto Him.
The Wronged One

Paragraph Fourteen: Z.
We ask God that He may unite us in the same place and give unto us that whish
is well-pleasing in His sight.



(Signed) The imprisoned.




The oppressed

Some analyses I
Understanding the Divine Word
Researcher Faruq Izadinia in his descriptive published article275, referring to the
Tablet of Hirtik, analyzes the misunderstandings of Zeller while he was engaged
in translating this Mighty Tablet for Hardegg. He points out on 7 paragraphs as
Zeller’s misunderstandings. And Baha’u’llah in a Tablet addressed to Mirza
Haydar-Ali276 quoted earlier, mentions that ‘these people didn’t understand a
word of this Mighty Tablet’.

His seven analyses described below:

1. At the beginning of the Tablet, Baha’u’llah refers to Peter, the first who
believed in Jesus in these words: “The first one to believe in Him Who was
the Spirit (Jesus) became enraptured by the Word his Lord had uttered,
and through the potency of His Words, he turned unto Him and embraced
the truth, wholly detached from the worldly things that men cherish. Thus
beseem the leviathans of the Most Great Ocean”.

Zeller translated these meaningful words that is totally devoid of what
Baha’u’llah intended to say. His translated words thus: “He who believes
in the Spirit, receives him, he will be clothed with the word of righteousness
and through the same he will receive and believe, though he may be cut
off from all that is in the hands of men. This is necessary even for the great
fishes in the greatest sea”.

2. The intention of Baha’u’llah while mentioning Peter, when he was asked
of being the Christ’s follower, withheld his tongue, but Zeller did not
understand this intention. Let us see the intention of Baha’u’llah and the
translated words of Zeller:

In the paragraph 5 Baha’u’llah writes: “Verily, great, immensely great, is
the Cause of God. Peter, the Apostle, despite his exalted position and lofty
station, did hold his tongue when he was interrogated”. These same words
were translated by Zeller thus: “The matter is great and important; for Peter
the Apostle, in spite of his excellence and the eminence of his station, held
back his tongue when asked about it”. He totally misses the point
addressed by Baha’u’llah.

3. The translator has done the interpreting work at the face value of the words
without understanding the true meaning of them. This especially is obvious
in the paragraph 7, where Baha’u’llah writes “Verily the head of seventy is
now attired with the crown of forty which is linked up with seven before

275. Safineh Irfan, vol. 14, page 401- Understanding the Divine Word.
276. One of the early believers during the time of Baha’u’llah and Abdu’l-Baha.

ten” There at the Word groaned aloud, saying: How strange to see the
house unmindful of the landlord, and the son ignoring his father, and in like
manner the eager soul turning away from the shelter and abode he hath
been seeking277.

Where Zeller translates: “The leader of the seventy has been crowned with
the crowns of forty; and seven comes before ten.” At the same time it
groaned and said: What is it that I see the house whose owner does not
know it, neither does the son turn to his father, nor the oppressed to his
deliverer.

4. Baha’u’llah reiterates in the paragraph 5: “Verily, great, immensely great
is the Cause of God…” and because of this greatness of the Cause then
he gives the reason of the failure of Peter. He says: “Peter, the Apostle,
despite his exalted position and lofty station, did hold his tongue when he
was interrogated”. Yet, Zeller, because of lack of understanding the Words
of Baha’u’llah, translates: “The matter is great and important”!

5. Another misunderstanding of Zeller is on the paragraph 8, where
Baha’u’llah says: “O thou who soarest in the atmosphere of true
understanding! He who hath known the fluid that is solid and hath
recognized that which is still and yet it soareth, the Seen and the Unseen,
the Resplendent and the Hidden, such a man is so carried away by the
radiance of His glory that he will soar on the wings of longing in the
atmosphere of divine presence, of holiness and reunion”.

6. Where Zeller wouldn’t grasp the meaning of these Words, therefore he
translates: “Oh thou bird in the heights of science; he who knows how
water crystallizes, he who knows the silent happiness, the secret
assurance, the covered rise of the sun, he draws in the rays of light in such
a manner that he flies with the wings of desire in the atmosphere,
approaching the completion of holiness”. He does not understand that
what Baha’u’llah is saying here is the recognition of the Author of
Revelation that is bound to complete detachment and needs deep insight
in order not to observe the transitory, in order to understand the truth.

7. The paragraph 13 is the indication of Baha’u’llah’s supreme task that even
in the direst conditions; He summoneth the mankind to the eternal life. He
says: “O friend, This Bird is fallen into the clutches of tyranny and sedition,
unable to find itself a nest wherein it could abide, nor is there a space to
wing its way unto it, yet, despite such conditions it summoneth mankind
unto the eternal life. Well is it with the attentive ear!”
Zeller has totally missed the point and has translated the Holy Words as

277. This sentence is a direct address to Hardegg

per his limited understanding: “Oh friend! The bird is in the claws of
oppression and wickedness and findeth no nest where he may rest nor
space where to flee to. In this condition the creature supplicates for life
everlasting. Blessed is the ear that hears and the eye that sees”!



Some Analyses II
Reviewing some aspects of the Tablet of Hirtik

Scholar Muhammad Afnan has written an article278, reviewing some aspects of
the Tablet of Hirtik. His scrutinizing pen delves deep in the meaning of some of
the terms, which Baha’u’llah has specifically chosen to use for this Tablet that
help to better understand its contents. He has not translated the Tablet from
Arabic into Persian to access another version of it but has shed light on the
meaning of some of its words and sentences, which only by reading the two or
three other existing English translation of the Tablet, one would better understand
its contents.

Georg David Hardegg, whose story was written above, through some Persian
believers approached Abdu’l-Baha, visiting him in Akka at least twice, sometimes
in 1872 and through the encouragement of the Persian believers, wrote a letter
to Baha’u’llah asking for His identity and some questions for Him to answer, to
which, Baha’u’llah revealed this mighty Tablet. Hardegg, though familiar with the
Arabic language, yet asked his friend Reverend John Zeller, who was a resident
clergy in Nazareth for many years, to translate the response of Baha’u’llah for
him.

One of the most important impacts of the Templers’ movement was certainly
prompting Georg D. Hardegg to inquire the character of their neighbors’
movement in Haifa and Acre, trying to know their philosophy and the nature of
the claim of its Leader. Momen has cited the following:

“I can give notice of yet another spiritual phenomenon, which can strengthen our
belief. This concerns 70 Persians, who have been banished to ‘Akka’ on account
of their belief. Mr. Hardegg has already spent considerable time and effort to
discover the actual basis of their belief, and had dealings with them through an
interpreter…”279

As a result of such an inquisitive mind, Baha’u’llah’s answer, opened yet another
door of understanding to the Bible’s allusions and references.


278. Perusing some aspects of the Tablet of Hirtik, published in Persian journal Golchin-e Erfan.
279. Momen, op. cit., 236 quoting Hardegg’s essay on the Baha’is.

The heart of the study of the German Templers’ episode is this same Tablet, which
Afnan navigates deeply into its ocean of substance and polishes its hidden gems,
which unfortunately neither the recipient of the Tablet nor those close to his circle
could understand and appreciate it and thus, lost their opportunity of recognizing
the ‘Father’ for Whose coming, the Templers left Germany and rushed to the Holy
Land to receive Him.

Following is M. Afnan’s article conceptually translated.

This mighty Tablet contains many signs referred to the prophecies of the Christian
Holy Books, which Hardegg has been familiar with. The indications mentioned by
Baha’u’llah Himself open a door of understanding to the hidden meanings of
those books. At the same time, Baha’u’llah has used many new expressions that
could have been alien to his understanding, such as:
- Melody of the Dove warbling upon the branches280
- Perceive the murmur of water of life281
- Well-spring of the Will of the Lord of mankind282
- Wisdom and Utterance283
- Word of God284
- Enraptured by the Word of the Lord285
- The Most Great Ocean286
- Inner ear287
- Sweet savors of Utterance288
- Ridding of all attachments of the World289
- Expressed by way of allusions and mysteries amidst the shadows of the
words290
- Manifestation of the light of Divine Unity amongst men291
- Wondrous sign of the Ancient of Days amidst the people of the world292
- Perfect constancy293
- Eternal Life294
- Attentive ear295

280. Hadir’ul-Vargha
281. Kharir-i-Ma’ul Hayavan
282. Ma’in-i-Mashiyyat-i-Malik-i-Imkan
283. Hikmat va Bayan
284. Kalimatu’llah - Christ
285. Jadb-i-Kalimih-i-Rab
286. Bahr-i-A’azam, Baha’u’llah
287. Udun-i-Fitrat
288. Arf’ul-Bayan
289. Monqate’an An-ul Imkan
290.  Sirr-i-ma dakara fi ghiahib-ul kalimat bel rumuz va isharat
291. Zuhur-i-Nur-i-Ahadiyyih bain-uI bariyyih
292. Ayit-il-Qadam bain’ul Umam
293. Istiqamitih Kubra
294. Hayat-i-Abadiyyih
295.  Udun-i-Va’iyih

- Single court296

There are many more signs that are mentioned in this Blessed Tablet297.

As it has been mentioned earlier, Georg D. Hardegg had written a letter to
Baha’u’llah, at which Baha’u’llah has mentioned it as ‘Thy sealed letter to the
presence of this Wronged One’. The appellation of ‘Wronged One’ is what
Baha’u’llah addresses Himself in many of His Tablets.

In this Tablet, Baha’u’llah praises Hardegg for his sincerity and invites him to
ponder on the ‘words’ of the Tablet, which are the same as those of Christ. Afnan
describes that the meaning of the ‘the melody of the Dove’ is reference to what
has been revealed from His Blessed Pen, Who Himself is the Dove of the
heavenly Paradise, i.e., the Blessed Beauty, Baha’u’llah.

On the next paragraph, Baha’u’llah addresses Hardegg as ‘O friend 298 . This
designation in both Arabic and Persian literature, is given to those who are very
close acquaintance. Accordingly, John, the disciple of Christ also had the title of
‘friend’. This could also be the reason for which Baha’u’llah addressed Hardegg
as such. His belief and the purity of his intention in the search of Christ, his
sincerity and yearning must have won him such a highly designated title from
Baha’u’llah, Who expected that Hardegg is worthy of attaining the understanding
of the Truth. Yet, his yearning anticipations had not detached him from his
attached superstitions, which had enveloped many leaders of religion at the time
of the New Revelation.

The word ‘friend’299 in the Baha’i literature has a vast usage. The expressions of
‘friends’ and ‘friends of God’ are used among the Persians to identify the
believers in Baha’u’llah, i.e, ‘Baha’is’.

The phrase of ‘the Word of God’300, which has been used both in the Bible and
Qur’an, refers to His holiness Christ, but generally it means ‘what comes from
the World of God’ and that is why it is being used for the Manifestation of God
and His direct Utterances or Writings.

The phrase ‘the first to believe in Him’301 is an innovative expression pertaining
to this Revelation, and contains a specific and precise meaning, which in this
context, it refers to Peter, the first disciple of Christ. Baha’u’llah indirectly tells
Hardegg of what beseemeth him is to ponder the way Peter did by listening to

296. Bisat-i-Vaahid
297. The above statements were taken from Taherzadeh’s translation.
298. Ya Habib
299. Habib, plural: Ahbab, and Ahebba: Friends of God are alluded to the Baha’is.
300. Kalimatu’llah
301. Avval man’a’man – The First Believer

the Word of Christ and became detached from everything else. This is the way
the ‘leviathans of the Most Great Ocean’ react.

Baha’u’llah, then speaks of ‘selfish desires’ of the generality of mankind that have
deterred them from turning their faces towards ‘the Lord of Names’. Here He
assures him that whosoever would behold Him with the ‘eye of insight’, would
only exclaim ‘Glorified is my Lord, the Most Exalted’ and would praise the Lord.
Where Baha’u’llah addresses Hardegg as ‘Arif al khabir’, M. Taherzadeh has
translated the allusion as ‘O thou accomplished man of understanding’ and S.
Lambden has translated this same word as ‘O thou informed mystic knower’.
According to Afnan, in this Revelation this word has been addressed only to those
who have recognized the Truth of the Manifestation and has nothing to do with
someone with mystical knowledge common in the jurisprudence of religion. And
the word ‘Habr’, translated as ‘wise and discerning’ by Taherzadeh or ‘insightful
religious leader’, by Lambden, is not used in Persian language, as it is a title
given to the leaders of religion. In Arabic, the ‘Habr-i-A’zam’ is a title given to the
Pope, the maximum leader of the Catholic Church.

In the proceeding lines of the Tablet, reference is made to what testify ‘both land
and sea have rejoiced at the glad-tiding of the land of God’ as translated by
Taherzadeh and ‘Land and sea hath rejoiced at the Beneficence of God’ by
Lambden, is according to Afnan, ‘land and sea rejoice from the beneficence of
the Promised One of God’ and ‘He Whose rise would purge the ills and infirmities
of the nations’, as the expected builder of the Temple, has come.

Afnan uses a past tense for the following line, which Taherzadeh translates
‘When appointed Hour is come Carmel will raise her voice and cry aloud’ and
Lambden ‘When appointed time came, Carmel cried out’. But Afnan writes: ‘The
appointed time has come’ and ‘Carmel has raised its call. Fortunate are those
who have a hearing ear’.

‘No doubt’, he writes, ‘if anyone would listen with the God-given ears, would hear
from the Rock302 the testimony of this Revelation’. Then Baha’u’llah points out
that ‘such signs and ciphers have already become manifested, and people do
see them, but they do not hear the Message and cannot perceive’303

Baha’u’llah then, reiterates the subject of ‘mystery of reversal’, which has been
mentioned in His works over and over again, telling of the fall of the Sovereigns
and the rise of the downtrodden. Such an allusion has also been mentioned in
the previous Holy Books, especially this could be seen in the Bible304 “the first

302. Reference to either Peter, the Rock, or Temple of the Dome of the Rock, which also being called the
Rock.
303. Isaiah 35 and 65
304. Mat. 19:30

ones become last and the last ones become first”, and witness to this is the denial
of the priests, the learned ones and literary men during the time of Christ, while
the one who was a fisherman, became distinguished by his faith, alluding to the
First, the Most Outstanding disciple305.

Then Baha’u’llah refers to the loftiness of the Cause and the tests it holds that
even Peter, being of such elevated rank, failed confessing his faith.
Baha’u’llah exhorts Hardegg that if he would ponder sincerely and for the sake
of God over such occurrences, he would see the light of the Revelation shining
in front of his eyes, because the “Truth is too manifest to become enveloped by
veils and the path is too clear for the darkness to prevent its recognition”. Those
who remained deprived from recognition are those who have remained entangled
with their idle fancies and remained in the slumber of ignorance. Soon they will
be awakened from their sleep and rush forth but shall perceive naught. Happy
are those who learned of His Revelation and reached to what the masters of
sincerity have attained.

Afnan briefly describes the meaning of what Baha’u’llah reveals as an abstruse
sentence to be deciphered of the allusion of ‘the Righteous One’, mentioned in
the Bible306. The meaning of adorning the letter ‘S’ in the word ‘Sulh - Peace’ with
the vertical ‘Alif – A’, refers to the word ‘Salih – Righteous’ as mentioned in the
story of the person who called Christ as the Righteous Master ‘Salih in Arabic’.
He denied Himself of such a designation, as it did not pertain to His Revelation.
Baha’u’llah mentions that this matter is being recorded in the ‘Lawh-i-
Manshur’ 307 , where according to Afnan is an allusion to the Bible, where
Taherzadeh translates it as ‘widely disseminated Tablet’ and Lambden as ‘an
Outspread Tablet’.

In continuation of this sentence in this Tablet, Baha’u’llah refers to the Revelation
of the Bab as ‘opening of the door of Kingdom’308 and appearance of the Kingdom
of Names in the World of Being and the fulfillment of the Cause. The connecting
of the letter ‘H’ to the horizontal ‘Alif – ‘A’ adorned with a dot309, from which the
blessed name of BHA or BAHA becomes manifest and that is the hidden name
and concealed mystery and the guarded and veiled divine secret, which is the
primal point through which All-things have become manifested and return to310.


305. Peter, the first Apostole
306. Mat. 19: 15-17
307. Lawh-i Manshur, refers to widely disseminated Tablet. In many of the Writings of Baha’u’llah, He refers
to the Lawh-i Manshur, widely disseminated Tablet, it is the concept of heart, conscience and whatever the
Revelation of God requires and permits. It is a Tablet that there is everything in it, even our actions, thoughts,
etc. Indeed, it is the universal conscience. But a separate Tablet namely Manshur Tablet does not exist.
308. Fath-i-bab’us-Sama
309. Horizontal Alif adorned with a dot under it, is the letter B in Arabic/Persian.
310. The name BAHA – Glory, was the mystery name of God within the Islamic dispensation, only to be
announced by the Promised One, The Bab.

Next, in reference to the sentence of ‘We observed the Word utter a Word’,
according to Afnan this sentence is referred to the words pronounced by Christ,
Who was the ‘Word’311, Who promised the coming of Paracletes or the Comforter,
which again has been mentioned in this Tablet through an abstruse way. The
word in Arabic is ‘Mu’azzi312 and Baha’u’llah uses the Arabic numerology - Abjad
system and gives it as a puzzle to Hardegg to decipher! He says the head of
seventy is adorned with forty and was attached to a seven before ten. In the
numerology of Abjad, the numerical value of ‘Ain’313 is 70 and M’ is 40. Z’s value
is 7 and Y’s is 10. Therefore, M adorns the head of ‘A, and Z before Y314. Thus,
M’AZI, once written in Arabic, it reads Mu’azzi. Although the letter Z is doubled,
yet the puzzle remains to be solved with only one Z.

Then Baha’u’llah reminds Hardegg, who has stepped into the atmosphere of
knowing the Truth, that knowing the Manifestation of God, is indeed the
embodiment of opposites, which will lead him to such a sublime ardor and fervor
that he would soar in the heaven of holiness and proximity. The Manifestation of
God is the ‘hidden evidence’ and the ‘veiled dawning place’, in other words, He
encompasses the opposites315.

Hardegg in his letter to Baha’u’llah refers to darkness and obscurity as it has
been mentioned in the Bible316, where the Blessed Beauty317 affirms that this has
enveloped the humanity and gives assurance to those who have become
illumined with the light, shining from the horizon of the Mercy of God. Then He
adds that darkness is not but their superstitions, which prevent them from
approaching the Kingdom of God.

Then Afnan refers to the remaining lines of the Tablet that these are clear proofs
of the unity of God and unity of Messengers. He confirms that if there are
differences, it is because of the shapes of different mirrors that God has
manifested Himself onto them. However, if the truth of such hidden mysteries
were divulged, then consternation will envelop those who are fond of their own
futile beliefs and have forgotten whatever the ‘Lord of Hosts’ has chosen for them.

Then Baha’u’llah with utmost kindness admonishes him that if he would arise
with full steadfastness in the Cause of God, it will be manifested from him what
was manifested from the Disciples of Christ. After such an assurance, Baha’u’llah
then mentions of Himself as the Divine Bird being entangled within the grasps of

311. “We observed Christ utter a word”.
312. The Comforter, reference to Baha’u’llah
313. Pronounced EIN, not to take it as A, which its value is 1.
314. Taking into consideration that the Arabic alphabet does not have vowels as the Latin alphabet has.
315. The Manifestation of God is the most sublime Being but concealed to the eyes of the people. i.e.,
Christ, as great as He was, but appeared in the eyes of the people not as the King of Kings, but as a poor
man.
316. John, 14, 15, & 16
317. Blessed Beauty and Ancient Beauty refer to the Manifestation of God, here refers to Baha’u’llah.

tyranny and hypocrisy, and has no nest to dwell in, and there is no space where
it could take its flight to, yet at such a condition, He guides the people to the
everlasting life. Good for those who have hearing ears.

At the end of the Tablet, Baha’u’llah affectionately prays for him that ‘We plead
God to gather us together within a single habitation and help to confirm us with
His good-pleasure’.

Annex II

The Tablet to Hardegg (Lawh-i-Hirtik) – Sptephen Lambden
A Tablet of Baha’u’llah to the Templer Leader Georg David Hardegg
Introduced and translated by Stephen Lambden:

Mirza Husyan ‘Ali Nuri entitled Baha’u’llah (the “Splendor of God”318, 1817-1892)
Who founded the Baha’i Faith in the middle of the 19th century, addressed a
number of scriptural tablets319 to Christians during the latest, West Galilean320
period of His religious ministry (1868-1892 CE). Most notably His Lawh-i-Pap 321
and Lawh-i-Aqdas322 which most probably was addressed to Faris Effendi323 ,
who had been converted to the Baha’i religion by Mulla Muhammad Nabil-i-
Zarandi (1831-1892) in Alexandria (in 1868).

It is now clear that the letter of Baha’u’llah commonly referred to as the Lawh-i-
Hirtik was also addressed to a Christian named Gerog David Hardegg324 (1812-
1879). During the time of Baha’u’llah’s imprisonment in ‘Akka’, Hardegg was the
leader of the Tempelgesellschaft325 community in Haifa.

On first coming to know something of the nature of the Lawh-i-Hirtik through the
note on it in ‘Abd al-Hamid Ishraq Khavari’s Ganj-i-Shaygan326, I wrote to the
Baha’i World Centre in Haifa requesting a copy for detailed study. On receipt of
a typed copy, I began to try to work out what the consonants H-R-T-K might
signify, as they were evidently neither indicative of an Arabic nor a Persian
construction. Ignoring the pointing and guessing that it might indicate the name
of the recipient of the letter, the name Hardegg eventually sprang to mind. I then
consulted Moojan Momen’s The Babi and Baha’i Religions and was delighted to
find that what was obviously a very garbled translation of the Lawh-i-Hirtik had
been forwarded by the missionary Rev. John Zeller (c. 1830-1902) to the English
Church Missionary Society and identified as a letter of Baha’u’llah to Hardegg.
Furthermore, as Zeller’s letter forwarding Baha’u’llah’s Lawh-i-Hirtik was dated
July 8, 1872, it may be inferred that the Lawh-i-Hirtik was written between late
1868327  and 8 July 1872. It was thus most probably between late 1871 and early

318. Better known as The Glory of God
319. Known as Alwah in Arabic, plural of Lawh, meaning a Tablet, a divine letter.
320. Acre, in Arabic Akka, in Hebrew Akko
321. Lawh-i Pap, Tablet to Pope Pius IXth c. 1869.
322. Most Holy Tablet, late 1870s? (Possibly in 1868, because Baha’u’llah received the recipient’s letter just
before He landed in Haifa/Akka, and probably shortly after He answered that letter as the Most Holy Tablet.
323. Faris Effendi was a Catholic priest in the same prison in Alexandria, Egypt, as Nabil was kept and
heard and believed in Baha’u’llah, immediately wrote Him a letter, hence his answers as the Most Holy
Tablet.
324. The name of Hardegg is pronounced Hirtik in southern Germany.
325.  Meaning ‘Association of Templers’
326. Abdu’l-Hamid Ishraq-Khavari, Ganj-e Shaygan
327. When both Baha’u’llah and Hardegg arrived in ‘Akka’ and Haifa respectively.

1872328 that Baha’u’llah address this Tablet to the Templer leader.

Hardegg and the Tempelgesellschaft
The Tempelgesellschaft was founded by the German theologian and polemicist
Christoph Hoffmann 329  whose religious orientation was rooted in German
`Pietism of a highly chiliastic nature. Influenced by the belief that God’s judgment
and the Parousia330 of Christ were at hand, and critical of the “conventional
Christianity” of his day, he came, whilst residing in Ludwigsberg in the early
1850’s, to advocate the creation of the “people of God”331. He was apparently
influenced either by events of the Crimean War (1853-6) or the belief that the
Ottoman Empire was crumbling, in such a way that he convinced the idea that
he and his people might become heirs to the biblical promises. He abandoned a
theory centering upon the Temple332 and its restoration and dreamed of a mass
emigration to Palestine.

In 1854 such visionary ideas let Hoffmann to establish the Gesellschaft fur
Sammlung des Volkes Gottes in Jerusalem 333 . In this he was aided by his
associate Georg David Hardegg a native and merchant of Ludwigsberg, who had
turned to mysticism after being imprisoned for revolutionary activities. By the mid-
1850s Hoffmann and Hardegg had managed to enlist around 10,000 members.
An attempt was made via the Frankfurt Assembly to petition Sultan ‘Abd al-
Majid334 for permission to settle in Palestine. This petition failed and the members
of the association had to content themselves with the establishment of a
settlement near Marbach (1856). Four of the leaders of the movement, including
Hoffmann and Hardegg, visited Palestine in 1858. To some extent they came to
realize the largely impractical nature of their eschatologically oriented ambitions.
Then, in 1859, the leaders of “God’s people” were formally expelled from National
Evangelical Church. Consequently, in 1861, they set up their own distinctive
religious body at Kirchenhadhof, the Deutsche Tempel335 . Hoffmann acted as
spiritual leader and Hardegg as provisional secular leader, with an advisory
council of 12 elders.

By 1867, number had dwindled to just 3,000, including women and children.
Despite this, in 1868, a group of Templer families made an abortive attempt to
settle in the Nahalal area. Though by this time a bitten antagonism had come to
exist between Hoffmann and Hardegg, it was decided to emigrate to Palestine
and attempt to gain support for the movement from there. Thus, both Hoffmann

328. Hijri dates have mostly been used by Baha’u’llah at the time, i.e., 1288-sd1289 AH.
329. b. Leonberg 1815 d. Jerusalem 1885
330. presence, return
331. Ger. Das Volk Gottes
332 Jerusalem, Solomon’s Temple
333. The Association for the Assembling of God’s People in Jerusalem
334. Ottoman Sultan from 1839-1861
335. The German Temple

and Hardegg arrived at Haifa on the 30th of October 1868. They began to be
establishing, amidst considerable local opposition and difficulty, an initially
agricultural settlement. A few dozen Templer families from Wurrtemberg 336
settled at the foot of the western cape of Mt. Carmel. According to Katz they were
“joined by kindred families of German origin from Southern Russia, and by some
who had emigrated to America and become citizens, mainly from New York
state”337.

In 1869 Hoffmann migrated to Jaffa where he came to establish a school and a
hospital. By 1874 the breach between Hoffmann and Hardegg was such that the
latter founded his own Temple Unity having gained the support of about one third
or perhaps 200 members of the Haifa community. These supporters of Hardegg
subsequently returned to the Evangelistic Church, though the Haifa Templers
under new leadership continued to prosper. They contributed notably to the
modernization and improvement of local Haifa conditions. Despite sometimes
marked local opposition from Muslims and Christian Arabs, the number of Haifa
Templers rose from about 300 in the early 1880s to around 750 at the time of the
outbreak of the First World War (1914).

Among the letters contained in J.M. Emmerson’s travelogue entitled New York to
the Orient (1886) is one that includes detail about local circumstances in Haifa
and Acre including the position of the “German Colony”:
One of the most noteworthy and interesting features of Haifa is the
settlement here of group of Germans, known as the German Colony. They
came here some twenty-five years ago, being prompted to emigrate thither
by a religious sentiment. There are three distinct colonies of them in
Palestine –at Jerusalem, Jaffa and Haifa – consisting of about one
thousand members. The colony here [at Haifa] numbers some three
hundred persons, and they are in many respects a remarkable people.
The appearance of the part of the city they occupy is in striking contrast
with the main town in that it is regularly laid out and is clean and orderly.
These colonists are the only people who have ever come to live in
Palestine who are self-supporting338.

Hardegg and the Baha’i religion
As previously indicated, Baha’u’llah, along with over 70 followers and members
of His family, arrived as prisoners at ‘Akka’ on August 31st, 1868, some 40339 days
before Hoffmann and Hardegg arrived at Haifa to found their colony. Though at
first subject to strict confinement within the barracks as decreed by Sultan ‘Abd
al-‘Aziz, He had, by late 1871, managed to establish Himself in the house of ‘Udi

336. S. Germany
337. Katz 1994:263
338. Emmerson 1887:113
339. In fact, it was 60 days.

Khammar in the heart of the Christian quarter of ‘Akka’. From there, Baha’u’llah
succeeded in gaining the devotion of a number of local notables, including
Shaykh Mahmud ‘Arrabi340.

Hardegg came into contact with the Baha’is in Haifa and ‘Akka’ before
Baha’u’llah’s move to the House of ‘Udi Khammar. Jakob Schumacher 341  a
naturalized American citizen of German origin342 and Templer who became head
of the Haifa colony after Hardegg wrote the following letter published in the official
Templer publication Suddeutsche Warte of June 29, 1871:

I can give notice of yet another spiritual phenomenon, which can
strengthen our belief. This concerns 70 Persians, who have been
banished to ‘Akka’ on account of their beliefs. Mr. Hardegg has already
spent considerable time and effort trying to discover the actual basis of
their belief and had dealings with them through an interpreter just
yesterday343.

Shortly after the publication of Schumacher’s note on the Baha’is, an article by
Hardegg himself, dated June 15, 1871, was published in the same organ of the
Templers for 20 July 1871. This article provides some details of Hardegg’s effort
to understand Baha’i doctrine and history. Hardegg also refers to an interview he
had in ‘Akka’ on 2 June 1871 with Baha’u’llah’s eldest son ‘Abdu’l-Baha (1844 –
1921), having failed to gain an interview with Baha’u’llah Himself. He also notes
his contacts with the Baha’is of Haifa and records his impressions that “these
people, despite all the obscurity of their knowledge, were seeking the truth”344.
Hardegg most likely made other trips to ‘Akka’ to investigate Baha’i beliefs and
attempt to interest or convert the Baha’is to Christianity.

The missionary James J. Huber (1826-1893), who resided at Nazareth during the
1870s has recorded in a letter dated November 28, 1872, that Hardegg had
invited him to accompany him on a visit to ‘Akka’ (to meet the) Baha’is. They
travelled together to ‘Akka’ in October 1872 having been promised an interview
with Baha’u’llah by some of the Baha’is. Perhaps as a result of Baha’u’llah’s
withdrawal in the house of ‘Udi Khammar flowing Baha’i-Azali345 tensions and the
misdeeds of certain Baha’is which culminated in the murder of several Azalis.

Hardegg’s desire to gain an interview with Baha’u’llah has been referred to by
Baha’u’llah Himself in a scriptural Tablet, which was perhaps written around 1875

340. d. late 1890s, later Mufti of ‘Akka
341. (1825-1891); American consular agent for Haifa and Acre for almost twenty years),
342. Katz, 1994:120
343. cited Momen, op. cit., 236
344. cited, Momen, ibid 237.
345. The Azalis are the followers of Baha’u’llah’s younger half-brother Mirza Yahya (c. 1830-1914) who was
entitled Subh-i-Azal (The Morn of Eternity) and had been exiled to Cyprus from Turkey in 1868.

and addressed to Haji Mirza Haydar ‘Ali Isfahani346. In it Baha’u’llah stated that
all the [Holy] Books “make mention of the appearance of the Promised One in
the Holy Land”. He alludes to the Templers who came from afar to settle in the
regions of the blessed Holy Land. Calling to mind the well-known German
Templer inscription Der Herr ist nahe [1871]”347, the Templers are represented as
having said zuhur nazdik ast, “The theophany [manifestation] is nigh and we have
come that we might attain unto it (his presence).” Nevertheless, Baha’u’llah adds,
they remain in great heedlessness.

None of the Templers had become Baha’is. Reference is then made to Hardegg
and to the writing or revelation of the Lawh-i-Hirtik:

A few years ago, their leader [Hardegg] desired to attain [My] presence
but this request was not find acceptance in the most-holy court.
Nonetheless, a sublime and Most-Holy scriptural Tablet (Lawh-i-amna’-i-
aqdas) was specifically sent down for him. In that Tablet was established
that which enableth every righteous one to attain salvation and every
wayfarer to reach the goal. Yet the confirmation of the utterance, “Let none
touch it save those who are pure” was manifest for they did not attain even
a drop of the ocean of its significances348.

Though Baha’u’llah represents the 19th century Templers as a people who failed
to understand or respond to His message, the Baha’is seems to have had cordial
relations with them. Baha’u’llah Himself, on several occasions, perhaps had
personal contact with them in the course of His several trips to Haifa during the
1880 and early 1890s.

346. d. Haifa 1920, cf. Ganj, 172-3
347. Meaning, “God is nigh” (cf. Ruhe, op. cit. 193n)
348. cited Ganj-e Shaygan, 172. A.H. Ishraq-khavari, 1968, Baha’I Publishing, Tehran

Annex III
Tablet of Carmel revealed by Baha’u’llah - Haifa, June/July 1891

As it was mentioned previously, in His fourth visit to Haifa, in June 1891,
Baha’u’llah walked over the Mount Carmel, went to the Christian monastery, and
was received by the monks and at its vicinity. Later, on the land of the monastery,
He revealed in a loud voice the divine verses, which He called the Tablet of
Carmel. In this Tablet, He mentions the encounter of the Creator with the
Creation, where Baha’u’llah speaks with the ancient Mt. Carmel. It is and
interesting dialog Then, a conversation between Baha’u’llah and the Mount
Carmel, which He records in this Tablet.
As there is no time difference of the first or last visit of Baha’u’llah to the Mt.
Carmel in a period of 23 years, it seems that His conversation with the Mt. Carmel
refers to His first encounter back on August 31, 1868, when He first landed in
Haifa prior of being taken to the penal colony of Acre in the same day.

The reader can appreciate in this Tablet, the allusions of Baha’u’llah to the
establishment of the future Seat of God over this Mountain349, which fulfills the
words of Baha’u’llah in this Tablet, by the building of the Temple of the Lord, the
Shrine of the Bab started by Abdu’l-Baha in 1901, followed by the superstructure
over the original building by the Guardian Shoghi Effendi in 1953, and the building
of the first five administrative building, i.e., the Archives in 1957, followed by the
Seat of the Universal House of Justice in 1983, and the building of the
International Teaching Centre simultaneously with the building of Centre of the
Study of Texts in 1999/2000. The fifth building, i.e., The International Library still
to be built in future to be located at the east of the Arc. The building of the 18
Terraces on both north and south of the Holy Shrine of the Bab, inaugurated in
2001, culminates the words of Baha’u’llah in this Tablet.

The Text of the Tablet of Carmel
All glory be to this Day, the Day in which the fragrances of mercy have been
wafted over all created things, a Day so blest that past ages and centuries can
never hope to rival it, a Day in which the countenance of the Ancient of Days hath
turned towards His holy seat. Thereupon the voices of all created things, and
beyond them those of the Concourse on High, were heard calling aloud: `Haste
thee, O Carmel, for lo, the light of the countenance of God, the Ruler of the
Kingdom of Names and Fashioner of the heavens, hath been lifted upon thee.'
Seized with transports of joy, and raising high her voice, she thus exclaimed: `May
my life be a sacrifice to Thee, inasmuch as Thou hast fixed Thy gaze upon me,
hast bestowed upon me Thy bounty, and hast directed towards me Thy steps.

349. Referring to the Seat of the Universal House of Justice, already majestically built in 1983-5.

Separation from Thee, O Thou Source of everlasting life, hath well nigh consumed
me, and my remoteness from Thy presence hath burned away my soul. All praise
be to Thee for having enabled me to hearken to Thy call, for having honoured me
with Thy footsteps, and for having quickened my soul through the vitalizing
fragrance of Thy Day and the shrilling voice of Thy Pen, a voice Thou didst ordain
as Thy trumpet-call amidst Thy people. And when the hour at which Thy resistless
Faith was to be made manifest did strike, Thou didst breathe a breath of Thy spirit
into Thy Pen, and lo, the entire creation shook to its very foundations, unveiling to
mankind such mysteries as lay hidden within the treasuries of Him Who is the
Possessor of all created things.'
No sooner had her voice reached that most exalted Spot than We made reply:
Render thanks unto thy Lord, O Carmel. The fire of thy separation from Me was
fast consuming thee, when the ocean of My presence surged before thy face,
cheering thine eyes and those of all creation, and filling with delight all things visible
and invisible. Rejoice, for God hath in this Day established upon thee His throne350,
hath made thee the dawning-place of His signs and the dayspring of the evidences
of His Revelation. Well is it with him that circleth around thee, that proclaimeth the
revelation of thy glory, and recounteth that which the bounty of the Lord thy God
hath showered upon thee. Seize thou the Chalice of Immortality in the name of thy
Lord, the All-Glorious, and give thanks unto Him, inasmuch as He, in token of His
mercy unto thee, hath turned thy sorrow into gladness, and transmuted thy grief
into blissful joy. He, verily, loveth the spot which hath been made the seat of His
throne, which His footsteps have trodden, which hath been honoured by His
presence, from which He raised His call, and upon which He shed His tears.
Call out to Zion, O Carmel, and announce the joyful tidings: He that was hidden
from mortal eyes is come! His all-conquering sovereignty is manifest; His all-
encompassing splendour is revealed. Beware lest thou hesitate or halt. Hasten
forth and circumambulate the City of God that hath descended from heaven, the
celestial Kaaba351 round which have circled in adoration the favoured of God, the
pure in heart, and the company of the most exalted angels. Oh, how I long to
announce unto every spot on the surface of the earth, and to carry to each one of
its cities, the glad-tidings of this Revelation--a Revelation to which the heart of Sinai
hath been attracted, and in whose name the Burning Bush is calling: "Unto God,
the Lord of Lords, belong the kingdoms of earth and heaven." Verily this is the Day
in which both land and sea rejoice at this announcement, the Day for which have
been laid up those things which God, through a bounty beyond the ken of mortal
mind or heart, hath destined for revelation. Ere long will God sail His Ark352 upon
thee and will manifest the people of Bahá353 who have been mentioned in the Book
of Names.'

350. The Seat of the Universal House of Justice
351. Point of Adoration
352. The Administrative Centre as mentioned before, the Ark’s buildings.
353. Members of the Universal House of Justice elected every five years, who legislate laws not in the
Holy Texts.

Sanctified be the Lord of all mankind, at the mention of Whose name all the atoms
of the earth have been made to vibrate, and the Tongue of Grandeur hath been
moved to disclose that which had been wrapt in His knowledge and lay concealed
within the treasury of His might. He, verily, through the potency of His name, the
Mighty, the All-Powerful, the Most High, is the ruler of all that is in the heavens and
all that is on earth354.

354. Writings of Baha’u’llah, p. 173, Baha’i Publishing Trust, India

ANNEX IV

The Circle of Cypress Trees
At the south of the Shrine of the Bab, over the wall on
the Terrace 11, there is a circle of old cypress trees,
about nine of them now, though accordingly, the original
number has been fifteen. Apparently, this cluster of the
trees was part of the land purchased by the Master
Abdu’l-Baha. At continuation some research is done,
due to its mention in some Baha’i literature and its
existence up today.

According to Andrew
Blake355 , with the help
of Ali Nakhjavani356 , in
his
detailed
pictorial
history, presented in
2001, mentions these
types of the trees, have
been identified as Cupressus sempervirens. The
identified
picture
has
been
dated
pre-
construction of the Shrine, possibly in late 1890s
or early 1900s. In his analysis of the photo, he
writes:
“There
is no sign of the
Shrine – the
first building to
be constructed
in this area. At
the date of this photo, the land is likely to have
been in Baha’i hands. The Master was initially,
only be able to purchase two plots, one where
the trees stood, and the other where the Shrine
was to be built357 Another possible reason for
taking such a photo would be to record the site
where Baha’u’lah visited. We know from
another photo that Abdu’l-Baha planted a fruit
orchard where these grape vines are located within probably between 1900 and
1905. We also know from the note attached to the rear of this photo that Abdu’l-

355. Andrew Blake horticulturist, served at the BWC during the project of the Terraces of the Shrine of the
Bab.
356. Ali Nakhjavani, served as member of the Universal House of Justice for 40 years, (1963-2003), he also
was member of the second Baha’i International Council, 1960-1963.
357. Comments quoted by Ali Nakhjavani.

Baha
purchased
this
land
from
someone who grew grapes here 358 ,
this may be one of the earliest photos
we have of this area. So, this photo is
likely to have been taken at some time
between 1895 and 1905359”.

Once the BWC staff, A Blake, who
made
a
study
on
the
existing
vegetation of the Baha’i property over
the Mount Carmel, wrote: “It was
reported by Mr. G. Schmelzle, a Baha’i
from Australia who was reared in the
German Templer Colony in Haifa, that
the area behind the Shrine of the Bab  was owned by a relative of his. ‘Abdu’l-
Baha attempted to buy the site of the trees but was refused because the ground
was covered with grapevines – a source of income. Shortly afterwards the
grapevines developed a blight and died. ‘Abdu’l-Baha was then able to buy the
land he wanted360”  The sale of the land has been prior to the commencement of
the construction of the Shrine of the Bab, in 1901.

D. Ruhe writes: “The Templer Wilhelm Deiss not only planted the famous
cypresses behind the Shrine of the Bab, but also sold his vineyard on the
mountain to ‘Abdu’l-Baha, then became His gardener. The Guardian, as is
recorded in ‘The Priceless Pearl’, appreciated his Templer neighbors for their
solid virtues, myopic though they were with regard to the significance of the Faith
and its fulfillment of Bengel’s Prediction361.

Gerhard and Gertie Schmelzle, together with their daughter, Jessica – the only
known Baha’is from Templer background, visited Maria Vongerg Deiss, daughter
of Wilhelm in 1975 in Melbourne when she was over eighty years old. Jessica
Schmelzle made a tape recording and later on transcribed and sent to the Baha’i
World Center, recounting of almost daily visits of Abdu’l-Baha to her father
conversing about the land and the crops Wilhelm had. Abdu’l-Baha was
interested to buy his land and for a long time W. Deiss was not interested to sell
it, she said: “…up to the day when all the vineyard, were destroyed by a fungus,
then he sold the vineyard to Him. Mr. Deiss became later gardener of Abdu’l-
Baha. In the very early days, he planted – Mr. Wilhelm Deiss planted the
cypresses under which later Baha’u’llah was sitting when…362”

358. Wilhelm Deiss, a German Templer, who Abdu’l-Baha befriended and used to visit regularly for the
purchase of his piece of land, which was so important to Him,
359. The identified photo AVD number is NN 3365 FN 6255.2, provided by Mr. Andrew Blake.
360. Which included the clump of cypress trees.
361. The German, Johann Albrecht Bengel predicted the fulfilment of the coming of Christ will be in 1836.
362. Tape recording AV CT 141 – 355

In a Tablet from Abdu’l-Baha reiterates the existence of the cypress trees when
the land was going to be purchased by Him:
“Abdu'l-Baha wrote: "There was a huge piece of land above the land of the Holy
Shrine which if it would be in hands of the strangers, they would have built
something on it which would result a big problem. And that land was many times
trodden by the Holy steps of the Blessed Beauty. There were some cypress trees
on it. Under their shadow, the Ancient Beauty had sat several times and the friends
would come to His presence. That piece of land in these days was purchased for
a high amount of two thousand tumans and was added to the Holy Shrine363”.

It is not known the reason why Wilhelm Deiss, a Templer, has planted in his
vineyard a cluster of 15 cypress trees in a form of a circle. Among all the available
Templers literature, nothing indicates pointing to discover the reason for the
plantation of these trees. Any thought might merely be a speculation.

As per the Baha’i Persian literature, it is recorded by the story of Husayn Iqbal,
who was present at the time when Baha’u’llah was sitting on a chair in the middle
of the circle of cypress trees and Abdu’l-Baha sitting in front of Him, listening to
the utterances of Baha’u’llah, indicating to His son, about the exact place where
the remains of the Bab should be interred. It was sometimes in late June 1891
when Baha’u’llah visited Haifa for the last time and climbed the Mount Carmel
visiting the Cave of Elijah and the Christian monastery on the top of Mount
Carmel, where at its vicinity364 Baha’u’llah revealed the Tablet of Carmel. Iqbal,
when at the presences of the beloved Guardian sometime in 1949 recounting the
story, he was then encouraged to write down this story so he could make it a part
of the history of the Faith. Iqbal recounted that there were 15 young cypress trees
whose trunk thickness were around the thickness of a finger365 which had a scant
shade. This suggests that the trees were around five or six years old, which make
the time of their cultivation around 1886366.

What Templers say?
Martha Otto at a request, wrote to the German Templers in May 2015, asking the
ex-president of the Society and the archivist/historian of the Society367 about this
issue. The following is what she received and shared for the sake of this Annex.

He wrote to M. Otto:
“I cannot find the answers to your questions in my memory alone but will have to
find some older files and plans.  It is quite remarkable how many persons have
lately shown an interest in the origin of the cypresses on Mt. Carmel... Obviously,

363. Selections of the Writings of ‘Abdu'l-Baha, vol. 4, p. 68. Persian
364. Today it is the site of the future House of Worship.
365. Around one inch of thickness, although such a small trees do not give shade enough to cover one from
the June sun in Haifa. They must have been thicker than an each.
366. M.A. Faizi, Malakei-i-Karmel, pp.41-42.
367. Peter Lange the ex-Archivist of the Tempelgesellschaft. Peter Lange has been a great help with this
study.

the Baha’is are of the opinion that a German Templer had created a circular
cypress grove half-way up Mt. Carmel in extension of the street of the German
Colony.  A circular earth wall had indeed been built to supply the trees with
rainwater.  I have such a photograph.  After the reconstruction of the Baha’i
Gardens and the Shrine of the Bab, pictures show a circular cypress grove directly
above the Shrine.  My assumption is that the cypress grove was planted prior to
the construction of the Shrine by Baha’is in order to mark the spot designated by
Baha’u’llah where the Shrine should be built.  After the construction of the Shrine
these trees were left there and venerated.
one of the inquirers, contradicts this assumption by saying that there were
indications that this group of trees was planted by Templers from the colony. To
date I have not found any proof, therefore.  Why should the Templers have planted
these trees half-way up the mountain?  As Archivist of the Temple Society, I know
practically every document or memorial booklet from the early years of the colony,
and I have never seen anything of the sort.  But I do want to check whether we still
have plans of the plots of the colonists on Mt. Carmel, and whether Wilhelm Deiss
owned land there.
Please tell me honestly what this searching of the planter of one or more trees all
is about.  I don’t want to invest a lot of time in answering a relatively insignificant
question.  Who has created the “rumor” that the cypresses come from the
Germans?  They certainly planted some in the gardens of the colony, but as for
Mt.Carmel, I have only heard about vines being planted there.
I will contact you again when I have found some useful information to solve this
problem368.

With the above description, it becomes obvious that the Templers per se as a
Society have not had this circle of cypress trees planted, therefore, the aspect of
this being a memorial site for them should be discarded. The only other possible
aspect, which might still be relevant, and this cannot be proved yet, is that
Wilhelm Deiss planted the cluster in his land as a personal inspiration of which
he did not divulged a word to anyone. The mystery remains unsolved.

368 Email from Martha Otto to the writer, May 26, 2015


ANNEX V
German Quotations on Templer Houses in Haifa369

House # 1, year 1870, “Lord let thy countenance shine above us”
Museum bldg. year 1869, Gemeindehaus der Templer “Should I forget thee
Jerusalem may my right hand be forgotten”
Same house, year 1890 “The Lord has helped up to now”
House # 26 on the side: “Emmanuel – God with us”
House # 32 on the side: “Thy Kingdom Come”
House # 18 “From the depth I call to you Lord.”
House # 15-year 1870 inscription has been removed.
House # 4 “All the help that came before and after was done by thee”
House # 7 Today the Post Office “The spirit and the bride speak come Lord Jesus”
House (# removed) On side of house “…he will inherit of old
House # 61 “Commend your ways to the Lord and trust in Him, He will do well”
House # 53 on the side: “Lord who will remain on your holy mountain”
House # 43 House :Levon T.” on the side: “He that overcometh shall inherit all
things”
On Hagafen Str. Next to Baha’i Tent Garden: “The Lord is Nigh”


369 Translated into English by Martha Otto, ex-BWC volunteer during the research of this study. She was
a great help.

ANNEX VI
Memories of Haifa and the Baha’i in the past and now
Recounted by some Templers from Australia

Recently I had the great pleasure of a visit by Tante Kathe (Beilharz Jetzt Keller),
our pre-school kindergarten – teacher in Haifa. Tante Kathe guided us in the
thirties from the age of three up to the age of six or seven towards school
discipline, singing, listening to stories, and games. On one occasion I
remembered being marshaled in awe – nothing to be touched370, through the
beautiful gardens over the rustling crush-tile paths, down to many tiring steps.

Forty years later, Tante Kathe as youthful as ever, gave me two treasured color
photos of Haifa. One, a view of our “Kolonie” was hastily incorporated in my
colored postcard collection “views of Haifa” dating back to at least 1905. On this
recent photo our “Kolonie” is crowned by ever-present dome of the Baha’i.

Our oldest record of the Baha’i, then called Babi, is in Fr. Lange’s ‘History of
Temple Society’ pps 446 – 448. It refers to a report by Hardegg in the “Warte’
about a visit to Abbas Effendi (Abdu’l-Baha) – in Acre – presumably in 1872.

Now last month (over 100 years later) the following extract appeared in
“Treffpunkt 205” Interesting to us today is the fact, that the Baha’i World Center
Library in Haifa shows lately a lively interest in our literature, and has acquired
through its chief, Mr. William P. Collins, the new edition e.g., the various Carmel
Books, as well as the Beilharz – Chronik and our Cemetery – in memoriam –
booklet.

The cursory reader this news may have been interesting. On reflection however
some sobering facts emerge. For my own enlightenment, I dearly hope to be
corrected. Since Chr. Rohrer’s ‘Is the Bible….’ In the thirties or twenties, there
has been no book from our midst until C. Bitzer’s and L. Beilharz’s books, not
even a customary critique putting Carmel’s seemingly slanted 1868 – 1918 book
into a proper perspective.

The Baha’i on the other hand realized a long time ago, that to substantiate and
illuminate their founders, they have to glean every grain of reference from every
possible source, and for this purpose they have the Baha’i World Centre Library
in Haifa. Based on these admirable resources center they print comprehensive,
well-illustrated books e.g. ‘The Baha’i World’, which the local Baha’i Community
donates to your district library. I suggest a visit to your nearest library to look up
the Baha’i as a most interesting, educational and sobering experience. Let’s learn
from them.


370. Referring to the Baha’i Gardens over Mt. Carmel

In ‘The Baha’i World 1868-73’ I came across the familiar 1877 view of Haifa with
the following footnote: German Templar Colony at foot of Mt. Carmel, Haifa,
Engraving 1877. “The Templars371”, wrote Shoghi Effendi in “God Passes By”, “in
anticipation of the coming of the Lord had forsaken their homes and forgathered
at the foot of the mountain in the same year of Baha’u’llah’s Declaration in
Baghdad 1863”.

Shoghi Effendi – Abbas Effendi’s grandson – the so-called Guardian, walked
frequently in the cool of the evening in the shade of our tree-lined ‘Alleen’372 in
the thirties, usually lecturing to several reverently following disciples, who
intermittently would bow to him.

The governing body, which took over on Shoghi Effendi’s passing is well
described in The Baha’i World. Let me not weary you with organizational details,
nor the dogmatism of Baha’u’llah’s teachings, in such rules as: no alcohol, no
drugs that confuse the mind. However, let me take you to the Encyclopeadia
Britannica 1978. Under ‘Haifa the same up-to-date view of our Kolonie as Tante
Kathe’s (Grandfather Ehmann’s house already on the 1869 plan of the Kolonie,
still there, on the top left-hand side of Carmel Avenue). Yet no note of who planted
the many beautiful tree mentioned, not who planned or built the suburb shown,
but the Persian Gardens and the Baha’i are referred to. The Baha’i Faith of
course merits several pages in the tail in the Macropeadia interspersed with such
data as: in 1971 they had National Governing Bodies in 100 countries and no
fewer than 6000 local spiritual assemblies world-wide.

As said before, these active, local communities donate their literature to local
libraries. There we can read through Dr. Esslemont’s ‘Baha’u’llah and the new
Era’. Many passages strike a responsive chord: e.g. page 79 …Some are content
with, but the through the words is tested by deeds and dependent upon life.
Deeds reveal the station of the man…

Passages like these are food for thought. Here we have a sect, no older than our
own, as little aggressive in their missionary zeal (Esslemont p.80) as we are yet
imbued with the same unadulterated altruism of our now seemingly unreal
experiment in Palestine. The deeds spoke louder than words. Remember how to
huge establishment of a new Haifa was triumphed over. Pettychism could not
prevent Hardegg’s visionary stamp of beauty being indelibly imprinted
generations to come on the face of Haifa.

Yet where is our pale counterpart to the Baha’i W.C. Library373? Where can our
young, trained in the use of reference libraries, nourish their knowledge of our

371. Should read ‘Templers’. Not to be mistaken by Medieval Knights Templars, the Catholic military order.
372. Tree-lined Street or boulevard
373. Should read: Baha’i World Centre Library

heritage by means of sensibly collated material of all aspects of our past? This
void must perplex in spite of our negligence, tribute to our pioneering work can
be found in new Israeli reference books, tribute to deed, a natural human
characteristic.

I sincerely hope, our editor’s intention to print articles on the past, and on
member’s opinions on issues concerning the present will eventually give a
balanced view of ‘the quality of life’ of our settlements. Contrasted against the
progress or otherwise, have achieved as ‘sybarites wallowing in affluence’. We
may even find an answer to the nagging question, why we, with the most
‘liberated’ of teachings linger toward His Kingdom, while the Baha’i sect in spite
of dogmatism of Baha’u’llah’s and Abdu’l-Baha’s (Abbas Effendi) teachings has
been growing spectacular working towards His Kingdom on Earth.374
Werner Ehmann

374. This interesting article written by a Templer, presumably in original German and then translated into
English, analyzing the Templers and Baha’is movements from an objective point of view. The Templer
Record No. 385 – Werner Ehman, May 1979. Copy of the article was obtained from the Baha’i World Center
Library.

ANNEX VII

“Der Herr ist nahe”
The early Templers in Haifa
The following article is a transcription of a recorded tape by Gerhard Schmelzle in 1975. The copy
of this article was obtained from the Library of the Baha’i World Center. Gerhard’s mother was a
Templer. The tape was sent to the Baha’i World Center where it was transcribed. Together with
the tape, some pictures have also been sent along with the tape, as described in this article, but
seemingly they are not available. Separately, some pictures – probably relevant to the article
were given to the writer in 2002/3 by Mr. Saeid Darakhshan of Australia, during his volunteer
service at the Baha’i World Center, Haifa.

The photos are numbered for clarification.
Photo number 1 says “A street in Haifa, the house Baha’u’llah occupied for the
time.” We questioned several people including the Mayor of Haifa. This house
belonged to the family of Friederich Appinger and was built (in) 1905, and
therefore was not in existence at the time of Baha’u’llah. Later this house was
renovated and rebuilt into the motel – hotel Appinger, which is still in existence
on the top of Mount Carmel Avenue.

Photo number 2, 2a and 2b, is the house of the Pfander family. When I went to
South Australia in search for the elderly Templar people, I was guided to the home
of Mrs. Wilhelmine Dininger, spelled WILGELMINE DININGER. Her maiden’s
name is Wilhelmine Pfander, the granddaughter of Mr. and Mrs. Pfander who did
build the house around 1869 – 71 and engraved over the door “Der Herr ist nahe.”
The elderly lady, Mrs. Dininger was born in the house in eighteen hundred and
eighty-seven (1887).

On {…} the picture number two I showed and explained to her how near her
grandparents were to the truth, that the Herr – the Herr was near through the
presence of Baha’u’llah when He pitched His tent on the foot of Mount Carmel,
next to her home. When I told her this, she gave me a most wonderful smile and
said quietly “I saw Baha’u’llah. I must have been a girl between four and five of
age” she said. “They brought a Man in, very sick into my grandfather’s and
father’s home. Several Persian men and women were with Him. There was a
moment when the door of the room was open and no one around, my curiosity
took over” she said, “and I went to the room and looked behind the door where
the bed was standing. I saw Baha’u’llah. He was sick and weak, and I saw His
piercing eyes and the long black hair.”
It came later to me that the name Baha’u’llah would not have been strange to
her, as the children grew up with the Arabic language as well as their own. She
said, “Baha’u’llah was only for a few days in the room.” On photo number 2, I
made a cross over the window of the room Baha’u’llah was in for a short time. I
questioned her several times – if she was sure it was Baha’u’llah. She said, “Yes,
I knew the name.”
It is for the House (of Justice) to decide how authentic this story is – story can

be. Personally, I felt very blessed listening to her. Mrs. Wilhelmine Dininger lives
with her daughter now at 98 Avenue, Joslin, South Australia375.

On picture 3 is Mrs. Vonberg, former(ly) Maria Deiss in her younger years, she is
now over eighty. I found Mrs. Vonberg in a home for elderly people in Tanunda,
50 miles north of Adelaide. Gisela and Evelyn, my two daughters, came with me
because they knew her from the time they were little. When we saw her first her
face had a heavy fixed expression, due to long term of medication, the matron
told us, and I was warned that she has not spoken for three months besides
saying please and thank you. My heart dropped; I thought I was too late. Mrs.
Vonberg looked – uh – Mrs. Vonberg took us to her room and sat down in a fixed
pose – fixed pose and looked – and looked at us. So, I had to speak all the time.
I told her why I came, asked her about ‘Abdu’l-Baha in connection with her family,
if she would – and if she would have any pictures, and if she could tell me about
‘Abdu’l-Baha’s visit to her parents’ home and, etc., etc. I spoke to her for more
than one hour. Then I said I had to go, if I could see her the next day again? Her
eyes smiled and to our biggest surprise she said loud and clear, “Come tomorrow
at half past one, but I have one picture you can have, and I will look for them
tonight.” She kissed us and brought us to the door and waved for quite a time.
The girls and I felt very happy, and we remembered the time years back when
Mrs. Vonberg came to our house and we would sit around her listening to her
telling us from ‘Abdu’l-Baha and she not once would stutter, while she very often
would stutter through any other conversation. Next day I went again to see Mrs.
Vonberg. She had the photos all ready and talked to me about her parent’s home
in 79 Allenby Road where ‘Abdu’l-Baha was a friend of the family. ‘Abdu’l-Baha
always came by Himself to rest in her parents’ garden. He would suck the honey
flowers and sit on the little wall at the well. ‘Abdu’l-Baha gently several times, or
better, from time to time would ask her father if he would sell the vineyard on
Mount Carmel. Naturally, the answer was no, up to the day when all the vineyards
were destroyed by a fungus, then he sold the vineyard to Him. Mr. Wilhelm Deiss
became later the gardener of ‘Abdu’l-Baha. In the very days, he planted – Mr.
Wilhelm Deiss planted the cypresses under which later Baha’u’llah was sitting
when He revealed the Tablet of Carmel. Mrs. Vonberg gave all the details of all
the visits of ‘Abdu’l-Baha to her parents’ home plus her personal contact with
‘Abdu’l-Baha to Thelma Hewson to be written down and sent to Ruhiyyih
Khanum376. I saw the Hewson family and they said a full report on the Deiss
family in connection with ‘Abdu’l-Baha has been given to Ruhiyyih Khanum some
years ago. Mrs. Vonberg spoke for more than two hours to me. The matron came
in several times, and I could see that she could not believe what she saw. We
spoke in German and therefore she didn’t know what was involved. But the word
did go around before I even left her that Mrs. Vonberg spoke for a long time, and

375. Joslin is a suburb of Adelaide in the City of Norwood. Wikipedia
376. Mary Maxwell, daughter of May and William Maxwell who became wife of Shoghi Effendi, the Guardian
of the Baha’i Faith in 1937. She was given the name, for which she was famous, as Ruhiyyih Khanum,
meaning ‘Handmaiden of Glory’.

she seemed to be very happy. We both parted in loving memory of ‘Abdu’l-Baha.
When I left Mrs. Vonberg, I was asked by many people, “what made her speak?
Why was she so happy?” What could I say? Before I even knew, I said, her love
to ‘Abdu’l-Baha. To explain who was ‘Abdu’l-Baha, I had to hell her, or better I
should say, I had the opportunity to tell them first of Baha’u’llah.

In her parents’ home, 79 Allenby Street is still Mrs. – Miss Paulin – Paulin Deiss
living. We feel it is best for Gisela to make contact again to get the permission to
take photos of the house, garden, balcony, etc. it would be so much better to read
the report Mrs. Vonberg gave years ago to Ruhiyyih Khanum to understand and
to find - to understand this story better and to find the places of interest.

Number 3-1 shows the house of the family Deiss in the very early times. It is
marked with little square around it.

Photo number 4 shows Mr. Johannes Pross, the mayor of Haifa and his wife
Maria. He remembered ‘Abdu’l-Baha very well but had not been in contact – had
not been in contact with Him. He thinks, and several people did agree that
‘Abdu’l-Baha could have been knighted in the Governor’s residence in Hospital
Street, corner Allenby Street. Mr. Pross said the document should be still there.

In photo number 5 we see great-grandfather Bubeck’s house standing right at
the end of Mount Carmel Avenue. To me it says, ‘Behold, to here and not further.’
Right where his house was standing is the beginning of the path towards the
stairs, which lead up to the Shrine. So, this little house stopped any further
building in the line of the Carmel Avenue towards the Shrine. God works in
mysterious ways!

Photo number 6, Bubek’s home and shed on the property blocking the way to the
Shrine.

Photo number 7 shows that the blockage, great-grandfather Bubek’s house,
including the shed are demolished by nineteen hundred twenty-nine (1929) or
even earlier, and the way up to the Shrine is free.

Number 8. A Templar wedding. Abdu’l-Baha did send lots of white carnations for
the Templar Hall where the wedding was held. The festival part of the wedding
was held at great-grandfather Bubeck’s home. Gerhard’s auntie, Cornelia Wortz,
lived at the time of ‘Abdu’l-Baha, in Hospital Street at her parents’ home, the little
home which lies back from the street and next to Gerhard’s mother’s home ,
where Tony took the photo of us with the Jewish family. ‘Abdu’l-Baha came quite
frequently to Gerhard’s grandfather’s home. ‘Abdu’l-Baha would call out, “Don’t
you want to give an old man a glass of water.” ‘Abdu’l-Baha would talk for a little
while outside with grandfather and then would wander on. One day, grandfather

asked Him to come into the house and not to stay in the sun. ‘Abdu’l-Baha told
His companions to go on and followed grandfather into this house. They talked
about the harvest of the wheat and (on) grandfather’s vineyards. From that time,
‘Abdu’l-Baha, when He passed grandfather’s home, would wave His companions
and go alone, to see grandfather. ‘Abdu’l-Baha gave auntie Cornelia three – three
rings on different occasion. One she is still wearing. When she was sick, ‘Abdu’l-
Baha came several times and visited her and brought her apple juice. Auntie
Cornelia spent nearly every afternoon with the daughters of ‘Abdu’l-Baha on the
roof – on the roof balcony of Gerhard’s mother’s house, next to grandfather’s
house. They did do needle work and talked and had a happy hour. Auntie
Cornelia said that they were very happy girls, and they had a long-term
friendship.

‘Abdu’l-Baha invited for three days to Bahji where she met the (Greatest) Holy
Leaf. Nineteen-hundred seventeen (1917), when the first Germans – when the
first German airplane landed in Haifa with Lt. Railing and observer Parker,
‘Abdu’l-Baha asked two gardeners to pick the nicest flowers and then He asked
Auntie Cornelia if she would take the flowers and welcome the officers in His
name. She still is full of joy when she talks about ‘Abdu’l-Baha and His family.
Auntie Cornelia lives in Melbourne. For years and years ‘Abdu’l-Baha would pass
Gerhard’s parents’ home every day at the same time and would wave to his
mother on the balcony and she would wave back to Him, but they never actually
met. Gerhard’s mother was a Templar.

This is as far as out search took us. We went to all the places where the Templers
lived. Barossa Valley, Adelaide, other places in South Australia, Bayswater,
Boronia, East Bentley, Richmond, in Victoria. In Sidney are a few people left but
not from Haifa.

There are – there are hardly any left of the old people who knew ‘Abdu’l-Baha.
We will keep on trying to learn of more points of interest and we try for more
photos.

The blessing of Baha’u’llah may be with all of you.





Love, Gerhard and Gertie

Correction: Dininger is spelled DEININGER.
We also include two documentary plans of the settlement of Haifa, which may be
of use as the Persian properties are shown.
END

Recording received from Mrs. Gerhard Schmelzle through her daughter Gisela
in 1975.
Miss Gisela Schmelzle
c/o Dernacourt Junior Primary School
Parsons Parade
Dernacourt
Adelaide
South Australia377



23. Abdu’l-Baha’s short stories on the German Templers378

Added information in Feb. 2019 from the book: the diary of Badi Bushrui

While he was studying in Beirut,.Badi accompanie Abdu’l-Baha in the Holy Land
for over two years. He was the confidant of the Master. In many conversations the
beloved Master told him and some other friends present on different matters such
as German Templers.

The whole story of the Master’s relocation to Tiberias from 20th of August to 26th of
September 1916 – during the First World War – to arrange for the transportation
of grains He had the Persian Baha’is from Yazd who had been called to establish
themselves in Adasiyyih and work in the huge pieces of land He had then
purchased and had His uncle Mirza Muhammad-Quli, the youngest half-brother of
Baha’u’llah to live and supervise them. It took Abdu’l-Baha almost forty days in the
heat of the summer of that year, staying in the German Templer’s hotel in Tiberias
and organize the very intricate matter of transportation of the grain to Haifa and
Akka, to save the people from starvation. He was quite happy to stay in the Hotel
with his two companions, each occupying one room, having their meals prepared
by the Hotel’s cook. They had high regards for the Master, and He could negotiate
a flat rate for His staying during all that period, where the tourists were scarce, and
it was convenient for both parties. For sure there have been conversation with the
Germans by the beloved Master, but these are not recorded. Many a time Badi
mentions of a full description of the Master regarding the Templers in Haifa, their
history, their contacts but unfortunately these have not been recorded in the diary,
except some extracts here and there that these will be mentioned below.

First of all, during the war, the Ottoman Army had confiscated any available food
for its own soldiers. Secondly, the Army had confiscated the camel and other

377. Tape recording AV CT 141 – 355
Dr. David Ruhe has added by hand to first draft of transcription “northwest room first floor”.
First draft transcription contains the following insertion, which is not a part of the tape: “[Dr. Esselmont, in
his pilgrim notes, says that this house was demolished by the British Army at the end of the war…1918 or
1919]”
378. Badi Busrui, extracts from his book of Dar Zell-e-Shajareh-e Mithaq (Under the shadow of the Tree of
the Covenant),

means of transportation for the use of the Army. Thirdly, if it would find out of the
availability of any food, it would confiscate it. Therefore, Abdu’l-Baha had to solve
these problems before He could have the grain to be taken away.

He had friendly relationship with the Governors and the Army Commandments of
different cities. He had to see them and clear the loads from being confiscated in
different check-posts, in a time that the scarcity of food had taken the mercy of the
people away. Everybody was hungry and, in this chaos, to take food from one city
by caravan to another, it needed armed men to accompany the caravan and
clearance permits, sometimes with the requirement of five different signatures of
the authorities for the caravan leader to be able to pass the check-posts for free
passing.

On the page 231 of the book, regarding Tuesday 14th of September 1916 –Haifa
he says:
During the afternoon, together with one of the servants of the Threshold we took a
walk at the presence of the Master and in a new piece of land located at the end
western side of the Colony, whose well had recently reached water, He sat a while
and said: Make this well a path to be a benefit for all the people. Then He made a
mention of the Germans of this town that they have put a cap over all the wells and
have deprived the people. Then He said that ‘Man should always strive to the point
possible to become cause of good.’

On the page 277 there is the following comment by the beloved Master, Tuesday,
12 October 1915:
…In the afternoon He took a walk leaving His home in Haifa, when He reached the
German Colony, He said: “It is the quarter of silence” 379 there is no physical
movement neither spiritual. They always working and have a good ambition –high
mindedness. It would have been excellent if they would had spent this ambition in
faith and certitude. The mole underground makes wonderful designs, yet it is
always underground not above it.”

Then He sat for a while in the lobby of the Hotel Carmel before He took off towards
the sea. At the return He mentioned of a certain British Lord that he was a very
detached man. He built the upper floor of the Carmel Hotel. He had great ideas
about service to the humanity, the Blessed Beauty also had regards for him, but
as much as the enemies of the Faith said improper matters to him, he distanced
himself…380

On the page 252 of the same book regarding the Thursday 25 November 1915, it

379. In Persian literature, the quarter of silence or the valley of silence is an insinuation for the cemetery,
burial-ground,
380. Probably Laurence Oliphant, who got himself built a house which is still standing dilapidated in today’s
Ben Gurion boulevard, where Baha’u’llah spent some nights. His wife in her book about Haifa has mentioned
unfavorable matters about the Faith, clearly under the influence of Mirza Badi’u’llah and Mirza Zia’u’llah i.e.,
two half-brothers of the Master. She mentioned that she helped them, as they were in dire economic condition,
etc.

indicates that:
…His Holiness came out of His house and sat at the porch. A German craftsman
was busy repairing the chairs; therefore, He mentioned the Germans and their
morals and behaviour saying, “that these people came to these regions for the
second coming of Christ, and their coming was coincided with the coming of
Baha’u’llah”.

On the page 417 regarding Sunday 19 March 1916, it is stated:
“In the evening He called the friends, and His talk regarded the German Templers,
that we should befriend them, because after the War, the Germans will come here,
and it will be very difficult for these people.”

Sunday 14 May 1916 has a story on the page 481:
News was brought in, that the Chief of the Army of this area381 was on his way to
Haifa and will be the guest of the Master. Therefore, today from early morning He
was doing all kinds of arrangements, preparing the necessary elements. He sent
Aqa Mirza Mohsen382 together with two maids and Khosrow383 to Akka to make all
the preparations for receiving the guest in Akka. He called on the German baker
and asked him to bake special bread. He said there is no flour, therefore after
lunch, He went to the Commandant and got one bag of the best flour from the Army
deposit and gave it to the mentioned baker to make the special bread.

Tuesday 30 May 1916, another story mentioned on the page 496:
Two days ago, He went for a walk and visited a German, who is a happy old man
who has endeavored a lot on the gardening of his house. He sat in his home for a
while and when He was about to leave, he had said that I have an English book,
which I don’t understand its contents, I give it to you to be translated for you. This
morning He said that parts of this book was read, which is called ‘Mountain of God’.
In 1851 in Berlin a group found out that the fulfillment of the prophecies and the
coming of the Promised One is at hand and it will be in the Holy Land, therefore
five hundred families leave to come these areas and make themselves laws and
orders.
(At the footnote regarding the above in the same page it is written: This group, first
under the leadership of Leonard Colber, after 1844 which they did not see the
physical coming of Christ, decided to come to Carmel and awaiting His coming.
They built houses on the two sides of the street that at the present it extends from
the sea to the first Terrace. The Blessed Beauty at His visit of Haifa stayed in one
of the houses in this area).

On the page 503 (4 June 1916 -Haifa) it is recorded that regarding the Mt. Carmel
the Master said “God willing Baha’is will develop this Mountain, I see this mountain
shining, because there will be built the place for the orphans, schools, and
hospitals, and praises of God will touch the heavens. These lands all will be Baha’i

381. Jamal Pasha, his story of planning to kill Abdu’l-Baha was recounted earlier.
382. Son-in-law of Abdu’l-Baha
383. The carriage driver, a very faithful servant.

lands, but will not happen in our times, but –pointing out to the younger Baha’is-
they will see it. We put the foundations and that is the Shrine of the Bab and the
Pilgrim House.”

About the importance of Mt Carmel on the page 537 (7 July 1916 -Haifa) He was
talking on the how honorable is the Mt. Carmel that how much the Saints and
Prophets were desiring to be in this Day to be present at the Manifestation of God,
but they couldn’t.

Monday 10 July 1916 – Haifa, p. 541
In the morning He was sitting on the terrace in front of His house and the
students384 were present. He was mentioning the German Templers of Haifa that
they came here from Germany to receive the Promised One and they became
deprived. Later on, He mentioned of the Millerist385 that they were from America.
They gave away whatever they had and climbed the mountains to receive Him on
that night, expecting Him to come down from the sky and they will entertain Him
[but they were deprived].

Friday 18 August 1916 – Nazeret, p. 579/580
[Master intended to go to Tiberias saying that: “I want to go to where His Holiness
Christ from His early life to the end lived there, it has special spirituality, especially
during the night, when the moon is out, next to the lake of Tiberias…] On His way
He stopped at Mjaydel [now in the south of Lebanon] and He entered the house of
a Christian and rested a while and asked for tea…Then there was a mention of the
surrounding villages. He was told that there are two villages belonging to the
Germans [Templers], one of them is the famous Betlehem that since they got the
place it has become immensely productive, because they work, day and night, it is
a very fine place. Then He said, in this place [Mjaydel] due to ‘homaye-raje’eh’386,
hundred and forty people died, and of dysentery six people died, but there not even
one person became sick.

Sunday 10 September 1916, Tiberias (German Hotel), p. 613/14
…He was resting at the lobby of the Hotel, to the two years old son of the Hotel
owner, to whom most of the time He had special favor and kindly attention, gave
some money, then He said, ‘what a mystery does in this money have that even
children are attracted to it?’

384. Persian students studying in Beirut who would come during their vacation and spend time in service.
385. Adventists had calculated the exact date from the Bible, as 23 May 1844, which coincided with the
Declaration of the Bab in Shiraz, Iran.
386.  Kind of bird flu?

The development of the Colony in Haifa in different periods











































Haifa and Haifa (Courtesy of the Temple Society Australia)





