THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1985-08-07

Dear Bahá’í Friends,

435.1 This letter and the annexed memorandum of comments are addressed primarily to those National Spiritual Assemblies whose communities include large numbers of materially poor people but inasmuch as the principles expressed, as distinct from some of the procedures suggested, are of universal application, they are being sent to all National Assemblies. 435.2 There is a profound aspect to the relationship between a believer and the Fund, which holds true irrespective of his or her economic condition.  When a human soul accepts Bahá’u’lláh as the Manifestation of God for this age and enters into the divine Covenant, that soul should progressively bring his or her whole life into harmony with the divine purpose—he becomes a co-worker in the Cause of God and receives the bounty of being permitted to devote his material possessions, no matter how meagre, to the work of the Faith.

435.3 Giving to the Fund, therefore, is a spiritual privilege not open to those who have not accepted Bahá’u’lláh, of which no believer should deny himself.  It is both a responsibility and a source of bounty.  This is an aspect of the Cause which, we feel, is an essential part of the basic teaching and deepening of new believers.  The importance of contributing resides in the degree of sacrifice of the giver, the spirit of devotion with which the contribution is made and the unity of the friends in this service; these attract the confirmations of God and enhance the dignity and self-respect of the individuals and the community.

544435.4 To reemphasize the spiritual significance of contributing to the Faith by all members of the Bahá’í community, we quote the following extract from a letter of the Guardian to the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Central and East Africa dated 8 August 1957: 435.4a All, no matter how modest their resources, must participate.  Upon the degree of self- sacrifice involved in these individual contributions will directly depend the efficacy and the spiritual influence which these nascent administrative institutions, called into being through the power of Bahá’u’lláh, and by virtue of the Design conceived by the Center of His Covenant, will exert.  A sustained and strenuous effort must henceforth be made by the rank and file of the avowed upholders of the Faith ...

435.5 We assure you of our prayers at the Sacred Threshold for your guidance and confirmation as you labor to develop this aspect of Bahá’í life in your communities.

With loving Bahá’í greetings,

THEUNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

Development of the Local and National Funds of the Faith Some Comments and Suggestions 435.6 While the friends have the sacred obligation and privilege to contribute to the Fund, each Local and National Assembly also has the inescapable duty of educating itself and the believers in the spiritual principles related to Bahá’í contributions, to devise simple methods to facilitate the flow and receipt of contributions, and to formulate effective procedures to ensure the wise expenditure of the funds of the Faith.  The following comments and suggestions have been

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]