THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

2000-02-11

news that death sentences have been reaffirmed for two members of the bahá’í community there and a further death sentence has been passed on a

third believer.

you will recall that our letter dated 14 November 1997 informed you that

three friends—mr. Sirus zabihi-m oghaddam, mr. hedayat kashefi-Naja-

fabadi and mr. Ataollah hamid Nasirizadeh—were arrested in mashhad in

late 1997 . early in 1998, branch #8 of the revolutionary court in mashhad

sentenced the first two to death and mr. Nasirizadeh to ten years’ imprison-

ment. it was the same court that sentenced to death mr. ruhollah rohani,

who was executed on 21 july of that year. The three other sentences were 320.1

320.2

321.1

321.2

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

70subsequently set aside by the Supreme court on the grounds that the pris-

oners had not been permitted to have lawyers for their defense, as entitled

under the law, and a retrial was accordingly ordered. That retrial took place

in branch #3 of the revolutionary court in mashhad, and in october 1998

the original verdicts were reaffirmed. An appeal was subsequently made. (See our email of 1 d ecember 1998.)

on 28 may 1999, the united Nations commission on human rights

representative, professor maurice copithorne, was assured by iran’s per-

manent representative to the united Nations in geneva that “the Supreme

court decided to reject the verdict of capital punishment for the defendants

and sent their cases to another competent court for a retrial.” . . . we have

now been informed that the verdicts, which were conveyed orally to the pris-

oners on 3 february, confirm the previous sentences: death for mr. zabihi-

moghaddam and mr. kashefi-Najafabadi and ten years’ imprisonment in

kirman for mr. Nasirizadeh.

further, the same court has now imposed a death sentence on mr.

manuchehr khulusi, who had been arrested in birjand some eight months

ago and subsequently transferred to the prison in mashhad. it is not known

what charges were brought against mr. khulusi, but it is clear that he was

arrested because of his b ahá’í activities.

The court that rendered these judgments is composed of a single judge,

a mr. Ni’mati. The prisoners have been given only 20 days to lodge a pro-

test against their sentences, in which circumstance their cases may then be referred to a second court for review. As you will note, part of this very brief

period has already elapsed and, at this point, the outcome of their protest

is not certain.

relatives of the prisoners have appealed for international action to pre-

vent the carrying out of the verdicts and the imminent execution of three

innocent individuals. . . .

Department  of tHe secretariat321.3

321.4

321.5

321.6

1996–2000  •  T h e  f o u r  Ye a r  Pl a n

705322

Passing of Laurie Arbab,

Former Member of National Spiritual Assembly

of Colombia and Director of Ruhi Institute

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]