Palabra Publications
Revelation &
Social Reality
Learning to Translate
What Is Written into Reality
Paul Lample

Copyright © 2009 by Palabra Publications
All rights reserved. Published March 2009.
ISBN 978-1-890101-70-1
Palabra Publications
7369 Westport Place
West Palm Beach, Florida 33413
U.S.A.
1-561-697-9823
1-561-697-9815  (fax)
books@palabrapublications.info
www.palabrapublications.com
Cover photograph: Ryan Lash

O thou who longest for spiritual attributes, goodly deeds, and
truthful and beneficial words! The outcome of these things is
an upraised heaven, an outspread earth, rising suns, gleaming
moons, scintillating stars, crystal fountains, flowing rivers,
subtle atmospheres, sublime palaces, lofty trees, heavenly fruits,
rich harvests, warbling birds, crimson leaves, and perfumed
blossoms. Thus I say: “Have mercy, have mercy O my Lord,
the All-Merciful, upon my blameworthy attributes, my wicked
deeds, my unseemly acts, and my deceitful and injurious
words!” For the outcome of these is realized in the contingent
realm as hell and hellfire, and the infernal and fetid trees,
as utter malevolence, loathsome things, sicknesses, misery,
pollution, and war and destruction.1
—Bahá’u’lláh
It is clear and evident, therefore, that the first bestowal of God
is the Word, and its discoverer and recipient is the power of
understanding. This Word is the foremost instructor in the
school of existence and the revealer of Him Who is the Almighty.
All that is seen is visible only through the light of its wisdom.
All that is manifest is but a token of its knowledge. All names
are but its name, and the beginning and end of all matters must
needs depend upon it.2
—Bahá’u’lláh

Preface
v
Part I: Revelation, Understanding and Action

1  Constructing the Kingdom

2  Understanding and Practice in the Bahá’í Community

3  Learning and Growth

4  Contributing to the Advancement of Civilization
Part II: Additional Considerations

5  A Problem of Knowledge

6  A Problem of Power
References
Notes
Index

v
Preface
W
hen a new Revelation is brought to humanity, it
upsets the equilibrium of the old social order. It unites
the hearts and minds of those who recognize it and
thus forges a new community. From within that community must
emerge a consciousness that can decipher and a capacity that can
apply the new teachings in order to make the world a different
place. How do we move from a world centered on materialism
and self-gratification to one that is centered on the application of
spiritual principle and service to humanity? How do we transcend
dissension and destructive criticism to harvest the fruits of critical
thought in a united search for truth? What is the nature of the
process through which we understand the meaning of the Sacred
Texts and put the teachings into practice so that we can contribute
to the unfoldment of an ever-advancing civilization?
This book explores how, as Bahá’ís, we try to understand the
Word of God as given to us in Bahá’u’lláh’s Revelation and how we
act on our understanding to achieve His purpose. It consists of six
chapters, divided into two parts. Part I consists of four chapters.
The first introduces the challenge of transforming social reality
through the impetus of divine revelation. The second chapter looks
at how Bahá’ís engage in a process of learning to comprehend
and act on the teachings in light of the guidance provided by two
authoritative centers: the Book, with its designated Interpreters,
and the Universal House of Justice. Chapters 3 and 4 examine this
approach to Bahá’í understanding and practice, first in relation
to the expansion and consolidation of the Cause over the decade
beginning with the Four Year Plan in 1996, and then, in relation
to the generation and application of knowledge aimed at engag-
ing society and contributing to the advancement of civilization,
with particular attention to experience in the field of social and
economic development.

vi
|
Revelation & Social Reality
Part II addresses possible objections to the perspective offered
in Part I that arise from contemporary—specifically postmodern—
thought. Postmodern concerns are particularly sensitive to
questions of knowledge and power, and the presentation in Part I
on understanding and action may be dismissed by some as being
naïve or coercive. Chapters 5 and 6 do not attempt to provide a
comprehensive Bahá’í perspective on knowledge and power but are,
instead, a response to a particular kind of criticism that might be
directed toward the Faith.
Throughout the book, but especially in the last two chapters,
there is an effort to correlate, to some extent, Bahá’í teachings with
contemporary thought. This is because Bahá’ís do not understand
and act in isolation from the world. Concepts and methods that
shape the intellectual life of humanity impose themselves upon
us, shape our perspectives on the Faith, and define the terms in
which as a community we engage the wider society. At the same
time, perspectives compatible with the Bahá’í teachings emerge in
the work of contemporary thinkers who are attempting to resolve
problems of knowledge and power arising from the challenge of
postmodernism. Some of the authors whose works are touched
upon are prominent in their fields, others may be marginal. The
purpose is not to give a thorough survey of contemporary concerns
but to draw on specific insights that shed light on aspects of Bahá’í
practice. Highlighting such insights, however, does not imply
endorsement of the views of these thinkers; Bahá’u’lláh’s teachings
cannot be subsumed by or considered fully compatible with any
particular school of thought.
Because the primary focus of this book is the exploration of
how the Bahá’í world comes to understand Bahá’u’lláh’s teachings
and translate them into action, it does not explore in depth the
nature of the spiritual forces released by divine revelation and how
they drive the community forward. In all of the processes concern-
ing understanding and practice discussed in this book, the inherent
spiritual nature of the activity is assumed. God exercises His will for
the achievement of His purpose. No one can limit or fully rational-
ize the mysteries of the movement of His hand. In the work of the
Faith, objectives can be achieved only when spiritual disciplines
such as prayer, meditation, fasting and bringing oneself to account
each day are put into effect and the bounties of God are received.
Nevertheless, these spiritual forces operate in a real not a magical
way. It is attraction to God and the love of Bahá’u’lláh that gives

Preface
|  vii
us the strength to exercise control over our conduct, to properly
apply divine principles and laws, to subdue the ego and work in
harmony with others. And when we inevitably fail to meet the mark
at a given stage of development, it is our love for Bahá’u’lláh that
helps us forgive each other and forget the past, demonstrate toler-
ance and love, and pick ourselves up, heal our wounds and renew
our collective efforts. Yet, as we labor in the path leading to divine
civilization, we cannot hold an overly simplistic view that spiritual
forces will do all the work: that we pray and our wishes are granted;
that we teach and “something happens” to create social change;
that an Assembly decides and, because it is a divine institution, the
correct outcome is guaranteed.
Throughout the dispensation, Bahá’í thinkers will grapple
with the profound concepts surrounding a “Bahá’í perspective” on
Revelation, knowledge, and action to change the social order. A
few words on such a fundamental subject at this stage can hardly
be considered definitive. The tentative ideas put forward in this
book are the limited and fallible views of one individual. They do
not represent the position of any Bahá’í institution. They should
not be unthinkingly adopted as truth nor pose a threat to the
heartfelt strivings of any believer. They are merely a contribution
to the discourse of those believers who are struggling to come to
terms with problems of understanding and knowledge, of religious
practice and social change, and who are attempting to correlate
Bahá’í and contemporary worldviews. In this respect, I greatly
appreciate and am indebted to many Bahá’ís whose ideas have
catalyzed the thoughts offered here. This book is a reworking of a
number of papers and presentations offered since 1995 in various
settings and was largely completed by 2004. A version was included
as background for a discussion about the generation of knowledge
and the advancement of civilization in an Internet forum hosted
by FUNDAEC in 2007; the thoughtful comments of participants led
to a reorganization of the material and further revision of certain
sections.
The past thirteen years marks a period of creative ferment in
the Bahá’í world. In the work of expansion and consolidation and
in the work of social and economic development a new culture
of learning has been born and a growing number of believers are
gaining first hand experience about how to apply the teachings to
the challenges facing their communities. In some places, admit-
tedly, new ideas and approaches are applied in a rigid and dogmatic

viii
|
Revelation & Social Reality
way; however regrettable, this is an unavoidable feature of learning
and change. Where a healthy approach has been maintained, new
capabilities have been cultivated and individuals, communities, and
institutions are beginning to learn how to learn—that is, how to
take the guidance found in the teachings and in the messages of the
Universal House of Justice and translate it into effective action.
Bahá’í intellectual life is still in its earliest stages. Struggles, mis-
understandings, and problems arise—but these are birth pangs, not
a hardening of the arteries. This book offers an approach to Bahá’í
thought and action that avoids the extremes of absolute certainty
or skepticism while accommodating faith and critical thought.
Within the limits of human capacity, we can learn, little by little,
day by day, to grasp the intended meaning and aim of Bahá’u’lláh’s
Revelation and contribute to the transformation of social reality for
the well-being and unity of all.

Part I
Revelation, Understanding
and Action

Constructing the Kingdom
T
o be a Bahá’í is to recognize Bahá’u’lláh as a
Manifestation of God. But recognition requires more than
calling oneself by His name. As ‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains: “The
man who lives the life according to the Teachings of Bahá’u’lláh
is already a Bahá’í,” while “a man may call himself a Bahá’í for
fifty years and if he does not live the life he is not a Bahá’í.”1 Thus,
as Bahá’ís, we strive to understand Bahá’u’lláh’s teachings and to
translate them into action in the world, thereby helping to create
the civilization He envisioned.
For each of us our work begins with the endeavor to put the
teachings into practice in our daily lives. The more we understand
the Revelation and the more we adhere to its spiritual discipline, the
greater our capacity to lead a life that is pleasing to God. However,
a Bahá’í life is not lived in isolation. It is forged in active engage-
ment with the world, working with others and contributing to the
advancement of society. The study and application of the teachings,
therefore, implies the weaving of the personal and the social.
Collectively, we receive the gift of the Word of God, and
through its application we are to raise the Kingdom of God on
earth; that is, we are to gradually contribute to the building of a
new social order that is shaped by the truths of the Revelation of
Bahá’u’lláh. This statement appears simple; yet, implicit in it is a
challenge to reflect deeply about how we are to understand and
behave. Achieving Bahá’u’lláh’s intended purpose for the human
race requires new morals, new ways of generating knowledge, new
ways of communicating, new ways of acting, and new institutions.
How do we Bahá’ís, with our diverse, sometimes conflicting,
­understandings of Bahá’u’lláh’s teachings, collaborate to bring about
the society that reflects His will? How do we overcome the tension
between individual freedom and social order? How do we balance
the demands of science and religion? How do we ensure that it is

|
Revelation & Social Reality
the Revelation that shapes our reality, and not the assumptions and
habits of contemporary culture? How do we firmly adhere to valid
traditional practices while embracing the imperative of change?
How do we overcome the tendency so common among human
beings to take sides and fight? Questions like these abound. The
answers will have to be found in learning, over time, to better un-
derstand the Text and translate it into efficacious action consistent
with its divine intent.
Understanding and the Construction of Social Reality
When a child is born into the world, the mind is as yet undevel-
oped. It has predefined measures of potentiality—a capacity for
language and memory, an ability to integrate the impressions of
the senses, an association with the soul, and so on—but little of
this is as yet manifest. From the start, the infant, through the use
of the mind, forms subjective impressions of the world around it, a
process that continues through childhood to adolescence and adult
life. Subjective impressions—thoughts about reality—are tested in
the world against objective reality, resulting in a continual change
in comprehension and behavior.
This process may be illustrated by what is called “object
permanence.” If an object is removed from the field of vision of
a young infant, attention immediately shifts. It is as if that object
no longer exists. After some weeks, the infant has rearranged its
“mental library” based on a new idea: that objects continue to exist
even when they can no longer be seen. With this understanding
it will then try to follow the path of an object, looking to the
floor, for example, for a toy that a moment ago was in plain sight.
Throughout life, interplay between subjective interpretation and
objective reality continually shapes understanding and action.
Human beings are designed to learn from encounters with reality.
Science, one may say, has emerged in this way to be the knowledge
system that allows for systematic exploration of and a degree of
mastery over physical reality.
Bahá’ís understand that there is another dimension to these
encounters. There is a spiritual reality beyond the physical one.
Comprehension of this spiritual reality involves an encounter with
Bahá’u’lláh’s Revelation. Reading and study of the Sacred Text,
moments of prayer and meditation, discussion with other Bahá’ís,
interaction with the Bahá’í community, efforts to live according to

Constructing the Kingdom
|  5
the teachings, acts of service, and other similar experiences provide
fresh insights into spiritual reality and fruitful patterns of spiritual
and moral action. The mental structures and habits of behavior of
a Bahá’í are continually tested and shaped in response to the verses
of the Word of God.
We can gain insights into the nature of this encounter by
reflecting on our own personal experience. When initially learning
about the Faith, or at some point in our upbringing as Bahá’ís, we
eagerly study a range of subjects. These are topics that are person-
ally important, that attract us to the Faith, confirm our belief in
Bahá’u’lláh and shape our basic understanding of the teachings. Too
often, however, this period is short-lived—we become confirmed
and the process of reorganization of our “mental library” comes
to a halt. We “know” what we need to know. Our thirst is satis-
fied. Our questions are resolved. And, based on the new mental
arrangement, the ways of a new lifestyle are set. We are, of course,
aware of the immensity of the ocean of Bahá’u’lláh’s Revelation, yet
we are content with a familiar and comfortable beach at the ocean’s
shore. Except for the occasional new idea introduced in a talk, a
course, or a book, the patterns of thought and action change little.
We derive great joy from being Bahá’ís, but our Bahá’í life has fallen
into a routine. And this continues until something awakens us: a
new fact forcing itself on our consciousness, a rewarding service
that reminds us of the challenges of creating a new world order,
a mystical insight during prayer or study, an exposure to a new
culture, a stark experience of the suffering in the world. Thus we
come to realize, again and again, that there is more to the teachings
than we previously thought.
In the same way that engagement with the Bahá’í teachings
can settle into a familiar routine, involvement in the world can
become regulated by fixed horizons of consciousness. Our lives
can drift along the currents set by society while our purpose is to
create a new one. The potential for progress in understanding and
for establishing new arrangements in the social order is limitless,
yet our patterns of behavior can impose severe restrictions on what
we can accomplish. An ongoing process of study of the Revelation,
a continued expansion of understanding, and a corresponding
transformation of behavior are clearly needed.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá states that “the reality of man is his thought.”2
What is the relationship of this reality with that true reality that may
be called the “thought of God”? We find in the Bahá’í Writings that

|
Revelation & Social Reality
both the physical and the spiritual reality, expressed in nature and in
Revelation, are expressions of the will of God. Bahá’u’lláh states:
Say: Nature in its essence is the embodiment of My Name, the
Maker, the Creator. Its manifestations are diversified by varying
causes, and in this diversity there are signs for men of discern-
ment. Nature is God’s will and is its expression in and through
the contingent world. It is a dispensation of Providence ordained
by the Ordainer, the All-Wise. Were anyone to affirm that it is the
will of God as manifested in the world of being, no one should
question this assertion.3
And He also states:
It behoveth thee to consecrate thyself to the will of God.
Whatsoever hath been revealed in His Tablets is but a reflection
of His will.4
God, through His will, is the creator of reality. We are inserted
into this physical and spiritual reality and are shaped by it. Our
personal reality, then, consists of those structures that have formed
in our own mind to organize our experience of the outer world.
But the process is a dynamic one. Human beings are not passive
observers of reality and our personal reality, our thought, is not
simply imposed upon us. In a very specific way we may consider
ourselves—collectively—as co-creators of reality, for through the
power of the human mind and our interactions, the world under-
goes continued transformation. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains:
. . . He has chosen the reality of man and has honored it with
intellect and wisdom, the two most luminous lights in either
world. Through the agency of this great endowment, He has in
every epoch cast on the mirror of creation new and wonderful
configurations. If we look objectively upon the world of being, it
will become apparent that from age to age, the temple of existence
has continually been embellished with a fresh grace, and distin-
guished with an ever-varying splendor, deriving from wisdom and
the power of thought. . . .
Consider carefully: all these highly varied phenomena, these
concepts, this knowledge, these technical procedures and philo-
sophical systems, these sciences, arts, industries and inventions—
all are emanations of the human mind.5

Constructing the Kingdom
|  7
By the term “co-creator of reality” is not meant that humanity
is a partner with God. It is an acknowledgment that the attributes
of God the Creator, the Fashioner are reflected in human beings.
Bahá’u’lláh has designed a new world order, we are the construction
workers; He is the genetic engineer of the seed of a new civilization,
we are the farmers who tend it.
We can understand this special role of humanity by noting
that most of what we perceive to be reality—the world with which
we interact every day—is not physical reality at all. It is social real-
ity. Consider the difference between the ecological diversity of the
planet—its mountains, oceans, deserts, forests—and the political
boundaries separating nations. Consider the differences of pheno-
type among human beings and the cultural or racial discriminations
to which they have given rise. Culture, language, beliefs, institutions,
educational systems—all are real, all have an impact on our under-
standing, but are all products of the human mind. Social reality
mediates our engagement with the world, physical and spiritual, and
it is this reality that we have the capacity to create anew.
Some insights from the work of the philosopher John Searle
in his book The Construction of Social Reality are useful in this
context. Searle is interested in describing the nature of the shared
reality that is woven from collective human agreement and which
exists beyond the level of the physical, chemical, and biological
structures:6
In a sense, there are things that exist only because we believe them
to exist. I am thinking of things like money, property, govern-
ments, and marriages. Yet many facts regarding these things are
“objective” facts in the sense that they are not a matter of your or
my preferences, evaluations, or moral attitudes. I am thinking of
such facts as that I am a citizen of the United States, that the piece
of paper in my pocket is a five dollar bill, that my younger sister
got married on December 14, that I own a piece of property in
Berkeley, and that the New York Giants won the 1991 Superbowl.
These contrast with such facts as that Mount Everest has snow and
ice near the summit or that hydrogen atoms have one electron,
which are facts totally independent of any human opinions. Years
ago I baptized some of the facts dependent on human agreement
as “institutional facts,” in contrast to noninstitutional, or “brute,”
facts. Institutional facts are so called because they require human
institutions for their existence. In order that this piece of paper

|
Revelation & Social Reality
should be a five dollar bill, for example, there has to be the human
institution of money. Brute facts require no human institutions
for their existence. Of course, in order to state a brute fact we
require the institution of language, but the fact stated needs to be
distinguished from the statement of it.7
Searle notes that the structure of social reality has a tremendous
complexity. A simple visit to a restaurant has a reality that includes
immediately visible aspects, including the social meaning of “money,”
“waiter,” “restaurant,” “chair,” and invisible, underlying aspects such
as the concept of employment, an economic system, an agricultural
system, and government regulations. There is also a normative di-
mension of social reality, in that the waiter can be rude or polite, the
food unsatisfying or delicious. The complex structure of social reality
has layers and layers of meaning; even language itself, the vehicle for
the communication of these ideas, is a social construct.
Although social reality is built from shared human understand-
ing, it is not arbitrary or supported merely by an endless circularity
of self-referential discourse. In Searle’s perspective, all social reality
eventually rests upon the brute facts of physical reality.8 For example,
the concept of money began when, in place of the general practice
of a bartered exchange of goods or services, a concrete commodity
such as gold consistently took the place of one of the traded ele-
ments. It then moved to ever more abstract representations, from
coin, to paper currency, and now to pixels on a computer screen. Yet
Searle observes that the entire structure of social reality is taken for
granted by individuals, who are brought up in a culture that conveys
social facts in the same way it presents rocks or trees.9
Human beings live in social reality as naturally as animals live
in the physical world. It is, essentially, invisible. As Searle explains,
although there may be rules that guide a particular institution, we
do not live as if we are following the rules. Rather, we internalize
a set of behaviors that result in our following the rules. An athlete
plays a sport such as baseball without thinking of the rules, which
would only be invoked by an umpire to adjudicate a rare and
unusual circumstance. Most action is spontaneous and natural. If,
Searle states, there were a remote island where individuals played
the game as part of their culture without a written set of rules,
children would absorb the proper behaviors through instruction
and coaching. For example, after three strikes, the child is told to
relinquish the bat to the next player. An anthropologist who comes

Constructing the Kingdom
|  9
to that island could, by observation, record a set of rules, but as far
as the inhabitants of the island are concerned, behavior is regulated
without the need for a list of rules. Thus participation in social
reality by itself shapes what we know and do.
Social reality is an expression of human agreement.10 Someone
is the president of a country and has the powers of that office
because a system of government is created and acknowledged by
the inhabitants of that country. When the fundamental agreements
which frame belief and behavior change, social reality will change,
as in the case of the dramatic collapse of communism in countries
across Europe and Asia in a matter of months around 1990, after
having been a commanding presence that dominated the lives of
hundreds of millions for over a half-century.
The manner of change in social reality is evident in the period
following the institution of slavery in the United States. At the
uppermost levels of this social reality existed the economic system
in which one human being could legitimately own another as prop-
erty. The slave was defined as less than human. The social structure
was not reinforced by the casual beliefs of individuals alone; all
of the systems of human knowing were brought to bear to justify
the social order. Teachings of the Bible were invoked to affirm that
the slave must obey the master and that beings of dark skin were
inferior; to deny this was to deny the Word of God. Sciences were
utilized to justify the superiority of the white race; if any were to
object, they could be dismissed as uninformed individuals contend-
ing with empirical facts of the physical world. And how deep was
the change in collective understanding after the bloody struggle in
which the existing social order was overturned and slavery ended?
Superficial at best. The constructed reality of slavery was legally
abolished, only to be succeeded by Jim Crow laws and other forms
of social oppression. The economic system of slavery was exchanged
for de facto control through sharecropping. It would take another
century for the civil rights movement to overthrow certain political
and social inequalities. And even those substantial changes did not
alter the underlying powerful substructures of social reality that
supported white privilege. Institutionalized racism, for example,
still leaves its mark on a significant number of African Americans
through inferior educational options, oppressive social conditions,
restricted opportunities to advance economically, and the demand
to compromise a sense of self and culture—to “be white”—in order
to advance.

|
Revelation & Social Reality
Today insights from biology tell us that, physically, there can be
no meaningful definition of race applied to human beings. Yet how
many levels of social facts affecting collective consciousness and
behavior must change in order to create a social reality that reflects
the oneness of humanity? Even if we could list them all, how do we
move from one social order to the next?
The significance of analyses like Searle’s for our consideration
of human understanding and action is that most of the reality with
which human beings are concerned is social reality. We participate
in social reality and we are shaped by it. In the earliest encounters,
for example, parents engage a child through a language that,
because of its structure and the way in which it carries cultural
assumptions, shapes the mind and the manner in which the child
approaches reality. Further, perhaps more than any other factor, the
particular country of birth, with the attendant forces that mold the
economic, educational, political and social environments and op-
portunities, plays a determinant role in defining who a person can
and will be, despite any inherited potentiality. Yet, social reality is
not static; it is mutable. It forms us, but because it owes its existence
to common human understanding, we have the power to contribute
to reshaping it.
The realization that human reality is, to a great extent, a mu-
table social reality opens the way for fresh insights into Bahá’u’lláh’s
teachings about social transformation. Revelation creates consensus
around new truths so that we, the co-creators of reality, can begin
to transform the existing social order. Indeed, our ultimate aim, the
Kingdom of God, a new civilization born of the new world order
of Bahá’u’lláh, is itself a new social reality. Human will freely aligns
with the divine will, which serves as the basis for the agreements
that shape society: “Thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven.”11
‘Abdu’l-Bahá states:
Material civilization has reached an advanced plane, but now
there is need of spiritual civilization. Material civilization alone
will not satisfy; it cannot meet the conditions and requirements
of the present age; its benefits are limited to the world of matter.
There is no limitation to the spirit of man, for spirit in itself is
progressive, and if the divine civilization be established, the spirit
of man will advance. Every developed susceptibility will increase
the effectiveness of man. Discoveries of the real will become more
and more possible, and the influence of divine guidance will be

Constructing the Kingdom
|  11
increasingly recognized. All this is conducive to the divine form of
civilization. This is what is meant in the Bible by the descent of the
New Jerusalem. The heavenly Jerusalem is none other than divine
civilization, and it is now ready. It is to be and shall be organized,
and the oneness of humankind will be a visible fact.12
The Obligation of Bahá’ís to
Contribute to a New Social Reality
“It is incumbent upon every man of insight and understanding,”
Bahá’u’lláh states, “to strive to translate that which hath been
written into reality and action.”13 To be a Bahá’í, to “live the life,”
means to comprehend the Word of God and act on it, individually
and collectively. It is to make the reality of one’s personal life and
the pattern of society at large reflect the teachings. Bahá’u’lláh
Himself affirms that “the object of every Revelation” is to “effect a
transformation in the whole character of mankind, a transforma-
tion that shall manifest itself both outwardly and inwardly, that
shall affect both its inner life and external conditions.” Otherwise,
He observes, “the futility of God’s universal Manifestations would
be apparent.”14
“All men have been created to carry forward an ever-advancing
civilization,”15 Bahá’u’lláh declares. And He avers that “such means as
lead to the elevation, the advancement, the education, the protection
and the regeneration of the peoples of the earth have been clearly set
forth by Us and are revealed in the Holy Books and Tablets.”16
The malleability of the social order and the need to transform
it in accordance with Bahá’u’lláh’s teachings is a theme that appears
again and again in the Bahá’í Writings. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá notes that
“Among the results of the manifestation of spiritual forces will be
that the human world will adapt itself to a new social form, the
justice of God will become manifest throughout human affairs,
and human equality will be universally established.”17 “As we view
the world around us,” Shoghi Effendi states, “we are compelled
to observe the manifold evidences of that universal fermentation
which, in every continent of the globe and in every department of
human life, be it religious, social, economic or political, is purg-
ing and reshaping humanity in anticipation of the Day when the
wholeness of the human race will have been recognized and its
unity established.”18 This fermentation, involving a twofold process

|
Revelation & Social Reality
of integration and disintegration, is a result of the direct impact of
a new Revelation:
The hollow and outworn institutions, the obsolescent doctrines
and beliefs, the effete and discredited traditions which these
[negative] forces represent, it should be observed, have, in certain
instances, been undermined by virtue of their senility, the loss
of their cohesive power, and their own inherent corruption. A
few have been swept away by the onrushing forces which the
Bahá’í Faith has, at the hour of its birth, so mysteriously released.
Others, as a direct result of a vain and feeble resistance to its rise
in the initial stages of its development, have died out and been
utterly discredited. Still others, fearful of the pervasive influence
of the institutions in which that same Spirit had, at a later stage,
been embodied, had mobilized their forces and launched their
attack, destined to sustain, in their turn, after a brief and illusory
success, an ignominious defeat.19
Why, Shoghi Effendi asks, should the arrangements that
constitute the basis of the old social order not give way to new
assumptions and new structures that can better serve humanity?
The call of Bahá’u’lláh is primarily directed against all forms of
provincialism, all insularities and prejudices. If long-cherished
ideals and time-honored institutions, if certain social assumptions
and religious formulae have ceased to promote the welfare of the
generality of mankind, if they no longer minister to the needs
of a continually evolving humanity, let them be swept away and
relegated to the limbo of obsolescent and forgotten doctrines.
Why should these, in a world subject to the immutable law of
change and decay, be exempt from the deterioration that must
needs overtake every human institution? For legal standards,
political and economic theories are solely designed to safeguard
the interests of humanity as a whole, and not humanity to be
crucified for the preservation of the integrity of any particular
law or doctrine.20
Nothing short of implementation of Bahá’u’lláh’s program for
humanity, he concludes, can restore the equilibrium of the social
order.
Humanity . . . has, alas, strayed too far and suffered too great a
decline to be redeemed through the unaided efforts of the best

Constructing the Kingdom
|  13
among its recognized rulers and statesmen—however disinter-
ested their motives, however concerted their action, however
unsparing in their zeal and devotion to its cause. No scheme
which the calculations of the highest statesmanship may yet
devise; no doctrine which the most distinguished exponents of
economic theory may hope to advance; no principle which the
most ardent of moralists may strive to inculcate, can provide, in
the last resort, adequate foundations upon which the future of a
distracted world can be built.
No appeal for mutual tolerance which the worldly-wise might
raise, however compelling and insistent, can calm its passions
or help restore its vigor. Nor would any general scheme of mere
organized international cooperation, in whatever sphere of human
activity, however ingenious in conception, or extensive in scope,
succeed in removing the root cause of the evil that has so rudely
upset the equilibrium of present-day society. Not even, I venture to
assert, would the very act of devising the machinery required for
the political and economic unification of the world—a principle
that has been increasingly advocated in recent times—provide in
itself the antidote against the poison that is steadily undermining
the vigor of organized peoples and nations. What else, might we
not confidently affirm, but the unreserved acceptance of the Divine
Program enunciated, with such simplicity and force as far back as
sixty years ago, by Bahá’u’lláh, embodying in its essentials God’s di-
vinely appointed scheme for the unification of mankind in this age,
coupled with an indomitable conviction in the unfailing efficacy of
each and all of its provisions, is eventually capable of withstanding
the forces of internal disintegration which, if unchecked, must
needs continue to eat into the vitals of a despairing society. It is
towards this goal—the goal of a new World Order, Divine in origin,
all-embracing in scope, equitable in principle, challenging in its
features—that a harassed humanity must strive.21
In this light, Shoghi Effendi continually calls for direct action
on the part of the Bahá’í community to contribute to rebuilding an
ailing world, as in this passage written on his behalf and directed
to Bahá’í youth:
The present condition of the world—its economic instabil-
ity, social dissensions, political dissatisfaction and international
distrust—should awaken the youth from their slumber and make
them inquire what the future is going to bring. . . . They should

|
Revelation & Social Reality
therefore open their eyes to the existing conditions, study the evil
forces that are at play and then with a concerted effort arise and
bring about the necessary reforms—reforms that shall contain
within their scope the spiritual as well as social and political
phases of human life.22
The ultimate aim is the achievement of humanity’s highest
aspirations:
The Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh, whose supreme mission is none
other but the achievement of this organic and spiritual unity of the
whole body of nations, should, if we be faithful to its implications,
be regarded as signalizing through its advent the coming of age of
the entire human race. It should be viewed not merely as yet an-
other spiritual revival in the ever-changing fortunes of mankind,
not only as a further stage in a chain of progressive Revelations,
nor even as the culmination of one of a series of recurrent
prophetic cycles, but rather as marking the last and highest stage
in the stupendous evolution of man’s collective life on this planet.
The emergence of a world community, the consciousness of world
citizenship, the founding of a world civilization and culture . . .
should, by their very nature, be regarded, as far as this planetary
life is concerned, as the furthermost limits in the organization
of human society, though man, as an individual, will, nay must
indeed as a result of such a consummation, continue indefinitely
to progress and develop.23
As individual believers strive to study and apply Bahá’u’lláh’s
teachings in daily life, in the family, in a profession or trade, and
in the wider community, the Faith grows in its capacity to join
with others to contribute to, and to influence, constructive change
in society. However, Bahá’u’lláh has not come merely to establish
yet another alternative religious congregation in pursuit of its own
aims. Rather, He has renewed the wellspring of revelation in order
to raise up a new “race of men,” “incomparable in character,” who
will “cast the sleeve of holiness over all that hath been created
from water and clay.”24 The existing social order suffers from self-
interest, prejudice, oppression, aggression, extreme materialism,
economic disparity, and a host of other ills. “Ever since the seeking
of preference and distinction came into play, the world hath been
laid waste,” Bahá’u’lláh states. “It hath become desolate.”25 “Blessed
is he who preferreth his brother before himself,” is His prescription

Constructing the Kingdom
|  15
for the world’s pernicious afflictions.26 He has created a community
of people who are to unite around a new set of beliefs about human
nature and well-being and sacrifice their own interests to work for
justice, the unification of the human race, and the common good.
A letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi observes that “among
the earliest impressions one gets from a study of the Bahá’í teach-
ings is the overwhelming realization of the great responsibility that
devolves upon every true Bahá’í. The world awaits expectantly the
humble ministration of the Bahá’í worker and much depends upon
the extent to which we Bahá’ís fulfill this sacred trust.”27
The following are only a few examples of the many passages call-
ing upon Bahá’ís to consecrate themselves to living a life of service
that, in turn, will lead to the construction of a new social reality.
Be generous in prosperity, and thankful in adversity. Be
worthy of the trust of thy neighbor, and look upon him with a
bright and friendly face. Be a treasure to the poor, an admonisher
to the rich, an answerer to the cry of the needy, a preserver of the
sanctity of thy pledge.28
Strive to be shining examples unto all mankind, and true remind-
ers of the virtues of God amidst men. . . . Let each morn be better
than its eve and each morrow richer than its yesterday. Man’s merit
lieth in service and virtue and not in the pageantry of wealth and
riches. Take heed that your words be purged from idle fancies and
worldly desires and your deeds be cleansed from craftiness and
suspicion. Dissipate not the wealth of your precious lives in the
pursuit of evil and corrupt affection, nor let your endeavors be
spent in promoting your personal interest.29
Consort with all the peoples, kindreds and religions of the world
with the utmost truthfulness, uprightness, faithfulness, kindliness,
good-will and friendliness; that all the world of being may be filled
with the holy ecstasy of the grace of Bahá, that ignorance, enmity,
hate and rancor may vanish from the world and the darkness of
estrangement amidst the peoples and kindreds of the world may
give way to the Light of Unity. Should other peoples and nations
be unfaithful to you show your fidelity unto them, should they be
unjust toward you show justice towards them, should they keep
aloof from you attract them to yourself, should they show their
enmity be friendly towards them, should they poison your lives

|
Revelation & Social Reality
sweeten their souls, should they inflict a wound upon you be a
salve to their sores.30
Be ye loving fathers to the orphan, and a refuge to the helpless, and
a treasury for the poor, and a cure for the ailing. Be ye the helpers
of every victim of oppression, the patrons of the disadvantaged.
Think ye at all times of rendering some service to every member
of the human race. Pay ye no heed to aversion and rejection,
to disdain, hostility, injustice: act ye in the opposite way. Be ye
sincerely kind, not in appearance only. Let each one of God’s loved
ones centre his attention on this: to be the Lord’s mercy to man; to
be the Lord’s grace. Let him do some good to every person whose
path he crosseth, and be of some benefit to him. Let him improve
the character of each and all, and reorient the minds of men.31
The Bahá’ís must be distinguished from others of humanity. But
this distinction must not depend upon wealth—that they should
become more affluent than other people. I do not desire for you
financial distinction. It is not an ordinary distinction I desire;
not scientific, commercial, industrial distinction. For you I desire
spiritual distinction—that is, you must become eminent and
distinguished in morals. In the love of God you must become
distinguished from all else. You must become distinguished for
loving humanity, for unity and accord, for love and justice. In
brief, you must become distinguished in all the virtues of the
human world—for faithfulness and sincerity, for justice and fidel-
ity, for firmness and steadfastness, for philanthropic deeds and
service to the human world, for love toward every human being,
for unity and accord with all people, for removing prejudices
and promoting international peace. Finally, you must become
distinguished for heavenly illumination and for acquiring the
bestowals of God.32
The Role of Revelation in Creating a New Social Reality
Given the limitations on human understanding and the nature
of human interaction, we can try to imagine—assuming that it
is at all possible—the task before the Manifestation of God. The
Manifestation has an innate grasp of reality. As ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
explains, He knows reality just as a person knows his or her own
body; it is a knowledge that does not depend upon the senses.33
How, then, with a complete understanding of the student’s capacity

Constructing the Kingdom
|  17
and the social milieu, does He fulfill the role of divine Educator?
How does He bridge the wide gulf between His knowledge of
reality and the human capacity to know in order to help humanity
advance, individually and collectively?
Although the knowledge of the Manifestation is unlimited,
the teachings conveyed to humanity are clearly circumscribed.
Indeed, fundamental to the concept of progressive revelation is
the understanding that all knowledge is not conveyed in a single
dispensation.34 Each Revelation offers a depiction of reality within
a particular context and for an intended aim.35 The Manifestation
speaks to humanity “where we are”—confirming certain truths we
know, severing us from our misconceptions and from notions that
are no longer valid, and introducing us to new, often unsettling
truths. Bahá’u’lláh states that at one time, the verses are “sent
down in a style that conformeth to the standards of men” while at
another they are conveyed in a form “transcending what the minds
of men have yet conceived.”36 Revelation is adapted to the capac-
ity of humanity to hear the message and to the particular social
context of the age in which it appears. This adaptation is both a
compromise with human limitations37 and confirmation of human
progress allowing for an increasing measure of Revelation in each
dispensation.38 As a message written on behalf of the Universal
House of Justice explains:
The Manifestation of God (and, to a lesser degree, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
and Shoghi Effendi) has to convey tremendous concepts cover-
ing the whole field of human life and activity to people whose
present knowledge and degree of understanding are far below
His. He must use the limited medium of human language against
the limited and often erroneous background of His audience’s
traditional knowledge and current understanding to raise them
to a wholly new level of awareness and behavior. It is a human
tendency, against which the Manifestation warns us, to measure
His statements against the inaccurate standard of the acquired
knowledge of mankind. We tend to take them and place them
within one or other of the existing categories of human phi-
losophy or science while, in reality, they transcend these and
will, if properly understood, open new and vast horizons to our
understanding.
Some sayings of the Manifestation are clear and obvious.
Among these are laws of behavior. Others are elucidations which

|
Revelation & Social Reality
lead men from their present level of understanding to a new one.
Others are pregnant allusions, the significance of which only
­becomes apparent as the knowledge and understanding of the
reader grow. And all are integral parts of one great Revelation
intended to raise mankind to a new level of its evolution.
It may well be that we shall find some statement is couched in
terms familiar to the audience to which it was first addressed, but
is strange now to us. For example, in answer to a question about
Bahá’u’lláh’s reference to the “fourth heaven” in the Kitáb-i-Íqán,
the Guardian’s secretary wrote on his behalf: “. . . As the Kitáb-i-
Íqán was revealed for the guidance of that sect, this term was used
in conformity with the concepts of its followers.”
In studying such statements, however, we must have the
humility to appreciate the limitations of our own knowledge
and outlook, and strive always to understand the purpose of
Bahá’u’lláh in making them, trying to look upon Him with His
own eyes, as it were.39
It can be argued that social reality emerges through the vehicle
of language and, at the same time, language is a component of social
reality.40 In essence, social reality is made up of words and mean-
ings that human beings have agreed upon. It is noteworthy, then,
that the Word is the instrument of the Manifestation. The Word of
God rends the fabric of social order by contradicting centuries-old
agreements, while providing new standards and principles that
yield new understandings with which to create a new social order.
The instances where the Manifestation violates the accepted rules
of grammar41 are, in this sense, highly symbolic; by contradicting
the consensus on language, the Word demonstrates that a new
truth and a new standard have appeared. The Word rewrites the
facts of language as easily as the intersubjective facts that underlie
morals, beliefs, and social relations. The essential infallibility of the
Manifestation implies that His very Words are truth because His
Words define the basis of social reality.42
Myriad passages reflect the power of the Word to reorder the
human agreements that form social reality. With a new Revelation,
“the heavens are cleft asunder”43 and there appears “the new heaven
and the new earth.”44 “Nothing can be effected in the world, not even
conceivably, without unity and agreement,” ‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains,
“and the perfect means for engendering fellowship and union is
true religion.”45 “Naught but the celestial potency of the Word of

Constructing the Kingdom
|  19
God, which ruleth and transcendeth the realities of all things, is
capable of harmonizing the divergent thoughts, sentiments, ideas,
and convictions of the children of men,” He also states. “Verily, it
is the penetrating power in all things, the mover of souls and the
binder and regulator in the world of humanity.”46
“The morals of humanity must undergo change,” He adds.
“New remedies and solutions for human problems must be adopted.
Human intellects themselves must change and be subject to the
universal reformation.”47 Thus the Manifestations “establish a new
religion and make new creatures of men; They change the general
morals, promote new customs and rules, renew the cycle and the
Law.”48 In one of His talks, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains that “In order that
human souls, minds and spirits may attain advancement, tranquility
and vision in broader horizons of unity and knowledge, Bahá’u’lláh
proclaimed certain principles or teachings,” and He concludes that
through these teachings, Bahá’u’lláh has “laid the foundation of
divine reality upon which material and spiritual civilization are to
be founded throughout the centuries before us.”49
The change in social reality effected by the Revelation occurs
in a different way than the change designed by some segment
of society itself. The effort to end slavery in the United States by
legal means is a good illustration; slavery, overturned by force
and a change in the law, was immediately replaced by cultural and
economic forms of oppression. Rather than merely attempting
to reform the social order from the outer layers of custom and
common practice, the Word of God provides statements of truth
that, once accepted by individuals, overturn old conceptions and
form new agreements at the deepest layers of fundamental belief.
Unity of thought on principle greatly reinforces the movement
toward changes in behavior, social relations, and institutional
arrangements. If, for example, we agree that humanity is one, then
we must work out the far-reaching patterns of life and institutional
arrangements that will manifest it.
A vivid explanation of how the words of the Manifestation
shape social reality is found in a passage from Bahá’u’lláh.
The question is that whereas in past Scriptures Isaac is said
to have been the sacrifice; in the Qur’án this station is given to
Ishmael. This is, undoubtedly, true. All, however, must fix their
gaze upon the word which hath dawned from the Divine Horizon:
it is incumbent upon every soul to ponder upon its sovereignty,

|
Revelation & Social Reality
influence, might, and on its all-encompassing nature. There hath
never been any doubt whatsoever that all these things are con-
firmed and corroborated only by the Word of God. It is the Word
of God that transcendeth all things, creates the universe, educateth
the people, guideth them who are sore athirst from separation
unto the ocean of reunion, and penetrateth through the darkness
of ignorance with the light of understanding. Consider: all those
who believe in past Scriptures think of Isaac as the Sacrifice; like-
wise, the people of the Qur’án confirm this station for Ishmael. It is
clear and evident to every possessor of insight and every religious
person that no one was, outwardly sacrificed; all agree that an ani-
mal was sacrificed. So, ponder upon this: Why is it that a person
who hath gone to the altar of sacrifice for the Beloved and yet hath
come back [alive], is adorned with the raiment of ‘Sacrifice of God’
and accepted as such? There is no doubt that this is so because of
the Word of God. Therefore, the criterion for the manifestation
of all names and for confirmation and fulfillment of all stations
is dependent upon the Word of God. Likewise, there is no doubt,
that the Inaccessible, Unknowable [God] doth not talk as He is,
and hath always been, sanctified from such conditions; rather,
He speaketh through the tongue of His Manifestations. Thus the
Torah issued from the tongue of Moses. The same is true of other
Holy Scriptures: all were revealed by the tongues of Prophets and
Messengers but, the real Speaker in all these Holy Books is the
One true God. . . . It is now, therefore, established and confirmed
that the station of ‘Sacrifice of God’ was, according to past Books,
given to Isaac by Abraham and that very same station is, according
to Divine Revelation, Ishmael’s in the Qur’ánic Dispensation.50
Bahá’u’lláh’s statement illustrates how the Word of God creates
the human consensus that forms the basis for a new social reality.
An archetype of sacrifice is created, even when no individual was
actually sacrificed. This archetype is identified by the Manifestation
as Isaac in the Jewish dispensation and as Ishmael in the Islamic
dispensation not to catalogue objective historical fact, but to convey
spiritual truth within a specific context to educate the community
of believers.
This brief reflection on Revelation and its impact on social
structure suggests a number of levels associated with comprehend-
ing reality from the perspective of religion. The first is reality
itself, what we might consider the “mind of God.” This is reality

Constructing the Kingdom
|  21
“as it is,” without any point of view, far above human capacity to
understand.
The second level is the revealed Word. Each Revelation
is a representation of the knowledge of reality tailored by the
Manifestation for a specific audience to enable them to achieve an
intended purpose. According to Bahá’u’lláh, the Word of God is
above any human standard or capacity to assess:
Weigh not the Book of God with such standards and sciences
as are current amongst you for the Book itself is the unerring
balance established amongst men. In this most perfect balance
whatsoever the peoples and kindreds of the earth possess must
be weighed, while the measure of its weight should be tested
according to its own standard, did ye but know it.51
In this perspective, the statements of Revelation may be
considered as true, objective facts, comparable to the brute facts
of nature that are investigated by science. Revelation gives rise to
religion, a third level of the comprehension of reality, which is the
body of understanding of the Book by the believers and the efforts
to translate this knowledge into action, establishing new patterns
of behavior and raising a new social order. If religion is in keeping
with the spirit and meaning inherent in the Revelation, it is true
religion; if not, as is the case during the period of the decline of a
dispensation, religion becomes an empty form. It is in this light that
‘Abdu’l-Bahá calls on every human being to weigh religious beliefs
in the balance of science and reason since “every religion which is
not in accordance with established science is superstition.”52
Level 1
Reality
(ontologically objective reality; reality
“as it is”; the “mind of God”)
Level 2
Revelation
(Revelation that can be known; the revealed Word of
God; the Book & its authoritative interpretation)
Level 3
Religious Belief and Practice
(the body of religious knowledge, including
methods & standards of inquiry and justification,
and spiritual life and moral social practice)

|
Revelation & Social Reality
Thus, Revelation (level 2) provides us with a statement of truth
about reality (level 1) that the religious community must struggle
to comprehend and translate into practical action that contributes
to an ever-advancing social order (level 3). The intended aim of
Revelation is not achieved through a fixed procedure, a recipe, but
rather, emerges from an organic process influenced by external
conditions, like a tree that grows from a seed. This organic unfold-
ment involves a mixed collection of beliefs, including valid insight
(knowledge), partial awareness, and error. Understanding changes
over time—through study, dialogue and action—moving toward a
fuller comprehension and expression of the meaning intended by
the Author of the Revelation over time. Such effort will, however,
never fully capture or exhaust all the implications of the Text.
Study, Consultation, Action and
Reflection for Social Change
The Bahá’í community clearly has far to go before it reaches its
lofty objectives. The social order too has to advance significantly
to become the new reality that Bahá’u’lláh intends. How can such
dramatic change in the individual and the society be achieved?
As noted above, the objective reality that human beings can
know is the will of God as expressed in nature and in Revelation.
Therefore science—the system of knowledge that guides understand-
ing and action within the realm of nature—and religion—the system
of knowledge that guides understanding and action in response to
Revelation—are two means for exploring reality and for shaping
social reality. These knowledge systems are complementary and
overlapping in their domains. Science and religion can be likened
to two “poles” that hold up the enormous tent that encompasses our
view of reality. At this point in history, only one pole is raised, so
vision in the tent is restricted—much of reality is obscured.
The way in which science allows us to acquire knowledge is
complex and its analysis lies beyond the scope of this book; suffice
it to say that scientific knowledge is fallibilistic and progressive.53
The relationship between science and religion and the need for
Bahá’ís to be involved in all fields of endeavor in order to contribute
to the advancement of civilization is discussed in chapter 4.
The exploration of the will of God enshrined in Revelation
calls for an ongoing study of Bahá’u’lláh’s teachings. “Immerse
yourselves in the ocean of My words, that ye may unravel its

Constructing the Kingdom
|  23
secrets, and discover all the pearls of wisdom that lie hid in its
depths,” Bahá’u’lláh exhorts.54 And He explains that in “every
age, the reading of the scriptures and holy books is for no other
purpose except to enable the reader to apprehend their meaning
and unravel their innermost mysteries” for “otherwise reading,
without understanding, is of no abiding profit unto man.”55 Through
such study of the Text, understanding and attitudes change, and the
religious beliefs—of the individual and the community—evolve
drawing closer and closer to the intended meanings proffered in
the Revelation.
It is not sufficient, however, if one is to be a co-creator of
reality, to study the Revelation but be a mere passive observer of
reality. Exploration of the Writings requires more than reading and
understanding. Study of the Word of God must be complemented
by the effort to put the teachings into effect through a simultane-
ous process of action and reflection. “Live thou in accord with the
teachings of Bahá’u’lláh,” ‘Abdu’l-Bahá urges. “Do not only read
them. There is a vast difference between the soul who merely reads
the words of Bahá’u’lláh and the one who tries to live them.”56 And
a letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi explains:
His brotherly advice to you, and to all loyal and ardent young
believers like you, is that you should deepen your knowledge of
the history and of the tenets of the Faith, not merely by means
of careful and thorough study, but also through active, whole-
hearted and continued participation in all the activities, whether
administrative or otherwise, of your community. The Bahá’í
community life provides you with an indispensable laboratory,
where you can translate into living and constructive action the
principles which you imbibe from the Teachings. By becom-
ing a real part of that living organism you can catch the real
spirit which runs throughout the Bahá’í Teachings. To study the
principles, and to try to live according to them, are, therefore,
the two essential mediums through which you can ensure the
development and progress of your inner spiritual life and of your
outer existence as well.57
To expand the Faith, to build Bahá’í communities, to apply
the teachings to address social concerns, to educate youth or
children, to engage in scholarly study and research or to work in
any other area for the progress of the Cause and the advancement of
civilization provides opportunities for achieving a balance of study

|
Revelation & Social Reality
and action in which questions are raised, problems defined, and
solutions attempted. The individual grows in personal knowledge
and assists, through deeds, in transforming the self and the world.
Personal study influences action, and action in turn influences the
approach to study and understanding of the Text.
The shaping of social reality is not, however, an individual
but a collective act. The Universal House of Justice explains that
“a community is of course more than the sum of its membership;
it is a comprehensive unit of civilization composed of individuals,
families and institutions that are originators and encouragers of
systems, agencies and organizations working together with a com-
mon purpose for the welfare of people both within and beyond its
own borders; it is a composition of diverse, interacting participants
that are achieving unity in an unremitting quest for spiritual and
social progress.”58 Thus, there must be a way to coordinate the
efforts of diverse believers, each engaged in their own process of
study and action. Understanding reality and transforming social
reality in accordance with the will of God requires unity of thought
and action. This unity of thought and action is not a uniformity
that delimits or homogenizes the full range of human diversity. It
respects the inherent differences of thought and opinion.
To a Bahá’í different views, rather than being a cause of dissen-
sion or conflict, should appear as a blessing of God to humanity.
Individual interpretation is the fruit of our rational power and
contributes to a better understanding of the teachings.59 Diversity
of opinions can be an asset to humanity if channeled productively
in a search for truth. Where the teachings of the Book are not
explicit, where personal interpretations differ, or where views about
alternative applications of the teachings vary, consultation provides
a means for the believers to unify their thoughts and actions.
Consultation is not only used to reach a specific decision about a
problem, but also in the search for clearer understanding. “In all
things it is necessary to consult,” Bahá’u’lláh states, for “it is and
will always be a cause of awareness and of awakening and a source
of good and well-being.”60 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains that consultation
has as its object the investigation of truth.61 And a letter written
on behalf of Shoghi Effendi states: “The principle of consultation,
which constitutes one of the basic laws of the Administration,
should be applied to all Bahá’í activities which affect the collective
interests of the Faith, for it is through cooperation and continued

Constructing the Kingdom
|  25
exchange of thoughts and views that the Cause can best safeguard
and foster its interests.”62
Consultation is guided by a number of clearly expressed prin-
ciples. Speech can exert a powerful and lasting influence for good
or ill, therefore, it must be exercised with wisdom.63 Individuals
are free to put forward their views and should not be offended by
the views of others.64 Opinions are presented without passion or
rancor; conflict and contention are strictly forbidden,65 and, if they
arise, discussion should cease until unity is restored.66 The clash
of differing opinions brings forth the spark of truth,67 and all are
to listen for the truth as differing opinions are shared, for reality
lies where opinions coincide.68 For this reason, to stubbornly cling
to one’s opinion is to ensure that the truth will remain hidden; it
will inevitably lead to discord.69 So too, “dissidence,” the House
of Justice explains, “is a moral and intellectual contradiction of
the main objective animating the Bahá’í community, namely, the
establishment of the unity of mankind.”70 Above all, the foundation
of consultation is love and fellowship.71
When, a decision is reached through consultation by an institu-
tion, all are urged to support it. Even members of that body who
voiced divergent views are to abide by the majority decision and not
dispute or undermine it.72 In this way, even if the decision is wrong,
unity is preserved and the community can more quickly learn and
correct its mistakes.73
When action must be taken but there is no clarity as to which
course is best, it is sometimes desirable to allow for a diversity of
actions from which lessons can be learned. Bahá’ís should be com-
fortable with mistakes, which are an inevitable part of the learning
process. “A wide latitude for action must be allowed them, which
means that a large margin for mistakes must also be allowed. . . .
The Cause is not so fragile that a degree of mistakes cannot be
tolerated.”74 Critical thought is welcome and necessary as a means
of constructively analyzing action, so long as criticism does not
undermine the authority of the institutions,75 nor strongly stated
personal opinions sow doubt into the soil of pure hearts.76 Through
reflection on action, prompted by further study and consultation,
plans can be revised and more constructive strategies for action
discovered.
Even after careful study, sound consultation, and united action
and reflection on action, there will remain differences in the subjec-
tive viewpoints of individuals. Given the nature of reality as the

|
Revelation & Social Reality
“thought of God” how could it be otherwise, since human beings
will ever fall short of this ultimate understanding of truth; even
their grasp of Revelation is limited. Rather than taking sides and
arguing about matters, the believers need to become comfortable
with ambiguity, content to allow others their opinions. If these are
erroneous, they will, presumably, yield to continued learning. To
express a novel point of view is not, in itself, dissent, for how else
can progress in human thought occur? No harm can come unless
personal views are advanced in such a way as to promote division
or dissension, to contend with authoritative interpretations, or to
undermine the authority granted in the teachings to the institu-
tions. Firmness in the Covenant allows for the maintenance of
proper relationships of love and unity among the believers even
when strong differences of opinion are held. The Guardian has
explained that we should be free of any
misunderstandings that might obscure our clear conception of
the exact purpose and methods of this new world order, so chal-
lenging and complex, yet so consummate and wise. We are called
upon by our beloved Master in His Will and Testament not only
to adopt it unreservedly, but to unveil its merit to all the world. To
attempt to estimate its full value, and grasp its exact significance
after so short a time since its inception would be premature and
presumptuous on our part. We must trust to time, and the guid-
ance of God’s Universal House of Justice, to obtain a clearer and
fuller understanding of its provisions and implications.77
This statement introduces one additional factor critical for an
initial grasp of how Bahá’ís enhance their understanding and act
accordingly. Our work as Bahá’ís constitutes part of an organic
process that unfolds over time. We have, at any given stage, a lim-
ited capacity and must act within specific circumstances; gradually
capacity increases and contributes to change. The perspective of
organic growth also suggests a balance between conditions that
are fixed and those that are susceptible to human action, much
like the kind of balance that must exist in the work of a farmer or a
parent. The farmer must understand the requirements of the plant
in order to ensure a bountiful harvest. The parent does not control
the child, but by understanding his or her needs and nature, acts
to raise a mature, self-sufficient adult. In the same way, our job as
believers is to understand the purpose and organic nature of the
Cause and serve it.

Constructing the Kingdom
|  27
Shoghi Effendi repeatedly raised the concept of the Faith’s
organic growth, directly and indirectly. “Conscious of their high
calling, confident in the society-building power which their Faith
possesses, they press forward undeterred and undismayed, in their
efforts to fashion and perfect the necessary instruments wherein the
embryonic World Order of Bahá’u’lláh can mature and develop,” he
wrote.”78 A letter written on his behalf indicates: “The Bahá’í admin-
istration is only the first shaping of what in future will come to be
the social life and laws of community living. . . . [W]e are learning
something very difficult but very wonderful—how to live together
as a community of Bahá’ís according to the glorious teachings.”79
The Guardian also describes the “Heroic, the Apostolic Age . . .
in which the seed of the newborn Message had been incubating,”
the “Formative Period” the “Age in which the institutions, local,
national and international, of the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh” are to “take
shape, develop and become fully consolidated,” and “the third, the
last, the Golden Age” that is “destined to witness the emergence of a
world-embracing Order enshrining the ultimate fruit of God’s latest
Revelation to mankind, a fruit whose maturity must signalize the
establishment of a world civilization and the formal inauguration
of the Kingdom.”80
The nature of organic growth implies a certain tension between
past and future. The Bahá’í community is, at any given moment, a
mix of what we should be and what we have carried over from the
old world order from which we must free ourselves. We are ever
advancing toward a future that will be the fulfillment of an intended
aim and purpose. At any given moment, we are trying to overcome
the past and move into the future that is closer to what Bahá’u’lláh
intends. We need to have the flexibility necessary for change, the
patience to overcome setbacks and the creativity to make real the
potentialities latent in the teachings. We need to understand that the
Bahá’í community—ourselves included—encompasses a mixture of
divergent views and temperaments that need to be harmonized
to give added dimension and strength to our collective search for
truth. At the same time, organic growth involves evolving, learning,
and maturing individuals and institutions that will make mistakes
and even occasionally cause harm, but that need guidance, support
and space to learn. All of this adds another measure of complexity
and ambiguity to the process of translating the teachings into ac-
tion. Nevertheless, appreciation of organic development provides
a perspective that enables each believer to work patiently and

|
Revelation & Social Reality
persistently for progress and productive change, with the humility
necessary to acknowledge that one is bound to make mistakes
and the conviction that in time the necessary transformation will
appear and the Faith will not go astray.

Understanding and Practice
in the Bahá’í Community
I
n a letter of Naw-Rúz 1930, addressed to “the beloved
of the Lord and the handmaids of the Merciful throughout
the West,” Shoghi Effendi assured the Bahá’ís of the ultimate
achievement of their hopes for the well-being of humanity. “Feeble
though our Faith may now appear in the eyes of men,” he stated,
“. . . this priceless gem of Divine Revelation, now still in its embry-
onic state, shall evolve within the shell of His law, and shall forge
ahead, undivided and unimpaired, till it embraces the whole of
mankind.”1 At the same time, he examined the distinctive features
of the Faith designed to ensure its success, in particular “the
fundamental difference existing between this world-embracing,
divinely-appointed Order and the chief ecclesiastical organizations
of the world.”2 “What,” he asked, “can possibly be the agency that
can safeguard these Bahá’í institutions, so strikingly resemblant,
in some of their features, to those which have been reared by the
Fathers of the Church and the Apostles of Muhammad, from wit-
nessing the deterioration in character, the breach of unity, and the
extinction of influence, which have befallen all organized religious
hierarchies? Why should they not eventually suffer the self-same
fate that has overtaken the institutions which the successors of
Christ and Muhammad have reared?”3
In answer to this profound question, the Guardian points
to the divinely conceived, organically developing world order of
Bahá’u’lláh, which is born of and safeguarded by His inviolable
Covenant. Bahá’u’lláh, he wrote,
has not only imbued mankind with a new and regenerating
Spirit. He has not merely enunciated certain universal principles,
or propounded a particular philosophy, however potent, sound
and universal these may be. In addition to these He, as well as

|
Revelation & Social Reality
‘Abdu’l-Bahá after Him, has, unlike the Dispensations of the
past, clearly and specifically laid down a set of Laws, established
definite institutions, and provided for the essentials of a Divine
Economy. These are destined to be a pattern for future society,
a supreme instrument for the establishment of the Most Great
Peace, and the one agency for the unification of the world, and the
proclamation of the reign of righteousness and justice upon the
earth. Not only have they revealed all the directions required for
the practical realization of those ideals which the Prophets of God
have ­visualized, and which from time immemorial have inflamed
the imagination of seers and poets in every age. They have also, in
unequivocal and emphatic language, appointed those twin institu-
tions of the House of Justice and of the Guardianship as their
chosen Successors, destined to apply the principles, promulgate
the laws, protect the institutions, adapt loyally and intelligently the
Faith to the requirements of progressive society, and consummate
the incorruptible inheritance which the Founders of the Faith have
bequeathed to the world.4
The Covenant, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains, “is the fortified fortress
of the Cause of God and the firm pillar of the religion of God.” He
adds:
Today no power can conserve the oneness of the Bahá’í world
save the Covenant of God; otherwise differences like unto a most
great tempest will encompass the Bahá’í world. It is evident that
the axis of the oneness of the world of humanity is the power of
the Covenant and nothing else. Had the Covenant not come to
pass, had it not been revealed from the Supreme Pen and had not
the Book of the Covenant, like unto the ray of the Sun of Reality,
illuminated the world, the forces of the Cause of God would have
been utterly scattered and certain souls who were the prisoners of
their own passions and lusts would have taken into their hands
an axe, cutting the root of this Blessed Tree. Every person would
have pushed forward his own desire and every individual aired
his own opinion!5
Shoghi Effendi states that Bahá’u’lláh’s Covenant is “unique in
the spiritual annals of mankind.”6 We must be cautious, therefore,
not to readily conflate the methods and concepts of Bahá’í practice
with the standards current in other disciplines, whether religious or
scientific, lest we merely pour new wine into old wineskins. Rather,

Understanding and Practice in the Bahá’í Community
|  31
any effort to grasp the workings of how we, as Bahá’ís, understand
the teachings and translate them over time into action to contribute
to transforming the social order through study, consultation,
action and reflection, must include a consideration of how such
understanding and practice is inseparably entwined with the two
authoritative centers to which the believers must turn: “the Book
with its Interpreter” and “the Universal House of Justice guided by
God to decide on whatever is not explicitly revealed in the Book.”7
Authoritative Interpretation and the
Understanding of the Believers
The challenge of engagement with the Book is first, to determine
to the extent possible Bahá’u’lláh’s intended meaning and second,
to reshape personal understandings by striving to move them into
correspondence with His teachings. Some contemporary thinkers
have proposed that there is no independent meaning of a text
conveyed by an author; instead, each reader who comes to it invents
or constructs a meaning based on personal perspective.8 This,
obviously, is not the Bahá’í view in relation to the Word of God. As
previously mentioned, Bahá’u’lláh indicates that “Whatsoever hath
been revealed in His Tablets is but a reflection of His Will.”9 And He
states: “. . . We made plain Our meaning and set forth Our verses,
that perchance men may reflect upon the signs and tokens of their
Lord.”10 Once we are convinced that we are dealing with the Word
of God, we can neither use conscience nor common sense to dissect
and pass judgment upon it; rather, the Word weighs and reshapes
conscience.11 Bahá’u’lláh’s meaning is to become our meaning.
“Abandon the things current amongst you,” Bahá’u’lláh exhorts,
“and adopt that which the faithful Counselor biddeth you.”12 He
also warns individuals against the “corruption of the text” which is
“the interpretation of God’s holy Book in accordance with their idle
imaginings and vain desires.”13
Because of our limited capacity we are, of course, always faced
with the danger of diverging from the meaning and purpose of the
Author. This is unavoidable, because human limitations make it
impossible to fully grasp the intent of the Manifestation. Humility,
obedience, and a learning attitude mitigate the danger. However,
the problem is exacerbated when we raise a personal understanding
of the Text to the level of immutable truth, or when we corrupt the
Word’s purity by adding foreign elements from personal beliefs.

|
Revelation & Social Reality
Bahá’u’lláh has protected His Faith from the potential harm
caused by personal interpretations through the establishment of
His Covenant. He appointed an authorized Interpreter to expound
the meaning of His Writings and established the Universal House
to resolve disagreements, clarify questions that are obscure, and
decide what must be done when the Text is not explicit.
Authoritative interpretation and individual interpretation are
sometimes discussed in the same context, suggesting that they are
different aspects of a single process. This is misleading; they are
distinct in nature. Authoritative interpretation14 conveys the true
meaning of the Revelation, while individual interpretation is a
function of human knowledge and subject to its limitations.
The authoritative interpretation of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and Shoghi
Effendi is “a divinely-guided statement of what the Word of God
means.”15 It is not merely the opinion or point of view of the
Interpreter. It represents “the true intent inherent in the Sacred
Texts.”16 The authorized Interpreter is an extension of the Book17 and
authoritative interpretation is as binding as the Word itself. Since
all statements in the Revelation and the authorized interpretation
are true, there can be no essential contradiction among them. Any
apparent contradiction in meaning can be resolved by accepting
the teachings as a balanced whole and seeking the perspective that
reconciles apparent inconsistencies.18
Authoritative interpretation is a “statement of truth which can-
not be varied.”19 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and Shoghi Effendi did not “change
their minds” about their own interpretations. Any perceived revi-
sion in an authoritative interpretation, therefore, is attributable to
some other reason. It is an elaboration or elucidation of a previous
statement, an abrogation of a temporary measure, the illusion of
contradiction resulting from a partial perspective, or the progres-
sive unfoldment of the meaning of the Text.
Perhaps the most significant feature of authorized interpreta-
tion is that it allows for the progressive revelation of the meaning of
the Text within the dispensation.20 If Bahá’u’lláh had been obliged to
convey the entire body of authoritative meaning of His Revelation
within His lifetime, its scope would have been greatly reduced
because of the limited capacity of His hearers. Clarifications could
not be made for centuries until the coming of a new Manifestation.
Having a channel of authoritative interpretation, however, allows
the implications of the Creative Word to become evident gradually.
Thus, Bahá’u’lláh veils certain meanings or leaves gaps21 in the Book

Understanding and Practice in the Bahá’í Community
|  33
that are addressed by the authorized Interpreter in full accordance
with His will and purpose. In this way, authoritative expression
of the meaning of the Book was extended over a century, reach-
ing beyond the first generation of believers, to guide the Faith’s
worldwide establishment.
Authoritative interpretation does not add to the Revelation;
rather, it clarifies and makes apparent veiled or potential implica-
tions of the Revelation that are not explicit. The statements of
authorized interpretation “throw further light upon and amplify
various features”22 of certain themes; “affirm . . . the true mean-
ing, the real significance, the innermost secret of these verses;”23
“reveal the purport and disclose the implications of the utterances
of Bahá’u’lláh;”24 and “state what the Book means.”25 In some cases
this hidden intent is vast; in other cases, no implications lie beyond
a passage in the Revealed Word, and thus, although additional
meaning or insight may have been available to the Manifestation,
it is not accessible to the authorized Interpreter. Consider, for
example, Shoghi Effendi’s extensive insights into the apparently
simple phrase “new world order” from the Kitáb-i-Aqdas in con-
trast to his observation about the “knowledge” which when “taught
from childhood” and “applied” would “largely, though not wholly,
eliminate fear.”
We have no way of knowing what science Bahá’u’lláh meant
when He said it would largely eliminate fear; as no further men-
tion of it was ever made in the teachings, the Guardian cannot
identify anything with this statement. To do so would depart
from his function as interpreter of the teachings; he cannot reveal
anything apart from the given teachings.26
Authorized interpretation does not, however, exhaust the
meaning of the Sacred Text. Verses from the Revelation often
contain multiple meanings and “the existence of authoritative
interpretations in no way precludes the individual from engaging
in his own study of the teachings and thereby arriving at his own
interpretation or understanding.”27 Unlike the interpretations of
the clergy in past dispensations, the authorized interpretations of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá and Shoghi Effendi do not lead to a significant nar-
rowing in the scope available for individual interpretation.
They are not a progressive fossilization of the Revelation, they
are for the most part expositions which throw a clear light upon

|
Revelation & Social Reality
passages which may have been considered obscure, they point
up the intimate interrelationship between the various teachings,
they expand the implications of scriptural allusions, and they
educate the Bahá’ís in the tremendous significances of the Words
of Bahá’u’lláh. Rather than in any way supplanting the Words of
the Manifestation, they lead us back to them time and again.28
At the heart of the Cause is the freedom of individuals to study
the teachings, to strive for deeper understanding, and to express
their views with candor. As the Universal House of Justice explains,
“Individual interpretations based on a person’s understanding of
the teachings constitute the fruit of man’s rational power and may
well contribute to a more complete understanding of the Faith.”29
Yet, Shoghi Effendi makes it clear that we cannot fully comprehend
the meaning of the Revelation, but can only struggle for “more
adequate” insights.
To strive to obtain a more adequate understanding of the
significance of Bahá’u’lláh’s stupendous Revelation must, it is my
unalterable conviction, remain the first obligation and the object
of the constant endeavor of each one of its loyal adherents. An
exact and thorough comprehension of so vast a system, so sublime
a revelation, so sacred a trust, is for obvious reasons beyond the
reach and ken of our finite minds. We can, however, and it is
our bounden duty to seek to derive fresh inspiration and added
sustenance as we labor for the propagation of His Faith through a
clearer apprehension of the truths it enshrines and the principles
on which it is based.30
Like all other forms of human comprehension, therefore,
individual interpretation of the Sacred Text is a limited capacity,
and the knowledge derived is mutable. A Bahá’í is bound by the
explicit meaning of the Text and likewise must accept authorized
interpretations and not deny or contend with them.31 Nevertheless,
freedom of conscience of the individual is upheld in the Faith, for
“no one may be compelled to become a Bahá’í, or to remain a Bahá’í
if he conscientiously wishes to leave the Faith.”32
Understanding the meaning of the Revealed Word is not
simply a rational exercise but depends upon spiritual conditions.
“When a true seeker determines to take the step of search in the
path leading unto the knowledge of the Ancient of Days, he must,
before all else, cleanse and purify his heart, which is the seat of

Understanding and Practice in the Bahá’í Community
|  35
the revelation of the inner mysteries of God, from the obscuring
dust of all acquired knowledge, and the allusions of the embodi-
ments of satanic fancy,” begins Bahá’u’lláh’s admonition to those
who long for spiritual knowledge and certitude.33 And He states:
“The understanding of His words and the comprehension of the
utterances of the Birds of Heaven are in no wise dependent upon
human learning. They depend solely upon purity of heart, chastity
of soul, and freedom of spirit.”34
At the time of enrollment, the institutions need to ensure that
an individual holds a basic level of understanding to qualify for
membership. A new believer, “need not know all the proofs, history,
laws, and principles of the Faith,”35 yet, should be nurtured “pa-
tiently, tactfully, and yet determinedly, into full maturity” in order
to “aid him to proclaim his unqualified acceptance of whatever has
been ordained by Bahá’u’lláh.”36
Individual interpretations “continually change as one grows in
comprehension of the teachings.” “So, although individual insights
can be enlightening and helpful, they can also be misleading.”37
Incomplete understandings are, therefore, part of the natural and
healthy process of learning about the Faith over time, and no one
can be said to be fully free of misperceptions. Learning continues
throughout one’s life as a Bahá’í and erroneous notions are naturally
discarded as comprehension grows and evolves.
Individual interpretation rarely remains wholly personal. One
studies the teachings and derives insights, but inevitably, these
views are shared with others in a dialogical process that guides the
collective quest for intersubjective agreement upon which action
rests. This consultative process is to be conducted in a manner that
preserves unity while striving to achieve Bahá’u’lláh’s purpose for
humanity. In such a dialogue, individual opinions “lack author-
ity,” and a person is to “offer his own idea as a contribution to
knowledge, making it clear that his views are merely his own.”38
While “every believer is fully entitled to voice” personal views, these
ideas “can never be upheld as a standard for others to accept, nor
should disputes ever be permitted to arise over differences in such
opinions.”39 Such views are to be expressed without pressing them
on fellow believers.40 And it is then incumbent upon the listener
not to suppress the views of others, which would be a restriction
of individual freedom, but to respond in a tolerant, dispassionate
and courteous way. The Universal House of Justice encourages

|
Revelation & Social Reality
the friends to “learn to listen to the views of others without being
over-awed or allowing their faith to be shaken.”41
In general, “the institutions do not busy themselves with
what individual believers think.”42 A problem arises, however, if
thought becomes “expressed in actions which are inimical to the
basic principles and vital interests of the Faith.”43 When someone
stubbornly persists in such deleterious actions, it may be necessary
for the institutions to respond. Language is the brick and mortar
for construction of civilization; certain standards for its use are
necessary, therefore, to ensure that the edifice does not collapse.
These standards are an explicit part of Bahá’u’lláh’s teachings. The
Covenant protects the dialogical process and prevents harm from
being caused by individuals who insist on imposing their personal
opinions while contradicting explicit, authoritative statements
in the Book. A letter written on behalf of the Universal House of
Justice explains:
Beyond contention, moreover, is the condition in which a person
is so immovably attached to one erroneous viewpoint that his
insistence upon it amounts to an effort to change the essential
character of the Faith. This kind of behavior, if permitted to
continue unchecked, could produce disruption in the Bahá’í com-
munity, giving birth to countless sects as it has done in previous
Dispensations. The Covenant of Bahá’u’lláh prevents this. The
Faith defines elements of a code of conduct, and it is ultimately
the responsibility of the Universal House of Justice, in watching
over the security of the Cause and upholding the integrity of
its Teachings, to require the friends to adhere to standards thus
defined.44
Hermeneutical Principles in the Bahá’í Teachings
It is evident that Bahá’ís are encouraged to use their rational powers
to explore and better understand the Revelation while, at the same
time, because of the limitations of these powers, they are urged to
guard the integrity and purity of the teachings by not imposing
personal views on others. To assist in the challenging process of
acquiring understanding, many hermeneutical principles—that
is, principles pertaining to interpreting or discerning the meaning
of the Sacred Text—are presented in the Bahá’í Writings to guide
the seeker of truth.45 Some of these principles have already been

Understanding and Practice in the Bahá’í Community
|  37
mentioned or will be discussed in more detail in other parts of the
book; they are summarized here for convenience.
The Book has an intended meaning. Bahá’u’lláh urges us to
“Meditate upon that which hath streamed forth from the heaven of
the Will of thy Lord” so that we may “grasp the intended meaning
which is enshrined in the sacred depths of the Holy Writings.”46
Shoghi Effendi indicates that the believers should “read the
writings . . . so thoroughly as to be able to give it to others in its
pure form” rather than to hold “some superficial idea of what
the Cause stands for” and to “present it together with all sorts of
ideas that are their own.”47 We cannot, therefore, simply read into
the Text any meaning we wish or use quotations out of context to
justify personal opinions. Our views may be right and they may be
wrong, or they may reflect a partial understanding, depending on
the measure of their correspondence to Bahá’u’lláh’s intention. Of
course, the challenge of unraveling the intended meaning is not
always easy. Comprehension occurs by degree, is influenced by
culture and context, and there is always some ambiguity. But this is
a fundamentally different perspective from one that suggests that
we can add to the Sacred Text or derive from it support for any
notion that we hold.
Judgments about meaning should be made from the perspective
of the Revelation. Bahá’u’lláh states that “If it be your wish, O
people, to know God and to discover the greatness of His might,
look, then, upon Me with Mine own eyes, and not with the eyes of
any one besides Me. Ye will, otherwise, be never capable of recog-
nizing Me, though ye ponder My Cause as long as My Kingdom
endureth. . . .”48 As previously mentioned, He indicates that we
should not weigh the Book of God with human standards and
sciences, since “the Book itself is the unerring balance established
amongst men;” instead, “the measure of its weight should be tested
according to its own standard,” while “in this most perfect balance
whatsoever the peoples and kindreds of the earth possess must be
weighed.”49 Therefore, the more we develop a body of understand-
ing that reflects Bahá’u’lláh’s intended meaning and the more
we can bring that understanding to bear when making personal
interpretations of specific passages, the more likely our insights are
to be valid.

|
Revelation & Social Reality
There is no contradiction between authoritative passages. It may
appear that certain statements in the Book contradict one another.
But a difference in context or emphasis or the exploration of a single
reality from different perspectives should not be misconstrued as
contradiction. Letters written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi indicate
that we should “always conceive of the teachings as one great whole
with many facets.”50 “We must take the teachings as a great, balanced
whole, not seek out and oppose to each other two strong statements
that have different meanings; somewhere in between, there are
links uniting the two.”51 This suggests that we should generally
seek the meaning of the verses in such a way as to resolve apparent
inconsistencies rather than to magnify them. It also implies that
if a personal interpretation of a passage contradicts the Text or its
authoritative interpretation, that individual interpretation is erro-
neous. As the Universal House of Justice explains, “In attempting to
understand the Writings, therefore, one must first realize that there
is and can be no real contradiction in them, and in the light of this
we can confidently seek the unity of meaning which they contain.”52
This unity of meaning also pertains to the relationship between
the Word of God and its authoritative interpretation. For, “It is the
words of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and the Guardian which elucidate this vast
revelation and make clear the manner in which different statements
relate to one another and what is implied by the Revealed Word.”53
Meaning is sometimes explicit and sometimes veiled. Bahá’u’lláh
explains that the Manifestation of God speaks a “twofold language.”
“One language, the outward language, is devoid of allusions, is
unconcealed and unveiled; that it may be a guiding lamp and a
beaconing light whereby wayfarers may attain the heights of holi-
ness, and seekers may advance into the realm of eternal reunion. . . .
The other language is veiled and concealed, so that whatever lieth
hidden in the heart of the malevolent may be made manifest and
their innermost being be disclosed.”54 Thus, at times we are dealing
with explicit meanings and an esoteric interpretation would be
inappropriate and incorrect. An example is Bahá’u’lláh’s statement
that the next Manifestation would not appear before one thousand
years.55 In this regard, it is also important to note that the explicit
meaning is not the same as the literal meaning, as in the case of
using a metaphor; Bahá’u’lláh warns in the Íqán about the error
of literalism. At other times a verse has deeper meanings, and
trying to hold to the outward understanding can lead to rigidity

Understanding and Practice in the Bahá’í Community
|  39
or confusion. A clear example is the meaning of the “return” of the
Prophets. As Bahá’u’lláh summarizes this principle:
Blessed those who have distinguished both the outward and the
inward meaning: these, verily, are servants who have believed in
the All-Embracing Word.
Know, then, that whosoever adhereth to the outward mean-
ing while oblivious of the inward meaning is of the ignorant;
that whosoever adhereth to the inward meaning while oblivious
of the outward meaning is of the heedless; and that whosoever
understandeth the inward meaning in the light of the outward
meaning is of the truly learned.56
The meaning of the Book cannot be exhausted. “Know assuredly,”
Bahá’u’lláh states, “that just as thou firmly believest that the Word
of God, exalted be His glory, endureth for ever, thou must, like-
wise, believe with undoubting faith that its meaning can never be
exhausted.”57 This opens the Text to a range of individual interpreta-
tions, including instances in which an authoritative interpretation
has been made. For example, after presenting an interpretation of
the meaning of the story of Adam and Eve, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains:
“This is one of the meanings of the biblical story of Adam. Reflect
until you discover the others.”58 However, this concept does not im-
ply relativism; personal interpretations are not all equally valid and
some are erroneous. Rather, meaning continually emerges through
study and application throughout one’s lifetime and over the entire
course of the dispensation in a changing historical context. The
freedom of interpretation left to the individual cannot be used to
justify and impose personal opinions on others or to contend with
the center of authority in the Faith. In addition to His statement
that the meaning of the Word is inexhaustible, Bahá’u’lláh warns:
They who are its appointed interpreters, they whose hearts are
the repositories of its secrets, are, however, the only ones who
can comprehend its manifold wisdom. Whoso, while reading
the Sacred Scriptures, is tempted to choose therefrom what-
ever may suit him with which to challenge the authority of the
Representative of God among men, is, indeed, as one dead, though
to outward seeming he may walk and converse with his neighbors,
and share with them their food and their drink.59
Truth unfolds progressively within the dispensation. The mean-
ing of the Revelation is intentionally disclosed in a gradual manner

|
Revelation & Social Reality
over time. “Consider the sun,” Bahá’u’lláh explains. “How gradually
its warmth and potency increase as it approacheth its zenith. . . .
[I]f the Sun of Truth were suddenly to reveal, at the earliest stages
of its manifestation, the full measure of the potencies which the
providence of the Almighty hath bestowed upon it, the earth of
human understanding would waste away and be consumed.”60
Again He states:
How manifold are the truths which must remain unuttered until the
appointed time is come! Even as it hath been said: “Not everything
that a man knoweth can be disclosed, nor can everything that he
can disclose be regarded as timely, nor can every timely utterance
be considered as suited to the capacity of those who hear it.”
Of these truths some can be disclosed only to the extent of the
capacity of the repositories of the light of Our knowledge, and the
recipients of Our hidden grace.61
A definitive illustration of this principle is Bahá’u’lláh’s injunc-
tion in the Aqdas not to marry more than two wives combined
with an appeal to be content with a single partner.62 Some early
statements of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá granted certain believers permission to
have two wives; but He encouraged marriage to only a single wife to
such an extent that some went so far as to accuse Him of abrogating
Bahá’u’lláh’s law.63 Eventually, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá unambiguously inter-
preted the passage in the Aqdas to mean that Bahá’u’lláh prescribed
monogamy.64 This was reaffirmed by Shoghi Effendi65 who further
averred that polygamy has been “rigidly suppressed by the Pen of
Bahá’u’lláh.”66 The purpose of clarifying and applying the law in a
gradual manner was to assist the believers to make the transition
from Islamic law and cultural practice to monogamy.
In attempting to understand the Bahá’í teachings, especially
in cases where passages appear incomplete or contradictory or
where it appears that the Central Figures change their views, it is
necessary to seek the meaning of statements in the Writings as an
integrated and progressively unfolding whole. An unbiased reader
who earnestly seeks a proper understanding of a Text can hardly
ignore the Author’s explicit counsel that meaning is sometimes
intentionally veiled and gradually revealed over time in order to
guard against fanatical opposition, to preserve unity, and to foster
acceptance of challenging or complex truths.

Understanding and Practice in the Bahá’í Community
|  41
Understanding is influenced by the stages of the Faith’s organic
development. The Bahá’í community evolves organically over time
and certain passages may pertain to specific stages in this devel-
opmental process. Furthermore, each stage of the community’s
organic development influences the manner in which it approaches
the Book and the questions it asks. The Universal House of Justice
explains that a
fundamental principle which enables us to understand the pattern
towards which Bahá’u’lláh wishes human society to evolve is the
principle of organic growth which requires that detailed develop-
ments, and the understanding of detailed developments, become
available only with the passage of time and with the help of the
guidance given by that Central Authority in the Cause to whom
all must turn. In this regard one can use the simile of a tree. If a
farmer plants a tree, he cannot state at that moment what its exact
height will be, the number of its branches or the exact time of its
blossoming. He can, however, give a general impression of its size
and pattern of growth and can state with confidence which fruit
it will bear. The same is true of the evolution of the World Order
of Bahá’u’lláh.67
Allowing the Faith to unfold without imposing personal views
requires “honesty and humility.” In past dispensations errors arose
because the believers “were overanxious to encompass the Divine
Message within the framework of their limited understanding,
to define doctrines where definition was beyond their power, to
explain mysteries which only the wisdom and experience of a later
age would make comprehensible, to argue that something was true
because it appeared desirable and necessary.” Bahá’ís are therefore
discouraged from trying to force the Faith “into ways that we wish
it to go regardless of the clear texts and our own limitations.”68
Personal interpretations of the meaning of the Text should be
weighed in the light of science and reason. Scientific knowledge and
reason make an essential contribution to a sound understanding
of the Bahá’í Writings. They serve as a means to weigh personal
interpretations and religious beliefs,69 as ‘Abdu’l-Bahá illustrates
with the example of the interpretation of “stars” falling upon the
“earth.” A literal meaning is impossible since “modern mathemati-
cians have established and proved scientifically . . . each of the fixed
stars to be a thousand times larger than the sun,” and therefore, “If

|
Revelation & Social Reality
these stars were to fall upon the surface of the earth, how could they
find their place there?”70 In a talk, He further states: “If religious
beliefs and opinions are found contrary to the standards of science,
they are mere superstitions and imaginations. . . . If a question
be found contrary to reason, faith and belief in it are impossible,
and there is no outcome but wavering and vacillation.”71 Yet, while
scientific understanding and reason assist in unlocking the mean-
ing of the Sacred Text, care also must be exerted to avoid going to
the extreme of distorting religious truth “almost forcibly at times,
to make it conform to understandings and perceptions current in
the scientific world.”72
While Bahá’ís are called upon to weigh religious beliefs in the
light of science, they should not commit the error of weighing
scientific knowledge in the light of personal religious beliefs.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains that it is possible for a Revelation to include
statements about the physical world that are scientifically accurate
and which transcend contemporary scientific understanding.73 This
is unsurprising given the capacity of the Manifestation of God to
know reality. And, in general, “the principle of faith is to accept
anything the Manifestation of God says, once you have accepted
Him as being the Manifestation.”74 However, it is vital to appreciate
that in certain cases, rather than intending to convey a scientific
truth, a passage in the Text uses scientific concepts according to
the understanding of the people as a way of illustrating a spiritual
theme.75 Further, Bahá’u’lláh sometimes uses terminology that per-
tains to a particular school of thought that is not in accord with
contemporary scientific views, as in the Tablet to a Physician.76
Thus, a personal interpretation of the Text is not a sufficient
justification for drawing scientific conclusions or for rejecting or
contending with scientific theories or methods. While study of the
Bahá’í teachings may provide certain insights or a philosophical
or moral framework for scientific investigation and technological
applications, scripture is not scientific evidence. Science has its own
body of knowledge, methods of inquiry, and system of justification
and advances according to its own criteria.
History and context have implications for understanding the
meaning of the Text. Understanding the historical or specific
context of a portion of the Book helps to shed light on its meaning.
For example, Shoghi Effendi “emphasized the study of Islam and
Qur’án so that the friends would have a background against which

Understanding and Practice in the Bahá’í Community
|  43
to study the Bahá’í Writings.”77 To be aware of where, why, and to
whom a Tablet was revealed, to have insight into the intellectual
and cultural currents that form the background for certain state-
ments made by the Central Figures, or to place passages in the
context of Bahá’í or world history all surely contribute to a greater
depth of understanding of the teachings. This does not imply, of
course, that meaning of scripture is circumscribed by its particular
context and that no general insights or principles can be drawn
from it and applied universally. Bahá’u’lláh, as a Manifestation of
God, intended His Writings for an audience that would span cen-
turies, not just for the immediate recipient. Hermeneutical practice
in the Bahá’í community must be concerned, therefore, with
both the particular and universal implications of the Writings of
Bahá’u’lláh and the statements of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and Shoghi Effendi.
It is necessary to distinguish, for example, between instances when
the Guardian was referring to a temporary measure and when he
was establishing a general principle or immutable feature of the
administrative order.
Determining the implications of context and history to enrich
understanding of the meaning of the Text must be carried out in
association with other hermeneutical principles in order to protect
against two extremes that lead to a distortion of the teachings. One
extreme is to insist that statements in the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh
or ‘Abdu’l-Bahá can only be understood in light of contemporary
understanding derived from academic disciplines, such as history
or philosophy, and their methods, such as various forms of histori-
cal or literary criticism. While acknowledging that methodologies
from academic disciplines have value in providing insights into
the meaning of texts, the House of Justice points out that there is a
possibility of problems arising from the imposition “on the Bahá’í
community’s own study of the Revelation” of “methodologies and
attitudes antithetical to its very nature.”78 The Faith simultaneously
“enjoins upon its followers the primary duty of an unfettered search
after truth”79 and asserts that “there can be no question of any
requirement to distort history in the so-called ‘interests’ of the
Faith,” while recognizing that historical researchers should not
fall into the error of positivism, since “historical evidence . . . is
always fragmentary, and may also be accidentally erroneous or even
intentionally fabricated.”80 Conclusions drawn on the basis of the
interpretation of historical evidence are not definitive, and must be

|
Revelation & Social Reality
assessed in the light of other important factors when attempting to
understand the meaning of the Text.
The other extreme is to assume that, beyond whatever larger
meaning is intended, statements in the Writings always present
accurate facts of history and context. The situation, however, is
similar to that which arises with respect to the question of sci-
entific accuracy: sometimes a statement contains a fact, and at
other times, a statement conforms to a particular understanding
of the audience being addressed. For example, in one instance a
letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi encourages acceptance
of the truth of a historical statement made by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, and
in another encourages gathering the known facts.81 As another
example, a Bahá’í asked ‘Abdu’l-Bahá a question about Emmanuel
Swedenborg and the Guardian later explained that, despite the
context of the question and the believer’s personal views about the
reply, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s answer referred not to Swedenborg but to the
Báb, the true “Emmanuel.”82 Thus, while ‘Abdu’l-Bahá did possess
“superhuman knowledge,”83 a particular statement of His cannot
simply be accepted as a literal truth or objective fact without further
consideration. The Guardian warned that “We must not take many
of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s statements as dogmatic finalities, for there are
other points which when added to them round out the picture.”84
These are only a summary of some hermeneutical principles
found in the teachings; there may well be others, and perhaps, they
may be described differently. In a given situation, in an effort to
understand the meaning of a passage, all relevant factors must be
considered and weighed in the light of the various hermeneutical
principles. Often, different conclusions can be held by different
individuals, and clarification of any ambiguities or contradictions
must await further evidence or discussion. This is especially a
challenge in applying the last two principles, when questions of
scientific and historical knowledge must be reconciled with the
interpretation of the Text. In response to a question as to whether
statements (propositions) found in the Writings need to be taken
as fact unless there is an explicit reference to a particular statement
being conditioned on other information, the Universal House of
Justice conveyed the following perspective:
. . . there are some cases where passages from the Writings
affirm specific facts and other cases where passages conform to
the beliefs of particular peoples. It is, therefore, necessary for

Understanding and Practice in the Bahá’í Community
|  45
the reader to determine the meaning of statements that are not
explicit by applying sound hermeneutical principles found in
the Teachings. While there is often room for a range of personal
interpretations on such matters, and a degree of ambiguity will
invariably exist in some cases, usually a common understand-
ing is formed, which will change over time should additional
evidence come to light. Differences of personal opinion about
the meaning of the Text should not be allowed to create discord
or wrangling among the friends.85
The application of the hermeneutical principles presented
here and any others that may be drawn from the Bahá’í Writings
cannot be reduced to a specific formula or set of rules, and caution
must be exercised to avoid the extremes of absolute certainty or
relativism. We can never be certain that our personal interpreta-
tions are identical with Bahá’u’lláh’s intended meaning. Therefore,
absolutism should be avoided whether imposed as a literal religious
orthodoxy or as scientific or historical certainty. That such cer-
tainty eludes us, however, does not mean that we should raise the
banner of relativism, asserting that all opinions are equally valid,
that personal conscience becomes the measure of the Faith, that
statements from the center of the Cause can be set aside on the
basis of any individual’s rationalization, or that specific aspects of
the teachings can be discarded because they conflict with personal
conclusions about general principles. The quest for sound under-
standing, instead, involves a community engaged in consultation,
where differing views are welcome, unity is maintained, each indi-
vidual exercises self-discipline, and varying perspectives are tested
through action and reflection in a collective search for meaning
that operates within the boundaries marked by the Covenant. A
letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice states that
“Bahá’í communities will need to develop greater tolerance toward
ideas that may not coincide with their current understanding, and
remain open to new insights.”86 Suppressing thoughtful and fairly
crafted new ideas is no less harmful than unbridled criticism that
masks self-serving ends. We have to struggle, therefore, to avoid
certain pitfalls even as we cultivate other qualities that enhance the
capacity to understand.
Among those pitfalls that impede understanding are the
tendencies to overanalyze a Text, to ignore the obvious meaning in
the quest for exotic interpretations, to neglect or overemphasize the

|
Revelation & Social Reality
social and historical context, or to interpret passages out of context
or in isolation from the body of the Writings.87 Other potential pit-
falls include clinging to preconceived ideas, using a selection from
the Text to contradict the whole or to contend with the center of
authority in the Faith, overemphasizing individual interpretations
(intellectual pride), and treating the Words of God like the words
of human beings.88
Among those qualities that enhance our capacity to understand
are effort and eagerness of search.89 In addition, the House of Justice
observes that
other important components in this process include an ­attitude
of prayerful humility, acceptance of the statements of the
Manifestation, confidence in the knowledge that understanding of
their meaning will emerge with meditation, study of the texts and
the passage of time, willingness to acknowledge that one’s views
may be erroneous, and, courage to follow in the direction defined
by the authentic sacred texts.90
We must learn to put forward our “views and conclusions with
moderation and due humility”91 so that our diverse perspectives can
contribute to the collective effort to achieve a better understanding
of Bahá’u’lláh’s Revelation.
With the passing of Shoghi Effendi, the source of authoritative
interpretation in the Faith came to a close, although the body of
statements of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and Shoghi Effendi still stand along with
the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh as part of the authoritative Text. The com-
plexities of individual interpretation will remain with us throughout
the course of the dispensation. The investigator of truth, when ex-
amining the Book, must struggle to determine when Bahá’u’lláh and
His Interpreters are explicit and when metaphorical; when concepts
current among the people were used and when new concepts were
introduced; when scientific perspectives of the time were cited to
illustrate a spiritual principle and when a statement reflects a truth
about the physical reality; when historical context sheds light and
when it obscures; when an authoritative interpretation is a statement
that cannot be altered and when the Interpreter, as the head of the
Faith, was introducing a temporary enactment. We can be neither
too rigid nor too lax. On a certain point, divergent viewpoints and
ambiguity may be all we can achieve at any given moment; resolution
will depend on maintaining unity and acting over time under the
guidance of the Universal House of Justice.

Understanding and Practice in the Bahá’í Community
|  47
The Universal House of Justice and Bahá’í Practice
As Bahá’ís study and discuss the meaning of the Text while ap-
plying a set of hermeneutical principles, greater insight and unity
of thought will emerge. The purpose of religion, however, is not
simply to describe reality but to change human conduct and create
a new social reality. Interpretation does not stand on its own. To
test the soundness of our understanding we have to strive to apply
it in action. As in science, where theory is tested by experimenta-
tion, spiritual insights must be tested by their expression in the
world. The aim is to give effective material form to spiritual truth.
Interpretation creates meaning. But meaning is tested in action, and
action shapes reality.
To illustrate this point, consider two of the greatest mysteries of
religion: the nature of God and life after death. The Bahá’í Writings
indicate that both are unknowable owing to the limitations of
language and of the human mind.92 Why, then, do the Central
Figures of the Faith expound upon these subjects? It is obviously
not to describe the indescribable. It is to help us to have a proper
understanding of our own nature and how we should behave.
Within the Revelation is a prescription for what individuals
should do to enable humanity to move toward the Manifestation’s
intended aim. Progress is not achieved through a recipe for ac-
tion, in which one step follows another with exact measures in a
predetermined manner. Rather, the Revelation contains principles,
methods, values, insights, and a description of forces that shape an
unfolding organic process. The more we understand the nature of
this organic process, the better we can serve it through our actions.
Bahá’í practice, then, is concerned with translating the teachings
of Bahá’u’lláh into action for individual and collective transforma-
tion within the framework of authoritative guidance. The goal
is the establishment of a social order of unity, justice and peace,
the Kingdom of God on earth. In essence, such practice implies
living the Bahá’í life and thereby contributing to an ever-advancing
civilization. A statement written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi on
Bahá’í economics offers some insight into this process:
There are practically no technical teachings on economics
in the Cause, such as banking, the price system, and others.
The Cause is not an economic system, nor can its Founders be
considered as having been technical economists. The contribution

|
Revelation & Social Reality
of the Faith to this subject is essentially indirect, as it consists in
the application of spiritual principles to our present-day economic
system. Bahá’u’lláh has given us a few basic principles which
should guide future Bahá’í economists in establishing such institu-
tions which will adjust the economic relationships of the world.93
What is true of this one aspect of the Faith is true for the aims of
the Revelation as a whole. Generation after generation of believers
will strive to translate the teachings into a new social reality. As em-
phasized in the previous chapter, this occurs through participation
in all fields of human learning; it is not a project in which Bahá’ís
engage apart from the rest of humanity.
Just as principles of hermeneutics found in the Text guide
individual interpretation, so, too, perhaps it is possible to identify
what might be regarded as principles of Bahá’í practice that guide
our actions in achieving Bahá’u’lláh’s purpose for humanity. Among
these are firmness in the Covenant, which informs our relation-
ship to the center of authority in the Faith, but also, between the
individual and institutions and among the believers; obedience
to the laws and ordinances, and effort to understand the wisdom
of every injunction; the duty to teach the Faith individually and
collectively through the systematic execution of the Divine Plan;
consultation, which governs the collective search for truth that
includes critical thought, resulting in unity of thought and action;
universal participation in the work of the Faith; the administrative
principles that guide collective action, including the requirement
of following, in unity, the decision of an Assembly; and learning
through action and reflection. These and other Bahá’í teachings in-
fluence behavior as we strive to cultivate patterns of life—spiritual,
social, administrative, educational, material, and civil—that are to
be distinctive features of the Bahá’í community.
The Universal House of Justice is the agency of the Bahá’í
Covenant that prescribes proper action within the framework
of the teachings according to the exigencies of the time. The
powers and functions of the Universal House of Justice correlate
with the human capacity to investigate reality and transform the
social order. This body is constituted to act in a world in which
human knowledge is mutable and progressive. Bahá’u’lláh states:
“Inasmuch as for each day there is a new problem and for every
problem an expedient solution, such affairs should be referred to

Understanding and Practice in the Bahá’í Community
|  49
the Ministers of the House of Justice that they may act according to
the needs and requirements of the time.”94
As the community learns how to translate the teachings into
action, the Universal House of Justice guides the organic unfold-
ment of the Faith, determining, broadly, what to do and when to
do it.95 The Supreme Body is to “administer its affairs, coordinate
its activities, promote its interests, execute its laws and defend its
subsidiary institutions.”96 It establishes the Plans that are stages in
the unfoldment of the Divine Plan, thereby unifying the efforts of
National Assemblies.97 It directs the evolution of Bahá’í administra-
tion, modifying or adding new elements. It gradually implements
the laws of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas. It promotes learning for social and
economic development and will, in future, initiate great humanitar-
ian projects.
Guiding the progress of the Faith should not be confused with
narrowly dictating a fixed set of doctrines or directing a highly
centralized process. In general, the House of Justice does not guide
action through mechanical formulas or rigid instructions. It opens
an arena for action, encourages a diversity of responses worldwide,
promotes learning to determine the most effective patterns of ac-
tion, and unites the global community behind proven practices. The
House of Justice is not omniscient, yet its decisions are binding.98
The authority of the Universal House of Justice, within its well-
defined sphere of action, is indisputable and clearly established.
Bahá’u’lláh states: “It is incumbent upon all to be obedient unto
them.”99 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains that “Whatsoever they decide is of
God,” and that “whoso contendeth with them hath contended with
God.”100 And He states: “Whatsoever they decide has the same effect
as the Text itself.”101 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá also offers an emphatic guarantee
to Bahá’ís that the decisions of the Universal House of Justice are
reliable despite any objections or claims to authority by others:
My purpose is this, that ere the expiration of a thousand
years, no one has the right to utter a single word, even to claim
the station of Guardianship. . . . Beware, beware lest anyone create
a rift or stir up sedition. Should there be differences of opinion,
the Supreme House of Justice would immediately resolve the
problems. Whatever will be its decision, by majority vote, shall
be the real truth, inasmuch as that House is under the protection,
unerring guidance and care of the one true Lord. He shall guard it
from error and will protect it under the wing of His sanctity and

|
Revelation & Social Reality
infallibility. He who opposes it is cast out and will eventually be
of the defeated.102
The scope of the jurisdiction of the House of Justice is broad.
“Unto this body all things must be referred,”103 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
states. And He adds: “It is incumbent upon these members (of
the Universal House of Justice) to gather in a certain place and
deliberate upon all problems which have caused difference, ques-
tions that are obscure and matters that are not expressly recorded
in the Book.”104 “Its pronouncements, which are susceptible of
amendment or abrogation by the House of Justice itself, serve to
supplement and apply the Law of God.”105 It is to “guide, organize,
and unify the affairs of the Movement throughout the world”106
along the course of its organic development. It “shares with the
Guardian the responsibility for the application of the Revealed
Word, the protection of the Faith, as well as the duty ‘to insure the
continuity of that divinely-appointed authority which flows from
the Source of our Faith, to safeguard the unity of its followers,
and to maintain the integrity and flexibility of its teachings.’”107
And it is “destined to apply the principles, promulgate the laws,
protect the institutions, adapt loyally and intelligently the Faith
to the requirements of progressive society, and consummate the
incorruptible inheritance which the Founders of the Faith have
bequeathed to the world.”108
Among the many responsibilities of the Universal House
of Justice is legislation. Its “exclusive right and prerogative is to
pronounce upon and deliver the final judgment on such laws and
ordinances as Bahá’u’lláh has not expressly revealed.”109 And “inas-
much as the House of Justice hath power to enact laws that are not
expressly recorded in the Book and bear upon daily transactions,”
‘Abdu’l-Bahá has determined, “so also it hath power to repeal the
same. . . . This it can do because these laws form no part of the
divine explicit text.”110
Closely related to legislation is the responsibility for elucidation.
Shoghi Effendi stated that various matters “have to be explained
and elucidated by the Universal House of Justice, to which, accord-
ing to the Master’s explicit instructions, all important fundamental
questions must be referred.”111 Elucidation is not authoritative
interpretation; thus, the House of Justice does not make immutable
statements about what the Sacred Text means.112 But neither is
elucidation merely the individual interpretation or opinions of

Understanding and Practice in the Bahá’í Community
|  51
the members of the House of Justice.113 Elucidation stems from the
legislative function of the House of Justice and it may, therefore,
like legislation, change as time and context change.114 Elucidation
is not dependent on omniscience; it is associated with the capacity
to continually make the practical judgments necessary according
to the circumstances of the time in order to guide the Bahá’í world
along its intended evolutionary path.
Another responsibility of the Universal House of Justice is
to protect the Faith. This includes preserving proper relations
of power. Postmodern philosophers have generally challenged
concepts of truth, rationality and morality because they see them as
formulations of language designed to maintain and exercise power
over others; they therefore advocate the use of criticism to reallo-
cate power. The Bahá’í teachings are highly sensitive to the question
of language and power. But a dynamic unity, not perpetual criticism
and contention, is sought. Individual initiative and the exchange
of personal views—including critical thought—are essential for
progress. But these must be balanced with measures that safeguard
the welfare of society and preserve the healthy relationships that
constitute the social order.
As noted above, if someone oversteps the bounds of individual
interpretation, attempting to impose personal views on the commu-
nity or to force its action along a path of personal preference, then
the matter is no longer a hermeneutical question of permitting a
range of opinions, but a question of behavior. The Universal House
of Justice may, in such extreme cases, have to act.115 This is not an
attempt to impose dogma, but to prevent the imposition of dogma;
it is not the means of quashing a dialogical process of learning, but
the means of protecting it. As ‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains:
Today this process of deduction is the right of the body of the
House of Justice, and the deductions and conclusions of individual
learned men have no authority, unless they are endorsed by the
House of Justice. The difference is precisely this, that from the
conclusions and endorsements of the body of the House of Justice
whose members are elected by and known to the worldwide Bahá’í
community, no differences will arise; whereas the conclusion of
­individual divines and scholars would definitely lead to differ-
ences, and result in schism, division and dispersion. The oneness
of the World would be destroyed, the unity of the Faith would
disappear, and the edifice of the Faith of God would be shaken.116

|
Revelation & Social Reality
Conferred Infallibility and a Learning Community
In striving to acquire a better appreciation of how Bahá’ís under-
stand the teachings and translate them into action, the question
arises as to how the practice of a community that develops in a
learning mode can be reconciled with the concept of conferred
infallibility presented in the Bahá’í Writings. Does infallibility
preclude critical thought and the search for truth? Does it imply an
ability to make true statements about reality? How are Bahá’ís to
understand the meaning of conferred infallibility as it operates in
the unfoldment of the Faith?
The existence of an infallible religious authority is a highly sus-
pect notion in contemporary society—secular or religious. Indeed,
in many cases the infallibility of a Manifestation is not accepted by
His own followers, and, for some religious people, even the infallibil-
ity of God is called into question. Infallibility, as a spiritual concept,
lies beyond the capacity of any individual to fully comprehend. The
Universal House of Justice has acknowledged the importance of
striving to understand its functioning, but has warned the believers
of the dangers of prolonged and fruitless discussions that could
lead to discord.117 Therefore, such a topic must be approached in a
cautious manner. The comments here are not intended to be defini-
tive, but are offered to clarify that there is no contradiction between
the Bahá’í concept of infallibility and the ideas presented about
an evolving understanding and practice in the Bahá’í community.
An effort is made to preserve latitude for personal understandings
about the topic.118 At the same time, exploring a rational approach
to the Bahá’í concept of infallibility should in no way detract from
the spiritual bond linking the heart of the faithful believer to the
Supreme Institution of Bahá’u’lláh’s Cause.
The Bahá’í concept of the infallibility of the Universal House of
Justice rests upon passages such as these:119
It is incumbent upon the Trustees of the House of Justice
to take counsel together regarding those things which have not
outwardly been revealed in the Book, and to enforce that which is
agreeable to them. God will verily inspire them with whatsoever
He willeth, and He, verily, is the Provider, the Omniscient.120
. . . essential infallibility belongs especially to the supreme
Manifestations, and acquired infallibility is granted to every
holy soul. For instance, the Universal House of Justice, if it be

Understanding and Practice in the Bahá’í Community
|  53
established under the necessary conditions—with members
elected from all the people—that House of Justice will be under
the protection and the unerring guidance of God. If that House
of Justice shall decide unanimously, or by a majority, upon any
question not mentioned in the Book, that decision and command
will be guarded from mistake. Now the members of the House of
Justice have not, individually, essential infallibility; but the body of
the House of Justice is under the protection and unerring guidance
of God: this is called conferred infallibility.121
Unto the Most Holy Book every one must turn and all that is
not expressly recorded therein must be referred to the Universal
House of Justice. That which this body, whether unanimously or
by a majority doth carry, that is verily the Truth and the Purpose
of God Himself. Whoso doth deviate therefrom is verily of them
that love discord, hath shown forth malice, and turned away from
the Lord of the Covenant.122
Let it not be imagined that the House of Justice will take any
decision according to its own concepts and opinions. God forbid!
The Supreme House of Justice will take decisions and establish
laws through the inspiration and confirmation of the Holy Spirit,
because it is in the safekeeping and under the shelter and protec-
tion of the Ancient Beauty, and obedience to its decisions is a
bounden and essential duty and an absolute obligation, and there
is no escape for anyone.
Say, O People: Verily the Supreme House of Justice is under
the wings of your Lord, the Compassionate, the All-Merciful,
that is under His protection, His care, and His shelter; for He has
commanded the firm believers to obey that blessed, sanctified,
and all-subduing body, whose sovereignty is divinely ordained
and of the Kingdom of Heaven and whose laws are inspired and
spiritual.123
To begin to understand these passages about conferred infal-
libility, it is first necessary to recall the meaning of the essential
infallibility of the Manifestation, which is summarized in the
verse, “He doeth whatsoever He willeth.” Although the knowledge
of the Manifestation encompasses reality, it is not His purpose to
describe the world factually but to convey God’s will and purpose.
Essential infallibility means, therefore, that the very words of the
Manifestation are the will and purpose of God Himself. His words

|
Revelation & Social Reality
are new truths and new laws that rend asunder the existing social
reality and create the basis of human agreement upon which a new
social reality is to be raised. These words cannot be tested, mea-
sured, or judged by any human criteria. As ‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains:
Briefly, it is said that the “Dayspring of Revelation” is the
manifestation of these words, “He doeth whatsoever He willeth”;
this condition is peculiar to that Holy Being, and others have no
share of this essential perfection. That is to say, that as the supreme
Manifestations certainly possess essential infallibility, therefore
whatever emanates from Them is identical with the truth, and
conformable to reality. They are not under the shadow of the
former laws. Whatever They say is the word of God, and whatever
They perform is an upright action. No believer has any right to
criticize; his condition must be one of absolute submission, for
the Manifestation arises with perfect wisdom—so that whatever
the supreme Manifestation says and does is absolute wisdom, and
is in accordance with reality. . . .
In short, the meaning of “He doeth whatsoever He willeth” is
that if the Manifestation says something, or gives a command, or
performs an action, and believers do not understand its wisdom,
they still ought not to oppose it by a single thought, seeking to
know why He spoke so, or why He did such a thing. The other
souls who are under the shadow of the supreme Manifestations are
submissive to the commandments of the Law of God, and are not
to deviate as much as a hairsbreadth from it; they must conform
their acts and words to the Law of God. If they do deviate from
it, they will be held responsible and reproved in the presence of
God. It is certain that they have no share in the permission “He
doeth whatsoever He willeth,” for this condition is peculiar to the
supreme Manifestations.124
In this light, conferred infallibility—of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Shoghi
Effendi, and the Universal House of Justice—may also be under-
stood as an association with the divine will and purpose. This is
not a capacity to describe the world as it is, or to possess unfailing
knowledge about reality, which pertain to omniscience—a condi-
tion impossible for human beings.125 Omniscience and infallibility
are distinct concepts. The Guardian was not omniscient; so, too, the
Universal House of Justice “is not omniscient; like the Guardian,
it wants to be provided with facts when called upon to render a
decision, and like him it may well change its decision when new

Understanding and Practice in the Bahá’í Community
|  55
facts emerge.”126 Rather, conferred infallibility is an assurance that a
statement or decision arising from within the designated domain of
responsibility is in accordance with the will and purpose of God.
The phrase “freed from all error”127 can be understood in the
same way. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains that “Error is the want of guid-
ance.”128 Infallibility is freedom from error because the infallible
authority does not act outside of the boundaries of God’s guidance.
Thus, the interpretations of the authorized Interpreter cannot vary
from the intended meaning of the Word of God. Similarly, the
guidance of the Universal House of Justice that directs the under-
standing and actions of the believers does not depart from God’s
will as expressed in the Text or veer from the path that leads to the
achievement of His purpose for humanity in this dispensation.
In response to questions from the believers, Shoghi Effendi
explained that “the infallibility of the Guardian is confined to mat-
ters which are related strictly to the Cause and interpretation of the
teachings; he is not an infallible authority on other subjects, such
as economics, science, etc.”129 His infallibility “covers interpretation
of the Revealed Word and its application. Likewise . . . he is infal-
lible in the protection of the Faith.”130 It is reasonable to conclude,
then, that the sphere of infallibility of the House of Justice also
does not extend beyond its authorized responsibilities pertaining
to the Faith.131 These include legislation on matters not expressly
addressed in the Book, elucidations concerning problems that have
caused difference and questions that are obscure,132 and those duties
shared with the Guardian to apply the Revealed Word, to protect
the Faith, to preserve the unity of the believers, and to ensure the
integrity and flexibility of the teachings.133 Indeed, the House of
Justice indicates that its infallibility extends beyond legislation,
even to administering the Cause.
The Universal House of Justice, beyond its function as the en-
actor of legislation, has been invested with the more general func-
tions of protecting and administering the Cause, solving obscure
questions and deciding upon matters that have caused difference.
Nowhere is it stated that the infallibility of the Universal House of
Justice is by virtue of the Guardian’s membership or presence on
that body. Indeed, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in His Will and Shoghi Effendi in
his Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh have both explicitly stated that the
elected members of the Universal House of Justice in consultation
are recipients of unfailing Divine Guidance.134

|
Revelation & Social Reality
In the same way, Shoghi Effendi, when emphasizing that it is the
“members of the Universal House of Justice,” and “not the body of
those who either directly or indirectly elect them,” that have “been
made the recipients of the divine guidance which is at once the life-
blood and ultimate safeguard of this Revelation,” associates such
guidance not just with “the enactment of the legislation necessary
to supplement the laws of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas,” but also with “the
conduct of the administrative affairs of the Faith.”135
While there appears to be no reason to limit conferred infal-
libility to less than the full range of designated responsibilities of
the House of Justice, there is also, most certainly, no reason to
extend it further. A letter written on behalf of the Universal House
of Justice states:
Shoghi Effendi was asked several times during his ministry to
define the sphere of his operation and his infallibility. The replies
he gave and which were written on his behalf are most illuminat-
ing. He explains that he is not an infallible authority on subjects
such as economics and science, nor does he go into technical
matters since his infallibility is confined to “matters which are
related strictly to the Cause.” He further points out that “he is not,
like the Prophet, omniscient at will,” that his “infallibility covers
interpretation of the Revealed Word and its application,” and that
he is also “infallible in the protection of the Faith.”136
The Bahá’í concept of infallibility, therefore, should not be raised in
the context of areas that clearly have nothing to do with the designat-
ed responsibilities of the House of Justice. It should not be confused
with a power to possess absolute knowledge of reality, to control the
conscience of individuals, or to predict future events; to do so opens
the door to irrationalism, fundamentalism, or superstition. “When
exchanging views about the Universal House of Justice—the body to
which all things must be referred—the friends should exercise care
lest they go to extremes, by either diminishing its station or assign-
ing to it exaggerated attributes,” a message written on behalf of the
House of Justice explains.137 Further, “Bahá’í institutions are bound
by the teachings of the Faith to uphold freedom of expression and
to safeguard the personal rights and initiative of the individual.”138
And the House of Justice states: “The provenance, the authority,
the duties, the sphere of action of the Universal House of Justice all
derive from the revealed Word of Bahá’u’lláh which, together with
the interpretations and expositions of the Centre of the Covenant

Understanding and Practice in the Bahá’í Community
|  57
and of the Guardian of the Cause—who, after ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, is the
sole authority in the interpretation of Bahá’í Scripture—constitute
the binding terms of reference of the Universal House of Justice and
are its bedrock foundation.”139
The House of Justice does not issue inflexible prescriptions that
are to be executed without thought by a submissive community.
Rather, it guides a community engaged in a dialogical process of
learning to translate the teachings into action over time to create a
new social order manifested in the lives of individual believers, the
creation of a distinctive Bahá’í community, and the advancement
of civilization.
In one of his early letters to the believers, Shoghi Effendi
warned the community to “keep the most vigilant eye on the
manner and character” of the growth of the Faith, “lest extreme
orthodoxy on one hand, and irresponsible freedom on the other,
cause it to deviate from that Straight Path which alone can lead
it to success.”140 The House of Justice is an instrument established
by Bahá’u’lláh and guaranteed divine inspiration and protection
by Him so that it can reliably guide the progress of the believers
toward the fulfillment of God’s purpose for humanity while guard-
ing against extremes that produce sectarianism and a distortion of
the teachings or practice of the Faith.
It also should be noted that nothing in the Bahá’í concept of
infallibility implies that all outcomes will be painless or free of
difficulties. For example, one of Bahá’u’lláh’s own sons was the
arch-breaker of His Covenant. In a world in which mortality is
the rule, even an infallible physician will have patients die. Thus,
because both chance and free will exist, infallibility—essential
or conferred—cannot be associated with ideal results. Even with
divine guidance, human beings have to struggle, suffer, and per-
severe. They have to attempt to comprehend, however imprecisely,
what is written and then to translate it, incrementally, into practice
until the social reality is reconstructed bit by bit to reflect the
divine guidance. Infallibility offers no relief from this process. But
because conferred infallibility is extended throughout Bahá’u’lláh’s
dispensation, Bahá’ís are assured that there will be the guidance
necessary to lead to the promised spiritual civilization.
It is clear, then, that there is no contradiction between an
infallible source of guidance and the functioning of a community
in a learning mode. The promises of divine assistance given by
Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá enable the believers to unhesitatingly

|
Revelation & Social Reality
place their trust and confidence in the Universal House of Justice
and faithfully follow its lead. They do their best to translate the
guidance into action, and the mechanisms are in place so that the
fruits of their experience can flow to the Bahá’í World Centre and
to all parts of the world. Their response draws additional measures
of guidance. No one can comprehend the workings of the divine
forces involved, or how God acts to direct the House of Justice. It
is “under the care and protection of the Abhá Beauty, under the
shelter and unerring guidance of His Holiness, the Exalted One.”141
It is “the last refuge of a tottering civilization.”142 It is “the source
of all good.”143 “God will verily inspire them with whatsoever He
willeth, and He, verily, is the Provider, the Omniscient.”144 Our
challenge, as believers, is to learn how to do our part in the light of
such guidance to achieve Bahá’u’lláh’s purpose for humanity.
Learning and Bahá’í Practice
The practice of the Faith within the framework of the Bahá’í teach-
ings by the individual believer includes elements such as spiritual
disciplines, deepening in the Writings, contributing to the progress
of the Cause, and living the Bahá’í life. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá is the perfect
exemplar toward which we aspire. To “live the life” is “to have our
lives so saturated with the divine teaching and the Bahá’í spirit that
people cannot fail to see a joy, a power, a love, a purity, a radiance,
an efficiency in our character and work that will distinguish us” and
“make people wonder what is the secret of this new life in us.”145
Shoghi Effendi states that “Not until we live ourselves the life of a
true Bahá’í can we hope to demonstrate the creative and transform-
ing potency of the Faith we profess.”146
Living a Bahá’í life involves the twofold purpose of individual
and social transformation. The vital interplay between them is
explained in a letter written on behalf of the Guardian:
We cannot segregate the human heart from the environment
outside us and say that once one of these is reformed everything
will be improved. Man is organic with the world. His inner life
molds the environment and is itself also deeply affected by it. The
one acts upon the other and every abiding change in the life of
man is the result of these mutual reactions.
No movement in the world directs its attention upon both
these aspects of human life and has full measures for their
improvement, save the teachings of Bahá’u’lláh. And this is its

Understanding and Practice in the Bahá’í Community
|  59
distinctive feature. If we desire therefore the good of the world
we should strive to spread those teachings and also practice them
in our own life. Through them will the human heart be changed,
and also our social environment provides the atmosphere in which
we can grow spiritually and reflect in full the light of God shining
through the revelation of Bahá’u’lláh.147
In the effort to translate Bahá’u’lláh’s teachings into reality,
Bahá’ís collectively contribute to the building of a new civilization.
This process begins within the community itself as it grows and
develops and gains capacity to administer it own affairs; it gradually
extends to service to the wider society. “Until the public sees in the
Bahá’í community a true pattern, in action, of something better than
it already has,” Shoghi Effendi indicates, “it will not respond to the
Faith in large numbers.”148 In describing the believer’s responsibility
toward society, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states, “The Bahá’ís are commanded to
establish the oneness of mankind.”149 He also urges:
Act in accordance with the counsels of the Lord: that is, rise
up in such wise, and with such qualities, as to endow the body
of this world with a living soul, and to bring this young child,
humanity, to the stage of adulthood. . . . Perchance such ways and
words from you will make this darksome world turn bright at last;
will make this dusty earth turn heavenly, this devilish prison place
become a royal palace of the Lord—so that war and strife will pass
and be no more, and love and trust will pitch their tents on the
summits of the world.150
In the effort to put the teachings of the Faith into practice,
Bahá’ís face the previously discussed dangers of relativism, or
“­irresponsible freedom,” where we stray from the intended mean-
ing of Bahá’u’lláh’s teachings, perhaps ignoring or inadequately
responding to His laws or principles. There is also the danger of
absolute self-certainty, or “extreme orthodoxy,” where we cling
too strictly to our own limited understandings of the teachings,
presuming they are identical with Bahá’u’lláh’s own intended
meaning; in this respect, the practice of the Faith is reduced to a
list of dos and don’ts and the institutions are reduced to the role of
enforcer.151 Practice is also affected by a tension between past and
future, between the patterns of life we have developed at any given
point in time that are affected by the baneful characteristics of a
disintegrating society and the patterns of life we will develop that
are increasingly in accord with Bahá’u’lláh’s will and purpose.

|
Revelation & Social Reality
The course of our personal lives, as well as the course of the
development of the Faith over the entire dispensation, may be
likened to walking the “Straight Path” where we advance by learn-
ing to be more effective in translating Bahá’u’lláh’s teachings into
reality. At any given point, we may be uncertain or in error about
some aspect of our understanding of the Faith or about what we
are to do. But over time, through learning and the guidance of the
Universal House of Justice, we make progress.
Learning—study of the Bahá’í Writings, consultation, action
and reflection on action in light of divine guidance—over the
course of our lives and over the course of the dispensation is the
means by which we find our way forward toward Bahá’u’lláh’s
intended purpose for humanity. To speak of the need for learning
is an acknowledgement that we are not perfect, we make mistakes,
and we must learn to do things better over time. It is also an
acknowledgement that the Faith is organic, our responsibilities
will evolve and capacities will develop over time, and we will act at
ever higher levels of complexity and achieve greater results in the
future. Without learning, our thoughts and actions are trapped in
an endless circularity.
In the Four Year Plan, the Universal House of Justice par-
ticularly focused attention on consciously cultivating a capacity for
learning in the Bahá’í world, and by the year 2000, observed that
it had taken root.
The culture of the Bahá’í community experienced a change. This
change is noticeable in the expanded capability, the methodical
pattern of functioning and the consequent depth of confidence
of the three constituent participants in the Plan—the individual,
the institutions and the local community. That is so because the
friends concerned themselves more consistently with deepening
their knowledge of the divine Teachings and learned much—and
this more systematically than before—about how to apply them
to promulgating the Cause, to managing their individual and col-
lective activities, and to working with their neighbors. In a word,
they entered into a learning mode from which purposeful action
was pursued.152
The culture of learning that is emerging is characterized by
dialogue rather than debate, by constructive experience at the
grassroots rather than elaborate planning from the top, by system-
atization rather than freneticism, by reflective refinement rather

Understanding and Practice in the Bahá’í Community
|  61
than derogatory criticism. In such a culture “fear of failure finds
no place.”153 The search for a simplistic formula for success is ended
but so too is the justification that anything goes, that any effort is as
equally effective as any other. When we do not know what to do to
resolve a particular challenge, trying out a diversity of actions, close
observation, and revision become the dominant characteristics of
our approach. Once we find an effective solution to a challenge,
energies then shift to unified action, focus, perseverance, and
intensive campaigns to significantly multiply the proven course of
action. All have a part to play in finding the proper balance between
thought and action, between theory and practice, that results in the
systematization and sustainability of effort.
Consider, for example, the range of possible relationships that
exist between theory and practice. Anyone who has struggled
with the growth and development of the Bahá’í community will
recognize various types of response to challenges shaped by the
interaction of theory and practice. The first relationship exists
when our conceptual understanding of what we are doing is limited
and our understanding of what kind of activity actually works in
the real world is lacking (low theory, low practice). As a result, we
find ourselves constantly scrambling for an appropriate response
to whatever circumstances arise. Action is frenetic and ineffective.
In the second relationship, some effective actions may emerge in
a particular locality, but without understanding why or how they
work (low theory, high practice). An example is when teaching
efforts bear fruit in many new enrollments in a particular locality
for a period of time. In such instances, we cannot expand on the
effort or transfer this success to other places or situations. Indeed,
we may not even be able to repeat the result in the same setting.
A third relationship between theory and practice arises when our
efforts are driven by elaborate plans, grounded in a set of theoretical
ideas and supported with the full weight of the institutions, but
without the practical experience that demonstrates that the plan
will actually work (high theory, low practice). Under these circum-
stances, the community usually moves from one elaborate strategy
to another, each failing to produce sustainable results. The fourth
type of relationship involves thoughtful analysis complemented
by practical approaches tested and proven through experience
(high theory, high practice). When a Bahá’í community is able to
consciously establish an effective pattern of action and understand
why it works, it is able to sustain the activities over an extended

|
Revelation & Social Reality
period of time, constantly adjusting to evolving circumstances,
while developing ever more complex and effective methods and
structures. The learning that emerges is useful in, and adaptable
to, a variety of communities and settings. For example, pioneering
emerged as an effective approach to spreading the Faith that has
been successfully replicated and adapted to the needs of the Cause
on the homefront and internationally over many decades.
Beginning in 1996, the Universal House of Justice established
the Four Year Plan, whose single aim was to advance the process
of entry by troops. It later outlined a series of Plans through the
year 2021 that would also focus on the same aim. This established
a period of a quarter century in which learning would be directed
toward resolving the question of how to reach out to large numbers
of people, teach them, consolidate, and sustain the process over
time. The experience, to date, is discussed in the next chapter. The
work of Bahá’í social and economic development has also been
guided by a systematic process of learning over a number of years,
as described in chapter 4.
Continually asking and seeking out how to translate the teach-
ings into action more effectively in all aspects of the Faith—teaching,
administration, worship, development and others—is the nature of
the culture of learning to which Bahá’ís are called. Learning involves
study to understand the appropriate texts and action to see how the
guidance can be translated into effective action. The aim is not to
make the Bahá’í community what we want it to be, but to achieve,
over time, Bahá’u’lláh’s intended purpose.
The learning that generates new knowledge must be sub-
sequently incorporated into educational efforts. Education and
training, therefore, continually evolve as practice evolves. While
education conveys what is known, the aim is not indoctrination,
but raising up individuals capable of playing a role in the continual
generation and application of new knowledge—equal participants
contributing to the progress of the Faith and contributing to the
building of a new civilization. To do this effectively, educational
programs cannot merely present concepts from the Writings; they
must be linked with the experience gained from practice. The most
effective curricula will initiate an apprenticeship in Bahá’í practice,
endowing the learner with the capacity to retrace the steps of those
who have carried out effective service.
As we seek to establish a culture of learning, we may find it
difficult to escape the pull of the old culture. Fledgling methods

Understanding and Practice in the Bahá’í Community
|  63
need patience, support and care. The impulse to harshly criticize
and reject what is new or to arbitrarily maintain previous ways of
doing things need to be resisted. So, too, we cannot succumb to
simple formulas for action; yet, in acquiring new skills, we must go
through a series of stages, the earliest of which may, indeed, give
the appearance of such a mechanical approach.
Researchers Hubert and Stuart Dreyfus have suggested that
individuals pass through five distinct stages from novice to expert
when acquiring skills. This holds true whether the skill is technical,
such as building a house, or intellectual, such as analyzing a text.154
Each stage represents a distinct set of behaviors that are distinguish-
able in qualitative and recognizable ways from the other levels of
performance. Without endorsing this theory, it may be useful to
consider the characteristics of these stages and how an individual
passes from one stage to the next in order to obtain a better under-
standing of the relationship between learning and experience.
At the novice stage an effort is initially made to present the
student with a collection of specific elements, including facts,
rules, procedures, and circumstances in which the skill is applied.
Consider the example of learning how to drive a car with a manual
transmission. The novice is given a number of facts and rules of
behavior: a description of the pattern of shifting the gears to various
levels; an explanation of when to shift gears as the engine reaches
a particular level of performance; a demonstration of how to
move the hands and feet to coordinate the interaction of the gear
shift and clutch. In the first attempts to shift gears in a car, the
novice consciously juggles the various aspects of the information
learned while trying to coordinate different movements. It is not
uncommon for the car to lurch violently or stall. Again and again
the novice repeats the pattern, evaluating a performance based on
whether the facts and rules are appropriately recalled and applied.
At first, there is simply too much new information to remember
and process for a satisfactory result to be achieved. Performance
is awkward and mechanical. But with each experience, there is a
better understanding of the information and rules presented, and
the driver passes through the stages of learning by discriminating
and getting the “feel” for effective action. Concepts initially ignored
or misunderstood become clear. After continual practice and
accumulation of experience, knowledge and action become inte-
grated into a coordinated pattern without the need to remember
context-independent facts and rules. At an expert level, the driver

|
Revelation & Social Reality
seamlessly integrates shifting gears into other aspects of driving
practice, and can even simultaneously juggle other tasks like eating
or talking on a cell phone.
Learning skills in Bahá’í practice follows similar stages.
Therefore it may appear, at the beginning of a new endeavor, that
the process is fairly mechanical. We cling to the guidance as if
applying a formula. But this rigid and inflexible behavior, which is
a natural part of learning something new, gradually becomes more
sophisticated and adaptive with the accumulation of more and
more experience.
Consider the establishment of the institute process in the Bahá’í
world at the start of the Four Year Plan in 1996. Some countries
struggled for years to have their institute become fully operational
and to integrate training with systematic growth. The initial imple-
mentation of the sequence of courses and the translation of new
skills into action was often wooden and awkward. Out of a desire
to apply the guidance “correctly,” there was a tendency in isolated
cases to go to extremes. Either the institute was to provide all of the
educational needs of a country through a wide range of classes, or
all other activity was to be stopped so that all could take institute
courses. Either everyone was to become a tutor, or a restrictive
process for tutor recognition was imposed. Occasionally, individu-
als who taught children’s classes for years were told they could no
longer teach them unless they studied an institute course on child
education. Firesides were abandoned in place of study circles. In
some places, individuals were moved quickly through the courses
without attention to the practice of skills, resulting in problems
when growth did not “magically” appear.
Understandably, when new capabilities and new practices are
being acquired mistakes will be made and performance will begin
poorly. Attempts to follow so much new guidance without error
may initially result in strict rules and rigid applications. However,
through perseverance and growing experience, understanding and
effectiveness gradually appear. Over time, individuals and institu-
tions become active participants in their own learning. In country
after country, the training institute has become a center of learning
about how the process of entry by troops can unfold in the region
it serves.
One additional aspect of learning and progress concerns the
opportunity available to individuals who possess knowledge and
capacity to advance the process. This place in the Faith is not

Understanding and Practice in the Bahá’í Community
|  65
reserved only for members of institutions or for a narrow intel-
lectual class, but for all who strive to understand and act. The role
of such individuals, however, is not to continually criticize efforts,
to impose personal views and programs, or to undermine or cast
doubt on the institutions. Their role is to act according to the teach-
ings to the best of their ability and understanding, to foster unity
of thought and action, and to accompany others as they enter the
field of service, thereby contributing to the incremental progress of
the Faith over time.
Applying knowledge for constructive change in the Bahá’í com-
munity does not involve self-certainty or self-interest, but self-sac-
rifice. It involves doing what is right, not becoming self-righteous.
It sometimes requires suffering, which is an inevitable aspect of
trying to champion justice. It involves absorbing the pain and anger
of others and returning love and compassion in an effort to build
unity. It involves demonstrating patience when understanding is
lacking or capacity is undeveloped. It involves exercising power to
shape and release human capacity for the advancement of the Cause
and the well-being of humanity. It requires intellectual capacity to
generate new knowledge, but wisdom to convey that knowledge—
which can sometimes be challenging and disconcerting in the face
of generally accepted belief and practice—in a manner appropriate
to context. It involves proceeding with humility and flexibility to
continue to grow and learn and to foster learning in others. As a
letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi explains:
One soul can be the cause of the spiritual illumination of a
continent. Now that you have seen, and remedied, a great fault
in your own life, now that you see more clearly what is lacking in
your own community, there is nothing to prevent you from arising
and showing such an example, such a love and spirit of service,
as to enkindle the hearts of your fellow Bahá’ís. He urges you to
study deeply the teachings, teach others, study with those Bahá’ís
who are anxious to do so, the deeper teachings of our Faith, and
through example, effort and prayer, bring about a change.155

Learning and Growth
H
aving gained deeper insight into the nature of
understanding and action associated with learning to
translate Bahá’u’lláh’s teachings into reality, we can now
explore their expression in specific contexts, beginning with the ex-
pansion and consolidation of the worldwide community. Before any
extensive consideration of the subject, however, it is important to
recall that, far from a narrow concern with increasing membership,
the purpose of teaching others about the Faith is “to attract human
beings to the divine Message and so imbue them with its spirit
that they will dedicate themselves to its service, and this world will
become another world and its people another people.”1 Teaching
is one of the primary obligations of a believer, to be carried out as
a detached act of devotion, and only with the consent of a recep-
tive soul. How to respond is a matter for the hearer’s conscience.
Teaching, the act of spreading spiritual illumination, is an inherent
attribute of the enkindled soul. As ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states:
God says in the glorious Qur‘án, “The soil was black and dried.
Then we caused the rain to descend upon it and immediately
it became green, verdant, and every kind of plant sprouted up
luxuriantly.” In other words, he says the earth is black, but when
the spring showers descend upon it that black soil is quickened,
and variegated flowers are pushed forth. This means the souls of
humanity belonging to the world of nature are black like unto the
soil. But when the heavenly outpourings descend and the radiant
effulgences appear, the hearts are resuscitated, are liberated from
the darkness of nature and the flowers of divine mysteries grow
and become luxuriant. Consequently man must become the
cause of the illumination of the world of humanity and propagate
the holy teachings revealed in the sacred books through divine
inspiration.2

|
Revelation & Social Reality
At the start of his ministry, Shoghi Effendi recognized that
one of his major areas of responsibility would be to guide the
believers to execute, in a more systematic manner, the Divine Plan
whose provisions for the worldwide propagation of the Faith were
outlined in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Tablets to the Bahá’ís in North America.
Initially, however, the means for prosecuting this Plan collectively
was absent, and therefore, “It was held in abeyance for well-nigh
twenty years while the fabric of an indispensable Administrative
Order, designed as a divinely appointed agency for the opera-
tion of that Plan, was being constructed.”3 This first stage in the
development of the administration involved a learning process
that included education of the believers and the refinement of
various procedures and practices pertaining to Local and National
Assemblies, National Convention, elections, and the like.4 Once
the prerequisite institutional capacity was in place, Shoghi Effendi
called upon national communities to adopt formal teaching plans.
“The new hour has struck in [the] history of our beloved Cause,” he
proclaimed in 1935, “calling for nation-wide, systematic, sustained
efforts in [the] teaching field.”5
An attitude of learning was evident in the earliest efforts to
formulate effective approaches to teaching. For example, Shoghi
Effendi described meetings to promote world unity as “an
experiment to test the efficacy of the indirect method of teach-
ing.”6 At one point he called for a “highly salutary and spiritually
beneficent experiment of encouraging a more active participation
by these newly won supporters of the Faith in Latin America” to
be “developed, systematized and placed on a sure and unassailable
foundation.”7 Over time, certain approaches—such as firesides8 and
pioneering—proved through experience to be more effective than
others, all communities were encouraged to adopt them, and they
became mainstays of propagation. A letter written on behalf of the
Guardian to the National Assembly of India and Burma illustrates
this learning process:
Those believers who have the means, and also the capacity to
teach, should be encouraged, no matter how great the sacrifice
involved, to settle in these virgin territories, until such time as
a local assembly has been constituted, or at least a group of firm
believers formed that can safely and gradually evolve into a firmly-
organized and properly-functioning local assembly. This policy of
teaching by settlement which the Guardian has also advised and

Learning and Growth
|  69
indeed urged the American believers to adopt has been proved by
experience to be the most effective way of establishing the Faith
in new territories, and he therefore confidently recommends it for
adoption by your Assembly.9
Institutions and methods evolved through experience under
the direction of the Guardian. Because of the careful education and
loving guidance of Shoghi Effendi over the course of his ministry,
the Bahá’í world was able to launch the first global Plan in 1953, the
Ten Year Crusade, which linked the efforts of the twelve existing
National Assemblies. As a result of their accumulated experience
and capacity, the Bahá’ís were able to accomplish more in that single
decade than was achieved in the previous century. More than 100
countries and territories were opened to the Faith in the first year
of that Plan. By the end of the decade, more than 40 new National
Assemblies were established, thousands of Local Assemblies were
formed, and tens of thousands of new believers were enlisted in all
parts of the world.
Shoghi Effendi explained that the growth of the Faith would
involve three stages, beginning with a “steady flow” of fresh recruits
that would be followed by entry by troops and mass conversion.
This flow, moreover, will presage and hasten the advent of the
day which, as prophesied by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, will witness the entry
by troops of peoples of divers nations and races into the Bahá’í
world—a day which, viewed in its proper perspective, will be the
prelude to that long-awaited hour when a mass conversion on the
part of these same nations and races, and as a direct result of a
chain of events, momentous and possibly catastrophic in nature,
and which cannot as yet be even dimly visualized, will suddenly
revolutionize the fortunes of the Faith, derange the equilibrium of
the world, and reinforce a thousandfold the numerical strength as
well as the material power and the spiritual authority of the Faith
of Bahá’u’lláh.10
Signs of the start of the second stage, marked by the entry of
large numbers of new believers, were already evident in various
countries in Africa, in the Pacific, and in the Mentawai Islands
of Indonesia during the lifetime of the Guardian.11 Starting in the
1950s, and accelerating over the next three decades, campaigns of
rapid enrollment unfolded whereby hundreds, thousands, and even
tens of thousands entered the Faith quickly in country after country.

|
Revelation & Social Reality
Membership in several countries surpassed 100,000 believers, while
in India, the number of believers surpassed two million.12 Despite
the success in obtaining new enrollments, however, no national
community was able to achieve the appropriate balance between
expansion and consolidation necessary to sustain the process of
entry by troops. Chapter 9 of Century of Light, which analyzes
growth over three decades from the mid-1960s, explains:
The burst of enrollments brought with it, however, equally great
problems. At the immediate level, the resources of Bahá’í com-
munities engaged in the work were soon overwhelmed by the task
of providing the sustained deepening the masses of new believers
needed and the consolidation of the resulting communities and
Spiritual Assemblies. Beyond that, cultural challenges like those
encountered by the early Persian believers who had first sought to
introduce the Faith in Western lands now replicated themselves
throughout the world.13
In response to the challenges introduced by the new teaching
methods, the House of Justice affirmed the validity of the process
of large scale growth while encouraging all the believers with
differing viewpoints to come together and achieve greater effec-
tiveness through consultation and by refining emerging methods
in practice. For example, the Amercian Bahá’í community grew
from some 20,000 to over 60,000 members over a few years in late
1960s and early 1970s. When enrollments declined precipitously
in 1972 from more than 20,000 the previous year, the following
advice was provided:
We note that the new teaching methods you have developed,
in reaching the waiting masses, have substantially influenced the
winning of your goals, and we urge the American Bahá’ís, one
and all, newly enrolled and believers of long standing, to arise,
put their reliance in Bahá’u’lláh and armed with that supreme
power, continue unabated their efforts to reach the waiting souls,
while simultaneously consolidating the hard-won victories. New
methods inevitably bring with them criticism and challenges
no matter how successful they may ultimately prove to be. The
influx of so many new believers is, in itself, a call to the veteran
believers to join the ranks of those in this field of service and to
give wholeheartedly of their knowledge and experience. Far from
standing aloof, the American believers are called upon now, as

Learning and Growth
|  71
never before, to grasp this golden opportunity which has been
presented to them, to consult together prayerfully and widen the
scope of their endeavors.14
The exhortation to consult and find solutions was reinforced by
additional guidance calling for a balance between the processes of
expansion and consolidation, a need to revise and improve teaching
efforts through experience, an integration of complementary activi-
ties, and a systematization of approach. The following statements to
the Bahá’í world were typical of that period:
Teaching the Faith embraces many diverse activities, all of
which are vital to success, and each of which reinforces the other.
Time and again the beloved Guardian emphasized that expansion
and consolidation are twin and inseparable aspects of teaching
that must proceed simultaneously, yet one still hears believers
discussing the virtues of one against the other.15
At this stage in the development of the Faith there are many
new experiments taking place in the teaching field and also in the
work of consolidation. It is obvious that not all these experiments
will meet with success. Many have great merit while others may
have little or none. However, in the present period of transition
and rapid growth of the Cause we must seek diligently for the
merit of every method devised to teach and deepen the masses.16
The periodic re-evaluation of the effectiveness of the teach-
ing work is an essential factor in promoting the growth of every
community. Through this process a community would re-assess
its teaching program with a view to introducing improvements
where necessary.17
Armed with the strength of action and the co-operation of
the individual believers composing it, the community as a whole
should endeavor to establish greater stability in the patterns of its
development, locally and nationally, through sound, systematic
planning and execution of its work—and this in striking contrast
to the short-lived enthusiasms and frenetic superficialities so
characteristic of present-day . . . life. A Bahá’í community which
is consistent in its fundamental life-giving, life-sustaining activi-
ties will at its heart be serene and confident; it will resonate with
spiritual dynamism, will exert irresistible influence, will set a

|
Revelation & Social Reality
new course in social evolution, enabling it to win the respect and
eventually the allegiance of admirers and critics alike.18
. . . the community must become more adept at accommodating a
wide range of actions without losing concentration on the primary
objectives of teaching, namely, expansion and consolidation. A
unity in diversity of actions is called for, a condition in which
different individuals will concentrate on different activities, appre-
ciating the salutary effect of the aggregate on the growth and de-
velopment of the Faith, because each person cannot do everything
and all persons cannot do the same thing. This understanding is
important to the maturity which, by the many demands being
made upon it, the community is being forced to attain.19
Unfortunately, despite such guidance, the potential to sustain
sizable growth was not realized. Without effective consolidation to
complement rapid enrollment, new believers could not be deepened,
communities were not organized, and the children—the next genera-
tion of believers—were not educated. Quickly won gains evaporated
because the large number of new believers could not be confirmed
in active service. This is not to deny the spiritual receptivity or the
genuine expressions of faith of those who embraced the Cause dur-
ing this time. It is, however, an acknowledgement that, often, belief
did not crystallize into new patterns of Bahá’í life. “A sustained entry
by troops,” the Universal House of Justice has subsequently observed,
“cannot be achieved by a mere series of spasmodic, uncoordinated
exertions, no matter how enthusiastic.”20
Rather than achieving a balance between expansion and
consolidation, or a unity of thought and action that would facilitate
learning about large-scale expansion, efforts to bring about growth
were generally formulated in most countries according to two
competing perspectives. One stressed expansion, and the other,
consolidation; each supported its position with carefully selected
quotations and anecdotal evidence. Yet, no matter which position
became dominant in a given community, the result was the same—
growth could not be sustained. Rapid enrollments without effective
follow-up produced large communities and many newly formed
Assemblies but few deepened, capable believers or institutions
that could function without consistent outside help. Overemphasis
on consolidation produced an inward, congregational focus and
administrative efficiency that prized order but eclipsed the initia-
tive necessary to grow. Dedicated believers and communities were

Learning and Growth
|  73
trapped in an enervating paradox. When they aspired to achieve
great victories in teaching, they committed their all to activities that
increased numbers which were difficult to consolidate; when they
worried about the tentative nature of their gains, they retreated to
an educational and administrative agenda that stifled expansion.
The last great surge of expansion during this period occurred
in the middle of the Six Year Plan. In the period of two years from
1988 to 1990, the worldwide community grew by some one million21
to over five million believers; once again, however, consolidation of
these gains proved to be a formidable obstacle.
A Turning Point of Epochal Magnitude
From the start of the global Plans formulated under the direction of
the House of Justice which aimed at large scale expansion, it took
over 30 years before a body of experience could be generated that
pointed to new, more effective, and more systematic endeavors. As
mentioned in Century of Light:
The significance of these three decades of struggle, learning and
sacrifice became apparent when the moment arrived to devise a
global Plan that would capitalize on the insights gained and the
resources that had been developed. The Bahá’í community that set
out on the Four Year Plan in 1996 was a very different one from
the eager, but new and still inexperienced body of believers who,
in 1964, had ventured out on the first of such undertakings that
were no longer sustained by the guiding hand of Shoghi Effendi.
By 1996, it had become possible to see all of the distinct strands of
the enterprise as integral parts of one coherent whole. . . .
Although the struggles of these decades were relatively
modest—at least when set against the standard of the Heroic
Age—they provide the present generation of Bahá’ís with a
window on what Shoghi Effendi describes as the cyclical nature
of the Faith’s history: “a series of internal and external crises,
of varying severity, devastating in their immediate effects, but
each mysteriously releasing a corresponding measure of divine
power, lending thereby a fresh impulse to its unfoldment.” These
words put into perspective the succession of efforts, experiments,
heartbreaks and victories that characterized the beginning of
large-scale teaching, and prepared the Bahá’í community for the
much greater challenges ahead.22

|
Revelation & Social Reality
The Four Year Plan in 1996 marked a “turning point of epochal
magnitude.”23 From the experience and struggles of the previous
period, it was now possible to set the global community on a new
course of action. “Entry by troops,” the House of Justice wrote, “is
not merely a stage of the progress of the Cause destined to occur in
its own good time, dependent on the receptivity of the population
as a whole—it is a phenomenon which the Bahá’í communities, by
their own activities, can prepare for and help to bring about. It is
also a process which, once started, can be sustained.”24 As the House
of Justice subsequently explained at Rid.ván 1996:
The phrase “advance in the process of entry by troops”
­accommodates the concept that current circumstances demand
and existing opportunities allow for a sustained growth of the
Bahá’í world community on a large scale; that this upsurge is
necessary in the face of world conditions; that the three constitu-
ent participants in the upbuilding of the Order of Bahá’u’lláh—the
individual, the institutions, and the community—can foster such
growth first by spiritually and mentally accepting the possibility
of it, and then by working towards embracing masses of new
believers, setting in motion the means for effecting their spiritual
and administrative training and development, thereby multiplying
the number of knowledgeable, active teachers and administrators
whose involvement in the work of the Cause will ensure a constant
influx of new adherents, an uninterrupted evolution of Bahá’í
Assemblies, and a steady consolidation of the community.
Moreover, to advance the process implies that that process is
already in progress and that local and national communities are at
different stages of it. All communities are now tasked to take steps
and sustain efforts to achieve a level of expansion and consolida-
tion commensurate with their possibilities. The individual and the
institutions, while operating in distinctive spheres, are summoned
to arise to meet the requirements of this crucial time in the life of
our community and in the fortunes of all humankind.25
This statement by the Universal House of Justice offered a
crucial clarification around which unity of thought on entry by
troops could be established. After so many years of confusion about
large-scale growth, every national community could recognize that
it was engaged in a single process of expansion and consolidation.
While some were a bit ahead, and others a bit behind, all could
advance. And to advance is to act in a systematic manner within the

Learning and Growth
|  75
limits of existing resources and opportunities, not to implausibly
leap from inaction to achieve barely imaginable results. “All should
recognize,” the House of Justice stated, “that entry by troops is
an inevitable stage in the development of the Cause.”26 It was a
process that would advance in all parts of the world, even those that
­appeared to be unreceptive to the Faith.
Furthermore, the House of Justice was able to pinpoint for the
Bahá’í world the central obstacle to sustaining entry by troops: the
inability to develop human resources at a rate necessary for car-
rying out the multitude tasks involved in accelerated growth. The
central concern of the new Plan was to confront this challenge.
With the growth in the number of enrollments, it has become
apparent that such occasional courses of instruction and the
informal activities of community life, though important, are not
sufficient as a means of human resource development, for they
have resulted in only a relatively small band of active supporters
of the Cause. These believers, no matter how dedicated, no matter
how willing to make sacrifices, cannot attend to the needs of
hundreds, much less thousands, of fledgling local communities.
Systematic attention has to be given by Bahá’í institutions to train-
ing a significant number of believers and assisting them in serving
the Cause according to their God-given talents and capacities.
The development of human resources on a large scale requires
that the establishment of institutes be viewed in a new light. In
many regions, it has become imperative to create institutes as
organizational structures dedicated to systematic training.27
In addition to calling for a new approach to the development
of human resources, the Four Year Plan provided an extraordinary
wealth of guidance necessary for understanding the task at hand.
Indeed, the Plan was grounded in eleven messages, including
eight messages directed to various regions made up of groups of
countries.28 Among the topics discussed in detail were the role of
the individual, the institutions, and the local community in advanc-
ing the process of entry by troops; the development of plans at the
national, regional, and local levels; the evolution of the pattern of
community life through stages of increasing complexity; and the
responsibilities of the Counsellors and the Auxiliary Board mem-
bers. In short, the Plan addressed the integration of all elements
necessary to initiate and sustain the process of entry by troops.

|
Revelation & Social Reality
The Four Year Plan resulted in a change in the Bahá’í com-
munity. A new state of mind, a new culture, systematization, and
learning became the watchwords of a transition in Bahá’í practice
related to growth and development. In November 1999, as the Four
Year Plan was drawing to a close, the Universal House of Justice ex-
tended the period during which the worldwide community would
continue to focus on advancing the process of entry by troops
through the year 2021.
The two stages in the unfoldment of the Divine Plan lying
immediately ahead will last one year and five years respectively. At
Rid.ván 2000 the Bahá’í world will be asked to embark on the first
of these two stages, a twelve-month effort aimed at concentrating
the forces, the capacities and the insights that have so strongly
emerged. The Five Year Plan that follows will initiate a series
of worldwide enterprises that will carry the Bahá’í community
through the final twenty years in the first century of the Faith’s
Formative Age. These global Plans will continue to focus on
advancing the process of entry by troops and on its systematic
acceleration.29
The Four Year Plan, the Twelve Month Plan, the Five Year Plans
beginning in 2001 and 2006, and the subsequent Plans that will
unfold until the year 2021 are a series of progressive steps of action
and reflection on action in which the Bahá’í world is learning how
to advance the process of entry by troops. During this period, the
community will transform its understandings, its patterns of life,
and many aspects of its institutional arrangements. The change
of Bahá’í culture is the fruit of a change in the Bahá’í approach to
understanding and practice—how we understand what is written
and translate it into reality and action—as it pertains to the growth
of the Faith.
The Experience of Colombia and the Ruhi Institute
Early in the Four Year Plan, a number of national communities
attempted to develop training materials for their new institutes
based on the criteria outlined by the Universal House of Justice,
which called for a “well-defined sequence of courses”30 and
“well-organized, formal programs consisting of courses that
follow appropriately designed curricula.”31 “The purpose of such
training,” the House of Justice explained “is to endow ever-growing

Learning and Growth
|  77
contingents of believers with the spiritual insights, the knowledge,
and the skills needed to carry out the many tasks of accelerated
expansion and consolidation, including the teaching and deepen-
ing of a large number of people—adults, youth and children.”32
National communities were encouraged not to waste time on
abstract theoretical concerns, nor to divert energy by offering a
diverse catalog of courses. Rather, attention was to be given to a
basic sequence of a few courses, preferably existing ones of proven
effectiveness, that would rapidly confirm a significant number of
believers and prepare them to contribute to the process of entry by
troops. Training was intended as a means, not as an end in itself. As
it turned out, diverse attempts by communities to create materials
for a sequence of institute courses did not produce the desired
result. Over time, more and more national communities adopted
materials developed years earlier by the Ruhi Institute in Colombia,
which enabled them to greatly accelerate their training process. The
efficacy of these materials proved themselves through experience
worldwide; so pronounced were the results that the materials were
eventually promoted directly by the International Teaching Centre
in 2000:
The Ruhi Institute curriculum had been tested and adapted
over many years. It has enabled the friends in different countries
to get the institute system up and running in a short time. Rather
than having the participants be passive listeners to a wide array of
unconnected talks, the Ruhi Institute materials seek to engage the
friends fully in the process of learning. Bahá’ís with diverse cultural
and educational backgrounds have found the curriculum’s decep-
tively simple approach, based heavily on connecting the ­believers
to the Creative Word, both appealing and empowering.33
And at Rid.ván 2004, the Universal House of Justice wrote:
As foreseen, the training institute is proving to be an engine
of growth. On assessing the opportunities and needs of their
respective communities, the great majority of National Spiritual
Assemblies have chosen to adopt the course materials devised
by the Ruhi Institute, finding them most responsive to the Plan’s
needs. This has had the collateral benefit that the same materials
have been translated into many languages and, wherever Bahá’ís
travel, they find other friends following the same path and familiar
with the same books and methods.34

|
Revelation & Social Reality
Finally, a decade after the start of the Four Year Plan the House
of Justice concluded:
When in our message dated 26  December 1995 we under-
scored the need for a formal program of training, we were aware
that certain elements of a curriculum meeting the necessary
requirements existed in the materials of the Ruhi Institute. It was
our conviction, however, that the accumulated experience at that
point did not justify our recommending a specific set of materials
to be used by training institutes throughout the world. Therefore,
the messages written by us and on our behalf in the early part of
the Four Year Plan encouraged National Spiritual Assemblies and
the Counsellors to open the way for training institutes to follow
whatever curriculum they deemed appropriate. Yet, conscious of
the inherent difficulty in creating comprehensive programs, we
repeatedly expressed the view that the execution of plans should
not await protracted decisions on the question of curriculum and
that materials readily available should be used. The availability
of such materials was limited worldwide, and National Spiritual
Assemblies and institute boards began to adopt the books of the
Ruhi Institute as they became aware of them, often through the
Counsellors. By the time the Four Year Plan came to a close, it was
all too apparent that national communities which had vigorously
set out to implement the sequence of courses designed by the Ruhi
Institute were far ahead of those who had attempted to develop
their own program.
It was the Five Year Plan, however, that served to convince
Counsellors, National Assemblies and boards everywhere of the
merits of the Ruhi Institute curriculum. The introduction of the
seventh book in the Institute’s main sequence at the start of the
Plan enabled many to appreciate more the intimate connection
between the flow of individuals through a sequence of courses
and the movement of clusters from one stage of growth to the
next. Indeed, as progress was achieved in hundreds of clusters, it
became clear to institutions at all levels that the content and order
of the main sequence prepared the friends to carry out those acts
of service required by the pattern of growth being established in a
cluster. We have, in fact, described the dynamics of this relation-
ship in our message of 27 December 2005.
We have now familiarized ourselves with the Ruhi Institute’s
present plans for curriculum development, which increasingly

Learning and Growth
|  79
draw on experience worldwide in sustaining large-scale expan-
sion and consolidation . . . With these thoughts in mind, we have
reached the conclusion that the books of the Ruhi Institute should
constitute the main sequence of courses for institutes everywhere,
at least through the final years of the first century of the Formative
Age when the Bahá’í community will be focused on advancing the
process of entry by troops within the framework for action set
forth in our 27 December message.
To select one curriculum to be used by training institutes
worldwide for a certain period of time is not to ignore the
variety of needs and interests of the friends as they endeavor to
better equip themselves to understand and apply the teachings of
Bahá’u’lláh. Nor does it in any way diminish the value of the efforts
made to develop courses and materials to respond to these needs.
It is not intended to suggest, either, that one curriculum should
necessarily appeal to everyone. What this decision does imply,
however, is that the present demands of the growth of the Faith are
such that, for some years to come, training institutes should not
attempt to meet all of the needs and interests of the friends.
The institutions of the Faith will continue to respect the
wishes of those who, for whatever reason, do not feel inclined
to participate in the study of the books of the Ruhi Institute. . . .
What we ask of such friends, as we have in the past, is that they
not allow their personal preferences to hamper in any way the
unfoldment of an educational process that has shown the potential
to embrace millions of souls from divers backgrounds.35
The educational approach of the Ruhi Institute was developed
over more than two decades as part of a wider process of learning
about large-scale expansion that took the Colombian community
from a few hundred individuals in 1970 to more than 50,000 by
1990.36 That community’s struggle to find effective methods for
expansion and consolidation was the same struggle taking place
­simultaneously in many other countries. Rather than succumbing
to the tendency to split into competing viewpoints that often
paralyzed progress elsewhere, however, the Bahá’ís in Colombia
were able to maintain their unity, eventually establishing a culture
of learning based on action and reflection. Their experience is
recounted in the book, Learning About Growth: The Story of the
Ruhi Institute and Large-Scale Expansion of the Bahá’í Faith in
Colombia.

|
Revelation & Social Reality
With a well-established unity of purpose to teach the masses
and a newly achieved unity of thought on the nature of expansion
and consolidation, the Colombian friends once again turned
their attention to the practical path that would lead them to their
cherished goal of large-scale expansion. At first, much of the con-
sultation was directed to the search for a prescription that would
bring about rapid success, but it soon became clear that such a
quest was in vain and that the path to mass conversion would have
to be pursued with constancy and discovered step by step. “What
method to use” was not a simple matter to be determined though
the clash of differing opinions; it would have to be the object of
a long learning process and approached systematically and with
perseverance.
. . . Plans and methods could not be perfect from the begin-
ning, but had to evolve and increasingly reflect the principles of the
Faith. These principles, themselves, would progressively come to
be understood with greater clarity as everyone pursued diligently
the goals that were set for each stage of the teaching process. The
teachers and administrators of the Faith had to understand that
many of their tasks were straightforward, even simple; they would
have to resist the temptation to exaggerate the importance and
complexity of their own roles and contributions. The most they
could expect from themselves was to engage wholeheartedly in an
intensive plan of action and an accompanying process of reflection
and consultation. This reflection and consultation had to be car-
ried out in unshakable unity and with a spirit of utmost humility.
The main thrust of consultation had to be the objective analysis
of possible courses of action and the evaluation of methods and
results, all carried out in light of the Writings of the Faith. The pur-
pose of joint reflection was to seek in the unfathomable depths of
the ocean of Revelation the answers to questions, challenges, and
problems and to discover the next steps in a path that, if trodden
with absolute faith, would lead to unprecedented expansion. There
was little more that could be done by the friends; success would be
a gift from Bahá’u’lláh, in some way related to the intensity of their
efforts and the spiritual quality of their endeavors.37
Of course, the community’s commitment to a process of learn-
ing did not mean that problems would not arise or that the friends
would not occasionally be confused or uncertain when evaluating
results or trying to determine what to do next. But one idea became

Learning and Growth
|  81
increasingly clear. It was imperative to pay attention to educating
the new believers and training them to become active participants
in the work of the Faith. The pattern of action and reflection that
guided the search for effective methods of expansion and consoli-
dation was now applied to the development of materials for training
the new believers to become effective participants in service to
the Cause. The Ruhi Institute emerged. Through a painstaking,
yet joyous process of research, training and action, the Bahá’ís in
Colombia gradually learned how to help new believers become
confirmed and active. Their efforts gave rise to a specific approach
to the creation of educational materials.
The approach to curriculum development can be summarized
simply, in the following terms. Once an educational need is identi-
fied, a small group of people, working at the grass roots, consult
among themselves, develop a set of ideas for educational activi-
ties, and put them into practice. The results of this practice are
reviewed, evaluated and consulted upon; in light of this consulta-
tion, a modified set of educational activities is put into practice,
and subjected to reflection that leads to further modification and
revision. At no time in this process of curriculum development
does action await the final preparation and evaluation of educa-
tional materials. At every stage, educational activities proceed with
the best materials at hand, in the conviction that it is only through
practice and reflection, both pursued in light of the Revelation of
Bahá’u’lláh, that more appropriate curricula can gradually evolve.
Yet, this is not a setting in which a few individuals are developing
materials for their own use, and it does become necessary at some
point to finalize the structure and content of each unit so that it
may be used with confidence by others. The decision to release a
final version of the materials for a given course is made simply
when it is noticed that modifications are becoming negligible.
It is important to note that the various aspects of this process of
consultation, action and reflection are carried out parallel with
one another, and not performed in a linear sequence which would
be inherently artificial.38
This educational approach is not patterned after a specific
educational theory, nor does it claim to present a “Bahá’í theory”
of education.39 At its heart is the study of the Bahá’í Writings. A
specific effort is made to help the believers draw upon the Writings
as a guide for action, while avoiding both an inflexible literalism

|
Revelation & Social Reality
intent upon “finding the one right answer” and an unfocused
subjectivism that indulges in a prolonged exchange of personal
views on “what the quotation means to me.”40 The tutor acts to
foster the learning of the group in a participatory manner. Again a
middle way is sought between the extremes of dispensing knowl-
edge through lectures and of passively facilitating an experience
driven entirely by the learners themselves with no intended goal.
The responsibility for learning rests on the participants “who are
constantly thinking, analyzing, formulating ideas and answering
questions.”41 Memorization is part of the pedagogy, but not as rote
learning. Rather, memorization of the Creative Word of God has
a profound influence on stirring and galvanizing a soul. “Every
word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God,” Bahá’u’lláh states,
“is endowed with such potency as can instill new life into every
human frame.”42 This also fulfills His injunction that the believers
“memorize phrases and passages bearing on various instances,
so that in the course of their speech they may recite divine verses
whenever the occasion demandeth it.”43 The passages come easily to
mind when opportunities for teaching or proclamation arise, and
their ensuing impact on hearts and minds amply demonstrates His
divine promise that “so potent is their influence that the hearer will
have no cause for vacillation.”44 Study is complemented by practice,
whether conducted simultaneously during the gradual progression
of a study circle or by participation in activities following the close
of an intensive course. Indeed, the entire curriculum is organized
around the concept of service through acts related to expansion and
consolidation. Among the capacities cultivated are those pertaining
to hosting devotional meetings, offering deepenings, educating
children, teaching the Faith, and acting as a tutor of a study circle.
An ever-expanding body of experience is essential for integrating
the course content into new patterns of behavior, and for making
sense of the material presented in courses later in the sequence.
The training program is not centered on conveying a fixed body
of knowledge or on carrying out specifically defined functions, but
on helping individuals to walk “paths of service.”
From among various possibilities, the Ruhi Institute has chosen
“service to the Cause” as the organizing principle of its educational
activities. The programs of the institute do, of course, address the
importance of knowledge, the development of human potential,
the need for personal transformation, and the appropriate

Learning and Growth
|  83
functioning of Bahá’í communities, just as Bahá’í courses founded
on any of the other concepts . . . would also address “service.”
Nevertheless, the choice of an organizing principle is not a trivial
one, for the resulting educational activities, the attitudes they
foster towards learning, and indeed the sum of all that emerges
from the educational process, will be strongly influenced by that
choice.
A believer’s possibilities for service to the Cause of God are
enhanced by the development of certain capabilities, such as the
capability to teach on an individual basis, to participate in teach-
ing campaigns organized by the community, to study the Writings
in progressively more meaningful ways, to participate effectively
in consultation, to help deepen new believers, and to educate
children and help youth channel their energies.45
Perhaps the most important capacity that the Ruhi materials
are designed to cultivate is the ability to participate in learning how
to advance the process of entry by troops. The focus is on raising
up thoughtful, creative protagonists of the progress of the Faith, not
mere technicians implementing a fixed methodology or formula for
expansion.46 In an area where a sizable number of such individuals
are trained, study of the guidance, consultation, action, and reflec-
tion on action is part of the habitual practice, resulting in a culture
of learning and real progress for the Bahá’í community. Those who
serve as tutors are consciously engaged in the process of developing
these capable workers. As Book 7, Walking Together on a Path of
Service, emphasizes: “The purpose of our courses is to empower
the friends spiritually and morally to serve the Faith,” and that
among the attributes to be cultivated are “a posture of learning,”
“dedication to the application of the Teachings,” “an undeviating
sense of purpose and the will to accomplish things,” and “a sense of
responsibility for one’s personal growth and for the progress of the
Bahá’í community.”47
The Bahá’ís of Colombia were attempting to sustain large-scale
expansion. From their own experiences they created training
materials to assist others to walk a path of service. The courses are
a record of the journey.
. . . a small group of people who were personally engaged in
large-scale expansion and consolidation entered into a process of
consultation about their successes and failures of their efforts. By
reflecting on their own service and growth, they hoped to gain

|
Revelation & Social Reality
new insights into the dynamics of the spiritual movement of entire
populations. As this nucleus of people began to advance in their
own paths of service and to discover certain spiritual require-
ments of these paths, they became engaged in an educational
process that would prepare an increasing number of individuals
to similarly dedicate themselves to the spiritual movement of their
own people. Naturally, the courses and educational materials took
shape through the same process of consultation/action/reflection
that had evolved as the group’s method of learning and service.
Such an approach to curriculum development is clearly rooted
in action.48
The purpose of this brief description is not to romanticize the
experience of the Ruhi Institute or the Bahá’ís in Colombia. The
Faith in Colombia has had, and continues to have, many trials and
setbacks along with its achievements. Despite the development of
the effective sequence of courses, for example, the community had
not, by the start of the Four Year Plan, guided a significant percent-
age of its community members through the sequence of courses.
Only by the end of the Five Year Plan in 2006 had a few clusters
initiated intensive programs of growth. The balance between hu-
man resource development, expansion, and consolidation that can
sustain the process of entry by troops remains a goal toward which
Colombia, like all other countries, continues to strive. Nevertheless,
the experience of the Ruhi Institute is a constructive example for
the steadily evolving network of national and regional training
institutes worldwide whose purpose is not simply to deliver a set
of courses, but to become centers of learning capable of serving as
engines of growth and development. As more and more institutes
achieve this capacity for action and reflection in the light of the
guidance of the Universal House of Justice, the effective programs
that they create will be disseminated and adopted by other institutes
thereby stimulating a global process of learning about growth that
will greatly accelerate the progress of the Bahá’í world.
The materials developed by the Ruhi Institute do not constitute
a Bahá’í catechism. They do not represent a body of fixed knowledge
to be assimilated by every believer. The gradual adoption of these
materials by Bahá’í training institutes worldwide since the Four Year
Plan began was not an indication that these were the only courses
that could have been used. They do not provide a formula for
growth that is to be inflexibly followed; indeed, using the materials

Learning and Growth
|  85
without the capacity for learning how to apply them in context, for
integrating them with the many other elements necessary to sustain
entry by troops, and for taking on new challenges that emerge, will
not produce results. Rather, the Ruhi materials were the most prac-
tical and effective tool available at the time and proved, in action,
their value as a training program designed to raise human resources
that contribute to growth. They provided a basis for supporting
and developing other aspects of the work, such as core activities,
home visits, and intensive programs of growth. In the future, the
materials will undoubtedly evolve, and will be supplemented by
other courses. Such an evolution, however, can only be driven by
the experience of those intimately involved in the ongoing efforts
for expansion and consolidation.
A Decade of Progress
A decade of experience from 1996 to 2006, spanning the unfold-
ment of the Four Year, the Twelve Month, and the first Five Year
Plan, illustrates how a dialogical learning process, operating under
the guidance of the Universal House of Justice, contributes to the
systematic progress of the Faith. As summarized above, the direc-
tion provided in the messages of the Four Year Plan emerged from
an analysis of the results and experiences of previous work for entry
by troops over several decades. Many national communities had a
proven capacity to enlist thousands or even tens of thousands of
new believers in a relatively short period of time, but were unable
to complement the process through an equally effective process of
consolidation; other countries, though strong administratively, had
an inward focus and little growth. If there were not a change in the
pattern of action followed over several decades, the Bahá’í world
would not be capable of sustaining significant growth.
The Four Year Plan, the House of Justice explained in 1995,
would have the single aim of advancing the process of entry by
troops. This was to be achieved by “marked progress in the activity
and development of the individual believer, of the institutions,
and of the local community.” “The next four years must witness a
dramatic upsurge in effective teaching activities undertaken at the
initiative of the individual,” the House of Justice stated. “Thousands
upon thousands of believers will need to be aided to express the
vitality of their faith through constancy in teaching the Cause and

|
Revelation & Social Reality
by supporting the plans of their institutions and the endeavors of
their communities.”49
Some believers, surely, already had the necessary capacity
to shoulder their responsibilities, yet this was not sufficient. The
House of Justice observed that the effort to develop human re-
sources endowed with the knowledge, skills and spiritual insights
that would enable them to participate effectively in the process of
entry by troops had to become more systematic and widespread,
and, therefore, the central focus of the Plan became the establish-
ment of a worldwide network of training institutes.
Creating in each country a system for effective training proved
to be a formidable challenge. Some countries continued to struggle
beyond the Plan’s conclusion. Yet, the chief outcome of the Four
Year Plan was the establishment of some 300 national and regional
training institutes, whose courses reached over 100,000 individuals.
Communities were revitalized by a host of confirmed and capable
believers. This did not mean that the challenge of sustaining entry
by troops was instantly resolved—quite the contrary. Progress in
some areas only shed light on other problems and even greater
challenges. But there was evidence everywhere that a fresh capacity
was breathed into the Bahá’í world. As a result of the emergence of
a new culture of learning involving study, consultation, action, and
refection, Bahá’í communities were increasingly capable of identify-
ing their challenges and making consistent progress.
Learning new patterns of effective, systematic action was ex-
tended in subsequent Plans. The Twelve Month Plan was designed
to build directly on the work of the Four Year Plan. Institutes were
to become fully operational in every country. Efforts were to include
the development of a sequential program for child education. This
reflected the reality that, first, up to the year 2000 child education
in most countries was sporadic and the curriculum disjointed
and, second, an advance in the process of entry by troops could
be secured only if the next generation of children received a Bahá’í
education. Another element of this brief Plan was the establishment
of some 25 area growth programs that were carried out in selected
countries to explore how systematic training could be linked with
carefully organized teaching efforts to achieve sustainable growth.
By the start of the Five Year Plan in 2001, the House of Justice
was able to speak of “the wealth of the experience now accumulated”
and observe that “elements of a system that can meet the training
needs of large numbers of believers have already been tested

Learning and Growth
|  87
worldwide and have proven themselves.”50 The Plan concentrated
on “two essential movements” described by the House of Justice:
The first is the steady flow of believers through the sequence of
courses offered by its training institute, for the purpose of develop-
ing the human resources of the Cause. The second, which receives
its impetus from the first, is the movement of geographic clusters
from one stage of growth to the next.51
In the Four Year Plan, most effort was directed toward estab-
lishing the structure of the institute: training tutors and creating
the means to offer courses at a distance or in a central location.
In many countries training centered largely on Books 1 and 2 of
the Ruhi Institute. With this foundation in place, efforts in the
Five Year Plan concentrated on accelerating training and initiat-
ing higher-level courses. In the period between Rid.ván 1996 and
February 2003, about ten thousand people completed Book 3 on
teaching children’s classes. By the midpoint of the Five Year Plan
this figure reached 19,000—the accomplishment of seven years was
nearly matched in seven months. The number completing Book 6
on teaching increased from about 3700 in February 2003 to more
than 8000 in September of that year. By the end of the Plan, over a
quarter of a million people had completed at least one course, and
more than 35,000 had completed Book 7 which enabled them to
act as tutors.
The Five Year Plan began with the effort to define specific
geographic regions within a country—clusters—according to social
patterns of the general population. Bahá’í communities then began
to learn how to focus and organize their activities in order to reach
out to the inhabitants of each cluster and to gradually create the
conditions in which ever-increasing numbers would enter the Faith
and assume responsibility for its progress. What the believers were
learning through the institute courses had to be translated into
practical patterns of action for teaching and community building.
Three core activities devised principally to benefit the believers
themselves—study circles, children’s classes, and devotional
meetings—emerged as portals for entry by troops. The following is
one account of how the introduction of the institute process gradu-
ally gave rise to new activities and a growing number of enthusiastic
participants:

|
Revelation & Social Reality
A believer in Taiwan took the first step along the path of
service and divine assistance followed. Living in . . . an area with
almost no active believers, she took the initiative to begin a Bahá’í-
inspired moral education class in a public elementary school. One
parent was so impressed by the content of her child’s class that she
wished to know more. The Bahá’í teacher happened to be a trained
tutor so she invited the mother to study Ruhi Institute Book 1.
Not only did the mother agree, she asked five of her friends to
join her!
This first study circle in the cluster, which began in
March 2003, was held weekly and was supplemented by occasional
deepenings on Bahá’í topics. By the time they started Book 2, all
six mothers had embraced the Faith. As their faith deepened and
their skills were enhanced by what they were learning through
the institute process, these new believers began to hold devotional
meetings and children’s classes on their own. Three of these ladies
in particular reached out to their friends, co-workers, and rela-
tives, introducing them to Book 1 as well.
By December 2004, the original six participants in the first
study circle had completed the entire sequence of courses. They
were carrying out seven Book 1 study circles that included 24
non-Bahá’í participants in addition to four study circles for the
higher courses of the sequence. They had established five children’s
classes for 28 mostly non-Bahá’í children, and were running a
daily devotional meeting, which was attracting about 30 people.
They even formed a group for junior youth after they observed
the positive effect the Bahá’í Teachings had on their younger
children. In total, there were 78 people regularly participating
in their activities. All of the adults were mothers of preschool or
school-aged children.
. . . In a neighborhood steeped in materialism and pastimes
such as gambling and gossiping, these friends are inspired as they
transform their lives, and in turn motivate others, by walking a
spiritual path.52
When opened to the wider community, core activities provided
opportunities for receptive individuals to intimately associate with
Bahá’ís, feel the spirit of the Faith, draw inspiration and direction
from the Creative Word, and participate in a social environment
that promotes unity and service. Those who became Bahá’ís could

Learning and Growth
|  89
immediately embark on a path of service and take their place in the
forefront of activity in the cluster.
Over the course of the Plan, as the initiatives of individuals
multiplied and attracted ever-wider participation, the Bahá’ís in
almost 300 clusters learned how to establish intensive programs
of growth, in which a gradualist approach to teaching gave way
to more dynamic patterns that could incorporate large numbers
of people. In certain of these clusters, year after year, hundreds of
new believers could be enlisted and deepened, and a significant
portion would arise to serve the Cause in some fashion. In those
countries where teaching was more difficult, some clusters that had
experienced little or sporadic growth before enlisted as many as
20-40 new believers in a year. The House of Justice described both
these patterns:
The pattern of expansion that unfolds, however, varies from clus-
ter to cluster. Where the population has traditionally shown a high
degree of receptivity to the Faith, a rapid influx of new believers
is to be expected. In one cluster of this kind, for example, the goal
of enrolling fifty souls over a three-week period in a locality was
surpassed by the second day, and the team wisely decided to end
the expansion phase in anticipation of activities related to consoli-
dation. One of the primary objectives of this next phase is to bring
a percentage of the new believers into the institute process so that
an adequate pool of human resources will be available in future
cycles to sustain growth. Those not participating in study circles
are nurtured through a series of home visits, and all are invited to
devotional meetings, to the celebration of the Nineteen Day Feast
and to Holy Day observances and are gradually introduced to the
patterns of community life. Not infrequently, the consolidation
phase gives rise to further enrollments as the family members and
friends of new declarants accept the Faith.
In other clusters, enrollments during the expansion phase
may not be high, especially in the first few cycles, and the goal
is to augment the number of those willing to participate in core
activities. This, then, defines the nature of the consolidation
phase, which largely involves nurturing the interest of seekers
and accompanying them in their spiritual search until they are
confirmed in their faith. To the extent that these measures are
vigorously followed, this phase can generate a considerable num-
ber of enrollments. It should be noted, however, that as learning

|
Revelation & Social Reality
advances and experience is gained, the ability not only to teach
responsive souls, but also to identify segments of the general
population with heightened receptivity, develops, and the totality
of new believers increases from cycle to cycle.53
The experience of the Murun cluster in Mongolia, one of the
first to establish an intensive program of growth, demonstrates the
unfoldment of the program across successive cycles. As described
by the International Teaching Centre:
An example of an intensive program of growth is the rural Murun
cluster in Mongolia. By the end of the third year of the Plan, 46
individuals in the cluster had completed the entire sequence of
courses. Steady teaching activities had resulted in 228 enrollments
that year, which raised the Bahá’í population to some 500. An
intensive program of growth to achieve a sizable increase in en-
rollments was initiated in June 2004. The first year of the program
was envisioned as having four three-month cycles. An analysis
of the human resources determined that more tutors might be
required, so the first cycle began with a two-week intensive course
on Ruhi Institute Books 6 and 7, which brought the number of
believers completing the sequence to 71. This preparatory phase
was followed by a two-week teaching project. Nineteen teaching
teams of three to five members each were mobilized, which made
contact with 780 individuals resulting in 200 new declarations,
including 60 junior youth. A consolidation phase of two months
immediately followed and reached the new believers and recep-
tive individuals with home visits and core activities. Within a
few weeks about 30 of these individuals had completed the first
three books of the sequence and 137 children were participat-
ing in children’s classes. In early November, once a majority of
the new Bahá’ís were involved in the institute process and core
activities, the friends in the Murun cluster felt ready to proceed
with the second cycle of the growth program. Within a week the
intensive teaching project had resulted in 73 new believers and an
additional 10 regular devotional meetings, 32 deepening visits, 13
study circles, and one junior youth group.54
Subsequent cycles of the growth program in the Murun cluster
showed continued progress. At the end of the third cycle there were
37 teaching teams, over 2000 in total had been contacted, and there
were over six hundred new Bahá’ís.55 Near Rid.ván 2006, after eight

Learning and Growth
|  91
cycles of activity, the number of Bahá’ís in the cluster surpassed
1900. The number of individuals that moved through the sequence
of courses continually increased; study circles, children’s classes and
devotional meetings multiplied; the believers were transformed and
community life enriched; the first activities for social and economic
development emerged; and the friends had learned from cycle to
cycle how to improve their efforts.
In 1996, Bahá’í communities were, for the most part, small and
inwardly directed. In some countries this was the result of the lack
of effective teaching, and, in other countries, of the lack of success in
deepening the new believers who were enlisted in successive waves
of teaching activity. The 26 December 1995 message of the Universal
House of Justice that introduced the Four Year Plan “focused the
Bahá’í world on a path of intense learning about the sustained, rapid
growth of the Faith,” but could only describe “in general terms the
nature of the work that would have to be undertaken in meeting the
challenges ahead.”56 By 2006, after a decade of learning, the House
of Justice was able to describe a new pattern of action involving a
coherent integration of activities for expansion, consolidation, and
spiritual upliftment that were mutually reinforcing and which could
be readily replicated in other areas. “The elements required for a
concerted effort to infuse the diverse regions of the world with the
spirit of Bahá’u’lláh’s Revelation,” it stated, “have crystallized into a
framework for action that now needs only to be exploited.”57 “The
way forward is clear, and at Rid.ván 2006 we will call upon the be-
lievers to steel their resolve and to proceed with the full force of their
energies on the course that has been so decidedly set.”58 The problem
of sustaining large-scale expansion that stymied the Bahá’í world for
almost four decades found a resolution in less than ten years.
Characteristics and Achievements of a Learning Mode
The achievements of the Four Year Plan were attributed by the
Universal House of Justice to a change in the culture of the Bahá’í
community that resulted from a new capacity for learning. Learning
drove progress across the entire decade, from the first efforts to
establish training institutes at Rid.ván 1996 to the emergence of
intensive programs of growth in certain clusters by Rid.ván 2006.
What was the nature of this learning process? What were some of
the specific lessons learned?

|
Revelation & Social Reality
At the start of each Plan, and at Rid.ván and other strategic
points during the decade, the Universal House of Justice provided
guidance to the Bahá’í world based on its current level of develop-
ment, summarizing what had been learned and accomplished, and
outlining new directions and challenges. The Counsellors gathered
several times in the Holy Land to receive guidance on the Plans
and to consult on its various aspects. They returned to participate
with National Assemblies in consultations on how to implement
the guidance. The believers, accompanied by the Counsellors and
their Auxiliary Board members, engaged in action carried out in
a learning mode. Reflection meetings, intended for participatory
discussions to assess experience, generate enthusiasm and improve
practice, became a part of the pattern of local action.
A steady stream of questions flowed to the Bahá’í World Centre,
to which the Universal House of Justice would respond with
clarifications or additional elucidation. For example, study circles,
initially intended as a means to provide institute courses to indi-
viduals in their communities proved to be attractive to those who
were not Bahá’ís but were interested in studying the teachings. As
many of these individuals accepted the Faith, often after studying
one or two books, it was realized that study circles could be tools of
teaching as well as training. Some mistakenly concluded, however,
that Bahá’ís were being told to abandon firesides or other teaching
methods and replace them by study circles. To a query on this mat-
ter a letter written on behalf of the House of Justice responded:
To call upon the Bahá’í world to focus its energies on a certain
set of activities at a particular stage in the unfoldment of the
Divine Plan does not in any way diminish the importance of other
endeavors. . . . While it is highly desirable to include seekers in
study circles wherever possible, the individual believer retains the
inescapable duty to teach the Faith on his or her own initiative.59
Another point of confusion arose when some understood that
the new Four Year Plan obliged everyone to participate in institute
courses. Individuals who expressed this concern received the fol-
lowing clarification:
It is natural that any given educational program would not
appeal to everyone, and clearly participating in the courses of an
institute is not a requirement to be fulfilled by all believers. In no
way, then, should those who do not wish to take part feel that they

Learning and Growth
|  93
are disobeying the directives of the Universal House of Justice. It
does ask, however, that everyone, even those not involved, support
the institute process and not impede its steady progress.60
The flow of guidance to all parts of the world resulted in the
blossoming of new activity and in a flow of experience and insights
from communities around the globe to the Bahá’í World Centre.
As more effective patterns of action emerged, the means for the
analysis and diffusion of learned lessons became more structured.
At the International Convention in 1998, two years after the Plan
began, a video entitled “A Culture of Growth” and a document
entitled “Training Institutes” were prepared under the direction
of the House of Justice to convey what had been learned to date
so that each country could reflect and improve on its efforts. In
February 2000, the International Teaching Centre prepared a
document entitled “Training Institutes and Systematic Growth”
that explored the evolution of training institutes in the final two
years of the Four Year Plan. Soon thereafter it also prepared the
book, The Four Year Plan and the Twelve Month Plan: A Summary
of Achievements,61 which analyzed in detail the range of activities
during that five-year period. Later, it began distributing the news-
letter, “Reflections on Growth,” that examined experiences gath-
ered from the Bahá’í world on various themes. In April 2003, the
Teaching Centre prepared the document, “Building Momentum:
A Coherent Approach to Growth,” and a video was created on the
same theme, reflecting upon the progress in the first two years of
the Five Year Plan. In a cover letter to this document, the Universal
House of Justice explained:
From time to time, since the beginning of the Four Year Plan,
effort has been made to summarize in documents made widely
available to the friends the experience of the Bahá’í world in ad-
vancing the process of entry by troops and to frame it within the
guidance of the Universal House of Justice as expressed in its
letters and messages to individuals and institutions. The first of
these documents, entitled “Training Institutes,” was released by
the House of Justice at the International Convention in April 1998.
The second, prepared by the Teaching Centre at the instruction
of the House of Justice in February 2000, was entitled “Training
Institutes and Systematic Growth.” The present document should
be considered the next of this kind. Using the 17 January message
of the House of Justice regarding the Five Year Plan as a starting

|
Revelation & Social Reality
point, it elaborates with specific examples and in greater detail
the broad vision contained in that message. It is the result of the
Teaching Centre’s careful analysis of both the guidance of the
House of Justice and the methods and approaches employed by
the friends in every part of the globe in meeting the requirements
of the Plan.62
Learning about growth did not result in a simple formula
for action. Rather, sacrifice and perseverance, critical thought,
and constant valuation and revising of methods were required.
In clusters where progress may have been stalled by one or more
vexing challenges, it was often difficult to appreciate the accelerat-
ing movement of advanced clusters that was unmistakable from
a global perspective. And invariably, obstacles would arise when-
ever the friends in a cluster advanced into new, uncharted areas
of endeavor. Therefore, a key feature of the Five Year Plan was the
systematization of learning at the cluster level.
As the institute process was established in a cluster, the
believers involved acquired the habit of gathering periodically to
study the guidance from the Bahá’í World Centre, consult on the
progress of their area, share experiences, analyze the strengths and
weaknesses of their efforts, and try to discover more effective ap-
proaches. Progress did not depend on an elaborate decision-making
process. Rather, in such gatherings the friends gained insights that
shaped their future actions. An individual could hear from others
about effective methods for hosting devotional meetings and adopt
the same practice in the weeks ahead. Members of a Local Assembly
could learn about a need in the cluster for more children’s classes
and then raise the issue of supporting this objective for consulta-
tion by the institution. A coordinator of an institute could become
informed of the need for more study circles to serve a particularly
receptive population in the cluster and then work to raise more
tutors from among that population. In reference to the early stages
of the development of a cluster, the House of Justice wrote:
. . . here, free from the demands of formal decision-making,
participants reflect on experience gained, share insights, explore
approaches, and acquire a better understanding of how each can
contribute to achieving the aim of the Plan. In many cases, such
interaction leads to consensus on a set of short-term goals, both
individual and collective. Learning in action is becoming the
outstanding feature of the emerging mode of operation.63

Learning and Growth
|  95
As clusters advanced, the nature of the reflection gathering
evolved from an occasion for the promotion of initiative among
a small group of interested individuals to a mechanism for the
integration of activities and for directing the energies of an increas-
ing number of capable workers in intensive programs of growth
organized by the institutions serving the cluster. When an intensive
program of growth was established, reflection meetings became a
feature of a more elaborate phase of learning and planning that
included both individuals and institutions.64
Key to the progress of an intensive program of growth is the
phase dedicated to reflection, in which the lessons learned in
action are articulated and incorporated into plans for the next
cycle of activity. Its principal feature is the reflection meeting—as
much a time of joyous celebration as it is of serious consultation.
Careful analysis of experience, through participatory discussions
rather than overly complex and elaborate presentations, serves to
maintain unity of vision, sharpen clarity of thought and heighten
enthusiasm. Central to such an analysis is the review of vital
statistics that suggest the next set of goals to be adopted. Plans
are made that take into account increased capacity in terms of
the human resources available at the end of the cycle to perform
various tasks, on the one hand, and accumulated knowledge about
the receptivity of the population and the dynamics of teaching, on
the other.65
Within a cluster, it was the daily struggle of individuals to grasp
the Plan and act on it that drove progress. This was true not only
of new believers, but also of long-time members of the community
who were used to seeing others carry the responsibility for the
work of teaching and deepening. So many of these believers had
to overcome their fears and perceptions of inadequacy, and the
courses of the training institute were particularly helpful to them
as they tried to face new realities. “Discussions that revolve around
the Creative Word, in the serious and uplifting atmosphere of a
study circle, raise the level of consciousness about one’s duties to the
Cause and create an awareness of the joy one derives from teaching
the Faith and serving its interests,” the Universal House of Justice
explained. “Confidence is patiently built as the friends engage
in progressively more complex and demanding acts of service.”
“Seeing the possibilities and opportunities before them with new
eyes,” the House of Justice adds, “they witness first hand the power

|
Revelation & Social Reality
of Divine assistance, as they strive to put into practice what they
are learning and achieve results far exceeding their expectations.”
Stories from across the world illustrated how “believers who enter
the teaching field with trepidation” found themselves “bolstered by
confirmations on all sides.”66 As one believer reported:
At the Book 6 refresher on Saturday morning, . . . I worked
on memorizing the first section of Anna’s presentation. We tried
to get the presentation down as closely to the text as possible,
and practiced presenting it to each other over and over. I was a
bit worried going into the home visit that my presentation might
be a bit too rehearsed or mechanical, but it ended up turning out
just fine. . . . Within our first few breaths we were sharing that the
Bahá’í Faith is a world religion whose purpose is to unite humanity
in one universal cause and one common faith, that Bahá’ís believe
that Bahá’u’lláh is the Promised One of all ages, and that He is the
Great Personage whose teachings will create a new world! I have
never before shared the Faith with someone in such a forthright
manner, and it felt exhilaratingly honest and direct.
. . . I reflected afterwards that [the seeker] seemed very recep-
tive to this and that it appeared that this acceptance had already
occurred in his heart, and we thought that perhaps the next step is
to share more of the presentation on a subsequent visit and more
explicitly invite him to formally declare. . . .
In essence, although I felt trepidation going into it, the
home visit was the highlight of my weekend, and I really felt the
confirming and assisting spirit throughout the experience. It has
got us thinking about teaching the Faith in a whole new way, and
we are really excited that once we incorporate this presentation
more fully into our consciousness, we will be able to share it in a
variety of contexts.67
By the end of the decade, a strong network was established
throughout the Bahá’í world as learning emerged in a particular
cluster and then flowed to the World Centre and back to nations,
regions, and clusters in all parts of the world. Effective methods
to translate the guidance into action emerged sometimes quickly
from creative initiatives, but often had to be patiently refined over
years through constant revision and reflection. Not all efforts led
immediately to successful results. Problems arose that obstructed
progress in particular areas; these had to be overcome through
perseverance and sacrifice, and through unified action. But all

Learning and Growth
|  97
new learning of this kind is, in essence, learning how to resolve
problems in order to make new advances. While it is impossible to
summarize all the lessons learned in the decade from 1996 to 2006,
the following examples illustrate how various elements emerged
and were combined to shape an integrated pattern of action that
has proven its effectiveness in diverse settings worldwide.
At the start of the Four Year Plan, the House of Justice observed

that institutes “must offer courses both at a central location
and in the villages and towns so that an appreciable number
of believers can enter its programs.”68 No specific approach
was described, however, for offering the courses at a distance.
By 1998, as a result of the experience in one area, a practical
approach was discovered involving the establishment of study
circles, groups of some “six to ten believers in the towns and
villages throughout the country, who will go through a series of
basic courses together with a tutor.”69 Because of their proven
effectiveness, study circles soon became a feature of institutes
worldwide.
In 2001, the House of Justice made reference to stages of com-

munity building and observed that “among the initial goals for
every community should be the establishment of study circles,
children’s classes, and devotional meetings, open to all the
inhabitants of the locality.”70 One year later, as a result of the
experience gained by implementing these activities, the House
of Justice observed promising indications that went far beyond
what was originally envisioned:
Where a training institute is well established and
constantly functioning, three core activities—study circles,
devotional meetings, and children’s classes—have multiplied
with relative ease. Indeed, the increasing participation of seek-
ers in these activities, at the invitation of their Bahá’í friends,
has lent a new dimension to their purposes, consequently
effecting new enrollments. Here, surely, is a direction of great
promise for the teaching work. These core activities, which
at the outset were devised principally to benefit the believ-
ers themselves, are naturally becoming portals for entry by
troops. By combining study circles, devotional meetings and
children’s classes within the framework of clusters, a model
of coherence in lines of action has been put in place and is

|
Revelation & Social Reality
already producing welcome results. Worldwide application of
this model, we feel confident, holds immense possibilities for
the progress of the Cause in the years ahead.71
The experience with some 25 area growth programs in the

Twelve Month Plan contributed directly to the specification
of propitious conditions for the establishment of intensive
programs of growth presented in the Five Year Plan. Yet, in
2001, it was not possible to describe the specific nature of
an intensive program of growth, but only to clarify some
desirable conditions and outline general principles. “Success
will depend on the manner in which lines of action are
integrated and on the attitude of learning that is adopted,”
the House of Justice wrote. “At the core of the program must
lie a sound and steady process of expansion, matched by an
equally strong process of human resource development,”
it further explained. “A range of teaching efforts needs to
be carried out, involving both activities undertaken by the
individual and campaigns promoted by the institutions.”72

By the midpoint of the Plan, the features of the intensive
program of growth emerged from experience and, by its end,
they could be clearly defined. “Conforming well to the vision
we presented five years ago,” the House of Justice explained,
such a program “consists of cycles of activity, in general of three
months’ duration each, which proceed according to distinct
phases of expansion, consolidation, reflection and planning.”73
“The expansion phase,” the House of Justice added, “often a
period of two weeks, demands the highest level of intensity. Its
objective is to widen the circle of those interested in the Faith,
to find receptive souls and to teach them.”74 Further, it became
clear that institute courses should proceed uninterrupted from
cycle to cycle because “When human resources increase in a
manner proportionate to the rise in the overall Bahá’í popula-
tion from cycle to cycle, it is possible not only to sustain but to
accelerate growth.”75
The role of those who would serve as tutors of institute courses

evolved over the course of the entire decade. Veteran believers
were initially involved, many having no first hand experience
with the materials they were sharing with others. During the
Four Year Plan, regular gatherings of tutors in which they could

Learning and Growth
|  99
learn about effective methods discovered through experience
constituted a significant component of the institute process
in many countries. By the start of the Five Year Plan, Book 7
of the Ruhi Institute, Walking Together on a Path of Service,
which focuses on the service of the tutor, became available; it
was developed through the experience of training tutors from
many parts of the world rather than Colombia alone. With the
addition of this book to the sequence of courses, the number
of trained tutors rapidly multiplied. It became increasingly
clear that tutors were not to merely assist the friends to move
through the courses; it was also important for them to engage
in “accompanying participants in their initial attempts to
perform acts of service.” In outlining the second Five Year
Plan launched at Rid.ván 2006 the House of Justice referred to
such accompaniment: “This particular aspect of the institute
process, which serves to multiply the number of active sup-
porters of the Faith in a self-perpetuating manner, holds much
promise, and we hope that its potential will be realized in the
coming Plan.”76
Early in the Five Year Plan, the International Teaching Centre

observed that when a sizable number of individuals in a
cluster completed the sequence of institute courses, there was
a corresponding increase in core activities and a revitalization
of the teaching work. In certain clusters, however, the friends,
eager to reach these numbers rapidly, left out key elements
of the courses, especially those involving the practice of new
skills essential to the overall scheme of the process. Guidance
to the increasing number of clusters that were determined to
move ahead soon incorporated this lesson, as conveyed in the
following statement by the International Teaching Centre:
In some areas, the eagerness of the believers and institu-
tions to achieve certain targets in the institute process has
led them to eliminate portions of the courses, particularly
the practice components, which are an essential aspect of
training. If the friends are never able to apply the skills they
are learning, they will not become effective in carrying out the
tasks of expansion and consolidation. It has become clear that
to move quickly through the training does not mean reducing
the number of hours spent on a course; it means completing

|
Revelation & Social Reality
the same course and its practices in their entirety, but in a
shorter period of time—perhaps days instead of weeks or
weeks instead of months. A balanced approach is needed
that avoids the potential pitfalls of rapid training that fails
to cultivate skills and multiply activities, or endless training
to achieve capacities that would be developed more fully
through practical experience.
We have noted that at times the focus on taking 50 or
so believers through the sequence of courses has resulted in
rigid or overly simplistic perspectives. In some clusters that
contained all the needed resources and core activities for
intensive growth, initiating a growth program was delayed
because there were, for example, only 46 believers who had
completed the full sequence. Meanwhile, in clusters where the
target of 50 was achieved, there was sometimes the expecta-
tion that this would automatically result in growth. In such
instances it is important to remember that having 40 to 50
believers complete the sequence is not a magic formula. It
is an indicator that has to be viewed in the context of other
propitious conditions as well as the success at outreach and
teaching already achieved in the cluster.77
In a number of clusters, the temporary yet often unavoidable

rigidity that arises during the early implementation of new
methods on the one hand, and the apprehension of some to
engage fully in unified action on the other, led to a debate
on flexibility. Some of the friends seemed to demand that all
methods and activities for expansion and consolidation be
supported equally. Yet, no learning or advancement can occur
when every method and activity is regarded a priori as equal
to all others. In clusters where the issue became a subject of
prolonged debate, the energies of the community were dissi-
pated, and the intensity of action required for progress was not
achieved. A better understanding of the importance of main-
taining focus was required, and this was eventually provided by
the House of Justice in the message dated December 27, 2005
to the Counsellors’ conference that introduced the second Five
Year Plan.
Perhaps the task that will occupy the attention of you and
your auxiliaries above all others is to assist the community
in its effort to maintain focus. This ability, slowly acquired

Learning and Growth
|  101
through successive Plans, represents one of its most valuable
assets, hard won through discipline, commitment and fore-
sight as the friends and their institutions have learned to pur-
sue the single aim of advancing the process of entry by troops.
On the one hand, you will find it necessary to discourage the
tendency to confuse focus with uniformity or exclusivity. To
maintain focus does not imply that special needs and interests
are neglected, much less that essential activities are dropped
in order to accommodate others. Clearly, there are a host of
elements that comprise Bahá’í community life, shaped over
the decades, which must be further refined and developed.
On the other hand, you will want to take every opportunity to
reinforce the disposition to prioritize—one which recognizes
that not all activities have the same importance at a given
stage of growth, that some must necessarily take precedence
over others, that even the most well-intentioned proposals can
cause distraction, dissipate energy or impede progress. What
should be plainly acknowledged is that the time available for
the friends to serve the Faith in every community is not with-
out limits. It is only natural to expect that the preponderating
share of this limited resource would be expended in meeting
the provisions of the Plan.78
Work with junior youth received impetus from the statement

of the Universal House of Justice a few months before the
start of the Twelve Month Plan that “Strategies to advance the
process of entry by troops cannot ignore children and junior
youth, if the victories won in one generation are not to be lost
with the passage of time.”79 In most countries, however, junior
youth ­activities continued to be extensions of children’s classes.
In some cases, junior youth entered prematurely the basic
sequence of institute courses. This brought limited results, for
most of them, while going through the courses enthusiasti-
cally, were not equipped to fully grasp the implications of the
concepts being discussed or to undertake the necessary acts
of service. During the Five Year Plan, the Office of Social and
Economic Development collaborated with a number of Bahá’í
and Bahá’í-inspired organizations on literacy projects that even-
tually led to a primary focus on junior youth and the creation of
some effective educational materials. Bahá’í training institutes
quickly saw the value of the experience being accumulated in

|
Revelation & Social Reality
development activities, and began to incorporate the curricular
elements available into their programs for junior youth. A new
chapter opened in the learning process, with the friends in
scores of countries striving for a greater understanding of how
to contribute to the spiritual, moral, and social development of
youth ages 12-14. Eventually, the materials for training junior
youth animators developed through experience in communities
around the world led to a reorganization of the basic sequence
of courses of the Ruhi Institute. A new Book 5 displaced the
previous one for children’s class teachers of grade 2, which in
turn became a branch course of Book 3. The work with junior
youth broadened and by the start of the second Five Year Plan
in 2006 the Universal House of Justice wrote:
What has become especially apparent during the current Five
Year Plan is the efficacy of educational programs aimed at the
spiritual empowerment of junior youth. When accompanied
for three years through a program that enhances their spiri-
tual perception, and encouraged to enter the main sequence
of institute courses at the age of fifteen, they represent a vast
reservoir of energy and talent that can be devoted to the ad-
vancement of spiritual and material civilization. So impressed
are we by the results already achieved, and so compelling is the
need, that we will urge all National Assemblies to consider the
junior youth groups formed through programs implemented
by their training institutes a fourth core activity in its own
right and to promote its wide-scale multiplication.80
As the activities for expansion and consolidation evolved

through action and reflection over the course of the decade,
administrative arrangements also evolved. In 1997, as a result
of “the experience gained in the operation” of various regional
bodies, and “from detailed examination of the principles set
forth by Shoghi Effendi,” the Universal House of Justice decided
“to formalize a new element of Bahá’í administration, between
the local and national levels, comprising institutions of a
special kind, to be designated as ‘Regional Bahá’í Councils.’”
In explaining this action it stated: “The expansion of the Bahá’í
community and the growing complexity of the issues which
are facing National Spiritual Assemblies in certain countries
have caused us in recent years to examine various aspects of the
balance between centralization and decentralization.”81

Learning and Growth
|  103

At the start of the Five Year Plan, attention focused on
institutional capacity at the level of the cluster. The implemen-
tation of an intensive program of growth, the House of Justice
explained, “will require the close collaboration of the institute,
the Auxiliary Board members and their assistants, and an Area
Teaching Committee.”82 Gradually, new relationships among
the agencies involved in supporting intensive programs of
growth, including Local Spiritual Assemblies, began to emerge.
In some cases, the rapid growth of the community and the
complexity of its activities called for full or part time staff.
Change at the cluster level required corresponding changes in
national administration, including the structure of National
Committees. By the end of the decade, most agencies of Bahá’í
administration at all levels were affected by the changes in the
approach to growth and development of the Faith.83
These examples highlight several areas of learning about growth
in the decade from 1996 to 2006. Yet, potential achievements and
additional challenges remain for the current and future Plans. In
the second year of the Five Year Plan from 2006-2011, for example,
great strides were made in the expansion of the Faith through the
dissemination of learning from cluster to cluster. Capable indi-
viduals from advanced clusters experiencing growth were sent for
extended periods as resource persons to share their learning with
other areas, while individuals from promising clusters were sent
for training and practice to clusters where significant growth was
evident. The believers learned to find receptive populations in rural
and urban areas and to teach them in a direct and open manner.
Coherence in the pattern of activities for expansion and consolida-
tion emerged in which collective teaching efforts were carried out
for some two to three weeks during a cycle’s expansion phase and
were immediately followed by a transition to consolidation through
the core activities. This pattern led to scores of new believers in a
single cycle, even in areas that had previously demonstrated little
potential for success in teaching. It also proved to be a pattern
that could begin simply even in the least developed clusters and
unfold organically, allowing these areas to achieve in months what
had previously taken years in other places. These insights led to
another great acceleration in the work: from 1996 to 2006 about
300 intensive programs of growth were initiated, but by 2008 this
number passed 600, with a goal of some 1100 by Rid.ván 2009. The

|
Revelation & Social Reality
learning from this period is summarized in the document Attaining
the Dynamics of Growth: Glimpses from Five Continents, prepared
by the International Teaching Centre in 2008.
Looking into the future, the continuing progress of the Faith
in the clusters will depend upon learning how to further develop
Bahá’í community life, to strengthen Local Spiritual Assemblies,
and to address the needs of a growing body of believers and the
wider community through greater involvement in the life of
society,84 including projects of social and economic development.
Administration at the local, cluster, regional, and national levels
has to continue to evolve to sustain growth and to serve large,
dynamic communities with all their potential and problems. Of
more than 16,000 clusters at the start of the second Five Year Plan
in 2006, some 10,000 remained unopened to the Faith and less
than 2% were capable of taking on the challenge of growth; even the
ambitious goal of establishing at least 1500 intensive programs of
growth by 2011 will reach fewer than 10% of the clusters worldwide.
Unforeseen obstacles surely lie ahead as well. Yet, by 2006, a clear
breakthrough had been achieved, and a path for the progress of
cluster after cluster had been charted, to be systematically pursued
in future Plans through the year 2021.
Change in Understanding and Practice
The change in culture in the Bahá’í community over the decade
that made possible an advance in the process of entry by troops
was, in essence, a change in understanding and practice. The Bahá’í
community became increasingly involved in a dialogical process
combining study, consultation, action and reflection to understand
the Writings and the guidance of the Universal House of Justice and
translate this understanding into practical and effective action. As
the House of Justice described the challenge of the recent Plans:
Many issues related to the process of growth are complex in
nature and can only be clarified in the minds of the friends over
time, as they participate in the collective endeavors of their
communities. . . .
Of paramount importance . . . is the attitude of learning being
adopted by believers and institutions throughout the Bahá’í world.
It is necessary for the friends to fully appreciate the change needed
and that new ideas not be measured by old modes of thinking,

Learning and Growth
|  105
which, while valuable in many respects, have not been conducive
to rapid growth. The challenge for the friends everywhere is to
study the guidance issued by the House of Justice, on the one
hand, and to learn from experience as they strive to put that
guidance into practice, on the other. Such an evolutionary process
requires patience and perseverance on the part of all the believers,
as we endeavor both individually and collectively to advance the
process of entry by troops.85
By addressing the challenge of expansion and consolidation
through learning, the community was able to overcome the
paralysis originating in debates on the best method of teaching
and arguments about the success or failure of particular initiatives.
It also began to move beyond the freneticism and stagnation that
comes from a relativistic tendency to encourage all methods and
activities according to personal preference, undermining the criti-
cal thought necessary for the cultivation and diffusion of ever-more
effective action. The result was an integration of various activities
into a vibrant and sustainable pattern of growth, resulting not only
in quantitative but also qualitative change. As the Universal House
of Justice stated:
On several occasions we have made reference to the coherence
that is brought to the process of growth through the establishment
of study circles, devotional meetings and children’s classes. The
steady multiplication of core activities, propelled by the training
institute, creates a sustainable pattern of expansion and consolida-
tion that is at once structured and organic. As seekers join these
activities and declare their faith, individual and collective teaching
endeavors gather momentum. Through the effort made to ensure
that a percentage of the new believers enroll in the institute
courses, the pool of human resources required to carry out the
work of the Faith swells. When strenuously pursued in a cluster,
all of this activity eventually brings about conditions favorable for
launching an intensive program of growth.
What a close examination of clusters at this threshold
confirms is that the coherence thus achieved extends to various
aspects of community life. The study and application of the teach-
ings become a pervasive habit, and the spirit of communal worship
generated by devotional meetings begins to permeate the com-
munity’s collective endeavors. A graceful integration of the arts
into diverse activities enhances the surge of energy that mobilizes

|
Revelation & Social Reality
the believers. Classes for the spiritual education of children and
junior youth serve to strengthen the roots of the Faith in the local
population. Even an act of service as simple as visiting the home
of a new believer, whether in a village in the Pacific Islands or in
a vast metropolitan area like London, reinforces ties of fellowship
that bind the members of the community together. Conceived as
a means for exposing believers to the fundamentals of the Faith,
“home visits” are giving rise to an array of deepening efforts, both
individual and collective, in which the friends are delving into the
Writings and exploring their implications for their lives.
As the spiritual foundations of the community are fortified in
this way, the level of collective discourse is raised, social relations
among the friends take on new meaning, and a sense of common
purpose inspires their interactions. Little wonder, then, that a
study carried out by the International Teaching Centre shows
that, in some fifty advanced clusters surveyed, the quality of the
Nineteen Day Feast has improved. Other reports indicate that
contributions to the Fund have increased as consciousness of its
spiritual significance expands and the need for material means
is better understood. Reflection meetings at the cluster level are
becoming a forum for the discussion of needs and plans, creating
a collective identity and strengthening the collective will. Where
such advanced clusters are flourishing, the influence they exert
begins to spread beyond their own borders to enrich regional
events, such as summer and winter schools.86
Efforts to advance the process of entry by troops also reflected a
proper Bahá’í expression of power and authority. Individuals, whose
capacities for advancing the teaching work were enhanced by the
educational programs of the training institute, were empowered
to take initiative.87 Institutions learned not to exercise authority in
a manner to control or inhibit individual action, but to release it,
support it, multiply it, integrate it, and guide it along more effective
channels.88 Institutional arrangements evolved and new ones were
created in order to efficiently advance the teaching work.89
A more conscious approach to understanding the teachings
about growth and translating them into action created change in
the pattern of Bahá’í community life and the way in which Bahá’ís
interacted with the wider society—a change in social reality. The
tendency to be inwardly directed that was unfortunately begin-
ning to achieve prevalence was curbed. Bahá’í practice among

Learning and Growth
|  107
individuals, communities, and institutions struggling to overcome
ingrained habits reached out to the wider population and cultivated
an enriching environment where all were welcome participants. As
the House of Justice explained to an individual concerned about the
stagnation of the growth of his community:
Where Bahá’í communities are unable to free themselves from an
orientation to Bahá’í life that has long outlived whatever value it
once possessed, the teaching work will lack both the systematic
character it requires, and the spirit that must animate all effective
service to the Cause. To mistakenly identify Bahá’í community life
with the mode of religious activity that characterizes the general
society—in which the believer is a member of a congregation,
leadership comes from an individual or individuals presumed to
be qualified for the purpose, and personal participation is fitted
into a schedule dominated by concerns of a very different nature—
can only have the effect of marginalizing the Faith and robbing the
community of the spiritual vitality available to it.
. . . the Four Year Plan, the Twelve Month Plan and the cur-
rent Five Year Plan have been designed as progressive steps in
achieving this change of Bahá’í culture. . . .90
Naturally, the achievements of the past decade did not come
without difficulties, nor are they yet realized universally in every
cluster throughout the world. But the efficacy of the approach since
1996 is irrefutably demonstrated by the widespread capacity and
spirit of joy, thanksgiving, and sacrifice evident at the 41 regional
conferences marking the midpoint of the Five Year Plan held in
all parts of the world from November 2008 to February 2009.91 As
the capacity for learning is extended and nurtured, the relationship
between a community of inquirers exploring new frontiers of Bahá’í
understanding and practice and the divinely-inspired guidance that
flows through the Universal House of Justice becomes clearer. The
counsel provided in the Plans is not a formula or rigid set of proce-
dures for what must be done. If, as Bahá’ís, we are not consciously
striving, within the framework of the Plan, to understand new
concepts and thoughtfully apply principles and approaches through
action and reflection in a specific setting, we will not see progress.
Further, the guidance we receive is not simply a list of suggestions
from which individuals or institutions choose according to their
own preferences. The question is not does the guidance apply, but
rather, how does the guidance apply? How is it translated effectively

|
Revelation & Social Reality
into reality? Without the capacity to think and adapt to discover
practical manifestations of the guidance, communities will not
see results. And, once effective patterns of action are established
in any community, the experience can be shared with others.
Bahá’í understanding and practice associated with expansion and
consolidation will continually evolve throughout the dispensation
as the Bahá’í community grows in size, complexity, and influence
and learns to make greater and greater contributions to a process
of social transformation that is the expression of Bahá’u’lláh’s will
and purpose for humanity.

Contributing to the
Advancement of Civilization
T
he fruit of Bahá’u’lláh’s stupendous Revelation,
Shoghi Effendi tells us, will be the birth and efflorescence
of a global civilization “such as no mortal eye hath ever
beheld or human mind conceived.”1 Indeed, central to Bahá’í belief
is the doctrine of progressive revelation, which holds that every
Manifestation of God has infused the earth with a spirit that dis-
rupts the old order, transforms individuals, and ultimately results
in the unfoldment of a new civilization. One of the distinctive
features of the age of maturity in humanity’s development, however,
is that the civilization associated with Bahá’u’lláh’s dispensation
will not be a mere by-product of the principles and teachings He
has revealed. Rather, its unfoldment will be a conscious2 process in
which individuals endowed with a new understanding create new
patterns of action to translate His vision into social reality.
To say that the process of building a new civilization is a con-
scious one does not imply that the outcome depends exclusively on
the believers’ initiatives. The Writings clearly describe the release of
“creative energies” that have “instilled into humanity the capacity
to attain” the “final stage in its organic and collective evolution.”3
The great “plan of God” is “tumultuous in its progress, working
through mankind as a whole, tearing down barriers to world unity
and forging humankind into a unified body in the fires of suffering
and experience.”4
So too, emphasis on the contributions Bahá’ís are to make to
the civilization-building process is not intended to diminish the
significance of efforts being exerted by others. A host of individuals
and institutions contribute to the forces that are propelling social
transformation. These include numerous well-intentioned and
dedicated protagonists of change whose accomplishments have

|
Revelation & Social Reality
made progress in every field of human endeavor possible, and from
whom Bahá’ís have much to learn. “There are many souls who are
promoters of peace and reconciliation and are longing for the real-
ization of the oneness and unity of the world of humanity,” ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá explains. Nevertheless, He reminds us that this intention and
effort are in need of a “dynamic power.”5 Bahá’ís, then, develop their
own capacity to draw on the power of divine assistance in service to
humanity while learning to collaborate effectively with like-minded
individuals and organizations.
The Bahá’í vision of a new civilization is
as far removed from current concepts of human well-being and
happiness as is possible. We should constantly be on our guard
lest the glitter and tinsel of an affluent society should lead us
to think that such superficial adjustments to the modern world
as are envisioned by humanitarian movements or are publicly
proclaimed as the policy of enlightened statesmanship—such as
an extension to all members of the human race of the benefits of
a high standard of living, of education, medical care, technical
knowledge—will of themselves fulfill the glorious mission of
Bahá’u’lláh. Far otherwise. . . . “The principle of the oneness of
mankind,” [Shoghi Effendi] writes, “implies an organic change in
the structure of present-day society, a change such as the world
has not yet experienced.”6
The movement toward a global civilization is, therefore, an
organic process in which God’s purpose for humanity becomes
gradually realized. To the degree that unity of thought on a myriad
of concepts is reached, the construction of the social reality that
constitutes a new civilization proceeds. Once again, the challenge
involves understanding and practice. The promotion of fundamen-
tal change in the very structure of society requires that systematic
yet informal learning to foster the development of the Bahá’í com-
munity, as illustrated in the previous chapter, be complemented by a
process of learning that employs more formal methods—involving
both religion and science—in which Bahá’u’lláh’s teachings are
applied in the diverse fields of human endeavor. Consider, in this
respect, the following passages of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá calling for the
generation and application of knowledge to recast social reality.
The aims of the Bahá’ís are these: to raise aloft the banner
of the Most Great Peace, and to eradicate the causes of war and

Contributing to the Advancement of Civilization
|  111
conflict in every land; to gather together all nations and peoples
within the shadow of the all-embracing Tabernacle of God, and to
eliminate prejudice—whether racial, national, religious, sectarian,
or political—from the face of the globe; so that all nations merge
into one nation. Thus may the world of creation attain unto well-
being and repose.7
How long shall we drift on the wings of passion and vain
desire; how long shall we spend our days like barbarians in the
depths of ignorance and abomination? God has given us eyes, that
we may look about us at the world, and lay hold of whatsoever will
further civilization and the arts of living. He has given us ears, that
we may hear and profit by the wisdom of scholars and philoso-
phers and arise to promote and practice it. Senses and faculties
have been bestowed upon us, to be devoted to the service of the
general good; so that we, distinguished above all other forms of
life for perceptiveness and reason, should labor at all times and
along all lines, whether the occasion be great or small, ordinary
or extraordinary, until all mankind are safely gathered into the
impregnable stronghold of knowledge. We should continually
be establishing new bases for human happiness and creating and
promoting new instrumentalities toward this end. How excellent,
how honorable is man if he arises to fulfill his responsibilities;
how wretched and contemptible, if he shuts his eyes to the welfare
of society and wastes his precious life in pursuing his own selfish
interests and personal advantages. Supreme happiness is man’s,
and he beholds the signs of God in the world and in the human
soul, if he urges on the steed of high endeavor in the arena of
civilization and justice.8
. . . arise with complete sincerity and purity of purpose to educate
the masses: to exert the utmost effort to instruct them in the
various branches of learning and useful sciences, to encourage
the development of modern progress, to widen the scope of
commerce, industry and the arts, to further such measures as will
increase the people’s wealth. For the mass of the population is
uninformed as to these vital agencies which would constitute an
immediate remedy for society’s chronic ills.
It is essential that scholars and the spiritually learned should
undertake in all sincerity and purity of intent and for the sake
of God alone, to counsel and exhort the masses and clarify their
vision with that collyrium which is knowledge.9

|
Revelation & Social Reality
All blessings are divine in origin, but none can be compared
with this power of intellectual investigation and research, which
is an eternal gift producing fruits of unending delight. . . . The
man of science is perceiving and endowed with vision, whereas
he who is ignorant and neglectful of this development is blind.
The investigating mind is attentive, alive; the callous and indif-
ferent mind is deaf and dead. A scientific man is a true index and
representative of humanity, for through processes of inductive
reasoning and research he is informed of all that appertains to
humanity, its status, conditions and happenings. He studies the
human body politic, understands social problems and weaves the
web and texture of civilization. In fact, science may be likened to a
mirror wherein the infinite forms and images of existing things are
revealed and reflected. It is the very foundation of all individual
and national development. Without this basis of investigation,
development is impossible. Therefore, seek with diligent endeavor
the knowledge and attainment of all that lies within the power of
this wonderful bestowal.10
Let your actions cry aloud to the world that you are indeed
Bahá’ís, for it is actions that speak to the world and are the cause
of the progress of humanity.
If we are true Bahá’ís speech is not needed. Our actions will
help on the world, will spread civilization, will help the progress
of science, and cause the arts to develop. Without action nothing
in the material world can be accomplished, neither can words
unaided advance a man in the spiritual Kingdom. It is not through
lip-service only that the elect of God have attained to holiness, but
by patient lives of active service they have brought light into the
world. . . .
This is the work of a true Bahá’í, and this is what is expected
of him. If we strive to do all this, then are we true Bahá’ís, but if
we neglect it, we are not followers of the Light, and we have no
right to the name.11
Given the magnitude of the transformation ahead and the
scope of human suffering today, the current efforts of the Bahá’í
community may appear to be but a mere drop. For a period of time,
Bahá’í influence on the social order will obviously be limited. Yet,
at least three areas of activity can be immediately identified. Bahá’ís
contribute through their work and professions to the generation
and application of knowledge in various disciplines. We contribute

Contributing to the Advancement of Civilization
|  113
to the social and economic development of our communities by
carrying out specific projects that benefit the general population
in their immediate surroundings. And we also participate in
humanity’s collective discourse, seeking solutions to problems and
encouraging action according to insights provided by Bahá’í teach-
ings. A notable example having to do with all of these three areas
of activity is emphasis on the education of girls.12 This is a teaching
that Bahá’ís have advocated for decades and the truth of which has
now been vindicated in practice and universally recognized in the
field of development. Over time, as the Faith grows in size, capacity
and experience, its direct role in promoting human welfare will no
doubt become increasingly significant.
Engaging in Diverse Fields of Human Endeavor
Bahá’ís are called to engage in all fields of endeavor that are of
benefit to humanity. In referring to the arts, crafts and sciences,
Bahá’u’lláh states: “Knowledge is as wings to man’s life and a ladder
for his ascent. Its acquisition is incumbent upon everyone.”13 “Let
the loved ones of God,” ‘Abdu’l-Bahá urges, “whether young or
old, whether male or female, each according to his capabilities,
bestir themselves and spare no efforts to acquire the various
current branches of knowledge, both spiritual and secular, and of
the arts.”14 And in another passage He states: “Make every effort
to acquire the advanced knowledge of the day, and strain every
nerve to carry forward the divine civilization. . . . Included must
be promotion of the arts, the discovery of new wonders, the expan-
sion of trade, and the development of industry.”15 Shoghi Effendi
explains that “It is just as important for the Bahá’í young boys and
girls to become properly educated in colleges of high standing as
it is to be spiritually developed.”16 He assigned to Local Assemblies
the responsibility to encourage the believers “to make detailed
inquiry into the various branches of contemporary learning—arts
and sciences alike—and to concentrate their attention on serving
the general interests of the people.”17 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and Shoghi
Effendi encouraged individuals to study such fields as the sciences,
medicine, agriculture, industrial sciences, journalism, philosophy,
history, economics, and sociology.
Participation in the various fields of human endeavors is an
essential aspect of service to humanity. The Universal House of
Justice indicates that young Bahá’ís

|
Revelation & Social Reality
must move towards the front ranks of the professions, trades,
arts and crafts which are necessary to the further progress of
humankind—this to ensure that the spirit of the Cause will cast
its illumination on all these important areas of human endeavor.
Moreover, while aiming at mastering the unifying concepts and
swiftly advancing technologies of this era of communications, they
can, indeed they must, also guarantee the transmittal to the future
of those skills which will preserve the marvelous, indispensable
achievements of the past. The transformation which is to occur in
the functioning of society will certainly depend to a great extent
on the effectiveness of the preparations the youth make for the
world they will inherit.18
The House of Justice cautions youth, however, that they must not
merely absorb all they are taught—rather, they face the difficult
challenge of evaluating what they learn in the light of the Bahá’í
teachings.
The Teachings of Bahá’u’lláh throw light on so many aspects of
­human life and knowledge that a Bahá’í must learn, earlier than
most, to weigh the information that is given to him rather than
to accept it blindly. A Bahá’í has the advantage of the Divine
Revelation for this Age, which shines like a searchlight on so many
problems that baffle modern thinkers; he must therefore develop
the ability to learn everything from those around him, showing
proper humility before his teachers, but always relating what he
hears to the Bahá’í teachings, for they will enable him to sort out
the gold from the dross of human error.19
The obligation to acquire and apply knowledge to serve hu-
manity and contribute to an ever-advancing civilization applies to
all believers without exception. Those with particular capacity for
achievement in various disciplines of human knowledge, of course,
are called to a higher level of scholarly pursuit. As a letter written
on behalf of the Guardian states:
The Cause needs more Bahá’í scholars, people who not only are
devoted to it and believe in it and are anxious to tell others about
it, but also who have a deep grasp of the Teachings and their
significance, and who can correlate its beliefs with the current
thoughts and problems of the people of the world.20

Contributing to the Advancement of Civilization
|  115
And as a letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice
explains:
As the Bahá’í community grows it will acquire experts in numer-
ous fields—both by Bahá’ís becoming experts and by experts
becoming Bahá’ís. As these experts bring their knowledge and skill
to the service of the community and, even more, as they transform
their various disciplines by bringing to bear upon them the light
of the Divine Teachings, problem after problem now disrupting
society will be answered. . . .
In time great Bahá’í institutions of learning, great interna-
tional and national projects for the betterment of human life will
be inaugurated and flourish.21
By participating in the diverse fields of human endeavor,
Bahá’ís help to contribute to the generation and application
of knowledge essential for the gradual advance of civilization.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá describes the gradual process of social change in The
Secret of Divine Civilization:
The world of politics is like the world of man; he is seed
at first, and then passes by degrees to the condition of embryo
and fetus, acquiring a bone structure, being clothed with flesh,
taking on his own special form, until at last he reaches the plane
where he can befittingly fulfill the words: “the most excellent of
Makers.” Just as this is a requirement of creation and is based on
the universal Wisdom, the political world in the same way cannot
instantaneously evolve from the nadir of defectiveness to the
zenith of rightness and perfection. Rather, qualified individuals
must strive by day and by night, using all those means which
will conduce to progress, until the government and the people
develop along every line from day to day and even from moment
to moment.22
The Relationship Between Science and Religion
The appeal to young Bahá’ís “to weigh the information that is
given” and to Bahá’í experts to “transform their various disciplines
by bringing to bear upon them the light of the Divine Teachings”
is made in light of the understanding that the commonly accepted
assumptions and approaches of various fields are subject to debate,
investigation, evaluation, and continual refinement in ways that

|
Revelation & Social Reality
are inherent to scientific and rational inquiry. The engagement
of Bahá’ís in all fields of knowledge, then, requires the struggle to
draw upon insights from religion and science on theory, method
and practice. The efforts of learned Bahá’ís to find an appropriate
engagement between religion and science, however, can never be
reduced to scholasticism or scientism.
Insights from religion cannot be thrust arbitrarily into the
discourse of a particular discipline. It would be unacceptable and
completely unconvincing to a scientist, for example, if a quotation
from the Bahá’í Writings were used in an attempt to overturn
scientific understanding of biological evolution while justifying
nonscientific arguments such as intelligent design which are, in
fact, theological or philosophical in nature. Whatever the source
of inspiration, a hypothesis must be tested according to scientific
methods and standards, producing change that can be articulated
and justified within the domain of science. So too, insights from
various disciplines of human knowledge cannot be arbitrarily
imposed on the understanding and practice of the Bahá’í com-
munity. A particular tool of scholarly inquiry, for example, such
as historical criticism,23 may be very useful in shedding light on
aspects of the teachings. Yet, the scope of the validity of such tools
is a topic of discussion even within academia. While they may have
value to Bahá’ís engaged in scholarly study of the Faith, they cannot
be blindly accepted as instruments that yield “scientific truth” and
used to justify propositions that overturn explicit Bahá’í concepts
presented in the authoritative Texts.24
That religion may be a source of inspiration for art, music,
poetry, and architecture is readily apparent. In other fields, such as
the trades or natural sciences, any suggestion of a direct contribu-
tion from religion may seem invasive or irrelevant—until one
contemplates the value of an honest auto mechanic or the damage
caused when corporations determine that there is no profit in
using science to attack diseases endemic to poor countries. It
would seem that particularly in fields that directly address human
well-being—education, psychology, economics, sociology, and so
on—the insights or principles of religion would be most relevant.
While there has been, of course, a traditional tension between
science and religion (or more broadly, between the disciplines of
human knowledge and religion), Bahá’ís seek a harmony between
the two.

Contributing to the Advancement of Civilization
|  117
In an article entitled “Overview of the Structure of a
Scientific Worldview,” John J. Carvalho observes that science
rests upon certain philosophical assumptions while embracing
certain methods for the investigation of reality. Science is engaged
in the search for truth—not absolute truth—and as he explains,
“science, as a rational enterprise, can gain knowledge about the
universe in a systematic, progressive, and meaningful way by
acquiring contingent, partial truths the sum total of which provide
a reasonable idea of how the world works.”25 According to a large
number of thinkers like Carvalho, a scientific worldview is not
comprehensive—it cannot answer all the questions of interest to
humanity. Where the scope of science ends, philosophy or religion
steps in. If a philosophical or religious worldview attempts to
be comprehensive, it must accommodate and not contradict the
truths of science. As Carvalho states:
. . . comprehensiveness cannot be achieved by a strictly scientific
worldview. Rather, such comprehensiveness needs a philosophical
worldview that may have science as a component but not as the
element whereby hierarchical tenets are formed. . . . [I]n such a
worldview scientific information is used by philosophical theory
construction to answer questions that science alone could not
solve. The question then becomes whether a philosophical world-
view is adequate to explain the sum total of reality or whether a
theological perspective is required. This position, one that many
nontheist scientists refuse to recognize, is actually the position
that must be taken given the scope of any scientific worldview. The
methods of science answer scientific questions, and the methods
of philosophy and theology answer questions about the ethical
implications of scientific information or what can be inferred from
scientific information about nonscientific phenomena, such as the
possible existence of a divine entity whose status is “supernatural”
and therefore beyond the immediate hypothetico-deductive or
statistical-relevance methods of science, which deal with objects
that are naturally observable. . . .
. . . [A] theological worldview is more extensive than a strictly
scientific one, because it asks questions that science alone does not
ask. Furthermore, it seems clear that the debate in the science-
religion dialogue is between comprehensive philosophical world-
views and comprehensive theological worldviews, which act as
umbrella world views encompassing noncomprehensive scientific

|
Revelation & Social Reality
worldviews. It also is clear that any comprehensive worldview
must take into account the modern noncomprehensive scientific
worldview for the obvious reason that if it did not, it would be
by definition noncomprehensive itself, lacking the questions the
scientific worldview asks and effectively answers.26
In this light, a perceived clash between science and religion
could indeed be a clash between a scientific worldview and a reli-
gious worldview that is unscientific, and thus, noncomprehensive.
But it could also be between a philosophical worldview in which
science is embedded and a comprehensive religious worldview
that also includes science. Thus materialism, as a philosophical
perspective that encompasses science, seeks to reduce religion
to the material realm, described as a mere social phenomena,
biochemical impulse, or set of superstitions, thereby invalidating
religion’s claim to offer comprehensive or even useful contributions
to humanity’s endless search for meaning. A religious perspective
that fully embraces science seeks a harmony between science and
religion, and can legitimately challenge philosophical assumptions
and conclusions that are imposed upon scientific inquiry or prof-
fered in the guise of scientific truth.
Another useful insight into the relationship between sci-
ence and religion is provided by Stephen Toulmin in his book,
Cosmopolis, which traces the evolution of the Enlightenment
project over more than three centuries. In reflecting on the relation-
ship between science and religion, Toulmin observes that there
was no enduring conflict between these two knowledge systems
in the period predating modernity. And in the initial stage of the
Enlightenment, religion could readily accommodate Newtonian
physics with the conception of God as clockmaker. It was the
evolution in thought driven by new scientific insights that over the
course of the modern age challenged the founding assumptions of
the Enlightenment and gave rise to increasing pressure on religion.
Toulmin writes:
Before the Reformation, Christianity had little investment in
doctrines which natural science had any reason to dispute. . . .
The alleged incompatibility of science and theology was thus a
conflict within Modernity, which arose as the growth of experience
gave scientists occasion to question beliefs used by Counter-
Reformation Catholics and Protestants alike after 1650, in their
edifying sermons on the wisdom of God’s creation.

Contributing to the Advancement of Civilization
|  119
. . . From then on, recurrent controversies . . . pitted a system
of dogmatic theory against the skeptical testimony of human
experience, and challenged the position of people whose position
was less a belief in any particular doctrine than a belief in belief
itself.27
Toulmin’s account of the history of modernity offers insight
into certain challenges facing Bahá’ís engaged in scholarly activity.
Bahá’ís are involved in a new undertaking, but the approach and
the specific language used to explore the relationship between
science and religion has developed within the historical experience
of the encounter between Christianity and an emerging empirical
science in Western thought. Imposing modernity’s assumptions
and problems on the Faith produces an impasse. An undercurrent
of concerns juxtaposing fundamentalism and liberalism, author-
ity and evidence, or received doctrines and free investigation
refuel the outworn debate between faith and reason and obscure
the truth that the unfoldment of Bahá’í discourse is not merely
a continuation of the struggles of modernity. Rather, the Bahá’í
teachings address modernity’s culmination and beyond. As any
Manifestation must, Bahá’u’lláh begins His conversation with
humanity within the framework of its ongoing discussions, includ-
ing that of Enlightenment thought. But He extends these concepts
to create new understandings and to cultivate intersubjective
agreements that are intended to give rise to a new world order and
a new civilization.
In the Enlightenment quest for truth through science and
reason, religion has been gradually set aside into a realm of per-
sonal preference. The alternative put forward in the Bahá’í teachings
upholds the validity of scientific inquiry, but enables humanity to
apply the powers of reason and faith to explore systematically a
wider realm of values, human capacity, and spiritual and social
­realities so as to contribute to greater understanding and the
progress and well-being of humanity.
The Universal House of Justice has observed that “science and
religion are the two inseparable, reciprocal systems of knowledge
impelling the advancement of civilization.”28 In His talks, ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá described how these two are related, explaining that
Any religious belief which is not conformable with scientific
proof and investigation is superstition, for true science is reason
and reality, and religion is essentially reality and pure reason;

|
Revelation & Social Reality
therefore, the two must correspond. Religious teaching which is at
variance with science and reason is human invention and imagina-
tion unworthy of acceptance, for the antithesis and opposite of
knowledge is superstition born of the ignorance of man. If we say
religion is opposed to science, we lack knowledge of either true
science or true religion, for both are founded upon the premises
and conclusions of reason, and both must bear its test.29
And He adds:
We may think of science as one wing and religion as the other; a
bird needs two wings for flight, one alone would be useless. Any
religion that contradicts science or that is opposed to it, is only
ignorance—for ignorance is the opposite of knowledge.
Religion which consists only of rites and ceremonies of preju-
dice is not the truth. Let us earnestly endeavor to be the means of
uniting religion and science.
. . . Whatever the intelligence of man cannot understand,
religion ought not to accept. Religion and science walk hand in
hand, and any religion contrary to science is not the truth.30
These statements indicate that, for Bahá’ís, science and religion
are not in conflict. Nor are they simply incommensurable, explor-
ing in different ways different domains that are mutually exclusive.
The Bahá’í teachings offer an approach to reality that lies beyond
the debates arising from modern and postmodern thought, without
ignoring the truths or valid criticisms in each. This approach
encompasses a scientific worldview but is more comprehensive,
addressing a wider range of questions that are essential to human
progress.31
In chapter 1, three levels of understanding that pertain to
spiritual reality were described: 1) reality “as it is,” 2) Revelation
or the knowledge offered by the Manifestation, and 3) the level
of human comprehension of religious belief and practice. In a
similar manner, the Bahá’í view of the harmony between science
and religion can be illustrated by drawing parallels between
physical and spiritual reality. Of course, any effort to convey
complex concepts within the confines of a simple table is overly
reductionistic. Yet certain insights emerge from a comparison of
the levels of comprehending reality; in this instance four levels are
proposed in order to distinguish between the levels of theoretical
and practical knowledge.32

Contributing to the Advancement of Civilization
|  121
Level 1
Reality
(ontologically objective reality; reality
“as it is”; the “mind of God”)
Level 2
Revelation (R2)
(Revelation that can
be known; the revealed
Word of God; the Book
& its authoritative
interpretation)
the Universe (S2)
(physical & human reality;
facts, patterns & laws of
creation that can be known
by the human mind)
Level 3
knowledge system
of religion (R3)
(the body of religious
knowledge, including
methods & standards of
inquiry and justification)
knowledge system
of science (S3)
(the body of scientific
knowledge, including
methods & standards of
inquiry and justification)
Level 4
practical knowledge
associated with
spiritual life & moral
social practice (R4)
technology &
practical knowledge
associated with
material progress (S4)
First, as in the case of a religious perspective, there is a level of
reality that lies beyond the reach of scientific investigation. Roughly
equivalent to the second level, Revelation, are the laws of nature, the
facts of the physical world, and the mental and social dimensions of
humanity, which we might summarize as “the universe.” These are
aspects of existence that are potentially discoverable by humanity.33
Human knowledge can perhaps be divided into two levels that are
essentially integrated: a level that represents the knowledge system
of science, with a distinct body of knowledge that grows and evolves
over time through the application of accepted methods, and a level
that represents the technical or practical knowledge derived from
the application of scientific knowledge or from practice to contrib-
ute to an ever-advancing civilization and which is comparable to
religious practice.
The conception of truth varies in relation to each of these levels
of comprehension. The truth that is associated with the essential
­nature of reality is beyond human capacity to even contemplate
(level 1). Humanity attempts to investigate the truth that corresponds
with reality as manifested in the text of the Revelation (R2) and the

|
Revelation & Social Reality
physical and human world (S2). Because of the limitations of human
capacity, we cannot achieve this level of understanding. Yet, we also
cannot avoid the implications of the truths of reality. The mutable
knowledge that constitutes the horizon of human comprehension is
continually tested against the brute facts of physical reality, through
the understanding and methods of the scientific community (S3),
and against the verses of Revelation, through the understanding and
methods of the religious community (R3). Truth, at this third level,
is justified knowledge, and represents humanity’s best insight into
the universe and Revelation (S2 and R2). Such truths are subject to
alteration or refinement over time as more profound understandings
that encompass and transcend previous notions emerge through
practical action to shape society (S4 and R4).
Without an appreciation of the difference between the mutable
nature of knowledge at level 3 and the immutable nature of truth
and reality at level 2, a number of errors of reasoning may occur.
Fundamentalism is a belief that human religious understanding is
equivalent to what is presented in the Revelation (R3 = R2), and
that as a result, deductions of religious belief supersede scientific
knowledge (R3 > S3) or are even used to reject observable facts
of the physical world (R3 > S2). Scientism or positivism equates
scientific knowledge with knowledge of physical reality “as it
is” (S3 = S2 or even S3 = level 1) and includes the assertion that
science can be used to weigh Revelation (S3 > R2). Relativism
rejects any preference given to religion or science (R3 or S3) as
knowledge systems over any other way of knowing or describing
reality, essentially denying the existence of any reality except that
constructed by ­human understanding (essentially denying level 1
or S2 and R2 while permitting innumerable parallels to S3 and S4
and R3 and R4).
The Bahá’í principle of the harmony of science and religion
implies that these knowledge systems operate in a parallel and
complementary manner. They shed light on aspects of a single
reality within which there is no true contradiction (S2 and R2 do
not contradict one another).34 However, at any given point, human
knowledge may not be able to transcend a contradiction in its
representations of reality—currently held scientific or religious
perspectives may clash (S3 vs. R3). In these instances, scientific
knowledge (S3) is a means by which we can check our interpreta-
tions of Revelation (our religious beliefs, R3), so that they do
not degenerate into superstition (in general, S3 > R3, according

Contributing to the Advancement of Civilization
|  123
to the explicit statement of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá).35 True religion is not
unscientific, and therefore religious beliefs and practice must be
correlated with the understanding of reality derived from science.
Yet the Bahá’í Writings also clarify that the meaning of the Text or
its authoritative interpretation cannot be judged by limited human
standards (S3 ⁄≥ R2).36 So too, our religious understanding (R3) can
guide the manner in which scientific knowledge and technology
(S3 or S4) are used to contribute to society, thus preventing them
from becoming mere instruments of materialism.37 The community
of practice that is science and the community of practice that is re-
ligion engage and influence one another and humanity as a whole;
this engagement is most intense in the areas of common concern,
such as human nature and behavior, ethics and morality, education,
and the domain of the social sciences.
In science, if a sufficient number of observed facts (S2) stand in
contradiction to a theory held in the body of scientific knowledge
(S3), then that theory may require modification or may be rejected.
If certain scientific methods (S3) produce outcomes that conflict
with reality (S2), then those methods are in question and are
likely to be discarded or modified, or at least used only within the
limited range of circumstances in which they produce valid results.
The same principle holds true for religion. Methods of individual
interpretation or action must produce understanding and practices
(R3 or R4) that correspond to the authoritative statements of the
Text (R2). The purpose of study and scholarly activity that explores
the Revelation is, therefore, to improve understanding and practice
(that is, a change in understanding and action with R3 or R4 that
expands upon or advances the previous notions of R3 or R4 because
it draws us closer to R2). Care must be exercised that personal
interpretation does not distort, deny, or contend with the Word
or its authorized interpretation or attempt to direct Bahá’í practice
along lines that contradict the guidance of the Universal House of
Justice.
Moving Beyond Perceived Tensions
Between Science and Religion
Even though science and religion are not fundamentally in conflict,
tensions or ambiguity will sometimes arise between the involve-
ment of individual Bahá’ís in study and action as believers and their

|
Revelation & Social Reality
engagement in a professional discipline, particularly scientific or
scholarly inquiry. How are such tensions resolved?
In the book Our Practices, Our Selves: Or, What it Means to be
Human, Todd May introduces the concept of a “practice,” which
he describes as “a regularity (or regularities) of behavior, usually
goal-directed, that is socially normatively governed.”38 According to
May, practices constitute a large part of what it means to be a hu-
man being. Examples of practices include using credit cards, raising
children, engaging in a profession, or participating in politics.
Communities and even cultures can be understood as practices,
such as scientists, church-goers, or members of the legal profession.
In these cases, shared participation in a community says something
meaningful about the participant’s personal identity.
May explains that “To be committed to a practice . . . is to be
committed to enough of the claims, findings, and theories of that
practice—and particularly its ‘central’ claims, findings, theories,
and so on—as to be reasonably seen as being committed to it.”39
Thus, each practice has its own body of knowledge, its own criteria
for justification, and its own methods of investigating reality and
discovering truth. Different practices may interact and, through
the exchange of ideas, influence one another; but change occurs as
a result of a practice affirming new conclusions based on its own
criteria. An individual is usually a member of more than one com-
munity of practice, and therefore, is able to contribute to change
within a particular practice by introducing new insights from
others. Different practices are, however, not relativistic groupings
free to occupy distinct realms each with their “own” truth, since
insights are ultimately checked against reality and must, over time,
yield to it. An individual is confronted, therefore, by the tensions
that come from the competing truth claims and standards found
within the various practices that are embraced.
Bahá’ís, of course, would never limit human capacity merely to
its social dimension. And it is possible to describe a Bahá’í approach
to the relationship between science and religion in very different
terms. Nevertheless, May’s approach to practices offers a perspec-
tive that may be useful in understanding and resolving any appar-
ent tensions between science and religion that emerge for a Bahá’í
engaged in scholarly activity. We can see that Bahá’ís participate in
a wide range of social practices in addition to membership in the
Bahá’í community. In so doing, we bring insights from Bahá’u’lláh’s
teachings to those practices and influence them—within the range

Contributing to the Advancement of Civilization
|  125
of the internally accepted standards of that practice. And we can
gain insights from these practices and bring them into the Bahá’í
community—to the degree that they are acceptable within the
range of internal standards of the Bahá’í teachings.
From this perspective, Bahá’í scholarship, as described by the
Central Figures of the Faith and the Universal House of Justice, is
an internal function of the Bahá’í community of practice; it is not
the academic study of the Bahá’í Faith. It is open to all believers
according to their capacity, not just Bahá’í academics. It serves
the purposes of the Faith. It has its standards of rationality and
justification, and its own growing body of knowledge. These are
derived from the Bahá’í Writings as well as from validated elements
drawn from the wide range of other practices in which Bahá’ís
engage, including the natural sciences, the social sciences, and the
humanities. An academic who is a Bahá’í can, of course, participate
in this internal scholarly activity and simultaneously be a member
of an academic community of practice.
Disciplines such as economics, philosophy, history or religious
studies give rise to their own communities of practice. They
have their own bodies of knowledge, standards and methods
with which they explore reality and come to understandings that
guide judgment and action. Bahá’ís who are participants in such
academic communities of practice are correct to point out that they
are obliged to conform to the accepted range of methods, criteria,
and truths. Otherwise, they would never be taken seriously and
their arguments would have no influence. There is also a need to
acknowledge, however, that academic practices do evolve and that
Bahá’ís can contribute to that evolution. Within any academic field
there is inevitably a range of voices, theories, and approaches, some
of which are closer to Bahá’í teachings than others; Bahá’í students
and practitioners within a discipline can seek out and build upon
compatible approaches. Yet, change within a practice—even revo-
lutionary change—takes place according to its own standards and
web of belief, not because ideas are imposed from the outside.
How is it possible to work within two practices that sometimes
have divergent assumptions or standards—in particular, the prac-
tice of a religion and the practice of the academic study of religion
that cannot take into account metaphysical influences? What is
a Bahá’í to do? Moojan Momen, in the article “Methodology in
Bahá’í Studies,” reviews a range of options, including an “interior
scholarship” that would take place within the Bahá’í community

|
Revelation & Social Reality
alone using a “faith-based, revelation-centered methodology,” and
an “external scholarship,” an involvement with the academic world
that may require suspending the Bahá’í viewpoint on reality or
focusing on areas that are more compatible with Bahá’í principles.
He concludes with his own preference: “writing material that satis-
fies both the academic community and the believing community.”40
Writing in such a manner that is acceptable to the standards of
reasonable individuals within both practices seems to resolve the
dilemma in most cases.
A problem arises, however, when demands of the two practices
cannot be reconciled. Todd May suggests three possible outcomes.
First, it is possible to live with ambiguity, anticipating resolution at
a future time. Ambiguity is inherent in scientific inquiry; to find it
in the engagement between science and religion is, therefore, un-
surprising. Reality is one, but our practices, being fallible, involve
insights into reality that evolve to become more robust. This is true
also of our practice of the Faith, since “practice” in this respect is
concerned with the capacity of the believers to understand and act
on Bahá’u’lláh’s teachings, not with Bahá’u’lláh’s capacity or the
nature of His Revelation. An entire lifetime may pass—perhaps
many lifetimes—before certain questions can be resolved. A second
possible outcome is that the understandings from one practice
help to shape the other in a manner that eliminates an apparent
contradiction. Again, reciprocity is required, in that either practice
can influence the other—not by imposing outside standards but by
introducing influence or new insights that provoke change from
within. If insights from science or other disciplines cause a change
in the Bahá’í community, this is a change in the perception of the
believers that draws them closer to Bahá’u’lláh’s intended meaning
and purpose. A final possibility is that an individual, unable to
reconcile the two practices and unwilling to tolerate ambiguity,
will reject and withdraw from one of the practices. In various state-
ments, the Universal House of Justice has acknowledged all three
of these alternatives.41
It is not reasonable to assume, however, that an individual who
is committed to the investigation of reality and the search for truth
and who is involved in both practices, would participate in one
while ignoring what has been accepted as true within the other.
This is just another face of extreme relativism.42 It implies living
within separate, contradictory worlds, fully embracing each on
its own terms without regard for the conflicts and inconsistencies

Contributing to the Advancement of Civilization
|  127
such a life engenders. Far more reasonable, albeit more difficult at
times, is to acknowledge the possibility of conclusions that could
be reached within religious worldviews, identify discrepancies, and
use them as starting points for gaining deeper insights into reality.
Thus a Bahá’í historian, for example, may not be able to introduce
into the discipline the argument that divine forces influence events;
this concept can be set aside while other forces are being examined.
Yet a believer’s assumptions, arguments and conclusions cannot
be identical with those that result from an entirely materialistic
worldview, a view that implicitly demands that all historians be
materialists while hiding such demand in its apparently innocent
requirement that the scholar totally ignore his or her faith when
engaged in rational inquiry.
When an individual sees participation in formal processes
of the generation and application of knowledge in two or more
communities of practice as complementary, the contribution to
both acquires special value. The practice of the Bahá’í community
is still in an early formative stage. Bahá’í scholarly activity is part of
Bahá’í practice and therefore adheres to its methods and standards,
including for example its own hermeneutical principles. While it
is true that the Revelation does not change, our understanding
of the Revelation does change, and therefore the application of
the knowledge, methods, and standards of Bahá’í practice evolve
throughout the dispensation. Learned Bahá’ís who are members of
other communities of practice—historians, sociologists, lawyers,
biologists, political scientists, anthropologists, philosophers, educa-
tors and so on—can draw upon the insights gained in their fields
and propose ideas and methods that are valuable in understanding
the teachings and in translating them into action. Those in accord
with the Bahá’í community’s understanding of the inviolable tenets
of the Faith will, in one way or another, be adopted. The progress
thus achieved creates more capacity in the Bahá’í community to
undertake scholarly activity. This in turn makes it possible for an
increasing number of individuals to participate meaningfully in the
many fields of human activity and contribute to the generation of
knowledge indispensable for the advancement of civilization.
Bahá’í Involvement in Social and Economic Development
A brief account of the evolution of thought and practice in the
Bahá’í community regarding the social and economic development

|
Revelation & Social Reality
of peoples may shed further light on its attempts to contribute
to the civilization-building process. While development may
more ­appropriately be considered the outcome of endeavors in
such diverse fields as economics, education, health, agriculture,
anthropology, international law, and governance, for more than
a half century it has been a distinct field of activity, an area of
focus involving exhaustive and intensive study and action. From
simple beginnings near the start of the dispensation, Bahá’ís have
combined understanding of Bahá’í teachings relevant to social and
economic development with knowledge of the various associated
fields, to engage in their own ever-more complex development
practice. This insight and experience has served as the basis for an
expanding discourse with the wider society.
Bahá’í engagement in development receives its impulse from
Bahá’u’lláh’s Revelation. As the Universal House of Justice explains:
From the beginning of His stupendous mission, Bahá’u’lláh
urged upon the attention of nations the necessity of ordering
human affairs in such a way as to bring into being a world unified
in all the essential aspects of its life. In unnumbered verses and
tablets He repeatedly and variously declared the “progress of the
world” and the “development of nations” as being among the
ordinances of God for this day.43
Social and economic development is an aspect of the consolida-
tion of Bahá’í communities. It is that part of community life which
is to be associated, in the fullness of time, with the dependencies
of the Mashriqu’l-Adhkár, “the spiritual center of every Bahá’í
community round which must flourish dependencies dedicated to
the social, humanitarian, educational and scientific advancement of
mankind.”44 Its watchword is coherence between the material and
the spiritual. Its aim is not achieved merely through the delivery of
charitable services; its central concern is the building of the capacity
of people to guide their own development. A document prepared at
the Bahá’í World Centre offers the following definition:
Central to the capacity of a Bahá’í community to lead a pro-
cess of transformation is the ability of its members and institutions
to apply the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh to various aspects of life and
thereby establish consistent patterns of change. In fact, learning
to apply the Teachings to achieve progress could be taken as the
very definition of Bahá’í social and economic development. Such

Contributing to the Advancement of Civilization
|  129
learning has to occur locally, regionally, nationally and inter-
nationally and become the axis around which our development
efforts are organized at all levels.
Learning in this sense is not limited to study and evaluation.
It comes about in combination with action. The believers must
regularly engage in consultation, action, reflection—all in the
light of the guidance inherent in the Teachings of the Faith. Such
a learning process can occur in a very simple manner at the village
and local level, but with greater sophistication by national agencies
and institutions. At the international level, it calls for a higher
degree of conceptualization, one that takes account of the broader
processes of global transformation as described in the Writings
and serves to adjust the overall direction of development activities
in each country accordingly.45
In calling the Bahá’í world to more systematic involvement in
development, the House of Justice stated:
The steps to be taken must necessarily begin in the Bahá’í
Community itself, with the friends endeavoring, through their
application of spiritual principles, their rectitude of conduct and
the practice of the art of consultation, to uplift themselves and
thus become self-sufficient and self-reliant. Moreover, these exer-
tions will conduce to the preservation of human honor, so desired
by Bahá’u’lláh. In the process and as a consequence, the friends
will undoubtedly extend the benefits of their efforts to society as
a whole, until all mankind achieves the progress intended by the
Lord of the Age.46
The principle that development is intended for the well being
of all, not just Bahá’ís alone, governs Bahá’í endeavors in this field.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá notes that “In all the cycles of the prophets the philan-
thropic affairs were confined to their respective peoples only—with
the exception of small matters, such as charity, which was permis-
sible to extend to others.” He indicates, however, that Bahá’í efforts
in this regard “are for all humanity, without any exception, because
it is the manifestation of the mercifulness of God.”47 Bahá’í develop-
ment is an act of “disinterested service to the cause of humanity,”48
and in that light, is an inseparable aspect of what it means to be a
Bahá’í. “Do not busy yourselves in your own concerns;” Bahá’u’lláh
commands His followers, “let your thoughts be fixed upon that
which will rehabilitate the fortunes of mankind.”49

|
Revelation & Social Reality
For more than a century after the birth of the Faith, the number
of believers was too small and communities were too weak for
Bahá’ís to be systematically engaged in development activities any-
where outside of Iran. The specific experience of the Iranian Bahá’í
community, which had received direct guidance from ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
and Shoghi Effendi, was particularly noteworthy, however. Through
diligent work in areas such as education, health, economic develop-
ment and literacy, the believers achieved a marked advance in two
to three generations, creating a community that was in the forefront
of many a praiseworthy field of endeavor. Despite widespread
opposition, its efforts also had a profound influence upon Iranian
society. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and Shoghi Effendi continually exhorted the
Bahá’ís to distinctive service to the entire population, as illustrated
by the following passage from the Guardian:
In philanthropic enterprises and acts of charity, in promotion of
the general welfare and furtherance of the public good including
that of every group without any exceptions whatever, let the
beloved of God attract the favorable attention of all, and lead all
the rest.
Let them, freely and without charge, open the doors of their
schools and their higher institutions for the study of sciences and
the liberal arts, to non-Bahá’í children and youth who are poor
and in need. . . . At this time, when the nation has awakened out of
its sleep of negligence, and the Government has begun to consider
the promotion and expansion of its educational establishment, let
the Bahá’í representatives in that country arise in such a manner
that as a result of their high endeavors in every hamlet, village
and town, of every province and district, preliminary measures
will be taken for the setting up of institutions for the study of
sciences, the liberal arts and religion. Let Bahá’í children without
any exceptions learn the fundamentals of reading and writing and
familiarize themselves with the rules of conduct, the customs,
practices and laws as set forth in the Book of God; and let them,
in the new branches of knowledge, in the arts and technology of
the day, in pure and praiseworthy characteristics—Bahá’í conduct,
the Bahá’í way of life—become so distinguished above the rest that
all other communities, whether Islamic, Zoroastrian, Christian,
Judaic or materialist, will of their own volition and most gladly
enter their children in such advanced Bahá’í institutions of learn-
ing and entrust them to the care of Bahá’í instructors.50

Contributing to the Advancement of Civilization
|  131
The year 1983 saw the beginning of a new phase in the evolution
of the Bahá’í community. In its message of 20 October, the Universal
House of Justice explained that “the community of the Greatest
Name has grown to the stage at which the processes of [social
and economic] development must be incorporated into its regular
pursuits.” Action was particularly “compelled by the expansion of
the Faith in Third World countries where the vast majority of its
adherents reside.”51 Development activity became a fundamental
aspect of the plans of Bahá’í communities worldwide.
The first decade of involvement in social and economic
development included a wide variety of activities; it constituted
“a period of experimentation, characterized simultaneously by
enthusiasm and trepidation, thoughtful planning and haphazard
action, achievements and setbacks.”52 In 1993, an analysis of the
experience to date was conducted and new strategies formulated.
These were presented in “Bahá’í Social and Economic Development:
Prospects for the Future,” a statement prepared in August 1993 at
the Bahá’í World Centre and approved by the Universal House
of Justice. Among the measures to be taken to systematize Bahá’í
development work, the document suggested that the Office of
Social and Economic Development at the Bahá’í World Centre,
created “to promote and coordinate the activities of the friends
throughout the world,” develop the capacity to “facilitate learning
about development by fostering and supporting action, reflection
on action, study, consultation, the gathering and systematization of
experience, conceptualization, and training—all carried out in the
light of the Teachings of the Faith.”53
Since 1993, additional documents have been written on
the subject of development.54 These include “The Prosperity of
Humankind,” prepared by the Bahá’í International Community
and three items prepared by the Office of Social and Economic
Development at the Bahá’í World Centre: “The Evolution of
Institutional Capacity for Social and Economic Development,”
“A Clarification of Some Issues Concerning Social and Economic
Development in Local and National Communities,” and For the
Betterment of the World. The purpose of the first document is to
foster understanding about global prosperity within the Bahá’í
community. The second outlines the emergence of strong institu-
tions for guiding development projects. The third addresses a range
of questions that had arisen since the strategies in the “Prospects”
document were implemented, including the relationship between

|
Revelation & Social Reality
teaching and development, and the role of training institutes in de-
velopment. The fourth provides an overview of the Bahá’í approach
to development illustrated by examples of specific projects. Taken
together, these documents are a reflection on practical experience,
a response to emerging challenges, and an overview of vision,
strategies, and lines of action that will guide the course of Bahá’í
development activities in the coming decades.
After the first quarter century of systematic development activ-
ity, there are several thousand social and economic development
activities conducted by Bahá’ís in more than 100 countries. They
span such diverse domains as agriculture, education, microenter-
prise, governance, environment, vocational training, technology,
rural development, literacy, health, race unity, children’s rights,
youth empowerment, and the advancement of women. The vast
majority of these are fairly simple activities of limited duration in
which Bahá’ís in villages and towns around the world are beginning
to address the challenges facing their localities. More than 500 are
sustained projects, many with permanent administrative structures,
while some 50 organizations have evolved to the point where they
have relatively complex programmatic structures and significant
spheres of influence.55
Beyond specific Bahá’í projects, thousands of believers
participate professionally and as volunteers in other development
efforts. The House of Justice has encouraged such individuals to
“participate in worthy endeavors outside the Faith in order to influ-
ence their professional fields and infuse them with the teachings of
Bahá’u’lláh” for “this is, in and of itself, a tremendous service to the
Cause” and they should “not feel that they are serving the Faith only
if they dedicate themselves directly to Bahá’í projects.”56
The nascent character of current Bahá’í development activities
cannot be overemphasized. Yet Bahá’ís are striving to increase the
number and complexity of projects through which we can apply
Bahá’í teachings in diverse fields and at increasingly higher levels
of sophistication. As has been the case with the expansion and
consolidation of the Faith, here too the emphasis is on learning
and the generation of knowledge. The approach being promoted
by the Office of Social and Economic Development centers on
two complementary undertakings. The first involves building
institutional capacity to guide the learning of the people of a region
to become the protagonists of their own progress, which includes
the development of human resources through formal educational

Contributing to the Advancement of Civilization
|  133
programs. The second involves consolidating the learning experi-
ence of these institutions and disseminating it effectively to other
communities.
Every Bahá’í development project—even the smallest effort at
the grassroots—may be considered, and should strive to become,
a center of learning on how to achieve human prosperity. Most
projects begin by addressing specific challenges facing a popula-
tion in simple ways. As the work advances, however, the need for
increased institutional capacity becomes apparent, the capacity
to assess social forces and conditions, create a vision of possible
action, devise well-defined strategies, manage resources, and imple-
ment one or more lines of action. In time, lines of action need to be
integrated so that the problems of local communities and regions
can be addressed in a coherent, interdisciplinary manner. In this
way, a population can, over time, reflect upon, modify, and restate
its vision, adapt its responses, and advance.
The training institute, by now a well-established feature of the
Bahá’í community, is essential to the creation of capacity in the
people of a region to become protagonists of their own social and
economic development. The spiritual insights it offers in its courses
prove indispensable to a development process that seeks coherence
between the spiritual and material, and the attitudes and skills of
service it helps develop enhance the ability of its participants to
become engaged in sustained social action. In fact, there is every
indication that many of the branch courses emerging from such
sustained action will be concerned with training in one or another
aspect of social and economic development. The Universal House
of Justice has explained, that training institutes can develop human
resources for participation in activities for social and economic
development and can even run development projects.
It is understood that the institute will be an agency for the
development of human resources for activities of expansion
and consolidation, as well as for projects of social and economic
development. . . . In this latter context, it could also gradually
take on the administration of the development projects. . . . The
institute can establish a clear-cut organizational structure that has
various departments and sections, each of which is dedicated to
one of its programs—a health program, a literacy program, and so
on—as well as those for training human resources for expansion
and consolidation.57

|
Revelation & Social Reality
Because of the many challenges facing training institutes in the
development of human resources for expansion and consolidation,
by the end of the Five Year Plan in 2006, only a small number
had some level of involvement with development activities. These
institutes explored how development efforts emerge and are
integrated with activities of the community in a rapidly growing
cluster, involving activities such as tutorial schools, radio stations,
or programs for primary health educators.
Institutional capacity to engage in social and economic
development activity in the Bahá’í world today lies mostly in Bahá’í-
inspired, non-governmental, not-for-profit organizations each
created by a group of believers who share a common vision. The
multiplication and strengthening of these organizations is a highly
promising and significant area of Bahá’í endeavor. A letter written
on behalf of the Universal House of Justice explains:
As a national community grows, the activities undertaken by its
members also increase in number and diversity. Some of these
activities will be initiated and administered by the Bahá’í institu-
tions. Others will fall in the realm of private initiative. . . .
The private initiatives of believers need not, however, be
limited to business ventures. The laws of most societies allow for
the establishment of non-profit organizations which, while private,
are subject to special regulations and enjoy certain privileges.
Customarily a board of trustees is responsible for all the affairs of
such an organization and must ensure that its income is spent for
the purpose stipulated in its by-laws. This board also oversees the
functioning of the projects of the organization and the work of
those who are in charge of them. An increasing number of believ-
ers around the world are taking advantage of this possibility and
creating organizations dedicated to the application of Bahá’u’lláh’s
teachings to the analysis and resolution of important social and
economic issues. The House of Justice looks with keen interest on
this growing phenomenon in the Bahá’í world.58
As Bahá’í development agencies increase their capacity to guide
action and learning, each in one or more regions, they accumulate
experience that can be analyzed and distilled. Eventually, either
from the proven experience of a single organization, or from the
combination of lessons from various agencies, enough knowledge is
gathered to be shared with a wide range of organizations in diverse
countries to accumulate further experience. When the process of

Contributing to the Advancement of Civilization
|  135
revision based on action and reflection is sufficiently advanced, a
program begins to emerge that Bahá’í agencies and development
organizations around the world can adopt, and implement accord-
ing to local circumstances. This consolidation and dissemination
of learning may even lead to projects involving collaboration with
national governments or international agencies.
Today’s worldwide Bahá’í activity directed towards the spiritual
empowerment of junior youth is the result of this approach to
the systematization of experience. In 1994, the Office of Social
and Economic Development at the Bahá’í World Centre invited a
number of individuals to come together and analyze Bahá’í experi-
ence in the promotion of literacy to date. Drawing on the lessons
learned in Bahá’í projects and on the knowledge of experts outside
the community, they proposed three pilot projects to be launched
in Cambodia, the Central African Republic, and Guyana in order to
accelerate the learning process in this field. In 1996, the effort was
extended to an additional six countries in Asia, Africa, and Latin
America. When in 2002 the results of efforts through which over
2000 facilitators had been trained and over 10,000 students had
been reached were analyzed, one feature stood out: the contrast
between the extraordinary receptivity of junior youth to these pro-
grams and the difficulty of maintaining effective projects of adult
literacy which did not have some other dimension, microfinance
for example.
A new arena for systematic learning had emerged from experi-
ence. The focus shifted from mere literacy to the empowerment
of junior youth—an effort to endow them with the capacity to
conquer the word and unravel its meaning, both for their own
spiritual upliftment and as a basis for social action. The range of
content expanded to include science and mathematics and service
to humanity. The experience gained from the pilot projects laid
the foundation for the preparation of various materials that were
gradually shared with interested national communities, enabling
them to initiate their own projects. During the Five Year Plan
from 2001-2006, the accumulating results prompted a number of
training institutes to incorporate the curricular materials into their
programs for junior youth. By the end of the Plan, the work with
junior youth broadened beyond efforts for social and economic
development to become a fourth core activity for Bahá’í com-
munities, incorporating the training of animators of junior youth
groups in the institute program. Presently, the Office of Social

|
Revelation & Social Reality
and Economic Development, now confident in the efficacy of its
approach, is promoting the systematization of experience in a few
other areas such as health, community banking, and primary and
secondary education.
Method and Learning
This brief examination of the evolution of thought in the context
of Bahá’í social and economic development underscores the im-
portance of search for appropriate methods for the generation and
application of knowledge as the Bahá’í community tries to increase
its capacity to contribute to the advancement of civilization. The
most fruitful approach up to now continues to be one of action,
reflection on action, consultation, conceptualization, and the study
of both the text of science and the text of religion, in this case the
Bahá’í teachings. But in a field that touches on so many academic
disciplines, methodological concerns cannot remain at this level
of generality. Specific methods of learning have to be explored
as dictated by the nature of the problems being addressed. The
experience of one Bahá’í-inspired organization, La Fundación
para la Aplicación y Enseñanza de las Ciencias (Foundation for
the Application and Teaching of the Sciences, FUNDAEC) helps
illustrate the nature of this methodological exploration.
FUNDAEC59 was established in Colombia in 1974 through the
efforts of a number of individuals, many who were not Bahá’ís
but all of whom had agreed on fundamental Bahá’í principles to
govern their endeavors. Presently, it is a well-known organization
in the field of development with its educational programs reaching
thousands of students in various countries.
The concept of learning has been central to the evolution of
FUNDAEC. As described by one of its long time collaborators,
Haleh Arbab:
Those who join the organization belong to various intellectual
traditions in the natural and social sciences and the humanities
and are well versed in some set of theories prevalent in their fields.
A question that arose early in the life of our organization was
how to employ these theories, given that they did not constitute
a consistent body of knowledge and often led to conflicting ap-
proaches to development work. What we saw in the operation
of similar groups over the years was not encouraging. There

Contributing to the Advancement of Civilization
|  137
seems to be a tendency to become too attached to one or another
theoretical position and try everything possible to make reality
fit the provisions of that theory. Under such circumstances, an
entire organization may become a slave to a set of predetermined
prescriptions and lose the freedom of enquiry. When we add
to this the difficulties arising from the short life of most social
theories, the field of development begins to appear like a series of
fads, and not a scientific process of learning about how to build
a better world and bring an acceptable level of prosperity to the
great masses of humanity.
The problem actually runs deeper. As David Bohm, the
well-known physicist and philosopher, has pointed out, the way
most intellectual disciplines treat theory today is intimately
connected with the fragmentation of thought that is prevalent in
society. At the most fundamental level, this fragmentation arises,
he argues, from our insistence that our theories correspond to
“reality as it is” rather than being manageable models of limited
sets of phenomena occurring within an objective reality that is
infinitely complex. Since our theories are necessarily fragmented,
by considering them replicas of “reality as it is,” we end up
assuming that reality itself is fragmented. And so we miss the
interconnectedness of all things. . . .
Theories, of course, are constantly evolving, but as Bohm
suggests, instead of assuming that “older theories are falsified at a
certain point of time,” we should accept that we are “continually
developing new forms of insight, which are clear up to a point
and then tend to become unclear.” This conception of theory,
namely, “theories as sources of insight” has helped us immensely
at FUNDAEC in advancing our various lines of action. It has
allowed us to study freely and gain insights from a wide range of
scientific theories, without falling into the trap of undue theoreti-
cal debate. These insights guide us in our endeavors all of which
are concerned in one way or another with capacity building—in
individuals, in communities, and in institutions. This we do
through a process of action, reflection on action, research, and
study all focused on learning how to bring about desired change to
some aspect of society. Treating theory in this way has also helped
us to avoid, to a reasonable extent, the usual dichotomy between
theoretical elaboration and practice. It has assisted us in dealing
with theory and practice as two inseparable parts of one whole,
each feeding and being fed by the other.

|
Revelation & Social Reality
The degree of detachment from theory that we have tried to
achieve is not without its dangers. For, it could readily lead us to
haphazard and frenetic activity. But development cannot be the
result of a series of disconnected interventions. Social action needs
to be consistent and coherent. The way we have tried to achieve
such coherence is to ensure that our action and research occur
within an evolving conceptual framework, which we examine
often, taking the necessary time and energy to make it explicit.
This conceptual framework consists of series of elements related
to the way we interpret the world around us, our assumptions,
our ideals, our aims, our values, our approach to life, and our
methodological perspective. Our understanding of these elements
grows organically as we apply them and use them to shape our
programs of action. We could not say at any given moment that
this framework is complete, but it does manage to give consistency
to our endeavors.60
FUNDAEC emerged in response to the perceived limitations
of the development discourse and practice of the day. Social and
economic development in the mid-1970s was being conceived, it
felt, as a series of packages to be presented from the “developed” to
the “undeveloped.” Even discussions about participation centered on
how a population would receive the prepared package, and rarely on
how it would contribute fully to the consultation on and planning
of its affairs. Rural education, to take an example, when available,
provided students with a curriculum mirroring that of industrial-
ized nations, which held little meaning for the rural populations of
a developing nation. Thus graduates would abandon their farms and
villages to flock to the margins of urban areas. During its first years
of its existence, FUNDAEC focused on one rural area near the city of
Cali and tried to understand how the population of the region could
benefit from science and religion as two complementary systems of
knowledge and practice in order to generate and apply knowledge
to address their specific problems and concerns.
The central institution of the population of the region, as
conceived by FUNDAEC, was the “Rural University,” which was to
set in motion and catalyze processes that would contribute to the
region’s continual progress. Such a university was to develop human
resources through formal and non-formal programs, strengthen
the scientific and technological capacities of the rural population,
and study the processes of community life and the corresponding

Contributing to the Advancement of Civilization
|  139
institutional arrangements in such areas as primary and secondary
production, marketing, flow of information, socialization of the
young, health and sanitation, and governance. After about a decade
of experience in region near Cali, FUNDAEC’s focus shifted away
from a rural area per se to various microregions each consisting
of villages, towns and even one or two large urban centers. The
concept of a Rural University also changed into that of a University
for Integral Development which serves as a “social space” connect-
ing individuals and institutions in a microregion and providing
the means for the population to learn systematically about the
changes taking place within it, while drawing from the universe of
knowledge—modern and traditional—and from the experiences of
other populations facing similar challenges.
FUNDAEC’s methodology of a continual process of action
and reflection within an evolving conceptual framework replaced
the elaborate analysis and planning typical of development
interventions. Coherent sets of activity would be set in motion
within a population one after the other, each involving reflection
and analysis, the sharing of experiences among different groups,
consultation about results in the light of other experiences and
theories, and systematization of the knowledge being generated in
order to advance the framework of all participating groups. Haleh
Arbab explains:
The University for Integral Development establishes its
operations in a region of a country through an agreement between
FUNDAEC and an indigenous non-governmental organization.
The region usually enjoys a more or less well-defined ecological,
cultural and political identity, and includes a sizeable rural area
of many villages. It may also embrace several towns and possibly
one or two cities. In this combination of rural and urban settings,
the University identifies those practices—individual, group and
community—that together define the social, economic, political
and cultural life of the inhabitants of the region. It sets in motion,
one by one, learning processes that would help transform these
practices so as to improve the welfare of the entire population. In
learning about socially significant undertakings and their trans-
formation, the University places great importance on the creation
of human resources and the enhancement of institutional capacity,
both necessary if a given population is to gradually become the
true protagonist of its own development.

|
Revelation & Social Reality
Learning processes are formally designed and involve action,
research and training woven into one coherent set of activities.
These are to occur in the very social spaces where the population
engages in the multitude of undertakings essential to its progress.
The University is to be present in almost every instance of
social ­action, accompanying the population, organizing existing
knowledge, generating new knowledge, and offering the fruits of
systematic learning to the community and its institutions. A few
examples will illustrate the approach being described here.
In a typical region where the University for Integral
Development would operate, a set of practices defines the produc-
tion of crops and animals in small family farms. The institutions
that sustain this type of production include land tenure, the
extended family, markets, and government extension services.
The practices themselves consist of those resting on a traditional
knowledge system evolved over centuries and newer ones adopted
under the pressures of modernization. . . . In a disintegrating
village economy, however, this mode of production is incapable
of holding its own, and the University is bound to find the small
farms of the region in profound crisis. The crisis manifests itself
in a range of phenomena. Some are easily identified such as the
deterioration of soils and intensification of pests; others are more
subtle, for example, the loss of genetic potential and the weakening
of the bonds of solidarity and of connection to nature. . . . The
University for Integral Development sets in motion in the region
a learning process—action, research and training—to search for
alternative systems of small farm production.
The search for alternative production systems is not a
romantic inquiry into the past. The purpose is not to preserve
traditional practices for the sake of preservation. But nor does
activity consist of the mere introduction of the latest technological
packages, perhaps tested on a few farms of the region according
to the more enlightened methods of extension. The task is to help
evolve a new and dynamic rationality of production that carries
over the desirable elements of the previous one but is shaped
­according to the exigencies of a new life into which all of humanity
must enter. As such a rationality is being built, a combination of
technological and social research is vigorously pursued in order to
discover the appropriate systems of production, to determine the
appropriate technology, and to create and strengthen the appropri-
ate institutional arrangements. Research and action are carried

Contributing to the Advancement of Civilization
|  141
out with the participation of the population itself. Experiments
are designed and implemented together by the professionals from
the University and the farmers in order to develop individual
subsystems that can then be put together according to the condi-
tions on each farm in the region. The development, adaptation,
and ­application of specific technology, however, are not the
only objects of research. The entire scientific and technological
culture of the population must advance, and this is the context
within which the learning process is set in motion. Furthermore,
although the immediate concern of this process is material cul-
ture, the University is cognizant that all technological choices are
dictated by a system of values. Action, research and training, then,
are undertaken in the light of a discourse on the implications of
spirituality for individual and social life that the University helps
initiate and nurtures in the region. . . .
Yet another learning process set in motion by the University
for Integral Development in a typical region is directed towards
the strengthening of local economies. Here attention is focused
on small-scale economic activity—in agricultural and animal
production, in processing, in manufacturing, and in various types
of services and support including marketing. Those engaged in
activity of this kind, and the small enterprises with which they are
associated, are victims of social and economic forces far too strong
to be overcome by haphazard and uncoordinated remedial action.
What is needed is the establishment of institutions and processes
that embody the spirit of human solidarity. As a learning process,
the strengthening of local economies seeks to discover systemati-
cally the modes of operation of such institutions and to determine
the shape of various types of economic activity.61
For more than thirty years the University for Integral
Development has applied the above methodology to engage in
a wide range of investigations. For each of the major processes
of community development in various microregions, a research
agenda has been established and carried out. Depending on the
nature of the problems and on the opportunities available, some
activities have begun as modest research projects, some as simple
actions at the community level, and some as courses for small
groups of students. Often they have evolved into rather complex
lines of action which have resulted in the moral and intellectual
empowerment of thousands of people. Rather than being “objects”

|
Revelation & Social Reality
of study, the individuals from the local population who have par-
ticipated in the University for Integral Development have become
active agents in research, reflection, and action. They have freed
themselves from the dichotomy of the traditional and modern, a
major cause of confusion throughout the planet, and have fully
engaged in the elaboration of a vision of progress for the realization
of which they have learned to work systematically.
Interestingly, FUNDAEC has made little use of academic pub-
lications for the diffusion of its findings. Rather, the textbooks of
its formal educational programs have been the main depositories
of the knowledge it has generated. One such program, the Tutorial
Learning System—SAT (Sistema de Aprendizaje Tutorial)—has
become an alternative secondary rural education program recog-
nized by the government of Colombia, has reached over 50,000
students in 22 provinces of that country, and is gradually spreading
to other countries in Latin America, Africa and Asia. The 74 units
to be studied by the students of this program are not only based
on the research carried out by FUNDAEC over the years, but also
guide the students—the new participants in the University for
Integral Development—to continue the process of generation
and application of knowledge. Building on SAT, FUNDAEC has
gone on to develop other educational programs, degree courses in
rural education and the administration of local economies and a
postgraduate program on education for development. Haleh Arbab
describes FUNDAEC’s educational aims:
One of the concerns that originally led to the creation of the
University for Integral Development is the increasing superfi-
ciality of the education received by the majority of the children
and youth in the world today. In most cases the result of such
education is the fragmentation of the student’s mind and its
final outcome compliance with the social and spiritual vacuum
that characterizes present-day society. The object of the learning
process, then, is to create an educational alternative for the region
which would endow the students with a twofold moral purpose: to
take charge of their own personal intellectual and spiritual growth
and to contribute meaningfully to the transformation of society.
In most educational systems, students attend classes orga-
nized by subject matters that in one way or another are based on
the division of knowledge into distinct disciplines. This division
is seen as inherent to knowledge itself, which is defined in terms

Contributing to the Advancement of Civilization
|  143
of its fragments—as the sum of all the disciplines in natural and
social sciences, arts and humanities, and professional fields such
as engineering and medicine. Students accumulate, year after
year, aggregates of information about each subject matter without
an adequate understanding of the concepts that give structure
to the corresponding discipline. And, even if they are fortunate
enough to achieve a reasonable level of understanding in one
subject—usually through the efforts of a talented teacher—they
rarely get a glimpse of knowledge as one interconnected whole
or develop a mind structured enough to investigate reality and
become partners in its continual recreation. The problem is not
circumscribed to traditional systems founded on rote learning; it
is even more apparent in the dozens of competing approaches con-
sidered to be modern, in which enormous effort goes into building
self-confidence not on solid knowledge and real competence but
on the thin air of illusion.
The learning process in question, then, seeks to design and put
into practice curricula for various educational levels—preschool,
basic, high school, and university—which foster creativity and
the will to act in a structured and disciplined way. In the design of
curricula, particularly for the first three levels, traditional subject
matters are set aside; educational activities integrate knowledge
from various disciplines in a way that is conducive to profound
understanding and the cultivation of noble qualities of the human
soul. They focus on the development of those capabilities—
scientific, artistic, technical, social, moral and spiritual—that
­enable the students to vigorously pursue, according to the exigen-
cies of each stage of life, their twofold moral purpose. In general,
they are intellectually more challenging than comparable activities
in educational systems prevalent in most countries. They achieve
great success among populations who are considered by some
culturally unprepared for rigorous scientific training.62
The approach adopted by FUNDAEC illustrates ongoing search
for valid methodologies of social action that incorporate spiritual
principles and, particularly Bahá’u’lláh’s teachings, into rigorous
processes of research and action in order to find practical solu-
tions to the problems faced by the peoples of the world. Applying
Bahá’í teachings in efforts that address specific development chal-
lenges implies much more than a quick reading of selected texts.
FUNDAEC’s experience is valuable largely because of its attempt to

|
Revelation & Social Reality
create a framework within which it can act and generate knowledge.
This evolving framework is built of insights from the various fields
of human learning, particularly science, and of certain beliefs,
practices, and principles, drawn largely from the Revelation—the
oneness of humankind, consultation, justice, the equality of men
and women, and so on. The values present in this framework are in-
corporated in all endeavors, for example, in technological choice, in
pedagogy and in the way human beings are mobilized to participate
in the search for and application of solutions. The methodology
clearly depends on the inter-penetration of the twin knowledge
systems of science and religion, as explained by one of FUNDAEC’s
founders, Farzam Arbab, in the context of an international effort to
promote a discourse on science, religion and development:
Science in its broadest sense, embracing a wide range of phe-
nomena in both nature and society, admits a variety of approaches
and methods each suitable to the character of the specific object
of inquiry. In the study of innumerable systems and processes,
questions related to the existence of God or the spiritual dimen-
sion of life simply do not arise; proper method must necessarily
exclude them from consideration, if for no other reason than the
preservation of scientific rigor. Yet when such exclusion becomes
a rule to be applied dogmatically across the board, an inflexibility
sets in that robs science of some of its powers. Rigidly “scientific”
approaches make it difficult to weigh science’s own assumptions in
balance with belief systems lying outside it. They allow the study of
religion, but usually as a psychic or social phenomenon created by
the interactions of human beings among themselves and with their
environment, interactions that, in the final analysis, are thought to
occur among aggregates of atoms and molecules each behaving in
strict compliance with the measure of complexity accorded it by
nature. That this is not the view of the vast majority of humanity
who, everyone agrees, will have to participate fully in the process
of social transformation, and whose cultures, beliefs and values
are to be incorporated into the design and implementation of
development activity, poses a contradiction that severely limits the
usefulness of development studies carried out according to narrow
definitions of the “scientific method.”
I take it to be a premise of our research program that it is
possible to explore issues of religious belief rigorously without
trivializing them and explaining them away, without relegating

Contributing to the Advancement of Civilization
|  145
matters of faith only to the private and isolated world of the
individual, and without confining religious practice to the domain
of ritual legitimized by the needs of humanity as a social species.
This, of course, is not a new premise; it underlies the work of social
scientists and theologians of various schools. Unfortunately, it has
not had a significant influence on the kind of thinking that, in the
past few decades, has shaped the field of development.
Furthermore, it appears unavoidable that in order to deal
properly with the difficulties of methodological choice, our ap-
proach to this research should remain measured and judicious.
Thus, I hope that for some time to come the emphasis will
continue to be on the formulation of a discourse on the theme of
science, religion, and development, and not shift to elaborate stud-
ies or the articulation of hypotheses. Naturally, to be scientific, our
discourse would have to fulfill certain conditions. For example, its
language must strive to be rational, unambiguous, and objective.
The challenge before us is to achieve this when the object of
inquiry touches so intimately on each participant’s own faith.
I find quite inadequate the approach to the study of religion
according to which the researcher is divided into two separate en-
tities, the scientist and the believer, the first bound to the rules of
academia and the second obliged to ignore the absurdities that this
duality introduces into his or her belief system. That so untenable
an approach should have achieved widespread acceptance is due
to the impositions of secularism acting as a kind of fundamentalist
creed. As a result, much of the reality of science, religion and the
forces that transform society has ended up hidden behind a veil
created by false objectivity.
The alternative to the prevailing situation is not apologetics or
sectarian controversy. What is called for is a new look at the inter-
penetration of reason and faith, as well as a systematic exploration
of rational approaches that are not tied to materialism. While such
a thorough exploration is not part of the mandate of the present
project, acknowledgement of its absolute necessity is important to
our frame of reference.
An immediate consequence of this realization, it could be
argued, is to require the researcher in certain fields to make explicit
relevant aspects of his or her own belief and experience. To do so
in a meaningful way, one must be convinced that it is possible to
be firm in one’s convictions without being judgmental. Although
the statement “if I believe something to be right, then he whose

|
Revelation & Social Reality
opinions differ from mine must be wrong” passes the tests of
formal logic, and although it is applicable in countless situations, its
usefulness vanishes once the object of discussion becomes relatively
complex. It is not that “A” and “not A” can both be true, but that the
vastness of truth does not allow most matters of belief, if there is
any depth to them at all, to be reduced to such comparisons. The
only options this simplistic posture finally leaves open are either
religious and ideological fanaticism or the brand of relativism that
does away with faith, embraces skepticism, and idolizes doubt.
It is instructive to note how the assaults of such relativism on
belief, initially launched against religion, have been directed in the
postmodern era to the very foundations of science.63
Contributing to Humanity’s Collective Discourse
A third aspect of the contributions Bahá’ís make to the civilization-
building process is through participation in humanity’s collective
discourse on the challenges and opportunities facing the world.
This occurs at all levels of society, but more particularly through
efforts to reach leaders of thought. Such participation includes
individual Bahá’ís who contribute as experts in their fields, or
through their involvement in governmental or non-governmental
organization, as well as Bahá’í-inspired initiatives. It also involves
the direct contributions of Bahá’í institutions, especially through
the Bahá’í International Community at the United Nations.
For example, as the number of Bahá’í social and economic
development organizations and their body of experience has
increased, the Bahá’í world has been able to expand its involvement
in the global discourse on development. One channel has been
the publications of individual Bahá’ís who are experts in related
fields. The Universal House of Justice notes that “As the friends
gain experience in social and economic development, and as they
advance in their studies of various branches of learning or in their
professional fields, individuals arise in every continent who have
expertise in some aspect of development work. . . .”64 Another
channel is the establishment of the Institute for Studies in Global
Prosperity at the Bahá’í World Centre. As its first initiative, the
Institute launched a program to promote a discourse on science,
religion, and development. The activities of the program began
in India with a colloquium held in New Delhi in November 2000
that brought together more than a hundred representatives of

Contributing to the Advancement of Civilization
|  147
non-governmental organizations from all regions of the country.
The warm reception by individuals and agencies in India to this
gathering has prompted steps to promote similar efforts in Africa
and Latin America.
Another way in which Bahá’ís attempt to contribute to human-
ity’s discourse for the betterment of the world is through external
affairs activities, particularly in such areas as human rights, the
status of women, global prosperity, and moral development. The
efforts of the Bahá’í International Community to share the Bahá’í
perspective is summarized as follows:
At the general level, the Bahá’í International Community
(BIC) has participated in a number of major international
summits and nongovernmental forums. Notable among them
have been the United Nations Conference on Environment and
Development (the “Earth Summit”) in Rio de Janeiro in 1992, the
World Summit for Social Development in Copenhagen in 1995,
and the Fourth World Congress on Women in Beijing that same
year, as well as the World Conference Against Racism in 2001 and
the World Summit for Sustainable Development in 2002, both
held in South Africa, and the 2005 Annual Meeting of the World
Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland.
Because of the worldview deriving from the Bahá’í system of
belief, the community has taken a particularly keen interest in
discussions that explore the contribution of religion to questions
of development. These have included the “World Faiths and
Development Dialogue,” cosponsored by the World Bank and the
Archbishop of Canterbury held in Lambert Palace, London, in
1998, and the Parliament of World Religions held in South Africa
in 1999. Especially enriching has been the involvement, from 1995
to 2000, in a project sponsored by the International Development
Research Centre (IDRC) in Canada, which explored the relation-
ship between science, religion, and development.
The community has found in this series of activities wel-
come opportunities to give expression to the central conviction
animating Bahá’í work in the development field. As early as the
Earth Summit, a statement submitted by the BIC to the plenary
session, on behalf of all religious nongovernmental organizations,
concluded: “The profound and far-reaching changes, the unity
and unprecedented cooperation required to reorient the world
toward an environmentally sustainable and just future, will only

|
Revelation & Social Reality
be possible by touching the human spirit, by appealing to those
universal values which alone can empower individuals and
peoples to act in accordance with the long-term interests of the
planet and humanity as a whole.”65
A steady flow of documents from the Bahá’í International
Community and from National Assemblies have presented the
Bahá’í perspective to a variety of audiences. Among these are the
aforementioned The Prosperity of Humankind, distributed at the
World Summit on Social Development, and the document Valuing
Spirituality in Development: Initial Considerations Regarding the
Creation of Spiritually Based Indicators for Development, prepared
as a follow-up to the World Faiths and Development Dialogue. The
latter discusses five principles—unity in diversity, equity and justice,
the equality of the sexes, trustworthiness and moral leadership, and
the independent investigation of truth—that may offer a measur-
able means for assessing the impact of values on development. In
some cases, the Universal House of Justice has directly addressed
problems confronting humanity, for example in the statement on
peace to the peoples of the world in July 1985, and more recently, in
a message to religious leaders April 2002.
The success of the initial involvement of the Bahá’í community
in some of the discourses of the wider society points to the need
to cultivate, over time, a greater involvement of Bahá’ís in all fields
of human endeavor. Drawing from the insights provided by the
teachings and reinforced by the growing experiences of Bahá’ís
working for social justice and the common good, institutions and
individuals can engage others and become effective participants in
the search for constructive solutions to human problems.
The Nature of Bahá’í Intellectual Activity
Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, as well as the Guardian and the
Universal House of Justice, leave no room for doubt regarding the
essential value of Bahá’í intellectual activity. No romantic notions,
no appeal to mystical insight, nor any apposite principles associated
with obedience, unity, or spirituality can call into question the
attainments of the mind and the vital role of the truly learned in
this dispensation.
“The man of consummate learning and the sage endowed with
penetrating wisdom are the two eyes to the body of mankind,”66

Contributing to the Advancement of Civilization
|  149
Bahá’u’lláh states. And He adds: “Righteous men of learning who
dedicate themselves to the guidance of others and are freed and
well guarded from the promptings of a base and covetous nature
are, in the sight of Him Who is the Desire of the world, stars of the
heaven of true knowledge.”67 “There are certain pillars which have
been established as the unshakeable supports of the Faith of God,”
‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains. “The mightiest of these is learning and the
use of the mind, the expansion of consciousness, and insight into
the realities of the universe and the hidden mysteries of Almighty
God. To promote knowledge is thus an inescapable duty imposed
on every one of the friends of God.”68
Shoghi Effendi urges the Bahá’ís “to accord honor, veneration
and respect to—and endorse the efforts of—exponents of the arts
and sciences, and to esteem and revere those who are possessed of
extensive knowledge and scholarly erudition.”69 And the Universal
House of Justice observes that Bahá’ís have been “encouraged
from the time of the Faith’s inception to pursue knowledge in all
its forms and to excel in such attainments”70 and it “regards Bahá’í
scholarship as of great potential importance for the development
and consolidation of the Bahá’í community as it emerges from
obscurity.”71
Such emphatic and repeated authoritative statements should be
sufficient to ensure that the body of the believers and the national
and local institutions do not succumb to a reactionary anti-intellec-
tualism or superstitious spiritualism that have corrupted religious
practice in past dispensations. Nor should the sincere efforts of
those who labor in scholarly disciplines—and who as human beings
will inevitably err—be confused with the actions of a handful of
“unwise or malicious”72 individuals, who, immovably attached to
their own views, attempt to impose them on the community.
To appreciate the nature of the praise bestowed on the learned
so lavishly in the Bahá’í Writings, one must also be aware of
Bahá’u’lláh’s warning against the dangers of the kind of learning
that results in arrogance and separation from the divine purpose.
“Amongst the people is he whose learning hath made him proud
. . . who, when he heareth the tread of sandals following behind
him, waxeth greater in his own esteem.”73 And He states: “True
learning is that which is conducive to the well-being of the world,
not to pride and self-conceit, or to tyranny, violence and pillage.”74
It is for such reasons that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá admonished the learned,

|
Revelation & Social Reality
citing the authoritative Islamic tradition, “‘As for him who is one
of the learned: he must guard himself, defend his faith, oppose his
passions and obey the commandments of his Lord.’” “Whoever is
lacking in these divine qualifications and does not demonstrate
these inescapable requirements in his own life,” He concludes,
“should not be referred to as learned.”75
For desire is a flame that has reduced to ashes uncounted lifetime
harvests of the learned, a devouring fire that even the vast sea of
their accumulated knowledge could never quench. How often
has it happened that an individual who was graced with every
attribute of humanity and wore the jewel of true understanding,
nevertheless followed after his passions until his excellent qualities
passed beyond moderation and he was forced into excess. His
pure intentions changed to evil ones, his attributes were no longer
put to uses worthy of them, and the power of his desires turned
him aside from righteousness and its rewards into ways that were
dangerous and dark.76
Knowledge can be a veil. It can prevent one from recognizing
the Manifestation of God. But the history of the Faith also demon-
strates that those who recognize the Manifestation are not immune
to such dangers and, seduced by their own views, can follow a
destructive course. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá warns:
O ye loved ones of the Lord! Open the ear of inner understanding
and refrain from all manner of mischief. Should ye perceive the
odor of sedition from any soul, even though to outward seeming
he be a prominent personage or a peerless man of learning, know
ye of a certainty that he is an antichrist amongst men, an opponent
of the religion of the All-Glorious, an enemy of the reality of
the Almighty, a destroyer of the edifice of God, a violator of His
Covenant and Testament, and an outcast from the threshold of
the merciful Lord. One who is possessed of true knowledge and
insight is even as a shining lamp and is the cause of the well-
being and advancement of the dwellers of both the lesser and
the greater worlds. Prompted by his faith and by his allegiance to
the Covenant, such a soul striveth for the good of humanity and
seeketh the peace and tranquility of mankind.77
Guarded by humility, by a deep and thoughtful appreciation of
the mutable and limited nature of their views, and by the obligation
to be firm in the Covenant and preserve unity, those who engage in

Contributing to the Advancement of Civilization
|  151
Bahá’í scholarly activity explore new perspectives, examine aspects
of the community’s understanding and practices, and propose
promising avenues for a fuller expression of the potentialities latent
in Bahá’u’lláh’s Revelation. As participants in all fields of human
endeavor, they bring insights from sciences and the Bahá’í teachings
to bear upon various questions, thereby contributing to the evolu-
tion of thought and action that leads to social transformation and
well-being. When attitude and method are sound, errors and false
starts are nothing more than natural occurrences in the process of
the investigation of reality. A variety of metaphors help clarify the
role of a learned Bahá’í in contributing to the progress of the Bahá’í
community.
The learned Bahá’í is not a “gatekeeper” or “priest.” While the
effective work of trained, knowledgeable, and insightful individuals
shed light on the context and meaning of the Writings in many
ways, the community of believers is not dependent upon a body
of specialists in order to understand the meaning of the Text.
The Word of God is accessible to all believers, according to their
capacity. The experience of the community derived from practice,
the growing understanding of the implications and meaning of the
Text over time, and above all, the guidance of the Universal House
of Justice contribute to shaping both the believers’ understanding as
well as the perspective and direction of scholarly activity.
The learned Bahá’í is not an “anthropologist” of the Bahá’í com-
munity. The purpose of Bahá’í scholarship is not merely to explain
the community at a moment in history and present the resulting
picture as its reality. Bahá’ís recognize that, at any point, the com-
munity is far from that which Bahá’u’lláh has envisioned. It is “less
Bahá’í” now than what it will become in future.
The learned Bahá’í is not an “archeologist.” The “true” meaning
of the Faith is not lost somewhere in the past, to be recaptured by
excavating layers of erroneous interpretation and practice. Such an
approach is especially problematic if it is used to justify a search
for the meaning of the Faith in Bahá’u’lláh’s Writings alone, while
ignoring the role of the authoritative institutions He established to
guide His Faith.
The learned Bahá’í is not an “artist” who is free to shape the
teachings according to some criteria of personal choice or creativ-
ity. The teachings of Bahá’u’lláh have an intended meaning and an
intended aim. Unity—even unity in diversity—emerges by seeking
out and conforming to this meaning. One cannot select, rearrange,

|
Revelation & Social Reality
or craft from the teachings, according to subjective standards, a
particular narrative or design. If such an approach were pursued,
the Faith would become nothing more than an individual or
cultural adornment.
The learned Bahá’í is not an “impartial observer.” The resolu-
tion of important questions requires more than the application of
methods of the natural sciences. It is not possible to stand apart
from the community to study it without influencing it or being
influenced by it.
Perhaps the learned Bahá’í is more like the “scout” who helps
to guide an expedition on a journey into unexplored territory. This
role involves investigating the unknown and generating and apply-
ing knowledge to contribute to the success of the mission at hand.
It is someone who participates actively in the journey, but whose
specialized knowledge, skills, and experience informs various
aspects of the struggle to make progress: constructive perspectives
into the past, present, and future; insight and technical capacity for
ongoing study of the Text; problem posing and problem solving;
the defining of culture and intercultural relations. On this journey,
the learned individual/scout does not have authority, and, while
making a vital contribution, like any other participant is fallible
and learns over time.
One of the distinctions often made between the natural
and social sciences is that in the natural sciences, the study is of
objects; in the social sciences the study is of people—“the object is
a subject.”78 This presents a special challenge to the social sciences
because not only are researchers attempting to make sense of their
studies, but the people they are attempting to understand are also
continually engaged in an ever-changing process of interpretation
and action. The implication of this specific challenge is not that one
cannot conduct research in areas that pertain to human beings, but
rather, that in doing so one must be aware of the inherent limita-
tions and potential consequences in order to determine how best
to be effective.
Bahá’ís engaging in scholarly activity have to confront the
problems that arise from these two levels of interpretation—
especially those concerned with studies that focus on the Faith
itself. The researcher’s knowledge, attitudes, choices, assertions, and
assumptions have a bearing on the outcome of a particular study.
And they influence and are influenced by the knowledge, attitudes,
choices, responses, assertions, and assumptions of the community

Contributing to the Advancement of Civilization
|  153
members who are the objects and active recipients of that study. A
Bahá’í researcher cannot, when operating within the framework of
Bahá’í practice, suspend Bahá’í principles, methods or knowledge
without consequences. Those consequences are not diminished,
but are even compounded, when a Bahá’í acts from within another
practice—that of a particular academic field—while studying some
aspect of the Faith.
The problem of framing categories of liberals and fundamen-
talists in the Bahá’í community is an example of this problem.79
One cannot propose the existence of these categories solely as an
instrument of academic study without simultaneously introducing
them as an aspect of social reality lived by the believers and the
institutions. Selecting and refining the methods appropriate to
Bahá’í scholarly activity must take into account this hidden, but
weighty concern.80
It is for this reason that Bahá’í who are specialists in a particular
field cannot separate themselves into two distinct persons, believer
and scholar. The Writings and ideas of the scholar will, especially if
they distort the teachings in an effort to conform to the demands
of a particular academic discipline, have consequences for the
community of believers. This does not prevent Bahá’ís from having
successful professional or academic careers, but creates a challenge
for how to bridge the tensions that sometimes arise from participa-
tion in both communities.
The scholarly activity carried out within the Bahá’í community
of practice requires consciousness of the difference between study-
ing the Faith as an object, to collaborating in the movement toward
its aims and purpose within the framework of the Covenant.81
Bahá’ís endowed with intellectual capacity direct their energies
toward the transformative aims of the Faith. The teachings of
God are intended for the masses of humanity; the goal is a new
race of human beings and a world order that reflects the oneness
of humanity. The learned followers of Bahá’u’lláh stand with the
peoples of the world and are protagonists serving the forces of
change toward justice and unity.
Bahá’í scholarly activity is vital to the progress of the Faith and
its engagement with the wider society. The fruits, however, will only
be abundantly realized as the culture of learning that is beginning
to emerge in the fields of teaching and development also takes root
in such efforts. Any existing tensions have to give way to a com-
munity of inquirers using sound hermeneutical principles; involved

|
Revelation & Social Reality
in consultation, action, and reflection; conscious of their role and
influence as an integral part of the Bahá’í community and in the
other practices in which they participate; imbued with qualities,
attitudes, and behaviors shaped by the teachings; and operating in
harmony with the teachings of the Faith and the guidance of the
Universal House of Justice. This culture of learning will be char-
acterized by error and achievement and by periods of ambiguity
or of consensus punctuated by valuable new insights. In a culture
of learning, Bahá’í specialists will find personal fulfillment in their
chosen discipline and will contribute their share to the progress of
the Cause and of society.
Understanding and Action and the
Building of a New World
At this early stage in the Faith’s development, Bahá’ís must learn
how to engage in a process of understanding and practice that
translates the teachings into reality, so as to weave the tapestry of
Bahá’í life and gradually, of social reality, that reveals Bahá’u’lláh’s
intended design. The Faith must labor under the gaze of a skeptical
world; other interested parties—religious, academic, political,
social—will not hesitate to pick at the threads of our tapestry,
trying to influence its design to conform to their own picture of
reality. It is true that, on occasion, part of what we have accepted
to be “Bahá’í” is in error; in such cases reweaving is required. But
for the most part, we have yet to systematically create the Bahá’í
community as it should be; the requisite threads lie expectantly on
the floor. Here lies the opportunity before all Bahá’ís, particularly
those of learning: to contribute to the progress of the Cause, true
to the insights of the teachings and of science and reason; to defend
it against the self-interest of others and the potentially distorting
standards inadvertently imposed on the Faith by well meaning be-
lievers unduly influenced by their fields; and to learn how the com-
munity collaborates with all peoples in the construction of a world
that reflects Bahá’u’lláh’s highest aims—the Most Great Peace and a
global civilization that embodies the oneness of humankind.
“Ye are the stars of the heaven of understanding, the breeze
that stirreth at the break of day, the soft-flowing waters upon which
must depend the very life of all men, the letters inscribed upon His
sacred scroll,”82 Bahá’u’lláh assures His followers. An ever more
effective process of understanding and practice is to give rise to

Contributing to the Advancement of Civilization
|  155
a community of people who will act without self-interest for the
common good. It is a community of individuals distinguished by
moral virtue who are striving for justice, unity, and peace. It is a
community of those who, in forgetting themselves, become a leaven
that will help lift humanity to a new stage in its development. All
are invited to join this community and contribute to its mission;
with all those that choose a different path, Bahá’ís consort with
friendliness and fellowship, and collaborate in working for the
betterment of the world. The following statement of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
succinctly captures the aim of understanding and practice in the
Bahá’í community:
O army of God! Today, in this world, every people is wander-
ing astray in its own desert, moving here and there according to
the dictates of its fancies and whims, pursuing its own particular
caprice. Amongst all the teeming masses of the earth, only this
community of the Most Great Name is free and clear of human
schemes and hath no selfish purpose to promote. Alone amongst
them all, this people hath arisen with aims purified of self, follow-
ing the Teachings of God, most eagerly toiling and striving toward
a single goal: to turn this nether dust into high heaven, to make
of this world a mirror for the Kingdom, to change this world into
a different world, and cause all humankind to adopt the ways of
righteousness and a new manner of life.
O army of God! Through the protection and help vouchsafed
by the Blessed Beauty—may my life be a sacrifice to His loved
ones—ye must conduct yourselves in such a manner that ye may
stand out distinguished and brilliant as the sun among other souls.
Should any one of you enter a city, he should become a centre of
attraction by reason of his sincerity, his faithfulness and love, his
honesty and fidelity, his truthfulness and loving-kindness towards
all the peoples of the world, so that the people of that city may cry
out and say: “This man is unquestionably a Bahá’í, for his manners,
his behavior, his conduct, his morals, his nature, and disposition
reflect the attributes of the Bahá’ís.” Not until ye attain this station
can ye be said to have been faithful to the Covenant and Testament
of God. For He hath, through irrefutable Texts, entered into a
binding Covenant with us all, requiring us to act in accordance
with His sacred instructions and counsels.
O army of God! The time hath come for the effects and perfec-
tions of the Most Great Name to be made manifest in this excellent

|
Revelation & Social Reality
age, so as to establish, beyond any doubt, that this era is the era of
Bahá’u’lláh, and this age is distinguished above all other ages.
O army of God! Whensoever ye behold a person whose entire
attention is directed toward the Cause of God; whose only aim is
this, to make the Word of God to take effect; who, day and night,
with pure intent, is rendering service to the Cause; from whose
behavior not the slightest trace of egotism or private motives is
discerned—who, rather, wandereth distracted in the wilderness of
the love of God, and drinketh only from the cup of the knowledge
of God, and is utterly engrossed in spreading the sweet savors
of God, and is enamored of the holy verses of the Kingdom of
God—know ye for a certainty that this individual will be sup-
ported and reinforced by heaven; that like unto the morning star,
he will forever gleam brightly out of the skies of eternal grace.
But if he show the slightest taint of selfish desires and self love,
his efforts will lead to nothing and he will be destroyed and left
hopeless at the last.
O army of God! Praise be to God, Bahá’u’lláh hath lifted the
chains from off the necks of humankind, and hath set man free
from all that trammeled him, and told him: Ye are the fruits of
one tree and the leaves of one branch; be ye compassionate and
kind to all the human race. Deal ye with strangers the same as
with friends, cherish ye others just as ye would your own. See
foes as friends; see demons as angels; give to the tyrant the same
great love ye show the loyal and true, and even as gazelles from
the scented cities of Khatá and Khutan offer up sweet musk to
the ravening wolf. Be ye a refuge to the fearful; bring ye rest and
peace to the disturbed; make ye a provision for the destitute; be
a treasury of riches for the poor; be a healing medicine for those
who suffer pain; be ye doctor and nurse to the ailing; promote ye
friendship, and honor, and conciliation, and devotion to God, in
this world of non-existence.
O army of God! Make ye a mighty effort: perchance ye can
flood this earth with light, that this mud hut, the world, may
become the Abhá Paradise. The dark hath taken over, and the
brute traits prevail. This world of man is now an arena for wild
beasts, a field where the ignorant, the heedless, seize their chance.
The souls of men are ravening wolves and animals with blinded
eyes, they are either deadly poison or useless weeds—all except for
a very few who indeed do nurture altruistic aims and plans for the
well-being of their fellow men: but ye must in this matter—that

Contributing to the Advancement of Civilization
|  157
is, the serving of humankind—lay down your very lives, and as ye
yield yourselves, rejoice.
O army of God! The Exalted One, the Báb, gave up His life.
The Blessed Perfection gave up a hundred lives at every breath.
He bore calamities. He suffered anguish. He was imprisoned. He
was chained. He was made homeless and was banished to distant
lands. Finally, then, He lived out His days in the Most Great
Prison. Likewise, a great multitude of the lovers of God who
followed this path have tasted the honey of martyrdom and they
gave up everything—life, possessions, kindred—all they had. How
many homes were reduced to rubble; how many dwellings were
broken into and pillaged; how many a noble building went to the
ground; how many a palace was battered into a tomb. And all this
came about that humankind might be illumined, that ignorance
might yield to knowledge, that men of earth might become men
of heaven, that discord and dissension might be torn out by the
roots, and the Kingdom of Peace become established over all the
world. Strive ye now that this bounty become manifest, and this
best-beloved of all hopes be realized in splendor throughout the
community of man.83

Part II
Additional Considerations

A Problem of Knowledge
F
rom the discussion in Part I, it should be clear that
there is a process of understanding and action in which the
Bahá’í community explores reality, grows in comprehension
and knowledge, unifies thought, and contributes to transforming
the world in accordance with the truths expressed in Bahá’u’lláh’s
Revelation. However, there are certain predominant perspectives
in contemporary thought that clash with this approach to under-
standing and action, viewing it as hopelessly naïve, as rigid and
fundamentalistic, or as potentially oppressive. It is useful, therefore,
to enquire into these perspectives and explore Bahá’í understanding
and practice in more depth. This will not only assist in developing
a response to certain types of criticism of the Bahá’í community,
but will provide an opportunity for additional insights into the
teachings. It is crucial, also, for weighing how these contemporary
perspectives influence our own thinking.
Since the Enlightenment, humanity (more particularly,
Western thought) has sought universal and objective standards
for the investigation of reality and discovery of truth so that
understanding and practice could be freed from subjective influ-
ences. In this perspective, knowledge—a true understanding of
reality—serves to defeat superstition and the arbitrary imposition
of power that produces tyranny and oppression. The appeal to
authority drawn from traditional beliefs is to be displaced by
rationality and empirical evidence undistorted by bias or sectarian
values. Through institutions like the state, power struggles among
individuals are to be restrained; foundational theories of justice
and liberty are to define proper social order. In this expansion of
rationalism, religion is relegated to the category of subjective belief
and progressively dissociated from questions of what is true and
what is right. Given time, it is believed, science and reason will
solve the problems of humanity and release it from ignorance and

|
Revelation & Social Reality
superstition, globalization will rationalize the international political
and economic order, and universal human rights will be extended
to all humanity.
In the past several decades, however, the assumptions, aims,
and methods of modernity that have driven humanity’s progress
for centuries have been increasingly challenged by postmodern
thought. The meaning of postmodernism has been presented in
diverse and often contradictory ways, with sharp differences about
its value, if any. In its extreme form, postmodernism is synonymous
with nihilism and relativism—any standards for discriminat-
ing between divergent claims to truth or morality are rejected.
Postmodern thought has fostered doubt and skepticism. It objected
to what it perceives as the positivistic foundations of science and
provoked a sharp exchange between the natural and social sciences
that became known as the “science wars.” It introduced profound
changes in the field of philosophy, what some see as a collapse of
reason, or failure of epistemology. It contributed to the transforma-
tion of journalism from a quest for objective facts to a consumer
market suited to subjective tastes—one person’s terrorist becomes
another’s freedom fighter. In undermining the authority previously
granted to foundational truths of science and universal values, it
appears to have opened the door to endless, adversarial criticism
and struggle for power among rival relativistic perspectives.
The clash between modernism and postmodernism centers on
questions of knowledge and power. Most branches of study have
been touched by this contest, some radically transformed and oth-
ers stubbornly resistant. But while some have seen this as a struggle
of irreconcilable views, an intellectual war that threatens reason and
the modern worldview, it seems possible to take a more moderate
and constructive perspective.
One of the pivotal voices in postmodern thought, Jean-Francois
Lyotard, in “simplifying to the extreme,” defined postmodernism as
“incredulity toward metanarratives.” Nicholas C. Burbules com-
ments on this definition:
Nearly everyone focuses here on the idea of metanarratives, our
attempts to offer general and encompassing accounts of truth,
value, and reality. Postmodernism seems to be about denying the
possibility of these, and rejecting as monolithic and hegemonic the
ones that Western traditions have embraced. But the key term in
this phrase (in translation at least) is “incredulity”—a fascinating

A Problem of Knowledge
|  163
and unexpected word. Incredulity is not denial or rejection or
refutation; it is an inability to believe. In this difference I think we
see what is most distinctive and penetrating in the postmodern
insight. . . .
Now we have moved into a strange terrain: one that replaces
notions such as “denial” and “refutation” with notions such as
“doubt,” “displacement,” “instability,” and “uncertainty.” This shift
introduces a different notion of “critique.” Denial or refutation
place one outside of the view being rejected, beyond and above
it. But what is our stance to be toward ways of thinking that
for us are necessary, that we do not know how to live entirely
without—but in which an unshakable confidence is no longer
possible? Language, science, ethics, reason and justice are features
of the modern world in ways that appear unavoidable: what
would the alternatives be, really? But the Enlightenment faith
that particular forms of beliefs and practices can gain universal
acquiescence as the correct ones, and that through these will come
the amelioration of human ignorance and other ills, is impossible
to believe any longer, for reasons that have become all too evident
in the social and historical events of the modern era. We who are
creatures of modernity must confront a crisis of faith in its notions
of progress and universal social betterment. It seems, instead, that
we have exchanged older problems for newer ones, and if our ways
of living are unquestionably better now in some ways, they are
worse in others.1
From this perspective, postmodern thought can be seen not
as an attempt to reject modernity, but as an interrogation of its
weaknesses that opens the way for a new, more effective orienta-
tion if the consensus required for collective human endeavor can
be re-established. It is an effort to provide greater respect for “the
other” and an opening in the social realm for voices that had been
suppressed or marginalized.2 Modern thought sought methods and
ideals that would provide a sure basis for prosperity and justice.
Postmodern thought challenges these assumptions and approaches,
but cannot provide a satisfactory alternative.
The tension between modern and postmodern ideas can be
seen as part of what is more commonly understood by Bahá’ís
as the breakdown of the old world order. The assumptions and
intersubjective agreements that formed the basis of the social reality
that became the modern world have been challenged, contributing

|
Revelation & Social Reality
to the process of disintegration that is tearing asunder institutions,
belief systems and social relationships. New understandings, new
agreements, new behaviors, and new social structures are needed.
Postmodern critique is, in a way, an effort to define the crisis of
the old world order. Bahá’u’lláh’s teachings are concerned with the
resolution of this crisis, addressing what needs to be done during
the period of transition to establish a new order.
Insights such as these about modernism and postmodernism
have implications for the understanding and practice of the Bahá’í
community. We cannot completely escape the influence of culture
or the breakdown of the old world order. We need to be aware of
the ways that traditional religious practice, modern thought, and
postmodern thought influence our consciousness and our approach
to the Revelation if we are to acquire a deeper understanding of
how Bahá’u’lláh expects us to read the Sacred Text and translate
His guidance into action. As we increasingly gain a better under-
standing for ourselves, we will also be in a position to engage the
wider society in an increasingly more constructive dialogue. Two
challenges face us in this respect.
The first challenge centers on the question of knowledge. What
is knowledge? How do human beings know? How do we determine
what is true? How reliable is knowledge derived from religion
or from science? Is there some foundation upon which human
knowledge rests, or are we forever left with uncertainty and doubt?
How do we know that our understanding of the Bahá’í teachings
is correct? Must we accept every statement of the Text as equal
to any other? When it comes to knowledge, why have religious
communities typically divided along the lines of liberalism and
fundamentalism? Must this fate inevitably befall the Bahá’í Faith?
The second challenge concerns the question of power as it
pertains to the relationship between individuals and groups. What
perspective can be drawn from the Bahá’í teachings about the con-
temporary discourse on power? What are the relationships among
individuals and between individuals and institutions that make the
exercise of power possible? How is it determined which practical
measures are to be taken? Is unity and peace dependent upon the
control of power? What is the relationship between power and free-
dom? Is Bahá’í consultation an example of power-free discourse?
How do we interact with other individuals and communities
without imposing our views, values, and judgments upon them?
How do we balance the competing claims of personal conscience

A Problem of Knowledge
|  165
and collective action, of independent investigation and obedience,
of critical thought and unity? Such questions are particularly
important when matters pertaining to knowledge are unsettled. For
if we have no reliable means of ascertaining truth and discovering
knowledge, does this mean that what happens inside and outside
the Bahá’í community is merely the imposition of power?
The problem of knowledge will be addressed in this chapter, the
problem of power in the final one.
The False Choice Between
Liberalism and Fundamentalism
The deceptively simple question, “How do we know reality?” has
been a vital and perplexing concern of humanity for thousands of
years. In religious thought, this question has centered on how to
understand the sacred teachings, which informs action. This line of
inquiry, taken to its extreme, has led to the clash between liberalism
and fundamentalism. The postmodern emphasis on relativism
exacerbates this divide.
Generally speaking, the fundamentalist, or conservative, clings
to the scripture as absolute truth, assumes that the Text means what
it plainly says and asserts that the world must be shaped by this
truth. Emphasis is placed on individual salvation or on the purity
of the community of believers apart from a world that is suffering
because it has failed to embrace the truth. The liberal believes that
the understanding of scripture must be adapted to the needs of a
changing world, asserts that the Book is largely metaphorical in
its meaning, works to modify religious forms and communities to
fit changing conditions, and is often concerned with social action
before individual salvation or sectarian interests. Further, these two
perspectives are considered by some to represent different modes of
thought, different ways in which human beings know. Depending
on how a person’s mind works, he or she sees the world one way
or another, and gravitates toward one group or the other. The
fundamentalist sees sharp distinctions; there is truth and there is
error. The liberal sees a range of options and complex, even unique,
circumstances in every situation; reality is many shades of gray. In
this sense, rather than being associated with religion alone, liberal-
ism and fundamentalism are believed to characterize a framework
for rationality that infuses all aspects of life.3

|
Revelation & Social Reality
The traditions of western thought, specifically, and religious
thought, generally, make it tempting to apply the perspective of
liberalism and fundamentalism to the Bahá’í community. Attempts
in this direction, however, prove to be entirely inadequate. Viewing
the Faith in this manner imposes a dichotomy that the teachings of
Bahá’u’lláh, by their very nature, have transcended. It suggests that
two camps, composed respectively of liberals and fundamentalists,
have to emerge as the result of the differences of human minds.
Individuals in each camp are bound to interpret and act on the
teachings in their distinct ways, with specific implications for the
study of the Text, administration, application of laws, education,
the teaching work, involvement with society, and a host of other
matters. Presumably, changes in the evolution of the Faith, in the
action of the center of authority, or in the external environment
create conditions for either the liberal or the fundamentalist
position to gain ascendancy for a period of time, either within a
particular Bahá’í community or at the global level. The only distinc-
tion ­between the expression of this problem in other religions and
within the Faith, it might seem, is that the Bahá’ís are preserved
from division through the Covenant and loyalty to a single center.
Yet, liberalism and fundamentalism, no matter how moderately
presented, insist on specific requirements for understanding that
are completely foreign to Bahá’í thought and action. This is not to
deny that individual Bahá’ís think differently or that their personal
views sometimes clash, but to emphatically reject the assumption
that these differences have to crystallize into contending positions.
The liberal-fundamentalist dichotomy is a schema, a lens, through
which reality is perceived. However, in certain situations a lens will
enhance sight, in others it will distort it.
It is clear from the Writings of the Central Figures that Bahá’ís
are to see themselves as one community—indeed, as a single soul.
The believers commit themselves precisely to learning how to treat
diversity in a way that does not lead to conflict or division. In letters
written on his behalf, Shoghi Effendi unequivocally repudiates any
attempt to label and divide the community:
The believers should be careful not to deviate, even a hair-breadth,
from the Teachings. Their supreme consideration should be to
safeguard the purity of the principles, tenets and laws of the
Faith. It is only by this means that they can hope to maintain the
organic unity of the Cause. There can and should be no liberals or

A Problem of Knowledge
|  167
conservatives, no moderates or extremes in the Cause. For they are
all subject to the one and the same law which is the Law of God.
This law transcends all differences, all personal or local tendencies,
moods and aspirations.4
He urges you to exert your utmost to get the . . . Bahá’ís to put
aside such obnoxious terms as “radical,” “conservative,” “progres-
sive,” “enemies of the Cause,” “squelching the teachings,” etc. If
they paused for one moment to think for what purpose the Báb
and the Martyrs gave their lives, and Bahá’u’lláh and the Master
accepted so much suffering, they would never let such definitions
and accusations cross their lips when speaking of each other. As
long as the friends quarrel amongst themselves their efforts will
not be blessed for they are disobeying God.5
Bahá’ís strive to be one so that they can contribute to the estab-
lishment of a social order based on the principle of the oneness of
humanity—the aim of the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh. Any model that
proposes the sustained existence of antagonistic schools of thought
within the community is by definition antithetical to its goals and
methods. The attempt to divide the community into liberals and
fundamentalists, despite any claim to a value-free distinction, is
encumbered by value judgments that immediately pit the two
“groups” against one another. The term “fundamentalist” in a Bahá’í
context is pejorative. For while the understanding of some Bahá’ís
might lead them to eagerly embrace the label “liberal,” none would
be as favorably inclined toward being identified as a “fundamental-
ist” because of the contradiction with explicit Bahá’í teachings.
Even substituting the less problematic label “conservative” would
not ameliorate the negative connotation that lies at the heart of a
“liberal” need to define “the other.” Such labeling invites aggrieved
individuals from trying their hand at defining the two contending
perspectives. So, for example, the division between the two camps
is redrawn between “those who hold a sound understanding of
the teachings” and “those who distort its meaning.” Labeling that
assigns believers to contending groups makes unity impossible.
Another essential contradiction that arises from imposing a
liberal-fundamentalist framework onto the Faith is that it locks
individuals into conflicts that can never reach resolution. Bahá’ís
are encouraged by Bahá’u’lláh to “be united in counsel, be one in
thought.”6 We have been given principles of consultation as a means
of achieving unity of thought and action, and have been exhorted to

|
Revelation & Social Reality
avoid clinging to personal views and to consult without rancor. The
spirit of true consultation is captured in a prayer of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s
for Assemblies:
We have gathered in this Spiritual Assembly, united in our views
and thoughts, with our purposes harmonized to exalt Thy Word
amidst mankind. . . . O God! Make our souls dependent upon the
Verses of Thy Divine Unity, our hearts cheered with the outpour-
ings of Thy Grace, that we may unite even as the waves of one sea
and become merged together as the rays of Thy effulgent Light;
that our thoughts, our views, our feelings may become as one
reality, manifesting the spirit of union throughout the world.7
Dividing the community into two camps reduces such teachings
to empty words. Rather than using diverse viewpoints to enhance
consultation and then collectively draw closer to the meaning and
purpose of the Revelation over time, “liberals” and “fundamental-
ists” stubbornly hold to predetermined positions. Indeed, whether
one considers the problem to be lack of flexibility or too much
flexibility in approaching the Bahá’í Writings, the parameters of the
debate are fixed and the style is always contentious. Any attempt
to impose a liberal-fundamentalist divide on Bahá’í discourse
produces the same type of intractable moral arguments that plague
society as a whole.8
A liberal-fundamentalist framework further contradicts Bahá’í
practice through a misdiagnosis of challenges and incorrect pre-
scriptions for action. When individuals and institutions presented
their problems to Shoghi Effendi, he repeatedly encouraged them to
be patient and persevering, since most problems resulted from the
immature practice of the teachings and administrative principles.
The Guardian feels very strongly that everywhere, throughout
the entire Bahá’í world, the believers have got to master and follow
the principles of their divinely laid down Administrative Order.
They will never solve their problems by departing from the correct
procedure. . . . The Bahá’ís have got to learn to live up to the laws
of Bahá’u’lláh, which are infinitely higher, more exacting and more
perfect than those the world is at present familiar with. Running
away, fighting with each other, fostering dissension, is not going
to advance . . . [any] Community; all it is going to do is to bring
Bahá’u’lláh’s plans and work to a standstill until such time as the

A Problem of Knowledge
|  169
believers unite to serve Him, or new and more dedicated souls
arise to take their place.9
A liberal-fundamentalist mindset does not assess challenges
from this perspective, but views problems as inherent to structure.
A particular Assembly, for example, may have a tendency to be
rigid and controlling in its actions. Rather than seeing this as
the immature practice of one group of Bahá’í administrators that
requires correction through education, measured feedback, and
encouragement, it is argued that the Assembly’s action is the result
of a “fundamentalist approach” to administrative practice that must
be overcome by constant criticism or outright opposition, or by
voting for “liberals” to replace the “fundamentalists.” It may even
lead to recommendations to alter the design of Bahá’í administra-
tion to build in artificial checks and balances perceived necessary
to prevent fundamentalist “domination.” Viewed through the tinted
lens of the liberal-fundamentalist dichotomy, the Bahá’í world is
a different place indeed. Are we to question whether those with
whom we consult are liberals or fundamentalists? Is “our” goal to
debate with “them” and have “our” views win out? Do we now fac-
tor such considerations into Bahá’í elections? Are there liberal and
fundamentalist methods of teaching the Faith? Or, perhaps, we are
to conclude that liberals are so accepting of the views of others they
see no need to teach, while fundamentalists are determined to pur-
sue their triumphalist schemes of indoctrination. Considerations
such as these are the antithesis of the Bahá’í teachings.
Shoghi Effendi explains that “Nothing short of the spirit of
a true Bahá’í can hope to reconcile the principles of mercy and
justice, of freedom and submission, of the sanctity of the right of
the individual and of self-surrender, of vigilance, discretion and
prudence on the one hand, and fellowship, candor, and courage on
the other.”10 If a so-called “liberal Bahá’í” possesses certain liberal
virtues that are compatible with the teachings, then all Bahá’ís ought
to possess these virtues. If a so-called “fundamentalist Bahá’í” pos-
sesses harmful attributes that are counter to Bahá’u’lláh’s teachings,
then no Bahá’í should possess them. The reverse is also true. In this
sense, both the “liberal” and “conservative” may be perceived as an
immature believer lacking in some desirable characteristics or fail-
ing to achieve a balance between the virtues that are to distinguish
the “true Bahá’í.” While no believer may ever achieve the standard
described by the Guardian, we cannot aim for anything less. It is the

|
Revelation & Social Reality
obligation to strive to move past liberalism and fundamentalism,
not the claim that we have completely done so, that makes such a
framework unacceptable when applied to the Bahá’í community.
If we are to learn how to practice the Faith as Bahá’u’lláh
intends in order to achieve His purpose, we also have to learn to try
to understand it as He intends, acknowledging that we will struggle
a lifetime toward this aim. We cannot even begin this endeavor,
however, without releasing ourselves from preconceived notions
and their associated patterns of action. As ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states:
Just as the thoughts and hypotheses of past ages are fruitless today,
likewise dogmas and codes of human invention are obsolete and
barren of product in religion. Nay, it is true that they are the cause
of enmity and conducive to strife in the world of humanity; war
and bloodshed proceed from them, and the oneness of mankind
finds no recognition in their observance.11
While the framework of liberalism and fundamentalism may be
useful for an analysis of religion as it has often been practiced, or
even for an analysis of the adolescent stage of human thought, it
is inadequate for understanding a new stage in the spiritual evolu-
tion of humanity. A different framework for human rationality is
required.
One insight is provided by Richard J. Bernstein in the book,
Beyond Objectivism and Relativism: Science, Hermeneutics, and
Praxis. Bernstein is of the opinion that modern intellectual and
cultural life is affected by an uneasiness that has spread to almost
every discipline and every aspect of society. The source of this
uneasiness, he suggests, is the opposition between objectivism—the
view that knowledge must be grounded on a particular basis—and
relativism—the view that any claim to truth, knowledge or morality
are not absolute but exist only in relation to a particular culture,
society, or historical context.
Bernstein describes objectivism as “the basic conviction that
there is or must be some permanent, ahistorical matrix or frame-
work to which we can ultimately appeal in determining the nature
of rationality, knowledge, truth, reality, goodness, or rightness.”12
There are closely related variations of this argument in different
contexts,13 but all basically come down to the idea that we can have
a way of obtaining certain knowledge about the world around us.
At different times in history, human beings had different ideas
about what constitutes this basis of knowledge. At one time, it was

A Problem of Knowledge
|  171
believed that the proper use of pure reason through philosophy
would enable humanity to determine what was true. In recent
times, science has become the authoritative source of knowledge
about reality. It won this position because of its proven ability to
uncover secrets of the physical world and to produce technologies
that provide mastery over nature.
History, Bernstein asserts, has demonstrated that claims made
on behalf of any particular foundation for knowledge have eventu-
ally failed. Objectivism has, therefore, always been followed by
doubt and skepticism as to whether we can ever be certain about
what we know. Such doubts give rise to the second perspective, rela-
tivism, which he describes as “the basic conviction that when we
turn to the examination of those concepts that philosophers have
taken to be the most fundamental—whether it is the concept of
rationality, truth, reality, right, the good, or norms—we are forced
to recognize that in the final analysis all such concepts must be
understood as relative to a specific conceptual scheme, theoretical
framework, paradigm, form of life, society, or culture.”14 Relativism,
according to Bernstein, avers that there are no universal principles
or absolute standards of truth or reliable methods for discovering
knowledge; rather, there is only uncertainty and different, contend-
ing viewpoints that are “incommensurate”—as incomparable as
apples and oranges. There is no escaping from “our” and “their”
ways of knowing; no one way of knowing can be considered to be
better or more effective than another. Thus, from the perspective
of relativism, it is argued that cultures possess different ways of
knowing and the values and beliefs of one cannot be judged by the
standards of another.
Over time, Bernstein explains, the pendulum has swung
between objectivism and relativism. “Each time that an objectivist
has come up with what he or she takes to be a firm foundation, an
ontological grounding, a fixed categorical scheme, someone else
has challenged such claims and has argued that what is supposed
to be fixed, eternal, ultimate, necessary or indubitable is open to
doubt and questioning.”15 A secure foundation for knowledge is
accepted for a period of time, but then its weaknesses are eventu-
ally exposed and it falls from favor, plunging humanity into doubt.
Relativism reigns. Then a proposal for a new foundation emerges
and gradually gains support until it is widely accepted. Eventually
it too is discredited.

|
Revelation & Social Reality
This line of thought embellished over the centuries has led,
according to Bernstein, to “a grand and seductive Either/Or.”
“Either there is some support for our being, a fixed foundation for
our knowledge, or we cannot escape the forces of darkness that
envelop us with madness, with intellectual and moral chaos.”16 It is
the choice between objectivism and relativism. However, he views
this dichotomy as “misleading and distortive.”
Having described the problem, Bernstein calls for an alternative
approach to human rationality that seeks a way beyond objectivism
and relativism. Drawing upon the work of a number of individuals,
he proposes an approach whose features include the importance
of dialogue among a community of inquirers, practical reasoning
born of experience, and an ability to refine human understanding
through action over time. He draws upon Aristotle’s description of
phronēsis, or practical reasoning, in contrast to epistmē (scientific
or theoretical reasoning) and technē (technical or methodological
reasoning).17 The action of a community is guided and directed by
phronēsis, which involves reasoning through dialogue, an exchange
of differing opinions, interpretation, judgment, and decision-
making. It includes practical application of principles to particular
situations—a kind of ethical know-how. While reasons do not prove
something absolutely, they support judgment. When consensus in
a community breaks down, as in the case of questions of rightness
or appropriateness, then this type of practical discourse is needed
to re-establish the collective agreement upon which further action
depends.
Bernstein’s analysis portrays human beings as investigators of
reality, seeking to interpret and understand the world, and then
acting on that understanding to achieve the consensus that shapes
social reality. Such an approach is similar to that of a number of
scholars that are attempting to find an adequate response to the
problem of knowledge arising from the clash between objectiv-
ism and relativism, between modernism and postmodernism.
Knowledge, in this perspective, involves a shift from epistemol-
ogy—the branch of philosophy that attempts to define a reliable
means for generating knowledge—to hermeneutics—the principles
of interpretation used to unravel communication and human
understanding. Knowledge is not conceived as an exact description
of reality, but involves insights into reality18 that can guide effective
practice. It is not a bedrock, but as a rope in which insights are like
fibers, that “may be ever so slender, provided they are sufficiently

A Problem of Knowledge
|  173
numerous and intimately connected.”19 It holds, in common with
objectivism, a sense that we can know something about reality
and can make progress in knowing, but at the same time rejects
any claim to certainty that can lead to superstition or oppression.
It holds, in common with relativism, a sense of uncertainty about
how much we can know and an appreciation for different points of
view, but rejects wholesale skepticism that results in unrestricted
individualism or nihilism.
This insight into human rationality is similar to what some
­others have described as a “nonfoundational” approach to questions
of knowledge.20 Whereas foundationalism—what Bernstein refers to
as objectivism—seeks a sure means for securing certain knowledge
and relativism rejects all such claims, thereby effectively equating
knowledge with opinion (or perhaps more specifically, eliminat-
ing the concept of knowledge altogether and replacing it with a
pluralistic range of equally valid viewpoints), a nonfoundational
worldview holds that knowledge is mutable. In a nonfoundational
perspective, reality does exist, but human beings are limited in their
capacity for understanding and, therefore, must struggle over time
to derive more useful descriptions and insights about reality that
can guide more effective and productive action in the world.
Knowledge, in a nonfoundational sense, is not an object that
can be possessed. It is not accurate information or a correct set of
facts that perfectly reflects reality as it is. But neither are all views
equal, or all ways of knowing as valid as any other. Many beliefs do
not correspond to reality. Certain human practices, buttressed by
particular bodies of knowledge, are more conducive to well-being
than others. Knowledge that is nonfoundational is intimately tied
to language, justification, intersubjective agreement, and relations
of power; it is not something that stands apart from human ­beings.
It is ever-evolving. It is tied to experience and is sensitive to
context. Knowledge is also tied to theory and universal norms that
are attuned to reality, but however robust and reliably predictive,
such general understandings are merely insights to be transcended
when their limits are eventually exposed. The human enterprise
is, then, the never ending investigation of reality, the search for
truth, the quest for knowledge, and as important, the application
of knowledge to achieve progress, the betterment of the world, and
the prosperity of its peoples.
The metaphor of foundationalism is that of building on a
rock. If any piece of the foundation of knowledge is seriously

|
Revelation & Social Reality
compromised, the whole structure falls and doubt reigns supreme.
A suitable metaphor of nonfoundational thought is standing on
a raft. There is no anchor for knowledge, so change is a constant.
With the generation of new insights and new beliefs, it is necessary
to regularly alter some essential elements of understanding—to
replace pieces of the raft. However, we cannot revise all aspects of
our knowledge at the same time—we need some reliable piece of
the raft on which to stand to replace other parts.21
Human Rationality and the Bahá’í Teachings
Observers may seek to impose a liberal-fundamentalist dichotomy
(or relativist-foundationalist) when assessing the development of
the Bahá’í Faith. So too, without caution, the tension between lib-
eral and fundamentalist influences can enter the Bahá’í community,
shaping attitudes and understanding, and ensnaring Bahá’ís in com-
peting claims made about the nature of Revelation, of knowledge,
and of truth. Legitimate questions, posed out of context, create the
illusion of irreconcilable differences.
Does not the Revelation provide us with the source of truth?
Should we not weigh within the context of the Revelation the
standards and methods of humanity? Is not Bahá’u’lláh, as the
Manifestation of God, the source of truth? Has not this source
of truth been preserved through the Covenant by means of the
infallible interpretations of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and Shoghi Effendi and
the infallible guidance of the Universal House of Justice? Is it not
imperative for the body of believers to understand and be united
around certain truths within the Revelation? Does not submission
to the will of God mean that an individual should abide by the
teachings, rather than attempting to redefine His will to conform
to personal conscience and opinion?
Or, is it not true that the meaning of the Revelation can
never be exhausted, and that holding only to its literal meaning is
misleading? Does ‘Abdu’l-Bahá not say that any religion that fails
to be accord with science is superstition? Does Shoghi Effendi not
assure us that religious truth is relative? Should not Bahá’ís use
reason and the best scholarly methods to understand the Sacred
Text? Is not every believer entitled to the independent investigation
of truth, and freedom of conscience and expression, and the right
to formulate personal interpretations of the Writings?

A Problem of Knowledge
|  175
The Bahá’í teachings, however, resolve the apparent contradic-
tions among these questions by transcending the grand “either/
or” of foundationalism verses relativism. “It is not for anyone to
exceed the limits laid down by God and His law, nor should anyone
follow his own idle imaginings,” Bahá’u’lláh states.22 As previously
mentioned, Shoghi Effendi warned against both extremes in the
development of the Cause.
It is our primary task to keep the most vigilant eye on the
manner and character of its growth . . . lest extreme orthodoxy on
one hand, and irresponsible freedom on the other, cause it to devi-
ate from that Straight Path which alone can lead it to success.23
Another message, written on his behalf, again emphasizes an
alternative to two extremes.
We believe in balance in all things; we believe in moderation
in all things. . . . [W]e must not be too emotional, nor cut and
dried and lacking in feeling, we must not be so liberal as to cease
to preserve the character and unity of our Bahá’í system, nor
fanatical and dogmatic.24
The “Straight Path” that avoids the two extremes referred to by
the Guardian constitutes a distinct, nonfoundational, option. The
Bahá’í Writings place definite limits on understanding. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
explains that human beings cannot know the essence of a thing, but
only its qualities.25 He also states that all ways of human knowing—
reason, tradition, the senses, and inspiration—are fallible, and
therefore must be checked against one another.26 Science, then,
is extolled for its powers of empirical investigation and reason,
but its limitations are also acknowledged. Religion takes its place
along with science as a means for investigating reality, educating
humanity, and contributing to the advancement of civilization. Yet,
rejecting scientific positivism does not become a justification for
religious foundationalism.
It may appear strange to suggest that religion can be ­associated
with a nonfoundational perspective. Indeed, religion has tra-
ditionally been considered to be the archetype of foundational
thought. Jesus extols the individual who grounds life in the Word
of God: “He is like a man which built an house, and digged deep,
and laid the foundation on a rock: and when the flood arose, the
stream beat vehemently upon that house, and could not shake it:
for it was founded upon a rock,” as opposed to “he that heareth,

|
Revelation & Social Reality
and doeth not,” who “is like a man that without a foundation
built an house upon the earth; against which the stream did beat
vehemently, and immediately it fell; and the ruin of that house
was great.”27 Bahá’u’lláh too, in certain passages appears to support
foundationalism:
This is the straight Path, the fixed and immovable foundation.
Whatsoever is raised on this foundation, the changes and chances
of the world can never impair its strength, nor will the revolution
of countless centuries undermine its structure.28
Nevertheless, a review of a range of passages from the Bahá’í
Writings, including those presented above, leads to a broader per-
spective. The absolutist dimensions of foundationalism are absent
in the Bahá’í conception of knowledge. Indeed, in one instance
Bahá’u’lláh even associates the consciousness of the limitation of
human capacity to know with the pinnacle of understanding:
Consider the rational faculty with which God hath endowed
the essence of man. Examine thine own self, and behold how thy
motion and stillness, thy will and purpose, thy sight and hearing,
thy sense of smell and power of speech, and whatever else is related
to, or transcendeth, thy physical senses or spiritual perceptions, all
proceed from, and owe their existence to, this same faculty. . . .
Wert thou to ponder in thine heart, from now until the end
that hath no end, and with all the concentrated intelligence and
understanding which the greatest minds have attained in the
past or will attain in the future, this divinely ordained and subtle
Reality, this sign of the revelation of the All-Abiding, All-Glorious
God, thou wilt fail to comprehend its mystery or to appraise
its virtue. Having recognized thy powerlessness to attain to an
adequate understanding of that Reality which abideth within
thee, thou wilt readily admit the futility of such efforts as may be
attempted by thee, or by any of the created things, to fathom the
mystery of the Living God, the Day Star of unfading glory, the
Ancient of everlasting days. This confession of helplessness which
mature contemplation must eventually impel every mind to make
is in itself the acme of human understanding, and marketh the
culmination of man’s development.29
The inability to achieve rational certainty can be distinguished,
of course, from the attainment of spiritual certitude. Certainty
implies an ability to acquire absolute knowledge, a knowledge that

A Problem of Knowledge
|  177
corresponds exactly to reality, a knowledge that rests upon unas-
sailable evidence or immutable fact. Certitude, in contrast, involves
unshakable belief supported by justifiable proofs and evidences that
are accessible to human capacity. To have certitude that Bahá’u’lláh
is the Manifestation of God for this day and to act with steadfast-
ness is very different than having “certain” knowledge of reality.
It may be tempting to embrace relativism as a Bahá’í approach
to knowledge particularly when considering metaphysics.30 In this
context, relativism provides a welcome and much needed alterna-
tive to an oversimplified perspective in which the Bahá’í teachings
on metaphysical themes such as the nature of God are presented
as truth against which the error of other religion doctrines must
be measured. It offers a way of moving beyond the problem of a
“Bahá’í” foundationalism that would not only foreclose any dia-
logue with other religious communities but would contradict the
Bahá’í concept of the oneness of religion. In discussing metaphysics,
a realm in which the limitations of both physical reality and words
themselves are exposed, a relativism that arises out of the diversity
of approaches that originate from the limitations of the human
mind would seem to be essential.
Nevertheless, there are limits to a relativistic perspective, even
in the case of metaphysics. For it is not merely the human mind
that is at work, but also the active intervention of the Manifestation
of God in assessing human capacity to grasp dimensions of reality
in a given age. Thus, the choices made by the Manifestations in
defining and describing aspects of Their teachings are the starting
point for what has become the metaphysical diversity of religious
traditions. The approach given emphasis in a particular age is
rooted in the Manifestation’s innate comprehension of reality as
it is, in the necessity of speaking to the beliefs and assumptions
of a particular society, and in the intended aim and purpose for
individual and collective transformation in that age. Furthermore,
relativism would seem to be suitable for Bahá’ís only when deal-
ing with texturally supported approaches to metaphysics, such
as monism or dualism. Relativism is inadequate as a means of
evaluating the merits of pantheism, which is granted a conditional
validity in Bahá’í teachings, nor does it allow for rejecting certain
approaches, such as a reductionistic materialism or a superstitious
spiritualism.
In any case, whatever the merits of relativism in addressing
metaphysical concerns, it is nonfoundationalism, not relativism,

|
Revelation & Social Reality
that most closely correlates with the Bahá’í teachings on knowledge
when dealing with the contingent world. A nonfoundational ap-
proach to knowledge, like relativism, recognizes the legitimacy of
different points of view and the limitations on certainty. Unlike a
relativistic approach, however, it permits judgments about inad-
equacy or error.
While the Bahá’í teachings indicate that human capacity for
comprehending reality is circumscribed, they also make it clear that
the mind does have access to reliable knowledge. It is possible to
acquire insights into reality and into the meaning of the Revelation
that guide action so that, over time, an individual or society can
make progress. Bahá’u’lláh has expressed His will and purpose
through His teachings, and Bahá’ís will struggle over the course
of the dispensation to understand these teachings more fully and
to translate them into practical action in order to change social
reality. Among the many aspects of a Bahá’í approach to human
understanding found in the teachings that correspond with a
nonfoundational approach to knowledge are the following.
Truth and the Bahá’í Teachings
The Bahá’í Writings about the nature of truth, taken as a whole,
reject a strict foundationalist or relativistic position. “This day
is the Lord of all days,” Bahá’u’lláh states, “and whatsoever hath
been revealed therein by the Source of divine revelation is the
truth and the essence of all principles.”31 However, human beings
cannot judge the validity of the truths of the Revelation, for “He
doeth what He willeth and ordaineth whatsoever He pleaseth”
and “none is given the right to question His authority.”32 There is
a clear distinction between the mind of God, or more particularly
that of His Manifestation, as expressed in Revelation and human
understanding of the meaning of the Text. For whatever comes
from the Manifestation is “identical with the truth, and conform-
able to reality,”33 while all human “criteria or avenues of knowledge”
are “faulty and unreliable.”34 “That which is in the hands of people,
that which they believe,” ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states, “is liable to error.”
This extends to understanding the Word of God, for the Text itself
is apprehended through the limited instrument of human reason.35
Religious beliefs may even degenerate into superstition. It is the ap-
preciation of the eternal gap between Revelation and our ability to
fully comprehend Revelation that proscribes fundamentalism and

A Problem of Knowledge
|  179
demands a humble and continual investigation of reality through
the knowledge systems of science and religion.
The Bahá’í Writings are equally clear that Bahá’u’lláh “does not
ask us to follow Him blindly.”36 The right to freedom of individual
conscience and individual interpretation are preserved. All are
encouraged to investigate truth. Yet this freedom is not license.
There are boundaries. The believers must obey every injunction of
the Text, they may not contend with its authoritative interpretation,
and they must adhere to the decisions of the Universal House of
Justice. Truth does exist—and so does error. “Truth is one, although
its manifestations may be very different,” ‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains.37
And the Guardian indicates: “The more we read the Writings the
more truths we can find in them and the more we will see that our
previous notions were erroneous.”38 The Revelation is the expres-
sion of the will of God, and we are expected to submit to that will
in order to transform ourselves and the society around us. To what
does one adhere if personal opinion is the only arbiter of truth?
This does not in any way imply that truth is easy to find, but it
does point out the contradiction implicit in an extreme relativistic
position: the categorical assertion that all views, being contextual,
are therefore incommensurable and equally valid or justifiable, is
just another form of absolutism.
Thus, the Bahá’í teachings indicate that our grasp of truth
lacks the assurance of certainty necessary for foundationalism,
or extreme orthodoxy, as well as the arbitrariness implicit in
relativism, or irresponsible freedom. The Bahá’í principle of the
independent investigation of truth confirms this assertion. The
fact that truth must be investigated presumes both that we must
continually search it out, but also, that it can be found. Progress
in understanding aspects of truth about reality is infinite: even at
the end of a dispensation God gives us a fresh measure of truth in
a new Revelation. The principle, however, is not an endorsement
of subjective belief systems. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá clearly foresaw the inde-
pendent, unprejudiced investigation of truth as leading to common
understanding.
Being one, truth cannot be divided, and the differences that appear
to exist among the nations only result from their attachment to
prejudice. If only men would search out truth, they would find
themselves united.39

|
Revelation & Social Reality
Human Minds Differ
“It is clear,” ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states, “that the reality of mankind is
diverse, that opinions are various and sentiments different; and this
difference of opinions, of thoughts, of intelligence, of sentiments
among the human species arises from essential necessity.”40 It is the
difference in human minds that gives rise to the debate between
foundationalism and relativism. Some are inclined to seek a basis
for truth and identify it as a concrete reality; they appreciate the
strength provided by certainty. Others see the elusiveness of truth,
its shades of gray, and the urgent requirement for free exchange in
order to pursue new avenues to acquire truth; they are suspicious
of any attempt to rest upon what is already known. However, there
is a spectrum of human thought along these lines, not simply two
camps. And such differences, if they are allowed to degenerate
into conflict and stubborn attachment to personal opinion, will,
‘Abdu’l-Bahá assures us, only obscure the truth.41 But if varying
perspectives are harmonized, they become a resource for the
investigation of reality. “The diversity in the human family should
be the cause of love and harmony as it is in music where many
different notes blend together in the making of a perfect chord.”42
‘Abdu’l-Bahá further explains:
Thus when that unifying force, the penetrating influence of the
Word of God, taketh effect, the difference of customs, manners,
habits, ideas, opinions and dispositions embellisheth the world of
humanity. This diversity, this difference is like the naturally created
dissimilarity and variety of the limbs and organs of the human
body, for each one contributeth to the beauty, efficiency and per-
fection of the whole. When these different limbs and organs come
under the influence of man’s sovereign soul, and the soul’s power
pervadeth the limbs and members, veins and arteries of the body,
then difference reinforceth harmony, diversity strengtheneth love,
and multiplicity is the greatest factor for coordination.43
Rejecting the false dichotomy of liberalism and fundamental-
ism, therefore, does not impose uniformity or diminish the diver-
sity of views in the Bahá’í community; rather, it preserves the entire
spectrum of individual interpretation as an asset in the search for
truth. All views are welcome save those that persist in extremes of
orthodoxy or irresponsible freedom, since these extremes are in
themselves threats to the process of free investigation. Individuals

A Problem of Knowledge
|  181
do not have to subscribe to the hegemony of a particular ideological
perspective; instead opinions can vary across a range of practical
concerns within differing contexts. In consultation, there is the
freedom to say what one thinks and the freedom to give up one’s
opinion after hearing the ideas of others. In this way, diverse views
are harmonized to achieve unity of thought and action.
An Evolving Bahá’í Culture
As it grows and develops, the Bahá’í community accumulates
beliefs, knowledge, methods, habits, and practices. This culture,
or tradition,44 shapes the believers, and through their experiences
they in turn contribute to modifying the tradition. Thus, generation
after generation, the Bahá’í culture grows and evolves. In the long
term, there is within the culture a closing of the gap between what
the believers bring into the Faith and what Bahá’u’lláh intends—a
movement toward the realization of the will of God.
For example, for most of the early part of the twentieth century,
many western believers held an inaccurate belief about the station of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, convinced that He was the return of Christ, or at least
that He held a higher station than that of the Báb. Shoghi Effendi
corrected this perspective in “The Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh,”
written in 1934. Thus, today, even a child learns the proper station
of each of the Central Figures, an understanding that eluded many
prominent believers of an earlier age.
The practice of the Nineteen Day Feast provides another exam-
ple of cultural progress. Bahá’í pioneers who spread to all parts of
the globe carried with them an understanding of what constituted a
“proper” Bahá’í Feast. This understanding, however, was a mingling
of statements in the Text and cultural practice. After consultations
at the International Convention in 1988 on seeking ways to make
the Feast more efficacious, the Universal House of Justice prepared
a new compilation on the subject and encouraged Bahá’í national
and local communities to explore a wide range of experiences in the
practical implementation of that guidance. The nature of the Feast
changed further, becoming more dynamic and more integrated
with development and progress in those communities witnessing
significant growth during the Five Year Plan from 2001-2006. Most
assuredly, it will continue to evolve in future.
Yet another example of the evolution of culture can be found
in the community’s understanding of the process of teaching.

|
Revelation & Social Reality
Shoghi Effendi explained that the teaching work will go through
a series of stages, from a steady flow of fresh recruits, to entry by
troops, and eventually, to mass conversion.45 He even appears to
have modified his guidance concerning the enrollment process,
encouraging caution when the Faith was still small,46 and then
emphasizing a more relaxed attitude as a more mature Bahá’í com-
munity began to experience accelerated expansion.47 Nevertheless,
many Bahá’í communities struggled with accepting the validity of
the process of large-scale growth when it began in the 1950s and
gathered momentum throughout subsequent decades. These dif-
ficulties retarded the development of effective teaching methods. In
1996, with the advent of the Four Year Plan, the Universal House of
Justice began to move the Bahá’í world toward a change in culture
that was characterized by systematic action and learning about
expansion and consolidation.
The philosopher Hans-Georg Gadamer has written about
the emergence of a tradition and its influence on understanding.
Tradition, he observes, is not the dead weight of the past, it is a liv-
ing thing that informs and shapes thought and is, itself, evolving. As
a tradition emerges, it shapes the community, and there is a future
projection of understanding—an anticipation of meaning—that
guides future interpretation and action. This new interpretation
and action, in turn, gradually reshapes the tradition. When a tradi-
tion is static, unchanging, then it is no longer viable. A community
of thinkers operates within a common tradition, such as science, in
which the tradition consists of the accumulated body of scientific
knowledge and evolving standards and methods validated by the
consensus of scientists. Gadamer speaks about meaning emerging
over time. It is not possible to go back in time and acquire an
objective understanding of the thoughts of a previous period. The
passage of time is, rather, an aid to understanding because there
is a progressive clarification of meaning cultivated within a living
tradition. He explains that “the discovery of the true meaning of a
text or a work of art is never finished; it is in fact an infinite process.
Not only are fresh sources of error constantly excluded, so that the
true meaning has filtered out of it all kinds of things that obscure it,
but there emerge continually new sources of understanding which
reveal unsuspected elements of meaning.”48
So, too, the passage of time is a vital factor in obtaining a
greater understanding of the implications of the Bahá’í teachings.49
The Sacred Text has an intended meaning. We can never fully grasp

A Problem of Knowledge
|  183
it. But at any given moment in history, we are interpreting and
responding to it. Who we are at that moment leads us to ask certain
questions and draw out meanings so we can make further progress
toward that which Bahá’u’lláh intends for us. Thus, Bahá’u’lláh’s
statement that the meaning of the Word is never exhausted can be
seen in terms of its implications related to time—the progressive
revelation of the meaning of the Word as the Faith unfolds and as
civilization progresses—and not as a form of relativism—that con-
flicting understandings of the text are equally possible or correct.
Consultation and the Community
Central to the Bahá’í teachings on the investigation of truth is
Bahá’u’lláh’s exhortation to consult on all things, for consultation
is the “lamp of guidance which leadeth the way” and the “bestower
of understanding.”50 He further states:
Consultation bestoweth greater awareness and transmuteth
conjecture into certitude. It is a shining light which, in a dark
world, leadeth the way and guideth. For everything there is and
will continue to be a station of perfection and maturity. The
maturity of the gift of understanding is made manifest through
consultation.51
Bahá’u’lláh makes the establishment of communities that are
engaged in dialogue the very starting-point of His world order.
He places the affairs of His Cause and of humanity in the hands of
consultative bodies and indicates that “Even in their ordinary affairs
the individual members of society should consult.”52 The capacity to
engage in effective consultation comes over time through experi-
ence and through the commitment, born of faith and religious
obligation, to adhere to its spiritual and practical prerequisites.
Thus, the Manifestation of God, with an innate understanding of
the human condition, has, in this age of maturity, established a
system for social order that perfectly correlates with humanity’s
inherent capacity to investigate reality and act in the world.
By engaging in ongoing consultation about how to understand
the teachings while simultaneously engaging in ongoing explora-
tion of how to translate these teachings into action, the Bahá’í world
gradually learns how to contribute to the building of spiritual civi-
lization, the Kingdom of God on earth. There is not “one way” to
do things, yet at the same time, we cannot indiscriminately support

|
Revelation & Social Reality
all activities and all methods. There has to be a capacity to learn
how one approach or idea is superior to another so that knowledge
can advance. Discovering the meaning of the teachings, therefore,
emerges through interplay between the understanding of the Text
and individual and collective actions in the community.53
The Bahá’í Writings provide principles and methods for guid-
ing the community in a discourse that constantly refines collective
understanding and behavior to move them progressively closer to
truth and effective action. Through simultaneous efforts to weigh
personal views in the balance of the Revelation, to consult, and
to learn in united action, diverse points of view are harmonized
to contribute to the discovery of truth. Humility, love, frankness,
selflessness, justice, unity, and detachment are among the qualities
necessary for thorough exploration of views. Even if all of these
principles and methods are properly implemented, there still may
be differences of opinion. In such cases, individuals are not asked
to compromise their beliefs. They have to learn to avoid conflict
and contention, reassured that problems will be resolved over
time. Thus, it can be seen that learning—consultation, action, and
reflection in light of the guidance—is indispensable for achieving
the personal and collective transformation that are the intended
aims of the Cause.
The Covenant and the Process of Learning
The investigation of truth unfolds over time through a living tradi-
tion and a community engaged in study, consultation, reflection,
and action. At the start of a new enterprise, a framework for action
can be derived, based upon current understanding, concepts and
attitudes derived from the Writings, and the most effective experi-
ence of the community to date. Insights from relevant fields of
human knowledge may contribute to it. Such a framework evolves
over time based on experience. As progress unfolds and experience
accumulates, differences of opinion over problems will arise that
cannot be immediately resolved; an eventual solution depends
upon the degree to which the community’s capacity for discussion
and investigation can be safeguarded. In establishing a community
capable of such learning and progress, Bahá’u’lláh has empowered
it through the guidance found within the Texts, and has established
the Covenant to preserve the necessary and proper relationships on
which progress depends.

A Problem of Knowledge
|  185
The purpose of the Covenant, Shoghi Effendi explains, is
“to perpetuate the influence of [the] Faith, insure its integrity,
safeguard it from schism, and stimulate its world-wide expan-
sion.”54 In discharging its responsibilities under the Covenant, the
Universal House of Justice acts, in part, to protect the Faith from
the extremes of both foundationalism and relativism and to nurture
the discourse that is essential for learning. A letter written on behalf
of the Universal House of Justice explains:
Independent investigation of truth does not imply that Bahá’ís
should question the validity of the very divine revelation which
enjoins it, and firm belief in which is the very reason that they are
Bahá’ís—such a concept would be entirely illogical. Independent
investigation of truth recognizes that no human being can have
a full and correct understanding of the revelation of God; it
places upon each individual the duty to strive for an ever greater
understanding of the Teachings of Bahá’u’lláh, to apply them to
the whole of his life; it is the mainspring of mature consultation, by
which all the affairs of the community are conducted; it leads men
to discover the secrets of the universe and promote the sciences.
As you point out, this will produce great diversity of views on a
wide variety of subjects, and this is excellent. What it cannot and
must not do is to produce “sects” in relation to the Teachings of
the Faith; the Covenant provides the center of guidance which is
to prevent such a degeneration.55
The Covenant, however, does more than simply preserve the
unity of the community. The activity of the Bahá’í community is
not random. Bahá’ís have a mission to spread the divine teachings,
to raise the administrative order that is the nucleus and pattern of
a new world order, and to contribute to progress toward a world
civilization. This mission is presented in the Tablets of the Divine
Plan by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, and it is implemented in stages through
the sequence of Plans carried out first under the direction of the
Guardian and now under the direction of the Universal House of
Justice. These Plans will unfold over “successive epochs reaching
as far as the fringes of [the] Golden Age.”56 The Universal House of
Justice continually sets the direction for the community’s organic
development by defining these Plans, adjusting them to the needs
and capacities of the believers and the conditions in the world
at large. Learning through consultation, action, and reflection
takes place within each locality and flows to all parts of the world.

|
Revelation & Social Reality
Learning about growth and the progress of the community’s mis-
sion prevents stagnation and accelerates movement as the believers
gain experience and as knowledgeable and capable individuals are
continually attracted to the Faith.57
An Overview of Understanding and
Action in the Bahá’í Community
The ideas presented offer the general outlines of an approach
to ­understanding and applying the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh
that stands in sharp contrast to a fundamentalist-liberal,
­foundationalist-relativist, or modern-postmodern dichotomy. Its
basic features are as follows:
The Bahá’í world community walks a “Straight Path” from the

dawn of the Revelation to its Golden Age. Extreme orthodoxy
and unfettered freedom are proscribed, yet, minds differ,
and the believers represent a wide continuum of opinion,
thought, and sentiment that is harmonized in the context of
the Revelation.
Progress on the path is made by “translating that which hath been

written into reality and action.” The creation of the Kingdom
of God on earth, the transformation of society in accordance
with the will of God, requires the believers to be engaged in
an integrated process striving for greater understanding and
improving practice. Their understanding of reality is shaped
by the knowledge systems of science (the reading of the book
of creation) and religion (the reading of the book of religion).
Action is necessary to test the truth of any interpretive insights.
Over the course of the dispensation, Bahá’ís draw closer to
achieving Bahá’u’lláh’s intended will and purpose.
As the believers walk the “Straight Path” they advance through

learning: a systematic, dialogical process involving study, consul-
tation, action and reflection in the light of divine guidance. Over
a lifetime, one investigates reality and attempts to replace erro-
neous beliefs and practices; the community similarly advances
in its collective understanding and development. The process of
consultation assists Bahá’ís to harmonize divergent views in the
search for truth and in the application of principles in diverse
and often ambiguous contexts. Once a decision is reached, all
support it, for in this way, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains, even if the

A Problem of Knowledge
|  187
decision is wrong, the foundation of unity is preserved, the
truth will be revealed, and the wrong made right. Latitude for
initiative and tolerance of mistakes is needed. Reflection on
­action is indispensable, and, in this regard, constructive criti-
cism is a welcome and essential aspect of learning.
At certain times in history, it is not possible to validate a single

understanding or course of action. Standards for making such
judgments may emerge at a later date. At best, it may be
possible to bracket a range of possible alternatives, ruling out
some options and defining a legitimate selection of others ac-
cording to current criteria for understanding and action. Thus,
the believers are free to hold their own views yet they do not
impose them on others or contend with the center of authority.
They need to be comfortable with ambiguity and allow time,
experience, consultation informed by differing perspectives,
and the guidance of the Universal House of Justice to gradually
resolve of all questions associated with achieving the aims of
the Faith.
As the community engages in dialogue and systematic learning,

a culture, or tradition, emerges and evolves over time, moving
toward a fuller expression of Bahá’u’lláh’s will and purpose. This
process has unfolded since the beginning of the dispensation
and will continue through its Golden Age. The tradition has
both universal and particular aspects across the diverse peoples
of the Bahá’í world. Among the aspects of the tradition are
practices (such as a particular approach to the Feast), a body
of knowledge (such as our understanding of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s sta-
tion), methods (such as firesides or teaching projects), institu-
tional arrangements (such as the organization and operation of
training institutes), and a view of history (such as one conveyed
in a historical piece from a particular period). The believers
of each new generation are educated within the tradition and,
in turn, are enabled to contribute to it and gradually reshape
and advance it through their understanding and action so
that it may reflect more and more Bahá’u’lláh’s meaning and
purpose—all within limits defined by the Covenant.
The Covenant preserves the conditions necessary to guarantee

steady progress, to protect against extremes, and to provide
proper orientation for progress on the path. The two authoritative

|
Revelation & Social Reality
centers are the Book, with its authorized Interpreter, and the
guidance of the Universal House of Justice.58 The House of
Justice, by framing the successive stages of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s
Divine Plan, directs the believers toward actions appropriate
to the current stage of the Faith’s organic unfoldment, while
guiding progress along the “Straight Path.” Although it does
not interpret the text, the House of Justice preserves its purity
by directing the collective action of the community in response
to the writings and by preventing individual interpretations
from being imposed on the community. There is an integral
relationship between the learning undertaken by the believers
and the guidance provided by the House of Justice.
Any attempt to impose a foundationalist or relativist perspec-
tive on the Bahá’í community must ultimately fail. Bahá’ís will,
no doubt, prepare an adequate response to criticisms raised from
outside the community. Yet, we are not immune from the dominant
forces of humanity’s intellectual life—the temptations of liberalism
and fundamentalism in various forms beckon. While we have
resisted, and will no doubt continue as a result of the Covenant
to resist extreme divisions and sectarianism, such tensions can
manifest themselves not only in the intellectual life of the com-
munity, but also, for example, in such basic activities as growth
or administration, when consultation and a learning attitude are
disrupted by disputes among the friends over the meaning of the
guidance on some issue.
As described in Greek mythology, sailors steered a treacher-
ous course between Scylla, a fierce sea-monster, and Charybdis,
a huge whirlpool. The effort to avoid the former placed one in
jeopardy from the latter. In response to a perceived rigidity of
thought associated with some administrative practice, interpreta-
tion of Text, or scientific or historical analysis, it is understandable
that some fair-minded believers would attempt to steer clear of
the extreme manifestations of foundationalism or orthodoxy. It is
also understandable that other devoted individuals, responding to
what they perceive to be attacks on the truths of the Faith, would
steer away from extreme expressions of relativism or irresponsible
freedom. But in so doing, each is exposed to the opposite danger.
The efforts of individuals to redefine concepts and practices—in
either direction—may overstep boundaries set in the Bahá’í teach-
ings that prohibit personal opinions from being imposed on the

A Problem of Knowledge
|  189
community. This error is compounded when, meeting resistance
to their criticisms, a few take excessive measures in an attempt to
repudiate aspects of the Bahá’í teachings that do not conform to
their personal views.
We need to become conscious that any contemporary under-
standing of an evolving Faith must be to some degree imperfect;
that over time, through the processes that Bahá’u’lláh has put
into place, we can create a community more closely attuned to
His will and purpose—and indeed we must constantly struggle
and sacrifice in order to do so; that the acquisition of knowledge
through science and religion is the motive force driving progress;
and that acquisition of knowledge must be associated with action
and reflection on action. We face, therefore, not the contending
alternatives of liberalism and fundamentalism, each of which
contains aspects that contradict the teachings; rather, we are col-
lectively attempting, under the guidance of the Universal House of
Justice, to define a course along the “Straight Path” that avoids the
dangers of “­irresponsible freedom” and “extreme orthodoxy.” What
is necessary, as we increasingly elucidate and refine understanding
and practice in the Bahá’í community, is to recognize that Scylla
and Charybdis are, after all, myths.

A Problem of Power
H
aving examined the question of knowledge, it is
now possible to explore the closely related question of
power. While there are alternative definitions, power is
understood as that condition arising from human relationships that
causes or enables individuals to act in a certain way. A person may
exercise power to choose how to act, or power may be exerted by
other individuals, groups or institutions to cause a person to per-
form particular actions. The problem of power involves the ­political
order, but, more broadly, it is concerned with how individuals relate
to one another, how society impacts individuals, and how the vari-
ous institutions and structures within society interact.
If there is a way to obtain knowledge that is certain, then
knowledge is power, because truth would serve as a means for
keeping the abuse of power in check. Those who wish to impose
authority and force matters in a direction of their own choosing
would have to yield to knowledge that proves their views wrong.
The integrity of correct practice would be upheld by certain
knowledge. However, if there is no unfailing access to knowledge
and relativism reigns, then all that remains is the eternal struggle
of one against another without any source of truth or good or right
to restrain or direct power.
The previous chapter examined how dialogue and agreement
are critical for the generation of the partial, mutable, evolving body
of knowledge accessible to humanity that avoids the extremes of
foundationalism and relativism. While this approach helps to
resolve concerns associated with the problem of knowledge, it
creates new challenges in relation to the question of power. The
delicate dialogical framework in which understanding and action
are conjoined can be easily manipulated. To preserve this frame-
work there must be constant effort. Otherwise, “truth” is merely the
product of power, and individuals and diverse communities who

|
Revelation & Social Reality
possess power are free to rationalize their own actions and impose
their subjective views on others. The results of scientific studies
supported by funds from the tobacco industry that find no link
between cigarette smoking and cancer is a good example of such
manipulation. Thus, as a number of thinkers have observed, power
deforms practice. Where there is no agreement about universal
principles or the means to distinguish between truth and opinion,
there can be no basis for rational discussion that can resolve prob-
lems or apply principles to specific cases and contexts.
As with knowledge, the concept of power is far reaching. The
scope of this chapter, like the last one, however, must necessarily
be circumscribed. It is not a comprehensive Bahá’í approach to the
question of power, but merely a response to certain fundamental
challenges that could be directed toward the Bahá’í community in
light of contemporary thought.
How does the Bahá’í community bring its understanding
and action over time into conformity with Bahá’u’lláh’s will and
purpose? How do we determine what action should be taken? How
do we resolve the tension between the rights of the individual and
the responsibilities toward the common good—between individual
freedom and unity? As we learn to resolve this tension ever more
effectively within our own community, how do we relate to other
communities? Do the Bahá’í teachings give us a standard by which
to judge the beliefs of others or do they oblige us to simultaneously
uphold the validity of a multiplicity of cultures and traditions that
maintain conflicting beliefs and practices? How do we engage and
appropriately influence the peoples of the world without falling
into the pitfalls of dominance or oppression? To be able to answer
such questions, we need to explore the relations of power among
individuals and institutions that govern human action.
One word of caution before undertaking this exercise. The
contemporary discourse on power arises from a particular way
of looking at reality that does not fully correspond with—indeed,
often stands in contrast to—the Bahá’í teachings. For example, the
meaning of the term “religion” in the Bahá’í teachings is markedly
different from that which is current in much of society today. So
too, any attempt to analyze the Bahá’í teachings from current
perspectives on power will distort what Bahá’ís mean by human
agency and relationships.
A significant portion of the contemporary discourse is con-
cerned with issues of power that arise from tension or competition

A Problem of Power
|  193
in various aspects of human relationships—between individuals,
between the individual and society, or between one group and
another. In these relationships, the term power implies a zero sum
game in which the power of one side is derived at the expense of
the other. A survey of the Bahá’í teachings, however, presents power
as a force that is infused into a relationship or emerges from it once
there is a certain harmony within. There is, for example, discussion
of the power of love, the power of unity, the power of the Covenant,
the power of God, and the creative power of the Word of God. “So
powerful is the light of unity that it can illuminate the whole earth,”
Bahá’u’lláh states.1 “In the world of existence there is indeed no
greater power than the power of love,” ‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains, for
when “the heart of man is aglow with the flame of love, he is ready
to sacrifice all—even his life.”2 And again He states: “the Word of
God hath infused such awesome power into the inmost essence
of humankind that He hath stripped men’s human qualities of all
effect, and hath, with His all-conquering might, unified the peoples
in a vast sea of oneness.”3
In the Bahá’í teachings, the proper relationships governing
individuals, groups, and society are described with the help of the
metaphor of the human body. All of the cells, organs and systems
have a part to play and when all are in harmony, the full capacity of
the body is manifest. In this perspective, it makes no sense to speak
of the power of a cell in contrast to the power of an organ or of the
body as a whole. Even when taking into account human agency, the
aim of the individual or purpose of a social structure is to achieve
unity and harmony through cooperation and complementarity.
In reflecting upon the relationship between a mother and child,
one may address issues such as love, care, mutual responsibility,
education, maturation, mentoring and the like. Once a discourse
of power is imposed, however, the relationship takes on a very dif-
ferent character, in which the primary considerations are authority,
control, criticism, discipline, monitoring, freedom, and a struggle
for autonomy. The introduction of the language of power does not
further the understanding of harmonious relationships; it does
the opposite. When such relationships fail, when it is impossible
to address differences through discussion, then one takes recourse
to an analysis of power. Perhaps the current discourse on power is
a discourse of pathology, not of health. It brings to focus certain
concerns but, in the process, distorts significantly other important
aspects of reality. In undertaking the task set forth in this chapter

|
Revelation & Social Reality
then, we should recognize that it does not present a Bahá’í per-
spective on society or on power, nor does it aver that the Bahá’í
teachings are necessarily in accord with any particular perspective
on power offered in contemporary thought.
Contemporary Perspectives on Power
The Bahá’í teachings offer a vision of a new world order and
promise the establishment of universal peace. They declare that the
struggle for power among individuals and communities will be sup-
planted by relationships governed by the principle of the oneness of
humanity. In making such bold claims, however, Bahá’ís need to be
sensitive not only to the advances of modern political thought, but
also to contemporary, postmodern voices that have radically altered
the general consensus on power.
Over the centuries, Western thought primarily approached
power in terms of the capacity of institutions to compel individuals
to conform to certain patterns of behavior, either through oppres-
sion and tyranny or by the rule of law within a just social order.
In this perspective, the institutions of the state, and to a lesser
degree, religious and economic institutions, possess power. A just
political system has been sought in a number of ways—following,
for example theological, secular liberal, or socialist reasoning—and
attempts are made to ground these views on secure foundations
buttressed by unassailable truth, whether metaphysical, philosophi-
cal, or scientific. Justice has often been given the task of defining
parameters for the exercise of power by institutions in order to
establish equality and maximize freedom. The contest between
political systems has played itself out on the world stage, resulting
in the ascent of liberal democracy.
Recent thinkers have addressed the problem of power from a
modernist perspective by considering not only the structures of
society, but also the role of the individual. For example, the German
philosopher Jürgen Habermas offers a theory of communicative
rationality that explains how to strive for objective meaning while
exposing the errors of tradition and the limitations of language in
social practice. He sets forward a number of precepts for achiev-
ing a principled, open dialogue—the “unconstrained, unifying,
consensus-building force of argumentative speech.”4 Habermas
envisions that it is possible to establish a kind of collective self-
reflection that exposes hidden power relations and reverses the

A Problem of Power
|  195
damaging influences of ideology, thereby using critical reasoning
to ground claims to truth and morality. The British sociologist
Anthony Giddens put forward a theory of structuration, which
proposes that it is not simply social structures that constrain or
compel individual action, but that individuals, despite their limited
knowledge, also act in a manner that can gradually change these
structures. “Social structures,” he states, “are both constituted by
human agency, and yet at the same time are the very medium of
this constitution.”5 Giddens indicates that the structures of society
can constrain action, but they can also enable action by providing
a common framework of meaning.
Postmodern thought calls into question the modern perspec-
tive on power. Power is seen to be ubiquitous: all, at least poten-
tially, exercise power, and they do so for their own ends. There is a
constant struggle, expressed individually and through institutions,
to exert will to realize personal views and desires. Humanity is
left with no choice but to deal with these power relations that are
an inherent aspect of the human condition. In this context, the
assertion that it is possible to base political and ethical judgments
upon a tenable foundation is regarded with suspicion. The belief
that there are methods, principles, or conditions of rationality that
can be used to transcend tradition or day-to-day circumstances
in order to achieve a universal standpoint is rejected. Appeals to
morality are considered a disguised form of self-interest. The call
for international peace is said to be a utopian illusion or, more
likely, a cover for totalitarian impulses. The premise that human
beings can engage in dialogue without selfish motives is considered
naïve, foolish, and even dangerous.
The work of French philosopher Michael Foucault offers insight
into the postmodern perspective on power. “Power,” Foucault
explains, “is not an institution, and not a structure; neither is it
a certain strength we are endowed with; it is the name that one
attributes to a complex strategical situation in a particular society.”6
According to Foucault, power is everywhere. It lies in the hands
of individuals and groups as well as with government. It is not
possible for the state to contain or even to place adequate checks
upon power relations, nor can political institutions or legislation
guarantee freedom. Power is a “multiplicity of force relations”
within a given sphere of operations that have their own organiza-
tion; it is a process, which, through “struggles and confrontations,
supports, transforms, or reverses these force relations.”7

|
Revelation & Social Reality
Foucault is concerned with the critique of power. Since, for him,
power is central to defining what we believe and what we ought to
do, he seeks to expose the workings of power, especially as it takes
form in truth, ethics or knowledge. The Enlightenment tradition
suggests that knowledge is achieved by suspending power, as in
the quest for objective truth. It is in this context that “knowledge is
power,” because once knowledge is obtained, argument and action
must submit and conform to truth. Foucault, however, asserts that
it is power that produces the standards and conditions that define
what constitutes “reality,” “justice,” “evidence,” and “the facts.”
Power is knowledge.8 We are, therefore, left with no option except
to make a continual effort to expose the workings of power and
challenge its implications. A “power-free” society or “power-free”
discourse is impossible. Talk of it is utopian and dangerous, because
such an approach merely cloaks the desires of those making the
claim and opens the door to oppression. Foucault warns against
a “tyranny of globalizing discourses,” a danger in universal claims
or comprehensive (totalizing) explanations.9 Appeals to peace,
freedom, justice or any other ideal are merely the workings of
power to exert control or to legitimize the status quo.
Foucault never attempts to provide a theory of justice or a
secure basis upon which a critique of society can rest. According
to his views, this would be impossible, and the effort would merely
amount to constructing another competing manifestation of power.
Instead, he lays particular emphasis on thought as a means of
analyzing practice. Through reflection one can challenge existing
ways of doing things and learn to act differently. Foucault puts
forward his argument by historical investigations, or “genealogies,”
of how power has operated in the world. In one prominent work,
Discipline and Punish, he explores the modern prison system—how
society punishes and attempts to get those outside the boundaries
of acceptable behavior to conform. In this book, Foucault draws
upon the concept of the panopticon, a hypothetical prison designed
to expose inmates to constant surveillance, or, at least, to the belief
that they may be under constant surveillance, as a means of induc-
ing proper behavior. Foucault sees the panopticon as a metaphor
for the restraints imposed by modern society. A web of disciplinary
procedures—the manifestations of power—surround and control
individuals, making them adapt themselves to “normal” behavior.
These procedures include modest admonishments, such as park-
ing tickets, but also the measuring and testing to establish norms

A Problem of Power
|  197
common in economics, academics, medicine, or psychiatry. For
Foucault, critique provides freedom, because it provides the means
to continually challenge the imposition of dominant expressions
of power in order to make room for local or particular expres-
sions of knowledge and truth that would otherwise be subjugated.
Oppression is combated not by emancipatory theories but by
criticism that exposes its workings and by local action.
The aim here, of course, is not to exhaustively describe the post-
modern perspective on power or to suggest that Foucault’s views are
fully representative of such concerns. It is only to point out certain
tensions that exist in contemporary thought that require a careful
consideration of the Bahá’í teachings, so that they do not unduly
influence Bahá’í discourse and so that we might get a better sense
of how Bahá’ís are to present themselves to a skeptical world. Some
writers find in postmodernism’s rejection of the privileged posi-
tion of science a new opening for religious contributions to social
discourse,10 others challenge any role for religious or metaphysical
contributions because of the presumably unwarranted assertion that
there is a foundation for truth and justice.11 In any case, from the
perspective of postmodernism, religion—as well as natural or social
sciences, movements for social change, political parties, or any
other source of claims to truth or meaning—must be subject to an
unrelenting critique to prevent an imposition and abuse of power.
The brief consideration of the contrast between modern and
postmodern approaches offers only a glimpse into the complex
debate on the nature of power.12 Yet it illustrates that the problem
of power is intertwined with the problem of knowledge discussed
in the previous chapter. The tension between foundationalism
and relativism weighs heavily on the ethical-political dimension
of social relations. Does knowledge restrain power, or does the
exercise of power corrupt any attempt to generate and apply
knowledge? Are there universal values that are believed to apply
to the human condition in such a way that the actions of human
beings in all cultures and in all times can be judged by and expected
to conform to this set of values? Or are values dependent on local
perspectives? Perhaps, in an extreme relativistic view, “values” have
nothing to do with ideals of human character at all, but are merely
the self-serving constructs that represent the opinions and desires
of a particular group of people. Is it possible, then, as modernism
assumes, to find a theory of justice, a sound social contract such as
a constitution or charter, or a scientific explanation—biological or

|
Revelation & Social Reality
psychological—for human behavior that provides a foundation for
action in the social realm and on the basis of which a just political
order, freedom, peace, and human prosperity and well-being can be
established? Or is reality far more complex and uncertain, so that
there is no alternative to doubt, criticism, struggle, and a constant
unmasking of value and knowledge claims as a means of fending
off oppression and ensuring there is room for freedom and local
expressions of belief?
A traditional foundationalist approach to religion that sets the
parameters for power relations might be summarized as follows.
God is the all-Powerful and all-Knowing Creator of the Universe.
From this absolute position, God reveals to humanity the Word of
God, encompassing a complete understanding of human nature
and physical reality and presenting the divine laws, teachings and
principles—and perhaps even the administrative arrangements—
that tell human beings how they should conduct their individual
and collective lives. Humanity must first, accept this standard of
truth, morality, and justice and second, act on it to improve society
and forge a just social order: the Kingdom of God. God’s plan for
the ordering of human relations is given to us; we are to accept and
obey.
Those whose conviction is derived from revealed religion may
readily acknowledge the truth in this statement. But a moment’s
reflection on the horrors perpetrated in the name of religion leads
to the sad but unavoidable admission that such acts were justified
by similar arguments. An exploration of the Bahá’í teachings that
pertain to power and ethical-political relations should avoid over-
simplified, reductionistic positions that impose a choice between
idealized social systems and unrestricted individual freedom.
Reflect upon some of the questions pertaining to power that
might arise in a critique of the Bahá’í community. How do we
define power? What are the relationships of power that exist among
individuals and between individuals and institutions? How is power
exercised in the Bahá’í community? Is there a formal, procedural
approach to the use of power? What is the role of criticism? Not
only are internal processes to be analyzed, but also our relationship
to other communities and peoples. How do Bahá’ís interact with
others? Is humanity to be judged by Bahá’í standards and values, or
do we assume a relativistic or pluralistic perspective toward other
communities? When it comes to our view of a spiritual civilization,
the Kingdom of God on earth, how do we avoid charges of naïveté,

A Problem of Power
|  199
moralizing, or totalitarianism? We must learn to respond to such
questions without distorting our own understanding or conveying
an inaccurate view of the Faith.
The Bahá’í teachings associated with contemporary consid-
erations of power, from one perspective, can be correlated with
certain modernist aims. Consultation is the method of Bahá’í
discourse that allows decisions to be made from the bottom-up
and enacted, to the extent possible through rational, dispassionate,
and just means, while minimizing personal machinations, argu-
mentation, or self-interested manipulation. Opinions are shared,
then modified in the search for truth; a consensus about reality is
sought upon which collective action is based and progress made. A
system for administering the affairs of the Faith, a set of laws that
must be obeyed, and the designation of universal principles that
govern human relations, can all be seen as elements of a systematic
approach to addressing matters of freedom, morals, justice, and
social order.
The Bahá’í teachings, from another perspective, can be cor-
related with certain postmodern concerns about power. The faults of
human beings are readily admitted, including the tendency toward
the perpetual struggle to advance oneself over another. Power
belongs not only to institutions but also to individuals, who are to
exercise initiative and not merely wait for instructions before taking
action. Critical thought is acknowledged as imperative for human
progress, the individual is entitled to personal understanding and
freedom of expression, and there is an obligation to work to trans-
form repressive social structures. If the proper channels for critical
and creative thought are obstructed, then some believers may resort
to backbiting or become inactive, devoting their energies to other
areas. The Bahá’í teachings do not concentrate only on abstract prin-
ciples of consultation, but also on the practical problems that arise
when individuals attempt to impose their opinions and personal
agendas. In appreciating that the problem of power can never be
entirely eliminated, the Bahá’í community is restrained in various
ways from arbitrarily imposing its views on others; therefore, in a
world strongly influenced by postmodern doubt, the Bahá’í position
cannot simply be dismissed as naïve—the quest for a power-free
world—or as totalitarian—the imposition of Bahá’í morality dis-
guised as an appeal for universal values, peace, and justice.
Thus, in the Bahá’í teachings, the quest for order and rationality
is complemented by equally important elements of critical thought,

|
Revelation & Social Reality
learning, diversity, and attention to local context. Unbending rules
of behavior and overcentralization of authority belong to the age
of humanity’s childhood; similarly, unchecked freedom and unre-
lenting criticism are representative of the age of adolescence. New
insights on power are required for the age of human maturity.
As observed in the last chapter, the only way to avoid an end-
less debate between foundationalism and relativism is to reject the
dichotomy and search for a richer, though more nuanced approach.
In relation to questions of power, a nonfoundational perspective is
also possible. It acknowledges that there is no formula or absolute
set of procedures, no theory of justice or political organization
upon which we can completely rely for ideal results. But neither is
social interaction reduced to circular polemics, relentless criticism,
and a never-ending struggle for dominance. Instead, practical judg-
ments can be made about how things should be done in specific
circumstances and, over time and through experience, approaches
can be improved to yield more effective insights and practices. It is
in this context that we can examine more closely the Bahá’í teach-
ings related to the question of power.
Some Bahá’í Teachings Relevant to Human Relationships
For Bahá’ís, the social and ethical arrangements that govern
relations among individuals, groups and society from which
the question of power arises are forged in every age by the
Manifestation of God, Who brings the divine teachings adapted to
the prevailing contingencies of human reality—both the capacity
of human beings to understand and the degree of human social
progress to date. Religious truth, Shoghi Effendi declares, is in this
sense “relative” and not absolute.13 When a new Manifestation of
God appears, the book of Revelation is rewritten: certain truths
are affirmed while others are illumined in a new context to the
extent that, in some cases, what was night becomes day, what was
forbidden becomes lawful. The elements of the “raft” of human
understanding are restructured.
A new Revelation is not merely the transmission of new
truths that humanity could not understand in a previous age. It
is a complex response to human culture and capacity, involving
a compromise with human limitation. In The Secret of Divine
Civilization, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá analyzes an aspect of divine law in the
time of Muhammad.

A Problem of Power
|  201
It is moreover a matter of record in the books of the various
Islamic schools and the writings of leading divines and historians,
that after the Light of the World had risen over H. ijáz, flooding all
mankind with Its brilliance, and creating through the revelation of
a new divine Law, new principles and institutions, a fundamental
change throughout the world—holy laws were revealed which in
some cases conformed to the practices of the Days of Ignorance.
Among these, Muhammad respected the months of religious
truce, retained the prohibition of swine’s flesh, continued the use
of the lunar calendar and the names of the months and so on.
There is a considerable number of such laws specifically enumer-
ated in the texts. . . .
Can one, God forbid, assume that because some of the
divine laws resemble the practices of the Days of Ignorance, the
customs of a people abhorred by all nations, it follows that there
is a defect in these laws? Or can one, God forbid, imagine that
the Omnipotent Lord was moved to comply with the opinions
of the heathen? The divine wisdom takes many forms. Would it
have been impossible for Muhammad to reveal a Law which bore
no resemblance whatever to any practice current in the Days of
Ignorance? Rather, the purpose of His consummate wisdom was
to free the people from the chains of fanaticism which had bound
them hand and foot, and to forestall those very objections which
today confuse the mind and trouble the conscience of the simple
and helpless.14
Furthermore, Bahá’u’lláh offers the following explanation in
response to a question concerning why certain prohibitions differ
among religions:
. . . “The All-knowing Physician hath His finger on the pulse of
mankind” was, and remaineth, the answer to his question. He
further saith: “Be anxiously concerned with the needs of the age
ye live in, and center your deliberations on its exigencies and
requirements.” That is, fix your gaze upon the commandments of
God, for whatsoever He should ordain in this day and pronounce
as lawful is indeed lawful and representeth the very truth. It is
incumbent upon all to turn their gaze towards the Cause of God
and to observe that which hath dawned above the horizon of His
Will, since it is through the potency of His name that the banner of
“He doeth what He willeth” hath been unfurled and the standard
of “He ordaineth what He pleaseth” hath been raised aloft. For

|
Revelation & Social Reality
instance, were He to pronounce water itself to be unlawful, it
would indeed become unlawful, and the converse holdeth equally
true. For upon no thing hath it been inscribed “this is lawful” or
“this is unlawful”; nay rather, whatsoever hath been or will be
revealed is by virtue of the Word of God, exalted be His glory.
These matters are sufficiently clear and require no further
elaboration. Even so, certain groups believe that all the ordinances
current amongst them are unalterable, that they have ever been
valid, and that they will forever remain so. Consider a further
passage, glorified and exalted be He: “These words are being
uttered in due measure, that the newly born may thrive and the
tender shoot flourish. Milk must be given in suitable proportion,
that the children of the world may attain to the station of maturity
and abide in the court of oneness.” For instance, some believe that
wine hath ever been and shall remain forbidden. Now, were one
to inform them that it might one day be made lawful, they would
arise in protest and opposition. In truth, the people of the world
have yet not grasped the meaning of “He doeth whatsoever He
willeth,” nor have they comprehended the significance of Supreme
Infallibility. The suckling child must be nourished with milk. If it
be given meat it will assuredly perish, and this would be naught
but sheer injustice and unwisdom.15
Thus, from a Bahá’í perspective, divine law does not take an abso-
lute form that is grounded upon an absolute reality. God appears
in this sense to be quite pragmatic: taking various kinds of action
within specific contexts to achieve desirable results.
Indeed, the very concept “He doeth whatsoever He willeth”16
implies a judgment born of understanding, adapted to circumstance
and with the intention of achieving a purpose, rather than a state-
ment of absolute truth that is reached after an objective assessment
of reality. The standard of the Most Great Infallibility is not, “He
says what is true” or “He does what is right.” Instead, something is
true or right because the Manifestation of God says so; His Word is
the expression of God’s will and purpose. “Were He to pronounce
water to be wine or heaven to be earth or light to be fire, He
speaketh the truth and no doubt would there be about it; and unto
no one is given the right to question His authority or to say why or
wherefore.”17 “Were He to pronounce right to be wrong or denial
to be belief, He speaketh the truth as bidden by God.”18 However,
the Manifestation does not speak in an arbitrary or circumscribed

A Problem of Power
|  203
way, which would be characteristic of relativism. What is said has
meaning and purpose, it is intended for all humanity, it must be
obeyed, it produces practical results, and it cannot be altered until
the next dispensation. Bahá’u’lláh explains that the Manifestation
of God is “The All-Knowing Physician” that has “His finger on the
pulse of mankind.” He perceives the disease and prescribes the
remedy, a remedy for “present-day afflictions” that “can never be
the same as that which a subsequent age may require.”19 “Mankind
in its entirety must firmly adhere to whatsoever hath been revealed
and vouchsafed unto it. Then and only then will it attain unto true
liberty.”20 At the same time, the Revelation is suited to the capacity
of the hearer. “All that I have revealed unto thee with the tongue of
power, and have written for thee with the pen of might,” Bahá’u’lláh
states, “hath been in accordance with thy capacity and understand-
ing, not with My state and the melody of My voice.”21
Just as the divine standard of Revelation stands apart from
foundationalism and relativism, so too, the effort to understand
and apply it should avoid these extremes. The laws, principles, and
exhortations are not translated into practice in a fixed and inflex-
ible manner, a code that determines what must be done in every
circumstance.
The human tendency in past Dispensations has been to want every
question answered and to arrive at a binding decision affecting
every small detail of belief or practice. The tendency in the Bahá’í
Dispensation, from the time of Bahá’u’lláh Himself, has been to
clarify the governing principles, to make binding pronouncements
on details which are considered essential, but to leave a wide area
to the conscience of the individual.22
In response to an inquiry by a Bahá’í youth about how to apply
the teachings in daily life, a letter written by the Universal House
of Justice explains:
It is neither possible nor desirable for the Universal House of
Justice to set forth a set of rules covering every situation. Rather
is it the task of the individual believer to determine, according to
his own prayerful understanding of the Writings, precisely what
his course of conduct should be in relation to situations which
he encounters in his daily life. If he is to fulfill his true mission
in life as a follower of the Blessed Perfection, he will pattern his
life according to the Teachings. The believer cannot attain this

|
Revelation & Social Reality
objective merely by living according to a set of rigid regulations.
When his life is oriented toward service to Bahá’u’lláh, and when
every conscious act is performed within this frame of reference,
he will not fail to achieve the true purpose of his life.
Therefore, every believer must continually study the sacred
Writings and the instructions of the beloved Guardian, striving
always to attain a new and better understanding of their import
to him and to his society. He should pray fervently for Divine
Guidance, wisdom and strength to do what is pleasing to God, and
to serve Him at all times and to the best of his ability.23
“Think not that We have revealed unto you a mere code of laws,”
Bahá’u’lláh states. “Nay, rather, We have unsealed the choice Wine
with the fingers of might and power.”24 The understanding and
application of the Bahá’í teachings requires an appreciation for the
spirit that underlies the letter of the Text, the need for an appropri-
ate measure of flexibility based on context, and the cultivation of
capacity to respond more fully over time.
The flexibility present in individual practice has a correspond-
ing expression in the collective realm. Organic development and
maturation are consistently taken into account. Within the Bahá’í
dispensation, divine law is applied progressively, at different times
in different places. An example is the law of H. uqúqu’lláh, which
was not applied to the generality of the believers until 1992. Each
community, to take another example, is challenged to gradually
eliminate those characteristics of the wider society that are not in
keeping with Bahá’í concepts. Shoghi Effendi called upon the believ-
ers in North America to “weed out, by every means in their power,
those faults, habits, and tendencies which they have inherited from
their own nation,”25 while, in a message to Africa, the Universal
House of Justice wrote that “people everywhere have customs
which must be abandoned so as to clear the path along which their
societies must evolve towards that glorious, new civilization which
is to be the fruit of Bahá’u’lláh’s stupendous Revelation.”26
The concept of flexibility in applying the teachings should not
be confused with amorality or license, or with a malleability or
arbitrariness that conforms to relativism. The teachings are not
practiced in a discretionary or partial manner.
The first duty prescribed by God for His servants is the rec-
ognition of Him Who is the Dayspring of His Revelation and the
Fountain of His laws, Who representeth the Godhead in both the

A Problem of Power
|  205
Kingdom of His Cause and the world of creation. . . . It behoveth
every one who reacheth this most sublime station, this summit of
transcendent glory, to observe every ordinance of Him Who is the
Desire of the world. These twin duties are inseparable. Neither is
acceptable without the other.27
To be a Bahá’í is to accept the Cause in its entirety. To take excep-
tion to one basic principle is to deny the authority and sovereignty
of Bahá’u’lláh, and therefore is to deny the Cause.28
The Bahá’í community is an association of individuals who have
voluntarily come together, on recognizing Bahá’u’lláh’s claim to be
the Manifestation of God for this age, to establish certain patterns
of personal and social behavior and to build the institutions that
are to promote these patterns. There are numerous individuals
who share the ideals of the Faith and draw inspiration from its
Teachings, while disagreeing with certain of its features, but
those who actually enter the Bahá’í community have accepted,
by their own free will, to follow the Teachings in their entirety,
understanding that, if doubts and disagreements arise in the
process of translating the Teachings into practice, the final arbiter
is, by the explicit authority of the Revealed Text, the Universal
House of Justice.29
Once applied, a law is not repealed. Explicit ordinances cannot
be transgressed. Divine law demarcates edifying and injurious
behavior. Within the boundary marked by the divine laws there is a
wide range for human action—the freedom to utilize personal pow-
ers as an expression of the potentialities that God has placed within
each individual. To live a Bahá’í life is to internalize the teachings
to such a degree as to be able to respond to the rich, contextual and
ever-changing dimensions of daily life and historical social evolution
by applying the principles and teachings to specific situations in a
creative and constructive manner. It involves not only surmounting
faults, but also balancing dissimilar virtues.30 This process unfolds
over a lifetime, and is characterized by challenges and setbacks,
crisis and victory. A letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi
distills the essence of this challenge: “if we are ever in any doubt as
to how we should conduct ourselves as Bahá’ís we should think of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá and study His life and ask ourselves what would He
have done, for He is our perfect example in every way.”31

|
Revelation & Social Reality
As the teachings are applied, imperfections will be evident
in individual believers and institutions, requiring love, tolerance,
patience, prayer, and mutual support to create an environment con-
ducive to progress. Mistakes are understood to be an unavoidable
dimension of learning how to apply the teachings. Often, believers
in a given age will face problems that cannot be resolved at that
time, requiring an ability to deal with ambiguity. Yet, progress will
occur, and the believers of the future will be “a hundred times more
mature, better balanced, more exemplary in their conduct.”32
Application of the teachings also applies to interaction with
those who are not a part of the community. Bahá’ís certainly make
an effort to exert an influence, either by teaching the Faith and giv-
ing people an opportunity to accept it, or by sharing the principles
in the hope of shaping thought and action. However, the Bahá’í
standard is not imposed.
It is not our purpose to impose Bahá’í teachings upon others
by persuading the powers that be to enact laws enforcing Bahá’í
principles, nor to join movements which have such legislation as
their aim. The guidance that Bahá’í institutions offer to mankind
does not comprise a series of specific answers to current problems,
but rather the illumination of an entirely new way of life. Without
this way of life the problems are insoluble; with it they will either
not arise or, if they arise, can be resolved.33
The Bahá’í concept of wisdom is yet another illustration of how,
in matters associated with power, the Faith has a more nuanced
approach that avoids foundationalism and relativism. The concept
of truth, derived from the Enlightenment tradition, suggests
that an individual should strive for objective truth, and then act
to uphold that truth in all circumstances. The upholder of truth
must depend upon personal conscience as the sole guide; must
be unafraid to speak truth to power (that is, to some institution
that holds power); and must completely disclose the truth without
concern for consequences (since partial disclosure is dishonest).
The Bahá’í Writings appeal for an approach that is more sensitive
to context and that appreciates human limitations. Truth is always
partially grasped. Conscience is shaped by many forces. Power is
exercised not only through the decisions of institutions but also
through the speech and action of individuals. Most importantly,
the consequences of one’s assertion of “truth” must be considered
and, as a result, action must at times be moderated, not in order to

A Problem of Power
|  207
censor or to manipulate the outcome of an exchange of views, but
to preserve the conditions necessary for the search for truth, for
the appreciation and acceptance of truth, and for the unified action
in response to truth. Truth and values—“is” and “ought”—cannot
be completely dissociated. For all these reasons, wisdom must
govern the use of knowledge and the expression of human agency.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains:
Follow thou the way of thy Lord, and say not that which the
ears cannot bear to hear, for such speech is like luscious food given
to small children. However palatable, rare and rich the food may
be, it cannot be assimilated by the digestive organs of a suckling
child. Therefore unto every one who hath a right, let his settled
measure be given.
“Not everything that a man knoweth can be disclosed, nor
can everything that he can disclose be regarded as timely, nor
can every timely utterance be considered as suited to the capac-
ity of those who hear it.” Such is the consummate wisdom to be
­observed in thy pursuits. Be not oblivious thereof, if thou wishest
to be a man of action under all conditions. First diagnose the
disease and identify the malady, then prescribe the remedy, for
such is the perfect method of the skilful physician.34
Wisdom is not dissimulation. It is not artifice. It is that capacity of
reason that balances knowledge, action, values, and context.
All of these examples affirm that, although the Bahá’í Faith is a
revealed religion, it does not take an absolutist approach to human-
ity’s ethical-political life. Paradoxically, “absolute” adherence to the
Revelation seems to demand that one take a nonfoundational, rather
than foundational approach to reality. The Bahá’í teachings are ori-
ented to the limited, ambiguous world of human understanding
and practice. Humanity’s grasp of reality is always partial, its moral
behavior fallible. In the Bahá’í community, at the practical level of
translating the teachings into action, the concern with law, adminis-
trative systems, universal principles, and consultative methods that
echo modern thought are complemented by the thoughtful criti-
cism, reflection, learning, sensitivity to context, and appreciation of
human weakness characteristic of postmodern concerns.
The Bahá’í teachings address the strengths and weak-
nesses present in both perspectives. There can be ways of arranging
­relationships that are constructive and which increase human well-
being, that transcend tendencies toward absolutism and repressive

|
Revelation & Social Reality
systems on the one hand, and toward skepticism and endless
conflict on the other. While threats from error or from the abuse
of power always exist, they are addressed in a manner that seeks to
harmonize relations through dialogue, practical experience, and
the application of principles within well-defined contexts. Unity,
for Bahá’ís, is both the goal and the operating principle in relations
of power pertaining to individuals and institutions. It is a lived
struggle to find harmony in human relationships in an effort to
canalize power toward constructive ends. “Let us take the inhabit-
ants of a city,” ‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains, “if they establish the strongest
bonds of unity among themselves, how far they will progress, even
in a brief period and what power they will exert.”35 Humanity has
learned increasingly more complex relations in its social evolution
from tribes to nations; there is no reason to doubt, therefore, that
other, more productive and beneficial relations will be gradually
discovered and employed.
Power, Freedom, and the Individual
The Bahá’í teachings are compatible with the postmodern con-
sensus that power is ubiquitous and that human beings do not
attain or aspire to a “power-free” state. So, too, Bahá’ís would
agree that human beings have a lower nature and a capacity to be
deceitful and self-serving, exercising power for their own ends.
As ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states: “You find, for example, that an individual
seeking to further his own petty and personal concerns, will block
the advancement of an entire people. To turn his own water mill,
he will let the farms and fields of all the others parch and wither. To
maintain his own leadership, he will everlastingly direct the masses
toward that prejudice and fanaticism which subvert the very base
of civilization.”36
In the Bahá’í teachings, however, human agency is not analyzed
in the context of self-interest. It is to be directed toward aims
such as serving the common good, promoting human honor, or
contributing to prosperity and happiness. In this light, justice is
not obtained merely through the constraint of power, but through
the beneficial arrangements that cultivate human character and
capacity. This aim is not the result of a strict application of rules or
the realization of some ideal theory, but the practical, incremental
outcome of awareness and effort to act in an ever more constructive
manner. In the liberal perspective, freedom begins where the power

A Problem of Power
|  209
of institutions to compel individual behavior ends. For Bahá’ís,
freedom is found in an escape from self-serving behavior to the
expression of initiative that contributes to social well-being and the
development of human potentialities. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states:
And among the teachings of Bahá’u’lláh is man’s freedom, that
through the ideal Power he should be free and emancipated from
the captivity of the world of nature; for as long as man is captive
to nature he is a ferocious animal, as the struggle for existence is
one of the exigencies of the world of nature.37
He also states:
. . . the moderate freedom which guarantees the welfare of the
world of mankind and maintains and preserves the universal
relationships, is found in its fullest power and extension in the
teachings of Bahá’u’lláh.38
From a Bahá’í perspective, the human relationships that give
rise to considerations of power cannot simply be reduced to a
continual struggle between competing interests, but may be so
­arranged as to constructively shape human character and contribute
to beneficial social outcomes. This is not a naïve belief that human
beings can become perfect, but a rejection of an absolute assertion
that all behavioral choices are equally acceptable, that no progress
is possible, and that all acts must be self-serving. Instead, Bahá’ís
affirm that altruistic action is possible and individual behavior can
improve. One outcome can be more productive for humanity than
another and it is possible to choose between the two. The very
existence of a democratic form of society, as opposed to oppressive
alternatives, demonstrates that choice is available and that some
ways of doing things have historically proven to be more beneficial
than others.
At the heart of all of these considerations is self-discipline
and individual effort. Religion is concerned with forces intended
to mold human action. In the Bahá’í teachings, discipline is not
primarily imposed from the outside, but through personal struggle
and self-mastery, as a believer exerts an effort to conform to the
teachings in daily life. The spiritual disciplines of prayer, fasting,
study of the Writings, and taking account of personal actions each
day, are intended to cultivate the capacity to conquer the self, to
live a life that is pleasing to God, and to join with other believers
and with humanity as a whole to contribute to social progress. An

|
Revelation & Social Reality
individual cannot reach the state of perfection and will inevitably
fall short of the divine standard in many ways. But this frank
acknowledgement of the human condition does not justify sur-
render to lower impulses. Spiritual progress and moral behavior are
won by degrees, in incrementally better actions day by day, in an
incrementally better world generation after generation.
Shaping the individual to undertake constructive initiative is
a recurrent theme in the Bahá’í Writings. Indeed, Bahá’u’lláh has
indicated that the “task of converting satanic strength into heavenly
power is one that We have been empowered to accomplish” and
that “The Word of God, alone, can claim the distinction of being
endowed with the capacity required for so great and far-reaching
a change.”39 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains that “good character must be
taught.” “The individual must be educated to such a high degree
that he would rather have his throat cut than tell a lie, and would
think it easier to be slashed with a sword or pierced with a spear
than to utter calumny or be carried away by wrath.”40 He further
observes that “material civilization, through the power of punitive
and retaliatory laws, restraineth the people from criminal acts,”
while divine civilization “so traineth every member of society that
no one, with the exception of a negligible few, will undertake to
commit a crime,” but instead, will “become enamored of human
perfections, and will consecrate their lives to whatever will bring
light to the world.”41
In the Bahá’í teachings, the question of human agency is, of
course, not completely divorced from extrinsic discipline and
­restraint. Certain Bahá’í laws are prohibitions or restrictions
intended to inhibit certain destructive kinds of action. Such
restraints, however, are not perceived to be an imposition on the
prerogatives of the individual but are the source of God’s grace.
They govern only a small portion of human actions. And, as men-
tioned above, divine law is intended to set boundaries; it defines a
wide expanse within which human beings are free and secure to act.
As ‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains,
freedom is that which is born of obedience to the laws and
ordinances of the Almighty. This is the freedom of the human
world, where man severs his affections from all things. When he
does so, he becomes immune to all hardship and sorrow. Wealth
or material power will not deflect him from moderation and
fairness, neither will poverty or need inhibit him from showing

A Problem of Power
|  211
forth happiness and tranquility. The more the conscience of man
develops, the more will his heart be free and his soul attain unto
happiness. In the religion of God, there is freedom of thought
because God, alone, controls the human conscience, but this
freedom should not go beyond courtesy. In the religion of God,
there is no freedom of action outside the law of God. Man may
not transgress this law, even though no harm is inflicted on one’s
neighbor. This is because the purpose of Divine law is the educa-
tion of all—others as well as oneself—and, in the sight of God, the
harm done to one individual or to his neighbor is the same and is
reprehensible in both cases.42
Within the boundaries of law, human beings are not inert and
submissive, but empowered to make their mark on the world. An
active good is required, rather than a passive good that is merely the
result of not doing bad things. This positive effort is cultivated by at
least three influences: education, attraction, and reflection.
Through education, the individual’s character is formed and
virtues are acquired, noble goals are cultivated including commit-
ment to the betterment of the world, and attitudes such as toler-
ance, trustworthiness, love, and freedom from prejudice that are
necessary for human solidarity are fostered. These developments
result from specific training, but also from acculturation when an
individual is encompassed within patterns of thought and action
that shape the understanding of what is good and what is true.
Again, it must be emphasized that such high aims for education are
not idealistic and utopian, but realistic and practical. As ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá explains, “education cannot alter the inner essence of a man,
but it doth exert tremendous influence, and with this power it can
bring forth from the individual whatever perfections and capacities
are deposited within him.”43 Education implies relative progress;
while aiming toward sound ideals, a percentage of individuals
become incrementally better than before.
Spiritual attraction is another means to foster the positive
expression of human agency. It implies love for God, a desire to
do that which is pleasing to God, and recognition that service to
God is service to humanity. The necessity of treating other human
beings as individuals who have rights and deserve respect, honor,
and care derives from the understanding that each soul reflects the
divine attributes of God. Love for all humanity, attraction to beauty,
a commitment to unity, and a desire to seek the truth, all shape the

|
Revelation & Social Reality
expression of personal action. Prayer, meditation, and study of the
Sacred Text are among the disciplines that cultivate this force of
attraction.
Yet another factor that helps to constrain and direct initiative
is reflection. Each individual is responsible for investigating real-
ity; “each human creature has individual endowment, power and
responsibility in the creative plan of God.”44 Through the faculty
of the human mind, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains, individuals are able to
master the sciences and the arts, and to discover or create what was
previously unknown and bring it into reality. “Through the medita-
tive faculty inventions are made possible, colossal undertakings are
carried out; through it governments can run smoothly.”45 Reflection
allows one to take account of circumstances, to consider previous
experience, to assess the value or strengths of previous action as
well as its flaws or weaknesses, and to overcome challenges in order
to advance further. So significant is this capacity for reflection, that
Bahá’u’lláh makes it a cornerstone of individual moral progress:
“Set before thine eyes God’s unerring Balance and, as one standing
in His Presence, weigh in that Balance thine actions every day,
every moment of thy life.”46 Reflection takes a collective form
through consultation.
Power and Social Order
Beyond the question of power as exercised by individuals stands the
age-old question of power as it pertains to the relationships among
the constituents of the social order—individuals, institutions and
communities. A full examination of the teachings related to the
practice of Bahá’í administration, questions of human governance,
and the future evolution of the political order, is beyond the scope
of this book. What can be offered here are a few insights into the
workings of power in the collective realm.
As with the individual, the primary concern of Bahá’ís in
social interaction is the positive expression of human agency. It is
not a matter of power-free relations, nor utopian social structures,
nor the faultless implementation of universal principles of peace,
justice, or unity. Instead, the Bahá’í teachings envision striving and
struggle toward a dynamic balance of relations in order to construct
a pattern of social advancement that is at the same time incremental
and surging, systematic and chaotic, integrated and diverse.

A Problem of Power
|  213
For Bahá’ís, the essential factor that governs human relations is
the Covenant, the agreement between God and humanity, “whereby
God requires of man certain behavior in return for which He guar-
antees certain blessings.”47 There is a great and lesser Covenant. The
greater Covenant encompasses the succession of divine Educators
that are sent by God over the course of history, including the
specific Revelation of the Manifestation suited to the needs of each
age that presents the laws and principles that govern individual and
collective action in order to inhibit self-interested and destructive
behavior and to cultivate that which is conducive to the well-being
of humanity. Through the provisions of the lesser Covenant, the
center of authority in the Faith to which all must turn is designated
and aspects of Bahá’í administration are defined. The meaning
of the lesser Covenant, however, is not exhausted by the formal
­designation of the center of authority of the Faith; it is concerned
with the attitudes and behavior that govern the relationships among
the believers and between the believers and their institutions.
Consider ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s statement:
Today the dynamic power of the world of existence is the
power of the Covenant which like unto an artery pulsateth in the
body of the contingent world and protecteth Bahá’í unity.
The Bahá’ís are commanded to establish the oneness of
mankind; if they cannot unite around one point how will they be
able to bring about the unity of mankind?
The purpose of the Blessed Beauty in entering in to this
Covenant and Testament was to gather all existent beings around
one point so that the thoughtless souls, who in every cycle and
generation have been the cause of dissension, may not undermine
the Cause.48
Bahá’í administration, the “child of the Covenant,”49 provides a
system intended to protect the Faith, to maintain unity, to ensure
the integrity of the teachings, and to guide the application of the
teachings to ensure that the aims of the Faith are achieved. While
adherence to most Bahá’í laws are left to the conscience of individu-
als, disobedience to some have social implications and may result in
the implementation of administrative sanctions that are designed to
protect the community and to encourage the individual to rethink
his or her actions. In the scheme of Bahá’í administration, however,
these instances are very limited and the institutions are urged to be

|
Revelation & Social Reality
“extremely patient and forbearing in dealing with the friends”50 and
to “exercise care not to pry into the private lives of the believers.”51
Short of such extreme public acts of violation of Bahá’í law,
individuals govern their own thoughts and actions, and the admin-
istration is structured to respect and uphold these freedoms. Bahá’ís
are assured that “at the very root of the Cause lies the principle
of the undoubted right of the individual to self-expression, his
freedom to declare his conscience and set forth his views”52 and
clear channels are available for this purpose. So, too, with regard
to the actions to serve the Faith, neither “the local nor national
representatives of the community” are to “decide where the duty
of the individual lies;” rather “the individual alone must assess its
character, consult his conscience, [and] prayerfully consider all
its aspects.”53 The institutions are encouraged to tolerate mistakes,
to allow the freedom for a wide range of individual action, and to
avoid an atmosphere of criticism that would inhibit initiative.
The purpose of Bahá’í administration is not to restrict but to
release, harmonize and canalize the creative powers of individuals
to achieve focused, collective action. A positive expression of power
is evident, therefore, in Bahá’í social relations. The institutions are
to “further the interests, to coordinate the activities, to apply the
principles, to embody the ideals and execute the purpose of the
Bahá’í Faith.”54 They “should both provide the impulse whereby
the dynamic forces latent in the Faith can unfold, crystallize, and
shape the lives and conduct of men, and serve as a medium for the
interchange of thought and the co-ordination of activities among
the divers elements that constitute the Bahá’í community.”55 In
this perspective, the locus of power lies with the individual, while
authority lies with the Assemblies.
The authority to direct the affairs of the Faith locally, national-
ly and internationally, is divinely conferred on elected institutions.
However, the power to accomplish the tasks of the community
resides primarily in the mass of the believers. The authority of the
institutions is an irrevocable necessity for the progress of human-
ity; its exercise is an art to be mastered. The power of action in the
believers is unlocked at the level of individual initiative and surges
at the level of collective volition. In its potential, this mass power,
this mix of individual potentialities, exists in a malleable form
susceptible to the multiple reactions of individuals to the sundry
influences at work in the world. To realize its highest purpose,

A Problem of Power
|  215
this power needs to express itself through orderly avenues of
activity. Even though individuals may strive to be guided in their
actions by their personal understanding of the Divine Texts, and
much can be accomplished thereby, such actions, untempered
by the overall direction provided by authorized institutions, are
incapable of attaining the thrust necessary for the unencumbered
advancement of civilization.56
Essential to the relationship between individual and institu-
tions is consultation, which may be considered the heart of Bahá’í
ethical-political processes. Consultation is the tool that enables a
collective investigation of reality in order to search for truth and
achieve a consensus of understanding in order to determine the
best practical course of action to follow. The previous chapters
explored how consultation serves to assess needs, apply principles,
and make judgments in a manner suited to a particular context.
Consultation is, therefore, the practical, dialogical means for
continually adjusting relationships that govern power, and, thus, to
strive for justice and unity.
Bahá’ís do not imagine that individuals participate in a power-
free dialogical process; the aim is to direct power as constructively
as possible. Consultation is not fragile, it is robust. It can tolerate
imperfections. It can be taught from childhood. Consultation
requires certain learned personal constraints, but better results are
achieved by degree; practice and self-discipline yields improve-
ment. We believe that there must be some context for affirming the
goals to which we aspire rather than simply demanding the right to
criticize and to withdraw from participation to follow the arbitrary
dictates of personal conscience.57 The application of principles and
values in context is itself part of consultation. Although differing
opinions enrich the start of the consultative process, continual
argumentation is to be avoided because it hides rather than reveals
the truth. The expectation that human beings can be shaped by
education and experience to achieve more effective and productive
approaches to relationships of power is not naïve or idealistic, but
is grounded in the practical and constructive experience of history.
Over centuries, for example, humanity learned that certain rules of
logic and reasoning are essential for rational discussion; if ignored,
a writer’s arguments are understood to be flawed and ineffectual.
Why then, would it not be possible to learn about and adhere to
attitudes and conduct required for effective consultation? This is

|
Revelation & Social Reality
especially true when these necessary conditions are reinforced by
a sense of religious obligation. Indeed, we are offering just such an
education within our own community comprised of people repre-
senting more than 200 countries and territories and of hundreds of
ethnic and cultural groups.
Consultation is a vital instrument for social criticism. Because
of the importance placed upon unity in Bahá’í teachings, there is a
natural tendency to shrink from the idea of any form of criticism.
However, critical thought is essential to understanding. Indeed,
social criticism is considered to be the sine qua non of power and
liberal political thought; to suppress criticism is to suppress free-
dom and to invite oppression. Any society without the capacity for
critical thought either stagnates or is reduced to totalitarianism—or
both. To state that we obey our Assemblies and do not engage in
criticism is an oversimplification that suggests that the power of
individuals are suspended or suppressed, and invites a blistering at-
tack or curt dismissal. Such a generalization is a misunderstanding,
or at least an incomplete understanding, of the Bahá’í teachings,
which distinguish between vicious, destructive criticism that gives
free reign to backbiting or fault-finding, imposes personal beliefs,
foments discord, or undermines institutions, and the constructive
critical thought, properly presented, that is necessary “in order to
improve and remedy certain existing conditions” and which is “not
only the right, but the vital responsibility of every loyal and intel-
ligent member of the Community to offer fully and frankly.”58
Collective plans and initiatives are subject to analysis by
divergent viewpoints, and these must be heard if there is to be the
vibrancy and flexibility that contributes to a diversity of thought
and action that fosters learning about human progress and well-
being. The Bahá’í teachings uncompromisingly uphold this process.
Individuals have freedom of thought, of speech, and of criticism.
Institutions must listen.59 But the teachings do not indulge wal-
lowing in dissent or sedition; the aim is constructive action. It is
necessary that a consensus or majority decision be made which
all support as it is tested in practice and revised through practical
experience. As the Universal House of Justice explains, “vital as it
is to the progress of society, criticism is a two-edged sword: it is all
too often the harbinger of conflict and contention. The balanced
processes of the Administrative Order are meant to prevent this
essential activity from degenerating to any form of dissent that
breeds opposition and its dreadful schismatic consequences.”60

A Problem of Power
|  217
One additional consideration in the relations of power between
the individual and institutions involves the evolution of Bahá’í
administration. The Bahá’í teachings do not offer a fixed set of
rules that govern collective affairs or an immutable structure for
institutional arrangements. Instead, “the whole machinery of
Assemblies, of committees and conventions is to be regarded as a
means, and not an end in itself.” It is “even as a living organism”
that can “expand and adapt itself to the needs and requirements of
an ever-changing society.” “It should also be borne in mind that
the machinery of the Cause has been so fashioned, that whatever
is deemed necessary to incorporate into it in order to keep it in
the forefront of all progressive movements, can, according to the
provisions made by Bahá’u’lláh, be safely embodied therein.”61
As the Faith expands and its influence spreads, the nature and
responsibilities of Bahá’í administrative bodies change. For ex-
ample, in 1986, formulation of national teaching plans passed from
the international level to the Counsellors and National Assemblies.
It is also possible that new institutions emerge. Examples are the
establishment of the institution of the Counsellors and, more
recently, regional counsels and training institutes. Even more
radical changes may be anticipated in the distant future with the
emergence of a Bahá’í state or a future Bahá’í commonwealth fore-
told by Shoghi Effendi. However, the conditions for the eventual
emergence of these social arrangements require a radical transition
in human relations, a transition for which Bahá’ís will not directly
be responsible. These conditions are so remote, and the context so
obscure, as to make it impossible at this time to realistically define
the corresponding relations of power.
As Bahá’í administrative arrangements evolve, mistakes are
inevitable. Administrators will not easily learn to live up to the high
personal standards expected of them or to the collective responsi-
bilities of the institutions, without making mistakes and sometimes
imposing on the rights of the individual. So, too, individuals will
inevitably go too far either in pursuing an independent—and occa-
sionally destructive—path, or alternately, being too submissive and
inert. This is why the Guardian and the Universal House of Justice
have repeatedly appealed to both individuals and institutions to
moderate their practice, to have tolerance for excesses born of
immaturity, and, for those who possess greater insight or capacity,
to do what is right. Mistakes are not aberrations but are inseparable
from human action; struggling to overcome them is the mark of

|
Revelation & Social Reality
human progress. “The advancement of the Cause is an evolutionary
process which takes place through trial and error, through reflec-
tion on experience and through wholehearted commitment to the
teaching Plans and strategies devised by the House of Justice.”62
Power and Practice
With these insights into the Bahá’í teachings that pertain to the
nature of power, it is possible to turn to the question of how the
Bahá’í community acts in society at large. As already discussed, it
would not be convincing to claim that Bahá’ís exercise no power in
any form, for according to contemporary understanding, even to
share a thought with the aim of influencing others is to exert a form
of power. Questions about the intentions of the Bahá’í community
will therefore inevitably arise.
Consider, for example, the Bahá’í vision of humanity’s future
world order. Do we seek to establish a universal world government
or do we stand apart from political processes? In relation to other
religions, do we possess the truth which others must accept, or at
least, does this truth allow us to “explain” religious reality to oth-
ers? Or, do we instead believe that Bahá’u’lláh proposes a form of
religious relativism, upholding the legitimacy of multiple commu-
nities that retain incommensurable claims? Such questions impose
dualistic assumptions that distort the deep insights conveyed in
the Bahá’í teachings. Yet, if we cannot satisfactorily describe our
approach to matters associated with power, others will do it for
us, imposing a point of view alien to the nature of the Faith or
intentionally portraying it in a negative light.
At issue, then, is not whether Bahá’ís are agents that act in rela-
tion to others, but how. If we are not fundamentalists attempting to
impose our will on the world, and if we are not relativists engaged
in our incommensurable discourse as humanity bobs along on
the waves of history, then how do we describe ourselves to those
concerned with the exercise of power?
For those who are receptive to Bahá’u’lláh’s message, it is the
truth of His Cause and the spiritual forces that have been released
through the advent of His Revelation that attract humanity to em-
brace and put into practice His teachings for the realization of His
aims for the betterment of the world. “How vast is the tabernacle
of the Cause of God!” Bahá’u’lláh proclaims. “It hath overshadowed
all the peoples and kindreds of the earth, and will, erelong, gather

A Problem of Power
|  219
together the whole of mankind beneath its shelter.”63 “If this Cause
be of God,” He also states, “no man can prevail against it; and if it
be not of God, the divines amongst you, and they that follow their
corrupt desires and such as have rebelled against Him will surely
suffice to overpower it.”64 Without in any way contradicting this
reality, it may also be possible to describe the Faith’s influence to
some extent in social terms. In so doing, a brief reference to the
concept of a community of practice discussed in chapter 4 in the
context of science and religion may prove useful.
In his book, Our Practices, Our Selves, Todd May observed
that from a social perspective, human beings organize themselves
into communities of practice, such as scientists, church-goers, or
members of the legal profession. To be part of this community “is to
be committed to enough of the claims, findings, and theories of that
practice—and particularly its ‘central’ claims, findings, theories,
and so on—as to be reasonably seen as being committed to it.”65 In
the context of human practices, May argues that power is not only
a restraint but also a creative force that enables people to behave in
a certain way and produce things that did not exist before. Practices
provide dimensions, such as education and tradition, that result
in the formation of knowledge, skills, attitudes, and a capacity to
do something. When one engages in the practice of tailoring, one
learns to create clothing. One engages in the practice of music and
is trained to play an instrument. Thus, “our practices go a long way
toward making us who we are. . . . And they do so not so much
by restraining us, by stopping us from doing things we might
otherwise do. Instead they do it by forming us, by creating us to be
the kinds of people we are.”66
According to May, human beings participate in, and are shaped
by, a number of different practices simultaneously. Participation
in one practice, particularly one that operates at a high level of
complexity, influences participation in another. For example, the
practice of raising children is sure to be influenced to some degree
if a parent is also a doctor or a schoolteacher. So, too, participation
in a religious community or political party is certain to influence
other practices. Thus the claims and standards of one practice
can be used to criticize or influence another resulting in a shift
or alteration of the second practice. For example, attitudes held
within the practice of one culture—such as the equality of women
and men—can stimulate an internal dialogue in another culture to
reexamine its tradition and eventually formulate a new standard of

|
Revelation & Social Reality
behavior. Or a change in society may cause pressures that stimulate
evolution of a practice. Ultimately, any change in a practice occurs
because its own criteria are invoked or modified, thereby leading
to new conclusions.
In this perspective, power is not the possession of a particular
person or institution; it is the combined outcome of the relation-
ships that make up a practice. Thus, May states, “as far as practices
go, any kind of conspiracy theory about how people become who
they are is going to be wildly implausible.”67 It is a practice’s complex
array of values, behaviors, goals, rules, norms, and so on that con-
tribute to who individuals are or how they act, and not the direct
imposition of power or coercion by some institution or group.
Certainly for Bahá’ís May’s concept of communities of practice
is reductionistic and does not provide an adequate framework for a
Bahá’í understanding of human relationships. Nevertheless, it offers
a useful insight into how power and influence can be expressed
through relationships in a constructive way, without presuming
that individuals or communities cannot engage one another, or
that every engagement must be coercive or oppressive. This insight
can assist in illustrating how agency is exercised within the Bahá’í
community and how the community interacts with others to help
foster the progress of an ever-advancing civilization without impos-
ing the Bahá’í teachings.
Within the Bahá’í community there are methods, principles,
beliefs, knowledge, institutions, behaviors, and processes that are
organized and justified according to internal criteria. We are learn-
ing to put these various aspects into place according to our best
understanding of Bahá’u’lláh’s teachings. As a relatively new com-
munity, thought and action steadily evolve, resulting in ever more
complex and productive patterns of personal behavior, institutional
arrangements, community life, and engagement with the wider
society. Individuals who are not Bahá’ís are taught and attracted to
the Faith, and then enter the community. In this process, there are
central ideas that must be accepted if someone is to be considered
a member; so, too, there are certain restraints, as found in the laws
and the obligations to the Covenant. Yet, as discussed, questions
of power cannot be reduced to a matter of restraint. The primary
concern is to constructively shape capacity through social and edu-
cational processes—such as study of the Word of God, fasting and
other spiritual disciplines, and involvement in Bahá’í community
life—that influence personal conduct and participation in service

A Problem of Power
|  221
to the Faith and in contributing to the betterment of the world.
“The Bahá’ís will bring about this improvement and betterment
but not through sedition and appeal to physical force—not through
warfare, but welfare,” ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states. And He adds:
Endeavor to become the cause of the attraction of souls rather
than to enforce minds. Manifest true economics to the people.
Show what love is, what kindness is, what true severance is and
generosity. This is the important thing for you to do. Act in
­accordance with the teachings of Bahá’u’lláh. All His Books will
be translated. Now is the time for you to live in accordance with
His words. Let your deeds be the real translation of their meaning.
Economic questions will not attract hearts. The love of God alone
will attract them. Economic questions are most interesting; but
the power which moves, controls and attracts the hearts of men
is the love of God.68
The Bahá’í community both influences other communities and
is influenced by them. Participation in a range of activities associ-
ated with culture, the media, the economy, academia, politics and
other areas affect Bahá’ís both negatively and positively. Musical
talent can enhance devotional life, for example; racial prejudices
corrode community relations. The challenge is to make sure such
influences bring us nearer to what Bahá’u’lláh intends rather than
moving us further from it. What one does and learns as a Bahá’í
carries over into all areas of life, such as parenthood, professional
life, or citizenship. There is also the conscious effort of the believers
or the community to contribute to the internal dialogue and action
of other fields of human endeavor by introducing Bahá’í principles,
methods, or concepts. A specific example is the dissemination of
such documents as The Promise of World Peace, The Prosperity of
Humankind, and the letter of the Universal House of Justice to
religious leaders in April 2002. Another is the effort by Bahá’ís who
are experts to “transform their various disciplines by bringing to
bear upon them the light of the Divine Teachings.”69 Influence is,
therefore, consciously sought, but as exercised in this way, power
is not imposed. As ‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains:
O ye loved ones of God! In this, the Bahá’í dispensation, God’s
Cause is spirit unalloyed. His Cause belongeth not to the material
world. It cometh neither for strife nor war, nor for acts of mischief
or of shame; it is neither for quarrelling with other Faiths, nor for

|
Revelation & Social Reality
conflicts with the nations. Its only army is the love of God, its only
joy the clear wine of His knowledge, its only battle the expounding
of the Truth; its one crusade is against the insistent self, the evil
promptings of the human heart. Its victory is to submit and yield,
and to be selfless is its everlasting glory. In brief, it is spirit upon
spirit. . . .
Let all your striving be for this, to become the source of life
and immortality, and peace and comfort and joy, to every human
soul, whether one known to you or a stranger, one opposed to you
or on your side.70
As a result of Bahá’í influence, other individuals and other areas
of human endeavor may change, but this is because a responsive
chord is struck in their internal criteria for justification. Other
disciplines, equally, have the opportunity to exert influence on the
Bahá’í community; but this effect is mediated by Bahá’í standards
and methods.
The Bahá’í teachings directs us toward an approach to partici-
pation in the life of society that represents an alternative to either
imposing ideal methods and systems or yielding to constant doubt
and criticism. In avoiding one extreme, we do not offer formulaic
answers, do not sit in judgment, and do not compel others to accept
Bahá’í teachings. This is not to deny that Bahá’u’lláh provides truths
that are of benefit for all humanity. But it is an acknowledgement
that individuals independently embrace these truths, and that
our efforts to mine the gems of the Revelation will take centuries
of effort and contributions from a host of constructive human
disciplines. In avoiding the other extreme, we do not succumb to a
call for constant criticism, do not deny that progress—by degree—is
possible, and do not accept that all perspectives are equally valid.
Of course humility, tolerance, and an acceptance of ambiguity
are necessary for investigating reality and seeking truth; however,
constant criticism is a luxury afforded to those who do not have
to accomplish anything in the world. A practical approach to the
problem of power accepts that the exercise of human agency is
more than imposing restraints, that influence is reciprocal, and that
learning to find better arrangements of human relations can emerge
through experience over time.
Consider, for example, the question of Bahá’í association with
other religions. The Bahá’í teachings outline an approach that
avoids triumphalism and relativism. Within the Faith, Bahá’ís act

A Problem of Power
|  223
on their teachings. There are relationships, values, knowledge, and
behaviors that conform to internal standards of justification. People
may enter or leave the community based on free choice in accepting
or rejecting its essential precepts. Through education, experience,
and effort, Bahá’ís are transformed individually and collectively.
In the wider society, the Faith engages other religious commu-
nities in a spirit of “friendliness and fellowship.”71 Acknowledging
wholeheartedly the divine origin and truths of these communities,
it works with them to foster unity, promote understanding, and
achieve common goals. Each religious community has its own
criteria for the justification of knowledge, beliefs, and behaviors.
Through an open engagement with other religions, Bahá’ís have an
opportunity to gain a better insight into current understandings of
the Faith, to possibly revise and deepen them as necessary, produc-
ing a more profound adherence to Bahá’u’lláh’s Revelation. There
is also the opportunity for Bahá’ís to influence other individuals
and religious communities. But any change would be derived
from the internal criteria of a particular community; it would be a
remembrance or calling forth of that which is already within as a
result of an external stimulus.
Individuals from diverse religious backgrounds may, of their
own choice, join the Bahá’í community. Because of the Bahá’í belief
in the oneness of religion, this is not a rejection of previous beliefs,
but a fulfillment.72 A Christian, for example, upon becoming a
Bahá’í does not reject Christ, but finds the spirit and message of
Jesus renewed in the teachings of Bahá’u’lláh. The potentialities in-
herent in such Bahá’í verses that call for “the union of all its peoples
in one universal Cause, one common Faith”73 and which state that
“all men will adhere to one religion, will have one common faith,
will be blended into one race, and become a single people”74 can
become manifest only through influence and free choice. The power
of such influence is the power to cultivate constructive potentiali-
ties, not the power to coerce and compel.
This perspective avoids triumphalism, another expression
of foundationalism, because Bahá’ís do not assume a position of
superiority to judge, criticize, or define the beliefs of others. It also
is incompatible with a form of religious relativism,75 because Bahá’ís
do not believe that the diverse religious perspectives are incom-
mensurable, nor do we believe that all contemporary teachings of
all religious communities can be accepted at the same time.

|
Revelation & Social Reality
Bahá’ís believe that Bahá’u’lláh’s teachings are intended for all
humanity,76 but that each person must be free to accept them or
not. If people hold to their own beliefs, we are to treat them no
differently than a member of the Bahá’í community. To teach the
Faith, according to the principles in the Bahá’í Writings is not to
impose views because we believe they are correct and others are
wrong. Teaching is sharing what one knows about Bahá’u’lláh with
others who do not know and are interested to hear. It is necessary
for the teacher to respond to questions and help overcome barriers,
but only if the person desires it—a “seeker” in the true sense.
Consider another example of the exercise of power through
influence, that of Bahá’í involvement in social action. Bahá’ís do
not work to directly incorporate Bahá’í teachings into law, as
noted above. Nor do they believe that the solutions to humanity’s
problems can be found merely in attacking, in an isolated fashion,
specific ills. Rather, Bahá’í efforts for social change are intended
to contribute toward a general transformation of society. As the
Universal House of Justice explains:
We should also remember that most people have no clear concept
of the sort of world they wish to build, nor how to go about
building it. Even those who are concerned to improve conditions
are therefore reduced to combating every apparent evil that takes
their attention. Willingness to fight against evils, whether in the
form of conditions or embodied in evil men, has thus become for
most people the touchstone by which they judge a person’s moral
worth. Bahá’ís, on the other hand, know the goal they are working
towards and know what they must do, step by step, to attain it.
Their whole energy is directed towards the building of the good,
a good which has such a positive strength that in the face of it
the multitude of evils—which are in essence negative—will fade
away and be no more. To enter into the quixotic tournament of
demolishing one by one the evils in the world is, to a Bahá’í a vain
waste of time and effort. His whole life is directed towards pro-
claiming the Message of Bahá’u’lláh, reviving the spiritual life of
his fellow-men, uniting them in a Divinely-created World Order,
and then, as that Order grows in strength and influence, he will
see the power of that Message transforming the whole of human
society and progressively solving the problems and removing the
injustice which have so long bedeviled the world.77

A Problem of Power
|  225
The aim of establishing a new world order does not mean, how-
ever, that Bahá’ís will create this order in isolation and offer it as
a completed gift to humanity. The world is in a transitional stage.
A social reality whose watchword is the oneness of humanity is
the inevitable outcome of the forces at work. Every step in this
direction is a balm to human ills. Every step away is a cause of
continuing turmoil that draws the peoples of the world deeper into
the search for solutions. The Bahá’í community is part of the world
and there is a constant interplay between the two; the very nature
of this interaction contributes to the ongoing evolution of both the
community and society.
Bahá’ís do not seek political power to change the global order
to conform to the ideas found in our Sacred Writings; indeed, the
Writings indicate that humanity itself will, of necessity, forge the
basis of global order and peace.78 Our part is “the task of breathing
life into this unified body—of creating true unity and spirituality.”79
Our efforts to contribute to social progress and justice engage
groups and governmental and non-governmental organizations
in a manner that avoids patterns of conflict and attempts to build
patterns of collaboration. The Bahá’í principle of non-involvement
in politics is not non-involvement in social action, but rather non-
involvement in a type of partisan political activity that is based
upon competition and struggle for power and that seeks the
ascendancy of one’s views over those of others, who are perceived
as adversaries or competitors. Bahá’ís attempt to reach out to other
groups and agencies at local, regional, national, and international
levels and collaborate in identifying problems, consulting on pos-
sible solutions, engaging in practical activities for social well-being,
building consensus, and where possible, creating social, legal, or
political change. This alternative approach reflects ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s
expressed hope that the “ancient politics whose foundation is war
be discarded” and the “modern politics founded on peace raise the
standard of victory.”80
The profound change that Bahá’u’lláh intends for humanity
will not be achieved easily. It can only unfold through a series of
stages over centuries in which the conditions of one stage create the
possibilities for further change and progress. This is similar to the
ecological concept of the succession of communities. In the case
of a forest that has been completely destroyed by fire, for example,
the mature forest is not immediately restored. Rather, a collection
of simple plants appears initially that creates the conditions for

|
Revelation & Social Reality
another, more complex group of plants to take root. Over time, suc-
cessive aggregations of plants and wildlife follow, each shaping the
environment to facilitate the emergence of a more complex com-
munity of organisms, until the mature forest appears. The Bahá’í
community, in its own growth and development, has experienced
an organic unfoldment of stages as illustrated by the progressive
implementation of Bahá’í law, the development of administrative
structures, and the advances, from Plan to Plan, of the teaching
work. Engagement with the wider society and the evolution of
society toward Bahá’u’lláh’s intended purpose will likewise advance
from stage to stage.81
A fundamental feature of ethical and political thought is the
attitude of an individual (“the self”) toward other people (“the
other”). One perspective acknowledges three modes of engage-
ment.82 First, is when the other is viewed as an object—a subject
of research or a victim of oppression that is merely a recipient of
the action and judgments of the self. In the second mode, the other
is human, but the self claims to know the truth about the other
completely, engaging him or her from a distance, offering certainty
and authoritative direction; an example is the traditional relation-
ship of a doctor and patient. The third mode is one of reciprocity
and mutual recognition; the self influences the other, but when the
other speaks, the self must also be prepared to be called into ques-
tion and, perhaps, to change. The Bahá’í teachings are unequivocal
in requiring that a believer see “the other” as a being of equal
worth and potentiality, with rights and responsibilities identical
to those of “the self.” “Beware lest ye prefer yourselves above your
neighbors,”83 Bahá’u’lláh states. “The other” is even given a moral
priority: “Blessed is he who preferreth his brother before himself.”84
‘Abdu’l-Bahá makes the following appeal:
O ye lovers of this wronged one! Cleanse ye your eyes, so that
ye behold no man as different from yourselves. See ye no strangers;
rather see all men as friends, for love and unity come hard when ye
fix your gaze on otherness. And in this new and wondrous age, the
Holy Writings say that we must be at one with every people; that
we must see neither harshness nor injustice, neither malevolence,
nor hostility, nor hate, but rather turn our eyes toward the heaven
of ancient glory. For each of the creatures is a sign of God, and it
was by the grace of the Lord and His power that each did step into

A Problem of Power
|  227
the world; therefore they are not strangers, but in the family; not
aliens, but friends, and to be treated as such.85
And again He states:
O peoples of the world! The Sun of Truth hath risen to
illumine the whole earth, and to spiritualize the community of
man. Laudable are the results and the fruits thereof, abundant the
holy evidences deriving from this grace. This is mercy unalloyed
and purest bounty; it is light for the world and all its peoples; it
is harmony and fellowship, and love and solidarity; indeed it is
compassion and unity, and the end of foreignness; it is the being
at one, in complete dignity and freedom, with all on earth. . . .
For this reason must all human beings powerfully sustain one
another and seek for everlasting life; and for this reason must the
lovers of God in this contingent world become the mercies and the
blessings sent forth by that element King of the seen and unseen
realms. Let them purify their sight and behold all humankind as
leaves and blossoms and fruits of the tree of being. Let them at
all times concern themselves with doing a kindly thing for one of
their fellows, offering to someone love, consideration, thoughtful
help. Let them see no one as their enemy, or as wishing them ill,
but think of all humankind as their friends; regarding the alien as
an intimate, the stranger as a companion, staying free of prejudice,
drawing no lines.86
The principle of the oneness of humanity that is the central
teaching of Bahá’u’lláh, which fully respects diversity, tolerates
no division between “us” and “them”. For Bahá’ís there can be no
question, then, of dominating or compelling others, even for bene­
volent ends. “One’s beliefs are an internal and personal matter,” the
Universal House of Justice explains; “no person or institution has
the right to exert compulsion in matters of belief.”87 Can Bahá’ís
carry out an open dialogue with others, truly allowing what they
believe to be influenced by others? Certitude in our acceptance
of Bahá’u’lláh and His teachings does not discount genuine open
dialogue and a search for truth, since what changes through such
discourse is not Bahá’u’lláh’s Revelation, but our understanding
of Bahá’u’lláh’s Revelation. The influence of dialogue with others
should assist Bahá’ís to obtain a deeper grasp of what Bahá’u’lláh
intends and how the teachings are to be translated into action.88
In the same way, as described above, Bahá’í influence on others

|
Revelation & Social Reality
represents a fulfillment of their own beliefs or an acceptance of
truths that catalyzes an internal process of personal or group
transformation. If, or for Bahá’ís when, the high aims voiced by
Bahá’u’lláh are realized—a world commonwealth, the union of all
peoples, the Most Great Peace, and a divine civilization—it cannot
be the result of a conspiracy, of absolutist tendencies, or of imposed
power, but rather, through the impulse of His Revelation in free
interaction with others.
In the relationship between the Bahá’í community and the
wider society, the burden of the proof of the ideals of Bahá’u’lláh’s
teachings rests with the Bahá’ís. Humanity has good reason to
question whether any such high-minded sentiments are a mask for
an imposition of power. It is only through deeds that Bahá’ís can
demonstrate the reality of His words, and thereby convince and
have the desired influence upon the peoples of the world.
Toward a New Social Reality—a New World Order
For centuries humanity has engaged in a struggle to know reality
and to utilize that knowledge to create a productive and sound
social order. The tools of this enterprise were reason and science.
Confidence in the ultimate success of this enterprise reached its
peak early in the twentieth century; by the end of that same century,
however, humanity was coming to the understanding that certain
knowledge lay beyond its grasp and that efforts to forge a better
world depended upon the fragile agreements that shape human
relations.
The understanding that social reality is constructed through
human agreement rather than grounded upon absolute knowledge
of reality need not spell disaster for the world. The people of the
world are obliged to take responsibility to use the capacity to know,
circumscribed as it may be, in order to collaborate in the creation
of a social order that proves its worth through the fruits it produces
for the progress, the happiness and the well-being of all. Attention,
in the decades that lie ahead, must not be focused on despair, the
wanton unraveling of the old social order, or on a self-serving ex-
ploitation of the situation, but on learning to use the contemporary
insights about knowledge, learning and social reality to invigorate
the centuries long process of the forward march of civilization. Yet,
none of this can be done in darkness. The light of revelation must
shed its illumination on human thought and action.

A Problem of Power
|  229
In the book, Cosmopolis, Stephen Toulmin explores the
history of modernity and the quest to establish the social order
upon a ­rational foundation. He argues that the attachment to
abstract theory and to certainty that was initiated by Descartes and
bolstered by Newtonian physics in the Enlightenment was actually
a move away from a learning-oriented worldview, born almost a
century earlier from Renaissance humanism, which promoted a
balance between theory and practice.
Toulmin describes how, over centuries, all of the initial
­assumptions of the Enlightenment that introduced a mechanistic
vision of the universe were gradually revised over time, reaching
a climax in the twentieth century debate between modernism and
postmodernism. He concludes that humanity stands on the “Far
Side of Modernity,”89 about to begin a “third phase in Modernity,”
or a “new and distinctive ‘post-modern’ phase.”90 As we enter a new
stage in intellectual history, he states, “we need to balance the hope
for certainty and clarity in theory with the impossibility of avoiding
uncertainty and ambiguity in practice.”91
Humanity, uncertain about the future, registers its hopes and
concerns under the suggestive term “post” modern. It diagnoses, to
some degree, the breakdown of the old world order. But Bahá’u’lláh
describes the parameters of a postmodern reality, the far side of
modernity. “Heavenly teachings applicable to the advancement
in human conditions have been revealed in this merciful age,”
‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains. “This reformation and renewal of the
fundamental reality of religion constitute the true and outwork-
ing spirit of modernism, the unmistakable light of the world, the
manifest effulgence of the Word of God, the divine remedy for all
human ailment and the bounty of eternal life to all mankind.”92
Bahá’u’lláh Himself testifies that “no sooner had the First Word
proceeded, through the potency of Thy will and purpose, out of
His mouth, and the First Call gone forth from His lips than the
whole creation was revolutionized, and all that are in the heavens
and all that are on earth were stirred to the depths. Through that
Word the realities of all created things were shaken, were divided,
separated, scattered, combined and reunited, disclosing, in both
the contingent world and the heavenly kingdom, entities of a new
creation, and revealing, in the unseen realms, the signs and tokens
of Thy unity and oneness.”93 And He affirms: “By My Self! The day
is approaching when We will have rolled up the world and all that
is therein, and spread out a new order in its stead.”94

References
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá on Divine Philosophy. The Tudor Press, 1918.
__________.  Paris Talks: Addresses Given by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in Paris in 1911. 11th ed.
London: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1969.
__________.  The Promulgation of Universal Peace: Talks Delivered by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
During His Visit to the United States and Canada in 1912. 2nd ed. Wilmette,
IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1982.
__________.  The Secret of Divine Civilization. 3rd ed. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1983.
__________.  Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Haifa: Bahá’í World
Centre, 1978.
__________.  Some Answered Questions. Compiled and translated by Laura Clifford
Barney. 5th ed. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1982.
__________.  Tablets of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Volume 1. New York: Bahá’í Publishing
Committee, 1930.
__________.  The Tablets of the Divine Plan. Revised ed. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1977.
__________.  The Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1971.
Arbab, Farzam. “Promoting a Discourse on Science, Religion, and Development.”
The Lab, the Temple, and the Market: Reflections at the Intersection of Science,
Religion, and Development. Edited by Sharon M. P. Harper. International
Development Research Center, Canada. Kumarian Press, 2000.
Arbab, Haleh. Talk presented at the Colloquium on Science, Religion and
Development. India International Centre, New Delhi. November 2000.
Bahá’í World Centre. Century of Light. Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 2001.
__________.  Readings on Social and Economic Development. Palabra Publications,
2000.
__________.  The Six Year Plan: Summary of Achievements. Haifa: Bahá’í World
Centre, 1993.

|
Revelation & Social Reality
Bahá’u’lláh. Epistle to the Son of the Wolf. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
1976.
__________.  Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. 2nd edition. Wilmette, IL:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1976.
__________.  The Hidden Words of Bahá’u’lláh. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing
Trust, 1939.
__________.  The Kitáb-i-Aqdas: The Most Holy Book. 1st English edition. Haifa:
Bahá’í World Centre, 1993.
__________.  The Kitáb-i-Íqán. 2nd edition. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
1950.
__________.  Prayers and Meditations. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1987.
__________.  The Summons of the Lord of Hosts. Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 2002.
__________.  Tabernacle of Unity. Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 2006.
__________.  Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh Revealed after the Kitáb-i-Aqdas. Haifa: Bahá’í
World Centre, 1978.
Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. The Importance of Obligatory Prayer and Fasting. A
compilation prepared by the Research Department of the Universal House
of Justice, 2000.
Bahá’u’lláh, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Shoghi Effendi and the Universal House of Justice.
Compilation of Compilations. Volume 3. Bahá’í Publications Australia, 2000.
Bahá’u’lláh, the Báb, and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Bahá’í Prayers. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 2002.
Bahá’u’lláh, the Báb, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Shoghi Effendi and the Universal House of
Justice. Compilation of Compilations. Volumes 1 and 2. Bahá’í Publications
Australia, 1991.
__________.  Lights of Guidance: A Bahá’í Reference File. Compiled by Helen
Hornby. 2nd edition. New Delhi, India: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1988.
Bernstein, Richard J. Beyond Objectivism and Relativism: Science, Hermeneutics,
and Praxis. University of Pennsylvania Press, 1983.
Burbules, Nicholas C. “Postmodern Doubt and Philosophy of Education.” The
Philosophy of Education, 1995. Philosophy of Education Society, 1996.
Carvalho, John J. “Overview of the Structure of a Scientific Worldview.” Zygon:
Journal of Religion and Science, vol. 41, no. 1, March 2006.
Fairfield, Paul. The Ways of Power: Hermeneutics, Ethics, and Social Criticism.
Duquesne University Press, 2002.
Flyvbjerg, Bent. Making Social Science Matter: Why Social Inquiry Fails and How
It Can Succeed Again. Cambridge University Press, 2001.
Gadamer, Hans-Georg, Truth and Method. 2nd revised edition. New York:
Continuum, 1998.

References
|  233
Giddens, Anthony. New Rules of Sociological Method: a Positive Critique of
Interpretative Sociologies. Stanford University Press, second edition, 1993.
International Teaching Centre. Attaining the Dynamics of Growth: Glimpses from
Five Continents. Bahá’í World Centre, 2008.
__________.  Reflections on Growth. Numbers 7 and 8.
May, Dann. “A Preliminary Survey of Hermeneutical Principles Found Within
the Bahá’í Writings,” Journal of Bahá’í Studies, vol. 1, no. 3, 1989.
May, Todd. Our Practices, Our Selves: Or, What it Means to be Human. The
Pennsylvania State University Press, 2001.
Momen, Moojan. “Fundamentalism and Liberalism: Towards an Understanding
of the Dichotomy.” The Bahá’í Studies Review, vol. 2.1, 1992.
__________.  “Methodology in Bahá’í Studies.” The Bahá’í Studies Review, vol. 10,
2001/2002.
Office of Social and Economic Development. For the Betterment of the World.
Bahá’í World Centre, second edition, 2008.
Roosta, Manigeh. “Adult Learning and Community Development: A Case Study
of the FUNDAEC’s University Center for Rural Well-Being in Risaralda,
Colombia.” Doctoral thesis, 1999.
The Ruhi Institute, Learning About Growth, Palabra Publications, 1991.
__________.  Walking Together on a Path of Service: Book 7. Palabra Publications,
2001.
Searle, John R. The Construction of Social Reality. New York Free Press, 1995.
Shoghi Effendi. The Advent of Divine Justice. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing
Trust, 1974.
__________.  Arohanui: Letters from Shoghi Effendi to New Zealand. Suva, Fiji:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1982.
__________.  Bahá’í Administration. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1974.
__________.  Citadel of Faith: Messages to America 1947-1957. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1970.
__________.  Dawn of a New Day: Messages to India 1923-1957. New Delhi: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1970.
__________.  Directives from the Guardian. Hawaii: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1973.
__________.  God Passes By. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1974.
__________.  Messages to America. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1947.
__________.  Messages to the Bahá’í World: 1950-1957. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1971.
__________.  The Promised Day is Come. Rev. ed. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing
Trust, 1980.

|
Revelation & Social Reality
__________.  The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh. 2nd ed. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1974.
Shoghi Effendi and the Universal House of Justice. A Special Measure of Love: The
Importance and Nature of the Teaching Work among the Masses. Wilmette,
IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1974.
Sosa, Ernest. “The Raft and the Pyramid.” Epistemology: An Anthology. Blackwell
Publishers, 2000.
Toulmin, Stephen. Cosmopolis: The Hidden Agenda of Modernity. The University
of Chicago Press, 1992.
The Universal House of Justice. Constitution of the Universal House of Justice.
Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 1972.
__________.  Issues Related to the Study of the Bahá’í Faith. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1999.
__________.  Messages from the Universal House of Justice 1963-1986: The Third
Epoch of the Formative Age. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1996.
__________.  The Five Year Plan 2001-2006: Messages of the Universal House of
Justice. 2nd edition. Palabra Publications, 2003.
__________.  Rights and Responsibilities: The Complementary Roles of the Individual
and Institutions. Bahá’í Canada Publications, 1997.
__________.  Turning Point: Selected Messages of the Universal House of Justice and
Supplementary Materials 1996-2006. Palabra Publications, 2006.
__________.  A Wider Horizon: Selected Messages of the Universal House of Justice
1983-1992. Palabra Publications, 1992.

Notes
Bahá’u’lláh, Lawh. -i-H. aqqu’n-Nás, provisional translation by Kevin Brown.
Bahá’u’lláh, The Tabernacle of Unity, p. 4.
Chapter 1
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá on Divine Philosophy, p. 292. Similarly, a
letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi states: “The whole purpose of
Bahá’u’lláh is that we should become a new kind of people, people who are
upright, kind, intelligent, truthful, and honest and who live according to
His great laws laid down for this new epoch in man’s development. To call
ourselves Bahá’ís is not enough, our inmost being must become ennobled
and enlightened through living a Bahá’í life.” (Compilation of Compilations,
vol. 2, p. 13.)
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Paris Talks, p. 17.
Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 142.
Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 338.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Secret of Divine Civilization, pp. 1-2.
Searle’s approach is not relativistic; his thoughts about social reality rest
upon an objective physical reality. “The overall picture,” Searle explains “. . .
proceeds by way of external realism through the correspondence theory
[of truth] to the structure of social reality.” (John Searle, The Construction
of Social Reality, pp. 199-200.) Searle’s perspective on the “construction of
social reality” stands in distinction to the “social construction of reality”—
the idea that human reality itself is entirely a social creation. See the critique
of social construction by Ian Hacking, in The Social Construction of What?
The question of knowing reality is explored in more detail in chapters 4
and 5.
Searle, The Construction of Social Reality, pp. 1-2.
“. . . social facts in general, and institutional facts especially, are hierarchi-
cally structured. Institutional facts exist, so to speak, on top of brute facts.”
(Searle, The Construction of Social Reality, pp. 34-35.) For Bahá’ís, social
reality must rest upon the facts of spiritual as well as physical reality.

|
Revelation & Social Reality
Searle, The Construction of Social Reality, pp. 3-5.
Social reality is ontologically subjective and epistemologically objective.
(Searle, The Construction of Social Reality, pp. 12-13.) Ontology has to do
with the nature of being, epistemology with what we know. Subjectivity
pertains to what is personal, and objectivity to what is independent of
personal opinion. Thus, to say that social reality is ontologically subjective
means that the features of social reality do not have an existence outside
of the consensus of the human beings that create it. For example, a certain
piece of paper is money because of the intent of the social agents that
created it, not because of its inherent physical qualities. To say that social
reality is epistemologically objective means that what we know about social
reality isn’t just a matter of the opinion of one individual, but consists of
objectively ascertainable facts. Thus, determining whether a particular
piece of paper is money is not a matter of the personal opinion of a single
individual.
Matthew 6:10.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, pp. 101-02.
Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 166.
Bahá’u’lláh, The Kitáb-i-Íqán, p. 241. For more concerning the Bahá’í
responsibility to translate thought into action, see “Clay into Crystal: How
Thought Shapes Structure in the Pursuit of Justice,” by Holly Hansen, a talk
given at the meeting of the Association for Bahá’í Studies, September 2001,
http://bahai-library.org/conferences/clay.crystal.html.
Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, p. 215.
Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 130.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 57.
Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 170.
Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, pp. 170-71.
20	 Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 42.
Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, pp. 33-34.
On behalf of Shoghi Effendi, Compilation of Compilations, vol. 2, p. 421.
Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 163.
Bahá’u’lláh, in The Advent of Divine Justice, p. 31.
Bahá’u’lláh, in Messages from the Universal House of Justice, 1963-1986: The
Third Epoch of the Formative Age, p. 376.
Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 71.
On behalf of Shoghi Effendi, message dated October 23, 1927.
Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, p. 285.
Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 138.

Notes
|  237
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 14.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 3.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 190.
“. . . the second sort of knowledge, which is the knowledge of being, is intui-
tive; it is like the cognizance and consciousness that man has of himself.


“For example, the mind and the spirit of man are cognizant of the
conditions and states of the members and component parts of the body,
and are aware of all the physical sensations; in the same way, they are
aware of their power, of their feelings, and of their spiritual conditions.
This is the knowledge of being which man realizes and perceives, for the
spirit surrounds the body and is aware of its sensations and powers. This
knowledge is not the outcome of effort and study. It is an existing thing; it
is an absolute gift.


“Since the Sanctified Realities, the supreme Manifestations of God,
surround the essence and qualities of the creatures, transcend and contain
existing realities and understand all things, therefore, Their knowledge is
divine knowledge, and not acquired—that is to say, it is a holy bounty; it is
a divine revelation.” (‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, pp. 157-58.)
Bahá’u’lláh speaks of knowledge that is “unrevealed” which “if we chose
to divulge it to mankind, would cause every human being to recognize
the Manifestation of God and to acknowledge His omniscience. . . .”
(Bahá’u’lláh, Summons of the Lord of Hosts, p. 35.) He has also acknowl-
edged that there are truths that words cannot contain. (Gleanings, p. 176.)
Furthermore, a specific example of knowledge withheld, according to
Shoghi Effendi, is the “knowledge which, when applied, will largely, though
not wholly, eliminate fear.” (Compilation of Compilations, vol. 1, p. 249.)
This is not to imply, however, that a Revelation may not, in some sense,
encompass all knowledge of reality. Bahá’u’lláh has explains that “It is in
Our power, should We wish it . . . to infuse into every letter such a force
as to empower it to unfold all the knowledge of past and future ages.” (In
The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 107.) And, there is the Islamic tradition
cited by Adib Taherzadeh “that the Qur’án itself is contained in the opening
chapter, that this chapter is embodied in the first verse, that the first verse in
its entirety is included in the first letter (B), and that all that is within this
letter is condensed in the dot beneath it.” (Taherzadeh, The Revelation of
Bahá’u’lláh, vol. 1, p. 34.) Surely, however, it would require the Manifestation
Himself to accurately unravel such intricate and subtle meanings.
Bahá’u’lláh acknowledges that one station of the Manifestations is that of
distinction, which “pertaineth to the world of creation and to the limita-
tions thereof” and therefore each has “a definitely prescribed mission, a
predestined Revelation, and specially designated limitations.” “Each one of
them is known by a different name, is characterized by a special attribute,

|
Revelation & Social Reality
fulfils a definite Mission, and is entrusted with a particular Revelation.” (The
Kitáb-i-Íqán, p. 176.)
Bahá’u’lláh, in a message dated November 26, 1986 written by the Universal
House of Justice.
“Know verily that the veil hiding Our countenance hath not been completely
lifted. We have revealed Our Self to a degree corresponding to the capacity of
the people of Our age. Should the Ancient Beauty be unveiled in the fullness
of His glory mortal eyes would be blinded by the dazzling intensity of His
revelation.” (Bahá’u’lláh, in The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 116.)
“Indeed the measure of Divine Revelation, in every age, has been adapted
to, and commensurate with, the degree of social progress achieved in that
age by a constantly evolving humanity.” (Shoghi Effendi, The Promised Day
is Come, p. 118.)
On behalf of the Universal House of Justice, Messages: 1963-1986, pp. 547-48.
40	 See John R. Searle, The Construction of Social Reality, pp. 59-78.
See for example The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, p. 123, The Kitáb-i-Íqán, p. 115 and The
Dawnbreakers, p. 320.
See ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, pp. 171-74, on the nature of
essential infallibility. If human beings do not join in agreement around
the Word, there is no hope that the new social reality can be raised. This
acceptance, however, is not enslavement, but liberation. It must be freely
made and not coerced. As a consequence, the individual is liberated from
the afflictions of the old world order and empowered to become an agent in
creating a new civilization. Diversity of thought and freedom of individual
action are essential elements of the process of civilization building. In this
light, it can be seen that true freedom for the individual is found within
the boundaries of the Law of God. (See ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the
Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 305).
Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, p. 42.
44	 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 12.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Secret of Divine Civilization, p. 73.
46	 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 292.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 144.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 165.
49	 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, pp. 314, 318.
Bahá’u’lláh, Tablet to Hájí Mírzá Kamálu’d-Dín, provisional translation by
Iskandar Hai.
Bahá’u’lláh, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, p. 56.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 63.

Notes
|  239
Particularly with regard to how scientific knowledge changes over time.
See, for example, What is this thing called Science? by A.F. Chalmers and
The Philosophy of Science, edited by E.D. Klemke, Robert Hollenger, David
Wyss Rudge, with A. David Kline.
Bahá’u’lláh, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, p. 85.
Bahá’u’lláh, The Kitáb-i-Íqán, p. 172.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Compilation of Compilations, vol. 1, p. 203.
On behalf of Shoghi Effendi, Compilation of Compilations, vol. 1, p. 219.
The Universal House of Justice, Turning Point: Selected Messages of the
Universal House of Justice and Supplementary Materials, 1996-2006, p. 30.
The Universal House of Justice, Messages: 1963-1986, p. 88.
60	 Bahá’u’lláh, Compilation of Compilations, vol. 1, p. 93.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 72.
On behalf of Shoghi Effendi, Compilation of Compilations, vol. 1, p. 103.
Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 143; The Kitáb-i-Íqán, p. 193.
64	 The Universal House of Justice, Lights of Guidance, pp. 179-80.
Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 88.
66	 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Compilation of Compilations, vol. 1, p. 98.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Compilation of Compilations, vol. 1, p. 95.
68	 “He who expresses an opinion should not voice it as correct and right but
set it forth as a contribution to the consensus of opinion, for the light of
reality becomes apparent when two opinions coincide.” (‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The
Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 72.)
69	 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, in Bahá’í Administration, p. 22.
70	 The Universal House of Justice, Rights and Responsibilities, p. 17.
“. . . true consultation is spiritual conference in the attitude and atmosphere
of love. Members must love each other in the spirit of fellowship in order
that good results may be forthcoming. Love and fellowship are the founda-
tion.” (‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Promulgation of Universal Peace, pp. 72-73.)
On behalf of Shoghi Effendi, Compilation of Compilations, vol. 1, p. 106.
“If they agree upon a subject, even though it be wrong, it is better than to
disagree and be in the right, for this difference will produce the demolition
of the divine foundation. Though one of the parties may be in the right and
they disagree that will be the cause of a thousand wrongs, but if they agree
and both parties are in the wrong, as it is in unity the truth will be revealed
and the wrong made right.” (‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Compilation of Compilations,
vol. 1, p. 96.)
The Universal House of Justice, Rights and Responsibilities, pp. 45-46.
On behalf of Shoghi Effendi, Lights of Guidance, p. 82.

|
Revelation & Social Reality
The Universal House of Justice, Messages: 1963-1986, p. 390.
Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration, pp. 62-63.
Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 195.
On behalf of Shoghi Effendi, Compilation of Compilations, vol. 2, p. 59.
80	 Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 324.
Chapter 2
Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 23.
Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 18.
Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, pp. 18-19.
Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 19.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Tablets of the Divine Plan, p. 49.
Shoghi Effendi, Citadel of Faith, p. 5.
“In the Bahá’í Faith there are two authoritative centers appointed to which
the believers must turn, for in reality the Interpreter of the Word is an
extension of that centre which is the Word itself. The Book is the record of
the utterance of Bahá’u’lláh, while the divinely inspired Interpreter is the
living Mouth of that Book—it is he and he alone who can authoritatively
state what the Book means. Thus one centre is the Book with its Interpreter,
and the other is the Universal House of Justice guided by God to decide on
whatever is not explicitly revealed in the Book.” (The Universal House of
Justice, Messages: 1963-1986, p. 160.)
“Wittengenstein explained that the meaning of a text cannot be inferred
from its author’s intention, because nobody, not even the author himself,
can know what the intention was. The meaning of a text depends, on the
contrary, on the linguistic usages current in the community in which the
text is being read. This argument became Derrida’s famous slogan that ‘the
author of the text is dead’ and readers can, therefore, interpret the text any
which way they like. Such interpretation is simply one more text which is
again open to the same treatment, and so on, ad infinitum.” (Peter Munz,
Beyond Wittgenstein’s Poker, p. 61.)
Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, p. 338.
Bahá’u’lláh, Summons of the Lord of Hosts, p. 14.
“Every human being is ultimately responsible to God for the use which
he or she makes of these possibilities; conscience is never to be coerced,
whether by other individuals or institutions.


“Conscience, however, is not an unchangeable absolute. One diction-
ary definition, although not covering all the usages of the term, presents
the common understanding of the word ‘conscience’ as ‘the sense of right
and wrong as regards things for which one is responsible; the faculty or

Notes
|  241
principle which pronounces upon the moral quality of one’s actions or
motives, approving the right and condemning the wrong.’


“The functioning of one’s conscience, then, depends upon one’s
understanding of right and wrong; the conscience of one person may be
established upon a disinterested striving after truth and justice, while that of
another may rest on an unthinking predisposition to act in accordance with
that pattern of standards, principles and prohibitions which is a product of
his social environment. Conscience, therefore, can serve either as a bulwark
of an upright character or can represent an accumulation of prejudices
learned from one’s forebears or absorbed from a limited social code.


“A Bahá’í recognizes that one aspect of his spiritual and intellectual
growth is to foster the development of his conscience in the light of Divine
Revelation—a Revelation which, in addition to providing a wealth of
spiritual and ethical principles, exhorts man ‘to free himself from idle fancy
and imitation, discern with the eye of oneness His glorious handiwork,
and look into all things with a searching Eye.’ This process of development,
therefore, involves a clear-sighted examination of the conditions of the
world with both heart and mind. A Bahá’í will understand that an upright
life is based upon observance of certain principles which stem from Divine
Revelation and which he recognizes as essential for the well-being of both
the individual and society. In order to uphold such principles, he knows
that, in certain cases, the voluntary submission of the promptings of his
own personal conscience to the decision of the majority is a conscientious
requirement, as in wholeheartedly accepting the majority decision of an
Assembly at the outcome of consultation.” (On behalf of the Universal
House of Justice, Issues Related to the Study of the Bahá’í Faith, p. 40.)
Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 71.
Bahá’u’lláh, The Kitáb-i-Íqán, p. 86.
To more fully understand the concept of interpretation, it is useful to exam-
ine more closely the ways in which Shoghi Effendi exercised this capacity.
In an insightful presentation at the Bahá’í World Centre in 1984, Ian Semple
described seven aspects of the function of Interpreter as exercised by
Shoghi Effendi. While these categories were acknowledged to be “a purely
arbitrary division,” they nevertheless illustrate a range of applications. These
seven aspects include defining the meaning of specific texts; explaining the
thought conveyed by the texts (expounding their meaning); developing
seminal statements in the Sacred Text; refusal to comment further on
certain texts or to make statements not covered in the Writings; defining the
sphere of authoritative interpretation; illuminating the overall significance
of the Revelation; and taking a long and uninterrupted view over a series
of generations.
On behalf of the Universal House of Justice, Messages: 1963-1986, p. 518.
On behalf of the Universal House of Justice, Messages: 1963-1986, p. 646.

|
Revelation & Social Reality
“. . . the Interpreter of the Word is an extension of that center which is the
Word itself.” (The Universal House of Justice, Messages: 1963-1986, p. 160.)
This point is explained further in the section on hermeneutical principles.
The House of Justice states: “Just as the Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
does not in any way contradict the Kitáb-i-Aqdas but, in the Guardian’s
words, ‘confirms, supplements, and correlates the provisions of the Aqdas,’
so the writings of the Guardian contradict neither the revealed Word
nor the interpretations of the Master.” (The Universal House of Justice,
Messages: 1963-1986, p. 156.)
The Universal House of Justice, Messages: 1963-1986, p. 56.
20	 See note #126 in The Kitáb-i-Aqdas. The meaning of certain statements in
the Revelation and in the authoritative interpretations are intentionally
veiled and progressively clarified in order to guide the believers in a gradual
manner. “Know of a certainty that in every Dispensation the light of Divine
Revelation hath been vouchsafed unto men in direct proportion to their
spiritual capacity. Consider the sun. How feeble its rays the moment it ap-
peareth above the horizon. How gradually its warmth and potency increase
as it approacheth its zenith, enabling meanwhile all created things to adapt
themselves to the growing intensity of its light. How steadily it declineth
until it reacheth its setting point. Were it, all of a sudden, to manifest the
energies latent within it, it would, no doubt, cause injury to all created
things. . . . In like manner, if the Sun of Truth were suddenly to reveal, at the
earliest stages of its manifestation, the full measure of the potencies which
the providence of the Almighty hath bestowed upon it, the earth of human
understanding would waste away and be consumed; for men’s hearts would
neither sustain the intensity of its revelation, nor be able to mirror forth the
radiance of its light. Dismayed and overpowered, they would cease to exist.”
(Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, pp. 87-88.)
“In fact, he who reads the Aqdas with care and diligence will not find it
hard to discover that the Most Holy Book itself anticipates in a number
of passages the institutions which ‘Abdu’l-Bahá ordains in His Will. By
leaving certain matters unspecified and unregulated in His Book of Laws,
Bahá’u’lláh seems to have deliberately left a gap in the general scheme of
Bahá’í Dispensation, which the unequivocal provisions of the Master’s Will
have filled.” (Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 4.)
Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 110.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, in The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 138.
Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 151.
The Universal House of Justice, Messages: 1963-1986, p. 160.
On behalf of Shoghi Effendi, Lights of Guidance, p. 237.
On behalf of the Universal House of Justice, message dated March 9, 1987.
However, the letter adds, “the manner in which an individual presents his

Notes
|  243
interpretation is important. For example, he must at no time deny or contend
with the authoritative interpretation, but rather offer his idea as a contribu-
tion to knowledge, making it clear that his views are merely his own.”
On behalf of the Universal House of Justice, Messages: 1963-1986, p. 518.
In the letter, this paragraph is preceded by a more detailed explanation:
“You express the fear that the authority conferred upon ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, the
Guardian and the Universal House of Justice could lead to a progressive
reduction in the ‘available scope for personal interpretation,’ and that ‘the
actual writings of the Manifestation will have less and less import,’ and
you instance what has happened in previous Dispensations. The House of
Justice suggests that, in thinking about this, you contemplate the way the
Covenant of Bahá’u’lláh has actually worked and you will be able to see how
very different its processes are from those of, say, the development of the
law in Rabbinical Judaism or the functioning of the Papacy in Christianity.
The practice in the past in these two religions, and also to a great extent
in Islám, has been to assume that the revelation given by the Founder was
the final, perfect revelation of God’s Will to mankind, and all subsequent
elucidation and legislation has been interpretative in the sense that it aimed
at applying this basic revelation to the new problems and situations that
have arisen. The Bahá’í premises are quite different. Although the revelation
of Bahá’u’lláh is accepted as the Word of God and His Law as the Law of
God, it is understood from the outset that revelation is progressive, and
that the Law, although the Will of God for this Age, will undoubtedly be
changed by the next Manifestation of God. Secondly, only the written text
of the revelation is regarded as authoritative. There is no Oral Law as in
Judaism, no Tradition of the Church as in Christianity, no Hadíth as in
Islám. Thirdly, a clear distinction is drawn between Interpretation and
Legislation. Authoritative interpretation is the exclusive prerogative of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá and the Guardian, while infallible legislation is the function
of the Universal House of Justice.”
On behalf of the Universal House of Justice, message dated March 9, 1987.
Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 100. So too, Bahá’u’lláh
states: “No understanding can grasp the nature of His Revelation, nor can
any knowledge comprehend the full measure of His Faith.” (The Kitáb-i-
Íqán, p. 243.)
The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, note 130, p. 221.
On behalf of the Universal House of Justice, Issues Related to the Study of
the Bahá’í Faith, p. 42.
Bahá’u’lláh, The Kitáb-i-Íqán, p. 192.
Bahá’u’lláh, The Kitáb-i-Íqán, p. 211.
The Universal House of Justice, Messages: 1963-1986, p. 39.
Shoghi Effendi, The Advent of Divine Justice, p. 52.

|
Revelation & Social Reality
The Universal House of Justice, Messages: 1963-1986, p. 88.
On behalf of the Universal House of Justice, message dated March 9, 1987.
On behalf of the Universal House of Justice, Messages: 1963-1986, p. 518.
40	 The Universal House of Justice, Messages: 1963-1986, p. 88.
The Universal House of Justice, Messages: 1963-1986, p. 88.
On behalf of the Universal House of Justice, Issues Related to the Study of
the Bahá’í Faith, p. 42.
“With regard to the accusation that to make such distinctions borders on
restriction of the freedom of speech, one should accept that civil society
has long recognized that utterance can metamorphose into behavior, and
has taken steps to protect itself and its citizens against such behavior when
it becomes socially destructive. Laws against sedition and hate-mongering
are examples that come readily to mind.” (On behalf of the Universal House
of Justice, Issues Related to the Study of the Bahá’í Faith, pp. 42-43.)
44	 On behalf of the Universal House of Justice, Issues Related to the Study of
the Bahá’í Faith, p. 38. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá repeated warned the Bahá’ís in His talks
and writings about individuals who insist upon the correctness of their
own views and described the role of the Covenant in protecting against
such problems. For example, He states: “As to the most great characteristic
of the revelation of Bahá’u’lláh, a specific teaching not given by any of the
Prophets of the past: It is the ordination and appointment of the Center of
the Covenant. By this appointment and provision He has safeguarded and
protected the religion of God against differences and schisms, making it
impossible for anyone to create a new sect or faction of belief. To ensure
unity and agreement He has entered into a Covenant with all the people
of the world, including the interpreter and explainer of His teachings, so
that no one may interpret or explain the religion of God according to his
own view or opinion and thus create a sect founded upon his individual
understanding of the divine Words. The Book of the Covenant or Testament
of Bahá’u’lláh is the means of preventing such a possibility, for whosoever
shall speak from the authority of himself alone shall be degraded. Be ye
informed and cognizant of this. Beware lest anyone shall secretly question
or deny this to you. There are some people of self-will and desire who do
not communicate their intentions to you in clear language. They envelop
their meanings in secret statements and insinuations. For instance, they
praise a certain individual, saying he is wise and learned . . . conveying
this to you in an insidious way or by innuendos. Be ye aware of this! Be
awakened and enlightened! . . . The purport of my admonition is that
certain people will endeavor to influence you in the direction of their own
personal views and opinions. Therefore, be upon your guard in order that
none may assail the oneness and integrity of Bahá’u’lláh’s Cause. Praise be
to God! Bahá’u’lláh left nothing unsaid. He explained everything. He left no

Notes
|  245
room for anything further to be said. Yet there are some who for the sake of
personal interest and prestige will attempt to sow the seeds of sedition and
disloyalty among you. To protect and safeguard the religion of God from
this and all other attack, the Center of the Covenant has been named and
appointed by Bahá’u’lláh. Therefore, if anyone should set forth a statement
in praise or recognition of another than this appointed Center, you must ask
him to produce a written proof of the authority he follows. . . . My purpose
is to explain to you that it is your duty to guard the religion of God so that
none shall be able to assail it outwardly or inwardly.” (The Promulgation of
Universal Peace, pp. 455-56.)


So too, a message written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice
explains: “The Covenant is the ‘axis of the oneness of the world of humanity’
because it preserves the unity and integrity of the Faith itself and protects
it from being disrupted by individuals who are convinced that only their
understanding of the Teachings is the right one—a fate that has overcome
all past Revelations. The Covenant is, moreover, embedded in the Writings
of Bahá’u’lláh Himself. Thus, as you clearly see, to accept Bahá’u’lláh is to
accept His Covenant; to reject His Covenant is to reject Him.” (Messages:
1963-1986, p. 519.)
Some of these principles have been discussed in various articles, including
“A Preliminary Survey of Hermeneutical Principles Found Within the
Bahá’í Writings,” by Dann J. May, Journal of Bahá’í Studies, 1989, vol. 1, no.
3 and “Some Interpretive Principles in the Bahá’í Writings,” by Seena Fazel
and Khazeh Fananapazir, The Bahá’í Studies Review, 1992, vol. 2 no. 1.
46	 Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 143.
On behalf of Shoghi Effendi, Compilation of Compilations, vol. 1, p. 212.
Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, p. 272. Further consideration of this principle can be
found in “Seeing with the Eye of God: Relationships Between Theology and
Interpretation” by Michael Sours, Bahá’í Studies Review, vol. 1, issue 1, 1991.
49	 Bahá’u’lláh, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, p. 56.
On behalf of Shoghi Effendi, Lights of Guidance, p. 476.
On behalf of Shoghi Effendi, message dated March 19, 1946.
The Universal House of Justice, Messages: 1963-1986, p. 156.
On behalf of the Universal House of Justice, message dated April 27, 1995.
Bahá’u’lláh, The Kitáb-i-Íqán, pp. 254-55.
“Whoso layeth claim to a Revelation direct from God, ere the expiration
of a full thousand years, such a man is assuredly a lying imposter. . . .
Whosoever interpreteth this verse otherwise than its obvious meaning is
deprived of the Spirit of God and of His mercy which encompasseth all
created things.” (Bahá’u’lláh, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, p. 32.) “The Dispensation
of Bahá’u’lláh will last until the coming of the next Manifestation of God,

|
Revelation & Social Reality
Whose advent will not take place before at least ‘a full thousand years’ will
have elapsed. Bahá’u’lláh cautions against ascribing to ‘this verse’ anything
other than its ‘obvious meaning,’ and in one of His Tablets, He specifies
that ‘each year’ of this thousand year period consists of ‘twelve months
according to the Qur’án, and of nineteen months of nineteen days each,
according to the Bayán.’” (Note #62, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, pp. 195-96.)
Bahá’u’lláh, Tafsír-i-Súriy-i-Va’sh-Shams (Commentary on the Súrah of the
Sun), provisional translation by Mark Hellaby.
Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, p. 175.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 126.
Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, pp. 175-76.
60	 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, p. 88. For a further elucidation of this principle, see the
introduction to the Synopsis and Codification of The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, pp. 3-7.
Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, pp. 176.
Bahá’u’lláh states: “God hath prescribed matrimony unto you. Beware that
ye take not unto yourselves more wives than two. Who contenteth himself
with a single partner from among the maidservants of God, both he and
she shall live in tranquillity.” (The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, p. 41.) Note #89, p. 206
explains: “Bahá’u’lláh, Who was revealing His teachings in the milieu of
a Muslim society, introduced the question of monogamy gradually in ac-
cordance with the principles of wisdom and the progressive unfoldment of
His purpose. The fact that He left His followers with an infallible Interpreter
of His Writings enabled Him to outwardly permit two wives in the Kitáb-i-
Aqdas but uphold a condition that enabled ‘Abdu’l-Bahá to elucidate later
that the intention of the law was to enforce monogamy.”
See the memorandum of the Research Department to the Universal House
of Justice dated June 27, 1996 entitled “Monogamy, Sexual Equality, Marital
Equality, and the Supreme Tribunal.” Any personal interpretation that
suggests the authorized Interpreter has failed to grasp the intention of
Bahá’u’lláh’s Writings, or abrogated Bahá’u’lláh’s law, or changed his mind
about the meaning of the Text, is not consistent with the principle that
authorized interpretation is a statement of truth that cannot be varied.
64	 “Know thou that polygamy is not permitted under the law of God, for
contentment with one wife hath been clearly stipulated. Taking a second
wife is made dependent upon equity and justice being upheld between the
two wives, under all conditions. However, observance of justice and equity
towards two wives is utterly impossible. The fact that bigamy has been
made dependent upon an impossible condition is clear proof of its absolute
prohibition. Therefore it is not permissible for a man to have more than one
wife.” (‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Note #89 in The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, p. 206.)
Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 214.

Notes
|  247
66	 Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 22.
On behalf of the Universal House of Justice, message dated April 27, 1995.
68	 The Universal House of Justice, Messages: 1963-1986, p. 87.
69	 “I say unto you: weigh carefully in the balance of reason and science
everything that is presented to you as religion. If it passes this test, then
accept it, for it is truth! If, however, it does not so conform, then reject it,
for it is ignorance!” (‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Paris Talks, p. 144.)
70	 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 111.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 181.
On behalf of the Universal House of Justice, Compilation of Compilations,
vol. 3, p. 261.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Some Answered Questions, pp. 22-23. See also a letter written
on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, Lights of Guidance, p. 478. Such statements
are religious statements and any implications they hold for truth about
the physical world would, of course, never be accepted by science unless
justified by its own criteria.
On behalf of Shoghi Effendi, Lights of Guidance, p. 478.
An example is ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s statements about ether. “Thus man cannot
grasp the Essence of Divinity, but can, by his reasoning power, by observa-
tion, by his intuitive faculties and the revealing power of his faith, believe
in God, discover the bounties of His Grace. He becometh certain that
though the Divine Essence is unseen of the eye, and the existence of the
Deity is intangible, yet conclusive spiritual proofs assert the existence of
that unseen Reality. The Divine Essence as it is in itself is however beyond
all description. For instance, the nature of ether is unknown, but that it
existeth is certain by the effects it produceth, heat, light and electricity being
the waves thereof. By these waves the existence of ether is thus proven.
And as we consider the outpourings of Divine Grace we are assured of the
existence of God.” (Tablet to August Forel, p. 5.) The purpose of this passage
is to discuss human understanding of God, not the physical universe. As
explained in a message written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice:
“With reference to your question about the ‘ether,’ the various definitions of
this word as given in the Oxford English Dictionary all refer to a physical
reality, for instance, ‘an element,’ ‘a substance,’ ‘a medium,’ all of which
imply a physical and objective reality and, as you say, this was the concept
posited by nineteenth century scientists to explain the propagation of light
waves. It would have been understood in this sense by the audiences whom
‘Abdu’l-Bahá was addressing. However, in Chapter XVI of Some Answered
Questions, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá devotes a whole chapter to explaining the differ-
ence between things which are ‘perceptible to the senses’ which He calls
‘objective or sensible,’ and realities of the ‘intellect’ which have ‘no outward
form and no place,’ and are ‘not perceptible to the senses.’ . . . He states

|
Revelation & Social Reality
clearly that ‘Even ethereal matter, the forces of which are said in physics
to be heat, light, electricity and magnetism, is an intellectual reality, and is
not sensible.’ In other words, the ‘ether’ is a concept arrived at intellectually
to explain certain phenomena. In due course, when scientists failed to
confirm the physical existence of the ‘ether’ by delicate experiments, they
constructed other intellectual concepts to explain the same phenomena.”
(Messages: 1963-1986, p. 546.)


Another example is ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s statement, that “just as the bodily
diseases like consumption and cancer are contagious, likewise the spiritual
diseases are also infectious.” (Lights of Guidance, p. 183.) His purpose is to
illustrate the importance of not associating with Covenant-breakers: “If a
consumptive should associate with a thousand safe and healthy persons, the
safety and health of these thousand persons would not affect the consump-
tive and would not cure him of his consumptions. But when this consump-
tive associates with those thousand souls, in a short time the disease of
consumption will infect a number of those healthy persons.” In making His
point, He refers to cancer as contagious, which was a widely held concep-
tion at the time. Only later did the scientific community conclude that
cancer was not contagious. (Even a 1930 editorial in the Canadian Journal
of Medicine and Surgery expressed skepticism about the non-contagious
character of cancer; see “Cancer,” p. 129-31.) Today, some new lines of
inquiry are exploring whether certain kinds of cancer could be or could
become contagious. (http://www.harpers.org/archive/2008/04/0081988)
“The Tablet to a Physician was addressed to a man who was a student of the
old type of healing prevalent in the East and familiar with the terminology
used in those days, and He addresses him in terms used by the medical men
of those days. These terms are quite different from those used by modern
medicine, and one would have to have a deep knowledge of this former
school of medicine to understand the questions Bahá’u’lláh was elucidat-
ing.” (On behalf of Shoghi Effendi, Lights of Guidance, p. 281.) Clearly, even
if the Manifestation wanted to make a scientifically valid statement about
the nature of the physical world, the limitations of language and the con-
stant evolution of scientific thought would make understanding difficult.
Would He use the scientific language of His time, concepts pertaining to the
understanding of science a century into the future, or concepts pertaining
to the science of 500 years into the future? At any point in time, a “true”
statement about physical reality in the Revelation may appear to be in
conflict with contemporary scientific understanding.
On behalf of Shoghi Effendi, Lights of Guidance, p. 558.
On behalf of the Universal House of Justice, Issues Related to the Study of
the Bahá’í Faith, p. 33.
Shoghi Effendi, The Promised Day is Come, p. vi.

Notes
|  249
80	 On behalf of the Universal House of Justice, Compilation of Compilations,
vol. 3, p. 259. The philosopher Jürgen Habermas, for example, warns of the
tendency toward positivism in the humanities and social sciences. “[T]he
historical-hermeneutic sciences . . . comprise a scientistic consciousness,
based on the model of science. . . . Much as the cultural sciences may
comprehend their facts through understanding and little though they
may be concerned with discovering general laws, they nevertheless share
with the empirical-analytic sciences the methodological consciousness of
describing a structured reality within the horizon of the theoretical attitude.
Historicism has become the positivism of the cultural and social sciences.”
(Knowledge and Human Interests, p. 303.) Positivism is a philosophical
perspective that rejects metaphysics and emphasizes observation and ex-
perience; in the extreme, it is an excessive belief that only certain methods
for the investigation of reality yield true or meaningful results.
For example, a letter written on his behalf states: “Historians cannot be
sure Socrates did not visit the Holy Land. But believing as we do that
‘Abdu’l-Bahá had an intuitive knowledge quite different from our own,
we accept His authority on this matter. . . .” (On behalf of Shoghi Effendi,
Arohanui: Letters to New Zealand, p. 87.) In another instance, the House
of Justice explained: “The Guardian was meticulous about the authenticity
of historical fact. One of the friends in Yazd wrote to him stating that the
account given by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in one of His Tablets about events related to
the martyrdom of some of the believers in that place was in conflict with
known facts about these events. Shoghi Effendi replied saying that the
friends should investigate the facts carefully and unhesitatingly register
them in their historical records, since ‘Abdu’l-Bahá Himself had prefaced
His recording of the events in His Tablet with a statement that it was based
on news received from Yazd.” (The Universal House of Justice, message
dated July 25, 1974 to an individual.)
See Tablets of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 539, and Lights of Guidance, p. 509.
Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 134.
On behalf of Shoghi Effendi, Arohanui: Letters to New Zealand, p. 87.
On behalf of the Universal House of Justice, message dated January 12,
2006.
86	 On behalf of the Universal House of Justice, message dated April 18, 1989.
Dann May, “A Preliminary Survey of Hermeneutical Principles Found Within
the Bahá’í Writings,” Journal of Bahá’í Studies, 1989, vol. 1, no. 3, p. 43.
Talk given by Peter Khan in Wilmette, Illinois, June 26, 1981.
Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, p. 326.
90	 On behalf of the Universal House of Justice, message dated November 26,
1986.

|
Revelation & Social Reality
On behalf of the Universal House of Justice, Compilation of Compilations,
vol. 3, p. 259.
“God in His Essence and in His own Self hath ever been unseen, inacces-
sible, and unknowable.” (Bahá’u’lláh, Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, p. 118.)
“The nature of the soul after death can never be described, nor is it meet and
permissible to reveal its whole character to the eyes of men.” (Bahá’u’lláh,
Gleanings, p. 156.)
On behalf of Shoghi Effendi, Lights of Guidance, p. 550.
94	 Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 27.
“There are many ways in which the institutions and activities of the Bahá’í
community can develop, but it must be remembered that the Bahá’í Cause is
an organic body, and it is for the World Centre of that Cause to determine
the methods and steps by which its potentialities and functions will unfold.”
(On behalf of the Universal House of Justice, message dated April 20, 1997.)
96	 Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 148. These responsibilities
are shared with the Guardian.
“On the success of this enterprise, unprecedented in its scope, unique in
its character and immense in its spiritual potentialities, must depend the
initiation, at a later period in the Formative Age of the Faith, of undertakings
embracing within their range all National Assemblies functioning through-
out the Bahá’í World, undertakings constituting in themselves a prelude to
the launching of world-wide enterprises destined to be embarked upon, in
future epochs of that same Age, by the Universal House of Justice, that will
symbolize the unity and coordinate and unify the activities of these National
Assemblies.” (Shoghi Effendi, Compilation of Compilations, vol. 1, p. 340.)
“You have stated that believers have asked, ‘Are the decisions of the
Universal House of Justice free from error even if incorrect information
has been provided to it?’ The infallibility of the House of Justice, like
that of the Guardian, is ‘conferred,’ as distinct from the infallibility of
the Manifestation of God, which is ‘innate.’ The House of Justice, like
the Guardian, is not omniscient; when called upon to make a decision, it
wants to receive information and facts and at times consults experts on the
subject. Like him, it may well change its decision when new facts emerge
or in light of changed conditions.


“In the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá on this matter, there is
no reference to the nature and extent of the information to which the House
of Justice should have access when making its decisions. ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá states,
‘Let it not be imagined that the House of Justice will take any decision ac-
cording to its own concepts and opinions. God forbid! The Supreme House
of Justice will take decisions and establish laws through the inspiration and
confirmation of the Holy Spirit.’

Notes
|  251


“Again, He says: ‘Whatever will be its decision, by majority vote, shall
be the real truth, inasmuch as that House is under the protection, unerring
guidance, and care of the one true Lord. He shall guard it from error and
will protect it under the wing of His sanctity and infallibility.’


“Bahá’ís, of course, may seek the views of the House of Justice about
its decisions if they feel they have new information or that conditions
have changed but in doing so should avoid the temptation to use this as
an excuse to evade their obligation to obey and thus deprive themselves of
the bounty of full obedience.” (On behalf of the Universal House of Justice,
message dated May 20, 2007.)
99	 Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 27.
100	 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 11.
101	 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 20.
102	 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, in Messages: 1963-1986, pp. 52-53.
103	 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 14.
104	 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 20.
105	 The Universal House of Justice, Messages: 1963-1986, p. 56.
106	 Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration, p. 39.
107	 On behalf of the Universal House of Justice, Lights of Guidance, p. 311.
108	 Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 20.
109	 Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 150.
110	 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, in The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 149.
111	 Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration, p. 47.
112	 “There is a profound difference between the interpretations of the Guardian
and the elucidations of the House of Justice in exercise of its function to
‘deliberate upon all problems which have caused difference, questions that
are obscure and matters that are not expressly recorded in the Book.’ The
Guardian reveals what the Scripture means; his interpretation is a statement
of truth which cannot be varied. Upon the Universal House of Justice, in the
words of the Guardian, ‘has been conferred the exclusive right of legislating
on matters not expressly revealed in the Bahá’í writings.’ Its pronounce-
ments, which are susceptible of amendment or abrogation by the House
of Justice itself, serve to supplement and apply the Law of God. Although
not invested with the function of interpretation, the House of Justice is
in a position to do everything necessary to establish the World Order of
Bahá’u’lláh on this earth. Unity of doctrine is maintained by the existence
of the authentic texts of Scripture and the voluminous interpretations of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá and Shoghi Effendi together with the absolute prohibition
against anyone propounding ‘authoritative’ or ‘inspired’ interpretations or
usurping the function of Guardian. Unity of administration is assured by
the authority of the Universal House of Justice.

|
Revelation & Social Reality


“‘Such,’ in the words of Shoghi Effendi, ‘is the immutability of His re-
vealed Word. Such is the elasticity which characterizes the functions of His
appointed ministers. The first preserves the identity of His Faith, and guards
the integrity of His law. The second enables it, even as a living organism, to
expand and adapt itself to the needs and requirements of an ever-changing
society.’” (The Universal House of Justice, in Messages: 1963-1986, p. 56.)
113	 “Let it not be imagined that the House of Justice will take any decision ac-
cording to its own concepts and opinions. God forbid! The Supreme House
of Justice will take decisions and establish laws through the inspiration and
confirmation of the Holy Spirit, because it is in the safekeeping and under
the shelter and protection of the Ancient Beauty, and obedience to its deci-
sions is a bounden and essential duty and an absolute obligation, and there
is no escape for anyone.” (‘Abdu’l-Bahá, in Messages: 1963-1986, p. 85.)
114	 “The elucidations of the Universal House of Justice stem from its legislative
function, while the interpretations of the Guardian represent the true
intent inherent in the Sacred Texts. The major distinction between the
two functions is that legislation with its resultant outcome of elucidation
susceptible of amendment by the House of Justice itself, whereas the
Guardian’s interpretation is a statement of truth which cannot be varied.”
(On behalf of the Universal House of Justice, Messages: 1963-1986, p. 646.)
Elucidation and interpretation hold different connotations; to elucidate is
to shed light on the meaning of something complex, while to interpret is to
reveal underlying meaning that is derived from special insight.
115	 For a more detailed discussion of why dissent is so destructive see Wendy
Heller, “The Religious Foundations of Civil Society,” part 1, Journal of Bahá’í
Studies, 10.1/2, 2000.
116	 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, in The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, p. 5.
117	 “It is natural that the friends would discuss such matters among themselves,
as you and your correspondent have been doing on your Internet discus-
sion group; how otherwise are they to deepen their understanding of the
Teachings? But they should recognize that the resolution of differences of
opinion on such fundamental questions is not to be found by continued
discussion, but in referring to the Universal House of Justice itself, as you
have done. Prolonged, unresolved, public discussion of these fundamental
questions can do nothing but breed confusion and dissension.” (On behalf
of the Universal House of Justice, Issues Related to the Study of the Bahá’í
Faith, p. 30.)


Similarly, a letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi cautions the be-
lievers about the dangers of making judgments about his sphere of author-
ity: “It is not for individual believers to limit the sphere of the Guardian’s
authority, or to judge when they have to obey the Guardian and when they
are free to reject his judgment. Such an attitude would evidently lead to
confusion and to schism. The Guardian being the appointed interpreter of

Notes
|  253
the Teachings, it is his responsibility to state what matters which, affecting
the interests of the Faith, demand on the part of the believers, complete and
unqualified obedience to his instructions.” (Lights of Guidance, p. 311.)


In relation to this statement written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi,
that the believers should not limit the sphere of the Guardian’s authority,
a letter written on behalf of the House of Justice states: “In regard to the
Universal House of Justice, the same understanding applies.” (On behalf of
the Universal House of Justice, message dated April 7, 2008.) The same letter
further states: “The Universal House of Justice does not intend at this time
to elaborate further on previous explanations given of its duties and powers.
That the House of Justice itself does not find it necessary to do so should
alert the friends as to the unwisdom of their attempting to define so pre-
cisely its sphere of action. Nevertheless, it should be mentioned that, while
there are explicit passages in the authoritative texts that make reference to
the infallibility of the House of Justice in the enactment of legislation, the
argument that it is free from error only in this respect is untenable.” (On
behalf of the Universal House of Justice, message dated April 7, 2008.)
118	 Without in any way trying to explicitly define the concept of conferred in-
fallibility, consider that the most extreme possible personal interpretations
of this concept produce the same practical result: that the believers should
abide by the decisions of the Universal House of Justice without giving rise
to dissension that will check the progress or destroy the unity of the Faith.
For those who hold to an explicit, or even literal, understanding of the pas-
sage “whatsoever they decide is of God,” such obedience is straightforward.
But even the most metaphorical or symbolic interpretation of the concept
leads to the same end. Why do the Bahá’í Writings even raise the concept
of infallibility in relation to the House of Justice and discuss its decisions
in a manner quite distinct from those of Local and National Assemblies?
Shoghi Effendi highlights this emphasis: “Only those who come after us
will be in a position to realize the value of the surprisingly strong emphasis
that has been placed on the institution of the House of Justice and of the
Guardianship.” (The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 8.) Even if the state-
ments in the Bahá’í Writings about the infallibility of the Universal House
of Justice are personally interpreted by an individual to be nothing more
than hyperbole, surely the intention must be to emphasize the importance
of obedience and the need to avoid criticism and contention and uphold
the authority of the Supreme Body as the central point to which all turn.
As ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states: “The purpose of the Blessed Beauty in entering in
to this Covenant and Testament was to gather all existent beings around
one point so that the thoughtless souls, who in every cycle and generation
have been the cause of dissension, may not undermine the Cause. He hath,
therefore, commanded that whatever emanateth from the Centre of the
Covenant is right and is under His protection and favor, while all else is
error.” (‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 208.)

|
Revelation & Social Reality
Of course, there are other statements addressing the authority of the House
of Justice apart from infallibility.
119	 A separate but related issue is whether the Universal House of Justice is infal-
lible without having a living Guardian as member. This matter was clarified
many years ago by the Universal House of Justice. (See Messages: 1963-1986,
pp. 50-58, 83-90, and 156-61.) Nevertheless, the erroneous perspective that
the House of Justice requires the presence of the Guardian continues to
resurface, especially in arguments initiated by Covenant-breakers.


This error is fueled by a misreading of the statement of Shoghi Effendi
that the Guardian “cannot override the decision of the majority of his
fellow-members, but is bound to insist upon a reconsideration by them of
any enactment he conscientiously believes to conflict with the meaning and
to depart from the spirit of Bahá’u’lláh’s revealed utterances.” (The World
Order of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 150.) It is argued that this clause means that without
the Guardian, the House of Justice might make a decision that conflicts
with the meaning or departs from the spirit of the Text. Yet, a careful
reading of the entire passage makes it obvious that far from implying that
the Universal House of Justice may make an error without the Guardian
present to direct its deliberations, in fact, the opposite is true. The passage
explains that even if the Guardian were to raise a point for reconsideration,
nevertheless, the final word is left to the body of the Universal House of
Justice. “He [the Guardian] cannot override the decision of the majority
of his fellow-members.” “He can never, even temporarily, assume the right
of exclusive legislation.” As ‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains: “That which this body,
whether unanimously or by a majority doth carry, that is verily the Truth
and the Purpose of God Himself.” (Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p.
19, emphasis added.)


The passage from Shoghi Effendi, embedded in the wider context of
a description of the nature of the Guardianship, is presented as a limita-
tion on the powers of the Guardian, not as a check on the powers of the
Universal House of Justice, whose authority and infallibility are strongly
affirmed. It suggests that even if the Guardian as a member were to raise
certain concerns, it is the decision of the majority that is the final and
infallible conclusion of that Body. Of course, it is impossible to imagine
that the members of the House of Justice would fail to take into account the
Guardian’s views. Furthermore, the situation envisioned did not arise nor
will it ever arise in practice. Nevertheless, the statement is an indication by
Shoghi Effendi that the authority and infallibility of the Universal House of
Justice in its sphere of action is incontestable even by the Guardian. How
then can any believer, no matter how knowledgeable or insightful, raise any
challenge?
120	 Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 68.

Notes
|  255
121	 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, pp. 172-73. Note that in this state-
ment conferred infallibility is not simply granted to any individual believer
who aspires to be a “holy being” but to those “kept and preserved from
error” who are “mediators of grace between God and men” for “if God did
not protect them from error, their error would cause believing souls to fall
into error.” Individual Bahá’ís are clearly subject to error, and even if their
views or actions are correct in one instance, they can easily be wrong in
another, and, therefore, cannot be a standard for other believing souls.
122	 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, pp. 19-20.
123	 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, in Messages: 1963-1986, p. 85.
124	 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, pp. 173-74.
125	 This is not to say that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá or possibly to some extent, Shoghi
Effendi did not have certain insights into reality that were inspired by divine
guidance. That is a separate question that is not explored here. It is just
that such capacities are something other than what is meant by conferred
infallibility.
126	 On behalf of the Universal House of Justice, Lights of Guidance, p. 311.
Consideration of the Bahá’í concept of conferred infallibility must account
for why an inerrant grasp of facts is not a necessary condition, rather than
attempt to understand infallibility as being limited to a range of action that
does not require knowledge about the world.


Perhaps some deeper insight into the Bahá’í concept of infallibility may
come from a better understanding of the nature of speech acts. For example,
the philosopher John Searle, in describing the way that words are associated
with the world around us, contrasts a “word-to-world” and a “world-to-
word” fit. (John R. Searle “A Classification of Illocutionary Acts,” Experience
and Meaning: Studies in the Theory of Speech Acts, pp. 1-29.) That is, words
can be used to describe the world or, alternatively, words can be used to
describe how the world should be. For example, consider a grocery list. With
list in hand one goes to the market to purchase the specified items. Later it is
discovered that one of the selected items does not match the product named
on the list. To make the words match reality, it is only necessary to change
the word on the list to match the incorrectly purchased item. But to make
the world match the expressed intent, it is necessary to go back to the store
and exchange the incorrect item for that one specified on the list.


From this perspective, it may be that the concept of infallibility as
used in the Bahá’í teachings in relation to the Universal House of Justice
is associated with a world-to-word fit. A statement by the House of Justice
does not describe the world as it is, but describes “what should be done” in
a manner that is in conformity with, or does not contradict, the will of God
and hence it requires that action of the believers in the world correspond
to the words. This divine guarantee is associated with spiritual forces and
is, of course, a matter of faith and not empirical observation.

|
Revelation & Social Reality


Searle’s analysis includes a taxonomy of speech acts and is, of course,
much more detailed than discussed here. Among the categories he describes
are “declarations,” which are statements that bring about a change in the
status of the subject under consideration. An example of a declaration is the
statement “You are fired.” Searle explains, “It is only given such institutions
as the Church, the law, private property, the state and a special position
of the speaker and hearer within these institutions that one can excom-
municate, appoint, give and bequeath one’s possessions or declare war.” The
direction of fit in a declaration is both word-to-world and world-to-word
because the statement itself brings about the correspondence between
content and reality. “Successful performance guarantees that the proposi-
tion content corresponds to the world; if I successfully perform the act of
appointing you chairman, then you are chairman.” (See “A Classification
of Illocutionary Acts.”) Some statements of the Universal House of Justice,
such as “the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh now enters the fifth epoch of its Formative
Age” are of this type. (The Universal House of Justice, message dated
January 16, 2001.)
127	 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 14.
128	 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 263.
129	 On behalf of Shoghi Effendi, Directives from the Guardian, pp. 33-34.
130	 On behalf of Shoghi Effendi, Lights of Guidance, p. 313.
131	 Various passages refer to conferred infallibility in diverse contexts: concerning
both its decisions and the establishment of laws (‘Abdu’l-Bahá, in Messages of
the Universal House of Justice: 1963-1986, p. 85); protection (‘Abdu’l-Bahá, in
Messages: 1963-1986, pp. 52-53); the enactment of legislation and the conduct
of administrative affairs (Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh,
p. 153); and in relation to protecting and administering the Cause, solving
obscure questions and deciding upon matters that have caused difference.
(The Universal House of Justice, Messages: 1963-1986, p. 157.)
132	 Statements of Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá refer to the House of Justice
all matters that are not expressly or outwardly revealed. “It is incumbent
upon the Trustees of the House of Justice to take counsel together regarding
those things which have not outwardly been revealed in the Book, and to
enforce that which is agreeable to them,” Bahá’u’lláh states. “God will verily
inspire them with whatsoever He willeth, and He, verily, is the Provider, the
Omniscient.” (Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 68.) “Unto the Most Holy Book every
one must turn, and all that is not expressly recorded therein must be referred
to the Universal House of Justice.” (Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá,
p. 19.) As mentioned, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá goes beyond a reference to deliberate
on “matters that are not expressly recorded in the Book” to include “all
problems which have caused difference” and “questions that are obscure.”
(Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 20.) Finally, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá explicitly
states that the conclusions of the House of Justice are not mere opinions: “Let

Notes
|  257
it not be imagined that the House of Justice will take any decision according
to its own concepts and opinions.” (In Messages: 1963-1986, p. 85.)


Therefore, although the House of Justice is bound by the Revelation
and the authorized interpretation of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and Shoghi Effendi,
there is a kind of inverse relationship between the unity of thought of the
community about the meaning of the Text and the need for elucidations
of the House of Justice. When the meaning of the Book is obscure rather
than evident, when there is a need to determine how to apply the teachings
according to the time and circumstances, when differences arise among the
believers, the responsibility falls to the House of Justice to clarify or resolve
the matter or to explain what must be done. Its conclusions are as binding
as the Text itself.
133	 On behalf of the Universal House of Justice, Lights of Guidance, p. 311.
134	 The Universal House of Justice, Messages: 1963-1986, p. 157.
135	 Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 153. In another reference
to these administrative functions, the Guardian states: “Severed from the
no less essential institution of the Universal House of Justice this same
System of the Will of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá would be paralyzed in its action and
would be powerless to fill in those gaps which the Author of the Kitáb-i-
Aqdas has deliberately left in the body of His legislative and administrative
ordinances.” (The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 148.)
136	 On behalf of the Universal House of Justice, Lights of Guidance, p. 311.
137	 On behalf of the Universal House of Justice, message dated April 7, 2008.
138	 On behalf of the Universal House of Justice, message dated January 2,
1991.
139	 The Universal House of Justice, Constitution of the Universal House of
Justice, p. 4.
140	 Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration, p. 42.
141	 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 11.
142	 Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 89.
143	 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 14.
144	 Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 68.
145	 On behalf of Shoghi Effendi. Lights of Guidance, p. 111.
146	 Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration, p. 68.
147	 On behalf of Shoghi Effendi, Compilation of Compilations, vol. 1, p. 84.
148	 On behalf of Shoghi Effendi, Promoting Entry By Troops, p. 3.
149	 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 209.
150	 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 34.

|
Revelation & Social Reality
151	 See chapter 5 for a discussion of the dangers of fundamentalism and liberal-
ism, of foundationalism and relativism.
152	 The Universal House of Justice, Turning Point, p. 125.
153	 The Universal House of Justice, Turning Point, p. 144.
154	 Hubert and Stuart Dreyfus, in Bent Flyvbjerg, Making Social Science Matter:
Why Social Inquiry Fails and How It Can Succeed Again, pp.10-20.
155	 On behalf of Shoghi Effendi, Compilation of Compilations, vol. 1, pp. 230-31.
Chapter 3
The Universal House of Justice, Messages: 1963-1986, p. 301.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Tablets of the Divine Plan, pp. 5-6.
Shoghi Effendi, Citadel of Faith, p. 32. The first national plan, the Seven
Year Plan, was initiated by the Bahá’ís if the United States and Canada in
1937. For a summary of the nature and purpose of Plans up to 1993, see The
Spiritual Conquest of the Planet, by Melanie Smith and Paul Lample.
The Bahá’ís engaged in a range of practices, which the Guardian observed
and commented upon, until common, well-understood procedures
emerged and were universally adopted. See, for example, a letter written
by Shoghi Effendi dated May 27, 1927, (Bahá’í Administration, p. 136) and
a letter written on his behalf dated February 4, 1935 (Lights of Divine
Guidance, vol. 1, pp. 67-68) concerning the question of nominations, which
he gradually eliminated from the practice of the Western believers.
Shoghi Effendi, Messages to America, pp. 5-6.
Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 9.
Shoghi Effendi, Citadel of Faith, p. 76.
“. . . it has been found over the entire world that the most effective method
of teaching the Faith is the fireside meeting in the home. . . . This method
is far more effective than advertising in newspapers, public lectures etc.
The Guardian is encouraging the believers over the world, including those
on the home fronts, to engage in this method of teaching.” (On behalf of
Shoghi Effendi, Lights of Guidance, p. 247.)
On behalf of Shoghi Effendi, Dawn of a New Day, p. 76.
Shoghi Effendi, Citadel of Faith, p. 117.
“Premonitory signs can already be discerned in far-off regions heralding
the approach of the day when troops will flock to its standard, fulfilling the
predictions uttered long ago by the Supreme Captain of its forces.” (Shoghi
Effendi, Messages to the Bahá’í World, p. 101.) See also Messages to the Bahá’í
World, p. 113. The British protectorate, the Gilbert and Ellice Islands, have
since divided: the Gilbert Islands became the major part of Kiribati and the
Ellice Islands are now Tuvalu.

Notes
|  259
Bahá’í World Centre, The Six Year Plan 1986-1992: Summary of Achievements,
p. 20.
Bahá’í World Centre, Century of Light, p. 101.
The Universal House of Justice, Compilation of Compilations, vol. 3, p. 184.
The Universal House of Justice, Messages: 1963-1986, p. 301.
The Universal House of Justice, message dated March 22, 1973.
On behalf of the Universal House of Justice, message dated July 30, 1987.
The Universal House of Justice A Wider Horizon, p. 27.
The Universal House of Justice A Wider Horizon, p. 80.
20	 The Universal House of Justice, Turning Point, p. 50.
The Universal House of Justice, A Wider Horizon, p. 79.
Bahá’í World Centre, Century of Light, pp. 108, 110.
The Universal House of Justice, Turning Point, p. 31. A summary of the
guidance conveyed by the Universal House of Justice since 1996 is found
in Turning Point: Selected Messages of the Universal House of Justice and
Supplementary Materials, 1996-2006, by Palabra Publications.
The Universal House of Justice, Compilation of Compilations, vol. 3, p. 155.
The Universal House of Justice, Turning Point, p. 27.
The Universal House of Justice, Turning Point, p. 49.
The Universal House of Justice, Turning Point, pp. 7-8.
The Universal House of Justice, Turning Point, pp. 3-18, 21-82.
The Universal House of Justice, Turning Point, p. 120.
On behalf of the Universal House of Justice, Turning Point, p. 268.
The Universal House of Justice, Turning Point, p. 8.
The Universal House of Justice, Turning Point, p. 8.
The International Teaching Centre, Turning Point, pp. 350-51.
The Universal House of Justice, Turning Point, p. 190.
The Universal House of Justice, Turning Point, pp. 209-11.
The Ruhi Institute, Learning About Growth, p. 65.
The Ruhi Institute, Learning About Growth, pp. 9-10.
The Ruhi Institute, Learning About Growth, pp. 54-55.
For a more detailed exploration, see the notes from a series of talks given
by Farzam Arbab at the Portals to Growth Conference in Sydney and Perth,
Australia, 2004, especially day three. See also Learning About Growth by
the Ruhi Institute, Lectures on Bahá’í-inspired Curricula by Farzam Arbab,
and Exploring a Framework for Moral Education, by Lori Noguchi, Holly
Hansen, and Paul Lample.

|
Revelation & Social Reality
40	 See Learning About Growth, pp. 30-33, for a more detailed discussion.
The Ruhi Institute, Learning About Growth, p. 53.
Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, p. 141. “It is because of such considerations that the
Five Year Plan [1974-1979] calls for the friends to memorize selections from
the Writings.” (The Universal House of Justice, Compilation of Compilations,
vol. 2, p. 37.)
Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 200.
44	 Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 200.
The Ruhi Institute, Learning About Growth, pp. 50-51.
46	 At an early stage when nascent institutes or inexperienced tutors presented
Ruhi courses in an inflexible way, it appeared to some that the materials
called for an approach that is overly rigid and literal. Such, however, is
not the purpose for which the materials are designed or the procedures in
which tutors are to be trained, as is evident in a study of the tutor training
course Book 7, Walking Together on a Path of Service. Nor will such an
improper approach lead to effective results. Institutes taking this approach
will have to be guided over time and through experience to revise and
improve. This type of rigidity, however, should be considered in light of the
structured experience that is an initial requirement of learning any new
skill. As discussed in chapter 4 with regard to learning, the initial stage in
the acquisition of new skills tends to be rigid or mechanical in nature. The
aim, however, is to set the novice on a path to becoming a competent or
even expert performer that can apply new knowledge. Without experience
in learning about growth, whether its components or the whole process
of entry by troops, it is impossible to judge the value of what is being
presented about the results of learning from those that have already had
some degree of success. This means that the initial stages of applying the
guidance in the Four Year, the Twelve Month, or the first Five Year Plan
may have been alien to the practice of some national communities. Early
stages of implementation may be perceived to be unnecessarily rigid and
awkward. Rather than prematurely intervening to adapt or revise action as
a result of such comments, or concluding too early that the guidance “does
not apply to us,” it was necessary to persevere in the early attempts to apply
concepts and methods until a sufficient base of experience was accumulated
in order to learn how to fit them to local context. It is in this light that the
use of Ruhi materials was encouraged to complement initial activities to
learn how to pursue a more systematic approach to advancing the process
of entry by troops. Calling for the modification of materials or practices too
quickly is equally as harmful as mindless and rigid implementation.
The Ruhi Institute, Walking Together on a Path of Service, Book 7, pp.102-03.
The Ruhi Institute, Learning About Growth, p. 54.
49	 The Universal House of Justice, Turning Point, p. 4.

Notes
|  261
The Universal House of Justice, Turning Point, p. 142.
The Universal House of Justice, Turning Point, p. 167.
See Reflections on Growth #8, from the International Teaching Centre, July
The Universal House of Justice, Turning Point, pp. 204-05.
The International Teaching Centre, message to all Counsellors dated
November 28, 2004.
See Reflections on Growth #7, from the International Teaching Centre, April
The Universal House of Justice, Turning Point, p. 195.
The Universal House of Justice, Turning Point, p. 195.
The Universal House of Justice, Turning Point, p. 196
On behalf of the Universal House of Justice, message dated February 17,
2004.
60	 The Universal House of Justice, Turning Point, p. 260.
In 2006, a similar book was prepared entitled The Five Year Plan: A
Summary of Achievements and Learning.
The Universal House of Justice, The Five Year Plan, p. 75. These three docu-
ments are included in Turning Point, pp. 323-96.
The Universal House of Justice, Turning Point, p. 178.
64	 “Reflection meetings at the level of clusters have become a powerful means
of unifying thought and action across institutions and localities; they
have lent a potent stimulus to institutional and individual initiatives in a
mutually supportive spirit.” (The Universal House of Justice, Turning Point,
p. 184.) See issues 3 and 4 of the newsletter Reflections on Growth prepared
by the International Teaching Centre.
The Universal House of Justice, Turning Point, p. 205.
66	 The Universal House of Justice, Turning Point, p. 197.
From a report of an individual, December 2006.
68	 The Universal House of Justice, Turning Point, p. 8.
69	 The Universal House of Justice, Turning Point, p. 333.
70	 The Universal House of Justice, Turning Point, pp. 146.
The Universal House of Justice, Turning Point, p. 172.
The Universal House of Justice, Turning Point, p. 146.
The Universal House of Justice, Turning Point, pp. 203-04.
The Universal House of Justice, Turning Point, p. 204.
The Universal House of Justice, Turning Point, p. 206.
The Universal House of Justice, Turning Point, p. 198.

|
Revelation & Social Reality
The International Teaching Centre, message to all Counsellors dated
November 28, 2004.
The Universal House of Justice, Turning Point, p. 201. The importance of
focus was also emphasized by Shoghi Effendi early in his ministry: “Much
as I rejoice in witnessing the abundant signs of unfaltering energy that
characterize in various fields and distant lands the mission of the valiant
warriors of the Cause, I cannot help observing that, driven by their impetu-
ous eagerness to establish the undisputed reign of Bahá’u’lláh on this earth,
they may by an undue multiplication of their activities, and the consequent
dissipation of their forces, defeat the very purpose which animates them in
the pursuit of their glorious task. . . . Nothing short of the spirit of earnest
and sustained consultation with those whom we have prayerfully and of our
own accord placed in the forefront of those who are the custodians of the
priceless heritage bequeathed by Bahá’u’lláh; nothing less than persistent
and strenuous warfare against our own instincts and natural inclinations,
and heroic self-sacrifice in subordinating our own likings to the imperative
requirements of the Cause of God, can insure our undivided loyalty to so
sacred a principle—a principle that will for all time safeguard our beloved
Cause from the allurements and the trivialities of the world without, and
of the pitfalls of the self within. I entreat you, well-beloved brethren, to
resolve as you never have resolved before to pledge undying loyalty and
sleepless vigilance in upholding so essential a principle in the course of your
manifold activities, that yours may be the abiding satisfaction of having
done nothing that may tend in the least to impede the flow or obscure
the radiance of the rejuvenating spirit of the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh.” (Bahá’í
Administration, pp. 140-41.)
The Universal House of Justice, Turning Point, p. 120.
80	 The Universal House of Justice, Turning Point, p. 205.
The Universal House of Justice, Turning Point, p. 87.
The Universal House of Justice, Turning Point, p. 146.
See “Learning to Administer Growth” (Turning Point, pp. 299-310) and
“Impact of Growth on Administration Processes” (Turning Point, pp. 397-
405).
“As you continue to labor in your clusters, you will be drawn further and fur-
ther into the life of the society around you and will be challenged to extend
the process of systematic learning in which you are engaged to encompass a
growing range of human endeavors. In the approaches you take, the methods
you adopt, and the instruments you employ, you will need to achieve the
same degree of coherence that characterizes the pattern of growth presently
under way.” (The Universal House of Justice, Rid.ván 2008.)
On behalf of the Universal House of Justice, message dated July 9, 2003.
86	 The Universal House of Justice, Turning Point, pp. 199-200.

Notes
|  263
Shoghi Effendi indicated that it was the “bounden duty” of the individual
believer as “the faithful trustee of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Divine Plan, to initiate,
promote, and consolidate, within the limits fixed by the administrative
principles of the Faith, any activity he or she deems fit to undertake for
the furtherance of the Plan,” adding, emphatically, “Let him not wait for
any directions, or expect any special encouragement, from the elected
representatives of his community. . . .” (The Advent of Divine Justice, p. 50.)
The Guardian indicated that the “best Assembly is the one that capital-
izes the talents of all the members of the group and keeps them busy in
some form of active participation in serving the Cause and spreading the
Message.” (On behalf of Shoghi Effendi, Lights of Guidance, p. 37) He also
stated that “The members of these Assemblies, on their part, must disregard
utterly their own likes and dislikes, their personal interests and inclinations,
and concentrate their minds upon those measures that will conduce to the
welfare and happiness of the Bahá’í Community and promote the common
weal.” (Bahá’í Administration, p.41)
While, some believers were concerned about the implications of the changes
that took place in institutional structures and responsibilities over the
course of the Plans, it is important to recognize that these changes are not a
deviation from foundations laid by the Guardian, but a fuller realization of
his guidance. “Let us take heed lest in our great concern for the perfection
of the administrative machinery of the Cause, we lose sight of the Divine
Purpose for which it has been created,” Shoghi Effendi warns, which is
to serve “as direct instruments for the propagation of the Bahá’í Faith.”
(Bahá’í Administration, p. 103.) Bahá’í administration “is to be regarded as a
means, and not an end in itself,” and “the whole machinery of assemblies, of
committees and conventions” will “rise or fall according to their capacity to
further the interests, to coordinate the activities, to apply the principles, to
embody the ideals and execute the purpose of the Bahá’í Faith.” (The World
Order of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 9.) The Guardian also explains that “the machinery
of the Cause has been so fashioned, that whatever is deemed necessary
to incorporate into it in order to keep it in the forefront of all progressive
movements, can, according to the provisions made by Bahá’u’lláh, be safely
embodied therein,” while explicitly associating these modifications to Bahá’í
practice with the powers granted by Bahá’u’lláh to the Universal House of
Justice: “‘God will verily inspire them with whatsoever He willeth, and He,
verily, is the Provider, the Omniscient.’” (The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh,
pp. 22-23.)
90	 On behalf of the Universal House of Justice, message dated August 22, 2002.
See http://www.news.bahai.org/community-news/regional-conferences/

|
Revelation & Social Reality
Chapter 4
Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 206.
“. . . the task of breathing life into this unified body—of creating true unity
and spirituality culminating in the Most Great Peace—is that of the Bahá’ís,
who are laboring consciously, with detailed instructions and continuing
divine guidance, to erect the fabric of the Kingdom of God on earth, into
which they call their fellowmen, thus conferring upon them eternal life.
(The Universal House of Justice, Messages: 1963-1986, p. 127.)
Shoghi Effendi, The Promised Day is Come, pp. 411-12.
The Universal House of Justice, Messages: 1963-1986, p. 126.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Compilation of Compilations, vol. 2, p. 164.
The Universal House of Justice, Messages: 1963-1986, p. 107.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, previously untranslated tablet.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Secret of Divine Civilization, p. 3.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Secret of Divine Civilization, p. 39.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 50.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Paris Talks, p. 80-81.
“If it is not possible, therefore, for a family to educate all the children,
preference is to be accorded to daughters since, through educated moth-
ers, the benefits of knowledge can be most effectively and rapidly diffused
throughout society.” (‘Abdu’l-Bahá, in The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, p. 200.)
Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 51.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Compilation of Compilations, vol. 1, p. 253.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Compilation of Compilations, vol. 1, p. 6.
On behalf of Shoghi Effendi, Compilation of Compilations, vol. 1, p. 297.
Shoghi Effendi, Compilation of Compilations, vol. 2, p. 348.
The Universal House of Justice, Messages: 1963-1986, p. 669.
The Universal House of Justice, Messages: 1963-1986, p. 94.
20	 On behalf of Shoghi Effendi, Compilation of Compilations, vol. 1, p. 226.
On behalf of the Universal House of Justice, Messages: 1963-1986, p. 369.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Secret of Divine Civilization, pp. 107-08.
See for example “The Validity and Value of an Historical-Critical Approach
to the Revealed Works of Bahá’u’lláh,” by John S. Hatcher in Scripture
and Revelation, Bahá’í Studies Volume III, edited by Moojan Momen and
“Historical Methodology and the Development of Bahá’í Scholarship:
Toward Dispelling a False Dichotomy,” by Sholeh A. Quinn, Bahá’í Studies
Review, vol. 9, 1999/2000.

Notes
|  265
In this context, it is crucial for Bahá’ís who commit themselves to the study
and mastery of any field to keep in mind that a fundamental characteristic
of any discipline is that it provides a particular perspective on reality—it
does not describe reality itself. The level of abstraction incorporated in
a discipline can be forgotten by those experts who are totally immersed
within it. This can lead to strange errors when trying to apply the lessons
from the discipline back into the real world or when engaging the insights
of other disciplines. For a more detailed exploration of this problem, see
the discussion of “the fallacy of misplaced concreteness” in For the Common
Good by Herman Daly and John Cobb, which explores the abstractions
made in the field of economics and how the field has structured the
thinking of economists and their approaches to the problems of the world,
sometime blinding them to obvious truths.
John J. Carvalho IV, “Overview of the Structure of a Scientific Worldview,”
Zygon: Journal of Religion and Science, vol. 41, no. 1 March 2006, pp. 117-18.
Carvalho, “Overview of the Structure of a Scientific Worldview,” Zygon, pp.
122-23. A similar perspective on the relationship of science and religion is
presented by Mortimer J. Adler in the book Truth in Religion: “Mathematics
and science are necessarily only part of the whole truth—the truth that
we seek to learn about the world, about nature, society, and man. On that
assumption, philosophy and religion constitute additional portions or
segments of the whole of the truth to be attained. . . . [T]he principle of
the unity of truth entails the consequence that the several parts of the one
whole of the truth to be attained must coherently fit together. As we have
already seen, there cannot be irreconcilable contradictions between the
one segment of the whole of truth and another. What is regarded as true in
philosophy and religion must not conflict with what is regarded as true in
science.” (Adler, Truth in Religion: The Plurality of Religions and the Unity
of Truth, p. 122.)
Stephen Toulmin, Cosmopolis: The Hidden Agenda of Modernity, p. 144.
Similarly, Shoghi Effendi speaks of “the prevailing spirit of modernism,
with its emphasis on a purely materialistic philosophy, which, as it diffuses
itself, tends increasingly to divorce religion from man’s daily life.” (The
World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 183.)
The Universal House of Justice, message dated November 26, 2003 to the
Followers of Bahá’u’lláh in the Cradle of the Faith.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 107.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Paris Talks, pp. 130-31.
For a further consideration of the relationship between science and religion
from a Bahá’í perspective, see Farzam Arbab, The Lab, The Temple, and the
Market, pp. 149-51. See also the discussion of the problems of traditional

|
Revelation & Social Reality
religious and reductionistic scientific views by Nader Saiedi, in Gate of the
Heart: Understanding the Writings of the Báb, pp. 3-14.
The purpose of this approach is simply to draw out certain insights; it is
not intended to suggest that the table truly captures human comprehension
and the relationship between science and religion. A number of incorrect
implications may be suggested by the table: for example, that there is an
exact parallel between the workings of science and religion, or that there is
a complete distinction between theoretical and practical knowledge. Level
three representing understanding, and level four representing practice
could perhaps be more properly presented side by side (as 3a and 3b) rather
than hierarchically.
There is, of course, not an exact correlation between the universe and the
Revelation, or the “book of creation” and the book of Revelation. By the
“universe” is meant not just the physical world, but all that pertains to
the human beings, from the mind to society, that falls within the scope of
scientific investigation. While the Revelation comes from outside humanity,
the facts and laws of the physical universe, when we know them, are always
somehow “discovered” and represented in some form through human
understanding, which means there is a blurring of the distinction between
levels 2 and 3 in the area of science. Furthermore, while the laws of the
universe are fixed, the Revelation is immutable in relation to humanity
within the context of a dispensation, when the message is renewed and
adjusted in a new Revelation suited to a new age.
A question arises as to whether the Revealed Text (R2) makes any true
statements about the actual operation of the physical reality (S2) that are
not held in the current body of scientific knowledge (S3) or perhaps, which
even contradicts the currently held facts of physical reality. According to
‘Abdu’l-Bahá this is possible. However, such statements would only have
implications for religious understanding (R3). They are irrelevant for the
purposes of science until such time as the implications of the statements can
be encompassed within the body of scientific understanding. For example,
the statement from the Qur’án that “The sun moves in a fixed place” is
useless to scientists until such time as the knowledge system of science
with its appropriate methods for systematic observations and validation of
scientific knowledge are applied. Up to that point, a “belief” that the sun is
the center of the solar system is scientifically meaningless, as ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
points out when contrasting the positions of Pythagoras and Plato with that
of Copernicus and Galileo. The former “adopted the theory that the annual
movement of the sun around the zodiac does not proceed from the sun, but
rather from the movement of the earth around the sun” but “this theory
had been entirely forgotten.” The theory, without scientific evidence does
not stand. Yet, as a result of “new observations and important discoveries”
made “by the aid of the telescope” the “rotation of the earth, the fixity of the

Notes
|  267
sun, and also its movement around an axis, were discovered” and “it became
evident that the verses of the Qur’án agreed with existing facts, and that the
Ptolemaic system was imaginary.” (Some Answered Questions, pp. 23-24.)


Of course, the Text may serve as an inspiration to scientists who are
believers to take actions that lead to scientifically valid discoveries and
knowledge; after all, scientists have been inspired by a host of sources.
However, until encompassed within the body of scientific understanding
(S3) statements within the Revelation (R2) have no scientific validity. We
cannot know if our religious interpretation (R3) of that Text as having
scientific implications is correct without appropriate scientific inquiry. For
while ‘Abdu’l-Bahá exhorts us to weigh religious beliefs (R3) in the light of
our scientific knowledge (S3) the reverse is not suggested. In fact, the Text
(R2) upholds the scientific process (S3 and S4), as indicated by such state-
ments as ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s support for Copernicus. Bahá’u’lláh Himself makes
this point when, castigating the fanciful beliefs of a certain individual with
regard to alchemy and spiritual understanding, He proclaims: “We cherish
the hope that either a king or a man of preeminent power may call upon
him to translate this science from the realm of fancy to the domain of fact
and from the plane of mere pretension to that of actual achievement.” (The
Kitáb-i-Íqán, p. 189.)
“If the religious beliefs of mankind are contrary to science and opposed to
reason, they are none other than superstitions and without divine authority,
for the Lord God has endowed man with the faculty of reason in order
that through its exercise he may arrive at the verities of existence. Reason
is the discoverer of the realities of things, and that which conflicts with its
conclusions is the product of human fancy and imagination.” (‘Abdu’l-Bahá,
The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 316.)
“Weigh not the Book of God with such standards and sciences as are cur-
rent amongst you, for the Book itself is the unerring Balance established
amongst men.” (Bahá’u’lláh, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, p. 56.)
“Should a man try to fly with the wing of religion alone he would quickly
fall into the quagmire of superstition, whilst on the other hand, with the
wing of science alone he would also make no progress, but fall into the
despairing slough of materialism.” (‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Paris Talks, p. 143.)
Todd May, Our Practices, Our Selves: Or, What It Means to be Human, p. 8.
May, Our Practices, Our Selves, pp. 100-01.
40	 Moojan Momen, “Methodology in Bahá’í Studies,” The Bahá’í Studies
Review, vol. 10, 2001/2002, p. 80.
“In past dispensations many errors arose because the believers in God’s
Revelation were overanxious to encompass the Divine Message within the
framework of their limited understanding, to define doctrines where defini-
tion was beyond their power, to explain mysteries which only the wisdom

|
Revelation & Social Reality
and experience of a later age would make comprehensible, to argue that
something was true because it appeared desirable and necessary. Such com-
promises with essential truth, such intellectual pride, we must scrupulously
avoid.” (The Universal House of Justice, Messages: 1963-1986, p. 87.)


“With regard to the harmony of science and religion, the Writings
of the Central Figures and the commentaries of the Guardian make
abundantly clear that the task of humanity, including the Bahá’í community
that serves as the ‘leaven’ within it, is to create a global civilization which
embodies both the spiritual and material dimensions of existence. The
nature and scope of such a civilization are still beyond anything the present
generation can conceive. The prosecution of this vast enterprise will depend
on a progressive interaction between the truths and principles of religion
and the discoveries and insights of scientific inquiry. This entails living with
ambiguities as a natural and inescapable feature of the process of exploring
reality.” (On behalf of the Universal House of Justice, message dated May 19,
1995 to an individual.)


“Bahá’u’lláh has given certain teachings which Bahá’ís believe to be
true; they offer these teachings to the rest of mankind. Whosoever ac-
cepts them is a Bahá’í, but everyone is free to reject them. No one is ever
compelled to become a Bahá’í, nor is anyone compelled to remain a Bahá’í.
If one has accepted the Bahá’í Faith and later concludes that one has made
a mistake, one is free to withdraw, and no stigma is attached to such an ac-
tion. In all such things Bahá’ís uphold Bahá’u’lláh’s principle of independent
investigation of truth. (The Universal House of Justice, message dated
May 1, 1991 to an individual.)
A relativistic approach to practices is rejected. (See May, Our Practices,
Our Selves, pp. 125-35). Searle’s argument about truth and correspondence
to reality is also relevant. (The Construction of Social Reality, pp. 149-76.)
Searle affirms that “all true statements about the world can be consistently
affirmed together.” Thus, he rejects the perspective of conceptual relativism
that we can describe the world in different ways that may contradict one
another, and yet each of these perspectives is “true” in themselves. This
position assumes that the same statement could be true of the world in one
conceptual system but false in another. A standard example proposes the
different representations of Aristotelian physics vs. Newtonian physics or
the Mercator projection of the earth’s surface vs. a standard globe. On the
Mercator projection, Greenland is larger than Brazil, while on the globe,
Greenland is a smaller area than Brazil. This difference is not a result of
incommensurable realities, Searle explains, but results from the fact that
some models or representations are mistaken or distort reality more than
others. While we are “always confronted with the problems of vagueness,
indeterminacy, family resemblance, open texture, contextual dependency,
the incommensurability of theories, ambiguity, the idealization involved in
theory construction, alternative interpretations, the underdetermination of

Notes
|  269
theory by evidence, and all the rest of it,” nevertheless, “these are features of
our systems of representation, not of the representation-independent real-
ity.” Once statements from different representational systems are reconciled
with one another, if they cannot be consistently affirmed together, they
cannot all be true.
The Universal House of Justice, Messages: 1963-1986, p. 602.
44	 The Universal House of Justice, Messages: 1963-1986, p. 602.
A statement approved by the Universal House of Justice, “Bahá’í Social
and Economic Development: Prospects for the Future,” Readings on Bahá’í
Social and Economic Development, pp. 12-13.
46	 The Universal House of Justice, Messages: 1963-1986, p. 602.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Lights of Guidance, p. 303.
This reference was made in the context of a discussion about “the social,
humanitarian, educational and scientific pursuits centering around
the Dependencies of the Mashriqu’l-Adhkár.” (Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í
Administration, p. 186.)
49	 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, p. 93.
Shoghi Effendi, Compilation of Compilations, vol. 1, pp. 297-98.
The Universal House of Justice, Messages: 1963-1986, p. 602.
Office of Social and Economic Development, For the Betterment of the
World, p. 3.
A statement approved by the Universal House of Justice, “Bahá’í Social
and Economic Development: Prospects for the Future,” Readings on Bahá’í
Social and Economic Development, p. 17.
See Readings on Bahá’í Social and Economic Development for the first three
documents.
Examples of these projects at all level of complexity can be found in For
the Betterment of the World, in the Bahá’í World volumes, in One Country
newsletter and Web site www.onecountry.org and at the Bahá’í World Web
Site, www.bahai.org.
The Universal House of Justice, Readings on Bahá’í Social and Economic
Development, p. 94.
On behalf of the Universal House of Justice, message dated September 24,
1996.
On behalf of the Universal House of Justice, in “The Evolution of
Institutional Capacity for Social and Economic Development,” Readings on
Bahá’í Social and Economic Development, pp. 26-27.
The information on FUNDAEC provided here is drawn largely from a
1999 doctoral thesis by Manigeh Roosta entitled “Adult Learning and
Community Development: A Case Study of the FUNDAEC’s University

|
Revelation & Social Reality
Center for Rural Well-Being in Risaralda, Colombia.” Additional informa-
tion can be found at http://www.fundaec.org/en/ and http://www.bcca.org/
services/lists/noble-creation/fundaec1.html.
60	 Talk given by Haleh Arbab at the Colloquium on Science, Religion and
Development, November 21-24, 2000, India International Centre, New
Delhi, pp. 1-2.
Haleh Arbab, Colloquium on Science, Religion and Development, pp. 6-7, 8.
Haleh Arbab, Colloquium on Science, Religion and Development, pp. 7-8.
Farzam Arbab, The Lab, The Temple, and the Market, pp. 149-51.
64	 The Universal House of Justice, Readings on Bahá’í Social and Economic
Development, p. 92.
Office of Social and Economic Development, For the Betterment of the
World, p. 34.
66	 Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 171.
Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, pp. 96-97.
68	 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 97.
69	 Shoghi Effendi, Compilation of Compilations, vol. 2, p. 348.
70	 On behalf of the Universal House of Justice, Issues Related to the Study of
the Bahá’í Faith, p. 35.
On behalf of the Universal House of Justice, Compilation of Compilations,
vol. 3, p. 241.
On behalf of the Universal House of Justice, Issues Related to the Study of
the Bahá’í Faith, p. 25.
Bahá’u’lláh, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, p. 34. He also states: “O ye the dawning-
places of knowledge! Beware that ye suffer not yourselves to become
changed, for as ye change, most men will, likewise, change. This, verily, is
an injustice unto yourselves and unto others. Unto this beareth witness every
man of discernment and insight. Ye are even as a spring. If it be changed,
so will the streams that branch out from it be changed. Fear God, and be
numbered with the godly. In like manner, if the heart of man be corrupted,
his limbs will also be corrupted. And similarly, if the root of a tree be
corrupted, its branches, and its offshoots, and its leaves, and its fruits, will
be corrupted. Thus have We set forth similitudes for your instruction, that
perchance ye may not be debarred by the things ye possess from attaining
unto that which hath been destined for you by Him Who is the All-Glorious,
the Most Bountiful.” (The Summons of the Lord of Hosts, p. 21.)
Bahá’u’lláh, Compilation of Compilations, vol. 1, p. 3.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Secret of Divine Civilization, p. 34.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Secret of Divine Civilization, pp. 59-60.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Risáliy-i-Siyásíyyih, para. 60, provisional translation.

Notes
|  271
Flyvbjerg, Making Social Science Matter, p. 32. That is, according to
Flyvbjerg, the social sciences study “self-reflecting humans” not “physical
objects” and “must therefore take account of changes in the interpretations
of the objects of study.”
See chapter 5.
80	 Of course, the Bahá’í community must in turn, learn to respond to new
insights in a moderate way, avoiding extremes that lead either to easy
acceptance or hasty rejection. Both extremes can result in chaos and
disorder. The first seeks radical shifts in belief or practice based on partially
understood concepts that have not been adequately explored in relation
to the authoritative Text. The second is born of fanatical rejection of new
ideas that gives rise to anti-intellectualism, oppression and stagnation. As
a letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice has stated: “In
past Dispensations the believers have tended to divide into two mutually
antagonistic groups: those who held blindly to the letter of the Revelation,
and those who questioned and doubted everything. Like all extremes, both
of these can lead into error. . . . Bahá’ís are called upon to follow the Faith
with intelligence and understanding. Inevitably believers will commit errors
as they strive to rise to this degree of maturity, and this calls for forbearance
and humility on the part of all concerned, so that such matters do not cause
disunity or discord among the friends.” (Message dated October 7, 1980.)


Another such letter indicated: “The House of Justice agrees that it is
most important for the believers, and especially those who hold positions of
responsibility in the Administrative Order, to react calmly and with tolerant
and enquiring minds to views which differ from their own, remembering
that all Bahá’ís are but students of the Faith, ever striving to understand the
Teachings more clearly and to apply them more faithfully, and none can
claim to have a perfect understanding of this Revelation.” (Message dated,
July 18, 1979.)


It must also be observed that sometimes problems arise that are not
attributable to the original intent of an author. Ideas put forward to pursue
an academic line of thought can be misappropriated by others intent on
imposing a particular perspective on the wider community.
This is not an appeal for the “mission-oriented” scholarship dismissed by
Will van der Hoonen (“Unfreezing the Frame: the Promise of Inductive
Research in Bahá’í Studies,” The Bahá’í Studies Review, vol. 10, 2001/2002,
p. 113). It is recognition of the fact that the social sciences and humanities
can never be objective in the classical sense of the natural sciences. They
are bound in a web of interpretation and action, of justification, knowledge
and power, and should be practiced in a manner that is constructive in the
light of this reality. How to address this problem in a manner satisfactory
to both communities of practice is a challenge that must be resolved by
learned Bahá’ís.

|
Revelation & Social Reality
Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, p. 196.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, pp. 70-72.
Chapter 5
Nicholas C. Burbules, “Postmodern Doubt and Philosophy of Education,”
The Philosophy of Education, 1995, pp. 40-41.
The effort includes, for some, making a new place for the contribution
of religion to society. See Hunter Baker, “Competing Orthodoxies in the
Public Square: Postmodernism’s Effect on Church-State Separation,” in
Journal of Law and Religion, vol. 20, n. 1, 2004-05, pp. 97-121.
Summarized from Moojan Momen, “Fundamentalism and Liberalism:
Towards an Understanding of the Dichotomy,” The Bahá’í Studies Review,
vol. 2.1, 1992.
Shoghi Effendi, Dawn of a New Day, p. 61.
On behalf of Shoghi Effendi, Compilation of Compilations, vol. 2, p. 21. A
letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice further explains:
“. . . the House of Justice has noted your understandable repugnance at an
apparent temptation to use misleading and invidious labels like ‘traditional-
ists’ and ‘liberals’, which divide the Bahá’í community. To the extent that this
divisive habit of mind may persist in the Bahá’í community, it is obviously
a carry-over from non-Bahá’í society and a manifestation of an immature
conception of life. If Bahá’ís were to persist in this mode of thinking, it
would bring to naught even the most worthwhile intellectual endeavor as
has so conspicuously been the case with societies of the past.” (Issues Related
to the Study of the Bahá’í Faith, pp. 17-18.)
Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 138.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Bahá’í Prayers, pp. 300-01.
“The most striking feature of contemporary moral utterance is that so much
of it is used to express disagreements; and the most striking feature of the
debates in which these disagreements are expressed is their interminable
character. I do not mean by this just that such debates go on and on and
on—although they do—but also that they apparently find no terminus.
There seems to be no rational way of securing moral agreement in our
culture.” (Alasdair MacIntyre, After Virtue: A Study in Moral Theory, p. 6.)
On behalf of Shoghi Effendi, Dawn of a New Day, p. 129.
Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration, pp. 63-64.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 144.
Richard J. Bernstein, Beyond Objectivism and Relativism: Science,
Hermeneutics, and Praxis, p. 8.

Notes
|  273
Among these are foundationalism and positivism. For the purposes of
this book, foundationalism and objectivism are considered to be the same.
Bernstein explains: “Objectivism is closely related to foundationalism and
the search for an Archimedean point. The objectivist maintains that unless
we can ground philosophy, knowledge, or language in a rigorous manner we
cannot avoid radical skepticism.” (Beyond Objectivism and Relativism, p. 8.)
Bernstein, Beyond Objectivism and Relativism, pp. 8-9. In light of these
definitions, Bernstein notes that the opposite of objectivism is, actually,
subjectivism—that all human knowledge is grounded in personal or sub-
jective experience. The opposite of relativism is absolutism—that one can
have certain and complete knowledge of the external reality. He observes,
however, that both subjectivism and absolutism have been completely dis-
credited. The arguments against these positions, which will not be covered
here, imply that the voices of objectivism and relativism must therefore
be qualified: a fallibilistic objectivism and a non-subjective relativism. It
should also be understood that extreme relativism is self-contradictory: to
claim that a relativist position is true, conflicts with the position itself that
truth is relative. So relativism itself may be true and false. Indeed, it seems
as if relativism is not a true position in itself, but rather the alternative to the
effort to vindicate a fixed basis of knowledge; it is, as Bernstein contends,
the specter that haunts the failure of objectivism.
Bernstein, Beyond Objectivism and Relativism, p. 9.
Bernstein, Beyond Objectivism and Relativism, p. 18. In subsequent writings
Bernstein refers to this as the “anxiety of relativism” or the “incommensu-
rability anxiety.” See Bernstein, “Can We Justify Universal Moral Norms?”
in Universalism vs. Relativism: Making Moral Judgments in a Changing,
Pluralistic, and Threatening World, p. 5.
According to Bernstein, phronēsis is “a form of reasoning that is concerned
with choice and involves deliberation. It deals with that which is variable and
about which there can be differing opinions. It is a type of reasoning in which
there is a mediation between general principles and a concrete particular
situation that requires choice and decision. In forming such a judgment
there are no determinate technical rules by which a particular can simply
be subsumed under that which is general or universal. What is required is
an interpretation and specification of universals that are appropriate to this
particular situation. . . .” (Beyond Objectivism and Relativism, p. 54.)
Physicist David Bohm makes a similar point: “Thus, in scientific research, a
great deal of our thinking is in terms of theories. The word “theory” derives
from the Greek “theoria,” which has the same root as the “theatre,” in a word
meaning “to view” or “to make a spectacle.” Thus, it might be said that a
theory is primarily a form of insight, i.e. a way of looking at the world, and
not a form of knowledge of how the world is. . . .

|
Revelation & Social Reality


“The Newtonian form of insight worked very well for several centuries
but ultimately (like the ancient Greek insights that came before) it led to un-
clear results when extended into new domains. In these new domains, new
forms of insight were developed (the theory of relativity and the quantum
theory). These gave a radically different picture of the world from that of
Newton (though the latter was, of course, found to be still valid in a limited
domain). If we supposed that theories gave true knowledge, corresponding
to ‘reality as it is’, then we would have to conclude that Newtonian theory
was true until around 1900, after which it suddenly became false, while
relativity and quantum theory suddenly became the truth. Such an absurd
conclusion does not arise, however, if we say that all theories are insights,
which are neither true nor false but, rather, clear in certain domains, and
unclear when extended beyond these domains. . . .


“. . . In this activity, there is evidently no reason to suppose that there
is or will be a final form of insight (corresponding to absolute truth) or
even a steady series of approximations to this. Rather, in the nature of the
case, one may expect the unending development of new forms of insight
(which will, however, assimilate certain key features of the older forms
as simplifications, in the way that relativity theory does with Newtonian
theory). As pointed out earlier, however, this means that our theories are
to be regarded primarily as ways of looking at the world as a whole (i.e.
world views) rather than ‘as absolutely true knowledge of how things are’
(or as a steady approach toward the latter).” (David Bohm, Wholeness and
the Implicate Order, pp. 4-6.)
Charles Sanders Peirce, in Bernstein, Beyond Objectivism and Relativism,
p. 224.
20	 There is a range of views that may be considered “nonfoundational.” The
term “nonfoundationalism” is used with some differences of meaning in
philosophy and theology. The introduction of this concept is not intended
to equate a Bahá’í perspective on knowledge with any of these particular
approaches, but to point to an alternative to foundationalist and relativist
views that may have more in common with the Bahá’í teachings. The use
of this term is not intended in the sense of “anti-foundationalism” which
is synonymous with relativism. It is also, most definitely, not intended to
equate a Bahá’í approach to knowledge with a type of theological argument
that uses nonfoundationalism to shelter religious beliefs from rational
inquiry; in light of the argument presented in this book, such an approach
would be considered relativism not nonfoundationalism.
Ernest Sosa, “The Raft and the Pyramid,” in Epistemology: An Anthology,
p. 136.
Bahá’u’lláh, The Importance of Obligatory Prayer and Fasting, p. 6.
Bahá’u’lláh makes it clear that one purpose of His Revelation is to eliminate
religious fanaticism. “Gird up the loins of your endeavor, O people of Bahá,

Notes
|  275
that haply the tumult of religious dissension and strife that agitateth the
peoples of the earth may be stilled, that every trace of it may be completely
obliterated. For the love of God, and them that serve Him, arise to aid this
sublime and momentous Revelation. Religious fanaticism and hatred are a
world-devouring fire, whose violence none can quench. The Hand of Divine
power can, alone, deliver mankind from this desolating affliction.” (Epistle
to the Son of the Wolf, p. 14.)
Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration, p. 42.
On behalf of Shoghi Effendi, message dated July 5, 1947, cited in “Issues
Concerning Community Functioning,” a memorandum prepared by the
Research Department at the Bahá’í World Centre at the request of the
Universal House of Justice, February 1993.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 220.
“Consequently, it has become evident that the four criteria or standards of
judgment by which the human mind reaches its conclusions are faulty and
inaccurate. All of them are liable to mistake and error in conclusions. But a
statement presented to the mind accompanied by proofs which the senses
can perceive to be correct, which the faculty of reason can accept, which is
in accord with traditional authority and sanctioned by the promptings of
the heart, can be adjudged and relied upon as perfectly correct, for it has
been proved and tested by all the standards of judgment and found to be
complete. When we apply but one test, there are possibilities of mistake.
This is self-evident and manifest.” (‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation of
Universal Peace, p. 255.)
Luke 6:48
Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 168.
Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, pp. 163, 164-165.
See, for example, the article by Moojan Momen, “Relativism: A Basis for
Bahá’í Metaphysics,” Studies in Honor of the Late Hasan M. Balyuzi: Studies
in the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions, vol. 5, pp. 185-218.
Bahá’u’lláh, The Tabernacle of Unity, p. 10.
Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 184.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 173.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 22.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 298.
On behalf of Shoghi Effendi, Lights of Guidance, p. 475.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Paris Talks, p. 128.
On behalf of Shoghi Effendi, Lights of Guidance, p. 565.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Paris Talks, p. 129.
40	 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 301.

|
Revelation & Social Reality
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 88.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Paris Talks, p. 53.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, pp. 291.
44	 The concept of “tradition” raised here must, of course, be distinguished
from ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s use of the term to criticize the inert form of religion
plagued by dogma, superstition and prejudice which stands as an obstacle
to the investigation of truth.
Shoghi Effendi, Citadel of Faith, p. 117.
46	 Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration, p. 90.
On behalf of Shoghi Effendi, A Special Measure of Love, pp. 20-21.
Hans-Georg Gadamer, Truth and Method, p. 298.
49	 Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration, p. 62.
Bahá’u’lláh, Compilation of Compilations, vol. 1, p. 93.
Bahá’u’lláh, Compilation of Compilations, p. 93.
Bahá’u’lláh, Compilation of Compilations, p. 97. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá observes: “The
principle of consultation is one of the most fundamental elements of the
divine edifice.” (Compilation of Compilations, vol. 1, p. 97.)
The relationship between the Revelation, community, and meaning
may be an important reason for the mission of the Báb, which could be
understood—at least in part—as raising up a community of people that had
a capacity to hear what Bahá’u’lláh had to say.
Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, pp. 244-45.
On behalf of the Universal House of Justice, message dated October 20, 1977
to an individual believer.
Shoghi Effendi, Citadel of Faith, p. 21.
“The problems of society which affect our community and those problems
which naturally arise from within the community itself, whether social,
spiritual, economic or administrative, will be solved as our numbers and
resources multiply, and as at all levels of the community the friends develop
the ability, willingness, courage and determination to obey the laws, apply
the principles and administer the affairs of the Faith in accordance with
divine precepts.” (The Universal House of Justice, Rid.ván 1993.)
The Universal House of Justice, Messages: 1963-1986, p. 160.
Chapter 6
Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, p. 288.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Paris Talks, p. 179.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 20.

Notes
|  277
Jürgen Habermas, in Flyvbjerg, Making Social Science Matter, p. 90.
Anthony Giddens, New Rules of Sociological Method, pp. 128-29.
Michael Foucault, in Flyvbjerg, Making Social Science Matter, p. 117.
Foucault, in Flyvbjerg, Making Social Science Matter, pp. 120-21.
“We should admit that power produces knowledge . . . that power and
knowledge directly imply one another; that there is no power relation without
the correlative constitutions of a field of knowledge, nor any knowledge that
does not presuppose and constitute at the same time power relations. . . .”
(Foucault, “What is Enlightenment,” The Foucault Reader, p. 46.)
Foucault, in Michael Kelly, Critique and Power: Recasting the Foucault/
Habermas Debate, p. 22.
See Huston Smith, Beyond the Postmodern Mind: The Place of Meaning in a
Global Civilization, pp. 11-12. “Instead of ‘these are the compelling reasons,
grounded in the nature of things, why you should believe in God,’ the
approach of the Church to the world today tends to be, ‘This community
of faith invites you to share in its venture of trust and commitment.’ The
stance is most evident in Protestant and Orthodox Christianity and
Judaism, but even Roman Catholic thought, notwithstanding the powerful
rationalism it took over from the Greeks, has not remained untouched by
the Postmodern perspective. It has become more attentive to the extent
to which personal and subjective factors provide the disposition to faith
without which theological arguments prove nothing. . . . By including God
within a closed system of rational explanation, modernism lost sight of the
endless qualitative distinction between God and man. Postmodern theol-
ogy has reinstated this distinction with great force. If God exists, the fact
that our minds cannot begin to comprehend his nature makes it necessary
for us to acknowledge that he is Wholly Other.”
See Kelly, Critique and Power: Recasting the Foucault/Habermas Debate, p.
366. See also Richard Rorty, Contingency, Irony, and Solidarity, p. 45: “The
difference between a search for foundations and an attempt at redescription
is emblematic of the difference between the culture of liberalism and older
forms of cultural life. For in its ideal form, the culture of liberalism would
be one which was enlightened, secular, through and through. It would be
one in which no trace of divinity remained, either in the form of a divinized
world or a divinized self. Such a culture would have no room for the notion
that there are nonhuman forces to which human beings should be respon-
sible. It would drop, or drastically reinterpret, not only the idea of holiness
but those of ‘devotion to truth and of fulfillment of the deepest needs of
the spirit.’ The process of de-divinization which I have described . . . would,
ideally, culminate in our no longer being able to see any use for the notion
that finite, mortal, contingently existing human beings might derive the
meanings of their lives from anything except other finite, contingently

|
Revelation & Social Reality
existing human beings. In such a culture, warnings of ‘relativism,’ queries
whether social institutions had become increasingly ‘rational’ in modern
times, and doubts about whether the aims of liberal society were ‘objective
moral values’ would seem merely quaint.”
See Michael Kelly, Critique and Power: Recasting the Foucault/Habermas
Debate. Also Bent Flyvberg, “Habermas and Foucault: Thinkers for Civil
Society?” British Journal of Sociology, vol. 49, no. 2, June 1998.
“Its teachings revolve around the fundamental principle that religious truth
is not absolute but relative, that Divine Revelation is progressive, not final.”
(Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 58.) In a philosophical
sense, Shoghi Effendi’s use of the term “relative” in this context is more
closely related to nonfoundationalism than to relativism. Religious truth
is relative to time and context across dispensations; it is not relative to the
persons or groups holding them (relativistic and incommensurable).
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Secret of Divine Civilization, pp. 27-29.
Bahá’u’lláh, The Tabernacle of Unity, pp. 35-37.
Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 51. This, as ‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains, is
a statement of the “Most Great Infallibility.” (Some Answered Questions,
p. 171.) Whatever the Manifestation of God does, is proper and cannot be
questioned by humanity; it represents the will and purpose of God.
Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 108.
Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 109.
Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, p. 213.
20	 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, p. 96.
Bahá’u’lláh, The Hidden Words, p. 19.
On behalf of the Universal House of Justice, Messages: 1963-1986, p. 518.
The Universal House of Justice, Compilation of Compilations, vol. 1, p. 47.
Bahá’u’lláh, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, p. 21.
Shoghi Effendi, The Advent of Divine Justice, p. 20.
The Universal House of Justice, Turning Point, p. 42.
Bahá’u’lláh, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, p. 7.
On behalf of Shoghi Effendi, Lights of Guidance, p. 2.
On behalf of the Universal House of Justice, Issues Related to the Study of
the Bahá’í Faith, p. 27.
Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration, p. 64.
On behalf of Shoghi Effendi, Compilation of Compilations, vol. 1, p. 405.
On behalf of Shoghi Effendi, Lights of Guidance, p. 70.
The Universal House of Justice, message dated July 21, 1968 to a National
Assembly

Notes
|  279
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, pp. 268-69.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 279.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Secret of Divine Civilization, pp. 103-104.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 302.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 305.
Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, p. 200.
40	 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá,
p. 136.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 132.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, in a message written on behalf of the Universal House of
Justice dated February 8, 1998.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 131.
44	 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 293.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Paris Talks, p. 175.
46	 Bahá’u’lláh, The Summons of the Lord of Hosts, p. 213.
On behalf of the Universal House of Justice, Compilation of Compilations,
vol. 1, p. 111.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 208.
49	 Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 243.
On behalf of the Universal House of Justice, message dated February 20,
1977.
On behalf of the Universal House of Justice, message dated September 11,
1995. Sanctions, which involve restrictions of the privileges of membership,
are to be applied only when “conduct is blatant and flagrant or is harmful to
the name of the Faith” and only after “the believer has been given sufficient
warning before the imposition of sanctions.” (On behalf of the Universal
House of Justice, message of February 20, 1977.) Of course, the action by
the institutions to sanction individuals in any way is directed toward those
individuals who have already professed, in becoming believers, their will-
ingness to embrace the Bahá’í standard, including the laws and principles
which they have consciously violated. Any individual is free to leave the
Bahá’í community if they do not accept the standards of membership pre-
sented in the Bahá’í teachings. So, too, the institutions may not recognize as
members, those who consciously reject aspects of the teachings, in keeping
with the statement written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi’s that “allegiance
to the Faith cannot be partial and half-hearted.” “Either we should accept
the Cause without any qualification whatsoever or cease calling ourselves
Bahá’ís. The new believers should be made to realize that it is not sufficient
for them to accept some aspects of the teachings and reject those which
cannot suit their mentality in order to become fully recognized and active

|
Revelation & Social Reality
followers of the Faith. In this way all sorts of misunderstandings will vanish
and the organic unity of the Cause will be preserved.” (On behalf of Shoghi
Effendi, Lights of Guidance, p. 69.)
Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration, p. 63.
Shoghi Effendi, Citadel of Faith, p. 148.
Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 9.
Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration, p. 109.
The Universal House of Justice, Rights and Responsibilities, p. 41.
For example, a letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi states: “With
reference to the absolute pacifists, or conscientious objectors of war; their
attitude, judged from the Bahá’í standpoint, is quite anti-social and due to
its exaltation of the individual conscience leads inevitably to disorder and
chaos in society. Extreme pacifists are thus very close to the anarchists, in
the sense that both of these groups lay an undue emphasis on the rights and
merits of the individual. The Bahá’í conception of social life is essentially
based on the subordination of the individual will to that of society. It nei-
ther suppresses the individual nor does it exalt him to the point of making
him an anti-social creature, a menace to society. As in everything, it follows
the ‘golden mean.’ The only way that society can function is for the minority
to follow the will of the majority.” (Lights of Guidance, p. 407.)
On behalf of Shoghi Effendi, Compilation of Compilations, vol. 1, p. 452.
“Among the most outstanding and sacred duties incumbent upon those
who have been called upon to initiate, direct and coordinate the affairs
of the Cause of God as members of its Spiritual Assemblies are: to win by
every means in their power the confidence and affection of those whom it
is their privilege to serve; to investigate and acquaint themselves with the
considered views, the prevailing sentiments and the personal convictions
of those whose welfare it is their solemn obligation to promote; to purge
their deliberations and the general conduct of their affairs of self-contained
aloofness, the suspicion of secrecy, the stifling atmosphere of dictatorial
assertiveness and of every word and deed that may savor of partiality, self-
centeredness and prejudice; and while retaining the sacred right of final
decision in their hands, to invite discussion, ventilate grievances, welcome
advice and foster the sense of interdependence and co-partnership, of
understanding and mutual confidence between themselves and all other
Bahá’ís.” (The Universal House of Justice, The Constitution of the Universal
House of Justice, Article IV.)
60	 The Universal House of Justice, Rights and Responsibilities, p. 16.
‘Abdu’l‑Bahá offers a number of warnings about those who spread dissent
in pursuit of their own aims. For example: “Now some of the mischief-
makers, with many stratagems, are seeking leadership, and in order to reach
this position they instill doubts among the friends that they may cause

Notes
|  281
differences, and that these differences may result in their drawing a party
to themselves. But the friends of God must be awake and must know that
the scattering of these doubts hath as its motive personal desires and the
achievement of leadership. Do not disrupt Bahá’í unity, and know that this
unity cannot be maintained save through faith in the Covenant of God.”
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, pp. 214-15.)
Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, pp. 22-23.
On behalf of the Universal House of Justice, message dated August 22, 2002.
Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, p. 92.
64	 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, p. 220.
May, Our Practices, Our Selves, pp. 100-01.
66	 May, Our Practices, Our Selves, p. 175.
May, Our Practices, Our Selves, p. 177.
68	 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, pp. 238-39.
69	 On behalf of the Universal House of Justice, Messages: 1963-1986, p. 369.
70	 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 256.
Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, p. 95.
“The Revelation, of which Bahá’u’lláh is the source and center, abrogates
none of the religions that have preceded it, nor does it attempt, in the slight-
est degree, to distort their features or to belittle their value. It disclaims any
intention of dwarfing any of the Prophets of the past, or of whittling down
the eternal verity of their teachings. It can, in no wise, conflict with the spirit
that animates their claims, nor does it seek to undermine the basis of any
man’s allegiance to their cause. Its declared, its primary purpose is to enable
every adherent of these Faiths to obtain a fuller understanding of the religion
with which he stands identified, and to acquire a clearer apprehension of its
purpose.” (Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 57.)
Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, p. 255.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 65.
The concept of religious pluralism can be distinguished from religious
relativism. What is argued against here is the idea that different religions
exist side by side because their teachings are completely subjective and
incomparable, or because they do not make truth claims that can be
contrasted and evaluated. Such a perspective may be more accurately
described as religious relativism rather than religious pluralism. It is quite
a different idea to acknowledge the practical expression of pluralism among
religions that results from historical circumstances, tolerance, and the right
of individuals to independently investigate truth.
Bahá’u’lláh states: “The summons and the message which We gave were
never intended to reach or to benefit one land or one people only. Mankind

|
Revelation & Social Reality
in its entirety must firmly adhere to whatsoever hath been revealed and
vouchsafed unto it.” (Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 96.)


And He directly appeals to the members of all religious communities:
“O followers of all religions! We behold you wandering distraught in the
wilderness of error. Ye are the fish of this Ocean; wherefore do ye withhold
yourselves from that which sustaineth you? Lo, it surgeth before your faces.
Hasten unto it from every clime.” (The Summons of the Lord of Hosts, p. 59.)
The Universal House of Justice, message dated October 24, 1990.
“. . . great Plan of God, tumultuous in its progress, [is] working through
mankind as a whole, tearing down barriers to world unity and forging
humankind into a unified body in the fires of suffering and experience.
This process will produce in God’s due time, the Lesser Peace, the political
unification of the world.” (On behalf of the Universal House of Justice,
Messages: 1963-1986, p. 333.) “As to the Lesser Peace, Shoghi Effendi has
explained that this will initially be a political unity arrived at by decision
of the governments of various nations; it will not be established by direct
action of the Bahá’í community.” (On behalf of the Universal House of
Justice, Messages: 1963-1986, p. 656.) And a letter written on behalf of the
House of Justice explains: “…although Bahá’ís believe that the Teachings
and Order of Bahá’u’lláh are the solution to the current problems of
mankind, they abstain completely from ever attempting to put them into
effect through political action. Only if people voluntarily accept them and
submit themselves freely to this Order will it be implemented in the world.
Bahá’ís should never attempt to impose their belief on anyone.” (Message
dated May 1, 1991.)


Bahá’í efforts are instead illustrated by the following statement written
on behalf of Shoghi Effendi: “War is really nothing more but the result
of existing forces. Should we desire to end that devastating consequence
we should go back to the basic causes and remedy those evils. We should
eliminate the hatreds, national bigotry, mistrust and self-aggrandizement as
well as economic, social and religious differences which now prevail in the
world if we desire to establish an abiding peace. And nothing can achieve
this save the Teachings of Bahá’u’lláh, for they change the human heart and
also prescribe definite precepts that would render our social environment
healthy and peaceful.” (Lights of Guidance, p. 418.)
On behalf of the Universal House of Justice, Messages: 1963-1986, p. 333.
80	 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Tablets of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, vol. 1, p. 39. Commenting on this pas-
sage in Making the Crooked Straight, chapter 6, “Bahá’í Political Thought,”
Ulrich Gollmer suggests that “When the scripture states that Bahá’ís should
not engage in politics, it is this type of political activity that is meant.” See
also, in this regard, the thoughtful comments of Arash Abizadeh in “Politics
Beyond War: Ulrich Gollmer’s Contribution to Bahá’í Political Thought,”
World Order, 2004, vol. 35, no. 3, pp. 19-23. Another contribution along

Notes
|  283
these lines is made by Michael Karlberg, in the book, Beyond the Contest
of Culture, and in the articles, “Western Liberal Democracy as New World
Order?” published in The Bahá’í World: 2005-2006, pp. 133-56 and “The
Power of Discourse and the Discourse of Power,” International Journal of
Peace Studies, 10:1, 2005.
See Roshan Danesh in “The Politics of Delay: Social Meanings and the
Historical Treatment of Bahá’í Law,” World Order, 2004, vol. 35, no. 3, pp.
33-45.
Fairfield, The Ways of Power, pp. 155-57.
Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, p. 315.
Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 71.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 24.
86	 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, pp. 1-2.
The Universal House of Justice, message dated April 4, 2001.
If, as Bahá’ís certainly believe, Bahá’u’lláh’s Revelation is from God, then
the search for truth will only strengthen certitude, it will not weaken it.
Understanding Bahá’u’lláh’s Revelation and translating the teachings into
action is determined by searching for truth, not by avoiding a search for
truth. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains: “In order to find truth we must give up our
prejudices, our own small trivial notions; an open receptive mind is es-
sential. If our chalice is full of self, there is no room in it for the water of life.
The fact that we imagine ourselves to be right and everybody else wrong is
the greatest of all obstacles in the path towards unity, and unity is necessary
if we would reach truth, for truth is one. . . .‘Seek the truth, the truth shall
make you free.’ So shall we see the truth in all religions, for truth is in all
and truth is one!” (Paris Talks, p. 136.)
Toulmin, Cosmopolis, p. 139. This is the title of his fourth chapter.
90	 Toulmin, Cosmopolis, pp. 200-01. Toulmin argues that modernity began
with the Renaissance and that the Enlightenment was a reaction to the
social chaos that came from the failure of humanist ideals after the as-
sassination of King Henri IV of France (Henry of Navarre). Thus, for
Toulmin the first phase of modernity is from the 1500s to the start of the
Enlightenment, the second phase stretches from the Enlightenment to the
20th century, and the new “third phase” begins with the questions raised
by postmodernism.
Toulmin, Cosmopolis, p. 175.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 439.
Bahá’u’lláh, Prayers and Meditations, p. 295.
94	 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, p. 313.

Index
A
‘Abdu’l-Bahá 17, 32, 33, 38, 40, 43, 44,
68, 113, 130, 148, 174, 181, 185, 187,
188, 242, 243
authorized interpreter of
Bahá’u’lláh’s writings 33, 243
infallibility 54
superhuman knowledge 44
Will and Testament 26, 55, 242
absolutism 45, 273
action 25, 60, 62, 84, 104, 112, 123, 129,
131, 136, 137, 142, 161, 164, 166, 184,
185, 186, 186–89, 189, 192, 228
and reflection 25, 60, 79, 81, 102,
104–5, 107, 129, 135, 136, 137,
139, 154
shapes reality 47
unity in diversity of actions 72
ambiguity 26, 27, 37, 45, 46, 123, 126,
154, 187, 206, 222, 229
Arbab, Farzam 144
Arbab, Haleh 136, 139, 142
area growth programs 86, 98
Area Teaching Committees 103
Aristotle 172
arts and sciences 6, 113, 149
Attaining the Dynamics of Growth 104
Auxiliary Boards 75, 92, 103
B
Bahá’í administration 24, 27, 29, 49,
68–70, 75–84, 102–3, 104–5, 106–7,
169, 206–7, 213–15, 216–17, 263
exercise of power 213–15
Bahá’í community 4–5, 14, 15, 23,
26–28, 29–65, 58–59, 67–108,
154–57, 161, 166–67, 181–89, 192–94,
198, 212–18
change in culture 104–8, 181–83
contributing to the advancement
of civilization 59, 62, 109–57,
129, 136, 154–57
culture of learning 57–58, 60–61,
91, 104–5, 154
individuals’ role in progress
64–65
involvement with society 57,
114–15, 116–28, 221–29
liberalism and fundamentalism
166–70, 174
nature of intellectual activity
148–54
need for stability in patterns of
development 61, 71, 105
organic development 26, 27, 41,
49, 50, 60, 182–83, 188, 218
reconciling with other
communities of practice
125–27, 222–23
resists labels and division 166–67
role of the learned 151–52
social action 133, 135, 138, 224.
See also social and economic
development
tolerance toward external ideas
45, 127–29

|
Revelation & Social Reality
youth and jr. youth 13–14, 101–2,
Bahá’í practice 10–46, 29–65, 30, 48,
58–60, 64, 161, 170, 220
evolution 127
still in formative stages 127, 154
Bahá’í International Community 131,
146, 147–48
“Bahá’í Social and Economic
Development: Prospects for the
Future” 131
Bahá’í teachings
authoritative interpretation
31–36, 39
cannot be fully comprehended
34, 207
contain no contradictions 38,
40, 242
explicit v. veiled meaning 38–39
flexibility in applying 204
have intended meaning 37, 151,
hermeneutical principles 36–46,
individual interpretation 32,
33–36, 46, 51, 174, 180, 188
attachment to 36
lacks authority 35, 51
made from the perspective of
Revelation 37
must be weighed against
science and reason 41–42
not all equally valid 39
intended for all humanity 224
meaning cannot be exhausted 39,
183–222
meaning unfolds progressively
39–41
nature of truth 178
obedience 179, 204–5
over analysis 45
range of interpretations 44–45
should not be imposed 206
transcend foundationalism and
relativism 175
transcend liberalism and
fundamentalism 166
translating into reality 59, 109,
154, 164, 186–89, 203–4, 206
understanding history and
context 42–46
understanding not dependent on
human learning 34, 35
use of metaphors 38, 41–42, 46
Bahá’í World Centre 57, 92, 93, 94,
131, 146
Bahá’u’lláh vi, 3, 7, 13, 31, 32, 35, 40, 43,
47, 109, 119, 128, 148, 149, 154, 170,
174, 177, 181, 183, 189, 203
and modern thought vi, 119, 239
Bernstein, Richard J. 170–72, 273
Beyond Objectivism and Relativism
the Bible 9, 11, 39
Bohm, David 137, 273–74
“Building Momentum” 93
Burbules, Nicholas C. 162
C
Carvalho, John J. 117
centers of authority 31, 240
Century of Light 70, 73
charity 129, 130
children’s classes 86, 87, 88, 97, 101,
Christianity 118, 223
civilization 7, 10, 36, 210
Bahá’í vision 109–10, 110, 128,
204, 208
divine 10, 11, 113, 210, 228
ever-advancing v, 11, 47, 114, 121,
global 27, 109, 110, 154, 185
material 10, 102
progress 22, 23, 115, 119, 127, 175,
183–222, 228
Bahá’í community continued

Index
|  287
spiritual 10, 19, 57, 102, 183, 198
“A Clarification of Some Issues
Concerning Social and Economic
Development in Local and
National Communities” 131
clusters 87, 89, 97, 104
development of institute process
94, 99–100
systematization of learning
94–95, 103, 261
coherence of activities 97, 103, 105–6,
enhances quality of community
life 106
Colombia
Bahá’í community 79, 83
communism 9
community
definition 24
conscience 31, 34, 45, 56, 179, 203,
206, 211, 214, 215, 240–41, 280
The Construction of Social Reality 7–8
consultation 24–27, 35, 60, 84, 104,
129, 131, 136, 144, 154, 183–84, 184,
185, 186, 199, 215–16
Continental Boards of Counsellors
75, 78, 92, 217
contributing to social discourse
146–49
discourse on science, religion,
and development 144–46, 147
core activities 85, 87, 88–89, 97–98,
101–2, 105, 135. See also children’s
classes, devotional meetings, junior
youth empowerment, and study
circles
Cosmopolis 118, 229
the Covenant of Bahá’u’lláh 26, 29–31,
32, 48, 57, 150, 184–85, 187–88, 193,
213, 243, 244, 245, 253, 281
greater Covenant 213
lesser Covenant 213
criticism v, 25, 45, 51, 161, 189, 198,
200, 207, 216, 222
historical 43, 116, 249
literary 43
social 216
“A Culture of Growth” 93
culture of learning 60, 62, 79, 83, 86,
153, 154
D
Descartes, Rene 229
devotional meetings 87, 97, 105
disciplines, academic and
professional 30, 43, 112, 114, 115, 116,
124–27, 136, 137, 142–43, 149, 153,
221–22, 265
Discipline and Punish 196
dissent 13, 25, 26, 216, 280
the Divine Plan 49, 68, 76, 188
divine reality 19
Dreyfus, Hubert 63
Dreyfus, Stuart 63
E
economics 8, 9, 19, 162
Bahá’í economics 47–48
education 9, 11, 62, 81, 113, 132, 211, 223
elucidation 50–51, 55, 92, 251, 252, 257
different than authoritative
interpretation 50
Enlightenment thought 118–19, 161,
163, 196, 206, 229, 283
entry by troops 69, 74, 75, 77, 83, 85,
103–4, 106, 182
epistmē 172
“The Evolution of Institutional
Capacity for Social and Economic
Development” 131
expansion and consolidation of
Bahá’í Faith 67, 71, 72, 81, 84, 89, 90,
99, 102–3, 103–4, 105–6
maintaining balance 70, 72–73
F
firesides 68, 92, 187, 258

|
Revelation & Social Reality
Five Year Plan (2001) 76, 78, 84,
86–87, 87, 93, 94, 98, 99, 107, 135, 181
notable achievements 87
Five Year Plan (2006) 76, 85, 99, 100,
102, 103, 134
For the Betterment of the World
131–32
Foucault, Michael 195–97
foundationalism 173–74, 175–76, 177,
179, 180, 188, 191, 197, 198, 200, 206,
223, 277
and nonfoundationalism 173,
and objectivism 173, 273
and relativism 173, 175, 197
and subjectivism 273
Four Year Plan v, 60, 62, 64, 73, 74,
75–76, 78, 84, 85–86, 87, 91, 92, 93,
97, 98, 107, 182
notable achievements 86
The Four Year Plan and the Twelve
Month Plan 93
freedom 3, 57, 59, 175, 179, 180, 188,
189, 193, 200, 208–9, 210–11, 216,
FUNDAEC (La Fundación para la
Aplicación y Enseñanza de las
Ciencias / Foundation for the
Application and Teaching of the
Sciences) vii, 136–46
fundamentalism 119, 122, 153, 164–70,
178, 180, 188, 189
and Bahá’í community 166–70
perspective on scripture 165
G
Gadamer, Hans-Georg 182
Giddens, Anthony 195
Guardian. See also Shoghi Effendi
and the Universal House of
Justice 30, 50, 55–56, 57, 251,
252, 254
H
Habermas, Jürgen 194–95, 249
hermeneutics 31, 36–46, 172
history 215, 229
contributing to understanding
scripture 42–46, 183, 187
evidence can be flawed 43, 249
home visits 85, 89, 90, 96, 106
humanity
capacity for understanding 8, 9,
10, 16, 17, 21, 26, 32, 34, 173,
175, 176, 177, 178, 200, 207
diversity 24, 180, 185, 216, 238
dual nature 208
future 218, 229–37
morals 16, 19
oneness 11, 59, 144, 193, 227
progress 11, 12, 17, 18, 59, 109, 208
purpose 3, 5, 27, 58–59, 60,
142–43, 204
role in creation of social reality
6–11
H. uqúqu’lláh 204
I
imposing personal views 39, 51, 65,
149, 188, 199, 244
individual initiative 214–15, 216
essential for progress 51, 95
infallibility 52, 202
conferred 52–58, 250–51, 253,
255, 256
limitations 57, 254
Most Great 53–54, 201–2
Institute for Studies in Global
Prosperity 146–47
institute process. See training
institutes
intelligent design 116
intensive programs of growth 85, 89,
90, 91, 95, 98, 103, 104, 105
International Teaching Centre 77,
93–94, 99, 104, 106

Index
|  289
intersubjective agreement 35, 119, 163,
173, 238
Isaac 19–20
Ishmael 20
Islam 20, 42, 201
Islamic law 40
J
junior youth empowerment 101–2,
135–36
justice 11, 15, 16, 30, 47, 111, 144, 148,
153, 155, 161, 163, 184, 196, 197, 198,
199, 200, 208
K
kingdom of God 3, 27, 47, 155–57, 183,
186, 198
Kitáb-i-Aqdas 33, 40, 49, 56
Kitáb-i-Íqán 18
knowledge vi, 16, 17, 19, 110, 113,
127, 149–50, 164–65, 170–71,
172–75, 176, 191, 196, 223, 228.
See also foundationalism (and
fundamentalism and objectivism),
nonfoundationalism, and
relativism (and liberalism)
and power 191, 196
limitations 18, 150, 172–73, 275
mutable nature 122
religious 121, 178
scientific 22, 121, 179, 182–221
source of pride 149
L
language 18, 51, 163, 173
limitations 17
standards for use 36
vehicle for social reality 18, 36
law, divine 17, 40, 53, 54, 167, 175,
200–202, 204–5, 210–11
Learning About Growth 79–80
liberalism 119, 153, 165–70, 180, 189,
208–9
and Bahá’í community 166–70
perspective on scripture 165
Local Spiritual Assemblies.
See Spiritual Assemblies, Local
Lyotard, Jean-Francois 162
M
Manifestations of God 11, 16, 20, 21,
30, 109, 120, 150, 177, 200, 202–3,
237, 237–38
infallibility 18, 52, 53–54
knowledge of reality 17, 42, 177,
revelation 17, 109
speak to capacity of humanity 17,
18, 20, 177, 201–2
marriage 40
polygamy 40, 246
Mashriqu’l-Adhkár 128, 269
material civilization. See physical
reality, human civilization
materialism v, 14, 118, 123, 127, 177
May, Todd 124, 126, 219
metaphysics 177
“Methodology in Bahá’í Studies” 125
“mind of God” 20–21, 121, 178
modernism 118–19, 162, 172, 194, 197,
199, 229
clash with postmodernism
162–66, 172–73
perspective on power 194–95
Momen, Moojan 125, 272
Mongolia
Murun cluster 90–91
morality 51, 123, 148, 162, 170, 195, 198,
199, 210
Most Great Peace 30, 110, 154, 228,
Muhammad 29, 200–201
N
National Spiritual Assemblies.
See Spiritual Assemblies, National
nature 21, 144
embodiment of God’s name 6

|
Revelation & Social Reality
nonfoundationalism 173–75, 178, 274,
and foundationalism 173, 200
and relativism 173, 177–78, 200
nihilism 162, 173
Nineteen Day Feast 89, 106, 181
O
objectivism 170–73
and foundationalism 173, 273
clash with relativism 170–73
Office of Social and Economic
Development 101, 131, 132, 135–36.
See also social and economic
development, Bahá’í
ontology 21, 121, 171, 236
oppression 9, 14, 16, 19, 161, 194,
orthodoxy 45, 57, 59, 175, 179, 180, 186,
188, 189
Our Practices, Our Selves 124, 219
P
pantheism 177
phronēsis 172, 273
physical reality 6, 7, 8, 120, 122, 177
parallels with spiritual reality
120–23
pioneering 68–69, 181
politics 7, 9, 12, 115, 154, 162, 191, 194,
197, 200, 212, 225
positivism 122, 162, 175, 249
and foundationalism 273
historical 43, 249
postmodernism vi, 51, 162, 162–66,
172, 194, 195, 208, 229
clash with modernism 162–66
power vi, 51, 106, 161, 162, 164–65,
191–229, 277
and human relationships
200–212
and knowledge 192, 196
and social order 212–18
Bahá’í perspective 193–94, 197,
198, 199, 208
contemporary perspectives
192–93, 194–200
nonfoundational perspective
200, 207
practice See also Bahá’í practice
communities of practice 123–24,
definition 124
prejudice 12, 14, 16, 111
progressive revelation 14, 17, 109
The Promise of World Peace 221
The Prosperity of Humankind 131,
148, 221
Q
Qur’án 19, 42
people of 20
R
rationality 51, 161, 170, 195, 215–16, 229
reality 119, 161, 172, 173, 175, 176, 177,
179, 180, 196, 200, 215, 228
levels of comprehending 120–22
ontological reality 20–22
religious belief and practice
21–22
revelation 21–22
perception informed by practice
result of God’s Will 6
reality, personal. See personal reality
reality, social. See social reality
reality, spiritual. See spiritual reality
reason 119, 163, 171, 175, 228
reflection 80, 81, 84, 95, 96, 98, 139,
142, 184, 185, 186, 196, 207, 211, 212,
and action 23, 25, 31, 45, 49, 60,
76, 79, 83, 84, 102, 107, 131, 135,
136, 139, 154, 187, 189
reflection meetings 92, 94–95, 106
“Reflections on Growth” 93

Index
|  291
Regional Bahá’í Councils 102
relativism 39, 45, 59, 126, 162, 165,
170, 171, 172, 173, 177, 177–78, 179,
180, 183, 188, 191, 197, 200, 204, 206,
218, 222
and absolutism 273
and nonfoundationalism 173,
177–78, 200
clash with objectivism/
foundationalism 170–74, 197,
religion 21, 116, 117–18, 119–20, 136,
144, 154, 164, 165, 170, 175, 178–79,
209, 223. See also science and
religion
agreement with science 116,
118–19, 120
archetype of foundationalism 175
decline of religious institutions
fundamentalism and liberalism
165–70, 170
nonfoundational perspective
175–76, 278
purpose 47
relativity of religious truth 174,
200, 278
standard of true religion 21,
123–26
three levels of perceiving reality
20–22, 120–23
Renaissance 229, 283
Revelation v, 14, 17, 20, 29, 47, 122, 127,
178, 179, 185, 200, 203–5, 222, 238
progressive unfoldment of
meaning 242, 246
translating into action 3, 4, 11,
21–23, 27, 31, 47–49, 57–58, 59,
62, 76, 109, 127, 154, 186, 203,
207, 221,
Ruhi Institute curriculum 77–85
adoption by the Bahá’í
community 78–79
development 79–85
educational approach 81–83
formal adoption 77–78
importance of practice 82,
99–100
Reflections on the Life of the
Spirit (Ruhi Book 1) 88
Releasing the Powers of Junior
Youth (Ruhi Book 5) 102
role of the tutor 82, 83, 98–99,
Teaching Children’s Classes (Ruhi
Book 3) 102
Teaching the Cause (Ruhi Book
6) 87, 90, 96
Walking Together on a Path of
Service (Ruhi Book 7) 83, 87,
90, 99
Rural University. See University for
Integral Development
S
SAT (Sistema de Aprendizaje Tutorial)
scholarly activity, Bahá’í 114, 116–28,
119, 125–26, 127, 149, 150–54, 174
cannot be separated from belief
purpose 151
vital to the progress of the Faith
science 17, 21, 22, 47, 112, 113, 117–19,
119–20, 136, 144, 161, 163, 164, 171,
175, 182, 192, 228
agreement with religion 21,
116–17, 120
contributing to understanding
scripture 41–42
distinction between natural and
social 152
methods for investigating reality
117, 123–26
scientific method 144
should not be weighed against
personal religious beliefs 42

|
Revelation & Social Reality
science and religion 3, 22, 41–42,
116–27, 119–20, 124–25, 138, 144–46,
174, 179, 265, 267, 267–68
conflict is modern 118–19
parallels between knowledge
systems 120–23
resolving tensions 123–27
“science wars” 162
scientism 116, 122
Searle, John 7, 8, 10, 235, 255–56, 268
self and the other 14, 111, 155, 226
service to humanity 15–16, 59, 67,
110–12, 113, 129, 130, 133, 211, 221
Shoghi Effendi 17, 18, 32, 33, 40, 42,
43, 56, 57, 68, 69, 113, 130, 148, 174,
authorized interpreter of
Bahá’u’lláh’s writings 33
infallibility 54–55, 56, 254
Six Year Plan 73
skill acquisition 63
social and economic development,
Bahá’í 91, 104, 113, 127–36, 138,
144–47. See also Office of Social
and Economic Development
Bahá’í involvement v, vii, 49, 62,
113, 127–36
social discourse. See contributing to
social discourse.
social reality 7–16, 106, 109, 110–11,
154, 163, 228, 235, 236
role of Revelation in creating
16–22, 238
rules and conventions 8–9
shaping a collective act 24
structure 8
transforming 15, 24
understanding 4–11
Spiritual Assemblies vii, 168, 169,
214–15
Spiritual Assemblies, Local 68, 70–79,
94, 103–4, 104–5, 113
Spiritual Assemblies, National 49,
68–70, 69, 77, 78, 92, 102–3, 217
spiritual attraction 211–12
spiritual civilization. See spiritual
reality; see civilization, spiritual
spiritualism 149, 177
spiritual reality 4–5, 6, 19, 120
parallels with physical reality
120–23
understanding 4–5
“Straight Path” between extreme
orthodoxy and irresponsible
freedom 57, 60, 175, 186, 188, 189
study circles 87, 88, 92, 97, 105
subjectivism 82, 273
Swedenborg, Emmanuel 44
T
Tablets of the Divine Plan 68, 185
Tablet to a Physician 42
Taiwan
growth of Bahá’í community 88
teaching 67–76, 71–72, 82, 105, 182,
187, 224
cause for illumination of
humanity 67
difficulties 70–72
need for evaluating methods 71
primary obligation of believers
systematization 71
technē 172
Ten Year Crusade 69
theory and practice 61, 137–38
thought 5, 166, 196, 228
critical 25, 51
unity with action 24, 48, 72, 74,
80, 110, 167, 181, 257
Western 161, 166, 194
Toulmin, Stephen 118–19, 229, 283
tradition 4, 181, 182, 187
training institutes 64, 75–84, 79, 84,
86, 91, 93, 97, 101. See also Ruhi
Institute curriculum

Index
|  293
advancing process of entry by
troops 74–79, 83, 84, 85, 86,
87, 93, 97, 106, 260
coordinators 94
developing human resources
87, 133
development of sequence of
courses 76–77
engine of growth 77
need for flexibility 100–101
role in social and economic
development 133–34
study circles 64, 87, 88, 89, 92, 94,
97, 105
tutors 82, 83, 87, 90, 94, 97,
98–99, 260
“Training Institutes” 93
“Training Institutes and Systematic
Growth” 93
truth 51, 121–22, 162, 164, 170, 174, 179,
180, 191, 194, 196, 198, 200, 206,
207, 242
Bahá’í perspective 178, 183–222,
cannot be divided 179
immutable nature 122
independent investigation 148,
174, 179, 185
search for 34–35, 43, 117–18, 119,
126, 161, 173, 179, 215
Twelve Month Plan 76, 85, 86, 98, 107
U
United Nations 146
United States of America
growth of Bahá’í community 70
Universal House of Justice v, viii,
26, 30, 48–51, 70, 76, 92, 93, 104,
107, 131, 148, 174, 181, 185, 187,
188, 221, 250, 253, 254, 255–57.
See also elucidation
and Bahá’í practice 48–51
and the Guardian 30, 49, 50,
55–56, 57, 251, 252, 254
authority 49–50, 53, 55, 185
duties 48–51, 53, 55
infallibility 52–53, 54–55, 253, 254,
255, 256
jurisdiction 50
legislation 50, 55, 243
plans v, 62, 73, 76, 92, 104–5,
107, 185–93, 218, 226.
See also individual Plans
protection of the Faith 51
University for Integral Development
139–42
V
Valuing Spirituality in Development
W
Word of God v, 3, 5, 6, 9, 11, 18, 20, 21,
31, 45, 178, 180, 193, 198, 202, 210
world order, new 7, 10, 13, 33, 119, 194,
225, 228–29
world order, old 12, 27, 163–64, 228