THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1999-07-04

further to the letter to you dated 30 j une 1999

305-1 concerning english

translations of bahá’í writings and their publication, we have been asked to

convey to you the following related policies concerning the publication and translation of historical documents. for your ease of reference, Appendix

305-1. See no. 304, pp. 678–79.304.5

304.6

304.7

305.1

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

680ii enclosed summarizes the policies concerning the translation of bahá’í

Sacred w ritings into e nglish, which were covered in our earlier letter.

cent years: an increase in the number of bahá’ís who are individually trans-

lating portions of the Sacred writings into english, and a growing number

of bahá’ís who wish to arrange for the publication of historical documents,

accompanied by translations into english. wishing to facilitate this process,

while, at the same time, upholding the standard of approved translations

and safeguarding the integrity of the faith, the house of justice has formu-

lated two policy statements governing these matters (see Appendices ii and

iii enclosed).

The net purpose of the policies is to speed up the review and publication

of such items, and to permit a wider use of provisional translations.

To give you some background to these developments, we have been asked

to send to you extracts from a letter which was written on 4 may 1999 to

an individual believer who enquired about the provision of primary source material to students of the faith (see Appendix i). As you will see, these

available to carry out the necessary work at this time, the priority of certain steps, and the defense of the faith against the machinations of its enemies

and the naïveté of some of its faithful followers.

with loving b ahá’í greetings,

for Department  of tHe secretariat

Appendix i305-2

Appendix ii

POLICIES GOVERNING AUTHORIZED AND

PROVISIONAL TRANSLATIONS OF THE BAHÁ’Í HOLY WRITINGS

INTO ENGLISH AND THEIR PUBLICATION

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]