THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1999-07-04

the publication of documents describing historical events of the bahá’í

community and, where necessary, their translation into english and their

publication in that language, the following policies have been formulated

to accelerate and simplify the process of granting the necessary approval.305.8

305.9

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

682it should be noted that, in this context, a “historical document” indicates

a document written some time ago either in the course of the events or as

a memoir recording events. A historical account now being written by a

bahá’í does not come under these policies but would follow the normal

pre-publication review process.

1. Historical documents in the sole possession of the Bahá’í World Center:

planned process of the examination, cataloging and categorization of all historical documents held by the world center of the faith, to

be followed, or possibly accompanied, by a program for the prepara-

tion of such documents for publication, in facsimile, in the form of

transcripts, and, where appropriate, accompanied by a translation into english.

2. Historical documents which are in the hands of members of the Bahá’í community:

it is noted that there are many historical documents which have already

been published in the original language, as well as an undetermined number of memoirs and other manuscripts which are in the hands of individual bahá’ís and bahá’í families. of these the house of justice

has concern only over those documents which relate to the history of the faith in iran, the Arab countries, the holy land or other sensitive

areas. in relation to these it has established the policies listed below.

The publication and translation of all other historical documents is

adequately covered by the normal process of review.

2.1 i n countries such as those instanced above, serious danger to

the bahá’í communities could be precipitated by the untimely

publication (with or without translation) of historical docu-

ments relating to events there. Therefore, every proposal to publish or translate a document relating to the history of the

faith in the middle east must be referred to the universal

house of j ustice for its approval.305.10

305.11

305.12

305.13

1996–2000  •  T h e  f o u r  Ye a r  Pl a n

682.2 A bahá’í who has a copy of a historical document and con-

siders publishing it, should, out of courtesy, consult the im-

mediate family of the writer, seeking their agreement to the

publication, before proceeding.

2.3 when the house of justice has approved the publication,

and/or translation, of a historical document, it should be

published in full, without deletions, to preserve the integrity

of the document as an entity. if it is decided to publish only

the most interesting and publishable portions of a document, the publication should be clearly designated as an abridged

version of the work in question or as extracts from it.

2.4 i n most, if not all, cases of the publication of a historical

document, it will be desirable for an introduction, footnotes and possibly appendices to be added. At the present time,

such additions should be kept to a minimum and should not constitute a mass of supplementary material disproportionate to the document itself.

2.5 i t would be inappropriate for the translation of a Tablet to

appear for the first time as a footnote or appendix to such a document.

2.6 The publication of the original of a historical document, with

or without a translation, after being approved in principle by

review. bearing in mind that the basic purpose of review is to

ensure that a publication gives an accurate impression of the faith, the reviewers will have to give attention to the follow-

ing points:

2.6.1 The accuracy of the introduction and footnotes

and any other material added to the document

itself.

2.6.2 The need for additional footnotes to clarify points of which the document itself may give a mislead-

ing or inadequate impression.

2.6.3 The advisability of deleting superfluous footnotes

or other supplementary material.

2.6.4 The quality of the translation. The reviewing committee cannot be expected to check the accu-305.14

305.15

305.16

305.17

305.18

305.18a

305.18b

305.18c

305.18d

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

68racy of the translation, but it should give attention

to the quality of expression and the meaning it

conveys, and raise questions or make suggestions

where necessary. if the number of such points

would be large, the whole translation should be referred back to the translator for reworking.

306

Publication of Bahá’í Sacred Texts with a Study Guide

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]