PARADISE
AND PARADIGM
Key Symbols in Persian Christianity
and the Bahā’ī Faith
Christopher Buck
State University of New York Press

Published by
State University of New York Press, Albany
© 1999 State University of New York
All rights reserved
Printed in the United States of America
No part of this book may be used or reproduced in any manner
whatsoever without written permission. No part of this book may be stored
in a retrieval system or transmitted in any form or by any means including
electronic, electrostatic, magnetic tape, mechanical, photocopying, recording,
or otherwise without the prior permission in writing of the publisher.
For information, address State University of New York Press
State University Plaza, Albany, New York 12246
Production by Dana Foote
Marketing by Patrick Durocher
Cover illustration by Shiew-Yeu Loh
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data
Buck, Christopher, 1950–
Paradise and paradigm: key symbols in Persian Christianity and
the Baha’i Faith/Christopher Buck.
p. cm.
Includes bibliographical references and index.
ISBN 0-7914-4061-3 (hc: alk. paper)
ISBN 0-7914-4062-1 (pb: alk. paper)
1. Heaven—Bahā’ī Faith. 2. Bahā’ī Faith—Doctrines.
3. Heaven—Christianity—History of doctrines—Early church,
ca. 30-600. 4. Syrian Church—Doctrines—History.
5. Heaven—Comparative studies. 6. Paradise—Comparative studies.
I. Title.
BP388. H43 B83 1999
291.2’3—dc21
98-45882
CIP
10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1

For Nahzy Abadi Buck,
Takur, and Taraz

Syrian Orthodox Icon of St. Ephrem the Syrian
(d. 373 CE) in the Mother of God Church,
Monastery of St. Ephrem the Syrian, in Glane/
Losser, the Netherlands. Based on the medieval
icon (1218 CE) of St. Ephrem in the Theotokos
Mother of God Church, Diyarbakir, Turkey.
Photograph taken in 1995. Courtesy of Gabriel
Rabo, Faculty of the Department of Syrian
Church History, Göttingen University, Germany.
‘Abdu’l-Bahā, December 2, 1912. Portrait by
Jacob Schloss (1857–1938), famed New York
City photographer known for his portraits of
theatrical stars. Photograph taken at the home of
Bahā’ī hosts, Edward B. Kinney (1863–1950) and
Carrie Kinney (1878–1959), 780 West End
Avenue, New York. Courtesy of the U.S. National
Bahā’ī Archives.

v
From St. Ephrem the Syrian
An Ode on Noah and the Ark
From Bahā’u’llāh
Song of the Holy Mariner
* Chorus:
Glory, Lord, to Thee!
* Chorus:
Glorified be my Lord, the All-
Glorious!
O NOBLE NOAH!
O HOLY MARINER!
Afloat in the Flood, the All-Ruler’s Ark
emerged from the East; she winged to
the West, wheeled South and then
sealed the North . . .
To her Saviour sing!
Her sequence sketched her Defender’s
Device:
her course traced a cross!
Bid thine ark of eternity appear before
the Celestial Concourse,
Launch it upon the ancient sea, in His
Name, the Most Wondrous,
And let the angelic spirits enter, in the
Name of God, the Most High.
Unmoor it, then, that it may sail upon the
ocean of glory,
With water and wood, Noah, salt of the
sea, the Church did portray . . .
Myth and mystery, Ark and Torah tell the
self-same story! . . .
O Mariner!
Teach them that are within the ark that
which We have taught thee behind the
mystic veil.
Naves echo the Ark,
whose meaning they mark . . .
Faith (though I be frail) shall be, Lord,
my ship!
All those drown in doubt, who would
work Thee out!
To Thy Sire we shout!
Perchance they may not tarry in the
sacred snow-white spot,
But may soar upon the wings of the spirit
unto that station which the Lord hath
exalted above all mention in the
worlds below . . .
May know the mysteries hidden in the
Seas of light.
Saint Ephrem the Syrian (d. 373 C.E.)
Bahā’u’llāh (d. 1892 C.E.)
An Ode on Noah and the Ark
(363–373)
Song [or Tablet] of the Holy Mariner
(1863)
(Hymns on Faith XLIX. 1; 3–6)
(Arabic section)
Trans. by Andrew Palmer (1993, 175).
Trans. by Shoghi Effendi (1922).

CONTENTS
Acknowledgments
xiii
I.  Comparing Paradises
1.0
Objective
1.1
Paradises and Paradigms
1.2
Systems of Symbols
1.3
Key Symbols
1.4
Dimensional Model
1.5
Symbolic Profiles
1.6
Worldview Comparison
1.7
Symbolic Transformation as Paradigm Shift
II.  A Historical Profile of Syriac Christianity
2.0
Syriac Christianity
2.1
Ephrem the Syrian and Aphrahāṭ, “the Persian Sage”
2.2
Syriac Christianity as a Mesopotamian Response to Late Antiquity
2.3
The Universality of the Church of the East: How Persian was Persian Christianity?
III.  A Symbolic Profile of Syriac Christianity
3.0
Syriac Symbol Theory
Key Scenarios
3.1
Doctrinal: The Way
3.2
Ritual: Robe of Glory
3.3
Ethical: Sons/Daughters of the Covenant
3.4
Experiential: The Wedding Feast
3.5
Mythic: Harrowing of Hell
3.6
Social: Noah’s Ark/Mariner
Root Metaphors
3.7
Doctrinal: Physician
3.8
Ritual: Medicine of Life
3.9
Ethical: The Mirror

3.10
Experiential: The Pearl
3.11
Mythic: Tree of Life
3.12
Social: Paradise
3.13
The Syriac Paradigm of Purity
IV.  A Historical Profile of the Bahā’ī Faith
4.0
Introduction
4.1
Bahā’u’llāh
4.2
The Bahā’ī Faith as a Response to Modernity
V.  A Symbolic Profile of the Bahā’ī Faith
5.0
Bahā’ī Symbol Theory
Key Scenarios
5.1
Doctrinal: The Promised One
5.2
Ritual: The Covenant
5.3
Ethical: Illumination
5.4
Experiential: Lover and the Beloved
5.5
Mythic: The Maid of Heaven
5.6
Social: The Crimson Ark and the Holy Mariner
Root Metaphors
5.7
Doctrinal: Physician
5.8
Ritual: Wine/Water of Life
5.9
Ethical: Mirror/Gems
5.10
Experiential: The Journey
5.11
Mythic: Lote-Tree/Sinai
5.12
Social: Paradise
5.13
The Bahā’ī Paradigm of Unity
VI.  Paradise Similarities and Paradigm Differences
6.0
Procedure for Dimensional Analysis
6.1
Doctrinal
6.2
Ritual
6.3
Ethical
6.4
Experiential
6.5
Mythic
6.6
Social

VII.  Paradise and Paradigm
7.0
Introduction
7.1
Sapiential Theōsis: A New Reading of Ephrem the Syrian’s Hymns on Paradise
7.2
Paradise and Society in Bahā’ī Texts
VIII.  Conclusions
8.0
Interpretation of Results
8.1
Evaluation of Research Design
8.2
Counterindications
8.3
Suggestions for Further Study
8.4
Relevance to the Study of Religion
Appendixes
I. Abbreviations
II. Syriac Transliteration Scheme
III. Arabic/Persian Transliteration Scheme
IV. Fragments of a Lost Persian Christian Liturgy
Works Cited
Index

[**xiii]
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
This study was originally a dissertation researched at the Centre for the Study of Religion, University of
Toronto (Canada’s “Harvard of the North”), during Dr. Jane McAuliffe’s tenure as director. It is therefore
fitting that I acknowledge the members of my advisory committee: my Ph.D. supervisor, Dr. Willard G.
Oxtoby (Trinity College), Dr. John Corbett (Scarborough College), and Dr. Maria Subtelny (University of
Toronto), who replaced Dr. B. Todd Lawson (Institute of Islamic Studies, McGill University) as the third
committee member.
As a dissertation, Paradise and Paradigm was successfully defended on 21 June 1996. Dr. Jonathan Z.
Smith, Robert O. Anderson Distinguished Service Professor of the Humanities, University of Chicago,
served as my external examiner. Dr. Smith’s dissertation appraisal begins with this assessment: “Mr.
Buck’s thesis is a superior piece of work, one of the most sophisticated exercises on comparison that I
have read, and, therefore, a work of historic importance with respect to the study of ‘patristic’ Christianity,
a field that is notably ‘primitive’ with respect to comparative issues. Of the nearly one hundred
dissertations I have served as director or reader for, in the fields of history of religions and early
Christianities, this is, without question, one of the two or three best.” Having closely followed the work of
Jonathan Z. Smith over the years, to have had this brief personal and professional interaction with him has
been profoundly inspirational.
All those who assisted me in researching Syriac and Bahā’ī primary and secondary sources contributed
to the success of the project, as acclaimed by J. Z. Smith further in his appraisal: “The extraction of the
central symbolic logic of both the Syriac and Bahā’ī materials is utterly convincing . . . This, then,
contributes to a comparison across differences of the logics which richly illuminates both the specific
symbols and the cultural matrix in which they are found.” To Prof. Amir Harrak for his close reading of
the manuscript, for the benefit of his linguistic expertise and for his uncanny acumen in making
corrections and proposing revisions, I express my heartfelt appreciation. For their assistance with Syriac
texts, I would like to thank His Grace Mar Emmanuel, Diocesan Bishop, Holy Apostolic Catholic
Assyrian Church of the East, Diocese of Canada, and Bishop Mar Bawai Soro, [**xiv] General Secretary
of the Assyrian Church of the East in the United States. I would also like to thank Prof. Sidney Griffith of
the Catholic University of America, and Prof. Edward G. Mathews, Jr., of Scranton University, for
answering a number of questions of mine pertaining to both Ephrem and related Syriac texts. I am
likewise indebted to Mr. Francis Sarguis, English language editor of the Journal of the Assyrian Academic
Society, for having read and edited portions of this manuscript. For their research assistance in searching
Bahā’ī texts, I would like to thank Dr. Robert Stockman, Mr. Jonah Winters, and Mr. Sen McGlinn. My
thanks to Dr. Juan R. I. Cole (University of Michigan) for his manuscript, Modernity and the Millennium:
The Genesis of the Bahā’ī Faith in the Nineteenth Century Middle East (Columbia University Press,
1998), and for some important references.
For their support and encouragement, I acknowledge my colleagues at Millikin University: Provost
Thomas Flynn, Dean Mauri Ditzler (Arts and Sciences), my current Chair, Dr. Edward Yonan (Religion),

Dr. Kevin Murphy (History), Dr. Arvid Adell (Philosophy), Dr. Jo Ellen Jacobs (Philosophy), and to my
newest colleague, my wife, Nahzy Abadi Buck (History). She has spent countless hours, late at night,
supervising my laborious reading of Persian and Arabic texts. Her patience was surely tested by my
complaints over irregularities in Persian orthography and printing, in the course of my becoming
naturalized to the idiosyncrasies of another language and another, as it were, “soul.” She has been
gracious, staunch, and faithful in her support for my graduate work, as have my boys, Takur and Taraz.
My thanks also to my colleagues at Carleton University, where I lectured from 1994 to 1996: Dr. Joseph
Ramisch (former Chair of Religion), Ms. Maureen Sherman (administrator), and Carole Dence, Nestor
Querido, and Dianne Tushingham (Teaching and Learning Resource Centre).
A special debt of gratitude is owed to my editor, Ms. Nancy Ellegate of [**xv] State University of
New York Press, who took an initial interest in the manuscript, acting on Jonathan Z. Smith’s
recommendation in his dissertation appraisal: “This is one of those rare theses in which the parts are so
intricately and necessarily interrelated that one hopes for the rapid publication of the entire work rather
than the separate publication of one or two chapters.” Having first solicited peer reviews from two
external readers, Ms. Ellegate guided me through the revision process, subsequent to and substantively
based on the readers’ reports. I wish to thank both external readers for their professionalism and valuable
critiques. Dr. Robert Cummings Neville (Boston University), who opted to be named following the
double-blind review, contributed greatly to the crystallization of my thinking on methodology, which,
although eclectic, I have done my best to make explicit. I should also like to thank Ms. Dana Foote,
freelance production editor for State University of New York Press, who directed the production of this
book.
To my new-found Assyrian friends in cyberspace and in print, I wish to express my gratitude for all of
your encouragement and interest in my research, and for graciously welcoming an outsider into so rich
and historic a Christian culture. It is my heartfelt wish that neither Christians (especially those of Assyrian,
Chaldean, Syrian, and Aramaean heritages) nor Bahā’ī, will take offense at my work, as I have
endeavored, to the utmost of my ability, to treat both Christian and Bahā’ī traditions with symmetry and a
profound sense of respect, without privileging one tradition over another, as I aim for parity in the
comparison.
CHRISTOPHER BUCK
Pennsylvania State University
(formerly, Millikin University)
August 12, 2012: Many thanks to Jonah Winters for posting Paradise and Paradigm on Bahā’ī Library
Online (see http://bahai-library.com/Buck), thereby making widely available what has been recognized as
the first academic monograph comparing Christianity and the Bahā’ī Faith. The author owes a special debt
of gratitude to Ms. Bobbi Lyons of Ontario, Canada, for her extraordinary skills in proofreading the text,
involving many hours of restoring the formatting, proofing for accuracy, and inserting the proper Unicode
diacriticals, which was not an easy task. (Prior to its publication in 1999, the production editor, Dana
Foote, on behalf of the State University of New York Press, decided to typeset the book using the author’s
transliteration font, New World Transliterator, since none of the fonts that SUNY Press had available were
capable of representing transliteration across multiple languages and academic conventions, i.e. Persian
(including the IJMES, Encycloapedia Iranica, and other transliteration systems), Arabic, Syriac, Hebrew,
Greek and other languages). Ms. Lyons closely compared this manuscript with the SUNY Press edition for
accuracy. With her meticulous attention to detail, Ms. Lyon’s uncanny eye spotted even the invisible, i.e.
several missing words that needed to be supplied in order to restore a problematic sentence.

A post-publication acknowledgment: Paola Orsatti (Associate Professor, Italian Institute of Oriental
Studies, Sapienza University of Rome), taking “Fragments of a Lost Persian Christian Liturgy” (Appendix
IV at the end of this book) as a point of departure, offers a more accurate translation of an ancient Persian
Christian baptismal rite preserved in Syriac liturgy, based on Vatican manuscripts, in his skillful
philological study, “Syro-Persian Formulas in Poetic Form in Baptism Liturgy,” in Persian Origins: Early
Judaeo-Persian and the Emergence of New Persian. Collected Papers of the Symposium, Göttingen 1999,
edited by Ludwig Paul (Wiesbaden: Harrassowitz Verlag, 2003), pp. 147–76. The present writer first
learned of this lost Persian Christian initiatory baptismal service in November 1992 from His Grace Mar
Emmanuel (Diocesan Bishop, Holy Apostolic Catholic Assyrian Church of the East, Diocese of Canada),
who provided me with the Syro-Persian text (i.e. Persian in Syriac script) in a letter dated March 25, 1996.
I also received the Syro-Persian text from Bishop Mar Bawai Soro (General Secretary of the Assyrian
Church of the East in the United States) on April 1, 1996, from Rome. The reader is referred to Orsatti’s
study for the superior translation. On page 347 of the present volume, for instance, Margoliouth renders
Stanza IV so: “In the name of the Father and the Son / and the Holy Ghost thou art baptized / thou, O Holy
One, art a Christian / and thou give unto us.” Orsatti translates more accurately as follows: (Priest) “In the
name of the Father, and of the Son,/ and the Holy Ghost you are baptized,/ you, saint, are a Christian.” /
(Assembly) “And You forgive us!” (153). The difference, while minor, render the liturgy much clearer.
Copyright Permissions
The author and publisher of this volume express appreciation to the following publishers and authors for
permission to reprint excerpts from their respective copyrighted works:
1.
E. J. Brill: Andrew Palmer. “The Merchant of Nisibis: Saint Ephrem and His Faithful Quest for
Union in Numbers.” In J. Den Boeft and A. Hilhorst, eds. Early Christian Poetry: A Collection of Essays.
Supplements to Vigiliae Christianae 22. Leiden: E. J. Brill, 1993, pp. 167–233. Reprinted by permission
of the publisher.
2.
Oxford University Press: Ephrem the Syrian. Saint Ephrem’s Commentary: An English
Translation of Chester Beatty MS 709 with Introduction and Notes. Edited and translated by Carmel
McCarthy. Journal of Semitic Studies Supplement, 2. Oxford University Press, 1993. Reprinted by
permission of the publisher.
3.
Cambridge University Press and Robert P. R. Murray, S.J.: Robert Murray. Symbols of
Church and Kingdom: A Study in Early Syriac Tradition. Cambridge University Press, 1975. Reprinted by
permission of the author. Reprinted with the permission of Cambridge University Press.
4.
Catholic University of America Press: Ephrem the Syrian. St. Ephrem the Syrian: Selected
Prose Works. Translated by Edward G. Mathews and Joseph P. Amar. Edited by Kathleen McVey. The
Fathers of the Church, vol. 91. Washington, D.C.: Catholic University of America Press, 1994. Reprinted
by permission of the publisher.
5.
Paulist Press: Ephrem the Syrian. Ephrem the Syrian: Hymns. Kathleen McVey, trans. New
York: Paulist Press, 1989. © 1989 by Kathleen E. McVey. Used by permission of Paulist Press. [**xvi]
6.
St. Vladimir’s Seminary Press: St. Ephrem the Syrian. Hymns on Paradise. Trans. by Sebastian
Brock. Crestwood, N.Y.: St. Vladimir’s Seminary Press, 1990. Reprinted by permission of St. Vladimir’s
Seminary Press, 575 Scarsdale Road, Crestwood, NY 10707, 1-800-204-2665.
7.
Bahā’ī Publications: For excerpts from the following works of Bahā’u’llāh: Gleanings from the
Writings of Bahā’u’llāh; The Hidden Words; The Seven Valleys and the Four Valleys; Epistle to the Son of

the Wolf; The Book of Certitude; Bahā’ī Prayers; and for excerpts from the following works of ‘Abdu’l-
Bahā: A Traveller’s Narrative; Secret of Divine Civilization; Promulgation of Universal Peace.
8.
Journal of Assyrian Academic Studies (formerly, Journal of the Assyrian Academic Society):
Christopher Buck. “Sapiential Theōsis: A New Reading of Ephrem the Syrian’s Hymns on Paradise.”
Journal of the Assyrian Academic Society 9.2 (1995), 80-125. Reprinted by permission of the publisher;
and Christopher Buck. “The Universality of the Church of the East: How Persian Was Persian
Christianity?” Journal of the Assyrian Academic Society 10.1 (1996), 54–95. Reprinted by permission of
the publisher.
9.
Tryggve Kronholm: Author of Motifs from Genesis 1-11 in the Genuine Hymns of Ephrem the
Syrian with Particular Reference to the Influence of Jewish Exegetical Tradition. Coniectanea Biblica,
Old Testament Series 11; Lund, Sweden: CWK Gleerup, 1978. Reprinted by permission of the author.
10. Kalimát Press: Moojan Momen, editor. Studies in Honor of the Late Hasan M. Balyuzi. Studies
in the Bābī and Bahā’ī Religions, 5. Los Angeles: Kalimát Press, 1988. Steven Scholl, editor. Waging
Peace: Selections from the Bahā’ī Writings on Universal Peace. Los Angeles: Kalimát Press, 1984.
Excerpts from both titles reprinted by permission of the publisher.
11. The Universal House of Justice, Bahā’ī World Centre: For permission to publish the
authorized translation of the Bahā’u’llāh’s Tablets of the Hair. Bahā’u’llāh, Tablets of Bahā’u’llāh
Revealed after the Kitāb-i-Aqdas. Haifa: Bahā’ī World Centre, 1978. Trans. by Habib Taherzadeh et al.
Reprinted by permission of the publisher.
12. George Ronald, Publisher: Wendi Momen, ed. A Basic Bahā’ī Dictionary. Oxford: George
Ronald, Publisher, 1988. Reprinted by permission of the publisher.
Prior Presentations and Publications
While a work-in-progress, portions of Paradise and Paradigm were originally presented as conferences
papers and published as journal articles. These include:
[**xvii]
•
Highlights of chapters 1, 3, and 5 (“Comparing Symbol Profiles: Dimensional Models of the
Bahā’ī Faith and Syriac Christianity”) were presented as a paper read at the conference “Syriac
Symposium II: Syria at the Crossroads: Cultural Interchange in Late Antiquity” (Washington,
D.C.), 9 June 1995.
•
Part of chapter 2 (section 2.3) was published as “The Universality of the Church of the East: How
Persian was Persian Christianity?” Journal of the Assyrian Academic Society 10.1 (1996), 54-95.
•
Part of chapter 4 (section 4.2) was presented as a paper, “Sacralizing the Secular: The Proclamatory
Aqdas as a Response to Modernity.” Read at the Fifth Scripture Studies Colloquium. Theme: The
Kitāb-i-Aqdas. Institute for Bahā’ī Studies/Haj Mehdi Arjmand Memorial Fund (Wilmette,
Illinois), 1 April 1995.
• With the kind permission of State University of New York Press, chapter 5, “A Symbolic Profile of
the Bahā’ī Faith” is published in the Journal of Bahā’ī Studies 8.4 (1-48, 1998), original drafts of
which were presented at three conferences: (1) 19th Annual Conference of the Association for
Bahā’ī Studies-North America (San Francisco), 13 Oct. 1995; (2) American Academy of Religion/
Society of Biblical Literature Annual Meeting (Philadelphia), Bahā’ī Studies Colloquy (substitute
paper), 19 Nov. 1995; (3) Texas Bahā’ī Studies Conference (Austin, Texas), 26 Nov. 1995.

•
Part of chapter 7 (section 7.1) was published as “Sapiential Theōsis: A New Reading of Ephrem the
Syrian’s Hymns on Paradise.” Journal of the Assyrian Academic Society 9.2 (1995), 80-125.
• The Syriac transliteration table on p. 438 is taken from my paper: “Computing Strategies for
Transliterating Syriac.” In SyrCOM-95: Proceedings of the First International Forum on Syriac
Computing (in association with Syriac Symposium II), edited by G. A. Kiraz. Cambridge: Syriac
Computing Institute, 1995. Post-conference, on-demand proceedings volume, pp. 113–26.

[**1]
I
Comparing Paradises
Objective

Religions enshrine symbols, the stained glass windows of faith. Sacred symbols present an
explorable treasury of religious thought—an information-rich, condensed language of
spirituality. Symbols are the prisms of ideals and of other religious concerns. Symbols are
susceptible to analysis and are proper objects of study. As symbols encode ideas, they
require interpretation to be both understood and meaningfully compared. “We can see that
an essential ingredient of the modern study of religion,” writes Ninian Smart, “is symbolic
analysis, which tries to throw light on the various themes which can be discovered cross-
culturally through the exploration of various worldviews” (1985, 33). Symbolic analysis
involves not only the exploration of religious worldviews intrinsically, but comparatively as
well.
The scientific study of religion is said to have two levels of research: historical and
comparative (Platvoet 1982, 3), as exemplified in the complementary research endeavors
known as the History of Religion and the Phenomenology of Religion. Disciplined
comparison, it has been said, is the central activity of the phenomenology of religion.
Comparison creates perspective. By it, religions—systemically or aspectually—are mentally
viewed together, with some kind of depth and sense of relationship. This study introduces a
new comparative procedure in the academic study of religion: viz., the construction and
comparison of multidimensional, symbolic profiles representing distinct religious
worldviews—an experiment in comparative method. Correlating symbol and doctrine—the
heart and soul of religion—this book attempts to resolve the similarity-difference paradox in
two culturally related Abrahamic traditions in the Iranian context—early Persian
Christianity and the Bahā’ī Faith—with special reference to Paradise imagery and its
symbolic transformation, from Late Antiquity to modernity. While “Paradise” is originally a
Persian loan word, modernity has revolutionized its meaning.
[**2] The preinterpretative justification for setting this investigative agenda should be
made clear. In the interests of investigating religious transformations from the ancient to the
modern world, the religion known as the Bahā’ī Faith affords a natural and obvious starting
point for “working backwards.” Born in the full light of modernity, the Bahā’ī Faith is an
independent world religion, with Islamic origins. Charismatically established in 1863 in
Baghdad by Mīrzā Ḥusayn-‘Alī Nūrī Bahā’ Allāh / official Bahā’ī spelling, Bahā’u’llāh
Comparing Paradises                                                      1

(“Glory of God,” 1817–92), a leader of the Persian Bābī movement out of which the Bahā’ī
religion emerged, and constituted as a distinct faith-community in Adrianople in 1866, the
Bahā’ī religion underwent transformations in ethos and organization throughout its three
missionary phases, periods marked by the Islamic context (1844–92), international
expansion to America and abroad (1892–1963), and global diffusion to nearly every country
in the world (1963–present).
The Islamic context is coextensive with the ministries of both Bahā’u’llāh and his
precursor, Sayyid ‘Alī-Muḥammad Shīrāzī (1819–50), the prophet-martyr known as the Bāb
(“Gate”). The Bāb had already effected an eschatological break from Islam by “revealing”
what was universally regarded by Bābīs as a new Qur’ān (viz., the Qayyūm al-Asmā’) and
law code (enacted in the Bayān-i Fārsī). While the Bāb’s law code was formally distinct
from the Islamic sharī’a, paradoxically the Bābī system was super-Islamic in the intensity
of the piety it required, but supra-Islamic in ethos, having superseded the authority of both
Qur’ān and ḥadīth.
Except for a two-year hiatus (1854–56) spent in solitude as a dervish, Bahā’u’llāh
emerged as one of, if not the most effective leader of the Bābī exiles throughout the
Baghdad period (1853–63), a period eschatologically charged with his own messianic
secrecy. In his preeminent doctrinal work, the Kitāb-i Īqān (“Book of Certitude,” 1861
[1974]), extemporaneously revealed in two days and two nights, Bahā’u’llāh advanced an
extended Qur’ānic and biblical argument legitimizing the prophetic authenticity of the Bāb.
This served as an oblique, advance legitimation for Bahā’u’llāh himself, who, in April 1863,
announced his own role as “He Whom God Shall Manifest” (man-Yuẓhiruhu’llāh), the
messianic theophany foretold by the Bāb. In public epistles to Queen Victoria, Napoleon III,
Pope Pius IX, and other monarchs and religious leaders during the Adrianople period
(1864–68) and in the early ‘Akkā period (1868–92), Bahā’u’llāh announced his advent as
the “World Unifier” and “Promised One” of all religions. This was essentially a millenarian
claim to multiple messiahship (viz., Ḥusayn redivivus for Shī‘ī Muslims, the “Spirit of
Truth” or Parousia of Christ for Christians, the “Everlasting Father” [Isaiah 9:6] for Jews,
and Shāh Bahrām Varjāvand for Zoroastrians). The kerygma, or gospel, of [**3] this
messianic claimant was a message that addressed modernity and, by extension,
postmodernity.
In his proclamations to crown and mitre and universally to the “peoples of the world,”
Bahā’u’llāh advocated world peace, parliamentary democracy, disarmament, an
international language, harmony of science and religion, interfaith concord, gender and
racial equality, and other reforms, all of which were integrated by an overarching paradigm
of world unity. Granting that these were modernist reforms, Bahā’u’llāh’s response to
modernity was to make peace sacred. In a precocious religious preparation for a global
society, Bahā’u’llāh sacralized certain developments within the secular world (such as the
abolition of slavery, governance modeled on the British parliamentary system, etc.), and
promoted world reforms that went beyond the purview of Islamic reform advocated by
contemporary Ottoman and Persian modernists.
Structurally precluding major schisms by designating successorship and the formation of
democratically elected religious institutions, Bahā’u’llāh’s Covenant (symbolized as “the
Crimson Ark”) became the organizing principle of the Bahā’ī community itself and the
Comparing Paradises

guarantor of its integrity as a community. In his Book of the Covenant (Kitāb-i ‘Ahd),
Bahā’u’llāh designated his eldest son ‘Abdu’l-Bahā (d. 1921) as interpreter, exemplar, and
successor, and who, in his Will and Testament, passed the torch of leadership to his Oxford-
educated grandson, Shoghi Effendi (d. 1957), by designating the latter as the “Guardian” of
the Bahā’ī Faith. Shoghi Effendi globalized and evolved Bahā’ī administration into a
network of annually elected councils called National and Local Spiritual Assemblies,
leading eventually to the election of the The Universal House of Justice in 1963, now
established on Mount Carmel in Haifa, Israel.
The Bahā’ī Faith has been described as a derivative (“secondary”) monotheism in the
sense that it is the daughter religion of Islam. This genetic relationship is clearly illustrated
in the typology of monotheisms developed by Alessandro Bausani, who proposed the
following taxonomy in his classification of monotheistic religions, which include: (1)
Monotheisms proper, in which Judaism and Islam are classed as primary monotheisms, with
Christianity and the Bahā’ī Faith as respectively secondary (derivative, yet independent); (2)
Failed monotheisms, which include Zoroastrianism as a primary monotheism, Manichaeism
as a secondary monotheism, and Akhenaton’s reform as an archaic monotheism; and (3)
Paramonotheisms, which include Sikhism and various mysticisms (1963, 168). Thus Bahā’ī
Faith stands in the same relationship to Islam as Christianity to Judaism. In my book,
Symbol and Secret (1995a), I have discussed the relationship of Bahā’ī doctrine to Islam,
the eschatological break of the former from [**4] the latter, and have identified some of the
key symbols of the Qur’ān that exegetically and stylistically inform Bahā’ī texts.
With a following of only several million adherents at present, the population statistics of
the Bahā’ī religion are not significant, but the growth statistics are remarkable. In its report
on “World Religious Statistics” for the previous year, the 1988 Britannica Book of the Year
names the Bahā’ī Faith alongside Christianity and Islam as the “most universal” of today’s
world religions. By a simple accounting of the number of sovereign and nonsovereign
countries and territories in which it is formally established, the Bahā’ī Faith emerges as the
most widely diffused religion in the world except for Christianity. As David Barrett
observes: “Over 14 major religious systems are each now found in over 80 countries.
Christianity, Islam, and the Bahā’ī World Faith are the most global” (1988, 303).
Working backwards from the Bahā’ī Faith’s Islamic origins, I began to wonder if there
were any specifically Christian antecedents to Bahā’ī symbolism. Of course, such an
investigation had to be narrowed, because Christianity is really too broad a category and too
sweeping a term for comparative purposes, considering that it adumbrates a veritable
“family” of “Christianities.” I therefore had to consider which form of Christianity should
logically be selected for comparison, and why. The answer soon became evident: Persian
Christianity was the tradition that was historically and culturally most proximate to Bahā’ī
origins. Persian Christianity was attractive also because it tied into my broader research
interests in “Persian” religions generally, from Zarathuštra to Bahā’u’llāh.
“Persian Christianity” refers to East Syriac Christianity under the Sasanian empire and
beyond. The term Persian Christianity is used by A. V. Williams (1996), Stephen Gerö
(1981; 1982) and others to refer to the “Church of the East”—the official name of the
church—which was territorially coextensive with, yet surpassed, the orbit of the Sasanian
empire. (Acknowledging that the term Iranian is technically more correct, both Syriac texts
Comparing Paradises                                                       3

and the greater part of European scholarship employ the term Persian [Williams 1996, 38,
n. 5].) This church is most commonly known as the “Nestorian” church, a “lamentable
misnomer” (Brock 1996) that has, over time, become a scholarly term of convenience.
In Late Antiquity, Rome and Persia were the world’s two superpowers. (The Sasanian
Empire was in power from 224–651 C.E.) Except for short-lived armistices concluded under
frangible treaties, both empires were constantly at war. Such “imperial warring” contributed
to a more or less equal balance of power (Williams 1996, 37). Politically, as an imperative
of survival when Persia was at war with Rome/Byzantium, Christians within the Persian
Empire professed their loyalties to the Sasanian monarchy. On the feast of Epiphany
(January 6) [**5] in 410 C.E., the Sasanian king Yazdegird I convened, by royal decree, the
Synod of Isaac (Mār Isḥāq). Under imperial auspices as a sign of goodwill, the Church of
Persia obliged the emperor in asserting its ecclesiastical independence. As a distinct
hierarchical body, the Church of Persia took a further, more decisive step in establishing its
doctrinal independence in 486 C.E., at the Synod of Seleucia-Ctesiphon, in total severance
from the West. In due course, under Islamic rule, the East Syrian “Church of the East”
would eventually have to coexist with West Syrian Jacobites, who were allowed to organize
themselves into a separate millet distinct from that of the East Syrians, thus augmenting the
Syriac Christian presence in Persia. In the medieval period, Syriac Christianity contributed
to Islamic culture and religious life in Iran and Central Asia. (In chapter 2, the organization
and diffusion of the Church of Persia will be reviewed in some detail.)
The Zoroastrian prelate, Kirdēr, in his well-known inscription on the Ka‘ba-yi Zardušt,
attests to the presence of both Syriac and Greek-speaking Christians (Williams 1996, 39).
Wolfgang Hage puts this in a broader perspective: “Christianity, thus spreading over the
Persian Empire, was mainly supported by the native Syrian and Iranian population, but to a
lesser degree by those West Syrians and Greeks who had been deported as captives by the
Persians from the temporarily occupied Roman border provinces into the East” (1988, 3).
Although the majority of Persian Christians in the Sasanian empire must have been ethnic
Syrians, the Church of the East was once a universal, multi-ethnic religion. It is probably
true that ethnic Persians once formed the single most important ethnic minority of the
Church of Persia. As historian Peter Brown has written: “The Christians within the Persian
empire had begun to feel at home. In the fourth century, many had been foreigners,
descended from the thousands of Syrians brought back as captives by Shapur I in the 260s.
Times had changed. Christians now came from the Iranian population itself, through
intermarriage and, occasionally, through conversion. Pehlevi (Middle Persian) joined Syriac
as the other language of the Nestorian Church” (1997, 172).
The church within the Sasanian empire became increasingly “Persian” owing to the
burgeoning number of native converts from Zoroastrianism, many of whom were, and still
are, revered as martyrs. In the sixth century, the patriarch of the Persian church was
Catholicós Mār Abā I (d. 552), a born Zoroastrian who was “educated in Persian literature”
and who had once “scorned the Christians and despised the sons of the Covenant” (Williams
1996, 45, n. 36), and who himself became a martyr. We find unmistakable evidence of the
importance of Zoroastrian converts to Persian Christianity in its principal historical sources:
the official canons of synods; and the hagiographical acts of the Persian martyrs. Compiled
under the direction of Catholicós [**6] Timothy I (d. 823), the official documents of the
Comparing Paradises

Church of the East are recorded in the Synodicon Orientale, a record containing the acts of
synods for the period 410–775 (Chabot 1902). In 544, at the Synod of Mār Abā, we
discover that there were bishops of Iranian episcopates who had retained their Zoroastrian
names, such as Ādur-Hormizd, Dādāfrīd, Hormizd, Mihr-bōzīd, Mihr-Narsēh, and Mihr-
Hormizd (Williams 1996, 39). The Persian martyr Mār Giwargis, born with the Zoroastrian
name Mihrām-Gušnasp, was, from youth, “thoroughly instructed in Persian literature and
trained in the lore of the Magians,” and was thus equal to his Zoroastrian persecutors in
interrogations prior to his martyrdom (Williams 1996, 51–52).
Persian Christianity was, as stated, a historical development of East Syriac Christianity.
As Christianity’s most successful missionary church until decimated by the Mongols, the
Church of the East successfully indigenized itself among local populations throughout the
Persian Empire, Central Asia, India, and China. While it is true that Persian Christianity
remained a predominantly Syriac tradition, with liturgy and instruction in Syriac, subsidiary
Persian vernaculars were used to consolidate the influx of ethnic Iranian converts. Thus,
there were imperial, ecclesiastical, ethnic, and vernacular elements that were distinctively
Iranian.
Apart from the comparative agenda at hand, the study of Syriac Christianity provides an
important corrective to a largely Eurocentric writing of Christian history. The Syriac
language (Christian Aramaic) originated in Edessa—the “Athens of the East”—in the
province of Osrhoëne (Mathews and Amar 1994a, 34). Syriac Christianity flourished in
northern Mesopotamia (both Roman and Persian), in neighboring Adiabene (in 116 C.E., the
Roman province of Assyria, reconquered by the Persians) and in points east. As its influence
spread, Syriac emerged as the third international language of Christianity in Late Antiquity,
thus ranking, alongside Greek and Latin, as one of the three great languages of Christian
liturgy and missionary endeavor in the early centuries. As “the most important language of
the Christian East” (Rilliet 1992c, 2:809), Syriac was central to the diffusion of Christianity
—in its concentric taxonomy—throughout the Persian Empire and along the Silk Road,
through “Outer Iran,” all the way to China. This linguistic and historical fact invests Syriac
studies with an intrinsic importance. West to East, Christian identities shaped on the basis of
Latin, Greek, and Syriac represent the three principal divisions of Christianity’s first
millennium, such that Syriac Christianity represents “a third cultural [Christian]
tradition” (Brock, apud Drijvers 1996, 173).
What is so distinctive about pre-Persian, Syriac Christianity relative to other forms of the
Christian faith (or “Christianities”)? When one steps across the linguistic borders of the
Latin West and the Greek [**7] East into the spiritual frontier of the Syriac Orient, the
Christian landscape suddenly becomes a Semitic hinterland, the inner landscape tinctured
with a rich array of metaphors, expressions twinned with spiritual experience expressed in
artistic enigmaticity. Largely absent here are the enormous debts to classical philosophy and
its categories so pronounced in Hellenistic Christianity. In early Syriac Christianity, there
was no effort to forge a synthesis between classical thought and Christian doctrine. Instead,
native metaphors, rooted in vivid Semitisms, irradiate the literary horizon. Syriac
Christianity was not propositionally controlled. More importantly, given its liturgical setting
in Syriac worship, “theology” was popularly based, and was outside the province of the
Comparing Paradises                                                       5

educated élite. Syriac liturgical theology bridges the typical gulf between so-called official
and popular forms of religion.
Historically, it seemed obvious to me that “Persian” Christianity presented itself as the
better candidate for comparison with the Bahā’ī tradition than mainstream Graeco-Latin
“Roman” (later Byzantine) Christianity. Given the Islamic background of the Bahā’ī Faith,
it is noteworthy that Tor Andrae had already conjectured a Syriac Christian source for the
Qur’ān’s description of Paradise (Andrae 1932, 71–72). Edmund Beck (1948 and 1961)
disputed this suggestion. Whether mediated through its Islamic heritage or not, a
preliminary comparison disclosed that Bahā’ī texts betray some intriguing affinities with
Syriac texts.
As the formative period of Syriac spirituality, the fourth century was decisive in the
development of all subsequent forms of Syriac spirituality. Because of this, it was not the
trunk and the branches of the East Syrian ecclesiastical tree that most interested me, but
rather the symbolic roots of Persian Christianity as exemplified in the hymns of St. Ephrem
the Syrian (d. 373 C.E.) and the Demonstrations of Aphrahāṭ (d. c. 345 C.E.). Persian
Christianity—and the early Syriac Christianity that predates it—actually begins with
Aphrahāṭ, “the Persian Sage,” who was the first Father of the Syrian church and “our first
major Christian writer from outside the Roman Empire” (Brock 1994, 71). The earliest
Syriac literature is said to have been of “clearly ‘Persian’” origin (Rilliet 1992c, 2:810),
with respect to the twenty-three Demonstrations of Aphrahāṭ. He wrote during a period of
intense persecution of Christians (Aph. Dem. XVI.1) and was understandably quite anti-
Persian politically (V.1).
In addition to Aphrahāṭ, early Syriac Christianity is best exemplified in the hymns of
Ephrem the Syrian, “the poet of the Christian paradox” (Brock 1983, 14), acclaimed to
have been the greatest poet of Christianity in the patristic period. Not only is he the most
important exemplar of early Syriac spirituality, Ephrem is as universal a representative of
Christianity in Late Antiquity as any other [**8] single candidate. The early Syriac culture
area, of which Ephrem was a part, was defined by coterminous “Roman” and “Persian”
spheres of influence. This Christian milieu was a mosaic of Marcionites, Bardaiṣanites, and
Manichaeans in which orthodox [Nicene] Christianity was originally a minority community
known as Paluṭians, for whom “enkrateia [sexual holiness] was the religious ideal of
almost all groups except the Bardesanites” (Drijvers 1996, 173). From his obscure origins
among the Paluṭians, and within his own lifetime, Ephrem’s reputation began to spread
throughout the Christian world. He is the only Syrian Christian to have been canonized as a
saint in the Catholic Church. As the more illustrious of the two, Ephrem will be privileged
over Aphrahāṭ, while the latter will be adduced to supplement the former.
Although he lived on the Roman-Persian frontier, Ephrem was not a Persian; yet during
his own lifetime, there was significant contact with Persian Christians, so much so that the
theological school in Edessa (which Ephrem is traditionally said to have once headed) was
known as “The School of the Persians” (Brock 1996, 33). In 489, the emperor Zeno closed
the school, which then relocated to Ephrem’s native city of Nisibis, which, in 363, had been
ceded to the Persians. The fact remains that Ephrem was one of the principal spiritual
forebears of the Church of Persia that formed less than forty years after his death. These two
luminaries of Syriac spirituality—Aphrahāṭ and Ephrem—established the legacy on which
Comparing Paradises

the Church of Persia was later founded. In the present study, therefore, I shall explore these
Syriac roots of Persian Christianity, for possible Christian antecedents of Bahā’ī symbolism.
The stamp of Syriac symbolism is visible throughout Syriac liturgy and imagery down
to the present. Today, Syriac Christianity survives in Iraq and Iran (the heartland of the
ancient Sasanian empire) as well as diasporally, in its several configurations: Assyrian (two
Patriarchates, East Syriac [“Nestorian”] liturgy): (1) Assyrian Church of the East (New
Calendarian—Tehran, Chicago); (2) Assyrian Church of the East (Old Calendarian—
Baghdad). Orthodox (“Jacobite” with two Patriarchates, West Syriac liturgy): (3) Universal
Syrian Orthodox Church of the Patriarchate of Antioch including its Church in India; (4)
Syrian Orthodox of the Autocephalous Malankara Church of India. Catholic (Oriental
Uniate): (5) Chaldean Patriarchate of Babylonia (Baghdad, East Syriac liturgy); (6) Syro-
Malabar Church of India (East Syriac liturgy); (7) Syrian Catholic Patriarchate of Antioch
(West Syriac liturgy); (8) Maronite Church (West Syriac liturgy); (9) Malankara Catholic
Church (West Syriac liturgy). Protestant: (10) Mār-Thoma (Anglican); (11) Assyrian
Evangelical Church (Tehran); (12) Assyrian Pentecostal Church; (13) “Philadelphia
Church” (Iran); (14) various Assyrian Presbyterian congregations. Syrian converts to [**9]
Protestant denominations have been excluded from dialogue within the Syrian tradition.
In the first three of these four families, Ephrem has a distinct place of honor. Among
these various Syriac Christian traditions, as a legacy, Aphrahāṭ’s and Ephrem’s imagery for
Christ’s incarnation is perhaps more faithfully preserved in the East Syrian tradition (Brock
1994, 82–83), as is evidenced in the liturgy known as the Huḏrā (“Cycle”; Breviary). (See
Appendix IV, “Fragments of a Lost Persian Christian Liturgy,” at the end of this book.)
Collectively, these Syriac-oriented groups represent an attenuated, but living religion,
contemporary with the Bahā’ī Faith. None of the present-day remnants of Syriac
Christianity will, however, be selected for comparison. Instead, I have restricted my
investigation to the formative period of Persian Christianity—before there was even an
officially constituted “Church of Persia”—in order to study the most important and
symbolically rich Syriac texts—particularly the hymns of Ephrem the Syrian and, to a lesser
extent, the discourses of Aphrahāṭ, the Persian Sage—written during the golden age of
Syriac literature.
While diachronically distant in respect of origins, bridged by the Islamic period, Persian
Christianity is historically antecedent to the Bahā’ī religion by pedigree in the religious
history of Iran. Comparison of Syriac Christianity and the Bahā’ī Faith is thus justified on
grounds of common geographical, historical, ethnic and, to a lesser extent, linguistic
contexts. Comparing the imagery of the two traditions should make it possible to
demonstrate how symbolic transformation may be the reflex of an underlying paradigm
shift of religious ideals.
As symbol systems, these two religions exhibit a wide range of expressive and
ideological similarities, insufficiently classified as “parallels.” The object of this study is to
compare some of the dominant, world-defining Syriac symbols of early Persian Christianity
with commensurate symbolism in the Bahā’ī Faith, with respect to the core paradigms (that
is, the overarching and governing religious concerns) of each of the two religions.
Obviously, Islam is presumed to have played an intermediary role in the transmission and
transformation of Christian symbolism, as taken up in the Bahā’ī religion. While a
Comparing Paradises                                                       7

suppressed genealogy is unavoidable in suggesting that symbolic transformations may occur
as a result of paradigm shifts from one religion to another, I will be arguing analogically
based on a coherence theory of truth.
The contribution I wish to make is primarily methodological. Through a systematic
worldview analysis and disciplined comparison of worldviews, my objective is to interpret
parallels by nuancing their differences—differences that correlate to the symbolic logics of
the religions being compared. If successful, this project could suggest a [**10] model for
synchronic comparisons of diachronically unrelated traditions. In the present study,
however, there is at least a distant diachronic relationship between the Christian and Bahā’ī
religions. If history looks at the causes, phenomenology can at least examine the effects.
Data selection typically excludes more than it includes, so that a decision governing data
selection required justification. During preliminary research, this finding fell into focus: In
both Syriac and Bahā’ī traditions, many dominant symbols related to notions of Paradise.
Why? Because Paradise allegorizes ideals. Paradise imagery may be analyzed as the
projection of religious ideals onto an eschatological canvas. Visions of Paradise are the
stained-glass windows of world-views, encompassing most of the imagery—or “key
symbols”—to be analyzed in this study. Luxuriant gardens, fountains, flowing streams,
succulent fruits, jewels, pearls, illumination—all of these images can be promoted within a
religious community as a master allegory of all that is ideal. Paradise is demonstrably a
reflex of prevailing standards of orthodoxy and orthopraxy. In the case of Persian
Christianity, the path to Paradise seems to be sacramental. In the case of the Bahā’ī Faith,
the path to Paradise appears to be sacrosocial.

Paradises and Paradigms
Ideals are “seen” in symbolic landscapes. Promotion of religious ideals, in Western
religions, often takes the form of promises of Paradise. Visions of Paradise disclose an
abundance of information relating to religious worldviews. As an afterlife, the existence of
Paradise is not empirically demonstrable. Yet Paradise inspires hopes of reward for pious
faith and for righteous works. In earthly terms, Paradise imagery contributes to “world
building.” Paradise has a social function, in addition to its traditional, eschatological role. As
“realized eschatology,” notions of Paradise influence faith-communities here on Earth.
Paradise images are certainly iconic. They can represent an ontological reality posited by
scriptural authority with whatever propositional infallibility is ascribed to it. But such
images may be reflexively symbolic as well. One man’s paradise may not necessarily be
another’s. And so it is that there are different notions of Paradise across the religious
spectrum. Within discrete religious systems, it may be observed that Paradise is
confessionally referenced. It is keyed to a set of values and behaviors that embody beliefs
about salvation and ideals of perfection. On an individual level, contemplation of Heaven is
thought-orienting and can supply strategies for action. For the faith-community, Paradise
may function as a master symbol of a core religious paradigm, a controlling, conceptual
model that governs ideal beliefs and behaviors.
[**11] Religions may share ideas in common about Paradise. This renders the
comparison more interesting and challenging. Symbols may be “the same”—exhibiting
Comparing Paradises

formal affinity—but disclosing significantly divergent shades of meaning. Parallels may be
seen as distorted mirror images. Visual nuances of one and the same image depend upon the
mirrors themselves, which reflect that image, but perhaps in slightly different ways.
Interpretations, after all, are forms of distortion.
Interpretations are governed by overarching paradigms. For the purposes of this study,
the term paradigm is indebted to Thomas S. Kuhn’s The Structure of Scientific Revolutions
(1962). Kuhn’s technical use of the term paradigm has recently been lexicalized in the 1993
New Shorter Oxford English Dictionary: “Philos. a mode of viewing the world which
underlies the theories and methodology of science in a particular period of
history” (2:2093). This study extends that definition to a religious context, such that
“paradigm” will now mean: “Rel. a model of viewing the world which underlies the beliefs
and practices of religion and society in a particular period of history.”
Paradigms can render parallels intelligible. As perspectival filters, paradigms provide a
heuristic key for explaining parallels. To nuance formal similarities and to resolve
conceptual differences, parallels need to be indexed to core paradigms, which are
coefficients of anthropological and soteriological assumptions. The present investigation
seeks to reference parallels to those controlling paradigms. As a contribution to what
William Paden (1996a) has recently called the “new comparativism,” this study proposes
the following axiom for further research and refinement: “Parallels” yield paradoxes of
commensurability resolvable by paradigm “logics” within religious systems, resulting in
symbolic transformation. This is a testable statement, not on historical, but on thematic and
typological grounds.
This investigation will explore how one religious paradigm may or may not compare to
another, and, in so doing, attempts to render such comparisons schematically clear. Formally
affine and distinctive symbols drawn from Syriac and Bahā’ī texts will be compared by an
inventory of features, with respect to superordinating paradigms of each religion. As the
main force of this research project is structural rather than historical, it is not within the
scope of this study to prove historical influences. It prescinds from advancing claims of a
genetic nature. While questions of historical transmission clearly fall outside of the province
of this project, history will afford an anchor for the data, in relatively “thick” descriptions of
both Syriac and Bahā’ī religious contexts.

Systems of Symbols
Symbolic analysis of religions proceeds from the fact that religions are systems of symbols.
Anthropologist Clifford Geertz has privileged or [**12] highlighted the role of symbols in
religion. In his 1965 essay, “Religion as a Cultural System,” Geertz works out a definition
of religion in terms of its symbols: “A religion is: (1) a system of symbols which acts to (2)
establish powerful, pervasive, and long-lasting moods and motivations in men by (3)
formulating conceptions of a general order of existence and (4) clothing these conceptions
with such an aura of factuality that (5) the moods and motivations seem uniquely
realistic” (1973, 90). This is a functional definition that has much tighter specifications than
does a definition like “religion is a system of numinous symbols”—a definition that
employs the same analogical model (Poole 1986, 440).
Comparing Paradises                                                       9

While favorably disposed towards Geertz’s definition, Willard Oxtoby observes: “Many
have found Geertz’s article a useful mainstream representative of twentieth-century social
theory of religion. This is so despite the evident elasticity of some of its wording. Just what,
for instance, is an ‘aura’ of factuality? Just how, exactly, do symbols, rather than people,
‘act’? But a strength of the definition is its parallel between clause 4 as intensification of
clause 3, and clause 5 as intensification of clause 2” (1996c, 499). Note that it is not a
requirement that the symbols themselves “seem uniquely realistic” but rather what they
represent or evoke ought to seem realistic. Geertz defines a symbol as “any object, act,
event, quality, or relation which serves as a vehicle for a conception—the conception is the
symbol’s meaning” (1973, 91). In the present study, scriptural symbols are “objects” as well
as allegorical “acts” that metaphorically and narratively enshrine conceptions. Clearly,
Geertz’s definition intensifies the relation between religion and its symbols by defining
religion in terms of its symbols.
Symbols are interesting, but why are they important for the Study of Religion? Sherry
Ortner describes the importance of Geertz’s own interest in symbols as methodological
revolution of sorts: “Geertz’s most radical theoretical move (1973b) was to argue that
culture is not something locked inside people’s heads, but rather is embodied in public
symbols, symbols through which the members of a society communicate their worldview,
value-orientations, ethos, and all the rest to one another, to future generations—and to
anthropologists. With this formulation, Geertz gave the hitherto elusive concept of cultural
symbols a relatively fixed locus, lending the study of such symbols a degree of objectivity
previously lacking. The focus on symbols was for Geertz and many others heuristically
liberating: it told them where to find what they wanted to study. Yet the point about symbols
was that they were ultimately vehicles for meanings; the study of symbols as such was
never an end in itself” (1984, 129). Religious symbols inform and structure religious
consciousness.
Books are typically less interesting when devoid of illustrations. Perhaps the same could
be said of scriptural texts as well. Symbols are [**13] the illustrations of sacred ideas and
ideals. Symbols are more than illuminative. They have a focalizing function. The key to
Ricoeur’s theory of symbol is his formula (cited by C. Long 1986, 50): “Le symbole donne
à penser” (“Symbol invites thought”). For Ricoeur, the symbol is a two-dimensional
phenomenon, unifying dual universes of discourse: linguistically, symbols exhibit
metaphoricity; and pre-semantically, symbols are rooted in the depths of human experience,
from which derives their evocative power (see DeLoach 1983). “All texts,” Dilworth writes,
“convey meaning in assertive (propositional), active (morally and politically agential), and
exhibitive (aesthetic, performative) modes of expression or judgment” (1989, 18). Symbols,
by Dilworth’s standards, are not assertive. But they are “active” and “exhibitive.” Their
agential role is stressed in the anthropology of religion.
Symbols are encoded metaphors. Behind symbolization, figuration will be assumed to
exist. As Rice and Schofer state: “Extended over an entire text, the act of reading and
interpretation is a complex interplay between symbolization and figuration. Although
figures and tropes can be isolated for analysis, in reading there can be no figuration without
symbolization and no symbolization without figuration” (1983, 37). Symbolism is a
transformation of metaphoricity, with respect to its iconic function in representing
Comparing Paradises

nonphysical, or spiritual, reality. Apart from signs, which are explicit, symbols may possess
what Royce calls “surplus meaning” (cited in Fawcett 1970, 28). A symbol is most
commonly defined as “a material Object substituted for a moral or spiritual truth” (Bullinger
1968, 769). How does a symbol come to be? Bullinger states that a symbol is formed in
three stages: (1) a metaphor or metonymy is used to represent something other; (2) the one
is used to imply the other; and (3) finally, the one comes to permanently substitute for the
other (ibid., 770). Wheelwright is simpler still. He suggests that a symbol is a “metaphor
stabilized” (1960, 7).
To oversimplify, a symbol is a metaphor reified over time, being transformed, in the
currency it acquires through recurrent usage, from a “unique flash of insight” to “a relatively
stable element of perceptual experience, standing for some larger meaning or set of
meanings which cannot be given, or not fully given, in perceptual experience
itself” (Wheelwright 1962, 93, 92). Though Rice and Schofer do not give a definition of
symbol as such, it is clear from their discussion of the symbolic process that a symbol is
marked only by incompleteness, since there is no incompatibility between the text and
context, as there is in figuration. Yet the reader detects the incompleteness and decodes the
text symbolically (1983, 38).
Cain proposes what is one of the simpler approaches to symbol, in which the symbol
mediates between subject and numen. By “numen” is meant the signified, perceived,
extrarational, sacred reality of the [**14] believer’s universe (1979, 340). (No ontological
commitment is made in postulating this symbolic domain.) In this schema, the symbol
evokes the presence of the numen. Typically, symbols find their “fulfillment” in numinously
evocative ritual, dream, or vision. They may likewise be “realized” in the present through an
act of identification, even if that be an exegetical one. If the Cross is the symbol of
salvation, the object symbolized is Christ (the savior), the subject symbolized is man (the
saved), while the numen is salvation (my example). Here, the symbol links subject and
object, by linking the numinous with the evocative and sympathetic power of the symbolic.
The symbol’s referent is experientially, but not empirically, verifiable. The subjective
apperception of the numinous through the symbolic is real enough. To the extent that
symbols, as numinous archives of meaning, incorporate ideas, they may be said to
hypostatize them. Ontological claims of a supramundane power may be studied as a
psychological reification of that which is experienced or imagined. Not the ontology but,
rather, the interpretive “reality” is of immediate hermeneutical concern.
One must determine how symbols concatenate. The symbol is an enigma. It is like an
oracle; it needs to be deciphered. A symbol is not susceptible of interpretive closure, or
“truth exhaustion,” partly because of its recombinant possibilities in connection with other
symbols. Charles Long observes that “religious symbols, precisely because of their intrinsic
power, radiate and deploy meanings; the spread of these meanings creates an arena and field
of power relationships” (1986, 2). Relationally, within a religious system, symbols possess
what might be thought of as a kind of collective “dream logic.” This process of decoding is
not a purely mental operation. As an encoded metaphor, the symbol is not simply a code. It
is a mode of expression. One might even speak of its emotional content. The symbol is the
language of the heart.
Comparing Paradises                                                       11

As Oxtoby often says to his students, the methodological “proof of the pudding” is both
in the pudding and in the eating of it. Which is to say that data selection is just as significant
as the methodologies brought to bear on the data. To this end, selecting for the more
important symbols becomes a methodological concern. Some symbols are more important
than others in terms of their relative influence. There are dominant symbols and there are
subsidiary symbols. Dominant symbols have been termed “key symbols” in the
anthropology of religion. Constellations of subordinate symbols may cluster around key
symbols, which are the affective and exhibitive poles of religious thought. Identification of
preponderating symbols provides the necessary data for comparison. Interpretation of this
data on comparative grounds derives from research design. In the next section, the concept
of “key symbols” will be explained.

[**15] Key Symbols
In this study, Syriac Christianity and the Bahā’ī Faith are conceived of as constellations of
information-rich key symbols, exhibiting a wealth of metaphorical language operating as
concept indicators. In general terms, a religious symbol will be expected to significate “the
knowledge by which self/society/action are joined” (Jensen 1992, 6). This is an integrative
definition in its part-to-whole set of relations.
Given the existence of competing theories of the symbol, and its wide array of
definitions, it is necessary either to invent or to adapt a paradigm, to the exclusion of others.
This study will adapt Sherry Ortner’s concept of the “key symbol.” This technical term
derives from symbolic anthropology. On the basis of her 1970 dissertation, Ortner (1973)
developed a model of symbolism for “symbolic analysis”—a paradigm that will be adapted
to the present study. Ortner wanted to show that cultures were not just clusters of symbols,
but something more. Cultural symbols were more than even the ideologies they represent.
A “key symbol”—a super-ordinating, dominant image of an idea or an ideal—is
immediately cognizable. A key symbol commands respect, fixes attention on the intentional
referent for which it stands, a silent yet evocative representation of something religious,
present, ethereally imperial. Among the dominant “key symbols” of a given culture are “key
scenarios” or schemas for enacting cultural behaviors. Ortner’s paradigm will be employed
independent of its original theoretical context and adapted to the discussion at hand.
Generally, key symbols are of two kinds: “summarizing” and “elaborating” (see
schematic in Kippenberg 1985, 189; apud Goedendorp 1991, 117). “Summarizing” key
symbols are iconic, sacred symbols, “objects of reverence and/or catalysts of emotion,” such
as the Cross for Christians, corresponding perhaps to the “Material” or “Artistic” (seventh)
dimension of Smart’s dimensional model of religion. What is the Bahā’ī counterpart of the
Christian cross and spire? In the present-day Bahā’ī Faith, the continental Bahā’ī Houses of
Worship come to mind, as does the Bahā’ī ringstone symbol. By its very nature, a
summarizing key symbol is “clustered, condensed, relatively undifferentiated,
‘thick’” (Ortner 1973, 1342). A summarizing symbol is characterized by “its focusing
power, its drawing-together, intensifying, catalyzing impact upon the respondent” resulting
in a “crystallization of commitment” (ibid.).
Comparing Paradises

Summarizing symbols are said to “catalyze feeling.” They speak to “a different level of
response, the level of attitude and commitment.” Such symbols “ground” a variety of
“surface-level meanings to their deeper bases” (ibid., 1343). Ortner points to the American
flag as a prime example: “The American flag, for example, for certain Americans, stands for
something called ‘the American way,’ a conglomerate [**16] of ideas and feelings including
(theoretically) democracy, free enterprise, hard work, competition, progress, national
superiority, freedom, etc. And it stands for them all at once. It does not encourage reflection
on the logical relations among these ideas, nor on the logical consequences of them as they
are played out in social actuality, over time and history. On the contrary, the flag encourages
a sort of all-or-nothing allegiance to the whole package, best summed up on a billboard I
saw recently: ‘Our flag, love it or leave.’ And this is the point about summarizing symbols
in general—they operate to compound and synthesize a complex system of ideas, to
‘summarize’ them under a unitary form which, in an old-fashioned way, ‘stands for’ the
system as a whole” (ibid., 1340).
This study will take up Ortner’s other category of “key symbols”—those which have an
“elaborating” function. There are two primary modes in which key symbols operate:
thought and action. “Root metaphors” and “key scenarios” respectively represent ideals of
thought and action. In Ortner’s “key symbols” paradigm, “root metaphors” serve to orient
thought.
The term root metaphor was first developed as a key term and launched as a descriptive
and analytic category by Stephen Pepper (1942). Pepper conceived of root metaphors as
symbols imbued with tremendous elaborating power, in which the principal mechanism is
the metaphor. Root metaphors were pivotal in the maintenance of world hypotheses—
another term coined by Pepper—that roughly correspond to the notion of a worldview.
Acting as a symbol, the root metaphor provides a set of categories for cognitive and
affective conceptualizing of the world. Pepper linked his concept of root metaphors with
Kuhn’s notion of “paradigm”: “According to his [Kuhn’s] exposition,” writes Pepper, “there
is practically no difference between the function of a paradigm as a guiding pattern in
scientific procedure and that of the root metaphor as a guiding conceptual pattern in world
hypotheses except for the restricted scope of the former” (1984, 3:200).
In Ortner’s use of the term, a root metaphor is one in which “one can conceptualize the
interrelationships among phenomena by analogy to the interrelations among the parts of the
root metaphor” (op. cit., 1341). Root metaphors serve to establish “a certain view of the
world” (ibid.). A few words ought to be said about the term metaphor and how an
understanding of metaphors in general might elucidate the role of root metaphors in
particular. In her “key symbols” paradigm, Ortner seems unconcerned with linguistic
distinctions between “symbol” and “metaphor.” “Root metaphors” are simply a species of
“key symbols.” Nonetheless, it is important to bear in mind what a metaphor is and what a
metaphor does, as this does relate to an appreciation of the dynamics of thought-orienting
root metaphors.
[**17] Metaphor is arguably the ground of symbolism. Metaphor has been considered to
be the most elaborate of tropes. Traditionally taking it to be the most fundamental form of
figurative language, most theorists agree that a metaphor is based on association and, in its
dynamic effect, triggers some kind of transference of meaning in the mind of the reader.
Comparing Paradises                                                       13

Younger states: “The power of metaphor derives precisely from the interplay between the
discordant meanings it symbolically coerces into a unitary conceptual framework and from
the degree to which that coercion is successful in overcoming the psychic resistance such
semantic tension inevitably generates in anyone in a position to perceive it” (1990, 164).
Personification, for example, depends on verbal metaphors, metaphors of action (Dupriez
1991, 278). “Metaphorical thought,” wrote Max Black, “is a distinctive mode of achieving
insight, not to be construed as an ornamental substitute for plain thought” (1962, 237). A
metaphor is aspectual. It may be thought of as the overlap of two meanings (Watson 1984,
263).
For example, in the verse, “Why, then, has Israel become a prey?” (Jer. 2:14), Israel is
the “tenor” while the prey is the “vehicle” of the metaphor, in which the attribute of
vulnerability is the “ground” or overlap of meaning between tenor and vehicle (Watson, op.
cit.). This is very straightforward. The idea of Israel as prey implies vulnerability. In the
metaphor, the transference of meaning is covert, whereas, in contrast, a simile literally
“proposes the transference” (Hawkes 1972, 30). Negatively, Levin defines a metaphor as an
expression evincing, in its composition, a degree of linguistic deviance, in which the
meaning of a word swerves from its lexically codified usage. Due to their oddity, metaphors
require first to be construed before being understood (Levin 1988, 1).
Positively, Ricoeur argues that metaphor, by virtue of its semantic innovation, “is the
rhetorical process by which discourse unleashes the power that certain fictions have to
redescribe reality” (1979, 7). Rice and Schofer define metaphor as follows: “Metaphor is
characterized by a semantic and referential relationship made possible by the possession of
one or more semantic features” (1983, 21). This definition, based as it is on resemblance or
similarity, does not differ appreciably from traditional notions. Beyond mere juxtaposition,
in highly encoded metaphors, there are condensed, numerous intersections of meanings,
which are said to “contaminate” each other (ibid., 102).
In simpler terms, Thompson speaks of “metaphoric unity” in a text rich in figurative
language, in which that unity interrelates symbolic elements of the text “vertically.”
“Metaphoric unity,” writes Thompson, “occurs all at once; that is, a metaphor consists of
simultaneous ‘vertical’ layers of language analogous to a musical chord” (1990, 354–55).
Moreover, a metaphor “identifies rather than compares two elements” (ibid., 356), though
Thompson does not pursue the implica- [**18] tions of this contrast to simile. The use of
such language does not merely illustrate and supplement demonstrative statements of
doctrine. Metaphorical texts may in fact communicate more vividly and fully the
experiential dimension of non-discursive truth. A metaphor is more evocative than literal
discourse. Figurative speech, from a cognitive perspective, requires a certain level of
competence to decode. The same may be said of metaphorical and symbolic modes of
discourse in religious texts (cf. Goodenough 1951). A certain competence is required to
understand it.
“Key scenarios”—Ortner’s other class of “key symbols”—serve to influence action.
This is because “they are valued as implying mechanisms for successful social action.” Key
scenarios are endowed with “action elaborating power” that define “strategies” for “orderly
social action in relation to culturally defined goals” (op. cit., 1340). Key scenarios “are
culturally valued in that they formulate the culture’s mean-ends relationships in actable
Comparing Paradises

forms” (ibid., 1341). The activity of symbols is seen, for instance, in cult and sacrament,
where a symbol takes on a performative role in its creative or reconstitutive operations.
Action instantiates its symbols. In the cultic domain, therefore, we can accept the Weberian
notion that ideology influences behavior, such that key scenarios may have an ordering
function. Just as root metaphors are thought-orienting, key scenarios are action-ordering.
Ortner’s concept of key scenarios is akin to Victor Turner’s concept of “root paradigms,”
which have a persistent force in society. In Christianity, for example, Turner points to
martyrdom as a root paradigm (Turner 1974).
To recapitulate, key symbols of the elaborating order subdivide along a thought/action
axis, consisting of “root metaphors” (thought orientations) and “key scenarios” (action-
ordering). Root metaphors are “static formal images serving metaphor functions for
thought” while key scenarios involve “dramatic, phased, action sequences serving scenario
functions for action” (Ortner 1973, 1342).
Identification of key symbols within a single religious tradition constitutes internal
analysis, as part of what one might call “worldview analysis,” through employing what
Ninian Smart has termed “symbolic analysis” (1985, 33). In Syriac and Bahā’ī sacred texts,
particular attention will be given to two kinds of literary forms: (1) for analysis of root
metaphors, genitive metaphors (the most complex type of noun metaphor and one that is
frequently used to express Bahā’ī and Syriac root metaphors) will be used; and (2) for
analysis of key scenarios, allegories, or symbolic narratives will be adduced. Although this
paradigm is admittedly programmatic, the use of key symbols here should not be viewed as
deterministic or overly constraining.
It is necessary to distinguish between the academic concept of “key symbols” and
religious references to “symbols” within the Syriac [**19] and Bahā’ī traditions themselves.
By using nearly identical terms—i.e., key symbols (symbolic anthropology) and symbols
(Syriac and Bahā’ī terms)—the analysis runs the risk of being caught within a religious self-
understanding that “entangles the analysis with the very discourse it seeks to interpret and
explain” (Poole 1986, 413). The term key symbols—despite its terminological affinity to
religious symbols—is conceptually independent. It is theoretically crucial to the
performance of symbolic analysis that this distinction be maintained.

Dimensional Model
Analysis of data depends upon an adequate description of it. Adequate description is a
requisite for explanation. Ninian Smart’s “dimensional model” of religion assigns six
“dimensions” to each religion (1985). For mnemonic purposes, I have coined the acronym
DREEMS (Doctrinal, Ritual, Ethical, Experiential, Mythic, Social) to represent these
dimensions. Defining religions as systems of symbols (Geertz), this study focuses on key
symbols (Ortner), comprised of thought-orienting root metaphors and action-incentive key
scenarios. Providing holistic descriptions of religions as symbol systems for worldview
analysis, the invention of a “symbolic profile” orders an array of dominant, ideationally
indexed images within respective “dimensions.” These symbolic profiles are synoptic
mappings of dominant key symbols within each tradition. Key symbols for the various
dimensions of the DREEMS map are charted.
Comparing Paradises                                                       15

Clifford Geertz has defined religion as a “system of symbols.” Sherry Ortner—Geertz’s
student—has classified and defined those symbols. Now that a paradigm for symbols has
been adopted for the present study, we turn our attention to the religious “system” itself.
What does it mean to say that a religion is a “system” of symbols? A cross-cultural,
systemic model of religion is needed. Ninian Smart, a distinguished phenomenologist of
religion, has offered such a model. It is an analytical apparatus, with a methodologically
elegant, descriptive power. Whether or not this model gains widespread acceptance remains
to be seen.
Smart has developed and refined what he calls a “dimensional” model of religion. It has
the advantage of describing a given religion roundly, giving a picture of the religion in its
totality. So long as phenomenologists are careful to surrender to the data and not to the
model itself, the dimensional approach to religious systems can be quite useful. Although
spirituality seems to be characterized by a certain depth of ineffability, Smart’s six
dimensions of religion provide superficial, yet necessary windows into the functioning of a
faith community. Ideally, Smart’s dimensional model is a simple taxonomy of religion.
[**20] In Smart’s model of it, religion may be viewed from different angles, like turning
a six-faceted jewel. Each facet is aspectual, representing one dimension. Each dimension
also serves as a comparative frame for the focus of a comparison between two or more
religions. Over the years, Smart has variously described these dimensions. In what probably
has been his most important description of them, Smart’s Worldviews introduces the
following dimensions in this order: (1) the Experiential Dimension; (2) the Mythic Dimen-
sion; (3) the Doctrinal Dimension; (4) the Ethical Dimension; (5) the Ritual Dimension; (6)
the Social Dimension (1985, ix).
In the 1995 reprint of The World’s Religions, Smart has slightly revised these headings as
follows: (1) The Practical and Ritual Dimension; (2) The Experiential and Emotional
Dimension; (3) The Narrative or Mythic Dimension; (4) The Doctrinal and Philosophical
Dimension; (5) The Ethical and Legal Dimension; (6) The Social and Institutional
Dimension; (7) The Material Dimension. Under the last dimension, Smart subsumes the
“Artistic” (Smart 1995, 10–21). In Ortner’s terms of reference, it seems fairly obvious that
the Material or Artistic Dimension is where the majority of “summarizing” symbols are to
be found. The “Material” dimension adumbrates artistic and iconographic modalities of
religion. In the Bahā’ī tradition, the ringstone symbol (designed by Bahā’u’llāh’s son
‘Abdu’l-Bahā [d. 1921]) and the distinct architecture of Bahā’ī Houses of Worship fit nicely
here in the seventh dimension, but are excluded from the present study as they are not
literary. For the purposes of the present study, the seventh dimension, concerned as it is with
“summarizing” rather than “elaborating” key symbols, will be excluded from purview.
Smart’s dimensional model is not without controversy. Recently, Michael Pye has
argued that interculturally based theories of religion are in short supply and there is no
single theory of religion that is sufficiently stabilized to command wide assent (1994, 52).
Pye questions the utility of Smart’s model with respect to Japanese religions, in which both
“doctrinal” and “ethical” dimensions appear to be lacking (ibid., 59). Their absence leaves a
gaping hole in Smart’s paradigm. But is this an exception, existing in splendid isolation, that
in effect “proves the rule”? Or has Pye exposed a weak link that will break Smart’s
theoretical concatenation of dimensions? I think that the lack of an ethical dimension in
Comparing Paradises

Japanese religions is perhaps taken up elsewhere, in a transconfessional way, from some
other value system, religious or civil, lest we deduce from Pye’s remarks that the Japanese
who follow Japanese religions are altogether bereft of ethics. Smart’s model seems to have
withstood the scrutiny of other scholars over time, and to have enjoyed a certain popularity
based on its utility. (It is probably too soon to speak of a near consensus.) Smart’s
dimensional model provides a powerful analytic framework that makes significant sense
[**21] of complex religious, psychological, and social data by delimiting domains or
“dimensions” of religion.
The present study will employ Smart’s dimensional model of religion for descriptive
purposes, presenting two datasets for comparison. In so doing, this project is by no means
the “lengthened shadow” of Smart himself. The DREEMS scheme is an apparatus more for
illustration than for analysis. Its utility is seen by the fact of its rather widespread acceptance
in general texts on world religions. In the Encyclopedia of World Faiths, for example, “The
Six Dimensions of Religion” are represented by a diagram, a graphic six-piece pie in which
the dimensions, from the top going clockwise, are defined as follows: (1) Ritual: expressed
in worship, sacrifice, and other sacred acts; (2) Myth: stories which encapsulate fundamental
beliefs of a group; (3) Doctrine: systemization of beliefs and experiences; (4) Ethics: moral
codes and guides to behavior; (5) Social: institutional forms of religion; (6) Experiential:
personal spiritual experiences (Bishop and Darton 1990, 7).

Symbolic Profiles
The research design employed here is modular. It is constructed out of several models, of
which Smart’s is one, albeit a major one. The phenomena to be bracketed are key symbols,
comprised of two classes: root metaphors and key scenarios. Although comparison of Syriac
and Bahā’ī “key symbols” is abstract, the data is anchored in “local” traditions. This body of
data has empirical force. Wedded to Ortner’s key symbols paradigm, I have designed a
schematic grid for descriptive and analytic purposes, which I call a “symbolic profile” of
religion. A symbolic profile charts key symbols across the six-dimensional spectrum of
religion. A twelve-symbol constellation is produced. Configurations of key symbols will
thus be used for synoptic purposes. I have structured Syriac and Bahā’ī symbolic profiles
using Smart’s dimensional model of religion, but according to a different order. (See
chapters 3 and 5 for symbolic profiles of Syriac Christianity and of the Bahā’ī Faith.)
This model is really a metaphor, a purely abstract but theoretically powerful instrument
that in some sense “constructs the similarities in unexpected and insightful ways,” as Poole
explains: “The postulation of a metaphoric or analogical relation implicates a similarity-
statement and thus, provides the possibility of a comparison-statement” (1986, 421). It
should always be borne in mind that these categories (key symbols as well as dimensions)
are extrinsic to the phenomena themselves. A caveat on typologies and taxonomies:
Schemes are created by design. A certain amount of theoretical conniving goes into them.
They are somewhat hazardous in that the data may [**22] serve to reinforce the typology
rather than the other way around. A valid typology should exhibit predictive powers, but it
must never be a determinant.
Comparing Paradises                                                       17

This model entails the analogic mapping of key symbols in a territory of dimensions of
religion, as a theoretical lens to afford “‘epistemic access’ (Boyd, 1979) to two (or more)
relatively similar—but also loosely distinguishable—entities before analysis draws and
specifies the theoretically relevant distinctions between (or among) them” (Poole 1986,
420–21). Smart’s model uses the analogy of dimensions to justify a classification system
which itself filters and organizes the data (in the present study, of key symbols). The entire
idea of dimensions is of heuristic value only. Care must be exercised against any temptation
to reify the categories themselves. As we shall see, analysis of even a single key symbol
discloses depth structures that transect all of the categories. These categories of the sacred
are not sacred categories.

Worldview Comparison
Smart holds that “the very heart of the comparative study of religion” is “the comparative
analysis of worldviews” (1986a, 78). “Comparison,” according to Jeppe Jensen, “is the
basis of all communicable knowledge” (1992, 1). For specialists in the academic study of
religion, comparison is the basis for generalizable principles on the nature of religion.
The enterprise of comparing religions has a history in the academy, in which Donald
Wiebe has drawn attention to the problem of “motive and method” in the study of religion
as an academic exercise (1988, cf. 1989). According to Henri Corbin (1981, 3), the allied
concept of “comparative philosophy” was first explicitly formulated by Paul Masson-Oursel
at the Sorbonne, who saw formal philosophical comparison not so much in terms of
likenesses, which can be deceptive, but rather in analogies of relationships (of the type a/b =
c/d). The problem of comparison is, in fact, bound up with the very origins of the Study of
Religion as an academic field, and continues to challenge its foundations. The Study of
Religion—which is properly a field of study rather than a discipline—was, in its inception,
popularly known as “Comparative Religion.” It originated out of comparative questions and
endeavors. Sadly, the comparison of religions has lost much of its former respectability. As
Jonathan Z. Smith observes: “Comparison has come to be, for many in the field, the sign of
unscientific procedure” (1990, Preface).
The grander the comparative endeavor, the more susceptible it is to criticism. A good
example of this kind of vulnerability is given by Talmon (1991), who has discussed the
kinds of objections to com- [**23] parativism raised by specialists in biblical studies and the
types of distortions that may result when data is abstracted out of context. It is, frankly, safer
to be a specialist. The formal comparison of traditions may be less technically demanding
than the work of specialists, but the methodological considerations are perhaps more
challenging. By so saying, the assigning of degrees of difficulty is not intended; rather,
“larger” philosophical considerations must be worked out before bodies of disparate data are
to be “scientifically” compared with heightened methodological awareness. (Here,
“scientifically” is used more in its verificatory sense apart from what has come to be known
as the “scientific method” as religious data are typically not susceptible to quantification and
must therefore be evaluated qualitatively.)
Ideally, comparison should explore for patterns, modalities, or relationships among
disparate sources. This raises a fundamental question in the academic study of religion:
Comparing Paradises

What does it mean to compare? How does one interpret formal similarities between two
traditions? What difference do differences make? Can formal differences be functionally
analogous? Can formal similarities be functionally anomalous? Can differential
explanations be formulated to interpret a complexity of similarities and differences? And
how does one account for formal similarities that, over time, take on differences of
meaning? Indeed, a process of symbolic transformation takes place when affine imagery
takes on new shades of significance over time. If the present study succeeds in accounting
for such symbolic transformation, it will have had explanatory power.
Comparison should attempt to explain why it sees what it sees, and why what it sees is
significant. The larger issues, “the big picture,” and whatever the “overwhelming question”
might be, the research agenda, with its presenting problem—the mystery it wishes to solve
—can only be framed rudely and abstractly. Indeed, comparison is a figment of the
imagination, an “invention,” as Jonathan Z. Smith notes: “Borrowing Edmundo
O’Gorman’s historiographic distinction between discovery as the finding of something one
has set out to look for and invention as the subsequent realization of novelty one has not
intended to find, we must label comparison an invention” (1982b, 21). Cynically, even the
purpose of comparison is open to question, as Smith sums up well: “But the ‘how’ and the
‘why’ and, above all, ‘so what’ remain most refractory” (ibid., 35).
Methodology, the “logic of research” (Colpe 1979, 161), is not method stricto sensu; but
the latter, as practical application, should arise from the former. In other words, a distinction
obtains between methodology (as a philosophical orientation), and research technique (as
applied methodology). Methodology is the watchdog of the Study of Religion. Its principal
corrective value is that it is bias detecting and [**24] epistemologically aware.
Methodology can tell us much about credibility, as well as the impingement of worldview
on the research enterprise. The Study of Religion, in its purest disciplinary form, should not
be value-oriented, although the discipline is oriented towards value systems.
Ideally, a “preliminary neutralization of the ideological factor” (Colpe 1979, 162) shall
have taken place in the mind of the researcher. This need not preclude the bicameral life of
the scholar as a holder of values, religious or humanist. C. J. Bleeker has been careful to
unburden religious studies of its putative moral purpose without completely disengaging the
discipline from having social impact in that direction purely as a by-product: “This
judgment applies in the first place to the opinion of the people who think that the history of
religions and the phenomenology of religion should mainly serve to foster world peace and
social harmony, by creating mutual understanding among the adherents of different
religions. It is to be hoped that these high benefits for humanity may be the additional
results of the studies which we have in view. . . . In fact, students of the history of religions
and of the phenomenology of religion belong to different religious confessions and
churches, or profess no religion; what unites them is the unbiased study of religion as a
phenomenon of historical and current interest” (Bleeker 1979, 174–75; cf. idem 1972, 41–
42).
As to research technique, the academic study of religion has yet not evolved any
systematic rules for comparison. It lacks a methodological dogma; it has no canon of
method. A formal comparison of religions that claims to be of native origin from within the
Study of Religion is of prospective interest for the entire field. Such a comparative endeavor
Comparing Paradises                                                       19

would constitute an “event” that, if compelling in its coherence, would command the
attention of its professionals. A theoretically generic model is a candidate for generalization,
even for export to other fields. Whether the present study will have any such
methodologically generalizable potential, or not, is for others to judge.
“In no literature on comparison that I am familiar with,” writes J. Z. Smith, “has there
been any presentation of rules for the production of comparisons; what few rules have been
proposed pertain to their post facto evaluation” (1982b, 21). From the vantage of the study
of religion, one is obliged to look elsewhere for specific comparative strategies. Models of
comparative methodology, in all practicality, are almost always imported from external
disciplines: anthropology, sociology, and linguistics are prime examples of disciplines that
have endeavored to formalize procedures for comparison. With regard to the study of
religion, that discipline which has devoted the most attention to the problem of comparison
at the methodological level appears to be anthropology of religion. A seminal article on the
comparative method is that of Poole (1986).
[**25] Comparison has been defined as the attempt “to seek out affinities and
oppositions” (Lonergan 1972, 250). J. Z. Smith stresses a functional dimension: “A
comparison is a disciplined exaggeration in the service of knowledge. It lifts out and
strongly marks certain features within difference as being of possible intellectual
significance” (1990, 52). Smith has identified four primary modes of comparison: the
ethnographic, the encyclopaedic, the morphological, and the evolutionary, to which he
adds the statistical, the structural, and “systematic description and comparison” (1982b,
22–25). According to Jensen, the enterprise of comparison is said to encompass one or more
of the following: (1) Forms; (2) Functions; (3) Structures; (4) Meanings (1992, 1).
The utility of the comparative method is that it serves as a phenomenological tool in the
service of scholarship. In solving a “problem” in our understanding of religion in general,
religions themselves are dissolved in the solution: “Comparison does not deal with
phenomena in toto or in the round, but only with an aspectual characteristic of them. . . . The
comparability of phenomena always depends both on the purpose of comparison and on a
theoretically informed analysis. Neither phenomenologically whole entities nor their local
meanings are preserved in comparison. What matters in comparison are certain variables
that are posited by and cohere in theories and that are aligned with aspects of the
phenomena to be compared through some set of correspondence rules” (Poole 1986, 414–
15). Comparisons do not constrain religions. At best, they merely illuminate them.
Although comparison abstracts phenomena to extract variables for analysis, the
researcher still comes back to the traditions under examination to test for coherence of the
analytical result. Neither the adducing of parallels nor the adducing of dissimilarities must
blur the respective contours of each tradition being compared. It is, after all, the contours
that are to be compared—the shape of doctrine and the vision of experience—not the mass
of details. Once this is done, underlying thought structures may be discerned, or at least
hypothesized. Any comparison between two conceptual systems of spirituality has to be
sensitive to differences, however overt or subtle. This having been said, it is likewise the
enterprise of comparison to stake out similarities, and to comment on their significances. A
hypothesis that tries to account for both similarities and differences is one that is at once
“straining to identify the underlying pattern of stability of religious phenomena” while
Comparing Paradises

trying “to come to terms with the change factor: the moving, inconstant, spontaneous,
irregular, discontinuous, non-forensic, once-only, explosive, surprise element” (Capps 1979,
185).
Under ideal circumstances, the quest of the comparative enterprise—to tease out
underlying depth structures common to two or more traditions—may, on occasion,
culminate in the scholar’s peak experi- [**26] ence, described by Jonathan Z. Smith as “the
thrill of encountering a coincidence”: “The discovery that two events, symbols, thoughts, or
texts, while so utterly separated by time and space that they could not ‘really’ be connected,
seem, nevertheless, to be the same or to be speaking directly to another raises the possibility
of a secret interconnection of things that is the scholar’s most cherished article of faith. The
thought that the patterns and interrelationships that he has patiently and laboriously teased
out of his data might, in fact, exist is the claim he makes when his work is completed as
well as the claim that appears to be denied by the fact that he has had to labor so long. . . .
And this is why coincidence is, at one and the same time, so exhilarating and so stunning. It
is as if, unbidden and unearned by work and interpretation, a connection simply ‘chose’ to
make itself manifest, to display its presence on our conceptual wall with a clear round
hand” (1982c, 53). While comparison, in another Smithean sense, is “invention” in terms of
the methodological artifice itself, successful comparison provides insight.
Discovery is its own reward. Not every study will repay the investigator in this way. The
chances of a comparative study contributing significantly to the advancement of knowledge
within the discipline of the Study of Religion is, on the one hand, limited by the lack of
consensus on comparative methodology itself, yet, on the other hand, favored by the
relatively open and uncanonized state of scholarship on matters comparative.

The “New Comparativism.” Questions surrounding the role of comparison in the Study of
Religion, as well as the methodology of comparison itself, have recently received renewed
interest. In 1994, the North American Association for the Study of Religion organized two
panels on what is being called the “New Comparativism.” The first panel took place at the
spring 1994 Midwest regional conference of the American Academy of Religion (AAR).
The proceedings of this panel were revised and published in 1996. The follow-up
symposium took place at the fall 1994 annual meeting of the AAR.
Martin commences the proceedings volume with a retrospective: “The study of religion
in North America has been shaped by the work of Mircea Eliade more than by that of any
other single scholar” (Martin 1996, 1). Much of Eliade’s work has since been questioned.
The validity of his methodology, together with the phenomenological/morphological
tradition which Eliade so visibly represented, has often been rejected outright. “We thought
it timely, therefore,” Martin remarks, “to explore systematically the possible shapes of a
post-Eliadean paradigm or the study of religion.” This has everything to do with
comparison, since “the field initially emerged from and around issues of
comparison” (ibid.). Politically, in ways that directly affect funding, this is an [**27] issue
that impinges on how one “justifies religious studies as a secular field” (Paden 1996a, 5).
These two symposia have largely been responses to the position paper given by William
E. Paden, entitled, “Elements of a New Comparativism” (1996a). The paper begins with a
cynical statement on the state of scholarship of comparison in the Study of Religion: there is
Comparing Paradises                                                       21

precious little of it. Except for notable studies by J. Z. Smith and Poole (cited above), Paden
wonders “how comparativist models have been advanced” (1996a, 5), if at all. “Classical
comparativism” was marked by a relatively “contextless character” (ibid.). The older
comparativist endeavors typically overleapt their emic contexts and, in so doing, obliterated
local meanings and contexts. Comparativism to date has tended to be “laden with religious
or anti-religious purpose,” and has been problematic in university settings, owing to no
small amount of “theological privileging, ahistoricism, and foundationalism” (ibid., 5–6).
The foundationalism to which Paden refers is characterized by discourse about “the
sacred” or “the holy” that, without explicit bracketing, entails ontological commitments.
The descriptor, “sacred,” should demarcate a range of human behaviors that interact with
objects deemed to be supernatural and sacred. Such objects of veneration are typically
protected from profanization. But, whatever the “sacred” is to whomever, it must be “de-
reified” (ibid., 6). To avoid foundationalism, the data must never be preinterpreted, or
dogmatically privileged. This being said, Paden accepts the utility of a concept like “the
Holy,” so long as it is understood that this is a nonontological referent to “world-making” in
the religious experience (ibid., 12).
Classical phenomenology privileges the generic, while anthropology foregrounds the
culturally specific. Comparison must mediate between the two. To use an Eliadean term, the
comparativist venture was, and still is, a quest for “patterns.” Such a pattern is bilateral: it
functions as a bridge, linking generic and culture-specific understanding. A pattern
communicates dialectically between a “greater generalization (with its theoretic resonance)
and narrower, more specific, local investigation (with its empirical constraints)” (ibid., 9).
To this end, cross-cultural analysis must somehow strike a balance between morphological
forms of analysis (phenomenology of religion) and anthropological studies. The former is
generic, the latter is culture specific: “Comparative analysis,” Paden maintains, “works a
spectrum between macro-thematic patterns, which are trans-cultural, and micro-thematic
patterns, which are intra-cultural” (ibid., 8). Paden adds this word of caution: “Comparative
patterns are not fixed archetypes” but rather are “refinable concepts for uncovering, sorting
out, and testing selected commonalities and differences between religious expressions.” In
an ideal investigation, such a pattern may become an “instrument of discovery” (ibid., 7).
[**28] Comparison should bring into bold relief differences as well as similarities. A
balance between the two conserves a potential for deriving theoretical significance from the
arbitrary juxtaposition of culturally embedded particulars. The more pronounced the
contextuality, the greater the incomparability. Therein lies the paradox of comparison. But,
Paden is quick to add: “By drawing attention to the selectively generic aspects of a religious
practice, they provide a wider (and sometimes wider means ‘human’) context to the
otherwise singular, opaque embeddedness of the object in the cultural horizon of its
adherents” (ibid., 10). For Paden, comparativism is not simply typology or the description
of the role of “the sacred” in human societies. “Rather,” Paden concludes, “it is the central
and proper endeavor of religious studies as a field of inquiry and the core part of the process
of forming, testing, and applying generalizations about religion at any level” (ibid., 12). In
other words, comparison forms the basis for theoretical analysis.
Marsha Hewitt responds to Paden’s essay with some concerns of her own. This
discussion stands in implicit dialogue with other critical discourses, notably current feminist
Comparing Paradises

theory. Paden’s “New Comparativism” was not sufficiently developed. The “identification
of patterns,” which lies at the core of the comparative enterprise, was not “given the
sustained theoretical attention required” (Hewitt 1996, 15). Moreover, Hewitt worries that
such endeavors show “a greater preoccupation with establishing universal interpretive
frameworks that sacrifice particularity rather than preserve it” (ibid., 16). She warns of
“effacement or marginalization of particularity” if a proper dialectic is not maintained
between the two. Hewitt goes to the brink of openly opposing theory and fieldwork: “The
relationship between theories and conceptualizations of religion and concrete human
religious practice, in my view,” Hewitt says, “represents one of the most significant
challenges to the academic study of religion” (ibid.).
Furthermore, the academic study of religion “is political because it harbors a dimension
of power” (ibid., 17) in the management of information. What concerns Hewitt most is
“colonization or annexation of the other” (ibid., 15). This was the imperialism of the old
comparativism. Without a proper relational theory of reciprocity, in which the researcher is
understood within a process of interaction, there is a danger that “we end up imprisoned in
an epistemological mirror where we see our own reflection, and little else” (ibid., 18). Of
course, particularity without universality is also meaningless. For Hewitt, the new
comparativism means a shift from the old view of homo religiosus to a concept of homo
faber, or world builder (ibid., 19).
From a history-of-science perspective, Donald Wiebe tries to place comparativism
within the history of Religionswissenschaft. He argues that the novel elements in Paden’s
“New Comparativism” lie in [**29] its departure from Eliade. Wiebe then embarks on a
retrospective and shows that L. H. Jordan had articulated some of these very same concerns
back in 1915. Wiebe extends the retrospective in reviewing some of the views of Andrew
Lang, Edmund Leach, C. Scott Littleton, and Georges Dumézil. After standing once again
on the shoulders of these giants, Wiebe concludes that “it is not clear from the history of the
use of the so-called comparative method that it is really a method capable of any precise
formulation.” Simply going beyond Eliadeanism is not the same as advancing a new
methodology. “It is a heuristic device of major importance,” Wiebe concedes, “in coming to
generalizations about things, events, and processes, and in that sense plays an important
explanatory and theoretical role in those various fields of study in which it is used” (1996,
28). But it is not, as Paden would have us believe, the “central and proper endeavour” of the
Study of Religion.
From the vantage of cognitive psychology, E. Thomas Lawson looks at the ways in
which young children depend upon comparison to achieve crucial distinctions in their
knowledge of the world. In this light, the “New Comparativism” is really not so new. It is, in
fact, “a fundamental cognitive property” (1996, 32) and “an essential ingredient in any
approach that claims to advance our knowledge” (ibid., 33). While comparison finds a firm
footing in the quest for knowledge, comparison is only as good as the theory that supports it.
In Paden’s responses to the panelists, he agrees with Hewitt’s caveat against conceptual
imperialism. Hewitt’s interactive and moral strictures are simply protocols that are different
from the methodologically refined and reflexive protocols that Paden has advocated.
Notwithstanding, Paden claims that: “Comparativist understanding can also effect a kind of
reverse colonization” through a process of demythologizing the constructs of the old
Comparing Paradises                                                       23

comparativism, of maintaining a vigilant “suspicion of eurocentrisms and class
values.” (1996b, 39). (This came across as somewhat patronizing and unconvincing.) To his
credit, Paden openly discloses some of the classic misuses which comparativism has served,
to wit: “Christian apologetics using comparativism as an instrument of subordination,
universalists using it to equalize religions, and romanticists and mystics using it to give
prestige to religions of nature or of inner enlightenment over against historical, doctrinal
religions” (ibid.). These are what the new comparativism must guard against.
Wiebe has acknowledged that Paden’s program is “post-theological” and post-European.
Paden argues that the New Comparativism is also post-Eliadean. Paden shares some of the
same concerns as Wiebe over the legacy of Eliade. “The problematic nature of Eliade’s
phenomenology,” Paden adjudges, “is his oscillation between these two vocabularies: the
hermeneutics of symbols and the structuring activities of mythic and ritual behaviour.”
Nonetheless, Paden is not so dismissive [**30] of Eliade’s contributions: “Much of Eliade’s
work on religious world building, minus his perennialist hermeneutical overlay, can thereby
be converted into concepts of potential theoretic interest and testability” (ibid., 43).
While the new comparativism can salvage some good from the old, it must go beyond
“the otherwise bankrupt intellectual capital of the history of religions tradition” (ibid.). Far
from being a mere “extrapolation of patterns,” Paden concurs with J. Z. Smith’s call for “the
integration of a complex notion of pattern and system with an equally complex notion of
history” (1996b, 40, citing Smith 1982b, 29). Vigilant awareness of the dialectic shifts of
perspective between cultural microscope and cross-cultural binoculars (my metaphor, not
Paden’s) is a self-regulating process not present in the old comparativism. Moreover, the
new comparativism “is as interested in category critique as in category application” (1996b,
44).
Paden concedes Wiebe’s criticism that the New Comparativism lacks a specific
technique. This is rightly so, according to Paden, as comparative research does not follow a
set procedure. Countering Wiebe’s objection that comparison is not central to the Study of
Religion, Paden argues: “Comparativism is the one activity without which there would be
no field of religion” (ibid., 42). Concept formation necessarily derives from comparative
work.
Paden politely rejects Lawson’s cognitive psychology analogy, explaining that “the
specific issue at hand is the transition from old to contemporary academic
comparativism” (ibid., 44). What is new is the way in which similarities are nuanced. First
of all, they are now considered aspectual, not essential. Similarity must attend to diverse
local meanings and social functions. This does not implicate category ambiguity so much as
a concept of “pattern reflexivity and differentiation,” whereby similarity claims are nuanced
by the subtleties of “graded judgments” (ibid., 45). A fundamental difference between the
old and new comparativisms has to do with the overall research objectives: “Comparative
work in this mode is not looking for ideological or ethical religious universals, but for
determinative categories of human action and the intelligibility of those categories” (ibid.).
Beyond the categories themselves, there is the problem of explanation. Comparativism,
under certain circumstances, can explain what history cannot. “Thematic analysis,” writes
Paden, “can elucidate historical data and account for recurring patterns not explainable by
Comparing Paradises

historical diffusion” (ibid., 47). The problem is that there is lack of a “common theoretical
matrix” as well as a common purpose.
Continued progress will most likely result from the ongoing interface among disciplines.
In turn, this might bring closer the day when comparativism will come of age, and the Study
of Religion might emerge as a “propaedeutic discipline” (ibid., 48).

[**31] Comparison in the present study. Scripturally based religions as well as oral wisdom
traditions have contributed works of genius (whether “divinely inspired” or “revealed” or
simply sagacious) that constitute vital ideological resources of civilization. In comparing
Syriac Christianity with the Bahā’ī Faith, we are theoretically engaging two such vital
ideological resources, two religious worlds. We are asking the sources for structures. This
study will explore for patterning common to both Syriac Christian and Bahā’ī conceptual
systems, through an analysis of their respective “key symbols.” Although some sense of
outcome is hypothetically anticipated, the results are not foreknown.
The object of the present study is to solve the problem of similarity in terms of
difference. As an exercise in comparative method, it makes eminent sense to opt for a
limited systematic comparison. This investigation therefore invokes Platvoet’s (1982)
research strategy of restrictive comparison, which is more amenable to investigative control
(cf. Bloch 1970; Bock 1966; Eggan 1964; Goldschmidt 1966; Köbben 1970; Leach 1968;
Marsh 1967; Sjöberg 1955). To a certain extent, method must be tailored to the data under
study, yet any comparative study is implicitly a statement about comparative method.
Conceived here is not a quantitative, but a qualitative method. It is case oriented rather than
variable oriented. Method is a means to an end, but not the means to a predetermined end.
Terminological and philosophical comparisons (intellectualist theory), generally,
represent the norm for formal comparisons of religious documents as primary sources.
However, the present study is principally concerned with symbolist theory. According to
Mircea Eliade, the historian of religions is, above all, a hermeneut, not a philologist (though
philology remains a critical tool). Interpretation of the labyrinthine mass of religious data is
what the history of religions is all about (1969, 91). “The historian of religions,” explains
Eliade, “is preoccupied uniquely with religious symbols” (ibid., 88). C. J. Bleeker adds that
“philological and historical studies, brilliant as they may be, lead only halfways. The student
of the history of religions should be more ambitious: he should never rest before he has
clarified the religious significance of certain phenomena, however sphinxlike they may
look” (1972, 44). Given that religious thinking is largely structured on prediscursive images
or symbols, one contribution of this investigation is its emphasis on figurative language and
symbolism as a complement to discursive religious thought.
The present study is interested in drawing a “comparison of comparisons,” as it were, as
an approach to traditions rich in metaphor. It is recognized that metaphorical
commensurability is no guarantor of doctrinal affinity. Neither “truth” nor “logic” is of
primary concern here. (According to Smart, the “logic” of religious studies entails the
comparative analysis of religious doctrines, an operation of the [**32] philosophy of
religion [Smart 1986b, 10].) In the present study, it is the metaphorical “lie” which is of
principal interest, with respect to symbolism in general and Paradise imagery in particular.
Comparing Paradises                                                       25

The metaphorical expression of doctrine allows for both conceptual and expressive
comparisons. With respect to religious paradigms, the soteriology of each system will also
be compared, the social meaning of which in effect is community defining. Elements of
social patterning, such as sacramental practices, modes of conduct, expressions of art and
iconography, and other expressions of faith, lie beyond our purview here. Wherever
appropriate, a discussion of key conceptual terms may prove illuminative.
In the dialogue between ideas and evidence, ideal-typic images will be compared
synchronically instead of diachronically. This study is comparative-systematic (a
generalized approach) and not philological-historical (the specifying approach). There is no
need here to reduplicate the work of specialists except when the crux of an argument so
depends. However, original sources will be consulted as a necessary control.
Phenomenology of religion necessarily draws from the history of religions. The outcome
of the differences between Syriac and Bahā’ī symbol systems might provide some raw
material for historical investigation, but the comparison at hand does not seek to implicate
any historical theory. Of course, frequent reference to history is necessary for
contextualizing the two symbol systems. Moreover, each symbol system will be analyzed in
part in terms of a dialectic with history, which views each religion as a form of “response”
to the challenges of the historical present.
In noting this debt to history, the present study makes no attempt to formulate a causal
explanation in terms of history, in order to account for similarities and differences between
early Syriac Christianity and the Bahā’ī Faith as symbol systems. Furthermore, this study
will not address the genetic issue of diffusion (borrowing mechanisms) versus independent
invention. Indeed, “genealogy and analogy must be distinguished” (Alderink 1992, 218).
Rather, our focus is on questions of typological symmetry (and asymmetry), not on
problems of historical relationships.
Whenever possible, without sacrifice to honest academic appraisal, Wilfred Cantwell
Smith’s canon of believer intelligibility will be kept under advisement. In its simplest form,
Smith’s canon holds: “It is the business of comparative religion to construct statements
about religion that are intelligible within at least two traditions simultaneously” (1969, 52).
This is really an open-ended variation on the “emic” approach of the phenomenologist of
religion, who, exercising epoché or critical restraint, views the self-defining characteristics
of any religion as validating (but not as the only verificatory criterion).
[**33] Notwithstanding, one of the implicative functions of the academic exercise is
what Rudolph terms “the ideologically critical”—that is, “the dispute, from the point of
view of historically gained insights, with the religions’ own self-understanding, and the
decisive demarcation of the differences from individual theologies (dogmatisms) and
religious movements” (1979, 105).

Comparing Paradises

Symbolic Transformation as Paradigm Shift
Operative hypothesis. Key symbols across Syriac and Bahā’ī traditions exhibit both
similarities and differences, both partial and contrastive. Local differences may be
“explained” in terms of systemic differences. Thus, this hypothesis: “Parallels” yield
paradoxes of commensurability resolvable by paradigm “logics” within religious systems.
This operating hypothesis requires that careful attention be given to both internal analysis
(local) and external analysis (comparative).
Metaphors and symbols in the Bahā’ī Faith appear to compare closely with those in
Syriac Christianity due to the operation of immanental, superordinating root metaphors and
key scenarios common to each. Conceptual differences arising from these affective
congruences may be explained by respective incommensurables of soteriology. To the
extent that there is continuity between the two traditions, one may begin to speak, in
dynamic terms, of a “paradigm shift” rather than a static paradigm difference. While the
present study will not postulate a paradigm shift, it will explore for the possibility by
undertaking the preliminary comparative work.

Specific hypothesis. Our specific hypothesis postulates: Formal comparison of early Syriac
Christianity and the Bahā’ī Faith is constrained by their paradigms (respectively,
transformational purity and concentric unity), by which all phenomenological parallels
must be interpreted. Religions have systemic characteristics, which will be analyzed in
terms of overarching “paradigms.” Early Syriac Christianity appears to exhibit a paradigm
of transformational purity, while the Bahā’ī Faith is modeled on a paradigm of concentric
unity. The former is consonant with world-rejecting, vertical soteriologies of Late Antiquity.
The latter is more of a “horizontal” soteriology. It resonates with modernity, to the extent of
assimilating and rendering sacred certain aspects of modernity.
One fundamental difference between Christianity and the Bahā’ī Faith may be seen in
Syriac Christianity’s sacramental view of reality (purity paradigm) in contrast to the Bahā’ī
Faith’s universalist view of reality (unity paradigm). This similarity/distinctiveness paradox
may be resolved historically in terms of a (theoretical) paradigm shift, partially mediated by
Islam (community paradigm), from individual [**34] salvation to mutual salvation, the
respective conditions for the realization of which are quite different in emphasis, though
there is overlap in practice. Soteriologically, this contrast may be analyzed as an inverse
relationship. Historical evidence will be referentially adduced as a warrant, but not as a
proof for such a hypothesis.
Moreover, our specific hypothesis also holds that comparison of these two religions
reveals an uneven distribution of expressively congruent root metaphors across several
domains, but that key scenarios show fundamental divergences in the actualization of these
root metaphors. One might say that demonstrable similarities are predictable due to a
historically genetic relationship between the two faiths. We resist a temptation to posit a
deeper relationship based on some kind of essentialist interpretation.
Interpretively, in terms of worldview analysis, what we predict will emerge from the
comparative procedures outlined above is as follows: As religions of revelation in the
Abrahamic tradition, early Syriac Christianity and the Bahā’ī Faith will most likely exhibit
Comparing Paradises                                                       27

fundamental expressive affinities, but with local meanings indexed to their respective
paradigms. Christ as “Physician,” for example, dispenses immortality, while Bahā’u’llāh, as
Physician, dispenses unity. Both dispense salvation in their respective conceptions of it.
Symbolic transformation is a coefficient of responses to changes in history. Early Syriac
Christianity is based on a paradigm of purity. It is one response to Late Antiquity. In one
respect, Ephrem rejected the “modernity” of his day by rejecting Hellenism. (On Ephrem’s
knowledge of Greek, see now Koonammakkal 1994). From another perspective, Ephrem
rejected “archaic” religions as well. Bahā’u’llāh, however, embraced modernity by
sacralizing it.

Contrastive comparison. Of intrinsic theoretical importance is contrastive analysis. Once
expressive similarities are accounted for, fundamental differences between the two religions
should become more apparent. Not lack of data, but lack of adequate theory characterizes
the present state of most comparative endeavors in the Study of Religion. As J. Z. Smith
observes: “The issue confronting the enterprise of religious comparison is not so much one
of a lack of data, as one of inadequate theory ranging from matters of classification to more
complex matters of interpretation and explanation” (1990, 118).
In Drudgery Divine (1990), Jonathan Z. Smith, in the words of one reviewer,
“historicizes the comparative study of early Christianity and shows how it arises in the
context of, and is used to sustain, various polemical positions, for example, blaming the
corruption of Christianity on some opponent or other, whether it be Platonists, Jews, or
Catholics.” “In particular,” the reviewer continues, “the comparative study of early
Christianity was deeply entangled in Protestant anti-Catholic [**35] polemics that searched
for and therefore created a pure and idealized early Christianity that had not been degraded
through the absorption of practices and beliefs from other religions” (Eilberg-Schwartz
1993, 301). Smith’s study gives pause for thought: Can any comparison of religions be
value free?
It is necessary, therefore, to rely on method as a structural control. By delineating the
research design which structures this study, a certain measure of falsification is made
possible at the methodological level. There is likewise the need for interpretive control.
Determination of key symbols discloses the metaphoric structures of a religious paradigm.
If the underlying paradigm is not factored into a description and interpretation of these
symbols, all control over their comparison is lost.
The present study is an operation of comparative method on mythopoeic thought. With
respect to the hypotheses outlined above, the purpose of the worldview analysis undertaken
in this study is to construct an integrated explanation to try to resolve the congruence/
incongruence paradox in which Syriac Christianity and the Bahā’ī Faith are both alike and
dissimilar. If valid, both the specific as well as operative hypotheses will qualitatively
account for not only unexplained variance (contrast) but for unexplained consistency
(correlation). Such an integrative method renders comparative phenomenology more
precise.
Comparing Paradises

[**37]
II
A Historical Profile of Syriac Christianity
Syriac Christianity
The Christian world of the third and fourth centuries consisted of three major culture areas:
(1) the Latin West (until its fall in 476 C.E.); (2) the Greek East (in 395, Byzantium); and (3)
the Syriac Orient (northern Mesopotamia in the upper Tigris-Euphrates valley; and the
border province of Adiabene (see Neusner 1966), formerly known as “Assyria” under
Trajan in 116 C.E., but reconquered by Persia). “The idea that the early Christian tradition
was limited to its Greek and Latin expressions is still widespread,” writes John Meyendorff.
“This assumption distorts historical reality and weakens greatly our understanding of the
roots of Christian theology and spirituality. In the third and fourth centuries Syriac was the
third international language of the church” (1989, 1).

Introduction: Unlike Judaism and Islam, Christianity had no sacred language (Bausani
1971, 57). Nevertheless, Syriac comes very close to being a sacred Christian language, since
Syriac is a dialect of Aramaic, the language Jesus spoke. There is a temptation to interpret
early Syriac Christian texts as having reflexive value for reconstructing some type of
quintessentially “pure” form of early Christianity—one that might have developed directly
from the very structures of Jesus’ own thought world. While such an enterprise is as
romantic as it is problematic, Syriac studies is of intrinsic interest for its local color. It is a
mosaic of images and symbols, an ornate cathedral of thought and spirit.
Spiritually as well as linguistically, Syriac Christianity is distinct from the Greek East
and the Latin West. It is the least-studied stream of early Christianity, possibly the most
challenging. “Whoever wishes to study the doctrine of the early Syriac Fathers will look in
vain for formal treatments in clear propositions,” warns Murray. “All [**38] is symbolic
and figurative” (1964, 315). In its pre-schismatic period, early Syriac Christianity discloses
the profoundly Semitic character of a comparatively less-hellenized form of Christian
thought and praxis. Syriac Christianity is distinguished by its rich symbolism, its disdain of
precise and reductionistic creedalism, its preponderantly liturgical expression of Christian
truth in folk-level piety, and in its quest for purity of love and totality of religious
commitment in anticipation of eschatological requital. The Syriac penchant for symbolism
is pervasive. It suffuses the sanctuary, filling it with images of Paradise. Apart from its
reality, Paradise certainly is imagined, and is a very “real” psychological presence.
A Historical Profile of Syriac Christianity                                       29

Qualitatively, one significant difference between the mainstream Church of the Greco-
Latin world and that of Oriental Christianity may lie in the realm of noëtics. The antithetical
and substantial logic of Aristotle—introduced into Christian theology by medieval scholars
—is said to have been rooted in the haptic (tactile) cognition of reality. The metaphoric way
of expression in Oriental Christianity, on the other hand, is the manifestation of the logic of
assimilations and identifications in the optical cognition of reality. This is really a carryover
from Semitic spirituality, possibly mediated through some form of Jewish Christianity. (The
Jewish-Christian hypothesis is the only one that, for Murray [1975a, 16], satisfies the
number of significant coincidences attested in a wide range of early Syriac Christian
documents.) In Syriac Christianity, therefore, one finds the perspectivist approach in which
the proximal is synthesized with the distantial, giving rise to metaphoric expressions,
parables, symbolic deeds, and visions (see Nandrásky 1980). This orientation expresses
itself in Syriac Christian poetry as paradox and symbol, rather than by the definition and
analysis one finds in Christian prose. (A symbolic form common to all Christian traditions
was typology, the symbolic prefigurement of Christ in Christian reading of Jewish scriptures
and in other texts as well.)
Although Syriac Christianity developed in both the Roman and Persian Empires and
spread as far as China, for several centuries its legacy would predominate in Persia. In Late
Antiquity, from the fifth century if not before, what was officially named the “Church of the
East” (but more widely known as Nestorianism) became the most influential form of extra-
Roman Christianity up to the Arab conquest and beyond, until the Mongol slaughter in the
thirteenth century decimated the Syriac-speaking Church of Persia. The most pristine form
of Syriac Christianity flourished in the period prior to the fateful Orthodox, Nestorian, and
Monophysite schisms in which Greek Christological concepts were debated. These schisms
took place in the fifth century. Notwithstanding, Syriac Christian imagery and typology
were never in dispute (Murray 1975a, 36 and 347). Thus, early Syriac Chris- [**39] tianity
was a pre-schismatic, pre-Hellenized (with respect to later Christological debates)
forerunner of the Church of Persia.
From its obscure origins, early Syriac Christianity slowly crystallized “as a sort of
precipitate in a cloudy solution” (op. cit., 7). This was during a time when Rome and Persia
were the “two shoulders of the world” as the Synod of 420 C.E. characterizes the two
superpowers (Brock 1982a, 7). Between Rome and Persia was a border state caught in the
middle, whose fortunes were tied to the spoils of war. The tiny principality of Osrhoëne was
part of this power struggle, first between the Roman Empire and the Parthians, and later
between the Byzantines and the Sasanian Persians. Osrhoëne was a small northern
Mesopotamian kingdom around Edessa, from which Syriac is thought to have originated. In
132 C.E., Osrhoëne was established by a Seleucid governor of Persian ancestry named
Osrhëes (Khusraw, Chosroes). Thereafter it was governed by rulers of Arab ancestry until,
in 211 C.E., the emperor Caracalla conquered Osrhoëne, turning it into a Roman province. It
is said to have become a Christian state under the rule of Abgar VIII, known as Abgar the
Great (177–212 C.E.). This oscillation of power had left Edessa relatively independent, until
it came under Roman spear in 242 with the abdication of Abgar X.
Syriac Christianity thus developed from within the imperial domains of the
Mediterranean world’s two superpowers: the Roman Empire and the Persian Empire.
A Historical Profile of Syriac Christianity

Persian territory extended from Mesopotamia to the borders of India and from Armenia to
Arabia (Rilliet 1992b, 2:674). As a cultural interworld, Syriac Christianity straddled the
frontiers of both empires. Its sphere of influence was an ellipse, with dual centers in Edessa
(ancient Urhāy, capital of the Roman province of Osrhoëne in eastern Syria, now modern
Urfa in southeastern Turkey) and in the frontier city of Nisibis (recaptured by Persia in 363
C.E.). Ancient Nisibis was an outpost of the eastern Roman Empire, now modern Nuseybin
on the border between Turkey and Syria. Along the Silk Road, Osrhoëne and Adiabene met
at Nisibis, on the boundary between East (the Persian empire) and West (the Roman
Empire).

Ephrem the Syrian and Aphrahāṭ “the Persian Sage”
The two most important witnesses to early Syriac Christianity are Ephrem the Syrian (d.
373 C.E.) and Aphrahāṭ, “the Persian Sage” (d. c. 345 C.E.). These two writers established
the grammar of images that became the core of Syriac spirituality during its formative
period. Beyond the Syriac culture area, Ephrem is a truly universal representative of early
Christianity by virtue of his widespread acclaim outside of his own immediate culture area.
Although Ephrem wrote in Syriac, his fame spread across the Christian world, first to the
Greek East, then [**40] the Latin West. Ephrem is arguably the greatest poet of the patristic
age, and his “rediscovery” (Murray 1967) in recent years, as it were, has led to a
revalorization of his reputation.

Aphrahāṭ the Persian Sage. The first major Christian writer in Syriac was Ephrem’s older
contemporary, Ya‘qub Aphrahāṭ (Persian Frahāṭ, modern Farhād), known as “the Persian
sage” (ḥakkīma farsāyā). Author of twenty-three theological Demonstrations or Treatises
(taḥwyāṯā), little is known of Aphrahāṭ’s life. Also known as Aphraates, he wrote his
Demonstrations between 336 and 345 C.E. (the first ten were composed in 337; the next
twelve [11–22] in 344; and the last in 345). Asmussen describes Aphrahāṭ as “the first
historically distinct Iranian Christian of outstanding importance” (EIr 1:570). Evidently,
Aphrahāṭ was a Persian name (Justi 1895, 101–102, cited in McCullough 1982, 114, n. 4).
“[H]is traditional surname ‘the Persian sage,’” comments René Lavenant, “shows that he
was a subject of the Persian empire” (1992, 1:54). A fourteenth-century manuscript claims
Aphrahāṭ to have been an abbot of the monastery of Mar Mattai near Mosul, which,
although doubtful, still places him under Persian rule. There is no mention in Aphrahāṭ’s
writings of the Council of Nicea, as would be expected had he lived in the Roman empire.
Nor does Aphrahāṭ mention Zoroastrianism, as would be expected of a Christian who lived
in the Persian empire (McCullough 1982, 114–15). Yet there does appear to be a consensus
on Aphrahāṭ’s Persian context. This is reflected in a recent study, in which “Persian
Mesopotamia” is established as Aphrahāṭ’s historical setting (Koltun-Fromm 1996)
Aphrahāṭ’s fourteenth Demonstration was in fact addressed to the Christians of Seleucia-
Ctesiphon, the capital of the Persian empire (Asmussen 1982), although the authorship of
this text is in dispute (Pierre 1988, 1:47–54).
A Historical Profile of Syriac Christianity                                       31

In Aphrahāṭ’s interpretations, primacy is given to spiritual truth over contemporary-
historical truth, even though typological interpretation was itself considered “historical.”
The following piece of exegesis from Aphrahāṭ’s Demonstration IV.5–6, On Prayer, is
characteristic of the local Christianity in Persia to which Aphrahāṭ bears witness, and of
Syriac spirituality in general: “Our father Jacob too prayed at Bethel and saw the gate of
heaven opened, with a ladder going up on high (Gen. 28:12). . . . See, my beloved, how
many symbols are hidden in that vision which Jacob saw: he saw the gate of heaven, which
is the Messiah; he saw the ladder, symbol of the Cross; he anointed the stones, a type for the
Peoples” (Brock 1987, 8–9). The narrative source material here is Jewish (cf. Brock 1979a,
225–26). In evidence is Aphrahāṭ’s effective use of thematic parallelism, a traditionally
Jewish literary form. Thematic parallelism runs throughout Aphrahāṭ. A good example of it
is cited by Murray, who analyzes “The Grape in the Cluster” (Aph. Dem. [**41] XXIII
passim), an imaginative reflection on God’s relationship with man, as inspired by Isaiah
65:8–9 (Murray 1975, 113–19). Not only did “the Persian Sage” employ simple parallelism,
he extended parallelism as well. His use of Jewish themes, however, is not strictly
exegetical. It is homiletic and creatively so. John Corbett (1987) has shown that many of
Aphrahāṭ’s themes are Pauline in nature.
The Demonstrations are stylistically vivified through rhythmic patterns within the prose
discourse itself. Aphrahāṭ appears to have adapted a rhetorical device known as syncrisis (a
figure of speech by which opposite things or persons are compared). Aphrahāṭ seems to
have used syncrisis in a rhythmically formalized way. This special literary technique found
in Aphrahāṭ is what Murray calls a “comparison-series” (SCK 42). Aphrahāṭ’s exegesis
safely remains within the limits of typology, with both ends of the exegetical process rooted
in “history”—this being the definitive delimitation of historia and theōria. The prosaic
prose of Aphrahāṭ, lapsing as it does into cadent thematic comparisons, anticipates the rich
poetic and exegetical Syriac tradition to follow.

Ephrem the Syrian. The foremost Church Father of early Syriac Christianity, Ephrem the
Syrian was born c. 306 C.E. in Nisibis (Nṣīḇīn; SCK 8), a strategic city along the Roman silk
route. In 363 C.E., the Romans ceded Nisibis to the Persians. Ephrem made his new home in
Edessa (the native Syriac name for which was Urhāy). Although Ephrem did not choose to
remain in Nisibis, which was now a Persian outpost, his influence did. Syriac Christianity
bridged the cultural divide along the Roman-Persian frontier, such that Ephrem’s influence
was coextensive with Persian Christianity. “In fact the doctor of Nisibis,” writes one
authority, referring to Ephrem, “is a privileged witness of the tradition of the primitive
church of Persia, which lived at the margins of Greek culture” (Rilliet 1992a, 1:276).
On the life of Saint Ephrem the Syrian (see Mathews 1989 and Lieu 1989), two
hagiographic accounts are extant in Syriac. The most credible biographical details, however,
are to be found in the Encomium pronounced on Ephrem by Gregory of Nyssa (d. 395). As a
historian, Gregory assures us that his own account had derived from Ephrem’s own writings
and from no other source. As there is no evidence to suppose that Gregory knew Syriac, it is
likely that the writings of Ephrem were translated at a very early date into Greek. Other
Greek authorities on Ephrem include three fifth-century historians, Socrates, Sozomen, and
A Historical Profile of Syriac Christianity

Theodoret, as well as Jerome and Palladius. Details of these biographies have been
presented and analyzed by J. Gwynn (1898).
What occasioned Gregory of Nyssa’s biography was the fact that the early Church had
annually commemorated Ephrem on the “Saint’s [**42] Day,” normally observed on the
anniversary of the death of the saint. In the East, the date was set at January 28. According
to the Chronicle of Edessa, however, Ephrem died on 9 June 373 (Mathews 1994a, 36). This
date continues to be observed as Ephrem’s Feast Day in West Syrian tradition. Ephrem’s
tomb rests in the monastery of St. Sergius on the Mount of Edessa.
Evidently, Ephrem’s parents were Christian (CH XXVI.10). At a youthful age, Ephrem
experienced a personal conversion to Christianity (Virg. XXXVII.10) and was baptized (CH
III.13). Ephrem mentions the first four bishops of Nisibis (CNis XIII–XXI). He grew up
under the spiritual tutelage of Bishop Jacob of Nisibis, who was present at the Council of
Nicea in 325 (Bundy 1991). Throughout his life in Nisibis, Ephrem had been a faithful
deacon (‘allānā) under three bishops: Jacob, Babu, and Vologeses (Mathews 1994a, 29).
Having undertaken a vow of celibacy (HNis XV.9), Ephrem was one of the “Sons of the
Covenant” (bnay Qyāmā). This is not Ephrem’s turn of phrase here, but rather that of his
biographer, Jacob of Sarug (d. 521). Because he had studied in Edessa and later became
bishop of nearby Sarug, a town less than twenty-five miles south of Edessa, Jacob of
Sarug’s panegyrial mēmrā is of particular value.
Reflecting the native growth of an incipient Syrian asceticism, the concept of
“Covenant” permeated Ephrem’s thought-world and structured the entire belief system of
Syriac Christians. In On Mār Ephrem the Teacher, Jacob of Serug relates how Ephrem
composed hymns and sung them to the harp, teaching lyrics and music to the “Daughters of
the Covenant” as an antidote to the “poison” of the heretics (SCK 30). The expression
“Daughters of the Covenant” for virgins deserves notice here. In speaking of the
hagiography of the Edessan martyrs, Susan Ashbrook Harvey summarizes the meaning and
importance of the concept: “The simplicity of these narratives is belied by their strongly
nuanced Syriac vocabulary, for the dialogues abound with the use of the terminology
derived from the root qwm, ‘to stand.’ Christianity is repeatedly described here as a belief in
which one ‘stands’; and further, as a form of life and set of practices in which one ‘stands.’
The constant use of the root qwm for designating basic Christian life keeps us mindful of the
place of asceticism in early Syriac Christianity. The term used here for the ‘stance’ of the
Christian life is qyāmā, also carrying the sense of ‘covenant,’ as used for the Bnay and Bnaṯ
Qyāmā. In the early fourth century, the Sons and Daughters of the Covenant were still an
ambiguously defined part of the church, but the Acts of Shmona and Guria refer to the Bnay
and Bnat Qyāmā as suffering particular abuse in these persecutions. The language of these
Acts plays intentionally on qyāmā, ‘covenant,’ as another derivative from qwm: the
‘covenant’ of the consecrated life is not different from the ‘stance’ or covenant the lay
[**43] Christian has taken by the commitment of faith.” (Harvey 1990, 199).
Another meaning of the term qyāmā that directly concerns the present study is that of
“resurrection.” Nagel (1966, 43f.) suggests that the term qyāmā means “standing” in the
sense of anastasis (“resurrection”). The ascetics anticipated thus the vita angelica as “sons
and daughters of the Resurrection.” M. Williams, in reference to Nagel’s study, states that
“the Syrian bnay qyāmā/bnāt qyāmā tradition is another example of the development of the
A Historical Profile of Syriac Christianity                                       33

Jewish theme of ‘standing before the Lord’ (and assimilation to the condition of
angels)” (1985, 90, n. 37; cf. Vööbus 1961 and Nedungatt 1973.)
Ephrem’s life was tied to the vicissitudes of the Roman-Persian war. The Roman forces
under Julian had suffered defeat in 363 C.E. at the gates of the Sasanid Persian capital of
Seleucia-Ctesiphon (Middle Persian: Tēspōn). Julian’s successor Jovian ceded to the Persian
victor Shāpūr II (commonly written as Shapur) the northern Mesopotamian fortress-city of
Nisibis, emptied of its Christian denizens. Attributing the fall of his native Nisibis to the
apostasy of Julian, who was slain on the battlefield in the course of retreat, Ephrem
relocated to Edessa, where he spent the final decade of his life. (There is some dispute as to
whether or not Ephrem went directly to Edessa after Nisibis had been ceded to the Persians
[see Mathews 1994a, 33].) Ephrem noted that the Persian king had evinced singular respect
for the Christian churches by allowing the Roman Christians to depart in safety (a condition
of surrender confirmed by the historian Ammianus Marcellinus), spared of the execution,
enslavement, or forced exile into the eastern reaches of the Persian empire that had befallen
other recalcitrant cities in Mesopotamia (McVey 1989, 22–23).
This was in stark contrast to the brutal state persecution of Persian Christians, who
earlier had refused to pay the double head tax imposed on them, and whose open
sympathies with Rome made them potentially traitorous to the Persian Empire. Christian
relations with the Persian state were, to say the least, politically unenlightened. The exercise
of royal clemency towards captured Roman Christians, which Ephrem witnessed, is not
otherwise directly attested. As his relocation to Edessa attests, Ephrem chose to live in
Roman territory rather than in Persia.

Syriac Christianity as a Mesopotamian Response to Late Antiquity
Competing forms of Christianity. From the time of Ephrem the Syrian and Aphrahāṭ “the
Persian Sage,” early Syriac Christianity had one foot in Rome, the other in Persia. Later
Syriac Christianity would split into East Syrian and West Syrian divisions. The principal
early centers of early Syriac Christianity were Edessa (Syriac: Orhay [’wrhy], modern Urfa,
in southeastern Turkey) and Arbela (in northern Iraq).

[**44] Ephrem’s purpose in writing liturgical hymns. Ephrem was a prolific author of a
wide range of writings, including: (1) choral hymns (madrāšē) no fewer than five hundred
in number, and a lesser number works of sōgyātā (“canticle”/“song”); (2) verse homilies
(mēmrē) composed in verses of seven syllables; (3) prose scriptural commentary (puššāqā)
and controversial writings; and (4) works in artistic prose (Brock 1987, 31). The earliest
extant manuscript of Ephrem’s hymns is BL add. MS 14 571, copied by Julian of Edessa in
the year 519 C.E. (Griffith 1987, 242). Unique as a universal figure in Late Antique
Christianity, St. Ephrem was the only Syrian who was renowned and acclaimed among his
Greek and Latin contemporaries.
In one sense, heterodoxy aside, Ephrem is decidedly pre-schismatic. Not long after
Ephrem, Syriac Christianity split and hardened: Narsai (fl. 451–71) became the great
consolidator of Nestorian Christianity, while Philoxenus of Mabbug (d. c. 522) was
instrumental in the establishment of Monophysite Christianity. As a deacon, Ephrem had
A Historical Profile of Syriac Christianity

first served under James, Bishop of Nisibis. James was present at the Council of Nicea in
325 C.E., and had subscribed to the canons it promulgated. Although Ephrem is pre-
schismatic as far as his church was concerned—a church that defined itself in accordance
with the canons of Nicea—on the spiritual battlefront, one of Ephrem’s major life objectives
was to stem the influence of Marcionites, Manichaeans, and Bardaiṣanites. These were
professed Christians whom Ephrem renounced as Christians.
Ephrem lived at a time when the Church felt it imperative to define what it held to be
true against the threats of what it deemed untrue. In a pagan and Gnostic environment, it
was necessary to defend the unity of God against, among others, the Marcionites,
Bardaiṣanites, and Manichaeans (see Motifs 35–39). It then became necessary to define the
unity of the Trinity. Only with the First Council of Constantinople (381) had a formula
crystallized that confirmed the identity in nature between the Holy Spirit, and the Father and
the Son. The Spirit emerged as a divine Person, the agent of man’s sanctification. Śpidlík
states: “Such development can be seen, for example, in the works of Ephrem. In such early
writings as De paradiso and the Sermones de fide the person of the Holy Spirit rarely
appears. It is only in the hymns De fide that an ode is addressed to him” (1986, 30).
Ephrem’s own view of the Spirit appears to have reflected a development synchronous with
that of the Church in its discussions leading up to the First Council of Constantinople.
In Edessa, Ephrem was clearly alarmed by the internal strife caused by the presence of
Arians within the orthodox Christian community. The fledgling orthodoxy which Ephrem’s
Edessan congregation represented was clearly a minority. The dominant form of Christianity
in Edessa at that time was that of the Bardaiṣanites, whereas [**45] the Christian
community in which Ephrem found himself were known as “Paluṭians” after Paluṭ of Qona,
bishop of Antioch. (Ephrem refers to Paluṭ by name in Hymns Against Heresies). Ephrem
advocated a name change to that of “Christians.” Orthodox “Christians” eventually
prevailed in Edessa two or three decades after Ephrem’s death. But victory would be won,
not by faith but by force. Due in large measure to persecution of Bardaiṣanites by Bishop
Rabbūla (d. 435) around 400 C.E., Edessa was purged of heretics. Prior to that, Ephrem
triumphalistically alludes to what evidently had been Shāpūr’s persecution of the
Bardaiṣanites in Nisibis (CJ II.22; McV 240 and n. 100).
Evidently, the most important among these influences, positive and negative, was that of
Bardaiṣanite Christianity. Added to these influences were certain ideas drawn from the
fields of theology, philosophy, rhetoric, and the natural sciences, ideas which Ephrem had,
in effect, hypostasized (SdF passim; Eccl. XLV.22; HdF XLVII.1, Motifs 24).
Christian heresies existed as the shadow of Christianity (Quispel 1951, unpublished p.c.
to R. M. Grant). A shadow is both a contrast and a contour. The shadow may also be an
accurate distortion of the real. In studying the so-called heresies of Ephrem’s world, we get
more than a picture in black and white. The variegated shades of heretical gray present
striking nuances in our picture of Ephrem. As an arcane saying cannot be fathomed without
knowledge of its allusions, so the hymns of Ephrem require information about the other
Christians and sects of the day. These religions also supply some of the background
necessary for a fuller appreciation of the subtleties of Ephrem’s work.

A Historical Profile of Syriac Christianity                                       35

Ephrem’s battle against Marcionism. Prior to the advent of imperial Nicene Christianity and
its coercive sanction, the religion of Marcion of Pontus and his followers, the Marcionites,
was the dominant Christian spirituality in Syria (Bundy 1990, 111). In Epistle 41, the
Emperor Julian states that entire Marcionite villages were wiped out by the imperial military
(ibid., citing Wright 1923, III, Epistle 41). In the late second and early third centuries C.E.,
Bardaiṣan had fiercely opposed the influence of Marcion in Edessa. In his own way,
Ephrem carried on the campaign. Ephrem wrote three discourses against Marcion in his
Prose Refutations (Bevan and Burkitt 1921, Syriac text: 50–142 [Syriac text]; xxiii–lxv
[trans.]). In his hymns, the most concentrated anti-Marcionite polemics are to be found in
the cycle, Hymns Against Heresies. (Zenobius, a student of Ephrem, is reported also to have
written against the Marcionites, but that work has been lost [Bundy 1988b, 31]. On
Ephrem’s disciples—whom Sozomen identifies as Zenobius, Abba, Abraham, Moses,
Simeon, Paulonas, and Arad—see Outtier 1973, 20–21.)
[**46] As a Christian, Marcion was a radical interpreter of scripture in the extreme.
Born in Sinope, on the Black Sea, Marcion was the son of a bishop. Around the year 140
C.E., Marcion journeyed to Rome, where he fell under the influence of a Gnostic teacher
known as Cerdo, who taught that the God of the Old Testament was not the God of the New
Testament. The Old Testament God was a god of justice. The God of the New Testament
was a God of love and grace.
Developing the ideas of Cerdo to the point of the absurd, Marcion transformed the God
of the Old Testament from a god of justice to a god of evil. In a work called the Antitheses,
Marcion drove a wedge between the Law and the Gospel. In order to demonstrate this
fundamental incompatibility between the two, Marcion contrasted passages from the Old
and New Testaments in order to prove their essential incompatibility. Not only did Marcion
reject the Old Testament completely, he pronounced the God of the Old Testament an evil
deity, not to be confused with the God Jesus knew. According to Marcion, the universe was
the design of the evil Deity of the Old Testament. An evil God created man.
By contrast, Christ was the Son of the Unknown God, the true God. Because the flesh is
not good, Christ did not come in the flesh. Since there could be no such thing as a sinless
body, a docetic Christ had to appear instead. Marcion frames his version of Christianity
cosmologically, by separating salvation from creation.
Not only did Marcion reject the Old Testament, he rejected much of the New Testament
as well. Among the four gospels, Marcion accepted only the Gospel of Luke as genuine.
This he edited, by cutting out the genealogy, nativity, baptism, and temptation narratives,
and the passage in the Nazareth pericope in which Jesus reads from a scroll of Isaiah.
Marcion’s Christology was docetic. Supernaturally, without mother, Jesus simply
materializes in the synagogue at Capernaum in 29 C.E. as a fully grown man, according to
Marcion’s version of Luke. Marcion is believed to have published the first formal canon list
around 140 C.E. Besides his expurgated Gospel of Luke, Marcion’s canon also included ten
epistles of Paul, which (leaving out the pastoral letters) he entitled the Apostolicon. For his
views, Marcion was excommunicated in 144 C.E.
In Hymns Against Heresies, Ephrem takes the Marcionites to task for their assimilation
of elements of Greek philosophy, for their elevation of matter to a quasi-divine state, and for
their inconsistency in their interpretation of scripture. Furthermore, they deny the “one God”
A Historical Profile of Syriac Christianity

as well as the divinity and incarnation of Jesus. The Marcionites are said also to have denied
corporeal resurrection (of body, soul, and spirit reunited), besides denying freedom of the
will. Since they are not true Christians, they are bereft of salvation. Having rejected the
“orthodox” consensus of Christianity, they are deemed schismatics (Bundy 1988b, [**47]
30). (Orthodoxy, in Ephrem’s use of it, is obviously imperial Nicene orthodoxy.) In the
course of his critique, Ephrem refutes Marcion’s dichotomy between the Old and New
Covenants, demonstrating that God’s justice and grace are evident in both Testaments.
Ephrem adduces the John the Baptist narratives of Luke to show continuity with the Old
Testament, which is a positive testimony of God’s activity in scriptures the authenticity of
which Marcion contests (Bundy 1988b, 30). Throughout the entire range of Ephrem’s
hymns, allusions to Marcion, and to the error of his ways, are frequently encountered.
Bardaiṣan’s countermove against Marcion was to let salvation begin with creation.
Cosmology thus became a substructure of Bardaiṣan’s soteriology (BarE 225). In
Bardaiṣan’s cosmos there is the triad confusion, creation, and incarnation. To confusion
belongs the body, commingled as it is with an element of darkness. To creation belongs the
soul, with all the fortunes of life destined to befall it. To incarnation relates the spirit, in
which, through Christ, is offered the possibility of living in the will of God. Contrariwise,
for the Marcionites, the God of the Old Testament was evil, and so was his creation, and so
was man. Christ came as the son of “The Stranger”—a higher God—effecting a separation
between creation and salvation. Salvation consisted of athletic ascesis, a transcendence of
creation.
Ephrem contrasts Marcionites with Bardaiṣanites in the following verse: “He [the devil]
adorns Bardaiṣan with fine clothes and precious stones. Marcion is clothed with the garb of
a penitent. In the grottoes of Bardaiṣan are heard hymns and songs, amusements for the
youth. Marcion fasts like a serpent” (Bundy 1988b, 31–32). This indicates that the practice
of fasting was common to groups other than orthodox Christians. More importantly, we see
in this jibe the contrast of two distinctive lifestyles, life embracing and life renouncing.
Ironically, it is quite likely that the “life-style and piety” of Marcionites and
Manichaeans was “largely congruent” with that of Paluṭian Christians (Bundy 1988b, 30).
According to David Bundy: “Finally one common element of early Syriac apologetic
against Marcion and the Marcionites must be emphasized. One finds no critique, contrary to
Western apologetic traditions, of Marcionite spirituality in extant texts. Marcionite
asceticism was congruent with the Syriac cultural and religious heritage” (1988b, 31). As
Bundy concludes: “Thus it would appear that Ephrem’s goal was to preempt the metaphors
of faith and establish the New and Old Testaments, nature and tradition as the exclusive
province of Paluṭian ‘orthodox’ Christianity” (1988b, 31). For purposes of the present study,
this is a very important observation, as not only lifestyle and piety, but metaphors as well,
were held somewhat in common within the cultural sphere of northern Mesopotamian
spirituality. The challenge facing Ephrem was to make distinctive use of this common stock
of imagery.

A Historical Profile of Syriac Christianity                                       37

[**48] Ephrem’s battle against the Bardaiṣanites. Bardaiṣan (Syriac: Bar Dayṣān, 154–222
C.E.) was “the first and only person of importance in second-century Syriac
Christianity” (Drijvers 1996, 162). He stood in an uncertain relationship to the church
during his campaign against Marcionism, was a living literary presence and, from beyond
the grave, a spiritual rival in Edessa during the final decade of Ephrem’s life.
By his own hand, Bardaiṣan wrote the Book of Mysteries, and authored a Book of
Thunder and a Book of the Hosts, according to Ephrem (CH I.14, LVI.9). Against
Bardaiṣan’s treatise, Of Domnus, Ephrem wrote a refutation. The predominance of
Bardaiṣanite Christianity in Edessa, and its successful inroads in Nisibis, confronted
Ephrem with one of his greatest missionary challenges. It is interesting to note that the Book
of the Laws of the Countries (c. 200 C.E.), which represents a further development of the
views of Bardaiṣan through one of his pupils, contains the earliest reference to Christians in
Persia (SCK 26).
Bardaiṣan’s pretense to “orthodoxy” is evident from the fact that he refuted the heretics
of his day, notably Marcion (BarE 25–26). Bardaiṣan sought to reconcile astrology, Greek
philosophy, and Christianity. His work therefore may be regarded as syncretistic and
individualistic rather than intentionally heretical. Bardaiṣan’s autochthonous religious
syncretism, constructed with an orthodox veneer, fixes Christianity at the crossroads of
cultures, in which Edessa, as Drijvers has observed, was in more than one respect a
bordertown between East and West (BarE 213).
One irritant for Ephrem was the high social position of his dead opponent. Bardaiṣan
was an aristocratic court scholar. “With [expensive] clothes and jewels,” criticizes Ephrem,
“[the Devil] adorned Bardaiṣan” (CH I.12; Bundy 1985, 606). In 195 C.E., Sextus Julius
Africanus had personally met Bardaiṣan in Edessa. Julius Africanus reports that Bardaiṣan
was a skilled archer at the court of King Abgar VII (ibid., 600, n. 16.) We learn from
Aberkios—a great adversary against the Marcionites in the East—something of Bardaiṣan
in person, as Aberkios chanced to meet the philosopher when the latter headed a delegation
of Christians to greet the anti-Marcionite crusader. Aberkios describes Bardaiṣan as
“distinguished from all others by his descent and wealth” (Vita of Aberkios, cited in BarE
170). Bardaiṣan’s well-placed status as a “Parthian” courtier must have been an important
factor in the spread of Bardaiṣanism among aristocrats. It is possible that the élite of Edessa
for the most part were followers of Bardaiṣan (BarE 127).
Bardaiṣan’s ideas are positively though unreliably represented by his disciple Philippus
in The Book of the Laws of the Countries, which is a more developed and syncretistic
exposition of Bardaiṣanite doc- [**49] trine (Drijvers 1965). The author recounts the
various customs and laws of the world to prove their diversity. This is used as an argument
against determinism (BLC 40–59). Christians are presented as “the new people . . . that the
Messiah has caused to arise in every place and in all climates by his coming” (BLC 58–60).
Philippus refers to the conversion of King Abgar (BLC 58, 21–22), intimating the
possibility of a governmentally recognized church (Bundy 1985, 601–602). Such good
fortune was reversed when Bishop Rabbūla destroyed the Bardaiṣanite cult places in
Edessa.
A Historical Profile of Syriac Christianity

Cast in a Middle Platonist philosophical structure, Bardaiṣan’s philosophy was basically
that of “free will and consequently right conduct to eliminate evil” (Drijvers 1996, 172).
Bardaiṣan preached a gospel of liberty, in which the spiritual potency of Freedom prevails
over the forces of Fate and Nature. In Late Antiquity, there was a fear and dread of Fate. The
gospel of Bardaiṣan was one of a liberation from the determinism of Fate. Bardaiṣan taught
that the spirit joins the soul when the soul descends, through the spheres of the seven
planets, to the human body at the moment of birth. Nature, Fate, and Freedom correspond to
body, soul, and spirit, respectively formed by chaos, creation (individuation), and
incarnation, of spirit (BarE 219–20). Liberty is a divine gift. It is dispensed through strength
of spirit and the will to conquer temptations and to rise above immorality. Thus, Bardaiṣan’s
disciple Philippus wrote: “By its nature the lion eats flesh; . . . and the bee makes honey by
which it sustains itself; and for this reason all bees are honeymakers. . . . But men are not
governed in this manner; but in the things belonging to their bodies they maintain their
nature like animals, and in the things which belong to their minds they do that which they
wish, as being free and with power and as the likeness of God” (Segal 1970, 37). Endowed
with soul, man can move beyond instinct. Bardaiṣan’s teachings are structured by
interlocking triads, the most important of which can be represented as follows: Origin:
Chaos, Creation, Incarnation; Anthropology: Body, Soul, Spirit; Destiny: Nature, Fate,
Freedom.
Man is at once natural, individual, and (potentially) spiritual. Bardaiṣan conceded that
man is subject to the laws of Nature with regard to basic vital functions. And, to a
considerable extent, events in life are determined by Fate. Liberty, however, is achieved
through transcending the constraints of Fate. By the willed reflex of Freedom, man can
navigate his own destiny through the interstices of Nature and Fate.
Salvation systems tended to depend on creation myths. Bardaiṣan’s myth started from
much different premises than the Genesis account. J. de Zwaan has aptly characterized
Bardaiṣan’s theology as an “evolutionist theodicy” (cited in BarE 54). According to
Bardaiṣan, there originally existed five eternal elements (’ityē), each in [**50] its own
region: water in the North, fire in the South, light in the East, wind in the West, darkness in
the lower regions. Ephrem objected to this representation of the original state of the
universe, as the coexistence of the elements with God reduces God to a mere “arranger”
rather than “the Creator” (CH XLVIII.2, Mathews SPW, 60–61). Chaos rose out of the
commingling of these four pure elements with vile darkness. Eschatologically, Bardaiṣan
denied resurrection of the body, presumably because “the nature of evil” inhered in the
body’s formation out of chaos.
Death is a necessary condition of mortality. It is not a consequence of the Fall. Physical
death is a natural condition, not punishment for Adam’s sin. Death is part of Nature.
Spiritual death is another matter. Spirit only matters. Matter does not matter. Adam did bring
about spiritual Death, just as Christ brought spiritual Life. It must be emphasized that these
are spiritual conditions, not mortal. Immortality is not transformed mortality. Rather, it is the
sinful condition of the soul itself that hinders the soul from entering Paradise at the
“Crossing Place.” As the soul empowers the body with consciousness, the spirit endows the
soul with spirituality. The body is gross. The soul is subtle. It “wears” the body like a
A Historical Profile of Syriac Christianity                                       39

garment. The spirit is rarefied. The soul mediates between the two, between Darkness and
Light. The spirit incorporates knowledge and free will, the image of God. It is Christ who
brings deliverance of the soul. The body does not require redemption (BarE 154–57).
Bardaiṣan is the only early Syriac writer (besides Quq and the Quqites, a strange sect
that will be introduced later) who wrote favorably about sexuality in its proper role in
marriage. Sexual intercourse in marriage, taken beyond mere lust by a reflex of free will,
deepens the interpersonal unity of husband and wife. Such a purposeful exercise of sexuality
also entails responsible parenthood and the duty of parents to rear their children properly
(Edakalathur 1994, 8–9).
According to Ephrem, the followers of Bardaiṣan were stolen from the Christian flock
(CH XXII.3). They held concourse in caves (CH I.17), where songs and hymns were sung
(CH I.18) and various writings explained, including works on astrology even to the
exclusion of scripture (CH I.18). To certain passages of scripture Bardaiṣan gave a special
interpretation (CH LI.13). To such forced exegesis Ephrem alludes: “How Error has erred in
culling/bitterness from sweet flowers . . ./Even from fragrant scripture Error culls/poison for
her lovers” (Nat. XXVIII.8, McV 216). To all appearances, the words of Bardaiṣan were
perfectly reasonable and orthodox, but were secretly full of blasphemous mysteries (CH I.
11, BarE 161–62).
The importance of Bardaiṣan is underscored by the fact that Ephrem wrote a prose
refutation against Bardaiṣan attacking the latter’s allegorism (Mitchell 1912). This treatise
was written for the [**51] intellectual élite, of whom a certain Hypatius was one. There are
other polemical works against Bardaiṣan ascribed to Ephrem, but these are of doubtful
authenticity (Jones 1904 and other studies cited in BarE 129, nn. 1–5). Of his genuine
works, Ephrem composed four hymns that were expressly anti-Bardaiṣanite, these being
Hymns 53–56 of Hymns Against Heresies. Jensen has translated the entirety of Hymn 55
(Jensen 1994, 44–45; cf. Richardson 1990). These hymns are of interest, as heresies did, to
some extent, determine Ephrem’s agenda.
Bardaiṣan was evidently a well-meaning Christian, who had, after all, done his part to
counter Marcion’s radical critique of the scriptures. Enhancing his effectiveness as a
philosopher and teacher, Bardaiṣan was a popularizer—some say the originator (which
Brock 1985b, disputes)—of the lyric poem known as the madrāšā, a hymn composed in
isosyllabic verse (stanzas constructed on a single syllabic pattern), employing literary
devices of parallelism, word plays, alliteration, and rhyme (McV 26). His purpose in
composing these songs, according to Ephrem, was his wish to appeal to young people
(Skjaervo, EIr 3:781). Like King David’s number of Psalms, Ephrem notes that Bardaiṣan
composed 150 such hymns (CH LIII.6). Occasionally Ephrem quotes from these hymns. Of
the popular appeal and effectiveness of these songs, Ephrem laments: “[Bardaiṣan] created
hymns and united them with musical accompaniment, and he composed psalms and
introduced metres: with measure and weights he divided words. And the simple he
corrupted with bitterness in sweetness, the sick who did not choose healing
nourishment” (Segal 1970, 37).
To combat the effectiveness of these hymns, which enjoyed popular appeal, Ephrem
himself became a master of the genre, composing over four hundred hymns. At Nisibis,
A Historical Profile of Syriac Christianity

according to Jacob of Serug’s homily on Ephrem, Ephrem is said to have founded choirs of
women, which he personally directed (McV 28; cf. HyP 22–25, esp. 23 for portions of
Jacob of Serug’s verse panegyric on Ephrem). Thus, this form was mastered by Ephrem and
survives as the most distinctive literary genre of early Syriac Christianity. Murray speaks of
“Ephrem’s stylistic and musical debt to Bardaiṣan,” a debt “borne out by both literary-
critical arguments and the very melody-titles of some hymns” (SCK 279). In other words,
not only did Ephrem take over the form of Bardaiṣanite hymns, but even their very
melodies. Given their popularity, these refrains must have been familiar to the Christian
aristocrats in Edessa. There was also a common stock of imagery on which both Bardaiṣan
and Ephrem drew. In so doing, Ephrem took over the tools of Bardaiṣan’s own vehicle for
propaganda—the strophic hymn—and turned it into a means of consolidating his own
Christian communities.
[**52] Ephrem, moreover, addressed some of the salient themes of those hymns. He
was, after all, engaged in at least an indirect dialogue with Bardaiṣanism, at the literary and
liturgical levels certainly. In certain of the earlier hymns, the melody (qālā) was that of
Bardaiṣan’s son Harmonius, with Ephrem’s lyrics substituted for those of Bardaiṣan!
(Sprengling [1916] doubts the existence of Harmonius. On the possible Semitic provenance
of his name, see Astour 1964, 199.) Ephrem fought fire with fire, so to speak, in composing
hymns after the same fashion as Bardaiṣan, even to the extent of using the same music but
changing the lyrics. Could it be possible that Ephrem took over any of the existing
Bardaiṣanite lyrics as well, reworking them for his own purposes? But the question of
Ephrem’s literary dependence on Bardaiṣan (distinct from formal and thematic dependence)
is beyond the scope of this study.
Ephrem’s “Bardaiṣanite agenda” has a decidedly heuristic value for the study of his
hymns, in which the ghost of Bardaiṣan looms. Ephrem’s production of hymns after the
fashion of Bardaiṣan leads the present writer to believe that there is much in the writings of
Ephrem that bears inexplicit reference to Bardaiṣanite themes. For instance, liberty (ḥerūtā)
is of great importance not only to Bardaiṣan, but to Ephrem as well, having devoted an
entire hymn to the subject (CH XI, LumE 20). Over the soul’s need for freedom Bardaiṣan
and Ephrem are in implicit agreement: “Like ships, all things have their need:/the soul, of
freedom” (CH V.20, SCK 252).
Ephrem seems content to characterize salvation in terms of liberty. He must, after all,
speak in the religious language of the Bardaiṣanite aristocrats. According to Ephrem,
Bardaiṣan “assigned too great a power to Nature and Fate” (BarE 160), thus restricting
God’s sovereign power. Anthropologically, Ephrem views free will—the human agent of
liberation—as the quality by which Adam was fashioned in the image of God (Jansma 1973,
18). Of himself, Ephrem says: “Because you are a harp endowed of life and language, says
he, your chords and words possess liberty. O harp, who of itself and according to its own
will chants of its God” (HdF XXV, Beggiani 1983, 16). Ephrem speaks of “true
freedom” (Virg. VI.12; McV 291) effected by Christ, in which exercise of the will on the
part of the believer is a critical participatory factor: “Bound is the body by its nature for it
cannot grow larger or smaller;/but powerful is the will for it may grow to all sizes” (Nat. I.
98; McV 74).
A Historical Profile of Syriac Christianity                                       41

According to Bardaiṣan, though good and evil enmesh humankind, a Christian is
empowered to influence destiny through an act of will, since Christ countermands the force
of the planets, or Fate (Norris 1990). Although God, through Christ, is more powerful than
Fate, the notion that Fate somehow has its own domain of influence independent of God
was unacceptable to Ephrem, who actually names [**53] Bardaiṣan in the following
criticism: “Bardaiṣan is cunning, who put that Fate under restraint/Through a Fate [God]
that is greater, as it describes its course in liberty./The thraldom of the lower, refutes him
with the upper,/Their shadow refutes their body./For that intent which restricted the lower,/
Crippled the unrestricted freedom of the upper” (CH IV.9–10; BarE 160). The most
powerful reflex of the will is through ethical rigor. Bardaiṣan effected a synthesis of
disparate elements of Syrian paganism and recast them within a Judeo-Christian ethic.
Ephrem satisfies the Bardaiṣanite quest for liberty—a condition divested of astrological
determinism—with the assurance that liberty is gained upon death (HdP XIV.2). The
exercise of will can of course be positive or negative. The way in which the will should act
as the master of its own destiny is clear. For both Bardaiṣan and Ephrem, the will’s
crowning achievement is to succeed in achieving liberty through the self-mastery of acting
in accordance with divine commands, becoming righteous thereby: “Blessed is He Who
wove the commandments/so that through them free will might be crowned; Blessed is He
Who has multiplied the righteous,/ the witnesses who shout out concerning free will” (CH
XI.4; LumE 21).
In both Bardaiṣanite and orthodox systems, true liberty—for a soul possessing the will to
attain purity—entails ethical rigor. But the ethics of the two religious systems differed not so
much in principle as in practice, for Ephrem was inclined to the ascetic whereas Bardaiṣan
was not. So great was Bardaiṣan’s influence that Christians after the death of Ephrem
resorted to a “final solution.” Barbaric by modern standards, Bishop Rabbūla (d. 435 C.E.)
persecuted the Bardaiṣanites and reconverted many Bardaiṣanites by force. Ephrem chose
other means. In spite of his best efforts to discredit Bardaiṣan, Ephrem did compose a
moving prayer for the soul of Bardaiṣan (CH LV.11; SCK 90, n. 2.).

Ephrem’s battle against Manichaeism. The prophet Mānī (216–76 C.E.), a Persian born in
Mesopotamia, was “perhaps the first person in human history ever to have consciously
played the role of a world prophet” (Mojtabai 1978, 105). With a book in one hand and a
staff in the other (he might have been lame), flamboyantly dressed in a blue cloak with red
and green trousers (Yamauchi 1977, 48), the prophet Mānī established a religion that in fact
crossed cultural divides. From its origin in Mesopotamia, within the prophet’s own lifetime,
the new religion spread far and wide throughout both the Roman and Persian Empires, and
even into India. This is partly documented by known letters Mānī himself had written to
communities of his followers in Babylon, Ctesiphon, Edessa, Armenia, Mesene, Susiana,
India, and elsewhere (Bausani 1971, 55). Mānī owed much of his success to the [**54]
patronage of Shāpūr (“King’s Son”) I, in whose retinue Mānī travelled for several years,
throughout Persia and to the frontiers of the Roman Empire. Within the Roman Empire,
Manichaeism was regarded by Romans as a Persian import. In 297 C.E., Diocletian issued
A Historical Profile of Syriac Christianity

an edict that condemned Manichaeans as enemy Persian agents who should be executed.
Despite persecution, it flourished with an impressive degree of success.
As a young man, Mānī received visions of the “Twin-Spirit” (the Syzygos—his higher
self). This was his heavenly brother, the Twin. This motif also appears in the Acts of Judas
Thomas (“the Twin”—i.e., of Jesus). When the Twin appeared to him, Mānī beheld himself.
The Twin-Spirit commissioned him with a message and empowered Mānī to fight the evil
powers, Āz and Ahrmēn. The year of Mānī’s first revelation was 228 C.E. Even from the age
of four, Mānī had contact with the divine. At the age of twelve, Mānī experienced his first
revelation. He kept it secret for twelve years, until he was twenty-four. In 240 C.E., Mānī
began to preach. He proclaimed that he was the Spirit of Truth promised by Christ. Mānī
was sent by Christ (“the heavenly Father”)! Mānī’s The Book of the Giants was translated
into Persian (Henning 1946, 55). In this book, it is said: “But God, in each epoch, sends
apostles: Sīt[ī], Zarathuštra,] Buddha, Christ” (ibid., 63). At the age of twenty-four, Mānī
proclaimed himself to be a Prophet on the very same day Shāpūr I was crowned (12 April
240, cf. Haloun and Henning 1952, 201). In his Sābuhragān, Mānī proclaims: “Wisdom and
deeds have always from time to time been brought to mankind by the messengers of God.
So in one age they have been brought by the messenger called Buddha, to India, to another
by Zaradust to Persia, in another by Jesus to the West. Thereupon this revelation has come
down and this prophecy has appeared in the form of myself, Mānī, the envoy of the one true
God in the Land of Babylon” (Lieu 1985, 60).
Mānī created his own canon, to ensure that he would bequeath the world’s first fully
authenticated scriptures to posterity. With variations, the Manichaean canon consists of
seven books: (1) The Living Gospel; (2) The Treasure of Life; (3) The Pragmateia; (4) The
Book of Mysteries; (5) The Book of the Giants; (6) The Letters; (7) Psalms and Prayers,
together with the “Great Icon” that Mānī himself had painted. Moreover, precisely for the
benefit of the Persian king Shāpūr I, Mānī summarized his teachings in (Middle) Persian, in
a book known as the Sābuhragān. So important was this work that it is sometimes listed in
place of Psalms and Prayers (ibid., 6). Mary Boyce (1975 and 1968) has conveniently
assembled some of the extant Manichaean writings in Persian, including passages from the
Sābuhragān. Scribes in constant attendance would record his sermons and words of
wisdom. Some of these were compiled in a semicanonical book known as the Kephalaia.
[**55] “Persia,” writes Arthur Vööbus, “formed a true meeting-place for various
ascetically colored Christian trends.” After mentioning Marcionites, the Valentinians,
various kinds of Encratites, followers of Tatian and Bardaiṣan, Vööbus concludes: “Thus
early Syrian Christianity in Persia was a melting-pot in which various rigorous influences
were blended to become a particular mixture in mutual competition and cross-
fertilization” (1958, 2:10). In Edessa, Manichaeism had won great popularity. Preserved in
the literary amber of the Cologne Mānī Codex (in Greek translation), Mānī’s Letter to
Edessa foreshadows the importance of the Manichaean community in the time of Ephrem:
“The truth and the secrets which I speak about—and the laying on of hands which is in my
possession—not from men have I received it nor from fleshly creatures, not even from
studies in the Scriptures. But when [my] most blessed [Father], who called me into his
grace, beheld me, since he did not [wish] me [and] the rest who are [in the] world to perish,
he felt compassion, so that [he] might extend [his] well-being to those prepared to be chosen
A Historical Profile of Syriac Christianity                                       43

by him from the sects. Then, by his grace, he pulled me from the council of the many who
do not recognize the truth and revealed to me his secrets and those of his undefiled Father
and of all the cosmos. He disclosed to me how I was before the foundation of the world, and
how the groundwork of all the works, both good and evil, was laid, and how everything of
[this] aggregation was engendered [according to its] present boundaries and
[times]” (Cameron and Dewey 1979, 51–53).
Not only in Edessa, but throughout the Roman and Persian Empires, Manichaeism
became a popular contender against Christianity. Manichaeans in the West thought of
themselves as genuine Christians. The new religion had a powerful and rational ethical
appeal. The classic example of the attraction of Manichaeism is the case of Augustine, who,
in the 360s, was a Manichaean for nine years. Augustine states from experience that
Manichaeans taunted orthodox (Nicene) Christians as to “what the source of evil is, and
whether God is bounded by a corporeal form and has hair and nails, and whether those men
ought to be considered righteous who had many wives at the same time and killed men and
made animal sacrifices” (Augustine, Confessions. 3.7.12, Starnes 1990, 129–30). Attracted
by the apparent rationality of this method of argumentation, Augustine became a
Manichaean for nine years, during which time he made his living by teaching the art of
rhetoric (Confessions 4.2.2, ibid.).
As if recalling Manichaean critique, Augustine warns the exegete against taking
figurative expressions literally (De doctrina christiana 3.5.9, ibid.). To Augustine, the
Scriptures always seemed to him absurd whenever he “had taken them literally.” The
Scriptures finally made sense to him when they were expounded “spiritually.” After
listening to the sermons of Ambrose, Augustine discovered that the Christians [**56] in fact
did not believe what the Manichaeans accused them of believing (Confessions 4.14.24,
ibid.). By practicing the allegorical method of Alexandrine theologians, Augustine could
counter Manichaean myths and theology.
Finally, as the Chronicle of Séert attests, the Catholicós Aḥay (d. 415) chose the final
solution of burning Manichaean churches to eradicate the religion (Vööbus 1958, 7). One
gets some idea of how thorough this eradication was by virtue of the fact that absolutely no
Manichaean text survives in Syriac (Coyle 1979, 182).
Manichaeism is rich in myths. These myths are complex. At the heart of these myths,
starting from the Primal Man, is a gospel of personal salvation, even though the eschatology
is cosmic. Essentially, myths on the origin of man from the powers of evil constitute the
most decisive element in Mānī’s anthropology (Ort 1968, 203). Mānī’s cosmic drama
involves a contest between Two Principles in a sequence of Three Epochs in time:
1. Past: At this point in primordial time, Light and Darkness are separate. In
preexistence, there was a primordial pair. This was the syzygy of Darkness and Light. Five
elements belong to Light, five to Darkness. The five elements of light are sometimes called
the “Maiden of Light” who is the soul of the Father. The five evil Archons—a demon, lion,
eagle, fish, and dragon—are sometimes collectively referred to as the Prince of Darkness
(Lieu 1985, 10).
2. Present: In this epoch, Light and Darkness intermingle. This is the battle of the Primal
Man against the Prince of Darkness. Darkness invades Light. Light is trapped in darkness.
Particles of light are trapped inside all living things, awaiting liberation. The body is
A Historical Profile of Syriac Christianity

Darkness. The soul is Light. Throughout history, the “King of Light” had sent prophets to
reveal man’s true nature. At the climax of history, God sent Mānī as the final bearer of the
gospel of “knowledge and wisdom.” One has to abstain from meat, wine, and marriage. A
life of holiness prepares one for eschatological requital in the “Paradise of Light” (Lieu
1985, 8) where all freed light returns.
3. Future: In the eschaton to come, Light will separate from Darkness. Following the
final battle, Jesus will return as the Great King on the Day of Judgment. The Elect will be
transformed into angels, the sinners will be sent to hell. Then a Great Fire will blaze for
1,468 years. Light Particles will escape to Paradise to form a Pillar of Glory, while the
Prince of Darkness will be cast into a deep pit.
Manichaeism has been called “a community of sanctification” (Ort 1968, 197). It was a
sancta ecclesia. Gnosis was self-realization, followed by separation. Gnosis brought
repentance. Repentance preceded asceticism. Asceticism was required for redemption. Very
few sacramental rituals are known of. There were no rites of baptism. Mānī opposed
external purification. Baptism was replaced by gnosis. [**57] The spiritual “Living
Water”—represented by gnosis—was contrasted with physical or “Turbid Water.” Mānī had
rejected Elchasaitism, the baptist religion in which he was raised from the age of four to
twenty-four or twenty-five (cf. Koenen 1981).
There were two concentric circles of Manichaeans: monks (the “Elect”) and the lay
(“Auditors”). An initiatory cult may have existed that involved a kind of rite known as
“sealing.” Following a quarter of a century of research into Manichaean rituals, Puech
speculates that the “Seal” required vows (the three moral seals) taken by the Elect to be ever
mindful of their heart, mouth, and hands (Stroumsa 1986, 66, citing Puech 1979, 347–55).
The “Elect” had to obey strict rules, perhaps the strictest of all religions (Ort 1968, 204). All
sexuality was banned among the Elect, since pregnancy had to be avoided. For conception
would trap the light of another soul within a body formed within the womb. Through
vigilant self-denial, the Elect could attain perfection. Once perfected, at death the Elect
return to the Paradise of Light.
Relative to his Elkasaite origins, Mānī effected a cultic shift from baptism to a curious
food ritual. Mānī considered all living things to be ensouled with light. The Elect, observing
the “Five Commandments” (laws of purity) along with the “Three Seals,” were agents for
the release of prisoned Light. Their purified bodies refined the food they consumed, as Light
Particles were released through their belches. Such a meal was a sacrament, referred to as
the Eucharist by Manichaeans in the West. Through what became known as the “Soul
Service,” Auditors gave alms to the Elect and prepared food for their redemptive meals.
Daily gifts of fruit were given to the Elect. Melons and cucumbers were thought to possess a
great deal of light that could be released through the eructions of the Elect. (Besides food
rituals, it is also known that Manichaeans fasted.) In turn, the Elect, who wore white robes
to symbolize their purity, imparted heavenly teachings to the Auditors. It also appears that
confession of sins took on a cultic status. There were other rituals, too. Manichaeans
celebrated Mānī’s passion at the so-called Bēma-Feast (“Throne,” “Tribunal,” “Judge’s
Seat”), in which ceremony an empty throne represented the spiritual presence of Mānī
himself (Bausani 1971, 55). Variously surviving Bēma-Psalms, including some in Middle
Persian (Sundermann 1982a), attest to Mānī’s exalted station in the eyes of his followers.
A Historical Profile of Syriac Christianity                                       45

Unlike the Elect, Auditors could marry or have mistresses, but were discouraged from
procreation. Moreover, they could possess property and wealth. They could lead ordinary
lives. Not having attained the purity of the Elect, Auditors could hope to be reincarnated as a
luminous fruit, to be consumed by the Elect and return, too, to the Paradise of Light.
Auditors would return as humans. The profligate return to earth as beasts (Lieu 1985, 21).
This special type of [**58] reincarnation is called metaggismos (rebirth in other forms of
life—ibid., 56).
In sum, the fact that Ephrem wrote, in addition to his hymns, a prose refutation against
the Manichaeans attests to their importance in fourth-century Nisibis and Edessa. Beyond
Edessa, the only state to make Manichaeism its official religion was the Kingdom of the
Western Uyghurs at Qočo in Central Asia, when its ruler was converted in the eighth
century. Certain Manichaean imagery bears striking resemblance to Ephrem’s own symbolic
repertoire.

Ephrem’s battle against Arianism. The unity of the Father, the unity of the Son with the
Father, and the unity of the Trinity, the generation and procession of one from the other, the
role of each in effecting salvation and sanctification, are all interrelated questions that
constitute the problematics of any systematic theology. For the early Church, resolution of
certain of these issues was seen as imperative for ecclesiastical reasons. Arianism alone,
which had precipitated the Christological controversies of the fourth century, had
irreparably split Church and empire and undermined its advances against paganism.
Ephrem establishes God as an experiential reality, as one which at the same time poses a
cognitive mystery (see Bundy 1986/1988a). Mystical discourses often qualify positive
experience with negative theology. Thus Ephrem can sustain his paradox without lessening
the intensity of either polarity: “However much, Lord, I would feel You,/it is still not You
Yourself I touch./For my mind can touch nothing of Your hiddenness:/it is just a visible,
illumined, image/that I see in the symbol of You;/for all investigation into Your being is
hidden” (CNis L.13, Harp 58). In the form of praise, this is a simple statement of the
epistemological limits of human finitude. Ineffable experience defies explanation.
According to Ephrem, there are real epistemological limits to human experience,
particularly with respect to human experience of the divine. For knowledge of something
involves a comprehension of it, and that comprehension must be superior to the object of
knowledge itself. This is impossible when it comes to the apprehension of either God or
Christ: “Whoever is capable of investigating/becomes the container of what he investigates;/
a knowledge which is capable of containing the Omniscient/is greater than Him,/for it has
proved capable of measuring the whole of Him./A person who investigates the Father and
the Son/is thus greater than them!/Far be it, then, and something anathema,/that the Father
and Son should be investigated,/while dust and ashes exalts itself!” (HdF IX. 16, LumE 13).
Between Creator and creation yawns an ontological “chasm” (HdF LXIX. 11). Chasm is
the same Syriac term found in the Parable of Dives [**59] and Lazarus at Luke 16:26. The
Divine Word is on the far side of the chasm, while the angelic host belong with humankind
on the near side of the divide (LumE 12–13). In the passage below, Ephrem stresses the
unfathomable mystery of God: “Thousands thousands stand, and ten thousand thousands
haste./The thousands and ten thousands, cannot search out the One:/for all of them stand, in
A Historical Profile of Syriac Christianity

silence to serve./He has no heir of His Throne, save the Son Who is of Him./In the midst of
silence is the enquiry into Him,/when the Watchers [angels] come to search Him out./They
attain to silence and are stayed” (NPNF 13, 251–52; cf. McVey, 177–78, where Nat. XIV.20
= XXI.20).
Ten thousand is a symbolic figure for Ephrem (cf. CH XLII.9, SCK 75). As an exponent
of ten, let us recall that in Syriac tradition as in other cultures, ten is the number of
perfection. Both the numbers represented here and the scene itself recalls Daniel’s vision of
the “Ancient of Days” (‘attīq yōmīn): “A thousand thousands [’elep ’alepīm; LXX chiliai
chiliades] served him, and ten thousand times ten thous
and [weribbō ribwān; LXX muriai muriades] stood [yeqūmūn; LXX pareistēkeisan]
before him” (Spinks 1991, 24). The idea of standing has cultic significance (cf. Mullen
1980, 231). Ephrem’s description of the heavenly host standing in immovable silence is
thoroughly Semitic. “Standing” is, above all, steadfastness. The Christian monastic practice
of standing was for the purpose of attaining transcendence (Williams 1985, 90).
The angelic “Watchers,” later in this hymn, are said to have “seen Thee in the midst of
the abyss”—a poetic description of beatific vision that can only be self-negating as well as
self-affirming. There may also be an allusion here to the ancient Near Eastern motif of
primeval chaos as the scene of theophany.
In any event, the Watchers, or angelic host, are myriad. The term Watchers (‘irē)
represents “Angels” in both Jewish and Syriac traditions. The term may have had Akkadian
(or Hebrew or Ugaritic) origins, though the influence of Persian divine beings has also been
suggested (see Murray 1984 and 1990). If so, this favored the development of the idea of
monasticism as a “vita angelica” on Earth, according to Murray (1975a 14, n. 1). Despite
the near access to God they traditionally enjoy, their nearness to God is one of spiritual
purity and not of epistemological knowing (i.e., not by “investigation” [‘uqqābā] or
“scrutiny” [bṣātā]), save in terms of a very positive negative theology, and in terms of
experience rather than knowledge.
It is instructive to look at an alternative translation of Nat. XXI.20. McVey’s is as
follows: “A thousand thousands stood; ten thousand ten thousands ran./Thousands and ten
thousands were not able to investigate the One./All of them in silence, therefore, stood to
serve Him./He has no consort except the Child that is from Him./Seeking Him is in silence.
When Watchers went to investigate,/They [**60] reached silence and were restrained” (Nat.
XXI.20, McV 177–78). The context of this passage, as McVey points out, may not have
resided within the original cycle of nativity hymns, but rather in the anti-Arian context more
appropriate to the Hymns on Faith, from which the previous six strophes were drawn,
perhaps inserted by a later hand (McV 177, n. 481).
Beck has shown that the entire cycle of Hymns on Faith was directed against the Arians.
Ephrem’s greatest sorrow and outrage with regard to the Arians was their disastrous effect
on the Church, resulting in schism from within and undermining the very foundations of
ecclesiastical authority (Motifs 27). The most pretentious Arian claim, in Ephrem’s view,
was not any particular line of interpretation as such, but rather the temerity to issue
categorical statements about God in a way that was as epistemologically unsupportable as it
was ecclesiastically divisive. Ephrem also criticized the same impulse among the orthodox.
A Historical Profile of Syriac Christianity                                       47

In Syriac Christology, Christ’s Sonship goes far beyond adoptive, elective, or other ideal
relationships with God. Ephrem describes Christ as “the Son of the Hidden One, as He
emerged into revelation” (Nat. II.9, McV 78). This is taken literally. Ephrem, the master of
metaphor, knows the difference between metaphor and reality, and is well aware of the
Christological consequences of both readings: Christ is truly God’s Son, and for this reason
God as “Father” is no metaphor but a reality: “And if His name ‘Father’ were a metaphor—
which God forbid!—the names which go with it (šmh’ bny zwgh) will lose their force under
dispute” (HdF LII.2, Molenberg 1990, 139 and 141).
For Ephrem, God and Christ have been presented as mysteries beyond the reach of
human ken. As if to reinforce such a notion in practical terms, Ephrem suggests that the soul
is itself a mystery which man is powerless to unravel: “If, then, our knowledge cannot even
achieve a knowledge of itself,/how does it dare investigate the birth of Him who knows all
things?/How can the servant, who does not properly know himself,/pry into the nature of his
Maker?” (HdF I.16, Harp 7). Again, this statement has Arianism in mind. From a fourth-
century Syriac Christian perspective, the target could just as easily have been Greek
philosophical theology. To resume, the unknowability of God apart, it is Ephrem’s Christ
who most fully reveals the mystery of God: “Who, Lord, can gaze on Your hiddenness/
Which has come to revelation? Yes, Your obscurity/has come to manifestation and
notification;/Your concealed Being/has come out into the open” (HdF LI.2, LumE 14).
Arianism was not extinguished by the Council of Nicaea. It continued to flourish
(indeed, as the faith of some Roman emperors), as is evident in Edessa. Around the year
372, a Life of Ephrem relates that the Emperor Valens had visited Edessa with the intent of
forcing [**61] Arianism on the city. There, he threatened the orthodox Christians with a
choice between apostasy and death. Protests ensued. Multitudes of Christians congregated at
the Shrine of St. Thomas outside the city to await martyrdom, rendering the decree
untenable at the time. Nevertheless, only three months after Ephrem’s death, Bishop Narsai
and some of the leading clerics (from Ephrem’s church and others) were expelled from
Edessa in September 373. Crowds of faithful followers followed them into exile (Segal
1970, 91). The Chronicle of Edessa asserts that in the year 373, Arians took over Ephrem’s
very church and held it for five years (HSC 57). With the death of Valens in 378, the Arian
victory was fleeting, as orthodox clergy returned and regained possession of their churches.

Ephrem’s battle against the Jews. “Particularly in Nisibis,” Mathews writes, “Ephrem was
engaged in heated debate with the Jews and it would be most unlikely that he had no more
than a simple passing acquaintance with a Jewish tradition of exegesis” (SPW 62). The
preponderant influence of Jewish exegesis upon Ephrem is persuasively demonstrated by
Tryggve Kronholm (1979).
In Persia, on the far side of Ephrem’s Roman frontier, Aphrahāṭ speaks of his dialogue
with a Jewish scholar (Aph. Dem. XXI). Over the course of their encounters, such debates
intensified over the proper interpretation of the Old Testament. Ephrem’s contact with Jews,
however, was not amicable as was Aphrahāṭ’s. Of this, Murray laments: “But it must be
confessed with sorrow that Ephrem hated the Jews. It is sad that the man who could write
the magisterial Commentary on Genesis, with the command it shows of the tradition which
still to a great extent united Christians and Jews, could sink to writing Carmina Nisibena
A Historical Profile of Syriac Christianity

LXVII” (SCK 68). Local Jews are also the target of some of the Hymns Against Heretics, a
collection of fifty-six hymns directed against the Marcionites, Bardaiṣanite, Manichaean,
Arians, Quqites (see below), the Chaldeans, and other minor sects (Motifs 20).

Ephrem’s battle against the Chaldeans. The pagans Ephrem most frequently attacks are the
“Chaldeans” or astrologers. These are Babylonian stargazers of various stripes extending
back to the days of Adam and reaching to the present in the paganism of the Emperor Julian.
Of satanic inspiration, astrology constrains the sovereignty of God and consigns humanity
to the whims of Fate, atrophying man’s free will in the process. Sidney Griffith has devoted
an excellent study to Ephrem’s views on paganism as exemplified in the hymn cycle,
Against Julian (Griffith 1987). Ridiculing how astrology failed Julian and led to his
downfall, Ephrem writes: “Who will ever again believe in/fate and the horoscope?/Who will
ever again affirm/diviners and soothsayers?/Who will ever again go astray,/after auguries
and [**62] Zodiacal signs?/All of them have been wrong in everything./So that the Just One
will not have to instruct/each one who goes astray,/He broke the one who went astray,/so
that in him those who have gone astray/might learn their lesson” (CJ IV.26, Griffith 1987,
260; cf. McV 257).
In Hymns Against Julian, Ephrem clearly distinguishes between Zoroastrianism and
astrology. Julian the Apostate is ridiculed for having relied on the false prognostications of
Chaldeans, while the Persian king, one of the Magi—symbolic of Christ’s epiphany to the
Gentiles (Nat. XXIV)—is praised by Ephrem for having destroyed the cultic centers of the
Bardaiṣanites, something Ephrem felt that orthodox Christians themselves should have done
(CJ II.22, McV 240).

Summary. In this section, an effort has been made to depict the religious world of Syriac
Christianity in general, and of the localized setting in which Ephrem lived and of which he
wrote. Fourth-century Mesopotamia displayed a rich and variegated religious landscape. In
the midst of all this diversity, no single religion predominated. The world of Ephrem was
characterized by a wealth of shared imagery and a web of religious syncretism. The various
sects in Nisibis and Edessa turned these images like a kaleidoscope to produce different
patterns using many of the same colors and shapes. In CH XXII.2, Ephrem names five
heretics in the following order: Marcion, Valentius, Quq, Bardaiṣan, and Mānī. Evidently,
they are named in chronological order—a fact that is confirmed by Jacob of Edessa (d. 708;
Drijvers 1967, 107). As the Valentinians seem not to have figured prominently in Ephrem’s
day, no separate treatment was given to this Gnostic sect in the present study. In Hymns
Against Heresies, Ephrem mentions Quq four times: “Quq also is a mystery to the Quqites
by his name,/because he made them into pitchers, empty ones, by his doctrine” (CH II.6);
“The Quqite has added and spoiled [viz. the Scriptures]” (CH XXII.2); “The Quqite named
it [viz. the community] after his name” (CH XXII.3); “No more than the Audians are
ashamed of the name ‘owl,’/No more are the Arians and the Quqites ashamed” (CH XXIV.
16, Drijvers 1967, 111–12).
The Syriac word qūqā means “pitcher,” and Ephrem uses this to play on the name of
Quq, the founder of the sect. In his Prose Refutations, Ephrem does not mention Quq at all,
speaking only of Marcion, Bardaiṣan, and Mānī (Drijvers 1967, 108). These three figures
A Historical Profile of Syriac Christianity                                       49

had established rival Christian or semi-Christian communities in Nisibis and Edessa.
Although Ephrem had vigorously contended against them, it was to little avail. Only
persecution and forced conversions by Bishop Rabbula in the fifth century could eradicate
their influence. And, of course, there were the Arians, who also were forcibly extirpated.

[**63]
The Universality of the Church of the East: How Persian was Persian Christianity?
[This section previously appeared as a journal article (Buck 1996a). It is reprinted here by
permission of the editors of the Journal of the Assyrian Academic Society.]
Persian Christianity was perhaps the first great non-Roman form of Christianity. The
“Church of the East” was ecclesiastically “Persian” in that it was, with minor exceptions,
the officially recognized Church of the Sasanian empire. The Church was politically
“Persian” due to the role of Sasanian kings in the eleven Synods from 410 to 775 C.E. The
Church was geographically “Persian” in that it was coextensive with but not limited to the
orbit of the Sasanian empire. The Church of the East was only secondarily “Persian” in
terms of ethnicity. Yet the presence of ethnic Persians vividly illustrates why the Church of
the East became the world’s most successful missionary church until modern times.
Although the majority of Christians in the church are assumed to have been ethnic
Syrians, the Church of the East was once a universal, multiethnic religion. As a witness to
the universality of the Church of the East in its heyday, it is probably the case that ethnic
Persians formed the most visible and important ethnic minority of Christianity in Persia.
This study will argue that the role of Iranian converts may have been far more significant
than has so far been realized. Discoveries of Nestorian texts in Iranian languages (Middle
Persian, Sogdian, New Persian) have proven conclusively that Syriac was not the exclusive
language of liturgy and instruction in the Persian Church. In fact, part and parcel of the
extraordinary missionary success of the Church of the East derived from its genius for
adapting Christian worship to local vernaculars. Evidence of this gift for effective
indigenization may be seen in the both the Assyrian and Chaldean services for the Feast of
Epiphany, in which fragments from a lost Persian Christian liturgy are preserved and recited
to this very day.
The importance of the Church of Persia has been diminished by the fact that mainstream
church history has, to date, been primarily Eurocentric. This problem may be traced back to
Eusebius of Caesarea (d. c. 339 C.E.), who has traditionally been acclaimed as “the Father of
Church History” as it was he who wrote the very first Ecclesiastical History. As Sebastian
Brock observes: “Eusebius passes over the history of the Church to the east of the Roman
Empire in almost total silence” and that, as a result, “the legacy of Eusebius’ model of a
Church History has had an insidious influence on his successors, ancient and modern,
encouraging the emergence of the excessively Eurocentric view of Church History that is
generally current today” [**64] (1996, 70). Consider the significance of the estimated size
of West Syrian (Roman and Persian empires) and East Syrian (Persian) Christianity prior to
and during the initial period of Islam. John Taylor, a historian of church history, notes: “For
the first time since the seventh century, when there were large numbers of Nestorian and
A Historical Profile of Syriac Christianity

Syrian churches in parts of Asia, the majority of Christians in the world [today] are not of
European origin” (1990, 635).
There is an implicit claim here that Syrian Christians and their converts outnumbered
European Christians. The relative historical neglect of Syriac Christianity is all the more
surprising, if Paulos Gregorios’ estimate is correct. Speaking of the Syrians relative to other
Christian populations, he states: “Before the sixth century they were probably the most
numerous Christian group, larger than the Greeks, Latins, and Copts” (1987, 14:227–28). So
far-flung was the mission field, and so ethnically diverse was the Church of the East that it
was possible, albeit under special historical circumstances, for a non-Syrian or non-Iranian
to lead the entire church. This occurred in the year 1281 C.E., when Mār Yahballāhā III—a
Turco-Mongol from the ecclesiastical province of China—was elected to the supreme office
of Catholicós-Patriarch (see Hage 1988, 68–79). Yahballāhā’s biography was originally
written in Persian (not extant), and later translated into Syriac (ibid., 71, n. 9).
By “Persia” is meant something quite different from the territory of present-day Iran.
Prior to the Sasanian empire, the Parthian empire (the Parthians were a people of
northeastern Iran) extended from the Caspian Sea to the Persian Gulf and from Afghanistan
to the Tigris. Broadly speaking, Persia in Sasanian times was a region lying both to the west
and to the east of the Tigris River. Persia included what is now Iraq, part of Afghanistan, as
well as Russian Azarbaijan.
According to Sasanian documents, Persians distinguished two kinds of land within their
empire: Īrān proper, and non-Īrān (“Anīrān”). Although west of present-day Iran, Iraq was
actually considered to be part of Iran. According to Wilhelm Eilers, the name al-‘Irāq is
actually a Persian word (erāgh), meaning, “lowlands” (Eilers 1983, 481). This etymology
may not be absolutely certain. As Eilers observes: “For the Sasanians, too, the lowlands of
Iraq constituted the heart of their dominions” (ibid.). This shows that Iraq was not simply
part of the Persian Empire it was the heart of Persia. Thus the Euphrates River formed the
true western frontier of the Persian Empire (ibid.). There was a great overlap here with the
linguistic territory of Syriac, a language based in northern Mesopotamia, the country
stretching between the Tigris and Euphrates rivers and adjoining regions. Northern
Mesopotamia consisted of the Syriac-speaking regions of Adiabene and Osrhoëne. This land
formed much of present-day Iraq.
[**65] Bardaiṣan (Bardesanes, Bar Daiṣān, d. 222 C.E.) refers to the existence of
Christians in the provinces of Pārs, Medea, Kāshān, and Parthia. Twice during his war
against the Romans (viz., the two captures of Antioch in 256 and 260 C.E.), Shāpūr deported
sizeable contingents of Greek-speaking Christian prisoners of war from Antioch and other
cities and colonized these “spoils of war” in Persis, Parthia, Susiana, and Babylonia.
According to the Chronicle of Séert, this resulted in there being two churches—Greek and
Syriac—at Rēv-Ardashīr in Persis (Pārs) (Asmussen 1983, 929–30). Despite these ethnic
boundaries, this was a fortuitous boon to Christianity in Persia.
The “Church of Persia” is principally an ecclesiastical term, designating the East Syrian
Church, which flourished, albeit with episodic persecutions, in the Persian empire under the
Sasanians. “Persian Christianity” is a more geographical or regional description term,
adumbrating West Syrian Jacobites as well, who eventually sought refuge in the Sasanian
kingdom. The term Persian by itself will be used to denote ethnic Iranian Christians, who
A Historical Profile of Syriac Christianity                                       51

were mostly converts from Zoroastrianism. Indeed, while the liturgy and instruction
remained, for the most part, Syriac, a subsidiary Christian vernacular was Persian. During
the Sasanian period, Brock notes that “Persian became an increasingly important literary
vehicle for Christians” and that there was a “once extensive Christian literature in this
language” (Brock 1982a, 18). So multiethnic was East Syrian Christianity that “Christians
in the Sasanid empire employed a whole number of different languages for ecclesiastical
use” (ibid., 17).
Aphrahāṭ “the Persian sage” is our earliest major witness to Christianity within the
Persian empire. Likewise, F. Rilliet was quoted earlier as having stated that Ephrem “is a
privileged witness of the tradition of the primitive church of Persia” (1992a, 1:276). While
developments that brought the Church of Persia into its own as a church independent of
Rome were subsequent to both Aphrahāṭ and Ephrem, their legacy had a formative and
abiding influence on Persian Christianity.
During the Parthian period (c. 141 B. C.E. to 224 C.E.), Rome replaced the Greeks as the
arch-enemy of the East. While Christians were being persecuted within the Roman Empire,
they were relatively free from persecution under the Parthians. Rome and Persia,
superpowers of the early Christian world, were perpetually at war. This political conflict had
a role in sparking religious conflict as well. In the fourth century, when Christianity became
the state religion of the Roman Empire, Christianity became politicized. The superpower
rivalry then took on overt religious overtones. Now, for non-Roman Christians, the
pendulum between persecution and protection hinged on state religion as well as affairs of
state. A rival religion competed with Christianity for power. This was the ancient Persian
religion [**66] known as Zoroastrianism. This Persian monotheism, founded on an ethical
dualism that, over the centuries, had degenerated into an ontological dualism, traditionally
held to “good thoughts, good words, good deeds” as its sacred ideal. But in political reality,
as the state religion of Persia, Zoroastrianism exercised quite the opposite in its treatment of
Christians.
Zoroastrianism reached its zenith of power under the patronage of Shāpūr I (r. 241–272).
Persian Christianity became the primary target of the intolerance with which the Magian
religion became imbued. It was the chief priest Kartīr who had the Persian prophet Mānī
tortured and executed. Social status or rank of nobility provided little protection from the
wide-scale persecution of Christians at the hands of a fanatical Magian clergy. Not even the
high-born Qandira (Candida) the Roman—who was the Christian consort of King Varahan
II (r. 276–293)—was spared. It was Kartīr who probably instigated the first persecution of
Christians in Persia. Persecutions continued throughout the rest of Shāpūr II’s reign, and,
sporadically, during the reigns of his successors, Ardashīr II (r. 379–383) and Vaharan IV (r.
388–399). Under the reign of Yazdagird I (r. 399–420), Christians were tolerated until the
year 420 C.E. Christian sources, in fact, praise Yazdagird.
The discovery on Khārg Island in the Persian Gulf of no fewer than sixty Christian
tombs indicates that by the year 250 C.E. there was already a strong Christian presence in
Persia. These sixty tombs at Khārg, an island near Bushire and opposite Bahrain, were cut
into a coral bank. Vestiges of Syriac inscriptions are still visible on the vertical columns of
these Christian tombs (Bowman 1974). Stewart McCullough speculates that Christians on
the mainland had selected the island as a place less vulnerable to disturbance by fanatical
A Historical Profile of Syriac Christianity

Zoroastrian priests. These sixty tombs may in fact have housed martyrs of persecutions
instigated by the high priest, Kartīr (HSC 112), “who gave Zoroastrianism a new dimension
by turning it into a religion that would brook no rivals in Iran” (HSC 102).
As a dual-authority polity, Christians within the Persian Empire had divided loyalties.
During the reign of Shāpūr II (310–379 C.E.), Constantine (d. 337) converted to Christianity.
In turn, Christianity was converted to the state religion of the Roman Empire. (Ephrem’s
native town of Nisibis was represented at the Council of Nicea in 325 C.E. by Bishop Jacob.)
Unwittingly, after the transformation of the Roman Empire into a Christian state, Persian
Christians became a political vanguard of Rome. This placed them in an even more
precarious situation. Already vulnerable as a religious minority, Persian Christians were
perceived as allied with the enemy, and not without justification. Three years after
Constantine’s death in 337 C.E., persecution against the Christians in Persia began.
[**67] In his Life of Constantine, Eusebius, the first historian of the Church, states that
there were “many churches of God in Persia and that large numbers were gathered into the
fold of Christ” (Brock 1982a, 1). Constantine’s conversion to Christianity and the
Christianizing of the Roman Empire cast a pall of suspicion over an estimated 35,000
Persian Christians, who fell victim to the Great Persecution that began in 339 C.E. and ended
only with the death of Shāpūr II forty years later. Large-scale persecution of Persian
Christians was instigated mainly during times of war, when Christians were suspected of
favoring the enemy (ibid., 5).
This situation was aggravated by overt pro-Roman sympathies held by some of the
Persian Christians. Aphrahāṭ is a case in point. The Persian Sage writes: “The People of God
have received prosperity, and success awaits the man who has been the instrument of that
prosperity [i.e., Constantine]; but disaster threatens the army gathered together by the efforts
of a wicked and proud man puffed up by vanity [Šāpūr]. . . . The [Roman] Empire will not
be conquered, because the hero whose name is Jesus is coming with His power, and His
army will uphold the whole army of the Empire” (Aph. Dem. 5.1.24, Russell, EIr 5:524–
25).
Survival necessitated an eventual break between Roman and Persian Christians.
Eventually this break took place. The counterpart of Rome in the Persian Empire was
Seleucia-Ctesiphon, the twin-city Sasanian capital where Persian Christianity officially
constituted itself in the year 410 C.E. at the Synod of Mār Isḥāq, asserting its full
independence in the Synod of Dādīšō‘ in 424 C.E. (See details in the section, “The Persian
Synods,” below.) The area encompassed by Persian Christianity included areas both within
present-day Iran (such as the province of Pārs) as well as the frontier regions of Nisibis and
Adiabene. Mār Isḥāq, in fact proclaimed himself “bishop of Seleucia-Ctesiphon, Catholicós
and Head (rēšā) over the bishops of all the Orient (madneḥā)” (Asmussen 1983, 931).
Ecclesiastical development within Persian Christianity has also been documented. Its
anchor in orthodoxy seemed secure in its adherence to the Nicene Creed. Indeed, a certain
“John of Persia” (Yohannan of Bēṯ Pārsāyē) is recorded as having represented Persia at the
Council of Nicaea in 325 C.E. (Eusebius, in his Life of Constantine, remarked that “even a
Persian bishop attended the Synod” [Asmussen 1983, 931, n. 6].) In 345 C.E., at the Synod
of Seleucia, Bishop Pāpā bar Aggai sought to consolidate all of the churches in Persian
A Historical Profile of Syriac Christianity                                       53

territory under his rule. But the bishops of Persia proper thwarted this scheme. Particularly
strong resistance came from Mīlēs of Susa.
Later, at the Synod of Mār Isḥāq, (410), the Church of Persia was officially established
in Seleucia-Ctesiphon, the royal capital of Persia. These were twin cities, situated on either
side of the Tigris River. [**68] This Synod commenced with a prayer for the king,
Yazdagird I, who had granted tolerance and even favor to Christians and other minorities.
The Synod officially adopted the Nicene Creed. Six “classical” provinces within the western
regions of the Sasanian empire were represented in the official records of this synod. Geo
Widengren has assembled a list of fifteen evangelized provinces in Sasanian Iran and in
Central Asia (1984, 10–12). I have expanded Widengren’s list to at least eighteen provinces,
excluding “Outer Iran” (Central Asia). Some of these provinces were ecclesiastical
provinces. The rest were bishoprics.
Shāpūr I’s list of Sasanian provinces is given by Brunner (1983, 750), following a very
useful and detailed map of “The provinces of early Sasanian Iran” (748–49). The following
list gives all of twenty-five provinces of the Sasanian empire as enumerated in Shāpūr I’s
inscription on the Ka‘ba-yi Zardusht. These provinces are represented in geographical order
and by quadrant, according to the points of the compass (kust). Evangelized provinces are
marked in bold: South Quadrant, southwest: (1) Pārs; (2) Parthau; (3) Khuzistān. West
Quadrant: (4) Maishān; (5) Asūristān; (6) Nōdardashīragān; (7) Arbāyistān. North
Quadrant, north: 8. Ādurbādagān. Northwest: (9) Armin; (10) Wirōzān; (11) Sigān; (12)
Ar(r)ān; (13) Balāsagān; Parishkwārgar; (14) Māh; (15) Gurgān. East Quadrant, east:
(16) Marv; (17) Harēw, Abaršahr; (18) Kushānshahr. Southeast: (19) Kirmān; (20)
Sagistān; (21) Turgistān; (22) Makurān; (23) Pārdān; (24) Hind; (25) Mazōn. Outer Iran
[Central Asia]: (26) Samarkand; (27) Bactria; (28) Sogdiana.

Evangelized provinces of Sasanian Persia: The evidence. The first six ecclesiastical
provinces of the Church of the East were formalized as hyparchies in the Synod of Mār
Isḥāq (410 C.E.). These provinces did not represent all of the Christian districts within the
frontiers of the Sasanian empire at that time. In Canon XXI, the assembled bishops express
the hope that “the bishops from the far-away regions (atrawātā raḥīqē), from Pārs, the
Islands, Bēṯ Mādāyē, Bēṯ R[az]īqāyē, indeed, even from the Abaršahr regions” would accept
the decisions reached by the synod (Asmussen 1983, 932). All of these regions will be
briefly discussed in the geographical-ecclesiastical overview that follows below.
South Quadrant, southwest: The concentrations of Syriac- and Greek-speaking
captives lay in the western districts of the south quadrant (Brunner 1983, 751). (1) Pārs:
This is the province in which John of Daylam established a monastery for Persian-speaking
monks in the eighth century (Anon., EIr 7:336). Pārs is mentioned as a bishopric in the
Synod of 410. In the southwest province of Pārs (Fārs, Persia proper), the city of Ṣṭakhr
(Iṣṭakhr)—summer capital of the Sasanians [**69]—had become a diocese by 424 (Brunner
1983, 751). In its role as the spiritual centre of Zoroastrianism, in Ṣṭakhr was kept the
dynasty’s fire, the Anāhīd-ardashīr, described as the “ideological heart of the
empire” (ibid.). Between 415 and 420 C.E., Pārs became an ecclesiastical province
(Widengren 1984, 11). As of the Synod of Mār Bābay in 497, its metropolis was Rēv-
Ardashīr (Rīshahr), from whence the Nestorian mission to India was directed. The province
A Historical Profile of Syriac Christianity

of Pārs included Qais Island, a distinct bishopric as of 544 C.E.; (2) Parthau: Aspadana
(Spāhān, Ispāhān, Iṣfāhān) in the southwest province of Parthau is also mentioned in the
Synod of Mār Dādīšō‘ (424); (3) Khūzistān: [Represented as an ecclesiastical province in
the Synod of 410.] In the southwest quadrant of Sasanian Iran, the province of Khūzistān
(Syriac: Bēṯ Ḥūzāyē) was also known as Parthian Susiana, Elymais, Elam. Its metropolis
was the pre-Sasanian diocese of Bēṯ Lāpāṭ (later Gundē-Shāpūr). The ancient capital of
Shūsh (Susa) became a diocese by 410, as was the case with Karkā de Lādhan (Ērānshahr-
Shāpūr), and Rāmhurmuz (Rām-Ormazd-Ardashīr), the major city in the east of the
province (Brunner 1983, 753). A bishopric was established in Hormizd-Ardashīr (Ahvāz),
the later capital of Khūzistān (HSC 137). It was here that Mār ‘Abda, a Persian Christian
priest, was said to have destroyed a Zoroastrian fire temple adjacent to a Christian church,
and who, as a result of this, suffered martyrdom (Williams 1996, 46, n. 37).
West Quadrant: (4) Maishān: [Represented as an ecclesiastical province in the Synod
of 410.] In Lower Babylonia, the region around Baṣra Iraq, the western province of Maišān
(Mēšān, Mesene) had four bishoprics, with Pherāt de Maišān (later Vahman-Ardashīr) as its
metropolis (cf. Streck, “Maisān” in Encyclopaedia of Islam, first edition); (5) Āsūristān:
[Represented as an ecclesiastical province in the Synod of 410.] In what was known to
antiquity as Babylonia, now Iraq, the western province (shahr) of Āsūristān (Syriac: Bēṯ
Arāmāyē) was known as Assyria, although historical Assyria was actually to the north. In
the Sasanian era, Iranians considered Āsūristān to be “the heart of Iran” (Brunner 1983,
757). The Catholicós of the Church of the East was the bishop of Seleucia-Ctesiphon, the
Sasanian administrative capital and royal winter residence. The bishop of the district of
Kashkar served as auxiliary (HSC 123); (6) Nōdardashīragān: [Represented as an
ecclesiastical province in the Synod of 410.] The western province of Garamīg ud
Nōdardashīragān (Syriac: Bēṯ Garmay) was north of Āsūristān between the Tigris and Little
Khābūr rivers, and the mountains of Āzarbāyjān. Its metropolis was Karkā de Bēṯ Selōk
(Kirkūk). This ecclesiastical province included the bishopric of Pērōz-Shāpūr (Faishābūr,
HSC 137) and probably the diocese of Shahrazūr (Brunner 1983, 761). Garamīg used to be
part of the province of Adiabene. [**70] Evidently, Garamīg was organized as a special
province between 343 and 410 C.E. (Widengren 1984, 11); (7) Adiabene: [Represented as
an ecclesiastical province in the Synod of 410.] In what is now northern Iraq, the Sasanian
buffer state Adiabene (Syriac: Ḥedyab, Ḥadyab) lay east of the Tigris, between the Greater
and Lesser Zāb rivers. An organized Christian community since the late Parthian period,
Adiabene’s metropolis was Arbela (Irbīl); (8) Ḥulwān: The ecclesiastical province of
Ḥulwān (Syriac: Bēṯ Mādāyē, Māda) was established and organized by Catholicós Išoyabh
Geddālāyā II between the years 628 and 643 (Widengren 1984, 12). It occupied the region
of southern Media, now Albania (HSC 151); (9) Arbāyistān: [(Represented as an
ecclesiastical province in the Synod of 410.] In Northern Mesopotamia, the western
Sasanian province of Arbāyistān or Arabistān (Syriac: Bēṯ ‘Arbāyē) had Ephrem’s native
city of Nisibis as its metropolis. Nearby, on Mount Īzlā, was the “Great Monastery”—the
leading monastery in Christian Persia (HSC 170).
North Quadrant, north: (10) Ādurbādagān: The northern province of Ādurbādagān
(Āzarbāyjān) had at least one bishop (HSC 151). Northwest: (11) Armin: No bishoprics
A Historical Profile of Syriac Christianity                                       55

attested; (12) Wirōzān: No bishoprics attested; (13) Sigān: No bishoprics attested; (14) Ar
(r)ān: No bishoprics attested; (15) Balāsagān: No bishoprics attested; (16)
Parishkwārgar: In the Caspian region of Dēlam (Dailam, Daylam) in the northern
province of Parishkwārgar (Ṭabaristān), John of Daylam founded several monasteries.
Later, John travelled to Arrajān (Argān) in Fārs, where he established two monasteries, one
for Syriac-speaking monks and the other for Persian-speaking monks. In the Book of the
Laws of Countries, Bar Daiṣān’s pupil Philippus had already attested the presence of
Christians in both nearby Gīlān and in Kushān: “Our sisters among the Geli and the
Kushanians do not have intercourse with foreigners, and they who live in Persia do not
marry their daughters” (Edakalathur 1994, 9, citing Drijvers 1965, 61). The Gēls, who were
admired as valiant warriors, were the native inhabitants of Gīlān, which, along with
Daylam, lay in the mountainous regions on the southern shores of the Caspian; (17) Māh:
The northern province of Māh (central Media, the “core of Media”—Brunner 1983, 766)
had a diocese in the city of Rayy (Syriac: Bēṯ R[az]īqāyē), otherwise known as ‘Aqdā,
Rhages. Mentioned in the the Synod of Mār Isḥāq (410); (18) Gurgān: According to the
letter sent by Timotheos I (d. 823), Christianity had been established in Gurgān—the ancient
Hyrcania (Widengren 1984, 11).
East Quadrant, east: As of the Synod of 424 C.E., it was evident that the Church of the
East had expanded deep into central and eastern Persia, “into regions that were
predominantly Zoroastrian” (HSC 126). (19) Marv: Between 415 and 420, Marv became
an ecclesiastical province (Widengren 1984, 11). In the Synod of 554, the eastern prov-
[**71] ince of Marv (Margiana), north of present-day Khurāsān, is mentioned as a
hyparchy, although there appears to have been a Christian bishop there as early as 334 C.E.
From Marv, Christian missions proceeded on to Tukhāristān and to Transoxiana (Brunner
1983, 770); (20) Harēw: In the Synod of 585, the eastern province of Harēv (Herāt, Areia,
i.e., modern Afghanistan) is mentioned as a hyparchy. (It had become a bishopric by 424.);
(21) Abaršahr: Also mentioned in the the Synod of Mār Isḥāq, the eastern province of
Apar-šahr (“realm of the Aparni” clans) is also part of modern Khurāsān. The city of Nēv-
Shāpur was its center; (22) Kushānshahr: The eastern province of Kushān (Ṭukhāristān),
near the Upper Oxus in the northern part of what is now modern Afghanistan, had already
been evangelized by the third century, if not by the second. On the coast in the district of
Qaṭīf, a bishopric was established in the city of Paniyāt-Ardashīr by 576. The islands of
Tārūt and Muḥarraq also became dioceses, along with Gerrha (Hajar—ibid., 757).
Southeast: (23) Kirman: In a letter to Simeon, metropolitan of Rev Ardashīr in Pārs (Fārs),
Nestorian catholicós Isho‘yahb III (647–659 C.E.), lamented that many Christians in Fārs
and Kirmān, despite lack of persecution by Arabs, had converted to Islam to escape paying
taxes (Morony 1990, 141); (24) Sagistān: In the Synod of Mār Dādīšō‘ (424), the
southeastern province of Sagistān (Sēyānsa, Sijisaān) was represented by two bishops
(Widengren 1984, 5); (21) Turgistān: No bishoprics attested; (25) Makurān: No bishoprics
attested; (26) Pārdān: No bishoprics attested; (27) Hind: By the sixth century, Iranian
merchants dominated the Indian ports on the west coast of “India Interior.” Christians there
were under the authority of the church hyparchy of Fārs (Brunner 1983, 757). This fact was
noted by the traveller Cosmas Indicopleustes, an Egyptian monk, who, during the first half
of the sixth century, observed that “in the country which is called Male (Malabar), where
A Historical Profile of Syriac Christianity

pepper is growing, there is a bishop ordained in Persia” (Fiey 1996, 98). Cosmas also found
“Persian” Christians on the islands of Ceylon and Socotra (King 1948, 2:269). The office of
the bishop of India was promoted to a metropolitan between the years 714 and 728 (Fiey
1996, 98); (28) Mazōn: The southeastern province of Mazōn included the territory referred
to as “The Islands” (Syriac: Bēṯ Qaṭrāyē), i.e., eastern Arabia and Baḥrain, which had a
monastery (HSC 167). Mazōn was transformed into a hyparchy as of the Synod of 676 C.E.
Outer Iran (Central Asia): (29) Samarkand: Samarkand (ancient Marakand) was a
Nestorian province. The evidence for the establishment of Christianity there has been
collected by Colless (1986); (30) Bactria: No bishoprics attested; (31) Sogdiana: The
evangelization of the Sogdians represents the culmination of missionary efforts within the
Sasanian empire, as Richard N. Frye observes: “In the east, too, Christian missionaries
made converts among the Hephthalites [**72] and Sogdians, so one may infer everywhere a
growing Christian influence at the end of the Sasanian empire” (1962, 224).
A total of some eighteen Sasanian provinces are thus known to have been evangelized.
Nestorian missions extended far beyond the Sasanian borders, expanding east through
Central Asia, and finally reaching to the end of the world as it was known, China.
Numerically, this is 58 percent (18 of 31) of the provinces of the Persian empire. By the fall
of the Sasanian dynasty, before the Arab onslaught in the mid-seventh century, there were
ten metropolitan sees (including the patriarchate) and ninety-six bishoprics (Brock 1982a,
3). Brock notes that “In what is today north Iraq, conversions to Christianity from paganism
continued into the early Islamic period” (1982a, 3, n. 9; cf. Morony 1990, 1976, 1974). With
the advent of Islam, the Church of Persia went into decline in terms of population, but
certainly not intellectually nor in the prosecution of its missionary endeavors. It is estimated
that the majority of the population of Iran was more or less fully converted to Islam between
850 and 950 C.E. (Morony 1990, 136–38). The Nestorian chronicler Mārī b. Sulaymān
reported that “many” Christians in Iran had converted to Islam in the late tenth century due
to persecution and to corruption of the clergy (Morony 1990, 143). However, in the
mountain regions of the north, it took nearly two centuries for Islam to penetrate Daylam
and Gīlān. Persia’s conversion to Islam was nearly complete only with the establishment of
the Seljuk empire (Schütz 1990, 219).

The Nestorian controversy and the independence of the Church of Persia. In the fifth
century, from Narsai (d. c. 471) onward, the Church of Persia became, loosely speaking,
“Nestorian,” incorporating a dyophysite, “two-natures” (human-divine) position within its
Christology. The term Nestorian is somewhat anachronistic here, since it is not attested in
official documents of the East Syrian Church until the thirteenth century (McLeod 1979, 1).
The anachronism is still descriptive in that it designates adherence to a dyophysite
Christology. The Assyrian Church of the East has a far greater doctrinal reliance on
Theodore of Mopsuestia.
In 428 C.E., Nestorius had become the Patriarch of Byzantium. Nestorius taught that
Christ was one person but had two distinct natures, divine and human. These natures
remained separate, such that Mary was not, properly speaking, the “Mother of
God” (theotókos). Nestorius rejected the divinity of the man Jesus. This was utter doom for
Nestorius and his followers. Cyril of Alexandria, adamant in his belief that the two natures
A Historical Profile of Syriac Christianity                                       57

of Christ were united at birth, vigorously opposed Nestorius. He was anathematized at the
Council of Ephesus (431 C.E.). Under Byzantine rule, Nestorians were forced to flee Edessa.
They took refuge in Nisibis under Persian rule. This proved a blessing in disguise, as the
Nestorian church, despite sporadic persecu- [**73] tions, flourished in Persia, steering as it
did a steady course between alternate patronage and persecution.
Nestorius was held in high esteem by Narsai, the great consolidator of Nestorianism,
popularly known as the “Harp of the Spirit” (kinārā d-rūḥā). (For a comparison between
Narsai and Ephrem, see Jansma 1970.) The innocence of Nestorius is championed by Narsai
in a homily in defense of the “Three Doctors”—Diodore of Tarsus, Theodore of
Mopsuestia, and Nestorius. (See Martin 1899/1900 for Syriac text and translation.) “The
Persian Christians, moreover, have never, with common consent, referred to themselves as
‘Nestorians’; this was a derogatory title employed by the Monophysites for all dyophysite
Christians” (Miller 1984, 528, n. 125). Rather, Persian Christians were Theodoran. Insofar
as he followed Theodore of Mopsuestia, Nestorius was looked upon as orthodox and as one
who was treated unjustly.
Generally, Persian Christians avoided referring to Nestorius by name. It was, after all, a
lightning rod for criticisms of those errors traditionally ascribed to him. Yet the influence of
Nestorius was undeniable. In its Syriac translation, Nestorius’s Book of Herakleides exerted
a powerful influence on Bābay the Great (d. 628—Brock 1985c, 128). However, Nestorius
was by no means the major theologian of the Church of the East. That distinction rests with
Bābay, who was the most important theologian of the Church of the East (Brock 1996, 33).
“For the Persians,” writes Geevarghese Chediath, “Babai’s Christology was the Christology
of their church” (1994, 165).
Bābay’s major Christological treatise was On the Union (sc. of the two natures of
Christ). In current scholarship, the term Nestorian is still a term of convenience, not of
deprecation. This is not without precedent within the Church of the East itself. In the year
1609 C.E., for instance, Mār ‘Abd Yeshua drew up the “orthodox creed of the Nestorians,”
having done so “in the blessed city of Khlāt in the church of the blessed Nestorians” (apud
Adeney 1965, 484, n. 1). Centuries earlier, in the eighth century to be precise, Mar Shahdost
of Tirhan (not Tehran) had composed a treatise entitled, Why We Easterns Have Separated
Ourselves from the Westerns, and Why We Are Called Nestorians. In this text, the author
refers to his faith-community as, “we, the Nestorians” (Davids 1994, 134–35).
Monarchs often took a vested and active interest in overseeing Persian Christianity.
Sasanian kings took interest in various Synods. In 552, Kavādh’s son Chosroes I (r. 531–
579) imposed his own nominee as Catholicós for ratification at the Synod of 554. At the
Synod of Mār Ezekiel (576), Chosroes I demanded that he be named in the litanies during
the liturgy (Brock 1982a, 11). In 609 C.E., Chosroes II (r. 591–628) was outraged when his
own candidate was passed over. So he forbade any subsequent election, which eventually
left the Christian [**74] community temporarily without a head until the King’s death
nullified the ban. In the late sixth century, the Christian communities of Marv and Herat
became prominent. In the year 651, the Bishop of Marv donated a sepulchre for the
assassinated Yazdagird III (Russell, EIr 5:524). But the relationship between Church and
state was always tense and precarious. War-weary and overtaxed, many Persian Christians
welcomed with palm fronds the Arab conquerors of Ctesiphon (ibid., 525–26).
A Historical Profile of Syriac Christianity

The Persian synods. The Church of Persia held its own series of synods, the records of
which have come down to us in the so-called Synodicon Orientale (edited, with French
translation by Chabot [1902], German version by Braun [1900], unpublished English
rendition by M. J. Birnie [Stirnemann and Wilflinger 1994, 88–89 and 119]). It is a record
of the history of Christianity in Sasanian Iran.
This chronicle, however, is not contemporary. It was compiled by the Catholicós
Timothy in the late eighth century. The first bishop of historical stature of the Persian capital
of Seleucia-Ctesiphon was a certain Pāpā, who lived in the fourth century. Pāpā was
opposed by Mīlēs, bishop of Susa, who deposed Pāpā from office when Pāpā tried to
impose autocratic rule on Mīlēs’s episcopal colleagues. Pāpā’s effort to consolidate churches
in Persia into a unified Church of Persia had failed.
The Church of Persia officially constituted itself in its first Synod of 410 C.E. According
to Eilers (1983, 485), it was not until the year 409. C.E. that public Christian worship was
first permitted within the Persian empire. This signal event occurred during the reign of
Yazdagird (r. 399–422). Virtually isolated until the early fifth century, the Church of Persia
—by virtue of its ancient autonomy—had no dependency on any western diocese, even in
Antioch. (There was, however, a theory to the contrary, advanced by some medieval East
Syriac writers, who maintained that the see of Seleucia-Ctesiphon had once been
subordinate to the patriarchate of Antioch [Brock 1994, 75, n. 15, citing de Halleux 1978].)
The patriarchal church structure in the Byzantine West had crystallized during the fourth
and fifth centuries. And Byzantine influence can be seen in the first general synod of the
Church of Persia, held in 410 C.E. This transpired when Mārūṯā, the Byzantine imperial
envoy for peace negotiations between the Roman and Persian empires, set out to the
Sasanian capital of Seleucia-Ctesiphon to align the Church of Persia with the norms of the
Church of the West.
In this venture, Mārūṯā succeeded in enlisting the support of the Persian monarch,
Yazdagird I. “It is significant,” Brock remarks, “that the synod was convoked by the Shah
himself” (1994, 73). By royal decree, the bishops of the realm were summoned to the
capital. The Byzantine ecclesiastical envoy acted as co-president of the synod, along [**75]
with the Catholicós [Archbishop], Mār Isḥāq. The synod promulgated a number of canons
that regulated church doctrine, liturgy, and office in accordance with the prevailing practices
of the West. A variation on the Nicene creed was also adopted. The rule of one bishop per
city created problems in areas where there were multiple sees, due to the presence of
sometimes Greek, Syriac, and Persian Christian populations. Several days after the initial
session, Mārūṯā and Mār Isḥāq (Isaac) arranged for an official audience with the king,
before whom all of the Persian bishops were assembled. This marked what was probably the
very first time that the relationship between church and state was regularized (Brock 1994,
74).
Another synod was convoked in 420 C.E., under the presidency of the new Catholicós
Yahballāhā and another Byzantine ambassador, Acacius of Amida. But in the Synod of 424,
at which a Byzantine representative was not present, the full autonomy of the Church of
Persia was espoused. Here, as in the three Petrine sees of Rome, Alexandria, and Antioch,
the language of the Synod of 424 was couched in Petrine terms. In its canonical
A Historical Profile of Syriac Christianity                                       59

emancipation from Antioch, the Church of Persia placed itself outside the petrarchy of
Rome, Constantinople, Alexandria, Antioch, and Jerusalem (Asmussen 1983, 941).

Vernacular Persian in Church of the East liturgy? What evidence is there to attest to the
presence of an indigenous, ethno-linguistic Iranian presence in Persian Christianity, which
was predominately East Syrian? Is it possible that ethnic Persians constituted the most
important minority in the Church of the East, once a flourishing, multiethnic and thus
“universal” Church? Gernot Wiessner (1971) has stressed the importance of the Iranian
ethnic element in Nestorianism. Evidence suggests there was an appreciable ethnic Iranian
representation in the Church of Persia. This is colorfully illustrated by an episode in the
Syriac Life of John of Dailam. John of Daylam (variously spelled Dailam, Deylam) was an
East Syrian saint of the seventh to eighth centuries, who lived in western Persia. The
following narrative tells of a controversy that broke out among the monks in Arrajān over
whether to conduct services in Syriac or in Persian: “Now the Persian and Syriac-speaking
brethren quarrelled with each other over the services: the Persians said, ‘We should all recite
the services in our language, seeing that we live in Persian territory’; while the Syriac-
speakers said, ‘Our father is a Syriac-speaker, and so we should recite the services in our
language, on account of the founder of the monastery; furthermore we do not know how to
recite the services in Persian.’ When Mār Yoḥannan saw the quarrel had arisen, he pacified
the brethren and prayed to God with deep feeling. Thereupon he was told in a revelation
from God: ‘Build them another monastery the other side of the river, opposite this one,
resembling it in every respect. Let the [**76] Persian-speakers live in one, and the Syriac in
the other.’ So he built another monastery just like the first, and the Syriac-speaking brethren
lived there. Thus the quarrel between the brethren was resolved” (Brock 1982c, 150–51).
This is plausible enough, especially in light of the resurgence of literary Persian in the
ninth century. If this story has any basis in fact, it provides anecdotal evidence of a
considerable segment of ethnic Iranians within the Church of Persia. A recent study
pronounces the following verdict on the historicity of this account: “John traveled to Arrajān
in Fārs, where he founded several monasteries: two of them were assigned to Persian- and
Syriac-speaking monks respectively, so that neither community should be forced to
celebrate services in a foreign language. Despite some chronological confusion and the
legendary accretions typical of Syriac hagiographical literature, there is no reason to doubt
the essential historicity of this biography” (Anon, EIr 7:336). Indeed, there must have been a
significant number of native Persians converting to Christianity. In the fifth century,
imperial ambassadors from the Roman emperor Theodosius beseeched Yazdagird I (r. 399–
420) to release from prison a deacon named Benjamin, to which the Shah replied: “Give me
assurance in his own handwriting that he will not convert to his faith any more Magians in
Persia. If so, at your request, I will free him from chains.” This officially constituted one of
the terms of the peace treaty of 561 (Brock 1982a, 10–11, n. 41) during the reign of
Chosroes I (= Khosrow, r. 531–579) which established that there should be freedom of
religion, but not to proselytize. Both Christians and Zoroastrians were forbidden to
proselytize in their respective territories (Bausani 1971, 66–67).
According to Asmussen, “numerous” Christian converts in the fifth century had
Zoroastrian names, attesting to the success of the Church of Persia in converting ethnic
A Historical Profile of Syriac Christianity

Iranians (Asmussen 1983, 942). By the fifth century, some of the chief Iranian festivals had
already been turned into Christian feasts (Boyce 1983, 804). The influx of former
Zoroastrians in the Church of Persia was of such magnitude that the Persian king Jāmāsp (r.
498–501) summoned a synod to deliberate on the problem of Zoroastrian marriage customs
within the Christian community. That this was a topic of major concern in the sixth century
is also attested by the earliest treatise of canon law by Catholicós Mār Abā I (d. 552), which
was devoted to this subject (Brock 1982a, 4–5, n. 14). Further evidence of the conversion of
ethnic Iranians is found in various other documents. In 595 C.E., the patriarch Sabrisho
persuaded Chosroes II (r. 591–628) to grant Christians freedom of worship. According to
the Life of Sabrisho, as a result many Persian noblemen converted (ibid., 6, n. 17). Prior to
this, even a son of Chosroes I had become a Christian (ibid., 8–9, n. 34). This must have
alarmed both the monarch and the Zoroastrian priests. Active prosely- [**77] tizing of
Zoroastrians by the Nestorians was supposed to have ended as a matter of policy with the
aforementioned truce of 561 C.E. concluded between Constantinople and Persia.
Christians in Persia constituted, in political scientific terms, a “dual authority polity” (a
communal group having two sources of political authority—state and diasporal, the latter
typically being ecclesiastical in the case of faith-communities). The Persian state was the
political authority and (Imperial) Christianity the diasporal authority. Conversion to
Christianity, for some, entailed spiritual fealty to Christianity in the West. Thus, Persian
monarchs were, to a degree, rightly suspicious of Christians as sympathizers with the arch-
enemy Rome, but were mistaken in their fear that this constituted any real threat. With one
or two minor exceptions perhaps, Christian sympathy was hardly complicity. Yet, on the
pretext of treason, many Christians paid with their lives for pro-Roman leanings. Over time,
Christians tried to dispel this cloud of political suspicion and to enlist the support of the
Persian monarchy.
Moreover, there is evidence that some Persian Christians were openly loyal to the
Sasanian state. In the sixth century, a known convert from Zoroastrianism, named Grīgōr,
was commissioned by Cawad [sic] as a general during a campaign against Rome (Brock
1982a, 11). Grīgōr is reputed to have in fact been the leader of the Persians in war against
the Romans (Asmussen 1983, 934). During the large-scale persecution of Christians (339–
379) that took place in the reign of Shāpūr II (r. 310–379), a Christian courtier named
Gushtazad apostasized from Christianity but thereafter repented, to die a martyr’s death. On
being led off to his fate, Gushtazad insisted on sending a last message to Shāpūr II: “I have
always been loyal to you and your father. Grant me one request: Let a herald proclaim that
Gushtazad is being put to death, not for treason, but because he was a Christian who refused
to renounce God” (Brock 1982a, 11). It should be added, however, that this loyalty to state
did not constitute loyalty to a “nation” (ibid., 12).
The extent to which Persian Christians sought to curry favor with the state is seen in the
Synodicon, in which Chosroes I is referred to as “the second Cyrus (kwrš)” (Asmussen
1983, 946) who is “preserved by divine grace.” In Canon 14 of the Synod of 576, Persian
Christians were told: “It is right that in all the churches of this exalted and glorious kingdom
that our lord the victorious Chosroes, king of kings, be named in the litanies during the
liturgy. No metropolitan or bishop has any authority to waive this canon in any of the
churches of his diocese and jurisdiction” (Brock 1982a, 11). Even when Persian Christians
A Historical Profile of Syriac Christianity                                       61

went to such lengths to appease imperial suspicions as to Christian loyalties, religious
persecution at the hands of fanatical and intolerant Magians posed a separate though related
challenge to the Christian community.
[**78] Much of our information concerning the ethnic origins of Christian minorities in
the Church of the East comes from martyrologies, in which indigenous converts—especially
ethnic Iranian converts—figure prominently. The Acts of Shīrīn narrates the martyrdoms of
its two heroines, Shīrīn and Gulindukht. Shīrīn of Karka de Beth Selokh was the daughter of
Zoroastrian parents. For her Christian faith she was arrested and martyred in Seleucia in
February 559. Gulindukht was related to Chosroes I and had been married to a Zoroastrian
general. She was converted to Christianity by some Christian prisoners of war. Thrown into
the Fortress of Oblivion (Anūshbard) after her refusal to revert to Zoroastrianism, she chose
martyrdom, despite the intervention of Aristoboulos, a legate sent on a peace mission by the
emperor Maurice (Brock 1982a, 10). She was martyred in 591. Himself a Zoroastrian
convert, Jesusabran of Bēṯ Garmay was another such martyr (HSC 158). In Iran, the royal
martyr Shīndokht is remembered to this day.
Thus, there were, generally speaking, two types of persecution of Christian in Sasanian
Persia. The first were large-scale persecutions perpetrated in times of war against Rome. An
argument could be made that such persecutions were provoked by ill-disguised sympathies
among many Persian Christians for Imperial Christianity and its Christian Emperor. Even in
sporadic times of royal clemency and favor, the one grave danger Persian Christians had to
face was the hostility of the Magi. This brought about the second type of persecution:
persecution by Magians of prominent ex-Zoroastrian Christians, such as the martyrs Mār
Abā and Giwargis. As Brock observes: “Other martyrs under the Sasanids were individuals,
most of whom were converts of high-born Zoroastrian origin, whose prominence in society
led to their denunciation by the Magian clergy and subsequent sentencing to death” (1982a,
5). Some of this persecution Christians had brought upon themselves, through isolated acts
of vandalism that included the destruction of Zoroastrian fire temples (ibid., 6).
Despite the unrelenting pressure and threat to life and limb, former Zoroastrian converts
to Nestorianism could aspire to Church leadership. One such convert was Catholicós Mār
Abā I (d. 552), who became Catholicós in the year 540 C.E. (HSC 136). But he suffered
considerably. Called before a council of the Magi in c. 541–542, he refused to alter the
Church’s canons on marriage, nor would he have Christians desist from their current
practices of proselytization. For this he was detained in a village in Azarbaijan for seven
years, from whence he exercised his leadership of the Church of Persia. Another type of
leadership was that of the mystic, or “holy man.” One such holy man was the renowned
Nestorian mystic, Joseph Hazzāyā, who was from a high-born Zoroastrian family (Gerö
1987, 45, n. 22).
[**79] The pressures of a Zoroastrian environment were felt in all aspects of Christian
life. Monasticism in Persia benefited from an influx of Monophysites, who were exiled to
northwest Persia as a consequence of the anti-Monophysite policy of the emperor Justin (r.
518–527). (Ecclesiastically, the “Jacobites” as Monophysites continued to maintain ties with
Antioch as late as the early seventh century [HSC 184]). At a debate he arranged at the royal
court, Chosroes I was favorably impressed with the Monophysites who pleaded their cause
in answer to Nestorian accusations. Chosroes decreed that the Nestorians henceforth leave
A Historical Profile of Syriac Christianity

the Monophysites free to build as many monasteries and churches as they pleased (HSC
153).
During the latter part of the fifth century, however, the character of Persian Christianity
underwent a profound shift away from celibacy. Asmussen views this as a development
resulting in part from the Persian predilection for Nestorianism: “There is scarcely any
doubt that this special development of the history of the Church must be viewed against the
growing contribution from Christian Iranians who, rooted from birth in Sasanian
Zoroastrianism, quite naturally had to acknowledge Nestorianism as the most adequate
expression for them of the new teaching to which they were attracted. This contribution
from Iranians, perhaps particularly from the province of Fārs, the dynastic province, created
at the same time the best conditions for the growth of a specifically Iranian, notably anti-
ascetic, Christianity which replaced the original, clearly ascetic, Christianity, strongly
dominated by Jewish-Christian elements” (Asmussen 1983, 943). In the Synod of Bēṯ
Lāpāṭ, summoned and overseen by Barṣauma in 484 C.E., celibacy may have been
abolished, but in the absence of any direct attestation of this, the Synod of Mār Aqāq in 486
became the effective instrument for the cessation of the practice of celibacy among the
Nestorians (ibid., 944). Within the Church, this move was not without controversy, and there
was much internal resistance against it. Notwithstanding, the Church of the East has always
opposed the alleged Sasanian practice of consanguineous marriages.

Christian literature in Middle Persian. During the fifth century, the Christian church in
Persia became independent of the patriarchate of Antioch. The reasons for this break appear
to have been more political than religious. Not surprisingly, the fifth century saw the rise of
a vernacular Christian literature in Middle Persian.
The first known Christian text in Persian (apart from scripture translations) was a
summary of the Christian religion. Originally composed in Syriac by Elisha‘ bar Quzbāyē, it
was translated into Persian by the Catholicós Aqāq (Acacius, bishop of Amida, d. 496) and
presented to the Persian king, Kavāḏ I (r. 488–497, 499–531—Sims-Williams, EIr 5:534).
A parallel to this endeavor might be found in Mānī, [**80] whose only writing in Middle
Persian was his Shābuhragān, “presumably in order to expound his teaching to Šāpūr,” as
Sundermann suggests (EIr 5:537).
“At a very early date, particularly in the time of bishop Ma‘nā at the end of the 5th
century,” writes Asmussen, efforts may be traced to create a Christian Persian literature.
Judging from the dearth of extant Persian texts, such an assertion might appear hard to
sustain. Nevertheless, within the Sasanian empire, Persian seems to have been a subsidiary
Christian vernacular. For example, the most eminent of the Persian Christians in the
generations prior to the Islamic conquest was Bābay (Babai) the Great (d. 628), who
presided over the Nestorian church in Iran under Chosroes II. Bābay is said by Vööbus to
have “received instruction in Persian and then started his medical studies at Nisibis” (EIr
3:308). Jacob Kollaparambil argues that the East Syrian Christians must have taught and
propagated the Christian message throughout Persia and within India as well. This, he
claims, is attested in the Chronicle of Séert (citing the Syriac text in Patrologia Orientalis
VII, 117) when it records that, around the year 470 C.E., Bishop Ma‘nā of Rēv-Ardashīr
wrote religious discourses, canticles, and hymns, in Persian and translated from Greek into
A Historical Profile of Syriac Christianity                                       63

Persian—i.e., Pahlavi, Middle Persian (Thomas and Vahman, EIr 4:210)—the theological
treatises of Diodore of Tarsus and Theodore of Mopsuestia and sent copies “to the islands of
the sea” (Bēṯ Qaṭrāyē) and to India (1994, 28). (Some authors have confused Ma‘nā of
Shīrāz with the Catholicós Ma‘nā, who lived in the first half of the fifth century.) Nicholas
Sims-Williams is more precise in noting that Ma‘nā of Shīrāz “composed various works in
Persian, including hymns (madrāšē), ‘discourses’ (mēmrē), and responses (‘ūniātā) for
liturgical use” (EIr 5:534). Vööbus refers to the same Ma‘nā, “who is reported to have
composed madrāšē, mēmrē, and ‘ūniātā in the Persian language” (1965, 161, n. 15). These
compositions, of course, were based on Syriac models.
The royal city of Rēv-Ardashr (Rīshahr) was a metropolitan province in Persia proper
(Persis). It was the ecclesiastical capital of the province of Pārs. Over time, it had “grown
into a superprovince having 18 suffragan eparchies” (Kollaparambil 1994, 27). Bruce
Metzger believes that, on the basis of this information, it may be deduced that the scriptures
had already been translated into Middle Persian. “Inasmuch as during the second half of the
fifth century an eminent teacher Ma‘nā of Shiraz, made translations of Diodorus, Theodore
of Mopsuestia, and other ecclesiastical writers, from Syriac into his native Persian dialect,”
Metzger reasons, “we may be confident that the scriptures had already been
translated” (1977, 276). Kollaparambil concludes: “Hence it is clear that, though the Persian
Church used Syriac as the liturgical language, the medium of Christian instruction was the
Persian language” (1994, 28).
[**81] This effort to create a body of Christian literature in the Persian vernacular was
overshadowed by the ascendancy of Syriac, which reclaimed its place as the primary
liturgical and literary language of the church in Persia. Syriac remained the language of the
church in Persia, as seen in the Acts of the Persian Martyrs. Most of the martyrs were ethnic
Persians. These Persians not only embraced the Christian faith, but also the Christian
language as well (Syriac). Consequently, very little of this Christian Persian literature
survived. Two legal works by the metropolitans Išo‘boḵt and Simon provide a rare
attestation of this Persian literary activity (Sims-Williams, EIr 5:534).
Middle Persian translations of the Bible date from at least the fifth century C.E. There is
both patristic and material evidence for this. In the fourth century, John Chrysostom (fl.
391), patriarch of Constantinople, affirmed that the teachings of Christ had been translated
into the languages of the Syrians, the Egyptians, the Indians, the Persians, and the
Ethiopians (Homily on John, in Migne, Patrologia Graeca LIX, col. 32). In the fifth
century, Theodoret of Cyrrus wrote that Persians venerated the writings of the Christian
apostles as having come down from Heaven. (Graecarum affectionum curatio IX. 936, in
Migne, PG LXXXIII, col. 1045c).
The earliest Persian translations of scripture were probably undertaken for liturgical
purposes. This is evidently the case with the Turf an Psalter, which is the only extant Middle
Persian Bible version. It is represented by fragments of a translation of the Psalms,
discovered at the ruins of the Nestorian monastery at Shuipang near Bulayïq in the Turf an
oasis in northern Xinjiang (Chinese Turkestan). These Psalms were written in an archaic,
cursive Book Pahlavi script, dating back to the fifth or fourth centuries, “though the
manuscript may be younger,” according to Kenneth Thomas and Fereydun Vahman (EIr
4:210). The Turf an Psalter contains most of Psalms 94–99, 118, and 121–36. Its
A Historical Profile of Syriac Christianity

distinctively liturgical character is noted by Geo Widengren: “This manuscript was written
for liturgical use, provided with antiphons, so-called canons, corresponding to the text now
found in the breviary of the Nestorian church” (1984, 13).
Independent attestation of Middle Persian Bible translations is found in Zoroastrian
polemical literature (Thomas, EIr 4:203), particularly in the ninth-century Škand gumānīk
vičār (“The Doubt-Crushing Explanation”). “The Christians of Iran,” comments Shaul
Shaked, “were dependent largely on the Syriac versions of the Bible, but the activity of
creating new versions in the current vernacular must have been part of the missionary effort
of Christians” (EIr 4:206). There is other evidence of such missionary endeavors, an
essential component of which was the creation of a body of Christian scripture and literature
in vernacular Persian. “From the late fifth century,” Brock observes, “Persian became an
increasingly important literary vehicle for [**82] Christians” (1982a, 18). Brock further
notes that “quite a number of extant Syriac hagiographic, legal and literary texts are in fact
translations from lost Middle Persian originals” (ibid.).
Not only was there a Christian literature in Middle Persian, but inscriptions as well.
Evidence of the very missionary endeavors that Shaked suggests are the Christian Pahlavi
inscriptions of India. A cross bearing a Pahlavi inscription was found in the Syrian church in
Kottayam, in the state of Kerala in India. Another such cross—the Cross of Travancore—is
a replica of the famed cross from the church on Mount St. Thomas near Madras. This Cross
of Travancore is inscribed in Book Pahlavi (Armajani, EIr 5:544). Several post-Sasanian
Christian seals inscribed in Arabic Kufic script bear the names of Persian owners (Lerner,
EIr 5:530 and idem 1977).

Christian Sogdian. Outside the Persian empire there were other Christian enclaves as well,
such as the Nestorian center at Samarkand (Colless 1986). The Silk Road led to
evangelization of Central Asia and the Far East. A number of Persians who settled along this
trade route were Christians. Spreading the gospel required translation. Liturgical texts
(including scripture translations) and some patristic writings were translated from Syriac
into Pahlavi and also into Sogdian. This accords with Asmussen’s position that use of
Persian greatly augmented Nestorian missionary endeavors. “[N]o doubt,” he states,
speaking of the province of Pārs, “Christians there had a common language with the ruling
dynasty, and by all accounts created a Christian literature in that language [Persian] that was
to be of considerable importance for the later Nestorian mission in Central Asia” (1983,
931). In Outer Iran, in a region called Sogdiana (a province north of Bactria, between the
Oxus and the Jaxartes rivers), the Nestorian church was well established by the early eighth
century at the latest. Ironically, no Christian Sogdian texts have ever been found there.
In the Turf an oasis in Chinese Turkestan, a library of Christian manuscripts was
unearthed at the ruins of a Nestorian monastery of Bulayïq. This library was quite extensive,
and reflects the spiritual and intellectual interests of the monastic enclave there. The
majority of these texts are in Syriac and Sogdian. Generally, Christian Sogdian is written in
a Syriac Estrangela script, with three added characters to accommodate native Iranian
sounds not found in Syriac. As to scripture, these texts included sixth-century Sogdian
translations of the Gospels, Pauline epistles, and the Psalms. Among the abundant
hagiographical literature in Sogdian is the life of John of Daylam (vide supra), the founder
A Historical Profile of Syriac Christianity                                       65

of two monasteries in Pārs, one Syriac and one Persian. Also found at Bulayïq was the Acts
of the Persian Martyrs under Shāpūr II, and the life of Barshabbā, credited as the founder
of Persian Christian communities as far east as Balkh (Sims-Williams, [**83] EIr 5:534).
Martyrologies, though hagiographical, disclose much valuable religiocultural as well as
biographical information.

Christian literature in New Persian. Close to the Turf an oasis, the second and third
German Turf an expeditions discovered a very few Christian texts in nearby Toyoq, Qočo
(Zieme), Astana, and Qurutqa. These texts were in Sogdian, Syriac, Turkish, and New
Persian (ibid.). This, of course, has very clear liturgical implications. Sims-Williams states
that “it is probable that the newly founded Christian communities initially employed Syriac
and Middle Persian in their liturgy, the latter being gradually displaced by the successive
local vernaculars, firstly Sogdian and ultimately New Persian” (EIr 4:207). In the eleventh
century or later, a New Persian-Syriac translation from the Syriac of Psalms 131, 132, 146,
147 was penned in Sogdian Syriac script. This is the earliest extant translation of Judeo-
Christian scripture into New Persian (Thomas, EIr 4:203).
Perhaps the most remarkable of all Christian manuscripts written in New Persian is the
Persian Diatessaron. It survives in a unique manuscript: Dated 1547, it is housed in the
Laurentian Library in Florence (Biblioteca Laurenziana Mediceo-Laurenziana, Cod. Orient.
VII [81]). The Persian Harmony was translated from the Syriac by the Jacobite priest
Īwannīs ‘Izz al-Dīn Muḥammad b. Muẓaffar of Tabrīz, and was later copied by another
Jacobite priest, Ibrāhīm b. Shammās ‘Abd-Allāh, in Ḥisn Kayfā (a village on the Tigris in
Iraq), 954 A.H./1547 C.E. (Thomas, EIr 4:203). While it preserves many Diatessaronic
readings, the Persian Harmony was composed in a different sequence than in the other
Diatessaron exemplars. It is perhaps more accurate to speak of the Persian Diatessaron as a
Gospel Harmony, independent of the Diatessaron itself and direct translations from it
(Koester 1990, 409–10). Because of the fact that it is an illuminated manuscript, the Persian
Diatessaron, in all likelihood, was intended for liturgical use (p.c., David G. K. Taylor,
University of Birmingham, 31 August 1995).
A remarkable specimen of a Christian liturgy in New Persian is still in use today. Within
the East Syrian “Assyrian” and Chaldean liturgies are the vestiges of a lost Persian Christian
liturgy. These fragments are found in the Feast of Epiphany, midnight office. (See Appendix
IV, “Fragments of a Lost Persian Christian Liturgy.”)
From this all-too-brief survey, it is clear that Persian Christianity had successfully
evangelized a number of ethnic Iranians. A recent doctoral dissertation has argued for a
certain affinity between Persian Christianity and Zoroastrianism. In his Narsai and the
Persians: A Study in Cultural Contact and Conflict, William Sunquist (1990) argues that
this affinity may account for some of the missionary success of East Syrian Christianity in
Persia. In addition to the East Syrians, Armenian Christians had also translated scripture into
New Persian, [**84] evidently for missionary purposes (Stone 1979). There were, of course,
a number of other significant mission fields, not the least of which was India, Tibet, Ceylon,
as well as China. China was evangelized beginning in 635, according to the Syriac and
Chinese stele of Xi’an (His-an). (For a recent textual discovery, see Klein 1994).
A Historical Profile of Syriac Christianity

Evidence shows that linguistic contact between Syriac and Middle and New Persian had
been established. While Persian was not a Christian literary language as such, it was a
Christian vernacular. It was instrumental in missionary endeavors in the Christian Orient.
Added to this is the extensive literature in Christian Arabic during the Islamic period,
providing the means and opportunity for the transmission and eventual transformation of
Syriac Christian symbolism, as taken up in the post-Christian religions of Islam and the
Bahā’ī Faith. Whether or not such lines of transmission were responsible for the diffusion of
symbolism examined in this study, there was obviously a common fund of such symbols in
the Abrahamic scriptural and oral traditions anyway. It is not necessary to answer the
question of how symbolic transformations took place historically, but simply to establish
that such transformations are phenomenologically best explained with reference to
controlling paradigms.
A Historical Profile of Syriac Christianity                                       67

[**85]
III
A Symbolic Profile of Syriac Christianity
Syriac Symbol Theory
Syriac Christianity had a “genius for symbolic expression” (Murray 1982, 12). Spiritual
truth was depicted in allegorical and homiletic narratives, illustrated with poetic images, as
though Syriac authors wished to create an experience in the listener rather than impart truth
merely discursively (Brock 1981, 70). Reliance on the symbol’s surplus of meaning,
employed in Syriac conceits, resulted in the transformation of Northern Mesopotamian
mythological views of the cosmos (paganism/heresy) into a symbolic (Christological)
universe. The exposition of a Christocentric world involved an imaginative, and often
personified, use of natural images. Nowhere is this more vividly seen than in the hymns of
Syriac Christianity’s greatest writer, Ephrem the Syrian. Nature and Scripture are wedded,
as Ephrem paints a rich landscape in vivid symbolic colors, animated by an array of
dramatic biblical imagery. In a Christologically attuned cosmos, prophets and apostles come
alive in the congregational minds of the pious.
Symbols abound in scripture and in nature. Indeed, everything in nature and in scripture
is emblematic of Jesus. The Syriac term for “symbol” is rāzā. Rāzā has several dimensions
of meaning. For instance, the “pearl”—which eloquently describes Christ and sexual
holiness—is a “symbol” found in nature. In another context, rāzā embraces notions of
Christ-bearing “types” secreted in the Hebrew scriptures. In its plural form,
“symbols” (rāzē) is best translated as “mysteries.” “Mysteries” is a euphemism for the
sacraments in the Christian mystic initiations and devotions, including the waters of
baptism. Thus, in Ephrem’s theory of symbolism, there are three dimensions of symbols:
Nature, Scripture, and Sacrament.
The triple domains of the symbolic become quite obvious from even a cursory reading
of Ephrem. This three-fold categorization of [**86] Ephrem’s symbolism is noted by
McVey (McV 84, n. 110). In Ephrem’s hermeneutics, the presence of rhetorical alongside
mystical terminology shows an appreciation for the figurative as well as prefigurative nature
of scripture. In his comparatively literal works of prose exegesis, Ephrem distinguishes
between the literal and figurative, as he interprets both “literally” (sū‘rāna’iṯ) and
“spiritually” (rūḥāna’iṯ, SCK 47).
The mystical basis for this lies in Ephrem’s conceptual model of the interpenetration of
spiritual and physical worlds, seen especially in the theme of baptism as reentry into
Paradise (Brock 1987, xxiv–xxv). This somewhat corresponds to a triadic Syriac Christian
A Symbolic Profile of Syriac Christianity

anthropology—although far from uniform (see Motifs 58–59)—where man is tripartite
psychosomatic unity, made up of physical body, animal soul, and divine spirit (cf. Gavin
1920). The idea of worlds of correspondence as a fundamental exegetical principle is
succinctly expressed by Ephrem’s dictum that the Garden of Paradise is “described in
visibilities (ktybt bglyt’), praised for invisibilities (šbyḥt bksyt’)” (HdP I.1, Motifs 67).
Ephrem’s theory of symbolism may be explicated purely on the basis of his hermeneutical
terminology:

Symbol (rāzā)
“Symbol”—or, better still, “mystery”—is arguably the key hermeneutical term in Ephrem’s
hymns, under which all of its equivalents are subsumed (On Ephrem’s theory of symbol, see
Murray 1976; idem, SCK; Beck 1958; idem, 1953; P. Yousif 1978b; idem 1976.) The
English rendering of “symbol” for rāzā is terminologically but not conceptually equivalent.
As Brock (HyP 42) is careful to point out, “symbol” in the works of the Fathers differs from
the rather static significatory sense of “symbol” common in modern usage. In Ephrem’s
symbolic universe, the entire cosmos is suffused with symbolism pointing to a higher
reality. But symbol is more than what it evokes. It participates in the reality of what it
represents.
According to Yousif, the Syriac term rāzā had four senses in Ephrem’s usage of it: (1)
Enigma: In the original Persian loan word, which made its way into imperial Aramaic,
“rāzā” originally denoted a royal “secret.” Its Persian provenance is evident in its Aramaic
occurrence at Dan. 6:4, where the term carries the sense of divine secrets; (2) Mystery: Beck
has drawn a connection between Ephrem’s use of rāzā and the Greek term mystērion (1958.
240). Significant is the fact that mystērion became the standard rendering of rāzā, rather
than  symbolon. The term doubles for sacramental rites and, when used in the plural, refers
to the Eucharist (SCK 21). Rāzā could also refer to a spiritual reality surpassing human
intelligence; (3) A Simple Sign: Nature affords many instances of symbols, which proclaim
Christ; [**87] (4) Symbol-Mystery: This sense of the term rāzā embraces notions of Christ-
bearing “types” secreted in the Hebrew scriptures and, when used in the plural,
“mysteries” (rāzē) denotes the “Sacraments.” In the mystic Christian initiation, consisting of
Chrism, Baptism (cf. Mitchell 1973), and the Eucharist, matter is dynamized by Spirit
(epiklesis, Yousif 1978b, 48). In this respect, “symbols” are “mysteries” that transform and
divinize the faithful Christian. Functionally, in Ephrem’s hymns, there appear to be three
basic symbol orientations: scriptural symbols, nature symbols, and sacramental symbols. As
to symbols drawn from Nature, Ephrem, along with Syriac writers in general, makes use of
a wide array of images from the various “kingdoms”—mineral, arboreal, animal, celestial,
and so on.
Ephrem’s vocabulary of symbolism involves a complex of more or less synonymous
terms. In addition to rāzā, discussed above, there are some other important technical terms
that inform Ephrem’s theory of symbolism. Bou Mansour (1988) provides the most
comprehensive and integrated treatment of these terms. First, let us take a look at Ephrem’s
typological use of scripture, a practice more familiar in mainstream Christianity.

A Symbolic Profile of Syriac Christianity                                       69

Scripture
Syriac Christianity was caught in a bitter debate between two rival schools of early
Christian exegesis, Alexandria and Antioch. The rival schools of Antioch and Alexandria
locked antlers over allegorical exegesis, disputing whether or not it threatened the primary
relevance of historia, the literal or “historical” integrity of scripture (Froehlich 1984, 18).
The most powerful opponent of allegorical exegesis was Theodore of Mopsuestia (d. c.
428), later revered as the “Interpreter” par excellence of Eastern Christendom, who
effectively dominated the exegetical tradition of the East for centuries. The Antiochene
school did, however, admit a higher sense of scripture, a dimension of meaning termed
theōria. Both allegory and theōria did employ an anagogical dynamic, the latter
presumably retaining some connection with the literal text and its historical framework. (On
patristic exegesis generally, see Torrance 1995 and Louth 1978).
Originally, allegorical interpretation arose from an impulse to rationalize the Homeric
cycle. Thus myth turned into allegory. Christian exegetes were concerned that the process
not reverse itself, lest allegory itself turn into myth. The danger of this happening was all too
real. This would occur whenever a scripture susceptible to allegorical interpretation was
used as a vehicle for Gnostic speculations that bore little, if any, relationship to the scriptural
text itself. Gnostic readings, in effect, remythologized scripture. This became especially
pernicious when foreign elements that were antithetical to received orthodox [**88]
teachings were introduced, in the name of exegesis, thus “contaminating” the text.
Typical procedural devices of Alexandrian allegoria, as inherited from Hellenism,
included the philological study of words and phrases, etymology, figuration, natural
symbology, and numerology. Allegorization is forever associated with Origen (see Torjesen
1986), though his predecessors included the great mystic Clement of Alexandria and the
Hellenistic Jewish aristocrat, Philo of Alexandria. Olsen (1977) argues that both “allegory”
and “typology” are forms of the primordial category “symbol.”
This controversy was coeval with the Arian controversy. Indeed it both predated it and
extended far beyond it. In the fourth and fifth centuries, in some circles, it was imprudent to
perform allegorical exegesis openly. In overt support for Antiochene repudiation of allegory,
Syriac exegetes publicly espoused the literal, historical interpretation of the Bible,
complemented by theōria, a process in which scripture is understood to have a higher
symbolic value or meaning as well. Such interpretation was of course performed for the
intellectual élite, with few literate enough to appreciate it.
The distinctively “deeper oriental colouring” of Ephrem’s exegesis cannot fail to impress
scholars such as Tryggve Kronholm, who, despite Ephrem’s evident knowledge of Greek
paganism, observes that in Ephrem “it is almost impossible to discover any definite traits
betraying a direct knowledge of the leading Greek Christian exegetes of the time” (Motifs
25–26). Kronholm is categorical in his exegetical typification of Ephrem: “Commonly,
though, Ephrem is seen as a representative of the θεωρία of the Antiochean School of
Scriptural interpretation, and this is obviously true as far as his strikingly symbolical
exposition on the basis of a sensus simplex exegesis is concerned. In this respect he clearly
continues the anti-allegorizing, i.e., anti-Alexandrian strife of such exegetes as Theodore of
A Symbolic Profile of Syriac Christianity

Heraclea, Eusebius of Emesa, and Diodore of Tarsus” (ibid., 26). For the record, in his
Commentary on Genesis, Ephrem is careful to disavow allegory: “Let no man say that the
work of six days is an allegory; nor is it possible to say that in one moment took place what
in reality took days to accomplish, nor that these are simply empty names or that something
else is meant by these terms. On the contrary, let us be sure that, in truth, heaven and earth
are as they were created in the beginning and that nothing else but Heaven and earth are
meant by their names” (el-Khoury 1987, 95–96).
Ephrem’s commentaries on scripture, in general, were primarily conditioned by the
negative influence of rival religious communities, such as the Arians, Bardaiṣanites,
Chaldeans (astrologers), the Jews, the Manicheans, and the Marcionites (Motifs 28–33). The
perceived threat posed by these groups had steeled Christian resolve never to [**89] depart
from the literal or “historical” sense of scripture. This has a pendant in the view that
allegory is the servant of heresy. Allegory gave rise to myth, whereas theōria simply
advances a symbolic understanding of scripture, one that reinforces what a Christian already
knows, and desires to contemplate for spiritual edification. That Ephrem held to a theōria
interpretation of scripture in poetry might require further nuancing owing to the fact that the
Syriac equivalent of the term theōria is nowhere found in Ephrem’s writings, according to
R. Bondi (1985, 159).
Ephrem’s hymns may be regarded as exegesis in the medium of poetry. His verse
interpretations surpass the limits of his rather traditional prose exegesis. Remarkably,
despite his strict adherence to the historic sense of scripture, Ephrem’s creative symbolic use
of Biblical allusions to enrich poetic imagery throughout his hymns is “definitely not
admitted in exegesis” and evinces his independence in the handling of Biblical passages for
homiletic purposes (el-Khoury 1987, 96, cf. Baarda 1962). El-Khoury is categorical in
asserting that Ephrem “rejects all allegorizing.” The author goes on to remark that Ephrem
“is capable of breaking out of literalism into language rich in parallelism and symbols.” This
is supposedly for reasons of persuasio, not exegesis (1987, 96).
In fact, a “vast and rich web of exegesis” of scripture is found throughout Ephrem’s
poetry (Harp 12; cf. HSC 60 for opposing view) as his Hymns on Paradise amply attests.
Syriac hymns exemplify a creative rather than narrow interpretation of sacred text. In
defense of such exegetical license, Ephrem establishes the polyvalency of scripture: “If
there only existed a single sense for the words of Scripture, then the first commentator who
came along would discover it, and other hearers would experience neither the labour of
searching, nor the joy of finding. Rather, each word of our Lord has its own form, and each
form has its own members, and each member has its own character. Each individual
understands according to his capacity and interprets it as it is granted him” (Comm. Diat.
VII.22, LumE 34–35).
In a scholastic sense, hymnody was not a recognized exegetical genre. This fact gave
Ephrem much freer exegetical license. When one compares Ephrem’s exegetical writings
with his liturgical hymns, there is basic conceptual congruence, but not an expressive parity.
Scripture provided an abundance of images, inspiring a fund of interpretive material that
went beyond the simple paraphrastic exegesis. In the sanctuary, therefore, where Ephrem’s
hymns were intoned, exegesis took on poetic license. The net effect is that Ephrem and
other Syriac writers remythologized the universe, as part of one sustained Christological
A Symbolic Profile of Syriac Christianity                                       71

myth, as opposed to Gnostic speculations. There is the sense in which this freer
interpretation was, for Ephrem’s purposes, more accurate, as Mathews observes: “Ephrem
had the particular [**90] genius to comprehend that the vehicle of poetry was the least
inaccurate way to describe the Christian mystery which is, as the term suggests, essentially
beyond human understanding” (SPW 46).
Whether or not Syriac interpretation was not substantially different from the allegorical
interpretation it avowedly eschewed, the literature to date suggests that allegorical
interpretation made its ostensible reentry into the Eastern Patristic tradition after Origen
through the writings of Philoxenus of Mabbug (d. 523). In the final analysis, symbolic/
allegorical exegesis was not an end unto itself, nor was it alone considered sufficient for
spiritual progress, as Isaac of Nineveh (fl. c. 660–680) wrote: “What Scripture was not
permitted to reveal, the pure mind is authorized to know—something that goes beyond what
was entrusted to Scripture! Nevertheless the fountainhead for all these things is the reading
of Scripture: from it comes the mind’s beauty” (Brock 1987, 265).

Type (ṭūpsā) and reality (qnwm’). “Perhaps no other writer,” observes Mathews, speaking
of Ephrem, “has ever made such creative use of typology” (SPW 48). In Ephrem, “type”
refers primarily to divine self-revelation in Scripture. A loan word from the Greek typos, it is
clear that ṭūpsā for Ephrem is synonymous with rāzā, though the latter seems to have a
broader application. There is evident synonymity between ṭūpsā and rāzā, but it is not
coextensive (see Bou Mansour 1988, 26–35).
Typologically, practically all of the ancient biblical worthies were pointers to Christ, as
Ephrem explains: “Adam saw in Enoch the typos of our Redeemer (prwqn),/. . . he [Enoch]
is a symbol (rz’) of the Gardener (gnn’)” (Motifs 160). But typology is not limited to
reading back Christ into ancient narratives. Exegetically, for example, Ephrem’s practice of
seeing pagans as “Christians by symbolic anticipation” accords with his finding a
“symbol” (rāzā) of the Gentiles in the stone of Jacob (Gen. 26:3). Remarkably, Ephrem
interprets the blessings of Jacob to refer, not to the tribes of Israel, but rather to the heathen
nations (Darling 1987, 116–19). Yet rāzā must not be limited to its typological sense, as
Murray cautions: “It is better not to limit the sense of mystērion/rāz to ‘type’ in the sense
that, for example, Hebrews makes Melchizedek a symbolic prefiguration of Christ” (SCK
290). (For further on Ephrem’s use of typology, see Schmidt 1989.)
Beyond Biblical “types,” Ephrem’s symbolic repertoire is drawn from the palette of
Nature as well as that of Scripture. Speaking of Jesus as creator of the universe, Ephrem
exclaims: “In every place, if you look, His symbol is there,/And when you read, you will
find His types,/For by Him were created all creatures,/and He engraved His symbols upon
His possessions./When He created the world,/He gazed [**91] at it and adorned it with His
images./Streams of His symbols opened, flowed, and poured forth/His symbols on His
members” (Virg. XX.12, McV 348–49).
McVey glosses this verse by observing that it was an ancient custom to mark one’s
belongings (McV 348, n. 278). All created things, as the handiwork of Christ, bear Christ’s
imprint. This is akin to the Syriac Christian notion of “sealing” (especially in relation to the
sacrament of baptism), as in Ephrem’s verse: “Today the Deity imprinted (ṭb‘) itself on
humanity,/so that humanity might also be cut into (ṣbt) the seal of Deity” (Nat. I.99, McV
A Symbolic Profile of Syriac Christianity

74). Ephrem’s theory of symbolism is thus an argument by Christological design. On the
technical terms in this passage, McVey notes: “Here the ‘types’ (ṭwps’) are in scripture,
while the ‘symbols’ (r’z’) and ‘images’ (ywqn’) are in nature, but Ephrem is not consistent
in this usage” (McV 349, n. 279). However, exceptions appear to prove the rule that
Ephrem’s primary meaning for ṭūpsā is anything in scripture that might serve as a
foreshadowing of the person and work of Christ. According to Mathews, Ephrem
“recognized the symbolic nature of biblical discourse without having to turn to the
allegorism of the Alexandrian school” (SPW 48).
Type points beyond itself to a “reality” (qnwm’,Eccl L.6). One exegetical technique
deserves notice here. Speaking of Noah’s Ark, Ephrem states: “If His type (ṭwps’) saved in
this way, how much more will He save in his reality (qnwm’).” McVey notes that the phrase
“how much more” is a typical interpretive device for Ephrem, analogous to the Rabbinic
method of “qal w homer” (from light to heavy), an argument proceeding from a lesser to a
greater example (Nat. I.58, McV 70, n. 50). In this strophe, “reality” is the equivalent of the
Greek “hypostasis” (McV 70, n. 51). A pair of terms that functions in much the same way is
“sign” (nyš’/nišā) and “truth” (šrr’/šrārā, McV 71, n. 53). “‘Truth’,” according to Murray, is
“the regular word for the fulfillment of a type” (SCK 47, n. 5). Biblical typology is
“historical” in the sense that these symbols prefigure “reality” since they precede Christ in
time and are fulfilled by his advent.

Shadow (ṭellālā) and Truth (šrārā). “Shadow” (ṭellālā) is another Ephremic technical term
that conveys the sense of “type” (cf. Nat. V. 16, McV 286, nn. 80, 82): “The wonder to see”
says Ephrem in Virg. XIV.7, “the symbol and its prototype, the truth and its shadow (r’z’ w-
tpnkh šrr’ w-ṭllh)” (McV 322 and n. 185). McVey states that the phrase is chiastic: As
equivalencies, shadow is symbol, prototype is truth (McV 322, n. 185). This is confirmed by
another verse: “Let us look upon the symbol as a shadow,/let us look upon the Truth as the
fulfillment” (Azym. III.4, Harp 37). As type-antitype pairs, symbol and shadow are
equivalent, while prototype and truth are likewise synonymous. These terms are also
recombinant. If placed in the right relation to each [**92] other, the corresponding elements
in these pairs are, in practice, interchangeable.

Metaphor (dmūtā). Often translated as “likeness,” “metaphor” (dmūtā/pl. demwāṯā) is
generally considered equivalent to rāzā (Motifs 74, n. 93). In one hymn, Ephrem employs
the striking image of a parrot being taught to speak from behind a mirror, to convey to what
extent and how God chose to go in His effort to communicate with humankind: “Let us give
thanks to God Who clothed Himself/in the names of the body’s various parts:/Scripture
refers to His “ears,” to teach us that He listens to us;/It speaks of His “eyes,” to show that
He sees us,/and, although in His true Being there is no wrath or regret,/yet He put on these
names too because of our weakness.” The refrain, sung between stanzas, reinforces the
theme of metaphoricity: “Blessed is He Who has appeared to our human race under so
many metaphors.” Ephrem continues: “He clothed Himself in our language, so that He
might clothe us/in His mode of life. He asked for our form and put this on,/and then, as a
father with His children, He spoke with our childish state./It is our metaphors that He put on
—though He did not literally do so” (HdF XXXI.1–2, LumE 43–44).
A Symbolic Profile of Syriac Christianity                                       73

What is surprising about the following metaphor is that it is a metaphor about
metaphors, in which humanity is compared to a parrot, taught to comprehend what it can, on
its own level and within its own limitations: “A person who is teaching a parrot to speak/
hides behind a mirror and teaches it in this way:/When the bird turns in the direction of the
voice which is speaking/it finds in front of its eyes its own resemblance reflected;/It
imagines that it is another parrot, conversing with itself./The man puts the bird’s image in
front of it,/so that thereby it might learn how to speak” (HdF XXXI.6, LumE 45). This is not
mere poetry. It is a central, definitive, hermeneutical principle, for a popular laity to
understand and take to heart. For their didactic content and edifying influence, Ephrem’s
hymns are far more effective than any diffuse effect from a scriptural commentary meant for
the literate elite.
Not everything in scripture is a metaphor, however. Ephrem differentiates between
metaphor and reality, aware of the Christological consequences of both ways of reading.
Christ is truly God’s Son, and for this reason God as “Father” is no metaphor but a reality,
as seen in this passage previously cited: “And if His name ‘Father’ were a metaphor—which
God forbid!—the names which go with it (šmh’ bny zwgh) will lose their force under
dispute” (HdF LII.2, Molenberg 1990, 139 and 141). In Syriac Christology, Christ’s Sonship
goes far beyond adoptive, elective, or other ideal relationships with God. Ephrem describes
Christ as “the Son of the Hidden One, as He emerged into revelation” (Nat. II.9, McV 78).
This is taken literally.

[**93] Allegory (peletā). “Allegory” appears to be the equivalent of “type.” Ephrem calls
the account of Jesus at the Wedding Feast at Cana a “mirror” (mḥzyt’ = maḥzītā) in which
“allegories” (sing.: pl’t’ = peletā) are expounded and traced” (Virg. XXXIII.1, McV 407 and
n. 508). In a meditation upon Cain’s murder of Abel, Ephrem presents Abel as the prototype
of the crucified Messiah, in which Christ “spread out over him [Abel] the allegory (pl’t qṭlh)
of his death” (Motifs 146). Various explanations in the literature have been offered as to
distinctions between type and allegory in Ephrem (on peletā, see Bou Mansour 1988, 52–
57). Kronholm cites Schweizer, who hazarded this distinction: “La distinction entre Type et
Allégoria (Theōria et Allegoria): se trouve chez Éphrem . . . qui par la première expression
entend le sens mystique, au moyen duquel les mystères chrétiens sont déjà contenus dans
l’A. T.” (Motifs 145, n. 32).

Paradox. In the hymns of Ephrem, superadded to the use of symbol and type is paradox.
Affirming the importance of the role paradox plays in Syriac spirituality in Seely Beggiani
observes: “Perhaps the most striking form used by Ephrem and the Syriac fathers is
paradox” (1983, 30). Prdwksn is the Syriac form of the Greek paradoxon. Edmund Beck
differentiates Ephrem’s use of paradox as a technical term from its use in rhetoric: “Ephrem
uses the Greek word paradoxon not in its rhetorical sense but (like Justin, Origen and
Theodoret of Ancyra) in the sense of divine mysteries revealed only to faith” (1977, 175
[English abstract]). In his polemic Against Mānī, Ephrem presents two paradoxa: One God
exists; God created all else out of nothing. “This seems to be the only patristic passage,”
remarks Beck, “in which these two fundamental principles are presented exclusively as an
object of faith” (ibid.).
A Symbolic Profile of Syriac Christianity

“Paradox occurs, broadly speaking,” according to El-Batanouny, “when two different
levels of knowledge of the language, of communication, of reality, or of human behaviour
are seen as one level, are mixed, or are superimposed” (1991, 129). “Paradoxical” method,
according to Dilthey, is one which “obeys the logic of contending forces, or of contrasting
concepts, which cannot be reconciled through some higher form of agreement. It is
adversative in formal proposition” (1989, 29). Ephrem’s paradoxes resolve themselves only
at the level of the supernatural, particularly in regards to the Incarnation and the Virgin
Birth: “Joseph caressed the Son/as a babe. He served Him/as God. He rejoiced in Him/as in
a blessing, and he was attentive to Him/as to the Just One—a great paradox!” (Nat. V.16,
McV 108). Christologically, the greatest of all paradoxes is Christ’s kenosis: “Babe in the
womb, since the seal (ḥtm’) of virginity/abides, the womb was for You/the royal palace, and
the curtain./Evidence of virginity upon it, evidence of virginity outside,/a fetus inside—a
great paradox!” (Nat. XII.2, McV 134).
[**94] Through the technique of paradox, Ephrem conveys a sense of mystery leading to
deeper faith. This contemplative dimension, in fact, is invited by the paraconsistent
contradiction afforded by this literary device. Beggiani offers an interesting insight into the
dynamism of the Syriac paradox: “In this approach, God’s mysteriousness is preserved
while events from human experience are juxtaposed antithetically as vehicles of meaning.
Paradox is the imagination’s counterpart to the intellect’s use of analogy. It is one way in
which human speech can embody divine realities” (1983, 30; cf. Ramsey 1969). MacGregor
stresses why paradox need not deter logic: “What makes a paradox logically explorable is
(1) that it is intended to make sense, and (2) that it is at least theoretically possible for an
unprejudiced person to inquire whether it does or does not” (1973, 64). Though a challenge
to the rational intellect, a paradox is supposed to make uncommon sense. Expressively,
something is missing in its logical structure, on which paradox invites contemplation. This
is an effective vehicle for non-discursive truth; as so much of Ephrem’s hymnic exegesis is
the interpretation of one image by another.

Nature
Mirror. Ephrem was fascinated by mirrors. He speaks at length about the Gospel as a mirror
in his Letter to Publius 1–2 (LumE 57–58). Mirrors appear everywhere in Ephrem’s poetic
world. “The Scriptures are laid out like a mirror,” the poet writes, “and he whose eye is
lucid sees therein the image of truth” (HdF LXVII.8, LumE 32 and 57, where Brock
translates the same verse slightly differently: “The Scriptures are placed there like a mirror:/
he whose eye is luminous beholds there the image of reality”). Note that the truth is not
naked; it is clothed in an “image.” This is an effective vehicle for nondiscursive truth, so
much of Ephrem’s hymnic exegesis is the interpretation of one image by another. This is
often achieved through the technique of paradox. In another hymn, having exploited the
symbolism of oil in procrustean fashion, Ephrem concludes: “The Anointed is all faces and
the oil (mešḥa) is just like a mirror;/from wherever I look at the oil the Anointed (Mešiḥa)
looks out at me from within” (Virg. VII.14, McV 296). This image of Christ appearing from
the faces of believers anointed at baptism is as important as it is striking, for it establishes in
the most graphic fashion possible the pervasive symbolic immanence of Christ. The
A Symbolic Profile of Syriac Christianity                                       75

contemplation of the mystery of Christ can never be exhausted. The tension between God’s
transcendence and immanence is not at issue here, since Christ becomes the agent of God’s
revelation.

Name. For Ephrem, there are two classes of names (šmahē) or “appellations” (kunnayē) in
scripture, as established in CH XXXVI.9: divine [**95] attributes, or “literal reality” (šrrh
dptgm’); and “likenesses of the Creator” (dmwt’ dbrwy’), which is a metaphorical reality.
The former are “perfect and accurate” while the latter are “putative and passing” (HdF
XLIV.2, Motifs 174–75). As Brock translates: “God has names that are perfect and exact,/
and He has names that are borrowed and transient;/these latter He quickly puts on and takes
off” (HdF XLIV.2, LumE 45).
Recourse to metaphorical analysis of theophanic discourse is a common ploy in
Judaism, Christianity, and Islam to deal with problems of scriptural anthropomorphism. So
also in Ephrem, who affirms of God that “although in His true Being there is no wrath or
regret, yet He put on these names because of our weakness” (HdF XXXI.6, LumE 43). The
strength of Ephrem’s conviction that scripture is inerrant does not blind him to the so-called
metaphorical lie pressed into the service of truth. Summing up the distinction between
Ephrem’s major sources of symbolism—Scripture and Nature—Mathews states: “Symbols
and types, from both nature and Scripture, now operate for Ephrem on two distinct planes:
the horizontal, between the Old and New Testaments, and the vertical, between this world
and Paradise” (Mathews, SPW, 53). These constitute the “Three Harps” that the Christian
faithful play: “Blessed are you, O church, whose congregation/sings with three glorious
harps./Your finger plucks the harp of Moses/and [the harp] of our Savior and [the harp] of
nature” (Virg. XXVII.4, McV 383).

Sacramental Mysteries (rāzē)
In Syriac Christian usage especially, “symbol” participates in that which it represents. A real
symbol conjoins two realities. There is a certain dynamic power that resides in the
sacramental “symbol.” In the plural, rāzē comes to represent the “Mysteries” or Sacraments,
in which the worshipper literally partakes of both symbol and its reality. There are many
instances in Ephrem’s hymns in which sacramental associations attach to Christological
“types” in scripture. Sacramental “mysteries” seem to validate the symbolism of scripture
and Nature in two ways: experientially, through contemplation of Christ; and through the
mysterious and supernatural communication of divinity to Christians partaking of the
sacraments. This will become quite evident in discussions of the “ritual” dimension of
Ephrem’s key symbols, to which we now turn.

The concept of a “Symbolic Profile.” What are the most salient and dominant motifs in
early Syriac Christianity? The determination of such root metaphors and key scenarios is
admittedly selective, but it is based on a synopsis of the important literature on Ephrem. As
an informal “control” for selecting Ephrem’s most salient key symbols, the [**96] author
has relied on occurrences of the word “favorite” in the scholarly literature. In a review of
studies on Ephrem, whenever an authority like Robert Murray or Sebastian Brock uses the
A Symbolic Profile of Syriac Christianity

descriptor favorite in connection with Ephrem’s choice of symbols, this is taken as a warrant
for the salience of that key symbol. Wherever possible, the indicator favorite is cited at the
beginning of each section below. For example, Mathews writes: “Perhaps Ephrem’s favorite
and best known image is that of the pearl” (SPW 54). This warrants privileging the pearl as
a major Ephremic symbol.
The following table represents the key symbols privileged in this study:
A SYMBOLIC PROFILE OF EARLY SYRIAC CHRISTIANITY IN THE HYMNS OF EPHREM
Dimension
Key Scenario
Root Metaphor
Doctrinal
The Way
Physician
Ritual
Robe of Glory
Medicine of Life
Ethical
Sons/Daughters of Covenant
The Mirror
Experiential
The Wedding Banquet
The Pearl
Mythic
The Harrowing of Hell
Tree of Life
Social
Noah’s Ark/Mariner
Paradise
Key Scenarios
Doctrinal: The Way
“The War” (‘ūrḥā) is a doctrinal allegory, a drama of salvation-history, the context of the
Christian kerygma, as poetically conceived by Ephrem. It is a common metaphor employed
by the Church Fathers generally, but Ephrem’s particular formulation of it bears the imprint
of the poet’s originality. “With the exception of limited parallels,” Robert Murray remarks,
“the allegorical figure of the Way seems to be entirely Ephrem’s own invention” (SCK 249).
Joseph Amar refers to the fact that “Beck [1965] has written extensively on the importance
of the term ‘ūrḥā (‘way’) in Ephrem” (SPW 277, n. 24).
The figure of the Way—in Ephrem’s usage—is neither a purely ethical concept nor an
ecclesial appellation; neither is it the biblical “Way of the Lord” nor the primitive Church’s
self-designation. Rather, it stands for the pilgrimage of the human race through time (SCK
246). The key scenario of the Way is worked out in three entire hymns in CH XXV–XXVII.
This key scenario will be described in all its important dimensions below. While the Way, as
treated here, has primarily a doc- [**97] trinal import, there are secondary dimensions of the
Way that must also be taken into account, in order to do some justice to the complexity and
the pervasiveness of the scenario throughout the other dimensions of Syriac spirituality.
The Christian message is predicated on a doctrinal view of salvation-history. Doctrinally,
while the metaphor of the Way is not as prominent as some of the more salient Syriac
motifs, it does seem to be a most expressive Syriac view of salvation history. The
“Messengers of Peace” are the Prophets and Apostles. These epitomize the course of
salvation history. After Adam, the Way back to Paradise lost was barred until the ancient
worthies—Abel, Enoch, and Abraham—at last set out on the Way (CH XV.6). In Nat. XXII,
A Symbolic Profile of Syriac Christianity                                       77

after suggesting that fire-worshipping Magi (Zoroastrians, as distinct from the “Chaldeans”)
were secretly worshipping Christ, Ephrem says: “For the Compassionate One did not
endure seeing the way closed./Coming down in the conception, He opened the way a little./
Emerging in birth, He trod it out and set His milestones on it./Blessed is the peace of Your
way!/He chose the prophets; they made smooth the way for the People./He sent the apostles;
they cleared a path for the peoples./ . . . Blessed is He Who made straight our paths!” (Nat.
XXII.20–21, McV 182–83).
It should be noted here that prophets and apostles are not synonymous. Prophets helped
prepare the way for the coming of Jesus, through preaching repentance and righteousness
and through prophecy as well. Prophecy, in its vaticinatory sense, is teleological. It charges
history with eschatological tension. Hope for the advent of the Messiah was sustained on the
basis of the prophets, whose vision of the future inculcated a sense of certitude in the
promise of a divinely preordained destiny. Once the advent of Jesus had transpired,
however, the cycle of prophecy was closed. Prophecy contained the seeds of its own
demise. Once fulfilled, prophecy—along with the prophets who uttered prophecy—was no
longer required. A new cycle had begun, in which apostles effectively took the place of
prophets. Described as “Messengers of Peace” (CH XXV.1), clearing the Way and removing
stumbling blocks (CH XXV.1), the Prophets and Apostles are “inns and milestones” along
the Way (CH XXII.8, SCK 246), a veritable “chain of the Sons of Light” (CH XXV.6, SCK
248). Beck (1981) has published a study on the Prophets and Apostles as the “inns and
milestones” along the Way.
“Milestones” also expresses the teleology of sacraments. In the first stage, the period of
the uncircumcised, faith was obscure, animated by a vague hope in a Savior, with salvation
dispensed only through prophetic and typological “mysteries”—a prefigurement of grace.
The second stage, the period of the circumcised, was the Way “of the commandments” (CH
XXVI.5), the dispensation of “the Law.” The final stage began with John the Baptist, the
“last and end of the [**98] Prophets.” From the dispensation of Law, emphasizing Justice,
to the new dispensation of Grace, emphasizing Freedom (free will), the advent of Christ
effected the transition from a cycle of prophecy to a cycle of fulfillment, in a shift from
Prophets to Apostles as the primary instruments of God’s will: “Mounted and reigned on
Golgotha;/he [Jesus] ended the Way of the Prophets/and opened instead the Way of the
Apostles” (CH XXV.2, SCK 248). The shift from prophecy to fulfillment is reflected
elsewhere. In Virg. VIII.13, Ephrem is consistent in saying: “In John [the Baptist] He
[Jesus] set a limit and restrained the prophets,/and he called and sent apostles. He dismissed
and put to rest the former,/and put to work and wearied the latter” (McV 299).
The first stage—the Way of “Mysteries” (CH XXVI.5)—runs from Eden to Moses; the
second—the Way of “Types”—extends from Moses to Christ; the third—the “Way of the
Son” (CH XXV.3) or the “Royal Way” (CH XXV.1–2, 5)—is the age of the Church. The
turning point in both historical time and in sacred time was when Christ broke the bars of
the gates of Sheol, releasing the faithful dead, leading them back to the heavenly Paradise
(CH XXVI.6). Along the Way, the “milestones” now take on a ritual dimension: “The sign
of anointing [chrism] and of baptism/the breaking of bread and the cup of salvation, and the
scriptures . . . /Blessed be the King, for the milestones of his Way/are mountains that cannot
be hid!” (CH XXVII.3). Ever since, for over three centuries leading to the time of Ephrem,
A Symbolic Profile of Syriac Christianity

Christians continue to progress along the Way via the sacraments and baptism, in which the
King’s Son leads the way, following John the Baptist (CH XXV.5, SCK 248–49). The
sacraments are more than milestones: they are mountains leading to the mountain of
Paradise.
The “Right Way” represents commandments, leading the faithful along a righteous
course of life. In his Commentary on the Diatessaron, Ephrem states that John the Baptist’s
mission was “preaching the remission of sins” through baptism, thereby “loosening the
bonds of the Law, avenger of sins.” The Baptist came “to inaugurate through grace that
which was greater [than the Law].” Of salvation history, Ephrem concludes: “See how we
are delivered from two sentences, one of nature and the other of legislation. . . . Moses led
the people as far as the Jordan, while the Law led the human race as far as the baptism of
John” (Comm. Diat. IX.12, SEC 159–60). Jesus came to replace the Law with grace and to
compensate, with the gift of immortality, the sentence of “Nature”—death. Yet there are still
ethical demands on the Christian, according to Ephrem. Although the advent of Jesus
ushered in a dispensation of grace, justice is still served on a higher plane—that of free will.
This liberty from the bonds of the Law is at the same time a commitment to righteousness,
first expressed by a vow of purity in the form of sexual holiness, even in marriage.
[**99] The sacraments are a means to an end, but are neither ends unto themselves nor a
sufficient means. The teachings of Jesus require an ethical consecration as the complement
of ritual purification. The ethical demands of Jesus are therefore intensified, and not
obviated by the efficacy of the sacraments. As Ephrem states: “The Son therefore is the
thought of the Father” (Comm. Diat. X.15, SEC 173). The words of Jesus, in addition to his
person and work, are ethical demands of Jesus that are binding on the Christian. As Ephrem
explains in his Diatessaron commentary: “Unless your righteousness exceeds that of the
scribes and Pharisees (Matt 5:20). The Law commands, You shall not glean the gleanings
of your plot, and you shall not shake the olive trees a second time, and you shall not glean
your vineyard, but it shall be for the poor (Lev 19:9–10). These are [addressed] to those
under the Law. What, then, shall we say to those who are in Christ, to whom our Lord said,
If your righteousness does not exceed that of the scribes and Pharisees, you shall not enter
the kingdom of heaven?” (Comm. Diat. VI.4, SEC 112).
Once the Christian has achieved a state of virtue, he or she may attain the station of a
prophet: “The wise person, by his counsels, is a prophet for those who need him” (Comm.
Diat. XXII.4, SEC 335). The Christian leads a life of holiness along the Way, as part and
parcel of the path of righteousness. In displaying moral virtue, but not in an ostentatious
way, the Christian serves as a torch bearer, a reflection of the light of Christ, illuminating the
darkness and leading the way for others to follow. The “holy man” or “holy woman” thus
had a role to play in society. Expressed in terms of the image of the Way, the path of the
saint has a goal, as Ephrem puts it: “The fruit is the goal of the right way that runs from this
tree to the Cross” (CH XXVI.4, Mathews, SPW 116, n. 178). This “right way” is a form of
orthopraxy, the ethical warrant of doctrine and the interiorized complement of the
sacraments.
If the Way is to be followed, it follows that the Way is descriptive of Christian
experience. In the Christian life, Ephrem likens Christians to merchants. These “merchants,”
as travelers along the Way, are heading towards a glorious destination. The Way leads to the
A Symbolic Profile of Syriac Christianity                                       79

Kingdom of Heaven, where the merchants will attain the presence of the King and receive
his gifts (HdF LXVI.24). Thus they will live to behold the glory of the Father in beatific
vision (CH XXV.2).
As merchants, Christians individually, and the Church as a whole, must beware of
highwaymen. Still fraught with dangers along the Way, Christians must steer clear of the
crooked ways of heretics (CH XXII.8; XXV.8–9; XXVI.10). Robbers lurk, to ambush
merchants on their Way, having already stolen various milestones, being Scriptures and
sacraments (CH XXVII.2–3). Thieves stalk to wrest sheep from Christ’s fold (CH XXV.7).
The “highwaymen” of whom Ephrem [**100] speaks obviously represent heretics, who
pose a threat to the Christian Church and to individual salvation. The heretics were also
Christians. But, from Ephrem’s perspective, it would appear that an Arian Christian is
accursed rather than saved. The ecclesiastical situation of Ephrem’s orthodox Church was
always a precarious one.
The Way is one way of describing the Christian “myth”—myth being the vehicle for
Christian truth. “The Way” was necessitated by Adam’s Fall and expulsion from Paradise
(CH XXII.8; XXVI.6). Humanity was imprisoned in darkness, preferring to stay rather than
set out on the Way (CH XXVI.7). For this reason, God sent prophets, to lead the way to
Christ, who would then lead the way back to Paradise—a progression leading full circle, in
which eschatological end-time and primordial event are united in sacred time outside of
time itself. The Way epitomizes progress from primordial Paradise to eschatological
Paradise, from origin to eschaton. Salvation extends, as Mathews translates CH XXVI.4,
“from the Tree to the Cross, from one wood to the other, from Eden to Zion, from Zion to
the holy Church and from the Church to the Kingdom” (1990, 103).

Ritual: Robe of Glory
Sebastian Brock considers the Robe of Glory to be “Ephrem’s favourite metaphor for the
Incarnation” (LumE 68). “This simple image of clothing,” Murray concurs, “is the Syriac
Fathers’ favourite way of describing the Incarnation” (SCK 69). It is, moreover, “perhaps
the most frequent of all Ephrem’s images” (LumE 25). Why? The “Stole of Glory” is a key
scenario that dramatizes how primordial Paradise may be regained and immortality restored.
This imagery is intimately bound up with the Christian rite of initiation, baptism. The Robe
of Glory is a key scenario into which is compressed the whole of salvation-history. Like the
Way, this picture of salvation-history has the same teleology, but with descriptively different
“staging posts” along the way. Instead of a path, the image is that of a cloth.
The “Robe of Light” appears to have its roots in a midrash on Gen 3:21, in which Adam
and Eve’s “coats of skin” are glossed as Robes of Light. The essence of Ephrem’s
anthropology and soteriology are enshrined in this one image: “Our body became Your
garment; Your spirit became our robe” (Nat. XXII.39, McV 185). The symbol of the Robe
of Glory depicts stages of humanity’s glory, fall, and redemption. These are bound up with
“the three major events of Christ’s life: the Nativity, the Baptism in the Jordan, and the
descent to Sheol” (Harvey 1993, 120). The epitome of Syriac salvation history may be seen
as an eschatological drama that could be meaningfully entitled, “Paradise Lost and
Regained,” with four acts: (1) Primordial Robes of Glory/Replaced by Fig Leaves; (2)
A Symbolic Profile of Syriac Christianity

Christ places Robe in Jordan; [**101] (3) Robe regained at Baptism; (4) Robe as Wedding
Garment in Paradise.
The Robe of Glory, which confers immortality by divinization (theōsis), depicts the
drama of salvation: “All these are changes that the Compassionate One shed and put on/
when He contrived to put on Adam the glory that he had shed./He wrapped swaddling
clothes with his leaves and put on garments instead of his skins./He was baptized for
[Adam’s] wrongdoing and embalmed for his death./He rose and raised him up in glory.
Blessed is He Who came down, put on [a body] and ascended!” (Nat. XXXIII.13, McV
190; cf. LumE 65). The odyssey of the loss and recovery of the Robe of Glory has already
been outlined above. But to do it justice, this saga deserves a rather “thick” description. the
four basic acts in this drama of salvation-history may be retold as follows:
1. Primordial Robes of Glory: In Paradise, Adam and Eve were clothed in “Robes of
Glory” or “Robes of Light.” In the Jewish Midrash Rabba on Genesis, we learn that Rabbi
Meir is reputed to have had in his possession a Hebrew manuscript of the Pentateuch, which
at Gen. 3:21 read not “garments of skin” but “garments of light”; in the targumic tradition,
the traditional “garments of skin” is rendered a “clothing of glory” (LumE 66). Such
readings depend on two Hebrew homonyms: the reading of “light” (’wr) for the received
reading of “skin” (‘wr—Motifs 64–65, n. 59, and 217, 223). Brock has linked this robe
tradition back to its ancient Near Eastern roots (1979a, 223). The garment of light, as Brock
also points out, has a parallel, and possibly a precedent, in Zoroastrianism (cf. Widengren
1945, 5, 51). A world of sin was the consequence of the Fall, along with the loss of
immortality. Sin, resulting from Adam’s disobedience, effected the loss of Adam’s
perfection, with the consequence that he and his progeny became afflicted with the disease
of mortality, which is fatal, leading to death with no possibility of eternal life. Probably
Theodoret of Cyrrhus represents the Syriac view in maintaining that sin was passed on from
generation to generation, but not by procreation. For Theodoret, marriage was a spiritual
path equally as blessed as virginity (Ashby 1984, 133).
2. Disrobed in disgrace: After the Fall, Adam and Eve were stripped of their “robes of
glory/light.” Body and soul were alienated by the Fall. Given humanity’s predicament, God
saw fit to provide a special means of salvation. In mythical terms, the robe of glory, which
houses the spirit, needed to be restored. Thus, as Brock puts it: “The entire purpose of the
Incarnation is to reclothe Adam” (LumE 67).
3. Christ places Robe in Jordan: In effecting a plan for salvation of humanity, God “puts
on Adam” or “a body” in order to “reclothe mankind in the robe of glory.” Christ is born,
not only as the perfect incarnation of God, but as the perfect man. Christ bears the
primordial [**102] Robe of Glory, forfeited by Adam. When John the Baptist baptizes
Christ, Christ consecrates the water. In the course of his descent into the waters of the
Jordan at baptism, Christ deposits the “robe of glory/ light” into the water, sanctifying for all
time all baptismal water: “He [Jesus] put on the water of baptism, and rays flashed out from
it” (Nat. XXIII.12, McV 190). The unfallen Adam places the Robe of Glory in the river
Jordan.
4. “Paradise Regained”: Baptism as reinvestiture of Robe of Glory: To recapitulate
Ephrem’s conception of salvation history, the Robe of Glory is lost but may be won back
once more. The Robe of Glory which Adam lost in the Fall is recovered by the Christian at
A Symbolic Profile of Syriac Christianity                                       81

baptism (Brock 1982b, 12). The invocation of the Holy Spirit at baptism consecrates the
baptismal font, effectively transforming that font into the waters of the Jordan in sacred time
and space: “In baptism did Adam find/that glory that had been his among the trees of
Paradise;/he went down and took it from the water,/put it on, went up and was held in
honour in it” (Epiph. XII.1, LumE 7). Ephrem concludes: “Blessed are you whom they told
among the trees,/‘We have found Him Who finds all,/Who came to find Adam who was
lost,/and in the garment of light to return him to Eden’” (Virg. XVI.9, McV 331).
These four episodes—the Fall, the Incarnation, Christ’s Baptism, and Resurrection—
dramatically narrate the loss and recovery of this eschatological vestment. Because one
thereby regains the lost stole of glory, baptism serves as a reentry into Paradise. With the
proper attire, bestowed at baptism, the guest may attend the eschatological Wedding
Banquet. The story of the Fall embeds some key assumptions that require a certain
suspending of disbelief. The primary assumption is that sin precipitated mortality. Once this
assumption is accepted, the key scenario is set. Adam was the fallen god; God descended
from heaven, too, but through a different act of free will. Jesus, bearing the robe of
immortality, was immersed in the River Jordan. This single act has consecrated the waters
of baptism for all time. This sanctified water has multiplied in countless baptisms for
centuries. And so have the invisible Robes of Glory that are deposited in the waters. At least
for this part of the scenario, the conferral of immortality did not require the death and
resurrection of Christ.
The River Jordan symbolizes baptism and explains its significance as part of the drama
of salvation. “He put on the water of baptism, and rays flashed out from it” (Nat. XXIII.12,
McV 190). “Instead of with leaves from the trees,” Ephrem writes, “He clothed them with
glory in the water” (Epiph. XII.4, HyP 71).
This is the exoteric baptism. There is also an esoteric one, one that will be discussed in
the next section. Of what value, one may ask, is the Robe of Glory if it is only to be sullied
by the Christian receiving it? The answer to that is the notion of an ethical baptism.
[**103] To be truly worthy of the Robe of Glory, one should be “single.” As the name
implies, one of the meanings of the term single is the unmarried state. This is a state of
sexual holiness, conceived of as a betrothal to Christ, in which the “Bride of Christ” remains
chaste, until consummation at the eschatological “Wedding Banquet.” A life of sexual self-
denial involves a high degree of discipline. As in martyrdom, to be a Christian entails not
only suppressing an instinctual biological need, it also involves possible persecution and
related forms of “suffering” as a further witness to one’s Christian faith. In his Commentary
on the Diatessaron, Ephrem states that there are actually two baptisms required of the
Christian: “There were two baptisms to be found in the case of our Lord, purifier of all. One
was through water, and the other through the cross, so that he might teach about [baptism]
of water through that of suffering. For, repentance for sinners is a crucifixion for them,
which nails their members secretly, lest they yield to pleasures. This is what John had
proclaimed before our Lord. Consequently, two baptisms are necessary for both just and
sinners. If [only] one is present, it cannot vivify without its companion” (Comm. Diat. XXI.
17, SEC 325).
Ethically, there is always a danger of forfeiting one’s own eschatological standing.
Metaphorically, one must be careful not to sully one’s wedding garments. Guests at the
A Symbolic Profile of Syriac Christianity

royal festivities are admitted only if dressed for the occasion, with a stole of impeccable
purity. This is like wearing a white wedding dress. One can ruin one’s clothes, and so
precautions must be taken against compromising one’s standing as a guest at that banquet.
Hence, Ephrem’s warning: [To the melody: “The royal bride.”] “O body, strip off the utterly
hateful old man,/lest he wear out again the new [garment] you put on when you were
baptized” (Virg. I.1, McV 261). The Robe of Glory was deposited in the River Jordan, and
multiplied in every baptismal font, to be won by a Christian who knows its purpose and its
worth. But the robe can be soiled and ruined by sin, its sanctification undone. The Robe of
Glory is an emblem of holiness, not a guarantor of it.
The image of baptismal “Fire” symbolizes “Spirit.” This expresses the spiritual aspect of
the Christian initiatory rite. In baptism, the Christian is immersed in both water and fire, as
Ephrem says: “O children of the baptismal font,/babes, who without spot, have put on Fire
and Spirit,/preserve the glorious robe/that you have put on from the water./Whosoever puts
on the robe of glory/from the water and the Spirit,/will destroy with its burning/the thorny
growth of his sins.” (Epiph. IV.19–20, LumE 73).
The thought-provoking, mystery-inducing paradox of fire and water mixing together
renders baptism all the more profound. What to all outward appearances is simple
immersion in water, is psychologically an immersion into a symbolically powerful and
dynamic vision of [**104] personal worth and purpose. Ephrem enriches a rather singular
symbolic act of initiation with a constellation of images that connect with every aspect of
Christian life and experience. In descent and ascent of immersion, baptism touches every
current and movement in the initiate’s life. This includes one most intimate form of
expression, sexuality, in which the Christian suppresses one kind of fire for a spiritual “Fire”
that can be mystically experienced.

Ethical: Sons/Daughters of the Covenant
In Syriac Christianity, the “Covenant” usually refers to the celibate within the Church, who
constituted its spiritual élite. Notwithstanding, a more general use of the term Covenant to
designate the Church in its entirety evidently reflects the most primitive Syriac usage of that
term. That this is clearly the case is demonstrated in Aphrahāṭ’s interpretation of Daniel 7 in
Aph. Dem. VII (SCK 61).
The “Sons and Daughters of the Covenant” is thus a collective name of the Church’s
core élite, who are considered to be the only full-fledged Christians. The term bnay/bnaṭ
Qyāmā obviously served as a means of Christian self-identity. Covenanters were a continent
and celibate circle within the Church. Given its importance in Aphrahāṭ , Ephrem must have
known of this movement, which, if it had not established itself there already, evidently
spread to his city of Edessa soon after his death in 373  C.E. (AbouZayd 1993, 105).
Although never himself a monk, Ephrem advocated a life of chastity and continence. Only a
few of Ephrem’s hymns, those Concerning Mār Jacob and His Companion( CNis XIII–
XVI, trans. Stopford NPNF 13:180–86), may be said to be genuinely eremitic (ibid., 389),
although it might be more fitting to describe these texts as pre-eremitic. Ephrem employs
the term Qyāmā rather ambiguously. In one passage (CH XXII.21), the “Sons and
Daughters of the Covenant” (the bnay and the bnaṭ Qyāmā) are idealized as those who lead
A Symbolic Profile of Syriac Christianity                                       83

lives of chastity and virginity. In another context (CH VI.19), Ephrem uses the term Qyāmā
to refer generally to the Church (ibid., 105). Murray calls “the Qyāmā, the ‘heart’ of the
Church” (SCK 16).
Membership in the Qyāmā obliged Christians so inclined to ascetic life. In his
Demonstrations, Aphrahāṭ the Persian Sage—Ephrem’s older contemporary—describes the
discipline and spirituality of those known as Covenanters. “Covenanters” formed an inner
circle among Christians within the Persian Empire and, evidently, in pre-Persian and Persian
Nisibis as well. In Ephrem’s time, these were not monks and nuns as such, as the
Covenanters were premonastic, and were not isolated from the laity. As the “heart” of the
Church, the Covenanters took up discipleship in Christ and ministered in various ways to
the needs of the Church (SCK 13–16). Rather than taking vows [**105] of seclusion, these
“Sons and Daughters of the Covenant” (bnay/bnāṭ Qyāmā) appear to have taken vows of
inclusion, inasmuch as service to the Church was of far greater social consequence than
hermitage or cloistered life. Ascetics, though shunners of society, play an important role in
society, according to pseudo-Ephrem. Their intercessory prayer sustains the rest of the
world, an idea which Vööbus depicts as “a favorite thought of ’Aphrēm” (HOA 3:39).
The “Covenant” (Qyāmā) was a call to total sanctification, sacramentally sealed in
baptism, following the taking of a vow of virginity or marital abstinence. Qyāmā hints at the
angelic life, in ceaseless contemplation and praise of God, in company with the
“Watchers” (‘īrē) or angels in heaven. “Covenant” also implies steadfastness. These
Christians are those who “took their stand” (qāmw) for Christ (SCK 15). In baptism and in
sexual holiness, Ephrem describes the “single” Christian as a separate species, in
contradistinction to the living dead: “See, our Lord’s sword is in the waters,/which divides
sons and fathers;/for it is a living sword, which (see!)/makes division of the living among
the dead./See! [people] being baptized and becoming/virgins and consecrated ones
(qaddīšē), /for they have gone down, been baptized and have put on/that single Only
One” (l-haw ḥaḏ īḥīdāyā—HEpiph VIII.16, SCK 16, n. 1).
The image of the sword here suggests the idea of a holy war or contest (agōnā). One of
the striking metaphors for the Covenanters was the “call to Battle.” This is a call to holy
war. Aphrahāṭ’s use of this imagery draws on the Gideon narrative in Deut 20:1–8 (SCK 15,
cf. Murray 1975a). This refers to a life of chastity and the discipline of focused
contemplation of Christ.
This metaphor of holy war might have involved some transfers of martyr imagery.
Asceticism, generally speaking, may be regarded as a movement which grew up in the
aftermath of martyrdom. Asceticism, from this vantage, may be regarded as a continuation
of the martyr tradition as well as the prophetic tradition. Certain key terms used to describe
martyrs, such as athlete, contest, and the like, are transferred to ascetics, and as such are
strong indicators of affinities with the martyr ideal (Brock 1973, 2). Ascetics are commonly
referred to as “the victorious.” Very likely this represents the phenomenon of non-
sanguinary renunciation under new historical circumstances, when persecutions ceased.
“The Angels,” wrote Ephrem, “have received the gift of virginity without effort but you on
the contrary on the basis of battle” (Virg. XV.4, HOA 3:290; cf. McV 327).
Ephrem and his orthodox Christians were also engaged in another kind of holy war.
Greek Christological controversies are hardly touched on in Ephrem’s hymns, but heretical
A Symbolic Profile of Syriac Christianity

themes are. Continence and chastity were not ideals universally accepted in Syriac antiquity.
Questioning Christ’s virgin birth was one way to undermine Ephrem’s [**106] paradigm of
purity, grounded as it was in Mary and Jesus as supreme exemplars. In one hymn, Ephrem
accuses Bardaiṣan of having denied the virgin birth of Jesus: “And because he said that it
was completely impossible for a solitary one/To bring forth and to bear, he called our Lord
the child/That was produced by two, through sexual union” (CH LV.2, Bare 145).
Not much has been recorded or alleged of Bardaiṣan’s Christology, save that it was
docetic, tinged with a Logos Christology, in which Christ as the “Word of Thought” or the
“First Word” passed through Mary and sought lodging in the man Jesus (Bare 220–21). This
is a docetic account of the Incarnation. According to CH LV.1, one of Bardaiṣan’s
Christological titles for Jesus was the “Son of Life.” Bardaiṣan mythologized the familial
metaphor for Christ. In this case Christ had both a celestial Father and Mother, from whose
sexual union Paradise was also populated (LV.8). This doctrine formed a necessary adjunct
to Bardaiṣan’s system, in that he saw conception and birth as a natural process of
purification, whereby evil is extruded (Bare 221).
Ephrem also had to explain Christ’s origins, offering an alternative to the Bardaiṣanite
Christology which then predominated in Edessa. In a sense, what Ephrem came up with was
problematic for post-Chalcedonian Christology: viz., his use of the term mixed (mzag) with
reference to the divine and human natures in Christ: “In Your revealed image/I saw Adam,
but in the hidden one/I saw Your Father who is united [lit. “mixed”] with You” (Nat. XVI.3,
McV 149). This explanation of the unity of divine and human natures in Christ was not
sexual. It was not astral, nor elemental. It was not mythological, but rather ontological. It did
not seek to achieve any synthesis with local pagan cults or mythology. Bardaiṣan’s circle
and its ideological system had effected a synthesis of traditional material with Christian
teachings. Ephrem sought to check Bardaiṣan’s influence by fighting fire with fire: Ephrem
composed orthodox hymns to counter Bardaiṣan’s heretical hymns.
We should expect Ephrem to have confronted Bardaiṣan and his followers head to head
on the polemical front, and this he did. Throughout the rest of Ephrem’s hymns one finds of
course recurrent themes, and motifs for expressing those themes, and some of these may
well have had in mind an anti-heretical agenda. The need to stress the miraculousness of
Christ’s birth in other than a celebratory sense would hardly have been called for had
Ephrem been preaching only to the converted. Because of the dominance in Edessa of
Bardaiṣanite Christianity, as well as its strong presence in Nisibis, Ephrem’s hymns had to
address local points of controversy. Drijvers makes the point that Ephrem’s hymns were
composed for the ordinary congregation, “who with these Hymns were to attack the
Bardesanites [sic] with their own [**107] weapons, for the making of hymns Ephrem had
taken from Bardaiṣan” (Bare 128).
Sexual purity was thus an essential element in Syriac Christian spirituality. The
importance of asceticism in early Syriac Christianity cannot be overrated. Passion for the
ascetic ideal was part and parcel of a peculiarly Syrian “order of rapture” (HOA 3:194).
“The searing lava of mortification,” writes Vööbus, “virtually scalds the works in which
such accounts are recorded” (ibid., 195). Early Syriac Christian asceticism was at a
primitive stage of development, which is why there was no Ephremic Asceticon, as it were.
A Symbolic Profile of Syriac Christianity                                       85

Rather, the “monastic witness” of Ephrem himself is “one of a pre-monastic life of
evangelical chastity” (Mathews 1990, 101). The certitude of attracting the divine presence,
the indwelling Deity, is exemplified by Ephrem’s promise: “O body, if you have God live in
your Temple,/you will also become His royal palace” (Virg. I.2, McV 262).
For Ephrem, the angelic life was a worthy goal of the true Christian. In HdP VI.12,
Ephrem speaks of the wondrous fruits of Paradise, whose glory is surpassed by the “fruits of
the victorious.” “The flowers of Paradise took the victory/but then were vanquished/at the
sight of the blossoms/of the celibate and chaste/at whose garlands/both creation and its
Creator rejoice” (v.12). Indeed, the victorious are depicted as “the very likeness of
Paradise” (v.14). In one hymn (CNis XIV), Ephrem seems to suggest that those who
practice ascetic ideals can overcome the realm of Sheol (AbouZayd 1993, 266).

Experiential: The Wedding Feast
The theme of the Wedding Feast recurs throughout Ephrem’s hymns. Within the Hymns on
Paradise, for example, this image is met with several times (HdP 11.5; VII.15; IX.4–29; XI.
14; XIV.8). The Wedding Feast is an end-time event, assuring the Christian of the glorious
destiny of the chaste: “Assiduous fasts have stirred themselves/to become companions to
guide the Bride of the King/so that she might be escorted and come/to the wedding feast all
in white,/that she might be baptized there, and so shine out:/her crowns will come from her
companions,/her adornment will come from her fasts./She shall proceed amidst shouts of
Hosanna,/before her shall shine a lamp with enduring oil./Blessed is He who sent and
escorted the Bride/of His First-Born Son, so that she might come/to the Bridal Chamber of
His Light” (Ieiun. V.1, LumE 99). This is a triumphal description, alluding to Christ’s entry
into Jerusalem. There is also an allusion here to the Parable of the Virgins. Note the
presence of the lamp and reference to its oil. The strategy for action in this key scenario is
the practice of sexual holiness.
[**108] The Bridegroom is the central persona of this eschatological drama. “Ḥaṭnā,
Bridegroom,” according to Murray, “is one of the favourite titles by which the primitive
Syrian ascetics expressed their passionate attachment to Christ, the ‘Beloved’ (Ḥabbīḇā).
They looked forward to union with him in the eschatological wedding-feast (meštūṯā;
literally, ‘drinking party’) and thereafter in the heavenly bride-chamber (gnōnā)” (SCK
132). The Bridegroom (Ḥaṭnā) awaits the Bride Adorned (kallṯa mṣabbattā). The image of
the Bridegroom orients the Christian to Christ, cultivating a sense of fidelity in spiritual love
expressed in sexual purity.
Betrothal is a vow of celibacy that defines one’s commitment to Christ. It would appear
that betrothal involves something on the order of an arranged marriage, where certain
conditions have to be met, for the marriage contract to be satisfied and consummated. But
Ephrem’s hymns are also permeated by a sense of love. Is there, in all this, an actual
marriage proposal? Consider this text: “Blessed be you, Cana, for your bridegroom,/whose
wine ran out, invited the Heavenly Bridegroom./He invited the Inviter Who invited the
Gentiles/to the new wedding feast and to life in Eden” (Virg. XVI.2, McV 329–30). This
allusion to the Wedding at Cana described in the second chapter of the Gospel of John is
faithful to the scriptural narrative (although Ephrem would probably have been more
A Symbolic Profile of Syriac Christianity

familiar with the text in the Diatessaron). But the faithful Christian, especially the chaste
one, will be more than a guest at the Banquet. Such a person will be part of Christ’s Bride,
the Church. It is as if one were witnessing and participating in one’s own marriage!
Doctrinally, therefore, a Syriac Christian anticipates the eschatological Wedding Feast, and,
in so doing, embraces his or her own betrothal to Christ as the Bridegroom.
The image of the Bridal Chamber impels one to self-sanctification, in which one’s own
body is seen as a locus of holiness, as both a temple and a palace. “The bridal chamber that
passes away I have exchanged for You!” (Nat. VIII.21, McV 123) is the vow of the
consecrated Christian. What is typically represented as an eschatological scenario can be
inverted, so that the Christian sees his or her very life as an advance participation in the
Banquet: “The soul is Your bride, the body Your bridal chamber,/Your guests are the senses
and the thoughts./And if a single body is a wedding feast for You,/how great is your banquet
for the whole Church!” (HdF XIV.5, HyP 28; cf. LumE 100–101).
As stated, Christians envision themselves as betrothed to Christ. This requires total
fidelity, something called “singleness.” Singleness (īḥīḏāyūtā) is celibacy, which defines
total holiness. It is modeled on the life of Christ: There are three important dimensions of
“singleness”: (1) “singleness” as a religious lifestyle, leaving one’s family and not marrying;
(2) single-mindedness, in which one’s entire focus in life [**109] is centered on Christ; and
(3) belonging to a community of like-minded Christians who referred to their way of life as
the “Covenant” (qyāmā), who formed an élite “Church within the Church” (SCK 13–16).
Singleness preserves and prolongs the holiness conceived in baptism, frequently compared,
in Syriac literature, to a womb.
In exchange for this fidelity is an experience in which the presence of Christ is felt in a
most immediate way. The experiential potency of this metaphor can be cross-referenced
with another metaphor, that of the sanctified body as the “Temple” or “Royal Palace” of
Christ the King: “O body, if you have God live in your Temple,/you will also become His
royal palace” (Virg. I.2, McV 262). There is a word play here, in which the Syriac term for
“palace” (hykl’)—a cognate of the Hebrew haykal (McV 262, n. 6)—can also mean
“temple” and “body.” (These terms have both metaphorical as well as literal meanings).
Christ dwells within the living palace of the “Royal Bride” (the name of the melody to
which the first of the Hymns on Virginity is set [McV 261]) as she prepares to dwell in the
heavenly palace of the King at the moment of requital, the eschaton.
The picture of the Royal Bride symbolizes an anticipated marriage to Christ in sacred
time. The “Royal Bride” personalizes Christian holiness, which is based on both Christ’s
earthly and heavenly life. In his earthly life, Christ was unmarried. But in his eschatological
existence in sacred time, Christ is betrothed to his bride, the Church, and to every Christian
within it. If Christ is King (Messiah), then his betrothed becomes the Royal Bride. Thus, the
Syriac Christian, whether individually as a man or woman, or corporately as the Church in
its role as the Royal Bride, experiences all of the joy and anticipation that ideally
characterizes a love relationship between a man and a woman about to enter into the sacred
bond of marriage. This kind of visioning enables the Christian to forego short-term
pleasures for long-term gains. Thus: “By a circumcised heart the uncircumcised becomes
holy./In the bridal chamber of his heart, dwells his Creator” (Virg. XLIV.20, McV 445; cf.
LumE 104). Valuation of the body is reflected in the consecration it receives when the vow
A Symbolic Profile of Syriac Christianity                                       87

of chastity is taken. If the body is the Robe of Glory, it must be preserved as stainless,
unsoiled by moral impurity.
As much as he exalts virginity, Ephrem is careful to point out that sexual holiness alone
does not suffice for one to be invited to the Wedding Feast. In his Letter to Publius, a prose
work, Ephrem narrates his vision of Paradise. One scene that he beheld has an element of
surprise, of the unexpected: “I saw there pure virgins whose virginity, because it was not
adorned with the precious ointment of desirable deeds, was rejected. . . . I drew near to the
gate of the kingdom of heaven and I saw there those who did not bear the title ‘virgin’ who
were crowned with victorious deeds, for their virtues filled the place of [**110] virginity.
For just as those who had been espoused to Him only in their bodies had been rejected
because they were naked of any garment of good deeds, so too those who had espoused
their bodies in a chaste marriage while their spirit was bound to the love of their Lord were
chosen, and they wore their love for Him like a robe with [their] desire for Him stretched
over all their limbs. And when I saw those there, I said to myself, ‘No one from henceforth
should rely solely on the chaste name of virginity when it is lacking those deeds that are oil
for the lamps’” (Mathews SPW, 350; cf. Brock 1976, 286). This, of course, refers to the
Wise Virgins of the Gospel.
However powerful perfection is as an ideal, it is unlikely that the ordinary Christian,
even after extraordinary diligence and effort, can present an absolutely stainless and morally
pure wedding garment at the Banquet. Taking the frailties and foibles of human nature into
account, Ephrem makes some provision for “whitening” one’s robe: “The First-born
wrapped himself in a body/as a veil to hide His glory./The immortal Bridegroom shines out
in that robe:/let the guests in their clothing resemble Him in His./Let your bodies—which
are your clothing—/shine out, for they bound in fetters/that man whose body was stained./
Lord, do You whiten my stains at Your banquet with Your radiance” (CNis XLIII.21, LumE
74). The “man whose body was stained” is an obvious reference to the rejected wedding
guest in Matthew 22. Obviously, the guest had been given the appropriate clothing for the
occasion, just as the Christian receives the Robe of Glory at baptism in anticipation of the
Wedding Feast. One is required not only to have the proper attire, but to keep it unsullied as
well.
As a corporate image, the Royal Bride personifies and transcendentalizes the faith-
community’s relationship to Christ. Of Christ the Bridegroom, Ephrem states: “[But] You
are our bread,/and You are our bridal Chamber and the robe of glory” (Nat. XVII.6, McV
155). Kronholm translates: “Thou [O Christ] art our bread;/thou art our bridal chamber, and
the stole of our glory” (Motifs 115). And further, with reference to earthly marriage: “The
bridal chamber that passes away have I exchanged for You” (Nat. VIII.21, McV 123). The
sign for this is the “Seal”: “Within the seal [of virginity] You dwell even now/within chaste
women, and if anyone slanders/Your brides, the silent seal,/the curtain, rages out to meet
him./The seal cries out that our King is there” (Nat. XII.5, McV 134). McVey explains that a
“seal” (ḥtm’) refers to the wax or molten metal which bore the imprint of a signet stamped
upon it, this being a practice in antiquity, which served to identify letters and possession. In
a previous stanza, Ephrem calls Christ “the Great Signet (ṭb‘) of the King of Kings” (Nat.
XII.3). Thus, Christ is the instrument used by God to identify those who belong to Him. So
often one image evokes another, as with clothing imagery: “‘May all evidences of virginity
A Symbolic Profile of Syriac Christianity

of Your brides/be preserved by You. [**111] They are the purple [robes]/and no one may
touch them/except our King. For virginity/is like a vestment for You, the High Priest’” (Nat.
XVI.13, McV 151). Purple is of course the color and symbol of royalty. The status of the
brides of Christ is such that not only is their chastity inviolate by virtue of their own
choosing, but by dint of their status as part of the royal household.
Crowning may have been a part of the ritual of baptism as far back as the Odes of
Solomon, which is probably the earliest extant work in Syriac (SCK 24): “Put on the crown
in the true Covenant of the Lord” (Od. Sol. IX.11, trans. Charlesworth, apud SCK 14), had
been adduced as evidence of this, although the baptismal reference of this passage has been
disputed. A familiar marriage custom, “Crowning” during baptism signified the espousal of
one’s soul to Christ. According to Murray, this is evidenced in Hymns on the Epiphany:
“Give thanks, O Daughter whose crowns are two!/Thy temples and thy children rejoice./For
see, the hallowing of thy temples in worship,/and the hallowing of thy children by
anointing!/Blessed art thou, for at once there began in thee/the Shekina for thy inhabitants;/
The Spirit descended on thy children” (Epiph. I.1, SCK 140). Reference in this stanza to
“anointing” strengthens Murray’s interpretation, who elsewhere describes the rite of baptism
in some detail: “The rites of initiation begin with the ‘signing’ (rušmā), an anointing of the
whole body, symbolizing the unction of the Holy Spirit, and certainly regarded as
sacramental; baptism follows and then, immediately, reception of the Eucharist” (SCK 21).
There does not seem to be a consensus on the sacramental interpretation of “crowning,”
and so Murray’s pronouncement on this invites more explicit textual validation. But the
image is a familiar one. Another reference to crowning occurs in the Hymns on Virginity:
“Let Cana thank You for her gladdening banquet!/The bridegroom’s crown exalted You for
exalting it,/and the bride’s crown belonged to Your victory./In her mirror allegories are
expounded and traced,/for You portrayed Your church in the bride,/and in her guests, Yours
are traced,/and in her magnificence she portrays Your advent./Refrain: Make even me
worthy that by Your garments I may enter,/our Lord, Your glorious bridal chamber!” (Virg.
XXXIII.1, McV 407–408). McVey does not comment on the ritual element of crowning, but
she does note “the hymn’s emphasis on nuptial and royal imagery intensifies the triumphant
eschatological tone” (McV 407). The image cluster in this passage alone is worth noting:
Banquet, Bridegroom, Bride, Crown, Victory, Garments, Bridal Chamber.
Considering that this key scenario is modeled on the idea of marriage, a few words
should be said concerning the earthly practice as it relates to its eschatological counterpart.
Bardaiṣan held marriage in high regard. In the Syriac milieu, he was not alone in this view. I
do not [**112] think there were any “tantric” elements in his system, such as we find with
Quq and the Quqites (Drijvers 1967, 104–29). The lawfulness and sanctity of marriage is
very Jewish. The Christian community associated with the Clementine Homilies XI.28–30
and XIII.13–19 (a partial Syriac translation of which is extant in the earliest dated Syriac
manuscript, dated Edessa, 411 C.E.; SCK 26), affirmed the lawfulness of marriage, as did
Aphrahāṭ and Ephrem, whom Murray characterizes as “non-encratite” (SCK 12 and n. 3).
Aphrahāṭ speaks of the option of marrying “before baptism” (Aph. Dem. VII, 345.12–
13, SCK 15). Murray believes that Ephrem’s description of the three “Cities of Refuge” for
Christians indicates something along these same lines: The “Lower” City includes penitents
not yet readmitted to full church life; the “Middle” City are righteous Christians,
A Symbolic Profile of Syriac Christianity                                       89

particularly those married believers not yet living in abstinence from conjugal relations; the
“Perfect” City is reserved for the martyrs and ascetics (Eccl. XXIV.4, SCK 259).
Despite Ephrem’s ascetic preferences, he accommodates the lawfulness and purity of
marriage: “But intercourse is not defiled,/nor is marriage accursed./Chastity’s wings are
greater and lighter/than [the wings of] marriage./Intercourse, while pure, is lower” (Nat.
XXVIII.3, McV 215). This verse stands as a corrective to any notion that Ephrem’s
spirituality excluded the householder, and fully challenges Vööbus’ conjecture that a vow of
celibacy was required for baptismal rites in Ephrem’s churches, notwithstanding that such
vows were probably archaic by Aphrahāṭ’s time (cf. SCK 11). The deeds of solitaries were
to be appreciated but not always to be imitated. The lay life was also holy: “For to Him
marriage is pure,/which is planted in the world like a vineshoot,/and children are like fruit
hanging from it” (Virg. V. 14, SCK 12, n. 4; cf. McV 285). After all, marriage was a
metaphor for the Christian’s ideal commitment to Christ. Celibacy was not a precondition
for baptism in Ephrem’s churches, even though it was considered the ideal path to “single-
mindedness.” The ascetic ideal notwithstanding, that school of love called marriage was
considered lawful and holy, in the context of sanctioned praxis and vigil discipline.

Mythic: Harrowing of Hell
In Syriac Christianity, there were three major events in Christ’s life: the Nativity, the
Baptism in the River Jordan, and the descent to Sheol (Harvey 1993, 120). The New
Testament prophets Simeon and Anna are portrayed as recognizing, in the baby Jesus, the
future Savior in terms of his conquest over Death: “Into the holy Temple Simeon carried
Him/and sang a lullaby to Him, ‘You have come, Compassionate One,/having pity on my
old age, making my bones enter/into Sheol in [**113] peace. By You will I be raised/out of
the grave into Paradise’” (Nat. VI.12, McV 112).
“One of the richest symbolic themes of early Syriac Christianity, which was passed on to
the whole Christian world,” according to Murray, “is the drama of Christ’s descent to Sheol,
or Hades, breaking open its doors, conquering death, and leading out the dead, from Adam
on, who were awaiting redemption” (1982, 13). In antiquity, doors were barred as a kind of
primitive deadbolt. Hence, the breaking of the “bars” of Sheol: “Bestow on yourselves, my
brothers, the treasure of consolation/from the word our Lord spoke about His church,/‘The
bars of Sheol cannot conquer her’ [Matt. 16:13–20, esp. 18]” (On the Church II, McV 222).
On the basis of this New Testament imagery, the harrowing of Hell was developed into a
full-blown, universal Christian myth.
In a sense, the resurrection of all righteous Christians has already taken place in sacred
time, to be actualized physically on the Last Day: “By death the Living One emptied Sheol./
He tore it open and let entire throngs flee from it” (Nat. IV.38, McV 92). Ephrem makes it
abundantly clear that Christ is the life force for life after death: “Without the breath of air no
one can live;/without the power of the Son no one can rise” (Nat. IV.151, McV 100). In
prefigurement of the Day of Judgment, it is as if Christians are envisioned as having been
raised alongside Christ, at the very same time as Christ himself was resurrected! Of course,
the dead are asleep until the eschaton, an eschatological fact to which Ephrem alludes:
A Symbolic Profile of Syriac Christianity

“Since by sins Adam let the sleep of death enter Creation,/the Awakener came down to
awaken us from the slumber of sin” (Nat. I.62, McV 71; cf. Motifs 125).
In his many references to the harrowing of Hell, Ephrem weaves a rich tapestry of his
favorite symbols. For instance, the Robe of Glory is related to Sheol imagery: “Death was
amazed at You in Sheol,/that You sought Your garment and found [it]” (Virg. XXX.12,
McV 397). Indeed, Christ’s work is conceived as a series of “wombs”: “The Womb of Sheol
conceived Him and burst open” (Nat. IV.190, McV 103). This was clearly miraculous:
“Against nature/the womb conceived and Sheol yielded” (Nat. X.7, McV 130). In another of
his hymns, Ephrem personifies the Mount of Olives, who describes the evacuation of Sheol
in terms of Christ’s sovereign command: “More than all who rejoice, I [Mount of Olives]
rejoice to have seen Him/Who has made my lands rejoice and has been lifted up. I escorted
Him/and I am going to hear His living voice/when He calls the dead, ‘Come out!’/They will
all answer Him and emerge,/and not a bone will remain in Sheol/where [as yet] Lazarus
alone has answered Him” (Virg. XXXVI. 10, McV 423; cf. SCK 78). The reference to
bones here is important, as it was the popular belief that a person’s essential personal
identity resided in the bones, and that the hope of resurrection inhered in their preservation.
[**114] In one of Ephrem’s dialogue poems, Christ’s cosmic, salvific “work” performed
in sacred time is vividly portrayed: “Death finished his taunting speech/and our Lord’s voice
rang out thunderously in Sheol,/tearing open each grave one by one./Terrible pangs seized
hold of Death in Sheol; where light/had never been seen, rays shone out from angels who
had entered to bring out/the dead to meet the Dead One who has given life to all./The dead
went forth, and shame covered the living/who had hoped they had conquered Him who
gives life to all” (CNis XXXVI.11, Harp 43). With the promise of deliverance from Sheol
comes the promise of Paradise: “Adam’s Lord came out to seek him;/He entered Sheol and
found him there;/then led and brought him out/to set him once more in Paradise” (HdP VIII.
10, HyP 135). This type of imagery seems to function almost as a vicarious near-death
experience, in the modern, clinical sense of the term. The devout Christian who visualizes
this scenario, practically at every liturgy, will live and relive a sense of what the future holds
in store. Assurance of a glorious future vivifies and reinforces faith. Here, eschatology
meets anthropogony.

Social: Noah’s Ark/Mariner
There is a New Testament basis for the image of Christ as a Mariner, in Christ’s calming of
“the storm-tossed sea,” to use a lyric from the Christian hymn, “Peace: Be Still.” Ephrem
develops this image in several of his own hymns, of which this passage is an example: “O
Master Mariner (mallāḥā), who hast conquered the raging sea,/thy glorious wood is a sign
[or, ‘has come’];/it has become the oar of salvation./The wind of mercy blew, the ship set
out on its course,/away from the raging sea to the haven of peace./Blessed is he who has
become the mariner of his own soul/and has preserved and unloaded his treasure!” (Virg.
XXXI.15, SCK 251). This is evidently an allusion to Mark 6:45–52 and parallels.
A similar patristic theme is the ship coming to harbor, as the final destination for the
tried and embattled Christian crew, captained by Christ: “Blessed is your harbor that
received with love/the persecuted ship of disciples./The sailor had seen your calm harbor/
A Symbolic Profile of Syriac Christianity                                       91

and enriched you with His discourses” (Virg. XX.1, McV 346). The harbor motif (i.e.,
“haven of peace”) is well attested in the Syriac tradition (Hambye 1970). Widengren has
shown the Mesopotamian antecedents to the Christian Syriac and Manichaean use of this
imagery (1946, 96–103). But Ephrem’s use of nautical imagery is not restricted to allusion
to Christ’s calming of the storm.
“Noah’s Ark,” Mathews observes, “was a favorite object of meditation for
Ephrem” (1994b, 58, n. 57). The Syriac term for Noah’s Ark is kewēlā, as distinct from
‘arōnā, the Ark of the Covenant (ibid.). The [**115] idea that the Ark was a prototype of the
Church is commonly met with in Ephrem: “Even the type of the ark of animals envisages
our Lord,/Who would build the holy church in which souls take refuge” (Nat. I.45, McV
69). “Instead of this distant Lord [Jesus],” writes Ephrem, speaking of Lamech who
contemplates his son Noah, “the nearby symbol [Noah] consoled him” (Nat. I.56, McV 70).
Over the deluge of evil that has plighted man throughout salvation history, Noah is the
prototype, while Christ is the fulfillment: “His symbols are in the Torah, and his typoi in the
ark;/the one testifies to the other: in the same way as they were emptied/[viz.] the inner parts
of the ark, thus they were likewise emptied/[viz.] the symbols of the Scriptures;/for through
his advent he has brought to an end/the symbols of the Law, and brought to fulfillment in his
churches/the typoi of the ark. Praised be thy advent!” (HdF XLIX. 5, Motifs 203).
At the helm is the Mariner, the Noachide prototype of Christ. The Manichaean Psalms,
for instance, refer to Christ as the “Helmsman that is not drunken” (SCK 161). Ephrem
treats both Noah and captaincy as typifying the role of Christ. “In Noah is thy Church
depicted (b-nwḥ ṣyr’ ‘dtk)” (Virg. VIII.14, Motifs 184). McVey renders the same verse: “in
Noah is portrayed Your church” (McV 299). As to captaincy, Kronholm glosses mallāḥā
(literally, “seaman”) as “Pilot” with spnh’ (“boat-man”) as a synonym, likewise translatable
as “Mariner.” Greer has devoted part of a study to the important picture of Christ as Mariner
(Greer 1973, 65–128). This image appears elsewhere in Ephrem, as in one of his poetical
homilies, Memre on Nicomedia V.11, where Christ is described as “the Pilot of that
ark” (mlḥh dhy kwyl’—Motifs 194).
The Ark becomes even more Christological in the course of the voyage on which it
embarks. In marking out all four cardinal points of the compass, the figure of the Cross is
described, as Kronholm renders it: “The ship of the Lord of all flew upon the Deluge:/it
went out from the east, and reached the west;/it circled over the south, and stretched out to
the north./Its flight over the water was a prophet unto the dry land,/and it proclaimed that its
parturition was to become fruitful towards all sides/and spread towards all quarters. Praise
be unto its Redeemer./It drew through its course the ensign of its Guardian,/the cross of its
Mariner, and the rudder of the Pilot,/who came to construct unto us the Church in the
middle of the water,/and to redeem its inhabitants in the name of the Three Persons;/and the
Holy Spirit performs its anointing instead of the dove,/even the symbol of its redemption.
Praise be unto its Redeemer” (HdF XLIX.3–5, Motifs 194). Baptism “in the middle of the
water” is initiatory; those in the ship have been baptized and saved through the sanctifying
chrism of the Holy Spirit. The fact that baptism takes place in the engulfing deep of the
Deluge relates baptism to the drowning of the earthly life, and the [**116] drawing up to a
life of salvation. The threefold baptismal formula is attested only in post-Nicene
manuscripts of Matthew 28:19 as the work of Shlomo Pinés has shown, and Ephrem’s
A Symbolic Profile of Syriac Christianity

attention to the Holy Spirit shows this hymn to have been written late in Ephrem’s life, if
Śpidlík’s assessment is correct.
The Mariner/Steersman (spnh’)—also referred to as the Pilot/Sailor (mlḥ’)—prefigures
Christ, as the Ark foreshadows the Church. An early instance of Ephrem’s use of Mariner as
a metaphor for Christ is supplicatory. In a lamentation uttered by the city of Nisibis,
personified by the poet as suffering under Persian siege in 350 C.E. when the Persian king
Shāpūr II had dammed the local river in order to flood the outskirts of the town, Christ is
invoked as “Helmsman” of the Ark of the Church: “The Flood bore the Ark,/while me the
river threatens./O Helmsman of the Ark,/be my pilot on dry land;/You rested the Ark on the
haven of a mountain,/give rest to me too in the haven of my walls” (CNis 1.3, HyP 10). On
Christ as mariner, see Daniélou 1964, 58–79.
The Ark offered a “vision of peace” (ḥzt’ d-šyn’;CNis 1.7, Motifs 195–96) for the
endangered Christians of Nisibis. But there was a greater danger. Ephrem had to live
through war, yet it was internal warring within the Church that most troubled him. The
ecclesia pacis was more of a wish-image than a reality. The Arians, after all, had fomented
bella ecclesiae. Thus: “In the Church there is envy, [and] people bite,/whereas in the ark
there was a covenant of peace (qym’ d-šyn’),/[even] for the biting beasts” (HdF LXVI.8,
Motifs 187). To the Ark that transformed the nature of the lion before the lamb, Ephrem
draws a parallel with the ideal Church: “The concord (’wywt’), the mirror of peace (mḥzyt’
d-šyn’), shines among us./Blessed is the Calm One (špy’), who has depicted unto us
beforehand/the symbols of calmness (rz’ špy’) in the ark” (Eccl LI.3, Motifs 185–86). That
the course of the Ark describes the figure of the Cross invests it as a symbol of universal
salvation. Kronholm observes that “the voyage of this particular vessel, poetically
conceived as the flight of a fowl, is regarded as typifying the universal reach of the Cross
and the worldwide spread of the Church—a perspective delineated in an anti-Arian
hymn” (Motifs 194). Ephrem also uses the image of the Ark to portray a hierarchy of
holiness, or ranks, within the Church: “A symbol of the divisions/in that Garden of Life/did
Moses trace out in the Ark/and on Mount Sinai too;/he depicted for us the types of Paradise/
with all its arrangements:/Here is the harbor of all riches/whereby the Church is
depicted” (HdP II.13, HyP 89; cf. Motifs 190).
In his analysis of Ephremic texts on Noah, Kronholm identifies nine phases of the
Deluge narrative: (1) God’s repentance of creation is figuratively interpreted to avert
anthropomorphism; (2) Chastity and faith accent Noah’s peerless righteousness; (3) The Ark
is por- [**117] trayed as a second Earth, spiritually as a figure of the Church—a Church of
the Cross, of Chastity, of Peace; (4) The voyage of the Ark prefigures baptism and the
global mission of the Church; (5) The dove which brings a leaf from the olive Tree of Life is
glossed as messenger/healer bearing a gospel/medicine; (6) The Ark’s stranding on Mount
Qardu signifies both banishment from Paradise and the birth of new life on Earth; (7)
Noah’s sacrifice and God’s savoring of it receive a purely figurative interpretation; (8)
Noah’s drunkenness is seen in the context of his sobriety and sexual holiness; (9) The Tower
of Babel is a work of Evil; the confusion of tongues is contrasted with the division of
tongues at Pentecost (Motifs 173). The animals on the Ark do not engage in sexual
intercourse, according to Ephrem: “Even the type of the ark of animals envisages our Lord/
Who would build the holy church in which souls take refuge” (Nat. I.45, McV 69). Ephrem
A Symbolic Profile of Syriac Christianity                                       93

idealizes the Ark as a place in which bestial concupiscence is transformed into angelic
chastity. For Ephrem, this is a type of Paradise.
Root Metaphors

Doctrinal: Physician
“This is a major title of Christ,” according to Robert Murray (SCK 199). “The common
metaphor of Christ as physician,” McVey observes, “is particularly prominent in Syriac
Christian literature from the Acts of Thomas onward, and it also figures significantly in the
Manichaean literature” (McV 229, n. 37). The importance of Physician imagery is already
seen in Aphrahāṭ, the Persian Sage, in Demonstrations VII. 2, 3, 6, 8: “There is a drug for
every disease, and when a skilful physician hath found it, it [the disease] is cured. And for
those that are wounded in our contest there is the drug of penance, which they may put on
their sores and be healed. O ye physicians of our wise Physician, take you this drug, and
with it shall ye heal the plagues of them that are sick. . . . So should not a man whom Satan
has wounded blush to confess his sin and turn away from it and ask for the physic of
penance. . . . But he also that hath shewn his sore and hath been cured, let him have a care of
that place that was healed, that he be not smitten thereon a second time; for when one is
smitten a second time his cure is hard, even to a skilful physician. . . . You again I would put
in mind, ye physicians, that it is written in the books of our wise Physician that He did not
withhold penance” (Jansma 1974, 30).
The image of the Physician is extensible in that it derives from an archetype of Christ,
and is distributed among spiritual mentors on whom devolves the responsibility of pastoral
“healing.” Instancing Aphrahāṭ’s rhythmic “artistic prose” (Aph. Dem. VII.4), Robert
Murray [**118] transliterates and translates the following passage, in which the Persian
Sage calls upon “physicians” (mentors) to treat spiritual battle “wounds” of Christian
“soldiers” (ascetics): “You too, then, O physicians,/disciples of our glorious Physician,/
ought not to withhold your medicine/from those who have need of healing (W’af l-kon wale,
‘asawata,/talmidaw d-’Asyan naṣṣiḥa,/d-la teklun ’asyuta/men man da-sniq d-
net’asse)” (1982, 10. [At Amir Harrak’s suggestion, I have emended Murray’s translation in
the first line, “O Physician” (sic), to read: “O physicians.”]).
All Syriacists agree on the importance of this symbol: “In Syriac ‘āsyā (‘Physician’) is a
favorite Syriac title for Christ,” states Joseph Amar (SPW 289, n. 96). Whenever a Syriacist
writing on Ephrem uses the term “favorite,” that is an indication of the importance of the
image under discussion and how prominently it figures in Ephrem’s works. “‘Physician’,”
according to Murray, “seems to be Ephrem’s favourite title of all for Christ. It is a constant
refrain in the Diatessaron commentary” (SCK 200). While this might be an overstatement,
Ephrem’s portrayal in prose of Christ as physician mirrors the same role depicted in poetry
as well as in prose. In Ephrem’s Commentary on the Diatessaron II.25, on the significance
of the gifts of the Magi, the gifts of myrrh and frankincense symbolically “disclose the
Physician who was to heal Adam’s fracture” (Comm. Diat. II.25, SEC 73). “It became
manifest,” as Ephrem explains why earthly physicians were overawed by the Physician,
“how much faith surpasses the [healing] art, and how much hidden power surpasses visible
A Symbolic Profile of Syriac Christianity

remedies” (Comm. Diat. VII.2, SEC 129). “So that the mind of the one who had been
healed in her body might not be sick,” comments Ephrem on the woman healed from a
touch of Jesus’ cloak, “he [Jesus] took care also with regard to the healing of her mind, since
it was for the sake of the healing of minds that he also drew near to the healing of
bodies” (Comm. Diat. VII.6, SEC 131). But Ephrem also stresses the importance of the
Physician’s spiritual healing: “When the crowds heard the splendid teachings of our
Redeemer, they recognized that those of Moses were shadows, and that our Lord [was] the
Sun of Righteousness [Mal. 3:20]. For he gave health of body and soul to
humanity” (Comm. Diat. VI.21b, SEC 124–25). “A little radiance from it [the Sun of
Righteousness] is sufficient,” Ephrem adds, “to remove sickness, as it does for the
darkness” (Comm. Diat. VI.22b, SEC 125).
The hymn Carmina Nisibena XXXIV develops the theme of Christ as Physician most
fully. In it, Ephrem regards the prophets and patriarchs (Abraham, Moses, Joseph, and
Daniel) as “physicians” (stanzas 1–8). Yet the world still languished in sickness (XXXIV.9),
and stands in need of restorative healing. Christ the Physician took pity, and restored us
through the “Medicine of Life”—through the transfusion, as it were, of his own flesh and
blood (XXXIV. 10). So im- [**119] portant is the Physician’s “Medicine of Life” that one
cannot really separate the two images, as will be seen in the next section.

Ritual: Medicine of Life
“Jesus is our Physician,” writes Ephrem, “and is our medicine” (CNis XXXIV.11). Jesus
does what no earthly doctor is capable of (v.12, SCK 201). The treatment of the “disease” of
mortality, brought on by Adam’s sin, is beyond the doctor’s ken. McVey observes that
“Ephrem frequently characterizes Christ both as physician and as the medicine of
life” (McV 87, n. 127). This is an important image of Christ in Aphrahāṭ as well (see Bruns
1990, ch. 6). Mathews concurs: “The term ‘medicine of life,’ Syriac, samm ḥayyē, is a
favorite Syriac title of Christ” (1994b, 71, n. 122). This reflects a virtual consensus, as Amar
reflects: “Medicine of Life’ (samm ḥayyē) is a particularly rich Syriac title for
Christ” (SPW 279. n. 35).
The Medicine of Life effects divinization by transforming the believer’s constitution, so
that, in the end-time, bodies, having undergone a transformation making them impervious to
mortality, will be paired with their souls to enjoy communion with Christ, at the Wedding-
Feast in Paradise. In trying to describe this heavenly elixir, Ephrem states: “There are
various powers in the medicines of physicians. One, for instance, can totally purify; another
can totally consume. One can strengthen, another can close [a wound], and yet another can
burn, and another appease. But the heavenly medicine, which was sent from the Father, was
everything to everyone. It opened [the eyes of] the blind, cleansed lepers, raised the dead to
life, calmed the seas, and drove out demons” (Comm. Diat. X. 7a, SEC 169). Of these
powers which the Medicine of Life could effect, the most potent and decisive was the cure
for death: “Blessed is the Physician who descended and cut painlessly/and healed the sores
with a mild Medicine./His Child was the Medicine that takes pity on sinners” (Nat. III.20,
McV 87).
A Symbolic Profile of Syriac Christianity                                       95

The Medicine of Life is not “the” (in the sense of a single medicine), but “three”:
Chrism, and the Wine and Bread of the Eucharist. Of the latter two, Brock states that
“Ephrem envisages daily communion” (LumE 77). Ephrem reduces these sacraments to
their natural components: “Wheat, the olive and grapes, created for our use—/ The three of
them serve You symbolically in three ways./With three medicines You healed our disease./
Humankind had become weak and sorrowful and was failing./You strengthened her with
Your blessed bread,/and You consoled her with Your sober wine,/and You made her joyful
with Your holy chrism” (Virg. XXXVII.3, McV 425; cf. SCK 77). The sense of triumph and
jubilation here underscores confidence in the efficacy of the “Medicine of Life” to bring
about the transformation of the [**120] Christian, culminating in divinization. There is a
certain logic to the notion of restored immortality. Immortality is seen as the “natural” or
original state of man. The disease model points to the original state of man as somehow
normative. The supernatural element in Christ’s victory over death is that a “cure” for the
“disease” of mortality promises restoration. While the cure is supernatural, it is also a return
to the natural order of the universe as it once was. The believer is not required to accept a
belief in the supernatural that did not already exist, as it were.
The promise of eschatological, physical transformation is a key concept. This involves
an acceptance of the value of the body and of the integrity of the body-mind-spirit nexus.
This is a different view of creation than rival forms of spirituality promulgated. Ephrem’s
view of matter was in stark opposition to Marcion’s pessimistic view of creation, in which
matter is the creation of a demiurge referred to as “the Stranger”—a Creator who is not the
true Deity. In his Commentary on the Diatessaron, commenting on the wedding Feast of
Cana (Jn. 2:1–11), Ephrem states: “He [Jesus] was not therefore introducing an alien
creation, but was transforming the original creation, so that, through having transformed it,
he would make it known that he was its Lord. Because he did not alienate it, we must know
that it is not to be despised. Indeed these same created entities will be renewed at the end.
For that will, which changed ordinary water effortlessly into wine, is capable of
transforming all created entities to tastes which are beyond description, at the end of
time” (Comm. Diat. V.12, SEC 99). As an antidote to death, Christ’s own death was the
decisive experiment in the efficacy of his own power to overcome death: “the Physician of
His crucifiers./With nails they fastened You, but You made them/like medicines for their
pains./They pierced You with a lance and water flowed forth,/as the blotting out of their
sins” (Virg. XXX.9–10, McV 397).
A return to the sinless state is a precondition to the restoration of immortality, which is
compromised by the nullifying contamination of sin. The decisive soteriological moment
was when: “The Medicine of Life has entered Sheol/and made its dead alive” (CNis
XXXVI.14, SCK 235). Although patently “mythic” in terms of its personification, the
Christ-event was decidedly real, and formed the basis of Syriac Christian eschatology
which, after all, is simply a projection of its own soteriology.

Ethical: The Mirror
A Symbolic Profile of Syriac Christianity

The heart of spirituality is “the heart” itself. Ephrem compares the heart to a mirror.
“Another favorite image of Ephrem,” Mathews observes, “is the mirror” (SPW 55). In an
overview of dominant Ephremic [**121] motifs, Murray observes: “He [Ephrem] is no less
inspired by the olive tree, its properties and productions, by the sun, its light and warmth,
and by mirrors—an important theme in his theology of symbols, as Dom Beck [1953] has
well illustrated” (1976, 8). Amar reminds the reader that: “The mirror . . . is an image of
great importance for Ephrem” (SPW 280, n. 43).
In one of his Nisibene hymns, Ephrem addresses the problem of the defective mirror:
“One complains about a mirror if its luminosity is darkened,/because it has become spotted,
or dirt has built up,/covering it over for those who look into it./Beauty is no longer adorned
in that mirror,/blemishes are no longer reproved in its reflection./It is a cause for offence as
far as anyone beautiful is concerned,/seeing that their beauty gets no advantage from it,/in
the form of adornments as profit./Blemishes can no longer be rooted out with its aid,/
adornments can no longer be added with its help;/the blemish that now remains is a cause
for offense,/that no embellishment has taken place is a further loss:/offence and loss have
met together.”
The Syriac term for mirror is maḥzitā (see Bou Mansour 1988, 61–70). Brock points out
that, in Late Antiquity, mirrors were not made of mercury-coated glass, but were of bronze,
and so required continual burnishing. Even if protected from dust, the mirror would still
tarnish and thus require polishing (1982d, 138). Bearing this in mind, we see why Ephrem
concludes: “If our mirror is darkened/this is altogether a source of joy to those morally ugly/
in that their blemishes are no longer reproved;/whereas if our mirror is polished and
illumined,/then it is our free will that has been adorned./Refrain: Blessed is He who has
polished our mirror” (CNis XVI.1–4, LumE 56; cf. NPNF 13:185). McVey speaks of “the
image of the mirror as a means to self-knowledge and moral improvement” (McV 401, n.
490, citing Beck 1953).
Poetically, the image of the mirror might include any reflective surface. A prime
example is that of oil. Speaking of the immanent spirit of Christ, Ephrem writes: “The
Anointed is all faces and the oil (mešḥa) is just like a mirror;/from wherever I look at the oil
the Anointed (Mešiḥa)/looks out at me from within” (McV 296). The simile, “the oil is just
like a mirror,” is more literal than metaphorical, considering that, in Late Antiquity, a bowl
of oil was frequently used as a mirror. Word plays are a common feature in Ephrem’s
hymns. In this verse, the pun is somewhat predictable, as the latter is a cognate of the
former. It is interesting to note that, although the image of Christ is mystically discernible
wherever the poet turns his gaze, the Holy Spirit is not, for It “is too pure and
invisible” (km’ kyt šp’ wks’) even “for a mirror” (mnh d-mḥzyt’—CH LV.4, Motifs 44).
In Ephrem’s poetic use of the mirror, it is the image and not always the reflection that is
important. The image in the mirror might or might not be a mirror image. “The Scriptures
are laid out like a [**122] mirror,” Ephrem states in a passage cited above, “and he whose
eye is lucid sees therein the image of truth” (HdF LVII.8, LumE 32). The “image of truth”
referred to here is a spiritual ideal, not a human reality. The mirror is, in fact, often
associated with the idea that humankind is created in the image of God, the most perfect
reflection of which is to be seen in the person of Jesus Christ. In the following passage,
Christ is described as a “Clear Mirror”: “Clear Mirror constituted for the peoples./They
A Symbolic Profile of Syriac Christianity                                       97

acquired a hidden eye, approached and contemplated it./They saw their hatred; they
reproached them[selves]./Their faults they scoured in it; their ornaments they beautified in
it./Blessed is the one who confuted his hatred by Your beauty,/and Your resemblance was
imprinted on him.” (Virg. XXXI.12, McV 401).
The mirror is also an important Syriac image for self-purification. As stated above,
Ephrem was fascinated by mirrors. Mirrors abound in Ephrem’s symbolic world. The mirror
is not always symbolic: “He polished a mirror [and] set it up for children to learn
modesty” (Virg. XXV.16, McV 374). One example will suffice to instance symbolic usage:
“In the mirror of the commandments/I will behold my interior face/so that I may wash off
the dirt on my soul/and clean away the filth of my mind/lest the Holy One to whom I am
betrothed sees me/and stands back from me in horror” (Armenian hymns 6, LumE 105).
Ideally, when the heart is engaged in the contemplation of God, it is turned away from the
self and turned toward God: “Let our prayer be a mirror, Lord, placed before Your face;/then
Your fair beauty will be imprinted on its luminous surface./O Lord, let not the Evil One,
who is ugly, gaze on it,/lest his ugliness be impressed upon it. The mirror conceives the
image of everyone who encounters it./Let not all sorts of thoughts be imprinted on our
prayer;/Let the movements of Your face, Lord, settle upon it,/so that, like a mirror, it may be
filled with Your beauty” (Eccl. XIX.9–10, LumE 56–57).
Whenever the mirror is turned to oneself, “beauty” or spirituality is what ought to be
reflected. Self-reflection may or may not prove to be a rewarding experience. But the
experience is always instructive. Naturally, what one does not wish to behold in a mirror is
ugliness: “It is very difficult for the evil one to gaze at his ugliness./Goodness, like a mirror,
comes toward him/to refute by his ugliness one who thinks he is beautiful” (Virg. XI.1,
McV 307). “Become his mirror,” exhorts Ephrem, “that in your beauty she may see the
beauty of the Word” (HdF LXXXIII.10, Mathews 1994b, 64).
“Using a favorite metaphor,” writes McVey, Ephrem employs “the mirror as the
instrument of divine ethical lessons” (McV 37). There is some evidence to suggest that the
community of Ephrem was in ethical competition, so to speak, with their Christian rivals,
the Bardaiṣanites. The Edessan native Bardaiṣan had high ethical standards for his
followers. The exercise of free will was, in the views of both religious [**123] figures, of
greatest importance. This ought to come as no surprise, as the metaphor of the heart as a
mirror is a favorite patristic theme generally. “‘Polish this interior mirror of yours’,” Brock
observes, “is the repeated exhortation of Syriac writers from St. Ephrem onwards” (1982d,
138).

Experiential: The Pearl
True to the Christian Orient, the goal of existence is full and perfect deification, augmented
through self-purification, a godly life of spiritual service, not of mere lip-service,
culminating in the complete translation of body and soul into the realm of the spirit.
Towards this end, the life of the celibate and of the continent was considered exemplary, a
boon to the soul and to the world around it. Those who took a vow of sexual holiness
formed the élite of the Church and served as models for less-disciplined Christians.
A Symbolic Profile of Syriac Christianity

As a church within the Church, the sexually pure engendered a visible spirituality, which
provided a leaven of enthusiasm for the upliftment of the entire Church (which metaphor
Aphrahāṭ [Aph. Dem. XIV.680.25–26] applied to bishops; see SCK 87, n. 4). Taken
together, the chaste and the virgins could be seen as “a peacock of the spirit.” Virgins were
deemed to be the very jewel of the Church, as in this verse: “Abounding in fasts/and in
supplications/its bones are its treasures,/its tears are its talents;/its eye is its spring,/and its
virginity/is its jewel within it,/a peacock of the spirit/which wears its adornments/upon its
members!” (CH XLII.9–10, SCK 75). The term for “jewel” here is literally beryl (SCK 75,
n. 2). Christians who kept themselves pure—that is, chaste—are thus compared by Ephrem
to various types of ornaments, particularly gems and pearls. This type of imagery glorifies
and ennobles the ascetic path.
More so than jewels, the pearl emerged as Ephrem’s most important symbol of virginity.
“Probably his most famous symbol,” states Murray, “is the pearl” (1976, 8). “Perhaps
Ephrem’s favorite and best known image,” Mathews concurs, “is that of the pearl” (SPW
54; cf. 1994b. 54). The image of the pearl (marganītā) is explored in Ephrem’s Hymns on
the Pearl (Madrāšē al-Marganītā), a collection of five hymns within the larger cycle
known as the Hymns on Faith, an anti-Arian cycle of hymns. The Hymns on the Pearl
begins: “One day, my brothers,/I picked up a pearl. I saw within it mysteries,/O sons of the
kingdom, images and types/of that Majesty. It became a fountain/and from it I drank of the
mysteries of the Son./Refrain: Blessed is He who compared the kingdom on high to a
pearl” (HdF LXXXI.1, Mathews 1994b, 57). Compare Brock’s rendition: “One day, my
brethren, I took a pearl into my hands;/in it I beheld symbols which told of [**124] the
Kingdom,/images and figures of God’s majesty./It became a fountain from which I drank
the mysteries of the Son” (HdF LXXXI.1).
Virginity, in Syriac spirituality, as well as sexual holiness in general, was essential for
cultivating a purity of heart. Syriac Christianity’s emphasis on virginity and chastity arose
from a number of influences, not the least of which was the model of Mary, the virgin
mother of Jesus, and Christ himself, who was also a virgin. Ephrem speaks devotionally of
Mary, and of the Virgin Birth, of her “the womb” that “conceived You without
intercourse” (Nat. XV.16, McV 146). It should also be noted that Ephrem’s conception of
virginity extends far beyond human sexuality, for Nature, in her pristine form, exemplifies
virginity: “The virgin earth gave birth to that Adam, head of the earth;/the Virgin today gave
birth to [second] Adam, head of heaven” (Nat. I.16, McV 65). For Ephrem, Nature imagery
provides an important symbolic warrant for virginity.
His references to the Virgin Birth take on a slightly different complexion when
advancing more strained and exotic analogies from nature, such as this one: “The Spirit
spoke a parable in the worm, for it reproduces without sexual union” (Nat. I.10, McV 64).
Here is a move beyond the confessional to the apologetic: “That which is by nature/mortal,
gains life by chastity,/which is beyond nature” (Nat. XIV.18, McV 144). The symbol of the
pearl functions in the same symbolic vein. The pearl, for Ephrem, was a perfect symbol of
virginity, as the science of the day held that the pearl was formed by lightning striking the
shell of the oyster (LumE 85). Thus, the “mother” of the pearl—a poetic allusion to the
Virgin Mary—is referred to as “a virgin of the sea” (Pearl II.2).
A Symbolic Profile of Syriac Christianity                                       99

The Hymns on the Pearl exhibit the polyvalency of Ephrem’s key symbols. The term for
“mysteries” that occurs in the opening verse is rāzē. In this context, Mathews glosses rāzē
thus: “Ephrem uses this word, of Persian origin, most often to indicate those elements in
nature that figure heavenly realities” (1994b, 57, n. 50). We see this in evidence throughout
the five Hymns on the Pearl. An invidious comparison might be that of the pearl as a crystal
ball, in which an array of images are said to appear. In contemplation of the pearl, Ephrem
relates: “In its clarity I saw the Clear One (šapyūtā)/who is not clouded. In its purity/a great
mystery: the body of our Lord/which is unsullied” (Pearl I.3). The word šapyūtā also means
“lucid, luminous, pure, limpid” and often denotes the ideal vision of faith, the “luminous
eye.” This is also the ideal condition of a perfectly burnished mirror (LumE 85). God is pure
and luminous, and for the eye of faith to be pure and luminous, purity of body and soul is
required.
The Hymns on the Pearl are both timeless yet historically referenced. The symbol of the
pearl is polyvalent, even to the point of being protean, yet it is definitely anti-Arian in
Ephrem’s use of it. The pearl [**125] arbitrates in matters of faith. Its integrity, its spherical
indivisibility is to be admired rather than argued over, while its radiance is an eloquent
witness to its recondite mystery. The pearl is an object of meditation to deepen one’s faith.
In this respect, the symbolic value of the pearl can never be exhausted. Its symbolism can,
however, be frustrated or obscured. In permutating the manifold mysteries of the pearl,
Ephrem draws a sharp distinction between contemplation and the Arian rationalism or
“investigation”: “Even the diver does not investigate (bṣā)/his pearl. In it all merchants/
rejoice. They do not investigate (bṣā)/when it came to be. Nor does the king/who is crowned
with it analyze (hmas) it” (HdF LXXXIV.3, Mathews 1994b, 67). “The pearl is a single
substance (qnōmā)/that is full of light,” Ephrem writes, while “Faith is an integral substance
(kyānā)/that cannot be corrupted” (vv. 8 and 10, ibid., 68–69). It cannot be analyzed without
fragmenting it (v. 9). What has been done to the pearl in such a case has been done to the
Church. Its pristine unity is said to have been shattered by the Arian controversy.
In fine, the pearl’s perfection, its luminosity and radiance defy any attempt to fathom its
mystery. This does not mean that the pearl is without meaning. The significance of the pearl
is reflective. When seen in the light of revelation, it is Christ. When viewed as a precious
ornament for the pious Christian, it becomes, quite clearly, the “pearl of virginity.”

Mythic: Tree of Life
In the Persian Diatessaron, Jesus says: “I am the fruit-tree of truth (man dirakht-i mīva-yi
rāstī)” (Messina 1951, 322, cited in SCK 96). This is an oblique biblical affirmation of
what Christians would later say about Jesus Christ, viz., that he is the Tree of Life. “The
Tree of Life is an important symbol for Ephrem,” according to McVey (McV 64, n. 8). “The
tree of life,” Murray concurs, “[is] a rich and important theme in fourth-century
authors” (1982, 13). “The cross as the ‘Tree of Life’ and source of the sacraments,” writes
Amar, “is a popular image among Syriac-speaking authors” (SPW 280, n. 40), as is “vine
imagery” (278, n. 32). As Simo Parpola’s recent study attests, the Tree of Life is a venerable
symbol, attested as far back as fourth-millennium Mesopotamia (1993, 161).
A Symbolic Profile of Syriac Christianity

Since the Tree of Life is both biblical and Mesopotamian, it is at once a native Syriac
symbol as well as a familiar scriptural symbol. Linking the Tree of Life with Christ is a
simple matter of typology. Typology often begins as analogy or parallelism. A good
example is Enoch, who was translated into Paradise. Although immortality was conferred
on him before the dispensation of Christ in historical time, the mechanism of immortality in
sacred time in some way derived [**126] from the Tree of Life. This is why Ephrem says:
“And, if Enoch, who got life, was unable to obtain life/without the Tree of Life—who is
[then] able to obtain life/without the living Son, the fruit of him who gives life to
everything” (Eccl. L.8, Motifs 160).
Transitionally, the Tree of Life reappears throughout salvation history, in both historic
and sacred time. In the beginning, the Tree of Life resides in primordial Paradise.
Personification is effectively employed by Ephrem to endow the Tree of Life with human as
well as divine qualities: “Very sad was the Tree of Life/that saw Adam hidden from him./
Into the virgin earth he sank and was buried,/but he arose and shone forth from
Golgotha” (Virg. XVI.10, McV 332; cf. HyP 60–61; Motifs 133). In a subsequent
dispensation, the Tree of Life reappears in the episode of Noah: “In the beginning again
upon the wood alighted the weary dove./On You, the Tree of Life, came, took refuge [or,
“symbolized,” “typified”], and alighted the weary Testament; Revelations gazed at You;
similes awaited You;/symbols expected You; likenesses longed for You;/parables took
refuge in You” (Virg. VIII.5–6, McV 298; cf. Motifs 199).
Beyond parallelism is typology. Ephrem’s use of typology is predominantly
Christological. Beyond parallelism and typology is complete identification. Ephrem often
equates the Tree of Life with Christ, and in so doing condenses salvation history into a
single, polyvalent symbol. In his Commentary on the Diatessaron, Ephrem corroborates in
prose what he does in verse. He explicitly identifies “the cross” with “the tree of
life” (Comm. Diat. XXI.2, SEC 317). The two symbols merge into one.
Now, this one symbol can then bifurcate into two or more discretely distinctive myths.
For instance, the Tree of Life, traditionally associated with Paradise, suddenly and
dramatically makes its appearance in Hell: “The Blossom, troubled by/gloom and darkness
and night/sprouted [into] a flower in Sheol./It became the Tree of Life that saved
creation” (Virg. LI.8, McV 463). Afterwards, and still in sacred time, the Tree of Life
reappears in Paradise, where it stands supreme at the summit of Paradise. There, the Tree of
Life ceases to be a symbol, except referentially, as Ephrem suggests: “As for that part of the
Garden, my beloved,/which is situated so gloriously/at the summit of that height/where
dwells the Glory,/not even its symbol/can be depicted in man’s thought” (HdP III.1, HyP
90). Although technically the “Glory” or Shekinah denotes the presence of God and not the
Tree of Life, Ephrem speaks of the Tree of Life in the verse following as if to conflate the
two. In ancient Near Eastern imagery, “Glory” is a solar image. So when Ephrem describes
the radiance of the Tree, conflation of Glory and Tree has taken place: “Perhaps that blessed
tree,/the Tree of Life,/is, by its rays,/the sun of Paradise” (HdP III.2, HyP 91). Compare
Kronholm’s translation: “Certainly, the blessed [**127] tree, the tree of life (’yln ḥy’),/with
its rays (bzlyqwhy), is the sun of Paradise” (šmšh dprdys’—Motifs 73). This conclusion is
original, although it seems anticipated by Kronholm, who comments: “The outstanding pre-
A Symbolic Profile of Syriac Christianity                                       101

eminence of the tree of life mirrors the foremost position of the divine Shekinah in the top/
centre of Paradise (cf. Parad. II, 11, 6)” (Motifs 74).
In sum, in Ephrem’s formally creative yet thematically consistent use of this symbol, the
Tree of Life punctuates salvation history and sacred time. The Tree of Life appears in Eden,
in the aftermath of the Deluge, in Sheol, and finally in eschatological Paradise.
Complementing its decisive interventions in the unfolding of Ephrem’s grand soteriological
scheme, to the past and future Ephrem adds the present, in the Tree of Life’s initiatory role
in the sacrament of pre-baptismal “signing” (chrism), and in the diurnal nourishment of the
Christian in the form of daily communion.
The Tree of Life is the source of the sacraments, as Joseph Amar observes: “The cross as
the ‘Tree of Life’ and source of the sacraments is a popular image among Syriac-speaking
authors” (SPW 280, n. 40). Sacramentally, it provides the antidote to the “disease of
mortality” that afflicts humankind: “The Tree of Life brings hope’ [Prov. 12:13 (Pes.)] to the
dying,” Ephrem writes, speaking of the immortality the Tree confers. Thus, typologically,
“the hidden saying of Solomon found its explanation today” (Nat. I.8, McV 64). The
essence of the Tree of Life is its oil, sacramentally used as a “white chrism,” pressed from
its fruit, the olive. “For oil became the key of the hidden treasure-house of symbols./It
propounds for us the similes of God Who became human./The whole creation gave Him all
the symbols hidden in it./The scriptures also gave their parables, and they were explained in
Him./And the writings [gave] all their types and the Law also its shadows./The olive tree
stripped off and gave to the Anointed the comeliness of the symbols upon it” (Virg. V. 16,
McV 286; cf. Motifs 196). As to communion in relation to the Tree of Life, Ephrem writes:
“The assembly of saints/bears resemblance to Paradise:/in it each day is plucked/the fruit of
Him who gives life to all/in it, my brethren, is trodden/the cluster of grapes, to be the
Medicine of Life” (HdP VI.8, HyP 111). Here we see a shift from olive imagery to vine
imagery. On this dual imagery, Murray remarks: “The Tree of Life in it [Paradise] is the
type of Christ as source of the Church’s life, with reference both to the Eucharist and to the
sacraments involving anointing, especially the pre-baptismal ‘signing’ (rūšmā). This means
that the ‘Tree of Life’ is represented simultaneously as vine and as olive” (SCK 125).
In trying to solve the problem of consistency in this simultaneous symbolism of olive
and vine, a text came to light that suggests that Ephrem has conceived of the grape vine as
actually having been grafted onto the olive tree: “Blessed are you, O shoot that Truth
[**128] cultivated;/He engrafted your medicine into the Tree of Life./Your fruit exults and
rejoices at all times/to drink the drink of the Book of Life” (Virg. XXIV.4, McV 366). As a
result of the elixir of the sacraments, flowing from the Tree of Life, the Syriac Christian
receives divinization, is transformed, and anticipates an eschatological life in Paradise.

Social: Paradise
Susan Ashbrook Harvey characterizes the Syriac view of Paradise as restoration to a
primordial state: “Salvation lies in humanity’s return to its original state, as it was in
Paradise before the Fall. The regaining of Paradise is a central concern for these Odes, as for
much other literature of the time” (1993, 130). The following passage, from the Hymns on
Unleavened Bread, corroborates this generalization: “The spiritual Bread of the Eucharist
A Symbolic Profile of Syriac Christianity

makes light and causes to fly:/the Peoples have been wafted up and have settled in
Paradise./Through the second Adam who entered Paradise everyone has entered it,/for
through the first Adam who left it everyone left it./By means of the Spiritual Bread,
everyone becomes/an eagle who reaches as far as Paradise./Whoever eats of the Living
Bread of the Son/flies to meet Him in the very clouds” (Azym. XVII.9–12, LumE 79). The
metaphor of the eagle is striking. Even more striking is the description of the sacraments in
paradisal terms, not as an anticipated ascension, but as an experience of rapture in the here-
and-now.
Recalling this verse, “The assembly of saints/bears resemblance to Paradise” (HdP VI.8,
HyP 111), Ephrem states that the Church is a prototype of heaven. Yet it appears that what
Ephrem is really doing is using Paradise as an extended metaphor for the Church! This
conclusion is borne out by Murray’s own observation: “Paradise is the type, as well as the
eschatological goal, of the Church” (SCK 125). This theme will be explored in some detail
in section 7.1 below. Indeed, Ephrem’s eschatology is bound up with his view of Paradise,
something Kronholm refers to as an “original/ultimate unity” (Motifs 61). With reference to
HdP VI.8, Kronholm observes: “Paradise and Church are melted together into a
unity” (Motifs 114).

Conclusion. The key symbols described in this “symbolic profile” neither exhaust nor fully
elucidate Ephrem’s complex symbol system. Perforce, this selection was to the exclusion of
other key symbols. For this reason, the opinions of various Syriacists (or “Syriacisants”)
were adduced in order to provide some corroboration of the selection of the dozen or so
symbols here represented. Given the constraints of space, it was not possible to flesh out the
various constellations of subordinate symbols necessarily associated with each key symbol.
However, some [**129] of the more important subsidiary symbols were treated. Most of
these key symbols were found to have some descriptive or thematic connection with
Paradise. Upon reflection, this is quite natural to expect, as Paradise is the beatific vision of
ideals.

The Syriac Paradigm of Purity
This study has situated Ephrem’s hymns within the web of controversies among competing
forms of Christianity. A complex of fourth-century influences must be borne in mind in the
study of Ephrem’s writings. Early in the fourth century, an Edessene could witness the
vestiges of Marcionism, the influence of Manichaeism, the success of Bardaiṣanite
Christianity, and the divisiveness of Arianism. The threat of Arianism served as a catalyst
for orthodox self-definition in Christological and doxological terms. The Marcionites forced
a reappraisal of what eventually became defined as the “canon” of scriptures. In the Syriac
Life of Ephrem, it is said that nine heresies flourished in Edessa in the mid-fourth century.
In this light, early Syriac Christianity may be analyzed as a response to a very localized
form of Late Antiquity, as well as a further development in continuity with local tradition.
Ephrem lived on the border between Rome and Persia. On the other side of the border
was the rival religion Zoroastrianism, but on his side of the political divide, Ephrem had to
deal with divisions within his own religion: Marcionism, Bardaiṣanism, and Arianism.
A Symbolic Profile of Syriac Christianity                                       103

Manichaeism, a post-Christian religion, also posed a threat. Except for Arianism, these
divisions were pre-schismatic in the sense that they represented more of a plurality of
religions in Late Antique Syria rather than self-conscious schisms reacting against the
authority of a council. Nevertheless, these “heresies” did, in a sense, set a thematic agenda,
and establish categories and structures of discourse within which Ephrem’s positive
formulation of Christianity would be expressed.
A unique witness to the indigenously Syriac forms of spirituality of his time, Ephrem’s
hymns are particularly relevant to the study of early Syriac Christianity, for they bridge the
divide between so-called official versus popular forms of religiosity, having been intoned in
the pew as well as the pulpit. Syriac, a dialect of Aramaic, was the language spoken in
Edessa and its province Osrhoëne in northern Mesopotamia. The composition of Ephrem’s
cycles of Hymns (madrāšē) may well have received an impetus from the use of such hymns
in the dominant form of Syriac Christianity in his day, Bardaiṣanism, and possibly from the
use of similar hymns in the successful local practice of Manichaeism, as attested in the
Manichaean Psalm-Book, which survives in Coptic translation from the Syriac (cf. Säve-
Söderbergh [**130] 1949). The Syriac provenance of the work is now generally accepted
(SCK 27). Arius had originated similar techniques of propaganda in Alexandria. It was
natural, therefore, that Ephrem would have seen the composition of hymns to be an effective
antidote to the poison of heresy.
Orthodoxy (in Ephrem’s view of it) had a precarious foothold in fourth-century Edessa.
In Edessa, we recall that Ephrem’s congregation was known as the “Paluṭians”—after
Addai’s disciple Paluṭ, an early bishop of Edessa (CH XXII.5). By Constantine’s
conversion, the advent of imperial Christianity greatly affected the situation in Edessa. The
fortunes of the so-called Paluṭians were augmented by the fact that “orthodox” Christianity
could now forcefully assert itself. So recent was this sudden turnaround for the Paluṭians in
Edessa that the Chronicle of Edessa admits that the first orthodox church was not begun in
Edessa until 313  C.E. It was completed in 324, after the Council of Nicea (Bundy 1985,
606). Around the same time, the orthodox church in Nisibis was built under Jacob of
Nisibis, during the years 313–320  C.E. (Mathews SPW, 27). Of his own congregation, the
Paluṭians, Ephrem wrote: “Their hands have let go [plṭ] of everything. There are no handles
to grasp. They even called us Paluṭians, but we have spewed [plṭ] them out and cast away
[the name]. May there be a curse on those who are called by the name of Paluṭ, and not by
the name of Christ” (Segal 1970, 81). Note Ephrem’s word play on two Syriac words that
sound like Paluṭ.
The Paluṭians were but one of a welter of competing forms of Christianity. In both verse
and prose, Ephrem refutes each of these rivals. All told, the presence of rival faith-
communities in large measure determined Ephrem’s literary agenda. To heretics of all ilks
Ephrem alludes: “They receive the cup, in which the sons of the serpent/have mixed the
dragon’s gall” (Nat. XXVIII.8, McV 217; cf. CH I.11).
In fourth-century Nisibis and Edessa, the various forms of Christianity were, for the
most part, communities of sanctification. Among all of these disparate and competing
spiritual communities, there were interpenetrating influences. Asceticism was one such
influence. Mesopotamia, moreover, was permeated by an ascetic fervor. Except for
A Symbolic Profile of Syriac Christianity

Bardaiṣan and Quq, enthusiasm for sexual holiness was “all but universal in the Syriac
world” (SCK 11). Why is this? What was at stake? One reason for this is simple: If salvation
is total, the body is included. In effect, the body became the pivot of salvation. Spirituality
in early Syriac Christianity was based on competing notions of purity. Marcionite purity, to
the extent that the religion was still practiced in the fourth century, was essentially ascetic
and antimaterial. The practice of Syrian asceticism may have intensified under Manichaean
influence.
[**131] Mānī’s system was also antimaterial. It was anticosmic as well. For
Manichaeans, purity meant freeing captive Light from the matter in which it was
imprisoned. Mānī’s system is based on a rather complex myth, which basically recounts the
attack of darkness (evil) on the world of Light. (Bardaiṣan and Mānī relied heavily on pagan
myths, whereas Ephrem’s cosmogony is primarily scriptural.) A succinct characterization of
Manichaean anthroprogony is given by Sundermann: “[M]an became a prison for Light
under the rule of Lust” (EIr 6:313). In terms of salvation, Ephrem refers to the Manichaean
“Column of Glory” (esṭūn šubḥa), also called the Perfect Man (Mid. Pers. mard īg ispurr),
through which Light trapped in matter is purified and transported to the moon, whence it
ascends into the ship of the sun and thence to the Paradise of Light (ibid., 312). Knowledge
(Gk. gnōsis, Mid. Per. dānišn) was a prerequisite for salvation, which was predicated on a
rather speculative and highly mythical cosmogony that seems to have had more to do with
notions of physicality rather than spirituality. Here, there is clearly an ontological dualism in
view, rather than an ethical dualism.
Bardaiṣan’s system presents a stark contrast. “The key word for Bardaiṣan’s life and
world view is liberty,” writes Drijvers. “One could hardly expect otherwise of a man
entertaining close ties with the Parthian feudal nobility, to which he may himself have
belonged. We meet with the concept both in his anthropology and his cosmology, for the
two are correlates” (BarE 219). True liberty was to be achieved by ethical rigor—a
concomitant and guarantor of salvation—through the efficacy of personal will. Ephrem’s
own focus on spiritual freedom probably reflects the Bardaiṣanite agenda and offers an
alternative to it. Whereas the key to salvation for Bardaiṣan was purification by
righteousness through the exercise of free will, and Mānī’s salvation was by knowledge and
asceticism, Ephrem’s system of salvation consisted of an exercise of righteousness and
premendicant asceticism through the saving sanctification of Jesus Christ (cf. Bou Mansour
1984).
For Ephrem, and for Eastern and Oriental Christian traditions generally, salvation is
typically not expressed in terms of forensic, juridical, or pecuniary metaphors so dominant
in the Western patristic and especially Anselmian tradition. Sanctification may be defined as
“the synergistic notion of interaction between the divine grace of God and the human
will” (Fr. Andrew Morbey, Ottawa, p.c. 15 Feb. 1996). The goal is “divinization” (theōsis),
a term that expresses communion with God. For Ephrem, there is no “Fall” in the sense of
Original Sin. Rather, the “Fall” (a term he does not use) in Syriac Christian theology was the
mortality that is the human condition, which came about when Adam forfeited immortality
through the separation of his will from that of God’s. It was not God’s wrath that needed to
be placated or appeased, but humanity’s own imperilment that had to be addressed. It
[**132] is deifying grace that transforms the true Christian, not vicarious atonement.
A Symbolic Profile of Syriac Christianity                                       105

For Ephrem, Christ was “the Purifier of all” (Virg. XV.1, McV 326). The mystic
investment of the “Robe of Glory” at baptism was a purification by grace. Ephrem
epitomizes the work of Christ so: “His birth gives us purification,/His baptism gives us
forgiveness,/His death is life to us,/His ascension is our exaltation” (Res. I.16, Harp 29).
This practically reads like an “order of salvation.” In Ephrem’s thought, salvation is a
means, not an ultimate goal. Salvation, by way of atonement, is the necessary precondition
for sanctification. After baptism, a state of grace or purity required commitment and
discipline. Sanctification was the path to some form of “union” or dynamic relationship with
deity. But the effects of salvation could, in some respects, be forfeited or thwarted by the
misuse of free will.
One proof of this is Ephrem’s teachings on beatific vision. What are the conditions under
which the soul may experience the presence of God? In a word, purity. Consider Ephrem’s
first hymn in his cycle, Hymns on Fasting: “Fasting secretly purifies the soul/So it can gaze
on God and grow by the vision of Him./For the weight that is from the earth, bends it back
to the earth./Blessed is he who gave us fasts, /The sheer wings by which we fly to
Him” (Ieiun. I.2). This idea of purification as a means of rarefication is a predominant
theme in the HdP. Ephrem reiterates: “Fasting is bright and beautiful for any who bright
enough/To gaze on God. The Turbid One, stirred up by anything/Cannot fix the eye on that
Clear One. He who possesses a clear eye/He can gaze upon him; as much as it is given to
him to gaze./Instead of the clarifying wine, let us clarify our thought/So that we will be able
to see the Clear One/Who overcame the Evil One by means of fasting, that Disturber of
All” (Ieiun. I.3., translated by Gary A. Anderson, Sidney Griffith, and Robin Darling Young,
“Saint Ephrem’s Hymns on Fasting: An Annotated Translation and
Concordance” (electronic document posted on the World Wide Web).
In these two stanzas, it is interesting to note, beatific vision does not seem to require the
instrumentality of the senses, which is the standard Syriac rationale for a belief in corporeal
resurrection, a belief that Ephrem accepts but radically spiritualizes. Assuming that beatific
vision is the ultimate mystical experience, and the goal of the ascetic contemplative, the
condition of purity that must be met overrides any other consideration. Purity, or
sanctification, is the order of salvation beyond forgiveness. Purity is as much a reflex of will
—as in the example of fasting—as it is of love. This exercise of will entails a state of
freedom to choose, resulting in greater freedom from carnality and the bondage of sin.
Through the efficacy of the sacraments, divine energies were communicated in a cultic life
of sacramental transformation.
[**133] For Ephrem’s Christians—those known as Paluṭians—purity meant total
personal consecration. The most intimate condition of both mental and physical purity was
virginity. Virginity was seen as a spiritual crown. Marital continence was ideal. For it was
the life of angels. More importantly, sexual purity emulates the life of Christ. The great
symbol of purity was the “pearl” of virginity. Virginity is total purity, not narrowly defined
as asexuality. Ephrem likens virginity to beryls and pearls (Virg. II.5–6). Creation
exemplifies virginity. Originally, God’s creation was pure, virgin. The sin of Adam violated
it. But baptism in Christ recovers it. Through Christ, original virginity is restored. The
newly baptized Christian is thus a virgin (see SCK 12–18, which summarizes idem, 1975a).
A Symbolic Profile of Syriac Christianity

Why was virginity so exalted? For the Christian, virginity was the seal of commitment to
Christ, a vow taken to keep one’s self pure for Christ, the Bridegroom, in anticipation of the
eschatological Wedding Feast, which was the pious hope of every Christian. Renunciation
of marital intercourse was not based on a denigration of the “flesh” as inherently evil, as in
some dualist models, but was positively founded on “three powerful conceptual models,”
according to Brock: (1) a betrothal to Christ as the mystical and eschatological Bridegroom;
(2) the related notion of the believer’s soul and the corporate Church being the “bride of
Christ”—the sexually pure body consecrated as the “Bridal Chamber” of Christ; and (3)
baptism as a reentry into Paradise, in which abstinence is practiced in imitation of the
marital life of pre-Fallen Adam and Eve (HyP 25–33). Observes one author: “Ephraem
considered the church to be the sacramental situation of paradise restored” (de Halleux
1983, cited by Griffith 1990, 28).
Thus, Syriac Christianity had its own model of sanctity—one of exemplary separation,
of singleness, of inner unity, of adherence to a special “Covenant” (Qyāmā). Celibacy was
consecrated, although the spirituality of Ephrem’s time was still at a pre-monastic stage of
development. “Ephrem’s view of virginity,” Murray observes, “like that of his Syriac
predecessors, lacks an explicitly ecclesiological dimension; it is a matter of personal union
with Christ” (SCK 156–57). Yet, those who took vows of celibacy formed a kind of “church
within the Church”—a spiritual elite, who belonged to what was known as benay/benaṭ
Qyāmā ” (SCK 13).
While Qyāmā is typically rendered “Covenant,” this term had rich and complex
connotations, which included: (1) the act of “standing” (as indicated by the etymology of
the word), indicative of such Christians who “took their stand” (qāmū) for Christ by joining
the consecrated Qyāmā at baptism, and in vicariously participating with the angelic
“Watchers” (‘īrē) in unceasing praise of God; (2) a “pact” in respect of a promise or
commitment to serve Christ unencumbered by sexual distractions; (3) expressing a
commitment to celibacy, a call to [**134] “holy war,” as in Aphrahāṭ’s allegorical use of the
Gideon story (Deut. 20:1–8) along with New Testament passages on spiritual warfare
(SCK13–15). A less attested connotation might have been the notion of resurrection.
The Covenant was a state of mind and lifestyle in which one devoted one’s entire being
for a spiritual purpose. “Holiness” (qaddīšūṯā) or consecrated “virginity” (btūlūtā) became
the practice of the “single one” (īḥīḏāyā). The term singleness (īḥīḏāyūtā) was the most
basic concept in Syrian asceticism, connoting not only the sense of celibacy but of single-
hearted devotion as well. In some ways, sexual holiness was liberating. For women, there
were social advantages, according to Peter Brown (1988), in which the practice of ascetical
ideals redounded to human dignity: (1) in social independence won by women; (2) in care
for the poor; (3) in the significance of dress, affording decency and respect to those of low
status vulnerable to the exploitations of nakedness.
Sexual holiness was not restricted to women. From a position of spiritual strength, male
and female alike were encouraged to take vows of positive, socially involved celibacy. For
married individuals, this meant a life of continence. But what of those who chose not to take
vows of celibacy, as in the case of couples who raised families? Married Christians were
also considered pure. Sexual intercourse performed within the marriage vow was pure. But
it was not angelic. As Ephrem states: “For, in three ways that law is conveyed to us, since it
A Symbolic Profile of Syriac Christianity                                       107

gives family (īqārā), continence (qūdšā) and virginity (btūlūtā), possession (qenyānā),
privation (sūrāqā), and perfection (gmirūtā)” (CH XLV. 10, Edakalathur 1994, 47–48).
In Syriac hagiography, three key terms for spirituality stand out: “purity” (dakyūtā),
modesty (nakpūtā), and holiness (qaddīšūṯā)” (Harvey 1996, 33–34). For the broadest
representation, the Syriac concept of “purity” may be privileged as paradigmatic. Syriac
spirituality, as represented by Ephrem, is based on a model of transformational purity. By
“transformational purity” with regard to Syriac Christianity, I mean sacramental deification
through the leading of an angelic life, a life that transcends sexuality, in a covenantal
betrothal to Christ, in a positive embrace of the body, pressed into the service of Christ and
Church, on the battlefield of free will. The life of purity was both the exercise of free will
and the resulting freedom from carnality. In a word, purity was the paradigm of early Syriac
Christianity, in which God, through Christ, would “teach [Adam/man] and bring him [back]
to purity (nlp nytywhy ṣyd dkyt’)” (HdF XXXIV.7f., Motifs 122), leading to full participation
in the energy and spirit of Christ’s divinity.
A Symbolic Profile of Syriac Christianity

[**135]
IV
A Historical Profile of the Bahā’ī Faith
Introduction
Principles practically have a life of their own. They restructure consciousness. They act as
social forces. They can revolutionize worldviews. They crystallize into symbols. They can
become institutions. They are dynamics of world-building. A system of principles wrestles
the social monster of chaos, and the creation myth becomes a recreative reality. Social
evolution is catalyzed. Perspectivally, a paradigm can function as a worldview. It patterns
what we perceive. A paradigm shift, like the mirrors in a kaleidoscope, changes this pattern.
Bahā’u’llāh has tried to effect a paradigm shift in the direction of world unity through a set
of principles.
Ideas are anchored in history. This chapter introduces the Bahā’ī paradigm of unity in its
historical context, providing a necessary background for understanding Bahā’ī ideals
variously symbolized as images of paradise, without which the images themselves are seen
as discarnate ghosts of a worldview, without a past to interpret the present.
Bahā’u’llāh
Despite a wealth of information about his teachings, as a historical figure, Bahā’u’llāh
remains rather enigmatic and abstract. It is difficult to paint a picture of him. One Westerner
has, fortunately, given a rare pen-portrait of Bahā’u’llāh, that not only gives an impression
of his extraordinary charisma, but indicates the essence of his teaching as well. Cambridge
Orientalist Edward Granville Browne, in his historic first interview with Bahā’u’llāh in
1890, records his first impressions when the former was granted an audience with the latter:
[**136] The face of him [Bahā’u’llāh] on whom I gazed I can never forget, though I
cannot describe it. Those piercing eyes seemed to read one’s very soul; power and
authority sat on that ample brow; while the deep lines on the forehead and face implied
an age which the jet-black hair and beard flowing down in indistinguishable luxuriance
almost to the waist seemed to belie. No need to ask in whose presence I stood, as I
bowed myself before one who is the object of a devotion and love which kings might
envy and emperors sigh for in vain!
A Historical Profile of the Bahā’ī Faith                                       109

A mild dignified voice bade me be seated, and then continued: “Praise be to God that
thou hast attained! . . . Thou hast come to see a prisoner and an exile. . . . We desire but
the good of the world and the happiness of the nations; yet they deem us a stirrer up of
strife and sedition worthy of bondage and banishment. . . . That all nations should
become one in faith and all men as brothers; that the bonds of affection and unity
between the sons of men should be strengthened; that diversity of religion should cease,
and differences of race be annulled—what harm is there in this? . . .
Yet so it shall be; these fruitless strifes, these ruinous wars shall pass away, and the
‘Most Great Peace’ shall come. . . . Do not you in Europe need this also? Is not this that
which Christ foretold? . . . Yet do we see your kings and rulers lavishing their treasures
more freely on means for the destruction of the human race than on that which would
conduce to the happiness of mankind. . . . These strifes and this bloodshed and discord
must cease, and all men be as one kindred and one family. . . . Let not a man glory in
this, that he loves his country; let him rather glory in this, that he loves his
kind.” (Edward Granville Browne, Sir Thomas Adams Professor of Arabic, Cambridge
University. Interview with Bahā’u’llāh, ‘Akkā, Palestine, 15 April 1890. Browne 1891,
2:xxxix–xl)

The most complete biography of Bahā’u’llāh in English is Hasan Balyuzi (1980).
Sources for the life of Bahā’u’llāh, for the most part, remain unpublished. Known primary
sources for the life of Bahā’u’llāh include: (1) Nabīl’s Narrative, especially part two; (2)
Mathnavī-i Nabīl-i Zarandī (chronological poem published in Egypt); (3) the chronicle of -
Āqā Riḍā Qannād-i Shīrāzī ; (4) the chronicle of Āqā Ḥusayn Ashchī; (5) the chronicle of
Muḥammad-‘Alī Salmānā; (6) notes of Mīrzā Tarāzu’llāh Samandarī; (7) the chronicle of
Mīrzā Ḥabību’llāh Afnān; (8) The memoires of Zayn al-Muqarrabīn; (9/10) Tarīkh-i Ẓuhūr
al-Ḥaqq (vols. 4 and 5) which contains many primary sources. Other narratives were
commissioned by Shoghi Effendi, but there is as yet no public access to them (p.c. Dr.
Ahang Rabbani, 2 Jan. 1996).
[**137] Bahā’u’llāh (“Splendor/Glory of God”) was born Ḥusayn-‘Alī on 2 Muḥarram
1233/12 November 1817 in Tehran. He is claimed to have been a descendant of the last
Sasanian king, Yazdagird III (see “The Ancestry of Bahā’u’llāh,” in Balyuzi 1980, 9–12).
His father, Mīrzā Abbās, known as Mīrzā Buzurg-i Vazīr, served the court of Fatḥ-‘Alī Shāh
Qājār (1797–1834). As a high-ranking official, Mīrzā Buzurg belonged to a class of
hereditary bureaucrats in Iran who dealt with administration, finance, and tax collection.
The Nūrī family had extensive land holdings around its ancestral village of Tākur (as
indicated by the name of Mīrzā Buzurg’s father: Mīrzā Riżā-Qulī Big Tākurī) in Nūr, a
district in the Persian province of Māzandarān.
In 1844, at the age of twenty-seven, Mīrzā Ḥusayn-‘Alī Nūrī became a follower of the
Bāb (d. 1850), whom he never met but with whom he corresponded. However, according to
Amanat, it was only after 1847 that Ḥusayn-‘Alī became openly active in the Tehran Bābī
circle (Amanat 1989, 361–62). Partly by virtue of his prestige as a local notable, the
charismatic Ḥusayn-‘Alī became one of the leading figures of the Bābī movement. In the
summer of 1848, at the Bābī conference at Badasht, in response to a call from the Bāb that
A Historical Profile of the Bahā’ī Faith

the Bābīs ought to glorify God by adopting divine names, Bahā’u’llāh took on the spiritual
title, Bahā’ (“Splendor,” “Glory”).
In 1852, at the age of thirty-five, while incarcerated in an underground dungeon
following a mass arrest of Bābīs triggered by an assassination attempt on the Shah,
Bahā’u’llāh experienced his initial prophetic call, which took place through a series of
dreams and visions. In one autobiographical statement, Bahā’u’llāh recalls: “By the
righteousness of God! We were in no wise connected with that evil deed, and Our innocence
was indisputably established by the tribunals. Nevertheless, they apprehended Us, and from
Nīyāvarān, which was then the residence of His Majesty, conducted Us, on foot and in
chains, with bared head and bare feet, to the dungeon of Ṭihrān. . . . We were consigned for
four months to a place foul beyond comparison. . . . Upon Our arrival We were first
conducted along a pitch-black corridor, from whence We descended three steep flights of
stairs to the place of confinement assigned to Us.”
“The dungeon was wrapped in thick darkness,” Bahā’u’llāh continues, “and Our fellow
prisoners numbered nearly a hundred and fifty souls: thieves, assassins and highwaymen.
Though crowded, it had no other outlet than the passage by which We entered. No pen can
depict that place, nor any tongue describe its loathsome smell. Most of these men had
neither clothes nor bedding to lie on. God alone knoweth what befell Us in that most foul-
smelling and gloomy place!” In such dire circumstances, an event transpired which would
alter the course of Bahā’u’llāh’s life, and give rise to a new world religion, which he would
eventually establish later in the course of his ministry.
[**138] “One night in a dream,” Bahā’u’llāh concludes, “these exalted words were
heard on every side: ‘Verily, We shall render Thee victorious by Thyself and by Thy pen.
Grieve Thou not for that which hath befallen Thee, neither be Thou afraid, for Thou art in
safety. Ere long will God raise up the treasures of the earth—men who will aid Thee
through Thyself and through Thy Name, wherewith God hath revived the hearts of such as
have recognized Him’” (ESW 20–21). This is a rare glimpse into the personality of
messianic consciousness. This event precipitated within Bahā’u’llāh an acute sense of
destiny and purpose. In another passage, Bahā’u’llāh recalls: “During the days I lay in the
prison of Ṭihrān, though the galling weight of the chains and the stench-filled air allowed
Me but little sleep, still in those infrequent moments of slumber I felt as if something flowed
from the crown of My head over My breast, even as a mighty torrent that precipitateth itself
upon the earth from the summit of a lofty mountain. Every limb of My body would, as a
result, be set afire. At such moments My tongue recited what no man could bear to
hear” (ESW 22).
In his Sūra of the Temple (Sūrat al-Haykal), Bahā’u’llāh describes a vision in which he
beheld a celestial Maiden: “While engulfed in tribulations I heard a most wondrous, a most
sweet voice, calling above My head. Turning My face, I beheld a Maiden—the embodiment
of the remembrance of the name of My Lord—suspended in the air before Me. . . . Pointing
with her finger unto My head, she addressed all who are in heaven and all who are on earth,
saying: ‘By God! This is the Best-Beloved of the worlds, and yet ye comprehend not. This
is the Beauty of God amongst you, and the power of His sovereignty within you, could ye
but understand. This is the Mystery of God and His Treasure, the Cause of God and His
glory unto all who are in the kingdoms of Revelation and of creation, if ye be of them that
A Historical Profile of the Bahā’ī Faith                                       111

perceive’” (GPB 101–102). This Maiden of Heaven is a salient Bahā’ī symbol. Briefly, the
Maiden is taken by Bahā’īs to be a visionary personification of the Holy Spirit.
Bahā’u’llāh had intimations of his prophetic calling while still a youth. He recounts an
experience in his early years that changed his life, when he had read Mullā Muḥammad
Bāqir Majlisī’s (d. 1111 A.H./ 1699  C.E.) traditional account of the treachery of the Jewish
tribe of Banū Qurayẓa, whose betrayal had placed the earliest Muslim community in mortal
danger. On grounds of treason, the prophet Muḥammad upheld a judge’s order to punitively
massacre all male members of that tribe (cf. Q. 33:26). MacEoin notes the impact of all this
on the impressionable youth, writing that “the effect of this was to plunge him [Bahā’u’llāh]
into a state of acute depression for some time, despite his recognition that ‘what occurred
had been the decree of God’” (MacEoin 1983, 223 on MA 7:136; cf. ISH 34 and IQT
116ff). This characterization of the event truncates Bahā’u’llāh’s own account of this
psychological turning point.
[**139] Further in the narrative, Bahā’u’llāh discloses how he implored God to reveal to
him the path to concord, amity, and unity among the peoples of the world. Bahā’u’llāh
relates how, on his birthday (2 Muḥarram 1279 A.H. = 30 June 1862; Cole 1998, 115) in the
year before the “Dawning” (Declaration in Baghdad, 22 April 1863), he experienced a
transformation (inqilāb), a euphoria of ascendancy and exaltation, evidently a kind of
transfiguration. This experience of inspiration and sense of mission lasted for twelve days,
during which time he felt the full power of the revelation (ẓuhūr) given to him (MA 7:136;
RB 2:348–49, citing AA 2:17–18). However, there was a certain reluctance on the part of
Bahā’u’llāh to accept his prophetic vocation: “Whenever I chose to hold My peace and be
still, lo, the Voice of the Holy Spirit, standing on My right hand, aroused Me, and the Most
Great Spirit appeared before My face, and Gabriel overshadowed Me, and the Spirit of
Glory stirred within My bosom, bidding Me arise and break My silence” (GPB 102).
Bahā’u’llāh began to “reveal” a number of “Tablets” for the edification of his Bābī
compatriots. He effectively kept his messianic identity a secret, although intimations of it
lent his writings an aura of eschatological tension and imminent disclosure.
After four months of captivity, Bahā’u’llāh was released from prison in Tehran, and
spent the next decade in exile in Baghdad (1853–1863), where he maintained his messianic
secrecy. Then, on 22 April 1863—on the eve of his departure to Constantinople (Istanbul)—
Bahā’u’llāh broke his silence and privately, over a period of twelve days, declared his
mission to a select few of his Bābī companions. (These twelve days of Riḍvān [Paradise], as
Bahā’īs refer to the event, appear to mirror the twelve days of Bahā’u’llāh’s transfiguration
in 1862 [Cole 1998, 116].) At this time, Bahā’u’llāh made three major pronouncements:
Bahā’u’llāh “(1) abrogated the Islamo-Bābī law . . . of offensive ‘holy War’ (jihād),
advocating a pacifist attitude to the propagation of Babism; (2) asserted that no independent
Messenger or Manifestation of God would appear (presumably after him) for at least a
millennium (1,000 [presumably solar] years); and (3) claimed that through his declarative
utterance, creation had been renewed” (Lambden 1991, 82, citing the Iran National Bahā’ī
Archives [Private Printing] 44:225). Bahā’u’llāh states that he, as commissioned by God,
had abrogated whatever had been the source of suffering and disunity, having, in their place,
promulgated principles that would ensure the unity of the human race (MA 7:136; RB
2:348–49, citing AA 2:17–18).
A Historical Profile of the Bahā’ī Faith

Bahā’u’llāh spent the next several months in exile in Constantinople, from which the
Ottoman regime removed him to Adrianople. There, in 1866, Bahā’u’llāh commenced his
public proclamation in a series of open letters addressed to political and religious leaders.
Due to his growing influence, in 1868, Ottoman authorities finally banished Bahā’u’llāh to
the fortress-city of ‘Akkā in Palestine. From the [**140] prison at ‘Akkā, Bahā’u’llāh
continued to address open letters to the leaders of Europe and America. The majority of
epistles Bahā’u’llāh sent to individual monarchs and religious leaders were, in fact, revealed
shortly after his arrival in the prison of ‘Akkā (AQA 1:341, Cole 1998, 60 and 207, n. 36).
Analysis discloses two sets of proclamations: (1) Tablets to kings and ecclesiastics,
declaring Bahā’u’llāh’s advent; and (2) Tablets universally addressed to the peoples of the
world, announcing Bahā’u’llāh’s world reforms. Of the summons to monarchs and pontiffs,
the majority of these epistles were addressed to the leaders of the Great Powers, the leaders
of the West. Apart from his collective apostrophes to world rulers, individual “Tablets” or
epistles were sent to: (1) Queen Victoria, (2) Napoleon III, (3) Czar Nicolaevitch Alexander
II, (4) Nāṣiri’d-Dīn Shāh, (5) Sulṭān ‘Abdu’l-‘Azīz, and (6) Pope Pius IX. In open letters
woven into the text of the Kitāb-i Aqdas, Bahā’u’llāh also addressed Francis Joseph,
Emperor of Austria and Hungary (K85), Kaiser Wilhelm I, King of Prussia (K86) and,
collectively, Presidents of the Republics of the Americas (K88). Western sovereigns
outnumbered Oriental rulers as recipients of this proclamation to royalty.
Actual delivery of such Tablets to their intended recipients must be verified on a case-
by-case basis. For instance, successful dispatch of Bahā’u’llāh’s Tablet to Queen Victoria
remains unconfirmed. Bahā’u’llāh, in his last major work, Epistle to the Son of the Wolf,
expresses the wish that: “Likewise, We mention some verses from the Tablet of Her
Majesty, the Queen [Queen Victoria]—may God, exalted and glorified be He, assist her. Our
purpose is that haply the breezes of Revelation may envelop thee, and cause thee to arise,
wholly for the sake of God, and serve His Cause, and that thou mayest transmit any of the
Tablets of the kings which might have remained undelivered. This mission is a great
mission, and this service a great service” (ESW 59).
Independent attestation of this wish of Bahā’u’llāh is provided by “Count
Cottrell” (Henry Edward Plantagenet), who was one of a very few Europeans who had
actually met Bahā’u’llāh. Count Cottrell was in ‘Akkā during the last year or two of
Bahā’u’llāh’s life, in connection with the ‘Akkā-Damascus railway. Together with his wife
and daughter, Count Cottrell had enjoyed Bahā’u’llāh’s hospitality sometime between 1891
and 1892. On that occasion, the Count was given a copy of the Kitāb-i Aqdas in the hand of
Mīrzā Āqā Jān, Bahā’u’llāh’s amanuensis. Count Cottrell wrote:
I have personal and intimate knowledge of the present leaders of the Babist movement in
Persia, the four sons of the late Mirza Hussein, who are political prisoners in Akka,
though the Shah within the last twelve months has repealed the penal laws [**141]
against the sect, and is now very friendly. These princes have a large library of books
written by their father on the peculiar doctrines of the sect, which aim at nothing less
than the reconciliation of Buddhism, Christianity, and Mahomedanism. The father in his
will directed his sons to transmit to all the sovereigns of Europe copies of certain of his
works, accompanied by an autograph letter. The late Czar of Russia, since Mirza
A Historical Profile of the Bahā’ī Faith                                       113

Hossein’s decease, sent to the sons and obtained copies of several of the principal works
and had them translated into Russian. The princes are very anxious to carry out the wish
of their late father [Bahā’u’llāh], and to have copies of the works presented to Her
Majesty the Queen; and also to obtain, unofficially, the countenance of the British
Foreign Office to enable them to reach the other sovereigns with a similar object. They
have furnished me with summaries of the principal works in Arabic and Persian, with
the object of having them translated and published in Britain and in the United States of
America. (Momen, 1981, 236)
The second set of proclamations concerns Bahā’u’llāh’s announcement of his message.
This is what is referred to by Cottrell when he says: “They have furnished me with
summaries of the principal works in Arabic and Persian, with the object of having them
translated and published in Britain and in the United States of America.”
Bahā’u’llāh’s writings were, and still are, considered sacred scripture. They constitute
what is popularly characterized as the “creative Word of God” in respect of the text’s
motivating and integrating intention. “Creative” in this sense relates to the individual’s
response to the revelation. The charismatic leader’s power to inspire his followers to
meritorious deeds is summed up very nicely by Dilthey: “The creative principle emphasizes
making a difference (the opposite of sameness), in which the new replaces the old. It
generally functions as an assumption of volitional efficacy in the making of fact—of
willpower, work, and effort, whether human or divine” (1989, 30). Bahā’u’llāh’s extant
works are the residue of his charisma, the source of inspiration and edification for Bahā’īs
down to the present.
After a forty-year ministry, Bahā’u’llāh died in 1892. He had penned or dictated in
excess of fifteen thousand “tablets” (alwāḥ; sing., lawḥ) in Persian and Arabic. In sheer
volume, it is estimated that the entirety of Bahā’u’llāh’s writings would, if bound together,
comprise around one hundred volumes, or at least forty thousand manuscript pages. Actual
counts and estimated total counts of the number of individual works written by Bahā’u’llāh,
‘Abdu’l-Bahā, and Shoghi Effendi, which, together with the writings of the Bāb, constitute
a vast corpus of authoritative texts: Bahā’u’llāh: Unique Archival Items: 7,160; Estimated
Total Items: 15,000. ‘Abdu’l-Bahā: Unique Archival [**142] Items: 15,549; Estimated
Total Items: 30,800. Shoghi Effendi: Unique Archival Items: 16,370; Estimated Total
Items: 30,100 (Anon. 1993, 48–49). Remarkably prolific, the preponderance of this primary
source material is, nonetheless, correspondence.
The more formally universal writings of Bahā’u’llāh clearly form a class of their own, in
view of their privileged status and their widespread use by Bahā’īs. These texts are
programmatic expositions of Bahā’u’llāh’s world reforms, such the Tablet of Glad-Tidings
(Lawḥ-i Bishārāt). This exemplar of Bahā’u’llāh’s major principles will be analyzed in the
sections that follow.

A Historical Profile of the Bahā’ī Faith

The Bahā’ī Faith as a Response to Modernity
The preëminent Bahā’ī scripture is the Most Holy Book (al-Kitāb al-Aqdas, Persianized as
Kitāb-i Aqdas),a text revealed (or compiled) in 1873, in which Bahā’u’llāh propounds his
major laws and principles. Not all of these principles were for public proclamation.
Obviously, some of them were, and it is evident that Bahā’u’llāh selected precisely which
principles of the Aqdas to proclaim. In this selection process, it should be borne in mind that
the Kitāb-i Aqdas exhibits a certain textual and ideological extensibility through the
phenomenon of “re-revelation”—a term coined by Adib Taherzadeh (RB 4:372). By “re-
revelation” is meant those works of Bahā’u’llāh that are excerpted and quoted (and thus,
“re-revealed”) within other works (also considered revelation). The best example of a text
that contains a great wealth of previously revealed material is Bahā’u’llāh’s last book,
Epistle to the Son of the Wolf (1891). Another such text the Tablet of Glad-Tidings (Lawḥ-i
Bishārāt), one of Bahā’u’llāh’s more well-known works revealed in 1885 or later. Proposed
reforms advocated in the Tablet of Glad-Tidings evidently derived from Bahā’u’llāh’s
Kitāb-i Aqdas, or from Tablets considered supplemental to it. In this light, the Tablet of
Glad-Tidings may be seen as a programmatic summary of Bahā’u’llāh’s world reforms.
This work may be considered a distillation of the Aqdas for proclamation. The Lawḥ-i
Bishārāt will thus be examined in three dimensions: (1) its function as a “Proclamatory
Aqdas”; (2) its Aqdas and Aqdas-related content in the context of “re-revelation”; (3) the
text as a response to modernity.

The Lawḥ-i Bishārāt as a “Proclamatory Aqdas” and its textual history. What larger
purpose did the Tablet of Glad-Tidings serve? As an epitome of Bahā’ī principles, it appears
that Bahā’u’llāh revealed the Glad-Tidings so that leaders in the West, and Westerners in
general, might become familiarized with some of his world reforms, as enshrined in the
Most Holy Book and in related texts. As such, this Tablet functioned in much the same way
that a “press release” would to- [**143] day. Indeed, the Tablet of Glad-Tidings engaged the
interest of two prominent Orientalists: Edward Granville Browne and Baron Rosen.
Oddly, in the copy of the Glad-Tidings that the Bahā’īs of Ishqabad sent to Baron Rosen
in 1892, the fifteenth Glad-Tiding on constitutional monarchy was conspicuously absent
(Rosen 1892a, 187). This occurrence was described by Browne as an “expedient”
suppression (1893, xxv, n. 1.) Being the scholar that he was, Baron Rosen quickly found out
about the fifteenth Glad-Tiding from his colleague at Cambridge. This discovery prompted a
separate study, such that Baron Rosen actually published two journal articles on the Glad-
Tidings. These are possibly the very first academic studies published on a single Bahā’ī text
(1892a, 1892b). The first study was on the publication of the text itself, accompanied with a
Russian translation of the Tablet in the form in which he had received it (1892a, 187). Soon
after, Rosen found out about the missing section, and compared variants against another
manuscript, presumably the Cambridge MS. Whether or not the omission was deliberate, or
due to a scribal error, has not yet been determined. The second article therefore concerned
the fifteenth Glad-Tiding and minor textual variants between the St. Petersburg and
Cambridge manuscripts (1892b, 312–13). We do know from the testimony of Western
A Historical Profile of the Bahā’ī Faith                                       115

missionaries and diplomats alike that Bahā’u’llāh took personal interest in the dissemination
and delivery, the translation and even publication of such texts.
Bahā’u’llāh was also concerned about fair treatment by the press. In the “sixth
Ṭarāz” [Ornament] of the Ṭarāzāt, Bahā’u’llāh writes: “In this Day the secrets of the earth
are laid bare before the eyes of men. The pages of swiftly appearing newspapers are indeed
the mirror of the world. They reflect the deeds and the pursuits of divers peoples and
kindreds. They both reflect them and make them known. They are a mirror endowed with
hearing, sight and speech. This is an amazing and potent phenomenon” (TB 39). He further
states: “However, it behoveth the writers thereof to be purged from the promptings of evil
passions and desires and to be attired with the raiment of justice and equity. They should
enquire into situations as much as possible and ascertain the facts, then set them down in
writing. Concerning this Wronged One, most of the things reported in the newspapers are
devoid of truth. Fair speech and truthfulness, by reason of their lofty rank and position, are
regarded as a sun shining above the horizon of knowledge” (TB 39–40).
Here, revelation has taken note of one of the salient features of modernity—the press.
Indeed, the ubiquitousness of the press was destined to become one of the most profound
influences on postmodernity. Newspapers are thus described as one of the marvels of the
age. But the accuracy of journalists, in Bahā’u’llāh’s estimation, left much to be desired. At
one point in his ministry, Bahā’u’llāh addressed a Tablet to [**144] the London Times,
exhorting the Times to remain true to principled journalistic standards. Because the press
had not treated him or his movement fairly, this may be one of the reasons behind the way
in which the Tablet of Glad-Tidings opens:
This is the Call of the All-Glorious
which is proclaimed from the Supreme Horizon in the Prison of ‘Akkā.
He is the Expounder, the All-Knowing, the All-Informed.
God, the True One (ḥaqq), testifieth and the Revealers of His names and attributes bear
witness that Our sole purpose in raising the Call and in proclaiming His sublime Word
(kawthar-i bayān) is that the ear of the entire creation may, through the living waters of
divine utterance, be purged from lying tales (qiṣaṣ-i kāẕiba) and become attuned to the
holy, the glorious and exalted Word which hath issued forth from the repository of the
knowledge (‘ilm) of the Maker of the Heavens and the Creator of Names. Happy are
they that judge with fairness. (TB 21/MMM 116)
Steingass glosses qiṣaṣ as “histories, tales, stories, fables” (PED 973). The word itself is
neutral—it may have either a positive or negative connotation, depending on the context.
The negative context is supplied by the second element of the construct, kāẕiba, the
feminine form of kāẕib, which means “a liar; false” (PED 1001). Since the outside world
was laboring under false conceptions as to what Bahā’u’llāh’s mission really was, the Tablet
of Glad-Tidings was revealed as a kind of corrective counterpart to a press release, even
though it was not, to my knowledge, specifically sent to a newspaper as such.

A Historical Profile of the Bahā’ī Faith

Aqdas content in the context of “re-revelation”. One of the structural features of the Tablet
of Glad-Tidings is what I shall refer to as its “Aqdas content.” There is evidence for this. In
the case of the copy intended for E. G. Browne, Bahā’u’llāh had authorized one of his sons,
Mīrzā Badī’u’llāh, to personally send the document. On or prior to 22 January 1891,
Bahā’u’llāh ordered the Tablet of Glad-Tidings be sent to Browne at Cambridge. (He also
sent Browne a pair of spectacles as a gift!) Momen confirms that the Lawḥ-i Bishārāt “was
sent to Browne from ‘Akkā on Bahā’u’llāh’s instructions” (1987, 485). This document is
catalogued as F.25(9) of the Browne Manuscripts, Cambridge University Library.
Acting as Bahā’u’llāh’s correspondent, Mīrzā Badī’u’llāh penned what in effect was a
covering letter, in which the following statement is made. On folio la of the six-folio
manuscript is a prefatory note, which says: “These Divine ordinances and commands
formerly revealed in sundry epistles, in the Kitāb-i Aqdas, in the ‘Illuminations,’
‘Effulgences,’ ‘Ornaments,’ etc., have, agreeably to the Supreme and [**145] Most Holy
Command, been collected, that all may become cognizant of the grace, mercy, and favour of
God (great is His Glory!) in this Most Mighty Manifestation and this Great
Announcement” (Browne 1892, 677).
This Tablet of Glad-Tidings, containing—as Cottrell himself has described
—“summaries of the principal works in Arabic and Persian, with the object of having them
translated and published in Britain and in the United States of America,” was sent,
accompanied by a covering letter, to Browne at Bahā’u’llāh’s bidding by one of the latter’s
sons. This perfectly coincides with Cottrell’s statement: “The father [Bahā’u’llāh] in his will
directed his sons to transmit to all the sovereigns of Europe copies of certain of his works,
accompanied by an autograph letter.” In this “autograph letter,” attention is drawn to what
we can call the selection process.
Although copies of the Aqdas were sent to individuals, Count Cottrell and E. G. Browne
being among them, one might speculate as to why the Aqdas itself was not delivered to “all
the sovereigns of Europe,” as Cottrell has said. Is it wise, one might ask, to present leaders
of thought with the entirety of the text of the Aqdas? How could this possibly be
interpretable to the uninitiated? The Aqdas, after all, is not systematically organized. As
Shoghi Effendi observes: “All Divine Revelation seems to have been thrown out in flashes.
The Prophets never composed treatises. That is why in the Qur’ān and our own Writings
different subjects are so often included in one Tablet. It pulsates, so to speak. That is why it
is ‘Revelation’” (1981, 454).
In Bahā’u’llāh’s Most Holy Book (Kitāb-i Aqdas), there is no express hierarchy of laws
in terms of their relative weight or importance. For example, how could permission to wear
sable or permission to use vessels of silver and gold be anything but subordinate to
Bahā’u’llāh’s call for a universal language as the penultimate law of the Aqdas?
Bahā’u’llāh, in any event, did not stress legalism, but rather virtue and principle. This seems
to be indicated by a statement Bahā’u’llāh made to the effect that the Revelation had not
been given for the sake of implementing outward laws as set forth in the Bayān, but rather
for manifesting perfections and for attaining the stations of everlasting life (IQT 167, Cole
1998, 73 and 209, n. 83). This suggests that Bahā’u’llāh was inclined to attach greater
importance to those social principles that might best accrue to the human advancement on a
broad scale.
A Historical Profile of the Bahā’ī Faith                                       117

This hypothetical problem might have been a real consideration in the minds of
Bahā’u’llāh and his sons and his followers. Evidently, the problem was resolved through a
selection process, in which Tablets which represented, more or less, “summaries” (as
Cottrell says) of the Aqdas, were chosen as those texts to be sent to royalty, to “all the
sovereigns of Europe” as Cottrell has said. Indeed, all of the fifteen [**146] Glad-Tidings—
some twenty-one principles—are to be located in the Aqdas itself, directly or obliquely, and
in related texts supplementary to the Aqdas, as collected and published in the authorized
English translation, Tablets of Bahā’u’llāh Revealed after the Kitāb-i Aqdas. With its
selection of principles primarily drawn from the Kitāb-i Aqdas and supplementary texts, the
Tablet of Glad-Tidings might well be characterized as a “Proclamatory Aqdas.” The Lawḥ-i
Bishārāt was one important way in which Bahā’u’llāh himself highlighted, epitomized, and
proclaimed the Kitāb-i Aqdas.
Internal evidence of the proclamatory intent of the Glad-Tidings is found in
Bahā’u’llāh’s address: “O people of the earth!” (TB 21). These principles were apparently
privileged by Bahā’u’llāh over others in the Aqdas and supplemental texts. Not all of these
principles receive the same emphasis today as when Bahā’u’llāh commended their
proclamation. But they partially explain the structure of the Bahā’ī reformist agenda in its
public form in the late nineteenth century.

The Tablet of Glad-Tidings as a response to modernity. For each Glad-Tiding, an endeavor
will be made to demonstrate that twin processes of “sacralizing” and “desacralizing” may be
seen at work in the Tablet of Glad-Tidings, as part of Bahā’u’llāh’s dialectic with modernity.
Desacralizing, on the one hand, is simply a process of abrogation, the rendering of certain
Christian, Islamic, and Bābī practices as outdated, incommensurate with the exigencies of
modernity, and thus no longer “sacred” with respect to divine authorization. On the other
hand, the making sacred—or “sacralizing”—of certain secular values may be viewed as part
of the Bahā’ī response to modernity. Secular European “civic virtues” appear to have been
sacralized and constrained by Aqdas legislation, as well as the desacralization of certain
Islamic and Christian excesses. Although much of the legislation in the Glad-Tidings
concerns previous religious practices and attitudes, some of this is with reference to the
West. Rather than trying to establish an intellectual pedigree for tracing directions of
influence, a religious and political pedigree will suffice. Countries that served as positive
models for the Bahā’ī reformist agenda will be indicated (from examples given in Bahā’ī
primary sources). Questions regarding the nature of revelation are raised by such an
analysis. Religious practices treated as negative models will be noted as well.
The eighteenth century in Europe was partly characterized by a break with divine-right
monarchy and with established Church authority. Modernity grew out of decisive reactions
against the religious and political absolutism of divine-right monarchy and established
Church authority.
Modern Islam has responded in several ways to modernity. William Shepard has
identified five: (1) Radical Islamism; (2) Traditional- [**147] ism; (3) Neo-Traditionalism;
(4) Modernism; and (5) Secularism, to which Rippin has added a sixth, (6) Post-Modernism.
I propose adding a seventh response to modernity, taking up a less well-defined term from
Rippin: (7) Post-Islamism. The Post-Islamic response to modernity, as manifested in the
A Historical Profile of the Bahā’ī Faith

Bahā’ī Faith, exhibits two major dynamics: (a) the creation of a new source of authority;
and (b) sacralizing of the secular. This pattern is evident throughout the “Proclamatory
Aqdas.”
Andrew Rippin (1993, 12-13) characterizes modernity as “that which renders the past
problematic.” Peter Berger’s five “dilemmas of modernity” include Abstraction, Futurity,
Individuation, Liberation, and Secularization. Similarly, Harvey Cox’s “Five Pillars of
Modernity” emphasize the roles of Nationalism, Technology, Bureaucracy, Profit
Maximalization, and Secularization. The core values of modernity, now “global values,”
derive in part from the individual values of liberty, equality, and fraternity as espoused in the
French Revolution, and social values of progress and science-based rationality characteristic
of the Industrial Revolution (Beyer 1994, 99–101).
The religious reforms prosecuted in the Glad-Tidings are largely negative, such as the
proscriptions against holy war, which Bahā’u’llāh evidently considered unholy. Bahā’u’llāh
considered celibacy an unnatural state and the practice of confession an affront to human
dignity. The process of desacralization in Bahā’u’llāh’s religious reforms is complemented
by positive reforms.
Sacralization is the complement of desacralization in Bahā’u’llāh’s program of reform.
Yet there is something asymmetrical here. Equality was extended to the sexes and fraternity
globalized, while progress was assimilated to Bahā’u’llāh’s theory of civilization (viz., an
“ever-advancing civilization”) and science and religion reconciled. In my analysis, the
positive reforms, at least the social as distinct from individual reforms, are predominantly
secular in nature. Let us consider Islam as an analogy. Certain of the identifiably pagan
practices—stone worship, the annual pilgrimage to Mecca at the idol-filled Ka‘ba, the
kissing of the Black Stone, blood sacrifices to the gods, and so forth—were reconstituted in
Islam, de-paganized, and subordinated to the controlling principles of Islam’s strict
monotheism.
This process of Islamic reform might be described, as Bausani proposed, as the
revolution of Monotheism, effected in the relocation of the sacred, the Numinosum. In an
archaic worldview, the divine is immanent, not transcendent, and usually hostile rather than
benign. The divine, moreover, is pluriform. There are nature spirits, idols, mobile demons
capable of possession. Interaction with these spirits took the forms of placating wroth
deities, surfeiting the olfactory senses of stone noses, appeasing the appetites of the gods,
protecting against the Evil Eye. The monotheism of Islam effected a revolution in
consciousness. Islam succeeded in disenchanting Nature of its sprites. [**148] This
revolution created an interspace between heaven and earth. Science replaced the occult, as
Nature became objectivized rather than subjectivized. Astronomy replaced astrology,
although not completely. Bahā’u’llāh’s reforms were no less revolutionary. Bahā’u’llāh
appeared in a polyreligious milieu. In the Tablet of Unity, he calls religious dogmatism a
form of idolatry. By shattering the idols of dogma, of dysfunctional ritual, and exclusivism,
Bahā’u’llāh reconfigures the sacred and recasts it in new universalisms.
World religions, as perceived by Bahā’u’llāh, act as both negative and positive social
forces. They stand in need of realignment. Their dignitaries must shake hands, sign accords,
deliberate together on social issues. And there are forces operating independently of
religions. Secularism is outside the province of sacerdotal control, but well within
A Historical Profile of the Bahā’ī Faith                                       119

Bahā’u’llāh’s view of history, adumbrated by his theory of civilization. Prior to
Bahā’u’llāh’s attempts at integration, secularism stood and still stands as a rival to religion,
brandishing its progressive but sometimes excessive humanism.
A hermeneutical principle that should be brought to bear in any responsible reading of
the Glad-Tidings is the relationship between context and text. This approach seeks to anchor
the text in its specific context, while at the same time attempting to extrapolate from the
specific act of legislation any universal principle that may derive from it. For instance, of
what possible consequence is the abrogation of a specifically Bābī, Islamic, or Christian
practice, unless a universal principle inheres? How else could such particularized pieces of
legislation have any significance for the people of the world as a whole? It is the generic
principle that stands behind each of the specific reforms, rendering it interpretable in the
context of world reform.
The pattern of these reforms is quite interesting. To oversimplify, Bahā’u’llāh’s religious
reforms are primarily negative (or, desacralizing) while his positive reforms are largely
secular in the world’s view of them. For example, author John Hatcher characterizes
Bahā’u’llāh’s Lesser Peace as essentially secular in nature. It is no less sacred a Bahā’ī
value. The procedure of sacralizing the secular and desacralizing elements of the sacred may
be analyzed as follows, with each Glad-Tiding analyzed in sequence, by text and context.

Abolition of Holy War
Text. The first Glad-Tiding is reminiscent of Bahā’u’llāh’s first legislative act. On 22 April
1863, on the eve of his departure from Baghdad for exile to Constantinople, Bahā’u’llāh
privately declared his prophetic mission to a select few of his Bābī companions, on an island
in the Tigris River in a rose garden owned by Najīb Pāshā, one of the notables of the city.
Bahā’u’llāh resided within the “Garden of Para- [**149] dise” (Arabic: Riḍwān/Persian:
Riżvān), as it became known, for twelve days (from sunset 20 April-sunset 2 May). This
signal event is commemorated each year by Bahā’īs as the Festival of Riḍvan (sic). In the
course of his Declaration, Bahā’u’llāh decreed that the religious law of holy war (jihād)
was, once and for all, abrogated. This was immediately effective for the Bābī community. In
principle, this decree was intended for Islam as well, and indeed for all religions.
A version of this legislation constitutes the first Glad-Tiding. It begins in Persian, and
ends with an exclamation in Arabic—an eschatological flourish laden with paradise
imagery. Here follows the text:
O people of the earth (yā ahl-i arż)!
The First Glad-Tidings
which the Mother Book (umm al-kitāb) hath, in this Most Great Revelation, imparted
unto all the peoples of the world (ahl-i ‘ālam) is that the law of holy war (ḥukm-i jihād)
hath been blotted out (maḥv) from the Book (kitāb). Glorified be the All-Merciful, the
Lord of grace abounding, through Whom the door of heavenly bounty hath been flung
open in the face of all that are in heaven and on earth. (TB 21/MMM 116-17)
A Historical Profile of the Bahā’ī Faith

The universal scope of its purview is quite evident. The abrogation of holy war,
referenced to Babism and to Islam but extensible to all religions in principle, is expressed
quite forcefully, for the verbal noun maḥv could sustain an even stronger translation, such as
“obliterated” or “effaced” (PED 1191). The decree is universal, by authority of the revealer
of God’s will for humanity, Bahā’u’llāh, as his claim was understood. This truth claim,
accepted as a matter of personal faith by Bahā’īs, carries with it Bahā’u’llāh’s prerogative
(as divinely inspired lawgiver) to enact legislation binding on the followers of all religions.
In all practicality, however, such laws have only moral force at best and are binding only
within Bahā’ī communities at present.

Aqdas content. Reference to the “Mother Book” (umm al-kitāb) brings Bahā’u’llāh’s law
code, the Most Holy Book, into relevance. The “Mother Book” is a synonym for the Aqdas
itself (BBD 161). Originally a euphemism for the Qur’ān, since the Aqdas is now the
Mother Book, either the Bāb’s law code, the Bayān, or else the Qur’ān itself, is relegated to
the status of a “Book” (kitāb), or scripture susceptible of abrogation. This law is obliquely
related to the proscription against bearing firearms in the Aqdas proper (K159).

Response to modernity. Here is evidence of a process of desacralization. A distinction
should be drawn between desacralization and secularization, even though both processes
involve diminishing the dominance of [**150] religion as a source of policy. The
desacralizing of holy war is aimed at both Islam and Babism and, in principle, at all
religions. In some respects, the Bābī religion may be analyzed as an intensification of
Islamic concepts, carried to a pious extreme. In the original Persian, the text behind the
translation which reads “the law of holy war hath been blotted out from the Book” (maḥv-i
ḥukm-i jihād) is considerably stronger in tone than a statement of abrogation pure and
simple. As mentioned, a very explicit notion of obliteration is involved here, almost as if
holy war is regarded as unholy war.
The specific kind of holy war in focus here is what Islamic tradition has tended,
especially in modern times, to soften as being a “lesser jihād,” subordinated to the “greater
jihād” in the wider sense of “striving,” by which spiritual mastery of self and passion is
meant. The force of Bahā’u’llāh’s legislation should not be lost on the reader, for jihād
comes very close to being, and at times is actually defined as, the sixth Pillar of Islam. Holy
war was also a prominent feature in the Bābī movement as well. Thus Bahā’u’llāh took
pains to distance himself and his followers from this aspect of Bābī legacy, to begin anew
with a fresh, comparatively pacifist ethos. According to Juan Cole, in Modernity and the
Millennium: The Genesis of the Bahā’ī Faith in the Nineteenth Century Middle East
(Columbia University Press, 1998), Bahā’u’llāh may be credited with having established the
first indigenous peace movement in the modern Middle East—and one of only a few such
peace movements to have matured into an organization, having been institutionalized as the
Bahā’ī Faith (138).

A Historical Profile of the Bahā’ī Faith                                       121

Interfaith Amity
Text. The second Glad-Tiding is a positive formulation of the previous passage, in that
interfaith amity—or transconfessional affinity—is the polar opposite of religious hatred and
bigotry. Cole affirms this to be the case: In 1888 or 1889, Bahā’u’llāh forbade Bahā’īs from
speaking ill of other religions (AQA 6:303–304, p.c. 21 April 1995). Cole also states that, in
an epistle c. 1889, Bahā’u’llāh explicitly links his abolition of holy war and other forms of
interreligious conflict to his exhortation that Bahā’īs should freely associate with adherents
of other faiths, including Christians. To further interfaith amity, Bahā’u’llāh permitted the
wearing of foreign clothes, and allowed Bahā’īs to read the sacred scriptures of other faiths
(including the Bible), which, according to Bahā’u’llāh, were acts previously forbidden
(either by Islam or Babism or both). In Bahā’u’llāh’s revelation, “liberty” (ḥurriyat) has thus
been granted to dispense with such restrictions (IQT 28–29, Cole 1998, 67 and 208, n. 66).
Ideally, Bahā’u’llāh’s fostering of concord among religions was calculated to reduce the
incidence of intercommunal conflict, by stemming it at its spiritual source, so that there
could [**151] no longer be any religious pretext for conflict. Formally a piece of Bahā’ī
legislation, this text is supplemental to Bahā’u’llāh’s law code, the Most Holy Book, but
takes the form of an exhortation:
The Second Glad-Tidings
It is permitted that the peoples and kindreds of the world associate with one another with
joy and radiance (bi-rawḥ va rayḥān). O people! Consort with the followers of all
religions in a spirit of friendliness and fellowship (bi-al-rawḥ wa al-rayḥān). Thus hath
the day-star of His sanction and authority shone forth above the horizon of the decree of
God, the Lord of the worlds. (TB 22/ MMM 117)
The first sentence is in Persian, the second in Arabic, evidently as a restatement of the
first. In both occurrences, the text is often misread as rūḥ (spirit) rather than rawḥ (“joy,
friendliness,” PED 591). This ambiguity in the text is resolved by the fact that Bahā’u’llāh is
clearly using Qur’ānic language (Q. 56:89).

Aqdas content. The Arabic exhortation is almost certainly derivative from the Aqdas, or
from a common source that stands behind the Aqdas text. In this Glad-Tiding, there are a
few words added to the corresponding Arabic text of the Aqdas. There is a second
occurrence in the Aqdas of this same teaching, this time with a call to interreligious
fellowship for the purpose of teaching: “Consort ye then with the followers of all religions,
and proclaim ye the Cause of your Lord, the Most Compassionate; this is the very crown of
deeds, if ye be of them who understand” (K75/MHB 47).
Throughout the history of Islam, contact by Muslims with followers of other religions
was discouraged, because it involves contamination, rendering a pious Muslim polluted or
ritually impure. Theoretically, Babism had a similar notion—one that seems hardly to have
been practiced at all. In both Islamic and Bābī contexts, Bahā’u’llāh rendered interreligious
fellowship morally desirable in abandoning the whole notion of ritual impurity, or
A Historical Profile of the Bahā’ī Faith

“uncleanness.” Once again, this is related to Bahā’u’llāh’s Riḍvān Declaration: “God hath,
likewise, as a bounty from His presence, abolished the concept of ‘uncleanness’, whereby
divers things and peoples (milal ukhrā) have been held to be impure. He, of a certainty, is
the Ever-Forgiving, the Most Generous. Verily, all created things were immersed in the sea
of purification when, on that first day of Riḍvān, We shed upon the whole of creation the
splendours of Our most excellent Names and Our most exalted Attributes. This, verily, is a
token of My loving providence, which hath encompassed all the worlds” (K75/MHB 47).
[**152] On this passage of the Aqdas, the pertinent note states that: “The concept of
ritual ‘uncleanness,’ as understood and practised in some tribal societies and in the religious
communities of certain earlier Dispensations, has been abolished by Bahā’u’llāh” (K 212,
Note 106, on K75). This is a roundabout and diplomatic way of referring principally to Shī‘ī
Islam, with its studied defenses against contamination (najis). Shī‘ī Muslims, unlike Sunnīs,
developed an elaborate system for maintaining ritual purity in preparation for prayer. The
‘ulamā’ had ruled that contact with a Westerner was ritually polluting, requiring a repeat of
one’s ablutions before praying.
Perhaps MacEoin’s translation captures the specificity of the Arabic text that reads:
“God has lifted the decree of uncleanness from all things and from other religions (milal
ukhrā). . . . All things were immersed in the ocean of purity on the first [day] of
Riḍwān” (1994, 59). Is milal here “divers things and peoples” (as in the official Bahā’ī
translation) or “religions” (MacEoin’s translation)? Typically, religions are concerned about
ritual purity. Clearly, in this context and in its received meaning, milal refers to religious
communities (PED 1310).
One of the more recondite of Bahā’u’llāh’s stated achievements is his claim, in April
1863, to have “immersed” creation “in the sea of purification.” It is enough to have effected
such a transformation in religious worldview, to dispense entirely with notions of ritual
impurity, especially with the idea that contact with unbelievers is undesirable. In any event,
Bahā’u’llāh’s call to interfaith amity was effectively blocked by the overwhelming
contemporary insulations against inter-religious social intercourse. Over time, whether or
not it surmounted such ritual obstacles remains to be seen.

Response to modernity. Secularism had already integrated religious pluralism into society,
by allowing freedom of religion. Obviously, the Islamic dhimmī system operated under
religious rather than secular rules. In this Glad-Tiding, there is possibly an oblique European
reference, as Westerners were generally considered unclean by Shī‘a Muslims. In the Aqdas,
the two consort passages were clearly directed to Bahā’īs. The re-articulation, or “re-
revelation” of this legislation in the Glad-Tidings, effectively universalized interfaith affinity
(in principle) as a goal to which all the peoples of the world should aspire. This law
conduces to unity.

Universal Language
Text. Increased international conciliation involves an important matter of practicality:
communication. Adoption of an international language as an adjunct to world unity was of
paramount importance to Bahā’u’llāh. It was a proposal he advocated for nearly three
A Historical Profile of the Bahā’ī Faith                                       123

decades of [**153] his life. This Glad-Tiding has its roots therefore in Bahā’u’llāh’s early
ministry, as far back as Constantinople in 1863. This is evidenced in Bahā’u’llāh’s account
of his meeting with Kemāl Pāshā (d. 1888), a European (geographically speaking), who was
one of the Turkish dignitaries at the Court of Sulṭān ‘Abdū’l-‘Azīz. Although, by
Bahā’u’llāh’s account, Kemāl Pāshā had registered his support for the idea, the proposal
went unimplemented (ESW 137–38). A minister of state having failed this expectation, it
was only natural that Bahā’u’llāh would, later in his ministry, prevail upon royalty to carry
out this noble undertaking:
The Third Glad-Tidings
concerneth the study of divers languages. This decree (ḥukm) hath formerly streamed
forth from the Pen of the Most High: It behoveth the sovereigns (ḥażārāt-i mulūk) of the
world—may God assist them—or the ministers of the earth to take counsel together and
to adopt one of the existing languages (yak lisān) or a new one (va-yā lisān-i jadīdī) to
be taught to children in schools throughout the world, and likewise one script. Thus the
whole earth (ṣūrat-i arż) will come to be regarded as one country. Well is it with him
who hearkeneth unto His Call and observeth that whereunto he is bidden by God, the
Lord of the Mighty Throne. (TB 22/MMM 117)
Aqdas content. This is the penultimate law of the Aqdas (K189). Indeed, it is the last piece
of positive legislation in the Aqdas. Bahā’u’llāh foresaw the world’s eventual adoption of
such an auxiliary or universal language as the second sign of the “coming of age of the
human race” (MHB 250). In the Most Holy Book, Bahā’u’llāh states: “O members of
parliaments throughout the world! Select ye a single language for the use of all on earth, and
adopt ye likewise a common script. God, verily, maketh plain for you that which shall profit
you and enable you to be independent of others. He, of a truth, is the Most Bountiful, the
All-Knowing, the All-Informed. This will be the cause of unity, could ye but comprehend it,
and the greatest instrument for promoting harmony and civilization, would that ye might
understand! We have appointed two signs for the coming of age of the human race: the first,
which is the most firm foundation, We have set down in other of Our Tablets, while the
second hath been revealed in this wondrous Book” (K189). The first sign of the “coming of
age of the human race” referred to here is the emergence of a science capable of transmuting
metals and other chemical elements, while the second sign is the adoption of a universal
language (Note 194).

Response to modernity. While the biblical confusion of tongues is mythically accounted for
in the Torah, overcoming linguistic anarchy—the [**154] reversing of Babel—is a clearly
secular endeavor. Yet it is given religious merit by Bahā’u’llāh. In the Aqdas, members of
parliaments are enjoined to effect such a convention, but elsewhere the responsibility
devolves upon kings and even upon the Universal House of Justice itself. A two-stage
process, Bahā’u’llāh sees first the adoption of a universal auxiliary language, followed in
the more distant future by adoption of a primary rather than secondary international
convention of communication.
A Historical Profile of the Bahā’ī Faith

Support of Patron King
Text. The nineteenth century was still an era in which sovereigns wielded absolute power.
Their power was such that any proposal for furthering the public interest meant soliciting
the king’s support for such an undertaking. Bahā’u’llāh himself solicited such support for
his cause. Unfortunately, it was not forthcoming. Two monarchs were later won over to the
Bahā’ī Faith: Queen Marie of Rumania, who stated her Bahā’ī allegiance publicly in the
Toronto Daily Star (28 October 1926) (Postlethwaite 1994 and Jasion 1994) and the
reigning monarch of Western Samoa, His Highness Malietoa Tanumafili II, whose
conversion to the Bahā’ī Faith was announced in 1973. But these conversions did not occur
during Bahā’u’llāh’s own lifetime. The fourth Glad-Tiding obliges public support for any
monarch who embraces the Bahā’ī Faith or who otherwise champions noble ideals:
The Fourth Glad-Tidings
Should any of the kings (ḥażrat-i mulūk)—may God aid them—arise to protect and help
this oppressed people (īn ḥizb-i maẓlūm), all must vie with one another in loving and in
serving him. This matter is incumbent upon everyone. Well is it with them that act
accordingly. (TB 22/MMM 117–18)
Aqdas Content. This is really a restatement of a recurring theme sounded throughout
Bahā’u’llāh’s writings. In a more colorful version of this exhortation, the Aqdas text that
stands behind this Glad-Tiding is as follows, beginning with a benediction upon any
sympathetic king: “How great the blessedness that awaiteth the king who will arise to aid
My Cause in My kingdom, who will detach himself from all else but Me! Such a king is
numbered with the companions of the Crimson Ark—the Ark which God hath prepared for
the people of Bahā’ī. All must glorify his name, must reverence his station, and aid him to
unlock the cities with the keys of My Name, the omnipotent Protector of all that inhabit the
visible and invisible kingdoms. Such a king is the very eye of mankind, the luminous
ornament on the brow of creation, the fountainhead of blessings unto the whole world. Offer
up, O people [**155] of Bahā, your substance, nay your very lives, for his assistance” (K84;
cf. K189). This is obliquely related to a third sign of the maturity of the world, according to
Bahā’u’llāh. This has to do with the future reluctance of anyone to take on the role of
monarch. The very gravity of kingship will be daunting, a responsibility so awesome that it
will overwhelm anyone who might even contemplate it: “One of the signs of the maturity of
the world is that no one will accept to bear the weight of kingship. Kingship will remain
with none willing to bear alone its weight. That day will be the day whereon wisdom will be
manifested among mankind” (K248, Note 194, on K189 [p. 251]); BBD 132, s.v. “kingship,
station of”; PDC 72).
Bahā’u’llāh had no designs for political power, either personally or for his religious
system. He wrote that some individuals falsely imagined that he had designs on establishing
a world government on earth (irāda-yi ḥukūmat-i kullīya dar arż)— even though he had,
throughout his revelation (dar jamī‘-i alvāḥ), forbidden the pursuit of political aspirations,
except if a king were to accept the burden of office for assisting the Bahā’ī religion. Kings
A Historical Profile of the Bahā’ī Faith                                       125

are the manifestations of divine Power (mulūk maẓāhir-i qudrat-i ilāhīya and) and
Bahā’u’llāh’s prime concern was that monarchs should be just. If their intent is the exercise
of justice, then they are of God (IQT 261, Cole 1998, 35 and 203, n. 44).

Response to modernity. Considering the unbridled absolutism of nineteenth-century
monarchy, this statement was certainly visionary. In Bahā’ī texts, there are no contemporary
rulers who are singled out as paragons of just sovereignty, except for one: Queen Victoria.
By extension, Great Britain’s parliamentary system receives further recognition in that its
framework of constitutional monarchy is singled out by Bahā’u’llāh as a model of good
government. Bahā’u’llāh’s eldest son and future successor, ‘Abdu’l-Bahā, reiterates this
preference: “The Constitutional Government, according to the irrefutable text of the
Religion of God, is the cause of the glory and prosperity of the nation and the civilization
and freedom of the people” (TAB 2:492). Speaking of England, in 1875 ‘Abdu’l-Bahā,
wrote: “Where is this little island in the North Atlantic, and where the vast territory of the
East Indies? Can such extension be obtained save by equal justice to all peoples and
classes? At all events, by means of just laws, freedom of conscience, and uniform dealing
and equity towards all nationalities and peoples, they have actually brought under their
dominion nearly all of the inhabited quarter of the world, and by reason of these principles
of freedom they have added day by day to the strength, power, and the extent of their
empire, while most of the people on the face of the earth celebrate the name of this state for
its justice” (TN 90).
This idealizing passage, farther on, alludes to medieval Europe and to its emancipation
from the Inquisition with its lingering mental- [**156] ity. The author openly vaunts
freedom of conscience, and credits a religiously secular state (Anglican secularism) with
having made this possible. For rhetorical effect, ‘Abdu’l-Bahā idealizes Great Britain for its
achievements, in order to make the point that the East ought to take cognizance of certain of
England’s civic virtues. Granting this picture of an imperialist and colonialist power as
adroitly romanticized, England’s civilizing influence is acknowledged as a positive model
worthy of emulation. Here, ‘Abdu’l-Bahā suppresses any intention of dwelling on the dark
side of colonialism.
On behalf of his followers, Bahā’u’llāh took a number of special measures to solicit
protection from the Great Powers, but they were to little avail, save in the case of Queen
Victoria. In a letter dated 14 May 1891, French Diplomat M. de Balloy speculates that
Queen Victoria had evidently evinced sympathy towards the Bahā’īs: “The Queen of
England has, it appears, recommended to the Shāh clemency and moderation in his own
interest and in that of Persia” (Momen 1981, 356). This cannot be relied upon as solid
evidence that the Queen had actually received Bahā’u’llāh’s epistle and was favorably
disposed thereto, Bahā’ī speculation notwithstanding. But it does seem to confirm Cottrell’s
statement that “the Shah within the last twelve months has repealed the penal laws against
the sect” presumably due to Victoria’s influence.
As background to Bahā’u’llāh’s positive attitude towards kingship, Mangol Bayat has
shown that Shī‘ī thought is far more complex and innovative than that represented by the
clerical scholars (‘ulamā’) studied thus far. Moreover, from Safavid times onward, mystical
Shi‘ism, or theosophy, laid the foundation for contemporary socioreligious thought in Iran.
A Historical Profile of the Bahā’ī Faith

A new breed of “lay, modernist intellectuals” appeared on the historical horizon in the latter
half of the nineteenth century, who effectively adopted Western ideas and political models.
The contribution of these lay activists lay in the realm of constitutionalism, liberal
democracy, and secularism. The Constitutional Revolution of 1906 marked the ascendancy
of the dissidents—lay and clerical alike—though the role of certain high-ranking ‘ulamā’
has to be acknowledged as well. One result of constitutionalism was the transformation of
calls for religious reforms into “demands for the secularization of important social
institutions controlled by the ulama” (1982, xiv–xvi).
Yale professor Abbas Amanat sees Shi‘ism in the Qājār period as a conflict between (1)
scholastic Shi‘ism—replete with a juristic system dominated by a clerical order—and (2)
speculative Shi‘ism, manifested in “recurring heterodoxies.” Prior to the nineteenth century,
the latter led a rather “subterranean” existence in Iran, but generated “a new momentum” in
the nineteenth century in challenging the prevailing Islamic law code (sharī‘a) and, to a
certain extent, the political order of the day. In contrast to reform movements in Sunnī
Islam, heterodox [**157] movements in Qājār Iran “inspired a conscious break with Islamic
tenets” (Amanat 1984, 467). Bayat has observed that Bahā’u’llāh’s policy of recognizing
the legitimacy of the secular state has “embraced what no Muslim sect, no Muslim school of
thought ever succeeded in or dared to try: the doctrinal acceptance of the de facto
secularization of politics which had occurred in the Muslim world centuries earlier” (Bayat
1982, 130).

Loyalty to Government, Support of Bahā’ī Cause, Disarmament
Text. Bahā’u’llāh’s call for active support for any monarch who champions the ideals of the
Bahā’ī Faith does not detract from civic responsibility. Obedience to government is
repeatedly enjoined by Bahā’u’llāh, as in this text:
The Fifth Glad-Tidings
In every country where any of this people reside, they must behave towards the
government of that country with loyalty, honesty and truthfulness (bi-amānat va ṣidq va
ṣafā bā ān dawlat). This is that which hath been revealed at the behest of Him Who is
the Ordainer, the Ancient of Days. It is binding and incumbent upon the peoples of the
world (ahl-i ‘ālam), one and all (ṭurr), to extend aid unto this momentous Cause (amr-i
a‘ẓam) which is come from the heaven of the Will of the ever-abiding God, that
perchance the fire of animosity (nār-i baghẓā’) which blazeth in the hearts of some of
the peoples of the earth may, through the living waters of divine wisdom (āb-i ḥikmat-i
ilāhī) and by virtue of heavenly counsels and exhortations, be quenched, and the light of
unity and concord (nūr-i ittiḥad va ittifāq) may shine forth and shed its radiance upon
the world. We cherish the hope that through the earnest endeavours of such as are the
exponents of the power of God (qudrat-i ḥaqq)—exalted be His glory—the weapons of
war throughout the world (silāḥ-i ‘ālam) may be converted (tabdīl shavad) into
instruments of reconstruction (ṣilāḥ, rather than silāḥ) and that strife and conflict may be
removed from the midst of men. (TB 22–23/MMM 118)
A Historical Profile of the Bahā’ī Faith                                       127

Stylistically, Bahā’u’llāh engages the reader with a variety of literary techniques that
invigorates the otherwise didactic content of the text. Opposition and word-play are in
evidence here. Fire (nār) and light (nūr) are typically opposed in Bahā’u’llāh’s writings.
Note the word-play between “weapons of war” (silāḥ) and “instruments of
reconciliation” (ṣilāḥ). Steingass defines ṣilāḥ as “reconciling, making peace” (PED 791)
and glosses silāḥ as “arms, especially sword, mace, and stringless bow” (691).
[**158] LOYALTY TO GOVERNMENT. This legislation is very early, dating back to
Bahā’u’llāh’s reform of the Bābī community in the aftermath of the Bābī uprisings and the
bloody persecution that followed the attempt on the life of the Shah. This legislation is
repeated in the Most Holy Book, to wit: “O people of the world! . . . Take heed not to stir up
mischief in the land after it hath been set in order. Whoso acteth in this way is not of Us, and
We are quit of him. Such is the command which hath, through the power of truth, been
made manifest from the heaven of Revelation” (K64). And further: “No one must contend
with those who wield authority over the people; leave unto them that which is theirs, and
direct your attention to men’s hearts” (K95).
SUPPORT OF BAHĀ’Ī CAUSE. Several passages of the Aqdas (K1, K102, K132) invite or
even oblige support from the peoples of the world (as well as kings). As a consequence of
such support, “the light of unity and concord (nūr-i ittiḥād va ittifāq) may shine forth and
shed its radiance upon the world.”
DISARMAMENT. Disarmament is a necessary precondition of international security. National
interests must be preserved, but not at the imperilment of the planet. In the authorized
translation of the Kitāb-i Aqdas, note 173 explicitly links K159 with this Glad-Tiding (MHB
241). This teaching is related to the proscription against bearing firearms in K159.
Beyond his progressivist theophanology, Bahā’u’llāh formulated a theology of
civilization. The Book of Certitude had served to consolidate Bahā’u’llāh’s spiritual
authority in the missionary process. The expression of this divine prerogative is worked into
the very language of practically every major act of legislation. Typical of this kind of
reformist articulation predicated on divine authority is the passage below, which sets the
tone for Bahā’u’llāh’s laws: “The word of God which the Supreme Pen hath recorded on the
ninth leaf of the Most Exalted Paradise is this: In all matters moderation is desirable. If a
thing be carried to excess, it will prove a source of evil. Consider the civilization of the
West, how it hath agitated and alarmed the peoples of the world. An infernal weapon hath
been devised, and hath proved so cruel a weapon of destruction that its like none hath ever
witnessed or heard. The purging of such deeply rooted and overwhelming corruptions
cannot be effected unless the peoples of the world unite in pursuit of one common aim and
embrace one universal faith. Incline your ears unto the call of this Wronged One and adhere
firmly to the Lesser Peace.” Bahā’u’llāh concludes this passage with a prophecy: “Strange
and astonishing things exist in the earth but they are hidden from the minds and the
understanding of men. These things are capable of changing the whole atmosphere of the
earth and their contamination would [**159] prove lethal” (TB 69). Given the explicit
A Historical Profile of the Bahā’ī Faith

context of lethal weapons, Bahā’īs detect in these words a chilling foreboding of the
invention of nuclear weapons.

Response to modernity
LOYALTY TO GOVERNMENT. In an age of revolutions, Bahā’u’llāh’s reforms were
considered revolutionary, but not his means for change. He advocated transformation within
society, not a revolution against any regime.
SUPPORT OF BAHĀ’Ī CAUSE. This has already been commented on (vide supra).
DISARMAMENT. Bahā’u’llāh’s principle of collective security has a Qur’ānic precedent, yet
its internationalist formulation represents a transformation of that principle. I am not aware
of any contemporary Islamic reformer—or at least of any Persian reformer—who had
advocated something similar to the disarmament strategy proposed by Bahā’u’llāh below:
The Great Being, wishing to reveal the prerequisites of the peace and tranquillity of the
world and the advancement of its peoples, hath written: The time must come when the
imperative necessity for the holding of a vast, an all-embracing assemblage of men will
be universally realized. The rulers and kings of the earth must needs attend it, and,
participating in its deliberations, must consider such ways and means as will lay the
foundations of the world’s Great Peace amongst men. Such a peace demandeth that the
Great Powers should resolve, for the sake of the tranquillity of the peoples of the earth,
to be fully reconciled among themselves.
Should any king take up arms against another, all should unitedly arise and prevent
him. If this be done, the nations of the world will no longer require any armaments,
except for the purpose of preserving the security of their realms and maintaining internal
order within their territories. This will ensure the peace and composure of every people,
government and nation. We fain would hope that the kings and rulers of the earth, the
mirrors of the gracious and almighty name of God, may attain unto this station, and
shield mankind from the onslaught of tyranny. (Lawḥ-i Maqṣūd [Tablet of Maqṣūd], in
TB 165)
That such a teaching was articulated within a religious rather than secular context is
significant. One might say that Bahā’u’llāh anticipated the need for world order through the
normalization of [**160] international relations and its regulation under international law.
Another strategy against war advocated in Bahā’ī sources comes from the bottom up, rather
than the top down. The following passage is a relatively obscure text, not widely published,
but the message is of sufficient relevance and interest as to warrant citing it in full. In this
text, ‘Abdu’l-Bahā advocates certain practical measures be taken to bring pressure to bear
on countries either contemplating or actually engaged in waging war without just cause.
One such measure is disinvestment. Another is arms control. A third is the demand for
justification:
A Historical Profile of the Bahā’ī Faith                                       129

The ideals of Peace must be nurtured and spread among the inhabitants of the world;
they must be instructed in the school of Peace and the evils of war. First: The financiers
and bankers must desist from lending money to any government contemplating to wage
an unjust war upon an innocent nation. Second: The presidents and managers of the
railroads and steamship companies must refrain from transporting war ammunition,
infernal engines, guns, cannons and powder from one country into another. Third: The
soldiers must petition, through their representatives, the Ministers of War, the politicians,
the Congressmen and the generals to put forth in a clear, intelligible language the
reasons and causes which have brought them to the brink of such a national calamity.
The soldiers must demand this as one of the prerogatives.
The next passage gives a hypothetical example of what the soldiers might wish to say. I
believe this to be one of the most rhetorically striking instances of eloquence in ‘Abdu’l-
Bahā’s overall skills in discourse:
“Demonstrate to us,” they must say, “that this is a just war, and we will then enter into
the battlefield otherwise we will not take one step. O ye kings and rulers, politicians and
warmongers; ye who spend your lives in most exquisite palaces of Italian architecture;
ye who sleep in airy, well-ventilated apartments; ye who decorate your reception halls
with lovely pictures, sculptures, hangings and frescoes; ye who walk in perfect elysiums,
wreathed in orange and myrtle groves, the air redolent with delicious perfumes and
vocal with the sweet songs of a thousand birds, the earth like a luxuriant carpet of
emerald grass, bright flowers dotting the meadows and trees clothed in verdure; ye who
are dressed in costly silk and finely woven textures; ye who lie down on soft, feathery
couches; ye who partake of the most delicious and savoury dishes; ye who enjoy the
utmost ease and comfort in your wondrous mansions; ye who attend rare musical
concerts whenever you feel a little disconcerted and sad; ye who [**161] adorn your
large halls with green festoons and cut flowers, fresh garlands and verdant wreaths,
illumining them with thousands of electric lights, while the exquisite fragrance of the
flowers, the soft, ravishing music, the fairy-like illumination, lends enchantment; ye who
are in such environment: Come forth from your hiding-places, enter into the battlefield if
you like to attack each other and tear each other to pieces if you desire to air your so-
called contentions. The discord and feud are between you; why do you make us,
innocent people, a party to it? If fighting and bloodshed are good things, then lead us
into the fray by your presence!” (Star of the West 5.8 [1 Aug. 1914]: 116–17; Scholl
1984, 66–67)
This passage illustrates how focused Bahā’ī texts are on the cessation of war. While the
Bahā’ī Faith is not strictly pacifist—as it does have a theory of just war—war is predicated
as an option to be taken only when all other attempts at conflict resolution have been
exhausted. Just war is restricted to defense against invasion, in which all other countries of
the world (viz., the international community) are obliged to unite in order to thwart the
aggressor.
A Historical Profile of the Bahā’ī Faith

The Great Peace
Text. At the level of global reform, Bahā’u’llāh is not specifically concerned with the
rehabilitation of the fortunes of Islam. There is no harking back to lost glory, no appeal to
Qur’ānic foreshadowing of modern times. The tide of influence turns in Bahā’u’llāh’s
efforts to work outside the pale of Islam. The West becomes the new mission field, the
grand social experiment for the implementation of the Bahā’ī peace initiative.
The pursuit of world order characterizes a major social thrust in Bahā’u’llāh’s program
of reform. The global reform Bahā’u’llāh had envisioned is largely up to world leaders to
execute. The fortunes of Islam are not central to this vision, nor is it even a nominal
concern. Bahā’u’llāh’s reforms are decidedly post-Islamic. Legislatively, his point of
departure for his global peace initiative was his abrogation of Islamic holy war (see the first
Glad-Tiding). The following text is brief because it is purely referential. (The first sentence
is in Persian, followed by a benediction in Arabic.):
The Sixth Glad-Tidings
is the establishment of the Lesser Peace (ṣulḥ-i akbar), details of which have formerly
been revealed from Our Most Exalted Pen (qalam-i a‘lā). Great is the blessedness of him
who upholdeth it and observeth whatsoever hath been ordained by God, the All-Knowing,
the All-Wise. (TB 23/MMM 118)
[**162] Aqdas content. This is not commented on in the Aqdas proper, but it is a recurrent
theme in texts supplementary to the Aqdas. The term used in the Persian original literally
means the “Great Peace” (ṣulḥ-i akbar), but, in order to distinguish this stage of social
evolution from the Most Great Peace (a future Golden Age predicted by Bahā’u’llāh),
“Lesser Peace” is used instead. Thus, ṣulḥ-i akbar is “Lesser” in relation to the Most Great
Peace (ṣulḥ-i a‘ẓam).

Response to modernity. Sacralizing international relations seems to be the intent of this text.
In prosecuting his global peace initiative, Bahā’u’llāh addressed public epistles to various
world leaders. The program for reform advocated by these principles was expressed in
religious terms; but, as John Hatcher observes, “such a peace” is “essentially secular in
nature” (1994, 252).
Freedom of Dress
Text. This is not an issue with which Westerners are familiar. In the nineteenth-century
Muslim world, conformity was expected in habits of dress and other customs. One’s
clothing was the book cover by which one was meant to be judged. Moreover, Shī‘ī Islam
frowned upon the lax and immoral nature of Western dress. This created further social
barriers between East and West. Bahā’u’llāh rescinded such restrictions as unwarranted and
divisive:
A Historical Profile of the Bahā’ī Faith                                       131

The Seventh Glad-Tidings
The choice of clothing (zimām-i albisa) and the cut of the beard and its dressing are left
to the discretion of men (‘ibād). But beware, O people, lest ye make yourselves the
playthings of the ignorant (mal‘ab al-jāhilīn). (TB 23/MMM 118–19)
The term used here for “freedom of dress” is zimām-i albisa. Literally, zimām is defined
as “a halter fastened to the ring of a camel’s nose, a rein, a bridle.” Thus, the expression,
zimām-i ikhtiyār becomes “the reins of self-control” (PED 620). The translation is
somewhat misleading with respect to gender. Since women do not normally have beards,
the obvious reference is to men with respect to the freedom to dress one’s beard. But this
context-dependent gender referencing does not apply to the rest of this Glad-Tiding. The
term ‘ibād (pl. of ‘abd, “servant,” “slave”) refers to the generality of humankind (PED 833).

Aqdas content. The relevant Aqdas passage is as follows: “It hath been forbidden you to
carry arms unless essential, and permitted you to attire yourselves in silk. The Lord hath
relieved you, as a bounty on His part, of restrictions that formerly applied to clothing and to
the trim of the beard. He, verily, is the Ordainer, the Omniscient. Let there be [**163]
naught in your demeanour of which sound and upright minds would disapprove, and make
not yourselves playthings of the ignorant. Well is it with him who hath adorned himself with
the vesture of seemly conduct and a praiseworthy character” (K159; cf. K9).

Response to modernity. This Glad-Tiding contains an oblique reference to the West, in that,
at one time, Shī‘ī Islam forbade the adoption of European apparel. In liberating men from
the restrictions imposed by religion with respect to the trim of the mustache and length of
the beard (Note 175; cf. Note 12), it appears that Bahā’u’llāh has implicitly extended
freedom of dress to women as well, moderated by a personal sense of modesty. In principle,
this Glad-Tiding permits Western dress while not stating any preference for it, allowing
women as well as men choice of apparel. The practicality of this ruling is seen, not in the
lifting of any previous restriction per se, but in removing one of the religious and cultural
barriers to unity between East and West.

Monasticism Prohibited
Text. Evidently, Bahā’u’llāh had the Christian West in mind when he ruled on those
Christian practices he deemed of little societal benefit. These criticisms are cast in the form
of legislation, for it is presumably the prerogative of a lawgiving prophet to abrogate prior
religious laws and traditions. Unlike stock Muslim writings of the period, Bahā’u’llāh does
not resort to ridicule of Christians, who were always easy targets of Muslim anti-Christian
polemics. Besides his innate sense of grandeur, Bahā’u’llāh obviously intended the Tablet of
Glad-Tidings to be read by Christians. The text reads as follows:
A Historical Profile of the Bahā’ī Faith

The Eighth Glad-Tidings
The pious deeds (a‘māl) of the monks and priests among the followers of the Spirit
(ḥaẓarāt-i rahaba va khūrīhā-yi millat-i ḥażrat-i rūḥ) [Jesus]—upon Him be the peace
of God—are remembered in His presence. In this Day, however, let them give up the life
of seclusion (inzivā’) and direct their steps towards the open world (qaṣd-i fażā
namāyand) and busy themselves with that which will profit themselves and others. We
have granted them leave to enter into wedlock (tazwīj) that they may bring forth one
who will make mention of God, the Lord of the seen and the unseen, the Lord of the
Exalted Throne. (TB 24/MMM 119)
The tone, as mentioned, is conscientiously respectful. There is not a hint of
condescension. A “life of seclusion”—referring to monasticism—is expressed by the word,
inzivā’, a standard Persian term for seclusion, retirement (PED 110).

[**164] Aqdas content. In the Aqdas, asceticism is criticized: “How many a man hath
secluded himself in the climes of India, denied himself the things that God hath decreed as
lawful, imposed upon himself austerities and mortifications, and hath not been remembered
by God, the revealer of Verses” (K36). In this Glad-Tiding, however, Bahā’u’llāh is kinder
in his criticism, saying: “The pious deeds of the monks and priests among the followers of
the Spirit [Jesus]—upon Him be the peace of God—are remembered in His presence” (TB
24). Note 61 in the authorized Aqdas translation explicitly links this Glad-Tiding with the
Aqdas verse just cited (MHB 195).

Response to modernity. Summing up Bahā’u’llāh’s legislation with respect to Christianity,
Shoghi Effendi states that the Kitāb-i Aqdas “abolishes the institution of priesthood;
prohibits slavery, asceticism, mendicancy, monasticism, penance, the use of pulpits and the
kissing of hands; prescribes monogamy” (MHB 14). Note that, in this cluster of
proscriptions, Shoghi Effendi has brought together diverse elements from the Aqdas to paint
a composite picture of the negative practices of nineteenth-century Christianity that
Bahā’u’llāh wished to change.
Prohibition of Confession
Text. In 1875, during his own lifetime, Bahā’u’llāh commissioned his eldest son and future
successor, ‘Abdu’l-Bahā, to compose a treatise on statecraft for the benefit of the Shāh of
Iran, on the order of a “Mirrors for Princes” genre (such as the Qābūs-nāma). The resulting
Treatise on Civilization (Risāla-yi Madanīya)—published in English as The Secret of
Divine Civilization—provides contemporary evidence of Bahā’ī thinking on monasticism
and certain other “accretional” practices of Catholicism. In his praise of Luther, ‘Abdu’l-
Bahā writes: “Luther’s position as regards the freedom of religious leaders to marry, the
abstention from worshipping and making prostrations before images and representations
hung in the churches, and the abrogation of ceremonials which had been added on to the
Gospel, was demonstrably correct” (SDC 42). As with other desacralizing patterns, this
Glad-Tiding seeks to restore dignity to the repentant, who needs no intercessor in the
A Historical Profile of the Bahā’ī Faith                                       133

forgiveness of sins, which is the prerogative of God in any case. Wishing to spare Catholic
and Eastern Orthodox Christians from the unwarranted humiliation resulting from auricular
confession, Bahā’u’llāh ordains:
The Ninth Glad-Tidings
When the sinner (‘āṣī) findeth himself wholly detached and freed from all save God, he
should beg forgiveness and pardon (ṭalab-i maghfarat va āmurzish) from Him.
Confession of sins and [**165] transgressions (iẓhār-i khaṭāyā va ma’āṣī) before human
beings (nazd-i ‘ibād) is not permissible, as it hath never been nor will ever be conducive
to divine forgiveness (sabab va ‘illat-i āmurzish va afv-i ilāhī nabūda va nīst). Moreover
such confession before people results in one’s humiliation and abasement (ḥaqārat va
ẕillat), and God—exalted be His glory—wisheth not the humiliation of His servants.
Verily He is the Compassionate, the Merciful. The sinner should, between himself and
God, implore mercy from the Ocean of mercy, beg forgiveness from the Heaven of
generosity and say: [A prayer follows here.] (TB 24–25/MMM 119–20)
Aqdas content. “To none is it permitted to seek absolution from another soul” (K34) is the
concise formulation that stands behind this Glad-Tiding (cf. Note 58 in MHB 193–94). In
this Glad-Tiding, Bahā’u’llāh reveals a prayer for the forgiveness of sins, functioning
analogously to the Lord’s Prayer, which asks God to dispense forgiveness.

Response to modernity. In desacralizing the Catholic Sacrament of Penance, Bahā’u’llāh
has implicitly endorsed Luther’s reform, which ‘Abdu’l-Bahā explicitly praised. This kind
of legislation may have been intended as some form of “liberation” for the Christian, by the
disencumbrance of practices seen as man-made rather than divinely ordained.
Abrogation of Book Burning
Text. Without context, this Glad-Tiding is a bit curious. The legislation is quite specific, and
one would have to know the circumstances of the practice to which Bahā’u’llāh is referring,
in order to understand why there is a mention of it in the first place. The text states:
The Tenth Glad-Tidings
As a token of grace from God (faḍl min lidā Allāh), the Revealer of this Most Great
Announcement, We have removed from the Holy Scriptures and Tablets (zabūr va
alvāh) the law prescribing the destruction of books (ḥukm-i maḥv-i kutub). (TB 25/
MMM 121)

Aqdas content. I refer to this Glad-Tiding as the abrogation of “book burning” as the term is
more familiar than “the destruction of books” (maḥv-i kutub). In the Tablet of the World,
Bahā’u’llāh also refers to “the burning of books” (TB 91). In the Aqdas, Bahā’u’llāh
declares: “God hath relieved you of the ordinance laid down in the Bayān concerning the
destruction of books” (K77). Note 109 likewise refers to this Bayānic prescription. From the
A Historical Profile of the Bahā’ī Faith

specificity of this law, a general principle may be inferred to fend against any such
repression.

[**166] Response to modernity. The specific abrogation here has to do with a law in the
Persian Bayān VI.6 (Browne 1987, 377–78). Inherent in this repeal of specific legislation is
a general principle which applies to a wider, more historic religious practice, as the Bābī law
was never implemented.
In the Dark Ages, censorship was used by church authorities to stamp out heresy. The
Fourth Lateran Council in the year 1215 proscribed the works of Aristotle. Later, in 1564,
the Council of Trent established the Index of Forbidden Books, in force for centuries. And,
in 1633, Galileo was forced by the Inquisition to recant his Copernican belief that the earth
was not the center of the universe. Three and a half centuries later, the Church herself
recanted. The positive principle complementing the abrogation of book burning is arguably
freedom of the press. Freedom of the press was enshrined in the Constitution of the United
States in 1791 by adoption of the First Amendment, which states: “Congress shall make no
law . . . abridging freedom of speech or of the press.” This, too, is respected in the Bahā’ī
teachings.
Sciences and Arts
Text. The Muslim religious establishment in Persia were generally opposed to the
acquisition of European sciences. The Bāb had also discouraged the study of European
sciences. The following text presents a marked contrast:
The Eleventh Glad-Tidings
It is permissible to study sciences and arts (taḥṣil-i ‘ulūm va funūn), but such sciences as
are useful (‘ulūmī ka nāfi‘ ast) and would redound to the progress and advancement of
the people (va sabab va ‘illat-i taraqqī-yi ‘ibād ast). Thus hath it been decreed by Him
Who is the Ordainer, the All-Wise. (TB 26/MMM 121)
Aqdas content. The Aqdas passage that stands behind this Glad-Tiding reads simply: “We
have permitted you to read such sciences as are profitable unto you, not such as end in idle
disputation; better is this for you, if ye be of them that comprehend” (K77). While expressed
as permission by Bahā’u’llāh, ‘Abdu’l-Bahā actively promoted the study of Western
science.

Response to modernity. In this Glad-Tiding, Bahā’u’llāh is clearly sacralizing education,
the model of which is Western education. Udo Schaefer has already drawn attention to
affinities between the Bahā’ī doctrine of education and the philosophy of the Enlightenment
(1983, 161).
[**167] This doctrine is developed in ‘Abdu’l-Bahā’s Treatise on Civilization, already
referred to above, a work which Browne considered to be primarily secular (Browne 1987,
250). Lithographed in 1882, it is, in fact, the earliest dated Bahā’ī publication, although it is
A Historical Profile of the Bahā’ī Faith                                       135

thought to have been preceded by an undated lithograph of the Kitāb-i Īqān (Buck 1995). I
believe it is methodologically sound to use the Treatise on Civilization as indirect attestation
of Bahā’u’llāh’s thinking circa 1873, as the treatise was written just two years later.
The author remarks: “Today throughout the five continents of the globe it is Europe and
most sections of America that are renowned for law and order, government and commerce,
art and industry, science, philosophy and education” (SDC 10). Later in this treatise,
‘Abdu’l-Bahā singles out the island of Japan as a model of development and progress, that
Persia might do well to emulate. After praising Japan’s adoption of “techniques of
contemporary progress and civilization, promoting sciences and industries of use to the
public, and striving to the utmost of their power and competence until public opinion was
focused on reform” (SDC 111), ‘Abdu’l-Bahā concludes: “Observe carefully how education
and the arts of civilization bring honor, prosperity, independence and freedom to a
government and its people. . . . If necessary, education should even be made
compulsory” (ibid.). It would appear that Japan as well as England and France (SDC 110–
11) are regarded as models of that secular virtue, “progress.”
Work as Worship
Text. The following exhortation stresses the importance of a work ethic. It is expressed as a
personal obligation, but with societal consequences. There is obviously a relationship
between individual moral values and social ethics. The following statement is traditional in
the sense that Islam provides a precedent for it: The celebrated mystic of Islam, Ibn
al-‘Arabī (1992), had already accorded the status of worship to work performed in the
absence of worship: “Most people complain that this world, their work to secure their
sustenance, and their work as householders for their families, take time away from their
worship. Know that work done heedfully, with consideration for others, in accordance with
proper behavior, for the pleasure of Allāh, is also worship.”
Bahā’u’llāh has expanded on this concept somewhat. Ibn al-‘Arabī answers the problem
of time taken away from worship, while Bahā’u’llāh adds work to the time of worship. The
former is a substitute, the latter an extension of worship. The gravity Bahā’u’llāh attaches to
work represents an emphasis of a higher magnitude. While the work ethic was never
enshrined as a pillar of Islam, this ethic was taught as a fundamental Bahā’ī principle:
[**168] The Twelfth Glad-Tidings
It is enjoined upon every one of you to engage in some form of occupation, such as
crafts, trades and the like (bi-amr min al-umūr min al-ṣanāyi‘ wa al-iqtarāf wa
amthālihā). We have graciously exalted your engagement in such work to the rank of
worship (nafs al-‘ībādat bādat) unto God, the True One (al-ḥaqq). Ponder ye in your
hearts the grace and the blessings of God and render thanks unto Him at eventide and at
dawn. Waste not your time in idleness and sloth. Occupy yourselves with that which
profiteth yourselves and others. Thus hath it been decreed in this Tablet from whose
horizon the day-star of wisdom and utterance shineth resplendent.
A Historical Profile of the Bahā’ī Faith

The most despised of men in the sight of God are those who sit idly and beg. Hold ye
fast unto the cord of material means, placing your whole trust in God, the Provider of all
means. When anyone (har nafsī) occupieth himself in a craft or trade, such occupation
itself is regarded in the estimation of God as an act of worship (‘ībādat); and this is
naught but a token of His infinite and all-pervasive bounty. (TB 26/MMM 121)
Aqdas content. Except for the penultimate sentence, which is in Persian, this predominantly
Arabic passage is taken verbatim from the Kitāb-i Aqdas (K33; Arabic text, KA 29–30).
Missing, however, is the initial address: “O people of Bahā’!” (Yā ahl al-Bahā’!)” as if to
universalize this passage, rendering it applicable to all the peoples of the world rather than
to Bahā’īs alone. The enshrinement of the work ethic as a precept in the Bahā’ī law code
serves to ward off any natural inclination to indigence in a Bahā’ī society.

Response to modernity. In sacralizing work, we see here the articulation of a work ethic that
has some affinities with the Protestant work ethic, although a relationship between the two
cannot be historically argued. That the Christian must prove his moral worth to the glory of
God through proficient and reliable industry in commerce, craft, or profession, as
propounded by Calvin, is the Puritan way, contributing, as Max Weber (1950 [1904–1905])
has shown, to the birth of the “spirit of capitalism” and the rise of the industrial West.
Elsewhere, Bahā’u’llāh speaks of the work ethic as “the secret of wealth (asbāb-i ghanā
[sic])” (HWP #80, ET: HW 53; Persian text: KM 67 reading ghanā instead of ghanā’; cf.
PED 896).
House of Justice
Text. This is one of the foundational texts for the creation of a democratically elected
consultative body, known as the Universal House of Justice, first elected in 1963, on the
centenary of Bahā’u’llāh’s declara- [**169] tion. As Bahā’u’llāh envisioned it, this
institution would eventually be invested with legislative authority, for the progressive
application to human society of Bahā’u’llāh’s laws and principles for the new age. Although
Bahā’u’llāh’s teachings require various practical applications of his unity-based peace plan,
the overarching responsibility of the Universal House of Justice is to ensure that the
emerging world civilization evolves infrastructures and policies that are based on justice and
conduce to peace:
The Thirteenth Glad-Tidings
The men of God’s House of Justice (rijāl-i bayt-i ‘adl-i ilāhī) have been charged with
the affairs of the people (umūr-i millat). They, in truth, are the Trustees of God among
His servants and the daysprings of authority in His countries.
O people of God! That which traineth the world is Justice (‘adl), for it is upheld by
two pillars (du rukn), reward and punishment (mujāzāt va mukāfāt). These two pillars
are the sources of life (ḥayāt) to the world. Inasmuch as for each day there is a new
problem and for every problem an expedient solution, such affairs should be referred to
A Historical Profile of the Bahā’ī Faith                                       137

the Ministers of the House of Justice that they may act according to the needs and
requirements of the time. They that, for the sake of God, arise to serve His Cause, are the
recipients of divine inspiration from the unseen Kingdom. It is incumbent upon all to be
obedient unto them. All matters of State (umūr-i sīyāsīyat-i kull) should be referred to
the House of Justice, but acts of worship (‘ibādāt) must be observed according to that
which God hath revealed in His Book.
O people of Bahā (yā ahl-i bahā’)! Ye are the dawning-places of the love of God and
the daysprings of His loving-kindness. Defile not your tongues with the cursing and
reviling of any soul, and guard your eyes against that which is not seemly. Set forth that
which ye possess. If it be favourably received, your end is attained; if not, to protest is
vain. Leave that soul to himself and turn unto the Lord, the Protector, the Self-
Subsisting. Be not the cause of grief, much less of discord and strife. The hope is
cherished that ye may obtain true education in the shelter of the tree of His tender
mercies and act in accordance with that which God desireth. Ye are all the leaves of one
tree and the drops of one ocean. (TB 26–27/MMM 122–23)
Aqdas content. This Glad-Tiding, in its entirety, is a re-revelation from the Tablet of
Effulgences (Ishrāqāt). The eighth “Effulgence,” from which the thirteenth Glad-Tiding is
taken, is prefaced by the statement: “This passage, now written by the Pen of Glory, is
accounted as part of the Most Holy Book” (MHB 91–92). The eighth Ishrāq is thus [**170]
regarded as an extension of the Aqdas, which is why it is included in the authorized English
translation of the Aqdas. For related Aqdas texts, cf. K42, K52, K29, K147.
HOUSE OF JUSTICE. There is, in this text, a certain measure of separation of church and
state. Religious obligations are left inviolate. Although the institution itself is based on
social values informed by Bahā’u’llāh’s revelation, the kinds of decisions the Universal
House of Justice is mandated to legislate are of a practical, one might say secular, nature.
Just as the Judaeo-Christian ethic informs North American and European court systems, so
does the Bahā’ī ethic provide normative standards for the exercise of justice within a Bahā’ī
system. Thus, the Universal House of Justice is given the authority to act on matters on a
case-by-case basis, “according to the needs and requirements of the time.” For related
Aqdas texts, cf. K88, K187, K158.
REWARD AND PUNISHMENT. The authority to execute justice requires setting boundaries on
acceptable and unacceptable behavior. Force is the servant of justice, although the use of
force must be constrained by specific measures justifying its application.

BAHĀ’Ī VIRTUES. The purpose of a Bahā’ī’s life is to acquire virtues, and to carry forward
an ever-advancing civilization. The development and proper functioning of the Universal
House of Justice greatly depends on the character of individuals that make up a society. For
society to become a just society, the prevailing standards of justice within any system of
government require the support of responsible citizens. Otherwise, justice is vitiated.

A Historical Profile of the Bahā’ī Faith

Response to modernity.
HOUSE OF JUSTICE. For a global society, certain universal standards can alone ensure the
uniform application of justice. The Marxist critique of structured economic injustice, for
example, identifies market hegemonies and various forms of exploitation. Adoption of
measures that regulate free markets and, at the same time mobilize the world’s resources for
the benefit of those countries most in need at any given time, requires a situational, needs-
based deliberation on actions to be taken, constrained by overarching principles of justice.
This is possible only when international consensus is achieved on such standards. The
emergence of an international community of nations, along with the reification, legislation,
and implementation of international law, advances the world towards a global civilization
predicted by the majority of futurists. Bahā’u’llāh’s own vision of an emerging world
civilization was, to say the least, precocious enough for any thinker of the [**171]
nineteenth century. The concept of a world religion as providing a universal system of
personal and social values is one of the unique features of Bahā’u’llāh’s system. Principles,
in order to be effective, require a certain measure of institutionalization, and for this
purpose, Bahā’u’llāh conceived of the Universal House of Justice, which eventually was
brought into being in 1963.
REWARD AND PUNISHMENT. Reward and punishment (mujāzāt va mukāfāt), in Bahā’ī
thought, fall within the province of justice. In sacralizing justice, Bahā’u’llāh seems to have
secular models in view. Reflexive evidence of this comes from Bahā’u’llāh’s interpreter,
‘Abdu’l-Bahā, who writes: “Freedom of conscience and tranquility of heart and soul is one
of the duties and functions of government, and is in all ages the cause of progress in
development and ascendancy over other lands. Other civilized countries acquired not this
preeminence, nor attained unto these high degrees of influence and power, till such time as
they put away the strife of sects out of their midst, and dealt with all classes according to
one standard. All are one people, one nation, one species, one kind. The common interest is
complete equality; justice and equality amongst mankind are amongst the chief promoters
of empire.” ‘Abdu’l-Bahā concludes this passage by remarking: “Interference with creed
and faith in every country causes manifest detriment, while justice and equal dealing
towards all peoples on the face of the earth are the means whereby progress is effected” (TN
87).
BAHĀ’Ī VIRTUES. The last section of this Glad-Tiding is an apostrophe to Bahā’īs to
maintain the lofty ideals they profess by corresponding standards of conduct. Bahā’īs are
counseled to be united. By authenticating civic virtues with personal integrity reinforced by
group solidarity, Bahā’u’llāh bids his followers to promulgate his teachings, to thereby
become agents of transformation in bringing a message of hope and unity to a fractured
world.
A Historical Profile of the Bahā’ī Faith                                       139

Visitation
Text. Regarding a widespread practice, the following text has to do with saint veneration.
While such a practice is not condemned, it is constrained by the countervailing principle of
moderation, as set forth below:
The Fourteenth Glad-Tidings
It is not necessary to undertake special journeys (ziyārat) to visit the resting-places of the
dead. If people of substance and affluence (ṣāḥibān-i qudrat va vus‘at) offer the cost of
such journeys to [**172] the House of Justice (bayt-i ‘adl), it will be pleasing and
acceptable (maqbūl va maḥbūb) in the presence of God. Happy are they that observe His
precepts. (TB 27–28/MMM 123)

Aqdas content.
VISITATION. No corresponding Aqdas or supplemental text was found, a minor exception to
the thesis that the content of the Tablet of Glad-Tidings is primarily based on the
Bahā’u’llāh’s previous legislation. The outward concern of this Glad-Tiding is to unburden
the religiously minded of their sense of obligation in undertaking arduous journeys for the
purpose of “visitation” of the shrine of a saint. A widespread practice in his world at the
time, Bahā’u’llāh must have seen the expenditures required for such journeys as being
beyond the means of many, and, for those who could afford it, a less than optimal use of
financial resources.
HOUSE OF JUSTICE. That same religious impulse can just as readily be satisfied through
contributing the expense of such journeys to the Universal House of Justice, as a living
shrine, as it were. Presumably, the same measure of personal blessing would accrue from
such an action. The Aqdas refers to the House of Justice in several places in the text (K42,
K52, K29 and K147).
Response to modernity.
VISITATION. This is not exactly a case of the desacralizing of a religious practice, but rather
its modification. In the Muslim world, tombs of the Shī‘ī Imāms, Sufi mystics, warriors,
martyrs, and patriarchs represent rich options for expression of personal piety and the
seeking of intercession by the saints for personal forgiveness and blessing. Various reform
movements in the past have turned a critical eye on the practice of saint veneration, which
Bahā’u’llāh is here moderating. Bahā’īs have their own shrines, and “pilgrimage” to the
Bahā’ī shrines in Haifa is not constrained by this Glad-Tiding.
HOUSE OF JUSTICE. Contributions of personal wealth to this institution is not charity, but
rather a philanthropic act. Other kinds of expenditures considered to be excessive or
extravagant are also disapproved of in Bahā’ī texts.
A Historical Profile of the Bahā’ī Faith

Constitutional Monarchy
Text. Cole characterizes Bahā’u’llāh’s thought as representing a “precocious advocacy of
democracy” invigorated by his “millenarian ideas” [**173] (1992, 3). The fifteenth and
final Glad-Tiding makes explicit the kind of democracy Bahā’u’llāh publicly endorsed:
The Fifteenth Glad-Tidings
Although a republican form of government (jumhūriyat) profiteth all the peoples of the
world, yet the majesty of kingship (shawkat-i salṭanat) is one of the signs of God. We do
not wish that the countries of the world should remain deprived thereof. If the sagacious
combine the two forms into one, great will be their reward in the presence of God. (TB
28/MMM 123)
Aqdas content. Bahā’u’llāh respected the institution of monarchy. The expression, “majesty
of kingship” (shawkat-i salṭanat) is akin to the Persian expression shawkati shāhāna, which
Steingass glosses as “imperial majesty” (PED 767). Although kings are individually and
collectively addressed in the Aqdas, the issue of constitutional monarchy is not. For such
precedents, we look to texts supplementary to the Aqdas. Bahā’u’llāh made public his
preference for constitutional monarchy, on the order of the British model. In the Tablet of
the World (Lawḥ-i Dunyā), Bahā’u’llāh writes: “The system of government which the
British people have adopted in London appears to be good, for it is adorned with the light of
both kingship and of the consultation of the people” (TB 93/MMM 53). His advocacy of
constitutional monarchy notwithstanding, political realities dictated the exercise of
discretion. As previously mentioned, in the copy of the Lawḥ-i Bishārāt which the Bahā’īs
sent Baron Rosen sometime prior to 1893, Browne observes that “the Bahā’īs appear to
have thought it expedient to suppress . . . the 15th and last clause, recommending
constitutional government” (Browne 1893, xxv, n. 1).

Response to modernity. Sacral kingship has had a long history—venerable and not so
venerable in the Orient. Its 2,500-year legacy was a proud heritage of Persia until the 1979
revolution in Iran. Bahā’u’llāh conserves the notion of sacral kingship while desacralizing
absolutism. In sacralizing the parliamentary system, England is held up as a model. In this
regard, Bahā’u’llāh has singled out for recognition one specific act of British legislation
along with the democratic structure of British governance. In his Tablet to Queen Victoria
(Lawḥ-i malikah wiktūriya), Bahā’u’llāh states: “We have been informed that thou hast
forbidden the trading in slaves, both men and women. This, verily, is what God hath
enjoined in this wondrous Revelation. . . . We have also heard that thou hast entrusted the
reins of counsel into the hands of the representatives of the people (zimām al-mushāwara bi-
ayādī al-jumhūr). Thou, indeed, hast done well” (PB 33–34, Arabic text in AMR 133, cf.
Cole 1992, 7–8).
[**174] There is a question of legislative priority here. Did Bahā’u’llāh forbid slavery
prior to Queen Victoria’s decree? Historically, the answer has to be negative. The British
Parliament had already outlawed the slave trade itself in 1807, authorizing search and
A Historical Profile of the Bahā’ī Faith                                       141

seizure of suspect ships and payment for the liberation of slaves. This secular reform was in
large part due to the antislavery movement led by abolitionists William Wilberforce and
Thomas Clarkson. In 1833, Britain outlawed slavery entirely. This was in advance of
President Lincoln’s “Emancipation Proclamation” of January 1, 1863. Such reforms were
taking place in the secular world prior to Bahā’u’llāh’s declaration in that same year.
However, Bahā’u’llāh is the first founder of a world religion to explicitly abolish slavery by
divine decree.
For the purposes of this discussion, Queen Victoria clearly acted on her own in the
context of her own enlightened policies. Bahā’u’llāh endorses England’s nineteenth-century
democratic reforms, particularly as enacted in the Reform Act of 1867, which greatly
extended parliamentary suffrage. What is relevant to the discussion at hand is that
Bahā’u’llāh clearly has the British model in mind, and has sacralized this essentially secular
form of governance. Again, possibly for the first time in the history of religions, the founder
of a world religion has legislated or endorsed a system of governance. Islam had no such
system holistically speaking, for much that we find in the historic Muslim empires was the
result of Arab conquerors assimilating and adapting elements of the art of governance from
culturally superior civilizations.
Bahā’u’llāh’s Summary
Text. The Bahā’ī Faith has its immediate roots in the Bābī movement, on Islamic soil,
growing far beyond the bounds of Islam itself. At the same time, Babism might, in a certain
sense, also be thought of as a “reform” of Islam, parallel to one reformer’s project of an
“Islamic renaissance.” Nonetheless, one scholar has noted that Babism, like Malkum’s
reform, entailed the use of specifically Islamic terminology, but for purposes fundamentally
alien to the Islamic faith (Algar 1973, 59). This is all the more true with respect to Bahā’ī
reforms. In the following text, Bahā’u’llāh distances his reforms from both Islam and
Babism, and, in principle of course, from any religious practice that foments discord:
In former religions (maẕāhib-i qabl) such ordinances as holy war (ḥukm-i jihād),
destruction of books (maḥv-i kutub), the ban on association and companionship with
other peoples or on reading certain books had been laid down and affirmed according to
the exigencies of the time (bi-muqtaẓīyāt-i vaqt); however, in this [**175] mighty
Revelation (dar īn ẓuhūr-i a‘ẓam), in this momentous Announcement, the manifold
bestowals and favours of God have overshadowed all men, and from the horizon of the
Will of the ever-Abiding Lord, His infallible decree hath prescribed that which We have
set forth above. . . . We earnestly beseech God—exalted be His glory—to aid the rulers
and sovereigns, who are the exponents of power and the daysprings of glory, to enforce
His laws and ordinances. He is in truth the Omnipotent, the All-Powerful, He Who is
wont to answer the call of men. (TB 28–29/MMM 123–24).
Aqdas content. The paragraph following the fifteenth Glad–Tiding is similar to a passage
from the Tablet of the World, which states: “The unbelievers and the faithless have set their
A Historical Profile of the Bahā’ī Faith

minds on four things: first, the shedding of blood; second, the burning of books; third, the
shunning of the followers of other religions; fourth, the extermination of other communities
and groups” (TB 91). In the Tablet of Glad–Tidings, the first three social evils are the same,
with the fourth being “the ban . . . on reading certain books” (TB 28).
Beyond ideological genetics, there is some direct textual dependence on the Aqdas as
well: All of the Arabic text of GT12 (except for the final sentence) is taken verbatim from
K33, cited in its entirety except for the address to Bahā’īs (thus universalizing the Bahā’ī
work ethic). GT2 seems to derive from K144 with several words added. GT13 is dependent
on the Eighth Splendour (Ishrāq).

Response to modernity. The Islamic background of the Bahā’ī Faith largely accounts for
much of the tenor of Bahā’ī thought, but does not wholly explain its post–Islamic content
and worldview. This interplay of Islamic and non–Islamic elements is difficult to sort out,
but the result of this ideological transformation was, in any event, the emergence of an
independent world religion. Scholarship has naturally come to identify the obvious Islamic
components of Bahā’ī thought, but scholarship has yet to describe adequately the historical
and religious metamorphosis of Bahā’ī ideology from its ideological chrysalis.
A progressive distancing from Islam became an important element in the emergent
Bahā’ī self–identity. Amanat, summing up the successive stages of Bābī/Bahā’ī reform,
states: “In the aftermath of the Babi persecutions of 1852 and the exile to Iraq, Bahā’ullāh
gradually transformed the messianic militancy of the Bābīs into a pacifist, largely
nonpolitical current. . . . The social message of the new faith spilled over the bounds of the
Babi religion and implied in its universalism a greater reconciliation with the needs of the
modern secular world. Increasingly in the closing decades of the nineteenth century, Bahā’ī
social doctrine tended to distance itself from its own Shi‘ite [**176] origin and move in the
direction of modern morality and ethics. The Babi legacy was no doubt crucial in the way
the Bahā’īs were able to adopt this essentially non–Islamic outlook” (Amanat 1989, 414).
It is interesting to note that Bahā’u’llāh sought to reverse the direction of influence, by
addressing epistles (individual and collective)—in a rather forceful, theophanic voice—to
the reigning potentates of his day, in Europe and West Asia. As ‘Abdu’l–Bahā had
characterized the relation between East and West: “Even as education and progress travel
from West to East, so does the spiritual fire travel from East to West” (ABL 49).
Bahā’u’llāh’s global reformist agenda surpasses the Islamic mind–set in scope, and may,
from a certain point of view, represent the sacralization of typically secular concerns.

Conclusion. In a metaphysical realm of discourse, beyond praise or blame of the West,
Bahā’u’llāh goes so far as to account for the ascendancy of the West. In the Tablet of
Wisdom (Lawḥ–i Ḥikmat), Bahā’u’llāh states: “When the eyes of the people of the East
were captivated by the arts and wonders of the West, they roved distraught in the wilderness
of material causes, oblivious of the One Who is the Causer of Causes, and the Sustainer
thereof, while such men as were the source and the wellspring of Wisdom never denied the
moving Impulse behind these causes, nor the Creator or the Origin thereof. Thy Lord
knoweth, yet most of the people know not” (TB 144). This is a truth claim, pure and simple.
It is beyond verification or falsification.
A Historical Profile of the Bahā’ī Faith                                       143

The Tablet of Glad–Tidings seems to have been a call for world reforms, both religious
and political. Generally, Bahā’u’llāh endorsed certain secular reforms (constitutional
monarchy, adoption of Western sciences by the Muslim Middle East) and proposed others
(peace negotiations and a global summit for disarmament, universal language), while
stipulating that religions—principally Christianity, Islam, and the Bābī movement—should
abandon such practices such as confession, celibacy, mendicancy, and so forth. In a word,
Bahā’u’llāh wanted to sacralize that which was conducive to world peace and the unity of
humanity, and to end religious practices that were militant, ascetic, and fundamentalist in
nature. In terms of the relative weight of each Glad–Tiding, there seems to have been a
certain unevenness to the proposed reforms. Nonetheless, the Lawḥ–i Bishārāt comes close
to being the most programmatic and representative epitome of Bahā’u’llāh’s world reforms
to be found in a single work.
Bahā’u’llāh’s response to modernity is at the same time his response to the West. At the
end of the Lawḥ–i Bishārāt, Bahā’u’llāh actually characterizes the Glad–Tidings as divine
legislation (“laws and ordinances”). These principles—some representing European civic
virtues—are sacralized. Through the agency of the “Proclamatory Aqdas,” Bahā’u’llāh set
in motion this sacralization process through spiritual– [**177] ization of “civil religion” at
its finest. In fine, Bahā’u’llāh refined and systematized certain emergent “global values” and
the sacralized secular power in the interests of world-reform.
The Tablet of Glad-Tidings was addressed to the peoples of the world, delivered to
scholars, hand-copied, lithographed, printed, translated, and presented to various individuals
as representing the basic Bahā’ī agenda for world reform. Although all of Bahā’u’llāh’s
estimated 15,000 individual works—the bulk of it correspondence—is considered
revelation, the universal Tablets, especially those which I call representations of the
“Proclamatory Aqdas,” form a class of their own.
Bahā’u’llāh himself is reported to have said: “Had this Cause been revealed in the West,
had Our verses been sent from the West to Persia and other countries of the East, it would
have become evident how the people of the Occident would have embraced Our
Cause” (GPB 253). Hand of the Cause of God (a Bahā’ī dignitary), George Townshend
makes the following observation (evidently with Shoghi Effendi’s assent): “Bahā’u’llāh
from the beginning seems to have realized the special capacity of the progressive and
enterprising West. He took the most vigorous steps possible to bring the Truth of the Age to
the knowledge of the West and its leaders. Debarred from delivering His message to Europe
in person, He wrote from a Turkish prison a general Tablet to the Christians, and another
Tablet to the Sovereigns and leading men of the world but especially to the rulers of
Christendom” (GPB vi).
For Bahā’īs, the Lawḥ-i Bishārāt enjoys a certain preeminence, along with several other
texts, among the writings of Bahā’u’llāh. In the words of ‘Abdu’l-Bahā: “Direct thine
attention to the holy Tablets; read thou the Ishrāqāt, Tajallīyāt, the Words of Paradise, the
Glad Tidings, the Ṭarāzāt, the Most Holy Book. Then wilt thou see that today these
heavenly Teachings are the remedy for a sick and suffering world, and a healing balm for
the sores on the body of mankind. They are the spirit of life, the ark of salvation, the magnet
to draw down eternal glory, the dynamic power to motivate the inner self of man” (SWAB
A Historical Profile of the Bahā’ī Faith

61). This is, of course, based on a diagnosis of disunity as the source of the world’s societal
travail.
Once the world sees itself as one homeland, according to a Bahā’ī perspective,
international cooperation can proceed apace, to address the physical crises humanity faces,
such as overpopulation, hunger, disease, and civil war, to name a few. The Tablet of Glad-
Tidings, as an epitome of Bahā’u’llāh’s revelation, was intended to be read by political
leaders and leaders of thought as well, in order to plant the seeds of world peace and world
unity in the minds of those in the nineteenth century who had the power to effect change,
and, in some cases, had the power to effect changes rather decisively. Bahā’u’llāh’s efforts,
as [**178] history records, went unheeded. His influence on the world would, at best, be
considerably delayed and only gradually felt.
There is some historical regret in all this. In a little-known Tablet, ‘Abdu’l-Bahā laments
a lost historical opportunity, in which Europe’s potential receptivity to Bahā’u’llāh’s
program of world reform was unrealized. As though born out of time as well as out of place,
oppression in Bahā’u’llāh’s native land is contrasted with the climate of openness in
Europe: “A thousand years must elapse before Persia can, by the aid of material power, rise
to the height of the peoples and governments of Europe. . . . But for his chains and prison,
Bahā’u’llāh by this time would have gained absolute ascendancy over the minds and
thoughts of the peoples of Europe. . . . Ponder then in your heart, what the coming of
Bahā’u’llāh would have achieved! Had he appeared in Europe, its people would have seized
their opportunity, and his Cause, by virtue of the freedom of thought, would by this time
have encompassed the earth” (Shoghi Effendi 1926, 30–31). This Tablet of ‘Abdu’l-Baha
was translated by Shoghi Effendi in a letter dated 12 January 1923 to the National Spiritual
Assembly of the United States. Note that pronomial references to Bahā’u’llāh are not
capitalized by Shoghi Effendi here.
The evidently sacralized secularisms of some of the Glad-Tidings possibly finds its
analogue in the Turkish ‘urfī theory of the Sulṭān’s powers (Levy, EI1 4:1031), in which the
basis for secular lawmaking arises when the Islamic law code does not provide a solution
for a given social problem. In such cases, the standards of “necessity” and “reason” may be
invoked to enact legislation with the force of law (Mardin 1962, 102). In the Tablet of Glad-
Tidings, necessity and reason are invoked as adjuncts to revelation, the authority needed to
balance the secular with the spiritual.
In his sociology of the Bābī and Bahā’ī religions, Peter Smith identifies social
reformism, modernization, and millennial perspective as a major motif in Bahā’ī
consciousness during the formative period: “The second major motif which permeated the
Bahā’ī Faith in the 1866–1921 period represented a complex of religious and social
concerns centring [sic] on the idea of the transformation of the world. These concerns
involved both a clear millennial vision and a programme of more ‘secular’ social reformism.
Both elements were strongly imbued with a religious ethos, however, and both formed part
of what was regarded as the latest stage of God’s plan for mankind” (1987, 74).
The Glad-Tidings may be analyzed in the context of modernity, arguably as a response
to it. This is proposed as a framework of analysis, and is not meant to detract from the
intrinsic originality of Bahā’u’llāh’s reforms, nor to reduce them to mere reactions to
modernity. Modernity simply provides a context for the text. The response is [**179] a
A Historical Profile of the Bahā’ī Faith                                       145

creative, religious solution, in which the perceived values of modernity are sacralized,
integrated into a unifying paradigm, and placed under the moral and social ethical
constraints of religion. The history of the future will alone determine whether or not
Bahā’u’llāh’s response to modernity has in any way acted as a catalyst for an emerging
global self-consciousness, one that reintegrates secular and sacred domains.
[**180]
A Historical Profile of the Bahā’ī Faith

[**181]
V
A Symbolic Profile of the Bahā’ī Faith
Abstract
Advanced study of the Bahā’ī Faith must still deal with basics. While considerable progress
has been made in historical research on Bābī and Bahā’ī origins, much foundational work in
Bahā’ī studies remains to be done at the level of text. Based on primary sources, this study
will present a “symbolic profile” of Bahā’ī consciousness, to the extent that it is shaped by
the writings of Bahā’u’llāh and ancillary texts. To order and classify the symbols, this
profile will employ Ninian Smart’s dimensional model of religion, using the present writer’s
acronym, DREEMS (Doctrinal, Ritual, Ethical, Experiential, Mythic, Social). Sherry
Ortner’s key symbols paradigm, consisting of thought-orienting “root metaphors” and
action-inciting “key scenarios,” completes the profile, while John Wansbrough provides
insight into the formation of a new religious ethos through a process of symbolic
transformation. This study will highlight some of the predominant Bahā’ī symbols, to which
others may surely be added.
Bahā’ī Symbol Theory
What makes a religion distinctive? Islam affords an analogy. In The Sectarian Milieu, John
Wansbrough discusses the emergence and formation of the early Muslim community. Islam
arose from within a pre-existing “sectarian milieu”—a welter of “hardly distinguishable
confessional groups” (SM 98). Contemporary historical sources disclose “the fact of Arab
hegemony in the Fertile Crescent but virtually nothing of the confessional community called
Islam” (SM 118). What, then, led to the emergence of “Islam” as a distinct ethos, beyond
the Arab [**182] ethnos?
_____
*Note: This chapter was published in the Journal of Bahā’ī Studies 8.4 (1998): 1–48, by
permission of the State University of New York Press.

A Symbolic Profile of the Bahā’ī Faith                                       147

It was not the Arab conquests in which the self-definition of Islam inhered: “The elaboration
of Islam was not contemporary with, but posterior to the Arab occupation of the Fertile
Crescent and beyond” (SM 99). Islam, as a religion, was not coeval with conquest. The
political force of the early Arab expansion of the first two Islamic centuries did little to
advance the ethos of the religion itself. A religious ethos requires interpretation and
development.
Imagery reifies the abstract. The ethos of Islam was shaped, in part, by a constellation of
powerful, thought-orienting symbols. “Fundamental to the documentation of confessional
identity,” Wansbrough asserts, “was selection of appropriate insignia from the monotheist
compendium of symbols, topoi, and theologoumena” (SM 99). When these took shape and
crystallized into their final form, they became “schemata of revelation” which “eventually
generated a kind of subsidiary imagery,” fixed within an “initial range of symbols” (SM
100). Rather than the military and political fact of conquest by Arabs who professed Islam,
it was “the collection of confessional insignia which,” according to Wansbrough,
“eventually crystallized as ‘Islam’” (SM 128). “Similarly,” Wansbrough continues, “the
ecclesiological imagery of Aphrahāṭ and Ephrem exhibits the successful, if occasionally
strained, adaptation of a quite extraordinary range of motifs whose original symbolic value
for the authority of the Church was anything but obvious” (SM 102–103). Whether in Islam
or in early Syriac Christianity, symbols serve to orient the thoughts of the believer, inspiring
and modeling strategies for action. An emergent symbol canon plays an emblematic role in
communal self-definition.
Symbols migrate. They can be taken up or assimilated from one tradition by another.
This phenomenon involves a process of “symbolic transfer” (SM 102), resulting in a
“transmission history of symbols” (SM 103). “The migration of symbols,” Wansbrough
observes, “may be either productive or reductive” but “the crucial process is after all one of
assimilation.” “It is hardly surprising,” as Wansbrough points out, “to find that those
descriptions of community origins associated with the monotheistic confessions exhibit
more similarities than differences” (SM ix). While there are certainly formal similarities
among the Western religions, this study will argue that the differences are paradigmatic.
While symbols may be quarried from prior traditions and taken up in a new tradition, the
symbols are reinterpreted in their new setting. How does this relate to the formation of a
distinctive Bahā’ī ethos?
The Persian roots of the Bahā’ī Faith are well known. Classical Persian poetry—
particularly Perso-Islamic mysticoerotic poetry—is the source of much of Bahā’u’llāh’s
imagery. Much of Bahā’ī symbolism may in fact be of pre-Islamic. Some symbols are
ancient, and are inherited, like an ancestral gene pool, from one historically contiguous
tradition to the next. Symbols of Christian, Jewish, and Mesopotamian [**183] origin were
doubtless mediated through both Islam and Persian cultural traditions. In the Persian
symbolic landscape, it stands to reason that, while prescinding from arguing any direct
symbolic genealogy, the pre-Islamic stratum would certainly include elements from the
symbolic constellation underlying Persian Christianity.
Originality must still be factored into analysis of these images. “However derivative the
components, however disparate their original symbolic values and underlying mythologies,”
Wansbrough states, “their retention in a fresh configuration entails a successful semantic
A Symbolic Profile of the Bahā’ī Faith

shift” (SM 102). This “fresh configuration” of symbols also involves a successful paradigm
shift. The emergence and crystallization of Bahā’ī identity derives from its universal
impulse, not from its ethnic origins, and resides in its symbolic insignia, its grammar of
images—images that are derivative, but reconfigured by a dynamic originality.
Crucial to the crystallization of a distinctive Bahā’ī paradigm, and to an elaboration of
the Bahā’ī ethos, were several factors, not the least of which was ‘Abdu’l-Bahā’s role in
formulating and furthering a core set of Bahā’ī “principles” and Shoghi Effendi’s
privileging of Bahā’ī texts in what texts he chose to render into English. While
acknowledging these elaborative developments, this study will focus primarily on some of
the predominant and formative key symbols in Bahā’u’llāh’s writings. Such a project may
be considered an exercise in what Ninian Smart terms “worldview analysis” (1985, 2).
In his analysis of the Bahā’ī symbolic vision, Alessandro Bausani writes: “An
expression like: ‘the dove of eternity sings on the branches of the Ṭūbā tree’ (the name of a
tree symbolic of Muslim paradise) is susceptible of three levels of interpretation: (a)
realistic level: in a pretty garden on a verdant tree a dove sings fascinating melodies; (b)
mystic-symbolic level: in the Gardens of Paradise, outside of this lowly world, saints and
blessed ones sing the praises of God; (c) realistic-symbolic level: Bahā’u’llāh at an exact
moment in our time sends forth into the world a renewing spirit that will recreate it and give
it form again in unitary visible forms, revealing his Writings in a definite place on the earth
(the vicinity of Mt. Carmel). The spatial and temporal concreteness, therefore, remains but
makes itself translucent with eternity” (Bausani 1979, 43).
This expression, “translucent with eternity,” is instructive, particularly with respect to
the symbol’s opacity. A symbol is opaque until it is understood. It need not even be
explicable. It is sufficient for it to be intuited. For the one to whom the symbol makes
inspirational sense, the symbol is translucent, at once a way of looking at present reality, and
at the same time affording a glimpse of the potential future, of a possible collective scenario,
of the ideal real, the translucent shadows of the spiritual world to which a Bahā’ī is
ontologically and morally committed.
[**184] These symbols take on a life of their own. In the inner world of spiritual
consciousness, Bahā’u’llāh speaks of “subtle mysteries.” These are described as the “fruits
of communion” with God in the garden of the heart. “By My life, O friend,” Bahā’u’llāh
writes, “wert thou to taste of these fruits, from the green garden of these blossoms which
grow in the lands of knowledge, beside the orient lights of the Essence in the mirrors of
names and attributes—yearning would seize the reins of patience and reserve from out thy
hand, and make thy soul to shake with the flashing light, and draw thee from the earthly
homeland to the first, heavenly abode in the Center of Realities, and lift thee to a plane
wherein thou wouldst soar in the air even as thou walkest upon the earth, and move over the
water as thou runnest on the land” (SV 3–4). A series of potent images impels the believer to
recreate waking life. Like dream-logic, Bahā’ī symbolism is the logic of a vision of the
world at peace, given its initial moral and spiritual impetus by Bahā’u’llāh. This poetic
vision is a resource. It instills faith. If such faith is creative, it expresses itself in action. In
this way, faith shapes social reality.
A Symbolic Profile of the Bahā’ī Faith                                       149

An exhaustive survey of symbols that occur, for example, in Bahā’u’llāh’s
correspondence, is not required for determining dominant motifs. A frequency inventory of
motifs in Bahā’u’llāh’s writings would simply amount to a statistical, academic exercise,
with an uncertain validity in the Bahā’ī experience of Bahā’u’llāh’s writings, given its
selective and limited exposure to them. Although the corpus of this Bahā’ī scripture is
enormous—it is estimated that Bahā’u’llāh “revealed” around 15,000 “Tablets” of which
some 7,000 are extant—those texts which exerted the most profound influence on Bahā’ī
communal consciousness are a relatively small and select number of the best-known and
widely circulated works of Bahā’u’llāh. It is methodologically sound, therefore, to restrict
data selection to the most renown and influential writings of this charismatic, messianic
founder.
Bahā’u’llāh’s acknowledged masterpieces include, among other works, the following:
The Most Holy Book (1873), Bahā’u’llāh’s weightiest work; The Book of Certitude (1861–
62), Bahā’u’llāh’s foremost doctrinal work; The Hidden Words (1858), Bahā’u’llāh’s
principal ethical work; The Seven Valleys (1856), Bahā’u’llāh’s greatest mystical work; The
Essence of the Mysteries, with its “Seven Cities”; The Four Valleys, complement of the The
Seven Valleys; The Tablet of Tajallīyāt, with its four Effulgences; the Tablet of the World
(1891), with its “five fundamental principles for the administration of the affairs of men”;
the celebrated Sūra of the Temple (1869), inscribed in the form of a pentacle, with
Bahā’u’llāh’s epistles to Pope Pius IX (1869), Napoleon III (1869), Czar Alexander II,
Queen Victoria (1869) and Nāṣiru’d-Dīn Shāh (1868) inscribed within each of the five
radial points of the star; the Tablet of Ṭarāzāt, with its six “Ornaments”; The Tablet of
Ishrāqāt [**185] (1885), with its the nine “Splendours”; the Kalimāt-i Firdawsīya (1889),
with its eleven “Leaves of Paradise”; the Tablet of Bishārāt (1885 or later), with its fifteen
“Glad-Tidings”; the Words of Wisdom, with its twenty-two aphorisms; the Epistle to the Son
of the Wolf (1891), with excerpts from most of these Tablets.
On the basis of these representative texts, it is possible to create a “symbolic profile” of
the Bahā’ī Faith. Twelve “key symbols” are divided into two classes: key scenarios (action-
inspiring narratives or mythic/cosmic events) and root metaphors (thought-orienting
images). Each key symbol has three facets: Personal, Proclamatory, and Global. “Personal”
refers to individual spirituality. “Proclamatory” relates to Bahā’u’llāh’s eschatological role
and authority as “World Reformer.” “Global” emphasizes the actual content of Bahā’u’llāh’s
world reforms. Thirty-six texts have been selected. Unless otherwise noted, all
transliteration supplied in these texts is based on my own reading of the Persian and Arabic
originals.
A Symbolic Profile of the Bahā’ī Faith

A SYMBOLIC PROFILE OF THE BAHĀ’Ī FAITH
AS REPRESENTED IN THE WRITINGS OF BAHĀ’U’LLĀH
Dimension
Key Scenario
Root Metaphor
Doctrinal
The Promised One
Physician
Ritual
The Covenant
Wine/Water of Life
Ethical
Illumination
Mirrors/Gems
Experiential
Lover and Beloved
Journey/Path
Mythic
The Maid of Heaven
Lote-Tree/Sinai
Social
Crimson Ark/Mariner
Paradise
Key Scenarios

Doctrinal: The Promised One
The symbol of the “Promised One” may be conceived of as a “prophetic/apocalyptic
scenario.” Its strategy of action is recognition of Bahā’u’llāh’s prophetic credentials, leading
to the embrace of faith in his revelatory authority, followed by a transformation in the
believer’s own life, as he/she seeks to translate belief into action. The prominence of this
key symbol is self-evident. For the nonspecialist in Bahā’ī studies, one validating warrant
for the privileging of this key symbol might well be the fact of its lexicalization in Wendi
Momen’s A Basic Bahā’ī Dictionary. (Focused encyclopedias are useful in sketching
consensus.) There, the entry “Promised One, the” is glossed: “The Promised One of the
Bayān, ‘Him Whom God Shall Make Manifest’: Bahā’u’llāh. The [**186] Promised One of
Islam, the Qā’im: the Bāb. Generally, the Promised One of all religions: Bahā’u’llāh” (BBD
188). Although this term is conceptually shared with Bahā’u’llāh’s forerunner, the Bāb, and,
to a lesser extent, with Christ and Muḥammad in their respective roles as fulfiller figures,
Bahā’u’llāh is the primary referent.
In Bahā’ī texts one finds a certain dialectic between theology and history, embodied in
the concept of “Progressive Revelation.” Progressive Revelation may be thought of as the
theophoric movement in history achieving its most definitive, though not final, expression
in the advent of Bahā’u’llāh. Like Einstein’s advancement of a theory of relativity in the
physical universe, Bahā’u’llāh advanced a theory of religious relativity in the spiritual and
moral universe—a theory that explains differences among religions in light of their
similarity of purpose. In Christian terms, this is the Bahā’ī counterpart to “salvation-
history,” the religious “message” of history (SM 1). The poetic depiction of this view of
history is symbolically concentrated in the figure of the “Promised One” within the context
of Progressive Revelation (the Bahā’ī technical term for successive prophetic
dispensations). Some typical texts in which the Promised One is mentioned are as follows:
A Symbolic Profile of the Bahā’ī Faith                                       151

Personal: The Sūra of Vafā: “Say, God is my witness! The Promised One Himself (lit.,
haykal al-maw‘ūd) hath come down [from heaven], seated upon the crimson cloud
(ghamām al-ḥamrā’) with the hosts of revelation (junūd al-waḥy) on His right, and the
angels of inspiration (malā’ikat al-ilhām) on His left, and the Decree hath been fulfilled
at the behest of God, the Omnipotent, the Almighty. . . . Hearken thou (isma‘) unto the
Words of thy Lord (kalimāt rabbika) and purify thy heart (ṭāhir ṣadraka) from every
illusion (kull al-ishārāt) so that the effulgent light of the remembrance of thy Lord may
shed its radiance upon it, and it may attain the station of certitude (al-mūqinīn).” (TB
182–83/AKA 172)
Analysis. Key to personal salvation is recognition of Bahā’u’llāh as the “Promised One.”
The conviction that prophecy fulfillment has transpired, that the eschaton has been
consummated, characterizes what scholars call a “realized eschatology.” Once decoded, the
messianic dignity of the “Promised One” plays on traditional millenarian tensions, brought
to life historically by the nineteenth-century chiliastic movements of Shaykhism and
Bābism. If Bahā’u’llāh’s prophetic credentials are true, it follows that Bahā’ī doctrine has
the same warrant of authenticity.
Proclamatory: Tablet to Czar Alexander II: “O peoples of the earth! . . . Say: This is an
Announcement (naba’) whereat the [**187] hearts of the Prophets and Messengers
(afidāt al-nabīyīn wa al-mursalīn) have rejoiced. This is the One Whom the heart of the
world (qalb al-‘ālam) remembereth and is promised in the Books of God, the Mighty,
the Glorified (al-maw‘ūd fī ṣahā’if Allāh al-‘azīz al-ḥakīm). . . . Say: I verily have not
sought (mā aradtu) to extol Mine Own Self (vaṣf nafsī), but rather God Himself (nafs
Allāh) were ye to judge fairly.” (PB 29/AMR 54)
Analysis. The “Promised One” expresses a key scenario of prophecy and fulfillment. The
symbol of the Promised One presupposes messianic expectations in the world’s major
religions. This is phenomenologically borne out by a comparative study of apocalyptic texts.
But the idea that messianic visions are universal and convergent is entirely a Bābī concept
modeled on Islamic thought, taken up in Bahā’u’llāh’s proclamations. Thus, Bahā’u’llāh
announces himself as the “Promised One” foretold by the prophets of old. According to
Wansbrough, this kind of symbolism “reveals a concept of authority based on
precedent” (SM 130).
Global: Tablet to Janāb-i Mīrzā Ṣādiq: “Verily I say, this is the Day in which mankind
can behold the Face, and hear the Voice, of the Promised One (āfāq-i ẓuhūr). The Call of
God (nidā-yi ilāhī) hath been raised, and the light of His countenance (anvār-i vajh) hath
been lifted up upon men. . . . Great indeed is this Day! The allusions made to it in all the
sacred Scriptures as the Day of God attest its greatness. The soul of every Prophet of
God, of every Divine Messenger, hath thirsted for this wondrous Day (yawm-i
badī‘). . . . God grant that the light of unity (nūr-i ittifāq) may envelop the whole earth,
A Symbolic Profile of the Bahā’ī Faith

and that the seal, ‘the Kingdom is God’s,’ may be stamped upon the brow of all its
peoples.” (GWB 10–11 [VII]/MHB 15)
Analysis. This last passage illustrates a problem in translation, where the idea of “the
Promised One” is supplied by the context of the text rather than as a technical term. What is
rendered “the Promised One” is literally “Horizons (plural!) of Revelation” (āfāq-i ẓuhūr;
sing. ufuq). The precise technical term for “Promised One” in Bahā’ī texts is the rather
colorless word, maw‘ūd (PED 1346). Recognition of the Promised One is linked with a
mission—on the part of both the Promised One and his followers—of unity (ittifāq). The
term used here may also be rendered “harmony” or “concord” (PED 15).
The “Promised One” is a symbol of world-historical proportions. Bahā’u’llāh foretells
the will of God for humanity in this age, Bahā’īs believe, and forecasts the future on the
basis of his messianic role in shaping it. As Bahā’u’llāh states: “Even as He [Jesus] saith:
‘But ye [**188] cannot bear them now.’ That Dawning-Place of Revelation saith that on that
Day He Who is the Promised One will reveal the things which are to come. Accordingly in
the Kitāb-i Aqdas, and in the Tablets to the Kings, and in the Lawḥ-i Ra’īs, and in the Lawḥ-
i Fu’ād, most of the things which have come to pass on this earth have been announced and
prophesied by the Most Sublime Pen” (ESW 148). When the promises of the Promised One
come to pass, they validate his prophetic credentials.
Ritual: The Covenant

In the context of Bahā’ī studies, certain problems arise in the use of the term ritual as a
classification of Bahā’ī practices. This problem has been discussed elsewhere (Buck 1996b).
The Covenant is a Bahā’ī key scenario, the importance of which is empirically indicated
by the fact that it is lexicalized and explicated in four distinct entries in A Basic Bahā’ī
Dictionary (s.v. Day of the Covenant; Covenant, Greater and Lesser; Covenant of
Bahā’u’llāh; Covenant-breaker, BBD 64 and 60–62). The Covenant obliges Bahā’īs to not
only recognize the counsels and laws of Bahā’u’llāh, which are binding on every Bahā’ī,
but to recognize the authority of the elected, legislative Bahā’ī councils as well. One might
conceive of the “Covenant” motif as an “authority scenario”—concerned with spiritual
authority in general and with successorship in particular. Ortner’s requirement that a key
scenario function as a “strategy for action” is satisfied here, in that the Covenant is a symbol
stressing obedience.
In Weberian terms, the “Covenant of Bahā’u’llāh” accentuates Bahā’u’llāh’s charisma,
its devolution upon his successors (‘Abdu’l-Bahā, Shoghi Effendi), and its routinization in
Bahā’ī administrative institutions (the Universal House of Justice, National and Local
Spiritual Assemblies). In the words of Shoghi Effendi, the Covenant is a divinely ordained
“instrument” ordained by Bahā’u’llāh “to direct and canalize these forces let loose by this
Heaven-sent process [the Revelation of Bahā’u’llāh], and to ensure their harmonious and
continuous operation after His ascension” (GPB 237). The following passage has to do with
what is generally referred to as the “Primordial Covenant” (mithāq), referring to a famous
verse in the Qur’ān in which God asks His creatures, “Am I not your Lord?” (alastu bi-
rabbikum—Q. 7:172):
A Symbolic Profile of the Bahā’ī Faith                                       153

Personal: Persian Hidden Words #19: “O My Friends (ay dūstān-i man)! Have ye
forgotten that true and radiant morn (ṣubḥ-i ṣādiq-i rawshānī-rā), when in those
hallowed and blessed surroundings ye were all gathered in My presence beneath the
shade of the tree of life (shajara-yi anīsa), which is planted in the all-glorious paradise
(firdaws-i a‘ẓam)? Awe-struck ye listened as I [**189] gave utterance to these three most
holy words: O friends! Prefer not your will to Mine, never desire (hargiz ma-khwāhīd)
that which I have not desired for you, and approach Me (nazd-i man) not with lifeless
hearts (dil-hā-yi murda), defiled with worldly desires and cravings. Would ye but
sanctify your souls (ṣadr-rā), ye would at this present hour (ḥāl ān) recall that place and
those surroundings, and the truth of My utterance (bayān-i man) should be made evident
unto all of you.” (HWP #19; ET: HW 29) (Note: In the Persian text, HWP #19 is
actually numbered #19 and #20. This affects the subsequent numbering, so that the
Persian and English numbers are off by one (but occasionally not, which is very
confusing. Thus there are eighty-two Persian Hidden Words in English, and eighty-three
in Persian. Persian text of HWP #19 [and #20]: KM 32-33.)
Analysis. The Primordial Covenant of pre-eternity is a paradigm for all time, especially the
present. In Islam, the Primordial Covenant (Q. 7:172) is, in the words of Annemarie
Schimmel, “the metahistorical foundation between God and humankind” (Schimmel 1994,
253). In religious epistemology, the confessional community itself is a cognitive category:
the ecclesia (SM 130-31). In Wansbrough’s terms, Islam’s privileging of the Primordial
Covenant may be understood as “legitimation of communal membership” which involves
“the introduction of a theophany” in a process of doctrinal development that is historically
“posterior to the social formulation” (ibid.) of the community. The Primordial Covenant is
transferred from pre-existence to the present:
Proclamatory: Tablet of Splendours: “Say: ‘Yea, by Him that rideth upon the clouds!’
Paradise is decked with mystic roses (jinnat bi-awrād al-ma‘ānī), and hell (al-sa‘īr) hath
been made to blaze with the fire of the impious (nār al-fujjār). Say: The light hath shone
forth from the horizon of Revelation, and the whole earth hath been illumined at the
coming of Him Who is the Lord of the Day of the Covenant!’” (TB 119/AKA 69)
Analysis. “Reference to the past,” as Wansbrough notes, “is paradigmatic and retroflexive,
again an expression of nostalgia” (SM 132). To this Hidden Word (Persian #19) we may
usefully apply Wansbrough’s description of numen, in which legitimation is subsumed “as
the product of a private vision” (SM 131). Bahā’u’llāh employs a numinous form of
legitimation for ecclesiastical purposes. “There is no question here of historical location,”
Wansbrough comments, “the achievement—in this case the recollection of the primordial
event—is personal, timeless in the sense that the precise circumstances of the epiphany do
not really matter.” “In this context, the eternity of divine utterance,” [**190] Wansbrough
adds, “being always and anywhere available, does not conflict with the alleged historicity of
its public manifestation” (SM 131).
A Symbolic Profile of the Bahā’ī Faith

In Bahā’ī salvation-history, the Covenant of God entails prophetic successorship from
age to age, attested by the covert terms of prophecy. It is generally accepted that the
individual believer has an obligation to embrace eschatological fulfillment when the advent
of a true prophet occurs, constituting a fresh locus of authority.
Global: Book of the Covenant: “O ye that dwell on earth (ay ahl-i ‘ālam)! The religion
of God is for love and unity (muḥabbat va ittiḥād); make it not the cause of enmity or
dissension. . . . We fain would hope that the people of Bahā may be guided by the
blessed words: ‘Say: All things are of God.’ This exalted utterance (kalima-yi ‘ulyā) is
like unto water for quenching the fire of hate and enmity (nār-i żaghīna va baghżā’)
which smouldereth within the hearts and breasts of men. By this single utterance
contending peoples and kindreds will attain the light of true unity (nūr-i ittiḥād-i
ḥaqīqī). . . . That which is conducive to the regeneration of the world (ḥayāt-i ‘ālam) and
the salvation of the peoples and kindreds of the earth (nijāt-i umam) hath been sent down
from the heaven of the utterance of Him Who is the Desire of the world.” (TB 220, 222,
223/MMM 400, 403)
Analysis. “Within the monotheist tradition,” Wansbrough writes, “the organizing principle
of a confessional community may be located in its definition of authority” (SM 50).
Bahā’u’llāh’s authority may be viewed as the organizing principle of the Bahā’ī community.
“The concepts of legitimation and redemption, familiar to every student of comparative
religion,” he elsewhere states, “are sociologically archetypal and more or less constant in the
analysis of monotheist faiths” (SM 130–31). Wansbrough speaks of Islam, and by extension
any of the monotheistic faiths, as “theodicy based upon a public epiphany deposited as the
document of revelation” (SM 130). Under these terms of reference, Bahā’u’llāh is the
epiphany and his writings the record of revelation. That revelation serves as the founding
document, the constitution of the community.
The Covenant of Bahā’u’llāh has both external and internal dimensions. The external
covenant concerns world unity. The internal covenant is focused on internal unity within the
Bahā’ī community. The Covenant governs and guarantees the integrity of the community, as
it models unity in a grand social experiment. While the Bahā’ī Faith has little or no “ritual”
in the performative sense of the term, its “ritual” elements are expressed in communal and
individual worship. The Covenant, while subscribed to at the level of the individual,
functions as the collective agreement to abide by the leadership provided by [**191] elected
Bahā’ī institutions (Local Spiritual Assemblies, National Spiritual Assemblies, The
Universal House of Justice). To merit moral authority in the eyes of the world as a model of
global unity, the integrity of the Bahā’ī community must be maintained, free of schism,
while allowing for mature and constructive freedom of expression.
Ethical: Illumination

“Illumination” covers a range of Bahā’ī metaphors that are obviously luciferous in nature.
This is an ethically charged key scenario. Its strategy for action is to orient the believer in
the direction of spiritual enlightenment, resulting in a transformation of thought and action.
A Symbolic Profile of the Bahā’ī Faith                                       155

Various entries in A Basic Bahā’ī Dictionary attest the symbolic importance of illumination.
These entries include specific metaphors and names of Tablets that are constructed on
models of illumination, to wit: century of light; Day of God; Dayspring of Revelation;
Daystar; Ishrāqāt, Splendours; Tajallīyāt, Effulgences; Ṭarāzāt, Ornaments; Seven Candles
of Unity. These have one image in common: enlightenment. Three representative texts are
as follows:
Personal: Persian Hidden Words #73: “O My Friend (ay dūst-i man)! Thou (tu) art the
day-star (shams) of the heavens of My holiness (samā-i quds-i manī khud-rā), let not the
defilement of the world (kusūf-i dunyā) eclipse thy splendor. Rend (kharq kun) asunder
the veil of heedlessness (ḥijāb-i ghaflat-rā), that [untranslated text: “free of covering or
veil” (bī-parda va ḥijāb)] from behind the clouds (khalf-i saḥāb) thou mayest emerge
resplendent and array all things (jamī‘-i mujūdāt-rā) with the apparel of life (bi-khil‘at-i
hastī).” (HW 50, Persian text, KM 62)
Analysis. Radiance, metaphorically, is typically the property of spirituality. But sometimes
it can be its opposite, as in some instances of fire imagery. Thus, light imagery has its “dark”
side as well. In HWP #57, Bahā’u’llāh warns that association with the ungodly “turneth the
radiance of the heart into infernal fire.” Light is capable of being either eternal or infernal,
visible or eclipsed. Either way, the power to influence is potent and potentially omnipresent,
like the spiritual sun dawning on the symbolic landscape, constrained mainly by the
obstructing resistance of individual willpower. Here, the individual is urged to overcome
self and passion, in order to radiate spirituality.
Proclamatory: Tablet of Maqṣūd: “The Great Being saith (ḥażrat-i mawjūdāt mī-
farmāyad): The Tongue of Wisdom (zabān-i khirad) proclaimeth: He that hath Me not is
bereft of all things. Turn ye [**192] away from all that is on earth and seek none else but
Me. I am the Sun of Wisdom and the Ocean of Knowledge (manam āftāb-i bīnish va
daryā-yi dānish). I cheer the faint (pazhmurdigān-rā) and revive the dead (murdigān-
rā). I am the guiding Light that illumineth the way (manam ān rushanāyī ka rāh-i dīda
binamāyam). I am the royal falcon on the arm of the Almighty (manam shāh-bāz-i dast-i
bī-nīyāz). I unfold the drooping wings of every broken bird (par-i bastigān-rā
bigushāyam) and start it on its flight (va parvāz biyāmūzam).” (TB 169/AKA 103)
Analysis. Illumination requires a source of illumination. Here, Bahā’u’llāh is represented as
an illuminator, not a redeemer. The “Sun of Wisdom and the Ocean of Knowledge” evokes
a panoramic image in which the entire landscape is suffused with the power and animus of
God, focused through Bahā’u’llāh. By means of this pantheistic symbolism, the revelation
of God is represented as the ground of spiritual being. The wisdom/knowledge complex
serves as a mental and moral beacon along the spiritual path. In this use of extended, but
mixed, metaphors, the bird-souls are animated by the royal falcon, a figure of phoenix-like
powers. The grandeur of such a scene serves as a proclamation of the greatness of the
Bahā’ī revelation.
A Symbolic Profile of the Bahā’ī Faith

Global: Epistle to the Son of the Wolf: “The utterance of God is a lamp (mishkāt-i
bayān), whose light (miṣbāh) is these words (īn kalima): [‘O peoples of the world! (ay
ahl-i ‘ālam)—missing in translation.] Ye are the fruits of one tree, and the leaves of one
branch (hama bār-i yak dārīd va barg-i yak shākhsār). Deal ye one with another with the
utmost love (bi-kamāl-i maḥabbat) and harmony (ittiḥād), with friendliness (maviddat)
and fellowship (ittifāq). He Who is the Day-Star of Truth beareth Me witness! So
powerful is the light of unity (nūr-i ittifāq) that it can illuminate the whole earth (āfāq-
rā). . . . This goal excelleth every other goal (īn qaṣd sulṭān-i maqāsid), and this
aspiration is the monarch of all aspirations (īn amal malik-i āmāl).” (GWB 288
[CXXXII]/MHB 184/ESW 14)
Analysis. Individual enlightenment is internal. But society is external. By his
enlightenment, Bahā’u’llāh provides the means for not only individual spiritual
advancement, but for the progress of society as well. In Bahā’ī soteriology, personal
salvation is dynamically linked to the needs of humanity. Systematic theologians may refer
to this as mutual salvation. Belief in Bahā’u’llāh is a commitment to mutual salvation. As
the sun (the Day-Star) is the source of all daylight, the power of unity to illumine the entire
world is logically entailed. This image also suggests its opposite: disunity—or darkness—
the Bahā’ī counterpart [**193] of “chaos” in its own Genesis myth of a world socially
recreated. Bahā’u’llāh has globalized light imagery to express his gospel of unity. (As a
textual note, the sentence from this last passage, “Ye are the fruits of one tree, and the leaves
of one branch” appears to be a citation from the Tablet to Mānakchī [DD 7-8].) Bahā’ī
ethics are predicated on unity.
Experiential: Lover and the Beloved

The strategy for action in this key scenario is to deepen the identification of the believer
with God, as “revealed” or personified in Bahā’u’llāh. In Bahā’ī terms, the “heart” is
defined as: “The symbolic centre of an individual’s spirituality” (BBD, s.v. “heart,” 101).
Similarly, the heart of Bahā’ī spirituality is God, who is revealed through Bahā’u’llāh, the
perfect mirror of the attributes and will of an otherwise inscrutable Deity. As the symbol of
God, Bahā’īs relate to Bahā’u’llāh as the Beloved. A carryover from Islamic mysticism
(Ṣufism), this may be thought of as a “mystical scenario.” Poetically, this relationship is
expressed in a variety of motifs:
Personal: [Untitled Tablet]: “Hear Me, ye mortal birds! (ay bulbulān-i fānī). In the Rose
Garden of changeless splendor (dar gulzār-i bāqī), a Flower (gulī) hath begun to bloom
(shikufta), compared to which every other flower is but a thorn (khār), and before the
brightness of Whose glory the very essence of beauty (jawhar-i jamāl) must pale and
wither (lit., bī miqdār). Arise, therefore (pas), and, with the whole enthusiasm of your
hearts (az dil), with all the eagerness of your souls (az jān), the full fervor of your will
(ravān), and the concentrated efforts of your entire being (az tan), strive to attain the
A Symbolic Profile of the Bahā’ī Faith                                       157

paradise of His presence (lit., liqā-yi bī-zavāl), and endeavor to inhale the fragrance of
the incorruptible Flower (lit., gul-i bī mathál), to breathe the sweet savors of holiness
(rāyiḥa-yi quds-i ruḥānī), and to obtain a portion (ḥiṣṣa) of this perfume of celestial
glory (lit., nasīm-i khẉush-i ṣabā-yi ma‘navī). Whoso followeth this counsel will break
his chains asunder, will taste the abandonment of enraptured love (īn pand band-hā
bigusilad va silsila-yi junūn-i ‘ishq-rā bijunbānad), will attain unto his heart’s desire
(dil-hā-rā bi-dil-dār rasānad), and will surrender his soul into the hands of his Beloved
(lit., jān-hā-rā bi-jānān sipārad).” (GWB 320–21/MHB 206/DD 30)
Analysis. In one of his Words of Wisdom, Bahā’u’llāh says: “The essence of love is for man
to turn his heart to the Beloved One, and sever himself from all else but Him, and desire
naught save that which is [**194] the desire of his Lord” (TB 155). Here, “rose and
nightingale” imagery, suffused with Sufi symbolism, vivifies and intensifies the experience
of believer identification with the Theophany, Bahā’u’llāh, pictured here as a celestial rose.
The Lover/Beloved relationship is expressed in the relationship of birds to the exquisite
setting of a rose garden, in which a rose of surpassing beauty enthralls the bird-souls. Just as
the quest for the Beloved is the paramount goal of Islamic mysticism, so, too, the mystical
scenario in Bahā’ī texts is the quest for the Beloved as the revelation (“glory” or “splendor”)
of God, implicit in the name, Bahā’u’llāh.
Proclamatory: [Untitled Tablet]: “Behold how the manifold grace of God, which is
being showered from the clouds of Divine glory (faḍl-i subḥānī az ghamām-i raḥmānī),
hath, in this day (dar īn ayyām), encompassed the world (iḥātik). For whereas in days
past (lit., agar-cha tā hāl) every lover (‘āshiqān) besought and searched after his
Beloved (ma‘shūq va maḥbūb), it is the Beloved Himself Who now is calling His lovers
(ma‘shūq ṭālib-i ‘ushshāq mi-namāyad) and is inviting them to attain His presence (va
maḥbūb jūyā-yi aḥbāb gashta). Take heed lest ye forfeit so precious a favor (īn faḍl-rā
ghanīmat shamrīd); beware lest ye belittle so remarkable a token of His grace (va īn
ni‘mat-rā kam nashmurīd).” (GWB 320/MHB 206/DD 29-30)
Analysis. This is a proclamation that the Beloved has arrived, but with a dramatic twist. A
background in the Persian mystical tradition is essential in grasping the full impact of this
poignant passage. In traditional Persian poetry, it is always the lover who seeks after the
Beloved. In this scene, however, Bahā’u’llāh evokes a sudden reversal of roles: It is now the
Beloved who beckons the lover. The “grace” of such a turnaround cannot be lost on the
reader: a real, reciprocal relationship between the lover and the Beloved is now possible.
This imagery speaks to the rapport between believer and Theophany.
Global: Tablet of Maqṣūd: “The Word of God is the king of words (sulṭān-i kalimāt)
and its pervasive influence is incalculable. It hath ever dominated and will continue to
dominate the realm of being. The Great Being saith: The Word is the master key for the
whole world (miftāḥ-i a‘ẓam), inasmuch as through its potency the doors of the hearts of
men (abvāb-i qulūb), which in reality are the doors of heaven (abvāb-i sama’), are
A Symbolic Profile of the Bahā’ī Faith

unlocked (maftūḥ). No sooner had but a glimmer of its effulgent splendour shone forth
upon the mirror of love (mir‘at-i ḥubb) than the blessed word ‘I am the Best-Beloved’
was reflected therein. It is an ocean (bahr) inexhaustible in riches, comprehending all
things (lit., [**195] dārā va jāmi‘). Every thing which can be perceived (har-cha idrāk
shavad) is but an emanation therefrom (ẓāhir gardad).” (TB 173/AKA 107)
Analysis. In this text, the Beloved is incarnated in scripture. Scripture mirrors the wishes of
the Beloved. This mystical scenario helps the believer cultivate more deeply a love of God,
personified in Bahā’u’llāh as the “Best-Beloved”—orienting the believer, as a strategy for
action, to reliance on the “Word of God” as the “king of words.” The universal ramifications
of this passage are obvious: Bahā’ī scripture is placed on a par with sacred scripture,
surpassing even the Bible or the Qur’ān in revelatory immediacy. Note how Paradise (the
“doors of heaven”) is equated with the “doors of men’s hearts.” The image of the Beloved
focalizes and intensifies the experiential dimension of Bahā’ī life.
Mythic: The Maiden of Heaven
“Scripture,” as Wansbrough defines it, “is understood to record a single historical act: the
transfer by angelic mediation of God’s decree from a celestial to a terrestrial register” (QS
131). In Bahā’ī terms, the “angelic mediation” to which Wansbrough refers is the celestial
“Maiden of Heaven” (ḥūrī). She is a singular houri, understood by Bahā’īs to symbolize the
Holy Spirit and the source of Bahā’u’llāh’s revelation. Not to be trite, but the celestial
Maiden is Bahā’u’llāh’s muse, as it were. Her symbolic importance is indicated by the
lexical entry in A Basic Bahā’ī Dictionary (s.v. “Maiden of Heaven,” 142–43). Although the
idea of otherworldly, black-eyed damsels is Qur’ānic, Bahā’u’llāh’s specific maiden
imagery originated with the Bāb, who wrote in the “Sūra of the Maiden” (Sūrat al-Ḥūrīya):
“O people of the earth! By the righteousness of the One true God, I am the Maid of Heaven
(al-ḥūrīya) begotten by the Spirit of Bahā (waladtanī al-bahā’), abiding within the Mansion
hewn out of a mass of ruby, tender and vibrant; and in this mighty Paradise naught have I
ever witnessed save that which proclaimeth the Remembrance of God by extolling the
virtues of this Arabian Youth.” (Qayyūm al-Asmā’ 29, tr. SWB 54; cited in Lambden
1997-1998, 34). To the extent that the Maiden of Heaven is symbolic, she is mythic. This
does not, however, diminish her reality.
Bahā’u’llāh has described the Maiden of Heaven in a number of works. She appears to
function as his alter ego or celestial twin, as it were, almost in a Manichaean sense. She also
has a corporate (symbolic of faith-community) function in that she is the litmus test of
spiritual perspicuity and faithfulness, in her mythic search for the faithful believer. This is
what one might consider an emotively intensifying “identification scenario” in which the
believer’s faith in Bahā’u’llāh is deepened through contemplation on the Maiden of [**196]
Heaven’s fidelity to her beloved. This figure will be explicated later, in the concluding
section dealing with what is termed “the core Bahā’ī myth.”
More traditionally Islamic is the pairing of houris with believers in Paradise. Here, the
identification scenario predicates “admittance into Paradise” with fulfilling the will of God:
A Symbolic Profile of the Bahā’ī Faith                                       159

Personal: Sūra of Vafā (= Wafā—titles of Arabic tablets are Persianized in Bahā’ī
usage): “As to Paradise (al-jannat): It is a reality (ḥaqq) and there can be no doubt about
it, and now (al-yawm) in this world it is realized through love of Me and My good-
pleasure (ḥubbī wa riḍā’ī). Whosoever attaineth unto it God will aid him in this world
below, and after death (ba‘d al-mawt) He will enable him to gain admittance into
Paradise (fī jannat) whose vastness (arḍ) is as that of heaven and earth. Therein the
Maids of glory and holiness (ḥūrīyāt al-‘izzat wa al-taqdīs) will wait upon him in the
daytime and in the night season, while the day-star (shams) of the unfading beauty of his
Lord will at all times (fī kull ḥīn) shed its radiance (yastaḍī’) upon him and he will shine
so brightly that no one shall bear to gaze at him.” (TB 189/AKA 117-18)
Analysis. Paradise is pictured anthropomorphically on purpose. Maidens of Heaven, as
inhabitants of paradise, take on a variety of symbolic functions in Bahā’u’llāh’s writings. In
a departure from Bahā’u’llāh’s primary use of Maiden symbolism, the Qur’ān’s promise of
dark-eyed damsels requiting the true believer is preserved in this passage, as a traditional
Islamic warrant of the reality of Paradise. Thus, the Maidens retain their eschatological
function in tending to the faithful soul in heaven. On one level, this provides assurance of
the afterlife—described in ideal but nevertheless earthly terms—creating a romantic
expectation the sensuality of which is decoded at a higher level of discourse. While the
maidens are real, they are not literal. They are actually symbolic embodiments of spiritual
perfections, which have become the alter egos of faithful believers. Bahā’u’llāh disenchants
Paradise of a certain amorous sensuality which too literal a reading of Qur’ānic texts entails.
The Qur’ān’s mysticoerotic descriptions are held to be purely symbolic. This does not
disinvest Paradise of its reality, but rarefies the believer’s understanding of it. The Maidens
are personifications of the pearls of insight, the intimate companions of the pious soul.
Individual enlightenment may be thought of as a lesser form of revelation: viz., inspiration,
dependent upon Bahā’u’llāh’s revelation, with which a singular Maiden par exellence is
associated.
Proclamatory: Tablet of Riḍvān: “Within this Paradise, and from the heights of its
loftiest chambers, the Maids of Heaven (fī hā [**197] ḥūrīyāt min a‘lá al-ghurafāt) have
cried out and shouted: ‘Rejoice, ye dwellers of the realms above (ahl al-jinān), for the
fingers of Him Who is the Ancient of Days are ringing, in the name of the All-Glorious,
the Most Great Bell (nāqūs al-a‘ẓam), in the midmost heart of the heavens (quṭb al-
samā’). The hands of bounty have borne round the cup of everlasting life (lit., kawthar
[a river of Paradise]  al-baqā’). Approach, and quaff your fill.” (GWB 32/MHB 29)
Analysis. In Bahā’ī understanding, the Maiden of Heaven is intimately linked with the
agency of revelation. Her role eludes precise formulation. It is safest to say that the Maiden
of Heaven is coincident with the act of revelation. The Maiden’s first role is that of
annunciator. In this respect, she is the counterpart of the archangel Gabriel in Islam. The
Maiden’s first appearance to Bahā’u’llāh was during his imprisonment in the “Black
A Symbolic Profile of the Bahā’ī Faith

Pit” (Sīyāh-Chāl) in 1852, where, in a vision, she assured Bahā’u’llāh of God’s protection
and, moreover, of God’s revelation to him. In Christian terms, this may be thought of as
Annunciation. In this passage, the Annunciation becomes proclamation, a public
announcement of Bahā’u’llāh’s advent, not by the Maiden, but by the houris of paradise
generally. This heavenly acclaim compensates for the relative lack of earthly recognition, as
only a small proportion of the world’s population professes to be Bahā’īs.
Global: [Untitled Tablet]: “Through the might of God and His power (bi-quva-yi
yazdānī va qudrat-i ruḥānī), and out of the treasury of His knowledge and wisdom
(kanz-i ‘ilm va ḥikmat-i rabbānī), I have brought forth and revealed unto you the pearls
that lay concealed in the depths of His everlasting ocean (la’ālī-yi ṣadaf-i bahr-i
ṣamadānī). I have summoned the Maids of Heaven (lit., ḥūrīyāt-i ghuraf-i sitr va ḥijāb-
ra) to emerge from behind the veil of concealment, and have clothed them with these
words of Mine—words of consummate power and wisdom (dar maẓāhir-i īn kalimāt-i
muḥkamāt maḥshūr nimūdam). I have, moreover, with the hand of divine power,
unsealed the choice wine of My Revelation (lit., inā’-i musk-i aḥadīya-rā), and have
wafted its holy, its hidden, and musk-laden fragrance (ravā’iḥ-i quds-i maknūna) upon
all created things. Who else but yourselves is to be blamed if ye choose to remain
unendowed with so great an outpouring of God’s transcendent and all-encompassing
grace, with so bright a revelation of His resplendent mercy?” (GWB 327-28/MHB
210-11)
Analysis. Beyond the Qur’ān, in Bahā’ī texts, the Maiden imagery focuses attention on
Bahā’u’llāh, the earthly locus of Paradise. This Bahā’ī “myth” even extends beyond
Bahā’u’llāh: the Maiden also has [**198] an apocalyptic function, orienting Bahā’īs to the
advent of another Manifestation of God a millennium or so (future timing unspecified, but
understood as 1,000 or more years later, based on other Bahā’ī texts) in the future, as
indicated in Persian Hidden Words #77.
In this passage, the dark-eyed damsels are “clothed” in scripture. The implication being
that the reading of scripture actuates an encounter with the maidens, who, in mystic
transport, unveil to the believer the divine “wisdom and power” that reside in the text.
Bahā’ī scripture is thus transcendentalized, but universalized at the same time. While
paradise is typically thought of in transcendent, “vertical” terms, scripture potentializes
paradise in mundane, “horizontal” terms. If its function is to orient humanity to the will of
God, then sacred scripture potentially has global, world-historical influence. It is premature
to assess the present or eventual impact of the Bahā’ī revelation, which is seen as having
covert as well as overt influences on globalization.
Social: The Crimson Ark and the Holy Mariner

The Crimson Ark forms part of what one might refer to as a faith-affirming “scenario of
assurance and solidarity,” which conduces to social cohesion. The “Holy Mariner” is
modeled on the patriarch Noah, an archetypal savior figure. While the specific imagery of
A Symbolic Profile of the Bahā’ī Faith                                       161

the Ark traces back to the Bāb, I have not yet found a Bābī text in which the Mariner
himself actually figures in a key scenario or dramatic scene. Indicative of their twinned,
symbolic importance, both Crimson Ark and Holy Mariner are found as entries in A Basic
Bahā’ī Dictionary (s.v. “Ark, Crimson” [24] and “Holy Mariner, Tablet of the” [105]). The
Crimson Ark, much like Noah’s ark, is a symbol of salvation. The Ark is a corporate
symbol. It suggests that individual salvation cannot be dissociated from the community of
the saved. The following texts are representative of such imagery:
Personal: Words of Paradise: “Blessed (ṭūbá) is he who preferreth (akhtāra) his brother
before himself. Verily, such a man is reckoned, by virtue of the Will of God, the All-
Knowing, the All-Wise, with the people of Bahā who dwell in the Crimson Ark (ahl al-
Bahā’ fī al-safīnat al-ḥamrā’).” (TB 71/AKA 39)
Analysis. In this beatitude from the “Tenth Leaf of the Most Exalted Paradise,” admittance
into the Crimson Ark is conditioned not only on belief, but on altruism. If the purpose of
faith is to effect a spiritual transformation of the individual, it follows that belief must be
actualized and amplified in moral behavior. In this “scenario of assurance and solidarity,”
there is, indeed, assurance of salvation, but only if one who [**199] professes to be a Bahā’ī
actually becomes a Bahā’ī in character. This is not a matter of faith versus works, as in St.
Paul or Luther, because faith and works cannot be opposed in Bahā’ī thought. One is the
complement of the other. Faith is the catalyst of personal transformation. Perfection
(whether by faith or works) is not required, but rather a personal transformation effected by
certitude of faith (belief in Bahā’u’llāh), moral rectitude (in following the Bahā’ī laws and
Covenant) and sanctification (internalized holiness) which may be said to constitute a
Bahā’ī “order of salvation”—to borrow a Christian concept expressed in systematic
theology. When moral behavior is socially referenced, each individual’s actions are seen as
having communal significance. The ark-dwellers, as the biblical narrative suggests, must
live together in harmony. The Ark saves not only from without, but from within.
Proclamatory: Kitāb-i Aqdas (al-Kitāb al-Aqdas) “How great the blessedness that
awaiteth the king who will arise to aid My Cause in My Kingdom, who will detach
himself from all else but Me! Such a king is numbered with the companions of the
Crimson Ark—the Ark which God hath prepared for the people of Bahā. All must
glorify his name, must reverence his station, and aid him to unlock the cities with the
keys of My Name, the omnipotent Protector of all that inhabit the visible and invisible
kingdoms. Such a king is the very eye of mankind, the luminous ornament on the brow
of creation, the fountainhead of blessings unto the whole world.” (K84, 50)

Analysis. As with the first selection, this second text identifies the inmates of the Crimson
Ark as the “people of Bahā”—the Bahā’īs. While Bahā’īs hail from every background, a
Bahā’ī member of royalty, as a public figure, has a position of considerable importance. The
monarch who professes to be a Bahā’ī, as had Queen Marie of Rumania who stated her
Bahā’ī allegiance publicly in the Toronto Daily Star (28 October 1926) and now His
Highness Malietoa Tanumafili II of Western Samoa, whose conversion to the Bahā’ī Faith
A Symbolic Profile of the Bahā’ī Faith

was announced in 1973, has a distinct place of honor within the Ark. In the miasma of social
chaos, the enlightened ruler is described as “the very eye of mankind,” a moral beacon. A
member of royalty can add greatly to the prestige of the Faith, aiding in its proclamation.
Global: Tablet of Carmel: “Ere long will God sail His Ark (safīnat Allāh) upon thee,
and will manifest the people of Bahā (ahl al-Bahā’) who have been mentioned in the
Book of Names (Kitāb al-Asmā’ = Qayyūm al-Asmā’?).” (TB 5/GWB 16/AKA 19;
Lambden 1997–1998, 35, n. 33)
[**200] Analysis. This final passage is construed as a prophecy foretelling completion of the
Seat of the Universal House of Justice on the sacred slopes of Mt. Carmel (BBD, s.v. “Ark,”
23). Thus, the Ark is launched by the Holy Mariner (Bahā’u’llāh) from Baghdad, and comes
to rest on Mt. Carmel. Over both land and sea, the Crimson Ark rises above the flood of
social chaos. On the sacred mountain, the Ark symbolizes the Bahā’ī institutions, especially
the Universal House of Justice, the elected, international Bahā’ī council that oversees the
Bahā’ī world. Religion must be institutionalized before it can be truly effective in promoting
reform, so long as institutions canalize spiritual energy and activity for the welfare of others.
Administering the affairs of the Faith requires proficiency in the art of consultation. Its
efficacy is predicated on the integrity of individual members who, collectively, function as
institutions. Now that the Universal House of Justice is the helm of the Bahā’ī ship of state,
it functions as the proverbial Mariner.
Root Metaphors
Doctrinal: Physician

While key scenarios inspire ideal behavior, root metaphors orient thoughts. Of course,
thoughts typically precede action, so the result is much the same. It may be said that root
metaphors complement key scenarios.
As salvation systems, world religions have something to offer. Each religion’s offer of
salvation is referenced to a particular human predicament, whether that be sin, as in the case
of Christianity, or suffering, as in the case of Buddhism. A religion cannot dispense
salvation unless there is a presenting problem to be overcome. In the Bahā’ī worldview, the
root of all social evil is disunity, from injustice to war. This is a disease model, certainly. It
follows, therefore, that where there is a disease, there ought to be a cure. As the diagnosis
and treatment of a disease requires a physician, spiritual disorders require the intervention of
a “divine physician”:
Personal: Tablet to Mānakchī Ṣāḥib: “The All-Knowing Physician (pizishk-i dānā) hath
His finger on the pulse of mankind (rag-i jahān [lit., pulse of the world]). He perceiveth
the disease (lit., dard, “pain”), and prescribeth, in His unerring wisdom, the remedy
(darmān). Every age (har rūz-rā) hath its own problem (rāzī [lit., secret]), and every
soul (har sar-rā) its particular aspiration (āvāzī). The remedy the world needeth in its
present-day afflictions can never be the same as that which a subsequent age may
A Symbolic Profile of the Bahā’ī Faith                                       163

[**201] require. Be anxiously concerned with the needs of the age ye live in (imrūz-rā
nigarān bāshīd), and center your deliberations on its exigencies and requirements. . . .
Say (bigū): O ye who are as dead (ay murdigān)! The hand of Divine bounty proferreth
unto you the Water of Life (āb-i zindigānī). Hasten and drink your fill. Whoso hath been
reborn in this Day, shall never die; whoso remaineth dead, shall never live.” (GWB 213/
MHB 138–39).
Analysis. While the remedy in this passage is not specified, the authority of the divine
physician is stressed. The “All-Knowing Physician” is Bahā’u’llāh. He prescribes the cure
for the world’s social ills, but the remedy cannot be forced on people. While it may give the
impression of being too facile, the cure offered by Bahā’u’llāh, in his capacity as the divine
physician, is unity. This unity is really a complex of interlocking interventions, addressing
social reforms as well as individual transformation. Still, despite its multifarious
applications, the organizing principle, the healing force, is unity. Unity is not a hard pill to
swallow, but it does involve a regimen. So long as humanity (the corporate patient) does not
place itself under the care of the Physician, it will fail to avail itself of the cure. In the next
passage, the socioreligious “cure” is proclaimed, in an open letter to Queen Victoria:
Proclamatory: Tablet to Queen Victoria: “O ye elected representatives (aṣḥāb al-majlis)
of the peoples in every land! Take ye counsel together, and let your concern be only for
that which profiteth mankind, and bettereth the condition thereof, if ye be of them that
scan heedfully. Regard the world as the human body (ka haykal insān) which, though at
its creation whole and perfect (ṣaḥīḥ wa kāmil), hath been afflicted, through various
causes, with grave disorders and maladies. . . . That which the Lord hath ordained as the
sovereign remedy (al-daryāq al-a‘ẓam) and mightiest instrument for the healing of all
the world is the union (ittiḥād) of all its peoples in one universal Cause (amr wāḥid), one
common Faith (sharī‘a wāḥida). This can in no wise be achieved except through the
power of a skilled, an all-powerful and inspired Physician (ṭabīb ḥādhiq kāmil
mu’ayid).” (GWB 254–55/MHB 164)
Analysis. From 1866–1870, in open letters to the world’s most powerful rulers and religious
leaders of his day, Bahā’u’llāh proclaimed his mission and the essential elements of his
teachings. In his epistle to Queen Victoria (c. 1869), a solution to the world’s ills is offered,
in the form of a universal value system, a moral code to which all nations and peoples might
subscribe. Such a proposal was intrinsically momentous and sudden, ahead of its time. At
that time, however, Bahā’u’llāh did not [**202] have the status and thus the perceived
authority to warrant serious consideration of his world reforms by world leaders. Apart from
the veracity of the truth-claims it entails, this Hippocratic root metaphor suggests that the
entire planet should recognize the prescriptive authority of Bahā’u’llāh as “a skilled, an all-
powerful and inspired Physician.” Time will tell whether or not the Bahā’ī religion will
succeed in its utopian aims to bring about world unity.
A Symbolic Profile of the Bahā’ī Faith

Global: Tablet to Fatḥ-i A‘ẓam: “The Prophets of God should be regarded as physicians
(payāmbarān [sic] chun pizishkān-and) whose task is to foster the well-being of the
world and its peoples, that, through the spirit of oneness (bi-darmān-i yigānigī), they
may heal the sickness of a divided humanity (bīmārī-yi bīgānigī). . . . The whole of
mankind (mardumān-ra) is in the grip of manifold ills (bīmārī). Strive, therefore, to save
its life through the wholesome medicine (darmān) which the almighty hand of the
unerring Physician (pizishk-i yazdān) hath prepared.” (GWB 80-81/MHB 59)
Analysis. As a faith-community, Bahā’īs are known for their ideological commitment to
making the earth as one homeland. Whether in the realm of the secular or of the sacred,
implementation of Bahā’ī ideals is effected through a variety of instrumentalities. However,
most of the actual progress towards world unity to date has taken place in the secular sphere.
This fact has been acknowledged in certain Bahā’ī texts, in which non-Bahā’īs have been
recognized for their contributions to the advancement of peace, justice, and world order.
Bahā’u’llāh praised Queen Victoria for having abolished slavery in her kingdom, especially
at a time when the slave-trade continued to be practiced in the Muslim world. President
Woodrow Wilson is another prime example of this kind of recognition. ‘Abdu’l-Bahā once
commented that Wilson and his ideals signalized the dawn of the Most Great Peace (ADJ
85). The cure was already being partially administered by enlightened leaders, as though it
were the spirit of the age. This powerful root metaphor inclines Bahā’īs to interpret events
that promote global unity, in both secular and sacred spheres, as evidence of a divine
Physician at work, behind the scenes.
Ritual: Wine/Water of Life

Sacred beverages, as portrayed in Bahā’ī texts, are elixirs of immortality, knowledge, and
ecstasy. The Water of Life, for instance, was introduced by the first of three physician texts
cited above. Wine is a salient motif. Its relative importance is indicated by its selection as a
separate entry in A Basic Bahā’ī Dictionary (s.v. “Wine,” 236). A recent journal [**203]
article on the Bahā’ī symbolism of wine underscores its importance (Hatcher 1994b; cf.
McAuliffe 1984):
Personal: Persian Hidden Word #62: “O Son of Dust (ay pisar-i khāk)! Turn not away
thine eyes (chashm mapūsh) from the matchless wine of the immortal Beloved (az
khamr bī mithāl-i maḥbūb-i lāyazāl), and open them not (chashm magushā) to foul and
mortal dregs (bi-khamr-i kadra-yi fānīya). Take (bar gīr) from the hands of the divine
Cup-bearer (az dast-i sāqī-yi ahadīya) the chalice of immortal life (ku’ūs-i bāqīya), that
all wisdom may be thine (tā hūsh shavī), and that thou mayest hearken (shinavī) unto the
mystic voice calling from the realm of the invisible (az surūsh-i ghayb-i ma‘navī). Cry
aloud (bigū), ye that are of low aim (ay past fitrat-an)! Wherefore (chirā) have ye turned
away from My holy and immortal wine (sharāb-i bāqī-yi qudsam) unto evanescent
water (āb-i fānī)?” (ET: HW 46; Persian text, KM 56)
A Symbolic Profile of the Bahā’ī Faith                                       165

Analysis. Wine is most frequently used as a metaphor for God-intoxication induced by the
revelation of Bahā’u’llāh. As the earthly locus of divinity, Bahā’u’llāh is seen as the
powered presence of the sacred, the nimbus of the numinous, the incarnation of divine
attributes, as God revealed. This discovery, for those who embrace it, gives cause for
celebration. The celestial champagne is unsealed, so to speak, upon reunion with the
Beloved (recognition of Bahā’u’llāh), but the real reward, in Bahā’ī terms, is the satisfaction
gained in fidelity to Bahā’u’llāh’s laws, to which wine is symbolically compared. In the
preamble to the Most Holy Book, Bahā’u’llāh characterizes his law-code as “choice Wine”:

Proclamatory: Kitāb-i Aqdas: “By My life! He who hath drunk the choice wine of
fairness from the hands of My bountiful favour will circle around My commandments
that shine above the Dayspring of My creation. Think not that We have revealed unto
you a mere code of laws. Nay, rather, We have unsealed the choice Wine (raḥīq
makhtūm) with the fingers of might and power. To this beareth witness that which the
Pen of Revelation hath revealed. Meditate upon this, O men of insight!” (K5–K6/KA 21)
Analysis. Wine is a heavenly beverage, symbolic of ecstasy. As a key symbol, it can never
be literalized. Bahā’u’llāh has distinguished alcoholic wine from symbolic wine: “We meant
by this Wine, the River of God, and His favour, the fountain of his living waters, and the
Mystic Wine and its divine grace, even as it was revealed in the Qur’ān, if ye are of those
who understand” (cited in Hatcher 1997, 223). The [**204] intoxication of the spirit must
be earned, while the intoxication of earthly wine is simply a reflex of the nervous system to
a low-level poison.
The intoxicant is outlawed, not the intoxication. The believer who abstains from wine is
one who is likely to comply with other religious requirements. In the application of the
Bahā’ī proscription of wine, a principle of gradualism is followed, especially in traditional
cultures where wine drinking is accepted and is part of the prevalent lifestyle. As a root
metaphor, wine speaks to the ritual dimension of the Bahā’ī religion (by which its legal
dimension is meant), in symbolically expressing obedience to Bahā’ī law while literally
forbidding, in principle and wherever practicable, the consumption of wine itself.
Bahā’u’llāh invites scrutiny of his laws and precepts, to inspire confidence in their
wisdom and potential efficacy. The laws are rooted in principles—principles worthy of
recognition, whose merit deserves to be celebrated. Engendering enthusiasm for the Bahā’ī
agenda, this passage sets a tone for the rest of the Most Holy Book and its supplementary
texts.
Global: Kitāb-i Aqdas: “This day, it behoveth whoso hath quaffed the Mystic Wine of
Everlasting Life from the Hands of the loving-kindness of the Lord his God, the
Merciful, to pulsate even as the throbbing artery in the body of mankind, that through
him may be quickened the world and every crumbling bone.” (K173/KA 82)
Analysis. While wine is a corporate symbol for Bahā’ī laws, these laws are intended for the
world to follow. Observing Bahā’ī laws aids in the individual’s spiritual progress and
A Symbolic Profile of the Bahā’ī Faith

transformation, and has an edifying impact on society. That impact may be small, but it is
cumulative.
Ethical: Mirror/Gems

Reflective, radiant, and lustrous, mirrors and precious stones and pearls are often clustered
together in Bahā’ī texts, with more or less equivalent symbolism. Mirrors need burnishing,
gems require polishing, pearls must be lustrous rather than dull. It is not the fact of being a
jewel that counts; rather, it is the quality of refinement that proves the jewel’s worth. So it is
that refinement of mind and heart is what counts most, yet these are not ends unto
themselves. The true test of refinement is the impact of spiritual attainments on society.
Most of Bahā’u’llāh’s symbolism is purely Perso-Islamic, but the immediate background
of Bahā’ī symbolism is Bābī. The Bāb made extensive use of mirror imagery, to wit: “The
One true God may be compared unto the sun and the believer unto a mirror. No sooner is
the mirror placed before the sun than it reflects its light. The unbeliever [**205] may be
likened unto a stone. . . . Indeed, if God willeth, He is potent to turn the stone into a
mirror. . . . Had he wished to become a crystal, God would have made him assume crystal
form” (SWB 103). As the most perfect reflective surface, the mirror of the heart is said to
reflect supernal light. But the mirror must first be polished, and oriented towards the source
of light, before it can reflect light. This self-refinement is expressive of ethical intent and
assiduous application:
Personal: The Seven Valleys: “O My Brother! (ay barādar-i man) A pure heart is as a
mirror (qalb-i laṭīf bi-manzala-yi ā’yīna ast); cleanse it with the burnish of love and
severance (bi-ṣayqal-i ḥubb va inqiṭā‘) from all save God, that the true sun (āftāb-i
ḥaqīqī) may shine within it and the eternal morning (ṣubḥ-i azalī) dawn. . . . Yea, these
mentionings that have been made of the grades of knowledge (marātib-i ‘irfān) relate to
the knowledge of the Manifestations of that Sun of Reality (ma‘rifat-i tajallīyāt-i ān
shams-i ḥaqīqat), which casteth Its light (nūr) upon the Mirrors (marāyā). And the
splendor of that light is in the hearts (tajallī-yi ān nūr dar qulūb), yet it is hidden under
the veilings of sense (ḥujabāt-i nafsānīya) and the conditions of this earth (lit. va
shu’ūnāt-i ‘araḍīya—[text misread as arḍīya]), even as a candle within a lantern of iron
(chun sham‘ zīr-i fānūs-i ḥadīd), and only when the lantern is removed (literally,
murtafa‘, “raised”) doth the light of the candle shine out. In like manner, when thou
strippest the wrappings of illusion (ḥujabāt-i afkīya) from off thine heart, the lights of
oneness (anvār-i aḥadīya) will be made manifest.” (SV 21, 23–24/AQA III: 113, 116)
Analysis. Mirrors are perfect reflectors only under perfect conditions. Bahā’u’llāh’s image
of the mirror is that of a brass mirror, not the mercury-coated glass we now think of as
mirrors. Mirrors reflect whatever is in front of them, but cannot reflect unless polished. The
burnishing of mirrors spoken of in Bahā’ī texts assumes an essential orientation of the
heart’s mirror towards the realm of spirit, so that what is required is not reorienting the
mirror so much as refining it.
A Symbolic Profile of the Bahā’ī Faith                                       167

Proclamatory: The Book of Certitude: “The door (abvāb, lit. “doors”) of the knowledge
(‘irfān) of the Ancient of Days (dhāt-i azal) being thus closed in the face of all beings,
the Source of infinite grace, according to His saying, “His grace hath transcended all
things; My grace hath encompassed them all,” hath caused those luminous Gems of
Holiness (javāhir-i quds-i nūrānī) to appear out of the realm of the spirit (‘avālim-i ruḥ-i
ruḥānī), in the noble form of the human temple, and be made manifest unto all men,
that they may impart unto the world the mysteries of the [**206] unchangeable Being,
and tell of the subtleties of His imperishable Essence. These sanctified Mirrors (īn
mārāyā-yi qudsīya), these Day-springs of ancient glory, are, one and all, the Exponents
on earth of Him Who is the central Orb of the universe (shams-i vujūd), its Essence and
ultimate Purpose (jawhar-i maqṣūd). . . .
These Tabernacles of Holiness (hayākil-i qudsīya), these Primal Mirrors (mārāyā-yi
avalīya-yi azalīya) which reflect the light of unfading glory, are but expressions of Him
Who is the Invisible of the Invisibles (ghayb al-ghuyūb). By the revelation of these
Gems of Divine virtue all the names and attributes of God, such as knowledge and
power, sovereignty and dominion, mercy and wisdom, glory, bounty, and grace, are
made manifest.” (BC 99-100, 103/KI 74-75, 77)
Analysis. Images frequently associated with mirrors in Bahā’ī texts are gems and pearls. All
three are metaphorically synonymous. In this passage, there is a shift in focus from
imperfect to perfect mirrors, from imperfect to perfect gems. The perfect mirrors are the
“Primal Mirrors”—the Prophets or Manifestations of God—from which all secondary
mirrors borrow their light. Unique to the Primal Mirrors is their ability to translate invisible
light to visible light. This, of course, is supernal light, defined as the attributes of God.
Reflection of godly radiance at the human level are spiritual attributes, nearly all of which
have ethical associations. Whatever the symbolism, Bahā’u’llāh’s proclamations draw a
dynamic connection between the prophets or “Manifestations of God” and the installation or
personal discovery of the higher self.
Global: Words of Paradise: “O people of Bahā! The source of crafts, sciences and arts is
the power of reflection. Make ye every effort that out of this ideal mine (ma‘dan-i
ḥaqīqī) there may gleam forth such pearls of wisdom and utterance (la’ālī-yi ḥikmat va
bayān) as will promote the well-being and harmony (āsāyish va ittiḥād) of all the
kindreds of the earth.” (TB 72/AKA 40)
Analysis. Development of human potential, if it fails to make the world a better place, is
seen as fruitless. In the American Tibetan Buddhist tradition, this has been called “spiritual
materialism.” Society without religion is ill equipped to cultivate human virtues and nobility
of character. Without the positive influence of religion, society can promote humanism and
materialistic idealism, but this is unlikely to produce qualities of compassion and altruism,
at least to the degree that religion can in its ideal form. In the Bahā’ī worldview, the measure
of a person’s worth is the degree to which he or she has made [**207] a positive
A Symbolic Profile of the Bahā’ī Faith

contribution to human welfare. The alleviation of suffering, the moral and scientific
education of society, and the general betterment of the human condition is integral to the
Bahā’ī theology of mutual salvation. Pearls and gems are typically semiprecious or rare, as
are saints, great artists, or renowned scientists. This “Word of Paradise” therefore concerns
trades, professions, and scientific research, establishing a linkage between individual and
social ethics.
Experiential: The Journey

In her phenomenology of mysticism, Evelyn Underhill (1961, ch. 6) speaks of three motifs
universally used to narrate mystical experience in forms of allegory. These are: the journey,
alchemy, and love (cited by Schimmel 1982, 64). In Sufi literature, the salience of these
motifs cannot fail to impress the reader. The interior “journey” (safar) symbolizes the
“wandering” (sulūk) of the “wayfarer” (sālik) on the path to God. “Alchemy” (al-kīmiyā’) is
the soul’s transformation along the way. Platonically passionate “love” (‘ishq) leads to union
with the Divine. The first and third motifs are easily intertwined in stories of the quest for
the Beloved.
At the heart of Persian Sufi poetry is love mysticism. Earthly love, or “metaphorical
love” (‘ishq-i majāzī), is emblematic of heavenly love. The nightingale and the rose—the
lover and the beloved—is a salient motif. Allegorically, spiritual love is richly symbolized
by the longing of the nightingale (bulbul) for the rose (gul, cf. Schimmel 1958). ‘Aṭṭār has
the nightingale exclaim: “The nightingale has no strength to love the Sīmurgh—/for the
nightingale the love of the rose is enough” (Schimmel 1992a, 179).
Sufi mysticism was a major stream that fed into Bahā’u’llāh’s expressive style and
evolving program of reform. According to Amanat, Bahā’u’llāh’s early works composed in
the Sufi tradition “reveal a mystical outlook pivotal to his later messianic claims and his
sociomoral reforms” (1989, 364). Foremost among the mystical works of Bahā’u’llāh is The
Seven Valleys (Haft Vādī). Unofficially, Bahā’u’llāh’s The Seven Valleys was the first
Bahā’ī book ever published, lithographed in India by Jamal Effendi. (Because the work was
published anonymously, many thought Jamal Effendi was himself the author.) The
revelation of The Seven Valleys was occasioned by the questions of Shaykh Muḥyi al-Dīn,
the Qāḍī of Khāniqayn, a village northeast of Baghdad near the Persian border. Based on
‘Aṭṭār’s celebrated fable, Manṭiq al-Ṭayr (commonly known in English as The Conference
of the Birds), Bahā’u’llāh draws heavily on the symbolism of the mystical quest. Both Farīd
al-Dīn ‘Aṭṭār (d. 1220) and Bahā’u’llāh employ the symbolizing strategy of allegory to
engage others in mystical experience. The Manṭiq al-Ṭayr is the journey of [**208] thirty
birds (sī murgh) in quest of the King of Birds, the Sīmurgh. The title comes from Q. 27:16,
“O men, we have been taught the speech of birds [manṭiq al-ṭayr]” (Rodwell). This
legendary Phoenix is said to live on “Mount Qāf” at the end of the world.
A philosophical bird allegory—the Risālat al-Ṭayr (Treatise of the Bird) by Ibn Sīnā (d.
1037)—had set a literary precedent over a century prior to ‘Aṭṭār. As a philosophical work,
the protagonist of this story is the rational soul, on its path to the realm of pure Intellect.
Such a conjunction (ittiṣāl) with celestial Intelligence was antithetical to the Sufi quest,
A Symbolic Profile of the Bahā’ī Faith                                       169

however. The tale is about a bird which, after freeing itself from the nets in which it was
ensnared, joins its companions in a journey across eight mountain peaks, in quest of the
lofty palace of the King beyond the eighth mountain. It is this allegory in form, though not
in content, that set a literary precedent for ‘Aṭṭār (Schimmel 1992a, 178). (For English
translation, see Heath 1992a; cf. idem 1992b and 1994. A manuscript of Ibn Sīnā’s Arabic
prose treatise is archived in the Istanbul University Library [A. Y. 1458].)
Other possible sources for ‘Aṭṭār’s allegory include an Arabic Risālat al-Ṭayr (Treatise
of the Bird) by Muḥammad al-Ghazzālī (d. 1111—Schimmel 1992, 178); the Persian
Risālat al-Ṭayr (Treatise of the Bird) by Aḥmad al-Ghazzālī (d. 1126; cf. Ritter, EI2 1:753);
and a long qaṣīda, the Tasbīḥ al-Ṭuyūr (Rosary of the Birds) by Sanā’ī (d. 1131—cited in
Schimmel 1992, 178). Sanā’ī was a master of the mathnavī, poetry composed in rhyming
hemistiches for epic purposes (ibid., 301). The masterwork on ‘Aṭṭār is still that of Helmut
Ritter, Das Meer der Seele (“The Ocean of the Soul,” 1955/1976), although the space
devoted to Manṭiq al-Ṭayr is limited.
‘Aṭṭār’s Manṭiq al-Ṭayr contains a section narrating the actual journey through seven
valleys. This piece is sometimes published independently under the title Haft Vādī
(Nurbakhsh 1990, 167-68). Once the allegory is decoded, it is clear that the flight of these
birds is modeled on the Night Journey of the Prophet Muḥammad, as ‘Aṭṭār (MṬ) himself
intimates: “A hundred thousand hearts and souls were destroyed/Until Muḥammad one
night reached ascension to heaven” (Schimmel 1982, 65). The Prophet’s steed, Burāq
(Lightning), is mentioned in ‘Aṭṭār’s Seventh Valley: “First put aside the Self, and then
prepare/To mount Boraq and journey through the air” (CB1 205/MṬ 257). As Peter Awn
observes: “The internal structure of the work resembles an ascending spiral
staircase” (1987, 14:114). Carl Ernst has already treated the symbolism of soul-birds (1992,
353-66). The Sīmurgh is a symbol of the Godhead.
Gaining insight into the structure of early Bahā’ī thought is possible by studying
Bahā’u’llāh in light of ‘Aṭṭār. Except for the inversion of the fourth and fifth valleys, the
sequence of the valleys is identical. The Sufi al-Sulamī (d. 1021 C.E.) once wrote: “Sufism
has a starting [**209] point, an end, and stages in between” (Schimmel 1994, 85, n. 56).
The term maqām (stages or station) is Qur’ānic, in the verse which reads: “None of us but
hath a certain station (maqām)” (Q. 37:164, Nicholson 1967, 370-71).
“Stations” are attainments. They mark progress in the path of discipline. “States” are
gifts of grace, flashes of experience. In the Gulistān, the Persian poet Sa‘dī has Jacob,
biblical father of Joseph, say: “My state [ḥāl] is that of leaping lightning” (lit., worldly
lightning [barq-i jahān]—Sa‘dī 1964; cited in Nasr 1972, 75, Persian text, n. 15).
Bahā’u’llāh speaks of a condition in which one’s soul is made “to shake with the flashing
light” (SV 4). Rumi has expressed the distinction between the two: “The ḥāl [state] is like
the unveiling of the beauteous bride,/While the maqām [station] is the [king’s] being alone
with the bride” (Mathnavī 1:1435, Schimmel 1975, 99). Progress in reaching any or all of
the “stations” was considered cumulative and thus permanent. “States,” however, were
experienced as states of grace—transitory, like “flashes of lightning,” according to al-
Junayd (Nicholson 1967, 181). One might say that, on the Sufi “path” (ṭarīqa), there was an
interplay between what in Christian terms might be referred to as works and grace.
A Symbolic Profile of the Bahā’ī Faith

In one of the first classic Sufi manuals—Kitāb al-Luma‘ fī al-Taṣawwuf (Book of the
Flashes [of Light] on Sufism)—Abū Naṣr al-Sarrāj (d. 988) enumerates seven stages along
the mystical path (1914, 42-54; cited in Sells 1994, 103): (1) repentance (tawba), (2)
abstinence (wara‘), (3) renunciation (zuhd), (4) poverty (faqr; cf. Q. 35:16), (5) patience
(ṣabr; cf. Q. 2:103), (6) trust in God (tawakkul), and (7) acceptance (riḍā). These are
followed by ten “states” (aḥwāl) of the soul: watchfulness (murāqaba), nearness (qurb),
love (maḥabba), fear (khawf), hope (rajā‘) longing (shawq), intimacy (uns), tranquillity
(iṭmi’nān), contemplation (mushāhada), and finally, certainty (yaqīn; cf. Q. 102 and 56:95),
which is both the beginning and end of all of the “states.” Sarrāj later adds two other states:
intoxication and evanescence (Baldick 1989, 55). Al-Sarrāj’s “stations” reflect a Qur’ān-
based, moral psychology characteristic of Sufism’s ascetic origins. Subtelny (1994)
mentions Anṣarī’s Manāzil al-sā’irīn (Stages of the Mystics), the most famous Hanbalite
treatise on Sufism. ‘Aṭṭār’s sequence represents a love-centered paradigm. This shift
probably occurred due to the influence of the woman mystic, Rabi‘a al-‘Adawīya (d. 801),
who established the primacy of altruistic Love (maḥabba) for mystical intimacy (uns—see
Smith 1928).
The present writer’s comparison of the two Haft Vādī texts in Persian found that the
theme of pain (dard) was a salient motif throughout all of ‘Aṭṭār’s seven valleys, whereas an
atmosphere of ecstasy pervades Bahā’u’llāh’s portrayal of the same quest. To illustrate this
relationship, the translated names of each of the valleys will be [**210] paired with their
corresponding technical terms in Persian. Illustrative phrases drawn from the English
translations of these two texts are cited, as evidence of the recurrence of pain as ‘Aṭṭār’s
leitmotiv and ecstasy as Bahā’u’llāh’s own innovation on ‘Aṭṭār:

‘Aṭṭār’s Haft Vādī: (1) Quest (ṭalab): By pain and grief (CB1:170); (2) Love (‘ishq):
Paths of misery (CB1:173); (3) Gnosis/Insight (ma‘rifat): Path brings sorrow
(CB1:181); (4) Detachment (istighnā’): This journey’s pain (CB1:190); (5) Unity
(tawḥīd): Lonely, long austerity (CB1:191); (6) Bewilderment (ḥayrat): A place of pain
(CB1:196); (7) Nothingness (fanā’): This painful place (CB1:204). A technical
discussion of each of these valleys is given by W. Skalmowski (1992).
Bahā’u’llāh’s Haft Vādī: (1) Search (ṭalab): Nor downhearted (SV 5); (2) Love
(‘ishq): Heaven of ecstasy (SV 8); (3) Knowledge (ma‘rifa): Content with decree (SV
12); (4) Unity (tawḥīd): Ascend to heaven (SV 17); (5) Contentment (istghnā’): From
anguish to joy (SV 29); (6) Wonderment (ḥayrat): Oceans of grandeur (SV 31); (7)
True Poverty and Absolute Nothingness (faqr-i ḥaqīqī va fanā’): Ecstasy alone (SV 39).

Bahā’u’llāh does not strictly follow this sequence of valleys. Elsewhere, in his Essence
(lit., “Gems”) of the Mysteries (Jawāhir al-Asrār)—another mystical work revealed in
Baghdad—there is a section in which the mystic quest takes the form of a journey through
seven cities. A comparison of the two sets of valleys/cities is as follows:

A Symbolic Profile of the Bahā’ī Faith                                       171

Jawāhir al-Asrār: (1) Search (ṭalab); (2) Love/Yearning (‘ishq wa jadhb); (3) Unity
(tawḥīd); (4) Wonderment (ḥayrat); (5) Nothingness (fanā’); (6) Subsistence (baqā’); (7)
City of No Name: (a) Acquiescence (taslīm); (b) Contentment (riḍā).
Haft Vādī: (1) Search (ṭalab); (2) Love (‘ishq); (3) Knowledge (ma‘rifat); (4) Unity
(tawḥīd); (5) Contentment (istighnā’); (6) Bewilderment (ḥayrat); (7) True Poverty/
Nothingness (faqr-i ḥaqīqī va fanā’).

The final valley of The Seven Valleys is “The Valley of True Poverty and Absolute
Nothingness” (faqr-i ḥaqīqī va fanā’). Schimmel notes that “poverty” (faqr) “can become
almost a coterminous synonym of fanā’, (‘annihilation’)” (1992b, 103). Fanā’ is
transcendence of the self, and baqā’ is absorption in God. Traditionally associated with the
doctrine of fanā’ is Bāyīzīd Bisṭāmī (d. 874), but Julian Baldick cautions that there is no
early source for this (1989, 37). The positive notion of baqā’ (literally, “survival” or
“abiding”) as well as fanā’ has also been ascribed to al-Kharrāz of Baghdad (d. 899—
Baldick 1989, [**211] 40). By the imagery of the journey, the reader is oriented towards the
goal: recognition of Bahā’u’llāh as eschatological requital (cf. Fāḍil-i Māzandarānī 1923).
At the end of the Valley of Knowledge, on the verge of Unity, Bahā’u’llāh states: “At this
hour the morn of knowledge hath arisen and the lamps of wayfaring and wandering are
quenched” (SV 16). The Persian text reads: “Dar īn vaqt ṣubḥ-i ma‘rifat ṭāl‘ shud va
chirāgh-hā-yi sayr-i sulūk khāmūsh gasht” (HV 108). The following three texts suggest
some of the imagery associated with the key symbol of the journey, which, in context,
involves a constellation of symbols:
Personal: Persian Hidden Words #1: “O Ye People that have Minds to Know and Ears to
Hear! The first call of the Beloved (avval surūsh-i dūst) is this: O mystic nightingale (ay
bulbul-i ma‘navī)! Abide not but in the rose-garden of the spirit. O messenger of the
Solomon of love (ay hudhud-i sulaymān-i ‘ishq)! Seek no shelter except in the Sheba of
the well-beloved (ṣabā-yi jānān), and O immortal phoenix (ay ‘anqā-yi bāqī)! dwell not
save on the mount of faithfulness (qāf-i vafā). Therein is thy habitation, if on the wings
of thy soul thou soarest to the realm of the infinite and seekest to attain thy goal.” (ET:
HW 23; Persian text: KM 24)
Analysis. An equation is drawn between the Beloved, Sheba, and the Phoenix, invoking
different symbolisms, but with the same message. Ultimately God is meant. Some Sufis
believed that direct beatific vision of God was possible, while others did not. Bahā’ī
theology rejects the possibility that God can be seen by human eye. No ziggurat can reach
that high. Mortal man cannot bridge the chasm between the finite and the infinite. But God
can bridge that gap by means of revelation. Because knowledge of the will and attributes of
God is relative to the degree that these are revealed, the mystic quest is best served by a
pilgrimage to God’s place of revelation. This, according to Bahā’ī theophanology, changes
from age to age. The latest revelation of God to humanity is in the person of Bahā’u’llāh,
Bahā’īs hold. This is why the Phoenix is interpreted as quintessentially God, but manifested
in God as revealed in Bahā’u’llāh. For this reason, a distinction obtains between Bahā’u’llāh
A Symbolic Profile of the Bahā’ī Faith

as an historical figure and Bahā’u’llāh’s spiritual reality. Allegorically, God takes the form
of the Phoenix, is revealed by the Phoenix, but both is and is not the Phoenix.
Proclamatory: [Untitled Tablet]: “We have revealed Ourself unto men, have unveiled
the Cause, guided all mankind towards God’s Straight Path, promulgated the laws and
have enjoined upon everyone that which shall truly profit them both in this world and in
the next; yet they have pronounced judgement to shed My blood, [**212] whereat the
Maid of Heaven hath wept sore, Sinai hath lamented and the Faithful Spirit was made to
sigh with grief.” (TB 251)
Analysis. The journey is interior, but progress along the Path requires external piety and
righteousness. In The Seven Valleys, Bahā’u’llāh makes the requirements of this journey
explicit with respect to religious law: “In all these journeys the traveler must stray not the
breadth of a hair from the ‘Law,’ for this is indeed the secret of the ‘Path’ and the fruit of the
Tree of ‘Truth’; and in all these stages he must cling to the robe of obedience to the
commandments, and hold fast to the cord of shunning all forbidden things, that he may be
nourished from the cup of the Law and informed of the mysteries of Truth” (SV 39–40).
Holiness and mystical attainments are thus inseparable: “Be swift in the path of holiness,
and enter the heaven of communion with Me. Cleanse thy heart with the burnish of the
spirit, and hasten to the court of the Most High” (HWP #8, ET: HW 25–26; Persian text:
KM 27).
Global: Tablet of Maqṣūd: “The Great Being saith: O ye children of men! The
fundamental purpose animating the Faith of God and His Religion is to safeguard the
interests (ḥifẓ) and promote the unity (ittiḥād) of the human race, and to foster the spirit
of love (maḥabbat) and fellowship (ittifāq) amongst men. Suffer it not to become a
source of dissension and discord, of hate and enmity. This is the straight Path (sirāṭ-i
mustaqīm), the fixed and immovable foundation.” (GWB 215 [CX]/MHB 140/TB 168)
Analysis. Here, the mystic “journey” and the “Straight Path” are considered inextricable
complements. This relationship between adherence to religious law and mystical striving
was not always a happy one. Especially in the nineteenth century, many Sufis were
antinomian, and would consider themselves above Islamic law. In many cases, this led to
indulgence in wine and even addiction to opium (both are forbidden by Islam). Despite the
rich legacy of classical Sufism—a legacy that is extended in Bahā’u’llāh’s mystical writings
—the proliferation of various Sufi orders not only had a demoralizing but also a divisive
effect in Islam, which was not given to modern notions of pluralism. Bahā’u’llāh
reintegrates the exterior and interior dimensions of religion and predicates authentic
mystical attainments on the performance of both.
A Symbolic Profile of the Bahā’ī Faith                                       173

Mythic: Lote Tree/Sinai

Sinai imagery in Bābī and Bahā’ī symbolism has both biblical and Qur’ānic roots.
Bahā’u’llāh’s designated successor and interpreter, [**213] ‘Abdu’l-Bahā (d. 1921), clusters
the image of the “Promised One” with traditional Sinai imagery: “the Blessed Beauty
[Bahā’u’llāh] is the One promised by the sacred Books of the past, the revelation of the
Source of light that shone upon Mount Sinai, Whose fire glowed in the midst of the Burning
Bush” (WOB 127). Here, the image of Bahā’u’llāh is that of the source of revelation, rather
than the recipient of it. The Sinaitic “Fire” is colored crimson.
Assimilation of Sinai imagery in Bahā’ī sources is purely typological, a process
Wansbrough observes as occurring within Islam: “Exempla preserved and transmitted from
the ‘past’ (whether or not fictive) may be the deposit of an antiquarian impulse, but also
witness to a concern for present and future” (SM 130). The adducing of such exemplars is
said to be “paradigmatic” in a way that is “ahistorical, formally though not
substantively” (SM 130). The paradigmatic function of Lote Tree/Sinai imagery is to
present Bahā’u’llāh as the classic revelator with a new twist: Instead of simply being the
channel of revelation as have been previous messengers, Bahā’u’llāh claims to have been
the source of revelation for those messengers. Some representative texts are as follows:
Personal: Arabic Hidden Words #63: “O Son of Man! The light (al-nūr) hath shone on
thee from the horizon of the sacred Mount (al-ṭūr) and the spirit of enlightenment (rūḥ
al-sanā’) hath breathed in the Sinai of thy heart. Wherefore, free thyself from the veils
of idle fancies and enter into My court, that thou mayest be fit for everlasting life (al-
baqā’) and worthy to meet Me (al-liqā’).” (HW 18-19; Arabic text, KM 19-20; cf.
Lambden 1988, 121)
Analysis. The language of revelation, usually reserved for prophets, is metaphorically
applied here to the individual. There is a sense in which the knowledge of God comes about
as a personal disclosure or “revelation.” If the heart is likened to Mt. Sinai, the individual’s
higher self becomes a Moses personified, leading one in an Exodus out of slavery from the
Egypt of one’s baser passions. The Promised Land is Paradise which, in this case, is
attainment to the “Presence” (al-liqā’) of God, by which the Manifestation of God
(Bahā’u’llāh) is meant. Here the mythic imagery shifts from Sinai in the wilderness to a
palace throne, as both symbolize the revelation of God’s law and of divine command ethics.
Proclamatory: Sūrat al-Bayān: “Say: The Revelation sent down by God [lit., the latter
turn: karrat al-ukhrā] hath most surely been repeated, and the outstretched Hand of Our
Power hath overshadowed all that are in the heavens and all that are on the earth. We
have, through the power of truth, the very truth, [**214] manifested an infinitesimal
glimmer of Our impenetrable Mystery, and lo, they that have recognized the radiance of
the Sinaitic splendor (lit., the denizens of the Mount: al-ṭūīyūn) expired, as they caught a
lightning glimpse of this Crimson Light (al-nūr al-ḥamrā’) enveloping the Sinai of Our
Revelation (lit., the Sinaic locale: buq‘at al-sinā’). Thus hath He Who is the Beauty of
A Symbolic Profile of the Bahā’ī Faith

the All-Merciful (jamāl al-raḥmān) come down in the clouds of His testimony, and the
decree accomplished by virtue of the Will of God, the All-Glorious, the All-
Wise.” (GWB 282/AQA IV: 110, Lambden 1988, 134)
Analysis. Considering that the Bābīs were from a predominantly Muslim background, a
word should be said about the literary form: “Say!” In his form-criticism of the Qur’ān,
Islamicist Richard Bell theorized that the “Say!” passages of the Qur’ān were intended for
Muslims to commit to memory, for reciting to nonbelievers when the authenticity of the
Qur’ān or the veracity of Islam was being challenged. Bahā’u’llāh employs this Qur’ānic
rhetorical device as a form of revelation recognizable by Muslims/Bābīs, while
recontextualizing it within a new revelatory context. While the Qur’ānic “Say”-passages are
somewhat creedal in nature, Bahā’u’llāh’s say-passages tended to be more poetic or
metaphorical.
This passage is an obvious allusion to the twenty-eighth chapter of the Qayyūm al-
Asmā’ (= QA), in which the Bāb, through a creative and dramatic use of Sinai imagery,
foretells the advent of a messiah. The wealth of imagery used here can all too easily be
glossed over as ornate, when it is, in fact, condensed and highly allusive. A certain measure
of metaphorical competency, not to mention biblical and Qur’ānic literacy, is required to
“decode” such a panoply of metaphors. Even so, there is innovation on some time-honored
biblical and Qur’ānic imagery. For instance, rarely, if ever, in the Torah or Qur’ān is
“Crimson Light” to be found. However, in Qayyūm al-Asmā’ 28 and elsewhere, the Bāb
references “crimson Light” to the Sinaitic “Fire” or epiphany (tajallī) at Q. 7:143 (Lambden
1988, 102, citing SWB 53). The Bāb (QA 28; cf. QA 60) speaks of himself as “this Blessed
Tree (al-shajara al-mubāraka) dyed crimson with the oil of servitude” (Lambden 1988, 96;
cf. 98), and as “the Crimson Tree (shajarat al-ḥamrā’)” (ibid., 105). Subtle creativity is a
feature of the Bāb’s own originality, which, while distinctive, is Qur’ānically “familiar.”
The preponderating influence on Bahā’u’llāh’s imagery is, in fact, that of the Bāb. As
Lambden points out, Bahā’u’llāh’s imagery of the “Crimson Light” emanating from the
Sinaitic “Fire” harks directly back to Qayyūm al-Asmā’ 28, which contains a prophetic
passage heralding a messianic advent described as “the fierce and crimson Light,”
understood to refer to Bahā’u’llāh (ibid., 134; cf. 138, 142). In mythic [**215] resonance
with Moses/Sinai imagery, this passage is no doubt a proclamation of Bahā’u’llāh’s
messianic role for Bābīs.
In our third example of Lote Tree/Sinai imagery, the following passages were once
thought to belong to Bahā’u’llāh’s “Tablet of the Hair” (sic), when it first appeared in the
December 1938 issue of Bahā’ī News, in a translation published by permission of Shoghi
Effendi. The contents of this “Tablet” have since been determined to have derived from
several sources. These are documented in the citations below:
A Symbolic Profile of the Bahā’ī Faith                                       175

Global: “Tablets” of the Hair:
[1] He is the Almighty! My hair is My Messenger. It is calling aloud at all times
upon the branch of Fire within the hallowed and luminous Garden of Paradise, that
perchance the inmates of the realm of creation may detach themselves from the world of
dust and ascend unto the retreats of nearness—the Spot where the Fire seeketh
illumination from the light of the Countenance of God, the Glorious, the Powerful.
O ye that have consecrated yourselves to this Fire! Sing ye melodies, pour out sweet
tones, rejoice with exceeding gladness and make haste to attain the presence of Him
Who is the Object of adoration, bearing witness that no God is there besides God, the
All-Knowing, the All-Wise, the All-Compelling. (UHJ 1981; Arabic: Behmardi 1986–
90, number 39)
[2] He is the God of Wisdom! My hair is My Phoenix. Therefore hath it set itself
upon the blazing fire of My Face and receiveth sustenance from the garden of My
Countenance. This is the station wherein the Son of Imran [Moses] removed from the
feet of selfish desire the coverings of attachment to all else but Him and was illumined
by the splendours of the Light of holiness in the undying Fire kindled by God, the
Potent, the Gracious, the Ever-Forgiving. (Lambden 1988, 129; UHJ 1981; Arabic:
Behmardi 1986–1990, number 40)
[3] He is the Most Excellent, the Best Beloved! A lock of My hair is My Cord. He
who layeth fast hold on it shall never to all eternity go astray, for therein is his guidance
to the splendours of the Light of His Beauty. (UHJ 1981; Arabic: Behmardi 1986–1990,
number 41)
[4] He is God! My hair is My Veil whereby I conceal My Beauty, that haply the eyes
of the non-believers among My servants may not fall upon it. Thus do We conceal from
the sight of the ungodly the glorious and sublime beauty of Our Countenance. (UHJ
1981; Arabic: Behmardi 1986–1990, number 38)
[5] He is the Eternal! My hair beareth witness for My Beauty that verily I am God
and that there is none other God but Me. In [**216] My ancient eternity I have ever been
God, the One, the Peerless, the Everlasting, the Ever-Living, the Ever-Abiding, the Self-
Subsistent.
O denizens of the everlasting Realm! Let your ears be attentive to the stirrings of this
restless and agitated hair, as it moveth upon the Sinai of Fire, within the precincts of
Light, this celestial Seat of divine Revelation. Indeed there is no God besides Me. In My
most ancient pre-existence I have ever been the King, the Sovereign, the Incomparable,
the Eternal, the Single, the Everlasting, the Most Exalted.
O peoples of the heavens and of the earth! Were ye to sanctify your ears ye would
hear My hair proclaim that there is none other God except Him, and that He is One in
His Essence and in everything that beareth relationship unto Him. And yet how fiercely
have you cavilled at this Beauty, notwithstanding that the outpourings of His grace have
encompassed all that dwell in the billowing oceans of His Revelation and Creation. Be
ye fair therefore in your judgement concerning His upright Religion, for the love of this
Youth Who is riding high upon the snow-white She-Camel betwixt earth and heaven;
and be ye firm and steadfast in the path of Truth. (UHJ 1981; Arabic: Behmardi 1986–
1990, number 33)
A Symbolic Profile of the Bahā’ī Faith

Analysis. This is a truly mythic cluster of images. While the image that unifies these texts is
Bahā’u’llāh’s hair, Moses/Sinai imagery features prominently, especially in recurring
references to the Sinaitic “Fire,” which, as stated above, is associated with crimson as a
consistent feature of Bābī/Bahā’ī color symbolism. The final selection has global import in
that it is addressed to the “peoples of the heavens and of the earth.” Especially dramatic is
the use of referential “voice” in the narrative. Note how God is represented as speaking in
the first person, following which the text suddenly shifts to use of the third person. This is
consistent with the image of Moses as the “Interlocutor of God”—an epithet for Moses
taken up in Bahā’ī texts. Such Islamic images as the She-Camel contribute to this rich mix
of metaphors. The overall impact of these five passages is to effectively convey the spiritual
authority of Bahā’u’llāh.
In Bābī/Bahā’ī symbolism, the importance of the symbol of the Lote Tree is indicated by
its inclusion as a separate entry in A Basic Bahā’ī Dictionary, defined as follows: “The
‘Tree beyond which there is no passing.’ Originally, the tree which, in ancient times, the
Arabs planted to mark the end of a road. In the Bahā’ī Writings, a symbol of the
Manifestation of God, the ‘Tree beyond which neither men nor angels can pass’;
specifically, Bahā’u’llāh. Sometimes called the Divine or Sacred Lote Tree” (s.v. “Sadratu’l-
Muntahā,” 200). Bahā’u’llāh himself [**217] has explicated the symbolic significance of
the “Lote Tree” (sidra): “The Holy Tree (sidra) is, in a sense, the Manifestation of the One
True God, exalted be He. The Blessed Tree in the Land of Saffron (za‘farān) referreth to the
land which is flourishing, blessed, holy and all-perfumed, where that Tree hath been
planted” (“Errata” to TB 137, cited in Lambden 1988, 145). The Lote Tree is associated
with the “Blessed Tree” mentioned in the celebrated “Light Verse” of the Qur’ān (Q. 24:35).
In Bābī and Bahā’ī imagery, the Burning Bush and the Lote Tree are equivalent,
interchangeable, conflated (Lambden 1988, 146).
Social: Paradise

Paradise unifies Bahā’ī imagery. Paradise evokes all that is ideal on earth. In this respect,
Bahā’ī formulations of Paradise are far more utopian than eschatological, insofar as a
distinct social agenda and a discreet set of individual behaviors are rhetorically encouraged.
Among the informal canon of other key terms, Paradise is given an entry in A Basic Bahā’ī
Dictionary (s.v. “Paradise” [173] and “Heaven and Hell” [101]). As anthropologically
referenced symbols, heaven and hell refer to spiritual (and unspiritual) conditions.
Paradise can be literal or symbolic, or both. In Bahā’ī sacred texts, a conscious effort is
made to draw correspondences between Earth and Heaven. In this way, celestial Paradise is
emblematic of the ideal society on Earth. Thus, the “vertical” or other-worldly dimension of
paradise intersects with the “horizontal” or realized paradise on Earth, from transcendence
to immanence. To the extent that images of heaven are associated with the expression of
human spirituality at its finest, a true believer can strive to experience paradise on Earth.
Personal: Untitled Tablet: “Whoso (va har nafsī) hath recognized the Day Spring of
Divine guidance and entered His holy court (ṣubḥ-i hidāyat va fajr-i aḥadīyat fā’iz shud)
hath drawn nigh unto God and attained His Presence (bi-maqām-i qurb va vaṣl), a
A Symbolic Profile of the Bahā’ī Faith                                       177

Presence which is the real Paradise, and of which the loftiest mansions of heaven are but
a symbol. Such a man hath attained the knowledge of the station of Him Who is ‘at the
distance of two bows,’ Who standeth beyond the Sadratu’l-Muntahā.” (GWB XXIX, 70/
MHB 53)
Analysis. Quranic imagery is used in this passage as an allusion to the archangel Gabriel,
who was the source of the revelation given to the Prophet Muḥammad in the form of the
Qur’ān. Rather than association with Muḥammad himself, Bahā’u’llāh is typologically
identified with Gabriel. As such, a related epithet of Bahā’u’llāh, used as a [**218]
prophetic circumlocution, is “Sender of the Messengers” (mursil-i rusul), while the Bāb has
been called, in the Arabic Tablet of Aḥmad, the “King of the Messengers” (sulṭān al-rusul),
while Muḥammad has been named by Bahā’u’llāh as the “Seal of Thy Prophets and of Thy
Messengers” (BP 30, based on Q. 33:40), where the term for “Messengers” is sufarā’ (sing.,
safīr, “ambassador”). This progression—“Seal of the Messengers” (Muḥammad), “King of
the Messengers” (the Bāb), “Sender of the Messengers” (Bahā’u’llāh)—illustrates the
explicit teleology of Bahā’ī salvation-history.
Earth-Paradise correspondences are reciprocal. In the passage cited, Heaven becomes a
symbol of ideal society. Whatever the “loftiest mansions of Paradise” are, it is not
Bahā’u’llāh’s purpose to disclose or speculate. Rather, the imagery of celestial habitations is
employed to symbolize the potential for unity on Earth. This is the manifestation or fullness
of the Kingdom of God on Earth, if one may be allowed to invoke the Lord’s Prayer as an
analogy. The intent is to foster improved social relations, as personal welfare of the few
cannot be morally divorced from the welfare of the many.
Proclamatory: Tablet to Czar Alexander II: “O Czar of Russia! Incline thine ear unto the
voice of God, the King, the Holy, and turn thou unto Paradise, the Spot wherein abideth
He Who, among the Concourse on high, beareth the most excellent titles, and Who, in
the kingdom of creation, is called by the name of God, the Effulgent, the All-Glorious.
Beware that nothing deter thee from setting thy face towards thy Lord, the
Compassionate, the Most Merciful.” (ESW 57)
Analysis. In this proclamation to the Czar of Russia, which is still the world’s
geographically largest country, Bahā’u’llāh alludes to his own vocation as the revealer of
God’s will for humanity in the modern era. In rhetorically trying to enlist the support of the
Czar, however, it is those who are struck by the claims made in this passage who may be
impelled to investigate Bahā’u’llāh, rather than the Czar, and to decide individually on the
veracity and authenticity of Bahā’u’llāh’s truth-claims.
The prophet (called the “Manifestation of God” in Bahā’ī theophanology) is an
extension and effulgence of the divine glory. Bahā’u’llāh, like Jesus Christ in Trinitarian
terms, is nominally and functionally “God” for all revelatory intents and purposes.
However, Bahā’ī doctrine categorically rejects incarnation, a feature of Trinitarian belief, in
which Christ is equated with God by virtue of sharing the same “essence.” Bahā’ī doctrine
A Symbolic Profile of the Bahā’ī Faith

excludes consubstantiality. The Manifestation of God is said to be God in nature, not in
essence. This distinction contextualizes Bahā’u’llāh’s proclamation to the Czar.
[**219] Paradise presupposes the presence of God. It also presupposes the presence of
people. Entrance into Paradise is based in part on finding it. Because of its mythic
proportions, Paradise has been popularly understood as primordial, otherworldly, and
eschatological, but rarely in societal terms of reference, as a paradigm of the ideal faith-
community.
Global: Persian Hidden Words #18: “O Ye Dwellers in the Highest Paradise! (ay ahl-i
firdaus-i bar-īn). Proclaim unto the children of assurance (ahl-i yaqīn-rā) that, within the
realms of holiness, nigh unto the celestial paradise, a new garden hath appeared, round
which circle the denizens of the realm on high and the immortal dwellers of the exalted
paradise. Strive, then, that ye may attain that station, that ye may unravel the mysteries
of love from its wind-flowers and learn the secret of divine and consummate wisdom
from its eternal fruits.” (HW 27; Persian text: KM 31–32)
Analysis: Some ancient imagery is being recycled in this announcement of a new paradise.
The thought orientation is clear: One is asked to conceive of the revelation of Bahā’u’llāh as
the proximate locus of Paradise. To become Paradise-worthy, after finding out about the
new paradise, one must potentialize the spiritual qualities inherent in every human being.
This is not a matter of “meriting” paradise in the faith-vs.-works debates within primitive
Christianity, a debate that resurfaced in the Reformation. In Bahā’ī anthropological terms,
each human being is already a spiritual creature. The goal of human existence, therefore, is
to know and love God, to acquire virtues, and carry forward an ever-advancing civilization.
In making the world a better place to live, consecrating one’s time and talent in the path of
service to humanity contributes to social evolution, which, in utopian terms, is the bringing
about of Paradise on Earth.

A Core Bahā’ī Myth? The unity of the preceding imagery is evident throughout
Bahā’u’llāh’s writings, most particularly in the allegorical texts. Most of the key symbols
described above are constituent elements in the Tablet of the Holy Mariner, which is
probably Bahā’u’llāh’s most well-known allegory (see epigraph opposite page 1). It was on
March 26, 1863, that Bahā’u’llāh revealed the Tablet of the Holy Mariner (Walbridge 1996,
163), in a field known as Mazra‘a-yi Vashshāsh, on the outskirts of Baghdad (Gail 1982,
19).
There are two parts to the Tablet of the Holy Mariner—one Arabic, the other Persian.
John Walbridge has provided a useful description of this celebrated tablet (1996, 163–65).
The Arabic section is independent of, though related to, the Persian, such that each may be
considered a distinct Tablet in its own right. Only the Arabic version [**220] has been
translated. There may be a certain significance in the fact that the Arabic Tablet of the Holy
Mariner was the first complete work of Bahā’u’llāh’s to be translated by Shoghi Effendi in
his capacity as the Guardian of the Bahā’ī Faith. When originally published in the Star of
the West magazine on 17 May 1922, it bore the title, “The Song of the Holy Mariner.” This
A Symbolic Profile of the Bahā’ī Faith                                       179

was later renamed “The Tablet of the Holy Mariner,” and is included as an appendix in
various editions of Bahā’ī prayer books:
Tablet of the Holy Mariner
He is the Gracious, the Well-Beloved!
Refrain: Glorified be my Lord, the All-Glorious!
(Last three verses: Glorified be our Lord, the Most High!)
* O Holy Mariner! Bid thine Ark of eternity appear before the Celestial Concourse. *
Launch it upon the ancient sea, in His Name, the Most Wondrous. * And let the angelic
spirits enter, in the Name of God, the Most High. * Unmoor it, then, that it may sail
upon the ocean of glory, * Haply the dwellers therein may attain the retreats of nearness
in the everlasting realm. *
Having reached the sacred strand, the shore of the crimson seas, * Bid them issue
forth and attain this ethereal, invisible station, * A station wherein the Lord hath, in the
Flame of His Beauty, appeared within the deathless tree; * Wherein the embodiments of
His Cause cleansed themselves of self and passion; * Around which the Glory of Moses
doth circle with the everlasting hosts; * Wherein the Hand of God was drawn forth from
His bosom of Grandeur; * wherein the Ark of the Cause remaineth motionless even
though to its dwellers be declared all divine attributes. *
O Mariner! Teach them that are within the Ark that which We have taught thee
behind the mystic veil, * Perchance they may not tarry in the sacred snow-white spot, *
But may soar upon the wings of the spirit unto that station which the Lord hath exalted
above all mention in the worlds below, * May wing through space even as the favoured
birds in the realm of eternal reunion; * May know the mysteries hidden in the Seas of
light. *
They passed the grades of worldly limitations and reached that of the divine unity,
the center of heavenly guidance. * They have desired to ascend unto that state which the
Lord hath ordained to be above their stations. * Whereupon the burning meteor cast
them out from them that abide in the Kingdom of His Presence. * And they heard the
Voice of Grandeur raised from behind the unseen pavilion upon the Height of Glory: *
“O guardian angels! Return them to their abode in the world below,” * “Inasmuch as
they have purposed to rise to that sphere which the wings of the celestial dove have
never attained.” * Whereupon the ship of [**221] fancy standeth still, which the minds
of them that comprehend cannot grasp. *
Whereupon the Maid of Heaven looked out from her exalted chamber. * And, with
her brow, signed to the Celestial Concourse, * Flooding with the light of her
countenance the heaven and the earth. * And as the radiance of her beauty shone upon
the people of dust, * All beings were shaken in their mortal graves. * She then raised the
call which no ear through all eternity hath ever heard, * And thus proclaimed: “By the
Lord! He whose heart hath not the fragrance of the love of the exalted and glorious
Arabian Youth,” * “Can in no wise ascend unto the glory of the highest heaven.” *
Thereupon she summoned unto herself one maiden from her handmaidens, * And
commanded her: “Descend into space from the mansions of eternity,” * “And turn thou
A Symbolic Profile of the Bahā’ī Faith

unto that which they have concealed in the inmost of their hearts.” * “Shouldst thou
inhale the perfume of the robe from the Youth that hath been hidden within the
tabernacle of light by reason of that which the hands of the wicked have wrought,” *
“Raise a cry within thyself, that all the inmates of the chambers of Paradise, that are the
embodiments of the eternal wealth, may understand and hearken”; * “That they may all
come down from their everlasting chambers and tremble,” * “And kiss their hands and
feet for having soared to the heights of faithfulness;” * “Perchance they may find from
their robes the fragrance of the Beloved One.” *
Thereupon the countenance of the favoured damsel beamed above the celestial
chambers, even as the light that shineth from the face of the Youth above His mortal
temple; * She then descended with such an adorning as to illumine the heavens and all
that is therein. * She bestirred herself and perfumed all things in the lands of holiness
and grandeur. * When she reached that place, she rose to her full height in the midmost
heart of creation, * And sought to inhale their fragrance at a time that knoweth neither
beginning nor end. * She found not in them that which she did desire, and this, verily, is
but one of His wondrous tales. *
She then cried aloud, wailed and repaired to her own station within her most lofty
mansion, * And then gave utterance to one mystic word, whispered privily by her
honeyed tongue, * And raised the call amidst the Celestial Concourse and the immortal
maids of heaven: * “By the Lord! I found not from these idle claimants the breeze of
Faithfulness!” * “By the Lord! The Youth hath remained lone and forlorn in the land of
exile in the hands of the ungodly.” * She then uttered within herself such a cry that the
Celestial Concourse did shriek and tremble, * And she fell upon the dust and gave up the
spirit. [**222] It seemeth she was called and hearkened unto Him that summoned her
unto the Realm on High. Glorified be He that created her out of the essence of love in
the midmost heart of His exalted paradise! * Thereupon the maids of heaven hastened
forth from their chambers, upon whose countenances the eye of no dweller in the highest
paradise had ever gazed. * Glorified be our Lord, the Most High! * They all gathered
around her, and lo! they found her body fallen upon the dust. * Glorified be our Lord,
the Most High! * And as they beheld her state and comprehended a word of the tale told
by the Youth, they bared their heads, rent their garments asunder, beat upon their faces,
forgot their joy, shed tears and smote with their hands upon their cheeks, and this is
verily one of the mysterious grievous afflictions. * Glorified be our Lord, the Most
High!
This Tablet is filled with Paradise imagery, the original focus of which was the Bābī
community, out of which the inchoate Bahā’ī community emerged. This narrative
constitutes the core Bahā’ī myth, of the soul’s journey to the presence of God in the person
of Bahā’u’llāh, and in fidelity to his Covenant. Scenes of paradise, in heaven above, are
used allusively in Bahā’ī texts as an imagistic ideal of an ideal faith-community, on earth
below. The Tablet of the Holy Mariner concludes with a section in Persian. Based on my
own reading of the original text, while consulting Walbridge (1996, 164–65), the following
narrative highlights significant words from the Persian.
A Symbolic Profile of the Bahā’ī Faith                                       181

Bahā’u’llāh, the narrator, introduces himself as “the Persian ‘Irāqī” (al-fārsī al-‘irāqī).
The story resumes. By order of the Holy Mariner (mallāḥ-i qudsī), the passengers embark
on the divine ship (ahl-i fulk-i ilāhī), the ancient Ark (safīna-yi qidamī), to sail upon the
Ocean of Names (baḥr-i asmā’). The purpose of the voyage was to transverse the stages of
human limitations so that, by the leave of God, the travellers could reach the shores of Unity
(shāṭī’-i tawḥīd), where they might quaff the chalice of Oneness (tajrīd). With the aid of
God, the divine Ark voyaged across the Ocean of Wisdom (āb-i ḥikmat), until it reached a
station in which the Stagnant Name (ism-i sākin)—probably an allusion to Bahā’u’llāh’s
arch-rival, Mīrzā Yaḥyā Ṣubḥ-i Azal)—seized control (sabaqat girift) and diverted its course
(majrá). As a result, the Ark of the Spirit became motionless, prevented from further travel.
At this moment, there came a decree from Heaven. The eternal Mariner (mallāḥ-i baqā’)
disclosed to the shipmates (ahl-i fulk) one single letter from the mystic, arcane word (ḥarfī
kalima-yi ikhfā’ ), so that, with assistance from the invisible realm, they might pass through
the Valley of Bewilderment of their lower natures (vādī-yi ḥayrat-i nafsānī), enter into the
joyous atmosphere of spiritual one- [**223] ness (vaḥdat-i ruḥānī), and reach the summit of
the divine Qāf of Immortality (qāf-i baqā’-yi jān) [mystic mountain thought to be in
Qafqāz], to attain the presence of the Beloved (liqā‘-i hażrat-i jānān).
As the passengers of the vessel (ahl-i kashtī) received word from the celestial Friend,
they opened their mystic wings (par-i ma‘ná) at once (fī al-fawr) and soared into the holy
atmosphere (havā-yi qudsī). By the grace of God (fażl-i ilāhī) and divine mercy (raḥmat-i
subḥānī), they passed over the perilous ravines of self and passion (‘aqabāt-i nafs va havá),
and over the deepest pits of the hells of ignorance and blindness (darakāt-i ghaflat va ‘amá).
At this time (dar īn vaqt), from God’s holy realm there blew the breezes of Paradise
(nasā’im-i riżvān), wafting over their bodies. And after winging their way through the
atmosphere of nearness to God (qurb-i ilāhī), having traversed the spiritual stages (sayr-i
maqāmat-i ma‘navī) along the way, the birds (ṭayr-ān), safe and sound, reached their final
destination and alighted (nuzūl nimūdand) in the homeland of the lovers (vaṭan-i ‘āshigān).
Whereupon the dwellers of this station (sakkān īn maqām) arose to serve their guests.
The immortal Youths (ghulām-ān-i bāqī) and the holy Cupbearer (sāqī-yi qudsī) proceeded
to serve ruby-red wine (khamr-i yāqūtī). The guests became so intoxicated with the wine of
divine knowledge (khamr-i maḥrūf) and goblet of divine wisdom (kās-i ḥikmat) that they
were freed from their own existence (hastī-yi khud) and everything in the universe.
Attaching their hearts (dil bastand) to the beauty of the Friend (dust), they remained for
centuries (qarn-hā) in that privileged spiritual station (ān maqām-i khẉush-i ruḥānī) and
that holy, divine rose garden (gulzār-i quds-i raḥmānī).
With the utmost bliss did they remain and tarry, until the gales of the divine Test
(nasā’im-i imtiḥān-i subḥānī) and the winds of the ordeal of the Sovereign (aryāḥ-i iftatān-i
sulṭānī) gusted from the Sheba of the command (amr) of the Eternal, such that they were
attracted to the beauty of the Cupbearer (jamāl-i sāqī) and forgot the Immortal Visage (vajh-
i bāqī). They thus imagined the shadow (ẓill) as the sun (shams), and mistook black specks
(ashbāḥ) for light (nūr). Whence they pursued (qaṣd namūdand) mere mirages of the
Greatest Name (mi‘ārij-i ism-i a‘ẓam). The birds desired to fly in that atmosphere (ān
A Symbolic Profile of the Bahā’ī Faith

havā’), and to enter that Seat and Palace (maḥall). And as they flew, the divine assayers
(ṣarrāfān-i ilāhī), with the divine touchstone (bi-miḥakk-i qudsī) and by the decree (amr) of
God, descended (īshān nāzil shudand) upon them. And because the assayers did not scent
the fragrance of the spiritual Youth (aryāḥ-i ghulām-i ma‘navī) from the bird-souls, all
(jamī’-rā) were barred from further progress. And there transpired what had been recorded
in the Preserved Tablet (lawḥ-i maḥfūz).
Bahā’u’llāh then warns his followers not to become enamored of the mystic Cupbearer,
and not to become so inebriated with the wine of [**224] knowledge and wisdom. The
wayfarer should seek guidance from him and not from the manifestations of Satan. Those
who quest the mystic path should first unite their outward and inward beings.
This Tablet and its interpretation should be referenced to a later revelation known as the
Lawḥ-i Hawdaj or the Lawḥ-i Sāmṣūn, in which Bahā’u’llāh makes explicit reference to the
Lawḥ-i Mallāḥ al-Quds. Bahā’u’llāh had been living in exile in Baghdad from 1853 to
1863. He left Baghdad on 3 May, 1863 for Constantinople, capital of the Ottoman empire.
En route, there was a port on the shore of the Black Sea, known as Sāmṣūn, to which
Bahā’u’llāh and his entourage arrived in early August 1863. There, the Lawḥ-i Sāmṣūn was
revealed. Its circumstances of revelation have been recounted in an unpublished narrative of
Āqā Muḥammad Riḍā-yi Qannād-i Shīrāzī (Balyuzi 1980, 195; cf. RB 2:6, 16; Gail 1982,
35; GPB 157). Stephen Lambden (1985) has published the previously unpublished Arabic
text, to which he has attached a provisional translation and helpful commentary.
In contrast to the Tablet of the Holy Mariner, in which the Mariner himself is said to
have been addressed with a “secret, sorrowful Call” (Lambden 1985, 94), the Tablet of
Sāmṣūn is celebratory and joyous in tone. Both these texts narrate what might be thought of
as a mystical pilgrimage to the sacred presence of Bahā’u’llāh, the locus of divine
revelation, defined as the presence of God. In the Tablet of the Holy Mariner, Bahā’u’llāh is
ordered by God to take command of his ship, the Ark of Eternity. This is a metaphorical
description of Bahā’u’llāh’s assumption of leadership of the Bābī community, of which the
Ark is a corporate symbol. The doleful tones of this tablet indicate the opposition that
Bahā’u’llāh would inevitably face from those Bābīs who were partisans of Bahā’u’llāh’s
half-brother and arch-rival, Mīrzā Yaḥyā Ṣubḥ-i Azal. In the Tablet of Sāmṣūn, Bahā’u’llāh’s
status as leader of the Bābīs has consolidated considerably, even though the final rupture
with Ṣubḥ-i Azal would not take place until 1866 in Adrianople. On the shore of the Black
Sea, the ocean voyage, described previously in the Tablet of the Holy Mariner, becomes a
concrete eventuality, even though the Black Sea itself is “transcendentalized” (Lambden
1985, 88).
These two works stress the relationship between the integrity of personal faith and the
integrity of the spiritual community. Allegories typically involve corporate or collective
imagery. Clearly, the “Ark of Eternity” (referred to in later texts as “the Crimson Ark”) is
the Bahā’ī community. The use of this image is anchored in the Bābī constellation of
images. Bahā’u’llāh appropriates and enlarges upon the same imagery found in the Qayyūm
al-Asmā’, in which the Bāb is understood as prophesying the advent of Bahā’u’llāh and his
community of followers. The Tablet of the Holy Mariner literally describes the “maiden
voyage” of the Ark, in the sense that the Maiden of Heaven is sent to assay the [**225]
A Symbolic Profile of the Bahā’ī Faith                                       183

fidelity of those who would embark on the Ark, at a time when Bahā’u’llāh was about to
make his momentous declaration on the eve of his exile to Istanbul. The loyalty of the
passengers (who were among Bahā’u’llāh’s fellow exiles) was tested every step of the way.
Such Ark/Mariner imagery recurs throughout Bahā’u’llāh’s writings, of which the following
text is representative: “Verily, the sea of calamity hath surged, and gales have overtaken the
Ark of God, the All-Encompassing, the Self-Subsistent. O Mariner! Be not daunted by
gales, for He Who is the Breaker of Dawns is with Thee in this darkness which hath
enveloped the worlds” (Balyuzi 1980, 326; cf. 185).
One can appreciate why Shoghi Effendi, in his new capacity as Guardian of the Bahā’ī
Faith following the death of ‘Abdu’l-Bahā in 1921, chose this tablet to be the first complete
work of Bahā’u’llāh to offer, in translation, to the Bahā’ī community. It is as though the
entire allegory was re-enacted when Shoghi Effendi took the helm and, as the new Mariner,
steered the course of the Bahā’ī world from 1921 to 1957. The Tablet of the Holy Mariner is
an archetypal allegory re-played in transitions of leadership in Bahā’ī history. These
transitions precipitated tests of loyalty among Bahā’īs. The so-called Covenant-Breakers—
those who challenged the designated leadership prerogatives, in succession, of Bahā’u’llāh,
‘Abdu’l-Bahā, Shoghi Effendi, and now, the Universal House of Justice—seriously
threatened the integrity of the community. Thus, the import of the Mariner allegory is never
lost on Bahā’īs, even though the rest of the imagery is difficult, complex, and recondite.
This is why this particular allegory arguably constitutes the core Bahā’ī myth, in the voyage
of an Ark that is launched in Baghdad and finally comes to rest on the slopes of Mount
Carmel.

The Bahā’ī paradigm of unity. Bahā’ī portrayals of Paradise are typically reflexive.
Paradise is seen as a reality in the afterlife, but the angelic life begins in this life. Metaphors
and scenarios of Paradise function to inspire lofty thought and to model ideal behavior in
the present. Virtually all of the imagery used to portray ideal-typic scenes has, in a sense,
been “recycled” from previously familiar paradise imagery. This grammar of images
rehearses a stock repertoire of that which is heavenly. The specifically Bahā’ī use of these
key symbols is organized and structured around ideals of unity, ranging from a heart-to-
world nexus to unity of thought and purpose in world undertakings. This integrative
worldview is the controlling force behind all of the passages cited above, and amply
illustrates the Bahā’ī paradigm of concentric unity, which is the organizing principle behind
almost every glimpse of paradise Bahā’u’llāh inspires.
[**226]
A Symbolic Profile of the Bahā’ī Faith

[**227]
VI
Paradise Similarities and Paradigm Differences
Procedure for Dimensional Analysis
In this chapter, formal comparisons of Syriac and Bahā’ī symbols will be undertaken. In
chapters 3 and 5, key symbols have been explicated within each of the two traditions being
investigated. These images will now be cross-traditionally compared and referenced to the
Syriac Christian and Bahā’ī paradigms which furnish a synchronic framework of analysis
for comparison.
Doctrinal

Dogmatics, as a rule, treats first of the Person of Christ, then of the Work of Christ.
Throughout the history of Christianity, the Church had never articulated or enforced a
definitive and binding formula of the Atonement, nor was there ever a universally held
theory of redemption. Winslow gives a fair assessment of this unresolved problem in early
Christianity: “It has often been stated—too often perhaps—that it was the Fathers’
experience and understanding of salvation which was the primary and determinative
influence upon the development of their christologies. If this is true (as I am persuaded that
it is), there is a significant irony in the fact that so-called orthodoxy finds its fundamental
terminological and creedal articulation in a ‘doctrine’ which attempts to elucidate who
Christ was, and not in a ‘doctrine’ which sought to express what he did. . . . Students of the
period are all familiar with the great variety of ‘atonement theories’ which proliferated in the
second through fifth centuries” (1984, 393).
In Christian antiquity, there were several such theories of the Atonement, such as martyr
theology, theōsis, recapitulation, ransom paid to the devil, or reconciliation through
sacrifice. (On early Chris- [**228] tian atonement theories, see Slusser 1983, and on theōsis
in particular, cf. Strange 1985.) However, there did emerge a fundamental rivalry between
two opposing notions of salvation, erupting in the Arian controversy. Tension developed
between ethical and ontological views of salvation, that is, between (1) conformity to the
divine will and (2) man’s sharing in God’s being (cf. Gregg and Groh. 1981, 161–83). The
former is an existentialist approach, the latter an essentialist paradigm. Ephrem himself was
disinclined to rigidly define Christ, as had the Arians. A curious consequence of this is noted
Paradise Similarities and Paradigm Differences                                    185

by Botha: “In light of the well-known formulation of Chalcedon a century later, namely that
Christ was ‘in two natures, inconfusedly, unchangeably, indivisibly, inseparably,’ Ephrem’s
statements that he ‘changed himself against his nature’ and that ‘the divinity imprinted itself
in humanity’ sound patently heretical” (1989, 26). Although Ephrem prescinded from
rationalizing about Christ, he vehemently attacked Arians because they did.
On the use of language employed by the Church Fathers to speak of the work of Christ,
Winslow makes a telling observation: “And what one immediately discovers is that the
soteriological language of the Fathers makes considerably greater use of mythic concepts
than does their christological language. It is less precise; it is more patient of paradox and
contradiction; it is more experientially oriented; it has a dramatic flavor of joy, enthusiasm
and risk which ignores nice metaphysical distinctions and, remarkably, avoids polemical
argumentation. Basically, when the Fathers spoke of the person of Christ, they attempted to
stay within the boundaries of logical and rational categories (although this was of course
ultimately impossible). But, when the Fathers spoke of the work of Christ, their words
exploded the careful limitations imposed by logic and entered happily into the area of
mystery, expressed through fluid imagery and ever-changing and ever-changeable
concepts” (1984, 393). Winslow’s remarks on patristic meditations on the saving work of
Christ seem a very appropriate prolegomenon to the soteriology of Ephrem. Bahā’u’llāh’s
imagery is no less metaphorical or poetic.
A careful comparison of both formal parallels and idiosyncratic images promises to
disclose much about the symbolic codes of each tradition. We commence with our
comparison of Syriac and Bahā’ī imagery.
The Way (Syriac Doctrinal Key Scenario)
Ephrem’s allegory of “The Way” (‘ūrḥā) is a depiction of salvation-history. In Murray’s
translation of a passage cited in section 3.1 above (where Matthews’ translation was given),
we find this recapitulation of the myth of the Way: “For the sake of the fruit he [God] laid
the Way [**229] /which [runs] from the Tree right to the Cross;/it extended from the Wood
to the Wood/and from Eden to Zion,/from Zion to Holy Church/and from the Church to the
Kingdom” (CH XXVI.4, SCK 247). The Way was trailblazed by a succession of Prophets,
who paved the way for Jesus. Ephrem states that Jesus “chose the prophets; they made
smooth the Way for the people;/He sent the apostles; they cleared a path for the
People” (Nat XXII.20–21, McV 182). The Apostles replaced the Prophets, for there was no
longer any need of them once Jesus Christ had advented himself. When prophecy is
fulfilled, the office of the prophet is obviated. “Let us worship the One,” Ephrem urges,
“Who walked within the way, and He was the Way on the way” (Nat. III.14, McV 86).
Setting aside the question of salvation itself and its mechanisms, this image of prophetic
history is perfectively compatible with the Bahā’ī concept of “Progressive Revelation.” Just
as the vocation of the prophets was completed at the appearance of Jesus—because their
prophecies were fulfilled by him—so the “Cycle of Prophecy” or the “Adamic Cycle” (kur-i
Ādam)—in the Bahā’ī scheme of salvation-history—was followed by the “Cycle of
Fulfillment” or the “Bahā’ī Cycle” (kur-i Bahā’ī).
Paradise Similarities and Paradigm Differences

But in Ephrem’s epitome of salvation-history, the succession of prophets, culminating in
the advent of Christ, is actuated by God for an overarching, if not sole purpose: viz., “for the
sake of the fruit”—meaning the Eucharist, with the sanctification and salvific immortality it
provides. As the Bahā’ī system has little in the way of ritual, and, like Islam, is entirely
lacking in sacraments, what would otherwise appear to be mutually commensurate imagery
is distinguished by the presence of a sacramental dimension in Christian salvation-history
that is absent in the Bahā’ī view of prophetic history.
The Promised One (Bahā’ī Doctrinal Key Scenario)
In his epistles to the reigning monarchs and rulers of his day, Bahā’u’llāh announced
himself as the Promised One. This purports to be the voice of revelation, its own self-
validating epistemic warrant. Bahā’u’llāh’s proclamation is, in a sense, the “authorizing
voice of a world-text”—the Bahā’ī revelation. As David Dilworth states: “This is the
standard voice of religious texts. It bears witness to a higher wisdom or the revelation of an
absolute knowledge, of which the text constitutes a transparent, self-transcending medium.
This is the authorizing perspective of all sacred scriptures and their theological traditions,
and also of various philosophers who speak of or for God” (1989, 27).
In the key scenario of the Promised One, a Bahā’ī perspective on Jesus is gained. In
effect, it is a post-Christian Christology. It is to be expected that a post-Christian claimant to
revelation (such as Mānī, [**230] Muḥammad, the Bāb, or Bahā’u’llāh) within the Western
religious tradition should have something to say regarding his predecessor, Jesus Christ.
The text which follows is perhaps Bahā’u’llāh’s most important statement as to the
station of Jesus Christ. Expressed as a eulogy, written in response to several questions posed
to Bahā’u’llāh by a Christian priest in Constantinople, the death of Christ, in Bahā’u’llāh’s
perspective, takes on a significance that surpasses the traditional Christian understanding of
it. For Christ’s sacrifice is presented within the context not only of sin and salvation, but of
civilization as well. The passage is an Arabic excerpt from an otherwise lost Tablet (which
might be referred to as a Lawḥ-i Qassīs), quoted in Bahā’u’llāh’s lengthiest Tablet to Fatḥ-i
A‘ẓam (in Persian). Adib Taherzadeh (RB 3:244) states that the recipient of this Tablet was
a Christian bishop. The identity of this bishop is not known.
In this surviving fragment, Bahā’u’llāh states: “Know thou that when the Son of Man
(lit., al-ibn, ‘the Son’) yielded up His breath (al-rūḥ) to God, the whole creation wept with a
great weeping. By sacrificing Himself, however, a fresh capacity was infused (ista‘adda)
into all created things (kullu shay’). Its evidences, as witnessed in all the peoples of the
earth, are now manifest before thee. The deepest wisdom (ḥikmat) which the sages have
uttered, the profoundest learning (al-‘ulūm) which any mind hath unfolded, the arts (al-
ṣanāyi‘) which the ablest hands have produced, the influence (qudrat) exerted by the most
potent of rulers, are but manifestations of the quickening power (ta’yīd) released by His
transcendent, His all-pervasive, and resplendent Spirit. We testify that when He came into
the world, He shed the splendor of His glory (tajallá) upon all created things. Through Him
the leper recovered from the leprosy of perversity and ignorance. Through Him, the
unchaste and wayward were healed. Through His power, borne of Almighty God, the eyes
Paradise Similarities and Paradigm Differences                                    187

of the blind were opened, and the soul of the sinner sanctified (tazakkat). Leprosy may be
interpreted as any veil that interveneth between man and the recognition of the Lord, his
God. Whoso alloweth himself to be shut out from Him is indeed a leper, who shall not be
remembered in the Kingdom of God (fī malakūt Allāh), the Mighty, the All-Praised. We bear
witness that through the power of the Word of God (min kalimāt Allāh) every leper was
cleansed (ṭuhhira), every sickness was healed, every human infirmity was banished. He it is
Who purified the world (wa-innā-hu la-muṭahhir al-‘ālam). Blessed is the man who, with a
face beaming with light, hath turned towards Him” (GWB 85-88/MMM 62 and IQT 93).
Given its Islamic milieu, this passage is remarkable for its superlative glorification of
Christ. In orthodox Christianity, the “Work of Christ” is bound up with man’s relationship to
God, and this aspect of “functional Christology” is by no means passed over by Bahā’u’llāh.
[**231] Abandoning the speculative, ontological “substance Christology” of the classical
period, Bahā’u’llāh describes the “quickening power” (ta’yīd) unleashed by Christ’s
sacrifice and its impact on civilization, bears witness that “the soul of the sinner” has been
“sanctified” (tazakkat—PED 299, s.v. tazakkī) and acknowledges that the world has been
purified by Christ, the Purifier of the world (muṭahhir al-‘ālam—PED 1259, s.v. muṭahhir).
Three aspects of salvation effected by Christ are singled out in Bahā’u’llāh’s Tablet to the
priest of Constantinople: quickening, sanctifying, purifying. The healing motif is associated
with the last two. It is tempting to try to read into the text what theology calls the “order of
salvation” (a doctrine of Lutheran orthodoxy, but the meaningful aspects of the idea are
quite widespread [Weber 1981, 2:193–209]). But there appears to be no sequential
progression of spiritual states developed in this Tablet. However, as this text focuses on
what systematic theology terms the “effects” of the work of Jesus Christ, it appears to
extend the “order of salvation” as it were, to civilization itself.
Bahā’u’llāh sees Christ’s sacrifice as having an impact not only on the human soul but
on the whole panorama of human events. Not only has the individual sinner been saved, but
civilization has been quickened as well (on v.n. isti‘dād—“fresh capacity”—cf. AED 595
and PED 53). To salvation therefore is added a dimension of the work of Christ which
Bahā’u’llāh identifies as “quickening power” (ta’yīd)—often rendered in the Bahā’ī
writings as “divine assistance.” Steingass glosses ta’yīd as “strengthening, infusing fresh
vigour” with the attendant notion of “divine assistance” (PED 278; cf. Wehr 1973, 37). In
one of Bahā’u’llāh’s prayers, Jesus is described as having been sent “for the edification of
Thy people, infusing thereby the spirit of life into the hearts of the sincere among Thy
servants and the faithful among Thy creatures” (PM 37).
Bahā’u’llāh seems to be saying that the pervasive power of Christ’s influence lent a
cultural vigor to the West, contributing to its masterpieces of art, its discoveries of science,
its human values and even its temporal power, resulting in the ascendancy of the “Great
Powers” of nineteenth-century Europe. Thus it is clear that, in Bahā’ī doctrine, the work of
Christ is extended to civilization itself, spiritually contributing to its social evolution.
Identifying Christ with civilization was, historically, a gradual process, in which secular
time was merged with sacred time. Weber (1981, 2:166, n. 2) notes that the first Christian
calendar, which saw events in history as tied to the Christ event, originated with Dionysius
Exiguus (c. 500–550 C.E.)—a practice permanently established by the Venerable Bede (c.
673–735 C.E.).
Paradise Similarities and Paradigm Differences

There is a decidedly “Christian” dimension in the symbol of the Promised One.
Christology reaches its fulfillment in the Parousia, the return of Christ, and Bahā’u’llāh
makes that claim. One Bahā’ī “proof” [**232] of Christ’s “return” has a kind of Syrian
Christian logic. In his Commentary on the Diatessaron 3:10, Ephrem glosses John the
Baptist’s denial of being Elijah redivivus (John 1:19–21) and Jesus’ affirmation that indeed
he was (Matt. 11:14; 17:12–13): “The Jews sent to John and said to him, Who are you? He
confessed and said, I am not the Messiah. They said to him, Are you Elijah? He said, But
our Lord called him Elijah, as Scripture attests. However, when they interrogated him, he
said, ‘I am not Elijah.’ But Scripture does not say that John came in the body of Elijah, but,
In the power and the spirit of Elijah” [Luke 1:17] (SEC 78–79).
In a similar fashion, in Some Answered Questions, ‘Abdu’l-Bahā resolves this apparent
contradiction of scripture on a higher plane of understanding. He does so in order to
elucidate the biblical meaning of “return”—specifically in regard to the “return of Christ” as
a feature of traditional Christian eschatology, and as a warrant of the plausibility of
Bahā’u’llāh’s claim. ‘Abdu’l-Bahā states: “Therefore, when Christ said, ‘This is Elias,’ He
meant: this person is a manifestation of the bounty, the perfections, the character, the
qualities and the virtues of Elias. John the Baptist said, ‘I am not Elias.’ Christ considered
the qualities, the perfections, the character and the virtues of both, and John regarded his
substance and individuality” (SAQ 134). Suffice it to say that the Syriac symbol of the Way
points to Christ as the penultimate event of salvation-history. Bahā’u’llāh’s symbol of the
Promised One points to the ultimate event of salvation-history, seen as the advent of
Bahā’u’llāh himself.
Physician—I (Syriac Doctrinal Root Metaphor)
It has been established that the key symbol of the Physician is an important one in both
Syriac and Bahā’ī traditions. According to Brock and others, this symbol is of
Mesopotamian origin. Be that as it may, the vocation of healer and the healing arts is a
universal feature of human society. The role of the physician in human societies is so visible
and so important that it stands as an attractive, even predictable metaphor of choice for the
spiritual teacher. Historically, a number of distinguished Syrian Christians had a visible
presence in the Sasanian courts as royal physicians.
It is fairly obvious what a physician does, and what the role of a physician is. The
physician is a healer, and, in situations where death is imminent and one’s very life hangs in
the balance, the physician plays a decisive role as the instrument of salvation. The Physician
is an ideal image of one who saves peoples’ lives, without whose intervention there would
be no hope of recovery or even of life. In Carmina Nisibena XXXIV, Ephrem regards the
prophets and patriarchs (Abraham, Moses, Joseph, and Daniel) as “physicians” (stanzas 1–
8). [**233] Yet the world still languished in sickness (v.9), and still stood in need of
restorative healing. Christ the Physician took pity, and restored humanity through the
“Medicine of Life”—through the transfusion, as it were, of his own flesh and blood (v. 10).
“Jesus is our Physician,” writes Ephrem, and “he is our medicine” (v. 11). Jesus does what
no earthly doctor is capable of (v. 12, SCK 201).
Paradise Similarities and Paradigm Differences                                    189

As there is thought to be a spiritual existence above and beyond carnality, a body/soul/
spirit trichotomy reinforces a belief in two levels of life—physical and spiritual. In both
Syriac and Bahā’ī traditions, the soul is in some sense the animus of the body, while the
spirit is the life-principle of the soul. The question remains: If the primary function of a
divine Physician is to save, then how is this parallel imagery in the two traditions to be
properly understood?
At the root of Syriac and Bahā’ī conceptual systems are their respective soteriologies.
Therein lies the difference in meaning of their expressive similarities. In the Syriac symbol
system, the body/soul requires salvation along with that of the soul/spirit. In Syriac
eschatology, this is because, in the afterlife, the soul requires the instrumentality of the
senses for its powers of perception. In Syriac belief generally, death is a coma, a cryogenic
state of suspended animation awaiting the eschaton for the restoration of the original
spiritual/ psychic/somatic unity of the individual. In contrast, not unlike the Bardaiṣanite
scheme, the Bahā’ī system dispenses with the body for afterlife purposes. Notwithstanding,
Bahā’ī doctrine maintains that there still exists an afterlife “form” (haykal), in which the
soul subsists.
A disease model supplies much in the way of an extended metaphor. The sinner is the
patient, suffering the vicissitudes of a condition of sin and separation from God. In the
Syriac paradigm, the patient is afflicted with the “disease of mortality.” Salvation, at its most
elemental level, requires physical resurrection, made possible by Christ, who conquered
Death. In the Bahā’ī system, physicality is viewed as temporal and as unworthy of salvation.
Bahā’ī anthropology rests on quite different assumptions about man and the universe. This
is not to diminish the importance of the body. But it simply has no soteriological role. The
body is indispensable to physical life, but not so for spiritual existence. In Bahā’ī terms, the
disease that plights humankind is disunity, not mortality. Physical death is accepted as
inevitable.
For Ephrem a transformation of divinity into humanity (Incarnation) takes place so that
the reverse process may become possible (salvation as divinization/immortality). In Bahā’ī
doctrine, the human predicament is ignorance resulting in the social chaos of disunity, not
loss of immortality. The human predicament is not just individual, it is also corporate. In the
Bahā’ī worldview, it is unity, not immortality, which is the Paradise that needs to be
regained. This is primarily a difference in emphasis.

[**234] Physician—II (Bahā’ī Doctrinal Root Metaphor)
Bahā’u’llāh is fond of the same pastoral imagery of healing. In his Tablet to Jināb-i
Muḥammad (MHB 57–60), Bahā’u’llāh writes: “The Prophets of God should be regarded
as physicians whose task is to foster the well-being of the world and its peoples, that,
through the spirit of oneness, they may heal the sickness of a divided humanity” (GWB 80).
This sickness is diagnosed as disunity, seen as the source of all social ills. The modern world
requires a precise diagnosis and a specific prescription: “No man, however acute his
perception, can ever hope to reach the heights which the wisdom and understanding of the
Divine Physician have attained. Little wonder, then, if the treatment prescribed by the
physician in this day should not be found to be identical with that which he prescribed
Paradise Similarities and Paradigm Differences

before. How could it be otherwise when the ills affecting the sufferer necessitate at every
stage of his sickness a special remedy? In like manner, every time the Prophets of God have
illumined the world with the resplendent radiance of the Day Star of Divine knowledge,
they have invariably summoned its peoples to embrace the light of God through such means
as best befitted the exigencies of the age in which they appeared” (GWB 80). This statement
suggests that there were supposed to be religious differences, considering that societies had
fluctuating priorities over the course of history.
Christ and Bahā’u’llāh are both divine Physicians in their respective traditions, but each
seems to have had a particular specialization. In the divine scheme of things, it happens that
each patient (as defined in Christian and Bahā’ī traditions) requires a different specialist. In
a word, as divine physicians, the Syriac Christ proffers the cure of theōsis, or divinization,
while Bahā’u’llāh, as Christ returned, prescribes unity as the cure. These cures are
somewhat inverse in relation to one another: In the former, the cure is primarily focused on
the individual, while in the latter, the cure is a reflex of societal transformation. The
presenting problem of the corporate patient—humanity as a body—is different in Syriac and
Bahā’ī systems. In the Syriac diagnosis of the world’s ills, humanity is ravaged by the
“disease of mortality” transmitted by Adam after the Fall. The Bahā’ī diagnosis of disunity
is at a considerable remove from the Syriac view of humanity’s predicament, so it should
come as no surprise that the panaceas are also different. However, the secondary symptoms
of the patient, in both traditions, exhibit considerable overlap.
Therefore it is clear that the metaphor of Physician (and its pendant, healing) is common
to both Faiths. Humanity stands in dire need of intervention in order to be relieved of the
afflictions that beset it. The diagnoses differ, and so do the medicines, as well as the way in
which they are administered. In each case, the Physician comes up with the proper
diagnosis. The Physician then prescribes the right [**235] medicine. But the medicine is
really a cure that has not yet been invented, at least with the potency needed, so the
Physician develops the cure before administering the medicine. This makes the Physician all
the more indispensable. The Physician, in a sense, has a monopoly on the cure, which
makes the cure so crucial. The pharmacology of salvation requires the prescription of the
wise Physician.
In certain respects, the end result is similar. Both cures call upon the willingness of the
patient to undergo a regimen of spiritual and, to a certain extent, physical discipline in order
to become a worthy and effective agent of transformation in healing of the world. The call
to such a ministry demands a commitment on the part of the active believer. Many of the
same spiritual values and virtues are evident in both ethical systems. But the ritual elements
are distinctively at variance with one another.
Ritual

One cannot escape the impression that death represented the gravest fear for Christians in
Syria in the fourth century. Fear of death, after all, is a very human dread. The drama of
salvation from start to finish has as its theme the contest with death. Even in terms of
images used in Greco-Roman Christian traditions, Susan Ashbrook Harvey observes: “The
imagery most popular in the Greco-Latin churches was that of resurrection, of baptism as a
Paradise Similarities and Paradigm Differences                                    191

dying and rising, and the baptismal water as the grave, following on the Pauline teachings of
Rom 6:4–6 especially. In early Syriac tradition, baptism was above all a rebirth, following
John 3:3–7, and the baptismal water was the ‘womb’ that bore true sons and daughters for
the heavenly kingdom” (1993, 119). Referring to the apparent “ignoring [of] the role of His
[Christ’s] death and resurrection” in connection with Syriac Christian baptism, Brock
observes: “The same sort of problem might be seen to apply to the early Syriac emphasis on
Christ’s baptism in the Jordan as the source of Christian baptism, apparently ignoring the
role of His death and resurrection” (LumE 71).
From a Western Christian perspective, approaching Syriac texts for the first time, the
unexpected absence of resurrection imagery in Syrian Christian baptism is indeed
surprising. But, in a broader perspective, one might conclude that, while baptism confers the
Robe of Glory, Christ’s resurrection empowers theōsis, through the sacraments taken
together—Chrism, Baptism, and Eucharist. The promise of immortality is embodied in this
Athanasian-like verse: “The Most High knew that Adam had wanted to become a god,/so
He sent His Son who put him on in order to grant him his desire” (CNis LXIX.2, LumE
126).

[**236] Robe of Glory (Syriac Ritual Key Scenario)
The Robe of Glory was Ephrem’s favorite image of the Incarnation. With Adam’s
disobedience of God came the loss of godliness, one aspect of which is immortality. Adam
was stripped of his radiance, the “Robe of Glory,” less frequently referred to as his “Robe of
Light.” The Bible intimately links sin with death. It was to be expected that Ephrem
understood Paradise Lost in the very same terms. Salvation makes it possible for the Fall to
be reversed.
To recapitulate, the four dramatic episodes of salvation history involving the Robe of
Glory are: (1) the Fall (loss of the Robe); (2) the Incarnation; (3) Christ’s Baptism
(depositing the Robe in the river Jordan); (4) Resurrection (when the Robe of Glory will be
worn at the Wedding Feast). In order to understand Ephrem’s doctrine of Incarnation,
intimately bound up as it is with his soteriology, we must first review the human
predicament, as it is portrayed in primordial terms. Again, robes figure prominently in the
picture. The robe of immortality is a key element in this drama. Apparently, the robe of light
transforms its bearer. It is no mere ornament. It is not worn for its symbolic form; it is worn
in order to divinize the one who wears it.
The piece of cloth called the “Robe of Glory” is a sort of sacramental Shroud of Turin.
This is because Christ, or at least his saving power, is imprinted on this mystical fabric. The
Incarnation, after all, had a distinct purpose: “Today the Deity imprinted itself on humanity,/
so that humanity might also be cut into the seal of Deity” (Nat. I.99, McV 74). Somehow,
Deity or its power to deify is what is so distinctive about the Robe of Glory.
Even the Nicene Creed says nothing about the mode of union of God in Christ.
Curiously, an unnamed Nestorian (a Christian holding to two persons/parsopa Christology
in which divine and human indwell in Christ) opponent of Philoxenus (d. 523) had
maintained: “Just as a king puts on purple clothes which remain in their own hypostasis,
outside the hypostasis of the king, so did God put on the different hypostasis of a man who
Paradise Similarities and Paradigm Differences

served him as his purple robes” (cited by Philoxenus, in Brock 1982b, 18). For Philoxenus’s
Nestorian, there is more than one robe. If the plurality of robes had any significance,
perhaps they represented successive prophets in the course of salvation history. In this kind
of imagery, which is static rather than dynamic, the king is unaffected by the royal vestment;
the robe simply renders God “visible.” This type of imagery, though unacceptable to
Philoxenus, is closer to Bahā’ī metaphoricity.
To be sure, Bahā’u’llāh, like Ephrem, is fond of robe imagery. Unlike Ephrem,
Bahā’u’llāh states that man has already been invested with the robe of immortality. Bahā’ī
soteriology thus concerns itself with other matters entirely, as in HWA #14: “O Son of Man!
Thou art [**237] My dominion and My dominion perisheth not, wherefore fearest thou thy
perishing? Thou art My light and My light shall never be extinguished, why dost thou dread
extinction? Thou art My glory and My glory fadeth not; thou art My robe and My robe shall
never be outworn. Abide then in thy love for Me, that thou mayest find Me in the realm of
glory” (ET: HW 7; Persian text: KM 5–6).
If immortality is a given in Bahā’ī anthropology, what then is Bahā’ī salvation? There
are numerous pronouncements on this question in the Bahā’ī writings. To sustain the
metaphorical comparisons already drawn, a soteriological formula involving enrobement is
to the point. In his Tablet to Jināb-i Muḥammad, Bahā’u’llāh writes: “And now concerning
thy question regarding the nature of religion. Know that they who are truly wise have
likened the world unto the human temple. As the body of man needeth a garment to clothe
it, so the body of mankind must needs be adorned with the mantle of justice and wisdom. Its
robe is the Revelation vouchsafed unto it by God. Whenever this robe hath fulfilled its
purpose, the Almighty will assuredly renew it” (GWB 81).
A robe is worn. So is a ring. Although not frequently, the idea of clothing is also used
Bahā’ī texts to describe the modality of “Manifestation” as opposed to Incarnation. In his
Tablet of the Manifestation, Bahā’u’llāh gives this illustration: “Consider a goldsmith:
verily, he makes a ring, and although he is its maker, yet he adorns his finger with it.
Likewise God the Exalted appears in the clothing of the creatures” (Holley 1928, 206). This
runs counter to Ephrem in doctrine but not necessarily in image. In the passage below,
Ephrem speaks of transformation of divine nature, an impossibility in Bahā’ī thinking. But
the image has some interesting affinities with that of Bahā’u’llāh’s goldsmith: “That Lord of
the natures today/changed himself against his nature/so that it should not be difficult for us/
to change our wicked will. . . ./Today the divinity/imprinted (ṭeb‘at) itself in humanity/so
that humanity should also decorate (teṣṭabat) itself/in the signet-ring (tab‘a’) of
divinity” (Nat. I.97, 99, Botha 1989, 26). In Syriac studies, this passage from Ephrem’s
Hymns on the Nativity is typically compared to Athanasius’s formula to the effect that God
became man that man might become God (On the Incarnation LIV.3). In another translation
of Nat. I.97, 99, we read: “The Lord of natures today was transformed contrary to His
nature; /. . . Today the Deity imprinted Itself on humanity,/so that humanity might also be
cut into the seal of Deity” (McV 74, where, in n. 66, the parallel to Athanasius is adduced).
This problem apart, for purposes of comparison, we may observe that Bahā’u’llāh’s
goldsmith fashions a ring out of humanity; in Ephrem, saved man may wear the signet ring
of divinity. The ring in the former is visible, the wearer invisible; the ring in the latter is
[**238] invisible, the wearer visible. The fundamental difference between the Syriac and
Paradise Similarities and Paradigm Differences                                    193

Bahā’ī conceptual systems is that the former is based on a model of Incarnation whereas the
latter is based on a model of Manifestation. This difference has a direct impact on the ritual
dimension of each religion.
The Covenant (Bahā’ī Ritual Key Scenario)
This leads to the Bahā’ī conception of the Covenant. To the Christian who sees in
Bahā’u’llāh the reality of Christ and the eschatological realization of Christ’s return in the
person of Bahā’u’llāh, the following beatitude applies: “Blessed is he who hath remained
faithful to My Covenant” (TB 17). “Every receptive soul,” Bahā’u’llāh proclaims, “who
hath in this Day inhaled the fragrance of His garment and hath, with a pure heart, set his
face towards the all-glorious Horizon is reckoned among the people of Bahā in the Crimson
Book” (TB 220). The “Crimson Book” refers to Bahā’u’llāh’s Book of the Covenant.
The most potent image of the Covenant that Bahā’īs have is that of a man: ‘Abdu’l-
Bahā. Bahā’īs consider him to be the “Perfect Exemplar” of Bahā’u’llāh’s teachings.
Designated by Bahā’u’llāh himself to be his successor and the infallible interpreter of his
teachings, ‘Abdu’l-Bahā bears the distinction of being the “Centre of the Covenant” of
Bahā’u’llāh. There is no exact counterpart to this in Syriac Christianity, except for the
notion of apostolic succession.
One major difference between Bahā’ī and Syriac Christian church organizations is that
there is no clergy in the Bahā’ī Faith, which is another consequence of its nonsacramental
character. A bishop administers the sacraments, but if there are no sacraments to administer,
then there is no need of a bishop, except for pastoral work. It is this pastoral ministry that is
conserved in the Bahā’ī system of annually elected Local and National Spiritual Assemblies.
(The international governing body of the Bahā’ī world is called the Universal House of
Justice, elected once every five years by the National Spiritual Assemblies who convene in
Haifa, Israel, for that purpose.) This question of the necessity and efficacy of the sacraments
brings us to a consideration of the Syriac Medicine of Life.
Medicine of Life (Syriac Ritual Root Metaphor)
Christian views on the nature of the soul and its immortality were by no means uniform.
Wolfson (1956, 72–74) points to three Fathers (Tertullian, Origen, and Augustine) who held
that the soul is immortal, a tenet that has profound implications for soteriology. Tertullian
(De Resur. Carn. 25) appealed directly to Plato (d. 347 B.C.E.), who is said to have declared
in no uncertain terms: “Every soul is immortal.” [**239] It is the “safety” of the soul that is
at stake. The soul, though immortal by nature (immortalis natura) is lost. Christ came to
rescue the soul from divine retribution. For Origen, the soul is immortal by virtue of its
essence (substantia) and is said to “partake” of divine nature. Augustine ascribes absolute
immortality to God alone, yet the soul is said to possess an immortality peculiar to itself.
Philosophically, the position that the soul is immortal is decidedly Platonic, whereas its
denial is Aristotelian. (Wolfson [1956, 102–103] points out how Aristotle, originally a
disciple of Plato, started out believing the soul to be immortal, but later concluded that this
Paradise Similarities and Paradigm Differences

was not so.) There is no classical philosophical justification for resurrection, only scripture.
The only philosophical analogues to which the Fathers could appeal were distant: (1) the
Stoic doctrine of palingenesis; and (2) transmigration of souls—doctrines ascribed to
Pythagoras, Empedocles, and Plato (Wolfson 1956, 75–76).
The most metaphorical modern treatment of early Christian paradigms of death and
resurrection appears to be that of Jaroslav Pelikan (1961), who presents the views of five
church Fathers in terms of shapes: Tatian (arc: sharp beginning and end); Clement of
Alexandria (circle: cyclical platonic views); Cyprian (triangle: realized and anticipated life
in God); Origen: (parabola: preexistence and afterlife); Irenaeus (spiral: obedience to death
in this life). Differences in resurrection beliefs correlate directly to anthropology, regarding
the nature of the soul (whether immortal or not) and the constitution of the resurrection
body (whether gross, subtle, or formal). Another indicator is the status of the special dead:
Elijah, Lazarus, the crucified thief, martyrs, the righteous.
Christians throughout the Roman Empire practiced banqueting for the special dead
(family and martyrs). This was a practice that had to be outlawed by Christians themselves,
and by the fourth century, it appears that this practice finally ceased. The Christian cult of
the dead raises a significant question as to the status of the presently dead. On the basis of
archaeological evidence, the popular scene of the Resurrection of Lazarus has to be
understood from a different perspective: “It depicts the present reality of resurrection rather
than belief in another world. . . . [The early Christians] ate with the dead, asked for their
assistance. . . . The resurrection motif supports neither a view of otherworldly immortality
nor a view of end-time judgement and resurrection. The presence of the dead [within the
community] was made possible through the redeeming act of the wonder worker Jesus.
These resurrected dead then were part of the extended Christian family” (Snyder 1985, 61,
cited by Smith 1990, 131). In the Christian catacombs, banqueting for the dead assumed the
presence of the dead, though, with the relics of the dead still interred, they could hardly be
said to have resurrected. Yet afterlife did not depend on resurrection. [**240] It did, as did
all other Christian paradigms, predicate liberation from death on the victory of Christ over
death.
Behind belief in physical resurrection, the body is not malefic, but is to be loved. Two
forms of this belief prevailed, depending on the distinction made between body (sōma) and
flesh (sarx). The resurrection body constituted of flesh is presumably reconstituted of the
same original atoms. This, of course, was philosophically difficult to maintain, given the
organic nature of the body, which was always in flux. The concept of bodily resurrection
was more believable, as the resurrection body would be “glorified”—that is, its gross
substance would be transformed in some way into something subtle. The problem with this
view surrounded the instrumentality of the senses. The body-soul unity was necessary to
maintain due to the inability of the soul, not to subsist, but to perceive if deprived of the
senses. If the nature of Paradise renders the senses obsolete, however, the justification for
corporeal resurrection is logically contradicted (cf. Wolfson 1961, 83).
There was also a belief, current in early Christianity, in spiritual resurrection. The
pejorative view of this belief was its allegedly “docetic” nature. This view is closely linked
with spirit/matter dualism. Matter, in which the spark of light (the soul) is entrapped, is
Paradise Similarities and Paradigm Differences                                    195

depreciated as dark and evil. Gnostics who held to this view sought escape from mortality,
not a restoration or prolongation of it.
Bardaiṣan is said to have altogether denied physical resurrection. Against this doctrine
Ephrem’s Hymns XLVI and LI of the cycle known as Carmina Nisibena are directed. For
Bardaiṣan, the body has no need to be redeemed. Christ brought deliverance to the soul
through the spirit. The body is of little consequence. Freedom is gained through harmony
with God’s order. The soul cannot do it alone. The spirit of man or “Reason” (madd‘ā)—the
third component in Bardaiṣan’s anthropological triad—is, by contrast, wholly spiritual
(Skjaervo, EIr 3:782). It is what relates man to God, through transcendence above nature
and fate.
Adam wrongly used this divine trust, thereby barring the soul—to which the spirit is
connected—from returning to its celestial origin, the “Bridal Chamber of Light.” With this
trichotomous concept Ephrem tacitly agrees: “Far more glorious than the body is the soul,/
and more glorious still than the soul is the spirit,/but more hidden than the spirit is the
Godhead” (HdP IX.20, HyP 143). These transformations establish the loci of salvation.
Exercise of the will becomes the agent of salvation.
In contrast to Bardaiṣan, Ephrem held that the soul, while in the body, resembles an
embryo, and cannot enter Paradise unaided. Only when the soul is reunited with the bodily
senses in the eschaton can it fully function in Paradise (HdP VIII.5–7, HyP 133). As
Ephrem states in another verse: “At the end/the body will put on/the beauty of the [**241]
soul,/the soul will put on that of the spirit,/while the spirit shall put on/the very likeness of
God’s majesty” (HdP IX.20, HyP 143). To the level of the soul will the body be transported,
Ephrem explains, while the soul ascends to the level of spirit, the spirit in turn attaining
God’s presence or “majesty” (HdP IX.21).
With this explanation couched in mystic vision, Ephrem has ideologically rescued the
body from its snatcher, the heretic Bardaiṣan. At the same time, Ephrem reminds us that his
description of Paradise is entirely metaphorical (HdP XI.7, HyP 156). The eschatological
“Bridal Chamber of Light” (Ieiun. V.1), of which Bardaiṣan also spoke, is, in its realized
form, “the bridal chamber of such a person’s heart” (Virg. XLIV.20, LumE 99 and 104).
“Even though it [Paradise] may appear terrestrial because of the terms used,” Ephrem
explains, “it is in its reality spiritual and pure” (HdP XI.4, HyP 155). Clearly, a local
Edessan controversy over the immortality of the soul had its impact on Ephrem’s
soteriology of theōsis.
If it is conceded that the soul is immortal, there is then no need for divinization. The
power of baptism and the sacraments to confer immortality is seriously undermined.
Soteriology, as Ephrem knew it, would have to be redefined. But it seems that Ephrem’s
soteriology was not entirely predicated on theōsis. Divinization in terms of “substance” is
one thing, but becoming godly is quite another. As argued below in section 7.1, Ephrem’s
soteriology stands midway between the underdeveloped Jewish afterlife picture of the abyss
of Sheol and the speculative Middle-Platonist doctrine of asōmata and Bardaiṣan’s
refutation of bodily resurrection. (For a diagrammatic picture of Sheol, see McDannell and
Lang 1988, 4.) Ephrem’s Paradise resurrects the form of the body but not its substance, and
Paradise Similarities and Paradigm Differences

predicates Paradise-worthiness on ethical advancement that would rival that of any
Bardaiṣanite .
The poetic artistry of Ephrem is wide ranging. It includes a panoply of literary devices,
not the least of which is word-play. This is an example of it: “In Bethlehem the slayers
mowed down the fair flowers so that with them/would perish the fair Seed in which was
hidden the Living Bread./The Staff of life had fled so that it might come to the sheaf in the
harvest./The Cluster that fled while young, gave Himself in the trampling/to revive souls
with His wine. Glory to You, the Medicine of Life!” (Nat. XXIV.17, McV 196). In this
verse, as in Nat. XXV.6, Ephrem puns Christ’s title as “the Living Bread” with “Bethlehem”
which means, “house of bread” (McV 201, n. 561). This is all part of Ephrem’s vast
repertoire of sacramental imagery.
The “Medicine of Life” is distinctively Syriac, although it has a wider patristic
background. Medicine of Life imagery might well have been based on Eccl. 6:16. The
Medicine of Life is the antidote to the mortality brought on by Adam’s sin. Through the
Syriac sacrament of communion, the Medicine of Life confers immortality. “A treasure of
[**242] medicines is Your great day/on which the Medicine of Life shone forth for the
severely wounded” (Nat. IV.24, McV 91).
The Eucharist is a mystery, and the Syriac “Medicine of Life” is singular. It is
prescriptively specific. It is communicated in the sacrament of the Eucharist, which is
literally wine, but invested with a rich symbolism. In this sacramental cup, the restorative
elixir of divinity begins its work of divinization. This brings us to the Bahā’ī symbolism of
wine.
Wine/Water of Life (Bahā’ī Ritual Root Metaphor)
In both systems, the dispensation of spiritual elements is typically represented as
nourishment. The symbolism of this nourishment is necessarily physical. It will not do to
represent this medium in terms of anything that by human standards is gross. The
symbolism of divine sustenance is not well served by the image, for example, of a steak. To
argue from absurdity, the steak metaphor is problematic in a number of ways. Meat has
sometimes been used to represent advanced spiritual teachings (because it is substantive but
hard to digest), as contrasted with milk (which is easily assimilated, as by infants and
neophytes). But when the sustenance under consideration is the direct influx of divinity, or
the immediate experience of the divine, it is mead and not meat. In such a context, only the
most refined symbolism, as the archaism goes, is “meet and seemly.” Symbolically, a pure
beverage is a far more appropriate image for the assimilation of divinity (Syriac), or for the
assimilation of divine teachings (Bahā’ī).
Pure beverages—Wine, and the Water of Life—are more or less common to both
traditions. In the Bahā’ī tradition, the “water of life” represents nourishment in the form of
divine teachings, and the divine influence those teachings impart. Wine is the happiest of the
beverage images, being the closest example of a true parallel in both religious systems.
While, sacramentally, wine is a symbol of the blood of Christ, in Syriac tradition wine still
retains its association with feasting, merriment, and mirth (even though Ephrem is
traditionally represented as one who cautions against laughter). Wine is a cause of joy. The
Paradise Similarities and Paradigm Differences                                    197

presence of divinity is mystically rapturous, to the point of being inebriating. But inebriation
is the wrong word to use with respect to the Syriac tradition, which McVey refers to as
“sober inebriation,” in her gloss on Nat. IV.110: “by the wine that maddened us, we became
modest” (McV 98 and n. 169). This appears to be a contrastive allusion to the drunkenness
of Noah, that resulted in his immodesty.
Wine is also more personal. It is typically portrayed in a festive setting. In the imbibing
of wine at the eschaton, one does not serve one’s self. One is served, usually by the savior
figure or by a celestial being. Reunion with the Beloved is a cause for celebration. How this
[**243] union is to be achieved—and by what modality—does not alter the symbolism of
wine, eschatologically speaking. When Syriac texts refer to the actual practice of drinking
wine, which is forbidden in Bahā’ī law, the sacraments are meant. Eschatologically,
although not sacramentally, the Bahā’ī symbolism of wine is not only an affine metaphor
with respect to the Syriac symbolism of wine, it is also comparable in content.
Ethical

There are degrees of perfection and glory far beyond the state of incipient salvation. Moral
development, in both Syriac and Bahā’ī perspectives, is crucial to the progress of the soul.
There is some evidence to suggest that the community of Ephrem was in ethical
competition, so to speak, with its Christian rivals, the Bardaiṣanites. The Edessan native
Bardaiṣan had high ethical standards for his followers. The exercise of free will was, to both
Syrian figures, of greatest importance. We now proceed to a comparison of four selected
key symbols of distinctively ethical import.
Sons/Daughters of the Covenant (Syriac Ethical Key Scenario)
Ephrem held virginity in high regard as a charism which, embodying renunciation, faith,
and love, offered a path to perfection. The Sons and Daughters of the Covenant were
conceived as having entered into the angelic life. In the practice of virginity, one has the
potential to become superior to angels through the reflex and power of the will, which is
seen as a uniquely human endowment. Notwithstanding, virginity alone was no guarantor of
spiritual purity, though for Ephrem it represented an ideal kind of mortification. As to the
Robe of Glory mentioned in the previous section, only a virtuous raiment befits so august an
occasion as the eschatological Wedding Banquet. The Robe cannot be soiled by sin. One
such sin may be the sin of omission.
The religious population of Edessa was very purification oriented. Ephrem and
Bardaiṣan and Mānī unwittingly concur that purification was necessary for salvation, but
their followers pursued this end through various means. Bardaiṣan effected a synthesis of
disparate elements of Syrian paganism and recast them within a Judeo-Christian ethic. To
achieve purification, his rival Mānī chose asceticism; Bardaiṣan opted for ethical rigor, in
which knowledge and faith are requisite. Ephrem seems close to Bardaiṣan on this count,
while at the same time incorporating elements of ascesis into his system, evidently lacking
in Bardaiṣan’s: “He Who gave hope in baptism/gave repentance lest hope be cut off by
Paradise Similarities and Paradigm Differences

Him./But harsher is the work after [**244] you have been baptized/than that work before
you have been baptized./Sins before baptism/by simple work are able to be atoned./And if
the imprint of scars sullies [the Christian],/baptism whitens and wipes them clean./But sins
after baptism/with double works are able to be overturned./When works and mercy have
truly healed,/the imprint of scars will call for a miracle” (Virg. XLVI.22–27, McV 450–51).
This view of salvation is a far cry from justification “by faith alone.” Apt here is that curious
expression found in the pseudo-Clementines, “the faith of works” which comes to the
present writer’s mind, with all of the spiritual dangers of salvific complacency of which
Hebrews 10:26–29 warns. In his meditation on the Day of Judgment so graphically
portrayed in the Letter to Publius (cited above in chapter 3), Ephrem is careful to secure the
necessity of works in terms not of salvation but of merit. Virginity alone does not assure a
place in the Wedding Banquet.
The symbol of the Sons and Daughters of the Covenant has no exact counterpart in
Bahā’ī texts. As important—indeed, as central— as the symbol of the Covenant is in Bahā’ī
symbolism, the relative emphasis on sexual holiness as the defining criterion of fidelity to a
spiritual ideal is not met with in the Bahā’ī tradition. Premarital chastity and sexual fidelity
in marriage are stressed in Bahā’ī teachings. In fact, paradigm differences between the two
religions become apparent even here. In Syriac Christianity, sexual holiness conserves union
with Christ, whereas sexual holiness, as defined in Bahā’ī teachings, functions as a basis for
a unified society, founded on the integrity of the family as the essential foundation of
community.
Illumination (Bahā’ī Ethical Key Scenario)
More commonality is to be met with in the symbolism of light. The Bahā’ī key scenario of
illumination pervades Bahā’ī texts. Take, for instance, Bahā’ī teachings on philanthropy.
Bahā’u’llāh says of the spiritually minded man of wealth: “By the Most Great Name! The
splendor of such a wealthy man shall illuminate the dwellers of heaven even as the sun
enlightens the people of the earth!” (HWP #53). Various other forms of righteousness are
given similar descriptions. The imagery of illumination is intended to ennoble. It intensifies
the expression of Bahā’ī ethics. Bahā’u’llāh speaks of the righteous person as one who
“even as the true morn doth quicken and illumine the hearts of the dead” (HWP #58). Light
is not simply diurnal, it is eternal: “Thou art My light and My light shall never be
extinguished, why dost thou dread extinction?” (HWA #14). The source of this light is said
to be God Himself, who reveals that “within thee I have placed the essence of My
light” (HWA #12). Light in these and similar passages is supernal. Its effects in invisible
realms are comparable to the en- [**245] lightening and life-giving properties of physical
light in the visible world.
Light imagery abounds in Syriac texts. It is predominantly used of Christ, particularly
with respect to Christ as the “Sun of Righteousness” foretold by Malachi. Another Ephremic
use of light imagery has to do with symbolizing the Godhead, especially in relation to the
Holy Spirit: “Take as symbols of the Father the sun, of the Son the light, and of the Holy
Spirit the warmth./Being one, yet therein is to be seen a trinity; who can explain what lies
beyond comprehension?/The one is multiple: the one consists of three, and the three
Paradise Similarities and Paradigm Differences                                    199

constitute one, a great astonishment, a manifest wonder./The sun is distinct from its
radiance, yet mingled with it, for its radiance is also the sun./Yet none speak of two suns,
though its radiance is also a sun to those down below./Nor do we speak of two Gods, our
Lord being also God over creation” (HdF LXXIII. 1–6, Harp 83–84). In this particular
instance, this metaphor has striking affinities with Bahā’ī imagery (cf. TAB 117).
In the Bahā’ī context, there is a certain utility to the symbolism of resplendence, for the
promotion of unity is served by it. Here, the relative differences in emphasis between the
two conceptual systems follows a paradigmatic pattern, but there does appear to be
considerable substantive as well as ethical overlap between the two systems.
The Mirror (Syriac Ethical Root Metaphor)
The bronze mirrors of Syriac antiquity required burnishing and polishing, to remove rust
and dust. Analogously, although God is the source of spiritual illumination, the self is the
agent of its own purification. When, through spiritual discipline, the mirror is perfected,
God is reflected in the heart of the self. If the mirror is external to the self, then the self-
reflection operates in much the same way, with an effort by the individual to better one’s
appearance.
Perfect mirrors are flawless reflective surfaces. The most perfect mirror is that of the
Gospel. In his Letter to Publius, Ephrem writes: “You would do well not to let fall from
your hands the polished mirror of the holy Gospel of your Lord, which reproduces the
image of everyone who gazes at it and the likeness of everyone who peers into it. . . . It
paints every detail on itself. It rebukes the ugly ones for their defects so that they might heal
themselves and remove the foulness from their faces. It exhorts the beautiful to be watchful
over their beauty and even to increase their natural beauty with whatever ornaments they
wish, lest they become sullied with dirt” (Mathews, SPW 338–39).
The mirror is a source of reflection. This reflection is of two kinds. The first is the
communication of divine attributes and teachings (the Gospel mirror, and Jesus as Mirror).
The second is self- [**246] knowledge, or self-realization, in which the heart is the mirror
of the self. In Syriac culture, the heart was thought to be the seat of both the emotions and
the intellect. Whether the mirror is internal or external, in Syriac and Bahā’ī traditions the
mirror is the eye of the soul. In it, the soul beholds its own being. If enlightened, the soul
beholds itself in the light of divinity.
In Syriac Christianity, the symbol of the mirror appears to have little specific
sacramental referent. Ethical (or moral, as distinct from ritual) and not elemental
considerations are paramount here. The mirror is an ideal symbol of the ethical dimension
of both Syriac Christianity and the Bahā’ī Faith, and of religion generally.
Mirror/Gems (Bahā’ī Ethical Root Metaphor)
Bahā’u’llāh adduces the symbolism of the mirror in much the same way: “Upon the inmost
reality of each and every created thing He hath shed the light of one of His names, and made
it a recipient of the glory of one of His attributes.” “Upon the reality of man, however,” he
Paradise Similarities and Paradigm Differences

continues, “He hath focused the radiance of all of His names and attributes, and made it a
mirror of His own Self. Alone of all created things man hath been singled out for so great a
favor, so enduring a bounty.” “These energies with which the Day Star of Divine bounty and
Source of heavenly guidance hath endowed the reality of man,” he states, “lie, however,
latent within him, even as the flame is hidden within the candle and the rays of light are
potentially present in the lamp.” Bahā’u’llāh concludes: “The radiance of these energies
may be obscured by worldly desires even as the light of the sun can be concealed beneath
the dust and dross which cover the mirror. Neither the candle nor the lamp can be lighted
through their own unaided efforts, nor can it ever be possible for the mirror to free itself
from its dross. It is clear and evident that until a fire is kindled the lamp will never be
ignited, and unless the dross is blotted out from the face of the mirror it can never represent
the image of the sun nor reflect its light and glory” (GWB 65–66). The symbolism of the
mirror in Syriac and Bahā’ī traditions is nearly a mirror image, one of the other.
This is also true for the imagery of precious stones and gems in both traditions. For
example, Ephrem equates “the precious stones of the ephod” with “knowledge and
truth” (HdP XV.7, HyP 184). As we have already seen, Ephrem compares virgins to
precious beryls. In a similar vein, Bahā’u’llāh writes: “Be an ornament to the countenance
of truth, a crown to the brow of fidelity, a pillar of the temple of righteousness, a breath of
life to the body of mankind, an ensign of the hosts of justice, a luminary above the horizon
of virtue, a dew to the soil of the human heart, an ark on the ocean of knowledge, a sun in
the heaven of bounty, a gem on the diadem of wisdom, a shining light in [**247] the
firmament of thy generation, a fruit upon the tree of humility” (GWB 285).
Experiential

The spiritual path is said to have its own intrinsic value. The integrity of a truly spiritual
Christian or Bahā’ī is such that neither will swerve from the path whether from temptation
or by ordeal. The path has a destination. It leads to Paradise, to the environs of the divine
presence. In eschatological terms, when the Lover has attained Paradise and is reunited with
the Beloved, a banquet ensues. While union with the divine transpires eschatologically, it
may be anticipated and experienced mystically. In Western traditions, this is the so-called
peak mystical experience—the ineffable “beatific vision.”
There are mystics who have claimed to have beheld God. But in Syriac and Bahā’ī
traditions, God is inscrutable. Whatever beatific vision is in store for the Syrian Christian or
for the Bahā’ī, God will not be seen. Rather, it is the savior-figure, be it Christ or
Bahā’u’llāh, with whom the believer unites. Direct beatific vision is an impossibility in that
both Syriac and Bahā’ī doctrines proceed from the confession of God’s occultation from
human ken. There would be no need for a doctrine of revelation if a natural theology were
sufficient, had humankind direct epistemological access to the Creator.
As in the Latin West and in the Greek East, Syriac tradition generally acknowledges the
incomprehensibility of God (Graffin and Malingrey 1972). One patristic concept involves
the idea of a divine Reality existing as a causal force, efficiently prior to any form of divine
fiat or theophany. This causal pre-existence of pre-temporal pre-existence is described by
the notion of silence. Of God’s hiddenness (kasyūtā), Ephrem avers: “His aspect cannot be
Paradise Similarities and Paradigm Differences                                    201

discerned,/that it should be portrayed by our understanding:/He hears without ears; He
speaks without mouth;/He works without hands; He sees without eyes. [Refrain: Praise to
the One Being, that is to us unsearchable!]” (CNis III.2, trans. Stopford, NPNF 13:171). By
implication, this passage suggests that anthropomorphisms are purely referential and have
no literal truth value. The paradox of a God Who “speaks without mouth” is resolved when
Christ’s role as God’s “Voice” enters into the picture.
There are those who are persuaded that the unmanifest God might well represent a
reality that transcends the Christian notion of the Trinity. In this sense, the unmanifest Deity
is a kind of “hidden Fourth” (Weber 1981, 1:365–70), the principle of cosmic unity in the
extra-divine universe, the “super-essential Unity” spoken of by pseudo-Dionysius (De
oratione X.2, Śpidlík 1986, 45). Bahā’ī and Syriac [**248] Christian doctrines of the
mystery of God have served as points of departure for theologies of revelation. Doctrines of
God’s presence counterbalance acknowledgments of God’s epistemological absence.
Though God is in some sense revealed, the revelation itself is a veil. The light reveals the
orb of the sun but conceals its core. There is fundamental agreement between Ephrem and
Bahā’u’llāh on the mystery of God and the extension of that mystery in the person of God’s
revealer. The act of revelation is never full disclosure. The sun is both revealed and
concealed by the radiation of its light. The mystery is revealed to be a mystery.
Yet circumstances at the eschaton permit God to be “seen” insofar as God is revealed in
Christ or in the reality of Bahā’u’llāh. Reunion with Christ for the Christian, and reunion
with Bahā’u’llāh for the Bahā’ī are events that, in both traditions, are depicted in very
personal, even endearing terms. The Wedding Feast, for instance, is a kind of beatific vision
—a vision of God as Christ, pictured in the most intimate and vivid of human terms, love.
The Wedding Feast (Syriac Experiential Key Scenario)
Sexual holiness, the celibate ideal, is a state of total sanctification. The early Syriac
Christian model of one’s ideal relationship to Christ is that of marriage. Except perhaps for
the love of a parent for his or her child, there is no stronger metaphor for the love of
Divinity than in the bond of human marriage. If the truest test of love is fidelity, then love
for Christ requires the same commitment to fidelity as would be expected of a marriage
partner. This is akin to the common Greco-Roman ideal of chastity as loyalty to the absent
spouse. A Syrian Christian betrothal to Christ requires not only psychological fidelity, but
physical chastity.
For Ephrem, the ideal was virginity, and in marriage, continence. However, neither
Aphrahāṭ nor Ephrem condemned marriage. Marriage is holy and pure, and so is conjugal
love: “For to Him marriage is pure,/which is planted in the world like a vineshoot,/and
children are like the fruit hanging from it” (Virg. V.14, SCK 12, n. 4).
References to the Wedding Feast abound in Ephrem’s hymns. At the Wedding Feast, a
picture of the Bride as adorned with ornaments occurs in the Hymn on Resurrection III, in
which hymn nuptial imagery receives its “fullest treatment” at the hands of Ephrem, who
writes: “See, she sits in the King’s palace,/dressed in the ornaments of the King” (Res. III.7,
SCK 138–39). This type of imagery is similar to that of the Lover and the Beloved. While
there is certainly a sense of betrothal in the Bahā’ī texts, that love does not express itself in
Paradise Similarities and Paradigm Differences

ascetic commitments, even though chastity is highly prized. The main purpose of Bahā’ī
chastity is probably to strengthen the family. When the [**249] sexual impulse finds its
fulfillment within marriage rather than outside of it, the marriage bond is strengthened and
the children are more protected from the trauma of divorce.
Lover and the Beloved (Bahā’ī Experiential Key Scenario)
Through a similar use of the present as a tense metaphor, Bahā’ī texts portray the eschaton
with certitude. In Bahā’ī texts, the eschaton is consummated in the advent of Bahā’u’llāh in
the form of a realized eschatology. Thus, it is said: “The mystic and wondrous Bride, hidden
ere this beneath the veiling of utterance, hath now, by the grace of God and His divine
favour, been made manifest even as the resplendent light shed by the beauty of the
Beloved” (HWP end, ET: HW 55; Persian text: 68–69). This is the concluding passage of
the Persian Hidden Words.
There is a certain sense in which the Christian has realized such a fulfillment in the
advent of Christ. The paradigmatic difference has to do with preparation for such an event.
While the Wedding Feast is the dominant scenario in Syriac eschatology, presupposing, of
course, the Christian’s recovery of the Robe of Glory and the rescue from Sheol, Bahā’ī
texts tend to emphasize the banqueting rather than a marriage as such, even though nuptial
imagery is a feature of the Bahā’ī eschaton as well.
The Pearl (Syriac Experiential Root Metaphor)
For Syriac Christianity and the Bahā’ī Faith alike, Nature also is an object of spiritual
contemplation. According to Mathews, “the entire aim of Ephrem’s poetry is not to explain
the system of the universe nor to impose his own ideas of the Christian message on others,
but rather to give birth in God’s creatures to that true worship of the Creator of all, and to
instill a desire to live the mystery of God’s love toward humanity” (1994b, 51). This is
clearly the case in Ephrem’s symbolism of the pearl.
In the Hymns on the Pearl, the pearl invites contemplation, but defies investigation (HdF
LXXXI.2, 10–11, 15; LXXXIV.2–3). This is a parry against Arian over–rationalism. The
pearl is a mirror, inviting meditation on the magnificence of the Word (LXXXIII.10). The
pearl is a fountain of mysteries (LXXXV.2). Like Christ, the pearl is a symbol of purity
(LXXXI.3). The pearl represents Christ’s pure conception in the womb of the Virgin Mary
(v. 4), just as the pearl is formed in a virginal way within the oyster shell (LXXXII.4). (The
pearl was thought to have been formed by lightning striking the shell.) The pearl, moreover,
symbolizes a woman’s virginity, a precious asset to be safeguarded (LXXXIII.14). The pearl
is singular among all other gems. [**250] While precious stones represent angelic beings,
the pearl alone is a worthy symbol of Christ (LXXXII.3). The pearl, when pierced by an awl
to be fashioned into jewelry, exemplifies the crucifixion (LXXXII.12; LXXXIV.15). The
pearl is perfection in every way (LXXXIV.8). Finally, the pearl symbolizes spiritual victory,
as it is set in gold to form a royal crown (LXXXV.13). Throughout these hymns, there
appears to be only a single explicit reference to the sacraments (i.e., the Medicine of Life at
Paradise Similarities and Paradigm Differences                                    203

LXXXV.8). When one reads the Hymns on the Pearl, one is impressed by the experiential
profundity of the pearl as an object of contemplation.
The Christological and ascetic specificity of Syriac pearl imagery precludes any
equivalence with Bahā’ī imagery, although the image of the pearl is occasionally associated
with chastity in the latter. Pearl imagery is also used in nonascetic contexts, particularly with
reference to wisdom or insight.
The Journey (Bahā’ī Experiential Root Metaphor)
While Bahā’ī texts have no direct counterpart to the Ephrem’s allegory of the pearl, the
symbol of the journey offers the widest possible range of contemplation. In Bahā’u’llāh’s
foremost mystical work, The Seven Valleys, the object of the mystic’s search is the elusive
but ever-present Beloved. In the Valley of Search, the wayfarer embarks on a journey
leading to “the realm of the spirit, which is the City of God” (SV 7). In the final stage, the
Valley of True Poverty and Absolute Nothingness, “this city” is glossed as “the station of
life in God” (SV 41). All seven progressions are considered “grades of contemplation” (SV
34).
There appears to be a functional parity of both the pearl and the journey, as they are
mystical paths to a more profound contemplation of the Beloved, be it Christ or Bahā’u’llāh.
From a Bahā’ī perspective, both savior-figures manifest the same reality. Both key symbols
are primarily experiential. They invite mystical transport into spiritual worlds.
Mythic

Myth is a fiction, in relation to real time, yet serves as a vehicle of truth. Myth, in its Syriac
and Bahā’ī contexts, is properly understood as operating in sacred time. More precisely, the
most dramatic events of myth typically take place in eschatological time.
Harrowing of Hell (Syriac Mythic Key Scenario)
The Harrowing of Hell represents Christ’s victory over Death. This event is a key scenario
that provides assurance of salvation. It is not so [**251] much punishment of Hell that was
feared, but extinction. Christ overcame the powers of the natural world, mythically
represented by the principalities of the underworld. No greater victory could possibly be
imagined. No more wondrous a gift could be conceived.
In a Syriac setting, Christ’s victory over death promised the release of souls from the
slumber, or coma, of Sheol. Although this salvation is freely available, it is not freely
dispensed. One has to discover it on one’s own. The gift of eternal life is miraculous, but not
instantaneous. Spiritual transformation is required, effected through partaking of the
sacraments combined with a progressive sanctification of one’s spiritual being through a life
of holiness. Only the holy inherit Paradise, the eschatological Eden: “Let us give thanks to
the Son/Who entered Sheol on foot,/plundered it, and emerged. Blessed be Your
resurrection!” (Nat. XVIII.31, McV 164).
Paradise Similarities and Paradigm Differences

There is simply no Bahā’ī counterpart to this myth, which ties into a sacramental
theology, and its attendant belief in physical resurrection—something that is entirely absent
in Bahā’ī doctrine. There is no Bahā’ī analogue to the disgorgement of Sheol, to the
breaking of its bars, or to the image of Sheol as a womb, even though Bahā’ī texts treat life
in this world as a womb for the afterlife. In a Bahā’ī context, one’s reality is already
assumed to be spiritual. Extinction is not to be feared, but rather the pangs of regret and the
lingering obsessions of carnality that can never be fattened or appeased upon death. Hell is a
spiritual condition, in the Bahā’ī conception of it. It is psychospiritual, rather than
psychosomatic.
The Maid of Heaven (Bahā’ī Mythic Key Scenario)
Almost in a Manichaean way, the Maiden of Heaven appears to be Bahā’u’llāh’s alter ego.
Or, as Lambden has expressed it, the Maiden of Heaven is Bahā’u’llāh’s “transcendent
Self” (p.c., 17 March 1996). Typical of such texts is this: “Say: Step out of Thy holy
chamber, O Maid of Heaven, inmate of the Exalted Paradise! Drape thyself in whatever
manner pleaseth Thee in the silken Vesture of Immortality, and put on, in the name of the
All-Glorious, the broidered Robe of Light. . . . Unveil Thy face, and manifest the beauty of
the black-eyed Damsel, and suffer not the servants of God to be deprived of the light of Thy
shining countenance” (GWB 282–83). This is a mythic proclamation of Bahā’u’llāh’s
advent, in which sacred time is merged with real time. It has no real counterpart in Syriac
texts, except in the sense of dialogue as a literary device. Ephrem has a number of dialogue
poems, in which such things as Love and Reason, Death, the Cana Wedding, and so forth
are personified and given a voice for didactic purposes.

[**252] Tree of Life (Syriac Mythic Root Metaphor)
The Tree of Life is an ancient Mesopotamian symbol that is intimately bound up with sacral
kingship. The quintessentially Syriac development of this symbolism is its sacramental
dimension. The Tree of Life is the source of the sacraments, and is represented
simultaneously as a grape-bearing vine and as an olive tree (SCK 125). While the Tree of
Life is typically depicted as an olive tree, cluster-bearing branches have been grafted onto it.
From the Tree of Life, the Medicine of Life may be obtained. Although Adam, in his pre-
Fall state, was perfect, he was not immortal. Neither was he mortal. But he certainly became
mortal after he partook of the forbidden fruit. By contrast, the Christian may become
immortal by partaking of the fruit of the Tree of Life, from whence comes the Medicine of
Life, the properties of which have already been outlined.
Bahā’ī texts also speak of the Tree of Life, which is more or less interchangeable with
the divine Lote Tree—an Islamic symbol appropriated by Bahā’u’llāh to symbolize the
Manifestation of God (see next section). In both Syriac and Bahā’ī traditions, the Tree of
Life represents the savior-figure. But the respective emphases in the secondary symbolisms
of the Tree of Life diverge, and follow the paradigmatic differences that inhere in the two
religions: In Syriac Christianity, the Tree of Life is predominantly sacramental in its life-
giving capacity, while in the Bahā’ī Faith, the Tree of Life—and the Lote Tree—are
Paradise Similarities and Paradigm Differences                                    205

primarily revelatory. The revelation of Bahā’u’llāh is a gospel of unity. Hence, tree imagery
is equally as expressive of the message of unity: “The utterance of God is a lamp, whose
light is these words: Ye are the fruits of one tree, and the leaves of one branch. Deal ye one
with another with the utmost love and harmony, with friendliness and fellowship” (GWB
288).
Lote Tree/Sinai (Bahā’ī Mythic Root Metaphor)
Like so much of Bahā’u’llāh’s other imagery, the symbol of the divine Lote Tree goes back
to the Bāb, who declared: “This Tree of Holiness, dyed crimson with the oil of servitude,
hath verily sprung forth out of your own soil in the midst of the Burning Bush” (SWB 52).
Bahā’u’llāh advances a similar declaration, employing much the same symbolism: “O
Kings of the earth!” Bahā’u’llāh proclaims: “Give ear unto the Voice of God, calling from
this sublime, this fruit-laden Tree, that hath sprung out of the Crimson Hill, upon the holy
Plain” (PB 7). Like the Crimson Ark and the Crimson Book and the Crimson Spot, the Lote
Tree is crimson also: “Kindle then in the hearts the blazing fire which this crimson Tree hath
ignited, that they may arise to extol and magnify His name amidst the adherents of all
Faiths” (TB 196).
[**253] Both the Tree of Life and the Lote Tree are frequently encountered in Bahā’ī
texts—the difference being that the former is associated with Eden while the latter is
associated with Sinai. Sacramental imagery is totally absent in Bahā’ī Lote Tree/Tree of
Life imagery, again reflecting the paradigmatic difference between Syriac Christianity and
the Bahā’ī Faith.
Social

There are some striking symbolic resonances in this dimension, for the Noachide and
Edenic imagery in Syriac and Bahā’ī texts alike may be read as allegories of the ideal
Church/faith-community.
Noah’s Ark/Mariner (Syriac Social Key Scenario)
The patriarch Noah is a soteriological prototype of Christ: “Noah anticipated Him [Christ]
—Noah who surmised that by Him the ark stood still;/if His type (ṭwps’) saved in this way,
how much more will He save in His reality (qnwym’)” (Nat. I.58, McV 70). Mount Ararat
now becomes a heavenly destination: “Blessed is that person who has steered his boat
straight into Paradise” (HdP XIV.5, HyP 177). The Ark is a metaphor for Paradise, and is
thus a double metaphor for the ideal Church: “Noah’s Ark marked out by its course the sign
of its Preserver,/the Cross of its Steersman and the Wood of its Sailor/who has come to
fashion the Church in the waters of baptism:/with the three-fold name He rescues those who
reside in her,/and in the place of the dove, the Spirit administers her anointing/and the
mystery of her salvation. Praise to her Saviour” (HdF XLIX.3–5, LumE 43; cf. Kronholm’s
translation cited in chapter 3). As Noah is the model of Christ, Christ is the exemplar of the
Paradise Similarities and Paradigm Differences

Christian: “Skilled Sailor Who has conquered the raging sea,/Your glorious wood is a
standard; it has become the rudder of life./Your wind of mercy blew; the ships set straight
out/from the raging sea to the harbor of peace./Blessed is he who has become a sailor for
himself,/has preserved and brought forth his treasure [on dry land]” (Virg. XXXI.15, McV
401; cf. Murray’s translation cited in chapter 3). This suggests both personal and mutual
salvation—the salvation of others.
Noah’s Ark carried animals, who are typologically likened unto orthodox Christians,
especially those who practice sexual holiness. This has already been described in some
detail in chapter 3. It is noteworthy that “Mariner” (mallāḥā) as applied to Christ is absent in
Aphrahāṭ, although there is considerable precedent for it in primitive Christianity (SCK 87,
n. 4). There is a difference in emphasis here, since Bahā’u’llāh requires fidelity to the full
range of his laws, which [**254] include chastity, but not continence in marriage. Both
Ephrem and Bahā’u’llāh use ark imagery to symbolize the saved—and saving—faith-
community, in the Ark of which the animals transcend their feral and carnal nature.
The Crimson Ark and the Holy Mariner (Bahā’ī Social Key Scenario)
In the Bahā’ī tradition, the Crimson Ark bears Bahā’īs. The captains of each of the Arks—
Christ and Bahā’u’llāh—steer their vessels to safety. To the extent that these are
ecclesiastical symbols, they compare quite favorably. In the respective descriptions of each,
both of these Arks represent assurance of salvation, ultimacy of purpose, and certainty of
destination. The passengers on board both ships must be of high moral fiber, although
sexual holiness is more narrowly defined and rigorous in the Syrian Ark. Noah’s Ark has a
hierarchy, while no such divisions exist in the Crimson Ark. But both Mariners—Christ and
Bahā’u’llāh—have roughly the same vocation.
The utility of this image for comparative purposes is optimized by the fact that the
Arabic mallāḥ is virtually the exact counterpart to mallāḥā in Syriac. The Holy Mariner is
Bahā’u’llāh himself. God addresses the Mariner, commanding him to embark on a voyage,
to fulfill his destiny. The significance of God’s bidding is this: The Tablet of the Holy
Mariner was written on the eve of Bahā’u’llāh’s imminent assumption of leadership of the
Bābī community in the face of almost certain opposition by certain factions. The Ark
represents the religion of Bahā’u’llāh and what is referred to in Bahā’ī terminology as the
Covenant. The dwellers within the Ark are the faithful believers. God bids the Mariner—the
captain of the Ark of salvation—to embark on his voyage in the face of impending
adversity. This narrative, of which the epigraph on page vii of this book is an excerpt, is at
the heart of what might be considered the core Bahā’ī myth: the soul’s journey to the
Manifestation of God (= Bahā’u’llāh, the Holy Mariner) and steadfastness in the Covenant
(= the Crimson Ark).
Paradise—I (Syriac Social Root Metaphor)
Although Syriac and Bahā’ī metaphors of Paradise are formally affine, they differ in kind.
However, as the study of Ephrem’s Hymns on Paradise in chapter 7 might suggest, there
Paradise Similarities and Paradigm Differences                                    207

appears to be some convergence of the two relatively disparate portrayals of Paradise, as
Ephrem’s depiction of Paradise may, at one level, be read as an allegory of the Church here
on Earth. Nevertheless, there is a certain physicality, for lack of a better word, that is present
in Ephrem’s descriptions of Paradise, that is singularly absent in Bahā’u’llāh’s own
portrayal of it. As will be shown, upon close examination, the pre- [**255] sumed
physicality of Ephrem’s vision of Paradise is called into question by his radical
spiritualizing of it. It would appear that Ephrem’s vision could be read on two levels—a
“physical” and a supraphysical description that transcendentalizes traditional Syriac
categories.
Paradise—II (Bahā’ī Social Root Metaphor)
See chapter 7, below.
Summary of Results
Doctrinal. Ephrem’s allegory of the Way compares favorably to Bahā’u’llāh’s image of the
Promised One, in that there is a succession of prophets that prepares the way for a savior-
figure. When that savior-figure appears, the cycle of prophecy is ended. The advent of the
promised Savior ushers in an era of fulfillment. However, there is a difference in the
respective purposes of the Syriac and Bahā’ī saviors. The former conquers death, while the
latter overcomes disunity. This is seen in the respective Syriac and Bahā’ī imagery of the
Physician: While the imagery is affine in the sense that humanity is ill and requires the
intervention of a divine physician, both the diagnosis and the cure differ in the two
traditions. In the Syriac tradition, the patient is afflicted with the disease of mortality, while
the presenting problem of the patient in the Bahā’ī system is the disease of disunity. While
the doctrinal imagery is surprisingly commensurate, the fundamental difference is
sacramental.
Ritual. The Robe of Glory reinforces the Syriac sacramental theology. Comparable robe
imagery was found in the Bahā’ī writings, but this represented a metaphorical affinity rather
than a conceptual one. This is because the Syriac and Bahā’ī robes are different. This
difference is met with in the scenario of the Wedding Feast (see below), the preparation for
which is both sacramental and ethical. By contrast, the Bahā’ī image of the Covenant has
an overarching interest in unity, particularly in preserving the communal integrity of the
Bahā’ī administrative system. The symbol of the Covenant is personified in the life of
Bahā’u’llāh’s eldest son and designated successor, ‘Abdu’l-Bahā, who was appointed by his
father as the “Centre of the Covenant” and the infallible “Interpreter” and perfect
“Exemplar” of Bahā’u’llāh’s teachings. Thus there is a considerable overlap in the ethical
dimension as well. If ethics represent the soul of ritual, then the practice of both plays a
determinative role in the spiritual progress of the individual Bahā’ī. In maintaining the ritual
centrality of the sacraments in the Syriac tradition, the Medicine of Life functions as a kind
of elixir of immortality, mystically dispensed by Christ; whereas the [**256] descriptively
comparable Bahā’ī image of the Wine/Water of Life achieves a different end. Wine is a
Paradise Similarities and Paradigm Differences

more heavenly image, often appearing in eschatological descriptions of the believer’s
“reunion” with Bahā’u’llāh, while the Water of Life is more descriptive of the teachings of
Bahā’u’llāh. Although the latter has some curative properties, the Water of Life emphasizes
nourishment, while Wine represents the intoxication of mystical ecstasy. In this respect, the
Syriac tradition has a very similar use of the imagery of Wine as “sober inebriation” (McV
98). However, the Syriac imagery of Wine is literal as well as figurative, wine being part of
the Eucharist.
Ethical. The Sons and Daughters of the Covenant represent an “athletic” and “military”
order in the Christian ranks. One might think of the “Covenant” as an open convent. Like
Catholic monks and nuns, the Sons and Daughters of the Covenant are betrothed to Christ.
(Of course, every Christian is.) Taking this engagement literally, the Syrian Christian
practices abstinent “singleness” in fidelity to that betrothal, in anticipation of the heavenly
requital. There is a comparable splendor in the Bahā’ī imagery of Illumination. While
refinement of character is common to both traditions, and while both traditions employ an
abundance of light imagery generally, there is a more defined social emphasis on various
forms of unity in the Bahā’ī tradition. The Syriac image of the Mirror is extensive, and is
certainly not limited to ethical illustration. The Gospels and Nature herself are represented
as mirrors. Indeed, for Ephrem, anything and everything is potentially a mirror, because the
universe is one, vast Christological mirror. In the Bahā’ī tradition, Mirror/Gems/Robes fit
into a broader category of ornamental finery, as the truly ethical person is seen to have a
beauty of heart and a splendor of character that can best be represented through the
accoutrements of wealth as emblems of one’s spiritual nobility and stature.
Experiential. The Wedding Feast in Syriac tradition is narrowly seen as the eschatological
reward for sexual holiness. But the Robe of Glory, which is the wedding garment, is still in
danger of being stained. Therefore the Christian has to be vigilant against temptation and
sin. On the mystical path in the Bahā’ī tradition, the Lover/Beloved imagery is certainly
comparable to Syriac bridal imagery. But the fidelity the Bahā’ī is expected to practice is
being “faithful to the Covenant,” which is more comprehensive than sexual holiness. While
high standards of chastity are demanded by Bahā’ī law, such fidelity covers a broader range
of behavior. The Pearl is a multivalent symbol in Syriac tradition, but it never loses its
primary reference to virginity, which Christ refers to as the “Pearl of Great Price.” At least
this is the Syriac understanding of it. Ephrem’s imagery of the Pearl is so vast [**257] that it
has a decidedly contemplative importance, and that is why it is classed here as having a
primarily “experiential” function. The Journey is also experiential, being indicative of the
soul’s quest for God, in the person of God’s Theophany, Bahā’u’llāh.
Mythic. The Harrowing of Hell is clearly mythic, and is a key scenario in the Syriac
tradition. The Christian partakes of the sacraments as an antidote to the “drug of death,” in
preparation for release from Sheol on the Resurrection Day. The Bahā’ī image of the Maid
of Heaven is equally as mythic, and is seen as the personification of the Holy Spirit. She is
perhaps the alter ego of Bahā’u’llāh. himself, in a sort of Manichaean sense. The Syriac
Tree of Life is a very old image that can be traced back to ancient Mesopotamia, and is
Paradise Similarities and Paradigm Differences                                    209

frequently met with in the Bahā’ī writings as well. As expected, the main difference behind
Syriac and Bahā’ī uses of this stock Abrahamic imagery is that the Syriac tradition sees the
trees as having a sacramental symbolism through the Eucharistic “fruit” it produces, such as
the grape for the Wine of communion. In the writings of Bahā’u’llāh, Lote Tree/Sinai
imagery is primarily proclamatory and eschatological in Bahā’u’llāh’s use of it.
Social. In the Syriac tradition, Noah’s Ark/Mariner imagery has ascetic overtones. The
animals on the Ark are chaste. When the wolf lies down with the lamb, this is because the
bestial nature has been transformed into an angelic one. In the Bahā’ī writings, the Crimson
Ark/Mariner imagery is of an equally salvific nature, but without the sexual—or rather,
asexual—overtones. Syriac Paradise imagery exalts sexual holiness above all else, while
Bahā’ī Paradise imagery idealizes unitive behavior.
Results of Comparison
Syriac Christian symbolism is predominantly sacramental, while Bahā’ī symbolism is
unitive. Both symbolisms exalt the role of ethical behavior and pastoral outreach in the
service of salvation. The Syriac and Bahā’ī traditions are marked by a high degree of
metaphorical commensurability, with substantive commonalities in the Doctrinal, Ethical,
Experiential and Social dimensions—albeit with their respective sacramental/
nonsacramental differences—while in the Ritual and Mythic dimensions are seen the
greatest divergences, which are readily explained by their respective idiosyncratic,
paradigmatic agendas.
[**258]
Paradise Similarities and Paradigm Differences

[**259]

VII
Paradise and Paradigm
Introduction
In this chapter, both of the religions under study will be reviewed holistically, as syntheses
of their respective key symbols. Portraits of Paradise will be sketched out for each religion.
Each picture of Paradise will offer insights into the respective paradigms of early Syriac
Christianity and the Bahā’ī Faith. From these vantages, a unity of symbolism will emerge in
the dynamic interplay of images and ideas. The first half of this chapter is a study of
Ephrem’s Hymns on Paradise, in which Syriac eschatology is correlated with Christian
ideals, with special reference to paradise and the ideal Church. The last half of this chapter
correlates Bahā’ī ideals with conceptions of Paradise, with special reference to paradise and
ideal society.
Sapiential Theōsis:
A New Reading of Ephrem the Syrian’s Hymns on Paradise

[This section was previously published as a journal article (Buck 1995b), and is reprinted
here with the kind permission of the editors of the Journal of the Assyrian Academic
Society.]
Précis
A fresh reading of the Hymns on Paradise (HdP) discloses how Ephrem the Syrian
reworked soteriological presuppositions and thought-forms current in fourth-century Syria
to effect a transformation of the doctrine of theōsis (deification), freeing it from its
substantive categories, to lay emphasis on divinization at the sapiential level. See, for
instance, HdP XII.15, where Ephrem states that “the human person can become/the likeness
of God,/endowed with immortal life [i.e. theōsis]/and wisdom [i.e. sapience] that does not
err” (HdP XII.15, HyP 166). While [**260] the form of the doctrine with its anthropological
considerations was kept intact, the manner of Ephrem’s affirmation of theōsis was
tantamount to its sophistication, in what amounted to a reformulation of the doctrine itself.
In Ephrem’s eschatological scheme—which exalts form over substance—body, soul, and
spirit are rarefied beyond physicality, while corporeality is maintained. Even the argument
Paradise and Paradigm                                                  211

for the body’s afterlife existence—the instrumentality of the senses being required for the
soul’s ability to perceive—is effectively undermined by the obviation or precluding of the
senses in the soul’s immediate cognition of the delights of Paradise. This innovation lent
Ephrem’s doctrine of theōsis a greater potential for realization, in which eschatological
Paradise came to enjoy a more edifying immediacy among the faithful. Ephrem’s poetic
articulation of sapiential theōsis struck a balance between the Bardaiṣanite rejection of
corporeal resurrection and the more earthbound, Irano-Semitic notions of disgorgement of
the dead and the pairing of bodies with disincarnate souls for requital at the eschaton. (For
possible Persian influences on Syriac afterlife concepts, see Morton Smith, EIr 4:200–203
and Widengren 1960.) At the same time, Ephrem’s symbolic transformation of Paradise
reflexively served as an allegory for the Church. An unanticipated consequence for modern
Christianity, according to Brock, is that “precisely because he locates Paradise outside
geographical space,” Ephrem’s “views are left unaffected by modern advances in scientific
knowledge” (HyP 55).
Introduction
Called “the greatest poet of the patristic era” (Rilllet 1992a, 1:276), Ephrem the Syrian
composed the Hymns on Paradise (Syriac: mdrš’ d-prdys’) in his native Nisibis (modern
Nusaybin in Turkey) before his twilight years in Edessa (363–373). (On the historical
context of Ephrem’s life, with a critical review of the primary sources, see Mathews, SPW,
12–45.) These hymns, considered by Mathews to have been “perhaps Ephrem’s most
beautiful hymns” (1994b, 47, n. 10), are of the genre called madrāšē, composed in syllabic
metres. Clearly, as the name implies, such odes often performed midrash, or commentary,
on scripture, for the edification of the faithful. An original and imaginative commentary on
the account of Eden in the Book of Genesis (chapters 2 and 3), the Hymns on Paradise is a
liturgical cycle of fifteen hymns, depicting the primordial Paradise of Adam to be the future
(and possibly the present, with respect to an ante-Paradise) abode of the righteous.
Documenting Ephrem’s cosmogony, anthropology, and soteriology, these hymns penetrate
deep within the ethos of early Syriac Christianity.
Ephrem has painted a visionary landscape from a palette of symbols of immanent
transcendence. That the Paradise depicted in the [**261] Hymns is clothed in metaphor, as
Ephrem tells us, raises some questions as to how transcendent these symbols are and how
immanent they may be at the same time. In other words, if Paradise is described in
metaphor, could Paradise itself be a metaphor?
Ephrem’s poetry was not recited, but sung. Choirs of virgins intoned these hymns in
melodies already familiar to the congregation. Under such circumstances, we could easily
picture how these lyrics, drawing on the Genesis narrative, could be so effective in
performing exegesis for the benefit of lay Christians. This liturgical medium did not
diminish or detract from the subtlety and allusive depth of Ephrem’s interpretations, but
some metaphorical competence on the part of the listener was surely required to follow such
a hymn in all its interpretive details. Perhaps some of the finer points of Ephrem’s exegesis
might have been lost on the listener, but his hymns were popular just the same. Far more
effective than any tome of theology, the Hymns had a formative impact in structuring the
Paradise and Paradigm

religious consciousness of those singing and of those who listened. The scriptures were
expounded in a most memorable way. These hymns are rich and vivid; they must have
inspired contemplation. The Hymns on Paradise must have captured the imagination of
Ephrem’s congregation, whom he served as deacon. The theme of Paradise must of been of
especial interest.
Visionary texts purport to give us a glimpse of the afterworld, of Heaven and Hell, and
of intermediate states, if any, in between. Ephrem tells us that in a vision, induced while
reading scripture, he was suddenly transported to Paradise, a place which he begins to
describe in some detail. Typically, in apocalyptic texts, such a mystic transport or rapture
involves a “heavenly journey”—usually made possible by the assistance of a celestial being.
Not so in the case of Ephrem, who hardly exceeds scripture in his own portrayal of Paradise.
This seems to be the case with other Syriac Christian texts as well, in that “no Syriac
apocalypse belongs to the type identified [ . . . as . . .] apocalypses with a heavenly journey
(with or without interest in history). The heavenly journey motif seems to be foreign to
Syriac apocalyptic” (Martinez 1987, 339). Not through a purely mystical vision, but rather
on the basis of scripture enhanced by poetic licence, the heavenly scenes Ephrem paints are
for pastoral purposes.
The Hymns on Paradise are edifying in their dramatization and vivifying of details
disclosed or implied by scripture. Though the hymns ostensibly focus on the afterlife (both
prior to and after Resurrection), much of the imagery idealizes Christian life and community
here on Earth. The moral truths of these hymns are not merely couched in the metaphorical
“lie” for poetic effect. There was something real about Paradise that Ephrem had to explain
in a surreal way. Could Ephrem’s portrayal of Paradise have served as an allegory for a
[**262] realized eschatology here on Earth? In reading Ephrem, we must bear in mind that
Syriac Christianity expressed its truths in a symbolic rather than philosophical fashion (cf.
Brock 1981, 70). Ephrem’s hymns are not systematic expositions. Despite modern literary
notions of the authorial fallacy, Ephrem’s intentions are not difficult to divine. In composing
the Hymns, Ephrem had Christians in mind. When the hymns were sung, thoughts turned
heavenward. In his own Church, Paradise was the mirror on the intellectual ceiling. It
reflected back.
The poet was poetically transported to Paradise, so that Paradise might be transported to
the reader. This study argues that Ephrem has inverted worlds of correspondences. In an arc
of descent, Paradise is a metaphor for the ideal Christian community. The “victorious”
martyrs, for instance, are said to sometimes reside in this world: “From their abodes/the
children of light descend,/they rejoice in the midst of the world/where they had been
persecuted;/ . . . Blessed is he who has seen/together with them, his beloved ones,/below in
their bands of disciples, and on high in their bridal chambers” (HdP I.6, HyP 79–80). Which
means, for Ephrem’s listeners, that the souls of the beloved martyrs descend to local Nisibis;
and, also, to Edessa. One might argue that the martyrs, as depicted here, descend to an
eschatological Earth, the inheritance of the leonine meek. But Ephrem does not exclude the
present time frame, and so this event has a potential immediacy.
It is as if the souls of the martyrs themselves, from the realm of sacred time to the
sundial shadows of Roman and Persian Syria, had a charismatic role to play in this world as
well. If read in this light, such a stanza must certainly have inspired and consolidated the
Paradise and Paradigm                                                  213

emerging Paluṭian congregation in which Ephrem ministered as deacon. In an arc of ascent,
Paradise is the symbol of a reality to which the faithful aspire and in the reality of which
they already mystically participate. Here, the active principle of mystical experience is
divinization at the level of sacrament, and good works at the level of praxis.

The Hymns on Paradise as liturgy. The manuscript tradition of Ephrem’s hymns has been
conveniently summarized by Kronholm (Motifs 17–19). The Hymns on Paradise are
genuinely Ephremic, of uncontested authenticity. Ephrem’s hymns were orders of public
worship. As mentioned earlier, the hymns were performed liturgically. They were sung by
choirs of virgins, affectionately known as the “Daughters of the Covenant” (bnaṯ Qyāmā),
according to a Syriac Life of Ephrem (SCK 30, n. 1). As madrāšē, the Hymns on Paradise
were meant to be sung, as distinct from the mēmrē, poetic homilies composed in verses of
seven syllables, intended for reading. The Hymns consist of unrhymed stanzas comprised by
a stanzaic pattern of syllables in the following pattern: 5 + 5/5 + 5/5 + 5/7/5 + 5/5 + 5.
[**263] More than worship, these litanies lit candles of doctrine in the minds of the
faithful, within the stained glass and gathered silence of contemplation beneath the angelic
galaxy of fourth-century Christian Syria. Jerome (De viris illustribus 115) informs us that,
in certain churches, Ephrem’s hymns were sung, following the scripture lections (Palmer
1993, 181, n. 10). Accessible to the illiterate, not restricted to the intellectual élite, these
Hymns valorized religious truths and so became a shaping influence on local Christians.
For the modern study of early Christianity, these hymns tell us much about the form and
content of popular and not just of official religiosity, where the act of praise became part of
the text. Thus, in any study of Syriac Christianity in Late Antiquity, liturgy cannot be
marginalized. Of Ephrem’s hymns, as liturgical rites, it could rightly be said: “A demand is
made on actors enacting the rite to preserve a tacit management of paradox and ambiguity to
realize its theological basis in a credible manner” (Flanagan 1991, 13).
Were the Hymns on Paradise meant to induce a realized eschatology? This is a question
of the relationship between content and intent. Just what was being realized, if anything, in
the Hymns, and what were the probability structures that could sustain such a realization?
This much may be hazarded: these hymns, as mirror of the holy, were rites of contemplative
passage into Paradise, mystic transports to the empyrean realms on high, visions of the
celestial to inspire those on Earth treading the spiritual path leading to heaven.
In a realized state, Paradise is where the heart is: “In the bridal chamber of such a
person’s heart, the Creator resides” (Virg. XLIV.20, LumE 104). According to Semitic
anthropology, the heart is the seat of the intellect as well as that of the emotions (HyP 192).
Of the immanence of Paradise in this world, Ephrem assures: “The breath that wafts/from
some blessed corner of Paradise/gives sweetness/to the bitterness of this region,/it tempers
the curse/on this earth of ours” (HdP XI.10, HyP 157). Paradise is a presence, a fragrance
that wafts from the realm above to the sanctuary below. But can it be realized? To approach
such a question, Ephrem begins by teaching the Christian what Paradise is not. In Ephrem’s
Hymns, Paradise is real, but not always literally so.
The mirror of scripture. Ephrem’s Letter to Publius may be said to be the prosaic
counterpart of Hymns on Paradise, the former attesting the eschatology of the latter in
Paradise and Paradigm

several important respects. Ephrem speaks of the Gospel as “a figure” for the beauty of the
Kingdom of Heaven. Through the Gospel looking-glass, this realm is visible to “the
luminous eye.” “There,” Ephrem writes, “Paradise is visible, joyous with its
flowers” (Letter to Publius 2, LumE 58). “The Scriptures are placed there like a mirror,” the
poet explains, “and he whose eye is [**264] luminous beholds there the image of
reality” (HdF LXVII.8, LumE 57 and 32 [alternate trans.]).
Ephrem uses a metaphorical visionary form to express an eschatological reality (Yousif
1984). Gazing into “the mirror of the Gospel,” Ephrem writes: “I saw there beautiful people,
and I was desirous of their beauty; and I saw the place of the good where they were
standing, and I was eager for their position. I saw their bridal chamber, which no one who
has not a lamp may enter; I saw their joy, and I myself sat down in mourning, not possessing
works worthy of that bridal chamber. I saw them clothed with the ‘robe of light,’ and I was
grieved that I had prepared no virtuous raiment” (Brock 1982b, 19).

Metaphors of the incomparable. Tensions exist between literal and metaphorical
descriptions of Paradise. It is an unusual move for a poet to explicate his own poetry, but
Ephrem took preceptive measures against any temptation on the part of audience to take his
metaphors literally. Ephrem is quite clear about the figurative nature of his descriptions: “If
someone concentrates his attention solely/on the metaphors used of God’s majesty,/he
abuses and misrepresents that majesty/and thus errs/by means of those metaphors . . . /Do
not let your intellect/ be disturbed by mere names,/for Paradise has simply clothed itself/in
terms that are akin to you” (HdP XI.6–7, HyP 156). Brock characterizes Ephrem’s idea of
God’s “putting on metaphors” as a virtual reality, a second form of incarnation (HyP 48). In
fact, Ephrem uses several technical terms to highlight divine metaphoricity in Scripture and
in Nature as well: symbol (rāzā); metaphor (dmūtā); allegory (pelētā); and type (ṭupsā), are
among some of them.
The anthropology of the Hymns on Paradise. Ephrem plays on the ambiguity of metaphor
and exploits the polyvalency of symbol so as to present Paradise in ecclesial as well as in
otherworldly terms. In this sense, the hymns, once intoned, may be considered conceptually
theurgic, in what Brock terms an “engagement” (LumE 29) with the metaphors. In this
tension between the metaphoric and the realized, realization is achieved through accepting
some of Ephrem’s metaphorical correspondences between Paradise and parish. Brock
resolves the tension through making a crucial distinction between “historical” and “sacred”
time. He writes: “Because the paradisiacal life of the eschaton belongs to sacred time, it is
possible for it to be experienced, in varying degrees, by individuals already in historical
time on earth” (LumE 17). If Paradise may be partly realized on Earth, how is it experienced
in heaven? With physical or spiritual senses? With body or mind, or both? To understand the
modality of being a dweller in Paradise, a description of Ephrem’s anthropology is required.

[**265] Trichotomy vs. dichotomy. One must beware of relying too heavily on any single
analysis of Ephrem’s thought. A case in point surrounds the issue of anthropological
trichotomy vs. dichotomy. In his effort to situate Ephrem within the School of Antioch, el-
Khoury opted for the latter: “Ephrem, typically Antiochene, espouses a dichotomous idea of
Paradise and Paradigm                                                  215

man as the only created being capable of reconciling that old dualistic pair, matter and
spirit” (1982, 1361). This association suggests, in the present writer’s opinion, an urban
Ephrem tinged with Hellenism, though this is incommensurable with the fact that Syrians
rarely spoke Greek. Vööbus cites the instance of Ephrem’s contemporary John Chrysostom,
who complains that folk from the countryside could not understand his preaching in Greek
since they knew only Syriac as their mother tongue (HOA 3:196 and n.7). For Brock,
Murray and Kronholm, Ephrem is more Semitic than he is Antiochene (see Motifs 25–28).
Spirit, according to el-Khoury, is not problematic for maintaining an Ephremic body-
soul duality. Spirit (rūḥā) is “the spiritual principle of the body” (1982, 1364) which
Ephrem describes as grains on a stalk of wheat (HdF XLII.10). Unfortunately, el-Khoury
does not elaborate on the relationship of spirit to soul, or whether the two are synonymous
or not. Kronholm reminds us that Ephrem’s views on the soul, as with his anthropology in
general, are not uniform. “It is, however, indisputable” concludes Kronholm, “that Ephrem’s
anthropological conception is fundamentally trichotomic” (Motifs 58). Yousif feels that
trichotomy is “perhaps too strong a term” (1978, 55, n. 7). Notwithstanding, Ephrem’s
triune conception of man is explicitly set forth in the Hymns: “Far more glorious than the
body (gūšmā)/is the soul (nāfšā),/and more glorious (šebīḥ) still than the soul/is the spirit
(tar‘īṭā),/but more hidden than the spirit/is the Godhead” (HdP IX.20, HyP 143 and 53).
This may have some basis in Bardaiṣan’s trichotomy (cf. Skjaervo, EIr 3:782).
“Man,” states Ephrem, “is perfected as triune: spirit, and soul, and the body as the
third” (Ieiun. App. II.9, Motifs 59). Elsewhere, Ephrem speaks of “the three shapes of man”
and that “man was constructed triunely” (CH LII.1). Technical terms for this trichotomy
greatly vary (ibid.). “The three Names are sown in three ways,” states Ephrem in another
hymn, “in the spirit, the soul, and the body, mysteriously.” Further: “If the spirit suffers, it is
entirely imprinted by the Father;/if the soul suffers, it is wholly mingled with the Son;/and if
the body is burnt in martyrdom,/then its communion with the Holy Spirit is
complete.” (HdF XVIII.5, Yousif 1978a, 53). Stewart offers this translation of the same
passage: “If the spirit suffers, then it is entirely sealed with the Father; if the soul suffers, it
is entirely united (mzīgā) with the Son; and if the body confesses and burns, it communes
entirely with the Holy Spirit” (1991, 195, n. 124). This same idea is [**266] compressed in
one line in Hymns on Faith XIII.3:“though our spirit suffer, our soul be separated, our body
burnt” (op. cit, 56).
The “imprinted” spirit refers to its being divinized. The Syriac verb for “imprinted” is
tb‘, which belongs to the context of coinage, seals, and signets (McV 74, n. 66). It is in the
nature of the spirit to be imprinted, that is, to take on the nature of that to which it aspires. In
this passage is seen a total divinization of the complete, triadic person. In a distinction
maintained to this day by Persian Christians, “spirit” refers to the spiritual principle in man,
just as the “body” represents the physical being. The spirit can incline either way, in
recrudescence to a feral state or in heliotropic inclination towards the spiritual sky.
The uniquely individual “soul” is mediate; it exists in both “worlds.” Like the Father,
one’s own “spirit” transcends the physical world which it is crudely said to inhabit. Like the
Son, one’s “soul” is spirit incarnate, so to speak. Like the Holy Spirit, one’s “body” is the
locus on Earth of the divinizing effects of the Holy Spirit. (The latter had scarcely
crystallized in Ephrem’s writings as a divine Person until the Arian crisis, which prompted
Paradise and Paradigm

the beleaguered poet to compose his Hymns on Faith, when Arianism had insinuated itself
in Edessa [cf. Bruns 1989].) Since the spiritual realm corresponds only to the physical realm
in form if not then in metaphor, the internal logic of such a view would dictate that, at some
eschatological point, the body must transcend its own physicality in order to “live” in the
spiritual realm of Paradise. According to Kronholm, el-Khoury is “mistaken in regarding the
dichotomy as fundamental” (Motifs 162 n. 24, and 58, n. 33). Yet Kronholm does not state
what role the spirit plays in Ephrem. It is clear from the passage above, however, that the
spirit is more instinct with power, more rarefied, more subtle than the soul.
Scripture may have been determinative of these categories. St. Paul speaks of the
Christian’s “spirit, soul, and body” (1 Thess. 5:25). According to Śpidlík , this trichotomic
formula became traditional in the East (1986, 29). Ephrem drew an explicit analogy
between the Trinity and the constituent elements in man. The analogy is more than poetic—
it is noetic. The spirit links man to God through the Holy Spirit. There is a sympathetic
connection between the Holy Spirit and the human spirit. This charismatism is crucial to
salvation, the transcendence of the animal condition, the transition from feral anarchism to
true freedom. The vehicle of the spirit is the soul, just as the vehicle of the soul is the body.
Without soul, the body is lifeless; without spirit, the soul is lifeless. As intermediary, the
soul can incline either way.

The dichotomy of trichotomy. The substances of man are two: spirit and matter. What really
matters is the “gray matter,” so to speak, in between! The soul can incline in either direction.
This much has been [**267] said: if the soul gravitates towards the mundane, it becomes
carnal, taking on the amoral properties of carnality in the moral sense. It may also be that
the soul, in so doing, retains, as it were, the physicality of carnality itself, in plastic
commensurability with the low estate of its consciousness. The soul that turns towards
spirit, becomes spiritual not only in a moral sense, but takes on the properties of the spirit,
and is physically translated in the process. The soul, nonetheless, stands in need of a vehicle,
according to all formulas of theōsis.
The resurrection body is not the body of the Fall. The resurrection body is the primordial
body in which the potential for immortality resided. The earthly body must therefore be
transformed into a resurrection body adapted to a spiritual state. After death, the earthly
body does not persist in substance at least in its original density, but rather in form and
function. One thing is for certain: in the body/soul dualism, the soul has preeminence (Eccl.
XXX.2). In forcing Ephrem’s texts to conform to an Antiochene body/soul paradigm, el-
Khoury appeals to HdP IX.20 to assert the priority of the soul over the body, yet makes no
reference whatsoever to the priority of the spirit over the soul (1982, 1362).
Spirit. The immortality of the soul depends on the spirit, the divine principle in the soul.
The soul was not born by choice; it is reborn by choice. Its rebirth consists of its union with
a spiritual family of Father (God), Mother (the Holy Spirit), and Brother (Christ), the latter
identification conceptually implicit in the idea of adoptive sonship. Ephrem states: “Let us
learn about God from God himself: Just as he can be apprehended by means of his names as
being God and the Righteous (One) and also the Good (One), so his (other) name ‘Father’
shows that he is a genitor. For the very name of fatherhood bears witness to (the existence
Paradise and Paradigm                                                  217

of) his Son. And although he is the Father of one, through his love he is (the Father) of
many” (HdF LII.1, Molenberg 1990, 139). Brock terms this new kinship with Christ as
“brother” a dispensation of parrhesia, variously translated as “freedom” (to address God as
“Father”), “confidence,” and the like (1979b, 54).
Explicit mention of Christ as Brother is found in Mary’s song to her infant: “Be God to
the one who confesses You, and be Lord/to the one who serves You, and be brother/to the
one who loves You so that You might save all” (Nat. XVI.1, McV 149). Jacob of Serug is
more forthright in asserting: “Baptism makes us children so that we become brothers of the
Only Begotten” (Brock 1979b, 55).
This assimilation of divinity was considered re-creative. Immortality is one thing; level
of consciousness quite another. Even the wicked had an afterlife. Their afterlife
consciousness-bound to carnality, such souls could scarcely be said to have “eternal” life in
the strict etymological sense of the word: life “outside of time.” The spirit in [**268] them
is part of their essential anthropology; its dormancy is death in a relative sense. Even in
primordial time there was what Ephrem refers to as a “hidden death” (Cruc. VIII.13, LumE
20).

The soul. The soul is “invisible.” Ephrem is careful to distinguish the soul from the body’s
shadow, though idea of soul and shade seem to be antitypically analogous. The soul,
moreover, is “great and perfect,” yet is “altogether dependent on the Body” (Eph. Hypat,
Mitchell 1912, 1:civ). Ephrem describes the soul, Syriac nafšā, as the “bride of man” (Eccl.
XXXVIII.8, HdF XVIII.10, el-Khoury 1982, 1363). The soul is likewise the bride of Christ:
“The soul is Your bride, the body Your bridal chamber./Your guests are the senses and the
thoughts./And if a single body is a wedding feast for You,/how great is Your banquet for the
whole Church!” (HdF XIV.5, HyP 28; cf. Harp 19).
The soul has three qualities: reason, (potential) immortality, and invisibility (el-Khoury
1982, 1363). Though invisible, the works of the soul are quite visible and indicate its
spiritual state. Though death is necessarily the separation of the soul from the body, it seems
that the body physically dies but not the soul. The soul of course can be spiritually “dead,”
that is, carnal and thus inert. It can, so to speak, “die”—through spiritual insensitivity—prior
to physical death. Though the soul is not existentially dead in the afterlife, it is not fully
alive. The soul in some sense is self-existent, but when deprived of the instrumentality of
the bodily senses, “it lacks true existence” (HdP VIII.5, HyP 133). It seems that Ephrem’s
teachings on the soul stand midway between Tatian’s categorical denial of the immortality
of the (unsaved) soul (Oratio ad Graecos XIII.1) and Bardaiṣan’s affirmation to the
contrary.
The “soul of our soul”. As reflexive evidence, an expression found in a post-Ephremic
Syriac writer might prove illustrative. In his homily on the indwelling of the Holy Spirit,
Philoxenus speaks of the Holy Spirit whom we receive from God” at baptism as “the soul of
our soul” (Brock 1979b, 47). Unless purely metaphorical or an innovative post-Ephremic
development, such an expression might suggest that, as the soul gives life to the body, the
Spirit gives life to the soul. The Holy Spirit, in the first order of the trichotomic mingling,
energizes the human spirit through the spirit of faith. The spirit is intimately bound up with
Paradise and Paradigm

the soul, more intimately than the soul is bound up with the body. As there is no separation
imaginable in the spirit/soul fusion, the soteriological challenge is to eschatologically place
the head back on the fabled headless horseman. It appears that, for Ephrem, the soul can
subsist without the body, but it cannot subsist without the spirit. It is as if the relationship of
spirit to soul to body is like that of a spark to flame to wick.

[**269] The body as vehicle for the soul. Ephrem’s world is a hierarchy of mirrors within a
kaleidoscope of symbols. Even if el-Khoury were right in holding Ephrem to a body-soul
dichotomy, it would still be truer to speak in terms of a body-soul unity, for “they are a
mirror of one another” (Eph. Hypat., Mitchell 1912, 1:cv). For Ephrem, the body is
personalized, of value to the soul. The body is the soul’s organ of perception and expression.
The wholeness of a human being is predicated on it. Death, by definition, is the separation
of body and soul. Life, conversely, is the uniting of body and soul. They need to be, as it
were, remarried. But the conditions of their remarriage should be looked at very closely, as
use of the word “body” may prove more context dependent than a surface reading of
Ephrem might otherwise suggest.
Christ, in overcoming death, brings life. The death of the righteous is overcome by the
divinization effected through uncompromised salvation. The dying process is reversed, as
the body is reunited with the soul at the Last Judgment. During the interval between, Syriac
Christianity paints a picture of the soul as a sleeping ghost (Gavin 1920), though Ephrem
limns out a more positive picture in that the righteous wait their rewards in mansions
reserved for them in the foothills just outside Paradise (HdP VIII.11). No gnostic liberation
from the body is conceived by Ephrem, though the body of the righteous in Paradise will be
liberated from the disease of mortality. Rather than the soul being a spark of light trapped in
the darkness of materiality, the soul is a spark of light shining in a lamp. The body is the
lamp. At death, the lamp is broken. At the eschaton, the lamp is not merely reassembled;
rather, it is recreated. Its once-opaque glass is recast as pure crystal.
There is some evidence to suggest that an individual is not in all respects materially
equatable with his/her physical body. Were this to be so, the body would be resurrected in its
gross state. We know that Ephrem held the resurrection body to be of a different, higher
order than the material body. The former is incorruptible, the latter is not. Paradise is
comprised of a spiritual substance, as Kronholm points out: “The Paradisiacal world is to
him [Ephrem] neither earthly/corporeally material, nor spiritually immaterial, but of a
particular spiritual substance” (Motifs 69). If the substance of Paradise is spiritual, so must
be the substance of the glorified body. For purposes of edification, it should be noted, this
distinction was not pressed very hard. Otherwise, Ephrem would had to have accounted
more for the discontinuity rather than the continuity envisaged in the somatic moment of the
eschaton.
Ostensibly, the purpose of salvation in the fourth century was a purity worthy of
immortality. This statement is perhaps too wooden, but it does broadly reflect a
contemporary Christian yearning. Augustine himself goes so far as to say that “there was no
other reason for the [**270] coming of Christ” apart from the resurrection of the body.
“Take away death, the last enemy,” Augustine preached, “and my own flesh will be my dear
friend throughout eternity” (cited by G. Lawless 1990, 184). This goal of immortality is
Paradise and Paradigm                                                  219

effected by an alchemy of the body, soul, and spirit into a new alloy, with the divinity of
Christ as the elixir or potency.
Not viewed as the origin of sin, the body is rather the victim of sin. The mystery of the
Eucharist is that a transubstantiation of body and soul is effected through a special
immanence of the divine. Through the sacraments, divinity is said to “mingle” (mzag) with
the believer’s physical being in a kind of transformative fusion. Sanctification of the body
and not just the soul is the work of a divine Physician, administering the medicines of
salvation, sacramentally communicated in the “wheat, olive and grape” (Virg. XXXVII.3,
SCK 77). Flesh, however, is not coterminous with the body, as examination of the following
anthropological terms will bear out:

‘Afrā: “Dust” here is used in a purely earthly context, in regard to the material
composition of the body. Qaumā, or qaumtā: “Height” or “size” in the sense of “stature”
can refer to the human form and the humanness predicated of its upright posture. Besrā:
“Flesh” can signify a human being, composed of flesh and blood. Some sense of
“sinfulness” is attached to its Christian usage. As in the Hebrew, besrā can also mean
“anyone” or “everyone” (el-Khoury 1982, 1362). Pagrā: There is a conflict among
leading scholars of Syriac over the Greek equivalent of this term. Beck equates pagrā
with sōma (1986, 8), while el-Khoury holds that the term generally corresponds to the
Pauline usage of sarx (1982, 1362). Used as an anatomical term or for any corporate
entity, pagrā anthropologically means “body” in contradistinction to the mind. Gūšmā:
It is evident that pagrā and gušmā are synonyms, as Ephrem suggests in this parallelism:
“Glory to that Voice (qālā) that became a body (gušmā)/and to the lofty Word (melltā)
that became flesh (pagrā)” (Nat. IV.14, McV 100). According to el-Khoury, the former
is generally considered to be the Syriac counterpart to the Pauline concept of sōma. The
term gušmā indeed refers to a corporeal “body,” but “emphasizes its role as the vessel of
the soul.” Matter, in this sense, is that which was formed by the spirit. The spirit, in turn,
is informed by the senses. (1982, 1362–63)
Asceticism and the transformation of the body. The importance of asceticism in early
Syriac Christianity cannot be overrated. Passion for the ascetic ideal was part and parcel of a
peculiarly Syrian “order of rapture” (HOA 3:194). “The searing lava of mortification,”
writes Vööbus, “virtually scalds the works in which such accounts are re- [**271]
corded” (ibid., 195). There is no Ephremic Asceticon, as it were. Rather, the “monastic
witness” of Ephrem himself is “one of a pre-monastic life of evangelical chastity” (Mathews
1990, 101).
In the absence of contemporary sources, a document from the school of Ephrem may
have some reflexive value in reconstructing the ascetical dimension of Ephrem’s teachings
in terms of principles though not of practices. Though Vööbus is incorrect as to its
authenticity (Mathews 1990, 91–92), the first part of pseudo-Ephrem’s “Letter to the
Mountaineers” (Vööbus 1947) is a valuable post-Ephremic source for our knowledge of
Syrian asceticism in Late Antiquity. (Vööbus pronounced the second part as an “alien body”
or interpolation [HOA 3:35].) This document describes monasticism in its primitive form,
which Vööbus terms “eremitism”—a kind of premonasticism (HOA 3:31).
Paradise and Paradigm

The “mountaineers” (ṭūrāyē) are ascetics of whom pseudo-Ephrem speaks highly: “You
see, my brothers, how great an army (lies) on the mountain” (ibid., 35). Also spoken of as
pārūšā (“prudent”)—employed in the monastic meaning of “separated ones”—pseudo-
Ephrem addresses these anchorites with veneration as “brother mountaineers” (ibid.)
situating them thereby on the mountains of either Nisibis or Edessa or both.
Suffering (‘ulṣānā/ḥaššā), according to pseudo-Ephrem, is the force that transforms the
spiritual being. It is the hallmark of the ascetic ideal. Through mortification, the body is
crucified. It is for this purpose Christ came, as an exemplar, that mendicants might
experience his passion and its transformative effects: “Jesus died to the world in order that
no one should walk sensuously by it. He died to our world in his body in order that he might
make (us) alive by his body to his world. And he mortified the life of the body in order that
we may not live carnally by the flesh. He was made the master, a teacher not in tribulations
of others but by his own suffering. And he himself first tasted bitterness and (thereby)
showed us that no one could become his disciple by name but only through
suffering” (HOA 3:32).
In this context, pseudo-Ephrem expresses the teleology of asceticism in a new way:
ascetics, in the context of their contests of faith against the beasts of instinct urged on by the
gladiators of demonic temptation, are represented as true martyrs, “martyrs of
hiddenness” (Mēmrā on the Solitaries and Mourners, HOA 3:45–46). This is akin to
Origen’s “martyrdom of conscience” (Exhortation to Martyrdom XXI, Śpidlík 1986, 76).
Asceticism, generally speaking, may be regarded as a movement which grew up in the
aftermath of martyrdom. From this vantage, asceticism may be regarded as a continuation of
the martyr tradition. Certain key terms used to describe martyrs, such as athlete, contest, and
the like, are transferred to ascetics, and as such are strong indicators [**272] of affinities
with the martyr ideal (see Brock 1973, 2). Very likely this represents the phenomenon of
nonsanguinary renunciation under new historical circumstances, when persecutions ceased.
Ascetics, though shunners of society, play an important role in society, according to pseudo-
Ephrem. Their intercessory prayer sustains the rest of the world, a idea which Vööbus
depicts as “a favorite thought of ’Aphrēm” (HOA 3:39).
Relevant to the present study is the concept of the gradual theōsis of the body of the
ascetic, exemplifying a theology of activity. Suffering, in the Letter to the Mountaineers,
transforms the physical being into that of an angel and produces God’s image in man (HOA
3:45). Have angels, then, bodies? Earth angels in the Syrian desert did. Ascetics came to be
regarded as incarnating, so to speak, an angelikos bios. The difference is of course subtle.
Paradise Lost. The story of the Fall is so familiar that its retelling may seem superfluous.
There are, however, certain elements and motifs in Syriac lore that are not Occidental
commonplaces. One might think of the Paradise narrative in its Syriac reading as something
like the fable of the Emperor’s new clothes. Pre-Fall Adam was King of Paradise. Both in
the fable and in the Genesis account, the King is robed in splendor, but through vanity (in
Adam’s case, the wish to become a god) both ended up shamefully naked. Ephrem
symbolically condensed the primordial episode of the Fall in the idea of the stole of glory,
the “robe of light.” This garment is the golden fleece of Syriac Christian soteriology. Its
recovery was the odyssey of Christ. Its investiture was the cherished hope of every
Paradise and Paradigm                                                  221

Christian. Indeed, the very idea of clothing is the most frequently recurring imagery found
throughout the various hymn cycles (see LumE 25).
As in early Zoroastrianism, the key concept in Ephrem’s anthropology is choice. In the
interplay between free will and the will of God, Adam’s Fall was the result of his own
volition and miscalculation. The serpent is not to blame, but is culpable as an accomplice.
Adam mirrors the human predicament. His free will is the crux of spiritual capacity. Its
optative exercise alone is determinative. As such, God predetermined neither Adam’s
mortality or immortality. With Adam’s disobedience of God came the loss of godliness, one
aspect of which is immortality. Adam was stripped of his radiance, the “Robe of Glory,” less
frequently referred to as his “Robe of Light.” The Bible intimately links sin with death. It
was to be expected that Ephrem understood Paradise Lost in the very same terms. Salvation
makes it possible for the Fall to be reversed. It is up to every true Christian to reverse the
Fall.
The pre-Fall figure of Adam serves as an inverse eschatological paradigm of what it is
possible for the righteous to become. Adam’s [**273] investiture as King of Paradise, Priest,
and Prophet (the so-called tria munera which becomes the triple office of Christ)—
heightens the extent of the Fall and sharpens the contrast between saved and unsaved. It was
Christ, strictly speaking, as the agent of creation, who fashioned Adam of dust, breathed into
Adam his soul (is the soul therefore the breath of God?), and invested him with glory
(šwbḥ’). The “Glory” of the Robe may have something to do with the charisma of God’s
presence, the Hebrew notion of kabod ha-shem, the “Glory of God” which Ezekiel beheld,
but this must remain only a suggestion as a review of the literature discloses very little in
this connection. In any event, Adam was in every respect the “image of God,” and it is this
original-image relation that Christ restored. The vaunted “Robe of Glory”—invisible to the
naked eye—may be restored through baptism. Ephrem reminds us in the opening verse of
Hymns on Paradise that Paradise itself is invisible to the mortal eye. Thus, in scripture,
Paradise is “described in visibilities, praised for invisibilities” (HdP I.1, Motifs 67). The
robe, presumably, is visible in Paradise.
Paradise regained—baptism as reentry into Paradise. Brock invokes Dante here in
describing this final stage as “Paradise regained” (1979b, 51). To recapitulate Ephrem’s
conception of salvation history, the Robe of Glory is lost but may be won back once more.
The mythology surrounding the Robe rationalizes the efficacy of the Sacraments according
to the following drama of salvation: Act One: Primordial Robes of Glory: In Paradise,
Adam and Eve were clothed in “Robes of Glory” or “Robes of Light.” Act Two: Disrobed
in disgrace: After the Fall, Adam and Eve were stripped of their “robes of glory/light.” Act
Three: Christ places Robe in Jordan: God “puts on Adam” or “a body” in order to “reclothe
mankind in the robe of glory.” In the course of his descent into the waters of the Jordan at
baptism, Christ deposits the “robe of glory/ light” into the water, sanctifying for all time all
baptismal water. Act Four: Robe regained at Baptism: The invocation of the Holy Spirit at
baptism consecrates the baptismal font, effectively transforming it, in sacred time and space,
into the waters of the Jordan. The “robe of glory” which Adam lost in the Fall is recovered
by the Christian at baptism (Brock 1982b, 12).
Paradise and Paradigm

Paradise to come. In CNis XXXVI.7, Death is personified. In one of its speeches, Death
confesses: “There are two men—I must not deceive—whose names are missing for me in
Sheol: Enoch and Elijah did not come to me; . . . they might have entered Paradise and
escaped [from Sheol]” (HdP V.9, HyP 105). The figure of unsaved Eve provided a typo-
logical exemplar. Eve resides not in Paradise but in Sheol (Nat. XIII.2, McV 137). This
picture of all deceased humanity in Sheol partly conflicts with another scenario described by
Ephrem in the Hymns on [**274] Paradise, that of the resting-place for the righteous,
awaiting the Resurrection. Furthermore, Paradise “is full of spiritual beings” (HdP V.9, HyP
105), who banquet, in what appears to be a reference to the present and not to future bliss:
“There, manifest and fair/to the eye of the mind,/are coveted banquets of the just/who
summon us/to be their companions and brothers” (HdP VI.16, HyP 114).
The bones of the righteous remain in Sheol while the souls of the righteous tarry in the
outskirts or environs of Paradise. This is partly indicated by Ephrem’s eschatological vision,
in which “no bone will remain in Sheol” (Virg. XXXVI.10, SCK 78). As in the passage
above, Ephrem drops some hints to the effect that the souls of the righteous are not really
asleep after all. Apart from the Semitic question of the bones, Ephrem depicts a resort for
the righteous deceased until the time of the Resurrection: “Thus in the delightful mansions/
on the borders of Paradise/do the souls of the just/and righteous reside,/awaiting there/the
bodies they love” (HdP VIII.11, HyP 135).
This ante-Paradise is definitely not Sheol. The problem is that, though the soul is self-
existent (HdP VIII.5, HyP 133), the disincarnate righteous are in a state of deficient
sensation and consciousness (HdP VIII.7, HyP 133) since the body is instrumental to
perception, without which the soul “lacks true existence” (HdP VIII.7, HyP 133). The soul
cannot die at death; for otherwise the sacraments would be devoid of efficacy. Nor does its
preservation seem to be entirely insentient. Ephrem speaks of death, but not of the death of
souls in terms of subsistence.
At death, the soul takes flight (HdP IX. 16). The body remains interred until trumpets
summon. The Resurrection, however conceived, is a definite event in the writings of
Ephrem. This climax of salvation history cannot be spiritualized away. It is open to
conceptual reconsideration. Elsewhere, Ephrem does speak of the disgorgement of the dead
by Sheol at Christ’s harrowing (Darling 1987, 119), though whether or not this was
understood at a purely literal level is perhaps open to question.
Paradise realized: Heaven on Earth. According to Brock, though Ephrem is “at a
considerable remove from his contemporaries St. Athanasius, St. Basil and the two Sts.
Gregory” in thought pattern and expression, yet they are “essentially at one” in their
conceptions of the mystery of the Trinity and the Incarnation (LumE 3). “The Syriac
Fathers, no less than the Greek,” concludes Brock, “see the theōsis or divinization of man as
the end purpose of the inhominization of God” (1982, 20).
Earthly body and the resurrected body. There is a fundamental problem of identity and
difference between the earthly body and the resur- [**275] rected body. There had been a
long-standing debate within and without early Christianity over the vexed question of the
resurrection of the body. The pagan philosopher Porphyry (d. c. 301) had attacked
Paradise and Paradigm                                                  223

Christianity for its monstrous and ridiculous belief in physical resurrection. Around the year
177 C.E., Celsus summarized pagan objections to Christianity, calling it “the hope of
worms.” After all, who in his right mind would desire a body that had rotted? “The
resurrection is both revolting and impossible,” Celsus concluded (Barnard 1984, 44). This
problem will repay a moment’s consideration.
Virginity and the angelic life. For Ephrem, true to the Christian Orient and East alike, the
goal of existence is full and perfect deification, the life of lived dogma, the translation of
body and soul into the realm of the spirit. Does teleology condition views of salvation or
does the reverse? Towards this end, the life of the ascetics was considered exemplary, useful
to the soul. As a church within a church, the ascetics enriched a sense of spirituality
generally, like a spiritual leaven. Virgins were the jewel or “beryl” of the Church. Taken
together, the solitaries and virgins could be seen as “a peacock of the spirit” (CH XLII.10,
SCK 75). The deeds of solitaries were to be appreciated but not always to be imitated. The
lay life was also holy. Celibacy was not a precondition for baptism in Ephrem’s churches,
even though it optimized “single-mindedness.” The ascetic ideal notwithstanding, that
school of love called marriage was considered lawful and holy, in the context of praxis and
contemplation.
“The Angels,” wrote Ephrem, “have received the gift of virginity without effort but you
on the contrary on the basis of battle” (Virg. XV.4, HOA 3:29). The idea here, to put it
crudely, is that since there was no sex in primordial Paradise nor is there marriage in
heaven, angels are virgins in a world in which sex has no place. Angels are undifferentiated
as to gender. In a world in which sex is instinct with power to tempt, virginity represents the
ascetic ideal to become angelic. (For a critique of this ideal from a feminist perspective, see
Castelli 1986.) In the process, one has the potential to become superior to angels.
Realized Paradise. The Robe of Glory originates in primordial time. It is reinvested in
eschatological time. It is acquired in historical time, in its coincidence with what Brock calls
“sacred time,” drawing the inevitable conclusion: “The life of the baptized Christian should
accordingly be that of a realized eschatology” (1982, 19). In a hymn attributed to Ephrem,
but of doubtful authenticity, the “eschatology is certainly ‘realized’,” according to Murray:
“See, you are reclining at the wedding-feast/which is the Holy Church,/and you are eating
the living body/and drinking His pure blood” (SCK 257).

[**276] The Problem of postbaptismal sin. Salvation notwithstanding, it is possible to
forfeit one’s lot in Paradise: “Sins before baptism/by simple work are able to be atoned./And
if the imprint of scars sullies [the Christian],/baptism whitens and wipes them clean./But
sins after baptism/with double works are able to be overturned.” (Virg. XLVI.24–26, McV
450–51). Brock renders this passage so: “Sin committed before baptism/can be absolved
easily, in baptism,/And even if the mark of the sin’s wounds is deep,/yet baptism will whiten
and wipe them away;/But post-baptismal sins can only/be reversed by means of double
labours.” (1976b, 63). Does this indicate loss of immortality at the substantial level or at the
sapiential level? Here, soteriology stands or falls on its supporting anthropology.

Paradise and Paradigm

The substances of man’s creation. The Syriac term for “substance” is qnūmā, which varies
according to the nature (kyānā) of a thing. Ephrem states that the Creator “infused into the
powdered dust a manifold spring (m‘yn’ dpwršn’ nsk bh bdḥyḥ’)” (CNis XLIX.3, Motifs 57).
This spring, a metaphor for the soul, gives life to the dust. Conversely, in Paradise, “springs
of wisdom” are said to burst forth from the mouths of its dwellers (HdP IX.8). This indicates
that the substance of Paradise is considerably different from that of Earth; the constitution of
Paradise is of a separate order altogether. In both earthly and celestial realms the soul is said
to abide. The body, however, will have to undergo such transformation at the eschaton that
the differences in many respects likely outweigh the similarities.

The substance of Paradise. Paradise, in Ephrem’s vision of it, is, to a great extent, informed
by Jewish concepts (cf. Séd 1968). But it is not wholly informed by them. Paradise is
mountain, towering above all earthly mountains, its underside said to be circular,
overarching land and sea (HdP I.8) like a dome. Paradise is, above all, a cosmic mountain, a
nonphysical yet nonetheless a sarcous environ, at a metaphorical level at least. One of the
challenges of reading Ephrem is having the metaphorical competence to decode Ephrem
wherever this may be warranted, and to accept the rest at face value.
Kronholm notes on the basis of Beck’s analysis that “Paradise in Ephrem’s view is not
‘eine rein geistige Grösse’ . . . nor is it corporeally/terrestrially material, as is seen in HdP
XI” (Motifs 69, n. 78). Elsewhere, the Swedish scholar states categorically: “The
Paradisiacal world is neither corporeally material, nor spiritually immaterial, but it is
constituted of a spiritual substance, in Ephrem’s view” (Motifs 163 n. 27, citing Beck 1951
and Ortiz de Urbina 1955). This is obvious from HdP XI.4: “Let not this description of it
[Paradise]/be judged by one who hears it,/for descriptions of it/are not at all subject to
judgment,/since, even though it might appear terrestrial/because of the terms [**277] used,/
it is in reality/spiritual and pure./Even though the name of “spirit”/is applied to two kinds of
beings,/yet the unclean spirit is quite separate/from the one that is sanctified” (HyP 155).
This passage is interesting in that it is quite clear that some kind of translation of the
physical being must take place, for Paradise is too rarefied for gross matter. Elsewhere,
Ephrem likens Paradise to the wind, which has “no outer array or substance at all” (HdP
XV.1, HyP 182).

What is the Robe of Glory and its substance? Mary, in effect, was the first to be baptized by
Christ, to receive the transforming touch of divinity: “The Son of the Most High came and
dwelt in me,/and I became His mother. As I gave birth to Him/—His second birth—so too
He gave birth to me/a second time. He put on His mother’s robe/—His body; I put on His
glory” (Nat. XVI.11, Harp 15). What is “glory”? Of what substance is it? Glory is light; this
is a metaphorical tautology, of course. The Robe of Glory is often called the Robe of Light.
Both are references to divinity. Glory and light represent the Holy Spirit. Hence: “John
whitened the stain of sins with ordinary water, so that the bodies might be rendered suitable
for the robe of the Spirit that is given through our Lord. Because the Spirit was with the
Son, the Son came to John in order to receive baptism from him, so that He [Jesus] might
mix with the visible water the Spirit who cannot be seen, so that those whose bodies
perceive the wetness of the water might perceive in their minds the gift of the Holy
Paradise and Paradigm                                                  225

Spirit” (de Dom nos. 55, LumE 72). The Robe of Glory thus is bestowed in the waters of
baptism. It is the equivalent of the Pauline metaphor of “putting on Christ” (LumE 72–73).
What effects, then, does this Robe of Glory have?

Problems inherent in Ephrem’s soteriology. Often compared to Athanasius’s formula that
God became man that man might become God (On the Incarnation LIV.3), Ephrem gives
an epitome of salvation in Hymns on the Nativity I.97, 99: “The Lord of natures today was
transformed contrary to His nature;/ . . . Today the Deity imprinted Itself on humanity,/so
that humanity might also be cut into the seal of Deity” (McV 74; cf. n. 66, where McVey
suggests a parallel with Athanasius). Patristic doctrines of theōsis taken together, Maurice
Wiles explains that when speaking in terms of divinization, “the Fathers did not intend the
parallelism to be taken with full seriousness.” “The Word,” moreover, “who was fully God,
did not become fully man that he might make us full men becoming fully God. In speaking
of man’s divinization the Fathers intended to convey that men should become gods only in a
secondary sense—‘gods by grace’ (ϑεοι κατα χαριν theoi kata charin) . . . ; it was never
believed that they would become what the Word was—namely, ‘God by nature’ (ϑεοι κατα
φυσιν).” (1967, 107–108, cited by Strange 1985, 342–43). Strange states that Wiles has
[**278] “questioned the need for a fully divine saviour when the salvation men receive is of
grace and not of nature. As he observed, men become gods only in a secondary sense; they
do not become what the Word is. Why should the saviour have to possess a divinity any
different from the one he bestows?” (ibid., 343). Wiles’s criticism does not seem to have
occurred to the ancient critics of Christianity, such as Celsus and Porphyry, as the question
is Christian and not pagan.
In any event, the Eucharist is an elixir performing an alchemy of body and soul. The
wafer is, as it were, the alchemist’s “orange egg” and immortality is won. In the ancient
concept of the soul being handicapped if left, literally, senseless, the spiritualization of the
inner man was coterminous with that of the outer man through a spiritual agency. If spirit
has the power to form matter, by the very same logic, spirit has the power to transform
matter.
In this respect, the transformation is complete. Matter is no longer matter, for matter no
longer matters. As Ephrem states: “And if these things which are to come are more subtle
than the Body in accordance with the places (in which they are), so it (i.e., the Body) will
undergo change. For that Will which made it gross for the gross purpose which is here
present, made it for that Spiritual abode which is yonder” (Eph. Hypat., Mitchell 1912,
1:cv). At best, its form and functions persist, and even that may in some sense be
metaphorical, bound by the constraints of our language to explain the ineffable. The
following examples will suffice to show that Ephrem, contrary to his assertion that the
soul’s perceptions are tied to the instrumentality of the body, is able to speak of its relative
irrelevance:

Obviating taste. The Hymns on Paradise possess their own “grammar of images,” so to
speak, with gridded ambiguities of images that interlock, giving rise to different levels of
interpretation (Maguire 1987, 42; cf. Farrugia 1990). In Paradise, for instance, the body has
no other function than to act as an instrument of perception, as the locus of the senses. Even
Paradise and Paradigm

so, we can eliminate taste from the necessary instruments of perception, as the rarefied body
in Paradise does not eat: “but yonder it is souls, instead of bodies, that crave food” (HdP IX.
20, HyP 142). Rather, the soul is sustained by “joy” (HdP IX. 23). One of the senses,
therefore, is no longer needed: that of taste. In Paradise, there is neither material food nor
drink (IX.9), as the repast, of an utterly different order, is spiritual and sapiential. “The teeth
do not weary,” (HdP IX.9, HyP 139), presumably because they do not chew! Of Paradise,
Ephrem states that “the senses were no longer able/to contain its treasures/so magnificent
they were—/or to discern its savors” (HdP VI.2, HyP 109).

Obviating the olfactory sense. What, then, of the sense of smell? Paradise is perfumed with
fragrances, to be sure, “its scents most wonder- [**279] ful” (HdP IV.7, HyP 100). It may be
that it is “adapted” to perceive “wisdom”: “That Garden is/the life-breath/of this diseased
world” (HdP XI.10, HyP 157). Like Divinity perhaps, Paradise is both transcendent and
immanent. Paradise transcends the senses, but its vivifying breezes waft into the
congregations of the faithful here on Earth. By simple elimination, if the sense of smell
cannot perceive these breezes, a spiritual organ is the only faculty of perception that can.

Obviating physical sight. To achieve beatific vision, physical sight is not necessary. Not
sight per se, but insight is required. Hence Ephrem says: “With the eye of my mind (b-‘aynā
d-re‘yānā)/I gazed upon Paradise” (HdP I.4, HyP 78 and 38–39). And, further: “the sight of
Paradise/is far removed,/and the eye’s range/cannot attain to it” (HdP I.8, HyP 80). The
premillennial denizens of Sheol, who presumably live in a discarnate state, are able to gaze
on Paradise from across the “Abyss” (HdP II.12), as was the case with the rich man and
Lazarus at Luke 16:26, as Ephrem is careful to point out. Presumably this visual acuity has
nothing to do with a carnal cornea and retina, as this state is prior to the Resurrection. At
best, the organs of the senses may be transformed into organs of the soul at the eschaton.
There are doubts about even this, if we take into consideration the various descriptions
of perception in the afterworld that Ephrem paints. Physical organs of perception, certainly,
cannot enjoy the beatitude of Paradise, as there “carnal desires no longer exist” (HdP II.3,
HyP 85), not due to resistance to temptation but rather to its irrelevance to a nonphysical
domain of satiety. “For what mind,” avers Ephrem, gazing on Paradise from without,
“has . . . the faculties to explore it?” (HdP III.1, HyP 90). “For feeble eyes,” continues
Ephrem in the same vein, “cannot gaze upon/the dazzling sight/of its celestial
beauties” (HdP XI.8, HyP 156). And yet, it was with the mind’s eye, and not the physical
eye, that Ephrem was able to gaze on Paradise, in the wake of his mystic transport while
reading Scripture: “The eye and the mind/traveled over the lines/as over a bridge, and
entered together/the story of Paradise./The eye as it read/transported the mind;/in return the
mind, too,/gave the eye rest/from its reading,/for when the book had been read/the eye had
rest,/but the mind was engaged” (HdP V.4, HyP 103). Ephrem’s rationale for the
resurrection of the body is that the soul depends upon the body, as the locus of the senses,
for perception. Yet the physical senses of ocular vision, taste, and smell are, as demonstrated
above, eschatologically obviated. The afterlife relevance of the senses, on the one hand, is
affirmed by Ephrem but, on the other hand, such senses are circumscribed: “My eye indeed
remained outside, but my mind entered within” (HdP V.5, HyP 104).
Paradise and Paradigm                                                  227

One does not see in Ephrem any dependence upon his elder contemporary Aphrahāṭ.
Otherwise, we might have seen in Ephrem a [**280] more pronounced concept of what the
Persian Sage had variously referred to as “spiritual senses”: “spiritual senses of the
mind” (regšay hawnā rūḥānē); “senses of the mind” (regšay hawnā); “senses of
thought” (regšay maḥšabṯā); “senses of the intelligence” (regšay tar‘īṯā); “senses of the
intellect” (regšay re‘yānā); “senses of meditations” (regšay hemsayhōn); “eyes of the
senses” (‘aynay regšē); [invisible] “organs within” (hadāmē d-lgaw); “organs of the
soul” (hadāmē d-nafšā); “senses of the soul” (regšay d-nafšā) (adapted from Stewart 1991,
165-66).
Aphrahāṭ, in Demonstrations XIV, in describing the wonders of creation, speaks of what
can be accepted as the Syriac counterpart to the Greek idea of the spiritual senses: “The
wings of understanding are spread out,/and the wings of thought are unfolded,/and the
senses of the intellect are exploring,/and the eyes of the conscience are contemplating/and
the pupils [of its eyes] roam to and fro/so that the investigation may be known to sight and
to knowledge/while not comprehending their limits” (Stewart 1991, 165). This concept
contextualizes the Syriac Liber Graduum when it speaks of the “organs within” or of the
“organs of the soul” and thus we find Ephrem speaking of the “inner senses of thoughts” in
HdF IV.6 (ibid., 166, n. 234). If Ephrem concedes the existence and functionality of such
senses, why not their relative autonomy? This is a problem that arises in any attempt to
systematize Ephrem’s anthropology and the eschatology upon which it is predicated. The
present study proposes one solution: The Hymns on Paradise are crafted in such a way as to
appeal to the more mundane conceptions of afterlife requital more readily accessible to the
common lay Christian, whereas, at a more abstract level of reading, the hymns may be read
as professedly metaphorical, both in terms of Paradise itself and in its allegorical inversion
to describe the status and profundity of the Christian communal life on Earth.
It should come as no surprise therefore when Kronholm concludes that Ephrem’s views
on the soul “are not uniform” (Motifs 58). The soul, in contradistinction to the beast, is
endowed with speech (CNis XLIV.1). The soul, moreover, has the ability, through the
agency of speech, “to express wisdom” (HdP VIII.8, Motifs 58). It is this sapiential ability
that is of such anthropological importance in the process of theōsis.

Bodily, not physical, resurrection. Hymn VIII of the Paradise cycle makes it abundantly
clear that the soul cannot function adequately without its companion, the body. Ephrem’s
Paradise is not incorporeal. (That may, however, be immaterial.) There is reason to believe,
however, that the resurrection body and its disports in Paradise are rather of a different order
altogether. One clue is the nature of Paradise itself. Assuming the resurrection body will be
adapted to its celestial [**281] environs, we may infer that it would not differ fundamentally
from the constitution of the leaves of Paradise. The leaves of Paradise, we are told, “are
spiritual” yet “have taken on bodily form” (HdP XI.8, HyP 156). This indicates that the
Resurrection is corporeal in form, but not so in terms of flesh.
If this is an inaccurate assessment, it could at least be said that the bodily resurrection
that Ephrem envisions is substantially different from physical resurrection. Not only is the
sight of Paradise achieved by insight, the mind’s eye, but the entire resurrection body itself
is likened by Ephrem to the mind: “A hundred times finer/and more subtle/are the bodies of
Paradise and Paradigm

the righteous/when they are risen, at the Resurrection:/they resemble the mind” (HdP V.8,
HyP 105). The rarefication of which Ephrem speaks is of such subtlety that the “spiritual
beings” (rūḥānē, Beck 1986, 21). are described as “so refined in substance that even
thoughts cannot touch them!” (HdP V.10, HyP 106). Elsewhere Ephrem relates: “Bodies,/
with their flow of blood,/receive refinement there/after the manner of souls;/the soul that is
heavy/has its wings refined/ so that they resemble/resplendent thought . . . /For bodies shall
be raised/to the level of souls,/and the soul/to that of the spirit,/while the spirit will be
raised/to the height of God’s majesty” (HdP IX.19, 21, HyP 143).
The Resurrection, therefore, in Ephrem’s conception of it, is not simply an “arising” in
the sense of revivification. It is an “arising” in the sense of a spiritual ascent, in which the
whole tripartite being of man is “raised” to new life and to new heights. In what manner
may we conceive of this? In this present life, in what really amounts to a realized
eschatology for Ephrem, “the mind . . . is spiritual” (HdP VI.2, HyP 109) and it is the mind
in mystic transport, and, at the eschaton, something like the mind into which the
resurrection body is transformed, that can attain the environs of Paradise and, by the
blessing of its Creator, enter into its Garden. There is in fact the suggestion that the
metaphors Ephrem employs for his portrayal of Paradise may be decoded. From HdP VI.6
and elsewhere, we may thus infer: Symbols of Paradise (Symbol = Referent): Bud = Heart;
Produce = Rational Speech; Fruit = Words (Deeds, VI.11); Plants = Truth; Sweet Scents =
Love; Blossoms = Chastity (VI.12); Beauty = Mind (VI.13); Flowers = Virtuous Life (VI.
13); Garden = Free Will (VI.13); Earth = Human Thought (VI.13); Trees = “Victors” (VI.
14); Treasure Store = Hidden Mysteries (VI.25).

Asōmata, eidic vision, and “mixing”. Evidently, Ephrem’s anthropology shares certain
features with that of Bardaiṣan, the “Aramean philosopher” as Ephrem calls him (BarE
165). In one respect, there may be this affinity: body and soul are separable, but not soul and
spirit, which is hidden in the soul. The levels of Paradise correspond with [**282] degrees
of spiritual development and perfection. There the human encounter with things divine is
vivid and immediate. One gets the impression, inter alia, that although the necessity of the
body is formally recognized by Ephrem, in practice the body is an appendage that must be
radically rehabilitated to adapt itself to the clime of the sublime. In the heights of Paradise,
the soul is sustained, as it were, intravenously. Its apprehension is direct, in what can best be
metaphorically understood as an implicit, Origenistic duplication of the external senses to
describe the operation of faculties of cognition in the inner recesses of the soul. These
faculties may be arrested in an aborted embryonic state in the unsaved person. With no debt
to Origen intended, Ephrem’s eschatological anthropology may be described as eidetic and
transfigural.
“The assembly of saints,” writes Ephrem, “bears resemblance to Paradise” (HdP VI.8,
HyP 111). Of greater moment, by contrast, is the resemblance of Paradise to the Church,
where the metaphors of Paradise are inverted, serving as an allegory for the Church.
Ecclesiastically, the zigguratic ascents of the cosmic Mountain refer primarily not to the
terraced levels of Paradise itself, but rather to the Church: “The mystery of the levels/of that
Garden of Life/He prefigured in the Ark/and at Mount Sinai./Symbols of Paradise/and its
disposition he has depicted for us;/established, fair and desirable in every way,/in its height
Paradise and Paradigm                                                  229

and its beauty,/in its fragrance and variety./It is the haven of all riches;/in it the Church is
symbolized” (HdP II.13, SCK 258).

Conclusions. The Hymns on Paradise purport to give an otherworldly glimpse into the
afterlife. These hymns, however, belong more properly to exegesis than to the genre of
apocalypse. No supernatural agency for this vision served as intermediary. Rather, Ephrem
was mystically “transported” to Paradise during his reading of Scripture.
Nature, of course, everywhere spoke to Ephrem of the hidden God, the revealed Christ,
and of the sanctifying Spirit; but Scripture informed him of eschatological matters more
directly. Ephrem’s paradise is informed by his views on human nature, and this is where
anthropology may be seen to structure eschatology. The edifying intent of the hymns is quite
apart from these concerns: it is Ephrem’s ecclesiological vision which the Hymns on
Paradise was meant to inspire.
The trichotomy fundamental to Ephrem’s anthropology allowed for Syriac mysticism to
speak of progress along somatic, psychic, and pneumatic stages (HOA 3:329). The doctrine
of theōsis may be seen as a controlling principle here. Indeed, this soteriology—so prevalent
in the fourth century—clearly structures, but does not control, Ephrem’s teachings on the
work of Christ.
Deification was effected through chrism, baptism, and the Eucharist. The poet wrote
extensively on the efficacy of these mysteries. [**283] But salvation was no guarantor of
spirituality. For this, free will took precedence, as it was possible to forfeit one’s place in
Paradise as a consequence of post-baptismal sin. The eschatological wedding garment stood
in danger of being stained. It was ethical vigilance that maintained eschatological
preparedness.
As we would expect, Christ’s divinity did not minimize his humanity in Ephrem’s view.
This is an important consideration in conserving the ethical teachings which came to
characterize Ephrem’s system which was in ethical competition with that of Bardaiṣan. To
do so would be to weaken the effective basis of the divine “economy”—the effective means
of salvation.
It has been the purpose of this study to argue for a shift in emphasis in Ephrem’s Hymns
on Paradise from the belief in physical resurrection to a doctrine of what might be termed
sapiential theōsis. The argument presented in this study was difficult and methodologically
involved, and had to be unpacked in a cumulative way. The concept of sapiential theōsis is
not an attempt to split cumin seeds, as the Romans would say, but rather an effort to
demonstrate the subtle ways in which Ephrem speaks in a traditionally Semitic vein, yet
innovates on the tradition of “the sleep of the soul” in which the body and soul repose in
Sheol until the Resurrection Day. Ephrem pays lip service to this doctrine, but does not
consistently support it.
Ephrem departs from the Syriac tradition of the “Sleep of the Soul” in two significant
respects: In the hymns, Ephrem indulges in speculation in which the righteous, awaiting the
Resurrection, reside in mansions outside the environs of Paradise (HdP VIII.11; cf. V.15). A
further innovation by Ephrem is the idea that sinners (presumably, those who are repentant)
may receive chastisement and forgiveness in a kind of purgatory situate between the Fire
and the Garden (HdP X.14; cf. I.16–17).
Paradise and Paradigm

Controversy over the immortality of the soul impacts on the soteriology of theōsis. If it
is conceded that the soul is immortal, there is then no need for divinization. The power of
baptism and the sacraments to confer immortality is seriously undermined if divested of
their elixiric effect in the alchemy of body and soul. But it seems that Ephrem’s soteriology
was not entirely predicated on theōsis. He does not set out to prove it, nor is he at pains to
defend it, though he refers to it frequently. In so doing, Ephrem simply elaborates on its
eschatological consequences.
Divinization in terms of “substance” is one thing, but becoming godly is quite another.
The doctrine of theōsis was a fourth-century given. For Ephrem, immortality was not so
much at issue. Christ had assured the rewards of Paradise. Ephrem was concerned to present
Paradise in a homiletic light. Rather than drawing on Nature as a point of departure for
homily, as so often happens in medieval [**284] preaching, Paradise serves as the natural
setting of matters spiritual, upon which a homily may be constructed. Aphrahāṭ’s description
of the wise man, in Demonstrations XIV, the realized eschatology of which is patent, could
easily fit the scheme of Ephrem’s Hymns on Paradise: “He is a great palace for his Maker:/
the King of the heights comes and dwells in him,/raises his mind to the heights/and makes
his thoughts soar to the sanctuary,/revealing to him treasures of all kinds . . . /The Watchers
hasten to serve him/and the Seraphs cry ‘holy’ to his glory,/flying with their swift wings,/
their garments white and resplendent,/veiling their faces from his splendour,/rushing swifter
than the wind . . . /His form and appearance are on earth/but his mental senses are above and
below./His thought is swifter than the sun,/his insights flash faster than the wind,/swift as on
wings in every direction.” (Murray 1990, 150 and 151). On this passage, Murray concludes
that Aphrahāṭ “does not spell out what his words imply” and that “it is only towards the end
of the passage that its relevance becomes clear”: to wit, “Aphrahāṭ is holding up cosmic
order as a model for order in the Church” (ibid., 151). The same thing may be said of
Ephrem’s intent in the Hymns on Paradise.
Ephrem’s teachings on the afterlife stand midway between the underdeveloped Jewish
concept of Sheol and Bardaiṣan’s refutation of bodily resurrection. Against Gavin’s
dichotomous picture of soul-sleep and resurrection with only suspended animation in
between, Ephrem has created a hiatus in eschatological time where in the souls of the
righteous enjoy proximity to Paradise and are, evidently, conscious. As said before, this
appears to be an Ephremic innovation, indicated by Ephrem’s reservations over indulgence
in such speculation: “As I reflected I was fearful again/to suppose that there might be/
between the Garden and the fire/a place where those who have found mercy/can receive
chastisement and forgiveness” (HdP X.14, HyP 153).
External witness for this concept may be found in Theodoret of Cyrrhus, in his
description of the ascetic who was a namesake of Aphrahāṭ: “May I enjoy it even now, since
I believe him to be alive, to belong to the choir of angels, and to possess familiar access to
God even more than before; . . . now that he has shed the burden of the passions, he enjoys,
as a victorious athlete, familiar access to the Umpire” (1985, 79).
To free this single witness from its splendid isolation, the testimony of the pilgrim nun
Egeria may also be adduced. In the course of her pilgrimage itinerary, just a few years after
Ephrem’s death, Egeria visited Edessa in 381 C.E.  and was shown a portrait of King Abgar,
a presumed mosaic portrait of whom has recently been discovered (Drijvers 1982; cf. Segal
Paradise and Paradigm                                                  231

1983 who doubts the king’s identity). Of this monarch who embraced the Christian faith, the
bishop of Edessa is recorded by Egeria as saying: “The look on Abgar’s face showed me, as
[**285] I looked straight at it, what a wise and noble man he had been, and the holy bishop
told me, ‘That is King Abgar. Before he saw the Lord, he believed in him as the true Son of
God’” (Wilkinson 1971, 115–16). If this statement accurately reflects the Christian Orient in
the fourth century, we see that between soul sleep and body rising is the conscious spirit
enjoying beatific vision.
The consequences of this testimony are far–reaching. Prior afterlife concepts and
Christian preoccupation with theōsis largely determined the form and overt content of
Ephrem’s soteriology. While basically faithful to the soul sleep/resurrection scenario,
Ephrem does not deprive the righteous of Paradise of even a single eschatological moment,
be it realized or actual. By means of this apparent innovation, the shift in emphasis in
Ephrem’s teaching towards more ethical and sapiential considerations is seen. Christianity
can then be presented as progressive sanctification within a traditional scheme of theōsis.
The body, literally, becomes lost in thought!
Ephrem is conditioned but not constrained by a propositionally controlled system of
belief. A distinction obtains between theological and mystical formulas of faith. Church
policy was established by successive synods of bishops. To be sure, Nicea held sway over
Ephrem, the council which he refers to as the “excellent synod” (CH XXII, Stewart 1991,
17). In terms of Christology, McVey shares the observations of several of her peers in noting
that Ephrem’s language of “mixing” of divine and human natures in Christ “would be
problematic for post–Chalcedonian Christology” (McV 149, n. 356).
Paradise shares the same role as Nature for homiletic purposes. The Syrian poet deftly
transferred Paradise imagery to Earth and set up the Church as a rival to Paradise! The
comparison is explicit; conceptually, nothing is lost in translation here: “More fitting to be
told/than the glorious account/of Paradise/are the exploits of the victorious/who adorned
themselves/with the very likeness of Paradise;/in them is depicted/the beauty of the Garden./
Let us take leave of the trees/and tell of the victors,/instead of the inheritance/let us celebrate
the inheritors” (HdP VI.14; HyP 113–14). This is more than homily; it is realized
eschatology. Ephrem’s very vision of Paradise attests to its realizability, to which “both
worlds” (refrain, HdP XV) are invited. For Ephrem, the irreducible physicality of the body
is not its bones, but rather its form. Ephrem’s Paradise resurrects the form of the body but
not its gross substance, and predicates Paradise–worthiness on an ethical advancement that
would rival that of any Bardaiṣanite. In this respect, Ephrem recalls Origen who, in
affirming the Resurrection, states that the “initial substratum [of the body] will not
rise” (Origen, Commentary on Psalm I.5, Dechow 1975, 347), and that the continuity of the
body is to be seen in its essence, considered to be its form (ειδος). The fact that “not a bone
will remain in [**286] Sheol” (Virg. XXXVI.10, McVey 423) need not present a problem
here. Where bone turns into stone, fossilization preserves the skeletal form. Resurrection, in
Ephrem’s portrayal of it, is not committed to recalcification.
The Hymns on Paradise cycle is, in effect, a double allegory. “Allegory,” according to
Frank Kermode, “is the patristic way of dealing with inexhaustible hermeneutic
potential” (1979, 44). Nothing could be more true for Ephrem. Like the Qur’ān, as Beck’s
earlier studies have shown (1948 and 1961), Ephrem paints Paradise in vivid earthly terms,
Paradise and Paradigm

where the most delectable delights of the natural world provide all the elements for an
extended metaphorical transference to the celestial realm. In turn, the delights of Paradise
are transformed by Ephrem into an allegory for the spiritual life on Earth such that the holy
life, and not Paradise itself, becomes the most cherished reward of the saint. “Paradise,”
writes Ephrem, “lauded the intellect” and “the flowers [of Paradise] gave praise to virtuous
life,” while the “fruits of the righteous were more pleasing to the Knower of all” (HdP VI.
13, HyP 113). The atmosphere, as one ascends the mountain of Paradise, becomes more and
more rarefied, such that: “Bodies,/with their flow of blood,/receive refinement there/after
the manner of souls;/the soul that is heavy/has its wings refined/so that they resemble/
resplendent thought” (HdP IX.19, HyP 143). And, further: “but if it be joy/which inebriates
and sustains,/how greatly will the soul be sustained/on the waves of this joy/as its faculties
suck/the breast of all wisdom” (HdP IX.23, HyP 144).
In the Banquet of Paradise, which is the subject of Hymn IX, the “breast of all wisdom”
sustains the “faculties of the soul”—this is sapiential theōsis. If “we are what we eat”—as
the adage goes—when Ephrem tells us that God shall impart “His wisdom to our
tongue” (HdP IX.27, HyP 146), on which “gift” the inhabitants of Paradise are said to
“ruminate,” the whole being is here pictured in sapiential terms. “From their mouths,” says
Ephrem of the denizens of heaven, “there burst forth . . . springs of wisdom” (HdP IX.28,
HyP 146). Here, in language which Ephrem in Hymn XI stresses is metaphorical, “springs”
is the image. “Wisdom” is the reality.
In Hymn VIII, Ephrem reaffirms the eschatology of Resurrection. The body is said to be
necessary for the soul’s perception. But the more Paradise is described further on in the
hymn cycle, the more it becomes clear that the body is increasingly irrelevant, even to the
point of being marginalized. The “faculties of the soul” begin to take over, as the bodily
senses are in every way obviated. It is as if the doctrine of corporeal resurrection was itself
transitional, beyond which a higher reality obtains. Body is rarefied to the level of soul; the
body becomes sapiential. The body is, when all is said and done, a chrysalis. The butterfly
emerges in the last half of the Hymns on Paradise.
[**287] A distinction obtains between form and reality. Consider the leaf of Paradise, as
a “bodily” object. Its essence is “spiritual” though it has assumed “bodily form.” These
celestial leaves “have been changed,” Ephrem continues, “so that their vesture may
resemble ours” (HdP XI.8, HyP 156–57). Where “yonder it is souls,/instead of bodies, that
crave food” (IX.18), where “the soul receives sustenance/appropriate to its needs” (IX. 18),
where soul food, as it were, “is the very fragrance of Paradise” (IX.17), in which, in any
event, “bodies shall be raised/to the level of souls” (IX.21, HyP 142-43). The pinnacle of
spiritual experience is beatific vision, imparted “with flashes of light” for “the small” and
“with rays more intense” for “the perfect” (IX.25, HyP 145). In Ephrem’s Hymns on
Paradise is found a hierarchy of mirrors, metaphors turned heavenward but refracting
earthward. One must be careful not to confuse the image with the reality which, in any
event, inspires a picture with a thousand edifying Syriac words.

Ecclesial Exegesis. To the extent that Ephrem’s interpretation of Paradise was directed
towards the Church, the HdP as exegesis seem to follow, in an unspoken way, a view if
interpretation akin to the Rules of Tyconius. The Rules of Tyconius, which was the first
Paradise and Paradigm                                                  233

hermeneutical treatise in the Latin West, professedly served as “pathways of light” guiding
one through a “vast forest of prophecy” (Tyconius 1989, 3; cf. Bright 1988). This treatise
impressed Augustine deeply. In adopting the Rules of Tyconius as a model and standard for
Christian interpretation, Augustine said of the seven rules: “All of these rules except one,
which is called ‘Of Promises and Law,’ cause one thing to be understood from another, a
situation proper to figurative locutions” (On Christian Doctrine III.37, ibid.). Though
written by a Donatist who wrote in North Africa during the second half of the fourth
century, the text stands on its own merits as an ingenious interpretive system which kept the
church at the heart of all exegetical activity under its influence. Remarkably, the Rules of
Tyconius is not primarily Christological. Rather, it is ecclesiological.
Ephrem’s Hymns on Paradise is a mystical midrash on the Eden narrative in Genesis. It
was read in an ecclesial light. Soteriologically, Ephrem exalts form over substance in his
descriptions of the glorified, resurrected body. Bardaiṣan had denied the resurrection of the
body, but not of the soul. Perhaps in response to Bardaiṣan, and the philosophical
speculation which he so successfully popularized, Ephrem’s Hymns on Paradise struck a
compromise between incorporeal and corporeal doctrines of resurrection. For Ephrem, the
irreducible physicality of the body was not so much its bones, but rather its form. Each in
his own way, both Bardaiṣan and Ephrem rejected the impurity of gross physicality.
Bardaiṣan denied the resurrection of the body; Ephrem transforms the resurrection body and
practically divests it of its physicality.
[**288] In treating Paradise as an allegory of the Church, Ephrem has, in effect, created
a “paratext.” The idea that, in certain cases, “exegesis becomes part of the text itself” (Kugel
1986, 100) lies behind the neologism, “paratext.” Here, use of the modern formative “para”
should be fairly self–evident: the “paratext” of exegesis is the paraphrasable interpretation
mentally read alongside or with the text. In an overarching way, in Ephrem’s meditations on
the Eden narrative, the major paratext of Paradise is the Church.

Paradise and paradigm. Images and ideas are the twin hemispheres of the religious mind.
The bicameral interaction of the imaginal and the abstract focus the believer on the
archetypes of belief. To give a more complete description of any religious worldview,
concepts should be complemented by conceits. In Ephrem, the Church is imagistically
conceived of as Paradise. Since it is an extended metaphor, its imagery is extensible.
Individually and collectively, paradise imagery can represent different facets of church life
and experience. The phrase from the Lord’s Prayer—“on earth, as it is in Heaven”—
perfectly expresses both imagistically and ideologically the Ephrem’s artifice at work in the
HdP.
Ephrem’s Paradise is at once ecclesiastical and eschatological. Its imagery expresses a
paradigm of purity. This is a purity that “cures.” It cleanses the soul of the “disease” of
mortality. It restores primordial immortality. Life in Paradise, in both worlds, is for the pure.
The pure in heart are Christians who are sexually pure and morally stainless. On this point,
perhaps Ephrem and Bardaiṣan might agree. In a quote from Theodore bar Koni, Bardaiṣan,
in one of his lost songs, taught: “And lo, the natures, all of them—with created things they
hastened, to purify themselves and remove what was mingled with the nature of evil” (Segal
1970, 38). Although Ephrem rejects Bardaiṣan’s creation myth, the pursuit of ethical purity
Paradise and Paradigm

in both systems is, in nonascetic terms, comparable. In fine, Syriac Christianity’s response
to Late Antiquity is the quest for purity, in which chrism, baptism, and the Eucharist become
the ointment, fountain, and elixir of immortality, while the imagery of Paradise ennobles the
sanctified soul.

Paradise and World Unity in the Bahā’ī Writings

Religious portrayals of the ideal society are the counterpart of the utopias of secular
visionaries. In Bahā’ī texts, the ideal society is given a symbolic depth that adds a
dimension largely absent in secular reformist rhetoric. Paradise is the ideal of perfection.
This imagery has the power to inspire. In Bābī and Bahā’ī texts, Paradise is frequently
associated with the heart within the individual, and, in the case of [**289] Bahā’ī texts, with
an ideal society that has achieved concentric levels of unity.
The Bāb, Bahā’u’llāh’s herald, strikes an image in which Spirit is personified, giving a
voice to Paradise: “O people of the earth! By the righteousness of the One true God, I am
the Maid of Heaven (al–ḥūrīya) begotten by the Spirit of Bahā, abiding within the Mansion
hewn out of a mass of ruby, tender and vibrant; and in this mighty Paradise naught have I
ever witnessed save that which proclaimeth the Remembrance of God by extolling the
virtues of this Arabian Youth. Verily there is none other God but your Lord, the All-
Merciful” (SWB 54; Qayyūm al-Asmā’ 29; Lambden 1997–1998, 34). Bahā’u’llāh has
taken up this imagery in portraying the Maiden of Heaven as the personification of the
Bahā’ī revelation.
In his own writings, Bahā’u’llāh has taken up a wealth of Bābī imagery. The “Arabian
Youth” here refers to the Persian founder of the Bābī religion, known as the Bāb, who is
seen as the precursor of Bahā’u’llāh and therefore the co-founder of the Bahā’ī Faith. This
same image of an “Arabian Youth” will be employed by Bahā’u’llāh himself, as a
circumlocution. The other figure in this scene is the celestial Maiden. Ruby is obviously an
image of the heart, by virtue not only of its color, but also its worth. The location of Paradise
is important here, for Paradise resides in the heart (consciousness). Although it is the heart
that matters, so does society. Paradise is both esoteric and exoteric. Its external form is the
ideal society, based on concentric unities radiating from the heart. We shall now explore
these types of unity in Bahā’ī teachings, in order to demonstrate that paradise imagery is
used to reinforce Bahā’ī ideology by vivifying it with the most potent of teleological
symbols available in religious discourse.
Bahā’īs often speak of unity without differentiating among various kinds of unity, apart
from the so-called three onenesses popularized in “fireside” teaching. These three onenesses
are the oneness of God, the oneness of religion, and the oneness of humankind. (“Oneness”
is popularly equated with unity, although the unity of the third category is hardly of the
same order as the first.) For academic purposes at least, a more precise typology of the kinds
of unity discussed in the writings of Bahā’u’llāh and in the discourses of his eldest son and
designated interpreter, ‘Abdu’l-Bahā, is in order. The following inventory is original in that
a systematization of Bahā’ī concepts of unity finds its only precedent in an old and obscure
article entitled, “Ways to Wholeness,” by Raymond Frank Piper (1944). Piper’s typology is
Paradise and Paradigm                                                  235

as follows: I. Foundational Unities: A. Spiritual: divine, prophetic, religious, historic,
universal unities. B. Human: biological or racial unity; psychological, mental or selfic unity.
II. Aids to Unity: C. Social Aids to Unity: political, juridical, economic, educational,
linguistic, social-organic unities. D. Spiritual Aids to Unity: scientific, [**290] aesthetic,
ethical unities (ibid., 776). Piper’s typology is a surprisingly original and sophisticated
approach. It is unusual in that Bahā’ī apologists, as a rule, were not given to systematizing
Bahā’ī teachings, apart from expatiating on stock lists of core Bahā’ī principles, typically
enumerated as twelve, with variations.
The following types of unity have a textual basis in the Bahā’ī writings. Other Bahā’ī
teachings may be extrapolated from the Bahā’ī principles of unity, but are clearly
subordinate to Bahā’u’llāh’s overarching unity paradigm. Discreet principles of unity
include, but are probably not limited to, the following ideological taxonomy of the Bahā’ī
unity paradigm:

Spiritual Unity:  (1) Unity of God; (2) Unity of Revelation; (3) Unity of Religion; (4)
Unity of Humankind; (5) Unity of Gender (Equality of Men & Women).
World Unity:  (from the Seven Lights of Unity): (6) First Candle: Unity in the Political
Realm; (7) Second Candle: Unity of Thought in World Undertakings; (8) Third Candle:
Unity in Freedom; (9) Fourth Candle: Unity in Religion; (10) Fifth Candle: Unity of
Nations; (11) Sixth Candle: Unity of Races; (12) Seventh Candle: Unity of Language.
Moral Unity: (from the Tablet of Unity): (13) Unity in Religion (ittiḥād dar dīn); (14) Unity
in Speech (ittiḥād dar qawl); (15) Unity of Deeds (ittiḥād-i a‘māl); 16. Unity of Station
(ittiḥād-i maqām); (17) Unity of Wealth (ittiḥād-i amvāl); (18) Unity in Society (ittiḥād-i
nufūs).
Other Forms of Unity: (19) Unity (Equality) of Rights; (20) Unity of Knowledge
(Harmony of Science and Religion): (21) Unity (Universality) in Education; (22) Unity
of Bahā’īs; (23) Unity in Marriage/Family Unity.

This inventory of the various types of unity as described in Bahā’ī texts is not exhaustive. It
is proposed as a framework of analysis for a systematic description of basic Bahā’ī
teachings. This systematization invites further refinement.
Since Bahā’ī teachings are modeled on a paradigm of unity, it is useful to ask Bahā’īs
what they mean by it. Some of the relevant texts will now be interrogated. It will be shown
that such texts tend, as a rule, to illustrate unity through various kinds of Paradise imagery.
It should be noted that Paradise imagery in the Bahā’ī writings is both metaphorical and
actual. Paradise is metaphorically realized in leading an exemplary Bahā’ī life and in
helping to build a more just and virtuous society. Actual Paradise is seen as a reality. It is the
afterworld of the pious, as in all traditional religious teachings. Paradise, it should be noted,
is not exclusively reserved for pious Bahā’īs, as [**291] ‘Abdu’l-Bahā explains: “Then as to
what thou hast asked me for pious people who died before they heard the Voice of this
Manifestation. Listen: Those who have mounted to God before hearing the Voice, if they
followed the rules of conduct as laid down by Jesus and always walked in the straight path,
they have obtained this Dazzling Light after their rising to the Kingdom of God” (TAB
Paradise and Paradigm

2:478). The point here is that afterlife paradise is the consequence of one’s having first tried
to create paradise on Earth.

I.  Spiritual Unity

Unity of God (tawḥīd-i ilāhī)

Belief in the unity of God, in Bahā’ī theology, goes beyond any notion of numerical unity or
singularity. Such belief entails viewing God as an apophatic Mystery, while at the same time
recognizing the revelations of God as interventions in human history. Bahā’u’llāh defines
“the true meaning of Divine unity” as recognition of “the one Power Who exerciseth
undisputed sovereignty over the world of being, Whose image is reflected in the mirror of
the entire creation.” (GWB 166; cf. RB 4:199). The unity of God is also manifested in the
unity of God’s revelation (see below). This unity goes beyond a mere philosophical
disposition, a doctrinal orthodoxy or a contemplative correctness. Although, strictly
speaking, the acknowledgment of divine unity entails a strictly apophatic theology at a
conceptual level, the practical implications of such an acknowledgment have everything to
do with recognizing God’s revelation, God’s “presence” as it is manifested to history by
way of revelation.

Paradise imagery. The promise of Paradise is offered to those who embrace “the Day
Spring of the Unity of God,” to that soul “who hath quaffed . . . the sealed wine of His
Revelation” and who “shall be numbered with the inmates of Paradise” (GWB 340–41).
This is an eschatological promise, a future reward. Mystically, the spiritually awakened are
said to inhabit both worlds at once, such that, “Whilst walking amongst mortals, they soar in
the heaven of the divine presence” and who “without wings . . . rise unto the exalted heights
of divine unity” (KI 67). Divine unity is experienced in moments of mystical rapture. Lest
such ecstatic transports be pure flights of phantasy, they should be grounded in revelation,
defined in the next section.

Unity of Revelation
Revelation, in the Bahā’ī conception of it, is a message from God, universally addressed to
the human world, even if that social “world” was [**292] merely tribal at an early
developmental stage in the earth’s social evolution. Revelation is mediated by the
revolutionary spiritual geniuses of human history, such as Abraham, Moses, Zoroaster,
Kṛṣṇa, the Buddha, Jesus Christ, Muḥammad, the Bāb, and Bahā’u’llāh, who represent,
respectively, the founders of the great world religions of Judaism, Zoroastrianism, Neo-
Hinduism, Buddhism, Christianity, Islam, the Bābī religion and the Bahā’ī Faith. In oral
cultures, from a Bahā’ī perspective, it is certain that there were “Manifestations of God”—
the Bahā’ī technical term for prophets—sent to indigenous peoples, but there are problems
of historical attestation. For instance, in popular, though not official, Bahā’ī belief, there has
been a growing recognition of the spiritual greatness of the historic Iroquois “Peacemaker”
Deganawida, a “native son” of what is now Canada and who, according to the Iroquois
Paradise and Paradigm                                                  237

influence hypothesis, may have provided the basic model for American democracy (see
Buck 1996c).
Inscribed over one of the nine arched entrances to the Bahā’ī House of Worship in
Wilmette (north Chicago) are the words of Bahā’u’llāh: “All the Prophets of God proclaim
the same Faith.” Speaking of the fraternity of all of the Prophets or “Manifestations of God”
who have successively influenced the course of human history, Bahā’u’llāh writes: “If thou
wilt observe with discriminating eyes, thou wilt behold Them all abiding in the same
tabernacle, soaring in the same heaven, seated upon the same throne, uttering the same
speech, and proclaiming the same Faith. Such is the unity of those Essences of Being, those
Luminaries of infinite and immeasurable splendor! Wherefore, should one of these
Manifestations of Holiness proclaim saying: ‘I am the return of all the Prophets,’ He, verily,
speaketh the truth” (KI 153–54/GWB 52). This unity implies that each world religion, in its
pure form, compares favorably with other world religions.
Ideally, in Bahā’ī belief, world religions are quintessentially “divine in origin, identical
in their aims, complementary in their functions, continuous in their purpose, indispensable
in their value to mankind” (Shoghi Effendi, WOB 58). This Bahā’ī universalism needs to be
historically contextualized. Bahā’u’llāh’s theory of civilization embodies a teaching known
as “Progressive Revelation.” In this view of salvation history, while there is unity among all
of the historic founders of world religions, there is a hierarchy among them relative to their
respective roles in human history. Although Jesus is the equal of Muḥammad, the revelation
of Muḥammad supersedes that of Jesus, having been revealed at a more advanced stage of
human history. In our historical present, at this juncture in history, Bahā’u’llāh is seen as the
latest (but not the last) of God’s Messengers, having revealed the teachings required for this
day and age. According to Bahā’ī thought, the will of God for humanity today is unity.
Bahā’u’llāh’s mission is to bring about this unity.

[**293] Paradise imagery. In Bahā’ī theophanology, the Manifestation of God is an
extension of the presence of God. It is the transcendent become immanent, without
diminishing the beyondness of God. Throughout Bahā’u’llāh’s writings, the connection
between Paradise and divine “Presence” is dynamic. Recognition of Bahā’u’llāh is
tantamount to beatific vision, in that such a believer mystically “gaineth admittance into the
most exalted Paradise and attaineth the station of revelation and vision before the throne of
Thy majesty” (TB 116).
The advent of Paradise has traditionally been an eschatological concern. Bahā’u’llāh’s
claim to prophecy fulfillment at first raises more questions than it answers. Hence
Bahā’u’llāh’s answers to such questions as: “They say: ‘Where is Paradise, and where is
Hell?’ Say: ‘The one is reunion with Me; the other thine own self, O thou who dost
associate a partner with God and doubtest’” (TB 118). While warning of Hell, Bahā’u’llāh
extends an invitation to humanity to enter into Paradise: “Witness its devouring flame.
Haste ye to enter into Paradise, as a token of Our mercy unto you, and drink ye from the
hands of the All-Merciful the Wine that is life indeed” (PB 99).
Bahā’u’llāh’s proclamations are suffused with Paradise motifs: “On His right hand,”
writes Bahā’u’llāh, speaking reflexively, “flow the living waters of grace, and on His left the
choice Wine of justice, whilst before Him march the angels of Paradise” (PB 83). An
Paradise and Paradigm

invisible Paradise—the spiritual state of faith—is expressed in visible terms: “Paradise is
decked with mystic roses, and hell hath been made to blaze with the fire of the impious.
Say: ‘The light hath shone forth from the horizon of Revelation, and the whole earth hath
been illumined at the coming of Him Who is the Lord of the Day of the Covenant!’” (TB
118/ESW 133–34). The advent of Bahā’u’llāh is associated with a realized eschatology in
which Paradise may be mystically gained.

Unity of Religion
Religion is both idealized and criticized in Bahā’ī texts. The excesses of religion are barriers
to unity. The religious proposals one finds in Bahā’ī texts are thus a mixture of positive and
negative reforms. The negative reforms are not expressed as simple criticisms. Rather, the
worst of the perceived evils of religion are categorically “abrogated,” in a legislative sense,
through Bahā’u’llāh’s rulings.
Among the positive teachings of Bahā’u’llāh with respect to religion is the call to
interfaith concord. Interfaith amity has already been discussed as the second Glad-Tiding.
Some of Bahā’u’llāh’s positive teachings represent the obverse of the same coin, being the
criticism of a religious evil. Thus, peace among religions (positive teaching) is not simply
the abolishing of holy war (religious evil). It is a reversal of holy [**294] war—the call to
an active interfaith diplomacy. In the Tablet of Ornaments (Lawḥ-i Ṭarāzāt), Bahā’u’llāh
writes: “The second Ṭarāz [Ornament] is to consort with the followers of all religions in a
spirit of friendliness and fellowship” and to “associate with all the peoples and kindreds of
the earth with joy and radiance” in order “to promote unity and concord” (TB 35–36).
According to Bahā’ī thought, religions in their pristine form are each inspired by God.
They do not significantly differ in their core teachings, each having been revealed by the
same Deity. Bahā’u’llāh explains: “That the divers communions of the earth, and the
manifold systems of religious belief, should never be allowed to foster the feelings of
animosity among men, is, in this Day, of the essence of the Faith of God and His Religion.
These principles and laws, these firmly established and mighty systems, have proceeded
from one Source, and are rays of one Light. That they differ one from another is to be
attributed to the varying requirements of the ages in which they were promulgated” (ESW
13).
One implication of this teaching is that once the nonessentials of religion have been
identified and forsaken over time, religions will begin to make profound discoveries about
how much they share in common. This realization could result in more sweeping
ecumenical impulses, such that interfaith encounters might begin to reshape global thinking
about the need to unify people of all confessions. Dogmas will gradually be harmonized
with universal principles. Tertullian’s credo of absurdity will be overturned, as belief in the
incredible will give way to belief constrained by reason. This is more properly dealt with in
under the heading, “Unity in Religion”—the integration of religion as distinct from the
cooperative, pluralistic Unity of Religion—treated in a section below.

Paradise imagery. Unity of religion and the unity of humankind are intertwined in
Bahā’u’llāh’s system. Nature imagery as well as Paradise imagery form part of the ideal
Paradise and Paradigm                                                  239

picture of a world free of the “hell” of religious teachings that condone violence as an
perverse path to paradise. The primary purpose for religion throughout history has been to
ennoble and to unify humanity. The Bahā’ī model for world unity is based on certain core
precepts, such as Bahā’u’llāh’s exhortation: “O contending peoples and kindreds of the
earth! Set your faces towards unity. . . . This wronged One hath, ever since the early days of
His life, cherished none other desire but this, and will continue to entertain no wish except
this wish. . . . To this beareth witness the Tongue of Grandeur from His habitation of
glory” (GWB 217–18). Note Bahā’u’llāh’s autobiographical reference to his resolve to
dedicate his life to unity “ever since the early days of His life.” The Paradise imagery used
here is referential, and has to do with the authority of this pronouncement. The “Tongue of
Grandeur” is Bahā’u’llāh, who claims divine authority [**295] in revealing the word of
God, and “His habitation of glory” is his exalted station, pictured as an abode of Paradise.
This sentiment of interfaith harmony naturally leads to the next principle, the oneness of
humankind, considered the cornerstone of Bahā’ī consciousness.
Unity of Humankind
Ideally, religion ought to be conducive to human unity. If religion is the cause of strife,
particularly of bloodshed and of war, then religion becomes the source of the very evil it
was intended to combat. According to Bahā’ī teachings, the nonexistence of such a religion
is preferable to its existence. One of the principal ways to counter religious discord is to
demonstrate how unity can be achieved through a simple adjustment in perspective. “Ye are
the fruits of one tree, and the leaves of one branch” is one of the most well-known Bahā’ī
proverbs. “So powerful is the light of unity that it can illuminate the whole earth” is another
such maxim, both of which are inscribed over arched entrances to the Bahā’ī House of
Worship in Wilmette. (There are nine aphorisms inside and nine outside. These two are on
the outside.) Note the effective use of metaphor here. These statements are pithy. They are
emotive. They inspire. To some, they are profound. They are certainly Bahā’ī, although such
sentiments could legitimately have meaning in other religious traditions. The Bahā’ī
paradigm of unity simply privileges these sentiments over any other kerygma one might
find in Bahā’ī texts, such as personal salvation. Bahā’u’llāh calls the quest for unity “the
monarch of all aspirations” (ESW 14), suggesting that all other spiritual aspirations are
subordinate to the overarching vision of unity.

Paradise imagery. Numerous passages in the writings of Bahā’u’llāh and in other Bahā’ī
texts exhort humanity to unity. This is one: “The word of God which the Supreme Pen hath
recorded on the seventh leaf of the Most Exalted Paradise is this: O ye men of wisdom
among nations! Shut your eyes to estrangement, then fix your gaze upon unity. . . . It
behoveth you to . . . set your hearts on whatever will ensure harmony. . . . O people of the
earth! Appreciate the value of this heavenly word. Indeed it may be likened unto a ship for
the ocean of knowledge and a shining luminary for the realm of perception” (TB 67–68).
Metaphorically, this teaching is a “leaf” that had floated down from a tree in Paradise—not
from just a generic Paradise, but from “the Most Exalted Paradise,” which suggests that this
teaching is supremely heavenly. Imbuing such an exhortation with an aura of sanctity
Paradise and Paradigm

underscores the loftiness of this ideal. Other metaphors are used just as effectively: unity is
described as an Ark crossing the ocean of knowledge. Illumination and resplendence, as
from a star of high magnitude, are [**296] said to from unity as well. This type of discourse
vivifies the teaching, reinforcing the self-valuation of conscience.

Unity of Gender (Equality of Men and Women)

The equality of men and women is a fundamental Bahā’ī principle. To a certain extent, the
explicitness and importance of this teaching in Bahā’ī texts lends a certain credence to the
claim that the Bahā’ī Faith is the first religion to proclaim, from its very inception, gender
equality. Such a teaching did not require interpretation, nor did it need to be deduced from
another, perhaps more general, principle. This teaching is very explicit, particularly in the
writings and discourses of ‘Abdu’l-Bahā. (Bahā’u’llāh’s style of discourse is more poetic,
while ‘Abdu’l-Bahā—Bahā’u’llāh’s successor as interpreter and moral exemplar—is
typically more direct.) In practice, the equality of men and women is implemented at a
practical level, though not always as systematically as one might expect. The teaching, and
the vision of community expressed in it, is absolutely central to Bahā’ī community life and
plays a key role in its vitality.
Bahā’u’llāh has established the principle of gender equality in various texts. A
representative statement is as follows: “Exalted, immensely exalted is He Who hath
removed differences and established harmony. . . . [T]he Pen of the Most High hath lifted
distinctions from between His servants and handmaidens and . . . hath conferred upon all a
station and rank on the same plane. He hath broken the back of vain imaginings with the
sword of utterance and hath obliterated the perils of idle fancies through the pervasive
power of His might” (Women 1; RB 4:200). This passage explicitly associates unity with
equality.
Hyperbole does not exceed reality in this case, as many would agree that gender equality
certainly qualifies as being among God’s “consummate favours and all-encompassing
mercy.” Where there is not equality of the sexes, women are at the mercy of men rather than
the mercy of God. Gender inequality, historically, has been the norm until the twentieth
century, when reformers have campaigned vigorously for such changes as women’s suffrage
and rights and income parity. Traditionally, religions have tended to sanction gender
inequality. Finding a religion that predicates its very identity on a body of principles of
which gender equality is integral is nothing short of a personal discovery for most Bahā’īs.
‘Abdu’l-Bahā has extended his father’s teaching in certain ways. For instance, he
identified equality of the sexes as a peace issue, and, in so doing, has prophesied: “War and
its ravages have blighted the world; the education of woman will be a mighty step toward its
abolition and ending, for she will use her whole influence against war. . . . She will refuse to
give her sons for sacrifice upon the field of battle. In [**297] truth, she will be the greatest
factor in establishing universal peace and international arbitration. Assuredly, woman will
abolish warfare among mankind” (PUP 109). Precisely by what means will woman
collectively bring about this change? “Another fact of equal importance in bringing about
International Peace is Woman’s Suffrage,” ‘Abdu’l-Bahā explains. “When they [women]
Paradise and Paradigm                                                  241

shall have a vote, they will oppose any cause of warfare” (Star of the West 3.10 [8 Sept.
1912]: 27).

Paradise imagery. In the Bahā’ī compilation, Women, there are several passages in which
the superiority of woman is spoken of as both potential and actual realities: “Bahā’u’llāh has
greatly strengthened the cause of women,” according to ‘Abdu’l-Bahā, who predicts that, in
the future, men will recognize the accomplishments of women, and will exclaim: “Verily ye
deserve to adorn your heads with the crown of everlasting glory, because in sciences and
arts, in virtues and perfections ye shall become equal to man, and as regards tenderness of
heart and the abundance of mercy and sympathy ye are superior” (PT 182–84). Woman is
spoken of here in expectant as well as ideal terms, assured of winning her rightfully
deserved “crown of everlasting glory” in reaching her full potential. ‘Abdu’l-Bahā was
emphatic in saying that “the greatness of this Wondrous Age will be manifested as a result
of progress in the world of women” (Women 8). A world without war is halfway to paradise.

II.  World Unity

In this section, seven types of unity will be examined. These are enumerated in a Tablet
dated 1906 in response to a letter from a Bahā’ī woman in Scotland. ‘Abdu’l- Bahā speaks
of these seven unities prophetically. Certain of these prophecies are expected to come to
pass before the close of the twentieth century. The text is of such importance in Bahā’ī
thought, that it is cited, at length, as follows:

O honoured lady! For a single purpose were the Prophets, each and all, sent down to
earth; for this was Christ made manifest, for this did Bahā’u’llāh raise up the call of the
Lord: that the world of man should become the world of God, this nether realm the
Kingdom, this darkness light, this satanic wickedness all the virtues of heaven—and
unity, fellowship and love be won for the whole human race, that the organic unity
should reappear and the bases of discord be destroyed and life everlasting and grace
everlasting become the harvest of mankind. . . .
In cycles gone by, though harmony was established, yet, owing to the absence of
means, the unity of all mankind could not have [**298] been achieved. Continents
remained widely divided, nay even among the peoples of one and the same continent
association and interchange of thought were well-nigh impossible. Consequently
intercourse, understanding and unity amongst all the peoples and kindreds of the earth
were unattainable. In this day, however, means of communication have multiplied, and
the five continents of the earth have virtually merged into one. And for everyone it is
now easy to travel to any land, to associate and exchange views with its peoples, and to
become familiar, through publications, with the conditions, the religious beliefs and the
thoughts of all men.
In like manner all the members of the human family, whether peoples or
governments, cities or villages, have become increasingly interdependent. For none is
self-sufficiency any longer possible, inasmuch as political ties unite all peoples and
nations, and the bonds of trade and industry, of agriculture and education, are being
Paradise and Paradigm

strengthened every day. Hence the unity of all mankind can in this day be achieved.
Verily this is none other but one of the wonders of this wondrous age, this glorious
century. Of this past ages have been deprived, for this century—the century of light—
hath been endowed with unique and unprecedented glory, power and illumination.
Hence the miraculous unfolding of a fresh marvel every day. Eventually it will be seen
how bright its candles will burn in the assemblage of man.
Behold how its light is now dawning upon the world’s darkened horizon. The first
candle is unity in the political realm, the early glimmerings of which can now be
discerned. The second candle is unity of thought in world undertakings, the
consummation of which will ere long be witnessed. The third candle is unity in freedom
which will surely come to pass. The fourth candle is unity in religion which is the
corner-stone of the foundation itself, and which, by the power of God, will be revealed
in all its splendour. The fifth candle is the unity of nations—a unity which in this century
will be securely established, causing all the peoples of the world to regard themselves as
citizens of one common fatherland. The sixth candle is unity of races, making of all that
dwell on earth peoples and kindreds of one race. The seventh candle is unity of
language, i.e., the choice of a universal tongue in which all peoples will be instructed
and converse. Each and every one of these will inevitably come to pass, inasmuch as the
power of the Kingdom of God will aid and assist in their realization. (SWAB 30–32)

Each of these various kinds of unity will be highlighted below. The first quotation cited
under each of these headings will be drawn [**299] from the text above. Following a
description of each of the seven candles of unity, some remarks on attendant paradise
imagery will be made.

Unity in the Political Realm
“The first candle is unity in the political realm, the early glimmerings of which can now be
discerned.” Political unity is typically based on political realism. Treaties and other
international protocols are like inventions: necessity is their proverbial “mother.” Global
international consensus helps reify international law, such as the United Nations covenants
and declarations. Once reified and accorded a certain measure of conferred authority, these
have become of source for a burgeoning body of international law. This has been viewed by
some Bahā’ī thinkers as a process of social evolution leading to eventual world self-
government (as distinct from a unitary world government). The process of disarmament is
clearly foreseen in the Bahā’ī writings as one important series of developments in the
political realm, which may superficially, but legally, qualify as “unity.”

Unity of Thought in World Undertakings
“The second candle is unity of thought in world undertakings, the consummation of which
will ere long be witnessed.” This form of unity envisions international cooperation in
pursuit of pragmatic objectives. Here, ‘Abdu’l-Bahā foretells what Bahā’u’llāh forthtells, in
calling for various global undertakings. In the Lawḥ-i Maqṣūd (1881), Bahā’u’llāh refers to
Paradise and Paradigm                                                  243

God as “the Great Being,” who, in several passages, addresses humanity on issues of
universal import. These “divine sayings” in some ways recall the ḥadīth qudsī of Islamic
tradition, except that the pronouncements of the Great Being are not articulated in the first
person: “The Great Being saith: O ye children of men! The fundamental purpose animating
the Faith of God and His Religion is to safeguard the interests and promote the unity of the
human race, and to foster the spirit of love and fellowship amongst men. . . . Our hope is
that the world’s religious leaders and the rulers thereof will unitedly arise for the
reformation of this age and the rehabilitation of its fortunes. Let them, after meditating on its
needs, take counsel together and, through anxious and full deliberation, administer to a
diseased and sorely afflicted world the remedy it requireth” (TB 168).
A number of twentieth-century international covenants and protocols suggest that there
has already been a “unity of thought in world undertakings” in some areas, such as world
health and, more recently, in matters of ecology and international trade. Other kinds of
undertakings adumbrated by this passage might include economic and [**300] social
development projects sponsored by the international community, as well as joint space
ventures and other forms of international scientific endeavor.

Unity in Freedom
“The third candle is unity in freedom which will surely come to pass.” One example of unity
in freedom is freedom of conscience. Recounting Qājār Iran’s persecution of the Bābīs and
Bahā’īs for crimes of conscience, decrying the savagery of it all, ‘Abdu’l-Bahā, in 1888,
stated: “Freedom of conscience (āzādigī-yi vujdān) and tranquility of heart and soul is one
of the duties and functions of government (vaẓā’if va savāliḥ-i ḥukūmat), and is in all ages
the cause of progress in development and ascendancy over other lands. Other civilized
countries acquired not this pre-eminence, nor attained unto these high degrees of influence
and power, till such time as they put away the strife of sects out of their midst, and dealt
with all classes according to one standard” (TN 87; TN 158 [Cambridge edition]. Persian
text in Browne [ed.], Maqāla-yi Shakhs-i Sayyāḥ, I. 193—cf. Cole 1998, 36–37 and 203, n.
50).

Unity in Religion
“The fourth candle is unity in religion which is the corner-stone of the foundation itself, and
which, by the power of God, will be revealed in all its splendor.” Unity in Religion is
explained under the same heading in the next section (Moral Unity).

Unity of Nations
“The fifth candle is the unity of nations—a unity which in this century will be securely
established, causing all the peoples of the world to regard themselves as citizens of one
common fatherland.” There is one signal event which, according to ‘Abdu’l-Bahā, would
be the hallmark of the unity of nations: “True civilization will unfurl its banner in the
midmost heart of the world whenever a certain number of its distinguished and high-minded
Paradise and Paradigm

sovereigns—the shining exemplars of devotion and determination—shall, for the good and
happiness of all mankind, arise, with firm resolve and clear vision, to establish the Cause of
Universal Peace. They must make the Cause of Peace the object of general consultation, and
seek by every means in their power to establish a Union of the nations of the world. They
must conclude a binding treaty and establish a covenant, the provisions of which shall be
sound, inviolable and definite. They must proclaim it to all the world and obtain for it the
sanction of all the human race. This supreme and noble undertaking—the real source of the
peace and well-being of all [**301] the world—should be regarded as sacred by all that
dwell on earth. All the forces of humanity must be mobilized to ensure the stability and
permanence of this Most Great Covenant” (SDC 64). This text seems to foreshadow the
emergence of the United Nations. ‘Abdu’l-Bahā was deeply impressed with Woodrow
Wilson’s creation of the League of Nations: “As to President Wilson, the fourteen principles
which he hath enunciated are mostly found in the teachings of Bahā’u’llāh and I therefore
hope that he will be confirmed and assisted. Now is the dawn of universal peace; my hope is
that its morn will fully break, converting the gloom of war, of strife and of wrangling among
men into the light of union, of harmony and of affection” (SWAB 311–12).

Unity of Races
“The sixth candle is unity of races, making of all that dwell on earth peoples and kindreds of
one race.” Reference has already been made to Cambridge Orientalist E. G. Browne and
his historic interview with Bahā’u’llāh in ‘Akkā in 1890. In the course of that interview,
Bahā’u’llāh spoke of a future society in which differences of race will be annulled. “O ye
discerning ones!” Bahā’u’llāh exclaims in a Tablet, “Verily, the words which have
descended from the heaven of the Will of God are the source of unity and harmony for the
world. Close your eyes to racial differences, and welcome all with the light of
oneness” (ADJ 31).

Unity of Language
“The seventh candle is unity of language, i.e., the choice of a universal tongue in which all
peoples will be instructed and converse.” This teaching was discussed above as the third
Glad-Tiding.

Paradise imagery for the seven lights of unity. Many of the Bahā’ī counsels and principles
are described as having come down from Paradise. For instance, the idea of an international
language, cited above, is described by Bahā’u’llāh as one of the teachings of Paradise: “The
word of God which the Supreme Pen hath recorded on the eighth leaf of the Most Exalted
Paradise is the following: We have formerly ordained that people should converse in two
languages, yet efforts must be made to reduce them to one, likewise the scripts of the world,
that men’s lives may not be dissipated and wasted in learning divers languages. Thus the
whole earth would come to be regarded as one city and one land” (TB 68).
During the last quarter-century of his ministry, Bahā’u’llāh repeatedly called upon world
leaders to exercise leadership in bringing [**302] about peace and prosperity among
Paradise and Paradigm                                                  245

nations. Of particular interest here is Bahā’u’llāh’s call upon the world’s religious leaders to
exercise collective wisdom in addressing global issues. His call for a reconciliation of
religions provides a basis for common cause. Of far greater moment is political unity. One
aspect of political unity, as mentioned, is disarmament. On this crucial security and peace
issue facing the world today, Bahā’u’llāh has advocated the convening of a global summit
of world leaders in order to draw up and enact international protocols guarding disarmament
(see text cited above under the fifth Glad-Tiding). “It would be preferable and more fitting,”
Bahā’u’llāh states elsewhere, “that the highly honored kings themselves should attend such
an assembly, and proclaim their edicts. Any king who will arise and carry out this task, he,
verily will, in the sight of God, become the cynosure of all kings. Happy is he, and great is
his blessedness!” (ESW 31). This beatitude does not directly invoke Paradise imagery. Of
course, if “War is hell,” as the saying goes, then disarmament may be its own paradise.
In Bahā’ī thought, a number of other concerns not ordinarily associated with peace are
explicitly identified as peace issues. One of the important issues on the Bahā’ī agenda for
peace is racial tolerance and, beyond that, racial amity. “The accomplishment of unity
between the colored and the white,” ‘Abdu’l-Bahā writes, “will be an assurance of the
world’s peace” (ADJ 33). He explicitly describes racial harmony as a kind of Paradise:
“This is a new cycle of human power. All the horizons of the world are luminous, and the
world will become indeed as a garden and a paradise. It is the hour of unity of the sons of
men and of the drawing together of all races and all classes” (London 19.)
There is the assurance that the consequence of putting all of the Bahā’ī principles into
practice will be Paradise on Earth: “The principles of the Teachings of Bahā’u’llāh should
be carefully studied, one by one, until they are realized and understood by mind and heart—
so will you become strong followers of the light, truly spiritual, heavenly soldiers of God,
acquiring and spreading the true civilization in Persia, in Europe, and in the whole world.
This will be the paradise which is to come on earth, when all mankind will be gathered
together under the tent of unity in the Kingdom of Glory” (PT 22–23).

III.  Moral Unity
(from the Tablet of Unity)

Unity in Religion (ittiḥād dar dīn)
In Bahā’u’llāh’s “Tablet of Unity” (Lawḥ-i ittiḥād)—one of at least two such Tablets
—“unity in religion” (ittiḥād dar dīn) is described as the [**303] instrument for the triumph
of the Cause of God. Religious assemblage (ijtimā’) is portrayed as the mystic sword of
God (Monjazeb 1995). Religious unity can prove to be a powerful social model. If the
Bahā’īs establish such a model, governments would take an interest in trying to apply the
Bahā’ī model to society at large. Distinct from the plurality of “Unity of Religion” (item 3,
above), “Unity in Religion” is a singularity. When a country becomes predominantly
Bahā’ī, it follows that the citizens might democratically adopt the Bahā’ī Faith as a “state
religion.” In such an eventuality, minorities would be given equal rights (see item 19,
below). Formal or de facto adoption of a state religion typically follows a long history of
Paradise and Paradigm

individual conversions. In the Bahā’ī Faith, conversions are always voluntary, and are the
result of an individual’s quest for truth.

Paradise imagery. Unity remains an abstract notion, a wish-image, unless internalized and
exemplified. The achievement of unity is elusive. The authenticity and legitimacy of the
Bahā’ī social gospel requires unity. Unity does not come easy. The Bahā’ī experience has
shown that unity requires vision, volition, and vigor, if it is ever to be a viable model for
others. A part-to-whole relationship is seen between Bahā’ī unity (see item 22, below) and
world unity. ‘Abdu’l-Bahā writes: “If once the beauty of the unity of the friends—this
Divine Beloved—be decked in the adornments of the Abhā Kingdom, it is certain that
within a very short time those countries will become the Paradise of the All-Glorious, and
that out of the West the splendours of unity will cast their bright rays over all the earth. We
are striving with heart and soul, resting neither day nor night, seeking not a moment’s ease,
to make this world of man the mirror of the unity of God.” (SWAB 84). Once achieved,
whenever sustained, Bahā’ī unity is assured a role to play in the world-at-large. Once united,
according to this text, the world itself will become the “Paradise of the All-Glorious.”

Unity in Speech (ittiḥād dar qawl)
This unity has three dimensions: (1) harmony of discourse, which is the first meaning of
“unity in speech”; (2) harmony of word and deed; and (3) the exercise of wisdom in speech.
Here, Bahā’u’llāh speaks also of altruism and of personal virtue. Leading such a life
conduces to “victory.”
In the Bahā’ī writings, “mere” words are the self-indictment of irrelevance and even
hypocrisy. When words are authenticated by deeds, a unity of one’s inward and outward
being is achieved. In the opening lines of the Words of Paradise (Kalimāt-i Firdawsīya),
Bahā’u’llāh writes: “It behoveth the people of Bahā to render the Lord [**304] victorious
through the power of their utterance and to admonish the people by their goodly deeds and
character, inasmuch as deeds exert greater influence than words” (TB 57). Although deeds
do exert a greater influence than words, words can be deeds. Such is the case in effective
teaching of the Bahā’ī Faith, seen as the most meritorious of deeds.

Paradise imagery.  “O Children of Adam!” Bahā’u’llāh proclaims, “Holy words and pure
and goodly deeds ascend unto the heaven of celestial glory. Strive that your deeds may be
cleansed from the dust of self and hypocrisy and find favor at the court of glory; for ere long
the assayers of mankind shall, in the holy presence of the Adored One, accept naught but
absolute virtue and deeds of stainless purity. This is the day-star of wisdom and of divine
mystery that hath shone above the horizon of the divine will. Blessed are they that turn
thereunto” (HWP #69).

Unity of Deeds (ittiḥād-i a‘māl)
As the philosophy of education presses a distinction between declarative knowledge and
procedural knowledge, Bahā’ī writings differentiate between declarative and internalized
Paradise and Paradigm                                                  247

forms of spirituality. Once internalized, spirituality is considered authenticated when acted
upon. Goodly deeds are the residue of faith. In the Tablet of Unity, Bahā’u’llāh speaks of the
collective “unity of deeds” (ittiḥād-i a‘māl) that results from a high level of personal
commitments to translating vision into volition and action.

Paradise imagery. “As to Paradise,” Bahā’u’llāh assures, “it is a reality and there can be no
doubt about it, and now in this world it is realized through love of Me and My good-
pleasure. Whosoever attaineth unto it God will aid him in this world below, and after death
He will enable him to gain admittance into Paradise whose vastness is as that of heaven and
earth. Therein the Maids of glory and holiness will wait upon him in the daytime and in the
night season, while the day-star of the unfading beauty of his Lord will at all times shed its
radiance upon him and he will shine so brightly that no one shall bear to gaze at him. Such
is the dispensation of Providence, yet the people are shut out by a grievous veil” (TB 189).
The expression, “My good-pleasure,” typically refers to acceptance a of believer’s moral
striving, having performed goodly deeds in the path of God’s commandments as revealed by
Bahā’u’llāh.
Hence, this prayer for the believer: “Empower me, then, O my God, to be reckoned
among them that have clung to Thy laws and precepts for the sake of Thee alone, their eyes
fixed on Thy face. These, [**305] indeed, are they whose wine is all that hath proceeded out
of the mouth of Thy primal will, whose pure beverage is Thine enthralling call, whose
heavenly River is Thy love, whose Paradise is entrance into Thy presence and reunion with
Thee. For Thou hast been their Beginning and their End, and their Highest Hope, and their
Supreme Desire” (PM 299).

Unity of Station (ittiḥād-i maqām)
The ideal demeanor of Bahā’īs is to see one’s own self in relation to others, such that all
people might ideally be on the same “plane” (suq‘) and station (maqām). If these words are
accepted and established through God’s power and might, the world would, truly, become
the most effulgent Paradise, according to Bahā’u’llāh (Monjazeb 1995; RB 4:193).

Paradise imagery. In his Tablet known as the Words of Paradise, Bahā’u’llāh refers to the
principle of equality and reciprocity as one of the leaves of Paradise: “The word of God
which the Supreme Pen hath recorded on the third leaf of the Most Exalted Paradise is this:
O son of man! If thine eyes be turned towards mercy, forsake the things that profit thee and
cleave unto that which will profit mankind. And if thine eyes be turned towards justice,
choose thou for thy neighbour that which thou choosest for thyself. Humility exalteth man
to the heaven of glory and power, whilst pride abaseth him to the depths of wretchedness
and degradation” (TB 64).

Unity of Wealth (ittiḥād-i amvāl)
Towards the end of his Tablet of Unity, Bahā’u’llāh states that unity of wealth (ittiḥād-i
amvāl) is the source of cheer and joy and exultation and that, from it, the attribute of
Paradise and Paradigm

altruism (muvāsāt) is manifested. Bahā’u’llāh goes on to explain that altruism ranks higher
than equality (musāvāt). Thus, the philanthropy of muvāsāt exceeds the equitable
distribution of wealth that is the reflex of musāvāt (RB 4:195). In a similar vein, ‘Abdu’l-
Bahā states that “the Teachings of Bahā’u’llāh advocate voluntary sharing, and this is a
greater thing than the equalization of wealth. For equalization must be imposed from
without, while sharing is a matter of free choice” (SWAB 114–15). This is philanthropic
altruism, and is constrained by the expenditure of expendable wealth in a way that is
noninjurious to the security of self or family.

Paradise imagery. Philanthropy, or “charity,” is considered a celestial virtue. One of
Bahā’u’llāh’s exhortations to philanthropy and lesser [**306] forms of charity is described
as the “tenth leaf of the Most Exalted Paradise.” After briefly commenting on Q. 59:9,
Bahā’u’llāh concludes: “Blessed is he who preferreth his brother before himself. Verily,
such a man is reckoned, by virtue of the Will of God, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise, with
the people of Bahā who dwell in the Crimson Ark” (TB 71). Bahā’u’llāh’s paradise imagery
is used to encourage the practice of philanthropy: “By the Most Great Name! The splendor
of such a wealthy man shall illuminate the dwellers of heaven even as the sun enlightens the
people of the earth!” (HWP #53). Similarly, ‘Abdu’l-Bahā speaks of the noble
philanthropist as “one of the people of paradise” (SDC 25).

Unity in Society (ittiḥād-i nufūs)
Unity of humankind is the pivotal Bahā’ī social teaching. Bahā’u’llāh writes: “He Who is
the Day-Star of Truth beareth Me witness! So powerful is the light of unity that it can
illuminate the whole earth. The One true God, He Who knoweth all things, Himself
testifieth to the truth of these words” (GWB 288/ESW 14).

Paradise imagery. In an extensively idealized vision of unity in society, ‘Abdu’l-Bahā uses
celestial imagery. A brief passage will suffice to convey an impression of the language being
used: “The sight and insight of some were illumined by the light of grace, and there were
some who, hearing the anthems of unity, leapt for joy. There were birds that began to carol
in the gardens of holiness, there were nightingales in the branches of the rose tree of heaven
that raised their plaintive cries. Then were decked and adorned both the Kingdom on high
and the earth below, and this world became the envy of high heaven” (SWAB 8).

IV.  Other Forms of Unity

Unity (Equality) of Rights
On the evening of 9 June 1912, at a Unitarian Church in Philadelphia, ‘Abdu’l-Bahā said:
“Seventh, Bahā’u’llāh taught that an equal standard of human rights (musāvāt-i ḥuqūq) must
be recognized and adopted. In the estimation of God, all men are equal; there is no
distinction (ḥuqūq-i vāḥid) or preferment for any soul in the dominion of His justice and
Paradise and Paradigm                                                  249

equity” (PUP 183; Khiṭābāt 440). This principle is imaged in several texts, particularly in
relation to metaphors of justice.

Paradise imagery. Equality of rights is best dispensed through justice. “Exalted is the Lord
of Wisdom, the Possessor of Great Bounty. The [**307] word of God which the Supreme
Pen hath recorded on the sixth leaf of the Most Exalted Paradise is the following: The light
of men is Justice. Quench it not with the contrary winds of oppression and tyranny” (TB
66–67). If this teaching metaphorically came down from Paradise, the consequences of
following it cannot be far removed from some notion or experience of Paradise.

Unity of Knowledge (Harmony of Science and Religion)
In Bahā’ī thought, complementarity of science and religion constitutes the unity of
knowledge. From Haifa, on 21 September 1921, ‘Abdu’l-Bahā wrote to an eminent Swiss
scientist, Dr. Auguste Forel (d. 1931): “We regard knowledge and wisdom as the foundation
of the progress of mankind, and extol philosophers who are endowed with broad
vision” (BR 220). It certainly appears that Bahā’ī texts go so far as to relinquish to science
authority over its own domain, withdrawing religious claims to superior knowledge about
the material world. A recent anecdote proves this point: When the editors of Encyclopaedia
Iranica asked Bahā’ī scholar Moojan Momen to write an article on Bahā’ī cosmology, he
contributed a short article saying that Bahā’īs accepted the cosmological findings of
contemporary scientists! (Cole, p.c. 1 May 1995).

Paradise imagery. “Put all your beliefs into harmony with science; there can be no
opposition, for truth is one,” ‘Abdu’l-Bahā has stated. “When religion, shorn of its
superstitions, traditions, and unintelligent dogmas, shows its conformity with science, then
will there be a great unifying, cleansing force in the world which will sweep before it all
wars, disagreements, discords and struggles—and then will mankind be united in the power
of the Love of God” (PT 146).

Unity (Universality) in Education
This category is taken from Piper. Bahā’u’llāh links education with unity: “Bend your
minds and wills to the education of the peoples and kindreds of the earth, that haply the
dissensions that divide it may, through the power of the Most Great Name, be blotted out
from its face, and all mankind become the upholders of one Order, and the inhabitants of
one City” (GWB 333–34). ‘Abdu’l-Bahā speaks of the need for a universal curriculum:
“Eighth, education is essential, and all standards of training and teaching (vaḥdat-i uṣūl va
qavānīn-i tarbīyat) throughout the world of mankind should be brought into conformity and
agreement; a universal curriculum (tarbīyat-i vāḥida) should be established, and the basis of
ethics be the same (yak uṣūl va ādāb)” (PUP 183; Khiṭābāt 440, cf. 438; Persian text adds:
“unity of humankind” [vaḥdat-i ā‘lam-i bashar]).

Paradise and Paradigm

[**308] Paradise imagery. One aspect of the universal curriculum which ‘Abdu’l-Bahā
advocates is its spiritual dimension, in which “unity in education” partly consists of a morals
education. A child who has benefitted from such an education “will become a peerless plant
in the gardens of the Abhā Paradise” (SWAB 124). Speaking of the education of children, in
which spiritual refinement is combined with academic achievement, ‘Abdu’l-Bahā idealizes
the outcome, stating that “this lowly earth will become the Abhā Kingdom [Paradise], and
this netherworld the world above. Then will this fleck of dust be as the vast circle of the
skies, this human place the palace-court of God, this spot of clay the dayspring of the
endless favours of the Lord of Lords” (SWAB 128–29).
And further: “Then will this darksome place grow luminous, and this abode of earth turn
into Heaven. The very demons will change to angels then, and wolves to shepherds of the
flock, and the wild-dog pack to gazelles that pasture on the plains of oneness, and ravening
beasts to peaceful herds, and birds of prey, with talons sharp as knives, to songsters
warbling their sweet native notes.” “For the inner reality of man,” ‘Abdu’l-Bahā explains,
“is a demarcation line between the shadow and the light, a place where the two seas meet; it
is the lowest point on the arc of descent, and therefore is it capable of gaining all the grades
above. With education it can achieve all excellence; devoid of education it will stay on, at
the lowest point of imperfection.” (SWAB 130–31). It is interesting how the Sufi cosmology
of the Arc of Descent (worlds of emanations) and the Arc of Ascent (spiritual progress) is
here brought into relation with education.

Unity of Bahā’īs
“If any differences arise amongst you,” counsels Bahā’u’llāh, “behold Me standing before
your face.” Such unity is a form of paradise as it mirrors forth God’s will: “We love to see
you at all times consorting in amity and concord within the paradise of My good-pleasure,
and to inhale from your acts the fragrance of friendliness and unity, of loving-kindness and
fellowship. Thus counselleth you the All-Knowing, the Faithful” (GWB 315–16).

Paradise imagery. The heart of Bahā’ī communal life is the Nineteen-Day Feast. On the
ideal gathering of Bahā’īs, ‘Abdu’l-Bahā idealizes the Nineteen-Day Feast as “a rose-
garden of the Kingdom” in which “those enraptured beings [Bahā’īs] may be gathered
together in the heaven of His mercifulness, that they may chant the verses of divine unity
amidst the celestial concourse, sing the melody of His praise and glorification in the Abhā
Kingdom, raise the voice of jubilation in the realm on high and the cry of exultation and
ecstasy in the Abhā Paradise” (Deepening 195).

[**309] Unity in Marriage/Family Unity
Family unity, the basis for which is a united marriage, is seen as the bedrock of societal
well-being. Marriage has an exalted station in Bahā’ī teachings. In the hierarchy of unity, it
is expected that partners in marriage strive to deepen their union over the years. Divorces do
occur in Bahā’ī communities. Provision is made for divorce in Bahā’ī law. But divorce is
frequently a source of some embarrassment to Bahā’īs who, after all, profess the importance
Paradise and Paradigm                                                  251

of unity, the crown jewel of the treasury of Bahā’ī idealisms. As Shoghi Effendi aptly puts
it: “If we Bahā’īs cannot attain to cordial unity among ourselves, then we fail to realize the
main purpose for which the Bāb, Bahā’u’llāh, and the Beloved Master lived and
suffered” (14 October 1928; Family 32 [#100]).
Ideally, marriage deepens one’s capacity for love. This human quality can enhance the
unitive potential of married individuals in society. Bahā’īs view marriage as the
fundamental unit of society. This has a basis in Bahā’ī texts. For instance, ‘Abdu’l-Bahā
indicates that the marriage bond is a kind of “primal oneness”: “And above all other unions
is that between human beings, especially when it cometh to pass in the love of God. Thus is
the primal oneness made to appear; thus is laid the foundation of love in the spirit. It is
certain that such a marriage as yours will cause the bestowals of God to be revealed.
Wherefore do we offer you felicitations and call down blessings upon you and beg of the
Blessed Beauty, through His aid and favour, to make that wedding feast a joy to all and
adorn it with the harmony of Heaven” (SWAB 119–20). If society is to be more unified, so
must relationships based on a commitment of love.

Paradise imagery. A typical Bahā’ī text encouraging unity in marriage is this one: “It is
highly important for man to raise a family. So long as he is young, because of youthful self-
complacency, he does not realize its significance, but this will be a source of regret when he
grows old. . . . In this glorious Cause the life of a married couple should resemble the life of
the angels in heaven—a life full of joy and spiritual delight, a life of unity and concord, a
friendship both mental and physical. . . . Their ideas and thoughts should be like the rays of
the sun of truth and the radiance of the brilliant stars in the heavens” (Family 30 [#93]).
Bahā’ī prayers for children are suffused with paradise imagery.

Summary. ‘Abdu’l-Bahā expanded on the various kinds of unity propounded by
Bahā’u’llāh, and has thus enriched Bahā’ī conceptions of unity. In a talk given in the
morning of 9 June 1912 at the Unitarian Church, Fifteenth Street and Girard Avenue, in
Philadelphia, ‘Abdu’l-Bahā ends his speech with this prediction: “All will become as one
family, one people, and the same susceptibility to the divine bounty and [**310] education
will be witnessed among mankind” (PUP 176). This statement is not a word-for-word
translation, but is based on notes taken by Edna McKinney, who was present. Fortunately, a
Persian transcription for this speech exists. In the Persian original, in the space of a single
sentence, ‘Abdu’l-Bahā enumerates seven types of unity: [1] One Family (‘ā‘ila-yi vāḥida);
[2] One Nation (millat-i vāḥida); [3] One People (jins-i vāḥid); [4] One Nation/Homeland
(vaṭan-i vāḥid); [5] One Political System (siyāsat-i vāḥid); [6] Oneness of Emotions
(iḥsāsāt-i vāḥida); [7] Oneness of Education (tarbiyat-i vāḥida) (Khiṭābāt 440). But the sum
total result of unity is to effect unity concentrically, on every level and in all spheres of
human endeavor, so that the world will be transformed from its animal condition into an
angelic disposition: “Perchance will the lovers of God succeed in upraising the banner of
human unity, so that the one-coloured tabernacle of the Kingdom of Heaven will cast its
sheltering shadow over all the earth” (SWAB 90).
One distinction between the Bahā’ī model of unity and the call to harmony found in
older scriptures, according to ‘Abdu’l-Bahā, is one of transcending the boundaries of
Paradise and Paradigm

communal insularity. Bahā’īs should endeavor to foster unity in whatever society they find
themselves, without regard to religious affiliation: “In every dispensation, there hath been
the commandment of fellowship and love, but it was a commandment limited to the
community of those in mutual agreement, not to the dissident foe. In this wondrous age,
however, praised be God, the commandments of God are not delimited, not restricted to any
one group of people, rather have all the friends been commanded to show forth fellowship
and love, consideration and generosity and loving-kindness to every community on
earth” (SWAB 20–21). In other words, what should distinguish Bahā’īs is their commitment
to unity for all humanity, without distinction as to religious affiliation. Perhaps ‘Abdu’l-
Bahā was obliquely referring to the Islamic distinction between the “Abode of Islám” (dār
al-Islām) and the “Abode of War” (dār al-ḥarb). What perhaps distinguishes the Bahā’ī
Faith from this Islamic dichotomy and from other religions in general is the Bahā’ī
hierarchy of values, in which world unity is at the top of the agenda. This is indicated by
Bahā’u’llāh himself: “After man’s recognition of God, and becoming steadfast in His
Cause, the station of affection, of harmony, of concord and of unity is superior to that of
most other goodly deeds” (Family 28 [#86]).
Of his own authority to advance and promulgate his religion of unity, Bahā’u’llāh wrote:
“Be ye fair therefore in your judgement concerning His upright Religion, for the love of this
Youth who is riding high upon the snow-white She-Camel betwixt earth and heaven; and be
ye firm and steadfast in the path of Truth” (Lambden 1988, 129). All of Bahā’u’llāh’s
teachings on unity may be summed up in this single [**311] statement: “The well-being of
mankind, its peace and security, are unattainable unless and until its unity is firmly
established. This unity can never be achieved so long as the counsels of the Pen of the Most
High are suffered to pass unheeded” (GWB 286).
In fine, a number of representative texts have been adduced to illustrate the centrality of
Bahā’u’llāh’s unity paradigm in Bahā’ī teachings, and how such texts employ Paradise
imagery as a rhetorical device, to impress upon the reader the importance of unity in its
various forms: “Strive ye with all your hearts . . . until this dark world be filled with light . . .
and this dust heap of a fleeting moment be changed into a mirror for the eternal gardens of
heaven, and this globe of earth receive its portion of celestial grace. Then will . . . earth
bring forth the roses and sweet herbs of blessings without end, and become from pole to
pole the Abhā Paradise” (SWAB 36–37). Like this text, Bahā’ī contemplative life is filled
with paradise imagery. Pictures of Paradise, in the Bahā’ī experience, provide a mental
anchorage for personal development and productive socialization. Paradise is sought, not for
afterlife recompense and eschatological requital, but for a present reality.
Perhaps the simplest expression of unity as paradise may be found in this
straightforward equivalence: “[C]onsider love and union as a delectable paradise, and count
annoyance and hostility as the torment of hell-fire” (TAB I, 37). Taken individually, each of
these “unities” outlined above has probably been conceived of by other philosophers and
thinkers. But what may be unique about these Bahā’ī principles is the fact that they have
been integrated into a single value system, and made sacred. As ‘Abdu’l-Bahā has
concluded: “These precepts were proclaimed by Baha’o’llāh [sic] many years ago. He was
the first to create them in the hearts as moral laws. Writing to the sovereigns of the world, he
summoned them to universal brotherhood, proclaiming that the hour for unity had struck—
Paradise and Paradigm                                                  253

unity between countries, unity between religions” (DP 85). Paradise imagery does not
exhaust Bahā’ī symbolism, but it is the heart of the Bahā’ī conception of unity,
concentrically conceived of as widening circles of unity, from self to society, and from one’s
very soul to the Deity beyond unity.
[**312]
Paradise and Paradigm

[**313]
VIII
Conclusions

Interpretation of Results
Paradise and Paradigm is an experiment in comparison. Since the present writer had
already undertaken a study of the Islamic background of the Bahā’ī religion in his
monograph, Symbol and Secret (1995a), the possibility of even older interreligious
resonances made for an attractive and original research project. To conduct a non-apologetic
comparison between Christianity and the Bahā’ī Faith on common historical grounds, it was
necessary to determine which specific Christian tradition had the closest ties to “Persia.”
It was determined that East Syrian Christianity was the most commensurate Christian
tradition for comparative purposes. This selection is somewhat contradicted by the fact that,
in present-day Iran, Armenian Christians now outnumber “Assyrian” Christians two to one.
But historically, until the Mongol debacle, East Syrian Christianity was the dominant form
of Christianity throughout Sasanian Iran. (The Persian empire was territorially much greater
than present-day Iran, and included what is now modern Iraq.) Northern Mesopotamia,
where Syriac Christianity originated, was of particular interest, for in the Sasanian period,
Mesopotamia was considered “the central region of Iran” (Bausani 1971, 146).
How “Persian” was Persian Christianity? Based on the outcomes of this research project,
the following conclusions may be drawn with respect to the so-called Persian dimensions of
East Syrian Christianity: (1) Ecclesiastically (by virtue of its autocephalous independence),
(2) politically (insofar as Persian synods were under imperial Sasanian patronage), (3)
geographically (the Church of Persia having spread throughout the Sasanian empire and
well beyond), (4) ethnically (by virtue of numerous Iranian converts from Zoroastrianism),
and (5) linguistically (due to the presence of local Persian vernaculars), it could be said that
the Church of the East was far more “Persian” than “Roman”—even though the Church of
Persia had subscribed to the Council [**314] of Nicea and had adopted the Western model
of church organization. Although East Syrians formed the majority of the Church of the
East, it has been argued, on the strength of the evidence adduced, that ethnic Persians had
formed the most important ethnic minority of the Persian “Church of the East.” Once a
universal, multiethnic religion, the Church of Persia was Christianity’s most successful
missionary church until modern times, and was arguably the most important form of non-
Roman Christianity in Late Antiquity.
Conclusions                                                         255

While early Syriac Christianity predates the official establishment of the Church of
Persia, Ephrem the Syrian and Aphrahāṭ the Persian Sage were formative influences.
Indeed, the Nestorian liturgy known as the Ḥūḏrā (which contains fragments of a lost
liturgy in vernacular Persian, as shown in Appendix IV below), is traditionally ascribed to
Ephrem. Although the material is drawn from a variety of sources and authors, the stamp of
Ephrem is indelible.
Method and interpretation require evaluation to assess validity, with a view to
refinement. This section, Interpretation of Results, will be followed by four more sections:
Evaluation of Research Design; Counterindications; Suggestions for Further Study; and
Relevance to the Study of Religion.

Symbols and significations. Symbols ensoul religion. Chariot thrones, wheels of fire,
jewels, crystal seas, vaulted empyreans, multitudes of voices, fire and brimstone, reward
and punishment, eschatons and apocalypses—these are the focal, imagistic epitomes of
religious worldviews. Symbols are invested with a numinous, psychological presence. They
express religious beliefs and aspirations with an ideological economy, and elicit a profusion
of sentiments. Some symbols disclose much about the structure of belief. Such encoded,
imagistic “projections” may have heuristic value for the discovery of unifying paradigms, or
complexes of ideals and beliefs that structure world-views.
The key symbols treated in this study were, for the most part, symbols of Paradise.
Indeed, the constellations of “key symbols” selected for comparison were determined to be
dominant within their respective traditions.
Syriac Christian and Bahā’ī traditions appear to share a common ontological
commitment. In their “noumenal” sense of reality, both religions point to a
“transphenomenal, supersensible, and eternally perfect realm or activity” (Dilworth 1989,
28). This “eternally perfect” realm is Paradise. Paradise imagery may be explored as a
mythic form of discourse. Visions of Paradise disclose much about particular religious
worldviews in cosmic, heavenly terms. Within the sanctuary of visionary texts, under the
spire of aspirations, in the inner sanctum of images, it is possible to peer into the very heart
and soul of religion. In [**315] Paradise texts, the phenomenologist of religion can discover
some of the richest treasures of religious contemplation: creeds beyond words.
Descriptions of Paradise may embody major theory formulations about spirituality that
bear a direct relationship to controlling, religious paradigms. Once decoded, exhibitive
statements about “the other world” can have a referentially this-worldly meaning. The
symbolic “method” of early Syriac Christian and the modern Bahā’ī texts is one in which
“one observes a logic of higher agreement, which presupposes and accomplishes a synthetic
unity of opposites, contrasts, or multiplicities. Partial, abstract views are subsumed and
reconciled—whether aesthetically, actively, or propositionally—in an emerging
whole” (ibid., 29). As such, the “emerging whole” constitutes a paradigm. At its most basic
level of operation, that paradigm is soteriological in nature. Its logic and purpose is to save.

Soteriology and paradigm differences. The single most important heuristic key for
comparing early Syrian Christian and Bahā’ī systems is soteriology, which is typically at the
core of religious paradigms (cf. Oxtoby 1973).
Conclusions

Christianity is at heart a message of salvation. Christianity is typically defined as a post-
Easter, Resurrection faith. (There is a cynical but compelling view that resurrection belief
was augmented by a compensatory wish-image: “The expectation of resurrection and the
establishment of a divine kingdom provided one answer to the question of why God did not
intervene on behalf of his people” [McDannell and Lang 1988, 13].)
Christian soteriology is intimately bound up with Christology. In turn, Christology is
bound up with notions of the Trinity. This is why the Trinitarian controversies that erupted
in the fourth century were followed by the Christological controversies in the fifth. The
Trinity has been a major obstacle to rapprochement between Islam and Christianity, due to
the strict monotheism of the former.
The relationship of the one, monarchial God to the Trinity has troubled Christian
theologians as far back as the Church Fathers. A major difficulty in any patristic formulation
of the Trinity is the concept of “Primal Cause.” Gregory of Nazianzus is a case in point. In
attempting to defend the doctrine of the Trinity from the charge of tritheism, the
Cappadocian Father wrote: “But when we look at the three in whom the Godhead exists,
who derive their timeless and equally glorious being from the primal cause, we have three
objects of worship” (Oration XXXI.14, tr. L. Wickham and F. Williams in Norris et al.
1991, 198 and 286). On this statement, Norris comments: “One difficulty for any Trinitarian
theology that uses the concept of a ‘primal cause’ is the placement of that cause within the
scheme. The conundrum seems impossible to solve. If the primal cause is the Father,
[**316] then the Father is different from the Son and the Spirit. But if that cause is outside
or before the three, then part of the definition of God does not reside within the three. No
matter which approach Gregory chooses, a puzzle remains It is a Biblical puzzle that
remains unsolved” (1991, 198–99).
No Christological dogma ever stood revealed. To conserve what unity it could, the
Church perforce had to work out its creedal and confessional standards during periods of
Christological controversy. Thus, the doctrines of the Incarnation and Trinity were
hammered out in the Councils of Nicaea (325 C.E.), Ephesus (431 C.E.), Chalcedon (451
C.E.), Constantinople II and III (553 and 681 C.E.), and the Redemption in the councils of
Orange (529 C.E.) and Trent, sessions V and VI (1546 and 1547 C.E.). The ecumenical
councils, starting from the canons of Nicaea to which both Ephrem’s church and the Church
of Persia subscribed, were intended to unify the Church doctrinally, even if this meant
expulsion or coercion of Christian dissidents. But imperial Christian rulings did not resolve
all of the problems they were intended to solve. Pelikan observes that “the trinitarian
developments had not really prepared the church for the problematics of the christological
issue” (1974, 1:228–29). Christology and Trinitarian doctrine were so interrelated that the
formulation of one impacted the other. Ephrem did not try to solve the Christological
puzzle. The Syrian saint embraced the bewildering and enriching ambiguities of the mystery
of the Godhead, and condemned the Arians for their sophistic over-rationalizations that
undermined Christian faith and savaged Christian unity.
At the root of the Christological debates in the fifth century lay the fundamental issue of
the relation between body and soul (Cooke 1990, 73). In Christian consciousness,
forgiveness of sins and the death of Christ and his victory over death are interrelated. In the
theology of the Greek-speaking Church, Christ as Redeemer liberated us not so much from
Conclusions                                                         257

guilt as from our mortality, our “sickness unto death.” Though the Latin West began to
move away from the doctrine of theōsis (deification) prevalent in the Greek East, no explicit
doctrine of reconciliation was settled upon in the period of the early Church. There is one
point of departure from which all Christian theories of redemption proceed: the sinful
human plight. The Syriac Orient at the time of Ephrem exhibits a telling concern for the
“sickness” into which humankind had fallen. Notwithstanding, Winslow rightly points out
that “there was no such thing, among the Fathers, as soteriological orthodoxy” (1984, 394).
In the case of early Syriac Christianity, soteriology and symbolism have a much more
dynamic relationship than in other forms of Christianity. For Ephrem, God is revealed in
two modes: in Nature (kyānā) and in Scripture (ktābā). But far more efficacious than revela-
[**317] tion is God’s Incarnation, and the dispensation of Christ’s own deity through the
sacraments. A cultic interpretation of Christianity came to predominate Ephrem’s thinking.
Divinity was communicated and came to be experienced through the “mysteries” or
sacraments, constituting the soteriologically efficacious presence of God. (For a biblical
perspective on divine presence, see Terrien 1978; on sacrament and presence, cf.
Schoonenberg 1967.) The link of sacramentality to Christological issues is absolutely basic
to Ephrem.
The absence of sacramental imagery in the Bahā’ī writings reflects one difference of
fundamental importance between the two religious systems: the Bahā’ī Faith does not hold
to a sacramental worldview. In this study’s theoretical treatment of the Bahā’ī Faith,
reference to “the unity paradigm” as its major descriptor actually reflects a Bahā’ī self-
understanding, thus satisfying Wilfred Cantwell Smith’s canon of believer intelligibility.
While the term unity paradigm was independently conceived during the writing of the first
draft of this dissertation, it has come to the author’s attention that this term had already been
coined by the German Bahā’ī author Udo Schaefer, who explains what he meant by the
expression: “In selecting the term ‘unity paradigm’ the author intends to convey the new
understanding of religion: the new image of religious phenomena and of religious history;
and its inherent concept of divine salvation (Heilsgeschichte). This concept of unity is
central to the teachings of Bahā’u’llāh” (1992, 55). It should be added, however, that the use
of the technical term paradigm is external to the Bahā’ī texts themselves.
Perhaps the fundamental difference between Bahā’ī and Syriac Christian paradigms
reflects the tenor of their times. Ninian Smart writes perceptively of the emergence of the
Bahā’ī Faith and of the basis of its appeal: “It is an example of a spiritual revolution which
intuitively recognized the global state of world culture before its time and gave religious
preparation for this unified world” (1995, 480). The most Ephrem could have been expected
to say in this regard concerned the unity of the Church (HdF. LII, SCK 150; cf. Murray
1963). By means of the thick historical descriptions presented in this study, Syriac/Persian
Christianity was analyzed as a response to Late Antiquity, while the Bahā’ī Faith was seen
as a response to modernity. This determination rendered paradigm analysis all the more
meaningful, as each of the two religions was viewed as being anchored to history. This
historical dimension has added a verificatory power to the paradigm analysis.
In the case of Syriac Christianity, the paradigm of purity—referenced to the core
soteriological myth of the Robe of Glory—reflects an overarching interest in Paradise-
worthiness, in preparation for which a state of sanctification is achieved through
Conclusions

sacramental divinization, the angelic life of sexual holiness (the Covenant), and the pastoral
[**318] extension of Christ’s ministry through ethical refinement in the form of good deeds.
The Bahā’ī paradigm of unity—referenced to the core myth of the Noachide and Sufistic
journey to the Paradise of the Beloved and fidelity to the Covenant of Bahā’u’llāh—places
emphasis on justice and integration as a form of societal sanctification, achieved through
widening circles of unity from heart to Earth, as a refraction of Paradise in the prism of
unity.

Evaluation of Research Design
As a self-inventory of the research performed, the author will attempt to assess the strengths
and weaknesses of the research project. To put a slight twist on the expression, “the best
defense is a good offense,” the present writer will try to anticipate criticisms of the project in
advance of others’ reviews of it. The following questions need to be asked and deserve
honest answers.

Are the comparisons limitative? Comparative projects run greater risks if the scope is too
broad, the range of data too variable, and the amount of data too much to cope with. There is
also the problem of uncritical and hypercritical selection of parallels. Two extremes must be
avoided. The first is uncritical “parallelomania”—untested conclusions drawn from
superficial resemblances. The other extreme is hypercritical reductionism, in which all
similarities are “deconstructed” into culturally indexed solipsisms. As a corrective, the
present study interprets similarities by means of differences, to arrive at meaningful, limited
comparisons the methodology of which may contribute to a general phenomenology of
religion. Constraints on comparison claims will serve to rehabilitate comparison from its
tarnished image as a largely “unscientific” procedure.

Are the comparisons accurate? Since a formal comparison involves at least two religions,
the researcher has a professional responsibility to achieve some mastery of the present state
of scholarship on each tradition being compared. The integrity of the comparative enterprise
depends upon the accuracy and perspicuity of the researcher, and on some facility with the
original texts. If the researcher’s knowledge of the traditions is deficient or otherwise
suspect, the whole exercise risks collapse into a caricature.
In a comparative research endeavor, one must establish a rationale for the synchronic
juxtaposition of diachronically distant religions. Moreover, a diachronic dimension in such a
study is necessary to anchor the data in history, and to provide context. That context
suggests much in the way of interpretation, and constrains it. Without a thick description of
the historical setting of each religion, the compari- [**319] son may become too abstracted
from those webs of relationships that symbiotically instantiate fields of meaning for each of
the religions being compared. A purely synchronic comparative exercise makes the mistake
of atomizing the texts. History affords the surest control of the integrity of worldview
analysis.
With respect to the texts themselves, there is certainly a massive literature in Syriac, with
many manuscript treasures yet to be studied. These are predominantly Semitic in thought as
Conclusions                                                         259

well as in language. Although Aphrahāṭ, “the Persian Sage”—our first major witness to
Syriac Christianity—is thought to have been an ethnic Iranian, Ephrem was not.
Notwithstanding this fact, Ephrem’s influence is both foundational to and coextensive with
Persian Christianity, officially known as the Church of the East. Whether or not liturgical
texts attributed to Ephrem in post-Ephremic liturgical reforms are genuine, Ephrem’s
traditional association with the liturgy of both West and East Syrian Christianity is explicit,
thus according him an honorific presence in Syrian worship down to the present. In fact, so
pervasive is early Syriac symbolism throughout the Syriac hymn cycle known as the Ḥūḏrā
and other Syriac liturgies that Ephrem’s legacy need only be recognized, rather than proven.
Some difficulty arises over the question of to what extent the Church of Persia was
ethnically Iranian. This study has determined that Persian (Middle Persian, and New
Persian, Sogdian) was a subsidiary Christian vernacular. The discovery of a lost Persian
Christian liturgy preserved in the Ḥūḏrā was of particular importance in this regard. Extant
Nestorian texts in Iranian languages are actually very few, but formed part of what is
thought to have been a once extensive literature (Brock 1982a, 18).
The “revelation” of Bahā’u’llāh was analyzed as a response to modernity, in which
Bahā’u’llāh was shown to have “sacralized” some of the more salubrious developments of
the modern world (i.e., Europe), just as he had “desacralized” some of the excesses of prior
religions, notably of Babism and Shi‘ism. Such an approach will not endear many Bahā’īs,
who might misconstrue this kind of analysis as reductionism, when a dialectical relationship
between Bahā’u’llāh and his historical context is what is actually being argued. In this
regard, it is worth noting a similar conclusion drawn by B. Todd Lawson: “His
[Bahā’u’llāh’s] religion can be seen as a response to the challenges posed to the Islamic
world; the manner in which his teachings both arose from within the parent religion and
acquired their own distinct identity is unique in the history of modern Islam” (1995, 176).

Is this study “axiomatically posited”? A comparison must have a purpose, a point. The
most utilitarian comparisons are those that demonstrate some kind of genetic nexus.
Utilitarian comparisons are most [**320] supportive of historical arguments. Then there are
also “larger” comparisons, supportive of the high theories of phenomenology. This latter
purpose represents the research aims of the present study, which have been clearly
articulated in chapter 1.

Are analogical and differential relationships equitably balanced? A methodologically self-
conscious comparison should result in positive and/or negative outcomes. A negative
outcome is reached when apparent similarities are overruled by differences of more
fundamental import. Thus, superficial adducing of parallels for comparative purposes may
be invalidated on the basis of systemic differences, which may yet exhibit some
phenomenological similarities. These similarities can never be wholly abstracted from the
systems that produce them. Wholly abstracted similarities are modern mythologies.

Was there analytical control? This study compared key symbols across two traditions.
Synchronic analysis of these symbols was constrained by fairly “thick” descriptions of
Conclusions

Syriac and Bahā’ī contexts and belief structures. Such diachronic considerations provided
some necessary constraints, as previously stated.
Ninian Smart’s dimensional model of religion provided an admittedly Procrustean,
taxonomic atlas of Syriac and Bahā’ī traditions. An “anatomy” of each religion could then
be objectivized and a “comparative anatomy,” as it were, facilitated. The symbolic profiles
that were then built on the structure of Smart’s dimensions enfleshed, with imagistic thew
and ideological sinew, the paradigmatic skeleton of each tradition. Insights emerged as to
the distinctive characteristics of the two worldviews being compared. The technique of
worldview analysis performed here by means of symbolic profiles is one attempt at model
building. Equitable comparability between early Syriac Christianity and the Bahā’ī Faith has
provided a framework for analysis of differences.

Are the hypothetical patterns testable? The general hypothesis was this: “Parallels” yield
paradoxes of commensurability resolvable by paradigm “logics” within religious systems.
In the abstract, this hypothesis is extended to include . . . resulting in symbolic
transformation. This final clause is implicated by the findings of this study, but it does not
form a part of the phenomenological argument. A phenomenological finding ought to have
its historical exemplars to support it. But the finding itself does not constitute a historical
argument as such. The specific hypothesis states: Formal comparison of early Syriac
Christianity and the Bahā’ī Faith is constrained by their paradigms (respectively,
transformational purity and concentric unity), by which all phenomenological parallels
must be interpreted. The exemplar adduced in [**321] section 1.7 still holds: “Christ as
‘Physician,’ for example, dispenses immortality, while Bahā’u’llāh, as Physician, dispenses
unity. Both dispense salvation in their respective conceptions of it.” Here is a clear
phenomenological “parallel,” in which the similarity is interpreted in terms of difference.

Counterindications
The integrity of this study requires that it take inventory of some of the classic pitfalls of
comparison. Paden warns of three dangers of “the comparative enterprise in academic
settings.” These are: “theological privileging, ahistoricism, and foundationalism” (1996a, 6).
Other counterindications arise from the particularities of the present study. These include
scalar bias, data selection, and false parallels.

Theological Privileging. The Study of Religion is a secular undertaking. The integrity of
any study is diminished if tainted by covert theological privileging, at which point the
research becomes self-serving—apologetic, circular, and denominational. Moreover, one
must be vigilant against any unconscious impingement on a research enterprise, particularly
of one’s own worldview, value system, assumptions, vested research interests, pet theories,
and possible prejudices. This cannot be avoided in absolute terms, but it can be monitored
and disciplined. As one control, Syriac and Bahā’ī traditions have received equal treatment
as a consequence of a carefully crafted, structural symmetry incorporated in the research
design and implemented accordingly.

Conclusions                                                         261

Ahistoricism. It is necessary to avoid what Paden calls “the contextless character of classical
comparison” (1996a, 5). While comparison of key symbols selected from two traditions that
are historically distant in time can only be characterized as synchronic, it was neither
ahistorical nor transhistorical. As a counterbalance to the synchronic dimension of the
comparison, the basic descriptions of early Syriac Christianity and Bahā’ī Faith undertaken
in chapters 2 and 4 were diachronically focused. That is to say, the abstract profile of each
religion was grounded in history.
This study suggests, but does not prove, that some of the key symbols within Bahā’ī
tradition may represent transformations of Syriac Christian parallels which, historically,
preceded the Bahā’ī Faith by well over a millennium. However, the following objection has
to be addressed: The influence of Islam must have been a key factor in any such
transformation. This is undoubtedly true for most of the key symbols treated in this study.
However, as the historical hypothesis—which is undeveloped and undefended—is
nevertheless implicated by the results of this study, such an undertaking is left to a future
research [**322] project. A tested theoretical model for the mechanism of symbolic
assimilation and adaptation are singularly lacking, such that even the proof of contact does
little more that state provenance. Provenance may account for—but does not explain—the
process of adaptation. A case in point is the figure of Jesus in the Qur’ān, where
antecedence may show derivation, but not idiosyncratic amplification.
To be sure, Islamic symbolism informs Bahā’ī symbolism. But the extent to which Islam
took up Syriac Christian symbolism is largely unknown. Annemarie Schimmel has provided
some much-needed descriptions of Islamic symbolism. Her work is primarily
phenomenological. Her most comprehensive phenomenological investigations were
presented in her 1992 Gifford Lectures (Schimmel 1994). Of those key symbols that were
later taken up in the Bahā’ī Faith, Schimmel has touched upon the primordial Covenant
(109, 114, 174, n. 85, 253), Illumination (on light symbolism: 12, 13, 16–17), the Lover and
the Beloved (on the Beloved: 105–109), the Maiden of Heaven (on houris: 105–106, 236),
the Ark (on Noah’s Ark: 25 and 57), Wine (on wine symbolism: 16, 108–109, 111, n. 54)/
Water of Life (7 and 182), Mirror (31–32, 45, n. 78 and 81)/Gems (on the symbolism of
precious stones: 4–5), the Journey (27 and 64–66), the Lote Tree (on the Lote Tree, the Tree
of Life, and other symbolic trees: 15–20), and Paradise (passim). Absent in Schimmel’s
phenomenology was any background information on the “Promised One” or the Physician
as key symbols, which figure so prominently in Bahā’ī texts. Phenomenological
investigations such as Schimmel’s are primarily descriptive. No strict typology was
attempted, and no historical argument adduced.
To have analyzed the Bahā’ī religion simply as a projection of universalized Islam
would neither have done justice to the contemporary Bahā’ī worldview nor to the substance
and ethos of the Bahā’ī scriptures themselves. The texts have their own voice. Moreover, the
Bahā’ī paradigm is an obvious departure from that of Islam. As pervasively as the latter
informs the former, the Bahā’ī kerygma and its supporting imagery has its own symbolic
constellations and ideological configurations. The idiosyncrasies of Bahā’ī texts still await
basic descriptions in the scholarly literature.

Conclusions

Foundationalism. Comparison is seen by many in the field as a relic of nineteenth-century
quests for a unified theory to “explain” religion. Except for the primary methodological
hypothesis of this study (viz., “Parallels” yield paradoxes of commensurability resolvable
by paradigm “logics” within religious systems), theoretical universals remain
uninvestigated for fear of committing, once again, the original methodological sin of
foundationalism.
While the determination of key symbols was rather straightforward, defining a
governing paradigm for Syriac Christianity was not [**323] so easy, and the paradigm
advanced in this study may be controversial. A crucial factor was the central importance in
Syriac spirituality of the notion of theōsis, or divinization. This process of sacramental and
social Paradise-worthiness justifies use of the term transformational in reference to the
hypothesized Syriac paradigm of “transformational purity.” Selection of the term purity was
heavily influenced by broader notions of sanctification, in which asceticism and sexual
purity played a major role. The pervasive imagery of “bridal mysticism” accentuated the
role of purity, which has more profound connotations than righteousness. While the
sacraments—which are at the cultic heart of Syriac spirituality—are the decisive factor in
the “transformational” component of the Syriac paradigm, “purity” itself is effected by the
full exercise of the Syriac Christian, “angelic” lifestyle.

Scalar Bias. Every investigator needs to factor into the interpretation of his or her results
the well-known dictum: “The scale creates the phenomenon.” This axiom is a caveat
attributed to the scientist, Henri Poincaré (1854–1912) and was often cited by Mircea Eliade
(Paden 1992, 4). Its application to the present study might suggest that key symbols have a
predominantly rhetorical function, and that the correspondence between worldview and
mode of expression is not necessarily symmetrical. To adduce an example from the Qur’ān,
a very inaccurate picture of Islam would be generated if only the early Meccan suras were
studied, because the salient imagery in those revelations is apocalyptic, whereas later
portions of the Qur’ān are much more narrative and prescriptive. The “scale” in this
research project was qualitative, subject to the biases of the author’s own subjectivity. The
cogency and validity of similarity assessments in this study are basically a question of
interpretation. Constraints on data selection are addressed in the next section.

Data Selection. While the state-sanctioned form of Christianity in Sasanian Iran was
Nestorianism (less commonly, but more properly referred to as the “Church of the East”),
the West Syrian Jacobites, or Monophysites, also had a presence in Persia. In point of fact,
the Christian presence in Iran had local fluctuations. The most obvious instance is that of the
Armenians, who were clearly the most prominent group of Christians in Safavid Iṣfahān. In
the sixteenth century, Shāh ‘Abbās had relocated a large sector of the Armenian population
of Julfa on the Araxes and colonized them in Iṣfahān (“New Julfa”), in order to divert the
Silk Route to Iran. Whatever historical argument may be advanced in the direction of
Christian influence in Iran will have to take the Armenian community into account.
The selection of key symbols for this study was to the exclusion of a number of other
significant symbols. Wherever leading Syriac [**324] specialists had identified any
particular image as a “favorite” symbol of Ephrem, this was interpreted as a warrant for the
Conclusions                                                         263

privileging of the said symbol for research purposes. Thus, in the case of Syriac Christianity,
the selection of key symbols reflected something of a unpolled consensus. The selection of
key symbols for the Bahā’ī section had a similar sort of informal control—prior
encyclopedic selection—which was the privileging of certain Bahā’ī symbols for inclusion
in Wendi Momen’s A Basic Bahā’ī Dictionary. As comparativist, the present writer could
simply attend to such prior determinations.

False Parallels. An image common to two traditions may have divergent conceptual
linkages. A case in point is Syriac and Bahā’ī notions of the soul, supported by references to
the phenomenon of the dream. This example involves the basic anthropological question
surrounding the soul and its presumed or conditional immortality. Here, use of an analogy
common to both traditions produces diametrically opposed results. One example will be
given here: the image of the dream. Syriac and Bahā’ī texts use the phenomenon of the
dream to support differing notions of the soul. To quip the folk lyric, both Ephrem and
Bahā’u’llāh in effect say that “[after] life is like a dream.”
Ephrem relates the traditional Syriac idea of the postmortem “sleep of the soul” to the
phenomenon of the dream: “And even the dream which it (i.e., the Soul) sees apart from it
(i.e., the Body) when it (i.e., the Body) is asleep, when it awakens and . . . [the Soul requires
the Body to tell of the dream it has seen; the dream really comes from both of them]. The
dream, therefore, which it sees apart from the Body the Soul does not (really) see apart from
it; by it (i.e., the Body) and with it and in the midst of it . . . [the Soul has its dream] . . .
[they depend upon each other, in slumber and in sleep they are not separated from one
another] since they are mingled with each other. But in death . . . they are separated,
and . . . from one another—as they were mixed together [in hope . . . on their Resurrection
—since they have their Resurrection as a dream so that just after their sleep Recollection (?)
comes to both, so after death]” (Fifth Discourse to Hypatius, in Mitchell 1912, 1:cvi). In
this difficult and convoluted passage, Ephrem fails to explain how the soul processes and
stores sensory input, the experience of which is deferred until such time as the body is
reunited with the soul. If body and soul must interpret the dream together, how then does the
soul even partially dream without the agency of the body?
The exact opposite of Ephrem’s interpretation obtains in Bahā’ī anthropology. As
Bahā’u’llāh states in The Seven Valleys: “Indeed, O Brother, if we ponder each created
thing, we shall witness a myriad perfect wisdoms and learn a myriad new and wondrous
truths. One of the created phenomena is the dream (nawm, sleep). Behold how many secrets
(asrār) are deposited therein, how many wisdoms (ḥikmat-hā) [**325] treasured up, how
many worlds (‘avālim) concealed. Observe, how thou art asleep in a dwelling, and its doors
are barred; on a sudden thou findest thyself in a far-off city, which thou enterest without
moving thy feet or wearying thy body; without using thine eyes, thou seest; without taxing
thine ears, thou hearest; without a tongue, thou speakest. And perchance when ten years are
gone, thou wilt witness in the outer world the very things thou hast dreamed tonight. Now
there are many wisdoms (chand ḥikmat) to ponder in the dream (naum), which none but the
people of this Valley (ahl-i īn vādī) can comprehend in their true elements. First, what is this
world (ān cha ‘ālam ast), where without eye and ear and hand and tongue, a man puts all of
these to use? Second, how is it that in the outer world (‘ālam-i ẓuhūr) thou seest today the
Conclusions

effect of a dream (khẉāb), when thou didst vision it in the world of sleep some ten years
past? Consider the difference between these two worlds (du ‘ālam) and the mysteries
(asrār) which they conceal, that thou mayest attain to divine confirmations and heavenly
discoveries (mukāshifāt-i subḥānī) and enter the regions of holiness (‘ālam-i quds). God, the
Exalted, hath placed these signs (āyāt) in men, to the end that philosophers (muḥaqqiqīn)
may not deny the mysteries of the life beyond (asrār-i ma‘ād) nor belittle that which hath
been promised (va‘da) them” (SV 32–3, AQA III: 126). [A textual note: Unlike naum,
khẉāb can mean either “sleep” or “dream” (PED 478).]
Ephrem and Bahā’u’llāh each adduce the phenomenon of the dream, but for
diametrically opposed purposes. This example provides fair warning that some parallels
may not only be superficial, they may be deceptive. Where there is symbolic overlap by
virtue of the sheer multivalence of symbols, one must always be careful to contextually
nuance positive correspondences, or such parallels, while not false in themselves, will be
falsely interpreted.

Suggestions for Further Study
One of the counterindications itemized in the previous section was that of “False Parallels.”
This category does not include the element of alleged syncretism on the part of Bahā’ī texts,
for having deliberately assimilated Christ and other prophetic figures into Bahā’ī
theophanology, which could be productive of false (or true) parallels. Bahā’īs are
disinclined to conceive of their religion as syncretistic (cf. Stockman 1996).
Assimilation of Christ—the central symbol in Christianity—to Bahā’u’llāh himself,
accentuates a perceptually dynamic relationship between the two revealers. In a Tablet
addressed to German Templar leader Georg David Hardegg some time prior to July 1872,
Bahā’u’llāh remarks on the Person of Christ, to the effect that there are no essen- [**326]
tial differences between Bahā’ī and Christian beliefs with respect to Jesus. As “the
Spirit” (al-rūh), Christ transcends confessional distinctions and symbolisms. Bahā’u’llāh
affirms that Jesus is the Light of Oneness (nūr al-aḥadīya) and the Sign of the Ancient (āyat
al-qidam) as God’s supreme witness to humanity. Whoever turns to Christ turns to God.
Throughout salvation history, Christlike epiphanies—which Bahā’u’llāh refers to as
“Mirrors” or prophets—appear in various forms and colours, with no essential difference in
spiritual reality (Lambden 1983, 56). It may be said here that, from Bahā’u’llāh’s
perspective, Christ’s greatness and uniqueness is not diminished by the confession that God
has sent other great spiritual teachers. The closest counterpart in Ephrem’s hymns to
Bahā’u’llāh’s doctrine of prophetic unity is the sentiment: “Look on the prophets and the
apostles,/how like they are to each other!” (CNis XX.7, SCK 153). Ephrem could not have
been expected to have been a pluralist.
The Bahā’ī Faith is a post-Islamic religion. It stands squarely within the Abrahamic
tradition. Prophetologically, the Bahā’ī religion has incorporated the figure of Christ to its
own notions of prophetic succession, and considers itself to be the “fulfillment” of biblical
prophecies surrounding the return of Christ. Throughout his writings, Bahā’u’llāh asserts
that Christ indeed had foreknowledge of the future. The following passage from a Tablet
Conclusions                                                         265

known as the Sūrat al-Sulṭān (AQA IV: 154–80) is of interest here in that it states that Jesus
was spiritually aware of Bahā’u’llāh’s future mission and of the living sacrifice the latter
was destined to offer up. Bahā’u’llāh writes: “Say: When the Son of Mary [Jesus] went up
into the Mountain of Command, the cloud of sanctity came down upon Him. Seeing, of a
sudden, a sprinkling of blood upon His garb, He called out in wonderment to the cloud,
questioning it concerning this appearance. Thereat the cloud made answer, and recounted
unto Him the adversities that this Youth [Bahā’u’llāh] hath suffered. Grieving inwardly to
hear this tale, He renounced the world and all that is therein, and, ascending to the Court of
Holiness, entered into the presence of God, His Lord and the Lord of all things, the Lord of
all the worlds.” (AQA IV: 156 [Arabic text provided by Dr. Nosrat Mohammadhosseini];
translation provided by the Universal House of Justice, p.c., 10 January 1990.) Jesus is
presented here as having experienced a dramatic intimation of the Promethean passion of
Bahā’u’llāh. This foreknowledge, this prescience predicated of Jesus, is one of the
interesting features of Bahā’ī theophanology. In so saying, Bahā’u’llāh does not minimize or
undervalue Christ’s passion, for in the same passage, Bahā’u’llāh states that, were he to
reveal the extent of Christ’s suffering, the veil of greatness would be rent asunder and the
pillars of heaven would tremble.
The deliberate appropriation of Christ to the Bahā’ī concept of “Progressive Revelation”
begs the question of influence. This is why it [**327] is possible to hypothetically postulate
some kind of symbolic transformation of Christian symbolism by the Bahā’ī “revelation.”
The texts themselves invite such an investigation. The question of which Christian tradition,
if any, provided the quarry of symbols from which the Bahā’ī scriptures drew their Christian
exemplars for apologetic purposes, and which symbols the Bahā’ī religion stood to inherit
by virtue of its Abrahamic heritage mediated by Islam, is complex and cannot be easily
resolved. It is clearly a topic for further research, but if and only if the question is admitted.
Notions of revelation and divine inspiration religiously tend to preclude such a secular
inquiry, which perhaps justifies the separation of the “Church” and the state-funded
academy.

Conclusion. “Faith,” as described by Ephrem, serves as “a second soul” which, with love
and wisdom, permits one to be joined (metmzeg) to divinity and to be reformed in its image
(HdF LXXX.3; Stewart 1991, 196; cf. CH XVI.11). Religious paradigms are much like the
“second soul” Ephrem describes. Once paradigms are understood, similarities can be better
explained in terms of cogent paradigmatic differences. Syriac and Bahā’ī parallels were
linked to core paradigms. Both similarities and differences between the two conceptual
systems were shown to be consistent with paradigmatic structuring.
Evidence (based on coherence theory, not history) suggests a “symbolic transformation”
of Mesopotamian and Jewish symbols by early Syriac Christianity (based on a paradigm of
transformative purity), and of Syriac and Perso-Islamic symbols by the Bahā’ī Faith
(paradigm of concentric unity). In any kind of genealogical endeavor, Bahā’ī symbolism
must first be referenced to Bābī imagery, just as Syriac/Persian Christian symbolism must
be indexed to Biblical/Judaic imagery. For example, in a lengthy work known as the Kitāb-i
Badī‘ (p. 224), Bahā’u’llāh cites the following passage from the Bāb’s Qayyūm al-
Asmā’ (Chapter LVII): “Indeed God hath created everywhere around this Gate [al-Bāb, the
Conclusions

Bāb] oceans of divine elixir (mā’ al-iksīr), tinged crimson (muḥmar) with the essence of
existence (bi-al-duhn al-wujūd [lit., “oil of existence”]) and vitalized through the animating
power of the desired fruit; and for them God hath provided Arks of ruby, tender, crimson-
coloured (sufun min yāqūtat al-ruṭbat al-ḥamrā’), wherein none shall sail but the people of
Bahā (ahl al-Bahā’), by the leave of God, the Most Exalted” (SWB 57–58, with
transliteration inserted by the present writer). This striking image of what one might call the
voyage of Ark-hearts (ruby symbolizing the heart) appears to be a Bābī innovation on very
old Noachide imagery. The same thing can be said about Ephrem’s use of Noachide
imagery. When the Mariner’s Ark describes its course in the shape of a Cross (HdF XLIX.
3–4; see Palmer 1993, 212), here we see a specifically Christian usage of the very same
imagery. Just as Ephrem transforms the image [**328] of Noah into a Christological and
ecclesiastical symbol, Bahā’u’llāh has taken up the Bāb’s imagery of the Ark-hearts and has
transformed it into a corporate symbol of the Bahā’ī ecclesia: “Seek thou the shore of the
Most Great Ocean, and enter, then, the Crimson Ark which God hath ordained in the
Qayyūm-i-Asmā’ for the people of Bahā’” (ESW 139, cf. 130; Lambden 1997–1998, 34–
35).
What is the primary mechanism for symbolic transformations? The answer seems to
reside in the world-structuring paradigms of each religion. Our hypothesis (“Parallels”
yield paradoxes of commensurability resolvable by paradigm “logics” within religious
systems, resulting in symbolic transformation) was vindicated, but not proven. Symbolic
transformation is neither a predicate of history nor is it counterintuitive. We may ask, does
typological likeness require genealogy, or does genealogy predispose typological likeness?
This question is as refractory as it is circular. The answer may be to ask a new question.
As these two examples of Syriac and Bahā’ī Noachide symbolism show, while
genealogy has something to say about the diffusion or transmission of such imagery, a more
useful approach than that of Widengren and others is to ask other questions about how—not
from whence—such imagery is used. The provenance of such material is not in question.
Attending to symbolic transformation—as a recycled originality in which common
symbolic clay is baked and glazed by the paradigmatic potter—is where the analogic
enterprise is more investigatively incisive for the comparative method.

Relevance to the Study of Religion
Does comparison make a difference? Is comparison significant? Can the results be
authenticated and borne out by the religions themselves? Constraints on comparison claims
are made possible by interpreting similarities in terms of differences. This avoids two
extremes, one speculative and the other reductive, characterized respectively by
“parallelomania” and solipsism. Comparison serves as a descriptive tool with limited
explanatory power. When similarities are explained in terms of differences, features in
common are more soundly identified as either familial or universal. Universal features are
especially useful in terms of illuminating what religion is and what religion does—a basic
concern of the Study of Religion.
Comparative studies in the field of the Study of Religion are not so much propositional
as they are relational. Inexact parallels may prove, for theoretical purposes, to be
Conclusions                                                         267

qualitatively precise. The results of specific comparative studies may be adjudicated at two
levels: (a) at the methodological level; (b) at the interpretive level. The results of a
comparative study should be meaningful. Otherwise, they are trivial [**329] and possibly
false. There is a danger in that the very claims of a comparison can lead to its falsification,
not necessarily the enterprise itself. This study has taken that risk.
This project has attempted a full-scale comparative analysis, based on a clear
methodology. If successful, this study has demonstrated the utility of a modular approach to
methodology, where several theoretical constructs have contributed to the overall research
design. A decisive structural element in that design was Ninian Smart’s dimensional model
of religion. This model served as a control for representing both early Syriac Christianity
and the Bahā’ī Faith comprehensively and holistically. Comparisons were prosecuted
symmetrically and interpreted with a fairly sophisticated degree of precision, given the
imprecise and polyvalent nature of the data. Whether or not this research project may serve
as a model for the symbolic worldview analysis of other religious traditions, or has in any
way advanced comparative phenomenology, is for others to judge. Beyond its purely
methodological concerns, this study has demonstrated patterns of idealization common to
both early Syriac Christianity (which established the symbolic world of Persian
Christianity) and the Bahā’ī Faith.
Symbols ensoul ideas. In the Abrahamic faiths generally, the most important symbol
complex is eschatological imagery, the positive focus of which is Paradise. Visions of the
empyreal realm have, historically, had an extraordinary power to inspire. Paradise is
iconoplastic. The beatific panorama, the symbolic landscape, the ideals and imagery that
inform Paradise in the religious imagination are grounded in root metaphors and are
animated by key scenarios reflecting a theology of activity, in a dynamic interplay of belief
and behavior, myth and ritual, within the religious grasp of totality.
Paradise allegorizes ideals. These ideals are projected onto heaven. There, in the wish-
images of the communal dream, ideals are reified and beatified. In a Bergeresque process of
paradisical world building, Heaven functions as the impressionistic blueprint of the ideal
faith-community. Paradise imagery is then dislocated from the speculative and refocused on
Earth. When once the heart is transformed and society reformed, Paradise is realized. In the
intersection of eschatology and ethics, in the interplay of ideas and imagery, and as a
function of an organizing principle, an overarching paradigm, Paradise becomes utopia.
[**330]
Conclusions

[**331]
APPENDIX I
ABBREVIATIONS
Syriac Sources
Ephrem the Syrian: Hymns
CSCO
Corpus Scriptorum Christianorum Orientalium
scr. syr.
Scriptores Syri (Louvain), a series of critical editions (and translations) of
Syriac texts. The volumes listed below were edited by Dom Edmund Beck,
with translations in German (typically the second volume of each numbered
pair in the series).
Abbr.
Hymn Cycle
CSCO vol.
scr. syr.
HdF
Hymns on Faith
154–55
73–74
CH
Hymns against Heresies
169–70
76–77
HdP
Hymns on Paradise
174–75
78–79
CJ
Hymns against Julian
174–75
78–79
Nat.
Hymns on the Nativity
186–87
82–83
Epiph.
Hymns on the Epiphany
186–87
82–83
Eccl.
Hymns on the Church
198–99
84–85
CNis
Hymns on Nisibis
(= Carmina Nisibena)
218–19
240–41
92–93
102–103
Virg.
Hymns on Virginity
223–24
94–95
Ieiun.
Hymns on Fasting
246–47
106–107
Azym.
Hymns on Unleavened Bread
248–49
108–109
Cruc.
Hymns on the Crucifixion
248–49
108–109
Res.
Hymns on the Resurrection
248–49
108–109
Abr.
Hymns on Abraham Qidunaya
322–23
140–41
Ju. Sab.
Hymns on Juliana Saba
322–23
140–41
Other Abbreviations
Abbreviations                                                          269

Aph. Dem.
Demonstrations of Aphrahāṭ
Eph. Hypat.
Ephrem’s Letter to Hypatius
Epiph.
Hymns on the Epiphany
[**332]
SdF
Ephrem’s Sermons on Faith CSCO, vol. 212
Od. Sol.
Odes of Solomon
BLC
Han J. W. Drijvers, trans. 1965. The Book of the Laws of the Countries.
Dialogue on Fate of Bardaisan of Edessa. Semitic Texts with Translations, 3.
Assen.
Works of Ephrem and Other Syriac Sources in English Translation
Harp
Sebastian Brock, trans. 1983. The Harp of the Spirit: Eighteen Poems of
Saint Ephrem. Fellowship of St. Alban and St. Sergius.
HyP
Sebastian Brock, trans. 1990. Hymns on Paradise. Crestwood, NY: St
Vladimir’s Seminary Press.
LumE
Sebastian Brock, trans. 1985a. The Luminous Eye: The Spiritual World of St
Ephrem. Kerala, India: Mar Mathews Press.
McV
Kathleen McVey, trans. 1989. Ephrem the Syrian: Hymns. New York: Paulist
Press.
NPNF
The Nicene and Post-Nicene Fathers of the Christian Church.
SEC
Carmel McCarthy, trans. 1993. Saint Ephrem’s Commentary: An English
Translation of Chester Beatty MS 709 with Introduction and Notes. Journal
of Semitic Studies Supplement, 2. Oxford University Press.
SPW
Joseph P. Amar and Edward G. Mathews, Jr., trans. 1994. St. Ephrem the
Syrian: Selected Prose Works. Edited by Kathleen McVey. The Fathers of the
Church, vol. 91. Washington, D.C.: Catholic University of America Press.
Syriac Studies
BarE
H. J. W. Drijvers. 1966. Bardaiṣanof Edessa. Assen, Netherlands: Van
Gorcum.
HOA
Arthur Vööbus. 1988. History of Asceticism in the Syrian Orient: A
Contribution to the History of Culture in the Near East Vol. III. CSCO 500,
Subsidia 81; Louvain: Corpus Scriptorum Christianorum Orientalium.
HSC
W. Stewart McCullough. 1982. A Short History of Syriac Christianity to the
Rise of Islam. Chico, CA: Scholars Press.
HyP
Sebastian Brock. 1990. Hymns on Paradise. Crestwood, NY: St Vladimir’s
Seminary Press.
Abbreviations

LumE
Sebastian Brock. 1985a. The Luminous Eye: The Spiritual World of St
Ephrem. Kerala, India: Mar Mathews Press.
[**333]
McV
Kathleen McVey, trans. 1989. Ephrem the Syrian: Hymns. New York: Paulist
Press
Motifs
Tryggve Kronholm. 1978a. Motifs from Genesis 1–11 in the Genuine Hymns
of Ephrem the Syrian with particular reference to the influence of Jewish
exegetical tradition. Coniectanea Biblica, Old Testament Series 11. Lund,
Sweden: CWK Gleerup.
SCK
Robert Murray. 1975a. Symbols of Church and Kingdom: A Study in Early
Syriac Tradition. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Aphrahāṭ the Persian Sage
Aph. Dem.
Demonstrations
Bahā’u’llāh: Published Works in Persian and Arabic
AMR
Bahā’u’llāh. 1968. Alwāḥ-i nāzila khiṭāb ba mulūk va rū’asā-yi arż. Tehran:
Mu’asisa-yi Millī-yi Maṭbū‘at-i Amrī, 124 Badī‘ (1967–68). Reprinted.
AKA
Bahā’u’llāh. 1980b. Majmū‘a-yi az Alvāḥ-i Jamāl-i Aqdas-i Abhā ka ba‘d az
Kitāb-i Aqdas Nāzil Shuda. Ed. Ishrāq-Khāvarī. Hofheim-Langenhain:
Bahā’ī-Verlag, 138 Badī‘.
AQA I
Bahā’u’llāh. 1964a. Kitāb-i Mubīn. Āthār-i Qalam-i A‘lá, vol. 1. Tehran:
Mu’asisa-yi Millī-yi Maṭbū‘at-i Amrī, 120 Badī‘ (1963–64).
AQA III
Bahā’u’llāh. 1973. Āthār-i qalam-i a‘lá, vol. III. Tehran: Mu’asisa-yi Millī-yi
Maṭbū‘at-i Amrī, 129 Badī‘ (1972–73). Works revealed in the 1850s and
early 1860s.
AQA IV
Bahā’u’llāh. 1977. Āthār-i qalam-i a‘lá, vol. IV. Tehran: Mu’asisa-yi Millī-yi
Maṭbū‘at-i Amrī, 133 Badī‘ (1976–77).
AQA VI
Bahā’u’llāh. 1978c. Āthār-i qalam-i a‘lá, vol. VI. Tehran: Mu’asisa-yi Millī-
yi Maṭbū‘at-i Amrī, 134 Badī‘ (1977–78).
BP
Bahā’u’llāh. 1991. A Bahá’í Prayers: A Selection of Prayers Revealed by
Bahā’u’llāh, the Bāb, and ‘Abdu’l-Bahā. Wilmette, IL: Bahā’ī Publishing
Trust.
DD
Bahā’u’llāh. 1985c. Daryāy-i Dānish [sic; Daryā-yi Dānish]: Selected from
the Tablets of Bahā’u’llāh. 3rd Indian ed. New Delhi: Bahā’ī Publishing
Trust.
HV
Bahā’u’llāh. Haft Vādī. In Bahā’u’llāh, Āthār-i qalam-i a’lá, vol. III (Tehran:
129 Badī‘ [1972–73]).
Abbreviations                                                          271

ISH
Bahā’u’llāh. 1893b. Alwāḥ-i mubāraka-yi hażrat-i Bahā’ Allāh shāmil-i
Ishrāqāt va chand lawḥ-i dīgar. Ed. Mishkīn-Qalam. Bombay: Nāṣirī Press,
1310 A.H. (1892– 93).
[**334]
IQT
Bahā’u’llāh. 1893a. Iqtidārāt va chand lawḥ-i digar. Ed. Mishkīn-Qalam.
Bombay: Nāṣirī Press, 1310 A.H. (1892–93).
KA
Bahā’u’llāh. al-Kitāb al-Aqdas.
KI
Bahā’u’llāh. 1980c. Kitāb-i-Īqān: Book of Certitude. Hofheim-Langenhain:
Bahā’ī-Verlag, 136 Badī‘ (1980). Reprinted from the original edition, Egypt,
1934.
KM
Bahā’u’llāh. 1983. Kalimāt-i Maknūnih: [sic; Kalimāt-i Maknūna], The
Hidden Words. Trans. Shoghi Effendi. Hofheim-Langenhain: Bahā’ī-Verlag.
MA
Bahā’u’llāh. 1974. Mā’ida-yi āsmānī. 9 vols. Ed. ‘Abd al-Hamīd Ishrāq-
Khāvarī; Tehran: Mu’asisa-yi Millī-yi Maṭbū‘at-i Amrī, 128–29
Badī‘ (1972–74).
MHB
Bahā’u’llāh. 1984a. Mūntakhabātī az Āthār-i Haḍrat-i Bahā’u’llāh.
Hofheim-Langenhain: Bahā’ī-Verlag. Arabic/Persian edition of Gleanings
from the Writings of Bahā’u’llāh.
MMM
Bahā’u’llāh. 1984b. Majmū‘a-yi maṭbū‘a-yi alvāḥ-i mubāraka-yi ḥażrat-i
Bahā’u’llāh. Ed. Muḥyi al-Dīn Ṣabrī. Wilmette: Bahā’ī Publishing Trust
[1978]. Reprinted from the Cairo: Sa‘āda Press, 1338 A.H. [1920] edition.
Bahā’u’llāh: English Translations
BC
Bahā’u’llāh. 1974. The Kitāb-i-Īqān: The Book of Certitude. Trans. Shoghi
Effendi. Wilmette: Bahā’ī Publishing Trust [1931].
ESW
Bahā’u’llāh. 1962. Epistle to the Son of the Wolf. Trans. Shoghi Effendi.
Wilmette: Bahā’ī Publishing Trust [1941].
GT
Glad-Tiding, one of fifteen Glad-Tidings in the Tablet of Glad-Tidings, in
Bahā’u’llāh. 1978a. Tablets of Bahā’u’llāh revealed after the Kitāb-i-Aqdas.
Trans. Habib Taherzadeh. Haifa: Bahā’ī World Centre.
GWB
Bahā’u’llāh. 1969. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahā’u’llāh. Trans.
Shoghi Effendi. Wilmette: Bahā’ī Publishing Trust [1939]
HW
The Hidden Words (English). Bahā’u’llāh. 1929. The Hidden Words of
Bahā’u’llāh. Trans. Shoghi Effendi. Arabic, Persian, English edition.
London: National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahā’īs of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland. Bahā’u’llāh.
HWA
The Hidden Words (Arabic). References to numbered passages. Bahā’u’llāh.
1929.
HWP
The Hidden Words (Persian). References to numbered passages. Bahā’u’llāh.
1929.
Abbreviations

[**335]
K
Kitāb-i Aqdas (followed by paragraph number). Bahā’u’llāh. 1992a. Kitāb-i
Aqdas: The Most Holy Book. Haifa: Bahā’ī World Centre.
PB
Bahā’u’llāh. 1978b. The Proclamation of Bahā’u’llāh to the Kings and
Leaders of the World. Haifa: Bahā’ī World Centre [1967].
PM
Bahā’u’llāh. 1971. Prayers and Meditations. Trans. Shoghi Effendi.
Wilmette: Bahā’ī Publishing Trust [1938].
SV
Bahā’u’llāh. 1986. The Seven Valleys and the Four Valleys. Trans. Marzieh
Gail. Wilmette: Bahā’ī Publishing Trust [1945].
TB
Bahā’u’llāh. 1978a. Tablets of Bahā’u’llāh revealed after the Kitāb-i-Aqdas.
Trans. Habib Taherzadeh. Haifa: Bahā’ī World Centre.
Other Bahā’ī Texts: English Translations
ADJ
Shoghi Effendi. 1971. The Advent of Divine Justice. 3rd ed. Wilmette: Bahā’ī
Publishing Trust.
BR
‘Abdu’l-Bahā and Bahā’u’llāh. 1955. The Bahā’ī Revelation. London:
Bahā’ī Publishing Trust.
DP
‘Abdu’l-Bahā. 1917. ‘Abdu’l-Bahā on Divine Philosophy. Compiled by
Isobel F. Chamberlain. Boston: The Tudor Press.
Family
Bahā’ī Marriage and Family Life (compilation).
GPB
Shoghi Effendi. 1970. God Passes By. Wilmette: Bahā’ī Publishing Trust
[1944].
London
Abdu’l-Bahā in London.
PDC
Shoghi Effendi. 1980. The Promised Day Is Come. Wilmette: Bahā’ī
Publishing Trust [1941].
PT
Abdu’l-Bahā. 1969. Paris Talks: Addresses given by ‘Abdu’l-Bahā in Paris
in 1911–1912.11th ed. London: Bahā’ī Publishing Trust.
PUP
‘Abdu’l-Bahā. 1982. The Promulgation of Universal Peace: Talks Delivered
by ‘Abdu’l-Bahā during His Visit to the United States and Canada in 1912.
Compiled by Howard MacNutt. 2nd edn. Wilmette: Bahā’ī Publishing Trust.
SAQ
‘Abdu’l-Bahā. 1981. Some Answered Questions. Trans. Laura Clifford
Barney. Wilmette: Bahā’ī Publishing Trust [1930].
SDC
‘Abdu’l-Bahā. 1970. The Secret of Divine Civilization. Trans. Marzieh Gail.
Wilmette: Bahā’ī Publishing Trust [1957].
SWAB
‘Abdu’l-Bahā. 1978. Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l- Bahā.
Compiled by the Research Department of the Uni-
[**336]
versal House of Justice. Translated by Marzieh Gail et al. Haifa: Bahā’ī
World Centre.
Abbreviations                                                          273

SWB
Bāb, The. 1976. Selections from the Writings of the Bāb. Trans. Habib
Taherzadeh. Haifa: Bahā’ī World Centre.
TAB
Abdu’l-Bahā. 1930. Tablets of ‘Abdu’l-Bahā Abbās. New York: Bahā’ī
Publishing Committee [1909–1916]: vol. 1.
TN
‘Abdu’l-Bahā. 1891. A Traveller’s Narrative Written to Illustrate the Episode
of the Bab (Maqāla-yi Shakhs-i Sayyāh). Ed. and trans. Edward Granville
Browne. 2 vols. Cambridge University Press.
WOB
Shoghi Effendi. 1974. The World Order of Bahā’u’llāh: Selected Letters of
Shoghi Effendi. 2d. rev. ed. Wilmette: Bahā’ī Publishing Trust.
Women
Universal House of Justice, Women. Wilmette: Bahā’ī Publishing Trust,
1980.
Bahā’ī Studies
BBD
Momen, Wendi, ed. 1989. A Basic Bahā’ī Dictionary. Oxford: George
Ronald.
RB
Taherzadeh, Adib. 1974–87. The Revelation of Bahā’u’llāh. Oxford: George
Ronald. 4. vols.
Other Abbreviations
AA
Fāżil Māzandarānī, Asrār al-Āthār-i Khuṣūṣī.
CB1
‘Aṭṭār, Farīd al-Dīn. The Conference of the Birds. Trans. Afkham Darbandi
and Dick Davis. Harmondsworth: Penguin, 1984.
CB2
Farīd al-Dīn ‘Aṭṭār. 1974. The Conference of the Birds: a philosophical
religious poem in prose (rendered into English from the literal and complete
French translation of Garcin de Tassy by C. S. Nott). London: Routledge and
Kegan Paul [1954].
EI2
Encyclopaedia of Islam. New edition. Leiden: E. J. Brill.
EIr
Encyclopaedia Iranica. Ed. Ehsan Yarshater. Boston: Routledge and Kegan
Paul; Costa Mesa, Ca.: Mazda, 1984–.
MT
Aṭṭār, Farīd al-Dīn. 1962. Manṭiq al-Ṭayr. Persian edition: Dr. M. J.
Mashkur, ed. 1962. Matiq ut-Tair. A philosophical and mystical poem in
Persian language. Edited from the oldest Manuscripts with introduction,
critical notes, and appendices [sic, English title page]. 2nd ed. Tehran.
PED
Steingass, F. 1977 [1892]. Persian-English Dictionary. London: Routledge
and Kegan Paul.
QS
Wansbrough, John. 1977. Quranic Studies: Sources and
[**337]
Methods of Scriptural Interpretation. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
SM
Wansbrough, John. 1978. The Sectarian Milieu: Content and Composition of
Islamic Salvation History. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Abbreviations

n.
note
p.c.
personal communication
[**338]
Abbreviations                                                          275

[**339]
APPENDIX II
SYRIAC TRANSLITERATION SCHEME
CONSONANTS
Letter
Symbol
Alone
Final
Medial
Initial
Arabic
‘Ālap
’
Bēṯ
b or bh or ḇ•
Gāmal
g or gh or ġ•
Dālaṯ
d or dh or ḏ•
Hē
h
Wāw
w
Zay(n)
z
Hēṯ
ḥ
Ṭēṯ
ṭ
Yō/ūḏ
y
Kāp
k or kh or ḵ•
Lāmaḏ
l
Mīm
m
Nūn
n
Semkaṯ
s
‘Ē
‘
Pē
p or ph or p•
Ṣādē
ṣ or č
Qōp
q or ḳ
Rēś
r
Šīn
š
Tāw
t or th or ṯ•
Legend: • Spirantization of plosive consonants marked in Syriac by a dot below the letter
(rukkākā). Non-spirantized b, g, d, k, p, t are marked by dot above (quššāyā). •• Indicates
Persian equivalent, absent in Arabic.
Table by Christopher Buck.
Syriac Transliteration Scheme                                        277

[**340] [**341]
APPENDIX III
ARABIC/PERSIAN TRANSLITERATION SCHEME
Consonants
Arabic
Persian
Alternatives/Exceptions
ء ‘
‘
Except when initial, when only the vowel
“carried” is written.
بb
b
پp
تt
t
ثth or ṯ
ś
جj or ǰ
j or ǰ
چch or č
حḥ
ḥ
خkh or ḵ
kh or ḵ
دd
d
ذdh or ḏ
ẕ
رr
r
زz
z
ژzh or ž
سs
s
شsh or š
sh or š
صṣ
ṣ
ضḍ
ż
طṭ
ṭ
ظẓ
ẓ
ع‘
‘
غgh or ġ
gh or ġ
Arabic/Persian Transliteration Scheme

فf
f
قq
q
کk
k
گg
لl
l
مm
m
Or “ṃ” when preceding ب .
نn
n
هh
h
[**342]
Consonants
Arabic
Persian
Alternatives/Exceptions
وw
v / u / w
Persian, equivalent to Arabic و .
یy
y
Semi-vowel, as above. See vowels (below).
ة-a
In construct state (-at).
الal or ’l
al or ’l
Disregards antero-palatals (“sun” letters).
Vowels Long
Arabic
Persian
آā
ā
ؤū
ū
يī
ī
Other Vowels
ئá
á
Alif maqṣūra (“dagger alif”).
Otiose Vāv
خوkhẉ or ṿ
Doubled
With tashdīd (germination).
Arabic/Persian Transliteration Scheme                                279

ّ
tashdīd
-iyy
Or -īy. Final form ī.
-uww
Or -ūw Final form ū.
Diphthongs
َﻭوau or aw
au or aw
َﯼیai or ay
ai or ay
Short Vowels
َ | ﺃأa
a
ِ | ﺇإi
i
ُ |ُﺍاu
u
[**343]
Consonants
Arabic
Persian
Alternatives/Exceptions
Nunation
End-vowels—seldom in transliterated.
ً | ﺃأan
Not represented.
ٍ | ﺇإin
Not represented.
ٌ | ٌﺍاun
Not represented.
*Adapted from the International Journal of Middle East Studies transliteration convention
(with additions and remarks by the author).
[**344]
Arabic/Persian Transliteration Scheme

Arabic/Persian Transliteration Scheme                                281

[**345]
APPENDIX IV
FRAGMENTS OF A LOST PERSIAN CHRISTIAN LITURGY
Preserved in the literary amber of the East Syrian Ḥūḏrā are four fragments from a lost
Persian Christian liturgy, “discovered” by F. C. Conybeare, described by Arthur John
Maclean, and translated by D. S. Margoliouth (see below). The Ḥūḏrā (“Cycle”)—
traditionally but erroneously—is ascribed to Ephrem (Maclean 1905, 367–68). Conybeare
discovered the Persian liturgy in a thirteenth-century manuscript of the Ḥūḏrā.
Macomber (1970) has made a list of known manuscripts of the Ḥūḏrā. The compilation
of the Ḥūḏrā is traditionally ascribed to the Catholicós Patriarch Išo‘yahb III (649–659 C.E.)
and his collaborator, the monk ‘Enanišo‘ of Adiabene (ibid., 120–21) in the year 650/651
C.E. During the last century, the original manuscript of the Ḥūḏrā is alleged to have been
sold to Russia by a Nestorian priest, but its whereabouts are unknown (Pudichery 1972, 4, n.
12). The theological value of the Ḥūḏrā for the study of East Syrian spirituality is second
only to the Persian Synods (ibid., 121–22). True as this is in terms of a formalized theology,
the service of the Ḥūḏrā may in fact be a truer reflection of popular theology, as Macomber
is careful to point out: “The writings of theologians may provide an intellectually better
articulated and reasoned exposition of this theology, but it is one that is far removed from
the living consciousness of the ordinary clergy and faithful. The liturgical chants, on the
other hand, have had a direct, formative influence on all capable of understanding them and
have had in some ways the same role in the Chaldean Church that catechisms have had in
the West” (ibid., 122). There are both Nestorian and Chaldean (expurgated—that is, all
overtly Nestorian passages having been removed) versions of the Ḥūḏrā (ibid., 120, n. 2).
His Grace Mar Emmanuel, Diocesan Bishop of the Holy Apostolic Catholic Assyrian
Church of the East, Diocese of Canada, cites the late Chaldean bishop Jacques Eugene
Manna (1982), who wrote: “He [Ephrem] is the Father and founder of all eastern and
western Syrian Church rites. All hymns and madrāshē, of the book of ’Nidē (Funeral
[**346] service book) are attributed to him. All madrāshē for the entire ecclesiastical year in
the book of Ḥūḏrā belong to him, and many hymns of praise” (trans. Bishop Mar
Emmanuel, p.c., 25 March 1996 [page in Manna not cited]). This honorific ascription to
Ephrem notwithstanding, it is evident to any reader that the Ḥūḏrā itself is a compilation
from a variety of named sources.
The text of the lost Persian Christian liturgy is embedded in the Feast of Epiphany,
midnight office. I first learned of this text in Nov. 1992 from His Grace Mar Emmanuel, and
later from Bishop Mar Bawai Soro (p.c., 1 April 1996). His Grace Mar Emmanuel provided
me with this text in a letter dated 25 March 1996, as did Bishop Soro, in a letter dated 2
April 1996, Rome. Margoliouth’s translation is worked into Maclean’s rendering of the
Syriac liturgy known as “The Night Service”—“Of the Holy Feast of the Epiphany of Our
Lord,” found in a Syriac Gazza (“Treasury”—Syriac Codex, no. I, in the Library of the
Fragments of a Lost Persian Christian Liturgy

Propaganda, Piazza di Spagna, Rome)—a compilation that contains excerpts from various
liturgies, including the Ḥūḏrā. Following this night service, bearing the four Persian verses
interpolated in the Syriac text, is a morning service, which contains a “Hymn of Praise, by
Mar Ephraim, the Syrian doctor” (of undetermined authenticity), followed by another such
hymn by “Mar Narsai” (Maclean 1905, 382–83).
Maclean gives a brief description of the four Persian fragments and then quotes
Margoliouth: “the four interpolated stanzas here underlined are in an old Persian dialect in
Syriac character; but the text is somewhat corrupt. Professor Margoliouth, who has
translated them, writes as follows: ‘I have no doubt that the verses are ancient, and that they
are corrupt. The metre is apparently:bahár suá nigāh kardám, i.e. eight syllables; where it is
violated, the sense is also unsatisfactory. There are no Arabic words in the lines, and this
seems to me to be a proof of high antiquity. If they belong to the dialect of the Christians in
Persia before the Mohammedan conquest they possess an almost unique interest’” (1905,
367–68, note c).
Both transliterated text and translation of this rather unique literary fossil are given
below. Added to the Turf an Psalter and related texts in Middle Persian, these fragments—in
a dialect of New Persian—provide further evidence of an indigenous Iranian Christian
heritage, in which ethnic Persian converts comprised the most visible minority in the East
Syrian Church of the East.
The following transliteration is based on my reading of the Syriac text of the Ḥūḏrā, Vol.
1, pp. 639–40 (Indian edition, 1960), in consultation with His Grace Bishop Mar
Emmanuel, and Prof. Edward G. Mathews, who points out that there is, so far, no standard
transliteration convention for Syriac (p.c., 1 May 1996). Text and translation are arranged in
columns to facilitate comparison:
Fragments of a Lost Persian Christian Liturgy                              283

[**347]

Transliteration
Margoliouth’s Translation
(1)
Ba-hār swe’ nīgāh kardām.
I looked to every side:
Dīdāmdī ’estōrā’.
I saw that security for ever:
Paywastā’ betarsāyī.
is to him who holds:
Dinē’ pāk mešīḥā’.
the pure religion of Christ.
(2)
Marwārī mē’kari.
Eat not, hand not over:
Meprōšī zekān kōnī.
Sell not, slander not:
Rāhē’ rast bē’gērī
take the right way:
Dinē’ pāk mešīḥā’ rāh.
the pure religion of Christ.
(3)
Mešīḥā’ rāh dōstā’rām.
Christ I take for my friend:
Rōs meggō nīgāh dārām.
the good I guard:
’Azqō zendōḥ be’zārām.
henceforth I live in God:
Dīnē’ pāk mešīḥā’ rāh.
the pure religion of Christ.
(4)
Bešem ’abbā’ wabrā’yī
In the name of the Father and the Son:
Weruḥqudšā’ ‘mādā’yī.
and the Holy Ghost thou art baptized*:
Tāw qāddeš tarsā’yī
thou, O Holy One, art a Christian**:
Wetāwbāmā bakšā’yī.
and thou give unto us (baptism?).
(Trans. Margoliouth, in Maclean 1905, 367–68.)
* “or thou art come.—Our Lord seems to be addressed” (ibid., 368, note a.)
** “The ordinary Persian word for a Christian; lit. [God-]fearing” (ibid., note b).

This translation differs slightly from Margoliouth’s previous one published two years
prior in the Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society. There, these four fragments are interpreted
as follows: “(1) I looked to every side: I saw that security is bound up with Christianity. The
pure religion is Christ’s. (2) Thou eatest, thou buyest, thou sellest, thou revilest, thou takest
[not?] the right way. The pure religion is Christ’s. (3) I am the friend of Christ. Bid me fear
no-one [sic]. I remove trouble from the road. The pure religion is Christ’s. (4) Thou art
baptized in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Ghost: Thou art holy, a
Christian: And thou dost bestow on us” (1903, 768–70).
Fragments of a Lost Persian Christian Liturgy

Epiphany is a major Christian festival. It is celebrated on Janu- [**348] ary 6th, the
traditional date of Christmas now observed throughout the Eastern Christian traditions. On
this date, Ephrem writes: “The number six is also perfect;/on the sixth of January Your birth
gave joy to the six directions” (Nat. XXVII.3, McV 211). In the Eastern Church, Epiphany
recalls Christ’s baptism in the river Jordan. In the Western Church, however, Epiphany
commemorates the revelation of Christ to the Gentiles, in the homage of the Magi. Ephrem
himself speaks of the Magi: “Fire approved of Your birth to drive worship away by it./The
Magi used to worship [fire]—they worshipped You!” (Nat. XXII.13, McV 181; cf. Nat.
XXIV.4–15, and CJ II.22–27). In the Syriac liturgy translated by Maclean, the Wise Men are
explicitly related to Persia and to Zoroaster: “And he sent a star: to Persia, and called the
Wise men: and guided them by its light: until it stood over the cave. • And the Wise men
came: honoured men and chiefs: twelve sons of noble kings: who brought consecrated
offerings. • Gold and myrrh: and frankincense as for the honour: of the King who was
wondrously born: of a virgin whom man had not known. • They opened their treasures: and
offered to him their offerings: as they were commanded by their Teacher: Zoroaster, who
prophesied to them.” (1905, 350). The earliest Christian traditions that explicitly ascribe the
visit of the Magi as a response to a prophecy by Zoroaster appear to have originated in
Persia. Anchoring the Epiphany service in a Persian context still does little to soften the
impact of a sudden and remarkable intrusion of Persian in a Syriac liturgy.
The canon for this service is a passage from the “Song of Moses” (Deut. 32:21b–43).
The scripture immediately preceding the first interpolated Persian verse is Deut. 33:40b–
41a: “I said, I live for ever: I will whet the edge of my sword like lightning.” Following the
first Persian verse, Deut. 33:41b is cited. After the second Persian verse, Deut. 33:42a is
intoned: “And I will deliver up mine adversaries: I will make mine arrows drunk with
blood.” At the end of the third Persian verse, Deut. 33:43a is given. Finally, after the fourth
Persian verse, the final words of Moses in the “Song of Moses” are recited. The biblical
context is clearly that of vengeance on enemies. This is possibly an allusion to persecutions
of Christians by Zoroastrians. In any case, this Persian liturgy is obviously the product of a
minority.
One possible Zoroastrian element might be inferred from references to the “Pure
Religion” (NP: dīn-i pāk) of Christ, recalling the “Good Religion” (MP: weh-dēn) of
Zarathuštra (Shaked 1994, 157 and 160; Williams 1996, 45). Zoroastrianism, after all, had
opposed the “Good Religion” (weh-dēn) to the “Evil Religion” (ag-dēn). In exchanges of
deprecations that reinforce boundaries, the designation of Persian Christianity as the “Pure
Religion” would polemically imply that Zoroastrianism was seen as the “Impure Religion.”
The text in stanza 2, line 3, must certainly be: “Take the right [or, [**349] true]
path” (rāh-i rāst bigīrī). It is an attested Zoroastrian Middle Persian expression, as in the
Greater Bundahišn XXVI:12–18: “A man in whose thinking the wisdom of Wahman
resides, that wise spirit shows him the right way (rāh-i rāst). Through the right way (rāh-i
rāst) he knows the will of the Creator. By performing the will of the Creator he increases
and proclaims him who will cause the Resurrection through the goodness of the
Renovation” (Shaked 1994, 66 [translation] and n. 43 [transliteration]). Stanza 3, line 3
could be of critical importance for the interpretation of these four passages, if it could be
read as a formula for the abjuration of Zoroastrianism.
Fragments of a Lost Persian Christian Liturgy                              285

This interpretation, based on resonances with Zoroastrian sources, is problematic due to
the dating of the text. The presence of rhyme is telling. There is, in fact, no attestation of
rhyme in Middle Persian or New Persian prior to the ninth century. (For exemplars of New
Persian from ninth and tenth centuries, see Lazard 1964 [in Persian], although the dating of
some of these specimens is doubtful [Lynda Clarke, University of Pennsylvania, p.c. 15
April 1996].) A key piece of evidence for a later dating based on the presence of rhyme
comes from the tenth-century writer Ḥamza al-Iṣfāhānī, speaking of Persian poetry, reports:
“These are poems all composed in a single metre (tajī’u ‘alā baḥrin wāḥidin) which is
similar to rajaz. They resemble Arabic verse by the fact that they are composed in regular
metres (wa-hiya munāsiba li-l-aš‘ār al-‘arabīya bi-stiwā’i l-awzān) but they differ from it
by the fact that they have no rhyme” (Shaked 1970, 405). Such considerations cannot be
reconciled with the date which the East Syrian tradition itself assigns. But the fact that the
Ḥūḏrā is traditionally dated in the year 650/651 C.E. makes the study of these remnants of a
lost Persian Christian liturgy all the more intriguing.
[**350]
Fragments of a Lost Persian Christian Liturgy

[**351]

WORKS CITED

‘Abdu’l-Bahā. 1984. Khiṭābāt: Talks of ‘Abdu’l-Bahā. Reprint of 3 volumes of the original
edition printed in Egypt 99 B.E. (1942–43), 1340 A.H. (1921) and Tehran, 127 B.E.
(1970–71). Hofheim-Langenhain: Bahā’ī-Verlag.
———. 1983. Al-Nūr al-Abhā fī Mufāwaḍāt ‘Abd al-Bahā. New Delhi: Bahā’ī Publishing
Trust of India.
———. 1982. The Promulgation of Universal Peace: Talks Delivered by ‘Abdu’l-Bahā
during His Visit to the United States and Canada in 1912. Compiled by Howard
MacNutt. 2d edn. Wilmette: Bahā’ī Publishing Trust.
———. 1981. Some Answered Questions. Trans. Laura Clifford Barney. Wilmette: Bahā’ī
Publishing Trust [1930].
———. 1978. Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahā. Compiled by the Research
Department of the Universal House of Justice. Translated by Marzieh Gail et al. Haifa:
Bahā’ī World Centre.
———. 1970. The Secret of Divine Civilization. Trans. Marzieh Gail. Wilmette: Bahā’ī
Publishing Trust [1957].
———. 1969. Paris Talks: Addresses Given by ‘Abdu’l-Bahā in Paris in 1911–1912. 11th
edn. London: Bahā’ī Publishing Trust.
———. 1930. Tablets of ‘Abdu’l-Bahā Abbās. New York: Bahā’ī Publishing Committee
[1909–1916]: vol. 1.
———. 1917. ‘Abdu’l-Bahā on Divine Philosophy. Compiled by Isobel F. Chamberlain.
Boston: Tudor Press.
———. 1891. A Traveller’s Narrative Written to Illustrate the Episode of the Bab (Maqāla-
yi Shakhs-i Sayyāḥ). Ed. and trans. Edward Granville Browne. 2 vols. Cambridge
University Press.
‘Abdu’l-Bahā and Bahā’u’llāh. 1955. The Bahā’ī Revelation. London: Bahā’ī Publishing
Trust.
AbouZayd, Shafiq. 1993. Iḥidayutha: A Study in the Life of Singleness in the Syrian Orient.
From Ignatius of Antioch to Chalcedon 451 A.D. Oxford: ARAM Society for Syro-
Mesopotamian Studies.
Adeney, Walter F. 1965. The Greek and Eastern Churches. Clifton, N.J.: Reference Book
Publishers.
Alderink, Larry. 1992. “Introduction: Critique and Construction in [**352] Jonathan Z.
Smith’s Drudgery Divine.” In Numen 39.2:217–19.
Algar, Hamid. 1973. Mīrzā Malkum Khān: A Study in the History of Iranian Modernism.
Berkeley: University of California Press.
Works Cited                                                       287

Amanat, Abbas. 1989. Resurrection and Renewal: The Making of the Babi Movement in
Iran, 1844–1850. Ithaca and London: Cornell University Press.
———. 1984. Review of Mangol Bayat, Mysticism and Dissent. Iranian Studies 17: 467–
75.
Amar, Joseph P., and Edward G. Mathews, Jr., trans. 1994. St. Ephrem the Syrian: Selected
Prose Works. Edited by Kathleen McVey. The Fathers of the Church, vol. 91.
Washington, D.C.: Catholic University of America Press.
Andrae, Tor. 1932. Mohammed, sein Leben und Glaube. Göttingen.
Anonymous. 1993. “Bahā’ī Archives: Preserving and Safeguarding the Sacred Texts.”
‘Andalīb [Nightingale] 12 (no. 48): 48–49.
———. 1982. “John of Deylam.” Encyclopaedia Iranica 7: 336. Article printed on last
page of fascicle 3 bears no author.
Armajani, Yahya. 1982. “Christian Missions in Persia.” In Encyclopaedia Iranica, 5:544–
47.
Ashby, G. 1984. “The Hermeneutic Approach of Theodoret of Cyrrhus to the Old
Testament.” Studia Patristica 15: 131–35.
Asmussen, J. P. 1983. “Christians in Iran.” In The Cambridge History of Iran (Yarshater
1983), Chapter 25, 924–48.
———. 1982. “Afrahāṭ.” In Encyclopaedia Iranica, 1:570.
Astour, M. 1964. “Greek Names in the Semitic World and Semitic Names in the Greek
World.” Journal of Near Eastern Studies 23 (1964).
‘Aṭṭār, Farīd al-Dīn. 1984. The Conference of the Birds. Trans. Afkham Darbandi and Dick
Davis. Harmondsworth: Penguin.
‘Aṭṭār, Farīd al-Dīn. 1962. Mantiq al-Ṭayr. Persian edition. Dr. M. J. Mashkur, ed. English
title page: Mantiq ut-Tair: A philosophical and mystical poem in Persian language[.]
Edited from the oldest Manuscripts with introduction[,] critical notes and appendices
[sic]. 2d. edn. Tehran.
Awn, Peter J. 1987. “Sufism.” In Eliade 1987, 14: 104–23.
Baarda, T. 1962. “A Syriac Fragment of Mar Ephraem’s Commentary on the Diatessaron.”
New Testament Studies 8: 287–300.
Bāb, The. 1976. Selections From the Writings of the Bāb. Trans. Habib Taherzadeh. Haifa:
Bahā’ī World Centre.
Bahā’u’llāh. 1992a. Kitāb-i-Aqdas: The Most Holy Book. Haifa: Bahā’ī World Centre.
———. 1992b. Kitāb-i Badī‘. Reprinted from the facsimile edition (Tehran, n.d.) of a MS
dated 26 Badí‘ [Bahā’ī Era = 1870 A.D.] in the hand of Zayn al-Muqarrabīn. Prague:
Zero Palm Press.
———. 1986–90. La’ālī al-Ḥikma. Edited by Vahid Behmardi. [**353] Three vols. Sao
Paulo: Editora Bahā’ī-Brasil.
———. 1986. The Seven Valleys and The Four Valleys. Trans. Marzieh Gail. Wilmette:
Bahā’ī Publishing Trust [1945].
———. 1985a. “Tablet of the Holy Mariner.” In Bahā’ī Prayers: A Selection of Prayers
revealed by Bahā’u’llāh, the Bāb, and ‘Abdu’l-Bahā. Wilmette: Bahā’ī Publishing
Trust (1954): 221–29.
Works Cited

———. 1985b. The Fire Tablet and Tablet of the Holy Mariner. Arabic, Persian, and
English. Hofheim-Langenhain: Bahā’ī-Verlag.
———. 1985c. Daryāy-i-Dānish [sic]: Selected from the Tablets of Bahā’u’llāh. 3d Indian
edn. New Delhi: Bahā’ī Publishing Trust.
———. 1985d. “Tablet of Aḥmad.” In Bahā’ī Prayers: A Selection of Prayers Revealed by
Bahā’u’llāh, the Bāb, and ‘Abdu’l-Bahā. Wilmette: Bahā’ī Publishing Trust [1954]:
209–13.
———. 1984a. Mūntakhabātī az Āthār-i Ḥażrat-i Bahā’u’llāh. Hofheim-Langenhain:
Bahā’ī-Verlag.
———. 1984b. Majmū‘a-yi maṭbū‘a-yi alvāḥ-i mubāraka-yi ḥażrat-i Bahā’u’llāh. Ed.
Muḥyi al-Dīn Ṣabrī. Wilmette: Bahā’ī Publishing Trust [1978]. Reprinted from the
Cairo: Sa‘āda Press, 1338 A.H. [1920] edition.
———. 1983. Kalimāt-i-Maknūnih [sic], The Hidden Words. Trans. Shoghi Effendi.
Hofheim-Langenhain: Bahā’ī Verlag.
———. 1981. “Tablets of the Hair.” Universal House of Justice, trans. Authorized,
unpublished translation.
———. 1980a. Ad‘īyyih-i Ḥaḍrat-i Maḥbūb: Prayers of Bahā’u’llāh. Frankfurt: Bahā’ī
Verlag, 136 Badī‘ (1980). Facsimile of the Egyptian 1339 A.H. edition.
———. 1980b. Majmū‘a-yi az Alvāḥ-i Jamāl-i Aqdas-i Abhā ka ba‘d az Kitāb-i Aqdas
Nāzil Shuda. Ed. Ishrāq-Khāvarī. Hofheim-Langenhain: Bahā’ī-Verlag, 138
Badī‘ (1980).
———. 1980c. Kitāb-i-Īqān: Book of Certitude. Hofheim-Langenhain: Bahā’ī Verlag, 136
Badī‘ (1980). Reprinted from the original edition, Egypt, 1934.
———. 1978a. Tablets of Bahā’u’llāh Revealed after the Kitāb-i-Aqdas. Trans. Habib
Taherzadeh. Haifa: Bahā’ī World Centre.
———. 1978b. The Proclamation of Bahā’u’llāh to the Kings and Leaders of the World.
Haifa: Bahā’ī World Centre [1967].
———. 1978c. Āthār-i qalam-i a‘lá, vol. VI. Tehran: Mu’asisa-yi Millī-yi Maṭbū‘at-i Amrī,
134 Badī‘ (1977–78).
———. 1977. Āthār-i qalam-i a‘lá, vol. IV. Tehran: Mu’asisa-yi Millī-yi Maṭbū‘at-i Amrī,
133 Badí‘ (1976–77).
———. 1976. Majmū‘i-yi alvāḥ-i mubāraka-yi Ḥażrat-i Bahā’u’llāh. Tehran: Mu’asisa-yi
Millī-yi Maṭbū‘at-i Amrī, 132 Badī‘/1304 A.H. (1976). Photo-offset of a manuscript in
the hand of ‘Alī Ashraf Lāhijānī, “‘ Andalīb.”
———. 1974. The Kitāb-i-Īqān: The Book of Certitude. Trans. [**354] Shoghi Effendi.
Wilmette: Bahā’ī Publishing Trust [1931].
———. 1974. Mā’ida-yi āsmānī. 9 vols. Ed. ‘Abd al-Hamīd Ishrāq-Khāvarī; Tehran:
Mu’asisa-yi Millī-yi Maṭbū‘at-i Amrī, 128–29 Badī‘ (1972–74).
———. 1973. Āthār-i qalam-i a‘lá. Vol. III. Tehran: Mu’asisa-yi Millī-yi Maṭbū‘at-i Amrī,
129 Badī‘ (1972–73).
———. 1971. Prayers and Meditations. Trans. Shoghi Effendi. Wilmette: Bahā’ī
Publishing Trust [1938].
Works Cited                                                       289

———. 1969. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahā’u’llāh. Trans. Shoghi Effendi.
Wilmette: Bahā’ī Publishing Trust [1939].
———. 1968. Alwāḥ-i nāzila khaṭāb ba mulūk va ru’asā-yi arż. Tehran: Mu’asisa-yi Millī-
yi Maṭbū‘at-i Amrī, 124 Badī‘ (1967–68).
———. 1964a. Kitāb-i Mubīn. Āthār-i Qalam-i A‘lā, vol. 1. Tehran: Mu’asisa-yi Millī-yi
Maṭbū‘at-i Amrī, 120 Badī‘ (1963–64).
———. 1962. Epistle to the Son of the Wolf. Trans. Shoghi Effendi. Wilmette: Bahā’ī
Publishing Trust [1941].
———. 1929. The Hidden Words of Bahā’u’llāh. Trans. Shoghi Effendi. Arabic, Persian,
English edition. London: National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahā’īs of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland.
———. 1928a. “Tablet to the Queen.” In Holley 1928, 111–15.
———. 1922. “‘Song of the Holy Mariner.’ Revealed by His Holiness Baha’ullah” [sic].
Trans. Shoghi Effendi. Star of the West 13.4 (May 17, 1922): 75–77. Translation
received in April 1922.
———. 1904a. The Book of Ighan. Trans. Ali Kuli Khan, assisted by Howard MacNutt.
New York: George V. Blackburne.
———. 1904b. Le Livre de la Certitude. Trans. H[ippolyte] Dreyfus and Mirza Habib-
Ullah Chirazi (Mīrzā Habību’llāh Shīrāzī). Paris: E. Leroux.
———. 1900. Kitāb-i Īqān. Cairo: Mawsū‘āt Publishers.
———. 1893a. Iqtidārāt va chand lawḥ-i digar, Ed. Mishkīn-Qalam. Bombay: Nāṣirī
Press, 1310 A.H. (1892–93).
———. 1893b. Alwāḥ-i mubāraka-yi hażrat-i Bahā’Allāh shāmil-i Ishrāqāt wa chand
lawḥ-i dīgar. Ed. Mishkīn-Qalam. Bombay: Nāṣirī Press, 1310 A.H. (1892–93).
———. n.d. Lawḥ al-ẓuhūr. Bahā’ī World Centre. Archives MS. [**355] under catalogue
number AB 201.
Bahā’u’llāh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahā. 1928b. Bahā’ī Scriptures: Selections from the Utterances of
Bahā’u’llāh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahā. Ed. Horace Holley. New York: Bahā’ī Publishing
Committee.
———. 1955. The Bahā’ī Revelation. London: Bahā’ī Publishing Trust.
Bahā’u’llāh, ‘Abdu’l-Bahā, Shoghi Effendi. 1964b. Mā’ida-yi āsmānī. Tehran: Mu’asisa-yi
Millī-yi Maṭbū‘at-i Amrī, 1963–64. Nine vols.
Baldick, Julian. 1989. Mystical Islam: An Introduction to Sufism. London: I. B. Tauris and
Co.
Balyuzi, Hasan M. 1980. Bahā’u’llāh: The King of Glory. Oxford: George Ronald.
Barnard, L. 1984. “The Authenticity of Athenagoras’ De Resurrectione.” Studia Patristica
15: 39–49.
Bausani, Alessandro. 1979. “Some Aspects of the Bahā’ī Expressive Style.” World Order
13.2:36–43.
———. 1971. The Persians: From the Earliest Days to the Twentieth Century. Trans. from
the Italian by J. B. Donne. London: Elek Books Ltd.
Works Cited

———. 1963. “Can Monotheism Be Taught? (Further Considerations on the Typology of
Monotheism).” Numen 10: 167–210.
Bayat, Mangol. 1982. Mysticism and Dissent: Socioreligious Thought in Qajar Iran.
Syracuse University Press.
Beck, Edmund. 1986. “Besrā (sarx) und pagrā (sōma) bei Ephräm dem Syrer.” Oriens
Christianus 70: 1–22.
———. 1982. “Zur Terminologie von Ephraems Bildtheologie.” In Schmidt and Geyer
1982, 239–77.
———. 1981. “Das Bild vom Weg mit Meilensteinen und Herbergen bei Ephraem.” Oriens
Christianus 65: 1–39.
———. 1977. “Die zwie Paradoxa des Glaubens bei Ephräm.” In Fischer 1977, 169–75.
———. 1974. “Ephraems Brief an Hypatios.” Übersetz und erklärt von E. Beck. Oriens
Christianus 58: 76–120.
———. 1961. “Les houris du Coran et Éphrem le Syrien.” Mélanges de l’Institut
Dominicain d’Études Orientales du Caire 6 (1959–61): 405–408. Repr. Paret 1975,
183–87.
———. 1958. “Symbolum-Mysterium bei Aphraat und Ephräm.” Oriens Christianus
42:19–40.
———. 1953. “Das Bild vom Spiegel bei Ephräm.” Orientalia Christiana Periodica 19: 5–
24.
———. 1951. Ephraems Hymnen über das Paradies: Übersetzung und Kommentar. Studia
Anselmiana 26. Rome.
———. 1948. “Eine christliche Parallele zu den Paradiesesjungfrauen des Korans?”
Orientalia Christiana Periodica 14: 398–405.
Beggiani, Seely. 1983. Early Syriac Theology, With Special Reference to the Maronite
Tradition. Lanham: University Press of America.
Behmardi, Vahid, ed. 1986–90. La’ālī al-Ḥikma. Three vols. Sao Paulo: Editora Bahā’ī-
Brasil.
Berardino, Angelo Di, ed. 1992. Encyclopedia of the Early Church. Oxford University
Press. [**356]
Bevan, E. A., and F. C. Burkitt, eds. and trans. 1921. S. Ephraim’s Prose Refutations of
Mānī, Marcion, and Bardaisan. Vol. 2. London: Text and Translation Society.
Beyer, Peter. 1994. Religion and Globalization. London: Sage.
Bianchi, U. et al., eds. 1972. Problems and Methods of the History of Religions. Leiden: E.J.
Brill.
Bishop, Peter, and Michael Darton, eds. 1990. The Encyclopedia of World Faiths: An
Illustrated Survey of the World’s Living Religions. Facts on File Publications.
Black, Max. 1962. Models and Metaphors: Studies in Language and Philosophy. Ithaca:
Cornell University Press.
Bleeker, C. J. 1979. “Commentary.” In Honko 1979, 173–77.
———. 1972. “The Contribution of the Phenomenology of Religion to the Study of the
History of Religions.” In Bianchi 1972, 35–54.
Works Cited                                                       291

Bloch, M. 1970. “Two Strategies of Comparison.” In Comparative Perspectives: Theories
and Methods. Edited by A. Etzioni and F. Dubow. Boston.
Bock, K. 1966. “The Comparative Method of Anthropology.” Comparative Studies in
Society and History 8 (1965/66): 269–80.
Bondi, R. 1985. “The Spirituality of Syriac-speaking Christians.” In McGinn 1985, 152–61.
Botha, P. 1989. “Christology and Apology in Ephrem the Syrian” Hervormde Teologiese
Studies 45.1:19–29.
———. 1988. “Antithesis and Argument in the Hymns of Ephrem the Syrian” Hervormde
Teologiese Studies 44: 581–95.
Bou Mansour, T. 1988. La Pensée symbolique de saint Éphrem le Syrien. Bibliothèque de
l’Université Saint-Esprit, 14. Kaslik, Lebanon: Université Saint-Esprit.
———. 1984. “La défense éphrémienne de la liberté contre les doctrines marcionite,
bardesanite et manichéenne.” Orientalia Christiana Periodica 50: 331–46.
Bowman, J. 1974. “The Sassanian Church in the Khārg Island.” Acta Iranica 1:217–20.
Boyce, Mary. 1983. “Iranian Festivals.” In Yarshater 1983, 792–815.
———. 1975. Reader in Manichaean Middle Persian and Parthian. Acta Iranica, 9. Tehran
and Liege.
———. 1968. “The Manichaean Literature in Middle Iranian.” Handbuch der Orientalistik
2, Literatur, Lfg. 1. Leiden: E.J. Brill.
Boyce, Mary and Ilya Gershevitch, eds. 1970. W. B. Henning Memorial Volume. London:
Lund Humphries.
Boyd, Richard. 1979. “Metaphor and Theory Change: What is ‘Metaphor’ a Metaphor for?”
In Ortony 1979, 356–408.
Braun, O. 1900. Das Buch der Synhados oder Synodicon Orientale. [**357] Stuttgart/Wien.
Repr. Amsterdam, 1975.
Brock, Sebastian, trans. 1990. Hymns on Paradise. Crestwood, N.Y.: St Vladimir’s
Seminary Press.
———. 1996. “The ‘Nestorian’ Church: A Lamentable Misnomer.” Bulletin of the John
Rylands University Library of Manchester 78.3:23–35.
———. 1994. “The Church of the East in the Sasanian Empire Up to the Sixth Century and
Its Absence from the Councils in the Roman Empire.” In Stirnemann and Wilflinger
1994, 69–85.
———. 1992. Studies in Syriac Christianity: History, Literature and Theology. Aldershot,
Hampshire: Variorum.
———. 1987. The Syriac Fathers on Prayer and the Spiritual Life. Kalamazoo, Michigan:
Cistercian Publications.
———. 1985a. The Luminous Eye: The Spiritual World of St Ephrem. Kerala, India: Mar
Mathews Press.
———. 1985b. “Syriac and Greek Hymnography: Problems of Origins.” Studia Patristica
16: 77–81.
———. 1985c. “The Christology of the Church of the East in the Synods of the Fifth to
Early Seventh Centuries: Preliminary Considerations and Materials.” In Dragas 1985,
125–42. Reprinted in Brock 1992, XII.
Works Cited

———. 1984. Syriac Perspectives on Late Antiquity. London: Variorum Reprints.
———. 1983. The Harp of the Spirit: Eighteen Poems of Saint Ephrem. Fellowship of St.
Alban and St. Sergius.
———. 1982a. “Christians in the Sasanian Empire: A Case of Divided Loyalties.” Studies
in Church History 18: 1–19. Reprinted in Brock 1984, VI.
———. 1982b. “Clothing Metaphors as a Means of Theological Expression in Syriac
Tradition.” In M. Schmidt and C. Geyer 1982, 11–40. Reprinted in Brock 1992, XI.
———. 1982c. “A Syriac Life of John of Dailam.” Parole de l’Orient 10: 123–90.
———. 1982d. “The Prayer of the Heart in Syriac Tradition.” Sobornost 4: 131–42.
———. 1981. “Jacob of Serugh on the Veil of Moses.” Sobornost 3:70–85.
———. 1979a. “Jewish Traditions in Syriac Sources.” Journal of Jewish Studies 30: 212–
32. Reprinted in idem, Studies in Syriac Christianity, IV.
———. 1979b. The Holy Spirit in the Syrian Baptismal Tradition. The Syrian Churches
Series 9; Poona: Anita Printers.
———. 1976. “Ephrem’s Letter to Publius.” Le Muséon 89: 216–305.
———. 1973. “Early Syrian Asceticism.” Numen 20: 1–19. [**358]
Brown, Lesley, ed. 1993. The New Shorter Oxford English Dictionary. Oxford: Clarendon
Press.
Brown, Peter. 1997. The Rise of Western Christendom: Triumph and Diversity A.D. 200–
100. Oxford/Malden, Mass.: Blackwell Publishers [1996].
———. 1988. Virginity and Society: Sexuality and Its Renunciation in Late Antiquity. New
York: Columbia University Press.
———. 1971. “The Rise and Function of the Holy Man in Late Antiquity.” Journal of
Religious Studies 61:80–101.
Browne, Edward Granville. 1987. Selections from the Writings of E. G. Browne. Edited by
Moojan Momen. Oxford: George Ronald.
———. 1893. The New History of Mīrzā ‘Alī Muhammed, the Bāb. Cambridge University
Press, 1893/Amsterdam: Philo Press, 1975.
———. 1892. “Catalogue and Description of 27 Bābī Manuscripts.” Journal of the Royal
Asiatic Society 24: 433–99 and 637–710.
———, ed. and trans. 1891. A Traveller’s Narrative Written to Illustrate the Episode of the
Bāb, 2 vols. Cambridge University Press.
Bruning, B. et al., eds. 1990. Collectanea Augustiniana: Mèlanges T. J. Van Bavel. Leuven
University Press.
Brunner, Christopher. 1983. “Geographical and Administrative Divisions: Settlements and
Economy.” In Yarshater 1983, 747–77.
Bruns, Peter. 1990. Das Christusbild Aphrahāṭs des Persischen Weisen. Hereditas. Studien
zur Alten Kirchengeschichte, Band 4. Bonn: Verlag Borengässer.
———. 1989. “Arius hellenizans?—Ephräm der Syrer und die neoarianischen
Kontroversen seiner Zeit.” Zeitschrift für Kirchengeschichte 101:283–316.
Buck, Christopher. 1998. “A Symbolic Profile of the Bahā’ī Faith.” Journal of Bahā’ī
Studies 8.4:1–48.
Works Cited                                                       293

Buck, Christopher. 1996a. “The Universality of the Church of the East: How Persian was
Persian Christianity?” Journal of the Assyrian Academic Society 10.1:54–95.
———. 1996b. Review of Rituals in Babism and Bahā’īsm by Denis MacEoin.
International Journal of Middle East Studies 28.3:418–22.
———. 1996c. “Native Messengers of God in Canada?: A Test Case for Bahā’ī
Universalism.” Bahā’ī Studies Review 6.
———. 1995a. Symbol and Secret: Qur’an Commentary in Bahā’u’llāh’s Kitāb-i Īqān.
Studies in the Bābī and Bahā’ī Religions, 7. Los Angeles: Kalimát Press.
——— 1995b. “Sapiential Theōsis: A New Reading of Ephrem the Syrian’s Hymns on
Paradise.” Journal of the [**359] Assyrian Academic Society 9.2:80–125.
———. 1991. “Bahā’u’llāh as ‘World Reformer’.” Journal of Bahā’ī Studies 3.4: 23–70.
Bullinger, E. 1968. Figures of Speech Used in the Bible: Explained and Illustrated. London:
Messrs. Eyre and Spottiswoode, 1898. Reprinted, Grand Rapids: Baker Book House.
Bundy, David. 1991. “Jacob of Nisibis as a Model for the Episcopacy.” Le Muséon 104:
235–49.
———. 1990. “The Anti-Marcionite Commentary on the Lucan Parables (Pseudo-Ephrem
A): Images in Tension.” Le Muséon 103:111–23.
———. 1988a. “Language and the Knowledge of God in Ephrem Syrus.” Reprinted in
Dialogue and Alliance 1 (1988): 56–64.
———. 1988b. “Marcion and the Marcionites in Early Syrian Apologetics.” Le Muséon
101:21–32.
———. 1986. “Language and the Knowledge of God in Ephrem Syrus.” Patristic and
Byzantine Review 5 (1986): 91–103.
———. 1985. “Criteria for Being In Communione in the Early Syrian Church.”
Augustinianum 25: 597–608.
Cain, Seymour H. 1979. “Commentary.” In Honko 1979, 339–45.
Cameron, R., and Arthur J. Dewey, trans. 1979. The Cologne Mānī Codex: “Concerning the
Origin of His Body.” Missoula, Montana: Scholars Press.
Capps, W. 1979. “Commentary.” In Honko 1979, 177–85.
Castelli, E. 1986. “Virginity and Its Meaning for Women’s Sexuality in Early Christianity.”
Journal of Feminist Studies in Religion 2:61–88.
Chabot, Jean Baptiste, ed. and trans. 1902. Synodicon Orientale ou Recueil de Synodes
Nestoriens. Paris: Imprimerie Nationale.
Chediath, Geevarghese. 1996. “The Theological Contribution of Mar Babai the Great.” In
Stirnemann and Wilflinger 1994, 155–67.
Clines, D., ed. 1990. The Bible in Three Dimensions. Sheffield Academic Press.
Cole, Juan R. I. 1998. Modernity and the Millennium: The Genesis of the Bahā’ī Faith in
the Nineteenth-Century Middle East. New York: Columbia University Press.
———. 1992. “Iranian Millenarianism and Democratic Thought in the Nineteenth
Century.” International Journal of Middle East Studies 24.1:1–26.
Colless, B.E. 1986. “The Nestorian Province of Samarkand.” Abr Nahrayn 24: 51–57.
Colpe, C. 1979. “Symbol Theory and Copy Theory as Basic Epistemological and
Conceptual Alternatives in Religious Studies.” In Honko 1979, 161–73.
Works Cited

Conybeare, F. C., and Arthur John Maclean. 1905. Rituale [**360] Armenorum: Being the
Administration of the Sacraments and the Breviary Rites of the Armenian Church
Together with the Greek Rites of Baptism and Epiphany, edited from the Oldest MSS.
by F. C. Conybeare, M. A., F. B. A., and The East Syrian Epiphany Rites, translated by
the Rev. A. J. Maclean. Oxford: Clarendon Press.
Cooke, B. 1990. The Distancing of God: The Ambiguity of Symbol in History and Theology.
Minneapolis: Fortress Press.
Corbett, John. 1987. “The Pauline Tradition in Aphrahāṭ.” In Drijvers 1987, 13–32.
Corbin, Henri. 1981. The Concept of Comparative Philosophy. Translated by P. Russell.
Ipswich: Golgonooza Press.
Coyle, J. Kevin. 1979. “The Cologne Mānī-Codex and Mānī’s Christian Connections.”
Église et Théologie 10: 179–93.
Crehan, J., ed. 1967. Catholic Dictionary of Theology. London.
Darbandi, Afkham and Dick Davis, trans. 1984. The Conference of the Birds by Farīd al-Dīn
‘Aṭṭār. Harmondsworth: Penguin.
Darling, D. 1987. “The ‘Church from the Nations’ in the Exegesis of Ephrem.” In Drijvers
1987, 111–21.
Davids, Adelbert. 1994. “Is the Theology of the Assyrian Church Nestorian?” In Stirnemann
and Wilflinger 1994, 134–42.
Dechow, J. 1975. Dogma and Mysticism in Early Christianity: Epiphanius of Cyprus and
the Legacy of Origen. Ph. D. diss., University of Pennsylvania.
de Halleux, André. 1983. “Saint Ephrem le Syrien.” Revue Théologique de Louvain 14:
328–55.
———. 1978. “Autonomy and Centralization in the Ancient Syriac Churches, Edessa and
Seleucia-Ctesiphon.” In Wort und Wahrheit, Supplement 4, 59–67. Vienna.
DeLoach, B. 1983. “On First Looking into Ricoeur’s Interpretation Theory: A Beginner’s
Guide.” Pre/Text: A Journal of Rhetorical Theory 4: 225–36.
Den Boeft, J., and A. Hilhorst, eds. 1993. Early Christian Poetry: A Collection of Essays.
Supplements to Vigiliae Christianae 22. Leiden: E.J. Brill.
Dilworth, D. 1989. Philosophy in World Perspective: A Comparative Hermeneutic of the
Major Theories. Yale University Press.
Dragas, G., ed. 1985. Aksum-Thyateira: A Festschrift for Archbishop Methodios of
Thyateira and Great Britain. Athens.
Drijvers, Han J. W. 1996. “Early Syriac Christianity: Some Recent Publications.” Vigiliae
Christianae 50, 159–77.
———. 1982. “A Tomb for the Life of a King: A Recently [**361] Discovered Edessene
Mosaic with a Portrait of King Abgar the Great.” Le Muséon 95: 167–89.
———. 1967. “Quq and the Quqites: An unknown sect in Edessa in the second century
A.D.” Numen 14: 104–29.
———. 1966. Bardaiṣan of Edessa. Assen, Netherlands: Van Gorcum.
———. 1965. The Book of the Laws of the Countries. Dialogue on Fate of Bardaisan of
Edessa. Semitic Texts with Translations, 3. Assen.
Works Cited                                                       295

Drijvers, Han J. W. et al., eds. 1987. IV Symposium Syriacum: Literary Genres in Syriac
Literature. Series: Orientalia Christiana Analecta Vol. 229: Rome: Pontifical Institute
of Oriental Studies.
Dupriez, B. 1991. A Dictionary of Literary Devices: Gradus, A–Z. Translated by A. Halsall.
University of Toronto Press.
Edakalathur, Louis. 1994. The Theology of Marriage in the East Syrian Literature. Rome.
Eggan, F. 1964. “Social Anthropology and the Method of Controlled Comparison.”
American Anthropologist 56: 743–63.
Eilberg-Schwartz, Howard. 1993. Review of Drudgery Divine by Jonathan Z. Smith.
History of Religions 32.3:301–303.
Eilers, Wilhelm. 1983. “Iran and Mesopotamia.” In Yarshater 1983, 3.1:481–504.
———, ed. 1971. Festgabe deutscher Iranisten zur 2500 Feier Irans. Stuttgart.
El-Batanouny, Goudah M. 1991. “Syntactic and Semantic Classification of Paradox and
Their Relation to Readers’ Interpretation.” Journal of Literary Semantics 20.3:129–62.
Eliade, Mircea, ed. 1987. Encyclopedia of Religion. New York: Macmillan.
———. 1969. “Methodological Remarks on the Study of Religious Symbolism.” In
Kitigawa and Eliade 1969, 86–107.
El-Khoury, N. 1987. “Hermeneutics in the Works of Ephraim the Syrian.” In Drijvers et al.,
1987, 93–100.
———. 1982. “Anthropological Concepts in the School of Antioch.” Studia Patristica
13:1359–65.
Ephrem the Syrian. 1989. Ephrem the Syrian: Hymns. Kathleen McVey, trans. New York:
Paulist Press.
———. 1993. Saint Ephrem’s Commentary: An English Translation of Chester Beatty MS
709 with Introduction and Notes. Edited and translated by Carmel McCarthy. Journal
of Semitic Studies Supplement, 2. Oxford University Press.
———. 1994. St. Ephrem the Syrian: Selected Prose Works. Translated by Edward G.
Mathews and Joseph P. Amar. Edited by Kathleen McVey. The Fathers of the Church,
vol. 91. Washington, D.C.: Catholic University of America Press.
———. 1912 and 1921. S. Ephraim’s Prose Refutations of Mānī, Marcion, and Bardaisan.
London: Text and Translation Society. Vol. I edited and translated by C. W. Mitchell.
Vol. 2 ed- [**362] ited and translated by E. A. Bevan and F. C. Burkitt.
Ernst, Carl. 1992. “The Symbolism of Birds and Flight in the Writings of Rūzbiyān Baqlī.”
Lewisohn 1992, 353–66.
Fāḍil-i Māzandarānī. 1923. “Seven Cities in the Spiritual Journey to God.” Star of the West
13.11 (Feb. 1923): 301ff.
Fawcett, T. 1970. The Symbolic Language of Religion. London: SCM Press.
Ferguson, E. et al., eds. 1990. Encyclopedia of Early Christianity. New York and London:
Garland.
Fiey, Jean Maurice. 1996. “The Spread of the Persian Church.” In Stirnemann and
Wilflinger 1994, 97–107.
Fischer, R., ed. 1977. A Tribute to Arthur Vööbus: Studies in Early Christian Literature and
Its Environment, Primarily in the Syrian East. Chicago: Lutheran School of Theology.
Works Cited

Flanagan, K. 1991. Sociology and Liturgy: Representations of the Holy. Houndsmill,
England: Macmillan Academic.
Froehlich, K. 1984. Biblical Interpretation in the Early Church. Philadelphia: Fortress
Press.
Frye, Richard N. 1962. The Heritage of Persia. London: Weidenfeld and Nicolson.
Gail, Marzieh, trans. 1982. My Memories of Bahā’u’llāh by Ustād Muḥammad-‘Alīy-i
Salmānī, the Barber, with a Selection of His Poems. Los Angeles: Kalimát Press.
Garsoïan, Nina, Thomas Mathews, and Robert Thompson, eds. 1982. East of Byzantium:
Syria and Armenia in the Formative Period. Washington, D.C.: Dumbarton Oaks, 3–
16.
Gavin, F. 1920. “The Sleep of the Soul in the Early Syriac Church.” Journal of the
American Oriental Society 40: 103–20.
Geertz, A., and J. Jensen, eds. 1991. Religion, Tradition and Renewal. Denmark: Aarhus
University Press.
Geertz, Clifford. 1965. “Religion as a Cultural System.” In Anthropological Approaches to
the Study of Religion. Edited by Michael Banton. London: Tavistock Publications.
———. 1979. “Religion as a Cultural System” (slightly abridged). In Reader in
Comparative Religion. Edited by W. Lessa and E. Vogt, 67–178. New York: Harper
and Row.
———. 1973. “Religion as a Cultural System.” In idem, The Interpretation of Cultures:
Selected Essays, 87–112. New York.
Gerö, Stephen. 1987. “Only a Change of Masters?: The Christians of Iran and the Muslim
Conquest.” In Transition Periods in Iranian History. Studia Iranica, 5: 43–48. Paris:
Association pour l’avancement des études iraniennes.
———. 1982. “The See of Peter in Babylon: Western Influences on the Ecclesiology of
Early Persian Christianity.” In East of Byzantium: Syria and Armenia in the formative
Period. Edited by [**363] Nina Garsoïan. Washington, D.C.: Dumbarton Oaks, 45–51.
———. 1981. Barṣauma of Nisibis and Persian Christianity in the Fifth Century. CSCO
426. Louvain: Peeters.
Gervers, Michael and Ramzi Jibran Bikhazi, eds. 1990. Conversion and Continuity:
Indigenous Christian Communities in Islamic Lands, Eighth to Eighteenth Centuries.
Toronto: Pontifical Institute of Medieval Studies.
Giese, Alma, and J. Christoph Bürgel, eds. 1994. God Is Beautiful and He Loves Beauty:
Festschrift in Honour of Annemarie Schimmel. Berne: Peter Lang.
Goedendorp, P. 1991. “Diffusion of the Concept of al-Qā’im in the Middle East in
Antiquity.” In Geertz and Jensen 1991, 101–18.
Goldschmidt, W. 1966. Comparative Functionalism. Berkeley.
Goodenough, E. R. 1951. “The Evaluation of Symbols Recurrent in Time.” Eranos
Jahrbuch 20: 285–319.
Graffin, F., and A.-M. Malingrey. 1972. “La Tradition syriaque des homélies de Jean
Chrysostome sur l’incompréhensibilité de Dieu.” In Epektasis, 603–609. Mélanges
Jean Daniélou. Paris.
Works Cited                                                       297

Greenspahn, F., ed. 1991. Essential Papers on Israel and the Ancient Near East. New York
University.
Greer, R. 1973. The Captain of Our Salvation: A Study in the Patristic Exegesis of Hebrews.
Beiträge zur Geschichte der biblischen Exegese, 15. Tübingen.
Gregg, R., and D. Groh. 1981. Early Arianism: A View of Salvation. Philadelphia: Fortress
Press.
Gregorios, Paulos. 1987. “Syrian Orthodox Church of Antioch.” In Eliade 1987, 14: 227–
30.
Griffith, Sidney. 1990. “Images of Ephraem: The Syrian Holy Man and His Church.”
Traditio 45 (1989/90): 7–33.
———. 1987. “Ephraem the Syrian’s Hymns ‘Against Julian’: Meditations on History and
Imperial Power.” Vigiliae Christianae 41:238–66.
Gwynn, J. 1898. “Introductory Dissertation: Ephraim the Syrian and Aphrahāṭ the Persian
Sage.” In A Select Library of Nicene and Post Nicene Fathers of the Christian Church,
13:119–52. New York: The Christian Literature Company.
Hage, Wolfgang. 1988. Syriac Christianity in the East. Mōrā ‘Eth’ō series, 1. Kottayam,
India: St. Ephrem Ecumenical Research Institute.
Haloun, G., and W. B. Henning. 1952. “The Compendium of the Doctrines and Styles of the
Teaching of Mānī, the Buddha of Light.” Asia Major, n.s., 3.2:184–212.
Hambye, E. 1970. “The Symbol of the ‘Coming to the Harbour’ in the Syriac Tradition.”
Orientalia Christiana Analecta 197: 401–11.
Hartman, G., and S. Budick, eds. 1986. Midrash, and Literature. New [**364] Haven: Yale
University Press.
Harvey, Susan Ashbrook. 1996. “Sacred Bonding: Mothers and Daughters in Early Syriac
Hagiography.” Journal of Early Christian Studies 4.1:27–56.
———. 1993. “Feminine Imagery for the Divine: The Holy Spirit, the Odes of Solomon,
and Early Syriac Tradition.” St Vladimir’s Theological Quarterly 37.2–3: 111–40.
———. 1990. “The Edessan Martyrs and the Ascetic Tradition.” In Lavenant 1990, 195–
206.
Hatcher, John. 1997. The Ocean of His Words: A Reader’s Guide to the Art of Bahā’u’llāh.
Wilmette: Bahā’ī Publishing Trust.
Hatcher, John S.. 1994a. The Arc of Ascent: The Purpose of Physical Reality II. Wilmette:
Bahā’ī Publishing Trust.
———. 1994b. “Unsealing the Choice Wine.” Journal of Bahā’ī Studies 6.3: 28–38.
Hawkes, T. 1972. Metaphor. London: Methuen.
Heath, Peter. 1994. “Ibn Sīnā’s Journey of the Soul.” In Annemarie Schimmel Festschrift.
Edited by Maria Eva Subtelny. Journal of Turkish Studies 18: 91–102.
———. 1992a. Allegory and Philosophy in Avicenna. Philadelphia: University of
Pennsylvania Press.
———. 1992b. “Disorientation and Reorientation in Ibn Sīnā’s  Epistle of the Bird: A
Reading.” In Mazzaoui and Moreen 1992.
Henning, W. B. 1946. “The Book of the Giants.” Bulletin of the School of Oriental and
African Studies 2 (1943–46): 52–74.
Works Cited

Hewitt, Marsha A. 1996. “How New Is the ‘New Comparativism’?: Difference, Dialectics,
and World-Making.” Method and Theory in the Study of Religion 8.1:15–20.
High, D., ed. 1969. New Essays on Religious Language. Oxford University Press.
Holley, Horace, ed. 1928. Bahā’ī Scriptures. New York: Brentano’s, 1923; repr. New York:
Bahā’ī Publishing Committee.
Holy Transfiguration Manastery. 1984. The Ascetical Homilies of Saint Isaac the Syrian.
Boston: Holy Transfiguration Monastery.
Honko, Lauri, ed. 1979. Science of Religion: Studies in Methodology. Religion and Reason,
13. The Hague: Mouton.
Ibn al-‘Arabī. 1992. What the Seeker Needs. Threshold.
Jensen, Jeppe Sinding. 1992. “The Future of the Phenomenology of Religion?” Colloquium
paper, March 1992. Centre for the Study of Religion, University of Toronto.
Subsequently published as Jensen 1994.
———. 1994. “Is a Phenomenology of Religion Possible? On the Ideas of a Human and
Social Science of Religion.” Method and Theory in the Study of Religion 5: 109–34.
King, Archduke A. 1948. The Rites of Eastern Christendom. Rome: [**365] Catholic Book
Agency.
Kippenberg, H. 1985. “Religionssoziologie ohne Säkularisierungsthese: É. Durkheim und
M. Weber aus der Sicht der Symboltheorie.” Neue Zeitschrift für Systematische
Theologie und Religions-philosophie 27: 177–93.
Kitigawa, J., and Mircea Eliade, eds. 1969. The History of Religions: Essays in
Methodology. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Klein, W. 1994. “A Syriac-Christian Fragment from Dunhuang, China.” Zeitschrift der
Deutschen Morgenländischen Gesellschaft 144.1:1–13.
Knight, L., and B. Cottle, eds. 1960. Metaphor and Symbol. London: Butterworth Scientific
Publications.
Köbben, A. 1970. “Comparativists and Non-Comparativists in Anthropology.” In A
Handbook of Method in Cultural Anthropology. Edited by R. Naroll and R. Cohen,
581–96. New York.
Koester, Helmut. 1990. Ancient Christian Gospels: The History and Development.
Philadelphia: Trinity Press International.
Kollaparambil, Jacob. 1994. “The Persian Crosses in India are Christian, not Manichaean.”
Christian Orient 15.1:24–35.
Koltun-Fromm, Naomi. 1996. “A Jewish-Christian Conversation in Fourth-Century Persian
Mesopotamia.” Journal of Jewish Studies 47.1:45–63.
Koonammakkal, Thomas. 1994. “St. Ephrem and ‘Greek Wisdom’.” In Lavenant 1994,
169–76.
Kronholm, Tryggve. 1978a. Motifs from Genesis 1–11 in the Genuine Hymns of Ephrem the
Syrian with Particular Reference to the Influence of Jewish Exegetical Tradition.
Coniectanea Biblica, Old Testament Series 11; Lund, Sweden: CWK Gleerup.
Kugel, J. “Two Introductions to Midrash.” In Hartman and Budick 1986, 77–103.
Jansma, T. 1974. “Aphraates’ Demonstration VII. §§ 18 and 20. Some Observations on the
Discourse of Penance.” Parole de l’Orient 5.1:21–48.
Works Cited                                                       299

Jansma, T. 1973. “Ephraem on Exodus II, 5: Reflections on the Inter-play of Free-Will and
Divine Providence.” Orientalia Christiana Periodica 39: 5–28.
———. “Narsai and Ephraem.” Parole de l’Orient 1:49–68.
Jasion, Jan T. 1994. “Queen Marie of Romania: A Preliminary Bibliography.” Journal of
Bahā’ī Studies 6.2:15–25.
Jensen, Jane Richardson. 1994. “Father, Son, and Holy Spirit as Mothers in Early Syrian
Literature.” Continuum 21.2–3: 27–49.
Jones, A. Duncan. 1904. “A Homily of St. Ephrem.” Journal of Theological Studies 5: 546–
52.
Justi, F. 1895. Iranisches Namenbuch. Marburg.
Kermode, Frank. 1979. The Genesis of Secrecy: On the Interpretation of [**366] Narrative.
Cambridge: Harvard University Press.
Koenen, Ludwig. 1981. “From Baptism to the Gnosis of Manichaeism.” In Layton 1981,
734–56.
Labourt, J. 1904. Le Christianisme dans l’Empire perse sous la dynastie des Sassanides.
Paris: Lecoffre. 2d ed.
Lambden, Stephen. 1997–98. “The Word Bahā’: Quintessence of the Greatest Name of
God.” Journal of Bahā’ī Studies 8.2:13–45.
———. 1991. “Some Notes on Bahā’u’llāh’s Gradually Evolving Claims of the
Adrianople/Edirne Period.” Bahā’ī Studies Bulletin 5.3–6.1.
———. 1988. “The Sinaitic Mysteries: Notes on Moses/Sinai Motifs in Bābī and Bahā’ī
Scripture.” In Momen 1988, 64–183.
———. 1985. “At the Shore of the Black Sea: The Lawḥ-i Hawdaj/Ṣāmsūn of Mīrzā
Ḥusayn ‘Alī Bahā’u’llāh.” Bahā’ī Studies Bulletin 3.4: 84–97.
———. 1983. “A Tablet of Bahā’u’llāh to Georg David Hardegg: The  Lawḥ-i Hirtīq.”
Bahā’ī Studies Bulletin 2.1:32–62.
Lanciotti, Lionello, ed. 1984. Incontro di Religioni in Asia tra il III e il X Secolo d. C.
Firenze: Leo S. Olschki Editore.
Lavenant, René, ed. 1994. VI Symposium Syriacum 1992. Rome: Pontificio Instituto
Orientale.
———. 1992. “Aphraates.” In Berardino 1992, 1:54.
———, ed. 1990. V Symposium Syriacum 1988. Rome: Pontifical Institute of Oriental
Studies.
Lawless, G. 1990. “Augustine and Human Embodiment.” In Bruning 1990, 167–86.
Lawson, B. Todd. 1995. “Bahā’ Allāh.” In The Oxford Encyclopedia of the Modern Islamic
World 1:176–77. Edited by John Esposito. Oxford University Press.
Lawson, E. Thomas. 1996. “Theory and the New Comparativism, Old and New.” Method
and Theory in the Study of Religion 8.1:31–35.
Layton, Bentley, ed. 1981. The Rediscovery of Gnosticism: Proceedings of the International
Conference on Gnosticism at Yale, New Haven, Connecticut, March 28–31, 1978. Vol.
2, Sethian Gnosticism. Studies in the History of Religions, 41. Leiden: E.J. Brill.
Lazard, Gilbert. 1964. Les premiers poets Persans (in Persian). Paris: Librairie d’Amérique
et d’Orient on behalf of the Institut Franco-Iranien.
Works Cited

Leach, E. 1968. “The Comparative Method in Anthropology.” In International
Encyclopedia of the Social Sciences 1:339–45. New York, 1968.
Lerner, Judith. 1982. “Christianity. II. In Pre-Islamic Persia: Material Remains.” In
Encyclopaedia Iranica 5:528–30.
Lerner, Judith. 1977. Christian Seals of the Sasanian Period. Leiden: [**367] E.J. Brill.
Lessa, W., and E. Vogt, eds. 1979. Reader in Comparative Religion. New York: Harper and
Row.
Levin, S. 1988. Metaphoric Worlds: Conceptions of a Romantic Nature. New Haven: Yale
University Press.
Levy, R. “Urf.” Encyclopaedia of Islam (1st edn.) 4: 1031.
Lewisohn, Leonard, ed. 1992. The Legacy of Mediaeval Persian Sufism. London: Khanqah-
i Nimatullahi. 353–66.
Lieu, S. N. C. 1989. The Emperor Julian: Panegyric and Polemic. Liverpool, 2d edn.
———. 1985. Manichaeism in the Later Roman Empire and Medieval China: A Historical
Survey. Manchester University Press.
Lonergan, Bernard. 1972. Method in Theology. London: Darton, Longman and Todd; New
York: Herder and Herder. 2d edn. 1973. Latest repr. University of Toronto Press, 1994
(Collected Works of Lonergan, 12).
Long, Charles H. 1986. Significations: Signs, Symbols, and Images in the Interpretation of
Religion. Philadelphia: Fortress Press.
Louth, A. 1978. “The Hermeneutical Question Approached through the Fathers.” Sobornost
7: 541–49.
MacEoin, Denis. 1994. Rituals in Babism and Baha’ism. London/New York: British
Academic Press.
———. 1983. “From Babism to Baha’ism: Problems of Militancy, Quietism, and
Conflation in the Construction of a Religion.” Religion 13: 219–55.
MacGregor, G. 1973. Philosophical Issues in Religious Thought. Boston: Houghton Mifflin.
Maclean, A. J. 1905. “The East Syrian or Nestorian Rite: The Evening, Night, and Morning
Services, with the Propria of the Liturgy, as Said on the Feast of the Epiphany, from
the Gaza [sic] of the Library of the Propaganda Fide in Rome.” In Conybeare and
Maclean 1905, 298–388.
Macomber, William F. 1970. “A List of the Known Manuscripts of the Chaldean Ḥuḏrā.”
Orientalia Christiana Periodica 36: 120–34.
Madey, J., and G. Kaniarakath, eds. 1984. The Church I Love. A Tribute to Rev. Placid J.
Podipara CMI. Kottayam.
Manna, Jacques Eugène. 1982. Morceaux choisis de littérature araméenne. Mossoul: Imp.
des Pères dominicains, 1901–1902. Reprinted: Doctinchem, Holland: Microlibrary
Slangenburg Abbey.
Mardin, Ṣerif. 1962. The Genesis of Young Ottoman Thought. Princeton: Princeton
University Press.
Margoliouth, D. S. 1903. “Early Documents in the Persian Language.” Journal of the Royal
Asiatic Society, 761–71.
Works Cited                                                       301

Marsh, R. 1967. Comparative Sociology: A Codification of Cross-Societal Analysis. New
York. [**368]
Martin, F. 1899/1900. “Memra on the Three Doctors Diodore, Theodore and Nestorius.”
Journal Asiatique 14 (1899): 446–92 (Syriac text); and 15 (1900): 469–525 (English
trans.).
Martin, Luther H. 1996. “The New Comparativism in the Study of Religion. Introduction:
The Post-Eliadean Study of Religion and the New Comparativism.” Method and
Theory in the Study of Religion 8.1:1–2.
Martinez, F. 1987. “The Apocalyptic Genre in Syriac: The World of Pseudo-Methodius.” In
Drijvers et al. 1987, 337–52.
Mathews, Edward G., Jr., and Joseph P. Amar, trans. 1994a. St. Ephrem the Syrian: Selected
Prose Works. Edited by Kathleen McVey. The Fathers of the Church, 91. Washington,
D.C.: Catholic University of America Press.
———. 1994b. “St. Ephrem, Madrāšē on Faith, 81–85: Hymns on the Pearl, I–V.” St
Vladimir’s Theological Quarterly 38.1:45–72.
———. 1990. “‘On Solitaries’: Ephrem or Isaac?” Le Muséon 103: 91–110.
Mathews, Edward G., Jr. 1989. “TheVita Tradition of Ephrem the Syrian, the Deacon of
Edessa.” Diakonia: Devoted to Promoting Eastern Christianity 22 (1988–89): 15–42.
Māzandarānī, Asadu’llāh Fāżil. Tarīkh-i Ẓuhūr al-Ḥaqq. Vols. 4–5. Photocopy of MS in
author’s hands.
Mazzaoui, Michel M., and Vera B. Moreen, eds. 1992. Intellectual Studies on Islam: Essays
Written in Honor of Martin B. Dickson. Salt Lake City: University of Utah Press.
McAuliffe, Jane Dammen. 1984. “Wines of Earth and Paradise: Qur’ānic Proscriptions and
Promises.” In Savoury and Agius 1984, 159–74.
McCarthy, Carmel, ed. and trans. 1993. Saint Ephrem’s Commentary: An English
Translation of Chester Beatty MS 709 with Introduction and Notes. Journal of Semitic
Studies Supplement, 2. Oxford University Press.
McCullough, W. Stewart. 1982. A Short History of Syriac Christianity to the Rise of Islam.
Chico, Calif.: Scholars Press.
McDannell, C., and B. Lang. 1988. Heaven: A History. New Haven: Yale University Press.
McGinn, B. et al. 1985. Christian Spirituality: Origins to the Twelfth Century. New York:
Crossroad.
McLeod, Frederick, trans. 1979. Narsai’s Metrical Homilies on the Nativity, Epiphany,
Passion, Resurrection and Ascension. Patrologia Orientalis, tome 40, fasc. 1. Belgium:
Brepols.
McVey, Kathleen, trans. 1989. Ephrem the Syrian: Hymns. New York: Paulist Press.
Messina, Giuseppe. Diatessaron Persiano. Rome: Pontificio Istituto [**369] Biblico.
Metzger, Bruce. 1977. Early Versions of the New Testament. Oxford University Press.
Meyendorff, John. 1989. “Preface.” In McVey 1989, 1–2.
Miller, D. 1984. “A Brief Historical and Theological Introduction to the Church of Persia to
the End of the Seventh Century.” In Holy Transfiguration Monastery 1984, 481–541.
Mitchell, C. W., ed. and trans. 1912. S. Ephraim’s Prose Refutations of Mānī, Marcion, and
Bardaisan. London: Text and Translation Society. Vol. 1.
Works Cited

Mitchell, L. 1973. “Four Fathers on Baptism: St. John Chrysostom, St. Ephrem, Theodore
of Mopsuestia, Narsai.” In Vellian 1973, 37–56.
Mojtabai, Fathulla. 1978. “Mānī and Shapur.” Journal of the K. R. Cama Oriental Institute
No. 46: 93–106.
Molenberg, C. 1990. “An Invincible Weapon. Names in the Christological Passages in
Ephrem’s ‘Hymns on Faith’ XLIXLXV.” In Lavenant 1990, 135–42.
Momen, Moojan, ed. 1988. Studies in Honor of the Late Hasan M. Balyuzi. Studies in the
Bābī and Bahā’ī Religions, 5. Los Angeles: Kalimát Press.
———, ed. 1987. Selections from the Writings of E. G. Browne. Oxford: George Ronald.
———. 1981. The Bābī and Bahā’ī Religions, 1844–1944: Some Contemporary Western
Accounts. Oxford: George Ronald.
Momen, Wendi, ed. 1989. A Basic Bahā’ī Dictionary. Oxford: George Ronald.
Monjazeb, Shahroakh. 1995. Provisional translation of Bahā’u’llāh’s Lawḥ-i Ittiḥād.
Unpublished,
———. 1993. “The Tablet of Bahā’u’llāh to Queen Victoria (Lawḥ-i Malikih): An
Introductory Note and Completed Translation.” Bahā’ī Studies Bulletin 7.3–4: 4–21.
Morony, Michael. 1990. “The Age of Conversions: A Reassessment.” In Gervers and
Bikhazi 1990, 135–50.
———. 1976. “The Effects of the Muslim Conquest on the Persian Population of Iraq.”
Iran 14.
———. 1974. “Religious Communities in Late Sasanian and Early Muslim Iraq.” Journal
of the Economic and Social History of the Orient 17: 113–35.
Mullen, E. 1980. The Assembly of the Gods. Harvard Semitic Monographs, 24. Chico:
Scholars Press.
Murray, Robert. 1990. “Some Themes and Problems of Early Syriac Angelology.” In
Lavenant 1990, 143–53.
———. 1984. “The Origin of Aramaic ‘ir, Angel.” Orientalia 53: 303–17. [**370]
———. 1982. “The Characteristics of the Earliest Syriac Christianity.” In Garsoïan et al.
1982, 3–16.
———. 1976. “The Theory of Symbolism in St. Ephrem’s Theology.” Parole de l’Orient
6–7 (1975–76): 1–20.
———. 1975b. “The Exhortation to Candidates for Ascetical Vows at Baptism in the
Ancient Syriac Church.” New Testament Studies 21 (1974–75): 59–80.
———. 1975a. Symbols of Church and Kingdom: A Study in Early Syriac Tradition.
Cambridge University Press.
———. 1967. “Ephrem Syrus.” In Crehan 1967, 220–23.
———. 1964. “The Rock and the House on the Rock: A Chapter in the Ecclesiological
Symbolism of Aphraates and Ephrem.” Orientalia Christiana Analecta 30: 315–62.
———. 1963. “St. Ephrem the Syrian on Church Unity.” Eastern Churches Quarterly 15:
164–76.
Nagel, P. 1966. Die Motivierung der Askese in der alten Kirche und der Ursprung des
Mönchtums. Berlin: Akademie-Verlag.
Works Cited                                                       303

Nakhjavani, Bahiyyih. 1978. “Some Themes and Images in the Writings of Bahā’u’llāh.” In
The Bahā’ī World 16: 670–86. Haifa: Bahā’ī World Centre.
Nandrásky, K. 1980. “The Noetic Value of the Metaphoric Way of Expression in the Bible.”
Communio Viatorum 23.4: 211–27.
Nasr, Sayyid Hossein. 1972. “The Spiritual States in Sufism.” In idem, Sufi Essays, 68–83.
London: George Allen and Unwin.
National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahā’īs of Canada. 1983. Bahā’ī Marriage and Family
Life: Selections from the Writings of the Bahā’ī Faith. Thornhill, Ontario: NSA of
Canada.
Nedungatt, G. 1973. “The Covenanters of the Early Syriac-Speaking Church.” Orientalia
Christiana Periodica 39: 191–215; 419–44.
Neusner, Jacob. 1971. Aphrahat and Judaism. The Christian-Jewish Argument in Fourth-
Century Iran. Studia Post-Biblica, 19. Leiden: E.J. Brill.
———. 1966. “The Conversion of Adiabene to Christianity.” Numen 13: 144–50.
Nicholson, R. A., trans. 1967. The Kashf al-Mahjūb: The Oldest Persian Treatise on Sufiism
by al-Hujwīrī, ‘Ali ibn ‘Uthmān al-Jullābī. Leiden: E.J. Brill, 1911; repr. London:
Luzac.
Norris, F., L. Wickham, and F. Williams. 1991. Faith Gives Fullness to Reason: The Five
Theological Orations of Gregory Nazianzen. Supplements to Vigiliae Christianae 13.
Leiden: E.J. Brill.
Norris, F. 1990. “Bardesanes.” In Ferguson 1990, 137.
Nurbakhsh, Javad. 1990. Sufi Symbolism: The Nurbakhsh Encyclopedia of Sufi Terminology
(Farhang-i Nurbakhsh). Vol. IV. Symbolism of the Natural World. London/New York:
Khaniqahi-Nimatullahi Publications. [**371]
Olsen, G. 1977. “Allegory, Typology, and Symbol: The Sensus Spiritalis, Part 2:Early
Church through Origen.” Communio [US] 4: 357–84.
Ort, L. J. R. 1968. “Mānī, Manichaeism, ‘Religionswissenschaft’.” Numen 15: 191–207.
Ortiz de Urbina, I. 1955. “Le Paradis eschatologique d’après Saint Éphrem.” Orientalia
Christiana Periodica 21:467–72.
Ortner, Sherry. 1984. “Theory in Anthropology Since the Sixties.” Comparative Studies in
Society and History 26.1:126–66.
——— 1973. “On Key Symbols.” American Anthropologist 75.5: 1338–46. Reprinted
(slightly abridged) in Lessa and Vogt 1979, 92–98.
Ortony, Andrew, ed. 1979. Metaphor and Thought. Cambridge University Press.
Outtier, B. 1973. “Saint Ephrem d’après ses biographies et ses oeuvres.” Parole de l’Orient
4: 11–33.
Oxtoby, Willard G., ed. 1996a. World Religions: Western Traditions. Toronto: Oxford
University Press.
———, ed. 1996b. World Religions: Eastern Traditions. Toronto: Oxford University Press.
Oxtoby, Willard G. 1996c. “The Nature of Religion.” In Oxtoby, 1996b, 487–506.
———. 1973. “Reflections on the Idea of Salvation.” In Sharpie and Hinnies 1973, 17–38.
Paden, William E. 1996a. “Elements of a New Comparativism.” Method and Theory in the
Study of Religion 8.1:5–14.
Works Cited

Paden, William E. 1996b. “A New Comparativism: Reply to the Panelsits.” Method and
Theory in the Study of Religion 8.1:37–49.
———. 1992. Interpreting the Sacred: Ways of Viewing Religion. Boston: Beacon Press.
Palmer, Andrew. 1993. “The Merchant of Nisibis: Saint Ephrem and His Faithful Quest for
Union in Numbers.” In Den Boeft and Hilhorst 1993, 167–233.
Paret, R. 1975. Der Koran. Darmstadt.
Parpola, Simo. 1993. “The Assyrian Tree of Life: Tracing the Origins of Jewish
Monotheism and Greek Philosophy.” Journal of Near Eastern Studies 52.3: 161–208.
Petersen, W. 1992. “The Christology of Aphrahat, the Persian Sage: An Excursus on the
17th Demonstration.” Vigiliae Christianae 46: 241–56.
Pelikan, J. 1974. The Christian Tradition. Chicago.
———. 1961. The Shape of Death. Nashville: Abingdon Press.
Pepper, Stephen. 1984. “Metaphor in Philosophy.” In Dictionary of the History of Ideas.
Edited by Philip P. Wiener, 3: 196–201. New York: Charles Scribner’s Sons. [**372]
———. 1942. World Hypotheses. Berkeley and Los Angeles: University of California
Press.
Pierre, Marie-Joseph. 1988/1989. Aphraates ‘Les Exposés.’ 2 vols. Paris: Editions du Cerf.
Piper, Raymond Frank. 1944. “Ways to Wholeness.” In The Bahā’ī World IX (1940–1944),
776–88.
Platvoet, J. 1982. Comparing Religions: A Limitative Approach. An Analysis of Akan, Para-
Creole, and Ifo-Sananda Rites and Prayers. Religion and Reason, 24. The Hague:
Mouton.
Poole, Fitz John Porter. 1986. “Metaphors and Maps: Towards Comparison in the
Anthropology of Religion.” Journal of the American Academy of Religion 54:411–57.
Postlethwaite, Robert. 1994. “Queen Marie and the Bahā’ī Faith.” Journal of Bahā’ī Studies
6.2:55–86.
Pudichery, Sylvester. 1972. Ramsa: An Analysis and Interpretation of the Chaldean Vespers.
India: Dharmaram College.
Puech, H.-C. 1979. Sur le Manichéisme et autres essais. Paris.
Pye, Michael. 1994. “Religion: Shape and Shadow.” Numen 41:51–75.
Ramsey, I. T. 1969. “Paradox in Religion.” In High 1969.
Rice, D. and P. Schofer. 1983. Rhetorical Poetics: Theory and Practice of Figural and
Symbolic Reading in Modern French Literature. Madison: University of Wisconsin.
Richardson, Jane E. 1990. Feminine Imagery of the Holy Spirit in the Hymns of St. ———.
Ph. D. diss., University of Edinburgh.
Ricoeur, Paul. 1979. The Rule of Metaphor: Multidisciplinary Studies in the Creation of
Meaning in Language. Translated by R. Czerny et al. University of Toronto Press.
———.1960. The Symbolism of Evil. Boston.
Rilliet, F. 1992a. “———.” In Berardino 1992, 1:275–77.
———. 1992b. “Persia.” In Berardino 1992, 2:674–75.
Rilliet, F. 1992c. “Syriac.” In Berardino 1992, 2:809–11.
Rippin, Andrew. 1993. Muslims: Their Religious Beliefs and Practices. Vol. 2:The
Contemporary Period. London and New York: Routledge.
Works Cited                                                       305

Ritter, Helmut. 1976. Das Meer der Seele: Gott, Welt und Mensch in den Geschicten
Fariduddin ‘Attars. Leiden: E.J. Brill, 1955. 2d edn.
———. 1960. “‘Aṭṭār,” Encyclopedia of Islam. New Edition, 1:752–55. Leiden: E.J. Brill.
Rosen, Baron Viktor. 1892a. “Poslanie: ‘Blagiya Vesti’” [translation of the Lawḥ-i
Bishārāt]. Zapiski Vostochnago Otdeleniya Imperatorskago Russkago Arkheologiches-
kago Obshestva 7: 183–192.
———. 1892b. “Eschche o poslanii ‘Blagiya Vesti’” [more about the translation of the
Lawḥ-i Bishārāt]. Zapiski [**373] Vostochnago Otdeleniya Imperatorskago Russkago
Arkheologicheskago Obshestva 7:311–16.
Rudolph, Kurt. 1979. “The Position of Source Research in Religious Studies
(Religionswissenschaft).” In Honko 1979, 98–109.
Russell, James R. 1982–. “Christianity. I. In Pre-Islamic Persia.” In Encyclopaedia Iranica
5: 523–28.
Sa‘dī. 1964. The Gulistan or Rose Garden. Translated by E. Rahatsek. London.
Salmānī, Ustād Muḥammad-‘Alī. 1982. My Memories of Bahā’u’llāh by Ustād
Muḥammad-‘Alīy-i Salmānī, the Barber, with a selection of his poems. Trans. Marzieh
Gail. Los Angeles: Kalimát Press.
al-Sarrāj, Abū Naṣr. 1914. Kitāb al-Luma’ fi’t-Taṣawwuf (Book of the Flashes on Sufism).
Edited by R. A. Nicholson. Gibb Memorial Series, no. 22. Leiden/London.
Säve-Söderbergh, T. 1949. Studies in the Coptic Manichaean Psalm Book. Uppsala.
Savory, R. M. and D. A. Agius, eds. 1984. Logos Islamikos. Toronto: Pontifical Institute of
Mediaeval Studies.
Schaefer, Udo. 1992. Beyond the Clash of Religions: The Emergence of a New Paradigm.
Prague: Zero Palm Press.
Schimmel, Annemarie. 1983. The Imperishable Dominion: The Bahā’ī Faith and the Future
of Mankind. Oxford: George Ronald.
———. 1994. Deciphering the Signs of God: A Phenomenological Approach to Islam.
Albany: State University of New York Press.
———. 1992a. A Two-Colored Brocade: The Imagery of Persian Poetry. Chapel Hill:
University of North Carolina Press.
———. 1992b. “Mystical and Sufi Brotherhoods.” In idem, Islam: An Introduction.
Albany: State University of New York Press.
———. 1982. As Through a Veil: Mystical Poetry in Islam. New York: Columbia
University Press.
———. 1975. Mystical Dimensions of Islam. Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina
Press.
———. 1958. “Rose und Nachtigall.” Numen 5.2:85–109.
Schmidt, M. 1989. “Alttestamentliche Typologien in den Paradieshymnen von Ephräm den
Syrer.” In Paradeigmata: Literarische Typologie des Alten Testament, 55–82. Berlin:
Ducker und Humbolt.
Schmidt, M., and C. Geyer, eds. 1982. Typus, Symbol, Allegorie bei den östlichen Vätern
und aren Parallelen im Mittelalter. Eichstatt: Regensburg.
Works Cited

Scholl, Steven, ed. 1984. Waging Peace: Selections from the Bahā’ī Writings on Universal
Peace. Los Angeles: Kalimát Press. [**374]
Schoonenberg, P. 1967. “Presence and Eucharistic Presence.” Cross Currents 17: 39–54.
Schütz, Edmond. 1990. “Armenia: A Christian Enclave in the Islamic Near East in the
Middle Ages.” In Gervers and Bikhazi 1990, 217–36.
Séd, N. 1968. “Les hymns sur le Paradise de Saint Éphrem et les traditions Juives.” Le
Muséon 81:455–501.
Segal, J. B. 1983. “A Note on a Mosaic from Edessa.” Syria 60: 107–10.
———. 1970. Edessa, “The Blessed City.” Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Sells, Michael A. 1994. “Ibn ‘Arabī’s Garden Among the Flames: The Heart Receptive of
Every Form.” In idem, Mystical Languages of Unsaying, 90–115. Chicago/London:
University of Chicago Press.
Shaked, Shaul. 1994. Dualism in Transformation: Varieties of Religion in Sasanian Iran.
Jordan Lectures in Comparative Religion, XVI. London: School of Oriental and
African Studies.
———. 1982. “Middle Persian Translations of the Bible.” In Encyclopaedia Iranica 4:
206–207.
———. 1970. “Specimens of Middle Persian Verse.” In Boyce and Gershevitch 1970, 395–
404.
Sharpe, E. J., and J. R. Hinnells, eds. 1973. Man and His Salvation. Manchester University
Press.
Shoghi Effendi. 1981. The Unfolding Destiny of the British Bahā’ī Community. London:
Bahā’ī Publishing Trust.
———. 1980. The Promised Day Is Come. Wilmette: Bahā’ī Publishing Trust [1941].
———. 1974. The World Order of Bahā’u’llāh: Selected Letters of Shoghi Effendi. 2d rev.
edn. Wilmette: Bahā’ī Publishing Trust.
———. 1971. The Advent of Divine Justice. 3d edn. Wilmette: Bahā’ī Publishing Trust.
———. 1970. God Passes By. Wilmette: Bahā’ī Publishing Trust [1944].
———. 1926, trans. Prayer of Bahā’u’llāh. Prayers and Tablets of ‘Abdu’l-Bahā. New
York: Bahā’ī Publishing Committee.
———, trans. 1922. “‘Song of the Holy Mariner’ Revealed by His Holiness Baha
‘Ullah” [sic]. Star of the West 13.4 (May 17, 1922): 75–77. Translation received in
April 1922.
Sims-Williams, Nicholas. “Sogdian Translations of the Bible.” In Encyclopaedia Iranica 4:
207.
———. “Christian Literature in Middle Iranian Languages.” In Encyclopaedia Iranica
5:534–35.
Sjöberg, G. 1955. “The Comparative Method in the Social Sciences.” Philosophy of Science
22:106–17.
Skalmowski, W. 1992. “The ‘Seven Valleys’ of ‘Aṭṭār.” Orientalia Lovaniensia Periodica
23: 281–302. [**375]
Skjaervo, P. O. 1982. “Bardesanes.” In Encyclopaedia Iranica 3: 780–85.
Works Cited                                                       307

Slusser, Michael. 1983. “Primitive Christian Soteriological Themes.” Theological Studies
44: 555–69.
Smart, Ninian. 1995. The World’s Religions: Old Traditions and Modern Transformations.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
———. 1986a. “The Philosophy of Worldviews: The Philosophy of Religion
Transformed.” In Smart 1986c, 72–85. Reprinted from Neue Zeitschrift für
systematische Theologie und Religions-philosophie 23 (1981): 212–24.
———. 1986b. “The Comparative Logical Analysis of Religious Doctrines.’ In Smart
1986c, 9–10. Reprinted from the proceedings of the VIIIth IAHR Congress held in
Rome (April, 1955); The Sacral Kingship. Studies in the History of Religion, 4;
Leiden: E.J. Brill, 1959.
———. 1986c. Concept and Empathy: Essays in the Study of Religion. Edited by Donald
Wiebe. London: Macmillan.
———. 1985. Worldviews: Crosscultural Explorations of Human Beliefs. New York:
Charles Scribner’s Sons.
Smith, Jonathan Z. 1990. Drudgery Divine: On Comparison of Early Christianities and the
Religions of Late Antiquity. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
———. 1982a. Imagining Religion: From Babylon to Jonestown. Chicago: University of
Chicago Press.
———. 1982b. “In Comparison a Magic Dwells.” In Smith 1982a, 19–35.
———. 1982c. “The Bare Facts of Ritual.” In Smith 1982a, 53–65.
Smith, Margaret. 1928. Rābi‘a the Mystic and Her Fellow Saints in Islam. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Smith, Morton. 1982. “Persian Elements in the Bible.” In Encyclopaedia Iranica 4: 200–
203.
Smith, Peter. 1987. The Babi and Baha’i Religions: From Messianic Shi‘ism to a World
Religion. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Smith, Wilfred Cantwell. 1969. “Comparative Religion: Whither—and Why?”In Kitigawa
and Eliade 1969, 31–58.
Snyder, G. 1985. Ante Pacem: Archaeological Evidence of Church Life Before Constantine.
Macon, Ga.: Mercer University Press.
Śpidlīk, T. 1986. The Spirituality of the Christian East: A Systematic Handbook. Translated
by A. Gythiel. Kalamazoo, Mich.: Cistercian Publications.
Spinks, B. 1991. The Sanctus in the Eucharistic Prayer. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Sprengling, M. 1916. “Antonius Rhetor on Versification.” American [**376] Journal of
Semitic Languages 32:196–202
Starnes, C. 1990. Augustine’s Conversion: A Guide to the Argument of Confessions I–IX.
Waterloo: Wilfred Laurier University Press.
Steingass, F. 1977 [1892]. Persian-English Dictionary. London: Routledge and Kegan Paul.
Stewart, C. 1991. ‘Working the Earth of the Heart’: The Messalian Controversy in History,
Texts, and Language to A.D. 431. Oxford University Press.
Works Cited

Stirnemann, Alfred, and Gerhard Wilflinger, eds. 1994. Syriac Dialogue: First Non-Official
Consultation on Dialogue within the Syrian Tradition, with Focus on the Theology of
the Church of the East. Vienna: Pro Oriente.
Stockman, Robert. 1996a. “The Bahā’ī Faith and Syncretism.” In Stockman 1996b, 119–21.
———. 1996b. A Curriculum Guide for the Bahā’ī Faith. Edition 6.0. Wilmette: Research
Office, Bahā’ī National Center.
Stone, Michael E. 1979. “A Persian-Armenian Manuscript in the Leeds Collection.” In Le
Muséon 92:361–67.
Stopford, Joseph T. Sarsfield, trans. 1898. “The Nisibene Hymns.” In A Select Library of
Nicene and Post-Nicene Fathers of the Christian Church, Vol. 13: 165–219. New
York: Christian Literature Company.
Strange, C. 1985. “Athanasius on Divinization.” Studia Patristica 16: 342–46.
Stroumsa, G. 1986. “‘Seal of the Prophets’: The Nature of a Manichaean Metaphor.”
Jerusalem Studies in Arabic and Islam 7: 61–74.
Subtelny, Maria Eva, ed. 1994a. Annemarie Schimmel Festschrift. Journal of Turkish
Studies 18.
———. 1994b. “The Cult of ‘Abdullāh Anṣārī under the Timurids.” In Giese and Bürgel
1994, 377–406.
Sundermann, Werner. 1982a. “Bēma.” In Encyclopaedia Iranica 4: 136–37.
———. 1982b. “Cosmogony and Cosmology III. In Manicheism.” In Encyclopaedia
Iranica 6: 310–15.
———. 1982c. “Christ in Manichaeism.” In Encyclopaedia Iranica 5:535–39.
Sunquist, William. 1990. Narsai and the Persians: A Study in Cultural Contact and
Conflict. Ph.D. diss., Princeton Theological Seminary. Abstracted in Dissertations
Abstracts International 51.6 (Dec. 1990): 2055-A.
Taherzadeh, Adib. 1980. The Revelation of Bahā’u’llāh. Vol. 1. Baghdād 1853–63. Oxford:
George Ronald [1974].
———. 1986. The Revelation of Bahā’u’llāh. Vol. 2. Adrianople 1863–68. Oxford: George
Ronald [1977]. [**377]
———. 1984. The Revelation of Bahā’u’llāh. Vol. 3. ‘Akkā, The Early Years 1868–77.
Oxford: George Ronald [1983].
———. 1988. The Revelation of Bahā’u’llāh. Vol. 4. Mazra’ih and Bahjī 1877–92. Oxford:
George Ronald [1987].
Talmon, S. 1991. “The ‘Comparative Method’ in Biblical Interpretation—Principles and
Problems.” In Greenspahn 1991, 381–419.
Taylor, John. 1990. “The Future of Christianity” (chapter 19). In The Oxford Illustrated
History of Christianity. Edited by John McManners. Oxford/New York: Oxford
University Press.
Terrien, S. 1978. The Elusive Presence. San Francisco.
Theodoret of Cyrrhus. 1985. A History of the Monks of Syria. Translated by R. Price.
Kalamazoo, Mich.: Cisterian Publications.
Thomas, Kenneth J. 1982. “Chronology of Translations of the Bible.” In Encyclopaedia
Iranica 4: 203–206.
Works Cited                                                       309

Thomas, Kenneth J., and Fereydun Vahman. 1982. “Persian Translations of the Bible.” In
Encyclopaedia Iranica 4: 209–13.
Thompson, L. 1990. “The Literary Unity of the Book of Revelation.” In Mappings of the
Biblical Terrain: The Bible as Text. Edited by V. Tollers and J. Maie, 347–63.
Lewisburg: Bucknell University Press.
Torjesen, K. 1986. Hermeneutical Procedure and Theological Method in Origen’s Exegesis.
Berlin and Boston: Walter De Gruyter.
Torrance, T. F. 1995. Divine Meaning: Studies in Patristic Hermeneutics. Edinburgh: Clark.
Turner, Victor. 1974. Dramas, Fields, and Metaphors: Symbolic Action in Human Society.
Ithaca: Cornell University Press.
Underhill, Evelyn. 1961. Mysticism: A Study on the Nature and Development of Man’s
Spiritual Consciousness. London, 1911; repr. New York: E. P. Dutton.
Universal House of Justice. 1991. Compilation of Compilations. 2 vols. Compiled by the
Research Department of the Universal House of Justice. Victoria: Bahā’ī Publications
Australia.
———. 1986. Women. Compiled by the Research Department of the Universal House of
Justice. Oakham: Bahā’ī Publishing Trust.
———, trans. 1981. “Tablets of the Hair.” Authorized, unpublished translation of selected
texts of Bahā’u’llāh.
Vellian, J., ed. 1973. Studies on Syrian Baptismal Rites. Kottayam: CMS Press.
Vööbus, Arthur. 1988. History of Asceticism in the Syrian Orient: A Contribution to the
History of Culture in the Near East. Vol. 3. CSCO 500, Subsidia 81; Louvain: Corpus
Scriptorum Christianorum Orientalium.
———. 1982. “Bābay the Great.” In Encyclopaedia Iranica 3: 308. [**378]
———. 1965. History of the School of Nisibis. CSCO 266. Louvain.
——— 1961. “The Institution of the benai qeiama and benat qeiama in the Ancient Syrian
Church.” Church History 30: 19–27.
———. 1958. “Manichaeism and Christianity in Persia under the Sasanids: Some Notes on
Manichaean Ecclesiology and Its Background.” Yearbook of the Estonian Learned
Society of America (1954–58): 2:7–13.
———. 1947. A Letter of Ephrem to the Mountaineers: A Literary-Critical Contribution to
Syriac Patristic Literature. Contributions of the Baltic University 25. Hamburg-
Pinneberg.
Walbridge, John. 1996. Sacred Acts, Sacred Space, Sacred Time. Bahā’ī Studies, 1. Oxford:
George Ronald.
Warburg, M. 1991. “The Circle, the Brotherhood, and the Ecclesiastical Body: Bahā’ī in
Denmark, 1925–1987.” In Geertz and Jensen 1991, 201–21.
Wansbrough, John. 1977. Quranic Studies: Sources and Methods of Scriptural
Interpretation. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
———. 1978. The Sectarian Milieu. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Watson, W. 1984. Classical Hebrew Poetry: A Guide to Its Techniques. Journal for the
Study of the Old Testament Supplement Series, 26. University of Sheffield.
Weber, Max. 1950. The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism. London.
Works Cited

Weber, O. 1981. Foundations of Dogmatics. Grand Rapids: Eerdmans.
Wehr, Hans. 1973. A Dictionary of Modern Written Arabic. Edited by J. Milton Cowan.
Ithaca: Spoken Language Services, Inc., 3d edn.
Wheelwright, P. 1962. Metaphor and Reality. Bloomington: Indiana University Press.
———. 1960. “Semantics and Ontology.” In Knight and Cottle 1960, 1–9.
Widengren, Geo. 1984. “The Nestorian Church in Sasanian and Early Post-Sasanian Iran.”
In Lanciotti 1984, 1–30.
———. 1960. “The Fate of the Soul after Death.” Orientalia Suecana 9: 102–106.
———. 1946. Mesopotamian Elements in Manichaeism. Uppsala.
———. 1945. “The Great Vohu Mana and the Apostle of God.” In Uppsala Universitets
Arsskrift.
Wiebe, Donald. 1996. “Is the New Comparativism Really New?” Method and Theory in the
Study of Religion 8.1:21–29.
———. 1989. “ Explaining Religion:The Intellectual Ethos.” Religion 19: 305–309.
———. 1988. “Why the Academic Study of Religion? Motive [**379] and Method in the
Study of Religion.”  Religious Studies 24: 403–13.
Wiessner, Gernot. “Christlicher Heiligenkult im Umkreis eines sassanidischen
Grosskönigs.” In Eilers 1971, 141–55.
Wiles, Maurice. 1967. The Making of Christian Doctrine. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Wilkinson, J. 1971. Egeria’s Travels. London: Society for Promoting Christian Knowledge.
Williams, A. V. 1996. “Zoroastrians and Christians in Sasanian Iran.” Bulletin of the John
Rylands University Library of Manchester 78.3: 23–35.
Williams, M. 1985. The Immovable Race: A Gnostic Designation and the Theme of Stability
in Late Antiquity. Leiden: E.J. Brill.
Winslow, David. 1984. “Soteriological ‘Orthodoxy’ in the Fathers.” In Studia Patristica 15:
393–95.
Wolfson, H. A. 1956. “Immortality and Resurrection in the Philosophy of the Church
Fathers.” Harvard Divinity Bulletin 21 (1955–56): 5–36. Reprinted in Wolfson 1961,
69–103.
———. 1961. Religious Philosophy: A Group of Essays. Cambridge: Harvard University
Press.
Wright, W. C., trans. 1923. The Works of Emperor Julian. London: Loeb Classical Library.
Yamauchi, Edwin. 1977. “Manichaeans.” In Eerdmans Handbook to the History of
Christianity. Grand Rapids, Mich.: Eerdmans, 48–49.
Yarshater, Ehsan, ed. 1984–. Encyclopaedia Iranica. Boston: Routledge and Kegan Paul;
Costa Mesa, Ca.: Mazda.
———, ed. 1983. The Cambridge History of Iran, volume 3 (2): The Seleucid, Parthian
and Sasanian Periods. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Younger, K, Jr. 1990. “The Figurative Aspect and the Contextual Method in the Evaluation
of the Solomonic Empire (1 Kings 1–11).” In Clines 1990, 157–75.
Yousif, P. 1984. “Approaches to Divine Realities in the Thought of St Ephrem of Nisibis.”
In Madey and Kaniarakath 1984, 54–69.
Works Cited                                                       311

———. 1978a. “St. Ephrem on Symbols in Nature: Faith, the Trinity and the Cross (Hymns
on Faith, No. 18).” Eastern Churches Review 10 (1978): 52–60.
———. 1978b. “Symbolisme Christologique dans la Bible et dans la Nature chez S.
Ephrem de Nisibe.” Parole de l’Orient 8 (1977–78): 5–66.
——— 1976. “Symbol and Reality in St. Ephrem” [in Arabic]. Bayn al-Nahrayn 16.4: 435–
48.
[**380]
Works Cited

[**381]

INDEX

Note:	  Page	  numbers	  in	  this	  Index	  refer	  to	  pagination	  in	  the	  published	  volume,
indicated	  by	  boldface	  square	  brackets,	  with	  asterisks,	  e.g.	  [**381].
A
Abā I, Mār (d. 552 C.E.)
Zoroastrian convert, patriarch of the Church of Persia, 5, 6
called before council of Magi, 78
Abbreviations
Appendix I, 331–37
‘Abdu’l-Bahā (d. 1921)
photograph of, obverse
designated successor of Bahā’u’llāh, 3
“Centre of the Covenant,” 238
authorized interpreter and moral exemplar, 3, 238, 255
author of earliest dated Bahā’ī publication (1882), 167
role in formulating Bahā’ī principles, 183
unique archival items in Haifa, 141–42
Writings
Abdu’l-Bahā in London, 302
Bahā’ī Revelation, 307
Divine Philosophy, 311
Paris Talks, 302, 307
Promulgation of Universal Peace, 306, 307
Secret of Divine Civilization, 164, 167, 300–301, 306
Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahā, 297–98, 301, 303, 305, 308, 309,
310, 311
Seven Candles of Unity, 191, 297–302
Tablet on waging peace, 160–61
Tablets of ‘Abdu’l-Bahā, 155, 291, 306, 311
Traveller’s Narrative, 155, 171, 300
unnamed Tablet on Europe and Persia, 178
Will and Testament, 3
endorses Luther’s reforms, 164
praises Woodrow Wilson’s Fourteen Principles, 202, 301
on salvation of non-Bahā’īs, 291
on freedom of conscience, 171
Index                                                                    313

Adiabene (region of ancient Assyria)
Persian province contiguous to Roman province of Osrhoëne, 39
northern Mesopotamia consisted of Osrhoëne and Adiabene, 64
Adrianople
emergence of Bahā’ī as distinctive faith-community in 1866, 2
period of Bahā’u’llāh’s ministry (1864–68), 2, 139
Bahā’u’llāh’s addresses kings and ecclesiastics of the world, 139–41
Aḥay (d. 415 C.E.)
Catholicós who burned Manichaean churches to eradicate religion, 56
ahistoricism
a classic pitfall of comparison, 321–22
‘Akkā
Turkish penal colony to which Bahā’u’llāh was exiled in 1868, 2, 139
period of Bahā’u’llāh’s ministry (1868–92), 2
alchemy
one of three forms of mystical allegory, 207
allegory (allegorical interpretation)
Paradise as master allegory, 260, 329
tendency to remythologize scripture, 87
considered the servant of heresy, 89
Ephrem disavowed, 88
Hymns on Paradise a double allegory, 286
Paradise as allegory of the ideal Church, 288
Tablet of the Holy Mariner most well-known Bahā’ī allegory, 219
three forms of mystical allegory: the journey, alchemy, love, 207 [**382]
American flag
as “summarizing” symbol, 15–16
analogy
balance of analogical and differential relationships, 320
analysis
synchronic, comparative-systemic (generalized approach), 32
diachronic, philological-historical (specifying approach), 32
analytical control, 320
Andrae, Tor
theorizes Qur’ān’s descriptions of Paradise of Syriac Christian provenance, 7
angel
Watchers, 59, 133
sexual purity as “angelic” lifestyle, 272, 275, 323
Anīrān
designated non-Iranian territory within Neo-Persian empire, 64
anthropology (doctrine of the human person)
anthropology of the Hymns on Paradise, 264–70
Index

triune conception of man, 265
Aphrahāṭ, “the Persian Sage” (d. c. 345 C.E.)
first Father of Syrian (Persian) church, 7
first major Christian writer outside Roman Empire, 7
author of the Demonstrations, 7
life and writings, 40–1
employs rhetorical device known as syncrisis, 41
pro-Roman sympathies, 67
on organs of soul (spiritual senses), 280
on asceticism as “holy war” (allegorical interpretation of Gideon narrative), 105, 134
Aqāq (Acacius, bishop of Amida, d. 496 C.E.)
Catholicós, produced first known Christian text in Persian, 79
Aqdas (The Most Holy Book)
no express hierarchy of laws, 145
various “summaries” of, 145–46
Tablet of Glad-Tidings as “Proclamatory Aqdas,” 142, 146, 176–77
Arabic
as language of Bahā’ī revelation, 141, 145
Arabic/Persian Transliteration Scheme, (Appendix III), 341–43
Arianism, Arians
Ephrem’s battle against, 58–61
Ephrem’s Hymns on Faith directed against, 60
Emperor Valens threatens forced conversion in Edessa, 60–1
Arians take over Ephrem’s church from, 373–78 C.E., 61
fomented bella ecclesiae, 116
savaged Christian unity, 125, 316
ethical view of salvation, 228
Ark
prefigures levels of Paradise (Ephrem), 282
ruby Ark-hearts, 327
unity as Ark crossing ocean of knowledge, 295
Syriac and Bahā’ī symbols compared, 254
Armenians
Christians in New Julfa, 323
asceticism
movement in aftermath of martyrdoms, 271
“holiness,” “virginity,” and “singleness” as Syriac technical terms, 134
“holiness” as total sanctification, 248
sexual purity as “angelic” lifestyle, 134, 317, 323
asceticism as “holy war” (allegorizing of Gideon), 105, 134
criticized by Bahā’u’llāh, 164
Assyria
Index                                                                    315

Roman province in 116 C.E., reconquered by Persians, 6
Āsūristān as “heart of Iran,” 6
Assyrian Church of the East
New Calendarian (Tehran, Chicago), 8
Old Calendarian (Baghdad), 8
Assyrians
self-designation of East Syrians, 83
Atonement
atonement theories in early Christianity, 227–228
tension between ethical and ontological views of salvation, 228
‘Aṭṭār, Farīd al-Dīn (d. 1220 C.E.)
celebrated fable, The Conference of the Birds, and Bahā’u’llāh’s Seven Valleys
compared, 207–10
‘Aṭṭār’s stress on pain vs. Bahā’u’llāh’s focus on ecstasy, 209–10 [**383]
axiom
axiomatic theories of phenomenology, 320

B
Bāb, Sayyid ‘Alī-Muḥammad Shīrāzī (d. 1850), the
prophet-martyr, precursor to Bahā’u’llāh, 2
implements new law code, 2
foretells “He Whom God Shall Manifest,” 2
Writings
Persian Bayān (Bayān-i Fārsī), preëminent doctrinal work, 2
Qayyūm al-Asmā’, weightiest of Bāb’s writings, 2, 214, 289, 327, 328
Sūra of the Maiden (Sūrat al-Ḥūrīya), 195
preponderating influence on Bahā’u’llāh’s symbolism, 214
Bābay
foremost Nestorian theologian, 73
Bābī movement (Bābism)
super-Islamic praxis, supra-Islamic ethos, 2
Bahā’īs
unity of, 308
Bahā’ī Faith
daughter religion of Islam, 3
second to Christianity as world’s most widely diffused religion, 4
three missionary phases, 2
emergence as distinctive faith-community (Adrianople, 1866), 2
Bahā’ī paradigm of unity, 2, 33, 225
advanced study of must still deal with basics, 181
Bahā’u’llāh (Mīrzā Ḥusayn-‘Alī Nūrī, d. 1892)
Index

life and writings, 135–42
historical sources for the life of, 136
Browne’s pen-portrait of, 135–36
unique archival items in Haifa, 141
as descendant of Yazdagird III, 137
in youth, resolves to promote unity, 138–39
twelve-day transfiguration, 139
imprisonment in Sīyāh Chāl (“Black Pit”), 137, 197
prophetic annunciation (vision of Maiden of Heaven), 138, 197
messianic secrecy (Baghdad period, 1853–63), 2
declaration, twelve-day Festival of Riḍvān, 139
abrogates holy war, 139
purifies, renews entire world, 139
multiple messiahship, 2
“Promised One” of world religions, 2
Bahā’ī doctrinal key scenario, 185–88, 229–32
messianic titles,
Bābī messiah, “He Whom God Shall Manifest,” 2
Ḥusayn redivivus (Shī‘ite Islam), 2
Spirit of Truth (Christ’s parousia), 2
“Everlasing Father” (Isa. 9:6), 2
Shāh Bahrām Varjāvand (Zoroastrian savior), 2
Proclamation to kings and ecclesiastics, 140–41
critique of West, 176
recognizes special capacity of West, 176
revelation as effective cause of Western progress, 176
states that no prophet will appear before 1,000 years, 139
Writings, 184–85
Book of Certitude (Kitāb-i Īqān), 2, 184, 205–206
Book of the Covenant (Kitāb-i ‘Ahd), 3, 190
Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, 142, 192, 294, 302, 306
Essence of the Mysteries (Jawāhir al-Asrār), 184, 210
Four Valleys (Chahār Vādī), 184
Hidden Words (Kalimāt-i Maknūna), 168, 184, 188–89, 191, 203, 211, 219, 236–
37, 244, 304
Most Great Tablet (Lawḥ-i Aqdas), 238
Most Holy Book (Kitāb-i Aqdas), 142–76 passim, 184, 203, 204
Proclamation of Bahā’u’llāh, 293
Seven Valleys (Haft Vādī), 184, 205, 207–11
Sūra of Sulṭān (Sūrat al-Sulṭān), 326
Sūra of the Bayān (Sūrat al-Bayān), 213–14
Index                                                                    317

Sūra of the Kings (Sūrat al-Mulūk), 140
Sūra of the Temple (Sūrat al-Haykal), 138, 184
Sūra of Vafā (Sūrat al-Vafā), 186, 196 [**384]
Tablet of Carmel, 199–200
Tablet of Effulgences (Lawḥ-i Tajallīyāt), 177, 191
Tablet of Glad-Tidings (Lawḥ-i Bishārāt), 142–79
Tablet of Maqṣūd (Lawḥ-i Maqṣūd), 159, 191, 194–95, 212, 299
Tablet of Ornaments (Lawḥ-i Ṭarāzāt), 143, 191, 294
Tablet of Riḍvān, 196–97
Tablet of Sāmsūn, or Tablet of the Howdah (Lawḥ-i Sāmsūn/Lawḥ-i Hawdaj), 224
Tablet of Splendors (Lawḥ-i Ishrāqāt), 175, 177, 184–85, 189, 191
Tablet of Unity (Lawḥ-i Ittiḥād), 302, 304
Tablet [or, “Song”] of the Holy Mariner (Lawḥ-i Mallāḥ al-Quds), epigraph, 219–
25, 254
Tablet of the Manifestation (Lawḥ-i Ẓuhūr), 237
Tablet of the World (Lawḥ-i Dunyā), 175, 184
Tablet of Wisdom (Lawḥ-i Ḥikmat), 176
Tablet [or, “Song”] of the Holy Mariner (Lawḥ-i Mallāh al-Quds), epigraph, 219–
Tablet to Czar Alexander II, 140, 184, 186–87, 218
Tablet to Fatḥ-i A‘ẓam, 202, 230
Tablet to Hardegg (Lawḥ-i Hirtīq), 325–6
Tablet to Janāb-i Mīrzā Ṣādiq, 187
Tablet to Janāb-i Muḥammad, 234, 237
Tablet to London Times, 143–44
Tablet to Mānakchī Ṣāḥib, 200
Tablet to Napoleon III, 2, 140, 184
Tablet to Nāṣiri’d-Dīn Shāh, 140, 184
Tablet to Pope Pius IX, 2, 140, 184
Tablet to Queen Victoria (Lawḥ-i malikah wiktūriya), 2, 140, 173, 201, 202
Tablet to Sulṭān ‘Abdu’l-Azīz, 140
Tablet to the Priest (Lawḥ-i Qassīs), 230
Tablets of the Hair, 215–16
The Wondrous Book (Kitāb-i Badī‘), 327
Words of Paradise (Kalimāt-i Firdawsīya), 177, 198, 206, 295, 301, 303–04, 305
Words of Wisdom, 185
re-revelation, 144–46
first advocates universal language in 1863, 153
advances theory of religious relativity, 186
addresses kings and ecclesiastics of the world, 139–41
Index

disclaimed desire for political power, 155
admonishes Great Powers to disarm, 159
endorses British model of constitutional monarchy, 173
embraces modernity by sacralizing aspects of it, 3, 34
banquet
banqueting with “special dead” (families and martyrs), 239
See also Wedding Feast.
baptism
rite of Christian initiation, 267
paradox of fire and water at baptism, 103
purification by grace, 132
and vows of celibacy, 133
re-entry into primordial Paradise, 273
one of “three powerful conceptual models,” 133
Bardaiṣan (d. 222 C.E.)
Ephrem’s stylistic and musical debt to, 51
Writings (Book of Mysteries, Book of Thunder, Book of the Hosts, Of Domnus), 48
taught “evolutionist theodicy,” 49
quote from one of lost songs, 288
Triads (Chaos, Creation, Incarnation; Body, Soul, Spirit; Nature, Fate, Freedom), 49
Bardaiṣanites
dominant form of Christianity in Edessa during life of Ephrem, 44
greatest single influence on Ephrem, 45
Ephrem’s battle against, 48–53
Book of the Laws of the Countries, 48, 70
battle
celibacy as battle or holy war, 275
Bausani, Alessandro (late Bahā’ī Orientalist)
typology of monotheisms, 3
on revolution of monotheism, 147–48
analysis of Bahā’ī symbolic vision, 183 [**385]
beatific vision
Ephrem on, 132, 279–80, 287
Beloved
See Lover and the Beloved.
bias
scalar bias, classic pitfall of comparison, 323
body
Bahā’ī concept of subtle afterlife “form” (haykal), 233
book burning
Bahā’u’llāh’s abrogation of, 165–66
bridal chamber
Index                                                                    319

“Bridal Chamber of Light,” 240–41
Bride
one of “three powerful conceptual models,” 133
“Royal Bride” as celibate Christian betrothed to Christ, 109
See also Crowning, Bridegroom, Wedding Feast.
Bridegroom
eschatological symbol of Christ, 108, 110, 133
one of “three powerful conceptual models,” 133
See also Wedding Feast.
Browne, E. G. (Orientalist)
historic interview with Bahā’u’llāh (1890), 135–36, 301
notes defective ms. (missing fifteenth Glad-Tiding) sent to Baron Rosen, 173
Buddha a recognized “Manifestation of God” (Bahā’ī), 292

C
camel
snow-white She-Camel, symbol of Bahā’u’llāh’s revelation, 310
candles
“Seven Candles of Unity” (Bahā’ī principles), 297–302
celibacy
sexual purity as “angelic” lifestyle, 317, 323
not confined to women, 134
compared with Bahā’ī chastity, 244
See also Covenant, Sons/Daughters of the Covenant, Daughters of the Covenant,
virgins.
Chaldeans (astrologers)
Ephrem’s battle against, 61–2
chastity
Bahā’ī sexual purity, 244
Chosroes I (= Khosrow I, r. 531–579 C.E.)
established freedom of religion, not freedom to proselytize, 76
Persian Christians invoked blessing on during worship, 77
Christ
nativity, baptism, descent to Sheol as three major events in life of, 112
Ephrem on Christ’s baptism, 102
“purifier of all,” 132
has vision of Bahā’u’llāh, 326
return of Christ, 232
Bahā’u’llāh on Christ as “Purifier of the world,” 230–31
Bahā’u’llāh ascribes rise of Western civilization to Cross, 231
Christianity
has no sacred language, unlike Judaism and Islam, 37
Index

“Pure Religion” vs. “Good Religion” (Zoroastrianism), 348
Christians (Greek-speaking)
prisoners of war colonized throughout Persian empire, 65
Christians (Persian)
first great form of non-Roman Christianity, 63
dual authority polity (having divided loyalties), 66, 77
suffered large-scale persecution under Shāpūr II (r. 310–379 C.E.), 77
Christology
Person and Work of Christ, 228
functional Christology, 230
patristic Christology “patient of paradox and contradiction,” 228
post-Christian Christology, 229–30
Church of the East
as East Syrian, “Persian Christianity,” 4–9
officially constituted at Synod of Mār Isḥāq (410 C.E.), 67–8
first six ecclesiastical provinces, 68
universality of, 63–84
civilization
Bahā’u’llāh’s theory of, 292
Bahā’u’llāh ascribes rise of Western civilization to Cross, 231
Commentary on Genesis (Ephrem)
Ephrem disavows allegory, 88 [**386]
Commentary on the Diatessaron (Ephrem)
grace and immortality replace Law and Nature (death), 98
on gifts of Magi, 118
on Medicine of Life, 119
on Jesus’ power to transform creation (confer divinization), 120
John the Baptist as return of Elijah, 232
on wise person as prophet, 99
identifies Cross with Tree of Life, 126
confession
Bahā’u’llāh’s prohibition of, 164–65
comparison
central activity of phenomenology of religion(s), 1
“logic” of religious studies, 31
tests for depth structures among traditions, 25
“instrument of discovery,” 27
no rules for (J. Z. Smith), 24
variables, theories, correspondence rules (Poole), 25
four primary modes of (J. Z. Smith), 25
models of, imported from external disciplines, 24
“New Comparativism,” 26–33
Index                                                                    321

contrastive comparison, 34–35
test for coherence, 25
paradoxes of commensurability, 320
utilitarian comparisons, supportive of historical arguments, 319–20
limitative comparisons, 318
comparison-series
Aphrahāṭ’s use of rhythmically formalized, extended syncrisis, 41
concentric unity (individual-to-world)
Bahā’ī paradigm of unity, 2, 33, 225
See also paradigm, unity.
conscience
‘Abdu’l-Bahā on freedom of conscience, 171
Constantinople
First Council of Constantinople (381 C.E.), 44
Bahā’u’llāh exiled to (1863), 139
advocates adoption of universal language in meeting with Kemāl Pāshā, 153
lost Tablet to priest in, 230
contrastive comparison
defined, 34–5
control
analytical control, 320
Cottrell, Count
one of few Europeans who met Bahā’u’llāh, 140–41
reports Bahā’u’llāh wished to send summaries of teachings to leaders of Europe and
America, 145
Councils (ecumenical)
ecumenical councils, 316
counterindications
self-critique of present study, 321
Covenant
Covenant (Qyāmā), Syriac concept of, 42–3, 104–107, 133–34
Primordial Covenant (Islam), 189
Syriac ethical key scenario, 104–107, 243–44
Bahā’ī ritual key scenario, 188–91, 238
authority scenario, 188
strategy for action: obedience, 188
Syriac and Bahā’ī compared, 238, 244
Covenant-breakers
challenge authority of Bahā’ī leaders and institutions, 225
crimson
Bahā’ī sacred color, 327
Crimson Ark
Index

Bahā’ī social key scenario, 198–200, 254
scenario of assurance and fidelity, 198
strategy for action: harmony of believers, 198–99
relation to Book of the Covenant ( Kitāb-i ‘Ahd), 3
ruby Ark-hearts, 327
patron king considered a dweller of, 154
Syriac (Noah’s Ark) and Bahā’ī (Crimson Ark) compared, 327–28
Crowning
marriage custom, performed at baptism, 111

D
data selection
data selection, classic pitfall of comparison, 323–24
focused encyclopedia useful for sketching consensus, 185
unpolled consensus on Ephrem’s “favorite” key symbols, 96, 324
key symbols lexicalized in A Basic Bahā’ī Dictionary, 324
Daughters of the Covenant
core élite of Syriac Christianity, 5, 42– [**387] 3, 123
Syriac ethical key scenario, 104–107, 243–44
choirs of virgins, trained to sing Ephrem’s hymns, 262
dead
banqueting with “special dead” (families and martyrs), 239
death
patristic “shapes” of death and resurrection, 239
See also resurrection.
deeds
unity of deeds (Bahā’ī principle), 304–305
Deganawida (”Peacemaker,”Iroquois culture hero)
popularly recognized Bahā’ī “Manifestation of God,” 292
deification
See theōsis.
democracy
Iroquois influence hypothesis, 292
Bahā’u’llāh’s advocacy of parliamentary democracy, 3
Diatessaron (Persian)
gospel harmony, or life of Christ, rendered into New Persian, 83
See also Commentary on the Diatessaron.
difference
soteriology and paradigm differences, 315-18
balance of analogical and differential relationships, 320
dimensional analysis
procedure, 227
Index                                                                    323

dimensional model
defined, 19–21, 181
taxonomy of religion, 19, 320
disarmament
Bahā’u’llāh’s principle of collective security in light of, 3, 157–60
divinization
See theōsis.
Doctrinal dimension
Syriac and Bahā’ī compared, 227–35, 255
dream
example of false parallels, 324–25
DREEMS paradigm
Buck’s acronym defined, 19, 181
dress (freedom of)
Bahā’u’llāh upholds, 162–63

E
East Syrian
one of two major divisions of Syriac Christianity, 43
Edessa (ancient city in Asia Minor, modem Urfa in SE Turkey)
ancient Urhāy, capital of Persian/Roman province of Osrhoëne, 39
“Athens of the East,” 7
one of two centers of early Syriac Christianity, 39
Valens threatens forced conversion in Edessa, 60–1
education
unity (universality) in education (Bahā’ī principle), 307–308
Egeria
visited Edessa in 381 C.E., 284–85
elaborating key symbols
root metaphors defined, 16–18
key scenarios defined, 18–19
Eliade, Mircea
influence on academic study of religion in North America, 26
on religions symbols as primary data, 31
elixir
sacraments as elixir of immortality, 255, 288
Bahā’ī symbol of transformation, 327
Ephesus, Council of (431 C.E.)
anathematized Nestorius, 72
Ephrem the Syrian (d. 373 C.E.)
icon of, obverse
greatest poet of patristic Christianity, 7, 40
Index

importance of, 39–40
spiritual forebear of, influence coextensive with Persian Christianity, 8
lived on Roman-Persian frontier, 8
life and writings, 41–3
battle against Marcionism, 45–7
battle against Bardaiṣanites, 48–53
battle against Manichaeism, 53–8
battle against Arianism, 58–61
battle against Jews, 61
battle against Chaldeans, 61–62
Saint’s Day, 9 June (Western tradition), 42
Saint’s Day, 28 January (Eastern tradition), 42
some hymns in Ḥūḏrā traditionally ascribed to Ephrem, 346 [**388]
Epiphany (6 January)
vestiges of lost Persian Christian liturgy, preserved in service for Feast of Ephiphany,
eschatology
realized eschatology, 186, 274–75
Ethical dimension
Syriac and Bahā’ī compared, 243–47, 256
Euphrates river
western frontier of Sasanian empire, 64
European
majority of Christians in seventh century non-European, 64
Eusebius of Caesarea (d. c. 339 C.E.)
“Father of Church History,” author of Ecclesiastical History, 63
Eurocentric, practically excludes Persian Christianity, 63
exegesis
Syriac, 87–90
Antioch and Alexandria (rival exegetical schools), 87
Christian allegorical interpretation, 87–90
typology, 90–92
ecclesial exegesis, 287–88
Hymns on Paradise a mystical midrash of Genesis, 287
Experiential dimension
Syriac and Bahā’ī compared, 247–50, 256–57

F
faith
a “second soul” (Ephrem), 327
family
important to raise, 309
Index                                                                    325

fasting
Ephrem praises, 107, 132
Feast (Nineteen-Day Feast)
occasion of communal Bahā’ī worship, 308
foundationalism
fallacy of theoretical universals, classic pitfall of comparison, 322–23
fragments
“Fragments of a Lost Persian Christian Liturgy” (Appendix IV), 83, 345–49
freedom (of conscience)
unity in freedom (Bahā’ī principle), 300

G
Geertz, Clifford
functional definition of religion, 12
Geertz’s contribution to Study of Religion, 12
gems
Bahā’ī ethical root metaphor, 204–07, 246–47
Syriac and Bahā’ī symbols compared, 246–47
gender
unity of gender: equality of men and women (Bahā’ī principle), 296–97
genetic, genealogy (diffusion of ideas)
utilitarian comparisons supportive of, 319–20, 328
goldsmith
Bahā’u’llāh’s analogy of, 237
government
Bahā’u’llāh endorses British model of constitutional monarchy, 173
Great Powers
Bahā’u’llāh sought protection of for followers, 156
Bahā’u’llāh’s admonition to disarm, 159

H
Hair
Bahā’u’llāh’s “Tablets of the Hair,” 215–16
harps
“Three Harps” (Old Testament, New Testament, Nature), 95
Harrowing of Hell
Syriac mythic key scenario, 112–14, 250–51
dramatizes Christ’s victory over Death, 250–51
healing
See Physician.
Heaven
See Paradise.
Index

Hell
See Harrowing of Hell.
heresy, heresies
as shadow of Christianity (Quispel), 45
Hidden Fourth
extradivine reality of God behind Trinity, 247
historia
literal mode of exegesis, contrasted with typological theōria, 41 [**389]
historical profile
of Syriac (Persian) Christianity, 37–83
of Bahā’ī Faith, 135–79
history of religion(s)
complements phenomenology of religion(s), 1
historian of religions preoccupied with religious symbols, 31
holiness (sexual purity)
ideal common to most Syriac faiths, 8, 107
See also celibacy.
Holy Mariner
Bahā’ī social key scenario, 198–200, 254
Tablet [or, “Song”] of the Holy Mariner, epigraph, 219–25
Universal House of Justice as current Mariner of Bahā’ī ship of state, 200
See also Mariner, Ark, Crimson Ark, Universal House of Justice.
holy war
symbol of asceticism (allegorical interpretation of Gideon), 105, 134
Bahā’u’llāh’s reversal of Islamic jihād, 139, 148–50, 293–94
Ḥūḏrā (“Cycle” [Breviary])
traditionally, erroneously ascribed to Ephrem, 345–46
second only to Persian Synods in study of Persian Christian spirituality, 345
“Fragments of a Lost Persian Christian Liturgy,” 9, 314, 319, 346–349
human rights (Bahā’ī principle)
‘Abdu’l-Bahā stresses importance of, 306
humankind
unity of humankind (Bahā’ī principle), 295–96
Hymns on Paradise (Ephrem)
“Sapiential Theōsis: A New Reading of Ephrem the Syrian’s Hymns on Paradise,”
259–88
as liturgy, 262–63
anthropology of, 264–70
symbols of Paradise, 281
Ephrem’s Paradise transcendentalizes traditional Syriac categories, 255
Hymns on the Pearl (Ephrem)
anti-Arian hymn cycle, 123–25
Index                                                                    327

hypothesis
operative hypothesis, 11, 33, 35
operative hypothesis defended, 328
specific hypothesis, 33–34
specific hypothesis defended, 320–21

I
illumination
Bahā’ī ethical key scenario, 191–93, 244–45
strategy for action: personal transformation, 191
Syriac and Bahā’ī symbols compared, 244–45
immortality
immortality of soul as Platonic conception, 238–39
denial of immortality as Aristotelian, 239
Tertullian, Origen, Augustine on soul’s immortality, 238
Bahā’ī paradigm stresses unity over immortality, 233
See also theōsis.
Incarnation
and Bahā’ī doctrine of manifestation, 237
See also Robe of Glory.
interfaith amity
Bahā’u’llāh enjoins, 150–52
interpretation
Syriac, 87–90
Antioch and Alexandria (rival exegetical schools), 87
Christian allegorical interpretation, 87–90
typology, 90–2
ecclesial exegesis, 287–88
Hymns on Paradise as mystical midrash of Genesis, 287
interpretation of results
symbols and significations, 314–15
soteriology and paradigm differences, 315–18
evaluation of research design, 318–21
counterindications, 321–25
suggestions for further study, 325–27
relevance to study of religion, 328–29
Īqān
Bahā’u’llāh’s Qur’ān commentary, prëeminent doctrinal work, 2
‘Irāq
constituted “heart” of Sasanian empire, 64
Iroquois
Iroquois influence hypothesis, 292
Index

Islam
revolution of Islamic monotheism, 147–48 [**390]
archangel Gabriel, 197, 217
emergence of Islamic ethos, 181–82
lesser and greater jihād, 150
“Abode of Islam” and “Abode of War,” 310
Primordial Covenant, 189
sadrat al-muntahā, see Lote Tree.
community paradigm, 33
Ibn al-‘Arabī on work ethic, 167
responses to modernity, 146–47
Islam as parent of Bahā’ī Faith, 313
ḥadīth qudsī as model for Bahā’ī aphorisms, 299
Islam and Bahā’ī (B. Todd Lawson), 319
role in symbolic transformation from Persian Christian to Bahā’ī, 9, 321
See also Shi‘ism.
Išo‘yabh III (649–659 C.E.)
Catholicós-Patriarch, co-compiled Ḥūḏrā, 345

J
Jacob of Nisibis
Ephrem’s bishop/spiritual mentor, present in Council of Nicea, 42
Jacobites (West Syrian Christians)
Monophysite form of Oriental Orthodox Christianity, 8, 79, 323
organized as separate millet under Islam, 5
Jāmasp (r. 498–501 C.E.)
convokes synod to stop conversions of Zoroastrians to Christianity, 76
Jesus Christ
See Christ.
Jews
Ephrem’s battle against, 61
jihād (Islamic holy war)
lesser and greater jihād, 150
“Abode of Islam” and “Abode of War,” 310
Bahā’u’llāh’s reversal of Islamic jihād, 139, 148–50, 293–94
John of Daylam (7th–8th c. C.E.)
established Persian-speaking monastery for native Iranian monks, 68, 75–6, 82
John the Baptist
as return of Elijah (Ephrem), 232
journey
forms of mystical allegory: journey, alchemy, love, 207
Bahā’ī experiential root metaphor, 207–12, 250
Index                                                                    329

Judaism
Ephrem’s dependence on Jewish exegesis, 61
Julian the Apostate (reverted to paganism, r. 361–63 C.E.)
relied on false prognostications of astrologers, defeated by Persians (363 C.E.), 62
Ephrem’s Hymns against Julian, 62
justice
Bahā’u’llāh on importance of, 169

K
Kartīr (also spelled Kirdēr)
Zoroastrian high priest, persecutor of Persian Christians, 5, 66
key scenarios
one of two sub-types of elaborating “key symbols,” 16, 18
action-inspiring, 19
Syriac, 96-117
Bahā’ī, 185–200
Syriac and Bahā’ī compared, 255–57
key symbols (symbolic anthropology)
defined, 15–19
“summarizing” and “elaborating,” 15
sub-types of elaborating key symbols: “root metaphors” and “key scenarios,” 18
vivify ideals of thought (root metaphors) and action (key scenarios), 16
Syriac and Bahā’ī compared, 255–57
Khārg Island
archaeological site of some sixty Syriac Christian tombs, 66
Khosrow I (= Chosroes I, r. 531–79 C.E.) established freedom of religion, not proselytize, 76
kings
Bahā’u’llāh exhorts to support Bahā’ī cause, 157–58
Queen Marie of Rumania publicly declares as Bahā’ī (1926), 199
His Highness Malietoa Tanumafili II (King of Western Samoa) publicly declares as
Bahā’ī (1973), 199
Kṛṣṇa (Krishna, legendary founder of Neo-Hinduism)
as “Manifestation of God” (Bahā’ī), 292 [**391]
Kuhn, Thomas
The Structure of Scientific Revolutions (1962), 11

L
language
See universal language.
Late Antiquity
Ephrem’s hymns as response to, 288
Lesser Peace
Index

See peace.
Letter to Publius
prosaic counterpart to Hymns on Paradise, 263
Light
See illumination.
logic, logics
“logic of research,” 23
paradigm “logics” as coefficients of anthropological and soteriological assumptions,
logic of assimilations, 38
Lote Tree
Bahā’ī mythic root metaphor, 212–17, 252–53
associated with “blessed tree” in Light Verse (Q. 24:35), 217
See also Tree of Life.
Lover and the Beloved
Syriac term for Christ, 108
Bahā’ī experiential key scenario, 193–195, 249
mystical scenario, 193
strategy for action: deepen one’s relationship with God, 193
Beloved beckons lover (reversal of traditional roles), 194
loyalty
Bahā’u’llāh on loyalty to just government, 157–59

M
Magi
Ephrem’s reference on occasion of Ephiphany, 348
Ephrem’s symbolism of gifts of Magi, 118
Mār Abā I called before council of Magi, 78
Maiden of Heaven
Bahā’u’llāh’s vision of, 138, 251
personification of Holy Spirit, 257
role as annunciator, 197
Bahā’u’llāh’s “transcendent self,” 251
Bahā’ī mythic key scenario, 195–98, 251, 289
identification scenario, 195
strategy for action: deepen one’s faith in Bahā’u’llāh, 195
Mānī (d. 276 C.E.)
first who aspired to be world-prophet, 53, 229
Writings, 54
Manichaeism
Persian religion founded by Mānī (d. 276 C.E.), 3, 53–8
Ephrem’s battle against, 53–8
Index                                                                    331

religious teachings antimaterial, anticosmic, 131
Catholicós Aḥay (d. 415 C.E.) burns Manichaean churches to eradicate religion, 56
Manifestations of God
Bahā’ī technical term for Prophets, 292
Deganawida popularly recognized as, 292
Marcionism
Ephrem’s battle against, 45–7, 120
Marie, Queen (of Rumania)
publicly declares as Bahā’ī (1926), 199
Mariner
Syriac social key scenario, 253–54
Bahā’ī social key scenario, 198–200, 254
Tablet [or, “Song”] of the Holy Mariner, epigraph, 219–25
Syriac and Bahā’ī compared, 254, 257, 327–28
See also Holy Mariner.
marriage
pure, but not angelic, 112, 134
“crowning” as betrothal to Christ, performed at baptism, 111
unity in marriage/family unity (Bahā’ī principle), 244, 309
martyrologies
Acts of Shīrīn, 78
Acts of the Persian Martyrs, 82
martyrs
majority of Persian Christian martyrs former Zoroastrians, 78
martyrdom of Zoroastrian convert, Catholicós Mār Abā (d. 552), 5
martyrdom of Shīrīn and Gulindukht, 78
martyrdom of the Bāb (d. 1850), 2 [**392]
Medicine of Life
Syriac ritual root metaphor, 119–20, 238–42
elixir of immortality, 255
three elements: olive (Chrism), wheat, and grape (Eucharist), 119
Mesopotamia (Tigris-Euphrates Valley)
northern Mesopotamia (Osrhoëne and Adiabene), 64
central region of Sasanian Iran, 313
metaphor
defined, 17–8
ground of symbolism, 17
theories of, 17
“unique flash of insight,” 13
“Father” literal, not metaphorical, 92
methodology
“logic of research,” 23
Index

philosophical orientation, distinct from “method” (research technique), 23
midrash (Jewish scripture-commentary)
Hymns on Paradise a mystical midrash of Genesis, 287
mirror
Syriac metaphor for scripture, 94, 245, 264
Syriac ethical root metaphor, 120–123, 245–246
Bahā’ī ethical root metaphor, 204–07, 246–47
Syriac and Bahā’ī compared, 246–47
modernity
Rippin’s definition of, 147
Berger’s five “dilemmas of,” 147
Cox’s “Five Pillars of,” 147
revolutionized meaning of Paradise, 1
Islamic responses to modernity, 146–47
Bahā’u’llāh sacralizes aspects of, 3, 34, 142–79
Momen, Wendi (editor of A Basic Bahā’ī Dictionary)
Bahā’ī Dictionary helps sketch consensus, 185
key symbols lexicalized in dict., 324
monasticism
Bahā’u’llāh praises pious deeds of monks, 163–64
proscribed by Bahā’u’llāh, 163–64
See also celibacy.
Mongols
decimated Church of the East, 6
monotheisms
Bausani’s typology of, 3
morality
moral unity (Bahā’ī principles of), 302–306
mysticism
bridal mysticism, 241, 323
See also Sufi, Sufism.
mythic dimension
Syriac and Bahā’ī compared, 250–53, 257

N
Narsai (fl. 451–71 C.E.)
consolidator of Nestorianism, 44
held Nestorius in high regard, 73
nations
unity of nations (Bahā’ī principle), 300–301
Nestorianism
diophysite Christology, 236
Index                                                                    333

prophets as God’s “purple robes” (unnamed Nestorian), 236
Nestorian controversy, 72–4
scholarly misnomer for “Church of the East” (Persian Christianity), 4
rare “Nestorian” self-references, 73
Nestorius (d. c. 451 C.E.)
bishop of Constantinople, condemned by Councils of Ephesus (431 C.E.), Chalcedon
(451 C.E.), 72–4
not the major theologian of Church of the East, 73
“New Comparativism”
post-Eliadean paradigm for study of religion, 26
post-theological, post-European endeavor, 29
quest for patterns (not fixed archetypes), 27
panel discussion of, 26–33
newspapers
Bahā’u’llāh advocates journalistic integrity, 142–43
Nicaea, Council of (325 C.E.)
Jacob of Nisibis (Ephrem’s bishop), present, 42
bishop “John of Persia” attended, 67
Nisibis (ancient Nṣīḇīn in northern Mesopotamia, modern Nuyṣaybin in SE Turkey,
bordering Syria, native city of Ephrem)
frontier-fortress (Roman bulwark against the Parthians), one of two [**393] centers of
fourth-century Syriac Christianity, 39
marked boundary between East (Persian Empire) and West (Roman Empire), 39
coded to Persians by emperor Jovian (successor to Julian) in 363 C.E., 39, 43
Noah
prototype of Christ, 115
prototype of Bahā’u’llāh, 198
nine phases of Ephrem’s Deluge narrative, 116–17
Noah’s ark
Syriac social key scenario, 114–17, 253–54
course describes a cross, epigraph, 115–16
Syriac and Bahā’ī compared,
noëtics
haptic (tactile) cognition of reality, 38
metaphoric (optical) cognition of reality, 38

O
objective
goal of study, 1–10
evaluation of results, 318–25
operative hypothesis
defined, 11, 33
Index

accounts for unexplained variance (contrast) as well as unexplained consistency
(correlation), 35
defended, 328
organs (of the soul)
as spiritual faculties of perception, 279–80
Origen
gross physicality of body not resurrected, 285
on soul’s immortality, 239
and Tertullian, Augustine on soul’s immortality, 238
Orthodox (Oriental)
ancient churches originating in Eastern Orthodox Christianity, esp. Nestorian and
Jacobite, 8
orthodoxy
no soteriological orthodoxy, 316
Ortner, Sherry (anthropologist)
concept of key symbols (root metaphors and key scenarios), 15–6, 181, 188
Osrhoëne
small, northern Mesopotamian kingdom around Edessa, 6, 39
Osrhoëne and Adiabene as northern Mesopotamia, 64
Persian province, became Roman province in 132 C.E., 39
Christian state under Abgar the Great (177–212 C.E.), 39
Oxtoby, Willard
on Geertz’s definition of religion, 12
process of data selection as important as data, 14

P
Paden, William
on New Comparativism, 29–30
Pahlāvī
medieval language, Middle Persian, 5
Paluṭ of Qona
bishop of Antioch, orthodox Christians of Edessa namod after, 45, 130
Paluṭians
orthodox Christians of Edessa, 45, 130
Ephrem advocates they change name to “Christians,” 45
Pāpā (Persian bishop)
tried to consolidate Persian churches under his rule, 67, 74
paradigm
Thomas Kuhn’s definition of, 11
guiding conceptual model, 16
a “second soul,” 327
paradigm “logics” as coefficients of anthropological, soteriological assumptions, 11
Index                                                                    335

Syriac paradigm of transformational (sacramental) purity, 33, 129–34, 288, 317, 323
Islamic paradigm of community, 33
Bahā’ī “unity paradigm” coined by Udo Schaefer, 317
Bahā’ī paradigm of concentric (individual-to-world) unity, 2, 33, 225, 311, 317, 322
Bahā’ī paradigm stresses unity over immortality, 233
paradigm shift
resolves similarity/distinctiveness paradox, 33–4
dynamic view of paradigm differences, 33 [**394]
Syriac Christian to Bahā’ī, 33–4, 327–28
Islam to Bahā’ī, 322
Paradise
Persian loan word, 1
allegorizes ideals, 10
master symbol of core religious paradigms, 10
as realized eschatology, 10
Syriac social root metaphor, 128–29, 254–55, 285
Syriac symbols of, 281
as mountain, 276
made of a spiritual substance, 276–77
assembly of saints bears resemblance to, 127, 282
Church as a rival of, 285
baptism as re-entry into, 273
Ephrem transcendentalizes Syriac categories, 255
Bahā’ī social root metaphor, 217–25, 255
sacrosocial Paradise and world unity (Bahā’ī), 288–311
Syriac and Bahā’ī compared, 254–55, 257
paradise and paradigm
relation between, 10–11, 288
paradise similarities, differences, 227–57
paradise imagery
“Paradise and World Unity in the Bahā’ī Writings,” 289–311
spiritual unity, 291–97
unity of God, 291
unity of revelation, 293
unity of religion, 294–95
unity of humankind, 295–96
unity of gender (equality of men and women), 297
world unity, 297–302
unity in political realm, 301–302
unity of thought in world undertakings, 301–302
unity in freedom, 301–302
unity in religion, 301–302
Index

unity of nations, 301–302
unity of races, 301–302
unity of language, 301–302
moral unity, 302–306
unity in religion (ittiḥād dar dīn), 303
unity in speech (ittiḥād dar qawl), 304
unity of deeds (ittiḥād-i a‘māl), 304–305
unity of station (ittiḥād-i maqām), 305
unity of wealth (ittiḥād-i amvāl), 305–306
unity in society (ittiḥād-i nufūs), 306
other forms of unity
unity (equality) of rights, 306–307
unity of knowledge (harmony of science and religion), 3, 307
unity (universality) in education, 308
unity of Bahā’īs, 308
unity in marriage/family unity, 309
paradox
Ephrem’s use of, 93–94, 247, 263
of fire and water at baptism, 103
patristic Christology “patient of paradox and contradiction,” 228
paradoxes of commensurability, 320
similarity/distinctiveness paradox, 33–4
parallels
paradoxes of commensurability, 320
“parallelomania,” 318
false parallels, 324–25
paratext
authority of exegesis, 288
Pārs
Persian bishopric, 68–69, 82
Parthians (c. 141 B. C.E.–224 C.E.)
superpower rivals of the Greeks, 65
peace
Bahā’u’llāh makes sacred (sacralization), 3
Great Peace (= the Lesser Peace), 161–62
Lesser Peace essentially secular in nature, 148
Most Great Peace, 162
pearl
symbol of sexual holiness, 85
Syriac experiential root metaphor, 123–25, 249–50
Pelikan, Jaroslav
Index                                                                    337

on patristic “shapes” of death and resurrection, 239
Pepper, Stephen
“world hypotheses,” 16
root metaphors in world hypotheses, 16
links root metaphors with “paradigm,” 16
Persia
and Rome as world’s two superpowers, 65
former territorial extent of, 64
Persian
why preferred over “Iranian” as [**395] technical term, 4
Church of Persia, 63–75
Christian vernacular language, 75–84, 319, 345–49
Christian literature in Middle Persian, 79–82
Christian literature in Sogdian, 82–83
Christian literature in New Persian, 83–84
“Fragments of a Lost Persian Christian Liturgy” (Appendix IV), 345–49
Bahā’ī language of revelation, 141, 145
Arabic/Persian Transliteration Scheme, (Appendix III), 341–43
Persian Christianity
defined, 4
most influential form of Christianity outside Rome, up to Arab conquest, 38
meanings of “Persian” in term, 313–14
historical development of East Syriac Christianity, 6
indigenization throughout the Persian Empire, Central Asia, India and China, 6 history,
4–6, 63–68
Persian elements in, 63–83, 313
evangelized provinces of Sasanian Persia, 68–72
Nestorian controversy and independence, 72–4
Persian synods, 74–5
vernacular Persian in liturgy, 75–9
in Middle Persian, 79–82
Christian Sogdian, 82–3
New Persian, 83–4
Persian Synods
See synods, Synodicon Orientale.
personification
verbal metaphor, metaphor of action, 17
literary device in Ephrem’s dialogue poems, 251
Maiden of Heaven as Holy Spirit (Bahā’ī), 257
phenomenon
“the scale creates the phenomenon,” 323
phenomenology of religion(s)
Index

and history of religion(s) as complementary, 1, 32
complements anthropology, 27
“emic” approach, 32
epoché (critical restraint), 32
Philoxenus of Mabbug (d. 523)
consolidator of Jacobite (Monophysite) Christianity, 44
on “the soul of our soul,” 268
opponent of, on God and purple robes, 256
Phoenix (Sīmurgh)
immortal bird, symbol of God, 208, 211
Physician
Syriac doctrinal key scenario, 117–19, 232–33
Bahā’ī doctrinal key scenario, 200–202, 234–35
Syriac and Bahā’ī compared, 34, 232–35, 255
Piper, Raymond Frank
systematizes Bahā’ī principles of unity, 289–90
politics
unity in political realm (Bahā’ī principle), 299
principles
as social and moral forces, 135
‘Abdu’l-Bahā’s role in formulating, 183
Bahā’ī principles
abolition of holy war, 148–50
interfaith amity, 150–52
universal language, 3, 152–54, 301–02
support of patron monarch, 154–57
loyalty to government, 157–61
support of Bahā’ī cause, 157–61
disarmament, 157–61
the Great Peace, 161–62
freedom of dress, 162–63
monasticism prohibited, 163–64
confession prohibited, 164–65
book burning prohibited, 165–66
promotion of sciences and arts, 166–67
work as worship, 167–68
Universal House of Justice, 168–70, 172
reward and punishment, 169–71
Bahā’ī virtues, 169–71
visitation, 171–72
constitutional monarchy, 172–74
Progressive Revelation
Index                                                                    339

Bahā’ī history of salvation, 186, 229, 292, 326–27
as Bahā’u’llāh’s theory of civilization, 292
Promised One
Bahā’ī doctrinal key scenario, 2, 185–88, 229–32
prophetic/apocalyptic scenario, 185
strategy for action: recognition of prophetic credentials, 185 [**396]
compared with Syriac symbolism, 229–32
prophets
Ephrem on unity of, 326
regarded as divine physicians, 202
Muḥammad as “Seal of the Messengers” (sufarā’), 218
the Bāb as “King of the Messengers” (sulṭān al-rusul), 217–18
Bahā’u’llāh as “Sender of the Messengers” (mursil-i rusul), 217–18
purity (dakyūtā)
as Syriac paradigm, 129–34, 288, 323, 327
competing notions of among communities of sanctification, 130, 288
Persian Christianity called the “Pure Religion,” 348
Bahā’u’llāh on Christ as “Purifier of the world,” 230–31
Bahā’u’llāh immerses creation in the “sea of purification,” 151–52
See also ritual impurity.

Q
Quq, Quqites
Gnostic sect, 50, 62
Qur’ān
a “new Qur’ān” of the Bābīs, 2
Kitāb-i Īqān, Bahā’u’llāh’s commentary on, 2
descriptions of Paradise of Syriac Christian provenance, 7, 286
Verse of Light (Q. 24:35), 217
Qyāmā (Covenant)
Syriac concept of, 42–43, 104–107
Syriac ethical key scenario, 104–107, 243–44

R
race
unity of races (Bahā’ī principle), 310
religion
unity of religion (Bahā’ī principle), 293–95
unity in religion (Bahā’ī principle), 300
re-revelation
textual and ideological extensibility, 142
of passages in Most Holy Book in Tablet of Glad-Tidings, 142, 144–46, 152
Index

research
evaluation of research design, 318–25
resurrection
distinction between bodily and physical resurrection, 280–81
Bardaiṣan refutes notion of bodily resurrection, 240, 284
doctrine explains why God did not intervene, 315
logically contradicted if physical senses not needed, 240
patristic “shapes” of death and resurrection, 239
has already taken place in sacred time, 113
revelation
scripture as revelation, 195
Shoghi Effendi on nature of divine revelation, 145
unity of revelation (Bahā’ī principle), 326–27
See also re-revelation, Progressive Revelation.
Ricoeur, Paul
“Symbol invites thought,” 13
theory of metaphor, 17
Riḍvān
Bahā’u’llāh’s declaration of prophetic mission, 139
Bahā’u’llāh’s first peace initiative (abolishes holy war), 139, 148–49
abolishes boundaries of ritual impurity, 151
rights, human (Bahā’ī principle)
‘Abdu’l-Bahā stresses importance of, 306
unity (equality) of rights, 306
Ritual dimension
Syriac and Bahā’ī compared, 235–43, 255–56
ritual impurity
Bahā’u’llāh abrogates, 151–52
Robe of Glory
Ephrem’s favorite metaphor for Incarnation, 100, 236, 272–73, 277
Syriac ritual key scenario, 100–104, 236–38
drama of salvation, 101–102
regained at baptism, 273
can be sullied by sin, 103
Syriac and Bahā’ī symbols compared, 236–38 [**397]
root metaphors
one of two sub-types of elaborating “key symbols,” 16–18
key scenarios defined, 18–19
thought-orienting, 19
Syriac, 117–29
Bahā’ī, 200–25
Index                                                                    341

Syriac and Bahā’ī compared, 255–57

S
sacralizing (making the secular sacred)
sacralizing the secular, a pattern in Bahā’u’llāh’s reforms, 147–48
‘secular’ Bahā’ī social reformism imbued with religious ethos, 178
Bahā’u’llāh embraced modernity by, 3, 34, 142–79, 319
sacraments
central to Syriac spirituality, 288, 317, 323
Syriac symbolism sacramental, 257
efficacy of, 235
sadrat al-muntahā
See Lote Tree.
salvation
Eastern and Oriental Christian notions of, 131–32
tension between ethical and ontological views of, 228
Syriac return to Paradisal state, 128
Bahā’ī “order of salvation,” 231
salvation of non-Bahā’īs, 291
See also soteriology.
sapiential theōsis
defined, 259–60
See also theōsis.
sanctification
defined, 131
Sasanian Empire
Persian (Neo-Persian) empire, 64
scale
“the scale creates the phenomenon,” 323
“School of the Persians”
famous seminary in Edessa, 8
Ephrem once been head of, 8
Emperor Zeno closes in 489 C.E., 8
science
Bahā’ī principle of harmony of science and religion (unity of knowledge), 307
Bahā’u’llāh’s exhortation to master, 166
Seleucia-Ctesiphon (MP: Tēspōn)
Twin-city capital (west and east banks of Tigris) of Sasanian empire, 43
seven
“Seven Candles of Unity{ (Bahā’ī principles), 191, 297–302
Seven Valleys (Haft Vādī)
first Bahā’ī book unofficially published, lithographed by Jamal Effendi in India, 207
Index

Bahā’u’llāh’s foremost mystical work, 184, 205, 207–11
compared with ‘Aṭṭār’s allegory, Conference of the Birds, 207–10
‘Aṭṭār’s stress on pain vs. Bahā’u’llāh’s focus on ecstasy, 209–10
compared with Bahā’u’llāh’s Essence of the Mysteries, 210
See also ‘Aṭṭār, Phoenix (Sīmurgh).
Shāpūr II
Sasanian king, 43
Sheol
“sleep of the soul” in, 233, 283
disgorges the righteous dead, 274
Shi‘ism (Shī‘ite Islam)
Amanat on Shi‘ism in Qājār Iran, 156–57
and ritual impurity, 151–52
Shoghi Effendi (d. 1957)
Guardian, Bahā’ī Faith (1921–57), 3
on nature of divine revelation, 145
“Song of the Holy Mariner,” first complete Tablet of Bahā’u’llāh, trans. by Shoghi
Guardian, 220
sight
beatific vision, 279–80
obviating physical sight in Paradise, 279–80
Silk Road
opened new missions to Persian Christianity, 6, 82
sin
problem of postbaptismal sin, 276
Sinai
Bahā’ī mythic root metaphor, 212–17, 252–53
slavery
Bahā’u’llāh’s abrogation of, 173–74
Bahā’u’llāh praises Queen Victoria for abolishing, 202
Smart, Ninian
comparative worldview analysis as heart of study of religion, 1, 22, 31, 183 [**398]
on symbolic analysis as worldview analysis, 18
dimensional taxonomy of religion, 19–21
Pye’s criticism of, 20
on the Bahā’ī Faith, 317
smell
obviating olfactory sense in Paradise, 278–79
Smith, Jonathan Z.
appraisal of Paradise and Paradigm, xiii
calls for integration of systematic and historical approaches in study of religion, 30
Index                                                                    343

on comparison, 22, 34–5
rules for comparison, 24
four primary modes of comparison, 25
describes scholar’s peak experience, 25–26
Smith, Wilfred Cantwell (historian/phenomenologist of religion)
canon of believer intelligibility, 32, 317
Social dimension
Syriac and Bahā’ī compared, 253–55, 257
society
unity in society (Bahā’ī principle), 306
Sogdian (Iranian language)
as Christian vernacular, 82–3
Sons/Daughters of the Covenant
core élite of Syriac Christianity, 5, 42–3
Ephrem said to be among, 42
Syriac ethical key scenario, 104–107, 243–44
soteriology (doctrine of salvation)
tension between ethical and ontological views of salvation, 228
and paradigm differences, 315–18
“gods by grace,” 277
salvation of non-Bahā’īs, 291
soul
immortality as Platonic conception, 239
denial of immortality as Aristotelian, 239
Tertullian, Origen, Augustine held the soul to be immortal, 238
Syriac conception of, 268
has three qualities: reason, immortality, invisibility, 268
organs of the soul (spiritual senses), 280
speech
unity in speech (Bahā’ī principle), 303–304
specific hypothesis
defined, 33–4
defended, 320–21
spirit
Syriac conception of, 267–68
as nonphysical ground of being, 266
spirituality
Syriac, three major terms for, 134
Bahā’ī, emphasis on spiritual unity, 291–97
station
unity of station (Bahā’ī principle), 305
Study of Religion
Index

two levels of research: historical and comparative, 1
substance
Paradise made of a spiritual substance, 276–77
Sufi, Sufism
“stations” and “states,” 209
influence of Sufi mysticism on Bahā’u’llāh’s mystical works, 211
summarizing key symbols
American flag, 15–16
Christian cross and Bahā’ī ringstone symbol concrete examples of, 13
symbol, symbols
symbol and doctrine as heart and soul of religion, 1
as illustrations of sacred ideas and ideals, 13
literary theories of, 13
Bullinger’s three stages of formation, 13
as reified or “dead” metaphor, 13
marked only by incompleteness, requires decoding, 13
catalyze feeling, 15
symbols create “field of power relationships (Charles Long), 14
Ortner’s model of summarizing and elaborating types, 15
Syriac symbol theory, 85–96
Bahā’ī symbol theory, 181–185
symbols in scripture, 87–94
Syriac technical terms for,
“symbol” (rāzā), 86–87
“type” (ṭūpsā), 90–91
“reality” (qnwm’), 90–91
“shadow” (ṭellālā), 91–92
“truth” (šrārā), 90–91
“metaphor” (dmūtā), 92–93 [**399]
“paradox” (prdwksn), 92–93
symbols in nature, 94–95
“mirror,” 94
“name,” 94–95
symbols as sacraments (rāzē), 95
“systems of symbols” (definition of religion), 11–14
Islamic background of Bahā’ī symbols, 322
Symbol and Secret
monograph on Bahā’u’llāh’s Book of Certitude (Kitāb-i Īqān), 3–4
symbolic analysis
essential to academic study of religion (Ninian Smart), 1
a procedure of worldview analysis, 18
Index                                                                    345

symbolic profile (s)
as new procedure in academic study of religion, 1, 21–22
explores mythopoeic thought, 35
a twelve-symbol constellation, descriptive of religious ethos, 21
of Syriac Christianity, 85–134
of the Bahā’ī Faith, 181–225
Syriac and Bahā’ī compared, 227–57
symbolic transformation
defined, 33–35
as paradigm shift, 33–35, 327–32
coefficient of responses to changes in history, 34
of Paradise imagery, 1, 11
effective role of Islam for Bahā’ī, 321
syncrisis
figure of speech, coincidence of opposites (Aphrahāṭ), 41
Synodicon Orientale
official history of Church of the East, compiled by Catholicós Timothy I (d. 823), 5–6,
synods, Persian
chronicled in Synodicon Orientale, 74
Synod of Seleucia (345 C.E.), Pāpā tries to consolidate Persian churches under him, 67
Synod of Isaac (Synod of Mār Isḥāq, 410 C.E.), Church of the East (Persia) becomes
independent, 5, 67–68, 74–75
Synod of 420 C.E., characterizes Rome and Persia as the “two shoulders of the world.”
Synod of Yahballāhā I (424 C.E.), Church of the East becomes autocephalous
(autonomous), 75
Synod of Barṣauma (Bēṯ Lāpāṭ, 484 C.E.), possibly abolishes priestly celibacy,
unproven, 79
Synod of Mār Aqāq (486 C.E.), abolishes priestly celibacy, 79
Synod of Mār Abā I (544 C.E.), lists bishops who retained Zoroastrian names, 6
Synod of Mār Ezekiel (576 C.E.), Persian Christians must invoke God’s blessing on
Chosroes I during worship, 73, 77
Syriac (“Christian Aramaic”)
third international language of early Christianity, 6
Syriac Christianity
overview, 37–39
least studied major tradition of early Christianity, 37
ellipse with two centers (Edessa and Nisibis), 39
cultural interworld between Rome and Persian spheres of influence, 39
East Syrian and West Syrian divisions, 43
earliest literature of “Persian” origin, 7
Index

modern survivals of, 8
as response to Late Antiquity, 43–62
sacramental view of reality, 33
Syriac paradigm of purity, 33, 129–34
Syriac studies
importance of, 37–38

T
Tablet of Glad-Tidings
functional equivalent of press release, 142–43
Browne notes defective ms. (missing fifteenth Glad-Tiding) sent to Baron Rosen, 173
as response to modernity, 142–79
Tablet of the Holy Mariner
first trans. as “Song of the Holy Mariner,” 220; cf. 219–25, 254
trans. of Arabic section, 220–22
description of Persian section, 222–23
as core Bahā’ī myth, 219
See also Shoghi Effendi, Mariner, Holy Mariner, Ark, Crimson Ark, allegory.
Tanumafili II, His Highness Malietoa (King of Western Samoa)
publicly declares as Bahā’ī (1973), 199 [**400]
taste
obviating sense of in Paradise, 278
test
are hypothetical patterns testable, 320
theological privileging
classic pitfall of comparison, 321
theōria
typological mode of exegesis, in contrast to literal historia, 41
employs anagogical technique, 87
practiced by school of Alexandria, 88
theōsis (divinization, deification)
and Robe of Glory, 101
doctrine prevalent in Christian East, 316
never fully intended by Church fathers, 277
humans made “gods by grace,” 277
immortality (theōsis) and wisdom (sapience), 259
sapiential theōsis, 259–60, 283, 286
thought
unity of thought in world undertakings (Bahā’ī principle), 299–300
transformational purity
Syriac paradigm, 134
See also purity, paradigm.
Index                                                                    347

transliteration
Syriac Transliteration Scheme, (Appendix II), 339
Arabic/Persian Transliteration Scheme, (Appendix III), 341–43
Tree of Life
Syriac mythic root metaphor, 125–28, 252–53
Bahā’ī, 212–17, 252–53
Syriac and Bahā’ī compared, 253–54, 257
Trinity
Primal Cause and Trinity, an unsolved puzzle, 316
Tyconius, Rules of
handbook of Christian exegesis, 287

U
unity (Bahā’ī principles of unity)
spiritual unity, 291–97
unity of God, 291
unity of revelation, 291–93
unity of religion, 293–95
unity of humankind, 295–96
unity of gender (equality of men and women), 296–97
world unity, 297–302
unity in the political realm, 299
unity of thought in world undertakings, 299–300
unity in freedom, 300
unity in religion, 300
unity of nations, 300–301
unity of races, 301
unity of language, 301–302
moral unity, 302–306
unity in religion (ittiḥād dar dīn), 302–303
unity in speech (ittiḥād dar qawl), 303–304
unity of deeds (ittiḥād-i a‘māl), 304–305
unity of station(ittiḥād-i maqām), 305
unity of wealth (ittiḥād-i amvāl), 305–306
unity in society (ittiḥād-i nufūs), 306
other forms of unity
unity (equality) of rights, 306–307
unity of knowledge (harmony of science and religion), 307
unity (universality) in education, 307–308
unity of Bahā’īs, 308
unity in marriage/family, 309
Index

unity paradigm
core Bahā’ī ideology, 2, 33, 225, 317, 322
Universal House of Justice
democratically elected international Bahā’ī council, 3, 170, 172, 188, 191, 238
charged with legislative authority, 169
Seat of, foretold by Bahā’u’llāh in Tablet of Carmel, 200
as current Mariner of Bahā’ī ship of state, 200
universal language
unity of language (Bahā’ī principle), 1, 152–54, 301–302
adoption of will be sign of maturity of human race, 153

V
Valens (Roman emperor)
visits Edessa in 372 C.E., threatens forced conversion, 60–61
Arians take over Ephrem’s church from, 373–378 C.E., 61 [**401]
Victoria, Queen
evidently acted to protect Bahā’īs in Iran, 156
Tablet to Queen Victoria, 2, 173, 201, 202
Bahā’u’llāh praises for abolishing slavery, 173, 202
virginity
as the angelic life, 275
See also celibacy, Covenant.
virgins
as “peacock of the spirit” (Ephrem), 123, 275
as precious beryls (Ephrem), 123, 246, 275
choirs of virgins, trained to sing Ephrem’s hymns, 261, 262
See also Daughters of the Covenant.
virtues
Bahā’ī virtues, 171
vision
See beatific vision.
visitation
Bahā’u’llāh’s strictures on, 172

W
Wansbrough, John
on symbols and symbolic transformation, 181–82
on scripture as revelation, 195
on the emergence of an Islamic ethos, 181–82
Watchers
See angel.
water of life
Index                                                                    349

Bahā’ī ritual root metaphor, 202–204, 242–43
Way, the
Syriac doctrinal key scenario, 96–100, 228–29
Ephrem’s own invention, 96
Syriac and Bahā’ī compared, 228–29
wealth
unity of wealth (Bahā’ī principle), 305–306
Wedding Feast
Syriac experiential key scenario, 103, 107–12, 248–49, 275, 286
dominant eschatological symbol, 249
West
Bahā’u’llāh’s critique of the West, 176
Bahā’u’llāh recognizes special capacity of the West, 177
Bahā’u’llāh’s revelation as effective cause of progress in West, 176
Wilson, Woodrow (U. S. President)
‘Abdu’l-Bahā’ praises Wilson’s Fourteen Principles, 202, 301
wine
Bahā’ī ritual root metaphor, 202–204, 242–43
Syriac concept of “sober inebriation,” 242
Syriac and Bahā’ī symbols compared, 242–43
world hypotheses (Stephen Pepper)
root metaphors pivotal in maintenance of, 16
root metaphor as paradigm, 16
world unity
Seven Candles of Unity (Bahā’ī principles), 297–302
worldview analysis/comparison
defined, 22–33
as central to study of religion, 1, 22, 183
work
as worship (Bahā’ī work ethic), 167–68

Y
Yahballāhā I, Mār (Catholicós)
Patriarch under whom Church of the East became autocephalous (Synod of Yahballāhā
I, 424 C.E.), 75
Yahballāhā III, Mār
Turco-Mongol from China, elected Catholicós-Patriarch in 1281 C.E., 64
biography originally written in Persian, 63
Yazdagird I (r. 399–422 C.E.)
convokes Persian synod in 410 C.E. to formalize relations between church and state,
74–75

Index

Z
Zoroaster (Zarathuštra, c. 1200-1000 B.C.E.)
ancient Persian prophet, founder of Zoroastrianism, 4
foretells coming of Christ, according to Syriac hymn, 348
Zoroastrianism
ancient Persian monotheism, 3 [**402]
as the “Good Religion” vs. the “Pure Religion” (Christianity), 348
Zoroastrians
converts to Persian Christianity
Synod of Mār Abā I (544 C.E.), lists bishops who retained Zoroastrian names, 6
Mār Abā I (d. 552 c.e., patriarch of the Church of Persia), 5
son of Chosroes II (r. 591–628) becomes Christian, 76
Grīgōr, general during campaign against Rome, 77
Joseph Hazzāyā, renowned Nestorian mystic, 78
possible abjuration of Zoroastrianism by Christian converts, 349
Jāmasp (r. 498–501 C.E.) convenes synod to stop conversion of Zoroastrians, 76
Index                                                                    351