THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

30 October 2005

To the Bahá’ís of the World

Dear Bahá’í Friends,

On the Day of the Covenant, 26 November 2005, a new five-year term of service for members of the Continental Boards of Counsellors for the Protection and Propagation of the Faith will open. We take great pleasure in announcing the names of the Counsellors appointed for the coming term, whose number remains at eighty-one.

AFRICA (19 Counsellors): Selam Ahderom, Desmond Browne, Maziar Djoneidi, Mehraz Ehsani (Trustee of the Continental Fund), Clément Thyrrell Feizouré, Agatha Gaisie-Nketsiah, Isatou Hyde-Forster, Amina Jaouane, Sinuhé Lozano, Eddy Lutchmaya, Enos Makhele, Tsatsi Othaniel Mfete, Maina Mkandawire, Ruth Mnyampi, Zowe Tiba Nganyade, Albert Nshisu Nsunga, Ahmad Parsa, Garth Pollock, Tiati à Zock.

THE AMERICAS (19 Counsellors): Farzin Aghdasi, Eugene Andrews, Stephen Birkland, Ann Boyles, Jorge Henrique Guerreiro, Ehsanollah Hemmat, Deborah Kirton, Ana Hilda de Lemus, Antônio Gabriel Marques, Juan Francisco Mora, Rebequa Murphy, Ganesh Ramsahai, Carmen Elisa de Sadeghian, Daniel Scott, Crystal Shoaie, Marilyn Smith, Leticia de Solano, Rodrigo Tomás (Trustee of the Continental Fund), Gerardo Vargas.

ASIA (19 Counsellors): Fadel Ardakani, Uransaikhan Baatar, Nidavanur Baskaran, Irene Chung, Jabbar Eidelkhani, Bijan Farid, David Huang (Trustee of the Continental Fund), Lee Lee Ludher, Tarrant Mahony, Delafruz Nassimova, Lori Noguchi, Jaya Gopan Ramasamy, Lateef Rasheed, Foad Reyhani, Ayman Rouhani, Omid Seioshanseian, Payam Shoghi, George Soraya, Mehranguiz Tehrani.

AUSTRALASIA (11 Counsellors): Kessia Aisoli Ruh, Beatrice Benson, Soheyla Bolouri, David Chittleborough (Trustee of the Continental Fund), Eric Kingston, Jalal Mills, Manijeh Reyhani, Henry Tamashiro, Robin White, Alan Wilcox, Fereidoun Yazdani.

EUROPE (13 Counsellors): Naisan Azimi, Fevziye Baki, Uta von Both (Trustee of the Continental Fund), Vivien Craig, Olga Dainovskaia, Emilio Egea, Shirin Fozdar-Foroudi, Nadia Jaberi-Koppold, Saba Khabirpour, Firouzeh Moghbel-Naderi, Hannu Tapani Olkkonen, İlhan Sezgin, Sohrab Youssefian.

The following believers, who have earned our profound gratitude for their contributions to the advancement of the Faith, are being relieved of the duties of membership on the Boards of Counsellors:

Beth Allen, George Allen, Eloy Anello, Beatrice Asare, Asfaw Tessema, Donald Blanks, Alla Borets, Niaz Bushrui, Irma Nelly Dooki, Kobina Fynn, Ibrahim Galadima, Abdu’l-Missagh Ghadirian, Elena Gruzkova, Angélica Huerta, Humaida Jumalon, Moussa Kamaye, Hervé Masrour, Catherine Monajjem, Paul Öjermark, Muḥammad Otmani, Arturo Serrano, Heather Simpson, David Smith, Zena Sorabjee, Nosrat Tirandaz, Nicola Towfigh, Rosalie Tran, Larissa Tsutskova, Erama Ugaia, Dorothy Whyte, Ivo Zerbes, Antoinette Ziehi.

These dear friends will no doubt remain a source of encouragement to the believers everywhere through their dedicated efforts to promote the Word of God. We shall offer prayers at the Sacred Threshold on their behalf, that their services to the Cause may continue to be richly blessed.

In our recent Riḍván message we expressed the hope that the friends would bend all their energies towards bringing the current Five Year Plan to a triumphant conclusion. The response of the Bahá’í world has been immensely gratifying. A firm foundation is being laid for the successful launching at Riḍván 2006 of another global enterprise of five years’ duration. We are calling the Counsellors from all continents to the World Centre for a conference from 27 to 31 December 2005, during which deliberations will be held on the features of the next Five Year Plan and on the role the Counsellors will play, together with their auxiliaries, in the critical period leading up to its launch and in the years that follow.

Our fervent prayers will surround these eighty-one souls as they consecrate themselves to the sacred tasks they have been called upon to perform for the protection and propagation of the Faith.

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]