The Apocalypse Unsealed

The world of the first century

The above map, adapted from the writings of the ancient geographer Strabo, represents the extent of knowledge of the world at the dawn of the Christian Era.

Numbered Endnotes are at the end of each chapter.  Riggs’ same-page footnotes use the symbols *, †, ‡, §, ‖, ¶.  Riggs’ references to Appendix G appear as numbers in <angle brackets>, e.g., <2:17 #2>.

_______________________________________

The Apocalypse Unsealed

Based in part upon the Writings of
The Báb
Bahá’u’lláh
‘Abdu’l-Bahá
and
Shoghi Effendi

Compiled and interpreted by

Robert F. Riggs

Philosophical Library, N.Y.

Copyright 1981, by Philosophical Library, Inc.

200 West 57th Street, New York, N.Y. 10019

Library of Congress Catalogue No. 89-81698

ISBN 8022-2367-2

To

Dorothy*

Gift of God

Preface

The interpretation of The Revelation of St. John the Divine presented in this volume is based on the writings and teachings of the Bahá’í Faith, a religion founded by Mírzá Ḥusayn ‘Alí, known as Bahá’u’lláh, the Glory of God.

The Bahá’í Faith grew out of the Bábí Faith that was founded in 1844 by the Báb, Mírzá ‘Alí Muḥammad of Shíráz, Persia.  The Bábí teachings emphasized the forthcoming appearance of “The One Whom God will Make Manifest”, a new Prophet or Manifestation of God.  The Bábí Faith stemmed from Shí‘a Islám which taught the forthcoming return of the Twelfth Imám, Muḥammad’s Successor, Who would renew religion and guide the faithful.  “This messianic view was the basis of the teachings of the Shaykhí sect, so named after Shaykh Aḥmad.”  The teachings of this sect gave allegorical interpretations to doctrines such as the resurrection, the Last Judgement and the return of the Twelfth Imám.

When the Báb announced in 1844 that He was the channel through which grace from someone as yet veiled from men was to flow, it caused considerable excitement among His fellow Persians.  Many people became followers of the Báb, but the Persian government and clergy were opposed to His new doctrines and eventually the Báb was executed and with Him a large number of His followers, the Bábís.

Among His followers was a man of wealthy background Who was incarcerated in Ṭihrán for allegedly attempting to kill the Sháh of Persia.  It was while this man was in prison that He learned from God of His unique station.  His name was Bahá’u’lláh, the Glory of God, and He was the Messenger God had chosen to carry His Message for this Era to all mankind.  Long years of exile saw Bahá’u’lláh banished from Persia and sent

throughout the Ottoman Empire until, at last, He was sent to the prison fortress at ‘Akká.  Notwithstanding the attempts of governments, clergy, and individuals to halt His teaching, Bahá’u’lláh proclaimed to the people of the world God’s Message for this time.  By His death, in 1892, the Bahá’í Faith had spread “beyond Persia and the Ottoman Empire to the Caucasus, Turkistán, India, Burma, Egypt, and the Sudan.”

To preserve the unity of the Bahá’í community after His passing, Bahá’u’lláh appointed His son ‘Abdu’l-Bahá as leader of the community and authorized Interpreter of His writings.  This appointment, and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s subsequent appointment of Shoghi Effendi Rabbání, His grandson, as sole Interpreter of the teachings of Bahá’u’lláh and Guardian of the Cause, ensured that the writings of the Faith and, indeed, the Faith itself would be free from the dangerous schisms and taints of personality that had harmed the Faiths of previous Manifestations of God.  Clearly, Bahá’u’lláh intended to secure for His followers a single, unquestioned interpretation of His words and teachings.

In His writings, Bahá’u’lláh has unsealed the meanings of the Books of the Bible that were sealed in the time of Jesus Christ until man should be of sufficient spiritual maturity to understand what is in them.  In the case of The Revelation of St. John the Divine, a book that has been interpreted by numerous worthy scholars, Bahá’u’lláh’s interpretation is deeply symbolic but clear and concise within the teachings of the Bahá’í Faith.

Using the words of Bahá’u’lláh and the interpretations of His teachings as a base, the writer has carefully gone through each verse and revealed the meaning that lies richly within, waiting to illumine the eyes of mankind and fulfil the promises made to him by God through His Manifestations.

Melissa Tansik

10 November CE 1975

8 Qudrat BE 132

Contents

Preface..	.	vii

Acknowledgements..	.	xv

Part I
Introduction..	.	1

Sources..	.	3

The allegorical method..	.	6

Gematria..	.	11

Number symbolism..	.	13

Astrological symbolism..	.	20

Geometric symbolism..	.	28

Further literary devices..	.	30

The time and space of the Apocalypse..	.	30

Future scholarship..	.	31

Part II
The Revelation of Saint John the divine..	.	41

1.	The Greatest Name..	.	43

2.	Letters to ancient faiths..	.	65

3.	Letters to recent faiths..	.	79

4.	The invisible Zodiac..	.	87

5.	The book of seven seals..	.	99

6.	The Book is opened..	.	107

7.	God’s servants are sealed..	.	115

8.	The fate of the early church..	.	129

9.	The fall of Christendom..	.	135

10.	Interlude..	.	143

11.	The course of Islám..	.	147

12.	The travail of the word..	.	157

13.	The rise of the caliphate..	.	165

14.	The world-stage is set..	.	177

15.	His name revealed..	.	187

16.	The end of the age..	.	197

17.	Mysteries revealed..	.	207

18.	Encomium of victory..	.	213

19.	The triumph of Bahá’u’lláh..	.	219

20.	Satan bound..	.	225

21.	The Holy City..	.	231

22.	Epilogue..	.	255

Appendices..	.	261

A.	The number of Bahá in the Apocalypse..	.	261

B.	Correlation of some dates in the Book of Daniel..	.	263

C.	Origins of gematriot and number symbolism..	.	267

D.	The Arabic and Hebrew gematriot..	.	271

E.	Glossary of symbols..	.	273

F.	Chronological table..	.	289

G.	Some Bahá’í Apocalyptic Writings..	.	295

H.	Late changes and errata (copied from I, Daniel)..	.	307

References..	.	309

Illustrations

Figure	Page

The world of the first century	ii

The time and space of the Apocalypse	xiii

1a	The T’ai-Chi, or Yang-Yin symbol of China	15

1b	The all-seeing eye of Brahma	15

2	The sacred tetraktys of Pythagoras	17

3	The ancient cosmos	21

4	The precession of the equinoxes	25

5	Examples of the quadratura circuit	29

6	Hierarchy of revelations	54

7	The Greatest Name	56

8	The sickle formed by the seven churches	60

9	The four pillars of the Age of Aquarius	91

10	The invisible zodiac or hidden mandala	94

11	Aries the ram or lamb	101

12	Prophecies to the Christians	108

13	The golden triangle	123

14	Harmonic patterns using the golden triangle	124

15	Pentagon, dodecahedron, pentagram	125

16	Future, present, past	127

17	Sagittarius-Scorpio	137

18	Prophecies to Islám	148

19	Wonders in heaven	159

20	War in heaven	161

21	The woman in heaven	162

22	666, the magic square of the sun	173

23	The horse in heaven	183

24	A mystic triangle	194

25	Geometry of the Holy City, New Jerusalem	236

26	Geometry of the Bahá’í Mashriqu’l-Adhkár	239

27	Decagon, decagram	247

28	Neter, arm, cubit	247

The time and space of the Apocalypse

Acknowledgements

The writer wishes to acknowledge the assistance given throughout the writing of this book by the Bahá’í Friends.  Initial encouragement and continued promptings were the gifts of Flora Brooks of Staunton, Virginia.  Her class notes of a course on the Apocalypse given by Ruth Moffett were inspirational.  The writer was also fortunate to have within the local Bahá’í communities several people of outstanding talent and knowledge who offered references, leads and possible answers to perplexing questions as they arose.  Among them were Robert Keithley, Edward Price, James Price and the late Edward Schlesinger.  Edward Price was particularly valuable in matters pertaining to Islám and the Arabic language.  James Price assisted in the history of religion.  Michael Bernhard gave important aid at several critical points during the research and also helped in linguistic matters, especially Greek, Persian and Arabic.  In matters pertaining to Koine Greek, it was sometimes necessary to seek the assistance of Father Peter Rexinas of the Greek Orthodox Church.

Later during the research, it was my very good fortune to have the invaluable assistance of Marion Hofman, who alerted me to additional source material, and, by her critical analysis of the manuscript, led me to a re-examination of certain aspects of my text.

Melissn Tansik wrote the Preface and offered valuable suggestions

in matters of style and grammar, suggestions that, unfortunately, were not always followed.  Bette and John Alden Decker were responsible for most of the art work.  Typing assistance was sometimes given by Shirley Johnson.

Tireless patience, encouragement and understanding were the major contributions of my beloved Dottie, who also helped in typing and offered numerous suggestions to improve the style.  And, most of all, the writer wishes to acknowledge the assistance of the Master, His Holiness ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, without Whose gentle whisperings the writer would not have passed the first alpha.

R. F. R.

Charlottesville, Virginia

7 October, CE 1979

11 Mashíyyat, BE 136

Part I
Introduction

The sources

The Revelation of John, also known as the Apocalypse, or simply Revelation, has been the subject of controversy since early Christian times.  The controversy is still active, many doubting its authenticity, others doubting its originality.  There can be no doubt, however, that the book has been widely known and accepted in the West since the second century after Jesus Christ.

The book purports to be a revelation to a certain John, possibly the Apostle, given to him through an angel by Jesus Christ.  The language of the book is highly allegorical and has defied all attempts at interpretation until the present time.  Like all prophetic books, it has been “sealed” and has awaited the time when the One worthy of unsealing it has made His appearance on the stage of history.  That One was Bahá’u’lláh, the Glory of God, and the Manifestation of God in our time.

Bahá’u’lláh unsealed the Apocalypse in two ways.  Firstly, His Advent fulfilled many prophecies in the book, thus making them comprehensible and permitting the remaining portion to be filled in by scholars.  Secondly, Bahá’u’lláh revealed with His own pen the meanings of many important symbols used in this and other prophetic writings.  Without these symbols being explained it would be impossible to find a rational interpretation of the Apocalypse.

Bahá’u’lláh was assisted in unsealing the books by His Fore-

runner, the Prophet-Herald Mírzá ‘Alí-Muḥammad, the Báb.  He too fulfilled many important prophecies in the book.  The work of unsealing the books was continued by the son of Bahá’u’lláh, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, designated as the Centre of the Covenant by Bahá’u’lláh and the Interpreter of the Bahá’í Revelation.  For the first time in nearly two thousand years, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá revealed the meanings of whole chapters of the Apocalypse in a language that was clear, unambiguous and convincing.  In particular, He revealed in totality the meaning of Chapter 11 and part of Chapter 12, probably the most difficult and the most crucial for the interpretation of the remaining chapters.  These and other revelations are found in Some Answered Questions.  Following the death of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Shoghi Effendi Rabbání, the great-grandson of Bahá’u’lláh and a relative of the Báb, continued the work by revealing the meanings of certain important symbols in the Apocalypse.  These are found principally in his masterpiece, God Passes By.

In addition to these authentic sources, various additional material was used.  Tablets from ‘Abdu’l-Bahá to private believers were very useful, as were transcriptions of conversations between ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and visitors to the Holy Land.  One example of the latter was a transcription of a conversation purported to have occurred between ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and Shahnáz Waite.  The title of this item is The New Jerusalem and its Twelve Foundation Stones.  Its content deals exclusively with subject matter in Chapter 21 of the Apocalypse.  Although it contains errors in transcription and typing, its style and depth are clearly that of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, and this writer adapted its contents as if they were authentic, although the obvious errors were corrected.

The remaining sources have no authenticity whatsoever in terms of the Bahá’í Revelation.  They were used only when they seemed to concur with and to amplify the authentic sources.  As for the remaining bulk of the material in this book, it must be

confessed that it is largely the result of the writer’s own research, intuitions, and deductions.  Consequently, they should not be considered the official view of the Bahá’í Universal House of Justice nor any other official organ of the Bahá’í Administration.  However, the writer has written nothing that is contrary to his own convictions as a Bahá’í.

Does this book succeed in reconstructing the original meanings in the Apocalypse?  The answer to this question must rest with each individual reader.  It is the writer’s opinion that, as a whole, it represents a fair approximation to the original meanings.  As a Bahá’í, I accept the total validity of those passages that have been specifically revealed by the Prophets and Interpreters of the Bahá’í and Bábí Faiths, but beyond being a matter of faith, their interpretations are totally convincing from a rational point of view.  Furthermore, their interpretations compel the seeker to go beyond well-travelled roads of scholarship and to explore the intellectual life of the ancients, an exploration that proves to be a rewarding adventure.  Modern man has little use for ancient numerology, gematria, and other obscure literary devices.  But even the casual seeker will soon realize that an understanding of the ancient allegorical method is absolutely essential to understanding the Apocalypse.  If he chooses to pursue the study, he will discover that modern science and mathematics rest upon hypotheses that are basically identical to those of the ancient Pythagoreans.  The particular numbers and geometry that are held to be significant in the construction of the universe are, for the most part, different from those held to be significant in the first century, but a number-geometrical rationality or logos underlying the apparent chaos of nature is still hypothesized by the modern natural philosopher.  The seeker will also discover that ancient symbolism, long assumed to have no relevancy to modern man, may still exist in the collective unconscious and manifest itself in dreams, art-forms, and modern religious practices.

One point needs to be emphasized.  The Revelation of John belongs to a former Era.  Its significance to the Bahá’í Era is that it accurately prophesies historical events between the first century and modern times.  The culmination of the prophecy has been the Advent of Bahá’u’lláh and the beginning of a new cycle of human events.  It is, therefore, a further proof of the validity of Bahá’u’lláh as the Messenger of God in this Day.  The principal value of this book, if it has any, will be as a teaching aid.  Hopefully, it will help to correct certain fallacious notions held by some modern theologians concerning the nature of the Second Coming of Christ and the events that are to attend the Coming.  These fallacious notions have been serious impediments to a truly constructive and realistic understanding of progressive revelation and the roles played by the many Messengers of God throughout history.

The allegorical method

The prophet who has had a vision of the future course of events cannot reveal the vision undisguised.  To reveal it in direct and unambiguous language would automatically preclude the prophecy from coming true.  For if past experience proved that a prophet’s predictions were unambiguous and perfectly reliable, would not man seek to avoid the dire consequences of some future catastrophe by avoiding the events leading up to it?  For example, if a man knows for certain that he will die by an aeroplane accident, surely he can thwart fate by the simple ploy of travelling by train or ship.

But there is another reason for using symbol and allegory.  The prophecy becomes a test of one’s spiritual acuity.  To the sceptic who denies the existence of anything beyond that which can be touched or measured, the prophecy is nothing but meaningless, even laughable, nonsense.  To the gullible and the superstitious, the prophecy is to be taken literally, regardless of how absurd such an interpretation may be.  Neither of these attitudes will lead to understanding.  The sceptic avoids the necessity of understanding by denying the existence of the spirit.  The super-

stitious avoids the necessity of understanding by playing it safe and denying nothing.

The true road to understanding lies somewhere between these extremes.  The true seeker must admit the reality of things spiritual but must not accept a theological assertion that does not seem reasonable and in agreement with common sense.  The bridge to salvation is as fine as a thread and as narrow as a blade.  But the bridge must be crossed and the risks of disaster must be accepted.

‘Abdu’l-Bahá explained the need for allegory in these words, “… the revelations of the prophets can never be adequately translated owing to the poverty and imperfection of our language.  Their thought is so lofty that human minds do not grasp it.  Hence the use of allegories.  Parables make men ponder and pray for enlightenment that they may understand the hidden meaning.  Search for truth deepens man’s capacity, clarifies his vision without engendering intellectual pride.”

To the modern intellectual, conditioned by a world of scientific exactitude, the allegorical method is frustratingly inexact.  A symbol is somewhat like a variable in a mathematical equation—it may assume any one of several values depending upon the context.  But there are bounds beyond which the symbol cannot vary, and when found, the correct value has the ring of truth.  More than that, an incorrect interpretation in one section of the prophecy has a way of refusing to fit somewhere else.  To use a modern analogy, the Book of Revelation is something like a gigantic crossword puzzle:  although a word with the correct number of letters may be found that seems to approximate the intended meaning, it may later prove to be the wrong word when the rest of the blocks are filled in.  It is for similar reasons that, when correctly interpreted, the entire prophecy will hang together and become a convincing whole.

Symbolism, by virtue of its flexibility and its inexactness, allows the prophet to extend the meaning of a prophecy to include more than one event.  Thus a passage of prophecy may refer to several events, some immanent, some in the distant

future.  Consequently, the use of symbolism permits the prophet to reveal some universal principle whose validity is independent of time and place.  It is for this reason that numerous interpretations have been found for various passages in the Apocalypse and more will be found in the future.  The pursuit of the “beast whose number is 666” has occupied biblical hunters for centuries with many unpopular candidates being caught in the net.

The prophet was able to find symbols everywhere, in nature, in historical and contemporary events, and even in everyday mundane experience.

Arising in the morning, the glorious sunrise reminded him of the dawning of a new Day of God, a new Dispensation whose Lord was the Manifestation of God for that Day.  The dawning place of that sun had a zodiacal sign, and the slow Precession of the Equinoxes reminded him of the long duration of a Day of God compared to a day of man.  Almost certainly, the early Christians must have noticed that their symbol for Jesus, the Fish, coincided with the zodiacal sign of their age—Pisces.  They may also have noticed that the preceding zodiacal ages of Aries the Ram and Taurus the Bull had been dominated by priesthoods characterized by those symbols.  And perhaps even earlier under the age of Gemini the Twins, there may have been a priesthood memorialized by the Cain and Abel story.

To the prophet, the warmth and life-giving power of the sun suggested the spiritual light and life-giving power of God.  Sometimes the light was direct.  Sometimes it was reflected off of man-made structures.  In this way, the mirror became like the Prophet Who reflects the attributes of God clearly and without distortion.  Reflected off other objects, it became the earthly church, imperfect and corruptible.

The night was watched over by the moon that reflected the light of heaven onto the earth.  Here the moon in its various phases also resembled the Prophet, or some other great religious

leader of the Church.  The star became other members of the hierarchy.  The morning star became the Herald of a new Day of God.  Other stars were fallen stars and thus fallen from heavenly grace.  Still others were brilliant and constant; in this way they also symbolized important spiritual leaders, prophets, or Revelators from God.

Besides the days and nights, there were the seasons.  The seasons suggested the birth, growth, flowering and decay of a religion or a society.  Sometimes there were clouds that obscured man’s vision of the sun and were like veils between man and God.  At other times they were clouds of glory, or became sources of rain—heavenly bounty that caused the living things of the earth to offer praise and gratitude to the Creator.  Rain was sometimes destructive too, especially when accompanied by high winds and lightning-fire from heaven  At other times the winds became gentle breezes wafting the Word of God over mankind.

Destructive rains were sometimes followed by a rainbow.  Its multi-coloured iridescence reminded the prophet that God speaks to man in many ways.  The arc of the rainbow was a bridge between heaven and earth and was like the Covenant between God and man.

Walking through the forest, the prophet saw the whole world of man in allegory.  Herbs, flowers, and grass were rooted in the soil, like the great masses of mankind.  Towering above the herbs were the magnificent trees reaching towards heaven like great leaders of men, sometimes spiritual, sometimes secular.  The fauna of the forest were particularly expressive, some animals being like vicious men, others being gentle and loving.  Birds, because of their curious shapes and voices, seemed to be like men’s souls that wing their ways to heaven, or to express special attributes often found in men.  Slithering among the herbs and flowers there was the serpent—kingly in appearance, cunning, often deadly.  Because it shed its skin it also seemed to express the principle of immortality and healing.

Coming across stones of curious shapes reminded him of the

solidity of truth or of the concepts of God sometimes held by men.  But when one discovered a gem, a divine principle might become crystallized, uniquely combining pure spirit and matter to express some abstract thought in solid form.  Larger rocks became places of refuge, especially when they enclosed caves or places of hiding.  And when he saw mountains and valleys covered with trees, rocks, flora and fauna, they were like nations and great religions.  Some mountains were towering bulwarks of strength, some seemed to reach towards heaven, and many mountains were sacred places where man might make contact with God Himself.  Other valleys and mountains had been places of conflict and suffering and attained special significance of their own.

But what could be more refreshing to the spirit than some clear, pure spring or brook?  Water became something to purify the soul, spiritual knowledge and insight—the renewal of spiritual life itself.  The springs and running brooks emptied into great rivers, the mainstreams of spiritual guidance.  From thence the rivers emptied into the seas of the spirit.  Men, like fish, inhabited the seas, and their numbers were as the sands.  The sea of the spirit was sometimes a turbulent place, and men had to find refuge on island-churches or by riding ships upon the waves.  If that failed, the seas might turn into death-blood and no escape was found.

The world built by man had its significance too.  There were holy cities, like Jerusalem, where the Law of God prevailed in pristine purity.  Then there was Babylon, morally corrupt, materialistic, like the Law of God corrupted by a selfish and egotistical priesthood.  Babylon was populated by whores, evil purveyors of false doctrine—prostitution of the Word.  But Jerusalem had streets of golden virtues, and had gates that could be entered only by those with the innocence of pearls.  The garments worn by the inhabitants of the cities reflected their white-purity or their opulent-corruption.  And like a holy temple, the very dimensions of the Holy City symbolized its sacred meaning.

Besides these sources of symbol, the prophet could draw on other devices to test the reader’s spiritual acuity.  A word that seemed to have a familiar meaning might have a deeper meaning when its roots were investigated.  Diabolos (Devil) became the “Deceiver”.  Apollyon became the “Destroyer”.  This literary device is familiar enough to modern readers, but another used by the prophet is almost totally unfamiliar.  That device is called the gematria, and its importance to understanding the Apocalypse cannot be overstated.

Gematria

Consider the possibility of using the ordinary letters of the English alphabet to denote numbers.  This possibility would not be too remote if the Arabic system of numerals (1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 0) had not been invented.  Assuming that we did so, we might assign the value 1 to the letter A, the value 2 to the letter B, and so on.  Then a curious thing would result—all words would also have numerical values and some numbers would spell words.  The possibility of giving a second meaning to a word or to a number would be rather obvious.  This is precisely the origin of gematria.

Since the Greeks did not have separate number symbols, they resorted to the use of their alphabet for that purpose.  By the first century CE, the numerical equivalence of the Greek alphabet had evolved into the following:

Table 1
The Greek Gematria

Certain symbols for 6, 90 and 900, though still used in numerical work, had fallen into literary disuse, and their values were formed through a combination or modification of other symbols.  Other ancient peoples employed equivalent systems.  In Arabic, it was known as the abjad.

The value of a word or a combination of words was equal to the sum of its elements.  Thus either αω or ωα had the value 801.

The letter-numbers 1 (α) through 9 (θ) of the upper row of Table 1 were considered as archetypes, while their decadal successors in the columns below were considered as representing those same archetypes raised to higher degrees.  Thus the archetype of 800 (ω) was 8 (η).

The archetype of a large number was obtained by successive addition of its elements until the archetype was discovered.  To discover the archetype of 832 (ωλβ) for example, we first add the archetypal values of its elements 8+3+2 to obtain 13.  Next, we add the resulting elements, 1+3 to obtain 4.  Hence the archetype of 832 is 4 (δ).

The process of obtaining the archetype of a letter-number is sometimes called cabalistic contraction or reduction.  In this book the archetype of a letter-number will be called its archetypal value in contrast to its literal value.  For example, the literal value of Ιησούς Jesus is 888.  The archetypal value is six.

Returning to the main course of the argument, the prophet was able to enlarge the meaning of a word or a phrase by giving it a value by gematria equal to another word or phrase.  This second word or phrase might have a meaning that would give a profound implication to the first.  The power of this literary device will become apparent as the reader enters the Apocalypse.

In a similar way, the literal value of a word or number can be given a further profound meaning with its archetypal value is investigated.  To understand the import of the archetypal value, one must be familiar with some of the rudiments of ancient number symbolism.

Number symbolism

There is no doubt, certain numbers such as π (3.1415926535 …) and e (2.71828 …) are important building blocks of pure mathematics.  In the realm of physics, man may have discovered many important fundamental constants.  One of these is the ratio of subatomic particle action to radiation action.  The ratio has the value 137.  Then there are the so-called “magic numbers” (2, 8, 20, 50, 82, 126) of nuclear physics that define the number of neutrons in the closed shells of stable atomic nuclei.

The imagination is excited by the meanings that might lie hidden in these discoveries.  The ancient natural philosophers, whose scientific resources were probably less developed than our own, found similar excitement in the possible meanings that lay hidden behind special numbers.  Certain of these numbers, such as π (3.114159 …) and the Golden Number Φ (1.61803 …) are still considered important to an understanding of the universe.  Other numerological speculations of the ancient philosophers are out of vogue, at least for the present, but we must investigate some of the meanings that the first century philosophers may have ascribed to the special numbers of the Apocalypse to obtain a fuller understanding of the author’s intent.

The literature of ancient numerology is extensive, and the concepts underlying the subject have been confused by centuries of speculation, especially during the Middle Ages.  Nevertheless, it is possible to reconstruct the probable meanings originally intended by ancient philosophers and theologians as understood in the first century.

The numbers that have the greatest significance in the Apocalypse are:  2, 3, 4, 7, 9 and 12.  The significance of other numbers will be explained in the main text.  To the list above we might include 22, the number of chapters in the Apocalypse.  This is also the number of letters in the Hebrew alphabet, and the 22 chapters means that the book is complete and finished.

The significance of the remaining numbers is arrived at in the following way:

The concept of God as being One leads to His symbol the Monad 1.  In this form God may also be represented by a Pillar or Sacred Pole.  But in this form He is alone and without His creation.  Consequently, He formed the Dyad 2, the principle of opposition or duality.12  At this stage one can think of the equivalent Chinese concept of Yang and Yin (Figure 1), the dualistic principle of male and female, positive and negative, the container and the contained, thesis and antithesis, life and death, etc.  It was through the principle of duality that matter was created.

The next phase is the reconciliation of duality to form the Triad 3, containing an ordering or uniting principle connecting the two opposites.  At this level God is conceptualized as abstract Divinity, the Creator.  In the words of Plato, “First, out of the Indivisible (the Same) and the Divisible (the Other), God made Essence.  He then took the three elements of the Same, the Other and the Essence, and mingled them into one form, compressing by force the reluctant and unsociable nature of the Same and of the Other.  When He had mingled them with the Essence and out of the three made one, He again divided this whole into as many portions as was fitting, each portion being a compound of the Same, the Other, and the Essence.”

The geometric symbol for the Triad is the triangle since it is formed from three points.  The ancient triangular Hindu symbol for the all-seeing Eye of Brahma (Figure 1) persists on the Great Seal of the United States and is printed on the reverse side of the one dollar bill.  The Star of David is composed of two triangles; the Bahá’í Star [actually, the unity star.  Ed] is composed of three.

Figure 1a
The T’ai-Chi, or Yang-Yin symbol of China

Figure 1b
The all-seeing eye of Brahma

Some examples of the use of the Triad 3 among the ancients to symbolize abstract divinity are:

Memphian	Ptah, Sekhet, Nefer-Tem

Theban	Amon-Ra, Maut, Khonsu

Abdyan	Osiris, Isis, Horus

Sumerian	Enki, Emlil, An

Orphic	Phanes, Uranus, Chronos

Zoroastric	Ormand, Mithras, Ahriman

Hindu	Brahma, Vishnu, Siva

Taoist	T’ien-pao, Ling-pao, Shen-pao

Cabric	Axercos, Axiokersa, Axiokersos

Phoenician	Ashtraroth, Milcom, Chemosh

Tyrian	Belus, Venus, Thammuz

Grecian	Zeus, Poseidon, Demeter

Roman	Jupiter, Neptune, Pluto

Eleusinian	Iacchus, Persephone, Demeter

Platonic	Tagathon, Nous, Psyche

Celtic	Hu, Ceridwen, Creirwy

Teutonic	Fenris, Midgard, Hela

Gothic	Woden, Friga, Thor

Scandinavian	Odin, Vile, Ve

Mexican 	Vitzliputzle, Kaloc, Tescalipuca

Gilbert and Ellice Islands	Nareau, Nikikitea, Nareau Te Rabakau

Buddhist	Personality, Church, Law

Judaean	He Who was, Who is, Who always will be; Three Heads of the Holy Ancient

Christian	Father, Son, Holy Ghost

Gnostic	Divine triads (various)

Muslim	Essence, Creator, Creatures

‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains the correct meaning of the Trinity in Some Answered Questions (pp. 127–9) as the One God, His Holy Spirit, and His Manifestation.

The next development is the Tetrad 4.  It is the “crossing” or product 2×2 and represents the formation of the world of man from combinations of the Dyad.  One geometric symbol of the Tetrad is the square since it is formed by 4 points.  Another symbol of the Tetrad is the cross.  4 also symbolizes solidity or volume, since 4 points are the minimum number required to define a volume, that is, a tetrahedron or triangular-based pyramid.  Bahá’u’lláh employed the Tetrad in His Tablet, The Four Valleys, in which He describes the 4 types of mystical wayfarers.

The numbers 1, 2, 3, 4 were combined in the Tetraktys of Pythagoras, a sacred symbol of certain ancient mystery cults (Figure 2).

Figure 2
The sacred tetraktys of Pythagoras

This symbol was treated as the key to understanding the whole of life.  Theou of Smyrna (first century CE) enumerated ten sets of four things that the Tetraktys was held to symbolize.

Numbers:	1, 2, 3, 4

Magnitudes:	point, line, surface, solid

Elements:	fire, air, earth, water

Simple bodies:	pyramid, cube, octahedron, icosahedron

Living things:	seed, growth in length, growth in breadth, growth in thickness

Societies:	man, village, city, nation

Faculties:	sensation, opinion, knowledge, reason

Seasons:	spring, summer, autumn, winter

Ages:	infancy, youth, manhood, old age

Human being:	body, mind, soul, spirit

The next development is the 7.  Being the sum of 3 and 4, it can represent the union of heaven and earth.  7 was the number of the known planets.  Among the ancients, 7 was also the number of opportunity, “because in nature the times of fulfilment with respect to birth and maturity go in sevens.  Take man, for example.  He can be born in 7 months, cuts his teeth after another 7, reaches puberty about the end of his second period of 7 years, and grows a beard at the third.—Aristotle

On the other hand, 7 was the symbol of expansion and sacrifice among the Babylonians and ancient Hebrews.  For example, animals entered Noah’s ark by sevens (Genesis 7:2–3); Jacob spent 7 years in servitude for Leah and 7 years more for Rachel (Genesis 29); 7 years was the legal limit of slavery under Mosaic law.  7 was also the number of trial and punishment.  The Ark of the Covenant was in the land of the Philistines for 7 months (I Samuel 6:1), and the Israelites were in bondage for 70 years (Jeremiah 25:11, 29:10).

The repeated use of 7 in the Apocalypse can mean all of these things.  The book represents a prophecy of 7 progressive Revelations (training) and 7 punishments of mankind through various tests and plagues.  But man is also given the opportunity (7) to recognize the Christ Returned, Bahá’u’lláh, symbolized by 9, through Whom heaven and earth will be united (7).

Other examples of the use of the 7 symbol among the ancients are:

Chinese:	7 days of creation

Persian:	7 steps of progress toward heaven

Hindu:	7 mansions, abodes of created spirits

Judean:	7 days of fasting, sacrifice, and prayer

Roman:	7 planets (Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Saturn, Jupiter, Venus)

Gnostic:	7 Greek vowels arranged in cabalistic manner to signify the Creator

Japanese	7 household gods

Bahá’u’lláh used the 7 in His Tablet, The Seven Valleys, describing 7 stages of spiritual development.

The use of the 9 in the Apocalypse is indirect and hidden, which may be considered remarkable in itself, since 9 was considered supremely sacred, being the Perfected Triad or the Trinity of Trinities, that is, 3×3.  Its complete absence as a literal number in the Apocalypse is another clue to the seeker as to its importance.  However, 9 appears with high frequency in the archetypal values of various numbers and phrases as will become clear in the text.  The significance of 9 is that it is the number of Bahá, the Greatest Name of God, and was used as a seal by Bahá’u’lláh, His Manifestation.  The numerical value of Bahá is derived from the Arabic equivalent of the gematria, the abjad.

Since 9 equals 3×3, it also symbolizes the union and reconciliation of all mankind’s concepts of God.  Being the largest number less than the decad, 9 also represents the highest unity.

A second way of combining 3 and 4 is by taking their product 12.  Thus 12 is another symbol of the union of heaven and earth on a still higher order than 7.  The number 12 became a symbol for the universe, containing both matter and spirit.  As the 12 signs of the zodiac, 12 represents the precession of epochs.  It was the perfect measure since it is divisible by 2, 3, 4 and 6, and has been handed down to us as the dozen, the 12 months of the

year, the 12 hours between sunrise and sunset, and, of course, the 12 signs of the zodiac.  By cabalistic contraction, 12 becomes 3 and is, therefore, a holy number.  12 was also the original number of significance and completion.

Astrological symbolism

In Hamlet’s Mill, Professors de Santillana and von Dechend present an impressive body of evidence that the ancients were not only very familiar with the dawning places of the sun at different seasons of the year, but, more significantly, were well aware of the phenomenon now called the Precession of the Equinoxes.  In order to appreciate the awesome effect the knowledge of this phenomenon must have had in antiquity, we must review the model of the cosmos as conceived by the ancient cosmologists and astrologers.

According to Professor de Santillana, the model of the cosmos resembled the system shown in Figure 3.  The extremity of the cosmos was regarded as a great crystalline sphere, that is, the firmament, on which were placed the milky way and the constellations of fixed stars.  A band of stars, called the zodiac or “circle of beasts”, delimited the paths of the sun and the other moving heavenly bodies, that is, the planets or “wanderers”.  The earth was placed at the centre of this sphere, its axis inclined 23½ degrees with respect to the axis of the celestial sphere.  The spinning of the celestial sphere or the earth on its own axis might account for the days and nights.  The tilt of the earth’s axis with respect to the sun’s journey of 365 days through the “houses” of the zodiac accounted for the seasons.

Various models were proposed to account for the brilliance and motions of the stars and planets.  One model was that of Ptolemy, providing seven concentric crystalline “heavens” for the seven planets.  In popular myth, the planets were considered

Figure 3
The ancient cosmos
The oval zodiacal ring is the earth’s equatorial plane.

to be shining gods, or perhaps lamps carried across the firmament by gods or angels.

Regardless of the model, the regularity of planetary movements and the spectacular panorama of the skies led men to consider the hand of the zodial to be the “true earth”.  The stars and planets, the inhabitants of the true earth, became the true lords of time and the originators of history, with man at the heavy earthbound centre of the system taking on the role of mere spectator to “earthshaking” cosmic events over which he had little or no control.

Thus was born the royal science, astrology, and it became a matter of great importance for men to know when the stars showed good or bad aspects.  The band of the zodiac was divided into twelve principal constellations, and various names and attributes were assigned to them for the purposes of divination.  Because the stellar constellations occupied unequal spaces along the celestial sphere, astrologers eventually found it convenient to separate the zodiacal band into twelve “signs” of equal length as an aid to astrological computations.  The signs and constellations of the zodiac within recent millennia have been called by the following names:

The zodiacal order corresponds to the dawning time of the sign during the solar year commencing with the Vernal equinox.  The Precession order is reversed from the zodiacal order since the sun appears to slowly retrogress through the zodiacal houses.

There is a considerable disagreement among modern astrologers concerning the starting point of the age of Aquarius and, indeed, of any of the zodiacal ages.  The disagreements stem from such questions as the historical origin of the zodiac, whether certain specific stars, the sign or the constellation is to be used as a reference, and when the signs were exactly aligned with the constellations.  The least trenchant view is that there are no clear starting points, and the ages, like the earthly seasons, are gradually transformed into one another.

Returning to the celestial sphere of Figure 3, it was recognized that the earth’s axis, being tilted with respect to the celestial system, was directed at a northern point that was not coincident with the true axis of the celestial sphere.  It was common to consider the celestial sphere as having an open hole or “door” at the northern end of the celestial axis, while the star Canopus marked the terminus of the southern axis.  The great circle (not shown in Figure 3) tracing the centre of the zodiacal band is called the celestial equator.  The “dry earth” was the ideal plane passing through the celestial equator.  The plane of the earth’s equator extended to the celestial sphere also had significance.  The earth’s equatorial plane divided the zodiac into “dry land” and the “waters below”.  “Fire” (not shown in Figure 3) was the name of a great circle passing through the north and south poles of the celestial sphere.

We are now in a position to understand the “square earth” and the Precession of the Equinoxes.  The equinoxes are the two days during the calendar year when the days and nights are of equal twelve hour duration.  The solstices, also important to astrological symbolism, are the two days of the year corresponding to the longest and shortest days.  The approximate dates of these four events are

21 March	Spring or Vernal equinox, equal day and night.

21 June	Summer solstice, longest day [southern hemisphere winter].

21 September	Autumnal or Fall equinox, equal day and night.

21 December	Winter solstice, shortest day [southern hemisphere summer].

Originally among the pastoral peoples of the Middle East, the sun rising in the triangular-shaped constellation of Aries the Ram marked the Spring equinox.  That is why, to this day, it is said that the Spring season always appears under the sign of Aries. But it was discovered over a long period of observation that the constellation of Aries gradually began to lag behind the true beginning of the Spring season.  Thus the Spring season is usually ushered in by a constellation other than Aries.  Indeed, the constellation that ushers in the Spring will be different from “age to age”, and it is customary to name the “age” of historical man to agree with the zodiacal constellation at the Spring equinox.

The gradual shifting of the constellations, which we now know is caused by a gyroscopic precession of the earth’s axis, is called the Precession of the Equinoxes.  The Precession of the Equinoxes is extremely slow, requiring 72 years to precess only one degree along the celestial sphere, requiring 25,920 years to complete a full cycle in which the sun returns to its original “house” in Aries at springtime.  The 25,920 year cycle is called a “Great year” or a “Platonic year”.  One twelfth of the Platonic year, a period of 2160 years, is called a “Platonic month”.  Some idea of the slowness and the majesty of this phenomenon can be understood by referring to Figure 4.  The figure shows the appearance of the zodiac as it is seen today and as it appeared 4,500 years ago.  During all those millennia, the zodiac has shifted a mere 60 degrees!

The Precession of the Equinoxes is accompanied by another phenomenon, the dislocation of the north pole or Precession of the Poles.  The north celestial pole, located near the star beta Ursae Minoris at the beginning of the Christian Era, now lies near alpha Ursae Minoris.  In another twelve thousand years the north polar star will be Vega.

Figure 4
The precession of the equinoxes

In ancient times, the constellations in which the sun rises at the equinoxes and solstices were conceived of as four “pillars” or “corners” of the “true earth”.  Connecting the four “corners” with straight lines generates the “rectangular” or “square earth”.  In Figure 3 are shown the four corners corresponding to the age of Aquarius, the zodiacal age into which we are now entering.  These four corners were Pisces, Sagittarius, Virgo and Gemini.

Thus we see that the Precession causes a major reorientation of the ancient cosmic system on an average of once every 2,160 years; the shifting of the rising points of the sun in the houses of the zodiac, the dislocation of the north polar star, the “shaking of the corners of the earth”, a “twilight of the gods”.

Since the astrological theories of antiquity correlated stellar phenomena “above” with worldly historical events “below”, the Precession took on a profound significance.  The appearance of a new constellation at the Spring equinox portended a “new heaven and a new earth”, a new Message from God, and world-wide cataclysmic physical and historical events.  Old religions and governments could be expected to topple, flood and fire (symbolically) might be counted on to destroy the gods and records of the dying civilization.  But God “shall live as long as the sun endures, long as the moon, age after age.”—Psalms 72:5.

It is clear from a careful reading of the Holy Books that astrological symbolism was a common literary device in antiquity.  For example, consider the correlation of the twelve sons of Jacob with the signs of the zodiac.  A hint that the twelve sons might be correlated with astrological influences is given in Genesis 37:9 where Joseph has a dream of “the sun, moon and eleven stars bowing down to him”.  The dream turns out to be a prophecy that Joseph’s family, including his eleven brothers, will later bow down to him in Egypt (42:8).  The correlation becomes even more interesting when it is discovered that it is possible to correlate all thirteen children of Jacob, including his daughter Dinah, with the astrological signs.  For later, in Genesis 49, we

find the famous blessings of Jacob on his sons that are highly suggestive of the signs of the zodiac.

The remaining signs of the zodiac are not so readily identified.  One argument goes that Benjamin, Jacob’s youngest son, corresponds to Cancer the Crab, since it is a “young” constellation formed many years after the other eleven.  Presumably the Crab is as “ravening as a wolf, devouring his prey by morning, dividing the spoil at night.”  Dinah, the only daughter, is assigned to Virgo.

Be that as it may, the Twelve Tribes were required to carry standards or family signs (Numbers 2).  The four chief tribes and their zodiacal signs were:  Judah—a lion, Reuben—a man (Aquarius), Ephriam—a bull, and Dan—a scorpion, the sign formerly called the Eagle in very ancient times.  These particular four signs will prove to be very interesting in the fourth and fifth chapters of the Apocalypse and are also found in Ezekiel.

In Ezekiel’s vision, Chapters one and ten, we find a remarkable description of the cosmic mechanism resembling the

mechanical models proposed by the ancient Greek Ionian and Milesian philosophers such as Anaximander.  Ezekiel’s zodiac (1:10–19) emphasizes the same four zodiacal signs corresponding to the four chief tribes—man, lion, ox, and eagle.  The zodiac has “rims high and dreadful” and the four chief signs have “their rims full of eyes (start) round about.  And when the living creatures (zodiacal beasts) went, the wheels went beside them, and when the living creatures were lifted up (dawned) from the earth, the wheels were lifted up.”  It will become obvious in Revelations 4 and 5 that Ezekiel’s vision parallels that of John, and that the “glory of the Lord” sitting on the throne in Ezekiel 1:24–28 is Bahá’u’lláh.

Geometric symbolism

Certain geometric symbols or mandalas must be explained before we enter the Apocalypse.  We have already noted that the Tetrad 4 symbolizing the world of man can be represented by a square or cross.  Extending the square into a volume results in a cube, another symbol for the world of man.

One symbol for heaven, the realm of the spirit (and hence heavenly virtues) is the circle.  The circle is the perfect figure, having neither beginning nor end; thus it can represent eternity and infinity.  A source of ambiguity enters here.  Since the perimeter of a circle is roughly 3 times its diameter, 3 can sometimes represent the realm of heaven, heavenly virtues, and so on, in addition to representing the Holy Triad.  Spinning the circle about its diameter generates the sphere, another symbol for heaven.  In analogy to the addition of 3 and 4 to obtain 7, circles, crosses, spheres and cubes can be combined in various ways to symbolize the union of heaven and earth.  The squared circle mandala is called the quadratura circuli, examples of which are shown in Figure 5.  The quadratura circuli has appeared in many forms such as oriental mandalas, the swastika, and the Latin cross with the circle of eternity.  It is still a powerful determinant in our unconscious life.  By comparing Figures 3 and 5, it can be seen that the quadratura circuli is latent in the ancient cosmological model.

Figure 5
Examples of the quadratura circuli

The best known of all geometric symbols is the Great Pyramid of Giza.  It apparently represents a squared circle since the perimeter of its square base equals the altitude of the pyramid multiplied by 2-times the circular π.  The sum of the diagonals of the base of the Great Pyramid is 25,827 pyramid inches, a very close approximation to the number of years in the Great year of the Precession.

By inference, the Great Pyramid can be considered as another model of the cosmos and a symbol of the union of heaven and earth.  However, there is a considerable controversy concerning the purpose of the pyramids.

Further literary devices

Another literary device used by the prophet that must be understood is the reiterated prophecy.  It is a further method of disguising the prophecy and testing the seeker’s spiritual acuity.  In this style, the same prophecy is repeated two or more times using different allegorical or literal expressions to amplify its meaning in different ways.  To the reader who assumes that the account must follow a lineal sequence of events, the account will be confusing and impossible to reconcile.  A related technique is to tax the reader’s memory by scattering crucial but related bits of information throughout the prophecy.

Nor is every event in the Apocalypse to be taken allegorically.  The test of acuity goes both ways.  The events are occasionally accurate in a literal sense and act as guideposts to the seeker to assure him that he is on the right path.  A general rule to follow is first to decide whether the passage is reasonable when taken literally.  If not, look for an allegorical meaning that is in accord with reason and common sense.  That failing, the passage may be assumed to have a transcendental meaning.

The time and space of the Apocalypse

From the outset the Apocalypse has staggering dimensions.  The Revelators and peoples of seven Faiths are specifically addressed, and these are the Divinely revealed Faiths of the

region called Asia as understood by the first century reader.  But the major portions of the Apocalypse are more limited, being primarily directed to the early Christians and to the peoples of the future Faith of Islám.  In the closing chapters the prophecy describes world-wide events and a message is given to the whole of mankind warning of the Advent of the Return of Christ, Bahá’u’lláh.  Who will come to reap the harvest of mankind at the end of the Age of Prophecy.

The time span covered by the prophecy is also impressive, covering the period from about CE 100 until the present time and at least a thousand years into the future.  Here, however, the major portions of the prophecy end with the events that are happening in our own century.

It is important to understand the shifting emphasis that occurs throughout the Apocalypse.  For instance, the “whole world” may mean the Middle East at one time but may mean the twentieth century world at another.  The changes in the dimensions of the prophecy roughly correspond to the level of the intended reader’s awareness of a humanly populated world, that is, an oikumene, as the Greeks called it.

Future scholarship

Some promising fields for future research appear to be in the realms of music and psychology.  Professor McClain’s recent book The Myth of Invariance (Reference 56) develops the close relationship between ancient musical scales, cosmology and numerology, with prime emphasis on the Rig Veda.  Since much of the ancient number symbolism was common to the whole Eurasian continent, Egypt, and possibly Middle America, it is

obvious that the Apocalypse is a fertile field to explore for further correlations.  In Chapter 15, Note 9, will be found a reference to ancient musical scales that tie in with certain “tones” of the “new song” of the Apocalypse.  One wonders whether the remaining tones of the scales have meaningful correlates hidden by gematria.

The student of psychology will be struck by the many archetypal symbols of Jungian psychology that are found throughout the Apocalypse.  Examples of these symbols and some of their psychological interpretations are listed below:

The perennial appeal of the Apocalypse can, no

doubt, be ascribed to the use of such archetypal symbols.  One might wonder whether the archetypes of the collective unconscious may not, in turn, have been formulated to some extent by the Apocalypse itself.  The investigation of these and related questions is beyond the scope of this book.

The work of presenting a detailed and thoroughly satisfactory explanation of the Apocalypse has only begun.  The achievements contained herein are feeble compared to that which remains to be done.  We must remember that the source of this revelation is Jesus Christ Himself, and the subtleties and levels of meaning that are contained in the book permit man to have but a hint of the power and sovereignty of God’s Manifestation.  Without the corporal assistance of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, the work will be slow and prone to error.

It is for that reason that the writer has chosen to include in the same volume the unmodified King James Version (KJV) of Revelations for direct comparison with the interpretation.  Since it is an interpretation, it is not a substitute, and it would be sacrilege to present the interpretation without giving the reader the opportunity to challenge and to disagree.  In this way the writer hopes to avoid the accusation that he has, himself, become guilty of the very thing the Apocalypse condemns, that is, of corrupting the Word of God.  (See Chapter 22, verses 18, 19.)

The use of the King James Version as the baseline was based upon the following considerations:  It is by far the most familiar version in the English speaking world and at the same time is considered to be one of the most accurate translations.  However, the Revised Standard Version (RSV) was used to resolve obscurities in the text of the King James Version.  The careful reader will find it instructive to compare several translations of the Sacred Texts.  Sometimes differences will arise from nuances of the individual translators; at other times from variations in the original sources.

Notes

After thousands of years of neglect and purposeful suppression, we can only discern a small portion of the elaborate letter-number symbolism that pervaded the ancient mystical texts.  Letter-number symbolism lends itself to endless speculation, and it is difficult, perhaps impossible, to deduce all of the correctly intended meanings that may lie hidden in a number or a phrase.  The writer has avoided the temptation to introduce improbable speculations, no matter how attractive, unless these speculations open up possibilities for research by future scholars.  It is in this spirit that many of the conjectures in the Notes have been proffered, and it is hoped that their improbable nature will not prejudice the reader against the more certain inferences in the main text.

Part II
The Revelation of Saint John
the divine

1
The Greatest Name

1.	The Revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave unto him, to show unto his servants things which must shortly come to pass; and he sent and signified it by his angel unto his servant John:

2.	Who bare record of the word of God, and of the testimony of Jesus Christ, and of all things that he saw.

3.	Blessed is he that readeth, and they that hear the words of this prophecy, and keep those things which are written therein:  for the time is at hand.

God gave this Revelation to Jesus Christ.  Jesus Christ is giving the Revelation to His servant John through an angel.  The Revelation is of things that must shortly come to pass.  John is recording the Revelation, the testimony of Jesus Christ, and of the things John saw.

The angel is a celestial messenger, a purified soul who is sent from heaven.  Shortly come to pass means that the events will soon commence.  The duration of time may seem long to man but is short to God.

The person is blessed who reads the words with spiritual eyes and ears and remembers the words and lives according to their true meaning.

4.	John to the seven churches which are in Asia:  Grace be unto you and peace, from him which is, and which was, and which is to come, and from the seven Spirits which are before his throne;

John is to give the Revelation to the seven Divinely revealed Churches, that is, the Seven Faiths of the region known as Asia in the first century.  These churches are those of the Prophetic Cycle begun by the Prophet Adam that will have living followers at the time of the Advent of Bahá’u’lláh.  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains that the church or temple is a collective centre, a symbol of thee real Divine Temple, the Manifestation of God.

The Seven Sprits before the throne will be met again in Chapter 4.  They represent the Most Great Name—Ḥusayn-‘Alí, Bahá’u’lláh.  <1:4 #1, 2>  Both of these Names have seven letters in Arabic and Persian.  Bahá’u’lláh was the title conferred upon Ḥusayn-‘Alí by the Báb.  The name Bahá’u’lláh translates into English as “The Glory of God”.  The name Ḥusayn-‘Alí means literally “The Good, the Exalted”.

The expression “Him which is, which was, and which is to come” derives from ancient Hebrew mysticism.  It is a name for the Lord God <1:4 #3>.  The expression may also refer to God as His recurring Manifestations.

In The Book of Certitude Bahá’u’lláh explains that God educates mankind in phases.  Each phase is approximately a thousand years long and is ushered in by a Revelator Who holds undisputed sway during the Age or Era.

Before CE 1844 there were seven revealed monotheistic Faiths in the region known as Asia in the first century.  They were:

If one includes the Bábí and Bahá’í Faiths revealed after CE 1844 the list has nine members.  Revelation is addressed to the Seven Churches and reveals the Advents of the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh.

Since the Apocalypse is addressed to the Seven Churches of the region of Asia, the list leaves out the religions, that may or may not have been Divinely revealed, of the Far East, Europe, Africa, and the Americas.  The list also excludes Sikhism and Jainism, which are off-shoots of the Hindu Faith.  One can also leave out several monotheistic Faiths that may have been Divinely revealed but which are now extinct.

The Seven Churches may possibly be represented by the seven candlesticks of the ancient Jewish Menorah:  Peace, Benevolence, Justice, Light, Truth, Brotherly Love, and Harmony.

5.	And from Jesus Christ, who is the faithful witness, and the first begotten of the dead, and the prince of the kings of the earth.  Unto him that loved us, and washed us from our sins in his own blood

6.	And hath made us kings and priests unto God and his Father, to him be glory and dominion for ever and ever.  Amen.

Jesus Christ is a faithful witness that these things will come to pass.  Jesus was the first to be raised from spiritual death during His Ministry.  He is the spiritual Prince of the kings and rulers of the earth.  By sacrificing His blood (His spiritual life-force) Jesus raised the early Christians from spiritual death.

In the symbolism of the Bible, death means to be devoid of spiritual awareness and to be without belief in God; sleep means the slumber of heedlessness, to be temporarily devoid of spiritual awareness; life means to have entered the paradise of the love of God.

In one sense, sin is the disobeying of God’s Laws as revealed by His Manifestation.  In another sense, sin is enslavement to animal passions and motivations.  In yet another sense, sin is attachment to the contingent world of attributes and duality.

7.	Behold, he cometh with clouds; and every eye shall see him, and they also which pierced him:  and all kindreds of the earth shall wail because of him.  Even so, Amen.

When the spirit of Christ is re-manifested He will come with troubles and as One hidden by a veil.  Eventually, all those with spiritual eyes from every nation and religion shall know that the Christ has been re-manifested, even the Jews who pierced Jesus.  There will be a world-wide sorrow because He was not recognized at first.

Clouds means troubles or a veil between man and heaven.  Because the Prophet comes in a human body with human limitations, such things cast doubts in men’s minds and act as veils.  Clouds can also symbolize Divine Mercy, annulment of laws, abrogation of former Dispensations and the repeal of rituals and customs.  “I have come in the shadows of the clouds of glory, and am invested by God with invincible sovereignty.”—Bahá’u’lláh

Jesus sometimes referred to those who have eyes and yet do not see.  Bahá’u’lláh explains that the sincere seeker will be rewarded with a new eye, a new ear, a new heart, and a new mind.

The fact that there will be a delay between His appearance on earth and His eventual acceptance by the peoples of the existing

(spiritual) generation is made clear in Luke 17:22–25 and Isaiah 60:1–3.

8.	I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the ending, saith the Lord, which is, and which was, and which is to come, the Almighty.

The expression Alpha and Omega has several meanings.  <1:8 #1, 2, 3, 4>  Alpha and Omega is the Eternal, the lord God; it is the Word of God, the Perfect Man, His Manifestation.  Jesus Christ bears the title as does Bahá’u’lláh.  Alpha and Omega are the first and last letters of the Greek alphabet, and the expression has as one of its meanings the “First and the Last”.  Isaiah 44:6 explains that both God and His Redeemer, the Lord of Hosts, are the First and the Last.  Other Old Testament passages identify the Latter Day Redeemer or Ransomer as the Lord of Hosts, the Holy One of Israel, and the King of Glory (Bahá).

Bahá’u’lláh explains that He is both the Beginning and the End, and both Stillness and Motion:  “Behold how, in this Day, the Beginning is reflected in the End, how out of Stillness Motion hath been engendered.”  As the Beginning and the End, the Manifestation is the Beginning of a new Age and the End of a former Age.  Elsewhere, Bahá’u’lláh explains that every Divine Revelator manifests the Beginning and the End, the First and the Last, the Seen and the Hidden.  Although the name of the Revelator changes from Age to Age, the Holy Spirit manifested through Him remains the same.

His Holiness Bahá’u’lláh bears many titles.  Some of them have been given Him by other Manifestations and prophets and are ascribed to Bahá’u’lláh by those Bahá’ís who have entered by another faith.  Examples of these titles are:

Jewish	Lord of Hosts, King of Glory, the Holy One of Israel

Hindu	Tenth Avatar, Immaculate Manifestation of Krishna, Kalki, Vishnu Yasha

Buddhist	Fifth Buddha, Buddha Maitreye

Christian	Spirit of Truth, Return of Christ

Zoroastrian	Sháh Bahram

Muslim	The Great Announcement, Return of Christ, Return of Imám Ḥusayn

Bábí	Essence of Being, Remnant of God, Omnipotent Master, Crimson all-encompassing Light

In addition to these titles, there are many that Bahá’u’lláh ascribed to Himself in order to explain His Mission to mankind.  Among these are:  the Ancient of Days, Voice From the Burning Bush, Well Spring of Revelation, Day Star of Divine Revelation, Sun of Truth, Bird of the Throne, and many others that will be presented when appropriate.

In the Tablet of all Food, Bahá’u’lláh reveals that the spiritual worlds are of different degrees.  In one of these several worlds, the world of Jabarút (the All-Highest Dominion), the dwellers therein, God’s Chosen Ones, are closely identified with God, manifesting His attributes, speaking His voice, and are identified with Him.  “The essence of belief in Divine unity consisteth in regarding Him Who is the Manifestation of God and Him Who is the invisible, the inaccessible, the unknowable Essence as one and the same.”  In another spiritual work, Láhút (the plane of Divinity, the Heavenly Court), the Manifestations are as utter nothingness compared to God.

The letters Alpha (Α) and Omega (Ω) have the literal value of 801 by gematria.  The archetypal value is 9, the Perfected Triad.  The number 9 is the value of Bahá by the Arabic gematria (abjad) and was used as a seal by Bahá’u’lláh.

Verse 8 identifies the Alpha and Omega, Bahá’, as the Almighty; that is, The Pantocrator.

9.	I John who also am your brother, and companion in

tribulation, and in the kingdom and patience of Jesus Christ, was in the isle that is called Patmos, for the word of God, and for the testimony of Jesus Christ.

10.	I was in the Spirit on the Lord’s day, and heard behind me a great voice, as of a trumpet,

11.	Saying, I am Alpha and Omega, the first and the last:  and, What thou seest write in a book, and send it unto the seven churches which are in Asia; unto Ephesus, and unto Smyrna, and unto Pergamos, and unto Thyatira, and unto Sardis, and unto Philadelphia, and unto Laodicea.

The names of the Seven Churches of Asia represent seven Divinely revealed Faiths.  While the prejudiced reader of first century Rome might be tempted to restrict the term “Asia” to include only the Roman Province of Asia (Asia Minor), in the unprejudiced view, the entire region of Asia extending through Palestine, Arabia, Persia, and India must be included.

The root meanings of the names of the Seven Churches are indicative of their characteristics.  While it is true that all the Faiths, when sincerely practised, partake of all the implied characteristics to some extent, one can make a reasonable correlation between their present-day names and their names in the Apocalypse:

The Sabeans are mentioned three times in the Qur’án (2:62, 5:69, 22:17) together with Jews, Christians and Muslims as “People of the Book”.  Considerable confusion and controversy have surrounded the ancient Sabaean religion.  Bahá’u’lláh spoke of two types of Sabaeans (aṣ-Ṣábiʼún).  The first includes those people who were followers of John the Baptist but who refused to accept the Prophethood of Jesus Christ.  Today this group, called Mandaeans (al-Mandá’iyún), is centred in southern ‘Iráq.  The second type of Sabaeans is the remnants of an ancient, independent, Divinely revealed Faith.  It is the Divinely revealed Sabaean Faith that was prevalent in Ur of Chaldea during the time of Abraham, and it is probable that Abraham was originally a follower of the true Sabaean Faith.  The name of the Revelator of the ancient Sabaean Faith is unknown to us, but the remnants of the Faith are the idolators of Africa.

The Jewish Faith was probably the first in history to emphasize the benevolence of God.  In contrast with the gods of their neighbours, Yahweh was the God of righteousness and loving kindness.  God lifted the Jews from slavery through the Prophet Moses.  In Ezekiel’s vision, God assists the Jewish exiles in Babylon.

The Hindu Faith places emphasis upon the lawful processes prevailing in the world through the law of karma, roughly equivalent to a moral law of cause and effect.  By this law, justice is held to be certain and automatic.  But this noble tenet has been misused to achieve a negative result.  The Brahmans of ancient India compiled an elaborate set of manuals of ceremonial and everyday behaviour.  Among them were the “laws of Manu”, composed near the beginning of the Christian Era.  Although intended to set standards of justice and duty, these rules of conduct eventually degenerated, with the consolation of karma, into the modern caste system in which justice has been sublimated into a static and largely unjust social structure.  Although monotheistic in theory, it may be said that the modern Hindu Faith as practised has many of the attributes of idolatry and polytheism.

A distinguishing feature of the Zoroastrian Faith is its concept of the struggle between the forces of Light (enlightenment, good) and Darkness (ignorance, evil).  Their Deity of goodness is Ormazd (Ahúrá Mazdá), Who is light and fragrant, dwells in light, and is the Creator of light.  The monotheistic Zoroastrian Faith degenerated into a form of polytheism shortly after the Prophet’s death.  Another contamination was the introduction of worship of the Eternal Flame, a fire kept burning in Zoroastrian places of worship.

Lord Buddha was the Revealer of the Four Noble Truths.  These are roughly:

While many scholars claim that Buddhism is a Faith that has no God, or more correctly, that Buddhism needs no God, other modern scholars maintain that, in fact, Lord Buddha taught the existence of God.

The Christian Faith is unquestionably the Faith of Brotherly Love.  The bulk of the teachings of Jesus, His parables and beatitudes, emphasized two important facts:  God loves mankind, and man must reflect God’s love toward his fellow man.

Islám,  the Faith of Muḥammad, is the Faith of Harmony.  The very word “Islám” means peaceful surrender to the Will of God.  But beyond the internal harmony of the spirit, Islám brought social harmony to the sincere practitioners among the warlike tribes of the Arabian peninsula and a vast array of peoples spread from Spain to India.

According to tradition, John wrote the Apocalypse while in exile on the island of Patmos during an early persecution of the Christians.  His reference to the Lord’s day (lower case) refers

to the sacred week day of the early Christians, the first day of the week on which Jesus was reputed to have arisen from the dead.

12.	And I turned to see the voice that spake with me.  And being turned, I saw seven golden candlesticks;

13.	And in the midst of the seven candlesticks one like unto the Son of man, clothed with a garment down to the foot, and girt about the paps with a golden girdle.

14.	His head and his hairs were white like wool, as white as snow; and his eyes were as a flame of fire;

15.	And his feet like unto fine brass, as if they burned in a furnace; and his voice as the sound of many waters.

Candlestick symbolizes a Faith.  Garment to the foot symbolizes heavenly attributes.  The One like unto the Son of Man is Bahá’u’lláh.  “The voice of the Son of Man is calling aloud from the sacred vale:  ‘Here am I, here am I, O God my God!’”—Bahá’u’lláh

Golden girdle symbolizes a new Faith and spiritual power.  His hair like wool identifies the Manifestation as the Head of Days, that is, the Ancient of Days.  White also symbolizes purity.  Because of His great tribulations, the hair of Bahá’u’lláh had literally become snow white.  “The Pen of Holiness … hath writ upon my snow-white brow ….”—Bahá’u’lláh  His eyes have been described as flames of fire.  In the Apocalypse, flaming eyes symbolizes vengeance.

Brass or bronze, because it is a strong blended metal, symbolizes strength, understanding, and guidance for the blending and uniting of mankind.  “As if they burned in a furnace” suggests His title, the Voice from the Burning Bush.  Water means spiritual grace, knowledge, and understanding.  The sound of many waters means great spiritual knowledge and describes Bahá’u’lláh as the Well Spring of Revelation.

Bahá’u’lláh, the Glory of God, the Ancient of Days, the First

and the Last, and the Day Star of Divine Revelation, is seen standing with brass-like feet among the seven candlesticks, that is, the seven Faiths.

16.	And he had in his right hand seven stars:  and out of his mouth went a sharp two-edged sword:  and his countenance was as the sun shineth in his strength.

17.	And when I saw him, I fell at his feet as dead.  And he laid his right hand upon me, saying unto me, Fear not; I am the first and the last:

18.	I am he that liveth, and was dead; and, behold, I am alive for evermore, Amen; and have the keys of hell and of death.

The seven stars are the seven Revelators of Sprits of the Seven Churches and also represent the Greatest Name, Bahá’u’lláh <1:4 #2>.  Since the seven stars or Spirits spell a single Word, they are actually the Manifestation of a single Spirit, the Spirit of Bahá.

The likening of the seven Spirits to seven stars is an allusion to the seven planets, which, according to the theories of the ancient astrologers, were the true governors of the world of man, the executives of the Divine Will.

The right hand is the hand of might and power.  As the Spirit of Truth, Bahá’u’lláh speaks with the Sword of Truth.  It is two-edged because it separates the true from the false and the good from the evil.  “Aid ye your Lord with the sword of wisdom and utterance.”—Bahá’u’lláh

Sun symbolizes variously the Divinity, His Manifestations, or His Faith.  “From Him all the Suns (Manifestations) have been generated, and unto Him they will all return.”—Bahá’u’lláh

His sun-like countenance describes Bahá’u’lláh as the Sun of Truth.  Many witnesses have testified that it was extremely difficult to gaze upon the dazzling countenance of Bahá’u’lláh.

The Holy Spirit as evidenced through Jesus Christ and Muḥammad seemed to be dead before the Advents of the Báb

and Bahá’u’lláh.  But God lives forever and has the power to resurrect man from the death of unbelief and to return man from the hell of remoteness from Him.  Bahá’u’lláh proclaims, “Paradise is on your right hand, and hath been brought nigh unto you, while Hell hath been made to blaze.”  “Followers of the Gospel, behold the gates of heaven are flung open.”  “No man can obtain everlasting life, unless he embraceth the truth of this inestimable, this wondrous, and sublime Revelation.”

In verses 17 and 18, God is speaking through His Manifestation, Bahá’u’lláh.

19.	Write the things which thou hast seen, and the things which are, and the things which shall be hereafter;

20.	The mystery of the seven stars which thou sawest in my right hand, and the seven golden candlesticks.

Figure 6
Hierarchy of revelations

The seven stars are the angels of the seven churches:  and the seven candlesticks which thou sawest are the seven churches.

These verses reveal that the seven stars or Governors of the Seven Churches are the angels; that is, the Divine Revelators Who manifest the Spirit of Bahá.

The relationship between God, the Seven Spirits, the seven stars, and the seven golden candlesticks is best shown by a diagram, Figure 6.  Since the seven Spirits manifest the single spirit of Bahá, they can, in one sense, be represented by a single ray.  The similarity of the Hierarchy of Revelations to the Greatest Name Emblem of Bahá’u’lláh now becomes clear.  However, the seven stars are now replaced by only two, representing the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh, Whose missions are to unite the Seven Churches through the single Spirit of Bahá.  One possible meaning of the Greatest Name Emblem is shown in Figure 7.  The numerous meanings in the Emblem have been the subject of many studies.

Notes

2
Letters to ancient faiths

The letters that follow are addressed to the Seven Churches of Asia as they are characterized at the end of the Age of Prophecy.  In contrast to their original purity alluded to in Chapter 1, verse 11, each of the Churches has become corrupted to some extent.  The Author is the Spirit of God speaking through His Manifestation.  Their style suggests an equivalence between the Manifestation and His Church.  The Saviour seems to be identical to the saved.  The ambiguity also extends to which Manifestation is doing the speaking.  The intermingling of the Voices points out their essential unity.  Bahá’u’lláh explains, “Inasmuch as these Birds of the Celestial Throne are all sent down from the heaven of the Will of God, and as they all arise to proclaim His irresistible Faith, they therefore are regarded as one soul and the same person. …  They all abide in the same tabernacle, soar in the same heaven, are seated upon the same throne, utter the same speech, and proclaim the same Faith ….”  The close connection between the Manifestation and His Church is also made clear by Bahá’u’lláh:  “Nay, all else besides these Manifestations, live by the operation of their Will, and move and have their being through the outpourings of their grace.”  And further, “That some are near (to God) and others are far (from God) is to be ascribed to the Manifestations themselves.”

But there is a special role that is played by Bahá’u’lláh.  In His Tablet, The Youth of Paradise, Bahá’u’lláh identifies Himself as the Word upon which depended the souls of all the Prophets of God and His Chosen Ones.  It is therefore necessary to consider Bahá’u’lláh as the Speaker Who addresses the letters to the Founders of the Churches.

1.	Unto the angel of the church of Ephesus write; These things saith he that holdeth the seven stars in his right hand, who walketh in the midst of the seven golden candlesticks:

2.	I know thy works, and thy labour, and thy patience, and how thou canst not bear them which are evil:  and thou hast tried them which say they are apostles, and are not, and hast found them liars:

3.	And hast borne, and hast patience, and for my name’s sake hast laboured and hast not fainted.

This letter is addressed to the Revelator of the Sabaean Faith.  Apostles are trusted messengers.  To faint means to grow weary.

4.	Nevertheless I have somewhat against thee, because thou hast left thy first love.

5.	Remember therefor from whence thou art fallen, and repent, and do the first works; or else I will come unto thee quickly, and will remove thy candlestick out of his place, except thou repent.

6.	But this thou hast, that thou hatest the deeds of the Nicolaitanes, which I also hate.

7.	He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches; To him that overcometh will I give to eat out of the tree of life, which is in the midst of the paradise of God.

God, speaking through Bahá’u’lláh, is threatening to remove their Faith from the earth because they have strayed from their original teachings.

Nicolaitanes, followers of Nicolas, were Covenant breakers in the early Christian Church and here symbolize Covenant breakers of any Divinely revealed Faith.  Nicolas may have been originally a convert from Antioch who is mentioned in Acts 6:5.  The doctrine of Nicholas included the theory that acceptance of Jesus Christ placed the believer above the laws and morality of non-Christians, and one’s standard of behaviour became largely a matter of personal inclination.

The promise that God is making is that he who overcomes the false teachings existing within the Church will receive spiritual life, light, and sustenance through God’s Manifestation, the Tree of Life, Bahá’u’lláh.  (Compare Genesis 2.)

8.	And unto the angel of the church in Smyrna write; These things saith the first and the last, which was dead, and is alive;

9.	I know thy works and tribulation, and poverty, (but thou art rich) and I know the blasphemy of them which say they are Jews, and are not, but are the synagogue of Satan.

10.	Fear none of those things which thou shalt suffer:  behold, the devil shall cast some of you into prison, that ye may be tried; and ye shall have tribulation ten days:  be thou faithful unto death, and I will give thee a crown of life.

11.	He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches; He that overcometh shall not be hurt of the second death.

This message is addressed to Moses and the Jewish Faith.  God distinguishes between those Jews who are materially poor but spiritually rich, and those who are materially rich but spiritually poor.  A true Jew is one who loves God and obeys His laws.  The synagogue of Satan is those who exalt themselves before God and refuse to obey His laws.

The Jews are informed that some of them will be imprisoned by the devil for a period of 10 days.  The prophecy refers to their 10 year tribulation under Hitler and the Nazi regime from CE 1935 to 1945.

In Biblical prophecy, the following time scale conversion must be used:

The length of the year is indicated by the context.  The Spirit, through Bahá’u’lláh, promises that the Jews who persevere in true Judaism through their tribulation will receive spiritual salvation and eternal spiritual life.  The Jews will avoid the “second death” by accepting Bahá’u’lláh.  The “first (spiritual) death” was the result of their rejection of Jesus Christ.

Satan, the devil, and similar epithets symbolize the evil principle and do not refer to an actual being.  In this case, the devil refers to the evil principle manifested in Hitler and the Nazi regime.

12.	And to the angel of the church in Pergamos write:  These things saith he which hath the sharp sword with two edges;

13.	I know thy works, and where thou dwellest, even where Satan’s seat is:  and thou holdest fast my name, and hast not denied by faith, even in those days wherein Antipas was my faithful martyr, who was slain among you, where Satan dwelleth.

These words are addressed to Krishna and the Hindu Faith.  “Where Satan dwells” and “Satan’s seat” refer to a degraded spiritual condition.  Antipas s means literally “against all” and refers to the great Reformer of the ancient Hindu world, Lord Buddha.  The martyrdom of Antipas in the place where Satan dwells symbolizes the end of resistance to spiritual decay.

The true Hindus are cited for maintaining the name of God (Brahma) even during their period of spiritual decay.

14.	But I have a few things against thee, because thou hast there them that hold the doctrine of Balaam, who taught Balac to cast a stumbling block before the children of Israel, to eat things sacrificed unto idols, and to commit fornication.

15.	So hast thou also them that hold the doctrine of the Nicolaitanes, which thing I hate.

Jezebel, the daughter of Ethbaal, king of Tyre and Sidon and the wife of Ahab, king of Israel, introduced the idolatrous doctrine of Balaam into Israel in the ninth century BCE.  The story is recounted in Chronicles and II Kings.  Idol worship is equivalent in the doctrine of materialism.

To eat things sacrificed to idols means to accept idolatrous teachings.  Similarly, the consuming of the bread and the wine of the Eucharist symbolizes the acceptance of Jesus Christ’s teachings and His blood sacrifice.

In the symbolism of Revelations, to commit fornication means to accept false doctrine.

16.	Repent, or else I will come unto thee quickly, and will fight against them with the sword of my mouth.

17.	He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches; To him that overcometh will I give to eat of the hidden manna, and will give him a white stone, and in the stone a new name written, which no man knoweth saving he that receiveth it.

Hidden manna refers to Divine Revelation; that is, spiritual sustenance from heaven, the Word of God and reality, hidden until revealed by Bahá’u’lláh.  “… That which is pre-eminent

above all other gifts, is incorruptible in nature, and pertaineth to God Himself, is the gift of Divine Revelation. …  It is, in its essence, and will ever remain, the Bread which cometh down from Heaven.”—Bahá’u’lláh <2:17><G#4>  The hidden manna is promised to those who overcome the false teachings within the Hindu Faith.

In antiquity, it was a custom to present invited guests with small mosaics or stones engraved with names or other suitable inscriptions.  These stones were called tesserae.  They were roughly equivalent to modern engraved invitations or passports.  The colour white symbolizes purity and perfection, the stone symbolized truth; hence white stone symbolizes perfect wisdom and understanding.

Tesserae were also used to perpetuate a friendship and to render a union more sacred.  The privilege of friendship could be extended to others carrying the tessera.  The tessera was usually constructed of a small piece of bone, ivory, or stone.  It was broken into equal parts, and each party wrote his own name or other suitable inscription on his piece.  Mutual pledges and an exchange were made, and, to prevent imposture, the pledge was kept secret and no one knew the name inscribed on his piece except the possessor.  Tesserae were probably carried by the early Christians during their travels to introduce them to fellow Christians.

The Báb presented His followers and Bahá’u’lláh with a scroll often called the “White Stone” on which He inscribed a pentacle (five-pointed star) with 360 derivatives of the word Bahá.  This scroll represented a revelation of the name of the new Manifestation to follow Him.  Only those who accept the Bahá’í Revelation will understand the meaning of the new name.

New name, καινού όνομα (“new name”) has a literal value of 432 and an archetypal value of 9, the number of Bahá.

18.	And unto the angel of the church in Thyatira write; These things saith the Son of God, who hath his eyes

like unto a flame of fire, and his feet are like fine brass;

19.	I know thy works, and charity, and service, and faith, and thy patience, and thy works; and the last to be more than the first.

“Son of God” and “god” are epithets for “one unto whom the Word of God came”.  Jesus makes this clear in John 10:30–36 where He quotes from Psalm 82:6–8 in answer to certain Jews who accused Jesus of blasphemy.  The subject is further elucidated in Romans 1:3–4 and Hebrews 1:4–6.  The Bible contains other clear references to Manifestations, prophets, and believers with the epithet “Son of God” or “son of God”.  For examples see:

I Chronicles 28:6, 22:10, 17:11–14 (Solomon)

Psalm 2:6–8 (David)

Hebrews 6:20, 7:1–3, 7:15 (Melchisedec)

Luke 3:38 (Adam)

Galatians 3:23–28, 4:3ff (Christians)

John 1:12 (Christians)

I John 3:2 (Christians)

Revelations 21:7 (Citizens of the New Jerusalem)

Job 38:7 (Various)

Malachi 2:10 (Various)

Romans 8:14 (Various)

Exodus 4:22; Hosea 11:1 (Israel)

The term “son of God” is applied to primal men in Genesis 6:2–4.

Adam, a Son of God, was a Prophet and the first Manifestation of the Adamic Cycle.  Bahá’u’lláh is the first Manifestation of the Bahá’í Cycle and is the Son of God referred to in verse 18.

In the above verses, the Zoroastrians are admonished for putting everything else before the Law and the love of God.

20.	Notwithstanding I have a few things against thee,

because thou sufferest that woman Jezebel, which calleth herself a prophetess, to teach and to seduce my servants to commit fornication, and to eat things sacrificed unto idols.

21.	And I gave her space to repent of her fornication; and she repented not.

22.	Behold I will cast her into a bed, and them that commit adultery with her into great tribulation, except they repent of their deeds.

23.	And I will kill her children with death; and all the churches shall know that I am he which searcheth the reins and hearts:  and I will give unto every one of you according to your works.

Bed means the bed of heedlessness, misery and shame.  Adultery means to share false doctrine.  The Zoroastrians are warned to avoid the practice of idolatry.  The idolatrous followers of the teachings of Jezebel will receive spiritual death and will be rewarded in accordance with their deeds.

24.	But unto you I say, and unto the rest in Thyatira, as many as have not this doctrine, and which have not known the depths of Satan, as they speak; I will put upon you none other burden.

25.	But that which ye have already hold fast till I come.

26.	And he that overcometh, and keepeth my works unto the end, to him I will give power over the nations:

27.	And he shall rule them with a rod of iron; as the vessels of a potter shall they be broken to shivers:  even as I received of my Father.

28.	And I will give him the morning star.

29.	He that hath an ear, let him hear what the spirit saith unto the churches.

The Báb, the forerunner of Bahá’u’lláh, was manifested in that part of Írán where the Zoroastrian Faith is centred.  The Báb as the Herald of a new Day of God is likened to the morning star.  His Advent resulted in great upheavals in Írán (Persia) and neighbouring countries.  The verses present a prophecy of the final

dissolution of all the nations of the world and their spiritual domination by the faithful who accept the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh.

The rod of iron is a symbol of spiritual domination; it is not a sword of conquest.  “… though the revelations of My grace and bounty have permeated every atom of the universe, yet the rod with which I chastise the wicked is grievous …”—Bahá’u’lláh concerning the rod of iron, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains, “… certain souls guided (people) with a rod of the plant, that is, a reed where with he shepherded the sheep, like unto the rod of Moses; others trained (the people) with a rod of iron and drove them, as in the time of Muḥammad ….”—<21:10–17 #1>

Notes

3.
Letters to recent faiths

1.	And unto the angel of the church in Sardis write; These things saith he that hath the seven Spirits of God, and the seven stars; I know thy works, that thou hast a name that thou livest, and art dead.

2.	Be watchful, and strengthen the things which remain, that are ready to die:  for I have not found thy works perfect before God.

3.	Remember therefore how thou hast received and heard, and hold fast, and repent.  If therefore thou shalt not watch, I will come on thee as a thief, and thou shalt not know what hour I will come upon thee.

This letter is addressed to the Buddhists who are accused of keeping alive the name of Buddha but of being dead to the message of the spirit.  God, speaking through Bahá’u’lláh, threatens to send His Manifestation as a “thief”, meaning One Who enters and departs “unseen”.  Furthermore, the time of His Advent may not be announced beforehand.

4.	Thou hast a few names even in Sardis which have not defiled their garments; and they shall walk with me in white:  for they are worthy.

5.	He that overcometh, the same shall be clothed in white raiment; and I will not blot out his name out of the book of life, but I will confess his name before my Father, and before his angels.

6.	He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches.

Raiment, garment, clothing, etc. mean character or attributes of the soul.  “Say:  From My laws the sweet smelling savour of my garment can be smelled, and by their aid the standards of victory will be planted upon the highest peaks.”  “Clothe thyself with the essence of righteousness, and let thine heart be afraid of none except God.”—Bahá’u’lláh  Verse 4 alludes to those Buddhists who defile their red and yellow robes by violating their true purposes.

The Book of Life is the record of those deserving eternal life.  “O thou who art the fruit of My Tree and the leaf thereof! …  Wert thou to scan the pages of the Book of Life thou wouldst, most certainly, discover that which would dissipate thy sorrows and dissolve thine anguish.”—Bahá’u’lláh

7.	And to the angel of the church in Philadelphia write; These things say he that is holy, he that is true, he that hath the key of David, he that openeth, and no man shutteth; and shutteth, and no man openeth;

8.	I know thy works; behold, I have set before thee an open door, and no man can shut it:  for thou hast a little strength, and hast kept my word, and hast not denied my name.

Philadelphia is the Church of Jesus Christ, and Jesus Christ is transmitting this letter to His Church.  Therefore, verse 8 refers to “my word” and “my name”.

Both Jesus Christ and Bahá’u’lláh are holy, true, and have the Key of David.  The Key of David is the power to pen and close a door of history, that is, a new Age.  Jesus Christ opened the Christian Age; the Báb was the Door to the Bahá’í Cycle that will consist of numerous Ages covering a period of approximately 500 thousand years.

Although Christians recite the words of Jesus their inner meanings have been largely forgotten.  For that reason the Christians are weak and divided.

9.	Behold, I will make them of the synagogue of Satan,

which say they are Jews, and are not, but do lie; behold, I will make them to come and worship before thy feet, and to know that I have loved thee.

10.	Because thou hast kept the word of my patience, I also will keep thee from the hour of temptation, which shall come upon all the world, to try them that dwell upon the earth.

The original Christians were true Jews because they had accepted the Prophet of the new Day of the Lord.  Jews who become Bahá’ís must first accept Jesus Christ as a Manifestation.

The “Hour” is the “time of the end”, the “Hour” at which the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh declare Their Mission.  It is a time of temptation because the reluctant and negative forces of the existing social order conspire to prevent the Revelation from performing its work of creative reconstruction.

When the Báb declared His Mission in 1844, the bigoted among the Muslims of Persia arose to prevent the renewed Word from becoming manifest throughout the contingent world.  The Christians were spared the temptation to participate in this repression.  Even the Christian regiment that was commanded to execute the Báb was unable to do so through Divine intervention.  Today the whole world is being tested to determine whether it is worthy of receiving the new Revelation.

11.	Behold, I come quickly; hold that fast which thou hast, that no man take thy crown.

12.	Him that overcometh will I make a pillar in the temple of my God, and he shall go no more out:  and I will write upon him the name of my God, and the name of the city of my God, which is new Jerusalem, which cometh down out of heaven from my God:  and I will write upon him my new name.

13.	He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches.

A crown is a symbol of reward and authority.  “To go no more out” means that the believer will never again separate himself from the Covenant.

“New” is repeated twice, so that we cannot look for the same name but a new name.  The new name of God is Bahá, and the new name of the Manifestation is Bahá’u’lláh.  “O Concourse of the Son (Christians)!  Are ye hidden from Myself because of My Name?”—Bahá’u’lláh  The “city of my God”, the new Jerusalem, is the renewed Word of God and divine civilization.  “Once in about a thousand years shall this City be renewed and readorned. …  That City is none other than the Word of God revealed in every age and dispensation.”—Bahá’u’lláh

Jerusalem Ίερονσαλημ has a literal value of 864 and an archetypal value of 9, the number of Bahá.  864 is twice the literal value of new name, καινού όνομα, 432, which also has an archetypal value of 9.  (See Revelations 2:17.)  The word “Jerusalem” means literally “Sacred Peace”.

14.	And unto the angel of the church of Laodiceans write; These things saith the Amen, the faithful and true witness, the beginning of the creation of God;

15.	I know thy works, that thou are neither cold nor hot; I would thou were cold or hot.

16.	So then because thou are lukewarm, and neither cold nor hot, I will spew thee out of my mouth.

Amen is Hebrew for faithful and true.  The promise of Muḥammad was that He was a true witness of the Day of God.  “In the Qur’án it is said that God addressed Muḥammad, saying, ‘We made Thee a witness, a herald, and a warner’; [Qur'án 48:8] that is, We have established Thee as one Who bears witness, Who imparts the glad-tidings of that which is to come, and Who warns of the wrath of God.”—‘Abdu’l-Bahá

The beginning of the creation of God is the beginning of a new

Day of God.  In these verses God is addressing the Muslim Faith through His Manifestation Muḥammad.

To be cold is to be indifferent; to be hot is to be zealous; to be lukewarm is to be bigoted.  The devotees of all Faiths have often confused bigotry for zealotry.

17.	Because thou sayest, I am rich, and increased with goods, and have need of nothing and knowest not that thou art wretched, and miserable, and poor, and blind, and naked:

18.	I counsel thee to buy of me gold tried in the fire, that thou mayest be rich; and white raiment, that thou mayest be clothed, and that the shame of thy nakedness do not appear, and anoint thine eyes with eyesalve, that thou mayest see.

19.	As many as I love, I rebuke and chasten:  be zealous therefore, and repent.

Gold is purified by fire; man is purified by spiritual suffering and repentance.  God would even rebuke and chasten those He loves.  He therefore warns them to be zealous and to repent.

20.	Behold, I stand at the door, and knock:  if any man hear my voice, and open the door, I will come in to him and will sup with him, and he with me.

21.	To him that overcometh will I grant to sit with me in my throne, even as I also overcame, and am set down with my Father in his throne.

22.	He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches.

In these verses, Bahá’u’lláh alludes to His Herald, the Báb.  The Báb was the next Manifestation following Muḥammad.  His title means the Door or Gate.4  To those who recognized His voice speaking through the Báb and followed that voice, Bahá’u’lláh literally came to sup with them.  Both the Báb and

Bahá’u’lláh proclaim that the Báb’s Revelation actually came from Bahá’u’lláh.

The words of Ezekiel confirm the close relationship between the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh.  “Afterward he brought me to the GATE that looketh toward the east, and behold, THE GLORY OF THE GOD OF ISRAEL came from the way of the east; and his voice was like the noise of many waters; and the earth shined with his glory. …  And the GLORY OF THE LORD came into the house by way of the GATE whose prospect is toward the east.”

Note in verse 21 that Bahá’u’lláh sits with His Father on His throne.  This fact will become important in Chapter 4.  <G #4>

Notes

4.
The invisible zodiac

In this chapter, John is permitted to see the far side of the celestial sphere, the Upper World, the Celestial Pavilion <21:2 #1>, and to have a preview of great secrets that will be disclosed at the end of the Age of Prophecy.

1.	After this I looked, and, behold, a door was opened in heaven:  and the first voice which I heard was as it were of a trumpet talking with me; which said, Come up hither, and I will show thee things which must be hereafter.

2.	And immediately I was in the spirit:  and, behold, a throne was set in heaven, and one sat on the throne.

3.	And he that sat was to look upon like a jasper and a sardine stone:  and there was a rainbow round about the throne, in sight like unto an emerald.

4.	And round about the throne were four and twenty seats:  and upon the seats I saw four and twenty elders sitting, clothed in white raiment; and they had on their heads crowns of gold.

Jesus Christ, through His angel, is still showing John the things that must come to pass (Revelations 1:1).  He is speaking as a Herald with the voice of a trumpet.  Bahá’u’lláh, the King of Glory and Lord of the Covenant <G #7, 8> is seen sitting on the throne as a Manifestation of God.  (Compare Isaiah 6:1–5 and Ezekiel 1:26–28, <G #4, 5>.)

The imagery of the radiance about the throne describes a “glory”, that is, a “manifestation”.  The precious stone jasper

can have many colours, and in particular, a clear red like the hue of the heart.  It symbolizes the fact that man may have many colours of skin but his heart is one.  The sardine stone (also called a sard or sardius) can have either a brown or red colour depending upon how it is held.  It symbolizes the essential unity behind the spiritual and physical worlds, the apparent disharmony being only an illusion.  The rainbow is symbolic of the Covenant of God with man:  that He will always send us a Messenger provided we heed His Message.  The rainbow is also “… the Testament of the Merciful One.  The lights of the Kingdom and the heavenly illumination emanated from this rainbow.  This rainbow is the sign of the removal of the wrath of God from all the people, and the sign of prosperity, tranquillity, universal peace, the oneness of humanity, and the unity of the world of man.”—‘Abdu’l-Bahá.

The emerald is pure green.  Since green harmonizes with every other colour it symbolizes harmony and unity.  Gold is symbolic of excellence and perfection.

Bahá’u’lláh, the Glory of God, was manifested in the station of the Father, that is, as a Manifestation of God the Father.  Thus as Bahá’u’lláh sits on the throne with God He is the representative of God, acting as a communication link between God and man.

The twenty–four elders are guardians and holy souls of the Bahá’í Dispensation.  The fact that they sit on their own thrones means that they rule eternally.  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá has revealed the names of only twenty of these holy Figures.  They are:

The Báb

The Eighteen Letters of the Living (Disciples of the Báb)

Ḥájí Mírzá Muḥammad-Taqí

These pages are too few to recount their deeds and characters.

As for the remaining four elders, there are many great Figures who could be considered as candidates.  Among them are certainly His Holiness ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and Shoghi Effendi.  Many others can be found in the Bahá’í Writings.

The twenty–four elders are shown seated in a circle around the throne of Bahá’u’lláh and in correspondence with the signs of the zodiac.  In former Dispensations there were only twelve elders.  For example, Jacob had twelve sons; there were twelve chiefs of tribes under Moses.  Jesus had twelve Apostles, and there were twelve Imams of Islám (Some Answered Questions, pp. 66 & 78).  Now, in the Bahá’í Dispensation, there are twice–twelve of these holy Figures, two for each zodiacal sign.  The doubling of the usual number is necessary because of the greatness of Bahá’u’lláh’s Dispensation and the double Manifestation, the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh.

5.	And out of the throne proceeded lightnings and thunderings and voices:  and there were seven lamps of fire burning before the throne, which are the seven Spirits of God.

6.	And before the throne there was a sea of glass like unto crystal:  and in the midst of the throne, and round about ;the throne, were four beasts full of eyes before and behind.

7.	And the first beast was like a lion, and the second beast like a calf, and the third beast had a face as a man, and the fourth beast was like a flying eagle.

8.	And the four beasts had each of them six wings about him and they were full of eyes within:  and they rest not day and night, saying, “Holy, holy, holy, Lord God Almighty, which was, and is, and is to come.

Lightning is the anger and wrath of God.  Thunder is the sound of the violation of the Covenant.  Voices are the utterings of the doubters and hypocrites who fall into trials and temptations.

The seven lamps of fire before the throne, to the outward eye, represent the seven planets, that popular myth considered to be seven lamps carried by angels across the dome of heaven.

However, John learns that the seven planets are not the true governors of the world of man, but that the world is actually controlled by the seven Spirits of God.  The seven Spirits correspond to the Divine Revelators Who manifest the Spirit of Bahá.

To the outward eye, the far side of the crystalline celestial sphere appears as a sea of glass.  But to the inward eye, the sea of glass like unto a crystal is firm, clear and pure—symbolic of the Ocean of Truth.  “O people!  I swear by the One true God!  This is the Ocean out of which all seas have proceeded, and with which every one of them will ultimately be united.”—Bahá’u’lláh  Bahá’u’lláh reflects perfectly the attributes of God as from the polished surface, and one cannot distinguish between the Light of God and His Manifestation reflected on the throne.

To the outward eye, the four zodiacal creatures or beasts with eyes (stars) before and behind, represent the four signs of the zodiac corresponding to the four chief tribes of Israel (Figure 9).  But to the inward eye, the four signs correspond to the four pillars or corners that will secure the age of Aquarius, the advent of cosmic time that will announce the Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh.  The four pillars are listed in the order of the Precession, beginning at the Autumnal equinox.

The four pillars have other meanings.  In the world of Jabarút

Figure 9
The four pillars of the age of Aquarius

[the All-Highest Dominion] they are earthly rulers, paragons of virtue, who will accept Bahá’u’lláh and thereby secure the Cause.  Their eyes within represent their great spiritual insight.  Their attributes are lion—kingly majesty and strength; calf or ox—strength and servanthood; face of man—unity of mankind; flying eagle—majesty, victory, sharp vision.  Like the ancient Hebrew Messengers of God, each paragon has 3-times-2 wings to emphasize his exalted station.9  Since Six was also considered the number of mediation (Chapter 7, Note 13), in this role they mediate between the twenty–four elders and the 6-times-24 “working arms”, the 144 primal rulers alluded to have probably not yet appeared in history.

In the world of the Láhút, it is God Who sits on the throne and the four pillars are the Four Central Figures of the Bahá’í Faith, that is:  lion = the Lion of Judah, Bahá’u’lláh; ox = the Servant of Bahá, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá; man = the Man Child, the Báb; and flying eagle = the Guardian, Shoghi Effendi.  The creative Word of God always has multiple meanings.  In their role as Mediators, they mediate between God and the 6-times-4 elders and thenceforth to  all mankind.

9.	And when those beasts give glory and honour and thanks to him that sat on the throne, who liveth for ever and ever,

10.	The four and twenty elders fall down before him that sat on the throne, and worship him that liveth for ever and ever, and cast their crowns before the throne, saying,

11.	Thou art worthy, O Lord, to receive glory and honour and power:  for thou hast created all things, and for thy pleasure they are and were created.

In many of His Tablets Bahá’u’lláh proclaims, “I am God”.

This identity with God is in the realm of His attributes and not of His essence.  In The Book of Certitude, Bahá’u’lláh recites the words of God to His Manifestation.  “There is no distinction whatsoever between Thee and Them; except that they are Thy servants and are created of Thee.”  And, “But for Thee, I would not have created the heavens.”  In another place Bahá’u’lláh says, “… He Who is the Monarch of all names is come, He at Whose bidding every single name hath, from the beginning that hath no beginning, been created ….”

If one draws a diagram of the arrangement of the invisible zodiac as described in this chapter, it is seen that it forms a mandala, the quadratura circuli, Figure 10.  As explained in Part I of this book, this particular mandala is a symbol of the unification of heaven and earth and the realization of inner wholeness.  Thus John sees that man’s feeble conception of the phenomenal cosmos is a mere symbol of the hidden mandala, the Divine Order that is hidden, yet implicit, in the arrangement and laws governing the universe.

Notes

5
The book of seven seals

1.	And I saw in the right hand of him that sat on the throne a book written within and on the backside, sealed with seven seals.

2.	And I saw a strong angel proclaiming with a loud voice, Who is worthy to open the book and to loose the seals thereof?

3.	And no man in heaven, nor in earth, neither under the earth, was able to open the book, neither to look thereon.

5.	And one of the elders saith unto me, Weep not:  behold, the Lion of the tribe of Juda, the Root of David, hath prevailed to open the book, and to loose the seven seals thereof.

The “book” represents the seven Holy Books of the seven Faiths.  It is sealed with seven seals because every Holy Book was sealed.  The words on the inside represent the hidden meanings while word on the backside represent the obvious meanings.  The hidden meanings of the Holy Books were revealed by Bahá’u’lláh.  The Book of the Báb [the Bayán, meaning “Exposition”], actually revealed through the Spirit of Bahá’u’lláh, was also instrumental in unsealing the seven Books.  The representation of all the seven Books as a single Book symbolized the fact that all the Holy Books are in essence one and the same.

The Lion of the tribe of Judah is Bahá’u’lláh.  The Lion of Judah alludes to the prophecy of Jacob in Genesis 49:9–10 (KJV).  In that prophecy, the Lion symbolizes a ruler or sovereign;

Shiloh means a place of rest and symbolizes the Ark of the Covenant.

As the Root of David, Bahá’u’lláh, Who was descended from Abraham through His third wife Katurah, is equated to Abraham, meaning that all Prophets are in essence one and the same.

6.	And I beheld, and, lo, in the midst of the throne and of the four beasts, and in the midst of the elders, stood a Lamb as it had been slain, having seven horns and seven eyes, which are the seven Spirits of God sent forth unto all the earth.

RSV translates verse 6 as follows:

6.	And between the throne and the four living creatures and among the elders, I saw a Lamb standing, as though it had been slain, with seven horns and with seven eyes, which are the seven spirits of God sent out into all the earth;

The constellation Aries, the Ram or Lamb, (Fig. 11) was originally the first to appear at the Vernal equinox.  But because of the Precession of the Equinoxes, the Lamb is always “slain” for a new constellation at each new zodiacal age.  And so it is at a new spiritual Age, which is always accompanied by a Sacrificial Figure, a “Lamb of God”, a “leader of the flock”, the Sacrifice of the Covenant (Exodus 24:4–8).

In the last chapter we discovered that the greatness of Bahá’u’lláh’s Dispensation requires an invisible zodiac of twenty–four elders.  Thus there are two of every type of elder (Holy Figure), and, in particular, there are two Lambs in this new Age.  The two Lambs are the Báb and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.

The Lamb may, in some Sacrifices, such as that of Jesus

Figure 11
Aries the Ram or Lamb

(Note the similarity of Aries and Triangulum)

Christ and the Báb, be the Manifestation Himself, and the Lamb may actually climb the “lofty summit of great martyrdom”.  In others, such as that of Moses and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, the Lamb’s spiritual Sacrifice, while not including physical martyrdom, will transcend our abilities to recount or to comprehend.  But the Lamb is always meek, innocent, spotless in purity., Who becomes the victim of slander and persecution, Whose Sacrifice is required to cleanse civilization of destructive forces, to renew the Ages, and to permit a higher reality to become manifest.  <5:6>

Although Bahá’u’lláh is also a Sacrificial Figure, in these verses He is represented as the Lion, symbolic of His role as the Sovereign or Lord of the Covenant.  <G #7, 8>  In verse 6, horn symbolizes a name.  The Lamb has seven horns representing the seven names by which the Lamb had been known in the seven former Dispensations.  The seven eyes are the

seven Prophetic Spirits through which the Lamb had been manifested.

7.	And he came and took the book out of the right hand of him that sat upon the throne.

8.	And when he had taken the book, the four beasts and four and twenty elders fell down before the Lamb, having every one of them harps, and golden vials full of odours, which are the prayers of the saints.

9.	And they sung a new song, saying, Thou are worthy to take the book, and to open the seals thereof:  for thou wast slain, and hast redeemed us to God by thy blood out of every kindred, and tongue, and people, and nation;

10.	And hast made us unto our God kings and priests:  and we shall reign on the earth.

11.	And I beheld, and I heard the voice of many angels round about the throne and the beasts and the elders:  and the number of them was ten thousand times ten thousand, and thousands of thousands;

12.	Saying with a loud voice, worth is the Lamb that was slain to receive power, and riches, and wisdom, and strength, and honour, and glory, and blessing.

13.	And every creature which is in heaven, and on the earth, and under the earth, and such as are in the sea, and all that are in them, heard I saying, Blessing, and honour, and glory, and power, be unto him that sitteth on the throne, and unto the Lamb for ever and ever.

14.	And the four beasts said, Amen.  And the four and twenty elders fell down and worshipped him that liveth for ever and ever.

In verse 6 the Lamb stands (seemingly) as though it had been slain.  In verse 9 we learn that the Lamb has actually been slain.  The possible contradiction is resolved, of course, by the fact that there are two Lambs in Bahá’u’lláh’s Dispensation.  The first Lamb, the Báb, was literally slain in the public square of Tabríz.  The second Lamb, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, was not slain in a literal sense,

and remains alive and well, to reappear as the Lamb of the new Jerusalem in a later chapter.

Since the Lamb that was slain is the One worthy to “take the book”, the Báb will help to unseal the Book of seven seals.  <11:13 #2>

The Báb helped to unseal the Holy Books through the spiritual power of Bahá’u’lláh.  Thus in verse 7 He takes the Book from Bahá’u’lláh to open the seals.  Bahá’u’lláh explains, “… whatsoever My Previous Manifestation and Harbinger of My Beauty (the Báb) hath revealed hath been My Revelation and the proclamation of My Cause.”

The new song is the message of the new Manifestation.  “… the divines and doctors … have … refused to incline their ears unto the divine Melody.”—Bahá’u’lláh

Notes

6
The Book is opened

After having witnessed the hidden forces of the Upper World that will become manifest in the Last Day, John is now permitted to see the hidden forces that will rule the Lower World until the end of the Prophetic Age.  The seven seals will be opened by the Báb.  The openings of the first five of these seals present an overview of the tribulation of mankind leading up to the Manifestations of the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh.  The opening of the sixth seal describes the world-wide cataclysmic events attending their Manifestations.

In opposition to the four paragons of the Upper World, four mischief makers will dominate the Lower World.  The four mischief makers ride four horses representing the hidden forces of the Under-World.  The four paragons of the invisible zodiac invite John to “come and see” what is destined to happen as the zodiacal wheel rolls onward.

The seventh seal, to be opened in Chapter 8, will reveal a detailed future history of the spiritual life of mankind, beginning with the coming of Bahá’u’lláh and the new Jerusalem.  The future will be revealed in seven stages by seven angels.  The relationship between the opening of the seals and the various angels is shown in Figures 12 and 18.

1.	And I saw when the Lamb opened one of the seals, and I heard, as it were the noise of thunder, one of the four beasts saying, Come and see.

2.	And I saw, and behold a white horse; and he that sat on him had a

Figure 12
Prophecies to the Christians
Chapters 6 to 10

bow; and a crown was given unto him:  and he went forth conquering, and to conquer.

3.	And when he had opened the second seal, I heard the second beast say, Come and see.

4.	And there went out another horse that was red:  and power was given to him that sat thereon to take peace from the earth, and that they should kill one another:  and there was given unto him a great sword.

The thunder from the opening of the first seal is the noise of the violation of the Covenant.  The white horse is Corrupted Theology, disguised with the colour of purity but bent upon conquering the minds of men.  Its rider is the Worldly Church, who holds in his hands the bow of propaganda.  The crown given him is spiritual authority.

The red horse is War and has the colour of blood.  The rider is National Greed and he holds in his hand the sword of conquest.

5.	And when he had opened the third seal, I heard the third beast say, Come and see.  And I beheld, and lo a black horse; and he that sat on him had a pair of balances in his hand.

6.	And I heard a voice in the midst of the four beasts say, A measure of wheat for a penny, and three measures of barley for a penny; and see thou hurt not the oil and the wine.

7.	And when he had opened the fourth seal, I heard the voice of the fourth beast say, Come and see.

8.	And I looked, and behold a pale horse:  and his name that sat on him was Death, and Hell followed with him.  And power was given unto them over the fourth part of the earth, to kill with sword, and with hunger, and with death, and with the beasts of the earth.

The black horse is Economic Injustice and has the colour of impure motive.  His rider is Personal Greed.  The balance he

carries is the power to distribute wealth.  The measure of wheat and three measures of barley for a penny are unjustly traded for about one-eighth their fair value.  The victim of the transaction is warned not to consume oil and wine, the commodities of luxury.

The pale horse is Ungodliness and has the colour of indifference.  His rider is Spiritual Death and his followers are those who are remote from God.  Their weapons include the sword of evil practices, the starvation of spiritual destitution, the death of unbelief, and ungodly leadership (beasts of the earth).

9.	And when he had opened the fifth seal, I saw under the altar the souls of them that were slain for the word of God, and for the testimony which they help:

10.	And they cried with a loud voice, saying, How long, O Lord, holy and true, dost thou not judge and avenge our blood on them that dwell on the earth?

11.	And white robes were given unto every one of them; and it was said unto them, that they should rest yet for a little season, until their follow servants also and their brethren, that should be killed as they were, should be fulfilled.

These verses prophesy the future martyrs of Islám, the Bábí, and Bahá’í Faiths, numbering in the tens of thousands.  It has been estimated that several thousand martyrs sacrificed their lives to the Causes of Jesus Christ and Muḥammad.  About twenty to thirty thousands more were martyred for the Causes of the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh.

12.	And I beheld when he had opened the sixth seal, and, lo, there was a great earthquake; and the sun became as black as sackcloth of hair, and the moon became as blood;

13.	And the stars of heaven fell unto the earth, even as a fig tree casteth her untimely figs,

when she is shaken of a mighty wind.

14.	And the heaven departed as a scroll when it is rolled together, and every mountain and island were moved out of their places.

15.	And the kings of the earth, and the great men, and the right men, and the chief captains, and the mighty men, and every bondman, and every free man, hid themselves in the dens and in the rocks of the mountains.

16.	And said to the mountains and the rocks, Fall on us, and hide us from the face of him that sitteth on the throne, and from the wrath of the Lamb:

17.	For the great day of his wrath is come; and who shall be able to stand?

These verses contain several symbols used by the prophets:

Earthquake—Disturbance of the worldly order.  (Heaven quake—Disturbance of the heavenly order.)

Sun, moon, stars—The hierarchy of prophets, church leaders, saints, priests, elders, etc.

Sun becomes black, etc.—Fall of the hierarchy.

Heavens rolled up like a scroll—Removal of the heavenly order.

Mountains, valleys—Peoples, nations, religions, institutions.

Dens, islands, rocks—Strongholds, places of safety.

When the divines of a former Dispensation accept the new Manifestation, they will become illumined; otherwise they will become “darkened”, and their teachings will turn from water into blood.  In The Book of Certitude, Bahá’u’lláh reveals, “In another sense, by the terms ‘sun’, ‘moon’, and ‘stars’ are meant such laws and teachings as have been established in every Dispensation, such as the laws of prayer and fasting. …  Hence, it is clear and manifest that by the words ‘the sun shall be darkened, and the moon shall not give her light, and the stars shall fall from

heaven’ is intended the waywardness of the divines, and the annulment of laws firmly established by divine Revelation ….”

Verses 12–17 reveal that after the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh are manifested, the world hierarchy of church potentates, leaders, and clergy will lose their power.  Nations, religions, and institutions will disappear.  “Speed out of your sepulchres.  How long will ye sleep? …  The earth has quaked with a great quaking, and cast forth her burdens. …  the mountains have become like flocks of wool … the people are sore vexed at the awful majesty of the Cause of God.  Witness how their houses are empty ruins, and they themselves a drowned host. …  The All-Merciful hath come down in the clouds of knowledge, clothed with manifest sovereignty. …  The heaven of every religion hath been rent, and the earth of human understanding been cleft asunder, and the angels of God are seen descending. …  The mountains have passed away, and the heavens have been folded together, and the whole earth is help within His grasp ….”—Bahá’u’lláh

Notes

7
God’s servants are sealed

1.	And after these things I saw four angels standing on the four corners of the earth, holding the four winds of the earth, that the wind should not blow on the earth, nor on the sea, nor on any tree.

2.	And I saw another angel ascending from the east, having the seal of the living God:  and he cried with a loud voice to the four angels, to whim it was given to hurt the earth and the sea,

3.	Saying, Hurt not the earth, neither the sea, not the trees, till we have sealed the servants of our God in their foreheads.

These verses portend the holding back for a period of time the Breath of God from the world of man.  Wind symbolizes the holy Breath of God that is wafted over the worlds of matter and spirit.  “Out of thee hath gone the Breath of the All-Glorious, a breath that hath breathed over all created things, and filled with joy the breasts of the devout that dwell in the mansions of Paradise.”—Bahá’u’lláh

Earth or soil is the world of man.  “… the clouds of truth will continue to the end that hath no end to rain on the soil of human capacity, reality and personality their favours and bounties.”—Bahá’u’lláh

The Tetrad of four angels are those who will control the corners of the square earth during the Dispensation of Jesus Christ.  They correspond to the four trumpets in Chapter 8.

The angel of the East is Muḥammad, the Seal of the Prophets, not yet manifested in the first century, Who, as we shall see in Chapter 9, will command His followers not to hurt the righteous.

Here the sea symbolizes the spiritual existence of man and the sources of inspiration.  “The seas of Divine wisdom and divine utterance have risen under the breath of the breeze of the All-Merciful.”—Bahá’u’lláh

A tree represents a source of spiritual guidance.  A tree can also represent a nation.  “Advance, O people, with snow-white faces and radiant hearts, unto the blest and crimson Spot, wherein the Sadratu’l-Muntahá (Tree of Guidance [Divine Lote-Tree]) is calling:  ‘Verily there is none other God beside Me, the Omnipotent Protector, the Self-Subsisting.’”  “Ye are the fruits of one tree, and the leaves of one branch.”—Bahá’u’lláh

4.	And I heard the number of them which were sealed:  and there were sealed an hundred and forty and four thousand of all the tribes of the children of Israel.

“Israel” means literally “he that strives with God”.  In the context of this and the next four verses, Israel is a symbol, a microcosm of humanity.  Israel’s history of spiritual struggle is representative of all mankind.  In astrological works, the 12 parts of the human organism were correlated with the 12 signs of the zodiac.  In a similar way, the 12 tribes of Israel were considered to be mystically correlated with the zodiac and the stellar influences over the world of man.  Thus the 12 loaves of the shewbread and the 12 precious stones of the breastplate of the High Priest were representative of both the 12 signs of the zodiac and the 12 Tribes.

According to the Hebrew theory of the “Chosen People”, the redemption of humanity depended upon the attainment by Israel of perfect obedience to the Will of God.  The Theocracy of Israel, once achieved, would set the example for a World

Theocracy, thereby leading to the Universal Brotherhood of Man under the One True God, the Father of all men.  Some advocates of the theory were more realistic, believing that the same end would be achieved if a “remnant of Israel” were to reach the required state of righteousness.9  The prophecy of verses 4–9 asserts the ultimate redemption of a symbolic “remnant of Israel” and hence the establishment of the Kingdom of God on earth.

The number of the sealed, “144 χιλιαδες” (“144 thousands”), can be translated as either 144 thousand or 144 groups of 1,000.  144 is twice 72.  In past Dispensations, 72 represented the number of specially endowed and confirmed souls who formed the “working arms”, that is, the primal points or “mustard seeds” that were cast over the soil of mankind to generate the Heavenly Garden.  For example, Noah had 72 followers, there were 72 elders under Moses endowed with prophetic ecstasy, some versions of Luke 10:1 give 72 as the number of disciples of Jesus, and, by the Pledge of ‘Aqabah, 72 heroes of Medina fought for Muḥammad.

The mustard seed in the parable of Jesus is the primal point of creation whose attributes as a seed are sacrificed to the attributes of the tree.  It is only through the sacrifice of the self and submission to the Covenant that the Divine civilization can be brought into existence.  The Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh requires twice 72 of these primal mustard seeds, just as it required twice 12 elders in the invisible zodiac.  (Rev 4:4)  Each of these 144 sanctified souls is to be the “gate” through which a “thousand”, that is, a “large number”, of souls will enter the Kingdom.

The number 144,000 had an archetypal value of 9, that is 1+4+4+0+0+0 = 9.  Verse 4 also explains that those who have the seal of Bahá’ (9) on their foreheads will be blessed and saved.  “These are they who are blessed by the Concourse on high, who are glorified by the denizens of the everlasting Cities, and beyond them by those on whose foreheads Thy most exalted pen hath written, ‘These!  The people of Bahá.  Through

them have been shed the splendours of the light of guidance.’”  “… Seek thou the shore of the Most Great Ocean, and enter, then, the Crimson Ark which God hath ordained in the Qayyum-i-Asmá for the people of Bahá.”—Bahá’u’lláh

5.	Of the tribe of Juda were sealed twelve thousand.  Of the tribe of Reuben were sealed twelve thousand.  Of the tribe of Gad were sealed twelve thousand.

6.	Of the tribe of Asher were sealed twelve thousand.  Of the tribe of Nepthalim were sealed twelve thousand.  Of the tribe of Manasses were sealed twelve thousand.

7.	Of the tribe of Simeon were sealed twelve thousand.  Of the tribe of Levi were sealed twelve thousand.  Of the tribe of Issachar were sealed twelve thousand.

8.	Of the tribe of Zabulon were sealed twelve thousand.  Of the tribe of Joseph were sealed twelve thousand.  Of the tribe of Benjamin were sealed twelve thousand.

It will be revealed in verse 21:12 that the gates of the Holy City, the new Jerusalem, are correlated with the Twelve Tribes of Israel.  These gates correspond to the 12 signs of the zodiac in the manner defined in Genesis 49 [discussed on page 27].  But, whereas in former Dispensations there were only 6 “thousand” entering each gate, there will be twice 6 “thousand” entering each gate of the new Jerusalem during the Day of God.  Amongst the ancient numerologists, 6 was the symbolic number of mediation, beauty and harmony.

The ordering of the names of the Tribes is suggestive of the uniting of man during the Day of God.  Judah and Reuben correspond to the future age of Leo-Aquarius, Gad and Asher

to the past age of Aries-Libra.  The remaining names circulate through the ages, past, present, and future.  Thus the Tribes of verses 5–8 are the spiritual generations of the age to come (after Pisces-Virgo), the past age (before Pisces-Virgo), and all ages, future, past, and present.  All those who have been sealed since the foundation of the world are written in the Lamb’s book of Life and will be permitted to enter the Holy city.

Verses 5–8 list “remnants” from all Twelve Tribes.  Ten of these Tribes, all except Judah and Benjamin, had been “lost” since they had been carried away in captivity by Sargon II in 722 BCE.  The fate of the Lost Tribes, numbering about 27 thousand persons, has been one of the great questions of history.

12,000 has an archetypal value of 3.  The number 3, the Sacred Triad, stands for the Seal of God, regardless of the Name by which He may be called.  The number 3 has stood for holiness and Divinity since very ancient times.

9.	After this I beheld, and, lo, a great multitude, which no man could number, of all nations, and kindreds, and people, and tongues, stood before the throne, and before the Lamb, clothed with white robes, and palms in their hands;

10.	And cried with a loud voice, saying, Salvation to our God which sitteth upon the throne, and unto the Lamb.

11.	And all the angels stood round about the throne, and about the elders, and the four beasts, and fell before the throne on their faces, and worshipped God,

12.	Saying, Amen:  Blessing, and glory, and wisdom, and thanksgiving, and honour, and power, and might, be unto our God for ever and ever.  Amen.

These verses witness the multitudes of all nations and races who will advance towards the Kingdom following in the footsteps of the first fruits, that is, the first 144 “thousand”.  The

fact there is a “great multitude which no man could number, of all nations, kindreds, people, and tongues …  before the throne” indicates that the numbers 144,000 and 12,000 are not to be taken literally but have hidden meanings.  Nor do the verses mean that only the tribes of the children of Israel will be saved.  Palms symbolizes glad tidings and victory.

13.	And one of the elders answered, saying unto me, What are these which are arrayed in white robes? and whence came they?

14.	And I said unto him, Sir, thou knowest.  And he said to me, These are they which came out of great tribulation, and have washed their robes, and made them white in the blood of the Lamb.

15.	Therefore are they before the throne of God, and serve him day and night in his temple:  and he that sitteth on the throne shall dwell among them.

16.	They shall hunger no more, neither thirst any more; neither shall the sun light on them, nor any heat.

17.	For the Lamb which is in the midst of the throne shall feed them, and shall lead them unto living fountains of waters; and God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes.

In this instance sun and heat symbolize the ubiquitous tribulation experienced by the martyrs.  Here, water symbolizes spiritual grace and knowledge.  “O My servants!  Whoso hath tasted of this Fountain hath attained unto everlasting Life, and whoso hath refused to drink therefrom is even as the dead.”  In another place Bahá’u’lláh proclaims, “Say, O ye who are as dead!  The Hand of Divine bounty proffereth unto you the Water of Life.  Hasten and drink your fill.  Whoso hath been reborn in this Day, shall never die; whoso remaineth dead, shall never live.”

The symbolism of hunger is made clear in another passage from His Writings:  “Glorified be He, Who is the Creator of all

names and attributes!  Cast into the fire the tree that hath rot and dried up, and abide under the shadow of the green and goodly Tree, and partake of the fruit thereof.”

The great tribulation began with the persecution of the Christians and ends with the persecution of the Bahá’ís.  The greater number of the martyrs have been followers of the Báb.

Notes

8
The fate of the early church

1.	And when he had opened the seventh seal, there was silence in heaven about the space on half an hour.

2.	And I saw the seven angels which stood before God; and to them were given seven trumpets.

3.	And another angel came and stood at the altar, having a golden censer; and there was given unto him much incense, that he should offer it with the prayers of all saints upon the golden altar which was before the throne.

4.	And the smoke of the incense, which came with the prayers of the saints, ascended up before God out of the angel’s hand.

The silence of half an hour indicates that it will be a very short time until the tests to follow.

At the great Temple in Jerusalem, the altar of burnt-offering was located in the court of the children of Israel.  However, only the Jewish priests were allowed to enter the court and to perform the oblations and sacrifices.  Now in the heavenly realm, it is Jesus Christ, the altar angel, Who controls the acceptance or rejection of the burnt-offering.

Golden censer symbolizes perfect piety.  Incense or perfume symbolizes the fragrance of communion with God.  “Thus counselleth you the All-Knowing, the Faithful.  We shall always be with you; if We inhale the perfume of your fellowship, Our heart will assuredly rejoice, for naught else can satisfy Us.  To this beareth witness every man of true understanding.”—Bahá’u’lláh

5.	And the angel took the censer, and filled it with fire

of the altar, and cast it into the earth:  and there were voices, and thunderings, and lightnings, and an earthquake.

6.	And the seven angels which had the seven trumpets prepared themselves to sound.

Fire in this instance symbolizes sacrifice and purification.  Fire can also symbolize the rebuke of God, destruction or torment.  The voices are of those who fall into trials and temptations; the thunder is the sound of the violation of the Covenant; the lightning flashes are the anger and wrath of God.  These are accompanied by the earthquake of doubts.

7.	The first angel sounded, and there followed hail and fire mingled with blood, and they were cast upon the earth:  and the third part of trees was burnt up, and all green grass was burnt up.

8.	And the second angel sounded, and as it were a great mountain burning with fire was cast into the sea:  and the third part of the sea become blood;

9.	And the third part of the creatures which were in the sea, and had life, died; and the third part of the ships were destroyed.

This prophecy concerns the impending series of persecutions of the Christians by Rome from CE 110 until 311.  It was during an earlier persecution that John was banished to Patmos where he wrote the Apocalypse.

The persecutions of the early Christians can be divided into three series.  A minor persecution began under the Emperor Nero in CE 64 as a result of Nero blaming the Christians for the Great Fire of Rome.  The first great persecution began in CE 110 as a result of the Roman State stigmatizing Christianity as a crime.  This anti-Christian campaign lasted sporadically until CE 238.  In the last phase of this persecution, attempts were made to destroy the clergy as propagators of the Faith.

The second great persecution began under the Emperor Decius in CE 249 and was continued with increased vigour under

the Emperor Diocletian.  This last and most severe of the anti-Christian campaigns resulted in executions, torture, church burnings, and book burnings on a large scale.

In the prophecy, hail and fire mingled with blood symbolize tests from heaven and wrath accompanied by death.  Grass symbolizes the common people who inhabit the earth; green grass symbolizes righteous people.  Verse 7 says that one-third of the spiritual leaders (trees) and all the righteous people will be destroyed.  This was the great persecution of CE 249–311.

10.	And the third angel sounded, and there fell a great star from heaven, burning as it were a lamp, and it fell upon the third part of the rivers, and upon the fountains of waters;

11.	And the name of the star is called Wormwood; and the third part of the waters became wormwood; and many men died of the waters, because they were made bitter.

Constantine the Great (a great star) ended the persecutions and made Christianity the official Faith of Rome.  But in attempting to unify his empire, Constantine, at the Council of Nicea in CE 325, enforced the theories of certain theologians upon the Christians in the form of creed and dogma.  The spontaneity of the early Church was destroyed, and the Church, formerly the oppressed, now became the oppressor.  Constantine’s policy was continued by later Emperors and resulted in bitter quarrels, heresies, and finally the great schism between the Eastern and Western branches of the Church in CE 1054.  Constantine became a “fallen star” and “Wormwood”.

Constantine’s influence was greatest over the churches that eventually became the Eastern Orthodox Church.  The Orthodox Church constituted a third of Christendom, another third eventually formed the Western or Roman Church, and the last third was constituted by the schismatic Asian and African churches.

Rivers and fountains symbolize the mainstreams of spiritual guidance.  “From time immemorial even unto this day, all the kindreds and peoples of the earth have clung to … fanciful and unseemly thoughts, and thus have deprived themselves of the clear waters streaming from the springs of purity and holiness.”  “They drink of the tainted water, and know it not.”—Bahá’u’lláh

12.	And the fourth angel sounded, and the third part of the sun was smitten, and the third part of the moon, and the third part of the stars; so as the third part of them was darkened, and the day shone not for a third part of it, and the night likewise.

13.	And I beheld and heard an angel flying through the midst of heaven, saying with a loud voice, Woe, woe, woe, to the inhibitors of the earth by reason of the other voices of the trumpet of the three angels, which are yet to sound!

This prophecy concerns the invasion of Western Rome beginning with the Visigoths under Alaric the Bold in CE 408.  This was a prelude to further invasions of the West by Vandals, Huns, etc.  It was the beginning of the Dark Age in Europe.

The smiting of the West resulted in a third part of the Christian hierarchy (sun, moon, and stars) being separated from the mainstream of Christianity.  The Church became darkened for a third part of a Lord’s Day and for a third part of the ensuing night.

The Lord’s Day commenced with the Advent of Jesus Christ (circa CE 1) and ended with the Advent of Muḥammad (circa

CE 622), a period of about six centuries.  Thus the Day was darkened for about one-third of the Lord’s Day or the two centuries from CE 408 to 622.  A “Night” is the period between two Divine Revelations when the Sun of Truth is not manifest among men.  It began soon after the Ascension of Muḥammad and ended with the Declaration of the Báb in CE 1844, a period of about twelve centuries.  Verse 12 also says that the Day did not shine for one-third of the “Night”, that is, the period from the middle of the seventh century until the middle of the eleventh century CE, the end of the Dark Age of Europe.

The three woes to come are the dawnings of the Lord’s Days of Muḥammad, the Báb, and Bahá’u’lláh.  That a “woe” signals a Day of the Lord is made clear by Ezekiel.  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says, “Therefore it is certain that the day of woe is the Day of the Lord; for in that day woe is for the neglectful, woe is for the sinners, woe is for the ignorant.”

In astrological symbolism, the three woes correspond to what astrologers call the “fiery triplicity”, that is, Sagittarius, Aries and Leo.  Sagittarius the Archer, to be introduced in Chapter 9, represents the fiery wrath of God that will attend the Manifestation of Muḥammad.  The wrath of Aries the Lamb, corresponding to that of the Báb’s Manifestation, was previewed in [Revelations] 6:16.  The wrath of Leo the Lion corresponds to that of the Manifestation of Bahá’u’lláh.  This will be the subject of the last 9 chapters.

In each new age, “wrath” attends the judgement of the mischief-makers of the dying civilization.  Following His role as a “bringer of the wrath of God”, the Manifestation assumes His role as one of the Pillars of the Age.  This is why the signs of Jesus are both a Lamb and a Fish, and the signs of the Báb are both a Lamb and a Man.

Notes

9
The fall of Christendom

1.	And the fifth angel sounded, and I saw a star fall from heaven unto the earth:  and to him was given the key of the bottomless pit.

2.	And he opened the bottomless pit; and there arose a smoke out of the pit, as the smoke of a great furnace; and the sun and the air were darkened by reason of the smoke of the pit.

3.	And there came out of the smoke locusts upon the earth:  and unto them was given power, as the scorpions of the earth have power.

4.	And it was commanded them that they should not hurt the grass of the earth, neither any green thing, neither any tree; but only those men which have not the seal of God in their foreheads.

This prophecy concerns the Muslim invasions of Asian and African Christendom that began about CE 633.  At first, Muslim warriors were noted for their justice and tolerance of other Faiths, notably Sabaeanism, Christianity and Judaism.  Muslim warriors were, however, ferocious fighters against idol worshippers and other enemies of monotheism.  It is important to understand that the aggressive invasions of Islám were not instigated by Muḥammad but by the Successors (Caliphs) following the death of the Prophet.

The question of the Successorship was the historical origin of the Shí’ah and Sunni divisions of Islám.  The first four Caliphs, often called the Rightly-Guided, generally followed the policy laid down by Muḥammad.  However, according to Shí’ah

belief, Muḥammad had actually chosen His son-in-law, ‘Alí, as His Caliph.  Although ‘Alí later arose to His appointed station, He was assassinated before He could consolidate His power.  The caliphate fell to the Umayyad pretender, Mu’áwiya, whose father, Abú-Sufyán, was the arch-enemy of Muḥammad and His Revelation.  The course of political intrigue set in motion by Abú-Sufyán eventually achieved success, and, by beclouding the principles of Islám, Abú-Sufyán became a “fallen star”.

The bottomless pit is the pit of error.  The smoke arising from the pit symbolizes obscurement.  The sun of spiritual truth was obscured, and the atmosphere of nearness to God was stifled by the smoke.  “As for them who have disbelieved in Him, they shall be in the shadow of a black smoke.”—Bahá’u’lláh

The scorpion was a quick-firer that permitted rapid discharge of arrows.  John describes the plague of mounted warriors as “locusts”.  The magnificent horses of the Arabian warriors are commemorated in fable.

Grass, green things and trees are the commoners, the righteous people and their spiritual leaders.  The command not to hurt the righteous was given by Muḥammad.

5.	And to them it was given that they should not kill them, but that they should be tormented five months:  and their torment was as the torment of a scorpion, when he striketh a man.

6.	And in those days shall men seek death, and shall not find it; and shall desire to die, and death shall flee from them.

7.	And the shapes of the locusts were like unto horses prepared unto battle; and on their heads were as it were crowns like gold, and their faces were as the faces of men.

8.	And they had hair as the hair of women, and their teeth were as the teeth of lions.

9.	And they had breastplates, as it were breastplates of iron; and the sound of their wings was as the sound of chariots of many horses running

to battle.

10.	And they had tails like unto scorpions, and there were stings in their tails:  and their power was to hurt men five months.

A “month” is 30 years.  Hence, 5 months is 150 years.  The Muslim Empire was carved out in a space of about 150 years, from the initial invasions of CE 633 until the peak of the Empire under Caliph Hárún ar-Rashíd in CE 786.

Verses 7 to 10 describe the appearance of the mounted Arabian warriors (locusts), their quick-firers (scorpions), and the sound of their chariots (wings).  John’s metaphor for the Arabian warriors draws upon the constellation Sagittarius the Archer, Figure 17, which is adjacent to Scorpio the Scorpion and the Southern Crown.  Sagittarius was one of the four pillars or corners during the age of Pisces, and also belongs to the “fiery triplicity”. verse 8:13.

Figure 17
Sagittarius-Scorpio

11.	And they had a king over them, which is the angel of the bottomless pit, whose name in the Hebrew tongue is Abaddon, but in the Greek tongue hath his

name Apollyon.

12.	One woe is past; and, behold, there come two woes more hereafter.

Abaddon and Apollyon mean “The Destroyer” and refer to the Umayyad dynasty personified by Abú-Sufyán.

The woe that is past is the Advent of Muḥammad.  The two remaining woes are to be the Advents of the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh.  <11 #1; 9:12 #1; G #6>

13.	And the sixth angel sounded, and I heard a voice from the four horns of the golden altar which is before God.

13.	Saying to the sixth angel which had the trumpet, Loose the four angels which are bound in the great river Euphrates.

15.	And the four angels were loosed, which were prepared for an hour, and a day, and a month, and a year, for to slay the third part of men.

The four horns symbolize the Four Winds of prophecy that blow over the world of man.  The symbolism of the four angels bound in the Euphrates River is that Islám, bound together by the Euphrates, will be the origin of the punishments and tests to follow.  The new Tetrad of four angels (see 7:1) will control the corners of the square earth during the Dispensation of Muḥammad.  These angels are to “slay” a third part of men for a period of 391 years.

The prophecy refers to the fall of Constantinople (Byzantium) and Eastern Christendom to the Turks under Sultan Mehmet II on 30 May 1453.  The period of time from 30 May 1453 to 23 May 1844, the date of the second woe and the beginning of the Bahá’í Era, was 391 Roman years.  This is the period of time that the third part of Christendom would be cut off or deprived (slain), beginning with the collapse of the Christian East and lasting for the duration of the Dispensation of Muḥammad.  Mehmet’s victory was said to have cut off one-third of Christendom.  By the year 1453, Christendom had become divided into

these three major parts:  the Eastern Orthodox, the Roman Catholic, and the anti-papist Christians who would soon form the Protestant branch.

The computation of time is as follows:

According to verse 15 the span of time is

Old Roman calendar years are meant because the prophecy is addressed to the early Christians.  The Roman year was 365 days long with an extra day added every fourth or leap year.  There were 97 leap years between CE 1453 and 1844.  But by the Papal Bull of CE 1582, 10 days were removed from the calendar in 1582 and one more day was removed in 1600.  Thus the number of days by the Roman calendar between 30 May 1453 and 23 May 1844 was (391)×(365)+97–10–1–7 = 142,794 days, a span of time almost exactly 391 old Roman years of 365¼ days.  The “hour” refers to “the time of the end” and the second woe.  (Revelations 3:10, 11:13, 14:7, <11:13>)  It will commence with the fulfilment of the 391 years.

16.	And the number of the army of the horsemen were two hundred thousand thousand:  and I heard the number of them.

17.	And thus I saw the horses in the vision, and them that sat on them, having breastplates of fire, and of jacinth, and brimstone:  and the heads of the houses were as the heads of lions; and out of their mouths issued fire and smoke and brimstone.

Two hundred thousand thousand (200,000,000) has an archetypal value of 2.  Mehmet’s army consisted of his own Muslim regulars and an independent army of Christians called Janissaries.  John “heard” the number of the army.  In his vision he “sees” the army that stormed Constantinople, describing early flared cannons as “horses” with heads that roar like lions.  The description of the sulphurous (brimstone) smoke that issues from their mouths is remarkably accurate.  In the imagery of the first century he describes the colourful armour and equipment of the fifteenth century.

18.	By these three was the third part of men killed, by the fire, and by the smoke, and by the brimstone, which issued out of their mouths.

19.	For their power is in their mouths, and in their tails:  for their tails were like unto serpents, and had heads, and with them they do hurt.

Mehmet employed the Hungarian engineer, Urban, to construct the cannons for the assault.  The largest of these was 26 feet long and fired a ball weighing 1,200 pounds.  John explains that the tails (breeches) of the houses (cannons) contain heads (projectiles) with which they do damage.

20.	And the rest of the men which were not killed by these plagues yet repented not of the works of their hands, that they should not worship devils, and idols of gold, and silver, and brass, and stone, and of wood:  which neither can see, nor hear, nor walk;

21.	Neither repented they of their murders, nor of their sorceries, nor of their fornication, nor of their thefts.

John describes the state of affairs in Christendom and the Church following 1453.  The result was further disintegration of

the Church, religious wars, and the formation of the Protestant and Catholic branches, and eventually hundreds of sects.

Notes

10
Interlude

1.	And I saw another mighty angel come down from the heaven, clothed with a cloud:  and a rainbow was upon his head, and his face was as it were the sun, and his feet as pillars of fire:

2.	And he had in his hand a little book open:  and he set his right foot upon the sea, and his left foot on the earth,

3.	And cried with a loud voice, as when a lion roareth:  and when he had cried, seven thunders uttered their voices.

4.	And when the seven thunders had uttered their voices, I was about to write:  and I heard a voice from heaven saying unto me, Seal up those things which the seven thunders uttered, and write them not.

The mighty angel is the spirit of Bahá’u’lláh, clothed with a cloud of glory, the rainbow of the Covenant upon His head,  His countenance shining as the sun in its median splendor, and His feet of brass as if they were pillars of fire.  The little book is the Word of God.  His right foot is upon the sea of the spirit, and His left foot is upon the world of matter.  His voice is as the Lion of Judah.  The seven thunders are the voices of the seven Revelators of the seven Faiths.

5.	And the angel which I saw stand upon the sea and upon the earth lifted up his hand to heaven,

6.	And sware by him that liveth for ever and ever, who created heaven, and the things that therein are, and the earth, and the things that therein are, and the sea,

and the things which are therein, that there should be time no longer:

7.	But in the days of the voice of the seventh angel, when he shall begin to sound, the mystery of God shall be finished, as he hath declared to his servants the prophets.

The mighty angel reveals that the hidden mysteries of God; that is, His precepts and commands, will be revealed at the end of the Age of Prophecy when the Age of Fulfilment will begin.  The End of the Age will coincide with the blast of the seventh angel.

8.	And the voice which I heard from heaven spake unto me again, and said, Go and take the little book which is open in the hand of the angel which standeth upon the sea and upon the earth.

9.	And I went unto the angel, and said unto him, Give me the little book.  And he said unto me, Take it, and eat it up; and it shall make thy belly bitter, but it shall be in thy mouth sweet as honey:  and as soon as I had eaten it, my belly was bitter.

11.	And he said unto me, Thou must prophesy again before many peoples, and nations, and tongues, and kings.

John is commanded to accept (eat) the Word of God.  He discovers that the words are easy (sweet) when they are merely spoken (in the mouth) but are difficult (bitter) when they are actually lived.

The prophecies of the first six angels beginning with Chapter 8 verse 7 were directed primarily to the Christians.  John is now commanded to prophesy again, this time to many peoples and nations:  Islám.

Notes

11
The course of Islám

The next three chapters are directed specifically to Islám.  Chapter 11 and part of Chapter 12 have been interpreted by His Holiness ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and have been paraphrased by the writer of this book.  The events alluded to are unfamiliar to most western readers, and it is recommended that the references be consulted.  The events in the prophecies are correlated in Figure 18 [p. 148].

1.	And there was given me a reed like unto a rod:  and the angel stood, saying, Rise, and measure the temple of God, and the altar, and them that worship therein.

2.	But the court which is without the temple leave out, and measure it not; for it is given unto the Gentiles:  and the holy city shall they tread under foot forty and two months.

The Perfect Man is likened to a flute (hollow reed) from which come beautiful melodies played by the Divine Flute Player, God.  The rod is the rod of the Divine Shepherd, used to guide the weak.  Using the Perfect Man as his cubit, John is asked to discover the conditions, perfections, behaviour, and attributes of those who dwell inside the Holy of Holies.  But he is told that the court of the temple, that is, the physical temple, will be overrun by the Gentiles for 42 “months” or 1260 lunar years.   Lunar years are meant because the Muslims use the lunar calendar.

Figure 18
Prophecies to Islám
Chapters 11 to 13

This is the span of time covered by the dispensation of Muḥammad, ending in AH 1260.  (AH 1260 coincides with CE 1844 of the Christian calendar.)  Thus John is being told that the Holy City, Jerusalem, will be given over to the Gentiles for the duration of the Dispensation of Muḥammad.

When Jerusalem was conquered by the Muslims early in the seventh century CE, the Christian Bishop Sophronius placed a condition upon the bloodless surrender of Jerusalem—that the Jews would be strictly excluded from the Holy Land.  During the next twelve hundred years, Palestine gradually became a land of desolation.  In the year AH 1260 the Edict of Toleration was promulgated by the Turks allowing the Jews to re-enter the Holy Land, ending the “time of the Gentiles” and the “abomination that makes desolate”.  (These events were prophesied by Jesus.)  Throughout this period the Holy of Holies, that is, the spiritual Law of God, was respected and left inviolate.

3.	And I will give power unto my two witnesses, and they shall prophesy a thousand two hundred and threescore days, clothed in sackcloth.

4.	These are the two olive trees, and the two candlesticks standing before the God of the earth.

5.	And if any man will hurt them, fire proceedeth out of their mouth, and devoureth their enemies:  and if any man will hurt them, he must in this manner be killed.

The angel says that God will give power to His two Witnesses, Muḥammad and ‘Alí, <11:3 #1, 11:3 #2> whose prophecies clothed in sackcloth will prevail for 1,260 years.  They are the two olive trees and the two candlesticks (sources of spiritual illumination) standing in the service of God.  If anyone will hurt them, the power of the

Law will come from their mouths and their enemies will be exterminated.

Clothed in sackcloth or in old raiment means that, in the beginning, their cause will not appear new.  Muḥammad’s spiritual law (love, humility, detachment, moderation, justice, reverence, etc.) corresponds to that of the Gospel, while most of the laws relating to the material world of man (fasting, forms of worship and prayer, business transactions, indemnities, marriage, divorce, slavery, etc.) correspond to the Pentateuch.

Olive trees refers to the fact that lamps were fuelled by olive oil in the first century and are, therefore, like candlesticks, sources of spiritual illumination.

The enemies of Muḥammad and ‘Alí were vanquished and put to flight by the power of their words.

6.	These have power to shut heaven, that it rain not in the days of their prophecy:  and have power over waters to turn them to blood, and to smite the earth with all plagues, as often as they will.

7.	And when they shall have finished their testimony, the beast that ascendeth out of the bottomless pit shall make war against them, and shall overcome them, and kill them.

8.	And their dead bodies shall lie in the street of the great city, which spiritually is called Sodom and Egypt, where also our Lord was crucified.

The verses say that They will have the power to cut off the bounties of heaven (rain) and will have the same Prophethood as Moses; that is, to turn the waters into blood and to smite the earth with all plagues as often as they will.  And after they have performed that which they were commanded, the beast (the Banú Umayyad dynasty) that ascends out of the pit of error will arise against the religion of Muḥammad and the reality of ‘Alí and gain the victory, so that the virtues and perfections diffused by the power of these two Witnesses will be entirely dispelled.  The religion of God will lie as a body without spirit in the region

of the Middle East that is under the control of the Banú Umayyad.

Turning waters into blood means that that which was the cause of their life, through their ignorance and pride, became the cause of their death.  To smite the earth with plagues means that they have the power to chastise, correct, and educate the tyrannical and bloodthirsty.  Rain in this case means bounty from heaven.  To kill them means to destroy the spiritual reality of their teachings.

9.	And they of the people and kindreds and tongues and nations shall see their dead bodies three days and an half and shall not suffer their dead bodies to be put in graves.

10.	And they that dwell upon the earth shall rejoice over them, and make merry, and shall send gifts one to another; because these two prophets tormented them that dwelt on the earth.

11.	And after three days and an half the Spirit of life from God entered into them, and they stood upon their feet; and great fear fell upon them which saw them.

A “day” is also a “time” or 360 years.  Therefore three days and a half are 1,260 years.  The prophecy says that the nations, tribes, and peoples of Islám will make a spectacle of the Religion of God, only clinging to it in an outward appearance and not allowing the “body” of observances to be destroyed.  This they will do for 1,260 years, the duration of the Dispensation of Muḥammad.  The other nations of the earth will rejoice to see the corruption of morals that will infect the people of Islám, and they will assist each other (give gifts) because the two Prophets had been a torment to them.

But after 1,260 years the Divine teachings, heavenly virtues, perfections, and spiritual bounties of Muḥammad and ‘Alí will again be renewed by the appearance of the Báb and Janáb-i-

Quddús. <11:3 #1, 11:11–14>  Great fear will seize the populace.

The Religion of God was renewed by the Báb with the help of Quddús and the Báb’s other disciples during His six-year ministry beginning 23 May CE 1844.  The Báb’s Declaration that He was the One foretold in numerous prophecies of Islám and other Faiths, and that He was the Forerunner of the Promised One of All Ages (Bahá’u’lláh) caused great fear among the Muslims, leading to armed attacks, confiscation of property, torture and martyrdom of the followers of the Báb.

As ‘Alí was to Muḥammad, Quddús was to the Báb.  He was the Báb’s promoter and most devoted disciple, second only to the Báb in spiritual rank among His disciples.  The disciples of the Báb were called the Eighteen Letters of the Living.

12.	And they heard a great voice from heaven saying unto them, Come up hither.  And they ascended up to heaven in a cloud; and their enemies beheld them.

13.	And the same hour was there a great earthquake, and the tenth part of the city fell, and in the earthquake were slain of men seven thousand:  and the remnant were affrighted, and gave glory to the God of heaven.

14.	The second woe is past; and, behold, the third woe cometh quickly.

The voice is from the invisible heaven.  They heard the voice of God saying, “You have delivered My message to the people, raised the call of Truth, and fulfilled your every obligation. Now, even as Christ, you must lay down your lives in the path of the Beloved and suffer a martyr's death.”—‘Abdu’l-Bahá <11 #1>

The Báb and Quddús ascended to heaven on a “cloud of glory”.  The Báb was publicly executed by a firing squad of 750 soldiers on 9 July 1850, the 15th of Sha’bán AH 1266.  The body of Quddús was destroyed by fire.  Many of their enemies “beheld them”, that is, they testified to their greatness and perfection.

The earthquake prophesied in verse 13 occurred in Shíráz, the birthplace of the Báb, in the year AH 1268.  Those who were not killed were frightened, lamenting, praying, and glorifying God.

The second woe, the Advent of the Báb, is past.  The third woe, the Advent of Bahá’u’lláh, will follow shortly.  <11:3 #1, G #6, 11:14 #1, 9:12 #1>

15.	And the seventh angel sounded; and there were great voices in heaven, saying, The kingdoms of this world are become the kingdoms of our Lord, and of his Christ, and he shall reign for ever and ever.

16.	And the four and twenty elders, which sat before God on their seats, fell upon their faces, and worshipped god,

17.	Saying, We give thee thanks, O Lord God Almighty, which art, and wast, and art to come; because thou hast taken to thee thy great power, and hast reigned.

The word “Christ” comes from the Greek Christos, meaning Messiah, King, or Anointed One.  All of God’s Manifestations are Anointed Ones.  It is in this sense of the word that Bahá’u’lláh asks of God:  “Make this known unto them (the servants of God), that nothing whatsoever may shut them out from Thy Beauty, in these days whereon the Christ exclaimeth:  ‘All dominion is Thine O Thou Begetter of the Spirit (Jesus) …’.”

Verse 15 reasserts that the Kingdom of God on earth will follow the blast of the seventh angel.

18.	And the nations were angry, and thy wrath is come, and the time of the dead, that they should be judged, and that thou shouldest give reward unto thy servants the prophets, and to the saints, and them that fear thy name, small and great; and shouldest destroy

them which destroy the earth.

19.	And the temple of God was opened in heaven, and there was seen in his temple the ark of his testament:  and there were lightnings, and voices, and thunderings, and an earthquake, and great hail.

The prophecy says that with the seventh blast, the nations will be angry because God’s teachings oppose the passions of the other peoples, and all who do not follow His precepts will be deprived of His everlasting bounty, and veiled from the light of the Sun of Reality.  At that time, those who are deprived of the spirit of the love of God and do not have a share of the sanctified eternal life will arise and receive that which they deserve.  The righteous will be distinguished by endless bounty, making them shine on the horizon of eternal honour.  At that time the neglectful will be deprived, making manifest the blindness of the blind and the ignorance of the people of error.

The temple of God in heaven will be opened and the Divine teachings will be diffused in all directions.  The Book of His Testament and the Epistle of the Covenant <11:13 #1, 11:13 #2> will be established.  There will be a great storm of the spirit.  There will flash the lightnings of the anger and the wrath of God, the thunder of the violation of the Covenant, and even those who professed belief will fall into trials and temptations.  <G #8>

(The Covenant was broken by the archbreaker of the Covenant, Mírzá Muḥammad-‘Alí, a half-brother of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.  God Passes By, p. 246.)

Notes

12
The travail of the word

In the verses that follow <12#1>, John discovers the fate of the Law of God during the Dispensation of Muḥammad.  The Law is likened to a Bride.  Her unborn child is the Báb, Who is destined to renew the Law.

1.	And there appeared a great wonder in heaven; a woman clothed with the sun and the moon under her feet, and upon her head a crown of twelve stars:

2.	And she being with child cried, travailing in birth and pained to be delivered.

The Bride is clothed with the emblem of Persia (the sun) and has the emblem of Turkey (the moon) beneath her feet.  Her crown of twelve stars represents the twelve Holy Imams of Islám.

(The Shí‘ah position is that the Twelve Imams were the rightful leaders of Islám, beginning with ‘Alí.  All of the Imams are known to have been martyred except the last, Who mysteriously disappeared while still a child in the year AH 260.)

3.	And there appeared another wonder in heaven; and behold a great red dragon, having seven heads and ten horns, and seven crowns upon his heads.

4.	And his tail drew the third part of the stars of heaven, and did

cast them to the earth:  and the dragon stood before the woman which was ready to be delivered, for to devour her child as soon as it was born.

The red dragon represents the devil, with the colour of war, manifested as the Baní-Umayyad dynasty.  The seven heads are the dominions that were ruled by the Banú Umayyad.  The ten horns are the names of the Baní-Umayyad rulers [see below].  The tail of the dragon is the last ruler of the Banú Umayyad, Marwán II, who destroyed one-third of the saintly lineage (stars) of Muḥammad.  The Baní-Umayyad were ever watchful to prevent the recurrence of the Law of God.

The seven countries and dominions over which the Baní-Umayyad had power were (1) the Romans (Byzantine) dominion around Damascus (Syria, Palestine), (2) the dominion of Persia (Sasanid dominion:  Írán, Mesopotamia, Syria), (3) the dominion of Egypt, (4) the dominion of Africa (Tunis, Morocco, Algeria), (5) the dominion of Arabia, (6) the dominion of Andalusia (Spain), and (7) the dominion of Turkestan-Transoxiana (Sogdiana).

There were fifteen commanders and chiefs of the Baní-Umayyad, beginning with Abú-Sufyán and ending with Marwán II.  They were:  Abú-Sufyán, Mu’áwíyah I, Yazíd I, Mu’áwíyah II, Marwán I, ‘Abdu’l-Malik, al-Walíd I, Sulaymán, ‘Umar II, Yazíd II, Hishám, al-Walíd II, Yazíd III, Ibráhím, and Marwán II.  But several of these names were repeated.  These were Mu’áwíyah, Yazíd, Marwán, and al-Walíd.  Thus there were only ten different names of rulers.

Draco the Dragon is the name of a constellation near the north celestial pole.  Another constellation, Hydra the Water Snake or Leviathan, is near Leo the Lion. (Figure 19)

5.	And she brought forth a man child, who was to rule all nations with a rod of iron:  and her child was caught up unto God, and to his throne.

6.	And the

Figure 19
Wonders in the heaven

woman fled unto the wilderness, where she hath a place prepared of God, that they should feed her there a thousand two hundred and threescore days.

Verse 5 prophesies that the Bride’s man-child, the Báb, is destined to have spiritual dominion over all nations. <G #6>  It also reveals that the Báb will be martyred (caught up unto God).  (The youthful Báb was also the Qá’im, that is, the “Return” of the Twelfth Imám.  In fulfilment of various prophecies, the Qá’im appeared exactly 1,000 lunar years after the disappearance of the Twelfth Imám while still a child.  Thus the Twelfth Imám was “caught up unto God” in AH 260, later to “return” in AH 1260.  The Báb was also destined to be “caught up unto God” from the public square of Tabríz.

In verse 6, the Bride, the Law of God, flees into the vast desert of Ḥijáz and the Arabian Peninsula (the wilderness), where the Law of God will be kept safe for 1,260 years.  (The period of the Bride’s gestation has an archetypal value of 9.)

7.	And there was war in heaven:  Michael and his angels fought against the dragon; and the dragon

fought and his angels.

8.	And prevailed not, neither was the place found any more in heaven.

9.	And the great dragon was cast out, that old serpent, called the Devil, and Satan, which deceiveth the whole world:  he was cast out into the earth, and his angels were cast out with him.

10.	And I heard a loud voice saying in heaven, Now is come salvation, and strength, and the kingdom of our God, and the power of his Christ:  for the accuser of our brethren is cast down, which accused them before our God day and night.

These verses tell of the spiritual struggle between the diabolical forces of the dragon (the Devil) and the Divine forces of the Spirit of Bahá’u’lláh (Michael).  “Michael” means “One like god”, a synonym for Bahá’u’lláh.  “Devil” (Diabolos) means the “Deceiver” or “accuser”, with the implication of a false accuser or slanderer.

Angels are the spiritual leaders and forces involved in the struggle.  The prophecy says that the forces of truth will eventually triumph over the forces of deception, and the Kingdom of God will prevail.  To be cast out of heaven means to lose heavenly virtues.

Hercules the Kneeler is a constellation with his right foot on the head of Draco the Dragon.  Another constellation, Ophiucus-Serpens, is a man in conflict with a serpent (Figure 20).

When the Great Pyramid was built about 2500 BCE, Thuban in Draco was the north star.  Now, two astrological ages later, the Precession of the Poles had caused Draco to lose its eminence in the northern sky to be replaced by Ursa Minor, the Little Bear.

11.	And they overcame him by the blood of the Lamb, and by the word of their testimony; and they loved not their lives unto the death.

12.	Therefore rejoice, ye heavens, and ye that dwell in them.  Woe to the inhabiters of the earth and the sea! for the devil is come down unto you, having great wrath, because he knoweth that he hath but a short time.

Figure 20
War in heaven

The Deceiver is to be overcome through the Sacrifice of the Báb, and by the testimony and martyrdom of His followers.  Because the Deceiver has but a short time to prevail, his wrath will be great.  The inhabitants of the earth are warned.

13.	And when the dragon saw that he was cast unto the earth, he persecuted the woman which brought forth the man child.

14.	And to the woman were given two wings of a great eagle, that she might fly into the wilderness, into her place, where she is nourished for a time, and times, and half a time, from the face of the serpent.

After the digression of the past several verses, it is again explained that the honoured Bride of verse 5 will be persecuted and driven into the wilderness, where she will be kept safe for 1,260 years (three times and half a time),  the period of her pregnancy.  (See verse 4.)

The two wings are ‘Alí and Fáṭima, the progenitors of the Imams, Fáṭima was the daughter of Muḥammad; ‘Alí was His son-in-law.  The Great Eagle is, of course, Muḥammad.

The constellation Virgo the Virgin or Maiden of the Harvest is usually depicted with wings and holding in her left hand a head of wheat.  (Figure 21)

Figure 21
The woman in heaven

15.	And the serpent cast out of his mouth water as a flood after the woman, that he might cause her to be carried away by the flood.

16.	And the earth helped the woman and the earth opened her mouth, and swallowed up the flood which the dragon cast out of his mouth.

17.	And the dragon was wroth with the woman, and went to make war with the remnant of her seed, which keep the commandments of God, and have the testimony of Jesus Christ.

The Banú Umayyad as the Deceiver pours out a flood of words

(tainted water) in an attempt to destroy the Bride.  But the vast desert and its hardy peoples prevent the Law of God from being destroyed.  The Banú Umayyad then attempt to destroy the righteous descendants of Muḥammad who keep the commandments of God and testify to the Reality of Jesus Christ.

A true Muslim believes in God and His Prophets.  In Súrah 5 of the Qur’án God says, “And when I revealed unto the Apostles (of Jesus), ‘Believe on Me and my Sent One (Jesus),’ they said, ‘We believe; and bear thou witness that we are Muslims.”

In astrological terms, Virgo was on “dry land” during the age of Aries.  The Precession threatened to cause her to descend to the “waters below”.  However, she safely became the pillar at the Fall equinox during the Age of Pisces.

Notes

13
The rise of the caliphate

1.	And I stood upon the sand of the sea, and saw a beast rise up out of the sea, having seven heads and ten horns, and upon his horns ten crowns, and upon his heads the name of blasphemy.

The sand of the sea is the peoples and nations that comprised the land of the beast, the Banú Umayyad dynasty.  The seven heads are the seven dominions,; the ten horns are the ten names of rulers enumerated in Chapter 12.  The beast has on his heads the name of blasphemy:  The Caliph, ‘O .

“The Caliph” means literally “The Successor” and refers to the Successorship to Muḥammad.  The title of Caliph was blasphemously usurped by the Bani-Umayyad.  The office combined both the temporal and “spiritual” authority in early Islám.

2.	And the beast which I saw was like unto a leopard, and his feet were as the feet of a bear, and his mouth as the mouth of a lion:  and the dragon gave him his power, and his seat, and great authority.

The terms leopard, bear, and lion refer to the prophecy in Daniel, Chapter 7.  In that prophecy the leopard represents the Empire of Alexander the great; the bear represents the Empire of Media-Persia; the lion represents the Empire of Babylonia.

The Banú Umayyad dynasty ruled an Empire reminiscent of the Empire of Alexander (the leopard) in its extent and prosperity, the strength (feet) of the beast was situated in Media-Persia

(the bear), but it had its throne (mouth) within the confines of ancient Babylonia (the lion).

3.	And I saw one of his heads as it were wounded to death; and his deadly wound was headed:  and all the world wondered after the beast.

4.	And they worshipped the dragon which gave power unto the beast:  and they worshipped the beast, saying, Who is like unto the beast?  Who is able to make war with him?

The Banú Umayyad were overthrown by the ‘Abbasids in CE 749.  The destruction of the Banú Umayyad seemed total.  However, one of the Banú Umayyad, ‘Abdu’r-Raḥmán, known as “The Falcon of the Quraysh”, managed to escape to Andalusia (Spain) where he set up another Umayyad dynasty that lasted for 300 years.  Thus Andalusia was the wounded head that healed.

5.	And there was given unto him a mouth speaking great things and blasphemies; and power was given unto him to continue forty and two months.

6.	 And he opened his mouth in blasphemy against God, to blaspheme his name, and his tabernacle, and them that dwell in heaven.

7.	And it was given unto him to make war with the saints, and to overcome them:  and power was given him over all kindreds, and tongues, and nations.

8.	And all that dwell upon the earth shall worship him, whose names are not written in the book of life of the Lamb slain from the foundation of the world.

The Banú Umayyad were noted for their hypocrisy, economic and social injustice, and their luxurious lives dedicated to the pleasures of the flesh.  Although the Banú Umayyad were overthrown by the ‘Abbasids in CE 749, the empire founded by the Banú Umayyad persisted under the ‘Abbasids and later under the

Turks for the entire Dispensation of Muḥammad, 1,260 years (42 months).

The Banú Umayyad suppressed the descendants of Muḥammad and the Imams (saints) and dominated a vast assemblage of peoples covering most of the civilized world known to the resident of the Middle East.

The “Lamb slain from the foundation of the world” symbolizes the principle of Sacrifice that has existed since the beginning of time, necessary for the renewal of the Ages and the manifestation of a higher reality.  There is also an astrological analogy.  Because of the Precession of the Equinoxes, the constellation of Aries the ram or Lamb always lags behind the sign of Aries.  Thus, symbolically, the Lamb has always been “sacrificed” or “slain” to permit a new constellation to appear at the Vernal equinox.

In the Bahá’í Dispensation, the names of the Book of Life are written by the Centre of the Covenant, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, the “Most Great Branch” from the “pre-existent root”.  <G #4, G #8, 13:8>

9.	If any man have an ear, let him hear.

10.	He that leadeth into captivity shall go into captivity:  he that killeth with the sword must be killed with the sword.  Here is the patience and the faith of the saints.

In these verses John learns the Law of Divine retribution that will cause the destruction of the beast.  Because of their iniquity, the Banú Umayyad decayed in spirituality and power and eventually met the same fate that they had meted out to others. Except for ‘Abdu’r-Raḥmán, the Banú Umayyad were hunted down and destroyed.  Even the corpses of the dead Banú Umayyad Caliphs, except for the pious ‘Umar II, were exhumed and desecrated.

11.	And I beheld another beast coming up out of the earth; and he had two horns like a lamb, and he spake as a dragon.

12.	And he exerciseth all the power of the first beast before him, and causeth the earth and them

which dwell therein to worship the first beast, whose deadly wound was healed.

13.	And he doeth great wonders, so that he maketh fire come down from heaven on the earth in the sight of men.

14.	And deceiveth them that dwell on the earth by the means of those miracles which he had power to do in the sight of the beast; saying to them that dwell on the earth, that they should make an image to the beast, which had the wound by the sword, and did live.

The second beast was the ‘Abbásid dynasty.  The ‘Abbásid dynasty came to power by conquest on the ruins (earth) of the Banú Umayyad Empire.  Its rulers gradually became Turkish beginning about CE 840.  The second beast had two names (horns) of leadership—“The Caliph” and “The Sultan”.

At its apex, the second beast exercised all the power of the Banú Umayyad and revived the dying Empire that had been “mortally wounded” yet had lived on in Spain.  Again the nations of Europe, Africa and the Middle East admired the Muslim State.  The second beast also displayed remarkable technical and scientific skills.  Very early they learned the use of gunpowder and Greek fire.  Strange devices were used in war, such as burning javelins and globes that were propelled over long distances.

15.	And he had power to give life unto the image of the beast, that the image of the beast should both speak,

and cause that as many as would not worship the image of the beast should be killed.

16.	And he causeth all, both small and great, rich and poor, free and bond, to receive a mark in their right hand, or in their foreheads:

17.	And that no man might buy or sell, save he that had the mark, or the name of the beast, or the number of his name.

The second beast, the ‘Abbásid dynasty, was able to revive the image of the first beast, the Banú Umayyad Empire, so that it seemed to be alive again.  The second beast enforced the new regime with great severity, ruthlessly murdering even those who had helped the ‘Abbasids to gain power.

The marks or stigmata were:  “right hand”—the land and business tax (kharáj), and “forehead”—the head tax (jizyah) paid by non-Muslims, marking them as inferior and symbolizing in concrete form their subjection to the Muslim State.  Many non-Muslims fled to avoid these taxes.  Trading was forbidden unless one had paid the tax (had the mark) or was “Muslim” (name of the beast), or was a member of the ruling class (number of his name).

18.	Here is wisdom.  Let him that hath understanding count the number of the beast:  for it is the number of a man; and his number is Six hundred threescore and six.

In the sense that 666 symbolizes blasphemy, deception or hypocrisy, the number can be applied to many personages in history.  But ‘Abdu’l-Bahá has explained <13:18 #1, #2; 21:15 #1> that 666 applies to the first Umayyad Caliph who came to power in the year 666 of the Christian era.

Mu’áwiya, the first Umayyad Caliph, came to power during the year CE 661–662.  But most authorities, in agreement with the Gospel of Matthew, place the birth of Jesus sometime prior

to the death of Herod the Great, who died during the year 4–5 BCE.  It is reasonable to believe, therefore, that the span of time from the Birth of Jesus until the first Umayyad Caliph was very close to 666 solar years.

Most serious attempts to discover the name of the beast of the Apocalypse have started from the premise that 666 is the gematrical value of the name.  Since Mu’áwíyah committed an act of blasphemy by assuming the title of Caliph, it should not be surprising if his assumed title The Caliph has the value 666.

Notes

14
The world-stage is set

In this chapter, six mediating angels prepare the world for the Advent of Bahá’u’lláh.  These angels may represent Manifestations of Asia Whose Utterances warned of the coming of Bahá’u’lláh at the Last Day.  But first, those with the seal of God are introduced.

1.	And I looked, and, lo, a Lamb stood on the mount Zion, and with him an hundred forty and four thousand, having his Father’s name written in their foreheads.

‘Abdu’l-Bahá in shown alive on Zion with those who have the seal of His Father, Bahá’, Nine.  The archetypal value of 144,000 equals 9.  Zion or Sion is symbolic of the theocracy directly administered by God, the World Order of Bahá’u’lláh.  “Out of Zion hath gone forth the Law of God, and Jerusalem, and the hills and land thereof, are filled with the glory of His Revelation.”—Bahá’u’lláh

Bahá’u’lláh, Who came as the Manifestation of the Father is also the spiritual Father of Jesus Christ, Muḥammad, the Báb, and the other Manifestations of the past.  Bahá’u’lláh reveals, “In this most mighty Revelation, all the Dispensations of the past have attained their highest, their final consummation.”  “He it is”, referring to Himself, “Who in the Old Testament hath been named Jehovah, Who in the Gospel hath been designated as the

Spirit of Truth, and in the Qur’án acclaimed the Great Announcement.”  “But for Him no Divine Messenger would have been invested with the robe of prophethood, nor would any of the sacred scriptures have been revealed.”  “Be fair, ye peoples of the world,” He thus appeals to mankind, “is it meet or seemly for you to question the authority of one Whose presence ‘He Who conversed with God’ (Moses) hath longed to attain, the beauty of Whose countenance ‘God’s Well-beloved’ (Muḥammad) had yearned to behold, through the potency of Whose love the ‘spirit of God’ (Jesus) ascended to heaven, for Whose sake the ‘Primal Point’ (the Báb) offered up His life?”

Concerning the relation of Bahá’u’lláh to future Revelations, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains, “Concerning the Manifestations that will come down in the future ‘in the shadows of the clouds,’ know verily that in so far as their relation to the source of their inspiration is concerned they are under the shadow of the Ancient Beauty (Bahá’u’lláh).  In their relation, however, to the age in which they appear, each and every one of them ‘doeth whatsoever He willeth’.”

2.	And I heard a voice from heaven, as the voice of many waters, and as the voice of a great thunder:  and I heard the voice of harpers harping with their harps:

3.	And they sung as it were a new song before the throne, and before the four beasts, and the elders, and no man could hear that song but the hundred and forth and four thousand, which were redeemed from the earth.

4.	These are they which are not defiled with women; for they are virgins.  These are they which follow the Lamb whithersoever he goeth.  These were redeemed from among man, being the first fruits unto God and to the Lamb.

5.	And in their mouth was found no guild:  for they are without fault before the throne of God.

The voice of many waters is the voice of great knowledge,

Bahá’u’lláh.  The new song is the new Message, but only those with the seal of Bahá’ (9) can understand the Message.

To become defiled by harlots means to become seduced by a counterfeit of the true Word of God.

In one Age the Lamb is Jesus.  In another He is the Báb or ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.  The undefiled will follow Him in every Age.  The first fruits are the first to follow the new Revelation.  Their mouths will not spread false doctrine.

6.	And I saw another angel fly in the midst of heaven, having the everlasting gospel to preach unto them that dwell on the earth, and to every nation, and kindred, and tongue, and people.

7.	Saying with a loud voice, Fear God, and give glory to him; for the hour of his judgement is come:  and worship him that made heaven, and earth, and the sea, and the fountains of waters.

Gospel means glad tidings.  The gospel is everlasting because it is the same in every Age and Dispensation and is given to all nations and all peoples.

The fountains of waters are the Day-Springs of Divine Revelation.

8.	And there followed another angel, saying, Babylon is fallen, is fallen, that great city, because she made all nations drink of the wind of the wrath of her fornication.

“Babylon” means literally “Gate of God”.  The “Holy City Jerusalem” means literally “The Holy City of Sacred Peace”.  Thus they are both sacred names and symbolize the Word of God.  Jerusalem is transformed into Babylon and vice versa as the Sacred City decays and is renewed in successive Dispensations.  The Word of God, though originally the Holy City, through corruption, becomes Babylon, the wicked city.  “How is the faithful city become an harlot!”—Isaiah 1:21

The use of Babylon as a symbol of the corrupted word is based upon the story of the Tower of Babel in Genesis 11:9.  It was at this place that the confusion of words was supposed to have originated.  It requires the addition of only a single letter to convert the word Bab-el, Gate of God, into bal-bel, confusion.

Bahá’u’lláh explains that the corruption of the Word of God does not mean the literal falsification or forgery of the Sacred Texts, but comes about as a result of misinterpretation in accordance with idle imaginings and vain desires. Old Testament prophecies foretell that in the last days the Word will be renewed at Babylon.  But the site of old Babylon will be a ruin as explained by Jeremiah.  Bahá’u’lláh revealed His mission and renewed the Word in the new Babylon, modern Baghdád, in CE 1863.  “Baghdád” means literally “Gift of God”.

9.	And the third angel followed them, saying with a loud voice, If any man worship the beast and his image, and receive his mark in his forehead, or in his hand,

10.	The same shall drink of the wine of the wrath of God, which is poured out without mixture into the cup of his indignation; and he shall be tormented with fire and brimstone in the presence of the holy angels, and in the presence of the Lamb.

11.	And the smoke of their torment ascendeth up for ever and ever:  and they have no rest day or night, who worship the beast and his image, and whosoever receiveth the mark of his name.

These verses promise punishment for those who admire the Muslim State (worship the beast and his image), who willingly pay the taxes that keep the beast alive (receive the mark in his forehead or in his hand), or to those who pretend to be Muslim (receive the mark of his name).  Fire and brimstone symbolizes the unquenchable torment of remoteness from God.  “Separa-

tion from Thee, O Source of everlasting life, hath will nigh consumed me, and my remoteness from Thy presence hath burned my soul.”  “Some have made haste to attain the court of the God of Mercy, others have fallen down on their faces in the fire of Hell, while still others are lost in bewilderment.”  “They hasten forward to Hell fire, and mistake it for light.”—Bahá’u’lláh

Smoke is a visible sign of spiritual torment.  “The moon of idle fancy hath been cleft, and the heaven hath given out a palpable smoke.”  “What smoke more dense and overpowering than the one which hath now enshrouded all the peoples of the world, which hath become a torment unto them, and from which they hopelessly fail to deliver themselves, however much they strive?”—Bahá’u’lláh

12.	Here is the patience of the saints:  here are they that keep the commandments of God, and the faith of Jesus.

13.	And I heard a voice from heaven saying unto me, Write, Blessed are the dead which die in the Lord from henceforth:  Yea, saith the Spirit, that they may rest from their labours; and their works do follow them.

These verses explain that the martyrs of the last days will be instrumental in bringing forth the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh.

“To die in the Lord” also means to die from self in order to live in God.  This is the final stage of man’s journey “from the abode of dust to the heavenly homeland.”  Bahá’u’lláh explains, “Whoso hath attained this station is sanctified from all that pertaineth to the world. …  This is the station wherein the multiplicity of all things perisheth in the wayfarer; and the divine Countenance, dawning above the horizon of eternity, riseth out of the darkness; and the meaning of “All on the earth shall pass away, but the face of thy Lord” is made manifest.”

14.	And I looked, and behold a white cloud, and upon

the cloud one sat like unto the Son of man, having on his head a golden crown, and in his hand a sharp sickle.

15.	And another angel came out of the temple, crying with a loud voice to him that sat on the cloud, Thrust in thy sickle, and reap:  for the time is come for thee to reap:  for the harvest of the earth is ripe.

16.	And he that sat on the cloud thrust in his sickle on the earth; and the earth was reaped.

17.	And another angel came out of the temple which is in heaven, he also having a sharp sickle.

18.	And another angel came out from the altar, which had the power over fire; and cried with a loud cry to him that had the sharp sickle, saying, Thrust in thy sharp sickle, and gather the clusters of the vine of the earth; for her grapes are fully ripe.

19.	And the angel thrust in his sickle into the earth, and gathered the vine of the earth, and cast it into the great winepress of the wrath of God.

The One like unto the Son of Man is Bahá’u’lláh, Who is shown coming on a cloud of glory. <G #5>  His crown symbolizes spiritual dominion.  The sickle symbolizes His power to reap the harvest of the Ages.  Mankind is likened to a vineyard as in the parable of Jesus Christ.  In the harvesting, Bahá’u’lláh, the Lord of the Vineyard, is assisted by the forces of heaven.  The first angel may represent Muḥammad; the angel with the sickle represents the Báb <21:15 #1>, and the altar angel may represent Jesus Christ.

20.	And the winepress was trodden without the city, and blood came out of the winepress, even unto the horse bridles, by the space of a thousand and six hundred furlongs.

A horse’s bridle is 7 spans (about 60 inches or 152 cm) high.  A furlong is an earthly measure.  1600 has an archetypal value of 7.

The riddle says that the earth outside the Holy City of the Law of God will be the scene of great tests, trials, and torments “for a space of 7-times-7”.

The prophecy can have two meanings.  Remembering that 7 is the number of trial and punishment, the prophecy can be considered as emphasizing the great spiritual turmoil that will beset the world is a consequence of the Advents of the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh.  But the prophecy also specifically predicts the duration of the period of Divine Revelation, beginning with the Declaration of the Báb in the year AH 1260 and ending with the Ascension of Bahá’u’lláh in the year AH 1309, a space of 7-times-7, or 49 lunar years.16

Pegasus the Flying Horse is a constellation near Aquarius (Figure 23).  Early star maps show only half of the horse and that upside down.  There are about 7 spaces or spans of stars between its hoof and its jaw.

Figure 23
The horse in heaven

Notes

15
His name revealed

1.	And I saw another sign in heaven, great and marvellous, seven angels having the seven last plagues; for in them is filled up the wrath of God.

2.	And I saw as it were a sea of glass mingled with fire:  and them that had gotten the victory over the beast, and over his image, and over his mark, and over the number of his name, stand on the sea of glass, having the harps of God.

The seven angels symbolize trials and punishments from heaven.  The sea of glass is the Ocean of Truth.  It is mingled with fire to symbolize the wrath and indignation of God.

Verse 2 extols those who have overcome the false doctrine of the Umayyad and ‘Abbásid dynasties (the beast and his image), have not falsely assumed the name (mark) of Muslim, and have rejected the blasphemous deception of wrongly-guided Caliphs (number of his name).

Bahá’u’lláh, speaking to His persecutors in the Muslim world said, “Thou hast known how grievously the Prophets of God, His Messengers and Chosen Ones, have been afflicted.  Meditate a while on the motive and reason that have been responsible for such a persecution.  At no time, in no Dispensation, have the Prophets of God escaped the blasphemy of their enemies, the cruelty of their oppressors, the denunciation of the learned of their age, who appeared in the guise of uprightness and piety.  Day and night they passed through such agonies as none can measure, except the knowledge of the one true God, exalted by His glory.  Consider this wronged one.  Though the clearest

proofs attest the truth of His Cause; though the prophecies He, in an unmistakable language, hath made have been fulfilled … He hath rained upon men the showers of His manifold and Divinely-inspired knowledge; yet, behold how this generation hath rejected His authority, and rebelled against Him!”

Christians are not excluded from His denunciations.  In a Tablet to the rulers of Christendom He said, “O kings of Christendom!  Heard ye not the saying of Jesus, the Spirit of God, ….  ‘When He, the Spirit of Truth, is come, He will guide you unto all truth.’  And yet, behold how, when He did bring the truth, ye refused to turn your faces towards Him, and persisted in disporting yourselves with your pastimes and fancies.”

3.	And they sing the song of Moses the servant of God, and the song of the Lamb, saying, Great and marvellous are thy works, Lord God Almighty; just and true are thy ways, thou King of saints.

4.	Who shall not fear thee, O lord, and glorify thy name?  for thou only art holy:  for all nations shall come and worship before thee; for thy judgements are made manifest.

The song of Moses and the Lamb is the eternal Message, renewed and re-adorned in every Dispensation.  Speaking of the Word of God, Bahá’u’lláh says, “In the days of Moses it was the Pentateuch; in the days of Jesus, the Gospel; in the days of Muḥammad, the Messenger of God, the Qur’án; in this day, the Bayán (Book of the Báb [literally, “Exposition”]); and in the Dispensation of Him Whom God will make manifest (Bahá’u’lláh), His own Book—the Book unto which all the Books of former Dispensations must needs be referred, the Book that standeth amongst them all transcendent and supreme.”

5.	And after that I looked, and behold, the temple of the tabernacle of the testimony in heaven was opened:

6.	And the seven angels came out of the temple, having the seven plagues, clothed in pure and white linen

and having their breasts girded with golden girdles.

7.	And one of the four beasts gave unto the seven angels seven golden vials full of the wrath of God, who liveth for ever and ever.

The temple of the testimony is the Revelation of God descended upon man in the Temple of the Manifestation.  “These Tabernacles of Holiness, these Primal Mirrors which reflect the light of unfading glory, are but expressions of Him Who is the Invisible of the Invisibles.”—Bahá’u’lláh  Elsewhere, Bahá’u’lláh asks of God, “Aid me, O my Lord, to surrender myself wholly to Thy Will, and to arise and serve Thee, for I cherish this earthly life for no other purpose than to compass the Tabernacle of Thy Revelation and the Seat of Thy Glory.”

8.	And the temple was filled with smoke from the glory of God, and from his power; and no man was able to enter in to the temple, till the seven plagues of the seven angels were fulfilled.

In The Book of Certitude, Bahá’u’lláh explains:  “The symbolic term ‘smoke’ denotes grave dissensions, the abrogation and demolition of recognized standards, and the utter destruction of their narrow-minded exponents.”

In this verse the name of Bahá’u’lláh, the Glory of God, is revealed for the first time in the Apocalypse.  The verse also reveals that no man’s testimony will be complete until the seven last plagues are finished.

Glory of God Δόξα του Θεού has a literal value of 1,389 and an archetypal value of 3.  The name Bahá’u’lláh, by the abjad <7, 10> has a literal value of 75, which also has an archetypal value of 3.  The word Glory Δόξα <7, 8> has a literal value of 135 and an archetypal value of 9, identical to the literal value of Bahá’ in the abjad.

Notes

16
The end of the age

This chapter reveals the events that attended the Revelations of the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh.  The setting is 19th century Persia, ‘Iráq and the Ottoman Empire.

A modern traveller to those regions would find it difficult to visualize the conditions that prevailed there only a century ago.  Observers have described the region as technologically backward, and often with despotic governments and corrupted priesthoods.  Modern progressive leaders have succeeded in revolutionizing the political, economic and religious life in those countries, and the conditions alluded to in the following verses of the Apocalypse no longer prevail.

1.	And I heard a great voice out of the temple saying to the seven angels, Go your ways, and pour out the vials of the wrath of God upon the earth.

The Temple is the Manifestation.  The great voice out of the Temple is that of Bahá’u’lláh.

2.	And the first went, and poured his vial upon the earth; and there fell a noisome and grievous sore upon the men which had the mark of the beast, and upon them which worshipped his image.

The noisome and grievous sore caused by the first angel is the

clamour of religious controversy and the sore of spiritual distress that beset the Muslim world during the earthly sojourns of the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh.

3.	And the second angel poured his vial upon the sea; and it became as the blood of a dead man:  and every living soul died in the sea.

The second angel pours his vial upon the sea of the spirit.

Bahá’u’lláh explains that immediately prior to His Advent the former world passed away:  “Consider the hour at which the supreme Manifestation of God (Bahá’u’lláh) revealeth Himself unto men. …  at the very moment preceding His Revelation, each and every created thing shall be made to yield up its soul to God.  This is indeed the Day of which it hath been written:  ‘Whose shall be the Kingdom this Day?’  And none can be found to Answer!”  But following His Advent, a new world was formed:  “Verily, We have caused every soul to expire by virtue of Our irresistible and all-subduing sovereignty.  We have, then, called into being a new creation, as a token of Our grace unto men.  I am, verily, the All-bountiful, the Ancient of Days.”  In a prayer He says, “Praise be unto Thee, O my God!  Thou are He Who by a word of His mouth hath revolutionized the entire creation, and by a stroke of His pen hath divided Thy servants one from another.  I bear witness, O my God, that through a word spoken by Thee in this Revelation all created things were made to expire, and through yet another word all such as Thou didst wish were, by Thy grace and bounty, endued with a new life.”

4.	And the third angel poured out his vial upon the rivers and fountains of waters; and they became blood.

5.	And I heard the angel of the waters say, Thou are righteous, O lord, which art, and wast, and shalt be, because thou hast judged thus.

6.	For they have shed the blood of saints and prophets, and thou hast given them blood to drink; for they are worthy.

7.	And I heard another out of the altar say, Even so, Lord God Almighty, true and righteous are thy judgements.

These verses explain that the mainstreams of spiritual grace and knowledge (rivers and fountains) will lose their life-giving power.  The corrupted spiritual leaders and divines are condemned, and they are made to taste the blood of spiritual death.

The prophecies of the next seven verses describe the impact of the Revelations of the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh upon the lands of Persia, Turkey, and the region of the Euphrates River.

8.	And the fourth angel poured out his vial upon the sun; and power was given unto him to scorch men with fire.

9.	And men were scorched with great heat, and blasphemed the name of God, which hath power over these plagues:  and they repented not to give him glory.

The fourth angel pours his vial upon the land of Persia whose emblem is the sun.  The bigoted and corrupt among the Persians are made to feel the fire of spiritual torment.  The last word of verse 9 refers to their failure to accept the new name of God, glory (Bahá).  (See Chapter 3, verse 12.)

The Bábí Revelation was born on 23 May 1844 in Shíráz, Persia (Írán).  The claims of the Báb, the excitement caused in the Muslim world, and the rapidity with which the new Faith gained followers, caused the corrupt Muslim clergy to react violently.  The help of the sháh was enlisted in an attempt to destroy the new Faith.  The results were armed attacks upon the followers of the Báb and popular uprisings in Mázindarán, Nayríz, and

Zanján.  Mass persecutions, torture and martyring were involved.  Ultimately, the Báb was martyred in the public square of Tabríz, on 9 July 1850.

10.	And the fifth angel poured his vial upon the seat of the beast; and his kingdom was full of darkness; and they gnawed their tongues for pain.

11.	And blasphemed the God of heaven because of their pains and their sores, and repented not of their deeds.

The fifth angel pours his vial on Constantinople (Istanbul) in the land of Anatolia, the capital (seat) of the beast.  The kingdom is filled with spiritual darkness and torment.  As a consequence of the martyrdom of the Báb and the severe persecutions inflicted on the Bábís, on 15 August 1852, two obscure and demented Bahá’ís made a despairing and futile attempt on the life of the sháh.  The results were renewed persecutions and the imprisonment of leading Bábís, including Bahá’u’lláh.  It was during this imprisonment 1852–1853 that Bahá’u’lláh received the Holy Spirit and became the Promised One of All Ages.

On His release from the Black Pit of Ṭihrán (Teheran), He was exiled to Baghdád, ‘Iráq, where He arrived 8 April 1853.  ‘Iráq was then an Ottoman province.  Shortly thereafter, the Ottoman Sultan and his ministers, as well as the sunní sacerdotal order, joined hands with the sháh and the shí’ah clerics of Persia and ‘Iráq in an endeavour to stamp out, once and for all, the Faith and all it stood for.  The result was a further wave of repressive measures.

12.	And the sixth angel poured out his vial upon the great river Euphrates; and the water thereof was dried up, that the way of the kings of the east might be prepared.

The sixth angel pours his vial on the region of the Euphrates River, ‘Iráq and the surrounding regions.  The water of spirituality is dried up and the way is made clear for the kings of the East.

Following His exile to Baghdád, ‘Iráq, in the region of the Euphrates River, the Bábí Faith lost its spirituality.  Because of internal conflicts and bickering, Bahá’u’lláh left the Bábí community and spent exactly two lunar years, the 12th of Rajab AH 1270 (10 April 1854) until the 12th of Rajab AH 1272 (19 March 1856) wandering in the mountain wilderness of Kurdistan.  The way was being prepared for the kings of the East, Bahá’u’lláh and His Successors.

13.	And I saw three unclean spirits like frogs come out of the mouth of the dragon, and out of the mouth of the beast, and out of the mouth of the false prophet.

14.	For they are the spirits of devils, working miracles, which go forth unto the kings of the earth and of the whole world, to gather them to the battle of that great day of God Almighty.

Unclean spirits like frogs are evil principles and false teachings.

Although several would-be “Prophets” arose to proclaim themselves to the One foretold by the Báb, “the One Whom God will make manifest”, the most notorious was the nominal head of the Bábí Faith, Mírzá Yaḥyá (Ṣubḥ-i-Azal).  Through the influence and intrigues of the crafty and diabolical Siyyid Muḥammad-i-Iṣfahání, Mírzá Yaḥyá succeeded in causing a serious breach in the ranks of the Bábís-in-exile and prevented many of the very elect from recognizing the new Manifestation, Bahá’u’lláh.  Reminiscent of the Súrih of Joseph as interpreted by the Báb, Mírzá Yaḥyá was a half-brother of Bahá’u’lláh, and, as prophesied, the plots of Mírzá Yaḥyá and Muḥammad-i-Iṣfahání ended in ignominious failure.

The Great Day of God Almighty is the Day of God, the Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh.  Miracles are wonders; here they are not of Divine origin.

15.	Behold, I come as a thief.  Blessed is he that

watcheth, and keepeth his garments, lest he walk naked, and they see his shame.

In this verse, the Declaration of Bahá’u’lláh is announced.  He comes as a “thief”, entering and departing “unseen”.  Blessed is he who watches, and wears garments of purity and righteousness in order that he not be spiritually naked.  (See Revelations 3:17.)

The Bábí community left behind in Baghdád continued to decline in spirituality and prestige.  Finally, at the pleading of the Bábís, Bahá’u’lláh was induced to return.  Following His return from the wilderness of Kurdistan, Bahá’u’lláh was able to renew the Faith of God through His teachings and spiritual power.  Hatred, fear, and jealousy of the renewed vigour of the Bábí community by the corrupt Muslim clergy resulted in further persecutions and banishments of Bahá’u’lláh, first to Constantinople, thence to Adrianople, and finally to ‘Akká, near Mount Carmel, in the Holy Land, thereby fulfilling many prophecies.  (Carmel means literally “Vineyard of God”.)

However, before Bahá’u’lláh began the arduous journey to Constantinople, He revealed His Mission as the “One Whom God will make manifest”, prophesied by the Báb.  His Declaration took place at the Festival of Riḍván (Paradise) 21 April to 2 May CE 1863.

It is an interesting fact that He departed from the “land of the Euphrates” immediately thereafter, going into exile and virtual invisibility.  Even His incredibly direct and powerful Tablets to the kings and rulers of the earth revealing His Mission went unnoticed.  Truly Bahá’u’lláh, the Glory of God, like a thief, entered and departed unseen.

16.	And he gathered them together into a place called in the Hebrew tongue Armageddon.

The unclean spirits (evil principles and false teachings) are to be the cause of the final conflict in the place called “Armageddon”.

Armageddon is composed of the two Hebrew words har (mountain) and Magedon.  Magedon is a poetic adaptation of the vale of Megiddo or Megidon.  This valley was the scene of great suffering by the Hebrews during the reign of Josiah.  Hence, “mountain-of-Megiddo” means a piling up of sorrow like that which befell the Hebrews in the valley of Megiddo.

The conflict of Armageddon is symbolic of the world-wide distress that will result from false teachings and evil principles.  The conflict follows the Declaration, the “hour” of Bahá’u’lláh and the third woe.

Since His Declaration in CE 1863, the world has indeed witnessed a great piling up of sorrow.  Among the more notable sorrows have been imperialism and economic exploitation, two world wars of unprecedented ferocity and suffering, numerous smaller but deadly wars, the Great Depression, the rise of communism and the suffering brought by class struggle, racial struggle, genocide on a massive scale, and world-wide pollution of the air, soil, and the oceans.  These sorrows are by no means finished and the testimony of the righteous is not yet complete.

17.	And the seventh angel poured out his vial into the air; and there came a great voice out of the temple of heaven, from the throne, saying, It is done.

18.	And there were voices, and thunders, and lightnings; and there was a great earthquake, such as was not since men were upon the earth, so mighty an earthquake, and so great.

The seventh angel pours his vial into the air, meaning that the afflictions to follow will not be localized but will be world-wide.  There follow the voices of those who fall into trials and temptations, the thunder of the violation of the Covenant, and the lightning of the anger and wrath of God.  There will be a great earthquake of doubts and disturbances in the world of man.

19.	And the great city was divided into three parts, and the cities of the nations fell:  and great Babylon came in remembrance before God, to give unto her the cup of the wine of the fierceness of his wrath.

20.	And every island fled away, and the mountains were not found.

21.	And there fell upon men a great hail out of heaven, every stone about the weight of a talent:  and men blasphemed God because of the plague of the hail; for the plague thereof was exceeding great.

The great city is the civilization of the corrupted Word of God, that is, Babylon.  It will be divided into three parts personified as the “three false gods”, Nationalism, Racialism, and Communism.  (The Promised Day is Come, p. 117)  Cities are institutions; islands are places of refuge, that is, churches; mountains are the great religions of the world.  “So blind hath become the human heart that neither the disruption of the city, nor the reduction of the mountain in dust, nor even the cleaving of the earth, can shake off its torpor.”—Bahá’u’lláh

The great hail is a rain of spiritual tests.  Talent comes from the Greek talanton—a balance, or a thing to be weighed.  Hence it is a symbol of testing.  Man will be tested by the Book of God revealed by the Balance, the new Manifestation of God:  “In this most perfect balance (the Book of God) whatsoever the peoples and kindreds of the earth possess must be weighed.”  “The All-Merciful is come invested with undoubted sovereignty.  The Balance hath been appointed, and all them that dwell on earth have been gathered together.”  “Say:  This is the infallible Balance which the Hand of God is holding, in which all who are in the heavens and all who are on the earth are weighed, and their fate determined, if ye be of them that believe and recognize this truth.”—Bahá’u’lláh

Notes

17
Mysteries revealed

1.	And there came one of the seven angels which had the seven vials, and talked with me, saying unto me, come hither; I will show unto thee the judgement of the great whore that sitteth upon many waters:

2.	With whom the kings of the earth have committed fornication, and the inhabitants of the earth have been made drunk with the wine of her fornication.

The great whore is the corrupted Word of God.  She sits on the sea of humanity.  To commit fornication with the harlot means to make use of her services:  false doctrine.

3.	Se he carried me away in the spirit into the wilderness:  and I saw a woman sit upon a scarlet coloured beast, full of names of blasphemy, having seven heads and ten horns.

Scarlet is the colour of spiritual beauty among the Muslims.  The seven heads and ten horns identify the beast as the Banú Umayyad dynasty and its image, the ‘Abbásid dynasty.  The harlot lives in the wilderness of spiritual desolation.  “… such souls as tread the valley of arrogance and pride, are lost in the wilds of remoteness, walk in the ways of their idle fancy, and follow the dictates of the leaders of their faith.”—Bahá’u’lláh

4.	And the woman was arrayed in purple and scarlet colour, and decked with gold and precious stones and pearls, having a golden cup in her hand full of abominations and filthiness of her fornication.

The harlot is blasphemously arrayed in the purple of royalty and the scarlet of spiritual beauty.  She is bedecked with precious gifts bestowed upon her by her clientele, the corrupt priesthood and temporal rulers.

5.	And upon her forehead was a name written, mystery, babylon the great, the mother of harlots and abominations of the earth.

This verse explains that the harlot, Babylon, the corrupted Word of God, is the secret source of all the world’s abominations.

The harlot in the wilderness of spiritual desolation is contrasted with the Bride who flees into the desert wilderness of Ḥijáz for her survival in Chapter 12.  The Bride is the undefiled Word of God.  In her pure role she is THE HOLY CITY JERUSALEM.  In her corrupted role she is BABYLON.

6.	And I saw the woman drunken with the blood of the saints, and with the blood of the martyrs of Jesus and when I saw her, I wondered with great admiration.

7.	And the angel said unto me, Wherefore didst thou marvel?  I will tell thee the mystery of the woman, and of the beast that carrieth her, which hath the seven heads and ten horns.

8.	The beast that thou sawest was, and is not; and shall ascend out of the bottomless pit, and go into perdition:  and they that dwell on the earth shall wonder, whose names were not written in the book of life from the foundation of the world, when they behold the beast that was, and is not, and yet is.

The angel explains that the beast “was” (existed as the Empire of Alexander), “is not” (did not exist in the first century CE), but will ascend out of the pit of error and will ultimately be destroyed.  Those whose names were not written in the Book of Life will marvel when they behold the Empire of Alexander come into existence a second time.

It was the dream of ancient rulers and conquerors to re-establish the Empire of Alexander.  The dominions ruled by both Alexander and the Bani-Umayyad rulers included large areas of the three continents of Asia, Africa, and Europe, and united East and West.  The eastern borders of the two Empires were virtually identical.

9.	And here is the mind which hath wisdom.  The seven heads are seven mountains, on which the woman sitteth.

10.	And there are seven kings:  five are fallen, and one is, and the other is not yet come; and when he cometh, he must continue a short space.

11.	And the beast that was, and is not, even he is the eighth, and is of the seven, and goeth into perdition.

The riddle explains that the harlot sits on an Empire of seven dominions or nations (mountains).  Of the seven dominions symbolized by seven kings, five will be fallen, that is, under the control of foreign powers before their conquest by the beast.  These five were the Roman (Byzantine) dominion around Damascus (Syria, Palestine), the dominions of Arabia, Egypt, Africa (Libya), and Andalusia (Spain).  One dominion “is”, meaning that it will remain sovereign until the “hour” of the beast.  This was Persia.  The dominion that “is not come” was Turkestan-Transoxiana.

In the first century, the region now known as Turkestan was occupied by nomadic pastoralists and sedentary cultivators.  The region became Turkish in the sixth century CE, about 500 years after the writing of the Apocalypse.  It was conquered in the late seventh and early eighth centuries by the Banú Umayyad who gave the region the name of Má Wará’ an-Nahr, “the land

beyond the Oxus” or “Transoxiana”.4  Verse 10 explains that the dominion will continue a short space.  The prophecy means that Turkestan-Transoxiana will cease to exist with the invasion of Genghis Khan CE 1218–1220.

Verse 11 explains that the beast will have an eighth ruler, who is one of the seven, and who will ultimately be destroyed.  This refers to The Caliph.  The caliphate was abolished by the Turkish Grand National Assembly on 2 March 1924, less than three years after the Ascension of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.

12.	And the ten horns which thou sawest are ten kings, which have received no kingdom as yet; but receive power as kings one hour with the beast.

Verse 12 explains that the ten horns are the names of kings who did not have a kingdom in the first century CE.  They will receive power for only an hour with the Banú Umayyad dynasty.  An “hour” is a part of a “day”, and is therefore, a part of a “year” of 360 years.  The Banú Umayyad had sovereignty for 89 years, about one-fourth of a “day”.

13.	These have one mind, and shall give their power and strength unto the beast.

14.	These shall make war with the Lamb, and the Lamb shall overcome them:  for he is Lord of lords, and King of kings:  and they that are with him are called, and chosen, and faithful.

Verse 13 explains that the dominions and rulers of Islám will give power to the beast, personified in The Caliph.  Verse 14 prophesies that the Muslim state will make war on the Báb and His followers, but that the Báb will gain the spiritual victory, because He is a Manifestation of God, that is, Lord of lords and King of kings.  “Verily He (the Báb) is the King of the Messengers and His Book is the Mother Book, did ye but know.”  “… the Ancient Beauty appeared, in the year sixty (AH 1260), in the person of ‘Alí-Muḥammad, the Báb.”  “Thy Lord, the Most

High (the Báb), addresseth thee, from His realm of glory ….”  “… this, the Lord of days, … the Day in which the Beauty of the All-Glorious shone forth in the exalted person of ‘Alí-Muḥammad, the Báb.”—Bahá’u’lláh

15.	And he saith unto me, The waters which thou sawest, where the whore sitteth, are peoples, and multitudes, and nations, and tongues.

Verse 15 explains the symbol of the sea of humanity in verse 1.

16.	And the ten horns which thou sawest upon the beast, these shall hate the whore, and shall make her desolate and naked, and shall eat her flesh, and burn her with fire.

17.	For God hath put in their hearts to fulfil his will, and to agree, and give their kingdom unto the beast, until the words of God shall be fulfilled.

These verses explain that the rulers of the Banú Umayyad will hate the harlot, the corrupted Word of God, destroy her beauty, and will condemn her with the fire of their words.  God has put it into their hearts that they should satisfy His Will and agree with each other, giving their dominions to the beast until the words of the prophecy have been fulfilled.

18.	And the woman which thou sawest is that great city, which reigneth over the kings of the earth.

This verse explains that the harlot is Babylon, the corrupted Word of God, that has dominion over the rulers of the earth.

Notes

18
Encomium of victory

1.	And after these things I saw another angel come down from heaven, having great power; and the earth was lightened with his glory.

2.	And he cried mightily with a strong voice, saying, Babylon the great is fallen, is fallen, and is become the habitation of devils, and the hold of every foul spirit, and a cage of every unclean and hateful bird.

3.	For all nations have drunk the wine of the wrath of her fornication, and the kings of the earth have committed fornication with her, and the merchants of the earth are waxed rich through the abundance of her delicacies.

Devils are deceptions and vices.  In this instance, birds are impure souls or spirits.  “… We have warned the faithful to anticipate the appearance of the Birds of Darkness.  There can be no doubt whatever that the croaking of the Raven shall be raised in certain lands, as it hath been heard in recent years.”  “Like the bats of darkness, they lift not their heads from the couch except to pursue the transient things of the world, and find no rest by night except as they labour to advance the aims of their sordid life.”—Bahá’u’lláh

But birds can also represent clean souls or spirits.  “Bursting through his cage, he will, even as the bird of the spirit, wing his flight to his holy and everlasting nest.”—Bahá’u’lláh  In Luke, in answer to the question, “’Where Lord (shall be the kingdom of God)?’ and he said unto them, ‘Wheresoever the body is, thither will the eagles be gathered together.’”

4.	And I heard another voice from heaven, saying, come out of her, my people, that ye be not partakers of her sins, and that ye receive not of her plagues.

5.	For her sins have reached unto heaven, and God hath remembered her iniquities.

6.	Reward her even as she rewarded you, and double unto her double according to her works:  in the cup which she hath filled fill to her double.

(RSV translates verse 6 as “Render to her as she herself has rendered, and repay her double for her deeds; mix a double draught for her in the cup she mixed.”)

These verses and those to follow anathematize the whore, the corrupted Word of God and her city (institutions), Babylon.

7.	How much she hath glorified herself, and lived deliciously, so much torment and sorrow give her:  for she saith in her heart, I sit a queen, and am no widow, and shall see no sorrow.

The whore pretends that she is the Bride, the undefiled Word of God, and that she is married to the Lamb, that is, the living Covenant.  That the Lamb has been slain is explained in Revelations 5:12.  In 19:7 the Lamb, re-manifested and alive, is to be married to the Bride, the renewed and purified Word of God.

8.	Therefore shall her plagues come in one day, death, and mourning, and famine; and she shall be utterly burned with fire:  for strong is the Lord God who judgeth her.

The whore will be destroyed in the Last Day, and she will be burned with the fire of spiritual torment.

9.	And the kings of the earth, who have committed fornication and lived deliciously with her, shall bewail her, and lament for her, when they see the smoke of her burning.

10.	Standing afar off for fear of her torment saying, Alas, alas that great city Babylon, that mighty city! for in one hour is thy judgement come.

11.	And the merchants of the earth shall weep and mourn over her; for no man buyeth their merchandise any more:

12.	The merchandise of gold, and silver, and precious stones, and of pearls, and fine linen, and purple, and silk, and scarlet, and all thyine wood, and all manner vessels of ivory, and all manner vessels of most precious wood, and of brass, and iron, and marble,

13.	And cinnamon, and odours, and ointments, and frankincense, and wine, and oil, and fine flour, and wheat, and beasts, and sheep, and horses, and chariots, and slaves, and souls of men.

14.	And the fruits that thy soul lusted after are departed from thee, and all things which were dainty and goodly are departed from thee, and thou shalt find them no more at all.

15.	The merchants of these things, which were made rich by her, shall stand afar off for the fear of her torment, weeping and wailing,

16.	And saying, Alas, alas that great city, that was clothed in fine linen, and purple, and scarlet, and decked with gold, and precious stones, and pearls!

These verses remind us that the kings and merchants of the earth have become rich by making use of false doctrine, the services of the whore.  Verse 10 informs us that her judgement will come at the “Hour”, the time of the end.  Verses 12 to 14 describe the commodities of luxury that have been made possible through her activities and warn us that these things will be taken away.

17.	For in one hour so great riches is come to nought.

And every shipmaster, and all the company in ships, and sailors, and as many as trade by sea, stood afar off.

18.	And cried when they saw the smoke of her burning, saying, What city is like unto this great city!

19.	And they cast dust on their heads, and cried, weeping and wailing, saying, Alas, alas that great city, wherein were made rich all that had ships in the sea by reason of her costliness! for in one hour is she made desolate.

20.	Rejoice over her, thou heaven, and ye holy apostles and prophets; for God hath avenged you on her.

Smoke is the visible or tangible evidence of spiritual torment.  The destruction of Babylon will be apparent to everyone.

21.	And a mighty angel took up a stone like a great millstone, and cast it into the sea, saying, Thus with violence shall that great city Babylon be thrown down, and shall be found no more at all.

The zodiacal band is likened to a great millstone (Figure 4).  The inexorable Precession of the Equinoxes will cause the Age of Prophecy to come to an end, and the Age of Fulfilment will begin.  The verse promises us that the Word of God will never again be corrupted.

22.	And the voice of harpers, and musicians, and of pipers, and trumpeters, shall be heard no more at all in thee; and no craftsmen, of whatsoever craft he be, shall be found any more in thee; and the sound of a millstone shall be heard no more at all in thee;

23.	And the light of a candle shall shine no more at all in thee; and the voice of the bridegroom and of the bride shall

be heard no more at all in thee:  for thy merchants were the great men of the earth; for by thy sorceries were all nations deceived.

These verses tell us that the music played in glorification of the whore will no longer be heard.  Nor will the machinery of commerce be dependent upon her.  The Candle of Guidance that she blasphemously carried will be snuffed out.  Marriages will no longer be performed under her laws.

24.	And in her was found the blood of prophets, and of saints, and of all that were slain upon the earth.

The whore, the corrupted Word of God, is the cause of war, the martyrdom of the prophets and saints and of all others who have been murdered for the Cause of God.

Notes

19
The triumph of Bahá’u’lláh

In this chapter, the nineteenth, Bahá’u’lláh triumphs over the beast and the false prophet.

1.	And after these things I heard a great voice of much people in heaven, saying, Alleluia; Salvation, and glory, and honour, and power, unto the Lord our God:

2.	For true and righteous are his judgements:  for he hath judged the great whore, which did corrupt the earth with her fornication, and hath avenged the blood of his servants at her hand.

3.	And again they said, Alleluia.  And her smoke rose up for ever and ever.

4.	And the four and twenty elders and the four beasts fell down and worshipped God, that sat on the throne, saying, Amen; Alleluia.

5.	And a voice came out of the throne, saying, Praise our God, all ye his servants, and he that fear him, both small and great.

The voice out of the throne is that of Bahá’u’lláh, the Bird of the Celestial Throne.

6.	And I heard as it were the voice of a great multitude, and as the voice of many waters, and as the voice of mighty thunderings, saying, Alleluia:  for the Lord God Omnipotent reigneth.

The voice of many waters and of mighty thunderings is that of the Prophets.

7.	Let us be glad and rejoice, and give honour to him:  for the marriage of the Lamb is come, and his wife hath made herself ready.

8.	And to her was granted that she should be arrayed in fine linen, clean and white:  for the fine linen is the righeousness of the saints.

9.	And he saith unto me, Write, Blessed are they which are called unto the marriage supper of the Lamb.  And he saith unto me, These are the true sayings of God.

10.	And I fell at his feet to worship him.  And he said unto me, See thou do it not:  I am thy fellow servant, and of thy brethren that have the testimony of Jesus:  worship God:  for the testimony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy.

The marriage supper of the Lamb is the reunion of the Covenant with the Word of God, the Holy City.

(RSV translates “and he saith unto me …” in verse 9 as “And the angel said to me …”)

11.	And I say heaven opened, and behold a white horse; and he that sat upon him was called Faithful and True, and in righteousness he doth judge and make war.

Bahá’u’lláh, the Lord of Hosts, that is, the Lord of the heavenly armies, is shown riding a white horse.  In Chapter 6 the white horse was corrupted theology.  Here, ridden by Faithful and True, it represents correct theology.  By righteousness, He judges the spirituality dead and makes spiritual war upon the wicked.

Faithful and True Πιστός και Αληθινός has a literal value of 1,269 and an archetypal value of 9, the number of Bahá’.

Some of the titles of Bahá’u’lláh that can be considered as synonyms for the expression “Faithful and True” are:  Bearer of the Trust of God, Fountain of the Root of Knowledge, Well

Spring of Revelation, Bird of the Throne, Word of Truth, Sun of Truth, Day Star of Divine Revelation.

12.	His eyes were as a flame of fire, and on his head were many crowns; and he had a name written that no man knew, but he himself.

His eyes of flame have been described in Chapter 1, verse 14.  The many crowns He wears are His titles and His dominion over all the Divinely revealed Faiths.  The name written that no man knew but He Himself refers to His name Bahá’ given Him by the Báb on the White Stone, Chapter 2, verse 17.  The Covenant is always transmitted through the Ages by the White Stone.  Although false prophets will always attempt to claim the White Stone as their own, only the True Prophet, the Manifestation of God, is capable of revealing its hidden contents and through the power of His Utterance prove that its concealed Name refers only to Himself.

13.	And he was clothed with a vesture dipped in blood:  and his name is called The Word of God.

His vesture dipped in blood symbolizes the great suffering and persecutions of Bahá’u’lláh and His followers.  “By the righteousness of god!  The tribulations We have sustained are such that any pen that recounteth them cannot but be overwhelmed with anguish.  No one of them that truly believe and uphold the unity of God can bear the burden of their recital.  So great have been our sufferings that even the eyes of Our enemies have wept over Us, and beyond them those of every discerning person.”—Bahá’u’lláh

Indeed, the sufferings of Bahá’u’lláh are monumental.  Though born into a wealthy and powerful family (as was Lord Buddha), His property was confiscated, He was imprisoned in

dungeons and jails, bound by massive chains, banished from place to place over a period of forty years, was the victim of numerous conspiracies and attempts on His life, was poisoned twice, and underwent the torture of the bastinado.  Throughout all His sufferings, Bahá’u’lláh displayed nothing but the highest patience, forgiveness, forbearance, and mercy toward His persecutors.

The reason Bahá’u’lláh accepted these tribulations He explains:  “The Ancient Beauty hath consented to be bound with chains that mankind may be released from its bondage, and hath accepted to be made a prisoner within this most mighty Stronghold that the whole world may attain unto true liberty.”  “The Lord Himself beareth witness to the truth of My words.  We have sustained the weight of all calamities to sanctify you from all earthly corruption, and ye are yet indifferent.”  “Fix your gaze upon Him Who is the Temple of God amongst men.  He, in truth, has offered up His life as a ransom for the redemption of the world.”  In a deeper sense, Bahá’u’lláh, as the Father of the Prophets, sustained the manifold sufferings heaped upon those Holy Personages of other Ages.

The Word of God Ο Λόγος του Θεού has a literal value of 927 and an archetypal value of 9, the number of Bahá’.  Some of the titles of Bahá’u’lláh that are synonyms for this phrase are:  “Pen of the Most High”, “Voice of the Ancient of Days”, “the Mystic Herald”, “Voice From the Burning Bush”, “Fountain of Wisdom”, “Tongue of Eternity”, “Spirit of God”, “Pen of the Most Great Name”.

14.	And the armies which were in heaven followed him upon white horses, clothed in fine linen, white and clean.

15.	And out of his mouth goeth a sharp sword, that with it he should smite the nations:  and he shall rule them with a rod of iron:  and he treadeth the winepress of the fierceness and wrath of Almighty God.

16.	And he hath on his vesture and on his thigh a

name written, king of kings and lord of lords.

The heavenly armies (hosts) are the sanctified and angelic followers of Bahá’u’lláh, the Lord of Hosts.  He, with the Sword of Truth and the Rod of Spiritual dominion, is the Lord of the vineyard and a Manifestation of God, that is, KING OF KINGS AND LORD OF LORDS.  <19:16>

17.	And I saw an angel standing in the sun; and he cried with a loud voice, saying to all the fowls that fly in the midst of heaven, Come and gather yourselves together unto the supper of the great God;

18.	That ye may eat the flesh of kings, and the flesh of captives, and the flesh of mighty men, and the flesh of horses, and of them that sit on them, and the flesh of all men, both free and bond, both small and great.

19.	And I saw the beast, and the kings of the earth, and their armies, gathered together to make war against him that sat on the horse, and against his army.

20.	And the beast was taken, and with him the false prophet that wrought miracles before him, with which he deceived them that worshipped his image.  These both were cast alive into a lake of fire burning with brimstone.

21.	And the remnant were slain with the sword of him that sat upon the horse, which sword proceeded out of his mouth:  and all the fowls were filled with their flesh.

The angel stands against the Sun of Divine Guidance.  The fowls in the midst of heaven are the souls with heavenly attributes.  They will overcome the tyranny of the corrupt rulers,

military leaders, the four horses of the Apocalypse (Corrupted Theology, War, Economic Injustice, and Ungodliness), the corrupt Muslim priesthood and the false prophet.  These last two will be cast into the lake of spiritual torment.

Notes

20
Satan bound

1.	And I saw an angel come down from heaven, having the key of the bottomless pit and a great chain in his hand.

2.	And he laid hold on the dragon, that old serpent, which is the Devil, and Satan, and bound him a thousand years.

3.	And cast him into the bottomless pit, and shut him up, and set a seal upon him, that he should deceive the nations no more, till the thousand years should be fulfilled:  and after that he must be released a little season.

4.	And I saw thrones, and they sat upon them, and judgement was given unto them:  and I saw the souls of them that were beheaded for the witness of Jesus, and for the word of God, and which had not worshipped the beast, neither his image, neither had received the mark upon their foreheads, or in their hands; and they lived and reigned with Christ a thousand years.

These verses prophesy that the nations will not be deceived by false doctrine for a thousand years.  Those who were martyred for the reality of Jesus Christ and for the Word of God, those who did not worship the beast or its image, nor had paid the taxes that kept the beast alive, will be “resurrected”, and live again with Bahá’u’lláh, the Christos (Anointed One) for the duration of the millennium.  Those sitting upon the thrones in verse 4 are the members of the Bahá’í Universal House of Justice who will have the power of spiritual dominion and judgement during the millennium.  <20:3, 20:4>  <21:1–2 #2, 3>  Bahá’u’lláh

assures us that another Manifestation will appear in no less than a thousand years.  The Manifestation will be accompanied by another time of troubles.  <20:4>

In The Book of Certitude, Bahá’u’lláh explains the meaning of the term “resurrection”.  The Day of Resurrection is ushered in by a Manifestation of God:  “Such things have come to pass in the days of every Manifestation of God.  Even as Jesus said:  ‘Ye must be born again.’  Again He saith, ‘Except a man be born of water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter the Kingdom of God.  That which is born of the flesh is flesh; and that which is born of the Spirit is spirit.’  The purport of these words is that whosoever in every dispensation is born of the Spirit and is quickened by the breath of the Manifestation of Holiness, he verily is of those that have attained unto ‘life’ and ‘resurrection’ and have entered into the ‘paradise’ of the love of God.  And whosoever is not of them, is condemned to ‘death’ and ‘deprivation,’ to the ‘fire’ of unbelief, and to the ‘wrath’ of God.  In all scriptures, the books and chronicles, the sentence of death, of fire, of blindness, of want of understanding and hearing, hath been pronounced against those whose lips have tasted not the ethereal cup of true knowledge, and whose hearts have been deprived of the grace of the holy Spirit in their day.  Even as it hath been previously recorded:  ‘Hearts have they with which they understand not.’”

In a talk regarding “the Mystery of Sacrifice” [The Promulgation of Universal Peace, pp. 449–452], ‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains the meaning of other words used by Jesus:  “He (Jesus) said, ‘If any man eat of this bread, he shall live forever.’  That is to say whosoever assimilates these divine perfections which are within Me will never die; whosoever has a share and partakes of these heavenly bounties I embody will find eternal life; he who takes unto himself these divine lights shall find life everlasting.  How manifest the meaning is!  How evident!  For the soul which acquires divine perfections and seeks heavenly illumination from the teachings of Christ will undoubtedly live eternally.  This is one of the mysteries of sacrifice.”

In the Gospel of John we read:  “Whoso eateth my flesh, and drinketh my blood, hath eternal life; and I will raise him up at the last day.”  From these words of Jesus Christ, Bahá’u’lláh, and

‘Abdu’l-Bahá, it is clear that whosoever assimilates the Divine Perfections of Jesus will have eternal life and will recognize Him in the last days when He is re-manifested.  Those Christians who fail to understand the true meanings of the words of Jesus and to become as one with Him, shall be condemned to the fire of unbelief.

The words of verse 4 mean that the heavenly attributes and virtues of the saintly and righteous of former Dispensations will become re-manifested among those reigning with the Anointed One during the millennium.

5.	But the rest of the dead lived not again until the thousand years were finished.  This is the first resurrection.

6.	Blessed and holy is he that hath part in the first resurrection:  on such the second death hath no power, but they shall be priests of God and of Christ, and shall reign with him a thousand years.

The first spiritual death befell those who rejected the Manifestation of Jesus Christ.  The second spiritual death will befall those who reject the Manifestation of the Christ Returned, Bahá’u’lláh.

7.	And when the thousand years are expired, Satan shall be loosed out of his prison.

8.	And shall go out to deceive the nations which are in the four quarters of the earth, Gog and Magog, to gather them together to battle:  the number of whom is as the sand of the sea.

9.	And they went up on the breadth of the earth, and compassed the camp of the saints about, and the beloved city:  and fire came down from God out of heaven, and devoured them.

10.	And the devil that deceived them was cast into the lake of fire and brimstone, where the beast and the false prophet are, and shall be tormented day and night for ever and ever.

These verses prophesy another time of troubles following the millennium of peace.  <20:4>  “Gog and Magog” symbolize the rulers and peoples who are ruled by satanic forces.  That these are not literal names can be inferred by comparing this use of the terms with their use by Ezekiel.  In Ezekiel, Gog is the prince of the Rosh, Mesehech, and Tubal in the land of Magog.  These people, along with others from Pharas, Cush, Put, Togarmah, Gomer,8 and elsewhere, are to make war on Israel in the latter days following their return to the Holy Land.  Clearly the Jews have returned already, and the conflict alluded to by Ezekiel is either underway or will happen in the near future.  However, in Revelations 20:7 it is stated that a thousand years will expire during which Satan has been chained before Gog and Magog are gathered for battle.  It is clear that the events referred to are different events, and “Gog and Magog” are used in Revelations in the same way as “Har-Magedon” and other symbols.

In a deeper sense, the use of symbolism illustrates the fact that the principles and forces underlying historical events transcend time and place, and are, in essence, the same, independently of the actors and the stage.

In verse 9, the “fire from God” may prophesy the next Manifestation Who will follow Bahá’u’lláh.

11.	And I saw a great white throne, and him that sat on it, from whose face the earth and the heaven fled away; and there was found no place for them.

12.	And I saw the dead, small and great, stand before God; and the books were opened:  and another book was opened, which is the book of life:  and the dead were judged out of those things which were written in the books, according to their works.

13.	And the sea gave up the dead which were in it; and death and hell delivered up the dead which were in them:  and they were judged every man according to their works.

14.	And death and hell were cast into the lake of fire.  This is the second death.

15.	And whosoever was not found written in the book of life was cast into the lake of fire.

These verses revert to the First Resurrection and the Second Death.  The sequence of events is as follows:

Rejection of Jesus Christ = First Death

Acceptance of Bahá’u’lláh = First Resurrection

Judgement of the dead

Rejection of Bahá’u’lláh = Second Death

Satan bound a thousand years

Satan released

Gog and Magog wage war on the saints

Another Manifestation (fire from God?) = Second Resurrection

Satan bound a second time

In verse 11, no place is found for the dragon, the beast, and the false prophet.  “Heaven and earth” refer to the Law of God.

The former Law disappears with the Advent of Bahá’u’lláh.  The Law of God is both spiritual (heaven) and material (earth).  The new Law, the new Jerusalem, will be the subject of Chapter 21.

In verse 12, the Holy Books of the world are unsealed.  In verse 13, the sea of humanity, the spiritually dead, and those that are in the hell of remoteness from God are judged according to their actions.  Verses 14–15 prophesy that the spiritually dead and those remote from God will be thrown in to the lake of spiritual torment and unbelief.

Notes

21
The Holy City

1.	And I was a new heaven and a new earth:  for the first heaven and the first earth were passed away; and there was no more sea.

2.	And I John saw the holy city, new Jerusalem, coming down from heaven, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband.

3.	And I heard a great voice out of heaven saying, Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men, and he will dwell with them, and they shall be his people, and God himself shall be with them, and be their God..

4.	And God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes; and there shall be no more death, neither sorrow, nor crying, neither shall there by any more pain:  for the former things are passed away.

The new heaven and the new earth are the new spiritual and material Laws.  There is no longer the sea of doubt and disbelief.  In verse 2, new Jerusalem, the Bride, is contrasted with Babylon, the harlot.  In verse 3, the Tabernacle of God is the new Revelation descended upon man through the human Temple, Bahá’u’lláh.  God will dwell with men through the Universal House of Justice, giving them unerring spiritual guidance.  “O ye beloved of God!  O ye children of the Kingdom!  Verily, verily the new heaven and the new earth are come.  The holy City, new Jerusalem, hath come down from heaven on high in the form of a maid of heaven, veiled, beauteous, and unique, and prepared

for reunion with her lovers on earth.”—‘Abdu’l-Bahá  <21:1–7 #1>.

Verse 4 promises the end of spiritual death and pain to those who live by the new Law.

5.	And he that sat upon the throne said, Behold, I make all things new.  And he said unto me, Write:  for these words are true and faithful.

6.	And he said unto me, It is done.  I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end.  I will give unto him that is athirst of the fountain of the water of life freely.

7.	He that overcomes shall inherit all things; and I will be his God, and he shall be my son.

In verse 6, the Manifestation identifies Himself as the Alpha and Omega (9), Bahá’.  Verse 7 explains that those who accept the new Revelation and overcome false teachings will be sons of God.  They will inherit the Kingdom.

8.	But the fearful, and unbelieving, and the abominable, and murderers, and whoremongers, and sorcerers, and idolaters, and all liars, shall have their part in the lake which burneth with fire and brimstone:  which is the second death.

In this verse are listed those who will be condemned to “death” and “deprivation”.  Among them are those who are afraid to accept the new Manifestation even though they may believe in the truth of His words.

9.	And there came unto me one of the seven angels which had the seven vials full of the seven last plagues, and talked with me, saying, Come hither, I will show thee the bride, the Lamb’s wife.

10.	And he carried me

away in the spirit to a great and high mountain, and showed me that great city, the holy Jerusalem, descending out of the heaven from God,

11.	Having the glory of God:  and her light was like unto a stone most precious, even like a jasper stone, clear as a crystal.

The Bride, the renewed Word of God, is to be married to the Lamb, the Covenant, in the Person of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.  The Bride is not a widow.

In verse 11, the name of Bahá’u’lláh, the Glory of God, is given for the second time.  The jasper stone, already mentioned in 4:3, symbolizes the oneness of humanity, being many colours but especially having the hue of the heart.  Bahá’u’lláh’s Mission includes especially the uniting of mankind.  It was a common device in antiquity to symbolize principles and attributes through the use of precious stones that have analogous characteristics.

12.	And had a wall great and high, and had twelve gates, and at the gates twelve angels, and names written thereon, which are the names of the twelve tribes of the children of Israel:

13.	On the east three gates; on the north three gates; on the south three gates; and on the west three gates.

14.	And the wall of the city had twelve foundations, and in them the names of the twelve apostles of the Lamb.

We recall the zodiacal signs also bear the names of the Twelve Tribes.  A Tablet of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá clarifies the meaning of these verses.  The purport of that Tablet is briefly summarized below:

There are twelve zodiacal constellations.  According to the theories of the astrologers, the world of physical possibilities is

determined by the dawning place of the phenomenal sun shining through those constellations.  Similarly “the Sun of Truth manifests and pours forth His bounty in twelve constellations of holiness.”  The twelve constellations of holiness have been manifested in different Ages as the twelve sons of Jacob, the twelve chiefs of tribes with Moses, the twelve Apostles of Jesus, and the twelve Imams of Islám.  (Some Answered Questions, p. 66 <11 #1>.)

The Heavenly Jerusalem, the sacred Law of God, therefore has Twelve Gates or Stars of Guidance through which advancing souls enter into the City of God.  The angels at the gates stand for the power of the confirmation of God.  Therefore, each one of the holy souls in the twelve constellations of holiness has received the power of Divine confirmations.  Since, symbolically, the Twelve Gates surround the whole universe, all existence is under the shadow of those souls, and these Gates are the foundation of the City of God, the Divine Jerusalem.

Verse 14 explains  that the names of the Twelve Apostles of Jesus are written upon the foundations of the Holy City.  This means that the “perfections, glad-tidings, virtues and high attributes” of those holy souls will be manifested in the new Jerusalem.

Ezekiel gives further meaning to the twelve gates and the implications of the design.  The twelve gates, three for each of the four cardinal directions, are intended as a reminder to the children of Israel of their iniquities; for through the grace of God, the Holy City, new Jerusalem, the renewed Word of God, is to be broadcast from the Holy Land to which they will be returned from every quarter of the earth.

15.	And he that talked with me had a golden reed to measure the city, and the gates thereof, and the wall thereof.

“In this Greatest day the rod of the plant [reed] and the rod of iron

[sword of Muḥammad] are changed into a rod which is of pure gold and is from the endless treasuries of the Kingdom of God.”—‘Abdu’l-Bahá <21:10–17 #1>

16.	And the city lieth foursquare, and the length is as large as the breadth:  and he measured the city with the reed, twelve thousand furlongs.  The length and the breadth and the height of it are equal.

Although many geometrical structures can have equal length, breadth and height, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains <21:15 #1> that a pyramidal shape is intended for the Holy City.  The shape and dimensions of the Holy City reflect the attributes of the new Law of God.  The pyramid is the firmest and most enduring figure found in nature.  Like the pyramids of Egypt, a figure of this shape will abide through the Ages.  And so it is with the pure Word of God.  A civilization based upon Divine Principles will be prosperous and secure, creating endless blessings for its inhabitants.

Although it is not clear from the Text exactly how the Holy City is measured, since the City is correlated with the twelve signs of the invisible zodiac, we infer that the 12 thousand furlongs measure the perimeter of the City.  The only dimension other than the perimeter that can be readily measured with a rod is the slant edge.  We therefore infer that the slant edge of the pyramid is taken as the height of the City.

The geometry of the Holy City takes the shape of Figure 25.  This particular pyramid fits perfectly into a hemisphere representing the Celestial Pavilion, that is, the new “heaven”, the new Law of the spiritual realm.  Since the furlong is an earthly measure, the pyramid itself represents the new “earth”, that is, the new Law of the material realm.  The base of the pyramid corresponds to the square earth (Figure 3) with its four corners

representing the four “pillars”.  Since the twelve gates in the wall surrounding the City represent the invisible zodiac, that is, the twelve constellations of holiness that are the entranceways into the Kingdom, the apex of the pyramid represents the Apex of the world <21:1–2 #2> and points the way to the open door in heaven.  The 3 gates in each wall not only correspond to the 4 annual seasons, but also to zodiacal seasons.  The last season, beginning at the age of Taurus (calf or ox) and ending at the start of Aquarius (man), covered a period of about 6,500 years, roughly equal to the traditional duration of the Adamic Cycle.

Figure 25
Geometry of the Holy City, the new Jerusalem

Archetypal values

Since each edge of the pyramid is 3,000 furlongs it can be

shown that each of the following parameters of the pyramid has an archetypal value of 9:, 11

The area of the base

The perimeter of each triangular face

The area of each triangular face

The total area of the four triangular faces

The total area of the pyramid

The volume of the pyramid

Thus the pyramid contains the number 9, the number of Bahá’, six times.  A seventh clue is given in verse 17 in which the archetypal value of the wall is given as 144 cubits, which also has an archetypal value of 9.  It should be understood that the true perimeter of the wall is 13,331 furlongs (or stadia), which is thousands of times greater than 144 cubits, giving the seeker a hint that the units of measure are not to be taken literally.

That the dimension of the Holy City contains hidden meanings is made clear by the emphasis placed upon them in Ezekiel and Zechariah.  Ezekiel gives the dimensions of the Holy City as 4,500 measures on each side and 18,000 measures around the perimeter.  Both of these numbers have archetypal values of 9.  The dimensions of the altar are given as 12 cubits on each side, which give archetypal values of 3 for each side and 9 for its area.  The altar is purified for seven days.  The seven days symbolize the seven Days of the Lord that precede the Advents of the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh.

17.	And he measured the wall thereof, an hundred and forty and four cubits, according to the measure of a man, that is, of the angel.

This verse alludes to the “royal gift of the cubit”, a custom of antiquity in which the forearm of the priest-king was designated as the cubit, that is, the unit of length that would prevail as the harmonizing Principle or “Neter”. (see Note 8)  The Manifestation, as both man and angel, is the Perfect Man and the Only Son of God

during His Dispensation.  All things are to be measured by comparison to Him or His Exemplar.

The number 144 has many meanings, (see Note 8) among them being its archetypal value Nine, the Seal of Bahá’.  The “cubit” being an “arm”, the 144 also represents the twice-72 “working arms”, the primal points or guardians who will nurture and protect the Celestial Garden, the new Jerusalem.  (Verse 7:4)

Since the cubit is a “spiritual measure”, its use is appropriate as a measure of the new heaven.  In astrological symbolism, the 144 cubits measure the spiritual attributes emanating from the heavenly realm that will enrich, guide and protect the inhabitants of the Holy City.  In past Ages, each gate of the invisible zodiac emanated about six attributes.  In the new Age, twice-six attributes are to emanate from each gate.

The dimensions of the Holy City are suggestive of the Bahá’í place of worship, the Mashriqu’l-Adhkár, the essential features being prescribed by Bahá’u’lláh as having a dome, nine sides and nine doors.  (See Figure 26.)  It can be shown with a little mathematics that, if we allow one measure for each of the nine sides, then the following seven dimensions will each have archetypal values of 9:

The perimeter of the wall

The area of the wall

The area of the dome

The volume of the dome

The area of the floor

The total area of the exterior

The total enclosed volume

In the Mashriqu’l-Adhkár, the 9 symbolizes the highest unity, <G_10> being the greatest single digit number [in the conventional decimal numbering system].  The 9 doors represent the unity of man and the essential unity of the Divinely revealed Faiths, notably the seven listed in Chapter 1 and the Bábí and Bahá’í Faiths.

Figure 26
Geometry of the Bahá’í Mashriqu’l-Adhkár

Archetypal values

18.	And the building of the wall of it was of jasper:  and the city was pure gold, like unto clear glass.

19.	And the foundations of the wall of the city were garnished with all manner of precious stones.  The first foundation was jasper; the second, sapphire; the third, a chalcedony; the fourth, an emerald;

20.	The fifth, sardonyx; the sixth, sardius; the seventh, chrysolite; the eighth, beryl; the ninth, a topaz; the tenth, a chrysoprasus; the eleventh, a jacinth; the twelfth, an amethyst.

The material of the wall is jasper, symbolizing the Oneness of the World of Humanity, since it comes in all hues but especially the hue of the human heart.  The City is pure gold, clear as glass, meaning that only purity and heavenly virtues are to be found inside, and that the knowledge of god will be as clear as glass.  The foundations of the wall of the City are garnished with many different precious stones, symbolic of the Twelve Basic Principles_/12 of the City of Bahá’, the World Order of Bahá’u’lláh. <21:19–20>

[This description of the meanings of the twelve stones is a pilgrim’s note; its provenance is given at the end of <21:19–20 #1>.]

The first foundation stone is jasper.  Jasper means the principle of the Oneness of the World of Humanity.

The second foundation stone is sapphire.  It is true blue, the blue of the dome of heaven.  The sapphire is the colour of faith, inspiration, loyalty, and truth and means the principle of the Independent Investigation of Truth.

The third foundation stone is chalcedony.16  It is white, the colour of purity, reflecting all seven colours (seven Faiths) equally well.  The chalcedony means the principle that The Foundation of All Religions is One, since the origin of all religions is pure, and a brother to every other religion, and all truth is one.

The fourth foundation stone is emerald.  It is green, the colour of harmony and unity, since it harmonizes with every other colour.  It is also the colour of immortality and humility.  The emerald means the principle that Religion Must be the Source of Unity.

The fifth foundation stone is sardonyx.16  It is a stone of two layers, one white and one red.  The sardonyx symbolizes the two in one, and means the principle of The Equality of Man and Woman.

The sixth foundation stone is sardius.16  It is red or brown according to the way it is held; and so it is with science and religion.  The sardius means the principle of the Agreement of Science and Religion.

The seventh foundation stone is chrysolite.  It is exquisitely clear green and is the material of the Chrysolyte Tablet.  It

symbolizes absolute sincerity and truthfulness, purity and selflessness.  Only when our hearts are pure and free from every form of prejudice and superstition can they become the Chrysolite Tablet whereon may be engraved our thoughts of our brother man.  The chrysolite stands for the principle of the Elimination of All Prejudice.

The eighth foundation stone is beryl.  It is a bluish-green.  The blue symbolizes the blue of faith and loyalty to our brother man.  The green symbolizes humility and unity.  The colour of the beryl symbolizes the harmonious blending into one symmetrical whole of these attributes.  These attributes established in the hearts of men will lead to universal peace.  The beryl stands for the principle of Universal Peace.

The ninth foundation stone is topaz.  It is a golden yellow, the colour of the sun, and symbolizes the light of knowledge and the glory of wisdom that will follow when universal education is established in the world.  The topaz means the principle of Universal Education.

The tenth foundation stone is chrysoprasus.  It is a clear green that embodies truthfulness, justice, sincerity and purity.  These are the prerequisites necessary for the Spiritual Solution of the Economic Problem.

The eleventh foundation stone is jacinth.  Like one form of the jasper, it is a clear red, the universal colour, the hue of the heart.  The heart of one race can understand the heart of another only when it can speak the same language.  The jacinth means the principle of an Auxiliary Universal Language.

The twelfth foundation stone is amethyst.  It is violet and symbolizes spiritual light, reverence, healing, serenity and poise.  The tribunal of all nations must be as the ultra-violet rays of the sun for the healing of the nations, and it must seek spiritual light in all reverence that it may fulfil its high calling, imparting a sense of security, poise and serenity to the hearts of all humanity.

The amethyst means the principle of a World Tribunal or Parliament of Man.

21.	And the twelve gates were twelve pearls; every several gate was of one pearl:  and the street of the city was pure gold, as it were transparent glass.

22.	And I saw no temple therein:  for the Lord God Almighty and the Lamb are the temple of it.

No temple means that no churches or synagogues are needed in the City.  <21:22–23 #1>

23.	And the city had no need of the sun, neither of the moon, to shine in it:  for the glory of God did lighten it, and the Lamb is the light thereof.

24.	And the nations of them which are saved shall walk in the light of it:  and the kings of the earth do bring their glory and honour into it.

25.	And the gates of it shall not be shut at all by day:  for there shall be no night there.

26.	And they shall bring the glory and honour of the nations into it.

27.	And there shall in no wise enter into it any thing that defileth, neither whatsoever worketh abomination, or maketh a lie:  but they which are written in the Lamb’s book of life.

No sun or moon means that no priestly hierarchy will be needed in the City.  The reason is that Bahá’u’lláh, the Glory of

God, and the Lord of the Covenant, will lighten the City, while ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, the Centre of the Covenant, will be its light. <22:3>  No night means that there will no longer be spiritual darkness or ignorance.

In verse 23, the name of the new Manifestation, Bahá’u’lláh, the Glory of God, is revealed for the third and last time in the Apocalypse. <21:23 #2>  John follows the ancient formula of repeating the name thrice to emphasize its superlative nature.  The notion that “three” represents the best or greatest has extremely ancient roots.  The Greek word trismegistos means thrice-greatest or superlatively great.  The Latin word ter felix means thrice-happy or happiest.  The Pantocrator is thrice-holy.  (Verse 4:8)  The concept was probably based on 3 being the first “complete” number, having a beginning (1), a middle (2), and an ending (3).

The practice of repeating 3-times was, and still is, used to emphasize a prayer or sacred ritual.  The formula was adapted by practitioners of the occult arts in carrying out their rituals and incantations.  (Third time’s a charm!)  Samuel Taylor Coleridge used it in his masterpiece Kubla Khan, the closing lines of which might best be applied to Bahá’u’lláh:

“And all should cry, Beware!  Beware!

His flashing eyes, his floating hair!

Weave a circle round him thrice,

And close your eyes with holy dread,

For he on honey-dew hath fed,

And drunk the milk of Paradise.”

Notes

22
Epilogue

There are several voices in this chapter.  Following the closed quotes of the Revised Standard Version (RSV), the probable voices are as follows:

Spoken by John:

1.	And he showed me a pure river of water of life, clear as a crystal, proceeding out of the throne of God and of the Lamb.

2.	In the midst of the street of it, and on either side of the river, was there the tree of life, which bare twelve manner of fruits, and yielded her fruit every month:  and the leaves of the tree were for the healing of the nations.

3.	And there shall be no more curse:  but the throne of God and of the Lamb shall be in it; and his servants shall serve him:

4.	And they shall see his face; and his name shall be in their foreheads.

5.	And there shall be no night there; and they need no

candle, neither light of the sun; for the Lord God giveth them light:  and they shall reign for ever and ever.

John recites the blessings of those living in the Holy City, safely gathered beneath the Covenant, the companions of the Crimson Ark. [22:3]  The Twin Holy Trees are the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh.  The twelve kinds of fruit are the blessings flowing from the Laws and Principles that are the twelve foundation stones upon which the City is founded.  "Seeing His face” means that the inhabitants of the City will behold the countenance of God in His Manifestation.  No night means no spiritual darkness.  No candle nor light of the sun means no formal church with a priestly hierarchy.

6.	And he said unto me,

Spoken by the Angel:

These sayings are faithful and true:  and the Lord God of the holy prophets sent his angel to show unto his servants the things which must shortly be done.

7.	Behold, I come quickly:

Spoken by John:

blessed is he that keepeth the sayings of the prophecy of this book.

Spoken by John:

8.	And I John saw these things, and heard them.  And when I had heard and seen, I fell down to worship before the feet of the angel which showed me these things.

Spoken by John.

9.	Then saith he unto me,

Spoken by Angel:

See thou do it not:  for I am thy fellow servant, and of thy brethren the prophets,

and of them which keep the sayings of this book:  worship God.

Spoken by the angel:

10.	And he saith unto me,

Spoken by the Angel for Bahá’u’lláh:

Seal not the sayings of the prophecy of this book:  for the time is at hand.

11.	He that is unjust, let him be unjust still:  and he which is filthy, let him be filthy still:  and he that is righteous, let him be righteous still:  and he that is holy, let him be holy still.

12.	And, behold, I come quickly; and my reward is with me, to give every man according as his work shall be.

13.	I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end, the first and the last.

Spoken by John:

14.	Blessed are they that do his commandments, that they may have right to the tree of life, and may enter in through the gates into the city.

15.	For without are dogs, and sorcerers, and whoremongers, and murderers, and idolaters, and whosoever loveth and maketh a lie.

Spoken by the Angel for Jesus:

16.	I Jesus have sent mine angel to testify unto you these things in the churches.  I am the root and the offspring of David, and the bright and morning star.

Jesus is the Root of David, being the Spirit of Abraham and descended from Abraham.  He is also the offspring of David, being the Spirit of David and descended from David.  As a bright morning star, He is the Herald of a new Day of God.

Spoken by John:

17.	And the Spirit and the Bride say, Come.  And let him that heareth say, Come.  And let him that is athirst come.  And whosoever will, let him take the water of life freely.

18.	For I testify unto every man that heareth the words of the prophecy of this book, If any man shall add unto these things, God shall add unto him the plagues that are written in this book:

19.	And if any man shall take away from the words of the book of this prophecy, God shall take away his part out of the book of life, and out of the holy city, and from the things which are written in this book.

20.	He which testifieth these things saith, Surely I come quickly.  Amen.  Even so, come, Lord Jesus.

21.	The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all.  Amen.

the end

In verse 17, John explains that salvation is attainable without cost.  In verse 18 and 19, John warns those who hear or read the Apocalypse against falsifying the text.  In the words of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, “What deviation can be greater than breaking the Covenant of God?  What deviation can be greater than interpolating and falsifying the words and verses of the Sacred Test?”  Such practices are also condemned by Bahá’u’lláh:  “Corrupt not the holy, the all-embracing, and primal Word of God, and seek not to profane its sanctity or to debase its exalted character.”

Misinterpretations and accidental perversion of the Sacred Text have been the cause of much confusion and schism among the world’s religions.  In spite of the warning in verses 18 and 19, there is evidence that some early Christians may have unwittingly modified some versions of the text of the Apocalypse in Chapter 13, verse 18, to change the number of the beast to 616 to conform with the literal value of “Nero Caesar”.  Probably

because of its highly allegorical style, the Apocalypse appears to have been kept relatively free of such distortions, whether by accident, by friend, or by foe, and it has been possible in these, the last days, for the Lion of Judah to “open the book and loose its seven seals”.

Babylon, the corrupted Word of God, “has been thrown down and shall be found no more.”  In the City of Bahá, distortions of the Sacred Text are no longer possible.  The Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh bear His own seal and are protected in vaults in the sacred mountain of Carmel in the Holy Land.  Although every inhabitant of the City of Bahá has translations of many of these Tablets and is enjoined to study and meditate upon their meanings, access to the original Sacred Texts and their official application is entrusted to the Universal House of Justice, democratically elected and re-enfranchised by the City every five years.  “They who are its appointed interpreters, they whose hearts are the repositories of its secrets, are, however, the only ones who can comprehend its manifold wisdom.”—Bahá’u’lláh

A question often asked is:  “Why have the Holy Books been sealed?  Would it not have been better if their meanings had been made apparent to everyone?”  The answer may lie in the wide diversity of temperaments and capacities of understanding of the sea of humanity.  The Holy books, through the use of allegory and symbol, contain meanings and life-giving sustenance for every sincere seeker, whether he be a poor unlettered serf on a medieval manor or a polished philosopher on a university campus.  “Even as it hath been said:  ‘Not everything that a man knoweth can be discussed, nor can everything that he can discuss be regarded as timely, nor can every timely utterance be considered as suited to the capacity of those who hear it.’”—Bahá’u’lláh

Notes

Appendices

Appendix A
The number of Bahá in the Apocalypse

There can be little doubt that the name of the Manifestation of the last days is Bahá’u’lláh.  Besides revealing His name three times in 15:8, 21:11 and 21:23, there are many expressions and numbers that refer to Him, His City, His Law, or His Seal that have the archetypal value of 9, the number of Bahá.  These are:

Besides these clearly significant occurrences of 9, there are other occurrences that are probably significant.  These are the references to Glory as a name of God in 14:7, 16:9, and possibly in 4:9, 4:11, 15:4, and 19:1.  The Greek word for Glory has an archetypal value of 9, identical to the value of Bahá (Glory) in Arabic.  The 1,260 years, given seven times in 11:2, 11:3, 11:9, 11:11, 12:6, 12:14, and 13:5, also has an archetypal value of 9.  The Almighty “Pantocrator” appears 9 times in the Apocalypse, verses 1:8, 4:8, 11:17, 15:3, 16:7, 16:14, 19:6, 19:15 and 21:22.  This appellation occurs only once elsewhere in the New Testament, II Corinthians 6:18.

There are still other uses of the number 9 that are possibly significant.  For example, the number 666 in 13:18 has an archetypal value of 9.  Furthermore, there are 9 chapters (14–22) that are devoted to the last days and the Advents of the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh.  The 142,794 days of 9:15 have an archetypal value of 9.  The Greek word “Apocalypse” Αποκάλυψη, which means “Revelation”, has a literal value of 1,512 and an archetypal value of 9.

We now consider the possibility that the occurrence of nines is entirely a matter of random chance.  Fortunately, it is a simple matter to estimate the probability that the nines result from chance.

For each number and verbal expression, the probability that the archetypal values will be 9 is about 1/9.  The probability that the dimensions of the Holy City will contain nines is 1/3 (ch. 21, Note 7.)  Considering only those expressions and numbers that are given by the Table, the probability that all eight expressions and numbers will have archetypal values of 9 by random chance is about:

1/9 × 1/9 × 1/9 × 1/9 × 1/9 × 1/9 × 1/9 × 1/3 ≈ 0.00000006969.

To appreciate how small the probability is, its reciprocal 14,348,907 is equal to the number of seconds in 5 months and 2 weeks.

Appendix B
Correlation of some dates in the Book of Daniel

The Book of Daniel is, of course another Sacred Text that may be as difficult to interpret as the Apocalypse.  However, His Holiness ‘Abdu’l-Bahá (Some Answered Questions, Chapter 10) has left us several clues that should eventually permit the complete decoding of the book and its correlation with the Apocalypse.

In Daniel 9:24–25, seventy weeks are given from the decree to rebuild Jerusalem to the martyrdom of Jesus Christ.  Since each “week” is 7 years (see Table, Chapter 2 of this book), 70 “weeks” are 490 years.  There were four decrees to rebuild Jerusalem.

These were:

1.	The decree of Cyrus in 534 BCE, recorded in the first chapter of Ezra [1:1–4].  This decree was unfulfilled.

2.	The decree of Darius in 519 BCE, recorded in the sixth chapter of Ezra [6:1–12].  This decree was also unfulfilled.

3.	The decree of Artaxerxes in 457 BCE [Ezra 7:1–28].  This decree was fulfilled by the fourth decree.

4.	The decree of the same Artaxerxes in 444 BCE, a continuation of the third decree, recorded in the second chapter of Nehemiah [2:1–8].

The 70 weeks or 490 years begins at the third degree in 457 BCE.  Remember that since the Birth date of Jesus is taken at CE 1 instead of Zero, there is one year missing in the Christian calendar.  Consequently, the prophecy places the date of the Crucifixion at:

490 – 457 + 1 = CE 34

In 9:25, Daniel gives a second way of reckoning the martyrdom of Jesus as 7 weeks and 62 weeks.  The explanation of this date is given in 9:26 in which it is indicated that the second

date begins after the termination of the rebuilding of Jerusalem.  The 7 weeks (49 years) are the duration of the rebuilding of Jerusalem.  The additional 62 weeks (434 years) brings us to the year CE 27, and it was during the last week “after 62 weeks” (CE 28–34) that Jesus, the Messiah, was martyred.

The daily sacrifice was taken away during the Dispensation of Muḥammad.  (See <5:6 #1>.)  The end of “the abomination that makes desolate” is given in 8:14 as 2,300 days.  Using the same origin as for the calculation of the Crucifixion (457 BCE), the result is:

2300 – 457 + 1 = CE 1844

This was, of course, the date of the Edict of Toleration that permitted the Jews to resettle the Holy Land.  The same date coincides with the Declaration of the Báb and the Birth of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.  Jesus gives the end of the abomination as the date immediately preceding the re-manifestation of the Son of Man (Matthew 24:15, 29–30).

The date of the Manifestation of Bahá’u’lláh is calculated as follows:

In Daniel 12:7, the “time, times, and half a time” is 1,260 lunar years, dated from the Hijrah.  This date coincides with CE 1844 and the Declaration of the Báb.  However, in 12:11, Daniel gives another method of calculation as 1,290 days.  The origin of this date is the first public Declaration of Muḥammad of His Prophethood in Ḥijáz.  This even was 10 lunar years before the Hijrah.  The 1,290 days thus becomes AH 1280 or CE 1863–1864, the date of the first public Declaration of Bahá’u’lláh in the Garden of Riḍván (Paradise).

Later in 12:12, we read, “Blessed is he that waiteth, and cometh to the thousand three hundred and five and thirty days.”  This is the period in solar (Bahá’í) years from the firm foundation of the Faith of Muḥammad until the firm foundation of the Bahá’í Faith.

(The Bahá’í Writings indicate that the firm foundation of the Bahá’í Faith was fulfilled by the completion of the Ten Year Crusade and the foundation of the Universal House of Justice in CE 1963.  It can be inferred, therefore, that the 1,335 “days” must be counted from CE 628.  It was in that year that Muḥammad concluded the Truce of al-Ḥudaybiyyah with the idolaters of Mecca.  History has shown that this Truce had profound consequences for the future success of Islám, establishing the legitimacy of Islám and resulting in many important converts to the Faith.  The interested reader may consult the Qur’án 48:19; Ref. 37, Chapter 12; Ref. 41, p. 250; God Passes By, p. 151; and the following issues of Bahá’í News:  No. 202, p. 3; No. 261, p. 4; No. 313, p. 7.)

(The prophecy in Daniel 4:13–23 concerning the “7 times” probably dates from 604–602 BCE when Nebuchadnezzar conquered Jerusalem.  “Seven times” is 7 × 360 or 2,520 years.  In the lunar calendar of ‘Iráq, this is the span of time between 602 BCE and CE 1844.  See Reference 28, p. 27.)

Appendix C
Origins of gematriot and number symbolism

The origins of gematriot and number symbolism are lost in antiquity.  Carl Jung (Ref. 2, p. 71) contends that the roots of number mysticism are prehistoric.  Neugebauer (Ref. 53, p. 9) suggests that number mysticism may have originated among primitive civilizations when counting was considered a difficult and “magical” task comparable to spelling the name of a god.

It is generally believed that numbers preceded letters.  It seems likely that numbers were first associated with the fingers.  Dr Barry Fell in his fascinating book America B.C. (Ref. 55) describes an early alphabet also based upon the fingers.  Could not the same finger represent both a number and a sound?  The origin of an early gematria becomes obvious.

Some suggest that the origins of the historical gematriot lie in ancient Egyptian and Babylonian cosmology.  In the history of the Western use of number symbolism, Pythagoras of Samos (circa 582–500 BCE) is probably the most noteworthy.  He is supposed to have travelled and studied in Egypt, Babylonia and India.  While in Babylon, he may have studied under the neo-Zoroastrian Nazaratas.  (Ref. 4, p. 62)  His sojourn there almost coincided with the Jewish Babylonian Captivity.  On his return, he originated a school of philosophy in Crotona, a Greek colony in southern Italy.  Pythagoras is reputed to have discovered the numerical ratios governing musical harmony, the famous theorem regarding the hypotenuse of a right triangle that bears his name (probably erroneously; see Ref. 53, pp. 35ff, 148, 149), and many other things that have influenced other philosophers, scientists, and mathematicians down to the present day.  He is sometimes called “the father of numerology”.

Plato (circa 427–347 BCE) discusses the rudiments of gematria in his Cratylos, in which he claims that the force of a name

is to be found in its numerical value, while words and phrases of the same value may be substituted without loss of meaning.

The Hebrew cabala, the mystical system of philosophy that includes the Hebrew gematria, has been used for thousands of years as a method of interpreting the Sacred Text.  The Old Testament apparently contains hidden meanings in the literal and archetypal values of expressions and numbers, possibly encoded by the prophets.  The authoritative documents of the cabala are the Book of Formation (the Sefer Yezirah) and the Book of Brightness (the Zohar).  The origins of these books are ancient and uncertain.

Plilo Judaeus, a Jew of Alexandria (circa 30 BCE–CE 50) (Reference 42) attempted to reconcile Hellenistic and Jewish thought through number symbolism.  Saint Augustine (CE 354–430) in his book The City of God and elsewhere (Reference 43) also attempted such a reconciliation.

Most pertinent to the discussion of the Apocalypse, perhaps, was the use of gematria by the ancient Gnostics, a religious movement in competition with early orthodox Christianity.  Before their period of decadence, they appear to have had many worthy leaders and may have had a considerable influence on Christian doctrine.  (See Reference 14, p. 70 and Reference 9.)  The Church was so effective in suppressing overt Gnosticism that, until the recent discovery of a Gnostic library at Nag-Hammadi, our principal knowledge of them came through their critics and enemies, notably Saint Irenaeus, the second century Bishop of Lyons, who reveals many prejudicial, though informative, details concerning the Gnostics in his book Against Heresies.  As an example, he discusses the fact that the Gnostics saw in the name of Jesus ‘ a numerological connection with both the 8 and the 6, since His name has a literal value of 888 and an archetypal value of 6.  Other details quoted by Saint Irenaeus indicate that the Gnostics probably built their system of gematria on more ancient sources.  It is interesting that the Gnostics claimed to have esoteric knowledge from Jesus privately transmitted by Him to His Disciples.  (Reference 14, p. 70)

Occultists find the gematria and number symbolism a rich source of material for speculation because of its mysterious and esoteric nature.  The fascination of numerology is not limited to the West and the Middle East.  The Chinese book of divination, the I Ching, one of the six Chinese Classics and probably the oldest book in existence, has as its premise that all human destiny can be reduced to a limited set of numbers based upon combinations of Yang and Yin symbols.  Many reliable people have attested to the value of the I Ching.  However, all forms of divination and other occult practices are forbidden to Bahá’ís, not because they are necessarily inoperative, but because such practices are disruptive to human development, both in the realm of earth and in the realm of heaven.

Both the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh have employed the abjad, the Arabic gematria, as a means of concealing meanings, and, at other times, to reveal extended meanings in certain words and phrases.  This is certain to revive interest in number symbolism and gematria.  Let us hope that the occultists of the first Bahá’í millennium will use number symbolism more wisely than they have in the last.

Appendix D
The Arabic and Hebrew gematriot

Appendix E
Glossary of symbols

ABADDON, APOLLYON—lit. The Destroyer, Abú-Sufyán

ADULTERY—to share false doctrine

ADVENT—the Coming of a new Manifestation of God

AIR—1.  spirituality, nearness to God; 2 unlocalized (16:17)

ALPHA (and) OMEGA—1.  lit. Nine, the number of Bahá; 2.  the Lord God; 3.  Bahá’u’lláh; 4.  Jesus Christ; 5.  the Word of God; 6.  the Manifestation

ALTAR—a place of offering to God

AMEN—1.  lit. Faithful and True, Muḥammad; 2 so be it, etc.

ANGEL—1.  a purified soul; 2.  a celestial (spiritual) messenger; 3.  a Revelator; 4.  a spiritual leader; 5.  fallen angel—a spiritual leader fallen from grace; 6.  angel of light (12:7)—good spiritual principle; 7.  angel of darkness (12:7)—evil spiritual principle  (see Four Angels, Mighty Angel, Seven Angels)

ANTIPAS—lit. Against All, Lord Buddha

APOSTLE—trusted messenger

APOLLYON—lit. The Destroyer, Abú-Sufyán

ARK OF THE TESTAMENT—1.  Book of God’s Testament and the Epistle of the Covenant; 2.  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, the Centre of the Covenant

ARMAGEDDON—Heb., lit. mountain of conflict, hence:  piling up of sorrow

ARMIES—1.  (in heaven) spiritual forces; 2.  (hosts) sanctified followers of Bahá’u’lláh (19:14)

BABYLON—(from Bab-el, Gate of God and bal-bel confusion), the city of the corrupted Word of God

BAGHDÁD—lit. Gift of God

BALAAM, DOCTRINE OF—1.  idol worship; 2.  materialism

BALANCE—1.  power of judgement; 2.  Book of God; 3.  new Manifestation

BATTLE—conflict

BEAR—Media-Persia

BEASTS—1.  rulers; 2.  Empires; (also see Four Beasts, First Beast, Second Beast)

BEAST THAT WAS AND IS NOT—Empire of Alexander the Great

BED—bed of heedlessness, misery and shame

BELOVED CITY—probably Jerusalem

BIRD—1.  soul; 2.  animating principle; 3.  attributes

BLACK—loss of spiritual light (illumination)

BLASPHEMY—see Name of Blasphemy

BLOOD—1.  life-force; 2.  sacrifice; 3.  opposite of water:  “turn water into blood” means to convert source of spiritual life into a source of spiritual death; 4.  suffering (14:20); 5.  shed blood—kill (16:6)

BOOK OF LIFE—the Book containing the names of those who deserve salvation and are firm in the Covenant of God

BOOK OF SEVEN SEALS—the Holy Books of the seven Faiths of Asia

BOTTOMLESS PIT—pit of theological error

BOW—false propaganda

BRASS—or BRONZE blended metal, hence the blending of mankind

BRIDE—the renewed Word of God

BRIDLE—see horse’s bridle

BRONZE—blended metal, hence the blending of mankind

BURN—condemn

CALF—see ox

CAMP OF SAINTS—possibly the Bahá’í Universal House of Justice

CANDLE—formal Church

CANDLESTICK—1.  source of spiritual light (guidance); 2.  a Faith; 3.  a Prophet; 4.  a formal Church

CARMEL—lit. Vineyard of God

CENSER—piety

CHILD (man-child)—1.  the Báb; 2.  the Twelfth Imám

CHRIST—lit. from Gr. Christos, The Anointed One

CHURCH—1.  a Divinely revealed Faith; 2.  Church of Jesus Christ; 3.  earthly Church imperfectly representing the Divine Church  (see also Seven Churches)

CITY—1.  institutions, civilization; 2.  inhabitants; 3.  the abode of

the soul; 4.  the Holy City Jerusalem of the true Word of God (14:20); 5.  the great city Babylon of the corrupted Word of God (16:19)

CLOUD—1.  a veil between man and heaven; 2.  trouble; 3.  cloud of glory

CLOTHING—see Garment

COLD—spiritual indifference

COLOURS:

WHITE—purity

BLACK—1.  injustice; 2.  unspiritual

RED—war

PALE—indifference

SCARLET—spiritual beauty (Muslim)

PURPLE—royalty

COUNTENANCE—spiritual aspect or appearance

CREATURES— people with various attributes

CROWN—1.  authority; 2.  reward; 3.  rulership

CUBIT—a sacred measure, usually equal to the forearm of the reigning priest-king; two spans

CUP—see drink

DARKNESS—lack of spiritual understanding

DAY—1.  a year; 2.  a “time” of 360 years; 3.  an era of arbitrary duration; 4.  a Day of God or a Lord’s Day, i.e., a Dispensation

DAY OF GOD—the Dispensation of a Manifestation of God

DEAD BODY—outward appearance without spiritual reality

DEATH—1.  spiritual unawareness; 2.  First Death—failure to accept Jesus Christ; 3.  Second Death—failure to accept Bahá’u’lláh

DESOLATION—spiritually destitute

DESTROY—see kill

DEVIL (from Gr. Diabolos)—1.  The Deceiver, the principle of deception whereby the Word of God becomes corrupted; 2.  evil principle

DEVOUR—destroy

DIE IN THE LORD—1.  to die in one’s self to live in God; 2.  to sacrifice one’s life for the Cause of God

DISPENSATION—a Day of God, the calendrical period during

which a Manifestation is predominant in the contingent world

DOOR—1.  a test; 2.  the Báb; 3.  the opening into a new Age

DRAGON—1.  the Serpent (Devil); 2.  evil ruler

DRINK—to experience

DRY UP—to remove the source of spiritual grace and knowledge

EAGLE—1.  majesty, authority, victory; 2.  sharp vision; 3.  Great Eagle—Muḥammad; 4.  the ancient name for the zodiacal sign Scorpio; 5.  Flying Eagle—Shoghi Effendi [4:7]  (see also Two Wings of a Great Eagle)

EARS—capacity for understanding spiritual teachings

EARTH—1.  the world of man; 2.  the Law of God concerning the contingent world; 3.  the world of matter; 4.  earthly grave (12:4); 5.  ruins (13:11)

EARTHQUAKE—1.  a shaking of the world of man; 2.  a literal earthquake (11:13)

EAST—land to the east of Israel:  Persia, ‘Iráq, etc.

EAT—1.  accept; 2.  eat flesh—see devour

ELDERS—see Twenty-four Elders

END OF THE AGE—the end of the Age of Prophecy.  The Age of Prophecy began with the Prophet Adam and ended with the Báb.

EPHESUS, CHURCH OF—lit. family hearth, the Sabean Faith

EYES—1.  capacity for spiritual vision; 2.  eyes within—spiritual insight

EYES OF FLAME—1.  the eyes of Bahá’u’lláh; 2.  vengeance

FACE OF GOD—the attributes of God reflected in His Manifestation (22:4)

FACE OF MAN—unity of mankind

FAITHFUL AND TRUE (name)—The Bird of the Celestial Throne, Bahá’u’lláh (19:11

FALSE PROPHET—1.  a pretender to Divine Revelation; 2.  Mírzá Yaḥyá

FAMINE—to be without spiritual sustenance

FATHER—1.  God; 2.  Station of the Father-the spiritual rank of Bahá’u’lláh

FEARFUL—afraid to accept the new Manifestation

FEED—sustain

FEET—source of worldly strength

FIRE OR HEAT—1.  suffering; 2.  wrath; 3.  purification; 4.  tribulation; 5.  rebuke; 6.  fire and brimstone—severe spiritual torment that cannot be distinguished; 7.  fiery speech; 8.  Greek fire (13:13)

FIRST BEAST—the Baní-Umayyad dynasty, personified by Abú-Sufyán

FIRST BEGOTTEN OF THE DEAD—Jesus Christ, the first to be raised from spiritual death during His Ministry

FLEE—to disappear, pass away (20:11)

FLOOD—flood of deceptive words (12:15)

FLYING EAGLE—see eagle [(4:7)]

FOREHEAD—1.head, as in “head tax”; 2.  brow, as in “seal on his brow”

FORNICATION—false doctrine

FOUNTAINS OF WATER—sources of spiritual grace and knowledge

FOUR ANGELS—power of the world of man

FOUR BEASTS—1.  four paragons of virtue, rulers who are destined to accept Bahá’u’lláh; 2.  the Four Pillars of the age of Aquarius-Leo; 3.  the four Central Figures of the Bahá’í Faith

FOUR CORNERS OF THE EARTH—1.  the celestial directions corresponding to the equinoxes and solstices; 2.  the constellations corresponding to the equinoxes and solstices

FOUR HORNS—voices of the Four Winds

FOUR HORSEMEN, FOUR HORSES—see colours, horse]

FOUR QUARTERS OF THE EARTH—1.  the four hemispheres:  Northern, Southern, Eastern, Western; 2.  the four cardinal directions, North, South, East, West

FOUR WINDS OF THE EARTH—the winds of prophecy

FOWL—see bird

FROGS—unclean principles and false teachings

FRUITS—1.  blessings; 2.  consequential outcomes

FURLONG—an earthly measure

GAIN THE VICTORY—to overcome

GARMENT, RAIMENT, ROBE—1.  attributes of the soul; 2.  garment to the foot—heavenly attributes

GATE—see Twelve Gates

GEMS—see precious stones

GLASS—clearly understood  (see also sea of glass)

GLORY OF GOD—lit. Bahá’u’lláh

GOG AND MAGOG—rulers and peoples motivated by satanic forces

GOLD—1.  excellence and perfection; 2.  Divine

GOLDEN GIRDLE—1.  spiritual power; 2.  a new Faith

GOSPEL—lit. glad tidings

GRASS—1.  people of the earth; 2.  green grass—righteous people

GRAVE—a place for (see) dead bodies (11:9)

GREAT TRIBULATION—persecutions of righteous peoples

GREAT WHORE—1.  false theology, the corrupter of the Word of God (see woman)

GREEN GRASS—righteous people

HAIL—missiles of Divine punishment

HARLOT—theologies or priest who prostitutes the Word of God (see woman)

HARPS—contemplation

HARVEST—mankind in its various degrees of spiritual growth

HEAD—1.  a projectile (9:19); 2.  a dominion (12:3)  (see Seven Heads)

HEAR—to understand the true meanings of spiritual teachings

HEAT—see fire

HEAVEN—1.  the realm of the spirit; 2.  closeness to God; 3.  the realm of Divine principles reflected imperfectly in the world of man; 4.  the Law of God concerning eternal verities; 5.  the source of Divine prophecy

HELL—remoteness from God

HIDDEN MANNA—1.  spiritual sustenance from heaven; 2.  Divine Revelation

HIM WHICH IS, AND WHICH WAS, AND IS TO COME—1.  the Lord God; 2.  the Hebrew Trinity, Yahweh; 3.  God’s recurring Manifestations

HOLY CITY—1.  Jerusalem; 2.  the Law of God

HORN—1.  a name of a ruler (12:3); 2.  the name of an office (13:11); 3.  a name of authority (5:6)  (see also ten horns, two horns)

HORSE—1.  a potent force; 2.  White Horse—theology (corrupted, 6:2; true, 19:11); 3.  Red Horse—war; 4.  Black Horse—economic

injustice; 5.  Pale Horse—ungodliness, spiritual indifference; 6.  cannons (9:17); (also see white horse , colour)

HORSE’S BRIDLE, HEIGHT OF—seven spans

HOT—religious zeal

HOUR—1.  a short time; 2.  a part of a year; 3.  (cap.) the person of the Manifestation of God; 4.  (cap.) the time when the Manifestation declares His Mission; 5.  The “Hour”—the “Time of the end”

HOUR OF TEMPTATION—1.  the temptation to deny or martyr the Báb; 2.  the “Hour”

HUNGER—to need spiritual sustenance

HUSBAND—1.  the Centre of the Covenant; 2.  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá

IMAGE OF THE BEAST—the Second Beast, the ‘Abbásid dynasty, a revived replica of the First Beast

ISLAND—1.  a place of refuge on the sea of the spirit; 2.  a place of refuge on the sea of humanity; 3.  a church

JERUSALEM—lit. Sacred Peace; 2.  the City of the renewed and purified Word of God

JEW—1.  a lover of righteousness; 2.  one who accepts the Manifestation

JEZEBEL—daughter of Ethbaal, king of Tyre and Sidon, who introduced the doctrine of Balaam into Israel.  She symbolizes idol worship, false priesthood, etc.

KEY—power to open and close

KEY OF DAVID—the power to open a new Age

KEYS OF HELL AND DEATH—the power to bring people back to God and to resurrect the spiritually dead

KILL—1.  to overcome or vanquish; 2.  to destroy spiritual reality (11:7)

KING—see Seven Kings, ten horns

KING OF LOCUSTS—Abú-Sufyán (also king of the First Beast)

KING OF THE FIRST BEAST—Abú-Sufyán

KINGDOM OF GOD—the World Order of Bahá’u’lláh

KINGS OF THE EAST—Bahá’u’lláh and His Successors

LAKE OF FIRE AND BRIMSTONE—extreme spiritual torment

LAMB—1.  “Leader of the flock;” 2.  Holy Figure sacrificed for the Covenant; 3.  the Centre of the Covenant; 4.  Jesus Christ

5.  The Báb; 6.  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá; 7.  meekness (13:11); 8.  Aries, the first sign of the zodiac

LAMP—see Seven Lamps

LAODICEA, CHURCH OF—lit. just people, the Muslim Faith

LEAVES OF THE TREE—teachings

LEOPARD—Empire of Alexander

LIAR—corrupter of the Word of God

LIFE—to be spiritually aware

LIGHTNING—anger and wrath of God

LINEN—see white linen

LION—1.  kingly majesty and strength; 2.  Babylonia; 3.  Leo, the sign of the zodiac; 4.  the Lion of Judah, Bahá’u’lláh

LION OF THE TRIBE OF JUDAH—Bahá’u’lláh

LITTLE BOOK—the Word of God

LOCUSTS, PLAGUE OF—mounted warriors

LORD’S DAY—1.  the duration of the Dispensation of a Manifestation of God; 2.  Lord’s day (lower case)—Sunday

LUKEWARM—bigoted

MAN—1.  unity of man; 2.  Aquarius, the sign of the zodiac; 3.  the Báb

MAN-CHILD—1.  the Báb; 2.  the Twelfth Imám

MANNA—see Hidden Manna

MARK—1.  stigma; 2.  name; 3.  mark on the right (working) hand—land and business tax (kharaj); 4.  mark on the forehead—head tax (jizyah)

MARRIAGE—reunion of the Word of God with man

MICHAEL—lit. One Like God, the Spirit of Bahá’u’lláh

MIGHTY ANGEL—the Spirit of Bahá’u’lláh (10:1)

MIRACLE—a wonder, not necessarily supernatural

MONTH—thirty years

MOON—1.  a reflector of the light of heaven; 2.  a prophet or a Manifestation; 3.  leaders of the worldly Church; 4.  emblem of Turkey (12:1)

MOUNTAIN—1.  a nation; 2.  a religion; 3.  a people; 4.  a place of refuge

MOUTH—1.  the opening of a cannon (9:19); 2.  speech (10:9); 3.  a devourer (12:16); 4.  centre of command (Capital or throne) (13:2)

MYSTERY OF GOD—1.  hidden meanings of prophecy (10:7);

2.  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá

NAKED—lacking in spiritual attributes (raiment)

NAME OF BLASPHEMY—The Caliph (The Successor), 666

NAME WRITTEN—see White Stone

NEW JERUSALEM—the City of the renewed Word of God, the City of Bahá

NEW NAME—1.  Bahá; 2.  Bahá’u’lláh

NEW SONG—the new Message

NICOLAITANES–followers of Nicolas, i.e., Covenant breakers

NIGHT—the period between two Divine Revelations when the Sun of Truth is not manifest among men

NUMBERS:

3—Divinity; holiness, heaven; Yahweh

4—world of man

7—union of heaven and earth; opportunity; expiation and sacrifice, trial and punishment, the union of Divinity and the world of man (3 + 4)

9—Bahá, the Greatest Name of God; Bahá’u’lláh; the Trinity of Trinities; the Completed Triad; the unity of religions and mankind

12 = 3—(cabalistic contraction); the Twelve Tribes of Israel; the Twelve Apostles of Jesus; the Twelve Basic Principles of the Bahá’í Faith; the signs of the zodiac; the unity of heaven and earth (3×4); the Twelve Imams of Islám; etc.

144 = 9—(cabalistic contraction); the twice-72 primal points of the Bahá’í Dispensation; (possibly) Bahá’u’lláh Μπαχαολλά

666 = 9—(cabalistic contraction); The Caliph; Yang; the sun; the source of Divine inspiration (uncorrupted); the worldly Church (corrupted)

1,600 = 7—(cabalistic contraction); “40-times-40”

12,000 = 3—(cabalistic contraction)

144,000 = 9—(cabalistic contraction); the “first fruits”

200,000,000 = 2—(cabalistic contraction)

ODOURS—(perfumes)—prayers

OFFSPRING OF DAVID—1.  a descendant of David; 2.  the Spirit of David; 3.  Jesus Christ

OVERCOME—to resist and overcome false doctrine

OX (calf in KJV)—1.  strength and servitude; 2.  Taurus, the sign of the zodiac; 3.  the Servant of Bahá, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá

PAIN—spiritual suffering

PALMS—glad tidings, victory

PARADISE—1.  heaven; 2.  closeness to God; 3.  Riḍván

PASS AWAY—see flee (21:1)

PERGAMOS, CHURCH OF—lit. parchment, the Hindu Faith

PHILADELPHIA, CHURCH OF—lit. brotherly love, the Christian Faith

PRECIOUS STONES—(see Chapter 21):

AMETHYST—1.  spiritual light; 2.  reverence, healing, serenity, poise; 3.  world tribunal or parliament of man

BERYL—1.  faith, loyalty, humility, unity; 2.  universal peace

CHALCEDONY—1.  purity; 2.  all religions are one

CHRYSOLITE—1.  the Chrysolite Tablet; 2.  sincerity, truthfulness, purity, selflessness; 3.  elimination of prejudice

CHRYSOPRASUS—1.  truthfulness, sincerity, justice, purity; 2.  spiritual solution of the economic problem

EMERALD—1.  harmony and unity; 2.  religion must be source of unity

JACINTH—1.  universal colour; 2.  hue of the heart; 3.  auxiliary universal language

JASPER—1.  unification of man; 2.  red of the heart

PEARL—innocence

SAPPHIRE—1.  truth, faith, inspiration, loyalty; 2.  independent investigation of truth

SARDINE—unity of material and spiritual worlds

SARDIUS—science and religion agree

SARDONYX—1.  two in one; 2 equality of man and woman

TOPAZ—1.  light of knowledge, glory of wisdom; 2.  universal education

PROPHETS—see Two Prophets

QUEEN—married to the Lamb  (Compare widow)

RAIMENT—see garment

RAIN—bounty from heaven

RAINBOW—the Covenant between God and man that He will

always send man a Manifestation provided we will follow His Laws

REED—a flute played by the Divine Flute Player

RESURRECTION—1.  renewal of spiritual life (awareness); 2.  First Resurrection—to become spiritually revived through the acceptance of Bahá’u’lláh

RICH—to have spiritual assets

RIGHT HAND—1.  hand of might and power; 2.  working hand

RIVERS—streams of spiritual grace and knowledge

ROBE—see Garment

ROCKS—strongholds, places of refuge (also see stone)

ROD—shepherd’s tool held by the Divine Shepherd

ROD OF IRON—symbol of power and authority

ROOT OF DAVID—1.  Abraham; 2.  descendant of Abraham; 3.  the Spirit of Abraham; 4.  Jesus Christ; 5.  Bahá’u’lláh

SACKCLOTH—old attributes

SAINTS—holy and righteous people who follow the Manifestation

SAND OF THE SEA—people of all nations

SARDIS, CHURCH OF—lit. stone, the Buddhist Faith

SATAN—from Heb., lit. The Adversary, the principle of resistance to the Law of God

SATAN’S SEAT—degraded spiritual condition

SCORPION—1.  a quick firer of arrows; 2.  Scorpio, the sign of the zodiac

SEA—1.  movement, uncertainty, fluidity; 2.  sea of the spirit; 3.  sea of humanity; 4.  sea of tribulation; 5.  sea of doubt and disbelief (21:1); 6.  sea of death

SEA OF GLASS—the Ocean of Truth, the Wellspring of all knowledge and wisdom

SEAL OF GOD—1.  chosen for eternal spiritual life; 2.  the number Three (Yahweh); the number Nine (Bahá)

SEASON—a part of an Era

SEAT—1.  throne of power and authority; 2.  Capital; 3.  seat of the beast:  Constantinople, Turkey

SECOND BEAST—the ‘Abbásid dynasty

SECOND DEATH—failure to accept Bahá’u’lláh

SEE—1.  to understand; 2.  to have spiritual vision

SEED—spiritual descendants

SEVEN ANGELS—1.  the seven Prophets of the seven Faiths of Asia; 2.  messengers of trial and punishment

SEVEN CHURCHES OF ASIA—Christianity, Hinduism, Buddhism, Islám, Judaism, Zoroastrianism, Sabaeanism

SEVEN HEADS—the seven dominions ruled by the Banú Umayyad:  the Roman-Byzantine dominion around Damascus, Persia, Arabia, Egypt, Africa, Andalusia, Turkestan-Transoxiana

SEVEN KINGS—the seven dominions (ruled by kings) of the Banú Umayyad dynasty; five are fallen—the five dominions that had been conquered; one is (sovereign)—Persia; not yet come—Turkestan-Transoxiana

SEVEN LAMPS—seven Spirits (Manifestations of God)

SEVEN SPIRITS—1.  Revelators of the Seven Churches:  Jesus Christ, Moses, Krishna, Gautama Buddha, Muḥammad, Zoroaster, and possibly Adam, Noah, or Enoch; 2.  the seven letters in the names HYSYN ‘ALY (Ḥusayn ‘Alí) or BHA’LLH (Bahá’u’lláh)

SEVEN THUNDERS—voices of the seven Spirits

SHIPS—1.  places of refuge on the sea of tribulation; 2.  churches

SICKLE—power to reap the harvest of mankind

SIN—disobeying God’s Laws; 2.  Enslavement to animal passions; 3.  attachment to the contingent world of attributes and duality

SION OR ZION—theocracy directly administered by God, the World Order of Bahá’u’lláh

SMITE THE EARTH WITH PLAGUES—to chastise, correct, and educate the wicked

SMOKE—1.  obscuring to truth; 2.  torment; 3.  visible evidence; 4.  grave dissensions, abrogations of recognized standards, the destruction of their narrow-minded exponents, etc.

SMYRNA, CHURCH OF—lit. myrrh, the Jewish Faith

SODOM AND EGYPT—the Near East (11:8)

SON OF MAN—1.  Jesus Christ; 2.  One Like the Son of Man—Bahá’u’lláh

SON OF GOD—1.  (capitals) a Manifestation of God; 2.  (lower case) one who receives the Word of God

SORCERIES—deceptions

SORE—spiritual distress

SPIRIT—1.  an energizing principle emanating from God; 2.  a Manifestation; 3.  the prophetic attitude; 4.  unclean spirits—evil principles and teachings  (see also SEVEN SPIRITS)

STAND UP—to become spiritually re-manifested (11:11)

STARS—1.  spiritual leaders; 2.  Revelators; 3.  fallen star—leader fallen from grace; 4.  morning star—Herald of a new Day of God (Jesus Christ, the Báb); 5.  twelve stars—the Twelve Imams of Islám; 6.  third of the stars of heaven—descendants of Muḥammad; 7.  Seven Stars—the seven Revelators of the seven Churches of Asia; 8.  the seven letters in the names HSYN’ALY (Ḥusayn ‘Alí) or BHA’LLH (Bahá’u’lláh)

STONE—1.  truth; 2.  concept; 3.  hailstone—spiritual test (16:21)  (see also WHITE STONE)

STREET—place of activity

SUN—1.  God; 2.  God’s Manifestation; 3.  God’s Faith; 4.  ubiquitous tribulation (heat); 5.  emblem of Persia (12:1); 6.  source of the light of God (19:17); 7.  Reality

SUN, MOON, AND STARS—1.  the hierarchy; 2.  the laws and teachings of the hierarchy

SWALLOW—to devour (12:16)

SWORD—1.  weaponry; 2.  the Sword of Truth

TABERNACLE OF GOD—1.  see Sion; 2.  a Manifestation; 3.  the Universal House of Justice

TAIL—1.  breech of a cannon (9:19); 2.  last ruler of the Baní-Umayyad dynasty, Marwán II (12:4); 3.  a quiver (9:10)

TALENT—a spiritual test

TEMPLE OF GOD—1.  see Tabernacle of God; 2.  the Holy of Holies, the spiritual Law of God

TEN HORNS—the ten (unrepeated) names of the rulers of the Baní-Umayyad dynasty:  Abú-Sufyán, Mu’áwíyah, Yazíd, Marwán, ‘Abdu’l-Malik, al-Walíd, Sulaymán, ‘Umar, Hishám, Ibráhím

TEN KINGS—see ten horns

THIEF—one who enters and departs unseen

THIRST—to crave spiritual knowledge

THRONE—seat of power

THUNDER—1.  violation of the Covenant; 2.  powerful utterance  (see also Seven thunders)

THYATRIA, CHURCH OF—lit. (prob.) cypress tree, the Zoroastrian Faith

THYINE WOOD—a scented wood used for perfume

TIME, A—360 years

TIME OF THE END—the time between the Hour of the Báb and the Hour of Bahá’u’lláh

TREE—1.  source of spiritual guidance; 2.  Tree of Life; 3.  everlasting spirit  (see also Twin Holy Trees, Two Olive Trees)

TREE OF LIFE—1.  source of spiritual sustenance, light, and life; 2.  a Manifestation of God; 3.  Bahá’u’lláh

TRUMPET—a herald

TWELVE GATES—hold Figures of the invisible zodiac; (also see door)

TWELVE STARS—the twelve Imams of Islám

TWENTY-FOUR ELDERS—the twenty-four leading Figures of the Bahá’í Faith (except Bahá’u’lláh, Who sits on the throne)

TWIN HOLY TREES—the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh

TWO EDGED SWORD—the Sword of Truth

TWO HORNS—the caliphate and sultanate

TWO OLIVE TREES—two sources of spiritual light, Muḥammad and ‘Alí

TWO PROPHETS—Muḥammad and ‘Alí

TWO WINGS OF A GREAT EAGLE—‘Alí and Fáṭima

TWO WITNESSES—Muḥammad and ‘Alí

UNCLEAN SPIRITS—evil principles and teachings

VINE OF THE EARTH—mankind likened to a vineyard

VOICES—1.  utterings of doubters and hypocrites; 2.  utterings of angels

WAR IN HEAVEN—conflict of principles

WATER—1.  spiritual grace and knowledge; 2.  words (12:15);

3.  waters—the sea of humanity; 4.  many waters—great spiritual knowledge

WATER OF LIFE—heavenly grace and knowledge that revives spiritual life

WEEK—seven years

WHITE—purity

WHITE HORSE—(ridden by Faithful and True) correct theology

WHITE LINEN—attributes of purity and cleanliness of soul

WHITE STONE—1.  a scroll addressed by the Báb to His followers and Bahá’u’lláh revealing the name of the next Manifestation, Bahá’u’lláh; 2.  a sealed prophecy revealing the name of the next Manifestation

WHORE—the corrupted Word of God

WIDOW—opposite of queen

WIFE—see Bride

WILDERNESS—1.  desert of Ḥijáz, place of the Word; 2.  spiritual desolation (17:3)

WIND—message from God

WINE—1.  wine of wrath—consequential punishment; 2.  deception; 3.  intoxication (17:2)

WINGS—spiritual flight

WITNESSES—see Two Witnesses

WOE—the dawning of a Day of God, a new Revelation

WOMAN—1.  (Bride) the Law of God descended upon mankind; 2.  “woman”—see harlot

WORD OF GOD, THE (name)—The Pen of the Most High, Bahá’u’lláh (19:13)

WORMWOOD—1.  bitterness; 2.  Constantine the Great

WOUND—calamity

WOUNDED HEAD THAT HEALED—Andalusia (Spain)

YEAR—360 years

ZION see SION

Appendix F
Chronological table

To determine the span of time between a date BCE and a date CE, recall that one year is missing in the Christian calendar, since, by the ancient Roman reckoning, Jesus was born at One CE instead of Zero.  Thus, for example, the span of time in solar years from 602 BC until CE 1844 is about

1844 + 602 – 1 = 2445 solar years.

The same time span in lunar years is about

2445 × 1.03069 = 2520 lunar years or 7 “times”

To convert a date in the Christian solar calendar to its approximate Muslim lunar equivalent, recall that the Ḥijáz occurred in CE 622.  Thus CE 1844 is about

(1844 – 622) × (1.03069) = AH 1259.5

Because of leap years, different starting points in the seasons of the different calendars, and other irregularities, the conversion between calendar dates as derived in the above manner may be in error by a year or so.

Many ancient dates are disputed by various authorities.

Appendix G
Some Bahá’í Apocalyptic Writings

General

G#1	‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Bahá’í Scriptures, Section 92.

Explains that there are many meanings to each word of the Apocalypse.

G#2	‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Tablets of Abdul-Baha Abbas, Vol. II, pp. 285–6.

Advises us to peruse Saint John’s Revelation since many signs spoken of in that vision will soon be revealed.

G#3	‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Tablets of Abdul-Baha Abbas, Vol. II, p. 294.

Cites an individual believer’s knowledge of the significances of the Revelation of Saint John.

G#4	‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Tablets of Abdul-Baha Abbas, Vol. III, pp. 678–81.

Analyzes the vision of an individual believer in which many apocalyptic symbols appear, including birds, the Heavenly Table, manna, white garments, the Throne, the Bride, the Lamb’s Book of Life, the white horse.

G#5	Star of the West, VIII:13, p. 180.

This Tablet of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá contains the meanings of many apocalyptic symbols, including the Throne, clouds, the invisible zodiac, the new song, birds.

G#6	Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, pp. 57–8.

Explains the “Prophetic Cycle” and the “Cycle of Fulfilment”, the relationship of the Báb and the Covenant, the “Second Woe”, the two “Witnesses”, the “Man Child”, and several apocalyptic symbols.

G#7	Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, pp. 93–100.

Lists some of the Titles of Bahá’u’lláh, His ancestry, and references made to Him by other Manifestations and prophets.  He explains that John referred to Bahá’u’lláh as the “Alpha and Omega” and the “third

woe”.  The Law of Bahá’u’lláh was described by John a “a new heaven and a new earth”.  The Tabernacle of God, the “Holy City” and the “New Jerusalem”.  Shoghi Effendi quotes ‘Abdu’l-Bahá Who compares the Revelations of the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh in zodiacal imagery.

G#8	Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, pp. 48–9, 238–40.

Describes the role of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá as the Centre of the Covenant, and explains that John referred to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá as the “Ark of God’s Testament”.  The reference describes episodes surrounding the violation of the Covenant by Mírzá Yaḥyá and Mírzá Muḥammad-‘Alí, and explains the “lightnings”, “thunders” and “earthquake” attending the violation of the Covenant.

G#9	Star of the West, II:1, pp. 3–4.

Mírzá Asadu’lláh asserts the belief that the prophecies of the Holy Scriptures have become (largely) fulfilled by the events of the mid-nineteenth century.

G#10	Mírzá Asadu’lláh-i-Núr, Sacred Mysteries, pp. 112–9.

Explains gematria, the numerological significance of the number Nine, and several other numerological mysteries.

G#11	Bahá’í Scriptures, Section 804.

‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains the significance of the number Nine and several other numerological mysteries.

Specific

1:4#1	Bahá’í News, No. 77, Sept. 1933.

Shoghi Effendi refers to certain statements of Mírzá Abu’l-Faḍl about the Seven Religions of the past, explains that only the words of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá are truly authoritative, but that if His statements cannot be discovered, we are free to tentatively accept the opinions of scholars.

1:4#2	16, 20.  “You have asked about the meaning of the

‘seven churches’ mentioned in the Book of Revelation.  In a Tablet ‘Abdu’l-Bahá has explained that the seven spirits and the seven stars mentioned in the Apocalypse refer to the seven letters of the alphabet that constitute the Most Great Name (in Arabic and Persian the names of ‘Bahá’u’lláh’ as well as ‘Ḥusayn-‘Alí’ consist of seven letters each).  In the same Tablet He points out that the seven churches refer to the ‘holy souls who were ignited with the fire of the love of their Lord.’”  (From a letter of behalf of the Universal House of Justice dated 7 August 1978, to an individual believer.)

1:4#3	‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, pp. 205–6.

Explains the meaning of “was, is, and shall be”.

1:7	Bahá’u’lláh, The Book of Certitude, pp. 71–2, 216–7.

Explains the symbolism of “clouds”.

1:8#1	‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Paris Talks, p. 51.

Explains that one meaning of the “Alpha and Omega, the First and the Last” is Jesus Christ.

1:8#2	Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 95.

Explains that Bahá’u’lláh is the “Alpha and Omega” of the Apocalypse.

1:8#3	‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 294.

Elaborates on the meaning of the “Alpha and Omega” in reference to Jesus Christ.

1:8#4	Bahá’u’lláh, Tablet to the Jews.

Explains the meaning of the “Alpha and Omega” as the Word of God.

1:8#5	‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 13.

Gives a meaning of the “Alpha and Omega” as the Lord God Omnipotent.

2:17#1	Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 195.

Explains that the “Bread which cometh down from Heaven” is Divine Revelation.

2:17#2	Star of the West, XI:16, p. 275.

‘Abdu’l-Bahá expounds on the “manna that came down from heaven”.

2:17#3	‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Tablets of Abdul-Baha Abbas, Vol. III, p. 677.

Expounds on the “Heavenly Table” and the “Bread”.

4:4#1	Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, pp. 7–8.

Places the Eighteen Letters of the Living among the Twenty-four Elders of the Apocalypse.

4:4#2	‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, pp. 96–7.

Describes the Succession of Prophets in zodiacal imagery.

4:4#3	‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 39.

Mentions the invisible zodiac.

5:6	Mírzá Asadu’lláh-i-Núr, Sacred Mysteries, pp. 52–71.

Explains the removal of the daily (physical) sacrifice of the killing of lambs and cattle under the Dispensation of Muḥammad and its replacement by a spiritual sacrifice.  The reference gives ah 1260 as the end of Muḥammad’s Dispensation, and explains the number Five as applied to the Báb.  The sacrifice becomes increasingly spiritual under the Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh, requiring the “chanting of the Verses of God and being firm in the Covenant of God.”

6:12–13	Bahá’u’lláh, The Book of Certitude, pp. 33–4, 36–41.

Explains the symbolism of “sun, moon and stars”.

9:12	Shoghi Effendi, This Decisive Hour, pp. 124–5.

Discusses the “Year Nine” and gives it as the date of the “Third Woe”.

11#1	‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, pp. 61–81.

The complete explanation of Chapter 11 of the Apocalypse.

11;11–14	Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, pp. 49–50.

Discusses Quddús and his role as one of the two “Witnesses”.

11:13#1	Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, pp. 53–54.

Describes the Shíráz earthquake of ah 1268.

11:13#2	Mírzá Asadu’lláh-i-Núr, Sacred Mysteries, pp. 16–7.

Explains the “Hour” as (1) the person of the Manifestation, (2) the “time of the end”, (3) the time when the Manifestation declares His Mission, and (4) the time between the Declaration of the Báb and the Declaration of Bahá’u’lláh.

12#1	‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, pp. 87–90.

Explains the new Jerusalem, the “new heaven and the new earth”, and verses one to six of Chapter 12 of the Apocalypse.

13:8	Star of the West, Vol. 3, No. 14, p. 14.

Louis Gregory and Mírzá Abu’l-Faḍl in A Heavenly Vista explain that the “Lamb” of the “Book of Life” is ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.

13:18#1	“Regarding the Apocalypse of St. John, the beast the numerical value of whose name is 666:  the intent is the year, inasmuch as that beast who is the Umayyad king, appeared in the year 666 of the Christian era.  This prophecy relates to the Holy Land.”—‘Abdu’l-Bahá, a Tablet to an individual believer.

13:18#2	“As to the beast referred to in the Apocalypse, he was a soul who sought with his utmost power to destroy the Cause of God.  He was the King of Persia, that is one of the early kings.”—‘Abdu’l-Bahá, a Tablet to an individual believer.

16:16#1	Star of the West, Vol. X:3, p. 33.

‘Abdu’l-Bahá prophesies the beginning of “Armageddon” in ad 1914.

16:16#2	H. M. Balyuzi, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 259

Another war, World War II, is prophesied by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.

16:16#3	H. M. Balyuzi, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 259.

‘Abdu’l-Bahá expresses His disappointment with the Treaty of Versailles.

16:16#4	H. M. Balyuzi, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p.438.

‘Abdu’l-Bahá expresses His disappointment with the

League of Nations and explains that the Supreme Tribunal described by Bahá’u’lláh will bring Universal Peace.

16:16#4	Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, pp. 4–7.

Quotes dire prophecies by Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá of future catastrophes.

19:16	Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 206.

Quotes Bahá’u’lláh as declaring Himself to be “the King of Kings”.

20:3	‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Tablets of Abdul-Baha Abbas, Vol. III, pp. 659–60.

Explains the millennium as the beginning of this Manifestation until the end of its predominance throughout the contingent world.

20:4#1	‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Tablets of Abdul-Baha Abbas, Vol. II, pp. 396–7.

Uses several terms such as “Resurrection”, “Day of Judgement”, “sun”, “stars”, “balance”, “fire”, “paradise”.

20:4#2	‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Tablets of Abdul-Baha Abbas, Vol. II, pp. 429–30.

Explains that the “Promised Christ” of the “Second Coming” is Bahá’u’lláh and the Báb.

20:4#3	‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Tablets of Abdul-Baha Abbas, Vol. III, pp. 643–4.

Explains the “Return” as the return of qualities, virtues, perfections, etc., not the literal return of persons and souls.

20:7	Bahá’í News, No. 89, Jan. 1935, p. 1.

Shoghi Effendi explains that a Manifestation is to follow Bahá’u’lláh after a thousand years or more Who will be subjected to persecutions but will ultimately triumph.

21:1–2#1	Star of the West, Vol. 18, p. 197.

‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains that the new Jerusalem is divine civilization.

21:1–2#2	‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Tablets of Abdul-Baha Abbas, Vol. III, pp. 538–40.

Describes the new Jerusalem and explains that “Emanuel” was the forerunner of the “Second Coming of Christ”.

21:1–2#3	Bahá’í News, No. 134, Mar. 1940, p. 2.

Shoghi Effendi explains that “His Holiness Emanuel” in the above Tablet refers to the Báb.

21:1–2#4	‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, pp. 17–8.

‘Abdu’l-Bahá mentions the “divine Jerusalem” and the “bride of Zion”.

21:1–2#5	‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, pp. 97–8.

The new Jerusalem is the divine civilization.

21:1–2#6	‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, pp. 35–6.

Likens a new Dispensation to the Vernal equinox.

21:1–2#7	Mírzá Asadu’lláh-i-Núr, Sacred Mysteries, pp. 37–40.

“… the Words are sealed until the time of the end.”  The new Jerusalem has both a literal and an allegorical interpretation.

21:1–2#8	Bahá’u’lláh, Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, pp. 144–5.

Gives the literal meaning of the new Jerusalem as the renewed vigour of Zion, Palestine, ‘Akká and Jerusalem.

21:1–2#9	Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 213.

Explains that the new Law is the “new heaven” and the “new earth”, the Tabernacle of God, the Holy City, the “Bride”, and the “New Jerusalem”.

21:1–2#10	Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, pp. 204–6.

Alludes to the new Jerusalem and the “coming of age of the human race”.

21:1–2#11	‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Paris Talks, p. 84.

The new Jerusalem is “not built of material stones and mortar”.

21:1–7	‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Bahá’í World Faith, pp. 350–1, and Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, pp. 12–3.

The new Jerusalem is the Bride.

21:2#1	Shoghi Effendi, The Advent of Divine Justice, pp. 64–7.

Describes the Day of Bahá’u’lláh.

21:2#2	‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Bahá’í World Faith, pp. 380–1.

The new Jerusalem is the heavenly religion.

21:10–17	‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Tablets of Abdul-Baha Abbas, Vol. I, pp. 92–4, and Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, pp. 164–7.

Describes the twelve doors of the Heavenly Jerusalem, the “golden rod”, “angels”, etc.

21:15#1	‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains that the new Jerusalem is a pyramid because it is a natural, enduring shape, etc.  The Two Reapers are the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh.  In one sense, 666 refers to Napoleon.  Bahá’u’lláh is the Prince of Peace—(From a pilgrim’s note.  The answers were purportedly given by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in response to questions by Mr. E. T. Hall of Manchester, England on 28 February 1920 and translated by Dr Luṭfu’lláh Ḥakím of 3 April 1920.

21:19–20#1	The new Jerusalem and its twelve foundation stones

The first Bahá’í Principle, THE ONENESS OF THE WORLD OF HUMANITY.  Hands may be black, white, brown or yellow, but the hue of the heart is one.  The first foundation stone is jasper.  It is a clear red like the hue of the heart.

The second Bahá’í principle, THE INDEPENDENT INVESTIGATION OF TRUTH.  The second foundation stone, the sapphire, is a clear blue, ‘true blue’, and is the colour of faith, inspiration, loyalty and truth.  Man must be free to soar in this ‘dome of heaven’s blue’ and loyal to a truth when he finds it.

The third Bahá’í Principle, THE FOUNDATION OF ALL RELIGIONS IS ONE.  The third foundation stone, the chalcedony, is pure white.  ‘While white

is apparent, yet in it are hidden and concealed the seven colours.’  White is the symbol of purity, and in its origin each religion is pure and a brother to every other religion, for all truth is one.

The fourth Bahá’í Principle, RELIGION MUST BE THE SOURCE OF UNITY.  The fourth foundation stone, the emerald, is green.  Green is the colour of harmony and unity.  There is no colour known with which green will not harmonize, just as the green foliage blends with every hued flower.  Green is he colour of immortality and humility.

The fifth Bahá’í Principle, SCIENCE AND RELIGION MUST AGREE; NEITHER MUST DENY THE OTHER.  [Out of order:  see note on p. 305.]  The fifth foundation stone, the sardonyx (see footnote [Chapter 21, Note 16]) is red or brown according to the way it is held.  And so it is with science and religion; they are essentially one, but different in colour or manifestation.  The virtues of man are many, but science is the most noble of them all. …  It is the bestowal of God; it is not material; it is Divine.  Science is an effulgence … the power of investigating the means by which man finds a pathway to God.

The sixth Bahá’í Principle, THE EQUALITY OF MEN AND WOMEN; THEY MUST BE AS TWO WINGS OF THE SOUL, EACH EQUALLY DEVELOPED.  [Out of order:  see note on p. 305.]  The sixth foundation stone, the sardius (see footnote [Chapter 21, Note 16]) is a stone of two layers, one white and one red, symbolic of the two in one.

The seventh Bahá’í Principle, REMOVAL OF ALL PREJUDICE, RELIGIOUS, RACIAL, ETC.  The seventh foundation stone, the pure chrysolite, is an exquisitely clear green.  We read in the ancient philosophies of the Chrysolite Tablet.  It is a symbol of absolute sincerity and truthfulness, of purity, of selflessness.  Only when our hearts are free and pure

from every form of prejudice and superstition can they become the Chrysolite Tablet whereon may be engraved our thoughts of our fellow man.

The eighth Bahá’í Principle, UNIVERSAL PEACE.  The eighth foundation stone, the beryl, is a bluish green, the blue of faith and loyalty to our brother man, and the green of humility and unity.  These are harmoniously blended into one symmetrical whole, like a beautiful bouquet of flowers.  These established in the hearts of men will establish universal peace.

The ninth Bahá’í Principle, UNIVERSAL EDUCATION.  The ninth foundation stone, the topaz, resembles the [golden yellow] glory of the sun.  It is symbolic of the light of knowledge and the glory of wisdom that will result when universal education is established in the world, and when the light of the teachings of Bahá’u’lláh are understood and lived.

The tenth Bahá’í Principle, SOLUTION OF THE ECONOMIC PROBLEM.  The tenth foundation stone, the chrysoprasus, is, like a chrysolite, a clear green which embodies truthfulness, justice, sincerity and purity.  These are the requisites necessary for the solution of the economic problem.  The stone represents the golden rule put into practice, ‘Do unto others as you would have them do unto you.’

The eleventh Bahá’u’lláh Principle, A UNIVERSAL AUXILIARY LANGUAGE.  The eleventh foundation stone, the jacinth, is, like jasper, a clear red, the universal colour and the hue of the heart.  The heart of a race can understand the heart of another only when it can speak the same language.

The twelfth Bahá’í Principle, A WORLD TRIBUNAL OR PARLIAMENT OF MAN.  The twelfth

foundation stone, the amethyst, is violet.  It symbolizes spiritual light, reverence, healing, serenity and poise.  The Tribunal of All Nations must be as the ultraviolet rays of the sun for the ‘healing of the nations’.  It must seek spiritual light in all reverence, that it may fulfil its high calling, imparting a sense of security, poise and serenity to the hearts of all humanity.

[NOTE:]	(The above explanation of the twelve foundation stones was purportedly given to Shahnáz Waite by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.  It should be considered a “pilgrim’s note” and therefore, not an authentic Writing.  This version of the pilgrim’s note was obtained from Flora Brooks, a Bahá’í of Staunton, Virginia, who obtained it from Ruth Moffett.  It is not clear from the text of the note which words are direct quotes from ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and which are interpretations of interpolations by Shahnáz Waite or later transcribers.

(The writer of the present book has taken certain minor liberties with the text to make it more readable, and also has reversed the order of the fifth and sixth Principles in the main text of Chapter 21.  It is clear that the characteristics of the sardonyx and sardius have somehow gotten interchanged in the above version.)

21:19–20#2	Star of the West, Vol. XI:1, pp. 4–5.

Lists of the Twelve Basic Bahá’í Principles as they appear in the Apocalypse.

21:22–33	‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Tablets of Abdul-Baha Abbas, Vol. I, pp. 10–11.

Explains that the Bahá’í spiritual meetings are inspired by God.

21:23	Bahá’í Scriptures, Section 47, p. 117.

Bahá’u’lláh explains that He is the Glory of God in Revelations 21:23.

22:3	Star of the West, II:14, pp. 12–14.

In the article In Praise of the Greatest Branch, Mírzá Abu’l-Faḍl identifies ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, the Centre of the Covenant, as illuminating the new Jerusalem, and says that the Book of Life in under the dominion of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.

Appendix H
Late changes and errata
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s explanation of the 1,335 days (copied from I, Daniel)

From reference 20, p. 51ff:

‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains that the 1,335 years are counted in solar rather than lunar years, because a century must elapse between the Proclamation of Bahá’u’lláh and the firm establishment of “the teachings of God … upon the earth”.  Apparently, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá was referring to some prophecy in sacred writings.

Also, Shoghi Effendi explains that the 1,335 years end at the year CE 1963, the date of the Foundation of the Universal House of Justice.  Unfortunately, neither ‘Abdu’l-Bahá nor Shoghi Effendi shed enough light in their brief explanations for this writer to determine the exact method of computation.  In The Apocalypse Unsealed, Appendix B, it was suggested that the beginning point for the 1,335 years could be the Truce of al-Ḥudaybiyyah in CE 628.  This would result in the year CE 1963 as the end date of the 1,335 solar years.

It is interesting that different methods of reckoning have little effect on the result.  Regardless of what assumptions are made, it is certainly true that the man would be happy who waited and lived to see the completion of one thousand three hundred and thirty-five days.

The Two Lambs of the Bahá’í Dispensation

In The Apocalypse Unsealed, (ref. 19) (see Chapter 5, Note 4), this writer named the two Lambs of the Bahá’í Dispensation as the Báb and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.  At that time, Volume 3 of Adib Taherzadeh’s magnificent work, The Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh, was not available.  It is now clear that Bahá’u’lláh considered Mírzá Mihdí, The Purest Branch, to be a Lamb of the Bahá’í Dispensation.  This can be inferred by referring to Taherzadeh’s book (Ref. 19), Chapter 10, in which we read that the “death of the Purest Branch must be viewed as Bahá’u’lláh’s own sacrifice, a sacrifice on the same level as the crucifixion of Christ and the martyrdom of the Báb.”

Since Bahá’u’lláh’s Dispensation has two Lambs instead of the usual one, this writer has now concluded that the two Lambs are probably Mírzá Mihdí and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.  The Báb would then be the Lamb of His own Dispensation.

The beast that was, is not, yet is

In Chapter 17 of the Apocalypse, there is a riddle concerning a “beast that was, is not, yet is”.  In The Apocalypse Unsealed, this writer gave the answer to the riddle as the empire of Alexander, since it seemed to come into existence a second time under the Umayyad dynasty.

In researching for I, Daniel, this writer studied some of the work of great historian Arnold J. Toynbee.  Professor Toynbee points out that the empire of Alexander did not produce a permanent change in the civilization introduced to the region under the Persian empire.  When Islám reconquered the region, the civilization introduced under Islám more closely resembled the former Persian civilization rather than the more recent Hellenistic civilization.

That being so, the answer to the riddle is probably as follows:

The beast that was:  the Medeo-Persian empire;

is not:  the empire of Alexander;

yet is:  the Umayyad dynasty.

The One who stands at the door and knocks

Riggs originally stated that this Personage, in Revelation 3:20, referred to Bahá’u’lláh.  He now indicates that this verse most probably refers to Muḥammad, as this is His letter to the Muslim Faith.

References

Sacred writings and texts

CB—Adib Taherzadeh, The Covenant of Bahá’u’lláh, Bahá’í Publishing Trust, London

CDB—Bahá’u’lláh, Call of the Divine Beloved, Bahá’í World Centre, Haifa, 2019.

KJV—the King James Version of the Holy Bible

RSV—the Revised Standard Version of the Holy Bible

WAB—Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Bahá’í World Centre

QUR’ÁN—(Koran), the Holy Book of Islám

PT—‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Paris Talks, Bahá’í Publishing Trust, London

SAQ—‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, 2nd edn, 2014.

SWB—Selections from the Writings of the Báb, Bahá’í World Centre, Haifa

Sacred texts published by the Bahá’í Publishing Trust, Wilmette, Illinois

PUP—‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace

SDC—‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Secret of Divine Civilization

BOC—Bahá’u’lláh, The Book of Certitude (The Kitáb-i-Íqán)

BWF—Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Bahá’í World Faith

ESW—Bahá’u’lláh, Epistle to the Son of the Wolf

PMB—Bahá’u’lláh, Prayers and Meditations

ROM—Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Reality of Man

GWB—Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh

THW—Bahá’u’lláh, The Hidden Words

GPB—Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By

WOB—Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh

TDB—Nabil’s Narrative, The Dawn-Breakers, tr. and ed. by Shoghi Effendi

TCH—Lady Blomfield, The Chosen Highway

WAT—The Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá

ADJ—Shoghi Effendi, The Advent of Divine Justice

PDIC—Shoghi Effendi, The Promised Day is Come

TDH—This Decisive Hour:  Messages from Shoghi Effendi to the North American Bahá’ís 1932–1946

Sacred writings that are out of print

TAB—‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Tablets of Abdul-Baha Abbas, Bahá’í Publishing Committee, N.Y., 1940 (in three volumes)

SM—Mírzá Asadu’lláh, Sacred Mysteries, Bahá’í Supply and Publishing Board, Chicago, 1902.

BS—Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Bahá’í Scriptures, edited by Horace Holley, Bahá’í Publishing Committee, N.Y., (Brantanos, 1923)

Secular references

1.	Carl Jung, Man and His Symbols, Doubleday and Company, Garden City, NY.

2.	Carl Jung, Psychology and Religion, Yale University Press, New Haven, Conn., 1971.

3.	Hans Jonas, The Gnostic Religion, 2nd edition, revised, Beacon Press, Boston, 1963.

4.	Ernst Muller, History of Jewish Mysticism, Oxford, 1946.

5.	Alan Oken, As Above, So Below, Bantam Books, N.Y., 1973.

6.	Peter Tompkins, Secrets of the Great Pyramid, Harper and Row, N.Y., 1971.

7.	Otto Rank, Beyond Psychology, Dover Publications, N.Y., 1958.

8.	Carlo Suares, The Cipher of Genesis, Shambhala Publications, Berkeley, Calif., 1970.

9.	John Michell, City of Revelation, Garnstone Press, London, 1972; republished by Ballantine Books, N.Y., 1973.

10.	E. T. Bell, Men of Mathematics, Dover Publications, N.Y., 1977.

11.	Christopher Butler, Number symbolism, Barnes and Noble, N.Y., 1970.

12.	Elena Maria Marsella, The Quest for Eden, Philosophical Library, N.Y., 1966.

13.	Jose A. Arguelles, The Transformative Vision, Shambhala Publications, Berkeley, Calif., 1975.

14.	Roland H. Bainton, Christendom, Vol. 1, Harper and Row, N.Y., 1966.

15.	Abu’l-Qásim Faizi, Explanation of the Emblem of the Greatest Name, Bahá’í News, Wilmette, Ill., October 1968.

16.	Aristotle, De Caelo.

17.	Adelaide S. Hall, A Glossary of Important Symbols, Bates and Guild, Boston, 1912.

18.	Dhikru’lláh Kádem, Bahá’u’lláh and His Most Holy Shrine, Bahá’í News, Wilmette, Ill., March 1976, No. 540.

19.	James D. Watson, The Double Helix, Atheneum, N.Y., 1968.

20.	Rudolf Bultmann, Primitive Christianity in its Contemporary Setting, tr. Reverend R. H. Fuller, Meridian Books, World Publishing Co., Cleveland and N.Y., 1956.

21.	Adib Taherzadeh, The Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh, Vol. 1, George Ronald, Oxford, 1974.

22.	Not used.

23.	Huston Smith, The Religions of Man, Harper and Brothers, N.Y., 1958.

24.	Jamshed K. Fozdar, The God of Buddha, Asia Publishing House, N.Y., 1973.

25.	Edward Conze, Buddhism:  Its Essence and Development, Philosophical Library, N.Y., 1951.

26.	Jacques Duchesne-Guillemin, Symbols and Values in Zoroastrianism, Harper and Row, N.Y., 1966.

27.	Trevor Ravenscroft, The Spear of Destiny, Neville Spearman Publishers, U.K.; G. P. Putnam’s Sons, N.Y., 1973.

28.	William Sears, Thief in the Night, George Ronald, Oxford, 1974.

29.	Plato, Timaeus, in The Dialogues of Plato, Liveright Publishing Corp., N.Y., 1927.

30.	Simeon L. Guterman, Religious Toleration and Persecution in Ancient Rome, London, 1961.

31.	Syed Aeer Ali, The Spirit of Islám, W. H. Allen Co., London, 1891; New Ed., Christophers, 1935.

32.	T. W. Arnold, The Preaching of Islám, Scribners, N.Y., 1913.

33.	S. Runciman, The Fall of Constantinople 1453, Cambridge University Press, 1965.

34.	Alexis Perrey, Note sur les tremblements de terre, Academie Royale des Sciences des lettres et des Beaux Artes de Belgique, Bulletin, Vol. 18, No. 4, pp. 291–308 of the First Series, 1855.

35.	G. R. Driver, Canaanite Myths and Legends, Clark, Edinburgh, 1956.

36.	E. J. Brill, The Encyclopedia of Islám, Vols. I–IV, 1st ed. Leiden, 1913–1942; Vols. I, II, new ed., Leiden, 1960–1966.

37.	H. M. Balyuzi, Muḥammad and the Course of Islám, George Ronald, Publisher, Oxford, 1976.

38.	V. V. Barthold, Turkestan down to the Mongol Invasion, 2nd ed. 1958.

39.	Hal Lindsey, The Late Great Planet Earth, Zondervan Publishing House, 1970.

40.	Not used.

41.	J. E. Esslemont, Bahá’u’lláh, and the New Era, Bahá’í Publishing Trust, Wilmette, Ill., 1970.

42.	F. H. Colson, G. H. Whitaker, Philo, Vol. I, London, 1929.

43.	P. Brown, Augustine of Hippo, London, 1967.

44.	H. E. Huntley, The Divine Proportion, Dover Publications, N.Y., 1970.

45.	Rúhíyyih Rabbani, The Priceless Pearl, Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 27 Rutland Gate, London SW7.

46.	John Michell, The View Over Atlantis, Revised ed., Garnstone Press, London, 1972.

47.	Anonymous (W. Stirline), The Canon, Elkin Matthews, London, 1897.

48.	F. B. Bone and Dr. T. S. Lea, Gematria, Basil Blackwell, Oxford.

49.	F. B. Bond and Dr. T. S. Lea, The Cabala, Basil Blackwell, Oxford, 1917.

50.	F. B. Bond, The Gate of Remembrance, Basil Blackwell, Oxford, 1921.

51.	Christopher Dawson, et al, St. Augustine, His Age, Life, and Thought, Meridian Books, The World Publishing Company, Cleveland, Ohio, 1969.

52.	Dr. Hugh J. Schonfield, The Passover Plot, Bernard Geis Associates, N.Y., 1966; Bantam Books, N.Y., 1975.

53.	O. Neugebauer, The Exact Sciences in Antiquity, second edition, Dover Publications, N.Y., 1969.

54.	Fritjob Capra, The Tao of Physics, Shambhala Publications, Berkeley, 1975.

55.	Barry Fell, America B.C., Demeter Press, N.Y., 1977.

56.	Ernest G. McClain, The Myth of Invariance, Shambhala, Boulder and London, 1978.

57.	Star of the West, republished by George Ronald, Publisher, Oxford, 1978.

58.	Giorgio de Santillana and Hertha von Dechend, Hamlet’s

Mill, Gambit, Boston, 1969; David R. Godine, Boston, 1977.

59.	Arthur M. Harding, PhD., Astronomy, Garden City Publishing Co., Inc., Garden City, N.Y., 1935.

60.	H. M. Balyuzi, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, George Ronald, Publisher, Oxford, 1973.

61.	Matila Ghyka, The Geometry of Art and Life, Dover Publications, N.Y., 1977.

62.	R. A. Schwaller de Lubicz, The Temple in Man, The Autumn Press, Brookline, Mass., 1977.

63.	David Brady, The Book of Revelation and the Qur’án:  Is There a Possible Literary Relationship?, Journal of Semitic Studies, Vol. XXIII, #2, Autumn, 1978.

64.	Carl Jung, Psychology and Alchemy, Collected Works, Bollingen Series XX, N.Y., 1953.

65.	Morton Edgar, The Great Pyramid—Its Scientific Features, MacLure and MacDonald, Glasgow, 1924.

66.	Morton Edgar, The Great Pyramid:  Its Spiritual Symbolism, Bone and Hulley, Glasgow, 1924.

67.	Morton Edgar, The Great Pyramid and Its Time Features, Bone and Hulley, Glasgow, 1924.