THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

10 July 2016

To selected National Spiritual Assemblies

Dear Bahá’í Friends,

For many years now, the international financial collaboration goals programme has proved to be a useful approach for allowing selected national communities to assist their sister communities financially. It provides an opportunity for these communities to give practical expression to their sense of global solidarity. The Master describes the need for voluntary sharing, affirming that it “leadeth to society’s comfort and peace” and that “it lighteth up the world; it bestoweth honour upon humankind.”

As you know, at the beginning of each of the recent Plans, the Universal House of Justice has asked National Spiritual Assemblies it has deemed able to offer such assistance to consider how much they could contribute towards the capital expenses of other national communities during the course of that Plan. On the basis of these estimates, the House of Justice called upon these National Assemblies to assist communities in various countries as and when specific needs came to its attention.

During the recently concluded Five Year Plan, 43 National Assemblies contributed more than US$3,500,000 to 41 national Bahá’í communities in all parts of the globe. These funds were expended on a variety of needs, such as the acquisition, construction, renovation, and upkeep of Bahá’í properties as well as the purchase of furniture and equipment necessary for teaching and administrative work. The House of Justice has observed with pleasure the generosity and eagerness with which national communities have rushed to each other’s aid—another demonstration of the ties of unity that bind together the Bahá’í world in one common Cause.

Your National Spiritual Assembly is one of 51 now being invited to participate in the international financial collaboration goals programme for the new Five Year Plan. You have been selected because the House of Justice believes you are in a position to assist other national communities that have not been endowed materially to the same extent. In this connection, it would be appreciated if you could provide the House of Justice, before 30 September 2016, with an estimate of the amount you can offer as financial collaboration during this Plan. Such an estimate would preferably break down the total sum you can make available, indicating how much you believe you can provide each year. If, in the months between Riḍván 2016 and when you submit your pledge, you receive a request to fulfil a specific goal, then the sum you are requested to contribute will be counted towards the amount you are able to offer in the first twelve months. To assist you in determining the total sum you can provide, we have been asked to inform you that the House of Justice anticipates that at least US$3,500,000 will be required to meet the financial collaboration goals to be assigned during the current Plan. Kindly note that if monies remain from the pledge your Assembly made at the start of the previous Plan, these may be carried forward to form part of your new pledge.

With loving Bahá’í greetings,

Department of the Secretariat

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]