“released from wanting and
having, I shall only be.”
The Emergence of a Baha'i Consciousness in
World Literature:
the poetry of
Roger White
written by
Ron Price

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
The Books for the World series aims
to bring diverse literature to people
around the world by directing all
proceeds from sale of a title into
donating the same title to people who
otherwise could not afford it as well
as offering library donation programs
and free electronic books which can
be used for local printing and
distribution.
At this time, the following programs
are part of the Books for the World
series:
Free Book Distribution Program:
Juxta Publishing prints
selected book titles for sale to
subsidize the cost of free
distribution of the same titles
worldwide.
World Library Donation Program:
Juxta Publishing makes
selected titles available to
National Bahá’í Communities,
Local Bahá’í Communities and
Bahá’í Groups which would
like to donate the books to
their local libraries.
Royalty-free E-books Program:
Juxta Publishing produces
e-books which can be freely
downloaded and printed for
local non-commercial use.
www.juxta.com
© 2003,  Ron Price and Juxta
Publishing Limited.
This electronic edition has been
produced to facilitate widespread
distribution and use of this book and it
may be freely redistributed in electronic
form so long as the following
conditions are met:
1. The contents of this file are not altered.
2. This copyright and redistribution notice
remains intact
3. No charges are made or monies
collected for the redistribution of this work
In addition, this file may be printed
without alteration for personal and
academic use in course settings in non-
bound formats; copies printed for this
purpose may not be distributed commer-
cially. In cases of academic use in course
settings, charges may be made for
reproduction costs but no additional
monies may be collected. Any other
printing, in bound or non-bound formats,
or redistribution in printed form is
forbidden without the expressed written
consent of the author or Juxta
Publishing Limited.
BOOKS FOR
THE WORLD

The Emergence of a Baha'i Consciousness in
World Literature:
the poetry of
Roger White
written by
Ron Price
published by
Juxta Publishing (www.juxta.com)
cover design and layout by
epiphany design (www.epiphanygraphics.ca)

Dedicated to my wife Chris, who has given peace to my heart and
exercise for my mind, and my son Daniel, who has made me laugh,
often until I ache.

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
I wish to thank Roger White for his reading of the initial draft of
this book, his enthusiastic comments on its contents and his friend-
ship; the National Literature Committee of the NSA of the Baha’is
of Canada for their review of this work, their corrections to the
manuscript, their suggested improvements and their granting
approval for publication; my wife, Christine Price, for her continued
interest in and support for my study of the poetry of Roger White
and my writing of this book; my son, Daniel Price, for his always
kind and reliable help in solving my computer problems; Bill
Washington, a long-time editor of the parliaments of the Northern
Territory and Tasmania in Australia, for his useful editing of this
manuscript and his words of praise at a critical stage in its develop-
ment; Marlene Macke of ‘execulink.com’ in Canada, for her inform-
ative and encouraging emails; Will C. van den Hoonaard, a Professor
of Sociology at the University of New Brunswick, for his reading of
this book and his positive feedback at the ‘draft three stage’ of the
book’s evolution; Douglas Martin whom I have known longer than
anyone here and who pointed my manuscript in some helpful direc-
tions; Anne Gordon Perry whose similar literary interest in Roger
White has produced the first major study of White’s letters;
Anthony Lee of Kalimat Press and Wendy Momen of George
Ronald Publisher for their continued interest in the book through-
out the 1990s when it was still in its first draft and in early gesta-
tion; Jonah Winters of Winterswebworks.com for locating the book
at the Baha’i Academics Resource Library site and helping me feel
my manuscript was really a book; White Mountain Publishers, the
Australian Baha’i Publishing Trust and the American Baha’i
Publishing Trust for their interest in the manuscript during its third
to fifth drafts.

In April 1993, just before the end of the Holy Year commemorating
the historic occasion of the centenary of the ascension of
Baha’u’llah, Roger White passed away. By that historic juncture in
the history of the Baha'i Faith, this emerging world religion was
continuing its rise from an obscurity in which it had existed for
nearly a century and a half. In addition, the literary work of several
Baha’is during that century had signalled the emergence of a Baha’i
consciousness in world literature. The poetry of Roger White was
part of that emergence. His story and his poetry are briefly
examined here.

especially its disturbing mixture of poetic innovation and reactionary
politics, its vast international influence and intense Eurocentrism,
amounted to a kind of collective anxiety attack and this anxiety was
reflected in post-World War 2 poetry right up to the seventies. By
the 1990s, by the time White died, though, it had become clear that
these sometimes embarrassing ancestors, who appeared about the
time ’Abdu’l-Baha went on His tour of Western countries, had laid
the foundation for a post-traditional poetry. By the time of White’s
first major publication in 1979, that new poetry had been growing
for at least six decades. Brian Conniff describes
its last phase in the 1980s in the African American Review. This
poetry, he writes, is “more explicitly heterogenous and more interna-
tional, both in its sources and its influence, in such works as
Adrienne Rich's Your Native Land, Your Life (1986), Seamus
Heaney’s Station Island (1983), and Derek Walcott’s Omeros (1990).”
Conniff continues: “Considered more broadly, a distinctly post-
traditional stance has become increasingly apparent in the linguistic
heterogeneity of contemporary Irish poets like Nualani Dhomhnaill
and Medbh McGuckian, in the communal heritage evident in the
prison poetry and autobiographical writing of Jimmy Santiago Baca,
and in the remarkable emergence of contemporary poetry by
American Indians. For these later poets, any approximation of a tra-
dition - any communal or even personal heritage - is conceived
pragmatically, as one instrument among many others with which
they can engage a world that is at once overwhelmingly various and
desperately in need.” And I would add the poetry of Roger White
here, in his three books of poetry written from 1979 to 1984. Much
of White’s poetry has a very traditional style and tenor, although its
content is for the international stage. White gives his readers what
Arthur Koestler said was crucial for modern men and women:
truths which were perennial without being archaic. He also gives his
readers the global Baha'i community, its history and its teachings.
His is both a very traditional and an international poetic mix.

THE EMERGENCE OF A BAHA'I CONSCIOUSNESS IN
WORLD LITERATURE:  THE POETRY OF ROGER WHITE
Geoffrey Nash, in a review of Roger White’s poetry in 1982, wrote
that White heralded ”the development of a Baha’i consciousness in
world literature”. Literature, poetry and prose, letters and other
genres, have been arriving on the world's literary stage from the
pens of Baha’is for more than a century and a half. White certainly
has been, in Nash’s words, a herald. White’s work emerged from
obscurity at the same time as the Baha'i Faith was rising from an
obscurity in which it had existed for nearly a century and a half.
The revolution in Iran in 1979 marked a significant point along the
road of that emergence. It is more than coincidental that White’s
first major book of poetry Another Song, Another Season was pub-
lished that same year. There is now a burgeoning literature on the
Baha’i Faith provided by individual Baha’is the world over in the
two decades since Nash wrote what have become prophetic words.
White has, indeed, become a herald, though I am sure he did not set
out to become the brilliant initiator that he has been.
There are others I could focus on to describe this “development of
a Baha’i consciousness in world literature”: Robert Hayden,
Bahiyyih Nakhjavani, H.M. Balyuzi, M. Momen, Adib Taherzedeh,
John and William Hatcher among others whose books, each in their
own way, played their unique parts in the 1960s, 1970s and 1980s in
laying this foundation of consciousness. To pick one example: in
April 1966 Robert Hayden was awarded the “Grand Prix” at the
Third World Festival of Negro Arts for “the best” recent volume of
Anglophone poetry. This was without doubt a milestone in the
emergence of a Baha’i consciousness in world literature. I could cite
other events along the road of this emergence but my purpose here
is to focus on the poetry of Roger White.
The efforts of poets and critics to come to terms with the legacy
of a post-traditional poetry that had begun as early as the second
decade of the twentieth century with Ezra Pound and T.S. Eliot,
Chapter 1

As a fellow poet, I am only too conscious of the remarks of Charles
Martindale in his introduction to the Roman poet Ovid, that
“artists, for all their intuitive insights, are often both idiosyncratic
and egocentric when responding to the work of others.” Martindale
notes “the comparative poverty” of the critical tradition of Ovid.
The afterlife of a great poet, the artistic responses of the generations
that follow a writer, shows how even the finest writers can fail to be
understood and appreciated. This first generation following the
death of Roger White and the industry of critical reflection that it
creates has yet to establish any pattern. I trust this book will initiate
a pattern of enthusiastic appreciation.
I think the period 1979 to 1984 was especially significant in
bringing about a transformation in the literature available to Baha’is
on their Faith. White published three books of poetry and a novella
which I deal with later in this book. Nakhjavani published two
books: Response and Four On An Island, in a refreshing and highly
stimulating idiom that was as much poetry as prose and, like White,
left many readers puzzled. Others found her writing possessed of a
vitality and originality that, as Henry Moore once put it, were
uniquely her own. It was also a style of writing that was inspired
by that same universal vision that inhabited White’s poetry and
that, I am confident, will take on additional significance as time goes
on. And there were other books. But this series of essays deals with
the poetry of Roger White. I leave it to other writers and critics to
deal more comprehensively with the other authors who have been
part of this emergence beginning, say, with its first major teaching
plan (1937-1944) when, arguably, this Baha’i consciousness made its
earliest appearances in world literature and the Faith itself begin to
expand over the surface of the earth to become the second most
widespread religion on the planet.
The course of development of the prose, the language, the
thought - and especially the poetry - of a group of people: a nation,
an ethnic group, a religion, indeed any group with a specific identity,
a specific set of characteristics is, as the nineteenth century literary

critic Matthew Arnold wrote, “profoundly interesting”. “By regard-
ing a poet’s work as a stage,” he continued,”in this course of devel-
opment we may easily bring ourselves to make it of more impor-
tance as poetry than it really is.” Perhaps I am guilty of this literary
sin in what I admit to be, again in Arnold's words, my quite exag-
gerated praise, my arguable overrating of White’s work. What may
be the long term historical estimate of White’s work and what is the
intrinsic estimate of his work to a contemporary individual - and
particularly this critic - are not necessarily identical.
The internationalization of literature, its global orientation, its
planetization, its planetary consciousness, the perception of litera-
ture as part of the essential fabric of a global civilization or culture
has really emerged only in the last quarter of the twentieth century.
Goethe, at the turn of the nineteenth century, was the first great
thinker to suggest that the literature of the future would be a world
literature with a planetary consciousness. A. Alvarez remarks, in
analysing modernism in literature in the first three decades of the
twentieth century, that it was “synonymous with internationalism”.
The scholarship of comparative literature and the histories of com-
parative literature have demonstrated that a common vein of ideas
and conventions runs through all Western literature. Indeed, there
is unquestionably an underlying uniformity in the literary heritage
of humankind, although an outdated nationalism, parochialism and
insular local traditions still militate against the thrusting sense of
global culture. Of course, traditionality, localism, associations of a
national culture will remain, will continue to be enriched. That, too,
is part of the process currently under way on this planet.
T.S. Eliot once wrote that “literary criticism should be completed
by criticism from a definite ethical and theological standpoint”. I am
not sure that is necessarily the case. It would appear than many of
the greatest painters and writers did not work from an explicit, a
defined and articulate philosophical perspective, but in the case of
this work, this literary evaluation of the poetry of Roger White, I do
write from much the same ethical and theological standpoint as

White. Perhaps more importantly, though, the White I am analysing
in this book is a very personal White. He is my White. A personal
relationship grows up between poet and reader, a personal interpre-
tation. My commentary on White is based, as Northrop Frye
emphasized, in “the actual experience of art” that is in my actual
experience of White’s poetry. It is based, too, on a conceptual uni-
verse of analysis that I have constructed on my own with the aid of
a range of ideas and concepts from the literary arts and social sci-
ences. The poet may be part of an embryonic Baha'i consciousness
in world literature but he also becomes part of the individual read-
er’s consciousness in a very private and personal world often quite
different from the worlds of other readers. Lionel Trilling made this
same point in relation to Robert Frost’s poetry at a talk he gave at
the Waldorf-Astoria in New York in 1959 in celebration of Frost’s
eighty-fifth birthday.
For this reason and the personal friendship that I had with White
over many years, I feel somewhat like the famous literary critic
Helen Vendler who said in a panel discussion just recently in New
York “I don't often do negative reviews…that does not seem to me
an interesting kind of writing to do.” Vendler went on to say that
the negative, the critical side of reviewing detracts from the effect,
the vitality, of the content on the page. Critics want to write about
the kind of poetry they would like to write themselves or they
would like to sponsor. No critic wants to write about some poet they
do not especially like, Vendler concluded, as they get older, and espe-
cially if they know the poet. Marjorie Perloff, another critic on the
panel, said that to demolish or trash a poet was a devastating thing
to do. Her approach was to say ‘if you can't say something good
about the poet, don’t write the review or the book’. She said this is
especially true for poets you know personally and when the review
is not anonymous. Who wants to be critical of someone you know
personally? It is not natural or instinctive, said Perloff. Some critics
can hide behind the veil of anonymity and psychological distance
and thus make more devastating comments. Others simply will not

write about living poets. As far as these essays are concerned, then,
readers will find little overt and strong criticism of White. There is, I
trust, much of that etiquette of expression, that judicious and disci-
plined exercise of the written word, that moderation which “ensures
the enjoyment of true liberty” Such is my aim.
I like to think my study, my literary criticism, is similar to that of
the father of literary criticism, John Dryden. “His is the criticism”
in the words of Samuel Johnson, “of a poet, not a dull collection of
theorems, not a rude collection of faults….but a gay and vigorous
dissertation, where delight is mingled with instruction, and where
the author proves his right of judgement, by his power of perform-
ance.” Whatever the standpoint, though - theological and otherwise
- my aim, like the aim of White’s poetry, is to awaken and enlarge
the mind by rendering it the receptacle of a thousand otherwise
unapprehended combinations of thought. White knows that:
Life, like a dome of many-coloured glass,
Stains the white radiance of Eternity,
Until death tramples it to fragments.
And so he gives us that “many-coloured glass”, as some of his phi-
losophy “the white radiance of Eternity” and the process of the
familiar feet of death trampling life “to fragments”. And I give you
this review of White’s poetry. I try to convey something of the new
voice that White creates for us in his several books of poetry. I try
to save the poetry from the artist who created it. For this is what
White wanted. He was quite insistent in making this separation.
This book opens with a short biography in three parts. I know that
readers are as much interested in the man as the poet and his
poetry. I do not think I overdo it, though. I hope Roger would find
my weighting of these two distinct categories in good taste. He was
always so kind in his letters that even if he disagreed with you he

would always let you down slowly, laughing as you went. And he is
no longer with us, with me, to say “I think you overdid it here,
Ron.” He was also adventurous and frank, so you knew where you
stood. He did not beat around the bush, as they say.
There is a high seriousness in White but his alembic is humour.
For some readers the effect of his poetry is a lightness and pleasure
that only humour can provide; for other readers White’s seriousness
and his language place too much of a demand and, not willing to
read and re-read his poems, these readers put him down without
extracting the intellectual delights; for still others, White has the
effect of an invigorating exercise of the mind. For them the laughs
are a bonus and the reward is more than pure delight. These readers
gain an understanding of the religion they joined at some time in
the last half century, an understanding perhaps deeper than any
learned commentary or, indeed, the efforts of their own investiga-
tion. These readers get a sense of a Baha’i consciousness, a Baha’i
sensibility, a Baha’i voice, from a poet who has made a distinctive
contribution to the birth of a spiritual and universal art.
Blended with this voice are interlacing strains of White’s literary
ancestry. They influence his style in quite complex and mysterious
ways, making whatever seems original and a fresh creative force
partly and inevitably derivative. At the same time, as the sociologist
Levin Schuckling emphasizes: “Somewhere, at some time, the poet
follows the divine summons sent him and, true to an inner urge,
responsible only to himself and answering no call from the outer
world, creates his works of poetry that are dictated by the ideal that
floats before him. The works brought into the light of day often
show divergences from existing forms and do not fit into the con-
temporary scheme of taste. Over time, though, the poetry finds
friends, gains recognition and effects the general poetic taste.”
Matthew Arnold, writing about the “sanguine hopes” which
accompanied the splendid epoch of poetry in European civilization
in the first quarter of the nineteenth century, said there was a "pre-

matureness” to its expression. He said that, in spite of its energy
and creative force, that epoch did not know enough. The creation of
a modern poet, he went on, “implies a great critical effort behind it”
or it will be a short-lived affair. Time will tell, of course, if there has
been enough of that critical effort behind the poetry of Roger White
to make it a long-lived affair. There is certainly a critical effort
required on the part of the reader if White’s work is to be appreciat-
ed. In this twenty-first century, sinking deeper as it appears to be
into a slough of despond, one cannot help but wonder with Harold
Bloom what will survive in the long term from the world's bur-
geoning literary and media productions that fill people's lives today
to assume a home in the world's literature in history's long arc.
In this greatest drama in the world's spiritual history in which we
are all engaged, Roger White appeared for a time on the stage and is
gone. But his poetry remains: as playful as Robert Frost and as seri-
ous as Ezra Pound, with his delightful metaphor and the freshness
thereof, with his sympathy, infinitude and expansive virtues which,
as Shelley once wrote, await “a world of peace and justice for their
due recognition”. White, the voyager, is gone, ten years now. He
gave himself, the only thing a writer has to offer. And where life is
concerned, a writer, a poet, can only truly see, as he does, through
his own eyes and his own heart. He gave us the results of his search
which, as Mark Tobey once wrote, are “the only valid expression of
the spirit”. He gave us what Dante says are the proper subjects of
poetry: venus, virtue and salus.
He liked the term ‘minor poet’ - at least he used that term to
apply to himself in one of his first poems. I think he would have
eschewed the term ‘major poet’ for many reasons but, if a distinc-
tion can profitably be drawn between ‘major’ and ‘great’, then
White, for me anyway, deserves recognition as a great poet. Minor
writers, minor poets, can be loved as purely and appreciated as much
as major ones, and sometimes more easily, as another great analyst
of poetry, Helen Vendler notes. The distinction between talent and
genius may also be useful here. The former, said Arnold, gives the

notion of power in a poet's performance, while the latter denotes
felicity and perfection in the art. For me, White has some of both.
It is, perhaps, unimportant to ‘decide’ whether White was a great
poet. Pursuing labels of this kind and making such distinctions may
not be that helpful. White was good enough to provoke the ques-
tion; perhaps that is enough. He was an exquisite craftsman. He
produced an ample body of powerful poetry. That was enough, in
the case of Balzac, for Somerset Maugham to use the term genius,
or in the case of Wordsworth for Matthew Arnold to use the same
term. Arnold also felt that “poetry to be truly excellent must have a
high seriousness.” White certainly had that.
Arnold also wrote that: “Whether one is an eagle or an ant, in the
intellectual world, seems to me not to matter much; the essential
thing is to have one’s place marked there, one’s station assigned, and
to belong decidedly to a regular and wholesome order” as one gave
others a taste for the things of the mind. Baha’u’llah explored the
same idea in writing about the portion of some laying in a gallon
measure and others in a thimble. ’Abdu’l-Baha wrote much about
the cultivation of the mind. Arnold was in good company. I got the
impression these questions did not matter much to White.
Now, of course, I think it unlikely that recognition of this or
any kind concerns him in the slightest. As he writes in one of his
last poems:
…………………….Released from
wanting and having, I shall only be.
………………
Occupied with boundlessness
I shall yet divine your unspoken question:
Were you drawn away by the music,

the laughter,
the promised ecstasy of reunion?
The work of a critic can be fantastically overestimated. Readers
often forsake the works critics are writing about. Instead of enjoying
the poet, the reader turns to the critic as specialist, to his prodigali-
ties of implication, his hyperboles, his nimbuses of rhetoric, his
exaggerations and the various promptings that the critic places
before the reader. This I do not mind. I think there is a certain
inevitability here, at least for some readers. As long as all that I have
written convinces you, the reader, if only for the moment, of
White’s talent and genius, I will have done my job. For my main
responsibility is to the poet, Roger White, and the need to be truth-
ful. If what I write appears over the top, as it is said colloquially
these days, that is because of the genuine enthusiasm and pleasure I
take in reading his poetry. White is a subtle, yet bewilderingly gifted
poet. I would not want you to miss the experience of Whiteland. I
like to think that most of White’s life consisted of only those things
that were not good enough to go into his poems. So, if his biograph-
ical details are a little light on, readers should not feel they are
missing much. White wanted it that way.
The nineteenth century literary critic Amiel, describing perhaps
that century’s finest French literary critic Sainte-Beuve, wrote that
“it is only at fifty that the critic is risen to the true height of his lit-
erary priesthood or, to put it less pompously, of his social function”.
Only then does a critic have the required critical judgement. These
essays were put in their present form when I was in my late fifties. I
am not so sure I qualify for any literary priesthood; I am not sure I
possess the maturity of judgement Amiel refers to, but I hope that
readers enjoy the essays that follow.
Samuel Johnson wrote biographies of each of his subjects before
proceeding to comment and evaluate their works. Such a combina-
tion satisfies, it seems to me, a perfectly proper curiosity. Johnson’s

Lives of the Poets is part of a biographical tradition going back to
the early seventeenth century and earlier, a tradition that keeps sep-
arate a man’s poetry and the man. Gradually, in the nineteenth cen-
tury, the study of a man and the interpretation of his work began to
mingle and to mingle more in the twentieth century. I do some
mingling. I am a moderate mingler. This is what White wanted. I
hope both White and readers of these essays will find my mingling
helpful but not intrusive.

THE POEM NOT THE POET
Roger White would have liked George Bernard Shaw’s views on
biography. The facts of writers’ lives, wrote Shaw, have no more to
do with their writing ability than the shape of their nose. White
used to quote Rabindranath Tagore on this biographical theme: ’the
poem not the poet’ - as Tagore put the theme succinctly. White felt
that his life was, to use Shaw’s words, biographically uninteresting. I
do not think, though, that White’s life, among those lives of the
other minor poets to whose ranks he himself claimed to belong,
could be said to be so unvarying and therefore so uninteresting.
White did not want to diminish his work by restoring it to the par-
ticularities of what he felt was his mundane biographical context.
And so there is little here of what that significant biographer and
poet in our early modern period, Samuel Johnson, referred to as
“domestic privacies” and “the minute details of daily life”.
I am sure White felt about his future biography somewhat the
way Mark Twain felt about Shakespeare’s biography: “an Eiffel
tower of artificialities rising sky-high from a very flat and thin
foundation of inconsequential facts, a fifty-seven foot high bron-
tosaur that looks convincing enough in the natural history museum
but is made of six hundred barrels of plaster of paris and maybe
only ‘nine old bones’.” He did not feel the same way about his
poetry, although he does not appear to have had Walt Whitman’s
grandiose sense of destiny and overriding purpose about his poems.
His was a more moderate sense of self-worth. But, like W.H. Auden,
he was inclined to the view that an artist’s private life sheds little
light on his works. But like Auden, too, he would have been willing
to bend the rule given the right circumstances. Of course during his
life White did not have to fend off biographers standing in line to
write his story. I certainly do not have enough information about
White’s life to provide the kind of story White’s life deserves,
although Anne Gordon Perry has gathered a collection of White’s
letters and, if the right circumstances can be arrived at serendipi-
Chapter 2

tously and through Perry’s insight into that collection, then White
lovers will soon be able to read the first stab at a biography of
White. The chief source material for biographers is often their sub-
ject’s letters or a diary. White was a most prolific letter writer and,
for me anyway, his poetry serves as a type of diary. If any biograph-
ical skyscraper is to be built on Whiteland, his letters will provide
the architecture, not his poetry.
Literary critic, J.V. Cunningham, once said of the poet E.A.
Robinson that he was “a man almost without biography”. I do not
think White would have put it that strongly vis-à-vis his own life
but that was the sort of emphasis White wanted to give to his day-
to-day life and, more importantly, that was the sort of emphasis he
wanted his readers to give to it. I address myself to some extent to
what White saw as his quiet and uneventful life, to the events
behind his character and personality and to the tough fibre that was
his life as a writer. I hope that readers will like and respect White
more, find him in greater clarity as a human being, as a result of the
glimpse I have provided into his life story and his poetry. I hope, in
the process, to deepen our understanding of White’s art, for it is in
his art that the greatness lies. But my purpose is not, in the main, to
correct or refine taste, as T.S. Eliot said was the purpose of the liter-
ary theorist. Nor is my purpose to provide evidence for a thesis.
What I write issues out of the pleasure I take in reading White’s
poetry and the belief that, as Robert Hayden once put it, “Poetry
does make something happen, for it changes sensibility.” Such
change, incontrovertibly spiritual in nature, is the prerequisite for
any transformation in the objective, quotidian world. I hope I bring
to this exercise what the true father of English practical criticism,
John Dryden (1631-1700), said was the “primary qualification of the
good practical critic - the ability to read the work under considera-
tion with full and sympathetic understanding”. I hope that I also
bring a secondary qualification to my critic’s role, a qualification
which Dryden thought was important for any critic to possess;
namely, the ability to communicate my relish and enjoyment of

White’s work and thereby help the reader enjoy his poetry in a sim-
ilar vein. It is difficult, though, to rationally explain the effect of a
poem on one’s mind and emotions; I always find my comments on
White’s poems never quite explain my experience of them.
Good literary criticism of poetry, wrote George Saintsbury back at
the turn of the twentieth century, is “as delightful as (one) can find
in any department of belles lettres”. I hope readers will find these
essays a delight. It is rare to find two critics liking the same things
for the same reasons. Diversity of selection and interpretation is the
norm. But in so far as White’s inner world is concerned, a world
largely inaccessible to biographers except through speculation, it is
my view that White’s poetry comes closest to revealing its true
nature. Of course letters can be very useful in revealing the nature
of a person’s inner life and I leave that to Perry, as I indicated
before. Mark Twain expressed some of my scepticism regarding the
extent to which a person’s outer life, their actions and their conver-
sation are a revelation of their true nature. Twain says they are just
“the clothes and buttons of the man”. Twain continued:
“What a wee little part of a person’s life are his acts and words!
His real life is led in his head and is known to none but himself. All
day long, and every day, the mill of his brain is grinding, and his
thoughts, not those other things, are his history. His acts and his
words are merely the visible, thin crust of his world - and they are
so trifling a part of his bulk… The mass of him is hidden.”
Twain expatiates at great length on this theme and it reminds
me in some ways of what has become an oft-quoted passage of
Shoghi Effendi:
“One thing and only one thing will unfailingly and alone secure
the undoubted triumph of this sacred Cause, namely, the extent to
which our own inner life and private character mirror forth in their
manifold aspects the splendour of those eternal principles pro-
claimed by Baha’u’llah.”

Perhaps the real person is quintessentially a mystery. If so, my
intention is to explore that mystery through White’s poetry. My
focus is not on some complex of internal and self-referential rela-
tions, some theory of psychoanalysis. I am not trying to focus my
gaze on the inaccessible inner reaches of the authorial psyche. I am
not trying to get inside White’s head. I try to understand White the
man in a way he wanted to be understood: through his poetry. For
the most part, I leave to biographers the question of the poet’s char-
acter formation and the peculiarities of his personality as they take
shape over a lifetime. I hope in the process to give White what
Auden said “every author hopes to receive from posterity - a hope
usually disappointed – justice”.
White’s life may have been much like Jane Austen’s novels: noth-
ing much happens but you eagerly turn the page of his literary life
waiting for what happens next. For the drama of White’s life was in
some ways like Lord Acton’s, only on a different scale. That drama
was a drama of ideas. Just as Acton’s life illustrates the influence
that powerful minds, past and present, exerted over his develop-
ment, so does White’s, only in his case the powerful minds were
those of two manifestations of God and Their chosen successors who
passed by before and during his lifetime, and some very impressive
individuals in the first century and a half of the religion he became
associated with in his late teens.
The whole of creation, Baha’u’llah writes, “was revolutionized
and all that are in the heavens and all that are on earth were stirred
to the depths”. In 1921 T.S. Eliot expressed this change as a “disso-
ciation of sensibility”. Others have called it a paradigm shift. Society
has not recovered; indeed, the tempest is still with us. For this
writer, White is but one of the multitude of manifestations of this
quite complex and profound shift, as it was expressed in poetry, in
the early epochs of the Formative Age of the Baha’i Faith and, in
particular, the tenth stage of history when the charismatic Force that
gave birth to the Baha’i Faith was fully institutionalized.

I see myself very much like the type of literary critic that Eliot calls
’the advocate’, to help readers find merit in what they once over-
looked, to find charm in what may have been first experienced as a
certain tedium vitae or boredom, to remind others that there is a
depth there in White’s poetry that simply must be tapped and sim-
ply to express my gratitude to White, posthumously, on behalf of
many of the lovers of White’s poetry. There are no explicit canons of
criticism. What is needed is a meeting of the author’s intention and
the critic’s appreciation. “Worthwhile criticism,” writes Herbert
Read, has as its basis “pathos, sympathy and empathy”. To some
extent, too, this commentary is a by-product of my own creative
activity. As ’Abdu’l-Baha said many times, the reality of man is his
thought and it is White’s thought that this book is devoted to, for
the most part. Here is White’s thinking talking to you. I hope that
the reason readers want to know more about White’s life is that
they care for his poetry and are interested in his thinking. If former
American poet laureate Robert Pinsky is right about what consti-
tutes good poetry over poetry that is dross, namely, that it will
admit abstract statement, then White’s poems are good ones. They
certainly tell you what he is thinking with a fair portion of abstract
thought. They also, or so it seems to me, spread an imaginative soli-
tude that, as Oscar Wilde once wrote, “works best in silence and in
isolation”.
I am more than a little aware that almost the last thing most peo-
ple come to poetry for is literary criticism. Indeed, I am sure that
many would agree with Wordsworth that the writers of literary
criticism “while they prosecute their inglorious employment, cannot
be supposed to be in a state of mind very favourable for being
affected by the inner influences of a thing so pure as genuine poet-
ry”. Of course Wordsworth regarded the critical power very low,
infinitely lower than the creative power that produces poetry. And
he was also sensitive to the damaging effect of false and malicious
criticism. This was the source, writes Arnold, of his exaggerated and
negative view of criticism. My own feeling is that creative activity,

in most forms, is invaluable and one form, like criticism, is neither
higher nor lower in rank, than the writing of poetry. I have difficul-
ty going as far as Oscar Wilde who saw criticism as demanding
“infinitely more cultivation than creation” and more creativity than
the creative arts of poetry and literature since criticism was, to him,
“the purest form of personal impression”. Wilde also saw criticism
as “the record of one’s own soul” and as “the only civilized form of
autobiography”. Criticism was in its essence purely subjective. This
may be why I have been attracted in recent years to a critique of
White’s poetry because it allows me to deepen a literary process I
began, myself, some twenty years ago but which ran dry in the
channels of narrative autobiography.
Wilde writes that through criticism “the picture becomes more
wonderful to us than it really is, and reveals to us a secret of which,
in truth, it knows nothing”. Such is the paradox of criticism as
Wilde sees it. The poetry critic examines the poetic form and puts
into it what he wishes and sees in it what he chooses to see. There is
a freshness, a vitality, a provocativeness in Wilde’s view of criticism
that appeals to me. And I like to think that there is some of Wilde’s
perspective in my own.
I was able to piece together a basic outline of White’s life. I sent it
to him for his approval two years before he passed away. He made
two or three minor corrections of fact and returned it. It was obvi-
ous to me that White was disinclined to provide more than he
already had done about his life. “If you want to know about me,
read what I have written,” seemed to be his position, his view, on
writing about his life.
I have done so and enjoyed White’s poetry with the relish of a
starved palate. Now I hope I can accomplish what the twentieth cen-
tury’s great poetry critic Randall Jarrell said was the critic’s aim: “to
show to others what the critic saw in what he read”. Inevitably
readers will be exposed here to the defects of my own sensibility,
prejudices and idiosyncrasies as well as a substantial body of

analysis and evaluation of White’s poetry. For the most part I do not
dwell on the intricacies with which White’s mind negotiates with its
surroundings to produce what I find deeply satisfying poetry. For
the most part I do not occupy myself with the nature of the connec-
tion between White’s personality and his poetic imagination. I leave
that to the more biographically inclined student. I am content to
explore the poetry, the world that is contained in White’s poetry and
its meanings. Even then, I only explore a small part of his oeuvre.
Poetry, in some ways, is the attempt to organize through the impo-
sition of language raw human perception, the flux and mass, or
should I say mess, of experience. I examine a very small part of
White’s specific perceptions, specific experience, specific poems and
the examination is largely tentative. It is just an initial exploration
of the territory. Perhaps it will stimulate others to journey into
White’s land, to follow his path, to continue beyond an examination
which is the first published study in the early stage of what I am
confident will become ‘the White industry’. In some ways it is
through the very incompleteness of White’s story that it acquires a
certain beauty. It addresses itself not to the faculty of recognition or
reason but to the aesthetic sense alone, subordinating them both to
a synthetic impression of White’s poetic oeuvre. White felt the same
way about life so many of us feel as life takes its long mile that it
seems to be like a dream and an illusion. For White what came to be
living and enduring, a fulfilment of his experience, in some basic
ways, was his art, his poetry. It helped to shield him from the sordid
perils of actual existence.
If you had met White at any time in his adult life, say after his
marriage in 1954 at the age of twenty-five, the man you would have
seen is one that I have only the most vague impression of. It is an
impression I have gathered from several photographs and from the
several letters I received: a short, slender fellow, thin and bird-like, a
serious countenance, a ready smile, a quick wit. But since I never
met Roger White, since I have no observations of others at my fin-
gertips and since White himself wanted me to focus on his poetry,

what readers have here is poetic evaluation as a type of philosophi-
cal activity. It is an activity as Lord Acton once described it: some-
thing concerned with “the latent background of conviction, discern-
ing theory and habit, influences of thought and knowledge, of life
and descent”. I find it helpful to be able to connect White’s poetry
with his life, but I cannot go as far as the literary critic Emilio Roma
III who wrote that “a critic will get at the meaning of a poem if and
only if he does connect it with the poet’s life…. he must use this
material if he is to be a good critic”. Neither can I go to the other
extreme, as far as Roland Barthes and Michel Foucault as far back as
the 1950s and in the United States since the 1970s, where literary
criticism has set itself the aim of erasing the author as an entity and
“treating the text as a bloodless, authorless orphan”. Readers so
influenced by this approach to the study of literature in a spirit of
aggressive demystification - and I think this approach has its place -
will find my approach somewhat “belletristic”. But to others, to the
community of poets and readers of White’s poetry, I hope this com-
munity finds what I write an encouragement to take criticism and
evaluation of poetry back into their own hands. The study of litera-
ture, prose and poetry does not need to be only arcane and for some
literary elite. It can be for everyman and he can still do his garden-
ing, fix the car and watch movies. I like to think White’s poetry can
and will spread far and wide because, for many, his work is free of
that “narrow and dull decorum” with its studied plainness which
Robert Breslin saw as having “spread over most, though not all,
poetry in America”.
I take some comfort in the words of the nineteenth century
English essayist William Hazlitt who thought we could know too
much about a person. Hazlitt wrote that “the more evidence about a
person you accumulate the more complex and difficult it is to
’know’ someone. Interest and prejudice take away the power of
judging, especially of those we love. The harder and longer you
look, the more impossible it becomes to attain knowledge of others.
Actual qualities do not conform to any factitious standard in the

mind but rest upon their own truth and nature”. It is difficult, as
Virginia Woolf once put it, describing the process of creating biogra-
phy, to describe some seamless whole around the life of anyone,
some “granite-like solidity of truth” and some “rainbow-like intan-
gibility of personality”. And so I do not try, nor does White even
want us to try. I do not try to portray or to shape White’s life; I do
not strain to define his identity; I do not describe from the outside
some wholeness nor view his life from the inside in all its bits and
pieces. I do not run after the unity of White’s person. I accept that
unity, as Alfred North Whitehead expressed it, namely, as an
“inescapable fact”. I find Whitehead’s view of personal unity helpful
in connection with whatever remarks I may make about White:
Personal unity is a perplexed and obscure concept. We must con-
ceive it as the receptacle, the foster-mother as I might say, of the
becoming of our occasions of experience. This personal identity is
the thing which receives all occasions of a man’s existence. It is
there as a natural matrix for all transitions of life, and is changed
and variously figured by the things that enter it; so that it differs in
its character at different times. Since it receives all manner of expe-
riences into its own unity, it must itself be bare of all forms. We
shall not be far wrong if we describe it as invisible, formless, and all-
receptive. It is a locus which persists”. It is a locus which Oscar
Wilde believed is inhabited by “the lives of the dead“. The soul that
dwells within us, it was his view, is “no single spiritual entity”.
The literary critic Edmund Wilson and others of his school who
employ psychology and sociology in their study of literature inform
us of the immense complexity and subtlety of the task of relating
writers’ lives to their works. The latter, a writer’s work, is not sim-
ply a variation on the former; each throws light on the other.
Wilson prefers to work from the writer’s life to his work, but more
technical psychological criticism often works the other way. This is
not so much of a problem if we know a great deal about a person’s
life. In the case of White, Wilson and his school are of little help.

It is the role of biography to describe the contours of this highly
problematic receptacle and in the process portray character, render
personality, place the individual in a sequence of culturally pat-
terned relationships. That is not my role. I find that man and milieu,
idea and context meet somewhat haphazardly on street corners: in
Akka, in Haifa, in Toronto, in Belleville, in Tehran and around the
corner from where I live. I am not concerned with where the cam-
eras were pointed, at what the newspapers said, how White might
have appeared on TV or on the radio or the contradictions that
inevitably arise from the multitude of views that people have of
anyone and of White in particular. I am writing about a media
event, but it is in the print media. I am not trying to transform a
selection of ephemeral events and scattered accidents into some
fixed documentary with reportorial authority. I am not trying to
recreate White, although I must confess to a certain impulse toward
elegy, toward commemoration. The fertile, the creative facts that
suggest and engender - and that I am after - are not in White’s life
but in his poetry. This is no exercise in ’mere impressionism,’ as
David Daiches calls the simple setting forth of an autobiographical
response in the place of a critical assessment of a work, a literary
oeuvre. Autobiography is not literary evaluation.
The biography of a man whose adventures are played out silently
under his brain cupola is a literary labour of another order. When a
life is not crowded with incident and adventure, when a biographer
cannot compile external excitements but must rely on inner great-
ness of spirit and on quite complex phenomena in a man’s inner life,
the challenge facing that biographer is greater. For the complexity of
White and the phenomena associated with his poetry resides in fac-
tors like: who readers have gradually become by reading his verse;
how his communication with readers is achieved; the exuberance of
his language and its appeal to our intellect and feelings; and his
non-partisan political poetry which overtly attempts to reveal con-
nections between the feelings - the inner life - of the individual and
objective social/historical facts. To keep the poet and his poetry

together, the doer and the deeds into one sober set of facts, under
these conditions, and make it an interesting read for the public is
beyond this writer. I do not see my role as an attempt to protect
White, now that he has died, from “malice, obtrusive sentiment or
vain curiosity”, to use the words of one of Thackeray’s memorial-
ists; nor is it my role to show and tell all. I show and tell very little
really of White the man: whatever harmonies and disharmonies
there may have been; whatever warts and all he may have had;
whatever achievements he may have had while serving on a multi-
tude of committees, assemblies and groups, doing a myriad projects,
assignments and activities as part of an embryonic order, as an ado-
lescent, a husband, a single man, a friend, indeed in one of any
number of roles he had in life. I am not trying to save him for
future generations. I am trying to put his poetry in perspective. I am
trying to paint a mosaic in which White’s poetry, its intimate
imagery with so many of the historical landscapes associated with
the birth and development of his religion-and ours coexist as equal
expressivities within a pattern. My aim is not to describe or embody
in words some personal coherence of White the poet, like a
Renaissance painting. If anything my style is more cubist. I come at
White from a thousand directions, just brushing his side, touching
his hair, taking a furtive look, as I hit his poetry with everything I
have. It’s the hit of a baseball out of the ball park or a golf ball on a
long putt right into the hole. That is my aim. Sadly I often strike
out or settle for an eagle. For I am no professional; I am simply
someone who loves White’s poetry. And to arrive at what I really
believe about his poetry I speak through the lips of thinkers differ-
ent from myself. For I believe, as Wilde did, that the culture of my
times is seen through my analysis and words. And this requires me
to go to the words of others for my own understanding and perfect-
ing: to feel myself alive. If I want to acquire the qualities of the
divine I must have contact with divine sources.
White approved, in the two years immediately before his passing,
a collection of a dozen or so essays - essays which focused on his

poetry not his life, his words not his life story. Put slightly differ-
ently, this same focus on the art not the artist was expressed by
George Painter in his biography of Proust. “Tell me anything,”
Painter wrote, “which I could not find more intensely, acceptably
and deeply in Proust’s works.” Biography would only provide mea-
gre details of Proust - and White. In White’s poetry the reader can
find his personal analysis, his introspective pondering, his inner self.
His poetry, he felt, could and should stand on its own. It is the
thread joining his life’s occasions of experience. It is the way he dis-
covers and clarifies his vision. It is a vision far removed from every
tinge of partisanship and politics but “wholly devoted to the inter-
ests of all mankind”.
I would like to say a little more about White’s politics. The words
of poet Carolyn Forche are useful here. Forche writes that “the qual-
ity of a poem is dependent on the quality of its engagement, a high
degree of commitment”. This is part of what she calls the poet’s
“ideological stance”. The time to determine one’s politics is the
“whole of one’s life. We are responsible for the quality of our vision,
we have a say in the shaping of our sensibility. In the many thou-
sand daily choices we make, we create ourselves and the voice with
which we speak and work.” This comes close to expressing the type
of politics White was concerned with in his poetry. By the time
White had become an adult he had been exposed for several years to
what was clearly a Baha’i definition of the political. It was concerned
with building a new Order and White worked within that Order in
different capacities for nearly fifty years.
I think it is impossible to get a comprehensive, a coherent picture
of White from his poetry. With some people, usually writers, there
is a tendency to describe and record everything in their lives. This
tendency gives a biographer a fighting chance. Virginia Woolf and
Bertrand Russell were two such people. White did not put it all
down. He put “the love and madness of life”, as Woolf called life’s
travail and adventure, into his poetry. But I do not attempt to knot
up the incoherences of White’s life into some theoretical coherence.

This is no psychoanalytic exercise, however probing it may try to
be. White knew and experienced a great deal but I approach this
knowledge, this experience, through his poetry, not through what
happened to him. If readers want an entertaining yarn about an
interesting Baha’i who lived in the last half of the twentieth centu-
ry, they must go elsewhere.
White kept no diary and so we do not have a detailed picture of
his life, what Stendal called the “excessive pile of I’s and Me’s”.
Prose was not a sufficient vehicle for White, although he certainly
made use of it in his letters and in his craft as editor. The miraculous
gift that makes an artist or a poet remains a mystery, however near
he may be brought to us by our need to understand him and his
work. His poetry, though, belongs to all lovers and appreciators of
literature, whoever and wherever they are, even if the best critics of
poetry are the poets, as Seneca argued two thousand years ago and
as T.S. Eliot stated the case in our own time. There is a basic unity to
White’s work, a unity that is difficult to define, except to say that
White gives us life itself, the word and the world as seen from a
particular point of view by a North American Baha’i during the sec-
ond, third and fourth epochs of the Formative Age of the Baha’i
Fasith. Poetry critic George Saintsbury refers to the “infinite mani-
festations” of poetry’s “Grand Style” which he defines as “the treat-
ment of a serious subject with simplicity”. White certainly does this
and, I would add, White’s work is free of affectation which is fatal to
any ’Grand Style’ and any pretensions to understanding.
Readers will find here in these essays a personal, unsystematic,
eclectic kind of criticism, creating as it moves a tone and an atmos-
phere that reflects in various ways the special qualities of Roger
White and his writing as well as my own qualities, preferences and
prejudices. I do not try to demonstrate with analytic precision the
presence of any given quality in White’s poetry; I respond to the
achieved work rather than engaging in some technical demonstra-
tion. I like to think there is an atmosphere in this book of a small
library-study, for that is where I have done all my writing. The

chairs are comfortable, the walls lined with books, some Bach or
Beethoven is playing. I, like White, “Draw my chair beside the fire
and/Gather silence to me./I wind my thoughts in knotless
skein,/Unspoken, mile by mile, - /A league from immortality/Lay
down my wool and smile” And, in the process, I draw closer to
Emily Dickinson in White’s poetic evocation The Figure in White;
or perhaps I draw closer to myself.
White was more than ready to respond to an analysis of his poet-
ry written by others, even though he himself wrote little about his
own life and little about his poetry. The essays which I wrote and
sent to him about his life and his poetry were returned quickly with
the occasional comment and a general appreciation and enthusiasm
for what I had written. A dozen years later, in 2002, I revised these
essays; it is these revisions which appear in this book. The result of
this playing down of the biographical was that I never felt I was liv-
ing in White’s skin, only in his poetry and in the wonder of con-
sciousness that emanated from his mind. In my essays I try to
emphasize my understanding of White’s poetry and to avoid the
danger of slipping into endless explanation. Criticism in literature is
not a science, however theoretically based it may be. There are no
established canons or standards of criticism today as the Greeks
once developed in the fourth century BC in Aristotle’s Poetics. I try
not to over-emphasize enjoyment and the impressionistic, and so
avoid making poetry a mere amusement and pastime. There is a bal-
ance, I think, between the overlapping categories of understanding
and enjoyment, analysis and impressionistic response. I trust I have
preserved the balance, one that is often defined in our culture as
that between entertainment and education. It seems to me there is
an essential key, though, to the deeper understanding of a man’s
poetry to be found in his life, in spite of what White says. I toy with
that key in this book while accepting the premise of Carlyle’s biog-
rapher Froude that “every person is a mystery even to those closest
to him”.

I have never written to anyone who responded with such haste to
my letters. These were the last days before e-mail began to move
communications electronically faster than a speeding bullet. His cor-
respondence was humorous and engaging. One of the effects of his
letters was to make me want to dip into his poetry more frequently.
As I came to enjoy the man behind the poems, I came to enjoy the
poems even more. I never actually met Roger. We exchanged letters
for a dozen years: 1981 to 1993, years when his poetry reached out
to the wide audience that he enjoyed for the last decade or more of
his life. He died in April 1993 at the age of sixty-three. I have
included a sample of our correspondence because it tells about the
man in a way that his poetry does not. In the main, though, I have
left White’s correspondence to Anne Gordon Perry whose new book
I trust will be on book shelves in the next year
or so.
The sample of letters I do deal with, though, is partly my conces-
sion to the biographical. I also aim to convey some of the joy or
delight that is produced by reading White. “Poetry only gives joy,”
though, writes Herbert Read, “in proportion to the understanding
we bring to it and our understanding must be of the most universal
and intuitive kind”. White was more than a little conscious of what
Sir Philip Sidney once called “man’s erected wit and his infected
will” His letters, at least the ones I received, are a tribute to his
“erected wit”. Indeed, given the human propensity and need for, and
pleasure taken in, laughter, it will not surprise me if White is
remembered more for his wit than his wisdom. For he is par excel-
lence the entertainer.
Shelley saw the poet and the man writing the poetry as having
two quite different natures. I find that sometimes they blend and
sometimes they occupy two quite separate worlds. I can only partly
agree with Shelley, but what I do in these essays, and what Roger
White would have preferred me to do, is to focus on his poetry or, to
use Shelley’s idiom, I focus on the poet and the poetry not the man.
White was only too aware of most people’s preferred interest in the

man, the personality behind the poetry. He was prepared to admit
that biographies were not only inevitable but that they were desir-
able. But such a concession he would have surrounded with a host of
reservations and warnings. He would have been the first to admit
that biographies are worthy of cultivation because they can enchain
the heart by their irresistible interest and diffuse instruction by
their diversity of form. But ‘not about him’ he would add, if you
gave him the last word. At any rate White would have been pleased
with any attempt to discuss intelligently his poetic opus. For he
would have agreed with Daiches that “A civilization is judged by its
amateurs, by the degree to which intelligent non-experts can discuss
with sense and understanding the phenomena of their culture….
not too far removed from ordinary readers of literature.”
I wrote the preface to White’s last major book of poetry
Occasions of Grace (1992). This preface focused on his poetry not
his biography. And I do it again, here, in what is a more extensive
and, I feel, a more deserving way, a decade after his passing. The
timing seems right. The ‘White industry’ has had a quiet beginning,
not an unusual one, though, for a poet. There is not yet a ’Collected
Poems’ for White. For someone starting out to read, to imagine and
meditate upon White’s verse, the journey will be demanding. The
exercise would be something like setting out to explore the planet.
For anyone who is already familiar with some of his poems the new
ones and the new books of his poetry will fit well into their existing
pattern. I have spent years on White’s poems, at least twenty, dur-
ing which I have examined them in some detail, underlining, mak-
ing notes and watching two of the volumes that I came to cherish
gradually fall apart as the binding deteriorated. I hope this time and
effort, personal pleasure and profit, will in turn be of use to those
who want to know more about White’s poetry. For White crystal-
lizes much of the amorphous nature of our existence, not by pro-
viding information but by a direct apprehension of the nature of
reality and the significance of life. The process by which he achieves
this is his style and a certain grace and clarity of performance. In

the process he creates his own universe. Occasionally I refer to it as
Whiteland.
“The point of a biography,” writes Ray Monk in a recent biogra-
phy of Bertrand Russell, “is no more and no less than to understand
its subject. But a biography is not a necessary precondition for
understanding a body of work.” Ray Monk, Shaw and White saw a
distinction between life and work. And they would have placed the
focus on the work. The work was always there to illumine the life;
in fact the life could not really be understood without understand-
ing the role played in the life and the imagination by the work. And
I would add, in conclusion, that the exercise of sympathy on the part
of the critic must meet and mingle with White’s own predominant
passions and concerns in his poetry, in his work, if his intellectual
life is to be discerned, if the music of his soul is to be described, as
Herder defined poetry.
I trust that readers will easily detect my sympathy meeting and
mingling with White’s work in the chapters that lie ahead.
My general aim could very well be a motto attributed to T.S. Eliot
in his practical criticism and study of poetry: “Study the craft, fol-
low the process and read constructively”. In doing this in the essays
which follow I try to strike a balance between making comments on
individual poems and making them on the entire corpus of White’s
poetry. The extent to which I achieve this balance is the extent to
which my own response to the poetry of Roger White is full and
complete. The analytical criticism and the more intellectual and
complicated poetry that developed after World War 1 was part of a
major change of taste in poetry. White’s poetry is not overly compli-
cated and my criticism is far from the bewildering obscurity of
much of contemporary criticism. I trust the reader will find here a
moderate middle ground.

CANADA’S THIRD WAVE
”.....at every second of his life he was, as we all are, infinite,
unseizable, imponderable.”
- Philip Toynbee, Biography as an Art, p.196.
It was a bad year. The stock market crash precipitated the beginning
of several years of economic bleakness that have come to be known
as the Depression. Roger White was born in that bad year, 1929, in
Toronto, becoming part of what literary critic Maxwell Geismar
called “the generation of ‘29’ ”. A new Conservative government
had taken office the year before under R.B. Bennett. Two years later
Canada ceased to be a colony of Great Britain thanks to the Statute
of Westminster. This little-known fact mattered little to most
Canadians at the time.
The first wave of exploration in Canadian history had been reli-
gious and economic: missionaries, voyagers and fur traders. The sec-
ond wave was technological and scientific: railway builders, miners,
people in many fields of science and technology. The third wave that
explored phenomenal existence was cultural. The poetry of Roger
White, beginning in the late 1940s, became part of this third wave.
This, too, is a little known fact.
Until World War 1, 1914-1918, romantic and adventurous ten-
dencies in Canada were associated with western and northern
Canada. Intellectual adventurousness had its roots in classical civi-
lization and the minute examination of the Judaeo-Christian tradi-
tion. Until World War 1 and perhaps even World War 2 the classical
tradition of Western civilization still held the centre of Canadian
intellectual life. But after World War 2 a new continental, north-
south consciousness began to emerge and with it a global, an inter-
national perspective.
Chapter 3

The classical tradition began to lose its centrality on the Canadian
intellectual landscape.
This new and emerging continental, north-south divide provided
the matrix for the developing embryo, the first seeds of an evolving
Baha’i consciousness in world literature. Within the context of this
continental, this American expansiveness, a new literary cosmopoli-
tanism invited readers to a luxurious feast, a great banquet of world
literature. A host of writers, rising as they did above ideological and
cultural differences to sound the unified note of an “international
perspective”, began to be heard more and more as decade succeeded
decade in the last half of the twentieth century. The Baha’i voice in
this literary cosmopolitanism was a small one, not surprisingly for a
community which did not exceed twenty-five thousand members in
Canada and, perhaps one hundred and fifty thousand members in
the United States at the turn of the millennium. Globally, though,
the Baha’i Faith was the second most widely spread religion on the
planet. The emergence of a Baha’i consciousness, a Baha’i perspec-
tive, in the literature of the people’s of the world was inevitable.
This emergence has taken place in several forms and several places.
One of these forms is the poetry of Roger White.
The Canadian consciousness, whether turned toward classical or
Judaeo-Christian history, whether turned toward the west, the
north, the south or, indeed, to the entire planet as it increasingly
was, could not be conservative. It was impossible, wrote Canadian
cultural historian George Grant, to build a conservative nation on a
continent right beside the most dynamic nation on earth. It was not
only impossible, it was ridiculous to even try. Canada had tried to do
this until 1939. After World War 2 in a rapidly developing global
cultural marketplace and ethos Canada moved increasingly in waters
that covered the face of the earth. It was in these waters that
White’s poetry belonged. Although there is a strong Canadian
flavour to his poetry as early as 1947, his poetry reached out to
Baha’is around the world by the 1980s.

In 1929, though, White’s home-town Toronto was a homogeneous
Scotch-Irish community. It was noted for its smugness, its snobbery
and its sterility. This was to be the case until the large intake of
immigrants was absorbed in the late 1940s and 1950s. That conser-
vative ethos and philosophy was rubbed off, given a shift outward,
loosened up, as a post-war nation moved imperceptibly toward an
era of multiculturalism by the 1970s. Perhaps this rubbing-off
process was part of White’s release, too, from that same Canadian
smugness and sterility which he was born into in Toronto and
which he was sure to be part of in the air he breathed in Belleville,
also on the northern shore of Lake Ontario, in the 1940s. In 1947
White had begun to take an interest in a religion that had been in
Canada, by then, for half a century. Something was sure to rub off
during this association and it did for nearly fifty years.
In the late 1920s and 1930s Canadians still wondered why their
former Prime Minister Sir Wilfred Laurier had said that the future
belonged to Canada. It seemed to them that the era of the farmer
was passing and that Canada was rapidly being urbanized. The opti-
mism of the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries had been
tarnished by World War 1, to put it mildly, and what was left of that
optimism was obliterated by the Depression. Whoever the future
belonged to, it was not Canadians. A new optimism, though, was
born again after World War 2 and White tasted its fruits, beginning
perhaps with his first job as the war ended and with his first poetry
in 1947. The religion he joined in 1947 was also one of great opti-
mism and it filled his poetry for half a century.
On 29 October 1929, Black Thursday, the boom of the 1920s came
to a crashing halt and the New York Stock Exchange collapsed.
Within a year millions of North Americans were without work and
without money. Canada was desperately affected, so inextricably
tied to the US economy had she become. By 1933 one-third of the
Canadian workforce was unemployed. The new fiery leader, R.B.
Bennett, elected in 1930 had no solution to the problem, although
he was clocked at speaking some 220 words per minute. John

Bernard White, Roger’s father, moved to Belleville that year. A job
there was better than none in Toronto.
Here in this small Canadian town, hugging the north-east shore
of Lake Ontario, Roger White entered primary school. Here he
stayed until grade ten when he took his first job as a court reporter
and Justice of the Peace in the Family and Juvenile Court of
Hastings County, Ontario. He was now fifteen. The year was 1944.
The 1920s and the 1930s came to be known as the years of Boom
and Bust. When World War 2 ended these roller-coaster years were
over. Although Canada had entered World War 2 with little emo-
tional enthusiasm for the project of defending the Empire and
Western civilization and although the war was an exhausting
process, Canada was surprisingly recharged. Her economy was
transformed by the war. Unemployment disappeared and the stan-
dard of living rose all across the country. There were jobs every-
where and when peace came in 1945 Roger White was sixteen and
enjoying that first taste of employment.
Two years later, at the age of eighteen, Roger came into contact
with a small group of Baha’is in Kingston, a large city near
Belleville which Roger visited from time to time. Roger’s first poem
dates from this same year, 1947. That international climate was
beginning to stir in the Canadian consciousness and it was reflected
in the first significant wave of new members. The Baha’i communi-
ty of Canada grew from about one hundred in 1945 to three hun-
dred in 1952. By the mid-1960s the numbers had gone to over three
thousand. The essentially international nature of this new message
was beginning to attract an essentially conservative people on a
highly dynamic continent that was going global, indeed, as the
world was becoming a neighbourhood.
Of course this phenomenon was not confined to North America.
White got in early, as the Baha’is did all around the world, for theirs
was a religion made for a planetary culture and civilization. As its
nationally elected body, the National Spiritual Assembly of the

Baha’is of Canada, formed for the first time in 1948 - indeed, as the
North American Baha’i community passed into its second half cen-
tury - Roger White was beginning to write his first poems. Few
would read any of them for another thirty years.
White was born into a world, the North American world, which
had just seen the final separation of the writer, the poet, from socie-
ty. Some literary critics argue that this process of separation had
begun in North America in the mid-nineteenth century and was
completed in the 1920s, in the Jazz Age. The energy which had con-
quered the continent in the previous two centuries had, by the
1920s and 1930s and with the help of the worst war in history and
the deepest depression of the industrial age, lost its direction. What
some called the generation of ’29 was psychologically homeless,
placeless and free to create a new world. Little did that world know
that a new world was in fact being created even as it went through
the chaos of that great bottoming out. This generation existed,
White existed, at the very start of a unique transformation, a turn-
ing of a cultural tide. With a new courage and a new faith won from
crisis, new novelists arose at the very period when the nucleus and
pattern of a future world order was being formed: Lardner,
Hemingway, Passos, Faulkner, Wolfe, Steinbeck. White began his
contribution in the forties, a later part of that new wave. The Beat
poets: Ginsberg, Kerouac and Burroughs were forming their first
relationships in the mid to late-forties. A new wave was indeed on
its way after the holocaust of the second great war of the century,
one of the lowest points in the history of civilization.
“The literary critic, Clement Greenberg, had remarked acutely
about the modernist poets of the 1930s, the years before World War
2: “ It is small-scale poetry, lacking resonance, lacking real cul-
ture….. Its makers have neither inherited nor acquired enough cul-
tural capital to expand beyond the confines of their immediate expe-
rience and of a narrowly professional conception of poetry.” By the
time White began his poetic work, though, in the late 1940s the cul-
tural capital had begun to be built anew. There had begun a new

turning to belief and the embryo of new forms of poetry was find-
ing its first shaping. White had been one of those precious adven-
turers of those post World War 2 years, searching the unknown, a
writer, at once unique and common, who would make his discoveries
and endure them until his passing near the century’s end. One of
his discoveries was an emerging order associated with an emerging
world religion.
Enjoying his childhood during that “little overture to the
immense drama of the centuries,” as Geismar called those years
between the wars, an overture during which the nucleus and pattern
of this emerging world order was given its initial shaping, White
would come to play a part in formulating an understanding of its
beliefs, its outreach, its meaning to the generations that had joined
its ranks in the second half of the twentieth century. This embryonic
‘order’, a democratic theocracy in its political form, was going
through some of its crucial early stages in its institutional evolution
during his lifetime. The sociologist Max Weber had called these
stages “the institutionalization of charisma”.
Everything was changing for that generation of ’29. Of course
plus ca change, plus ca la meme chose. The inherent conservatism of
the Canadian psyche was slow to move, even if it did live beside that
great ‘dynamo’ to the south. White wrote about this change and this
conservatism in his poetry. Living through nearly two-thirds of the
first century of the Formative Age of the new religion and being
one of its members for nearly fifty years after he had joined its
forces in the forties, he was certainly part of its first wave. For histo-
ry has its waves upon waves. The first wave of Baha’is, some 555 in
the years 1898 to 1948, was succeeded by a second in the years 1948
to 1998, in the first century of its Canadian experience. It was here
that the poet Roger White made his home, swam in the sea of its
waters and discovered some wondrous gems which he once wrote
were part of an “unmerited grace”.

THE FIRST TWENTY-FIVE YEARS: 1929-1954
This essay would benefit from access to White’s archival collection
held now at the Canadian National Baha’i Centre in Thornhill and
at the Baha’i World Centre in Haifa. But it has not been my inten-
tion to cover White’s entire collection of poetry, letters, essays and
references in general literature. Rather, I am attempting a general
introduction to White’s work since, as yet, no introduction has
become available and it has been ten years since he passed away. The
time was right, it seemed to me and to my publisher, for such an
introductory work. The focus in this book is, in the main, on
White’s poetry, his major publications, not on his letters, essays and
the several genres within which he worked as a creative artist with
words. Some attention to these other genres is found here in the
name of bringing White closer to his audience and introducing a
new generation of readers to this delightful poet who happened
along at a critical stage in the process of the emergence from obscu-
rity of the religion he had been associated with since the late 1940s.
White’s first published work, the first work in what could be
called the Early stage of White’s poetic development, was a chap-
book in 1947. It was entitled Summer Window and was published
by Cherry Press in Belleville, Ontario. One day a student of White
will examine its contents as the White industry, now in its earliest
days, expands, as it surely will. Even by his mid-to-late teens White
needed to write. This need defined the basic premise upon which
everything else depended. It was one of the two or three great cate-
gorical imperatives of his life. A second chapbook of poetry, also
containing poetry from these early days, was published in 1973 by
Haifa Publications. He called it Sketches of ’Abdu’l-Baha. I leave
the examination of this poetry to future scholars. One chapbook
that Roger sent me at some time in the 1980s, Old Songs/New
Songs, contains several poems about White’s early life before the
age of twenty-one. It was certainly written before he was twenty-
one. White called these poems his juvenilia. Two of them, sent to me
Chapter 4

under separate cover, he said he wrote “circa 1947”. He wrote at the
top of the page “juvenilia”. He said he found these “while sorting
through his papers”. I reproduce them here, the earliest poems that
I have read from what became nearly half a century of writing poet-
ry. There is no indication that his earliest work gave him ‘the creeps’
as the earliest work of the great American poet Wallace Stevens
affected him as he looked back from the pinnacle of his literary suc-
cess.
These were the early days of White’s education as a poet.
Through the experience of writing, White was learning what liter-
ary structures fitted his talents. They were important lessons. Often
a poet does not learn until too late. Ezra Pound learned late that The
Cantos were basically incoherent and a lifetime of over fifty years
and 800 pages may have been useful for a biography of Pound but
they served largely as an unvisited mausoleum for his poetry.
White, on the other hand, slowly fashioned his craft without the
harsh judgement that some poets inflict on themselves. One of
White’s contemporaries, Robert Lowell, for example, complained
that his (Lowell’s) poems “seemed like prehistoric monsters dragged
down into the bog”. White’s poetic edge seems lighter, humorous,
easier on his psyche - even his work from the late forties and fifties.
By the seventies and eighties White had refined his literary struc-
tures. He profited, it would appear, from that early education. One
of these early poems was titled Forecast:
Emily Dickinson had a way
of passing every tidy day;
home, the hearthside and a cat,
to pen a verse, she asked just that.

My home is bare,
my hearthside’s cold,
my cat has mange,
I’m growing old.
What shall I do should all disperse?
Pen a verse, son, pen a verse.
White was only sixteen at the time he wrote this. The wonderful
poet Emily Dickinson had already made a mark on White’s con-
sciousness. Few Canadian youths at sixteen would have enjoyed the
perspicacity to appreciate this enigmatic poet of the nineteenth cen-
tury who, with Walt Whitman and Emerson, gave a poetic voice of
some profundity to American society in that long and arduous cen-
tury. White helped hundreds, perhaps thousands of Baha’is in the
1980s and 1990s to articulate their own voice within the framework
of the writings of their Faith. Most of them had joined what one
writer called “this chrysalis global church” in the period of its first
six teaching plans from 1937 to 1979. In the 1940s White was
already defining his own voice. It was a voice that had little to do
with the Brooklyn Dodgers, the New York Yankees or so much that
was popular culture. “There is no clear window into the inner life of
a person,” wrote the philosopher Derrida, “for any window is
always filtered through the glaze of language, signs and the process
of signification.” In these poems White gives us some of that glaze.
He also gives us the very beginnings of that narrative identity
which developed with the years into a tool of great power and
strength and which is “a task of the imagination, not a fait accom-
pli.” This imagination empowered White to identify with the great
range of historical personages found in his poetry. This imaginative
activity is a process, an activity, I will discuss in a later chapter.

I include a second item of White’s juvenilia here because it shows
the kindness that was already a part of his style, his humour and his
forgiving nature, and was also a part of his character, a character
which endeared him to people until his death in 1993, and continues
to do so through his poetry. It was titled And In Closing:
Now that you have bruised my heart
and, tiring, said that we must part,
I’ll smile your favourite smile and say,
“The gods be with you on your way,”
and brush aside remembering
and wish you joy and everything
that’s good.
But if your angel deems it wise
to overcast your summer skies,
and other lovelings whom you hold
turn aside and leave you cold;
if some small wraith of misery
haunts your nights with thought of me,
that’s good!
There is self-disclosure here, but it is oh so gentle, so indirect, so
light. This is but one of the many manifestations of kindness which
’Abdu’l-Baha says is a characteristic of Canadians. There is the
humour, the surprise element, the delight. And this would be how
the reader would come to know White and his poetry in the years
ahead. The reader might have to draw on a dictionary now and then,

for White was quite a wordsmith. He digs deeply below life’s surface
and into his large vocabulary and he requires, often, some patient
study on the part of his readers. Such patience would yield a pay-
off, though; readers would come to know White as a friend.
For many, they would learn something about the Baha’i Faith and
life that could not be learned in the available commentaries on the
Cause and in the burgeoning literature increasingly available.
What I provide here in this brief biography will not detract, as biog-
raphy often does, from the brilliant opacities that are many of
White’s poems.
The friendship that readers can enjoy is not to be based on per-
sonal acquaintance, reciprocity and having cups of tea in his home
or theirs, but the kind of friendship that the Pythagoreans enjoyed,
a friendship based on being part of a universal brotherhood - in the
case of the Pythagoreans the universe of several Greek city states in
the sixth century BC. These friends were assumed to be friends
regardless of whether they knew each other. It would be a friendship
not based on physical proximity or face-to-face meetings. It would
be a friendship embedded in silence, in his poetry and the words of
his letters. It would be a friendship that yielded no anecdotes, except
those deriving from the printed word, from White’s poetry. It would
be a friendship characterized by sudden interruptions, sudden com-
munications that commented in some unique way on the strange-
ness, the fascinating complexity, the surprising nature of human
community and its existential dilemmas. Hearing not seeing is the
condition of friendship for White, at least for most of those who are
his readers. There is camaraderie; there is Voltairian irreverence and
there is also a profound respect. In addition, people have a basic need
to make evident their deepest feelings about life, part of everything
they are and know. Readers of White, each in their different ways,
felt they were partly satisfying this basic need in his poetry. For
hundreds, thousands of Baha’is it was a refreshing relationship, a
relationship of self-discovery with the help of an art form that
never ended. It could always be re-created.

White knew he could not heal the multitude of wounds people who
came near to his poetry had. But as a friend he might help with
understanding. I am not so sure White was conscious of much of
this at sixteen, in 1945, at the onset of his poetic experience. One
poem he wrote, which first appeared in his Old Songs/New Songs,
does go a long way to describe what he did know, where he was at,
in his mid-to-late teens, say 1945 to 1950. It is called New Song. In
it he refers to a certain cynicism that set in during those years. “A
clean, cold, wind” left him feeling like “a stripped young tree in
autumn with a cynical winter setting in.” This spiritual state, he
goes on, left him with “nothing large enough to house his impulse
to believe”.
White continues, though, and describes his psychological, his
spiritual condition in 1947 or 1948 when he first came across the
Baha’i Faith in those meetings in Kingston, Ontario, that he began
to attend:
The need lay as quiet, unhurried and insidious as a seed
snowlocked in a bleak and lonely landscape.
These words could very well describe the condition of the needs of
millions of young men and women in their late teens (as well as
many adults): quiet, unhurried, insidious, waiting Micauber-like for
something to turn up, waiting for a sense of direction to emerge in
their lives, waiting for some love which would sweep them off their
feet, some career to give them some centering and their lives some
meaning. This is how White describes his early years of contact with
this small group of Baha’is in Kingston:
But forgiveness came, an unsuspecting flooding rain
and the seed was there, a promise kept.

Even your rejection was forgiven
and, in the burgeoning, lovesap slowly stirred.
God hadn’t died, of course, abandoned us for Russia,
nor moved to Uganda.
The lines are evocative and present a sensitive and humorous por-
trait of the first stirrings of White’s beliefs, beliefs that would
produce some of the finest poetry written by Baha’is about their
experience in the second half of the first century of the Formative
Age of their Faith. In White there is an etiquette of expression.
There is that tact which is a part of fine poetry. There is, too, a pas-
sionate, sympathetic, insightful, astute, attractive personality who
often made the writing of others seem more important than his
own. Often only a fraction of the output of a poet is really first rate.
In White’s case the fraction is large.
The following poem takes us back to even earlier years in White’s
life. Innocent Ogress, refers to a period of “cloudless years”, proba-
bly his late childhood, 1937 to 1941, or early adolescence, 1942 to
1945. He focuses in this poem on those magic days of his early life,
cloudless years -
when make-believe ran rampant
and each young heart
loved his private witch
who stoked delicious fears.
In this poem White describes a spinster in Belleville who lived alone
in a big grey house. He writes:

she always wore one black gown
so this woman was our witch
........
such adventures I remember we would have
trailing the old woman about
shivering with sweet delightful fear.
.....
she bound stray children into sacks
and kept them in her basement
but, of course,
we never really caught her in the act.
Two other poems, in a collection of poetry published in 1981, give us
some insight into White’s life with his mother and father during his
childhood and adolescence. In Memoriam: John Bernard White 1904-
1971 does not tell us a great deal about his life with his father,
although it reveals some of White’s attitude to and understanding of
his father, written perhaps a decade after his father’s passing.
Kathleen’s Song, in that same 1981 collection, The Witness of
Pebbles, tells us much more about a woman who coaxed him
“toward exultancy”. She was the “goodwife”. She was “Earth’s
God’s-penny”. Perhaps the following lines, the first ones in the
poem, place his life with his mother in the most accurate perspective:
Life is her cause and love her sole crusade.
She extols, proclaims, upholds them, knows them dear,
Divine and indivisible. Many chilled with fear
Find her warming fire.

White’s mother was a woman who held the “key to recesses of
hearts”. She had an energy and joy that had an immeasurable
effect on White’s psychological and spiritual development.
Perhaps it was in this critical relationship that White acquired his
sensitivity and innocence, the same “swift joy” and the same
“uncunning generosity”.
I think it is useful to make one or two points about the poem
White wrote about his father, In Memoriam: John Bernard White.
Father and son relationships have long been characterized by far
fewer words than the mother-son or mother-daughter relationship.
White writes:
Father, I am your book, you know me well
Yet said so little of this while you lived.
The mysteries that once held you time has sieved
And memory surrenders you to tell
The words that man and boy may barely say.
This poem was written at some time in White’s mid-to-late forties
and shows an empathy, a wisdom, an identity with his father, a
closeness only achieved, one safely assumes, with the passing of the
years. Although the poem tells us little about White’s early life in
Canada it tells us a great deal about how White came to see those
years and his father more than thirty years after he left home and
nearly a decade after his father’s death.
For all of us, though, our life story is always incomplete, partial,
episodic. A man turns to poetry to provide experiential self-continu-
ity. The poetry provides a sort of remobilization of memory in the
service of living more effectively. It resurfaces the poet’s life and
gives a new depth to memory’s story. White writes:

I am your inmost essence, your hidden way.
Replication of your heart’s deep need;
I voice your silent prayer, retrace your plan
And sorrow for this lonely thing - a man.
The poet composes his life story over and over again, as we all do as
go through the several stages of our lives. White here is interpreting
the reality of his relationship with his father, a reality that became
quite a different thing in the light of his experience, in the light of
his poetic and contemplative reflection on his life’s narrative, his
story. He continues:
My soul’s map charts your bravest deed,
Bears imprint of your hope and conquered fears
And love. Shamelessly I shed your unspent tears.
I asked Roger once what he thought his father’s “bravest deed”
might be that his soul was charting. He said it might be the occasion
when his father put his foot through the television screen when
someone was talking about Baha’is on television. White was
impressed that his father could feel so strongly about the Baha’i
Faith. Imagination and critical reflection live in the house of the
mind where White composed the definition of his reality, in this
poem the reality of his relationship with his father. The friends that
his critical reflection and imagination bring home are a source of
great illumination. They produce, here, a poem of considerable
insight. White continues, as if speaking directly to his father:

Regard your book - you know to Whom addressed
And tell blind reader: is the ending blest?
In the end White is faced with mystery in his relationship with his
father. So, too, is it in our own lives. We get a sense here of what it
means to be a father, a person. What were his father’s “unspent
years”? Did White feel, at this juncture, while he wrote the poem, a
“homeless thing”? Who knows? In some ways it does not matter.
But there is little doubt that we all feel this way from time to time.
The meaning of this poem, like all poems, whatever its sound or its
structure, remains empty and a non-event to readers unless it
touches the receiving mind. The receiving mind must be active in a
certain way if a transmutation from a mere set of words on a page
into an experience of meaning is to occur. This activity is part tech-
nique and part an “inner ringing and singing” as the reader con-
structs a parallel world to the world constructed by the poet.
In a poem in a 1982 collection, Whitewash, White ponders his
years in Belleville and whatever pleasures they offered to him as a
growing boy - and it would appear they were for the most part
pleasurable. He ponders these happy, cloudless years in the context
of another form of pleasure and ecstasy, that of martyrdom. White
seems to be reflecting in this poem, Sweetmeat, on his life and the
indifference of his society to the religion he joined. He contrasts his
life with the experience of a person living in a society which would
kill those who took an unorthodox path of belief:
I would welcome contempt
above indifference
In that same 1982 collection, Whitewash, in a poem entitled Lines
on Drowning, White refers to the lack of response to one’s efforts to

spread the Faith in a brilliant piece of analysis: “how tiresome this
pride which love nor hope nor irony convinces,/this will that will
not will belief.” Here was a man speaking from thirty-five years’
experience in what, for me, is one of his cleverest turns of phrase
and one of his most accurate statements about an important area of
Baha’i experience, both in his first twenty-five years of living and in
the second twenty-five that were to come.
I will have more to say about White’s experience in school in a
later chapter but for now let me say that for the most part White
enjoyed school. He did not enjoy mathematics, metalwork or wood-
work. The Catholic sisters were uniformly kind, gentle and pious.
They all smelled faintly of disinfectant or witch hazel, a fact which
perhaps contributed to their seeming interchangeableness and
anonymity.
By 1947, at the age of eighteen, White was in the habit of visiting
Kingston, the biggest city on the north-east shore of Lake Ontario.
Kingston is at the point where Lake Ontario joins the St. Lawrence
River at Thousand Islands. It was a natural attraction for a young
man with a curious and adventurous spirit living in what was then
the small country town of Belleville. Over the next five years, as the
North American Baha’i community was completing its first temple
in Chicago and its second Seven Year Plan, White got to know the
small Baha’i community in Kingston. He also got to know some of
the Ottawa Baha’is who travelled to Kingston on extension teaching
trips: Winnifred Harvey was one such travel teacher; Doug Wilson
and Cliff Huxtable were students at Queen’s University in Kingston
at the time.
From time to time he heard visiting speakers such as Ruth
Moffatt, Allan Raynor and Margaret and Larry Rowden. Eventually,
a small Baha’i community grew up in Belleville: Margeurite Carter,
William Connors, Helen Owens, Margaret Mann, Jack Campbell,
James McLaughlin and Robert Cretney. These names are, for the

most part, unknown now but by 1954 a local assembly was formed
in Belleville. That same year Roger married Helen Owens.
In 1954 Roger also started working as a freelance court reporter
and assistant editor of Hansard in Ottawa. This daily record of the
debates in the Canadian House of Commons gave White invaluable
experience which helped him get a job in 1958 in Vancouver with
the Supreme Court of British Columbia as a reporter and which
helped to continue watering those poetic seeds that would eventually
mature twenty to thirty years later in an extensive body of poetry.
There is no doubt, though, that White was a skilled craftsman
with words in these early years. John Ward, in his book The
Hansard Chronicles, says that White was “acknowledged by his col-
leagues as one of the finest shorthand writers ever to serve the
country. White gave up a promising career as a freelance journalist
to join Hansard where he was for many years resident...”
The decade from 1947 to 1957 saw the beginning of White’s poet-
ic output. White produced a chapbook Summer Window in 1947.
The poetry in this booklet may have gone back to earlier years.
Further study of the White archives in Toronto and Haifa will tell
future scholars more about the beginnings of White’s poetic life in
the 1940s. Job, marriage and the demands of early adulthood kept
him busy. The total quantity of poetry that has come down to us
from those years, at least that poetry now readily available for pop-
ular consumption and not requiring the resources of an archive, is
slim. This, as yet unpublished, poem When the Gods Forsake Us,
provides a retrospective look at White’s early-to-mid adolescence,
the years to the end of World War 2. Written five years before his
passing, this poem gives us a window into his early youth in
Toronto – at the age of fourteen years:
Inexplicably disconsolate
I reach for a forbidden cigarette

out of a perverse loyalty to Paul Henreid
who sanctified the ritual of lighting up
back in the days when the Surgeon General
minded his own business.
Most of my significant decisions
were made during matinees
at the Alhambra, Danforth Avenue, 1943.
Fay Wray would have given that ape the slip
if she’d known how much I loved her,
ageless in reruns.
I’d never have torn her dress.
The casual slouch of Bogart’s fedora,
Cary Grant’s insouciant grin -
the mirror yawned at my worshipful impersonations.
No one warned me that the immortals would die.
Have I mentioned that I’m still in mourning
for Leslie Howard and Vivien Leigh?
It’s 1987 and friends in their 70s
who’ve forgotten Sonny Tufts
complain that they’re up

several times in the night
and hint at other dark indignities.
I am inconsolable.
Do not come to me
saying in the clipped tones of Bette Davis,
What do you mean? Whatever do you mean?
For the years of his late adolescence and the earliest years of his
adult life (1946-1952) we must also remain scantily informed. All
we get from these early years is the occasional poetic revelation
into some aspect of the impressionable years of a Canadian youth
and young adult who became, in the last dozen years of his adult
life, a poet who defined and described the experience of Baha’is in
the last half of the twentieth century perhaps better than anyone
else. The identity that White conferred on his readers was not so
much his own, although he does give us a human and humorous
taste, but theirs.
It did not concern White that he left little information about his
life, any direct autobiographical detail, for to him the poet was not
to be confused with the poem. If the reader wanted to know about
the poet, about Roger White, White advised readers to study his
poetry. Therein, he said, was his life. Although not explicitly autobi-
ographical, poem after poem tells much about White. His autobio-
graphical poetry is not, as Ann Goetting argues in her study of the
autobiographical process, some simple repetition of the past. His
poetry is the presence of a spirit in a world now gone, the creation
of a particular view of reality, reconstructed truth, fact and experi-
ence. This truth, this reality, is not always self-evident or even sub-
ject to proof. It often adds an element of seasoned consciousness to

some original experience, an interpretation of life’s processes. It was
an expression of how White dealt with the life around him.
Combining history and biography, much of White’s poetry is a
type of sociological imagination, as C. Wright Mills described it back
in 1959. This imagination escapes the merely personal by surren-
dering to the features of life’s bigger picture; it escapes personality
because the poet is only a medium, a vehicle, a vessel, a catalyst in
the process of creation. This forces the critic to direct his attention
to the poems not to the poet. T.S. Eliot called this the “impersonal
theory of poetry” and Goethe said it was part of the poet standing
“above art and the object”so as to utilize art and its many forms for
his own purpose and deal with it in his own manner.
With Proust, White would have concurred that “in reality, every
reader is, while he is reading, the reader of his own self. The writer’s
work is merely a kind of optical instrument which he offers to the
reader to enable him to discern what, without the book, he would
never have preconceived in himself.” With Ortega y Gasset and the
poet Wallace Stevens, White saw himself as the poet of himself, but
he also provided a view, a philosophy of life. It remained the task of
his readers to find themselves in his poetry. White was conscious, as
we all are, of the incomplete, episodic nature of daily life. Poetry
provided a source of experiential self-continuity; it remobilized his
memory in the service of the living, of living more effectively; it
provided freshness of surface and depth of meaning and retention. It
does the same for White’s readers who travel with him in his poet-
ry. For what readers see depends on what they bring to White’s
poetry and what they read depends on what they bring to the read-
ing. Readers, in other words, create their own poetry through their
own interpretive strategies “as members of a larger community”.
The interpretation of a poem is not so much the art of construing
but the art of constructing. Poetry can penetrate deep into people’s
personal lives because in giving form to their worlds, it articulates
their nature, sensibility, energy, passion, their life of feeling. For
many White’s poetry did just that.

Before we turn to White’s poetry and the specific books of poetry
that he had published, though, we will examine in the essay which
follows his second twenty-five years: 1954-1979. It is difficult to
draw on what some literary historians see as a developmental model
for my study of White. Early, Middle and Late can be comfortably
applied to White but I am not sure how useful such a division into
periods of writing is in White’s case. Like the theories of develop-
mental psychology: Freud, Erikson, Piaget, et al., whose application
is complex and still unfolding their relevance to students in the field
of psychology, this chronological development model applied to
White’s poetry could be a study in itself. For my purposes, though,
these three stages simply provide an outline, a broad chronological
framework, within which White’s poetry can easily fall. How useful
this model is for showing White’s development as a poet is difficult
to assess. This model may be more useful to us as we try to account
for his growth as a poet than it is to describe his life’s narrative
since information here is somewhat thin on the ground. And, as I
have pointed out at an earlier stage, that is the way White wanted it.
I leave the analysis of this question of development to future liter-
ary critics and lovers of White’s verse. And so, we now turn to this
Middle period of his writing.

THE SECOND TWENTY-FIVE YEARS: 1954-1979
From 1954 to 1966 White lived in Vancouver, a centre of a great
poetic upsurge that had begun as early as the 1940s in Canada and
the USA. White does not mention any direct influence from this
awakening poetic spirit, a spirit that continued on into the 1950s
and 1960s among the Beat Generation of poets, the Black Mountain
poets, the poets of the San Francisco Renaissance and the poets of
the New York School. During these years of a great burgeoning of
poetry in North America White worked with the Supreme Court of
British Columbia as a reporter. In 1966 White moved to Nairobi in
Kenya and remained there until 1969 when he returned to North
America. He lived in Palm Springs, California until 1971 where he
served as secretary and research assistant to writer and Hand of the
Cause Bill Sears.
Bill and Marguerite Sears inform us that they suggested to Roger
that he apply to serve at the Baha’i World Centre in 1971. They
were planning a six-month teaching trip at the time. As Bill put it
while he carried Roger’s bags to the car back in 1971: “You know, of
course, Roger, that this is good-bye.” “What do you mean?” replied
Roger. “Do you think the Universal House of Justice, once they hear
about all the wonderful things you do, your multiple skills, and
what a remarkable Baha’i you are, will ever let me steal you back
again?” Bill also underlines that Roger was not his assistant: “we
were partners together under the eye of Baha’u’llah, along with
Marguerite.“
These were prophetic words and that is exactly what happened.
White came to Haifa in May 1971 and stayed for twenty years. Had
it not been for his bad health he would still be there today. His work
was especially invaluable in compiling and publishing volumes XIV
and XIX of The Baha’i World. While in Israel he served for many
years as the associate editor of the first English language poetry
journal of Israel, Voices-Israel, founded in 1971.
Chapter 5

One interesting story comes from the Kenya period and that was
White’s “infiltration” of the Nairobi Theatre Group. It was a “white
only” theatrical group and White, although being offered a dancing
spot, had to refuse due to “other obligations”. I have not gathered
many details from this period, nor from the Palm Springs chapter of
White’s life. My aim here has been to provide a short biographical
sketch as a backdrop for the study of White’s poetry.
Most of the poems in Old Songs/New Songs: 1947-1977 come
from White’s first six years in Haifa. They did not receive a wide
circulation, perhaps only a few of White’s friends to whom he sent a
copy. Some dozen poems can be found in this small booklet that did
not appear later in Another Song, Another Season. It was somewhat
fitting when two years later, in 1979, his Another Song, Another
Season was published. White was fifty and he had produced this
song for all seasons. A few of the poems that White had published
before 1979 were not readily available again in this bright new book
of poetry which was published by George Ronald in 1979. It is not
my intention to examine in any detail White’s poetry before 1979.
Most Baha’is have never seen it and this study of White’s earliest
poetry, from 1947 to 1977, some thirty years of poetic output, will
have to await a more comprehensive treatment by a future author.
But White’s colloquial prose readiness and casual speech combined
with poetic depth and clear direct feeling was there in these early
poems, in his language, a language for the whole mind in its most
wakeful state.
So, too, were the difficult poems, the kind of poems that needed to
be read over and over again, that required familiarity. And even
then a persistent reader will not get all the poem and all the levels
of meaning. White was to write a great deal in the years ahead and
by the end of a lifetime he would write what a lifetime brought to
him. It is one of the advantages of having some of your finest hours
at the end of the road, in contrast to the early brilliance that many
poets have enjoyed over the centuries. The reader did not have to
understand every jot and tittle of White’s verse. Part of the reason

readers are not able to understand every line and phrase in every
poem is what you might call the aesthetic aspect of poetry.
“Aesthetics,” Louis Reid writes, “is difficult because it courts vague-
ness and evades precision.” It is difficult to analyse poetry clearly
and philosophically. There is a certain ineffable quality to poetry. To
be “aesthetically equipped,” Read goes on in his analysis, requires “a
great sensitivity to the suggestiveness of the material which he per-
ceives.“
There is no doubt that the years 1971 to 1979, White’s years in
Haifa before the publication of Another Song, were an immense
stimulus to his poetic creativity, to the wonder and delight, the joy
and the sense of a certain fundamental assurance and happiness that
had little to do with the glitter and tinsel of an affluent society.
There is also little doubt that his years before arriving in Haifa laid
an important foundation for his future literary output. Like T.S.
Eliot’s first marriage which some critics have seen as a heaven-sent
trial that spurred on both his poetry and his faith, which gave him
an opportunity to suffer and write poems, White’s marriage and
divorce during this second twenty-five year period, 1954-1979,
helped to provide, it could be argued, some of that fertile base.
White also suffered during his years in Canada, in Africa and in the
USA, to say nothing of the eight years in Haifa. But whatever his
suffering was, it is to his poetry that we must go to search out his
lessons, not to his biography. There were romantic attachments in
his life, tests in his various jobs and those inner demons we all face,
but it has not been my purpose to describe these relationships, these
tests and these demons in any detail. It would appear that to a large
extent he fought his own spiritual battles by himself, as most of us
must do for the most part.
Perhaps White’s work could be seen as part of what Northrop
Frye has called “the colossal verbal explosion” that took place in
Canada after 1960. His poetry could also be seen as an art form
which grew as the Canadian Baha’i community grew after the for-
mation of its National Spiritual Assembly in 1948. White’s work

was also part of a long history of poetry in the Babi and Baha’i
Faiths going back to the 1840s. However suddenly his poetry may
have appeared, like some miraculous tree sprung full grown, ex
nihilo, in a desert, to most of those who had themselves become
Baha’is in the generation after World War 2; however charming his
work was - and indeed it did hold a special charm for thousands of
readers by the 1980s - poetry written by Baha’is and Babis goes
right back to the earliest days of their history. The artistic and ideo-
logical originality of White’s poetry - and his prose - is partly the
result of a slow, painful, joyful century-and-a-half-long process, a
tradition richly impregnated with the inspirational poetry and prose
of two manifestations of God.
The wider generation of poets who began publishing poetry in
the 1940s and 1950s, at the same time White began his creative out-
put and moved into his thirties, people like Robert Lowell, John
Berryman, Delmore Schwartz and Randall Jarrell, were born a little
earlier than White, around the time of World War 1. And they died
in the sixties and seventies, fifteen years before he did. I always find
it hard to identify White with these poetic luminaries of the mid-
century, whose names and lives are known now only to a poetic
literati. Even their poetry is slipping away into obscurity. There is in
their lives and their poetry a tragedy, an obsessiveness, a psycholog-
ical disorientation, perhaps partly due to living through both those
experiences of collective insanity: World War 1 and World War 2.
White is more what Richard Tillinghast, a professor of literature at
the University of Michigan, calls “laid back”. Perhaps, too, it is the
perception of White’s poetry as a magnificent ornament adorning an
international literature, an ornament that can occupy the lives of his
readers for generations to come.
The primary currents of this one-hundred-and-fifty-year poetic
literary process will not be examined here, nor will White’s tangen-
tial connection with the literary developments in Canada and North
America in what was one of its most fertile periods of growth and
development. Part of our difficulty is that we know so very little

about White’s life during this time. We know he divorced just before
embarking on his international service to the Baha’i Faith in 1971.
We know he was busy with his new portfolio at the Baha’i World
Centre which in the 1970s was engaged in the process of building
the seat of its international administrative centre. Some future liter-
ary historian or literary biographer, I trust, will write to those who
knew White and put together a more detailed picture of his activi-
ties, his interests and the influences on his poetry. My interest is a
more focused one, namely, on his poetry, and the rest of this book
will focus more sharply on this poetry - as Rabindranath Tagore
counselled: the poem not the poet.
In the foreword to his autobiography American novelist John
Updike wrote: “Description solidifies the past and creates a gravita-
tional body that wasn’t there before.” There is a “background of
dark matter - all that is not said,” he goes on, “which remains
buzzing.” There is much in White’s life that remains buzzing. But
the hand of the maker - in this case, White - knows better than the
eye of the observer, who are his readers. And this is the way White
made it, the way he wanted it, as far as he was concerned the only
way it could be. It was his poetic art that White wanted his readers
to focus on. For it was art he knew so well, from his own experi-
ence, that could transform a life through its power to capture the
vital nature of feeling in objectified, dynamic and artistic forms.
Poetry, as he experienced it intimately, could give outer form to
inner effect. It could refine, clarify, deepen and extend the quality of
our inner subjectivities.
Identities are historically conferred, ambiguous, and subject to
redefinition. The experience, the life, of a poet like White will be
examined and explained differently each time some biographer goes
to work. And each time readers will find out about the events, the
people, the institutions, the ideas, the emotions and the relationships
that became meaningful to a Canadian who used language to pat-
tern his past and his world from a different perspective. His first
memories, his childhood, consisted of the events of that horrific

decade of the 1930s when the Baha’i Administrative system
assumed the framework of its present form and the first teaching
plan swung into action. He became a Baha’i in the 1940s when there
were about two hundred Baha’is in all of Canada and he grew in his
middle age to become the major poet of the Canadian Baha’i com-
munity. With his extraordinarily original imagination he helped to
create for us - so to speak - many new tastes, colours and sounds,
many real people and a history alive with new meanings. In these
discoveries we discover ourselves.

THE LETTERS OF ROGER WHITE
For a dozen years I wrote to Roger and from 1989 to 1991 I sent
him essays I had written on his poetry. In reply I received his
delightful letters, the occasional essay he had written, cartoons,
jokes, poems, clippings from magazines and newspapers, a virtual
cornucopia of printed and visual material. His letters and essays
show a side of Roger quite different from his poetry. Roger’s letters
and essays were consistently light and humorous, although the
themes were serious ones. His poetry did have a light and humorous
side but I think, on balance, it tended to the serious. At least that is
how I have come to see it. Some readers find much of White’s poet-
ry too complex and dense for their liking. Such readers would not
find his letters and essays too dense. The letters and essays I
received struck quite a different tone from White’s poetry. Anne
Gordon Perry has made a collection of White’s letters but the only
letters I will draw on here were ones I received during those twelve
years. They are quite enough to provide a base of analysis and com-
ment. In a book like this, devoted to a study of White’s poetry, this
commentary on White’s letters provides a certain balance, a differ-
ent perspective. It is, as I have said before, a concession to the biog-
raphical. In the end, though, I am inclined to agree with the senti-
ments of Henry Miller who wrote: “I don’t care who the artist is, if
you study him deeply, sincerely, detachedly, you will find that he
and his work are one.”
Some poets, like famous American poet Wallace Stevens, have a
definite line between their poetry, their role as a poet, and their pro-
fessional/social life. Stevens was for many years the vice-president
of an insurance company and he did not like his professional associ-
ates even to know he wrote poetry. He lived in two worlds quite
inscrutable to each other. White, on the other hand, was more like
the poet Yeats whose life and work were all of one piece, part of a
comprehensible whole, open for inspection by the rational intellect
while containing irrational elements as all of our lives do. He may
Chapter 6

have felt his life not interesting enough for someone to write a
biography but he did not see the different parts of his life as sepa-
rate compartments, with definite lines between them, quite as stern-
ly as Stevens. White’s letters certainly illustrate this interaction, this
wholeness. Few poets in their letters write so freely about their art,
their intentions, their observations of life. Fewer write so well, so
entertainingly. Some poets, when not speaking about poetry and the
arts in general, write in quite an ordinary, quite a banal way. White
is as sparkling, as humorous, in his letters no matter what he writes
about. White was like Jane Austen who “hardly ever wrote a letter
that had not a smile or a laugh in it”. I will provide a few examples
below for the delectation of readers.
Looked at from without, White’s life was uneventful - at least
that is how he saw it. Like American novelist Henry James, White’s
adventure was an inner one “known only to himself except in so far
as he himself put it into words” Self-revelation, letting it all hang
out, has become in recent decades part of what might be called a
confessional mode in letter writing and poetry. Genuine self-revela-
tion, with its associations of wisdom, humour and delight, though, is
a rare gift, almost a creative art form. Many people’s autobiogra-
phies, their memories, their real confessions from the current of
their days, are often alien and remote accounts leaving readers as
distant from the writers as they were at the start. Alternatively
autobiography is often overdone, overstated, with every sordid
detail of a life set out before our eyes. Somehow knowing the inti-
macies of people’s lives does not necessarily bring them closer. Five
hundred page autobiographies often leave us out in the cold. A great
life does not necessarily make a great book, or a great letter writer.
So, although White did not keep his life in clearly separate compart-
ments, as American poet Wallace Stevens did, neither did he open
up his private domain for the minute inspection of the biographer.
Rather, he felt there simply was little for the would-be biographer
to inspect.

In the end though, at least in the several dozen letters I received,
White was far from aloof. He created a sense of intimacy. I came to
feel as if he were a close friend, even though I never met him. Like
the biography of Henry James, whatever biography on White is
eventually composed, it will draw heavily on his letters for its por-
trait; on that side of his life he showed to the world he lived in and
loved and with a side that is little more than suggested here. In his
letters to me White enters easily into my world and meets me on
my own ground. I am sure these letters are not the exception. They
are, I am confident, representative of a style that is endearing, hon-
est and full of life.
So what I would like to do here is bring near the letters of a man
I never met, but whom I came to feel close to, primarily through his
letters and, secondarily, through his poetry. In reading these letters
ten years after his passing I experience a piercing radiancy of mean-
ing. Perhaps that is too strong a term; that is how the historian
Thomas Carlyle described the letters of his wife that he was gather-
ing together for publication after her death. I am reminded from
reading White’s letters not to grow tedious as a result of my reli-
gious proclivities. I am reminded too that the world, for the most
part, does not care whether I bow my head before the latest Prophet
of God.
In some ways my study of these letters confirms another poet
Robert Graves’ view of the poet and the man: namely, that there is
no distinction. Henry David Thoreau put it in a similar vein: “the
artist and his work are not to be separated... the deed and the doer
together make ever one sober fact”. This has not always been the
case and White clearly saw the poet and the poem as two separate
worlds, at least in so far as his life was concerned.
This whole question of the involvement of the consciousness of
the writer in the reader’s experience of his work is a relatively new
way of experiencing literature. When Shakespeare’s plays were pub-
lished in 1623, seven years after his death, the editors were not

interested in satisfying any public interest in Shakespeare the man--
for, indeed, there was no such interest. How much we have changed
in four centuries! Publishers now have become hesitant to publish
literary studies that do not give much attention to the writer’s life.
I also get a sense from White’s letters of the total span of a life, in
this case White’s, between the ages of fifty and his death at sixty-
three reflecting as he did on his whole life back to 1929. I get a
sense, from the fresh air in his letters, that I have a key to an unfa-
miliar room in my own house. It is a room filled with the memora-
bilia of my religion and everywhere there is laughter and joy, famil-
iarity and a delightful common sense and an awesome sense of the
tragic. But I am cautioned by a remark of Sharon Campbell in her
analysis of the poet Emily Dickinson’s letters: “It is questionable
whether anyone’s letters should be taken as a reliable form of biog-
raphy... letters may, in fact, tell us more in fact about the postures
that replace relationship than about the relationships themselves.”
I feel some caution, too, in expressing my enthusiasm for White,
indeed for anyone attempting to follow a spiritual path, by a remark
made by Samuel Johnson about his biographer Savage: “The reign-
ing Error of his Life was that he mistook the Love for the Practice of
Virtue, and was indeed not so much a good Man as the Friend of
Goodness.” Of course White does not appear to have any of the
gross indecencies or deficiencies of Savage and I do not want, here,
to put White down in any way. Rather my point is that the lofty
heights to which the Baha’i Faith exhorts its votaries inevitably
make the individual believer, however much he or she has achieved,
feel quite conscious of their sins of omission and commission. White
knew he was no saint and, as he expressed this idea so succinctly in
his poem Lines from a Battlefield: “I loved my enemy but sought
the Friend.”
Indeed one could argue that, since I never met White, how could I
claim relationship. Surely the letters were like the postures one
observes in a favourite comedian, entertainer or social analyst on

television. One feels close, but does one really become close? I sup-
pose we all become close to different people in life in different ways.
Although there are obvious similarities the whole thing, the process,
the theme is idiosyncratic. Each individual must define just how, and
in what way, closeness is achieved for him or her in their lives and
with whom.
What I would like to do for the reader is to define and describe
my correspondence with White. For it is my relationship with
White, forged over twelve years with the aid of his letters and, to a
much lesser extent, my responses that are the centre of the account
here in this brief essay. There is something of the everyday person,
the entertainer, the educated poet giving us his imaginative out-
pourings because he has the excuse, the occasion. There is in his let-
ters a commentary on his work and on himself. Readers can get
some idea of how he created his poems and how he created himself.
But I provide only a glimpse. Readers need a more complete
collection of his letters to really get the view through this window.
Such a view may be the closest true biography we are likely to get
or need.
White’s last letter to me was written nine months before his pass-
ing. In its brief three paragraphs there is contained the three main
characteristics of his correspondence: the practical, the humorous
and the intellectual. White comments on the introduction I wrote
for his last major book of poetry, Occasions of Grace. He comments
on when I was likely to get my hardcover copy that he had paid for
and had arranged for his publisher to send to me. The last words he
wrote to me, as it turned out, were: “I am ever grateful to you...” I
was about to turn forty-eight and my life as a serious writer of
poetry was in the process of beginning, although I did not know it
at the time. I had been writing occasional pieces of poetry during the
years 1980 to 1992, although I referred to my poetry only rarely in
my letters to Roger.

From July to October 1992, six months before he passed away, I
received several books in the mail from Roger. He seemed to be
clearing his decks, his desks, his library, in anticipation that the ship
was finally coming into harbour. All of the books, save one, have
been read over and over in the ten years since they arrived in the
post. I would like to comment on these books, briefly, since they tell
a story, something of White, each in their own way. The Complete
Poems of Emily Dickinson, (editor: Thomas H. Johnson, Faber and
Faber, 1984), arrived in July 1992. One of Roger’s books of poetry
One Bird One Cage One Flight was written in “homage of Emily
Dickinson”. I have written an essay on this book of poetry in the
pages ahead and so I will leave comment on that book for now.
Receiving this book did not surprise me, though it gave me great
pleasure. Somehow it symbolized one of the many currents of our
correspondence. It contained some 1,775 poems and it will pleasant-
ly occupy some of my time each year as long as my mental faculties
are operating. Dickinson is among the great poets who have ever
lived, some argue the greatest.
In July two other books arrived: existential psychologist Rollo
May’s The Courage To Create, (W.W. Norton, London, 1975); and
novelist Lawrence Durrell’s Alexandria Quartet, (Simon and
Schuster, 1957). I had read the former and promptly reread it. The
latter I have still to read, although I have read several reviews. In
early October 1992 I received copies of White’s final two books of
poetry: The Language of There, (New Leaf Pub., Richmond, BC,
1992); and Notes Postmarked The Mountain of God, (New Leaf
Pub., Richmond, BC, 1992). Inside the front cover of the former,
Roger wrote: “with these lines I probably exit - smiling, waving,
heading for There”.... And so he did six months later. I never heard
from him again.
George Steiner wrote that Durrell was trying to keep literature
literate and trap reality in a mesh of precise words. White tried to do
the same thing. Perhaps that is why he sent me Durrell’s four vol-
umes. One day I will read Durrell, a writer whom American literary

critic Alfred Kasin says is “concerned with pleasing his own imagi-
nation” not with “making deeper contact with the world”. While I
certainly please my imagination through my writing and while I
would like to make deeper contact with the world, I have not, as yet,
done so - at least not in my writing. Rollo May is a thinker and
writer I have been reading since 1973, with his book Love and Will.
I will not go into the many ideas of May, since I am concerned here
with my correspondence with White. Roger wrote on the inside of
the hard cover: “much or maybe all May says about ’the experience’
has been true of my encounters”. He was of course talking about his
experience of creativity and the relevance of Rollo May’s views on
the subject to his writing of poetry. One could write a separate essay
on this book, on White’s view of creativity, and one day I may.
Occasions of Grace came out in April 1992 and on April 24 Roger
wrote, referring to the introduction of 2,500 words I had written:
“your new piece is splendid; thank you for sending me a copy. I
wouldn’t change anything you’ve written”. Roger also wrote, in that
same letter - “pleased that you made friends with Epstein.” Joseph
Epstein wrote Plausible Prejudices: Essays on American Writing.
White had sent this book to me in February 1992. Whatever wis-
dom Epstein possessed on reviewing books - and he had some clever
comments on the subject - was a little late. It was late for Occasions
of Grace but it was not late for the essays I was to write on all of
White’s works. I had no idea at the time; I had little appreciation of
the wisdom of his sending me this, indeed most, of these particular
books. It must have been my big ego that prevented me from seeing
the meaning behind White’s generosity. White was not casually
casting off some unwanted volumes that he would have no need for
beyond the grave. He was being very practical and I have little
doubt that he had the needs of the Baha’i Faith at the top of his list
of priorities, of reasons for doing what he was doing in sending me
these several books.
Indeed Epstein’s book was the first in a series of what you might
call helpful perspectives that would and did help me in the years to

come as I pondered over all that White had written. White closed
that letter of 24 April with the words, referring to Epstein, “You’ve
found a true mate”. By 24 April, I had indeed. This somewhat com-
plex account has several messages and significances. I leave it to
readers to interpret the various meanings themselves. White seemed
to welcome any grain of reality, any speck of significance round
which his imagination could pile its rings. So promptly and eagerly
did he reach out to things that floated by in my letters, in his daily
life and in the lives of others and the world at large. He then con-
verted these specks into the richer and more adventurous life that
he felt we should all lead. I felt from time to time that he was show-
ing me ’the way’ but oh so gently and without the sense of advice-
giving that so often reduces advice to a form of dry and unwanted
moralizing. He seemed to be so alive with the whole of his sensibili-
ty. At least that was the side I saw in the letters I received.
In mid-January 1992 Roger wrote at the beginning of his letter:
“I never know the date - make one up, if you care to.” A sign that
the end was near? I had written a brief paper on The Tablet of the
Holy Mariner and sent a copy to him. He thanked me for it and
referred to Occasions of Grace. “Perhaps Occasions of Grace will not
be a posthumous publication, after all.” As it turned out, he lived for
one year after its publication. White was a busy man in that last
year. Three books of his poetry were published! If the strain was
exhausting his strength, as well it might, it gave him one last year
of the fullest and deepest experience that he had, perhaps, ever
known. At least that was how I was reading it in his letters thou-
sands of miles away on the other side of the Pacific Ocean in
Australia.
White did not think his life would make much of a biography.
This is clear from the last paragraph of this letter of mid-January
1992: “Hunched as I was over a typewriter most of my life tran-
scribing other people’s words, Anne Atkinson [working on a biogra-
phy of White in 1992] may have some difficulty infusing excite-
ment into her account of my activities. But she plods on.” The main

reason why my short biography in these introductory chapters in
this book is short, is this view White had of his life. Most of the sig-
nificant stuff in his life involved writing. This view of the insignifi-
cance of the ordinary aspects of life is a common one among writers.
A person who does a great deal of writing is taking part in a solitary
activity that is difficult to describe as exciting. “What is needed,”
White goes on in that same paragraph, “is a cache of forgotten out-
rageous love letters written by or to me, preferably written by a
woman of noble birth but unsavoury reputation."
White goes on, in closing that same letter, to expand on the
essentially uneventful nature of his life, as he saw it. He carries on
in a humorous vein explaining how he never would have found
time to write such letters of romance because “secretaries are
expected to be at their desks from 8 ’til 5:30, and when one consid-
ers deadlines and overtime... And add to that, time devoted to fire-
sides and committee meetings and gatherings of the Spiritual
Assembly, the omission and commission of sins would surely have
had to take second place.” And so much of White’s life was, in fact,
serving someone as a secretary and the inevitable meetings in the
evenings. To get at the inner dynamics of this aspect of his life
would require a pen abler than mine.
In October 1991 I sent Roger one of the many essays I had writ-
ten on his poetry. Roger had, by then, left the Baha’i World Centre.
Two months after he left, on 12 June 1991, he wrote: “I received
your letter postmarked 18 November 1990; it must have vacationed
on the Riviere en route.” His transfer to the west coast of Canada
did not seem to affect his humour. Nor did the news that he had
inoperable lung cancer. As he put it: “I was in Canada - as an offi-
cially retired gentleman - merely three days before I suffered acute
shortage of breath, was confined for three weeks in hospital where I
was subjected to various tortures and medical tests, and was pro-
nounced a victim of inoperable lung cancer."

He continued in that same letter: “After all the discomfort of a
quadruple bypass, I am vexed in the extreme by the news, though I
recognise it gives one an unequalled opportunity to discover
whether one really believes that death has been made a messenger
of joy... And the verdict comes hot on the heels of my having at last
invested in the jumbo edition of Webster’s dictionary that I’ve cov-
eted for years."
In what was probably the funniest letter I received, White goes
on: “My doctor, a very likeable fellow, has predicted that I shall be
one of those irritatingly noble and saintly beings who will bow to
the inevitable with radiant acquiescence and whose last agonised
hours, embraced with spiritual resolve, will be an example to the
entire hospital ward and a comfort and confirmation to the medics
and nurses."
And there is more: “Some friends, no doubt, will accept my news
with a regret that is tinged with an astute enviousness.” And finally:
“From here can I hear you say, ’Wow! No more Assembly or com-
mittee meetings’?"
Roger’s letters invariably enclosed “bits and pieces” as he called
them. I collected a significant mass of material over those twelve
years. Indeed, a separate study could be made of the ’little goodies’
he enclosed with his letters. I may refer to the occasional piece in
this essay but for the most part I ignore these inclusions: quota-
tions, poems, cartoons, newspaper clippings, jokes, advertisements,
magazine articles, a myriad array of places where the Baha’i Faith
got mentioned, et cetera.
One such goodie is a must, though. It is a poem he wrote and sent
to me “on leaving the World Centre”. It’s a gem:
Those who his company eschew
complain, “His parting’s overdue”.

While those who count his presence dear
protest, “He was too briefly here”.
Still others mutter with a yawn,
"Oh, was he here? So, has he gone?"
The Universal House of Justice wrote the following, in a letter dated
23 April 1991, on the eve of White’s departure from the Baha’i
World Centre:
"Dear Baha’i Friend
For twenty years you have rendered devoted and invaluable serv-
ices at the Baha’i World Centre, and on the eve of your departure it
is difficult to bid farewell to you. We cannot but recall with
heartfelt gratitude your loving assistance as Secretary-Aide to our
former colleague, Mr. David Hofman, as well as your noteworthy
contribution to the Publishing Department. In addition to these spe-
cific assignments your manifold contributions to life at the World
Centre have been a real source of enrichment.
Your talents and abilities have won the admiration and respect of
all of us. Little did we know when you arrived in 1971 that there
was now a budding poet in our midst - a field in which you have
now distinguished yourself."
About a week before White received this farewell letter of apprecia-
tion, he replied to my letter of 30 March. He was about to leave the
World Centre. In that letter he gave me permission to quote from
his letters, although the full text of his letters he felt “do not merit
publication”. He wrote: “Yes, of course, you have permission to
quote from letters. I just have difficulty imagining their being of
interest. When attention is focussed on my life my embarrassment

arises from the dullness of my existence; I should want to oblige
any biographer by having an infinitely more complex and interest-
ing life. Not that a list of the Baha’i committees I have served on is
utterly without fascination - staying awake while reading it is the
trick. Zzzzzzzzzzzzzz."
White kept coming back to Tagore’s theme: ’the poem not the
poet’. If we wanted to know Roger White we needed to study his
poetry. That was his fundamental biographical point which I have
repeated, I am sorry dear reader, ad nauseam. This is the basic
rationale for the emphasis in this book on White’s poetry. But these
few words on his letters and essays will serve their purpose. It is
natural in our society for people to want to know something about
the artist as they go about studying his art. Men whose lives are
crowded with incident and adventure make for quite a different
biography than those whose dramatic adventures are played out
silently between their ears in the corners of their parietal and
frontal lobes. White was in this latter category. I find there is some
truth in the words of Emilio Roma III, namely that “a critic will get
at the meaning of a poem if and only if he does connect it with the
poet’s life... he must use this material if he is to be a good critic”.
White’s letters have helped me here. For, as Thomas Hardy once
wrote, “To cull from a dead writer’s whole achievement in verse
portions that shall exhibit him is a task of no small difficulty, and of
some temerity.” White’s letters and essays helped provide me with
some of that temerity.
"I write best to people I don’t know,” Wallace Stevens is reported
to have said. By “best” he meant writing about his poetry and about
art. Stevens’ poetry did not become central to American poetic his-
tory until a decade after he had passed away and his letters were not
published for three decades after his demise. It is too early to know
if this would be true of White and his letters. It was certainly true of
that portion of his letters that I received. For White certainly did not
’know’ me in the normal sense in which people know each other.
Like Stevens, White was also an intellectual’s poet, a poet of ideas,

with a poetry above the economic and partisan-political squabbles of
society, a poetry that travelled widely in the exotic places of the
mind.
To return to his letters: with this letter of 15 April 1991 White
enclosed “a list of reviews” of his poetry, “a list of appreciations, “an
index of titles of his poems” and “an alphabetical index of first lines
of his poems.” He gave me a solid foundation for my personal
exploration and contribution to the White industry. Indeed, I would
have to live to be ninety-six, if I was to spend half my life exploring
his poetry. With ten years under my belt, though, it looks as if I am
off to a start. Time will tell if it’s a flying one.
The same day White wrote to me, 15 April, he also wrote to the
editors of Baha’i Canada, responding to a letter to the editor that
criticized the inclusion of his poem  A Letter to Keith in the
March/April issue. Were this essay not primarily concerned with
the White-Price correspondence and not the many other letters
White wrote during his life I would quote this letter to the editor in
full, for it is masterful if nothing else. It makes me wish White had
written more essays, more literary criticism. For his prose is ingen-
ious, self-revealing and does not soften or discount the awkwardness
of the issue by impoverishing the facts. He takes the issue - male
attitudes to women - head on, with intelligence and sensitivity.
White also sent me in that same month an essay he entitled An
Articulate Silence. It was an explanation of how he went about the
process of writing. It was clear, concise and articulate. The Baha’i
community may have found a poet, but it lost an essayist. Writing
poetry was unquestionably White’s first love. Like English poet,
Thomas Hardy, other writing was utilitarian; poetry came first.
There is one thing that White’s letter to the editor of Baha’i
Canada, as well as his many letters to me, illustrates, and that is a
distinction that the literary critic Leone Vivante makes “between
poetic thought and the poet’s thinking about or around his poetic
thought”. Something comes into being, some genuinely creative

form, some absolutely inherent richness and depth, that is new and
that “can not be explained by other influences”. The study of all of
White’s letters, his few essays, any biography that comes to be writ-
ten, all stand outside “the inherent richness and depth” that is only
available in White’s poetry.
By April 1991 I had completed an outline of White’s life, at least
the first twenty-five years: 1929 to 1954. He returned my outline
with several corrections of detail. I had informed him, in my letter
of 30 March, that George Ronald felt that a book about him was
“not timely at the moment", although they indicated that one day
they would “want to publish such a book - perhaps under the title
’Official Poet Laureate’ “ Roger’s response to this bit of news was:
“The possibility they raise of a future publication in which the “un”
is deleted from “unofficial” poet laureate is surely an advance, of
sorts.” I do not think the subject held his interest significantly, as he
discarded the subject with his gentle humour.
Roger was interested in the close reading of his poetry by anyone
who took the interest. My “generosity in devoting time to such
close reading” he said touched him deeply and commanded his
“heartfelt appreciation”. In that same letter, 9 January, 1991, Roger
described several poetry readings he had given at the end of
December at what was to become the first Baha’i university, the
Landegg Academy in Switzerland, where he was one of the guests of
honour. He wrote: ”....in breaks I just moped about looking poetic
and gazing soulfully at the beautiful lake. Other than that I’m not
aware of disgracing myself too seriously."
The Gulf War was just breaking out. White wrote: “Well, we have
gasmasks, but other than that there isn’t much we can do except
proceed with ’business as usual’.” And “I’m still hoping to head for
Vancouver and retirement at the end of April, unless Armageddon
places me into permanent retirement before then."
An enclosure with that letter was a short essay Roger wrote dated
13 December 1990. It was a description of his life at school. The

entire essay is a source of pleasure and delight. I will include two or
three passages to convey the flavour. White started the essay by
indicating he was good at all subjects except mathematics. Of math-
ematics he wrote: “I hadn’t the type of headset that could accept the
notion that if one had a pie and cut it into six pieces and gave three
away, one was left with three pieces. If apple, which I despise, John
and Mary could have all the pieces they wanted; if lemon, my
favourite, I might or might not share it.... I’ve gone through life
without knowing the multiplication tables, long division, fractions
and algebra and all the mysterious trappings in which figures dis-
guise themselves."
Of metalwork, he continued: “I do recall clearly a day in the class
of our ’machine shop’ teacher when, despairing of my inability to
produce the simplest item in metal - a medium in which I have
never liked to work, any more than I have been attracted to working
in glass, preferring wood, paper or fabric, decided to make an exam-
ple of me by employing his considerable skill in humiliating me
before the entire class... But he was essentially a nice man and at
one point I saw that he felt he had gone too far. Blushing profusely,
he turned to the class and devoted several minutes to praising high-
ly, and with utter sincerity, my stoicism, cooperation and unfailing
politeness throughout the ordeal.... If he is still alive and I were to
meet him, I’d like to praise his gesture."
In mid-1990 Roger wrote this in his letter: “The quadruple bypass
is now behind me. It was, after all, no worse than being struck
down by a herd of stampeding rogue elephants, or perhaps a small
Sherman tank, and the surgeon is attempting, without much suc-
cess, to convince me that I survived his attack on me with a scalpel,
an attack I have no doubt that was inspired by his overexposure, in
adolescence, to late-night re-runs of ’The Texas Chainsaw
Massacre’."
White’s entire letter is funny, but I will content myself with one
short addition: “I was delighted to read in the hospital discharge

booklet, under ’Sex’, that I am free to resume ’normal sexual activi-
ty’ whenever I feel up to it, provided I avoid ’positions which
require pressure on the chest or support from the arms’."
On 7 November 1990 White describes his welcome back on 7
September “to the office” at the Baha’i World Centre after ten
months’ absence and his bypass operation. In the same letter he
describes how a French girl who had translated some of his poetry
into French had become a Baha’i on her arrival back home. He also
alluded to the passing of Canadian Baha’i Winnifred Harvey, the
inaugural meeting of the physiotherapy unit of a Haifa hospital and
a Canadian poetry reading. They all have their humorous flavour.
Roger concludes his letter with an Irish blessing which he says he
has “just this moment invented” – “May the good Lord whom you
serve with such distinction always recognize you from behind and
never place on your shoulders burdens intended for others."
It was a very timely prayer for in the early nineties I did get
worn out from an excess of speech and meetings in both my profes-
sional work as a lecturer and in my service to the local Baha’i com-
munity. Gradually over the next decade such burdens were taken
from my shoulders, or I took them off my shoulders myself, and I
could seriously engage myself in writing as the early evening of my
life approached. I wonder if Roger’s Irish blessing had any role in
the process.
Referring to the only time Roger and I may have met in 1966-7,
Roger wrote: “one can never gauge what happens to one’s inner
workings through highly forgettable meetings”. In that same letter
Roger comments on his first major book of poetry Another Song: “I
think perhaps the Baha’i community was ready for a book of that
sort when it appeared, and someone or other had to write it; I drew
the card. I suppose it will look rather primitive to the next genera-
tion."
I will close this essay with some quotations from the rest of
Roger’s letters, taken somewhat at random. They will continue to

give a flavour of the person behind the poetry, poetry being the
main focus of this book. White’s wit, it should be kept in mind, is
more than just a poetic or literary flourish. It is a means that is
much more than cleverness and goes beyond the telling of a joke. It
preserves the seriousness of what he has to say from sentimentality
and overstatement. His seriousness, on the other hand, keeps his
sense of wit from being mere flippancy. If White’s letters to me are
any indication of his attitude to his readers it would appear he high-
ly valued them. I think White would have agreed with English
writer Martin Amis who said in an interview: “Readers are artists,
in their way; they assign imaginative life to what they read. A
writer is nothing without a reader; you need the reader to close the
circle.” Every time White wrote to me, little did I know it then, he
was closing the circle.
In a letter of May 1985 Roger wrote the following in relation to
my suggestion to remarry: “Remarry? I’m not very good at mar-
riage; I failed ’taking-out-the-garbage’ and ’watering-the-lawn’.
But I’m in the throes of a very pleasant romance right at this
very moment and who knows where it will end?” Roger never
did remarry.
In February 1985 he wrote: “The Fast is nearly upon us; but hap-
pily it is followed by the Great Gnaw."
"I’ve always suspected,” Roger writes in July 1984 about the
Concourse on High “this is the real source of the impulse to create
and that, when one is sure it isn’t just an ego prompting, one is
assisted by the Concourse; what else have they to do but run
errands for heaven? They would surely seize on any willing chan-
nel. Sometimes I have had a sense almost of ’presence’ when writ-
ing about one of the long-goners... But I would have difficulty for-
mulating the experience into a presentable or acceptable theory. It’s
enough for me that it seems to be true... I’m content to accept that it
is, rather than too zealously dismissing it as being in the realm of
idle fancies and vain imaginings. And I’m not even very religious.

Heaven knows what the guys in the Spiritual Big Leagues experi-
ence in this respect."
Commenting on my concern about plagiarism, he wrote in
February 1984: “Never apologize for recycling - can we do anything
other than that, when everything comes from the one source, the
Writings?” At the same time, he concluded, we must watch because
often “the words of others simply don’t fit our face.’
Referring to George Townshend’s words about digging into the
Writings and life’s journey: “you may lose your first wind but if
you get your second it is permanent though you run all day long”.
White writes: “The analogy of the long-distance runner is very
accurate.... All seems easier after forty, though there is a dandy
fifty-odd menopausal spin awaiting you.” Mine was on the horizon,
little did I know.
Writing about goals and processes, White wrote in October 1983:
“I probably live like I write ... without qualification, training or pre-
meditation - inventing it all as I go along and without formulating
goals and objectives... I really have no idea where I stand in the fight
and I almost don’t care... I hope that by doing the thing that is
under my nose, day to day, it might tally up at the end as acceptable
service."
Writing about the sense of certitude in that same letter he wrote:
“I once asked Bill Sears whether, at any point in his long Baha’i life,
he knew for a certainty that he was where he should be and doing
what he should do for the Cause. He replied that he knew that only
once - when he had been with the Guardian who had assured him
that his home in South Africa would be surrounded by Shoghi
Effendi’s prayers."
And, finally, in response to my question about what his father’s
“bravest lonely deed", referred to in one of his poems, might have
been, Roger wrote in September 1982: “My father’s conscious rejec-
tion of Baha’u’llah; I remember him once.... when a speaker was
talking about the Faith on television, rising up and putting his foot

through the screen of the TV set. I reflected that anyone so con-
cerned not to accept must have, in his heart, been deeply threatened
and attracted by the Cause."
I feel that I have come to know Roger White not by direct contact
with what he has written but by the tone, the manner, the mode of
his voice. I feel the same way about White that Robert Bernard
Martin felt about the nineteenth century poet Gerald Manley
Hopkins: “I have slowly come to feel that understanding the poems
is far less difficult than getting to know the mysterious man who
wrote them.”

ANOTHER SONG, ANOTHER SEASON, 1979
THE CANADIAN WHO LIVES HERE
The supreme test of a book is that we should feel some unusual
intelligence working behind the words. I find White’s unusual intel-
ligence acute rather than powerful, with a brilliant inventiveness
rather than profundity. This is a distinction drawn by the literary
critic George Saintsbury in describing the poetry of Alexander Pope.
Roger White possessed this acute intelligence; at least there is a
coterie of readers who sense that intelligence when they read the
several books of his poetry. It is not my desire to make White into a
poet of some inevitable and complex profundity, but for me there is
certainly a delightful and wondrous intelligence that I sense behind
his poetry. White’s is a poetry which, in the words of Lionel Trilling,
“goes on existing beyond our powers of explanation”. “The aesthet-
ic effect,” Trilling goes on, “depends in large degree upon intellectu-
al power.” Part of our pleasure with White, too, is that we are not
under any illusion that White has conquered the material he directs
his attention toward. Like the great writers of this century White
raises many questions about the social and political landscape of
ideas in our liberal and democratic West. Like other great writers
White, too, simply wanted to get something off his chest. In so
doing he orders what for most of us is only partly ordered, insuffi-
ciently ordered or disordered in our minds. He creates a self-con-
tained cosmos with its own centre of gravity. I think each of us
might define that centre of gravity a little differently. For me it is
that mystic centre at the heart of the religion both White and I
share in common.
I aim in this book to convey some of White’s subtle and not-so-
subtle intelligence as I survey the major volumes of his poetry and
examine some special subjects in his poetry toward the end of this
book, a book that could be seen as one long essay. I hope in the
process not to overestimate the values and virtues of White’s work,
to be overly approving or, in the words of literary critic David
Daiches, to exhibit the dangers of an excessive catholicity. It is easy
Chapter 7

for me to do this because I thoroughly enjoy White’s poetry. White
provided the kind of poetry I needed to teach me the use of my own
voice. Until White’s verse appeared in Another Song, Another
Season when I was thirty-five such verse did not exist for me. I also
think his poetry is underestimated by the wider Baha’i community
and so, in part, this study is an exercise in establishing a balance
and bringing into greater light a writer who speaks with particular
directness or exaction to our present age. In that great discourse
with the living dead which we call reading, when it is more than
reverie or an indifferent appetite born of boredom, reading is a
mode of action. We engage its presence and allow it to enter our
inmost consciousness, imaginations and desires. White passed away
just a few years ago but, for some, he is still alive and well. He is
alive in his style, a style which involves having the “proper words
in their proper places", as Coleridge once wrote, having a certain
rhythm and voice and a certain aesthetic which Panofsky defines as
an abandonment to the objects or ideas being perceived. He is alive,
too, to the generation that emerged in the sixties, that had worked
hard at defining itself but often inarticulately. White helped that
generation and others along the long road to being articulate, to
finding words for the immense complexity of existence. Perhaps,
then, this essay, this exploration of White’s first major book of
poetry, will help to enlarge public literary taste, produce a finer dis-
crimination and flesh out what often becomes a mere impression-
ism. For a simplistic chatter about personal likes and dislikes, when
rampant, can be fatal to any critical appreciation of poetry or litera-
ture in general and in relation to White’s total oeuvre in particular.
At the same time, for the critic “his likings are facts in criticism for
him” and they guide what he writes, so writes George Saintsbury
ninety years ago in his outline of “articles for the catholic creed of
the critic”.
I trust that new readers can come to sense the intelligence behind
this remarkable poetry and old readers, who have not really given
White the full study he deserves, can come to see him anew. Many

read Shakespeare, Gibbon, Toynbee, indeed many of the great writ-
ers of history, and do not come away enriched. That is not the fault
of the writers. The meanings and the relations between words are
the outcomes, in the final analysis, of the genuinely creative activi-
ties of the individuals reading those words at a given time in histo-
ry, in a given set of historical and personal circumstances. The read-
er, the individual, is the sole bearer of meaningful interpretation.
The combustion takes place within readers who read White’s work
in a meditative way. Once the poet has written, only the reader can
give the poem meaning. The discipline required by the reader is as
great as the discipline that was required of White to write the poet-
ry in the first place. Just as the poetic idea provides the generative
kernel of a poem for White, so does the reader have to find some
equivalent generative kernel, either easily and quickly as is the case
in some of White’s poems, or slowly and tortuously as in others. As
I write, I keep the cautionary and provocative words of Edwin Muir
in mind. Muir wrote, in his discussion of the analytical intellect in
relation to poetry, “no matter how brilliant an analysis of a poem,
(like some of mine, I trust, in this book!) that is not enough, and
that is not even relevant…. This is not what poetry was made for.”
The mystery of the poem is in the readers; the poem is not “a prob-
lem to be solved”. I also keep in mind another provocative English
essayist as I write, William Hazlitt. It was his view that readers need
“the greatest possible help of others” in relation to poetry and he
saw his role as one of driving home the immortal contents of poetry
“into any tolerably susceptible mind”. Unlike Hazlitt, though, I crit-
icize White very little in this book and some readers may see this as
a serious omission. But like most readers, I have never habituated
myself to the dissection of literature, only to its enjoyment. This
book is essentially an expression of this enjoyment.
Poetry is not an answer book. If the reality of man is his thought,
then the reality of Roger White is his poetry, for his poetry is his
thought. The qualities of mind and of literary excellence which
appear prominently and consistently in his poetry, these are White’s

endowments, these are the revelations of his powers. But White was
incredulous about reading his life and personal character out of his
poems. To him, the two were quite separate, as I have already said
all too often. Both life and poetry are an endless succession of
engagements with people who are only partly explainable and with
an experience which is only partly understandable. With White
there is a rich coherence, a complex embedded comment and the
cumulative effect of this comment is to predispose the reader in
favour of a particular interpretation of self and society. Behind the
facts of history and of his life, White is conscious of a swarming
mass of causes on which he can turn his poetic microscope. This
sensitivity to minute causality produces a sense of amazement at
the road both he and others have travelled on, a sense of the diffi-
culty, the toil with which performance struggles after ideal and a
sense that much of the massive facts of our lives and of history are
just too immense for our intellect.
But he strives. What Samuel Johnson wrote about the poet
Alexander Pope could have been written about White, although
White would probably be embarrassed to acknowledge its truth. But
now that he has left this mortal coil we can more comfortably pour
all the encomium we want onto White’s shoulders. “A mind active,
ambitious and adventurous, always investigating,” wrote Johnson,
“always aspiring; in its wildest searches still longing to go forward,
in its highest flights still wishing to be higher; always imagining
something greater than it knows, always endeavouring more than it
can do.” There is little doubt that readers of White see the results of
a vigorous mind on a large landscape, an immense canvas, a panora-
ma that consists of the first century and a half of the history of
what Baha’is believe to be the emerging world religion of the com-
ing millennium. White enlarges the boundaries of the understand-
ing and conquers new intellectual regions of the Faith many of his
readers have become associated with. He leads them back to their
lives and their experience, after a journey through his particular

experience and what, for me, are often quite exquisite intellectual
pathways. Poetry cannot be expected to accomplish anything more.
Writing in an age when religious controversy is conducted with
violent bitterness and for millions often with disinterest and indif-
ference, White quietly describes his own way of life, his modus
vivendi, his religious ethos, without trying to put those who differ
from him in the wrong. He takes his many stands firmly, grounded
as they are in the Baha’i writings, its history and teachings. The
metaphorical character of his language springs, in part, from his
constant tendency to harmonize contraries, to coordinate polarities,
to find commonality in divergence, to express a fluid and functional
unity rather than a fixed and irrevocable one. His vital poetic norms
move from equivalence and reciprocity to identity and fixed agree-
ment. His poetry was his invitation to others and always it was with
an awareness of the interdependence of diverse points of view rather
than the totality of a single vision.
White does not always pass a verdict on every issue he takes up.
He views his evidence from many standpoints. He opens up ques-
tions, looks at things from many angles, opens up imagination’s
active window to enlarge the narrow circle of our days. His ques-
tions become a form of answer, which itself contains the seeds of
another question. But however complex the questions and however
difficult the road, the journey and history’s maze, he suggests to the
reader a perspective, a direction. However awkward and tangled the
reality of the material he deals with, he does not soften it by impov-
erishing the facts or discounting them. In White’s hand the power of
the past to elude the net of language must struggle with White’s
subtle strength and humour. The immensity and wonder of the cen-
tury and a half of history, perhaps the most awful scenes in the his-
tory of man’s religious experience, White deals with in lively images
and with a commitment to his own narrative voice. He stocks his
mind with fresh and original impressions from a storehouse of an
inexhaustible variety. For it is his view that all of reality exists for
our training, all of nature is itself “a dispensation of Providence”.

The critic’s function, my function in writing this book, is to inter-
pret White’s work in light of all that I know and to struggle, as best
I can, to understand his work in terms of literature as a whole, the
religion he seeks to examine and the society within which both that
literature and that religion operate.
The first book of his poetry was Another Song, Another Season
published in 1979. For many thousands of Baha’is this book “rocket-
ed White to astonish", as the Welsh poet Dylan Thomas described
the effect his own poetry had four decades before. And White would
astonish again and again in his last dozen or so years with book after
book of poetry, from the age of fifty to sixty-three. It was not the
power of incantation, the rolling vigour of a voice or its melodic sub-
tlety, the overwhelming lyric purity which characterized Thomas’
work and style - and made him the most persuasive reader of poetry
in his day, the most famous poet on radio. It was the power of
insight into the nature and reality of the Baha’i Faith, its history and
teachings. It was the vigorous intellect, the superb turn of phrase, a
simplicity and complexity all rolled into one, a vein of humour and
delight that appealed to high brow and low brow - indeed all brows -
that made White a household name through parts of the Baha’i
world. White was part of that movement in poetry whose aim and
whose effort was to bring poetry closer to the people, not through a
watering down due to an apparent public disregard for poetry, but
through a belief that poetry had something of vital importance to
offer society and its several, its many communities.
Another Song, Another Season gave to the Baha’i community its
first book of poetry written in a contemporary idiom. In the words
of David Hofman, who wrote the introduction, the book was written
in modes of common speech and everyday concepts, although it does
rise occasionally to a certain grandeur, especially with the aid of
metaphor which White seems to take a special pleasure in using. His
poetic style had been worked out in the three decades before
Another Song, Another Season was published. “All a writer’s quali-
ties,” wrote Lionel Trilling about the same time White put his first

poem on paper, “have their truest existence, in his style.” It was a
style especially suited to Baha’is. White became, consequently and
quickly, a possession. He was their first Baha’i poet, up-to-date with
living and breathing colloquialisms. It was Eunice Braun’s view,
expressed among the several testimonials on the back cover, that
White’s poetry was not obscure. It could be read and enjoyed even
by those who had previously got little or nothing out of poetry. This
was because White translated the experience of Baha’is into words,
perhaps for many for the first time. Perhaps, too, some of the pleas-
ure readers derived from his poetry was their sense that White’s
writing, as the poet Samuel Johnson once wrote, “reposed on the
stability of truth”. There is little doubt that part of White’s motiva-
tion in writing poetry, as is the case with many a poet, was a desire
to help people live their lives and understand the world they lived
in. Undoubtedly some of the pleasures readers derived was due to
White’s success in achieving these goals.
The poet Charles Levendosky said, in a recent interview, that “one
meaning must be immediately apparent on the first reading or hear-
ing - not all the levels of meaning inherent in the poem, of course,
but at least one meaning must jump out”. This idea certainly makes
sense to the common reader. The poet whose meaning is clear and
who also happens to have an interesting subject is the one most
likely to attract readers back to poetry. For many readers, though, it
was necessary that they read White again and again, far more care-
fully than his humorous and often simple lines initially implied. For
often his lines were dense with meaning and the ore just could not
be extracted in a once-over-lightly reading. Sadly, as another poet,
Alexander Pope, noted three hundred years ago, readers “care not to
study or to anatomize a poem but only to read it for their entertain-
ment”. If these readers were to get more understanding of the
Baha’i Faith from reading White’s poetry than they could from
many hours of patient study of other Baha’i texts, as Marzieh Gail
suggested they could, they would require the patience to persist
through difficult passages, the same patience that is required when

working though a play or a sonnet of Shakespeare. As one literary
critic put it, readers need to keep their knowledge “in a servile rela-
tion” to their human response to what White’s poetry was saying.
Otherwise they would often simply miss out on White’s sometimes
sacred, sometimes secular, urbane, deeply touching and exhilarating
voice with its quick changes of pace and tone, its blend of vigorous
thought with subtle emotion, its tough reasonableness beneath a
lyric grace. They will miss out on White’s true greatness: his power
to tell the truth.
Often the distinguished, the genuine, in art and in poetry, is
uncommon and not accessible to the many. It is different; it must be
different and so, in the process, provokes some hostility or simple
incomprehension in the many. Over time the social, the intellectual,
response to the received material is often softened and what was ini-
tially a puzzled lack of understanding becomes enjoyment without
the effort, the demand, that initially turned the student off. Some of
White’s first poems puzzled and exasperated readers. They either did
not appreciate his humour or simply did not understand what he
was saying due to the demands he made on his readers’ literary
capacities. Much of the poetry in the twentieth century was difficult
for readers. Indeed, a certain obscurity is one of the hallmarks of the
entire tradition of poetry going back to Chaucer in the fourteenth
century.
It has been more than two decades since White began to become
somewhat of a household name in many communities of the Baha’i
world. Perhaps that first decade, 1979 to 1989, was White’s peak sea-
son. With a business and a private address for all these years of c/-
Baha’i World Centre, PO Box 155, Haifa, Israel 31 001 many Baha’is
who bought his poetry felt quite at home with White. And many
Baha’is around the world wrote to express their appreciation to him
for his poetry. And now, in this small volume, I seek to express my
appreciation of White by examining his perceptions, his wisdoms,
and seeking to understand their contemporary relevance.

"Ignorance is the first requisite of the historian", wrote the famous
nineteenth century biographer Lytton Strachey. For it is ignorance
which simplifies and clarifies, selects and omits with a placid perfec-
tion. It is the beginning of a method. It is crucial, especially for the
Baha’i with pretensions, deserved or undeserved, to knowing a great
deal about his or her Faith. Often, I think, a poem of White’s is lost
on a reader because the reader feels he already knows about the
subject at hand and, therefore, could not learn anything more.
Ignorance is bliss, to express the starting point in relation to White
colloquially. Readers must also be aware of another warning of
Strachey, namely, that “human beings are too important to be treat-
ed as mere symptoms of the past”. This applies to obscure as well as
eminent lives. White makes the familiar unfamiliar and the unfa-
miliar familiar. He brings a genuine breath of fresh air into so much
of Baha’i history, its philosophy and its teachings. He often takes
what is quite obscure in the life of some historical person and, from
the exigencies and details of their history, he gives us insight. It is
often a particular kind of insight, an insight that Henry James called
the “truth of private experience”.
Like Wordsworth’s first and very successful decade, 1798 to 1808,
White’s first years in the public eye brought an enthusiastic
response. His fame rose quickly. Unlike Wordsworth who lived
another forty-two years after that first decade, White would be gone
four years after that first decade of renown. He could not refine his
style in his years of late adulthood and old age because he left this
earth just as the years of late adulthood arrived - he passed away at
63. Perhaps the refining of his style was done in the years before
1979, in the three previous decades with its several chapbooks and
life’s steep learning curves.
As White himself put it, referring to Another Song, Another
Season, “the Baha’i community was ready for a book of this sort
when it appeared and someone or other had to write it; I drew the
card”. I am reminded of the poet William Carlos Williams’ words in
relation to his famous poem Paterson. He wrote that it was a poem

“crying to be written; the time demands it”. The Baha’i communi-
ty in 1979 was just beginning to emerge from an obscurity that had
enshrouded its history. White happened along somewhat serendipi-
tously at the same time as the Iranian revolution was giving the
Baha’is a media profile they had not enjoyed since a previous reli-
gious persecution in that country in the mid-1950s. White provided
somewhat of a seriously unserious note for a dozen years or so. It
was timely that the Baha’is should have a poet. With the great
number of new books that had come into Baha’i book shops in the
years since the beginning of the Ten Year Crusade in 1953 when
this new Faith literally spread around the world, there was little
that was poetic in a modern idiom, little that was light. White fitted
into a high seriousness, but he also brought something new, a
Voltairean irreverence. He also brought a certain erudition but, for
the most part, he avoided its display in his poetry. His poetry was
not tortuous, it did not possess a harsh complexity in his phrasing
or in the subtlety or vigour of his thought. His lively poetic intelli-
gence was within the reach of an educated reader. But he made his
readers work.
Like all good poets White conveyed much more than his poems
dealt with explicitly. Yes, there was a Voltairean irreverence in his
work. Some, like those who reacted to the visually eccentric poetry
of e.e. cummings back in the 1920s, were not able to cope with
White’s revulsion of the meretricious, the sanctimonious and the pi.
Hofman’s reaction to White’s words as far back as 1978 was apt: his
poetry was “spiritual and religious” but not “didactic nor obscure”.
The influence of the Baha’i writings on White’s work cannot be
measured by an accurate notation of their echoes, by a quantifica-
tion of Baha’i themes, in his poems. Rather this influence can be
deduced from the ease with which White embarks upon his frequent
colloquy with his Lord. The tenderness and the playfulness, though,
are all White’s. He packs a lot in, too; many ideas often exist within
a small compass. The subtlety with which he often makes transi-
tions from one aspect of the subject to another and the sureness of

his emotional control are in some ways just aspects of his wit, his
clever use of language and his alert intelligence dealing as it does
with poignant and complex issues.
Perhaps the first quality of White’s poetry that deserves to be
emphasized is the sense of liberation, happiness, delight and joy.
There is a comic faith which runs like a golden seam of intensity
suffusing the body of his poetry. White continues a tradition which
began perhaps as far back as Aristophanes in the fifth century BC
or in some of the wisdom literature of the Old Testament. White’s
criticism, his activism, though trenchant is not a vociferous demand
for aggressive assertion. White’s voice is tempered with his own
compassionate tolerance and a knowledge that arose out of study,
out of his own vulnerability and weakness. The voice of the intellect
is, as Freud once put it, a soft one. But, however soft, White uses his
intellect to make his readers work, as I have said before. There is a
quiet and relentless scrutiny of his motives and, by implication, his
readers’. Perhaps this is inevitable in verse with a high religious
content. There is an emotional honesty which strengthens the fabric
of his poetry and it is often expressed in everyday language.
There are so many examples to choose from in this first major
volume of his poetry to illustrate some of the things I am saying.
Some poetry critics choose to quote an author, a poet, extensively in
their essays; some hardly at all. I shall choose a middle path and
leave it to readers to go to White on their own, hopefully encour-
aged by what I write here. For many readers White’s poems need no
comment at all; they establish a basic correspondence between
writer and reader; they do not require the trappings of explanation.
Other poems, on the other hand, will need rather more than I could
ever give. Between these two extremes readers will find my reac-
tions to the sound of the new voice I heard in White nearly twenty-
five years ago now.
One poem well known to White fans, which I have selected some-
what at random, is called The Pioneer. There is a humorous vein

running all the way through its more than three pages. To Baha’is,
who see establishing their Faith as the dominating passion of their
lives, their role ’as pioneers’ is described with lightness, delight, joy
and that comic faith I mentioned before. Often, of course, that is not
how Baha’is actually experience the process; often it acts as a
weight in a secularized, pluralistic society whose members are
either little interested in religion or are already committed to one of
many of its labyrinthine branches. White does not sing one note or
shine one light, otherwise his humorous song would lose its impact.
His poem would be little more than a joke to add to the already
endless pile occupying the social scene. There is seriousness in this
poem The Pioneer, a high seriousness. The poem ends on a very
serious note. After many light phrases that lift readers into light-
hearted and cheery territory, they are left contemplating the pro-
fundity of the exercise.
The moment is selected.
You will not see all heaven’s angels,
all ancient good,
the very weight of history
rush to her support as she gathers breath ….
Have you heard the Message of Baha’u’llah? -
nor will you know that God Himself
throughout all worlds
gives ear to your reply.
I tell you, she is dangerous!

You will not see any of this - the angels and the weight of history -
but the irony is that this is just what happens from a Baha’i per-
spective. White continues a religious tradition begun by Erasmus,
Swift, Rabelais and Sterne, four ordained clerics who belong to the
congregation of satirists, the literary world of the comic imagina-
tion. He presents human life in the context of drama and mirth,
among other contexts. This context of the dramatic and comic deals
with suffering, in some ways, more effectively than the tragic. The
comic takes away from tragedy its dominance, its often dangerous
romantic grandeur. This is particularly important for the receptivity
of White’s verse in cultures where the undercurrent of humour and
the ironic is pervuasive. In seeking temporary pleasure, what might
be described as the tragi-comic transcends the tragic. White does
this again and again. Humour for centuries was associated with the
devil, with the sinful nature of humanity. Gradually over recent
centuries it has come to be seen as part of his blessedness. Humour
for White is a very disarming form of seriousness itself. For White
the humorous provides diversion from the serious; a gentle irrever-
ence provides balance. White apotheosises language. He grins like
the satirist and loiters like Socrates. Plato knew he was dangerous
and would not allow him into his utopian Republic in the fifth cen-
tury BC., - a republic which had been battling for a generation with
the acids of individualism and the anarchic effects of war.
The preceding poem, The Appointment, is not humorous, but its
idiom, its tone and flavour convey a lightness of touch, of thought.
It possesses a seriously unserious style, an apparent colloquialism, a
language of simplicity which runs through six pages. Running
through these short poetic lines, the force, the strength of the words
comes from the slow build-up of simple ideas. The reader is slowly
caught up with a philosophical idea, a historical experience, of some
detail and significance. The reader is given, if he persists, a new per-
ception, a fresh insight, into the past, into himself. He comes, in the
end, to make more sense of life, his life. An event in history, the

building of the temple in Chicago, is given a whole new meaning.
The familiar is made unfamiliar; the unfamiliar is made familiar.
White touches us with his vision and his understanding. He
touches us frequently and we feel the texture of his touch, although
we may not know the detailed architecture of his vision. But the
more we read his poetry the more familiar we become with the par-
ticular choreography of his vision, his mise en scene. Unlike T.S.
Eliot’s immense poetic panorama of futility and anarchy, White’s
poetic panorama stretches before the reader the possibilities in exis-
tence that are based on a potentially integrated human being and a
world view that is sensitive to the problematic nature of our age and
the need of affirming a unified vision of life for all men.
In all his sketches and portraits of martyrs, pioneers and ordinary
people White reveals a tender world, a world born of wisdom and
sympathetic understanding. His words half conceal and half reveal
the soul, as Tennyson once put it. His words also rescue the life, the
situation, under examination from the abstraction of myth and the
complexity of history. The brittleness and fragility of history and
civilization as well as its polish and gloss are part and parcel of
White’s poetry so that the reader can reach out, touch it, bring it
back from what might have been its rusty home in memory and
know it for the first time.
Fujita With Pilgrims is one such poem which has been analysed
by literary critics before.36 It illustrates what I am saying here
about White’s historical pieces so very well. It is not that we learn
something about Fujita who may have lingered obscurely for us in a
place in our own interpretive schema of history; rather it is that we
learn something about particular virtues that help us understand
life. Fujita made ’Abdu’l-Baha laugh; such is the focus of the first
stanza. The gift of being able to make someone else laugh is a treas-
ure that, in some of life’s contexts, is just about priceless. The price-
less value, too, of loneliness and isolation White brings to our minds
in the second stanza:

Acquitted of triviality by a pain and loneliness
that might instruct us,
rescued a halo’s-breadth from isolating sainthood
by an exonerating intolerance and his need for us
but still a holy man….
These few lines need unpacking. If you read them quickly you are
likely to miss the point or points. A lot of White’s poetry is like this.
There are many meanings in many of his poems. Each reader reads
his own soul’s meanings. Often, too, a reader grasps a poem of
White’s without realizing how much they hold in their hand. ’A
book on a page’ I often think is what White gives us in some of his
poems. Fugita With Pilgrims is such a poem and each time you
come to it you take away a new depth. White’s poetry needs to be
kept at arm’s reach and not gathering dust on your shelf after a
quick flick. He needs to be tasted over and over again for his pithy
and many-layered poetry.
It is not so much that Fujita was lonely and isolated from much
of human society, that ’fact of history’ could be debated, but what is
the relevance of this loneliness - assuming that he was? Its rele-
vance (one could argue) is that, if we too want to join the short line
of saints, we might also have to endure loneliness and pain. Along
that path to sainthood we, too, may develop an intolerance of others
and a paradoxical need for their company. Is this too high a price for
sainthood, one might ask? These lines are a good example of how
White packs a great deal into a short space. They are a good example
of the necessity on the part of readers to study White’s words close-
ly. In the end you often find yourself questioning your own inter-
pretation of a poem, wondering at the mystery it contains. I am
only suggesting, here, some lines of inquiry into this poem.
White captures something of the essence of this first Japanese
believer, this -

mikado of mirth
the Servant’s servant.
And we, having examined Fujita With Pilgrims thus far, are left
standing -
disconsolately tracing our distance from the goal,
churning the weightless air
with our questions and our words,
our endless words.
Someone asks: Did you take his picture?
It is easy to miss the point in this mixture of delicacy and direct-
ness. Fujita reminds the poet, and hopefully the reader should he
need reminding, of the poet’s distance from his spiritual goal in life.
The poet is left churning the air with his words. The image is graph-
ic and profound in its own right. The poet has taken a snapshot, a
long exposure, of the outer personality and inner soul of Fujita by
means of his poetic shaping. The tourists in the group may have
forgotten to take Fujita’s photograph and, however accurate the
poet’s analysis of Fujita, he and his readers are still left “churning
the weightless air” with their questions and their words. For, in the
last analysis, we are all left with our endless words in the face of so
many of life’s mysteries.
I could continue the analysis here for, as I said, White says a great
deal in a few words. Reading quickly is for most of us the norm and
to savour words, to read a passage several times goes against our
grain. But often this is what we must do if we are to truly
appreciate White’s poetry, indeed a great deal of poetry written over

the ages, including much of the Revelation that inspired White in
his lifetime.
White wrote imaginative portraits like the one above partly as a
dialogue of his own mind with various people who stood out in
Baha’i history, partly as ironic detachment, partly as studied dispas-
sionateness and partly as a flirtation with ideas and the meaning of
life and history. In the process, a character, a person, was created,
disclosing to his readers a new capacity for knowing themselves.
White takes us deep into history at many of its points. His poems
become moral and psychological instruments of communication. His
poetry is often simpler than God Passes By, slimmer and apparently
easier to read than Nabil’s Narrative. White is light, but you have to
do some digging if you want to get to the roots of what he is on
about. What might occupy anywhere from several pages to a whole
book of history, White deftly deals with on a page, in a poem. And
many of White’s readers often learn more about that history in
that page.
The Baha’i community had gone from 69,000 localities at the
start of the Five Year Plan in 1974 to 96,000 localities at that plan’s
end in 1979. There had been a massive expansion of the Baha’i com-
munity in the quarter-century ending in 1979 from perhaps two-
hundred thousand believers to about three million. White had
arrived on the scene with his Another Song, Another Season at a
timely juncture. White’s critical dialectic, his delicate and gentle but
provocative and witty words suggested a direction for dialogue for
the decades ahead. White was, perhaps, a mid-wife of an idea whose
time had come. He provided an imaginative interpretation of
Baha’u’llah’s vision as it applied to living in today’s world. He was
more than a popularizer. His deceptively easy, sometimes acutely
complex passages of poetry sometimes require a dictionary to deal
with his wordy wonders. White is a subtle quotient.
History and experience cry out to be recognized and understood as
they spread out in their burgeoning, anarchic and often heart-break-

ing confusion before us. White helps us in this process, taking us a
step toward understanding the metaphorical nature of physical real-
ity, toward seeing the fragments of the past, of history and of every-
day life, as part of a whole. Such an exercise requires a conscious
effort of the mind and of the imagination on White’s part and on
ours in the rag-and-bone shop of everyday life. And we do not
always win. Poetry, reading, much that is life, cannot be communi-
cated easily, if at all, in spite of our efforts. We often lose. White is
no facile optimist who believes you can do anything you want as
long as you believe and persist long enough. Our love, White writes
in Songs of Separation,
..................will pass unnoticed into time
And history not record our names or cause,
Nor future lovers weep to read this rhyme,
The hastening crowd not give it thought or pause;
Yet must I write these lines for my heart’s ease….
White does not leave it here, however down-to-earth, however real-
istic, however much these words are an accurate statement of
human experience. More needs to be said. Perhaps White is writing
of someone’s love, his lover, his former wife, the world. Several lines
later in that same poem he is writing -
Had I but known that exile were the toll
Still would I offer that committed kiss,
Release you then to God for His Own role
Though death itself were paler deed than this.

In banishment, I learn that this is true:
I gave Him all, thus gives He ever you.
This optimistic-pessimistic-realistic note is, though, not the last
word in this difficult poem. In the last stanza White writes, after
expressing his wish that life was simpler and sweeter -
......................................................................but we
Are wrenched, torn, flung as unremembered leaves
Driven in doleful patterns the wind weaves.
Glad days are gone. A bastion given each
The long nightwatch begins.
We are back in the battleground of life, if we ever really left it, as
the poem comes to an end. The poet awakens from “fitful dreams”
in “choking screams”. Whoever it is that is his love, she or it is
“beyond the reach” of his “caress and comfort”. She or it dies and
the poet can do nothing. Is this love part of that ’vapour in the
desert which the thirsty dreams to be water’? Is it part of life’s
’mere illusion’? However illusory life may be, however much it is a
prelude to a fuller existence, White does not underestimate the
worth, the value, the importance of this earthly life.
In another poem that honestly admits to human incapacity, to
human inadequacy, Suppliant Bahji, White writes:
Is this then all there is, a simple garden,
And a silence that displaces need for words?
What portent in the blood-red wayside poppy?

What message in the music of the birds?
The hero’s heart is hoisted on a cypress,
The saint’s is softly folded as a rose;
But mine lies shattered here among the pebbles
On the only path the fainting coward knows.
Perhaps the note here is humility combined with a sense of awe.
One is reminded of the words of the mystic Thomas à Kempis that
we should consider none so frail as our own dear selves, or in the
words of Shakespeare in the last lines of his play The Tempest:
My ending is despair
Unless I be relieved by prayer
Which pierces as it assaults
Mercy itself and frees all faults.
I have tried, throughout this essay and the ones following, to get
behind White’s poetry, to suggest the world that exists within the
content of particular poems and White’s poems in general and to
point toward some underlying principle or principles. In so doing I
have tried, as Samuel Johnson tried, “not to oversimplify what is
complicated but to be faithful to the complex richness and variety”
of the poet’s mind. As White himself was to write several years
later, “Attempting to apply a divine principle is usually a creative
and dangerous act… one of those ’iffy things’.” There is nothing so
complex as a principle. I have tried, too, to suggest how readers
might come to know White intimately as a friend. Knowing him it
is impossible not to love him. But I have my doubts, as Wordsworth

did, about the value of literary criticism compared to the kind of
inventive lines one finds in poetry, especially White’s poetry and
especially if one is in the game of trying to induce love of the poet.
"Original composition,” said Wordsworth, speaking of poetry,
does “infinitely less mischief.” Let us hope there is little mischief
here. Perhaps I should have stuck with writing poetry which I have
come to enjoy as a literary avocation in the last decade. Readers will
certainly find little overt criticism of White’s work in these essays. I
do not have that view of White, for example, which Arnold had of
Wordsworth, even though he loved and admired Wordsworth,
namely, that this was poetry that would have been richer, more
complete and varied if he had read more books. Some of White’s
creative power comes from his being in the right place at the right
time, when there were the materials and the basis for the emergence
of a Baha’i consciousness in world literature. Like Athens in the mid
to late fifth century BC, the mid to late twentieth century provided
the milieux for the glow of life and thought and for world literature
to make its first major strides. White happened to be there at the
start. It was not the start of democracy or the breakdown of the
architecture of the Middle Ages and the first stirrings of modern
science that led to the literature of Sophocles or of Shakespeare,
respectively, it was the start of a world literature and the first
imprint of a new, a democratic theocracy, a vision with the future in
its bones, that had just stuck its head above the ground and
enshrined that priceless jewel, the world civilization, of which this
infant Faith White had joined was “the sole begetter”. White was
well read, but not the scholar or academic, not the serious student
with that rich, deep and varied reading behind him that Arnold
would have liked Wordsworth to possess. But for me that is not
important; indeed, I think, like Shakespeare, White is better for the
freshness and spontaneity he brings to ideas, to his poetry. The
absence of erudition is part of White’s fresh-air and delightful
everyday idiom.

We all see White through the prism of our own experience, percep-
tion and knowledge. For me, White provides a strong, a solid anti-
dote or counterweight to so much of the superficial thinking that
drifts over the interstices of our existence, from the power of posi-
tive thinking to astrology, from the occult to a vague emphasis on
intuition, from so many of the superficialities of pop psychology
and media hype. White’s interpretive schema, his view, his vision of
this emerging new religion on this planet accords with my experi-
ence and my views. We like people who see things the way we do.
It’s natural. He also gives me so much more, so many original
insights into my own life, my religion and the complex realities of
the world.
Another Song, Another Season is divided into six parts. The clas-
sification or sectional names for the parts are ingenious, suggestive
and provide a useful organizing principle for the poetry in the book:
portrayals, lines from a Persian notebook, songs and sonnets, the
confused muse, a twist of lemon. The division is natural, not artifi-
cial, as poetic categories often are in books of poetry. White was to
use this method in all his books of poetry, except his last, his The
Language of There. In Another Song there are fifty-nine poems,
four letter sketches and ten pages of notes and bibliography; togeth-
er they fill some 180 pages. They are dedicated to White’s parents.
The pattern of introducing both individual sections and poems with
quotations from the Baha’i literary corpus and the writing of
famous and not-so-famous people is established in this first major
book of White’s poetry. It was a pattern that would remain with all
White’s volumes of poetry. The cover of the book depicts a view that
clearly spells out ’Canada’ – a forested seascape in British Columbia.
It reminds Canadians that White is one of them. White, indeed, was
“the Canadian who lives here” - here being of course Haifa. And
White was able, perhaps due to the imparting of some expansion
and sensation to his mind, some heightened consciousness, to expe-
rience propitious poetic moments while in Haifa. He had been there
for eight years by the time Another Song was

published. Unquestionably many of his insights were associated
with developments on Mount Carmel and the very atmosphere of
the place. Inevitably, too, what animated the mass of his knowledge
was a bright and active imagination. Another Song was his first
major poetic result. White was fifty.
White had been away from Canada for thirteen years by the time
Another Song, Another Season was published. He had been “precip-
itated into homesickness” many times - “images of northness, sea-
sonality, spaciousness, magnificence, extravagant teeming abun-
dance” still supported his reality in “the relentless Hebrew sun”
with its “unalleviated glare”. But one does not get that sense, so
common in twentieth century poets, especially those who left their
homeland, of White as the outsider. He became accepted, not only
by the Baha’i community in Haifa but by a community of poets in
Haifa that he belonged to and academics whom he had some associ-
ation with. If leaving Canada was a sacrifice, and there is no strong
evidence that it was, the experience, it would appear, nourished
rather than inhibited his creativity. He gained a great deal, so much
that he could not have found in Canada had he stayed there.
Herbert Read, in his analysis of the poetry of Wordsworth, argues
that the highest quality of poetry escapes analysis. It is, he goes on,
an intangible essence, a synthetic occasion. This is true of the best of
White. But White’s best has become for many what Wordsworth
became for the young John Stuart Mill as he expressed it in 1828,
“a medicine for my state of mind... not mere outward beauty, but
states of feeling, and of thought coloured by feeling, under the
excitement of beauty... the very culture of feeling... a source of
inward joy, of sympathetic and imaginative pleasure, which could
be shared in by all human beings... poetry of deeper and loftier
feeling could not have done for me at that time what his did”.
White’s poetry is also for many what English poetry was to
Voltaire, the treatment of moral ideas “with more energy and
depth” than other nations and poets, and a powerful and profound
application of ideas to life.

THE WITNESS OF PEBBLES, 1981
Two years later, in 1981, the second of what would eventually be
three books of Roger White’s poetry from George Ronald publishers
of Oxford was produced. This second volume contained nearly three
times as many poems as the first. Geoffrey Nash, who had finished
his doctorate on Thomas Carlyle and had just completed writing
Iran’s Secret Pogrom, wrote the introduction. The following year, in
1982, Nash was to go on to write the first significant essay on the
work of Roger White: The Heroic Soul and the Ordinary Self.
The publication of this volume of poetry was timely. Robert
Hayden, a Baha’i and an American poet laureate in the 1970s, had
died the previous year. He had been a Baha’i and a poet for over
forty years. In some important ways the Baha’i consciousness in
world literature that this book is discussing found its first signifi-
cant poetic expression in the poetry of Robert Hayden. John Hatcher
points out that Hayden came of age as a poet in the early forties,
during the first teaching plan, 1937-1944. A Baha’i consciousness
slowly grew in his poetic expression beginning in 1943 when he
joined the Baha’i Faith, although it did not become obvious, did not
express significant Baha’i themes, until at least 1962 in Hayden’s
collection A Ballad of Remembrance.
It should be noted, though, that Hayden became poet laureate for
the library of Congress from 1969 to 1980. White had begun writ-
ing poetry and a poetry clearly influenced by the teachings of the
Baha’i Faith perhaps beginning in the early 1950s. It is not my pur-
pose to examine the minutiae connected with who was the first poet
to write poems influenced by this new religion. Both poets were
writing poems as early as the 1940s. I think I would give the nod to
Hayden as the first poet on the block by a clear margin. But it seems
to me this emergence of a Baha’i consciousness is more of a process
and both these poets were involved in the process. This book focuses
on White’s part. White fully achieved, if there was any doubt before,
with this latest volume of poetry, what literary critic A. Alvarez in
Chapter 8

1962 said that poetry needed: “a new seriousness”. This he defined
as: “the poet’s ability and willingness to face the full range of his
experience with his full intelligence; not to take the easy exits of
either the conventional response or choking incoherence.” Poets,
Alvarez went on, needed to cope openly with the quick of their
experience. This was what he called “a new depth poetry”. White
had already begun to find this depth by 1962 when Alvarez wrote
this and by 1981, some two decades later, he had made out of his
rich internal resources and self-contained strength his own style and
his own identity.
The Witness of Pebbles, as White called this new volume, was
dedicated “to all who witness in life or in death”. The ’pebbles’ of
the title came from Baha’u’llah’s writings where He refers to His
revelation as enabling “every least pebble to resound again with Thy
praise”. Whether one views this corpus of poems from a literary or a
non-literary standpoint, it is great poetry. T.S. Eliot once argued that
’great poetry’ had to be based on a great philosophy. “We can hard-
ly doubt,” he put it “that the truest philosophy is the best material
for the greatest poet.” White, of course, derives his philosophy from
the Baha’i Faith. His poetic inspiration - the poets who have clearly
had an influence on him - comes from George Herbert, Emily
Dickinson and T.S. Eliot among others, although White once wrote
in an essay that he felt the critical inspiration behind his poetry
were holy souls who had passed on to the next world and influenced
his writing in quite inexplicable ways. For years White had been his
own Aristotle, laying down the laws his poetry was subject to. There
is a deep and important relationship between philosophical thought
about poetry and poetry. These essays about White’s poetry shine a
light on some of that subtle and not-so-subtle relationship. It is a
relationship that results, for this critic anyway, in the diffusion of a
tone and spirit of unity, a complex unity that blends and fuses so
much of that rag-and-bone-shop of life into a synthesis through
White’s imaginative power. For the essence of the poetic process is
its “unifying and harmonizing activity”.

One of the means White uses to get at truth is to examine the lives
of historical figures. Like Shakespeare, Euripides or one of a host of
others, White translates the great truths of his philosophy into a
comprehensive text book on how to live. But like the literary out-
puts of all the great poets and dramatists of history, White’s text
book requires some work from his readers. His is not a how-to man-
ual, not systematic in its organization - perhaps ’creative-resource-
manual’ might be a better comparison than text book, for there is
little that is set out in a sequenced, ordered way that covers the
material. It is impossible to read White’s poetry without feeling that
we are being initiated into the company of a unique personality - a
personality as original and authentic as it is intellectually thought-
provoking and a delight to the mind, a personality who defined
himself through his poetry, a work of art that is produced by a spe-
cial handling of language.
In the first section of this resource manual, containing some
twenty-eight poems, White does what Wordsworth did at the dawn
of this modern age: he gives the spirit of the past a restoration, a
transformation. White is that poet of memory and one can learn a
great deal about Baha’i history and its philosophy by examining
some of the poems here. Some of that history is recent; for example,
the passing of Hand of the Cause A.Q. Faizi in 1980. White gives us
a sonnet in rhyming couplets. But it is not the form that impresses
so much as the content. Here is one of many examples of spiritual
history being rendered, as the poet Roethke said it should be ren-
dered, by dramatic poetry. White brings to the poem a sharp sense
of who and what Faizi was. This sharp sense of another person
brings to White, paradoxically, a heightened awareness of his own
self and the self of others. It also allows him to make those “intu-
itive leaps” which Roethke says “are one of the ways man.....
approaches the divine in this comprehensive act, the really good
poem”. I would like to take you through the poem In Memoriam:
A.Q. Faizi commenting occasionally to make a point:

The children by the upturned sod
strew flowers, weeping. Only God
Who holds the slightest winged thing dear
knows all the sweetness folded here.
And so it was for those who knew Hand of the Cause Faizi: sweet-
ness was the operative word. This was no intuitive leap. But in the
second half of the octave White writes:
Were such love possible? ask we
who dole it with economy,
squander doubt and hoard affection
in private vaults beyond detection.
After warming us up in the first four lines with sentiments of
tender loving care, White brings us down to earth, not so much
with an intuitive leap but with an honest statement, pithy and
poignant, of human inadequacy. He continues, going back to Faizi’s
funeral ceremony:
On Carmel trails the sun’s gilt sleeve
as we chilled mourners slowly leave ….
And then comes the intuitive leap:
to seize the thought this death installs:
who’d serve the King must love His thralls.

Of course the idea is not entirely intuitive but this last couplet is
clearly, for me anyway, the climax of the poem. For me there is sur-
prise, truth, wisdom, an idea that is unfamiliar that White makes
familiar.
There is a loveliness in White’s craft. Sometimes a simplistic, ide-
alistic, coherent view of a person can turn out to be too brittle for
the complex facts of a life - and the biographer must shift grounds.
That is not the case here. There is in White’s work a sensitivity to
“the sophisticated complexity of life” that the great post-World War
2 American poet Robert Lowell said was critical to any successful
poetry. But however complex the idea there is a simplicity too. It is
not a simplicity that orders experience; rather, it is a simplicity that,
in the words of Theodore Roethke, attends “an experience with the
conviction that there is order in it”. White is simply giving voice to
a truth inherent in the death of the beloved Hand of the Cause -
namely, that he must be loved - and why. White is also giving us a
poem that “is so organized that the interplay between the elements
sets up a complex of meaning in which” White “wins through to his
final utterance”.
Again the analysis could continue, but that is the reader’s task.
“Criticism is the endeavour” wrote Saintsbury back in 1911, “to
find, to know, to love and to recommend the best that is known and
written in the world,” but not to explain every detail. Poetry is most
fully realized when a reader’s mind subjects that poetry to its own
serious and systematic contemplation. In the process the poetry is
raised up to “its highest possibility", writes Richard Kuhns.
I will deal now with another poem which, though rooted in a lit-
eral historical personality, recreates it. Solemnity is coated with the
colloquial, with the idiom of the everyday, its simple cliches and a
sense of immediacy. I am talking here of the first poem in the book
The True Brother, although I could have chosen many others.
Shoghi Effendi is brought into the here and now. The reader

engages with a pivotal figure of his Faith in a unique, a fresh, a
human, a probing way. An inner landscape is seen with a quiet eye.
The poem opens:
You........
across the Twin resplendent seas
which cast this pearl
we ask what praise
is adequate to you?
A simple question is conjoined with what, to Baha’is, is some famil-
iar nomenclature: ’Twin resplendent sea.’. So the poem begins in its
unassuming way. It continues:
You.......
who knew far more than we
how little was the little
that we knew.
After nearly twenty years these lines have become a type of bot-
tom-line, a fundamental starting position in my relation to and
understanding of Shoghi Effendi. And yet the words are so simple,
so easy, so profoundly basic. The poem ends with the following two
stanzas:
You......
how belatedly we see

that you were more than brother,
more than true.
You........
through a mercy
we’ve not earned O! comfort us
who did not comfort
you.......
Such pure symmetry. If there is such a thing as a perfect poem, this
one is mine. How does one define a perfect poem? Which one will
be yours? I had had a love for Shoghi Effendi for perhaps twenty-
five years when I first read this poem in 1983 but White gave me
words, expressed a feeling, that had been inside me. This is one of
the reasons for his great popularity. I find White a superbly rational
poet. It is a rationality that arises from, in the words of Susanne
Langer, “an elaboration of feeling”. Perhaps, too, what White does
here and in so many of his poems is to take the imprecise, the vague
and undefined, unexpressed feelings and thoughts of life that we
encounter again and again and give them form, precision, definition.
And some readers find it thrilling, beautiful.
The remaining six sections of this book of poetry are all shorter
than the opening one which is called “The Witness of Pebbles –
Poems and Portrayals”. I will not attempt to examine all the direc-
tions and thrusts these poems take in each section. Rather I will
make some selections of poems I particularly enjoyed and comment
on them as a way of introducing this book of White’s poetry. The
second section is called “Songs and Sonnets” and contains twenty-
two poems. White’s poem Coral and Pearls was written for Hilda
and Morrie Phillips and the title comes from the words of a

marriage prayer by ’Abdu’l-Baha. It is written in the form of a son-
net, one of the many sonnets in this section.
I find the poem is much like another of White’s poems on mar-
riage - Mark’s Madrigal which we will discuss later in this essay,
only there is not that humorous undercurrent here. This poem is
serious all the way. “The only chance of doing some arresting writ-
ing, something that the world is waiting for with open arms,” writes
Marilyn Kallet, “is to be ready.” In the late 1970s and early 1980s,
White was ready. There was a world of underlying meaning waiting
to be recovered like metal out of ore. That world could be found in
Baha’i history, in relationships, in day-to-day life, all over the
mountains and hills of existence. This poem is an engagement with
the institution of marriage. Again, many of the lines in the poem
require time, thought and the engagement of the reader. This is no
quick stroll through an in-depth magazine article on marriage in the
weekend supplement. Like so much of White’s poetry, be prepared
for contemplation, for pondering. He takes you into your inner life
by way of the thinking process. His poetry engages you in a process
that some have called the raid on the inarticulate. It is a process of
persuasion, of ambush, of dogged hunting and sometimes of surren-
der but, however you describe it, this thinking process must be set
in motion or your minds will lie, as English poet Ted Hughes once
wrote, “like fish in the pond of a man who cannot fish”.
But to return to Coral and Pearls. I will not go through every line
in the poem; I will leave that to you with your own copy of The
Witness of Pebbles. But I will examine several of the provocative
and somewhat demanding lines:
...................................It is your unmingled light,
Inviolate, self-kindled and enhancing that might
Tempt my pride to snuff it, eclipse the inner white
Wonder my warrant forged in passion cannot own.

Teach me that not in trespass do I harvest more
Than your surging tenderness yields to my sight.
I find these lines just enthralling in their meaning and beauty, per-
haps this is due to the fact that it had taken me some thirty years of
marriage to learn them. It is passages like these that have made me
a White-fan, perhaps fanatic. “The inner white wonder” is a delight-
ful and wondrous phrase to describe both the external and inner
beauty of a woman. It is this “inner white wonder” that gets
eclipsed and snuffed out in marital relationships. The “warrant” is
something which authorizes action, in this case a something “forged
in passion” which cannot be owned. How many men - and women -
have ’trespassed’ and ’harvested’ more than they should have, more
than “surging tenderness” yielded. In the end each reader has to
unpack each poem for himself. I have just taken a few items out of
the suitcase here to start the ball rolling, to do some intellectual and
spiritual travelling. And, of course, poems that work for me will not
necessarily work for you. It must be admitted, too, that some of
White’s poems, more for me in The Witness of Pebbles, have impli-
cations and bearings that are difficult to grasp, an inevitability in a
poet whose appeal is not to the interests and caprices of the market,
who does not beat the big drum or shout his wares. The voice of the
intellect, Freud once said, is quiet.
The third section of this book is called ’The Milk, The Honey’ and
its twenty-four poems are all ’from Israel’. There are many poems
about the Baha’i World Centre in White’s opus; I would like to com-
ment briefly on his poem The Artefact written in the years immedi-
ately preceding the occupation by the Universal House of Justice of
its permanent seat above the Arc on the slopes of Mount Carmel.
I am not sure I understand all the poem, but I understand enough
of it to give me a deep satisfaction from reading it. And I read it
again and again enjoying what I do understand and trying to under-
stand more. Poetry is undoubtedly, among other things, an

exploratory activity and White explores the beauty of the Baha’i
Faith, a beauty expressed in the developments on Mount Carmel, in
Baha’i history and in the Baha’i teachings generally. Poetry also
deals with things that touch us deeply and is a place of pollination
and cross-pollination for the actual, enlarging on, engaging in, life as
it goes. Like the poet William Carlos Williams, White wants to make
the unknown shine, like a sunrise. The known in this poem is the
religion White joined over thirty years before and in a short epi-
graph White offers a cautionary note from William Collins, a Baha’i
then working at the Baha’i World Centre: “We must resist the temp-
tation to intellectually distance ourselves from the living reality of
the Cause of God, enclosing it in a glass coffin of our pride’s devis-
ing, which we circumambulate admiring our own handiwork.”
White begins the poem comparing the Cause to “a shipwreck vic-
tim washed ashore” who has been “coffined... in glass”. Having “set
it in a place of honour in the central square” we came to “stare or
lean above her”. No one, White continues, now near the end of the
second of three stanzas, asked “what exquisite power she might
wield”. No one asked what effect “Such intolerable beauty” could
have, although it was thought it could “disregulate the city’s
ordered ways”.
Some of the greatest poetry is to be found at the beginning of
things: Homer at the start of Greek civilization, Pindar at the start
of the great experiment in Athenian democracy; Virgil at the start of
the Roman Empire, Shakespeare at the start of the modern age,
arguably White at the start of the great drama in democratic theoc-
racy or the process of the institutionalization of charisma that is at
the heart of the development of the Baha’i Faith. Each poet provides
his readers with a Weltanschauung, a world view, a perspective on
the world that gives it coherence, meaning, a framework.
In the final stanza of the poem under consideration White writes:

Long she lay there and we grew accustomed
to the crystal concentrate of beauty
...............
grateful that grace be so contained
as to pose no threat.
This poem is often difficult to contain, to get at or to. By 1980, the
Baha’is had been on Mount Carmel for about a century. The Bab’s
remains had been entombed on Mount Carmel for some seventy
years; the Guardian had been gone for nearly twenty-five. One of
the main functions of poetry is to put in verse some of the intense
emotion that accumulates in life. White’s poem does this. It begins
in delight, as Robert Frost once said, and ends in wisdom  or, as
Wordsworth once put it more mysteriously:
...............................Visionary power
Attends the motions of the viewless winds,
Embodied in the mystery of words.
And there is a mystery to White’s words, not all the time but from
time to time and in specific poems like the one being discussed here.
There is something that tantalizes; there is a fragrance, but you
have to like White’s perfume. He integrates thought and imagina-
tion; he achieves a high intensity of poetic and imaginative aware-
ness in his writing of poetry. He shares this with his readers and
through a participation in a common past, a common memory, from
which his stories, his poems, are so often drawn, there is a revivifi-
cation of the virtues inherent in sacred places and people.
Often people and places in history elude us and unless they can
be given life in poetry or some form of art they are lost to us. They

remain as dry dust in history books. White so often brings, awakens,
a sense of Presence, of the Divine, in some historical setting. White
or his poetry bestows a benediction, a sense of blessedness, upon
some of those who read his poetry. The renewed awareness that
these readers gain becomes a source of and support for personal con-
viction and both the individual and the community are strength-
ened. White helps these readers create their world. He creates it out
of himself sub specie aeternitatis.
In the remaining four sections of The Witness of Pebbles White
gives us poems with religious feeling that deepen our awareness of
life, poems that increase our sense of identity and self-understand-
ing, poems that have a simple grace of image and style, poems that
are poeticized prose, poems that deal with the enigma of life’s tran-
sience and art’s enduring truth, poems that present a Baha’i analysis
of history as a divinely ordained and logical process and this era as a
transition to an expanded identity and humankind’s maturity, more
poems that are tragi-comic and much more.
Perhaps Mark’s Madrigal will illustrate some of my main con-
tentions about White’s poetry more graphically. The history here is
not the history of the Baha’i Faith but the history, the experience, of
so many millions in the marriage relationship. The poem opens with
some of that colloquial tone and dramatic speech:
Breathes there the man so limp with dread
Who never of his wife hath said,
"I love the wench but wish her dead!"
The rhyme, the lightness, the humour and the tragi-comic continue:

O lissom lass, O languid lad,
In wedlock are love’s lessons had.
Then White, having got his reader gently swimming along in this
casually poetic idiom, starts to get serious and a little elliptical. The
reader has to do a little work:
Were freedom gained, what is allowed
But from a stranger’s hand a shroud?
How many people, feeling imprisoned and gaining their “freedom",
experience a “shroud” from a “stranger"? A second relationship so
often just does not have the anticipated pay-off. Some readers will
go all the way with White in these lines.
White keeps the tone and the style light, engaging, irreverent,
calling a spade a spade:
Lives there the woman so unsound
Who never thought, in marriage bound,
"I’ll sleep best when he’s underground!"
.....
For all are granted fleeting terms
And restive are the amorous worms.
......
"What chain hath love that rubs me raw?"

Then, in the last three stanzas, in lines that could come from one of
Shakespeare’s sonnets, thought-provoking words and ideas, some
enigmatic, some solemn and serious:
Both winsome maid and handsome squire
Know love’s the chief prize we acquire
But count it, wed or celibate,
A hellish torment, soon or late.
So, love is something we “acquire” and we may have to experience
“a hellish torment”. And we reach the climax, the finale in the last
two stanzas:
’Tis not the mate by whom we’re soured
But love itself which proves us coward.
To tame the fear’s to tame the fire,
’Tis fear of love of which we tire.
Have done, good folks, with suffering,
Brave choice secures diviner thing.
Love won by courage shall endure
For love, methinks, is love’s own cure.
Rejoice, rejoice in love!
There is a great deal said here about love in the same way that
Shakespeare packed a great deal into his sonnets. There is a profun-
dity here as there was in Shakespeare but the reader does not have

to puzzle over the meaning to anything like the same extent. The
reward, the pay-off, in meaning in this poem of White’s is reflected
in these words of Marilyn Kallet: “The poem is a kind of flower....
rich with the truth of our lives, a working through of the poet’s
experience of hurting, healing and preparation through love.”
White sprinkles humour throughout this, his second booklet of
poetry. It is part of White’s signature. He opens his final section -
“Toddling Toward Salvation” - with a quotation from Thomas
Carlyle: “Laughter is a token of virtue. No man who has once
heartily and wholly laughed can be altogether irreclaimably bad.” I
think it is this laughter that allows White to get away with some
profoundly serious poetry in between the laughs, poetry that is not
just serious and profound but very provocative, very challenging
and, at times, threatening to much of our conventional thinking,
both as Baha’is and as the world of liberal and secular thought.
I would like to close this analysis of The Witness of Pebbles with
two such examples. I could choose two from at least a batch of half a
dozen poems which made me think quite seriously about their
implications. “A poem,” as John Hatcher emphasizes in his analysis
of the poetic process, “is written to be experienced, not dissected.”
The poem A Sudden Music  I experienced with some force nearly
twenty years ago when I first read it. I would like to dissect the
poem to some extent to try to explain the source of, the reason for,
the impact this poem had on me.
The poem establishes for me an honesty, an introspectivity, a
framework for the examination of the forms of prayer, indeed my
very interaction process with others. The poem makes me take a
look at myself. It begins:
A taint of preening calculation
makes of our knowledge knowingness,

carries us too soon from innocence
and exaltation.
I would call the law that White invokes the “is this me?” law. Have I
been carried away by habit, by years of experience and familiarity,
from my original sense of innocence and sense of exaltation? Yes
and no, I say to myself. Do I make of my knowing, now that I know
so very much more than I used to when I first became a Baha’i, a
“knowingness"? Do I do any “preening” of myself in all this know-
ingness? Yes and no, I say to myself. White is struggling and taking
us along with him in this struggle to reach higher levels of spiritual
reality. He is struggling, to use Plato’s analogy of the cave, to find
the light of understanding from the images cast on the dark walls of
life. White is the active explorer shining the lamp of his poetic
insight into the dark shadows of our lives. Who can fail to be stimu-
lated into an introspection in relation to their spiritual life by the
following lines which close the poem:
We, deft practitioners
of protocols of piety
are stranded on uncertainty
who had entered and then left
that rare Presence,
rehearsed petitioners,
joylessly
and empty-handed.
Writing poems was for White, as it was for Robert Hayden before
him in this emergence of a Baha’i consciousness in world literature,

“a way of coming to grips with inner and outer realities, a spiritual
act, a sort of prayer for illumination.” Writing poems was a way of
enriching human experience by poetic translation of its particulars, a
way of continually scrutinizing his own experience for answers that
could often not be final ones, final statements, just points along the
road of analysis and description. His poems were ultimately acts of
consciousness triggered by life, by the intensity of the mind and the
imagination of a man who could be safely and logically called a
great devotional poet.
The spiritual life, one’s own spiritual life, certainly needs to be
examined and re-examined. This poem, with many others, provides
a point of reflection for the “deft practitioners", the “rehearsed peti-
tioners” who attempt to experience that “rare Presence”. In some
ways, too, this poem is a meditation on the words of the Bab: “The
most acceptable prayer is the one offered with the utmost spirituali-
ty and radiance; its prolongation hath not been and is not beloved of
God.” In the middle of the poem, having opened and closed the
poem expressing serious doubts about the value of his “protocols of
piety", White inserts the dramatic account of a “pilgrim child” who
was happy while at the Master’s Shrine and “broke into dance rap-
turously”. As White put it in an earlier poem “it is joy that is
remembered”.
A final poem from The Witness of Pebbles is another personal
reflection on the spiritual journey, on the spiritual value of the phe-
nomenal world. White gives his insight an artistic form so that oth-
ers may share in his perception. White is, among other things, a per-
ceiver and maker of symbols and metaphors. This is certainly at the
centre of how White articulates his role, his station, as poet, how he
interprets his world. As Louis Simpson has stated, discussing the
metaphorical process at the heart of poetry, “Metaphor is a process
of comparing and identifying one thing with another.... the ability
to see the relation between one thing and another is almost a defini-
tion of intelligence.”

Of course each reader’s task is to give his or her own meaning to
the symbol or metaphor. Each of us must do that task for ourself. At
the start of the poem The Other Shore 40 I see that shore as death,
the end of a journey, a personal goal, some promising part of the
future. White tells us at the start of the poem:
Let us not stroke too swiftly toward
the green opposite shore
where death rehearses.
This third line brings the focus of the metaphor to ’shore = death.’
White continues:
.............................we have tried these
pearl-promising waves before
and might guess the danger.
So many times in life we get our hopes up high in relation to some
event or process and there is disappointment and loss. Hope gets a
kick in the teeth, so to speak. White suggests that this experience we
all have at one time or another should prepare us to view death with
some caution, some sense of the possibility of danger.
Continuing the metaphor in the second stanza, the metaphor of
shore, waves and sand, White writes:
Recall how always we turn back spent
to the sun-warmed sand
and stand anguished in separate solitudes,

though hand in hand,
each to each grown stranger.
For me, White is widening the metaphor here to include not just the
shore but the place where we go in the summer to swim and enjoy
ourselves. We go there every summer. We seek life’s pleasures quite
naturally but so often these pleasures lead us to an aloneness. No
matter how close we get to those we love, there is a fundamental
aloneness we all must face in life and the experience is often most
acute in our most personal of relationships with family and friends.
The final stanza is for me the most enigmatic. I have to work
hardest to make out its meaning. The language is veiled. But of
course, as John Hatcher points out, perhaps with more emphasis
than anything else he has said in his several books now on the sub-
ject, “every man’s principal goal in his physical experience (is) the
discerning of spiritual meaning in phenomenal reality and the sub-
sequent incorporation of that insight into deeds” 41
Here is the phenomenal reality White closes his poem with:
Not that the brave bird lied. But that
we, young, too soon said
Land! Land! and, plunging, did not see
his torn pinion, his bloodied head.
Ease us, wise love, toward this wet danger.
The question of course is, “What does this mean?” White so often
himself said, “Don’t ask me what it means!” It is the task of the
reader to give the poem meaning, indeed to give his life meaning.
Just as the stones - “every least pebble... resound again with Thy
praise” - so, too, may our own dear lives find “wings” and “ladders”

for our ascent so that we may understand the deeper meanings of
existence - and the beauty of the last stanza of a poem like this.
Part of the poet’s task is to give historical perspective to an era, an
epoch, an age. White here is talking to me about my experience
since the 1950s in both the Baha’i community and in my personal
life. Back in the late 1950s as a young Baha’i I had far too high an
expectation regarding the response of Western society to the reli-
gion I had come to believe in. No one had lied to me; “the big bird”
- whoever it was that planted the latest wisdom in my mind - had
left my impressionable soul with the view that the world was going
to respond to this Cause in much greater numbers than it did. And
marriage was going to be a much easier process than I had ever
anticipated. But in the next forty years I experienced “his torn pin-
ion", “his bloodied head”. Was it mine? Was it my society? My reli-
gion? You read the poem and your mind plays with the options, the
optional meaning systems that poetry presents. White’s readers are
part of that wider process: The Witness of Pebbles.
41 John Hatcher, op.cit., p.244

ONE BIRD ONE CAGE ONE FLIGHT, 1982
Roger White’s poetry, for all its unmistakable religious flavour, is
part and parcel of world literature. Like Pushkin and his work,
which signalled the emergence of Russian literature on the world
stage, White’s work possesses a balance and harmony, an artistic and
intellectual versatility, a formal perfection and vigour “not to be
found in the details of his biography”.* It was White, among several
other writers in the twentieth century, who helped to forge what
could be called a Baha’i consciousness in world literature. This con-
sciousness has certain special peculiarities, a certain spiritual identi-
ty, a certain global perspective, a particular wide-angled lens. The
emergence of this consciousness became apparent at the very
moment when the Baha’i Faith was itself emerging from an obscuri-
ty in which it had existed for a century and a half.
- Ron Price, with thanks to Marc Slonim, * The Epic of Russian
Literature: From Its Origins Through Tolstoy, Oxford University
Press, NY, 1975 (1950), pp.96-7.
In 1983 White’s novella A Sudden Music appeared from George
Ronald and One Bird One Cage One Flight was published by
Naturegraph Publishers Inc., Happy Camp in California. This was
the slimmest of White’s volumes thus far, although a collector’s edi-
tion of a small selection of his poems, Whitewash, also came out in
1982 under the name of an editor, Reuben Rose, who lived in Haifa.
An equally slim account of martyrdom, The Shell and the Pearl, was
published in 1984. White was consolidating the new-found populari-
ty of his poetry with little volumes.
One Bird One Cage One Flight however slim gave White, in what
he called on the cover a “homage to Emily Dickinson", an opportu-
nity to commune across a century of time with the spirit and the
mind of a person who may very well have been the greatest female
poetic genius that America and the world has ever produced.
Chapter 9

Perhaps it was more an effort to resolve some of the questions about
her poetry, about her metaphysical perspectives and about his own
soul’s aspirations. Perhaps it was part of White’s way of dealing with
the beguiling leisureliness of life’s journey to death, his various pre-
occupations associated with death and its deceptive, always some-
what obscure but potentially wondrous purpose. Perhaps it was his
identification with a poet who tried to distil “amazing sense/From
ordinary Meanings” or, in the words of Mircea Eliade, tried to
reveal “the essence of things", life’s immense and many mysteries
with an obsessive devotion to her vocation as poet. Perhaps it was
simply White’s way of expressing what was a qualitatively different
poetry than any of the verse written by Baha’is before.
According to Yale’s literary guru Harold Bloom, whose theory of
poetry, a theory of poetic influence, a poet is engaged in a struggle
with the poet who has gone before, whose presence exists in the
legacy of that dead poet’s works. There are many relations, mostly
revisionary, of a quasi-filial sort which can prevail between a poet
and a precursor. One sort of poetry completes the poems it follows,
those poems in that legacy, sometimes by altering them, by rewrit-
ing them, by interpreting their subject matter differently. The poetry
of a past, a previous poet actively intervenes in the present and must
be dealt with physically, as if in Oedipal revolt against ’the poetic
mother’, that mother symbolizing that poet, that precursor. Poetic
creation, the animating force in poetry, writes Bloom, involves a des-
perate wrestling with one’s forebears, one’s precursors, one’s poetic
fathers and mothers. This is the core of Bloom’s theory. If any body
of poetry has a canonical status or quality, it derives that status from
a strangeness and a certain idiosyncratic originality. White’s poetry,
for me, is canonical. His poetry is ’the poetic father’ I struggle with.
He is my major poetic inspiration and the poet I also write ’against’
in Bloom’s sense as outlined briefly above. One could argue that the
poet White argues against is Dickinson.
Whatever White’s purpose, One Bird One Cage One Flight con-
tributed a clever and original addition to the White corpus and to

the literature written on Emily Dickinson in the first hundred years
since her passing in 1886. There remains for us, for our world with
its insatiable interest in the psychology of the individual, a corpus of
poetry in which White speaks in his own person or for Emily
Dickinson - one is never quite sure. But, more importantly, for
many of his readers anyway, he speaks for us. The poems are
intensely personal, often moralizing and peculiarly characteristic of
White. He often dramatizes a spiritual situation in which he is par-
ticipating and speaking in the first person, though the other actors
and the setting belong to the world of story, metaphor or parable.
White puts into practice here an approach to poetry by one of the
twentieth century’s great poets, William Carlos Williams: “My idea
is that in order to carry a thing to the extreme, to convey it, one has
to stick to it… Given a fixed point of view, realistic, imagistic, or
what you will, everything adjusts to that point of view; and the
process of adjustment is a world in flux, as it should be for the poet.
But to fidget with points of view leads always to new beginnings
and incessant new beginnings lead to sterility. A single manner or
mood thoroughly matured and exploited is that fresh thing."
There is in these poems a mastery of repetition. The full effect of
the poetry comes from this repetition, a repetition of what could be
called a ’Dickinson/Baha’i perspective’. There is an extraordinary
evocation of aspects of the life of Emily Dickinson and of the Baha’i
Faith. Poem after poem interlaces Dickinson, the Baha’i Faith and
White himself. The repetitions are of course variations. Readers, I
am sure, will find a sameness in these poems but the change comes
in the context of this sameness. It is, as Williams notes above, “a
single manner or mood thoroughly matured” in such a way that it
becomes, again and again, “that fresh thing”. I have found over the
last twenty years, since I first began reading White, that some of his
lines have become memorized simply by the force of another type
of repetition. Sometimes, when out walking for example, quite
involuntarily a stanza occurs to me and, if I am alone, I recite it.
There is something mysterious about the reciting that keeps the

poem fresh. The following stanza is perhaps the most commonly
recited of White’s poems in this volume:
I wind my thoughts in knotless skein,
Unspoken mile by mile, -
A league from immortality
Lay down my wool and smile.
It seems to me that we can say of White’s poems in this volume, if
not in all his volume but especially in this volume, that they are at
once autobiographical and universal, personal and impersonal, ironi-
cal and passionate, wounded and integral. White does not hide
behind some literary mask, some persona. For the most part, the “I”
in White’s poems is White himself.
On opening One Bird One Cage One Flight we see the first lines
stamped with the magic of style, of a style that obeys its own laws
of grace and beauty and inner harmony. But it is precisely its quiet
passion and spiritual tenderness that tells us that here is a poetry of
a rare order. “Here is a poetry,” as Goethe referred to it two cen-
turies ago, “of a true real natural vision of life”. It possesses, he
continued, “descriptive power of the highest degree rendering a
poet’s pictures so lifelike that they become actualities to every read-
er.” Here are those first lines, the first poem, entitled Spring Song:
My hope put out white petals
In tentative delight
But twice there came concussive frost,
Obliterating blight
Which, blotting out my April,

Stirred wisdom in my root.
Should another burgeoning come
Will twig renew? ’Tis moot.
White recognized in Dickinson his twin, at least someone whose
inquiring mind was excited by the unknown expanse of immortali-
ty, its perplexity, its mystery and, ultimately, its intimacy. Indeed
there is an intimacy in Dickinson’s work that the reader finds in
White’s, but White’s is gentler, simpler, far more penetrable. The
intimacy is paradoxical in both cases because what we actually learn
about the person, the poet, has little to do about their daily life in a
direct, explicit sense. There is an anonymity about the person, the
poet. The focus is squarely on the poem, on the poetry, not on the
poet’s daily life. The reader does not learn what White did during
the day, the year, the decade, during his middle age, with his wife,
inter alia. But, however simple White’s poetry is, from time to time
it needs to be read and re-read far more carefully than its not infre-
quently humorous, deftly-drafted surfaces suggest. There is no get-
ting rid of a certain apprehension that not all of his ore will have
been extracted by a cursory read. White changes a poem’s direction
in a few lines or a few words. He may, in fact, be pursuing a wholly
different direction to the one the reader is ostensibly following. But
whatever direction he is going in, the reader feels, as Dryden did of
Chaucer, that here is God’s plenty, here is a perpetual fountain of
good sense. Part of the experience of this fountain lies in the fact
that readers can return again and again to White’s verse without
exhausting their interest or the quiet imaginative spell of his verse;
their imagination reaches back to White’s imagination and the two
enfold. At least that is how I experience his poetry and I am sure
many others have a similar experience.
Poetry has been described by one literary critic as “a unique rep-
resentation of some mental situation, some acute awareness, part of
a cult of sincerity”. In spite of this representation, this exposure of

their heart’s and mind’s most subtle secrets, the examination of the
phenomenon of their individual consciousnesses, the persona in
their poems, at least in the case of White and Dickinson, frequently
address us with perceptions that we sense are ours as well as theirs.
There is what you might call an externalization of the poet’s experi-
ence in an attempt to make it valid for others. This is how Joyce
Carol Oates sees Emily Dickinson and her work. And there is some
value in this perspective for our study of White. It is in this way
that the poet - in this case White - defines or makes an epoch, per-
haps the third and fourth of the Formative Age of the Bahá’i Faith.
In the above poem, Spring Song, we find in the poet’s wondering
that there is a tone of purest anonymity or perhaps universality, as
if the poet, speaking out of his “tentative delight” with “wisdom in
(his) root” were speaking of our condition as well. There is in
White’s words a speaking from the interior of a life as we might
imagine ourselves speaking, gifted with White’s delightful way of
putting things and not bound by the merely local and time-bound
nature of our life. “If anonymity is the soul’s essential voice,” as
Oates writes describing Dickinson’s, “then Emily Dickinson is our
poet of the soul”. And White is for me - and my particular perspec-
tives - the poet of my soul who addresses and helps create my
unknowable interior. And this is no small achievement given the
importance of that “inner life and private character” upon which so
much depends.
White, like Dickinson, offers readers riddlesome, obsessive, haunt-
ing, sometimes frustrating poetry. But for the most part White’s
poetry is much simpler and easier to understand than Dickinson’s.
White does not ram words onto lines with a force that in Dickinson
often shatters the syntax, cramps the structure and “pinches the
words like a vise”. There is a romance of epic proportions in both
poets but, with White, the heroic sense is softened by the humour,
the light touch, which runs through poem after poem. The far
simpler language and word patterns and a focusing of the heroic in
history, amply mixed with White’s (and our) ordinary self, give

these epic proportions a human, an everyday touch. The world that
White lives in certainly requires a heroism, but it is of such a differ-
ent kind from the one which required martyrs in Iran in the nine-
teenth century or the one which Emily Dickinson occupied in her
intense and private poetic, in her clearly eccentric life-style of virtu-
ally total isolation, for the most part during the years of
Baha’u’llah’s Revelation.
White creates a poetry of transcendence, the kind that outlives its
human habitation and its name. In One Bird One Cage One Flight
White does this through a repeated focus on Emily Dickinson and
her life. The following poem, Emily’s Song, is a good example. So
much simpler than so much of Dickinson, who is also interested in
transcendence, this poem begins:
Had hearts the art of porcelain
The mending were small feat
But I have owned one whose repair
Earth’s craftsmen can’t complete.
Had love asked only giving
The donor were content
But I have known a stealthy hand
Twice prove our loves are lent.
Had death comprised mere dying
The handiwork were sweet

But I mark its keen audition
In every eye I greet.
There is for many readers the benefit of clearly feeling and of
deeply enjoying White’s work, classic poetry in the right meaning of
that word, work belonging “to the class of the very best”. There
may, of course, be weaknesses, failures, poems that come short,
poems that slip out of the net of the very best either because of an
immense complexity and obscurity as in the case of Dickinson, a
similar complexity or an irrepressible tongue-in-cheekness which
the reader is not able to appreciate due to the so very idiosyncratic
nature of humour, as in the case of White. If the reader or critic is
enabled to obtain a clearer sense and a deeper enjoyment of a poet
through some negative criticism then, as Arnold argues, that activity
is no mere “literary dilettantism”. The enjoyment of the poetry
should be that much increased, refined, deepened. Not every poem
will delight or stimulate the intellectual and sensory emporiums to
the same extent. The personal proclivities, affinities and circum-
stances of a reader have great power to sway the estimates of a
poet’s work, often attach more importance to a poem than it really
possesses or diminish the real worth of a poem in various degrees
due to a host of reasons. The language of encomium, of praise, for
example, that I attach to White’s work may be somewhat exaggerat-
ed or overrated, what Arnold calls a “personal fallacy”. The lan-
guage of opprobrium or simple lack of appreciation can be attached
to White’s poetry equally easily.
All physical activity is capable of revealing mysteries. Like
Dickinson, White is fascinated by the mystery of death. Perhaps
that is ultimately why he has chosen to focus on Dickinson in this
volume of poetry. White, like many poets of old, is charting his, and
our, progress toward his/our ultimate destiny. Here is an outline of
more of that journey in the last three stanzas of Emily’s Song:

Had heaven held sure solace
To hasten there were wise
But I, grown timid, cautious,
Search for ambush, man’s and sky’s.
One day I’ll meet fate’s boldest stare
And ask its harsh command
My apron full of gentian and
Lone daisy in my hand.
Till then, like Jonah in the dark,
I ride the journey out
And count truth’s ribs, bemused that faith
So multiplies my doubt.
It has been the view of many writers throughout history that litera-
ture is the voice of a particular soil. The voice of the Russian soil
was for long the power of abstract ideas over concrete reality. The
flood of illumination in relation to the work of a particular writer
comes to some readers only after intensive study. Middleton
Murray’s study of Dostoevsky was one such example. My own
study of the poetry of Roger White is, for me anyway, another. The
poetry of White is not so much the voice of a particular soil as it is
the voice of a participation in the life of a community “which pre-
serves in living shape certain treasures of the past and certain expec-
tations of the future”. These treasures have multiple roots in an
environment, a community, where White and his poetry now form a
natural part. White deals with abstract ideas but they are contextu-
alized in history, in the lives of people, in nature, in the seasons and

in the ordinarily ordinary. For White philosophy, ideas, the text and
texture of his poetry are a species of voluntary and involuntary,
conscious and unconscious autobiography. That is why White urged
his readers to read his poetry if they wanted to know about him.
The poem, Emily’s Song, tells a great deal about how White found
the journey of life. But he tells about his journey “slant”. In the
process he tells the story for many of his readers, many who have
come to love his work because he speaks so quintessentially of their
own lives.
But all is not philosophy and ideas in his poetry. The simple, the
quotidian, the ordinary is as poetical as the transcendent, if it is
treated right. White brings to poetry a lively sense or feeling for sit-
uation and so he can treat any theme, however mundane or lofty, as
he pleases. Indeed, the more prosaic the vesture of everyday life
appears, the greater is his triumph in seizing and representing the
enduring human interest of its familiar features. Perhaps this is
partly, if not mainly, due to White’s sense of vision. Even the most
eccentric divagations in human conduct can be exhibited in their
true spiritual perspective by the poet-psychologist of insight. One
such “eccentric divagation” was Emily Dickinson’s almost total
withdrawal into herself which for many analysts of her life and
poetry amounted to an illness, more than agoraphobia. Here is one
of White’s poems on the theme – it is titled The Beloved:
I could not spell your name, my love;
No letters could contain you.
Embarrassed was the pen that tried
To address or to name you.
I could not paint your portrait, dear,
Whose face defied all palettes;

The shrinking brush, despairing hand,
Lacked craft to truly tell it.
I could not match your praise to song -
Unfit my voice and cadence,
Nor music ever was composed
Adequate to radiance.
Death came before I found the means
To spell or paint or sing you.
My silent soul which all inscribed
I hasten now to bring you.
In many of White’s poems it does not matter whether the reader
shares the same religious faith as White. The poems are universal in
the fullest sense and will appeal to the secular spirituality so perva-
sive in Western society as the new millennium begins its long road
ahead. But many of White’s poems, both in this book of verse and
in his others, will simply be uninteresting and irrelevant to people
for whom the very idea of commitment to a religion - in this case
the Baha’i Faith - is inimical to their tastes. They will not make
much of a good deal of White’s poetry. That was also true of the
work of Emily Dickinson - and she had no commitment to a specific
religion at all. The reader, as in reading any poetry, must be willing
and able to assume the perspective of the person writing the poem.
There is much in this poem that could be autobiographical, could be
an expression of White’s own spiritual/personal experience vis-à-vis
the exalted Founder of the Baha’i Faith, Baha’u’llah. I
read this poem in quintessentially personal terms and find rich
meanings unfold.

Art is, at least some of the time, an experience of tension and the
poetry White writes is an art of strain, the nerves held tight but
relaxed from time to time due to the presence of some dispassionate
intellectual tentativeness, a tentativeness where humour can make
its appearance free of what is often the dangerous romance of pas-
sionate intensity. It is as if White were saying ’perhaps’ after every
expression of conviction: ’perhaps’ is the wisest of all words,
’Abdu’l-Baha once said in a story for children. It is not a matter of
the free expression of truth but more a matter of how to work
toward the truth. In the case of White’s poetry the language is pri-
vate, allusive, teasing, idiosyncratic, delicate, partly unfathomable to
the ordinary mind. So, too, was the poetry of the nineteenth centu-
ry American poet, Emily Dickinson, only more so. So White would
agree with Dickinson’s sentiments in her poem:
Tell all the Truth but tell it slant -
Success in Circuit lies
Too bright for our infirm Delight
The Truth’s superb surprise.
As Lightning to the Children eased
With expression kind
The Truth must dazzle gradually
Or every man be blind -
White is the poet who comes at things, at readers, with indirection,
with glimpses, through the subtly distorting mirror of art. But he
comes at things after he has thought long and hard and what he
gives, as Wordsworth once wrote, is “the spontaneous overflow",
“an emotion recollected in tranquillity” and, finally, “a release from
emotion”. After a lifetime of pondering some of the questions

regarding the afterlife and this one (White had another dozen years
to live after he wrote most of the poetry in this volume), after some
thirty-five years as a Baha’i, White does not parade his simple certi-
tudes before us in these stanzas. He approaches the next world with:
caution, doubt, timidity, some grief, daily readiness, humility.
Should one ask more?
Emily’s Song, among his many poems involving the subject of
death, and Dickinson’s words above, is an honest expression of
White’s inner life, his inner attitude to much that is life and death
and, for many of his readers, of theirs.
White distances his poems from his personality, as Robert
Hayden had done before him. Poetic thought and emotion should
have their “life in the poem and not in the history of the poet: such
was White’s view regarding the writing of poetry. The emotion of
poetry, for White, was essentially impersonal”. This was the position
of the New Critical Movement in poetry that had its beginnings at
the turn of the century. The writer of the poem is not delivering a
personal letter but rather he is the medium of an experience. He
ceases to exist and it is the experience that belongs to all who can
read and understand. The poem often, if not always, has its origins
in the history, the life, of the poet, but the poet tells it “slant", indi-
rectly and his words become, for the attentive reader, theirs.
Virtually all of White’s poems are a reflection of this spirit, this
critical attitude. In The Sermon and Ladies’ Verse, - and one could
cite many more examples - like Dickinson, White frequently writes
of death, the afterlife, heaven and hell, God, the soul. Some might
say that, like Dickinson, he is obsessed with these subjects. But,
given that this book of poetry is a “homage to Emily Dickinson", it
is only fitting that White should be concerned with the same sub-
jects that concerned Dickinson in her 1775 poetic oeuvre. White
often sees things in ways his readers have not seen before. He asks
readers to look at things they might not want to, face realities they
might not want to. Without quoting from poem after poem, I shall

content myself with some simple ideas and perhaps a few illustra-
tive lines.
In The Traveller White writes throughout most of the poem of
the excitement, the pride, the cheering, the jostling throng, the
enthusiasms associated with much of life’s short-term goals. For me,
I could not help but reminisce over the rich experience that has been
my Baha’i life since the 1950s, but White finishes the poem on a
note of quiet realism. For the generation of Baha’is who, like White,
have been working in the Baha’i community for between thirty and
fifty years or more the note, expressed in the last two lines, is just
right:
But one seeks New Jerusalem
And knows her journey long.
Anyone who has worked in this Cause for most of the last half of
the twentieth century knows that the road is ’long, stony and tortu-
ous’. The wondrous new buildings on Mount Carmel are certainly a
sign of the ’New Jerusalem’. There is much reason for celebration,
for cheering but, in the end, he or she knows the journey is long
and will require all they have in the midst of the darkness both in
the world and, from time to time, in their own dear lives.
Ostensibly, so much of White’s poetry is, as I said before, about
immortality, death and eternity. But Baha’is learn a great deal about
their Faith or, to put it more precisely, White writes so superbly
about their experience that they understand their lives more fully
than before. And that is enough to make White a much-loved poet.
In the poem Disclosure , for example, White begins by describing
the process of Baha’u’llah’s Revelation perhaps as beautifully as
anyone has hitherto described it:

The hieroglyphics gouged in air
By an impatient fire-gloved hand
And the purpose of this Revelation, these hieroglyphics, White
tells us -
Are given as our library -
Baha’u’llah has ordained for our “training every atom in existence
and the essence of all created things", as He writes in The Hidden
Words; or, as He states in another context, if we look at the atom we
will find the sun. There is wisdom ’from on high’ in His Words, in
the Revelation and in all of existence. White continues:
We, star-affrighted, gaze to land
Where furnished in an atom’s tome
Is erudition of the sky -
The reader can interpret these words in various ways to translate
their meanings. For my money I see the “star-affrighted” individual
turning to the world of phenomenal existence, the “land", where he
will find a world of learning and meaning. Such an individual turns
to this material existence and away from the stars, the Writings,
because they are too awesome, too mysterious. The individual finds
“erudition” in the land and misses the erudition of higher forms:
the Writings, the stars, the sky. The reader, of course, can unpack
these lines in other ways. To each his own. This is part of the very
beauty of poetry. White continues:

The dust-affronted student lifts
A blank uncomprehending eye.
We are one and all “affronted” by the “dust", the overwhelming,
the pervasive, aspect of our existence and we, thus, exhibit “A blank
uncomprehending eye”. One can only understand a small portion of
the entire world.
And swivelling will not read the book
From which his glance will dart again,
Though it’s indexed in his jugular
Where love annunciates its name.
This “uncomprehending", “dust-affronted” individual - and there
are hundreds of millions of them - swivels away on his chair from
the Baha’i book he was loaned. Or he looks at the book for a short
time, but “his glance” darts away “again”. The idea that the Baha’i
message is meant for everyone to hear is expressed so graphically in
the phrase “indexed in his jugular”.
And finally the last stanza:
Will not admit magnificence
Which looms a startled blink away
To bleach with gold the retina
Resigned in arrogance to grey.
I find the metaphorical significance, indeed beauty, of what White
writes here helps to put in focus the teaching process that I have

been engaged in for over forty years. White is easy to underestimate
because his metaphors are so stunning, so gentle, so elegant. The
Baha’i writings, White is saying here, can “bleach with gold the reti-
na", but most people are “resigned in arrogance to grey” because
they “Will not admit” the wonder, the grandeur, the “magnificence”
of this newly emerging world religion. What a world of meaning in
the words “resigned in arrogance to grey"! Disbelief is a rejection of
divine reality; it implies a refusal of grace. White is expressing here
his belief, in words that echo Baha’u’llah’s utterance in one of His
tablets: “woe betide him who hath rejected the grace of God and His
bounty, and hath denied His tender mercy and authority”.
Like Dickinson, White knows that the highest perceptual ecstasy
comes just as the object vanishes from sight. The more fleeting our
perceptions the greater their distinctiveness. The transience and
formlessness of experience give lustre to what we do achieve.
Expressing that lustre in the form of a covenant, an “exquisite
bond", and introducing his poem with the words from one of
Emily’s letters: “everyday life seems mightier", White writes:
Life gives so strong a covenant
Who shall not sign in trust?
Its smallest clause empowered to
Bind atom - sun, or dust.
To all-compelling contract,
Though codicil be pain,
Adheres the constant signatory
Till only God remains.

All that fidelity attracts
A lenient bench reviews;
Sealed by the very hand of God
Exquisite bond renews.
Unlike Dickinson, who “delineates a oneness that is really a
seething competition of irreconcilable opposites", who cannot see
any divine plan in this overwhelming, omnipresent cosmic oneness,
for whom unity collapses under her genuinely tragic gaze, White
has found such a unity, a basis for unity, and has examined its basis
for over thirty years before he came to write this poem. He has
believed and sought to understand this in the context of a quite lit-
eral ’covenant’, a covenant that binds all of creation. He accepts that
pain is at the heart of life, at the heart of this covenant and that
fidelity is a crucial aspect of this covenant – this “exquisite bond”.
For White there is no separation of the “active” and the “contem-
plative” facets of our lives, no more separation of “mysticism” from
“practicality”. There is a oneness of vision and form, and he gathers
the powers of his mind and imagination to serve the establishment
of a spiritual kingdom. He strives to do this in a language that is
“moderate, tempered and infinitely courteous”, and not filled with
“dissent, discord and disdain”. In so doing he whispers in our bones
and arteries and “the isolated and speechless elements in a commu-
nity” can find their voices in his poetic harmony. White becomes,
for many of his readers, “the clear song of the hidden bird” in their
own hearts. Part of his ability to do this derives from the grounding
of his awareness in his own shortcomings, his own vulnerabilities
and weaknesses. This tempers his voice and trains, in the words of
Bahiyyih Nakhjavani, “his vision with compassionate tolerance”.
The ’death poetry’ of Dickinson and White needs to be given
some special attention in any essay on One Bird One Cage One
Flight. Both poets characterize death with images of light. In the

last poem before the epilogue, a poem entitled Last Words, for
example, White writes about a radiant, unbearable and burning
light:
and a rank, radiant as light,
a rank of angels -
Oh what a dear confusion!
.....
and God’s face bright, not angry
......
and the gleaming City, white and past imagining.
Dickinson frequently balanced the visionary optimism she occasion-
ally expressed with a rather grim picture of death. Not so with
White. He often muses on death with a sadness and a tongue in
cheek:
That solemn artist, death,
Left her portrait on the pillow -
Detail complete, save breath.
Or:
I wind my thoughts in knotless skein,
Unspoken, mile by mile -
A league from immortality
Lay down my wool and smile.

Like Dickinson, White explores the effects of death upon human
perception. The ability to perceive is the most cherished aspect of
human identity so that, when perception is gone at the point of
death, what might the experience after death be like when we are
’sucked into its deep’? White offers us none of ’her secrets.’ Death’s
lips are sealed ’with stone.’ This is about as cold, as indifferent, as
horrific, as White gets.
Death is like the ruthless Nile -
The scaled beast it gives keep
Will, careless, swim its dark coil’s length
Till sucked into its deep.
Who’d tell its gulping treachery,
Irrevocably gone -
While down indifferent centuries
The blanching Sphinx looks on
And none may pry her secrets -
Her reason overthrown -
The horror fixed her mindless stare
And sealed her lips with stone.35
In another context, somewhat softer, when death comes with
its “fang":

It gives no cause to weep
That greater pen enfold the lamb
In everlasting keep.
Here our perception of death, our view of its meaning, is the very
source of our identity. Death has no horror; indeed, it is inviting. As
the poem closes death turns us toward life and forces us to admire
and cherish it:
Then ring the bell and call the flock,
Ingather all that stray,
But mark the beast intractable
The fields invite to stay 36
White’s unflinching acknowledgment of death provides him with a
tragi-comic view of life. With Dickinson the reader is presented with
her enhanced perceptions of life. With White we laugh and, almost
in the same breath, we view the tragic but the tragic has soft edges:
Till then, like Jonah in the dark,
I ride the journey out
And count truth’s ribs, bemused that faith
So multiplies my doubt.
Doubt for White is, as it clearly is for William Hatcher in his several
articles about science and religion, the logical concomitant of faith.
Explanation does not dispel mystery and doubt. Progress is the
product not only of transcending the old, but it is also an apprecia-

tion of perspectives old and new. So often it is how we view things
that inhibits our capacity to wonder. White, viewing things sub
specie aeternitatis, views them with irony in a context of eternal
struggle, an eternal struggle that is accepted as part and parcel of the
reality of life itself:
Across his soul’s scarred battlefield
Where all his pride was slain
The legions of his enemy
Prepare to strike again.
The lines he writes are only a slight “palliative” for the “ravages of
grief” when they come. He will continue to “hobble to the page for
ease” and doubt will continue to be part of his human experience:
A mosquito buzzes round my faith
I think to name him doubt.
This small book of poems is divided into four parts of between
twenty-five and thirty-one poems each with an epilogue of three
poems. Fifteen pages of notes and a bibliography are included to
guide readers through the life of the woman whose journey and
poetry has inspired White. Each section opens with a quotation from
the Baha’i writings or the Bible. A simple drawing also embellishes
both the cover and the opening page of each section. A tone of child-
like simplicity is conveyed by these drawings. It is a tone that is also
one of the many outstanding qualities of White’s poetry.
Many of the poems are preceded by quotations from the more
than seven hundred extant letters that Dickinson wrote between
1865 and 1885. It is not the purpose of this essay to examine the life

of Emily Dickinson, rather the purpose is to examine the poetry of
White and Dickinson, to the extent that each of their respective
works throws light on the other’s.
The first section of the book, some twenty-nine poems, takes us
through Emily’s years eleven to nineteen, her adolescence, and is
called ’Spring Song.’ Most of the poems are written in the abcb
rhyme pattern and some in the aabb style. The rhythm is iambic
tetrametre and trimetre. They are usually quite easy to read com-
pared to Dickinson’s poetic complexity, ambiguity and her often
seeming chaotic meandering. While Dickinson’s universe often
seems to be “a cosmos in tatters", White presents a world that
seems balanced, cogent, elegant, elevated, graceful and, most impor-
tantly, familiar. Humorous, perspicuous, satirical and sentimental,
his poetry rarely seems far away. On a clear day White can smile
forever, especially through the mundane:
Deliver me from cooking-stoves
From kitchens, pots and pans;
The only menu I select
Is that which heaven plans.
Only unbearable stress can extract the precious essence of life.
Dickinson and White both know this. White puts it this way:
Attentive is the scholar
That Master, pain, instructs;
A vivid erudition
His tutelage inducts.

White knows life is a battle. In the following stanzas he shows his
understanding of the battle in life and a desire to be rid of it:
Long has the chafing struggle raged
And God alone can know
When might the captive, fervour gained,
Slip his lax chains and go.
There is an anguish, a depth of passion in the occasional tormented
lament. There is the story of pain endured and of life’s travail in
White’s poetry but, for the most part, this experience seems to have
bred “an ancient dignity”, and some amalgam of that robust and
virile quality that is part of the very stock of White’s ancestry and
that gentleness and wisdom which has come, it would seem, from a
lifetime’s association with the newest of the world’s religions.
Dickinson’s attitude to God was at times suspicious, fearful and
resentful. White’s is one that sees a danger in death, but in the long
haul a warmth and fulfilment in the heavenly experience. He con-
trasts death’s “stone” and “iced, mean bone” with heaven’s “kinder
home” and its “pillows with fulfilment”. And meanwhile, in this
earthly life, death “stalks across” his “choicest day” and plunders
everything he sees. There is clearly a gentle side to death’s ambience
in White’s poetry.
In the latter stages of Dickinson’s life ’the pearl’ comes to occupy
the symbolic centre-stage of her poetry. Dickinson seems to deal
more effectively with existential loss in her later years. In White’s
work light comes to occupy the centre of his mise-en-scene. These,
too, are White’s later years. Nothing stains the white radiance of
eternity in this climactic poem Last Words:

Oh Father, calling, calling - and the light!
The light an immolation! Unto Thee lift I up mine eyes...
Oh this lifting, lifting -
lifting beyond sense,
past doubt and why and how!
Bright Presence, lift me now!
Between this consummation in Part Four and many of the opening
poems discussed above in Part One we have the core of the book:
the summer and autumn seasons. The most prolific years of
Dickinson’s life were the 1860s, especially the early 1860s. White
gives us some thirty-one poems in this section, the years 1860 to
1869, the most of any of the four seasons. They were also
Dickinson’s most prolific years.
"The life of action,” says Stephen Spender in his The Making of a
Poem in the Creative Process, “always seems to me an act of cutting
oneself off from life.”
That was unquestionably true of Dickinson who is now seen
down the corridors of time as the eccentric recluse who increasingly
shut herself off from the world as she got older. White captures the
terror of her reclusiveness and the elusiveness, fear and potential
intimacy of the Divine Who is always waiting at our metaphorical
door with His ’hello’, as The Caller:
The lady’s tread upon the step,
Her hand upon the bell,
And all the rattling house grows wise
As when a solemn knell….

The lady, here, is the Divine Caller Who comes for us at our death.
When She does -
My heart knifed by insistent ring
I steel myself to go
With dread-swamped pulse to swing the door
Upon her fraught hello.
White gives his readers, through the window of the poetry of Emily
Dickinson, a series of perspectives on death that are consistent with
the Baha’i writings but provide insights that are refreshing in their
profundity, their wisdom, their sheer delight.
"Talent perceives differences,” wrote W.B. Yeats, “genius unity.” A
major concern in Yeats’ life was to hammer his thoughts into unity.
White’s, possessing a philosophy of unity, draws quintessentially on
the everyday and articulates a poetic with unity at its centre. But it
is a unity surrounded by an immense diversity and a certain
anguish:
To everything but anguish
The mind will soon adjust;
Uninvited, that marauder,
Invading, trails his dust
About the scrupulous household
The tidy mind maintains,
Sets soiling boots on ottoman,
Remotest chamber gains -

Wrenches down the damask curtains,
Break’s housewife’s favourite bowl
And storms up faith’s chaste stairway
To bed the balking soul.
The context for this anguish is the simple everyday reality, a reality
we all understand only too well, for anguish is unquestionably a
universal experience.
Part Two (1860-1869), Part Three (1870-1879) and Part Four
(1880-1886) deal with their respective sections of Dickinson’s life.
Her particular cosmology, her world view, is played with a
Calvinistic Christian orientation and a personal vision embodying
the imagination at its centre. White’s play is with an imagination
sharing “a path or circuit of things through forms and so makes
them translucid to others”. White attempts to wed the powers of
mystic and poet in a process of perpetual motion back and forth
across all points of the sphere, so to speak. He tries to fuse vision
and form. Light for him is a unifying idea. Some of his work can be
appreciated quickly, but the depths do not reveal themselves quickly.
His poetic art only opens up to readers with patience and time.
White had another decade of poetry to give to his readers. Many
had been hooked on White before reading this, his third main book
of poetry. But most of his readers had yet to arrive on the scene.
There is a humility that graces so many of White’s poems. It has
nothing to do with a creeping submissiveness. Although he is quick
to point out his own lack of loyalty and obedience to the divine
Message, he takes no perverse pleasure in making himself out to be
a scoundrel. Sober self-knowledge, a low estimate of his own worth,
a reliance on God’s love that is so confident that it overcomes his
despondency, a beauteous character that shines through his poetry
like light through clear glass, an ingenuousness - qualities that, for
me anyway, produce a complex human being. He had his inner con-

flicts, as we all do, and his poems are partly an expression of those
conflicts. Yet at times he wrote with a childlike, lucid simplicity, with
the voice of true innocence, an innocence that one can find only on
the far side of experience.
He did not simply acquiesce in his creed. He grasped it imagina-
tively and presented it to his contemporaries with a storehouse of
symbols familiar to their worlds. In the process he forged for him-
self a style that was unmistakable and inimitable. If a poet can do
this, he is not obliged to do anything else.

MARTYRDOM, AND DOING WHAT IS UNDER
YOUR NOSE
Perhaps it was in writing the poetry in honour of Emily Dickinson;
perhaps it was the latest generation of martyrs that the Baha’i world
was experiencing in the early 1980s; perhaps it was a desire to get
back to the Faith’s origins since, in many ways, especially with the
completion of the new building for the permanent seat of the
Universal House of Justice in 1984, the Baha’i community was going
through another period of ’new beginnings’; perhaps it was just a
simple desire to use a different form to express his creative output:
but in 1983 and 1984 White wrote two books of prose. The first was
a two-hundred page novella, A Sudden Music, and the second was
“an account of the martyrdom of ’Ali-Asghar of Yazd", The Shell
and the Pearl. One was part fact and part fiction and the other a brief
historical work. They were both written in memory of martyrs.
These were not the first pieces of prose that White had written,
for he sprinkled prose pieces throughout his books of poetry, long
pieces of several pages or shorter epilogues to many of his poems.
Perhaps he was having some time off from poetry for he had writ-
ten a great deal in the late seventies and early eighties. Only a seri-
ous examination of the White archives in Haifa and Toronto will
answer this question. There is a charm in White’s prose, not a sen-
suous or imaginative charm, at least not for me, but rather an intel-
lectual charm. It comes from the texture of his style rather than its
elements, not so much in the content but more in the turn of
phrase, in the happy cast and flow of his sentences.
One of the objects of writing poetry, as Howard Nemerov once
noted, is similar to making love, that is the perpetuation to immor-
tality - although it is not what you think of at the time. Perhaps it
was, then, that White had immortality on his mind, which is not at
all surprising, particularly after writing all those poems in homage
to Emily Dickinson for whom the subject of death was what you
might call her great passion. Or it may be, again as Nemerov point-
Chapter 10

ed out somewhat risquely, that writing verses is like your relation
with your bowels - first you can’t and then you can and, then at
last, you must (and then you reach for the paper). Whatever it was,
in 1983 and 1984 White published prose works and he was not to
publish any poetry until 1992, a year before his passing.
A Sudden Music was set in Paris at the turn of the twentieth cen-
tury and it is a poetic re-creation of the first Baha’i centre in
Europe. Ostensibly about a young American student, Althea Edison
Benedict, and her awakening to the spiritual receptivity of the age,
this delightful series of letters which White creates gives us an
interpretation of the spiritual and of how to apply the Baha’i teach-
ings to the complex everyday life we had in the late twentieth cen-
tury society that White was writing for - or today, for that matter,
at the beginning of the twenty-first century. In the process White
gives his readers a vision, a window, into the lives of ’Abdu’l-Baha
and May Maxwell, the mother teacher of the West who was asked
by ’Abdu’l-Baha to stay in Paris and in a few months established
the first Baha’i centre there. White dedicates this book “in memory
of May Ellis Maxwell”.
Alex Aronson, in the first review of A Sudden Music, character-
izes the book as the unfolding, the development “of a spiritual com-
mitment to an ideal that may, but need not, be called religious”.
“This ideal,” he goes on, “embraces the moral, social and aesthetic
life of humankind.” Aronson calls the book “most unfashionable”.
In this book White restores the grammar of belief and at the same
time uses its conventional language infused with a new spirit. The
novella moves at one level, that of spiritual rebirth and, as the story
is told, art and artists constitute the raw material out of which a new
Faith is born. White “finds meaning in the transcendental,” Aronson
concludes, “without ever becoming esoteric”. Indeed, I remember
writing to White in the mid-1980s, congratulating him on writing a
book with a remarkable everyday flavour even though it travelled
on lofty spiritual planes. The book had, I thought, important issues
for the mind and heart to deal with.

The Shell and the Pearl, on the other hand, tells the story of the
martyrdom of ’Ali-Asghar of Yazd in 1891. It is one of the many
and, to the average western mind, inexplicable stories of the incredi-
ble tenacity of faith which fill the records of Baha’i history. ’Ali-
Asghar had his head severed by a howling mob in the city of Yazd.
The mob threw his severed head through the window of his family
home. His mother picked up the head, wiped off the dripping blood
and threw it back to the street. While throwing it she is reported to
have said: “What we have given to God we do not ask back."
Before White passed away he was to write many poems in memo-
ry of, or inspired by, the many martyrs, historical and contempo-
rary, that are part of the history of the Baha’i Faith since 1844 and
before. One cannot help but think of two of White’s poems that, in
different ways, speak to the heroic, the martyr, the sudden music in
which our own voice is raised in a spiralling ’Yes!’ to the calls of
service to this Cause.
The first such poem, Conversation, begins with what could be the
words of a typical westerner contemplating martyrs, martyrs to any
cause; or they could be the words of an enthusiastic believer con-
templating the relative indifference of those typical westerners who
could not imagine dieing for any belief or cause:
The temperature of other minds -
How new and strange an awe!
Having spoken of that gap between minds and hearts, White goes on
to describe the experience of that gap, that difference in tempera-
ture, in enthusiasm, in belief:
My own words chill and burn me
Chafing my brain raw.

So intense are they, so heart-felt and emotionally laden, that -
Moderate words from lips of guests
Alarm--as zephyr blown -
One whom extremes have nourished
But was not quite alone;
Thus even “moderate words” of friends and associates bring alarm
to the believer because he cannot understand how anyone can live
without some sort of commitment, some passion for a cause, a
belief. Such a believer has been “nourished” on “extremes” not on
moderation and the leisured pursuits of the middle class where
entertainment is usually the focus of life, earning an income and
attending to the responsibilities of family life and friends. Such a
believer, however involved in the extremes of his commitment or,
perhaps, because of the emotional and intellectual extremes that are
part of this commitment, was never “quite alone”. In the case of the
Baha’i Faith this commitment tended to generate a high degree of
people involvement, involved as he or she was in building a new
world order. And finally, in the last stanza, White concludes:
One who conversed in accents
Temperate tongues disown -
The delirium of fever,
The chink of frozen bone.
As anyone who has spent many years serving any cause, any com-
mitment, with a passionate intellectual and emotional attachment,
particularly a commitment like the Baha’i Faith with the obligation

to extend its influence by sharing it with others they meet in their
various walks of life, will find the above words so apt. There is
something about the “temperate tongues” of others which “disown”
the “accents” which the believer wants to share. The result for the
believer is that he or she often feels “The delirium of fever/The
chink of frozen bone”. A book on martyrdom is one such example.
This is a booklet, only twenty-six pages, for the believer. The typical
person with a more “temperate” tongue would, for the most part, be
estranged, bemused, puzzled by such a phenomenon as someone like
’Ali-Asghar “refusing to recant his faith in the Revelation of
Baha’u’llah” and, therefore, being martyred. Such a reader would
experience “a new and strange sense of awe”. It is unlikely that he
or she would feel “nourished” by such a reading, although some
have been known to be strangely attracted by such an extreme.
The early years after the revolution in Iran in 1979 were years of
great persecution. White’s book, The Shell and the Pearl, was part of
the response of the Baha’i community to this persecution. The
Baha’i response to the persecution, particularly in Yazd, was charac-
terized by an “unconventionally positive stress-belief pattern” It
was not White’s purpose to outline the response of Baha’is in the
1980s. A distinctive quality of personal behaviour, though, can be
seen in the response of the Baha’is continuing a tradition going back
to ’Ali Asghar’s mother. The fundamental nature of social groups
becomes apparent during times of social conflict and stress.
White gives a detailed but succinct account of the martyrdom of
’Ali Asghar drawing on a range of sources from Baha’i history since
the 1890s. By 1984 when he published The Shell and the Pearl Yazd
had become a centre of extensive martyrdoms yet again. There were
dozens of Baha’is in Iran who had lost their lives in the five-year
period 1978 to 1983 and White drew on those accounts to
write the poetry he did. For this book, though, the focus was on
’Ali Asghar. The second such poem, Love’s Fare, is quite explicitly
about the martyr:

The martyr may not choose his food
But gourmand won’t complain
If cup holds only suffering
And plate be heaped with pain.
The tart fare, tribulation,
His appetite but whets,
Each lavish course a banquet whose
Swift passage he regrets.
Consumed is each least morsel -
Crumb, stem, stone, rind and all,
The victuals of love’s festal board
Were ever sugared gall.
Were final wine a scarlet brew
He’ll drain the keg, if able,
And rising long embrace sweet Host
Who sets so rich a table.
It is not my intent to write an extended analysis of The Shell and
the Pearl, but only to draw the attention of readers to some of the
prose works of Roger White. In the process, though, of referring to
this small twenty-six page booklet I would like to draw the atten-
tion of readers to White’s many poems with martyrdom as their
theme. Like this poem, of great beauty and intensity, White may
come as close as anyone can to providing an intellectual perspective

that may move cynical and sceptical readers with their broadly lib-
eral-humanist perspectives.
Nor is it my intention to go into great detail in summarizing the
content of A Sudden Music. Rather I would simply like to draw the
readers’ attention to several quotations from this book, quotations
which throw light on the thorny problems we all face in our indi-
vidual and community lives. They are taken somewhat at random
from A Sudden Music, but they capture something of the flavour of
what White is writing.
On spiritual principles: “attempting to apply a divine principle,”
says White, is usually a “creative and dangerous act....” He refers to
it as one of those “iffy things”. (p.88)
On domineering personalities and ego: “I have … grown alarmed
at the subtle way one comes to think of the impersonal power of the
Cause as being one’s own personal power.” (p.156)
On meeting ’Abdu’l-Baha: “the plane of words and appearances is
not the one on which one truly and most productively meets Him”.
(p.109)
On goals and aspirations: “There is nothing like exposure to per-
fection to reduce [one’s] aspirations to size.” (p.98)
On the spiritual and the physical: “There is something false about
a spiritual life that denies being rooted in our animal existence.”
(p.62)
On courtesy: Regrettably “courteousness... seals [people] in as
effectively as a suit of armour…” they “become models of medioc-
rity, smug and safe and cowardly”. (p.48)
On suffering: it “can spring from many sources but it means little
unless it is faced heroically and triumphed over.” (pp.47-8)
On emotions: “Emotions are so untrustworthy and I detest the
inner turmoil they cause.” (p.40)

On the inspiration of poets (and he should know): “I shall forever
remain suspicious of the real cause of the inspiration of poets.” (p.9)
And some one-liners:
"All that reason destroys, hope must recreate.” (p.175)
” analysis is the disease of this century.” (p.103)
"God achieves through our innocence what we cannot through our
calculation.” (p.102)
These are some snippets of White’s prose-aphorisms.
For the next seven years White continued to serve at the Baha’i
World Centre before retiring to Vancouver in May 1991 where he
lived for two years before passing away. While in Vancouver he
published his final major work Occasions of Grace and two smaller
books of poetry, The Language of There and Notes Postmarked The
Mountain of God. All three came out a year before he passed away.
So White continued to work, fully engaged in “the highest service a
Baha’i can render” - which he defined in A Sudden Music as: always
doing “the thing under his nose that needs doing”. (p.71)

LIPSTICK AND BRUISES
Although this book is devoted primarily to the poetry of Roger
White, I have added special chapters to focus on a small selection of
his letters, on his books of prose, and here in this chapter on some of
his other activities involving writing and poetry. I have done this to
place his poetry in an additional perspective, that of a creative and
imaginative life.
In a book celebrating the first hundred years of Hansard in
Canada’s parliament, John Ward wrote that Roger White was
“acknowledged by his colleagues as one of the finest shorthand
writers ever to serve his country”. He also served as the official
reporter for the Supreme Court of British Columbia. These were
some of the skills White brought to the Publishing Department at
the Baha’i World Centre where he was editor-in-chief of several vol-
umes of The Baha’i World during the 1980s. He wrote the lyrics for
’Songs for Solo Voice’ by Jean South in Luxembourg and the text
for the book Forever in Bloom: The Lotus of Bahapur. Indeed, I am
confident White had many other talents and abilities that are not
mentioned in this book, devoted as it is to a study of White’s poetry
not his life’s activities.
In 1989 White gave a poetry reading in Haifa. At that time he had
been at the Baha’i World Centre for eighteen years. The evening’s
program was called ’Lipstick and Bruises’. The tone was entertaining
with a gentle satire in the air as he read and spoke. White was a sit-
down, not a stand-up, comedian. He really was quite funny, not a
surprising quality to anyone who knew his poetry and had received
some of his letters. White satirized almost everything that the
Baha’i community stood for but, in the end, everything and every-
one’s emotions and standards were left intact. Most contemporary
comedians who have gained popularity leave not a stone or an insti-
tution standing after a thorough-going evening of satirical work is
done. Not so with White. He certainly
Chapter 11

turned stones over with his satire but the process was gentle and
embodied an etiquette, a refinement of expression.
I was reminded, as I listened, of the Jews who for centuries have
been ’the funny guys’, the comedians. There seems to be something
about suffering that brings out the lighter side of life as a survival
mechanism. It seemed most fitting that two hundred Baha’is should
join White in an evening of laughter and pure delight. Somehow it
was a sign of the maturity of the Baha’i community, so often meas-
ured in blood, sweat and tears, dogged persistence in the face of
massive indifference and a faith which it was their hope and belief
would move mountains, if not tomorrow, then over the centuries.
One way of characterizing the Baha’i experience, White’s experi-
ence, perhaps, was with, as White put it in the title he gave to the
program, ’Lipstick and Bruises’.
White read many of his old favourites and the audience’s. He also
read some new material: from letters he had received, from his
experiences and those of others. He joked; he played the raconteur,
the provocateur, the stimulator, the titillator, the poet-who-lived-
there, the kind man that he was.
I was not present at the evening’s entertainment which was
organized, White informed us, by the Department of Organization
and Personnel. I was one of those who received a cassette tape with
the background music of Iranian musician Masoud Rowshan who
played the santour. I was one of those who heard the voice of the
poet, I think for the first time, after enjoying his many voices in
poetry.
There was a dryness in his voice, a little like the dry humour that
comes out of Canada. But there was that kindness, the kindness that
’Abdu’l-Baha had pointed to when He visited Canada in 1912.
White was one of those ’kind friends’ that ’Abdu’l-Baha had raised
up just about the time when Canada was forming its first National
Spiritual Assembly in 1948. With a lifetime of service, over forty
years, and the experiences of lipstick and bruises behind him, White

was a veteran. He was also greatly loved. There would be four
more years of ’lipstick and bruises’ to go before his innings were to
be completed.
I wish I could have been there, although I was able to savour each
line as it came off that cassette tape. I felt as if I finally had White to
myself after all these years, such are the illusions of technology.
Nineteen months after this poetry reading White would leave the
Baha’i World Centre. With a quadruple bypass operation under his
belt, so to speak, which he likened to “being struck down by a herd
of stampeding rogue elephants or perhaps a small Sherman tank",
he still had a little left. He put that little into three books of poetry
which were published within three years of this public reading at
the Baha’i World Centre.

OCCASIONS OF GRACE
The major failing of Socrates, it has been argued, was that he did
not enact a genuine political irony. The over-serious teacher, pos-
sessed of an improvement morality, was put to death as the
Athenian experiment in democracy became unstuck. Socrates was a
threat. His politics was anti-democratic in a crucial period of the
frightening anti-democratic revolutions, 411 and 404 BC. So, too,
were the politics of Socrates’ student, Plato, whose visions of com-
munity grew out of his fears of anti-community associated with the
Peloponnesian War of 431 to 404 BC, of the secular humanism of
the sophists and of the rootless individualism of the masses. Plato
wanted a new form of political community. This same desire moti-
vates the poetry of Roger White. White does not find his political
community in the Republic but, rather, in the embryonic order asso-
ciated with the teachings of the prophet-founder of the Baha’i
Faith, Baha’u’llah.
Aristophanes, the poet, writing in that same fifth century BC dur-
ing that first experiment in democracy, provided the Western
world’s first political satire. People laughed at themselves and their
institutions as Aristophanes put his society under his literary
microscope. In recent centuries satire’s rich vein of intellectual free-
dom has been on the come-back trail after centuries in which
humour was seen as an expression of the devil. Since the
Renaissance and Reformation the congregation of satirists have
made humour a part of peoples’ blessedness. As political philoso-
phers have been struggling to articulate a new basis for community
in the last several centuries a Voltairean irreverence, an antidote, has
come to occupy the public space. The smile of reason has kept many
people sane in what seems an insane world. To counteract the exces-
sive moralizing, the meretricious, the sanctimonious, the bitter
melancholy, the acids of individualism and the stupidity of collectiv-
ities a ’comic faith’ has grown in our midst.
Chapter 12

Beginning, perhaps, with Erasmus, Swift, Rabelais and Sterne, four
ordained clerics, this vein of comedy has shown that the ridiculous
can be sublime and that the comic imagination can change our expe-
rience of reality. But the game is deathly serious. Comedy seeks to
transcend the tragic and overcome its dominance and dangerous
romantic grandeur that so often leads to fanaticism’s passionate
intensity. Bertolt Brecht goes so far as to say that comedy deals with
the sufferings of humankind more seriously than tragedy. This idea
seems on the surface to be somewhat shocking. Hannah Arendt sug-
gests that, although it may be shocking, it is true. Whether it is or
not, I introduce these ideas in an essay on White’s Occasions of
Grace because White’s poetry is underpinned with a sense, a spirit
of play, a sense of homo ludens, play as a way of establishing order
in an often complex, absurd and difficult world, play as a way of
mastering experience by combining the light and the serious in
delightful juxtapositions, play in the context of a tendency to apoth-
eosise language, to give it a power not of God but a power which
reflects His informing and transforming power. For some it is the
spiritualization of wonder; for others it is secularization. But irony
is everywhere.
After a decade that saw two more volumes of his poetry,
Occasions of Grace continues a poetic construction that is part of the
slow growth in the prestige of a prophetic message with an impor-
tant role to play in creating dialogue among presently competing
creeds. His construction is clever. An ingenious manipulator of
words, he provokes admiration and titillates the sensibilities. Of the
nearly 200 pages of text, fifty are prose and notes on the poetry.
White divides his poetry into six major sections. There are more
than a dozen poems to and about Baha’i martyrs. Another dozen or
so, as we find in virtually all of White’s books of poetry, about
major figures in Baha’i history. There are the familiar poems to
friends, to actors, to Israel, to love, to a pot-pourri of themes too
long to list.

The reader leans forward to learn from White as he places his own
frail vulnerability on the firing line. His openness creates a bridge of
trust. He whispers in the readers’ bones and arteries and one finds
that his song is often the hidden bird in one’s own heart. But bring
your dictionary along or you may not hear any song at all. The
Baha’i Faith suggests an alternative political order with the future in
its bones - a phoenix which has been growing slowly in the ashes of
orthodoxies that have long held people’s minds and society’s defini-
tion of reality. The lance and parry techniques of an archaic tourna-
ment continue to fill the intellectual air and prevent fluid and col-
laborative exchange. The jangling mockery of our own limited
understanding is paraded in the absence of an artistic and critical
humility. In the whirlwind of a distracted hour getting command
over the craft of self-expression has become an awesome feat.
This is true for both individuals and for society’s institutions. An
organic change in the structure of present-day society and the pro-
fundity of a change in the standard of public discussion is heralded
in the poetry of Roger White. The artist is predictive. In his lan-
guage, his struggles and his joys White allows the reader to see the
texture of our age. The psychological problems of people in this dark
age of transition are a product of sociohistorical changes. White
charts these changes in his powerful poetic idiom. He packs a great
deal into his more than one hundred and thirty poems, his several
thousand lines of poetry.
At the centre of White’s perspective is an assumption, a philoso-
phy, a principle - that “dissidence is a moral and intellectual contra-
diction” to those who would be peacemakers and unifiers of the
children of men. The charm of this perspective is present in poem
after poem in an etiquette of expression that possesses a candour, a
tone, a motive, a manner, a mode that takes the faintest hints of life
and converts them into a basis for dialogue. But the dialogue White
apotheosises implies a nobler and ampler manifestation of human
achievement, a relationship between our outer and inner selves not
yet achieved. His vocabulary of humour and seriousness, of joy and

sorrow, which encompasses both the trivial and the profound,
engender a perspective that seeks both immortality and temporary
pleasure. White’s readers must love words if they are to love White.
As a wordsmith he works at his anvil. He plays with his own
fears, his loneliness, ignorance, despair, with the world’s random sor-
didness, vulgarity and sadness. He plays with his readers; he smiles.
I enjoy playing with White. It is a little like playing marbles when I
was a kid. But you have to like playing marbles. His marbles are
words. They bounce sharply into holes; they scatter all over the
place; they are bright, hard and clear as crystal. Art forms are often
best at their beginnings: Shakespeare, Michelangelo, Dickens in
poetry, drama, art and the novel, respectively. The poet, the novelist,
the artist, the dramatist once commanded a respect. From a certain
height of grandeur they possessed a common touch. After two cen-
turies of modernism the intellectual elites have been overthrown.
The cultural mandarins of post-modernism do not possess any value
system; much of contemporary cultural production is scarcely dif-
ferent from commercials. Insidious shifts in our value systems have
vastly broadened the acceptable boundaries of high culture and the
nature of creativity that sustains it. The artist, the poet, is unable to
compete for public attention or favour with the new mandarins of
public entertainment, pop-psychology and the media. White’s pages
whirl about on the wings of the spirit. He knows that for many they
might as well be blank. You can just about hear him say: ’Don’t ask
me what it means!’
White does not cultivate obscurity. But in his encounter with the
reality of experience - his and ours - he takes no little pain to
inform his readers of the asphyxia of soul, the offence against life
that comes from a hedonistic materialism which denies that at the
heart of life there is pain. White offers a challenge: to transcend the
ordinary, the comfortable, the protective chrysalis of the contempo-
rary, the corporate and the candy-floss suburban mediocrity. For
those who journey with White the spiritual texture of our times
takes on definition. History and sociology are poetry. It is construct-

ed of infinitely instructive surprises resulting from a systematic
introspection, an introspection which courts bafflement, misunder-
standing and rejection.
In 1983, two years after The Witness of Pebbles, his One Bird
One Cage One Flight appeared. It was a gift to all those who find
that they must make everything out of their solitariness and the
privacy of their thought. Ostensibly a homage to Emily Dickinson,
this slim volume was a testimony to the confrontation with self and
to the cry of all romantic artists since the industrial revolution: “I
don’t want comfort; I want God; I want poetry; I want real danger; I
want freedom; I want goodness. I want sin.” People living out their
lives in unobtrusive and quiet ways, those who do want comfort and
do not want sin, come under White’s microscope. His meditative eye
looks at the microcosm of the human drama in all its detail and pro-
vides a window for the reader to enter the cosmos. The ordinary
person, the boredom, the fragility, the doubts and the fears of people
in their ordinariness are paraded for us in all their panoply and
pageantry. White has married his words and out of this marriage
poetry is born. He has married solitude. So, too, has he married the
social. I offer this one poem, chosen somewhat at random, to give a
taste, a texture, of White’s solitude and social and their juxtaposi-
tion. It is titled Adequate Heaven:
Adolescence, I thought, and not for the first time, could be hell.
- Dick Francis
You sit hooded in discontent
oblivious of the sunlit garden
telling of the boy who has your heart.
It does not suffice you to be
young and bright and to wear

an innocent loveliness.
Love is too great a burden, you sigh,
I long to be happy; to leap, to fly.
I nod, sage to your novitiate,
knowing you would despise my shabby wisdom.
It is adequate heaven
that you are young and beautiful,
that the light so irradiates your flawless cheek,
that with moist lashes
you should sit with me - among the blind flowers
under a freshly-laundered sky -
yearning to be happy
and unaware of how effortlessly I soar
bearing the weightless burden of my love for you. 5
Emily Dickinson becomes, in White’s evocation, a prototype of a
path some must take in their search for themselves, their God, or
just a true friend. That path is one of solitude. For it is in solitude
that the richness of the inner life is to be found. There is an awe, a
wonder and an awareness of the good and the bad in all of us that
leads to insight and prevents moral arrogance. The reader finds it is
in community where he locates his aloneness. White locates this
paradoxical home for us in all its perplexing complexity. White
seems to be saying that the future lies with that man or woman
who can live as an individual conscious of the solidarity of the
human race. Within this solidarity is a tension between individual
and community that is the very source of ethical creativity. The
communication that binds people in solidarity is conciliatory and

restorative. The tension is seen in the distinguishing characteristic
of the artist - his restlessness.
In the day-to-day round of everyday existence the challenge and
the risk of life seem so often to leave us. White puts courage back in
the game. Experiences of meaning and significance are the heart of
White’s world. Temperamentally unable to accept success and the
ease it brings, he kicks against the pricks. When one frontier is con-
quered he soon becomes ill at ease and pushes on to a new one. He
is drawn to unquiet minds with a rebellion that helps define his
vision. The humanity of this poetic gadfly, this Voltairean rebel, lies
in the fact that civilization will arise from the very needs he exposes
in his vulnerability. White’s story, his poetry, is the agony of the
creative individual whose nightly rest only resuscitates him so that
he can endure his agonies the next day. But there are flecks of gold
in a seam of joy that comes from his passion, a quality of commit-
ment, and a realization that he is helping to form the structure of a
new world.
White knows that he is working at the beginning of this new
world and its embryonic order. With all its strangeness, darkness
and insecurity that all true beginnings bring to those who search,
White deals with the existential questions of the human
5 Roger White, Occasions of Grace, George Ronald, Oxford,
1992, p.76
predicament with both timeliness and timelessness. In the process
he helps empower his readers to define who they are, where they
have been and where they want to go.
White knows there is no escape from living through the dialecti-
cal relationship between individual and society. He points the way to
live it through constructively, with zest, with humour and dignity
without wasting one’s energy on protest against a universe not
organized to one’s liking. The artist-poet who lights up our world
lives and breathes with the daemonic. The hunger for meaning
makes White appear like a bee fetching sweetness out of everything.

But he is not oriented to the easy. If something is difficult there is
all the more reason to do it. Love exerts an exacting claim on him
and calls him to vast things. Love, for White and for us, is both bur-
den and apprenticeship. His poetry, like that of any aspiring master-
craftsman’s, is the most valid expression of his spirit.
There is a melancholy that haunts the isolation of genius. But in
White it is a melancholy that he does not carry about in order to
drown people out. It is rather a sadness that is lonely and attentive
and waiting for the future to enter in ways that transform. Our des-
tiny, White knows, goes from within us. Holding to the difficult, to
what is most alien and strange, we must try to love the abuses and
dangers and, in time, they will be our trusted and faithful friends.
What we find most terrible is, perhaps, something helpless that
wants help from us. Sickness is the means by which an organism
frees itself of what is foreign. Life never ceases to be difficult. One
must move beyond the sense of victory and loss, find the patience to
endure and the simplicity to believe. White has this simplicity but it
is not compounded of innocence. His eyes are wide open; he insists
on arguments and will not give in.
The fine delicacy in human relationships is also at the centre of
White’s poetry. He is never embittered, although he often shrinks
and is appalled. His awareness of human misery has opened him up
and helped him to crystallize his individual character: but infinitely
slowly. This outburst of poetry has come to a man in his fifties and
early sixties. This anchorage in his poetic form was denied him in
Canada and Africa. But since 1979 an awakening creative urge has
found its outlet and the Baha’i Faith has found a provisional poet-
laureate. He has found a happiness in being a beginner. But the
longest road through life is found in artistic form and White is more
than a little conscious of how beginnerish he really is. In writing
about his first publication Another Song, Another Season he said in
a letter to a friend:
"I suppose it will look primitive to the next generation."

White has been building, inwardly, preparing something invisible
but fundamental. The fruit of a constant introspection has resulted,
for White, in Occasions of Grace and, for us, in a public resource of
private optimism. The bonds of community are mostly private ren-
ditions, private perceptions, private needs and private strengths
sketched out in a pattern interdependent of other privacies. Private
citizen White shares another view of his life and his world - and
ours. His poetry is exquisite and brings both his and our highest
faculties into play. Like good conversation it often seems that he
does it all for the sake of something quite evanescent - just for the
sake of pure delight.
It seems fitting to close this brief comment with the last poem on
the last page of Occasions of Grace. It expresses so succinctly the
reception White knew only so well of much of his poetry by most of
his audience, an experience common among poets. This one is titled
Report from the Grand Canyon:
Publishing a volume of verse is like dropping a rose petal
down the Grand Canyon and waiting for the echo.
- Donald Marquis
So, Don, you waited futilely?
Well, you expressed it beautifully.
But I find it’s even worse
When echoes do attend my verse.
With every book of mine
Some excited pedant’s on the line.

Enthusiastically telling
That he’s noticed a misspelling
And, warming to the attack,
Lists errors of mere fact
Relishing each transgression -
(Does he want a signed confession?)
But how did you CLICK! like the poem?
I’m left listening to the dial tone.
Readers like that are obnoxious;
They should read only cereal boxious
Or be dropped into a canyon -
The Grand, or one chosen at randyom.
Or consigned, Don, to some tome-lined hell
that lacks your archie and mehitabel
Its books ponderous and fustian
and written in futhark or Etruscian. 6
6 Roger White, op.cit., p.166

THE LANGUAGE OF THERE
1992 was indeed “an auspicious juncture in the history of His
Cause.”. That year White published not only his final major book of
poetry, Occasions of Grace, but also two small volumes: The
Language of There and Notes Postmarked the Mountain of God.
1992 also marked the hundredth anniversary of the ascension of
Baha’u’llah in 1892. In the Ridvan Message of that year, in April
1992, the Universal House of Justice referred to “an onrushing
wind... clearing the ground for new conceptions", “some mysterious,
rampant force” and a “quickening wind”. It was this wind which
was ventilating our “modes of thought... renewing, clarifying and
amplifying our perspectives”. Perhaps White’s final blasts of poetry
were part of this “befitting demarcation", this Holy Year. By the end
of that Holy Year in May 1993 White had left this earthly life. This
“special time for a rendezvous of the soul with the Source of its
light.... a time of retreat to one’s innermost being", to which the
Universal House of Justice called all Baha’is in April 1992 did arrive
quite literally for Roger White. Perchance the soul of Roger White
was being filled, as that year came to an end, in that undiscovered
country “with the revivifying breath” of Baha’u’llah’s celestial
power “from His retreat of deathless splendour”.
In October 1992 I received a copy of The Language of There in
the mail. Six months later Roger left this mortal coil and all “the
slings and arrows of outrageous fortune", “the heartache and the
thousand natural shocks that flesh is heir to” that Hamlet spoke of
so eloquently in the beautifully modulated rhythms of that solilo-
quy in Act III Scene I of Shakespeare’s play by that name. The last
published poem and piece of prose on the last two pages of this
small volume of poetry speak volumes and so I will quote them
here. White’s last words, quite literally, seem perfectly appropriate
in this essay on his final works. These last words embody the think-
ing of a lifetime, as so many of White’s poems do, and the delight he
found for his spirit in giving expression to the truths he found in
Chapter 13

life. He introduces this poem, titled The Language of There, with a
quote from James Merrill:
I mean to learn, in the language of where I am going,
barely enough to ask for food and love.
- James Merrill
Yes. There, light will be our language,
a tongue without words for
perhaps, or arid, or futile,
though shadow will be retained
that we may contrast the radiance.
Almost will no longer be a measure.
We will learn a hundred synonyms for certitude,
and love will have a thousand conjugations.
Ours will be the italicised vocabulary
of delectable astonishments.
The possessive case will play no part
in the grammar of joy and burgeoning,
infants will speak at birth, and only the ancients
will remember the obscenity exile.
There, laughter will be spelt in capitals,
sadness grow obsolete,

and negation be declared archaic.
Hell will be pronounced remoteness,
and vast tomes will be devoted
to the derivations of yes.
Where all is elation and surprise
exclamation points will fall into disuse.
There, food and affection will be ours for a smile,
and immortality for a fluent, knowing wink.
In time, our desire to speak will abandon us.
All that need be said the light will say. Yes.
It would seem that White found - at least he gave expression to it in
his poetry - what literary critic Leone Vivante describes in the open-
ing paragraph of his book as “a principle of inward light, an original
self-active principle, which characterizes life and spontaneity as con-
trasted with mechanism”. This concept of self-activity revealed and
developed itself in White’s poetry in a supremely genuine and direct
way. There is a quality of truth in some poetry, what Vivante says
can claim to be “an ultimate truth which is essential to their poetical
value”. While I’m not sure I would go all the way here with
Vivante, I can appreciate the direction of his philosophical thought.
For there is, for me, a certain ’truth claim’ which gives White’s poet-
ry much of its impact, its force, its unity. There is a certain ’spiritual
essence’ in his work which gives me a deeper sense of the spirit,
deeper than I would normally have had without his art. White’s lit-
erary value is partly, for me, a reflection, a discovery, of the intrinsic
nature of my inner being and the truths of the religion I joined
nearly half a century ago. For the “grand power of poetry", as
Matthew Arnold wrote back in the 1860s, “is its interpretive

power… the power of so dealing with things as to awaken in us a
wonderfully full, new, and intimate sense of them, and of our rela-
tions with them”.3 As I read White’s poetry, I frequently sense he is
putting me in touch with the essential nature of things, taking some
of life’s bewilderment out of things, giving me some of the secret of
things and some of their calm and harmonious inner life. This, too,
is poetry’s highest powers.
White’s short essay, Bring Chocolate, which closes this book, is
subtitled “Advice From a Poet” and is worth quoting in full because
of its comment on the ’spiritual essence’ of his work and how he
envisages it. It is addressed to “World Centre Baha’i Youth Group”
and is dated 31 October 1990:
Poetry, like all art, has a message for us. It says: care, grow, devel-
op, adapt, overcome, nurture, protect, foster, cherish. It says: your
reality is spiritual. It says achieve your full humanness. It invites us
to laugh, reflect, cry, strive, persevere. It says rejoice! Above all, it
says to us: be! We cannot turn our backs on art. Art heals.
I am of the conviction that in the future, increasingly, one impor-
tant measure of the spiritual maturity and health of the Baha’i
world community will be its capacity to attract and win the alle-
giance of artists of all kinds, and its sensitivity and imaginativeness
in making creative use of them.
Artists - not tricksters and conjurers, but committed artists - will
be a vital force in preventing inflexibility in our community. They
will be a source of rejuvenation. They will serve as a bulwark
against fundamentalism, stagnation and administrative sterility.
Artists call us away from formulas, caution us against the fake, and
accustom us to unpredictability - that trait which so characterizes
life. They validate our senses. They link us to our own history. They
clothe and give expression to our dreams and aspirations. They
teach us impatience with stasis. They aid us to befriend our private
experiences and heed our inner voices. They reveal how we may
subvert our unexamined mechanistic responses to the world. They

sabotage our smugness. They alert us to divine intimations. Art con-
veys information about ourselves and our universe which can be
found nowhere else. Our artists are our benefactors.
To the degree the Baha’i community views its artists as a gift
rather than a problem will it witness the spread of the Faith ’like
wildfire’ as promised by Shoghi Effendi, through their talents being
harnessed to the dissemination of the spirit of the Cause.
In general, society’s artists are often at war with their world and
live on its fringes. Their lack of discretion in expressing their criti-
cism - which may be hostile, vituperative, negative, and offer no
solutions - may lead to their rejection and dismissal by the very
society they long to influence. Artists are frequently seen as trou-
ble-makers, menacers, destroyers of order, or as frivolous clowns.
Sometimes the kindest thing said of them is that they are neurotic
or mad. In the Baha’i community it must be different. Baha’u’llah
said so. Consider that the Baha’i Writings state that All art is a gift
of the Holy Spirit and exhort us to respect those engaged in science,
art and crafts.
The artist has, among other responsibilities, those of questioning
our values, of leading us to new insights that release our potential
for growth, of illuminating our humanity, of renewing our authen-
ticity by putting us in touch with our inner selves, and of creating
works of art that challenge us - as Rilke says - to change our lives.
The artist aids in our transformation.
In the Baha’i Order the artists will find their home at the centre
of their community, free to interact constructively with the people
who are served by their art; free to give and to receive strength and
inspiration. It is my hope that all of us who are gathered here will
be in the vanguard of this reconciliation between artists and their
world. As Baha’u’llah foretells, the artists are coming home to claim
their place. I urge you: Be there! Welcome them! Bring chocolate!
White’s views here had arisen out of more than forty years of
writing poetry and now he was going. Indeed, inside the cover of

the copy of The Language of There that he sent me in September
1992, six months before he died, he wrote: “with these lines I proba-
bly exit - smiling, waving, heading for ’There’....” There is a con-
sciousness of this theme of the afterlife in the one hundred and two
poems that make up this volume. It is the first major published col-
lection of poetry that White did not divide into thematic-sections.
Emily Dickinson is still there: White writes six new poems, right at
the beginning of the volume, in which her life and her poetry are
mentioned. To read Emily Dickinson had been for White what
Robert Smith said it should be: “a profound engagement, an imagi-
native reconstruction, a crystallizing of attitudes, on her flickering
presence” Her “arduous and lifelong pursuit of a speech fitting to
God... (to)... divine Unnameability” was, as Elisa New once wrote, a
thorny and difficult problem that she got around only by a genuine
“humility”. White got around the problem, for the most part, by his
commitment to a religion which provided ample amounts of that
“speech fitting to God”. He also got around the problem in several
ways which we can see by examining his poetry throughout his sev-
eral volumes, but particularly - and not coincidentally - in the last
half a dozen poems in this volume, his last published poems. I would
like to deal here with these last ’death’ poems, or perhaps I should
call them ’life’ poems.
The Language of There may well go down as one of White’s most
famous and quoted poems. There is an optimism, a texture and con-
text that appeals even to the most hardened atheist or agnostic, to
say nothing of the avowed believer in virtually any religion. That in
itself is no mean achievement. “The thing that should eventually
make him truly important,” wrote the American poet James Dickey,
speaking about the special poet in our time, is “the quietly joyful
sense of celebration and praise out of which he writes”. White had
put this idea a little differently in one of his first poems in which he
was writing about “the banality of pain/and the ordinariness of suf-
fering”. “It is joy that is remembered,” he added. White certainly
gives us a golden seam of joy amidst his other contributions to our

intellectual and sensory emporiums, amidst the inevitable fortu-
itousness of his poetic impulse which the poet and four time winner
of the Pulitzer Prize, Robert Frost, says ideally begins in “tantalizing
vagueness” and then finds or “makes its thought”.
The humility and joy that White apotheosizes in his penultimate
poem Learning New Ways may not be everyone’s long-range vision
in what may be one of White’s many images of an afterlife but, in
its basic simplicity or, perhaps I should say, profound simplicity,
there is something deftly appealing and - who knows - accurate
about the picture it paints, however succinctly:
............................ Released from
wanting and having, I shall only be.
..........................
Occupied with boundlessness
I shall yet divine your unspoken question:
Were you drawn away by the music,
the laughter,
the promised ecstasy of reunion?
Many poets after making immense imaginative efforts, such as
Wordsworth and Browning, seem to experience a certain psychic
exhaustion. While such a sense of exhaustion, of sadness, is not
entirely absent from the last poetic efforts of White written after
the age of sixty and on death’s door, there is also awe, humour, joy,
calm, peace, wisdom…. These last poems are a study in themselves
and tell much of White’s ultimate view of life and death. There is a
delicacy and penetration in White, a richness and power. His final
production, far superior to what his nature first seemed to promise
in the late 1940s and early 50s, was abundant and varied. He sup-

plied to the Baha’i community what the poet Coleridge provided to
England in the early nineteenth century: “a stimulus to all minds in
the generation which grew up around him, capable of profiting by
it”. The memory of Coleridge, writes Arnold, inspires a certain
repugnance as well as gratitude. The behaviour and activity of
White, at least so far as we know thus far, has a cleaner, more con-
sistent record to underpin and invest his memory as one of the
founding fathers of poetry in the Baha’i community in its first two
centuries. “Every poet,” wrote the French poet Maurice de Guerin,
“has his own art of poetry written on the ground of his soul; there
is no other”. White has left us with the ground of his soul both in
his last volumes of poetry written in 1992 and in the whole of his
previous oeuvre.
Before commenting on some specific poems in White’s The
Language of There, I would like to make a general point about his
appeal to our human need or impulse for novelty which stirs within
us and often, if not always, provides the necessary momentum and
incentive for us to seek insight and a sense of achievement in life.
Our desire for novelty is part of the pleasure we take in life itself
and is, as Samuel Johnson once wrote, the only and real end of writ-
ing. This appeal to his readers’ need for novelty was there right to
the end. The rich prism, the intensified record that was his poetry,
fluid and diverse as it was even to the end - and especially in the
end - in his last two books of poetry published in 1992, seemed to
be part of White’s abundance. In the last few months of 1992 and
the first four of 1993, after the publication of his final two volumes
of poetry, he was somewhat of a husk of a man, a somewhat drained
specimen. Weariness began to prevail by ’silent encroachments’  but,
again, I have little detail to go on and I leave the sketch of White’s
final notes to his first and future biographer.
White writes poems about several departures: from the Baha’i
World Centre, from the intensive care unit, from this earthly life,
from sadnesses, from joy and laughter - all in the last nine poems.
Ten poems from the end he writes of “returning” to his home town

which he had just done in 1991. The themes of the poems that occu-
py White throughout the booklet illustrate his preoccupations in the
last year of his life. To comment on them all in a befitting way is
beyond the scope of this brief essay and would lead to prolixity. The
poems have that concision, that slight obscurity and illusiveness
that is part of poetry’s nutritive function and a sensibility that
Marianne Moore says “imposes a silence transmuted by the imagi-
nation into eloquence”. Read with patience and receptivity they
provide an exercise in pleasure. I shall select two poems on which to
close this brief commentary on The Language of There.
Since the first poetic writings in the 1940s of the two major poets
associated with the emergence of a Baha’i consciousness in world
literature, Robert Hayden and Roger White, the number of local
spiritual assemblies had grown from several hundred to many thou-
sands. It is not my intention to expatiate on the brilliant conception
underlying the Baha’i administrative order, itself the nucleus and
pattern of a future world order, but I would like to include below
one of White’s poems that conveys the experience that many hun-
dreds of thousands of Baha’is have had in serving on local adminis-
trative bodies. The Baha’i system of decision making is far removed
from the Western parliamentary process and its debate oriented
lance-and-parry thrust. The Baha’i administrative system is based
on consultation in small groups and, although apparently simple in
design, it is a very demanding process for those called upon to serve.
Here is the poem, Nine Ascending:
Nine of us, equipollent,
precariously balanced
in ragged semicircle
our eyes glazed by the impasse
we have reached

far from the decision
distantly drawing us forward.
Tension leaves us dry-mouthed,
chokes off the fatal sundering words
any one of us might speak
that will plunge us into the chasm.
This is a good terror.
With delicate calm
the Book is passed
hand to hand,
its words reweave
the disciplining cord
that binds us to our purpose.
Again the humbling summit is assaulted;
we make our vertical ascent
past fault and fissure.
Sing in gratitude
for the fragile resolution
that leads us in ginger circumspection
from the miasmal ooze
from which we so painfully inch
our consequential necessary way.

I have always been most moved, in the ten years since I first read
this poem, by White’s use of the term ’good terror’. The reason I
was moved by these words is that I found they were so apt. They
describe how I often felt in the nearly forty years since I began
serving on local spiritual assemblies. This same ’terror’ is often part
of the experience men and women have in secular organizations as
well. We are all in it together now as the world forges the instru-
ments for its salvation in the centuries to come.
Like so much of White’s poetry there is a direct appeal in this
poem to the experience and knowledge, the convictions and commit-
ments of Baha’is the world over. So many of the Baha’is, in the half
century since both White and Hayden began writing poetry, have
been knee-deep in that “miasmal ooze” during the consultative
process while they inched their “consequential necessary way”. It is
not my intention for this elucidation of White’s poem to turn my
comments into evaluation. I leave that to readers, as I say so often in
these essays. But there is a power in this poem, as in so many of
White’s poems, which makes itself felt immediately. If I had to
define this power in a word it would be honesty. There is also a gen-
tle undercurrent of humour, as there is in so many of White’s
poems, which gives just enough leaven or lightness to balance the
outer seriousness of the poem. The style is so White: colloquial, ele-
vated, even quirky, uniting opposites in his own unique way.
Many of the poems in this selection of nearly nine dozen pieces
are salutes, nods, waves, hellos and good-byes to famous and not-so-
famous poets, writers and artists who had influenced his writing and
thinking: Ogden Nash, T.S. Eliot, Keats, some Canadian poets,
Bahiyyih Nakhjavani, Ovid, Walt Whitman, Scott Joplin, William
Sears, Anais Nin and the inevitable Emily - and others. White’s fac-
ulty for absorbing incidents from real life, his keen eye for a good
scene, his memory for detail, quotation and anecdote; in addition,
his knowledge of a remarkable circle, an extraordinary collection of
intimate and not-so-intimate friends and people from history, gave

to White and to this final collection of poetry the qualities his
readers enjoy.
Many readers of poetry and literature may dislike my attempts to
confine White’s free and varied insights within the limits of a sys-
tem of thought that is, perhaps, too ordered, too neat and tidy, too
abstract for their liking. They will want to read his poetry, but not
analyse it. For me, the generalizing faculty asserts itself and must
find a hearing. The poetry surveyed persistently raises metaphysical
questions making some theological discussion inevitable, even if not
desired by some readers. Theological discussion serves to deepen not
restrict our insight and usually raises questions of moral and
humanistic concern which are of increasing interest to even secular
minds. But, however theological or philosophical a poem, there is
over any collection of White’s verse some of that feeling, expressed
once by Carl Sandburg, that “poetry is the synthesis of hyacinths
and biscuits” Appreciation of a poem does not require literary criti-
cism but it is often enriched by such criticism, if it is well written.
My final selection from among this rich repertoire of poems that
gave me pleasure in one way or another is called Sometimes The
Poem... I will quote the entire poem and make some brief comment
as I go along:
Sometimes the poem is heard as a nighttime footstep
echoing from another room
or a creaking floorboard on the dim stairs.
Often it leaves a chair rocking silently
in an emptiness filled with dustmotes
and a sense of precipitate departure.
Later it may be heard in the kitchen
warming milk and rummaging for biscuits

or may mock with the banging of a door
and the crunching sound of retreating feet on gravel.
While I am writing this I am listening to a tape of the voice of
Australian writer Alan Marshall who is talking about the impor-
tance of small details, of writing down things that you might not
remember, because so many of the stories in life come from little
things. Of course, he is talking about writing stories and fiction, but
the same applies to writing poetry, as White indicates above. What
Marshall tries to do, White tries to do also - connect the micro-
world and the macro-world and in the process of observation and
analysis he gave it new life, significance, meaning. Poetry serves the
function, for White, of interpretress of life’s many worlds. Poetry
helps White on his long journey down life’s enchanted and not-so-
enchanted stream as it alternately rushes, meanders and winds its
way to the sea.
White continues in the second stanza of that poem Sometimes
the Poem:
Sometimes it huddles in shadow
outside the window or claws at the shutter
sobbing tormentedly in the wind and tearing its breast.
I have glimpsed its eyes, transparent and haunted,
beyond the rainstreaked glass
and heard it babbling dementedly in the poplars
under an intermittent moon that glinted like steel.
In the darkness it has whizzed past my ear
with a knife’s chilling whoosh.

In this second stanza those “little things” seem to have moved
inward in a subtle way. White is writing here about what Robert
Creeley says about a poem: that it “can be an instance of all the
complexity of a way of thinking.... all the emotional conflicts
involved in the act of thinking”. Perhaps Peter Stitt puts it better:
“Wherever real liveliness of emotion and intellect is happening, I
feel poetry is near.” White continues:
With the glue of cobwebs
it has brushed against my sleeping face
awakened me with its distant cries of anguish
or taunting laughter only to elude me
in the hushed corridor or the deserted garden.
It has called me urgently from dreams
to rise and shiver at the desk
staring for hours at a blank page.
I’ve known it to watch from the corner
then creep up behind me
its breath smelling of wet leaves and apples
cold and moist on my nape.
I hear the call of life here in this third stanza. “A writer is not trying
for a product, but accepting sequential signals toward an always
arriving present,” as Stitt again says. There are so many ways of
saying what White is saying here, as poets and critics at least since
Shakespeare and as far back as Pintar or the writers of the Wisdom
Literature in the Old Testament, have tried to express the poetic
impulse. Perhaps the “always arriving present", soon to be White’s
experience and calling him urgently, is that boundlessness, music,

laughter and “the promised ecstasy of reunion” that he wrote of in
his poem Learning New Ways. A final five lines from this same
poem:
Sometimes it stares faint and helpless
from the mirror where
in a wavering aqueous light
my image drowns signalling
Befriend me! I am the poem you would write.
Perhaps White is referring here, partly, alluding as he does to an
’unwritten poem’, to what that French poet Guerin describes when
he writes: “There is more power and beauty in the well-kept secret
of one’s self and one’s thoughts, than in the display of a whole heav-
en that one may have inside one.”
The poet Shelley once defined the poetic Sublime as an experi-
ence that persuaded readers to give up easier pleasures for more dif-
ficult ones. The reading of the best poems, the best literature, consti-
tutes more difficult pleasures than most of what is given to us visu-
ally by television, films and video games. Shelley’s definition reveals
an important aspect of what I am saying about White and his poet-
ry. For White is both entertainer in the finest sense and intellectual
provocateur, in the supreme difficulty that often arises for his read-
ers due to the power of his intellect and his capacity to use words.
He can hold you in a spell, but it is not the vacuous spell of mental
inactivity offered by electronic media; it is the spell that derives
from the indubitable powers of poetry. The refreshment White
offers comes from the pleasures of change in meaning each time
you read his poetry. There is often, too, a shock, a kind of violence,
that we do not find in fiction and certainly not on television. It star-
tles us out of our sleep-of-death into a more capacious sense of life.

It does not find its origins in visual and auditory stimulation but
rather in the powers of the mind and imagination ,and their “new
and wonderful configurations”. They are configurations, as ’Abdu’l-
Baha once wrote, derived from “a fresh grace… an ever-varying
splendor… from wisdom and the power of thought.”

NOTES POSTMARKED THE MOUNTAIN
OF GOD
A second booklet of Roger White’s poetry was published in 1992 by
New Leaf Publishing of Richmond, British Columbia. It had already
been accepted by Rob Weinberg for inclusion in his forthcoming
anthology of reflections on Mount Carmel. New Leaf Publishing
reprinted the booklet, Notes Postmarked The Mountain of God,
which consists of one poem White had written in 1990. It was the
longest poem he had written. While not following strictly the pro-
gram of pilgrimage nor alluding to every point of historic interest
visited by Baha’i pilgrims during the course of their stay in the
Holy Land, the poem was structured in nine parts following the
nine days of pilgrimage. Of course, as in any literary work, this
poem will not be admired by all readers everywhere. Perhaps the
Romans had some wisdom in regard to poetry. They advised that
there be no arguing over tastes. It would appear that often, in
today’s world, people argue about nothing else. As far as my com-
ments here are concerned, they reflect my taste, my susceptibility to
the impressions of White’s verse, seized as I was by it when I first
read this volume in 1992 and what I hope is an unimpassioned
analysis. My aim is to be a catalytic agent, as the critic-philosopher
H.L. Mencken advised, to induce readers to react to White’s poem
and perhaps, in the process, “to attain the ultimate worm’s eye
view” of White’s poem.
What White brings his readers in this poem is what the poet
Shelley said the mind in creation must be if it is to be truly success-
ful in the writing of poetry. The mind must be as a fading coal which
some invisible influence, like an inconstant wind, awakens to transi-
tory brightness. What he awakens to a wonderful brightness for the
reader is his experience of pilgrimage, certainly one of the more
introspective and thoughtful pieces written thus far on this impor-
tant aspect of the Baha’i life. White would write poetry for two more
years. He brings us, then, in what may be the most perceptive and
finely articulated statement on the Baha’i pilgrimage, his fading
Chapter 14

coals. In 1990 he had his quadruple bypass operation and he did not
anticipate “an enthusiastic return to a full life”. At least the goal of a
full life was one which he said he limped towards “without much
conviction”. As he mentioned in one of his poems from the 1980s
his old friends from the forties and fifties, in and out of the movie
industry, started dieing or complaining of their ailments. In
September 1990 his old friend, the person from whom he learned of
the Cause, Winnifred Harvey died. As he wrote in the last four lines
of the poem Returning, as he was about to leave hospital:
No one had asked him whether he wished to return
from his murky indolence,
human, hapless and vulnerable,
to this profane, irresistible confusion.
And so, this long poem written in 1990 entitled Notes Postmarked
The Mountain of God might be seen as a transitory brightness, thir-
ty-three pages of a flash of brilliance, awakened as he was by some
invisible influence, some inconstant wind on the fading coals of his
life. He had worked at the Baha’i World Centre for nineteen years.
It was fitting that he should at last have his pilgrimage although at
the age of sixty-one, as he writes in the first few lines, a pilgrimage
is a venture that tastes of beginnings. His plane touched down at
Ben Gurion airport and -
The luggage he struggles with
bulges with untried convictions,
rusted resolve and unrelinquished disappointments.
............
Hope, his best provision,

is crammed in among random indiscretions,
outworn hesitancies and inappropriate tweeds
He has already won the heart of this reader by the time he gets to
the end of that first sixteen-line stanza. “Poetic truth,” as
Wordsworth once wrote, “is operative - it works on us, it carries its
own conviction with it.” Part of the pleasure we derive from White,
achieved for me right at the start, is the pleasure I experience from
having my “basic psychological structure touched and illuminated”.
Among the orange blossoms, the warm tarmac, the Levantine con-
fusion and the humid air are the normal internal complications and
conflicts we all have, we Baha’is who are the followers of the
Blessed Beauty, trying as best we can to live lives consistent with
His teachings.
This longest of White’s poems is not so much a glorification of
his religion as, say, Walt Whitman’s long poem The Leaves of Grass
was a glorification of America, as it is a meditation on its meaning.
By filtering its citizenry, landscape, and history through a sensitive
and thoughtful, a graphic and, for me, an extremely sensual subjec-
tive persona, the “self” of this longest and perhaps most highly
regarded poem Notes Postmarked The Mountain of God journeys
with his readers and takes them on their own pilgrimage. Eschewing
conventional rhyming verse forms and formal diction, White wrote
in a restrained but moving, a familiar but idiosyncratic style that
reflected the vision of his personal outlook. I like to think that the
future of this poem will be somewhat like that of Whitman’s, as lit-
erary historian Roy Harvey Pearce has described it: “the history of
American poetry could be written as the continuing discovery and
rediscovery of Whitman, an on-going affirmation of his crucial rele-
vance to the mission of this American poet.”
Ralph Waldo Emerson in his 1842 lecture “The Poet” called for an
American poet to capture the spirit of the burgeoning republic.
Many have felt that Whitman’s poem The Leaves of Grass did just

that. For my tastes, my sensibilities, White captured the spirit of the
Baha’i Faith as it continued its rise from obscurity in the late twen-
tieth century and the breathtaking splendour of the evidences of
Mount Carmel as they were just emerging in the Arc and the ter-
races, in the years that White wrote this poem. Indeed, White inte-
grates “imagination, experience and voice… to make words take
hold of the phenomena of his age", as Emerson said was the poet’s
function or, to put it another way, he makes a “metamorphosis of
circumstances into consciousness”. In this case the circumstances are
those of a simple pilgrimage.
White gives his loyal readers what is by now a familiar language:
the everyday, the colloquial, the ordinary, packed in with the trench-
ant, the pithy and the profound. Piercing, exact, coherent and com-
plex: words I would use to describe White’s rendition of the vision
of his Faith, part of his individuality, the experience of one man who
has served this new world religion for over forty years. His vision is
not some set of dogmas saluted to but not contemplated over and
over again. It is the personal experience of one man with belief and
doubt, passion and thought, memory and desire so closely interwov-
en that it is often difficult to distinguish their separate expressions.
White’s poem is a whole world of order and beauty; it has little to
do with political and religious formulae. White gives his readers
what the great American poetry critic Ivor Winters says a poem
should give: “a clear understanding of motive and a just evaluation
of feeling; it calls upon the full life of the spirit; it is difficult of
attainment”. Winters continues, and what he writes I think applies
to White’s poetry of pilgrimage, an experience that pilgrims so often
have difficulty putting into words: “by his art he makes clearings of
sanity in the encroaching jungle of experience; and because of his
skill, these clearings are more lucid, more precise, more generally
meaningful than those of other people”. By putting his own pas-
sions, prejudices and human weaknesses on the line White helps his
readers to be more pleased and accepting of their own while, at the
same time, he gently encourages his readers to lift their game.

White brings into this poem many stanzas of previous poems. He
incorporates into its text relevant passages from poems in earlier
volumes, not so much to attain a synthesis of his life’s work but
rather to deepen the meaning and effect of this particular poem. The
opening section entitled ’Beginning’ is stage one of his journey, a
plane to Tel-Aviv and a hotel. These were part of “the suburbs of
authentic arrival” and “the alphabet of homecoming” as he charac-
terizes this “lightweight wardrobe of beginnings”.
The reader then proceeds on a poetic journey through nine days
of pilgrimage for some thirty pages. It is not my intention to take
you through each day step by step; for that you must read the
poem. But I would like to comment on some of the aspects of
White’s pilgrimage in a poem that stood out for me and had a par-
ticular meaning. White’s aim is not to excite, as T.S. Eliot once wrote
of the aim of Dante’s poetry, but simply “to set something down”.
The reader’s task is to perceive “what the poet has caught
in words”.
At the end of ’Day Three’ White includes a quotation which he
first ’caught in words’ in his poem A Sudden Music. Indeed much of
what White writes about ’Day Three’ seems to have had its begin-
nings in that poem which also became the name of White’s novella.
He writes about “the choreography of reverence” and continues:
We, deft practitioners
of protocols of piety
are stranded on uncertainty
who had entered and then left
that rare Presence,
rehearsed petitioners,

joylessly
and empty-handed.
There is an honesty here which is central to White’s whole poetic
opus. This is how so many millions of people, both inside the Bahá’i
Faith and out, experience prayer and much that is the routines of
traditional religious experience. They know of the words, they know
the motions to go through, but little joy is experienced in the
process. This may not be as it should, but it certainly is the way it is.
And White’s task is to tell it as it is or at least how he experiences it.
In the process he wins over many readers, for this is their experi-
ence too.
Twenty-one years before, in an article in theWorld Order maga-
zine, William Hatcher wrote about “the theoretical uncertainty”
that must remain “even with the surest of statements”. For it was,
he went on, “our explicit awareness of this uncertainty which is our
greatest asset in adapting to our human situation”. The feeling of
certitude, Hatcher pointed out, is a psychological state and can be
part of our life even without knowing much at all. He went on to
say that, if we accept something as true, then our emotions organize
themselves around that something. Then that something becomes
part of the way we live. Faith, here, is the process of organizing our
emotional life around our assumptions.
"No statement can be held to be absolutely true, for no statement
is independent of other statements and facts.... Our knowledge,
then, is relative,” Hatcher writes again. So it is, when White refers
to the believers as “deft practitioners of protocols of piety” and says,
in the next line, that we “are stranded on uncertainty” - perhaps he
is thinking of the kinds of things that Hatcher is saying above.
But uncertainty and doubt do not exclude the experience of certi-
tude and belief. In the first line of ’Day One: Visit to the Shrine of
the Bab’ White refers to the sense of assurance the pilgrim gets

when he has his first glimpse of the shrines and the gardens. For
they are as he or she has seen them on postcards and they possess
“a sense of familiarity”. “Mingling at Pilgrim House” more assur-
ance and certitude are his with “expectations peopled", a “sense of
belonging” invading him and the experience of “immediate accept-
ance” as familiar Allah-u-Abhas greet him with every step. Once in
the Shrine of the Bab the pilgrim feels even more assurance in the
“awesome silence” and the “mounting ecstasy”. White describes the
effect on his inner self of the beauties and wonders of the threshold
of the shrine, its exterior and the gardens. By the time the reader is
halfway through the second stanza the issue of certitude and doubt
is not on his agenda, far from his mind and heart, as he “longs to
have his own heart break or conflagrate”.
Before going to bed on that first night the Shrine of the Bab and
some of the Bab’s life is permanently etched on his sensory empori-
um, freshly minted by the pull of the “exquisite details” that had
invaded him during the day:
He Who had no candle
has here, ensconced in circled circle,
amid adoring flowers
and green deferential trees,
this whitest marble taper
tipped in gold.
It gleams serenely from Carmel,
inextinguishably lights the world,
our reverential hearts
the willing wick.

And so the intellectual issue of doubt and certitude disappears in a
complex of experiences from ’Day One’: the heart’s enthusiasm,
reverence, life’s disappointments, a past he brought on his pilgrim-
age and a whole world that he summarizes in a poem which, it
appears, he has just written. He calls it Punctuation:
Tentative as commas
they balance on wind-swung wires
along which our voices speed …
So goes the first stanza and its allusion to the tentativeness of so
much of life, especially our thoughts which balance “on wind-swung
wires/along which our voices speed”. The poem goes on to express a
fascinatingly introspective piece of sociological and psychological
analysis. He begins this analysis, in stanza two, by expressing his
consciousness of presiding “with feigned indifference” over the
things he sends or others send to him (or that we send to ourselves)
over those ’crackling wires’ with their ’garbled’ statement of our
anguish and with their news of his triumphs and defeats. He contin-
ues referring to some of his writing, his poetry, one of his tragic
personal experiences in life and his own inability to “soar”. I did not
find this section of the poem simple, easy to translate into personal-
ly meaningful terms. I shall have to return to it again and again
with the years. But given the fact that this poem is one of the few
poems, few pieces of analysis, about the inner meaning of a pilgrim-
age, and given the fact that I am unlikely to go to Haifa again before
I die, White’s poem will be worth my pursuing.
In ’Day Two: The Trouble With Mountains’ White describes
Mount Carmel as a whole. He goes on, as the poem develops, to
mention his father, Shoghi Effendi and Baha’u’llah before he pon-
ders “why he has waited so long/to approach this unprepossessing
hill” and “whether his commitment is adequate”. In the evening he

writes a poem - the poem was, in fact, written some ten years before
but, with poetic licence, he indicates to the reader that he writes it in
the evening. One can only imagine that this earlier poem’s contents
seemed so perfectly appropriate to this tribute to pilgrimage He
titled the poem The Trouble with Mountains:
We come to this mountain late
in laggard wonder
and atrophied awe,
in distrust of the prompting of angels,
the voice in the thunder.
Like the old plainsman brought dazed
to the coast to die,
needing to hate
Vancouver and his death,
who glared sullenly at its peaks
which to outwit defeat
he’d never try
protesting they block the view
and stifle breath.
An ant’s dusty truth. We gaze
at our thorn-stabbed feet.
It is too late, too late,
the bruising stones reveal

to follow to the summit
One Whose feet were steel.
And do not hear the battered bird
high in the torturing wind: Pass! Pass!
With adamant soul
and sharpest sight
on feet of brass.
This bird comes into his dreams that night. This poem says so much
about White and perhaps about his readers, at least some of them.
That he had come on his pilgrimage too late, that he should have
come earlier in his Baha’i life. But still, whenever we come we must
follow Baha’u’llah “with adamant soul/and sharpest sight/on feet of
brass”. He finishes his poetic exposition about ’Day Two’ by refer-
ring to “hope”. He wants to explore its implications with someone,
anyone, and discuss poetry but concludes “poetry has no place/amid
the clatter of cutlery", for “the insistent world is never far away”.
And so in this brief review of White’s pilgrimage poem, I have
taken you through the first three days of his experience, his
thoughts, his private world. On the remaining six days he writes of:
the meals, Bahji, Akka, the house of Abbud, writing his poetry each
night back in his room, the gardens, the social exchanges with the
other pilgrims, the Shrine of ’Abdu’l-Baha, the inevitable Emily
Dickinson, the gravesites on Mount Carmel, the Pilgrim House and,
finally, the cab, and smuggling “his convictions past Customs” and
the aircraft that takes him away.
White did not have to choose his poetic subjects; they chose him.
On ’Day Six’, leaning against a tree at Bahji, “its walks the very
corridors of heaven", he writes:

Is this then all there is, a simple garden,
And a silence that displaces need for words?
What portent in the blood-red wayside poppy?
What message in the music of the birds?
The hero’s heart is hoisted on a cypress,
the saint’s is softly folded as a rose;
But mine lies shattered here among the pebbles
On the only path the fainting coward knows.
In these years at the dark heart of an age of transition, with society
in general grappling with a torrent of conflicting interests in the
most turbulent period in history, at one of the great - perhaps the
greatest - turning points in history, attempting to grasp the signifi-
cance of the historical transformation that has been the twentieth
century, it is not surprising that individuals in the Bahá’i Faith, and
poets like White, feel that sense of cowardice, that they have not
done enough, that they are far from the requirements of heroism or
saintliness they would like to exemplify in their lives.
The victories the Baha’i Faith had won in the forty years or more
since White had joined its army of spiritual teachers in the late
1940s in Canada had indeed been immense, “one of the most
enriching periods” it had experienced in its history. But White was
giving voice to an experience all Baha’is have, given the immensity
of the task, the social paralysis, the tyranny and anarchy in the
world and “the phantoms of a wrongly informed imagination” that
they have to do battle with daily in the minds of millions upon mil-
lions who are “as yet unaware of the Day in which they are living”.
On ’Day Seven’ which White describes and analyses in more
detail than any of the nine days he visits the Shrine of the Master.

While alone here he feels the Master’s “warm laughter that offers
renewal of courage”. It is in this section that one of his modifica-
tions of Emily Dickinson’s poems is included; the poet George
Herbert is mentioned and he composes a poem while “resting on a
low stone wall” that he will later include in his last major hard-
cover book of poetry, Occasions of Grace. The poem is called A
Desert Place. This poem describes Haifa and Israel especially during
the summer season:
In the sandy convolutions of this landscape
grainy, parched and impersonal as God’s brain
perception shifts and shimmers
and the crazed hot wind mutters apocalyptically.
Here, we are beyond the known and possible.
Israel is a difficult place with the heat; White asks:
Can anything survive the unquenchable sun?
A solitary lizard darting from invisibility
to invisibility like a fleeting thought
leaves no trace.
Having described so many of Israel’s inhabitants succinctly, White
goes on to outline the effects of the heat:
The stinging eye, amazed,
sees the heat as a solid malignancy

hulking on the horizon
mesmerizing and merciless.
..........
Small wonder the Prophets were placed in this oven
where the heat consumes all but compassion …
Anyone who has been in Israel in the summer can appreciate these
words. White writes much of the setting, all the settings that are
part of the pilgrimage experience. But his autobiographical impulse
is less a Lutheran ’I can do no other’ than a joy in the deed and a
reaching out, a desire to accept, to accept. “Waves of admiration
sweep over him./For each dear name a smile of recognition and a
prayer", as he enters the palm-fringed place of the graves of holy
ones and their white tombstones with familiar names at the foot of
Mount Carmel.
The many moods, emotions, feelings and thoughts that are the
inner experiences of the poet, these autobiographical writings, are as
personal as White gets in all his poetic journey. What Peter Steele
says of the autobiographical passion, namely, that it “is a species of
play.... an act of wit", is true of this five to six-thousand word poem
of Roger White. White’s desire in writing this poem is much like the
desire of one of his mentors, George Herbert, many centuries
before: “to let the variable mind and heart play out the drama of...
psychic predicament and aspiration”. The examples of this “psychic
predicament” seem legion, but to choose one simple example: when
he is at the Pilgrim House he writes:
...................................he feels
an unearned excruciating happiness
.......................

Am I feeling this, or is it that
I feel I should feel it? an inner voice challenges …
White is in the last years of his life. Perhaps writing this poem is a
means of conversing with his soul, with the divine element within
himself and life. For a Baha’i pilgrimage to the Holy Land, the world
seat of the wondrous System he had been associated with since the
second Seven Year Plan (1946-1953), where that System’s heart pul-
sated, where the dust of its Founders reposed, where the processes
disclosing its purposes, energizing its life and shaping its destiny all
originated, contained “all the nuggets his heart” could hold. His
poem was, as he himself admitted, “a bulwark against fanaticism” -
as all art is. Of course, his poem was so much more: an effort to
make clear to himself and thereby to others the temporal and eter-
nal questions, as Ibsen would have put it. It was what the poem was
to Albert Schweitzer “a poet talking to himself... to grasp his experi-
ence in words... the sound inside his head... the record of an inner
song”. White was suspicious of the motives of the poet. He had
written of this before. I think he would have agreed with George
Orwell, at least in so far as some writers are concerned, that “at the
very bottom of a writer’s motives there lies a mystery”.
The trouble with most poems is that they are not interesting
enough, not revealing enough to impart conviction, not surprising
enough to keep a reader reading and wanting more. They do not
give enough pleasure. For most people pleasure has moved from the
print to the electronic media during the years since the first teach-
ing plan began in 1937. Print does not have the pull it once had for
millions. But in spite of this reality, millions more books are being
read than ever before, if only because since the late 1930s, when that
great teaching plan began, the population has gone from about two
billion to six billion people. There are more people doing virtually
everything.

I have written the above for the increasing numbers since 1980 who
have come to enjoy Roger White’s poetry. White’s audience was still
a small vanguard of people, far from that large readership which T.S.
Eliot says arises when the poet is not really doing anything new,
just giving his readers what they were used to. I have also written
the above for those in the future who come across his work. White
on occasion quoted the poet Rainer Maria Rilke. The last time he
quoted him, before he passed away in 1993, White was writing
about how works of art should “challenge us to change our lives”.
Rilke also wrote that “time passed in the difficult is never lost”.
Some of White’s poetry many find difficult. But like Shakespeare
there is a reward for those who make the effort, for those who want
to try.
In the end, of course, we cannot all enjoy the same stuff - to each
his own, as it is often said. I think reading the poetry of Roger
White is an experience of reading great literature. C.S. Lewis once
wrote that “in reading great literature... as in worship, in love, in
moral action, and in knowing, I transcend myself and am never
more myself than when I do”.

WHITE’S HISTORY
A poet’s life, any life, is a process of unfolding realization.....a
responsibility for poetic values, poetry is a way not only of knowing
but also of living in the world, straining towards feelings of con-
sciousness in which what is outside is fused with what lies within
the self. -Veronica Brady, South of My Days: A Biography of Judith
Wright, Angus and Robertson, Sydney, 1998, Introduction.
J.B. Priestly once wrote that “the true Shakespearian way of life
was to combine a scepticism about everything with a credulity about
everything." What one might call this ’modern attitude’ of having a
theoretical uncertainty about even the surest of statements is, per-
haps, “our greatest asset in adapting to our human situation." In
approaching history White began with the assumption that man’s
social evolution was due to the periodic intervention in human
affairs of the creative force of the universe by means of the
Founders of the great religions. White had examined this assump-
tion in the light of the new evidence for this phenomenon provided
by the Baha’i Faith. This had been part of his investigation in the
late forties and early fifties. White’s approach to history was the
same as his approach to religion. It was based on the scientific
method. What White has to say in his poetic history, expressed over
hundreds of poems in several volumes and chapbooks, can be veri-
fied, understood, only by individuals capable and willing to assume
White’s point of view. His views can only be understood and appre-
ciated by those who have studied or are willing to study the history
on which it is based. The element of historical subjectivity that
resides in White’s poetry is the same that resides in any other
domain where the scientific method is applied. What White is say-
ing in the field of religion is not so private, so mystic, so incommu-
nicable as to be beyond scientific method. In exploring White’s
understanding of history I invite readers to study the historical con-
figurations on which it is based. For, I would argue, it is virtually
Chapter 15

impossible to appreciate that element of his poetry which deals with
history without knowing something about that history.
White’s poetry, like the poetry of W.B. Yeats, is so filled with the
people and places he cared about, the beliefs and issues he was
involved with as an active publicist of the Cause he had identified
himself with, that the events of his life seem curiously inevitable, as
we find ourselves accepting unreflectively one striking event in his
life and his poetry after another. White and his poetry are part of
the tissue, the very warp and weft, of the Cause in the history of its
Heroic and Formative Ages. White’s way of writing, of talking,
sounded like the way historian of modern poetry David Perkins
described Yeats and his poetry: “the actual thoughts of a man at a
passionate moment of life.....compelled to speak directly from his
personal self, writing of the actual men and women in the actual
world and in his own life." With Yeats, White might have also writ-
ten, as Yeats did in his epigraph to his volume of poetry
Responsibilities in 1914, In dreams begin responsibility. White put
words down on paper, but his moment in history, his society, his
milieux speaks through him. One could argue, and White seems to,
that once written, once spoken, the poem belongs to those who read
it and authorial intention and poetic ambiguities can not be
resolved, although they can be discussed. The literary interpreta-
tions of readers are seen as announcements of who they are and
what they believe. Readers shape the poem and are shaped by it.
Misinterpretation and distortion by readers are unavoidable, to
some extent. At the core of poem after poem, though, is what Mark
Turner calls “narrative imagining...... the fundamental instrument of
thought.” Narrative imagining relies on the readers’ capacity to
project one story onto another, to organize the story of a life, say, in
terms of a journey. The mind of the reader relies on the story to
interpret “the simplest quotidian acts to the most complex literary
achievements.” The mind of the poet relies on the story for a myri-
ad purposes, often unknown to the reader. Perhaps White was try-
ing, among other things, “to preach some kind of self-effacement to

his own self-assertive age.” Perhaps humility was not natural to
White, or to many of us. Perhaps it was, as he saw it, a mental need
without which we would have difficulty seeing the world in its
proper light.
In the beginning was the Story, the Word--and White leads us
back to that Story and Word, into our Story, our Word: its sacred
sites, its archtypes, its culture, its map, its truth and its engagement
with moral law. Readers can tap into these eternal stories, find their
relationship with them, their meaning, illuminate what endures in
life, place the ephemeral in its proper perspective. White hounds us,
tantalizes us, haunts us, with his rendition of the Baha’i Story. He is
often obscure, does not give us a definite shape, leaves us with an
urgency in our drive to interpret, an urgency which is often a
symptom of our lack of knowing, perhaps even our insecurity.
White reminds us of where we are going and why. He gives his
readers a range of vehicles to take themselves and their lives seri-
ously. One of the vehicles is history. In an age when stories come at
us until they are filling our eyes to overflowing and coming out of
our ears in excess from a print and electronic media, White’s Story,
his interpretation of the Baha’i Story has a particular and special
significance. His recreation is memory and soul, so unlike the big
television blockbusters which recreate history as spectacle, as body,
which keep the eyes busy but leave the mind, in the end, amused
and vacant. White’s recreations help the Baha’i community define
who and what it is. Remembering is a “fragile, heroic enterprise,"
says former poet laureate Robert Pinsky and poetry can teach us
about this enterprise. White is in the front lines of this fragile and
heroic enterprise.
The Western Dreaming opens, for the Greeks and the Hebrews,
on the plains of Troy and in a garden laid out by the very hand of
God. And now, after several thousand years, we exist at a vast dis-
tance from the psychic universe of these Greek and Hebrew writers.
The Dreaming that White is dealing with in his poetry is yet anoth-
er severe historical landscape charged with the ethereal brightness

of dramatic Persian mountainscapes, great expanses of naked rock,
long green valleys and their rivers and deserts of searing heat, dust
and inhospitable emptiness, stone and brick villages and some
friendly and agreeable shores. White’s poetic places of Dreaming
also take readers on a journey to Israel, Europe and North America,
at least some of the places and people there, where the history of the
Baha’i Faith went through its first century. We have come closer to
this Dreaming than we were, in recent times, to Eden and Troy.
There is no anachronism here, no abstruse language, no arbitary and
mythical eschatology. Here is a Dreaming which was part of
Western history just recently, was lived in just the other day. The
steel of White’s genius strikes the flint of history and of our times
and gives that Dreaming a fresh spark and vitality. White would
have agreed with poet and literary critic Sir Philip Sydney who saw
poetry as superior in some ways to both philosophy and history, to
the essential abstractness of philosophy and the essential concrete-
ness of history. Poetry is free to roam in a vast empire of passion
and knowledge which the poet tries to bind together. Like Sydney,
White saw poetry as the superior moral teacher. The poet could, by
a fitting selection and organization of ideas and incident, achieve a
reality more profound than that presented by quotidian experience.
However recent, the Baha’i Dreaming can slip into history
beyond our meaning. It is we who must recover our Dreaming. We
have to discover our Story, our Stories, and connect them to our
everyday lives. White is helpful here. He takes dozens of the stories
from the precursors(1743-1843) of the Babi and Baha’i Revelations
right up into our own time in the last years of his life(1990-1992)
before he was too sick to write--and puts his readers right in the
picture. He holds the hands of his readers, sometimes gently, some-
times with an encouragement to ’come-up,’ sometimes informing us
that ’here is your hero,’ ’here is your soul,’ ’here is the work,’ ’this
is the spiritual point,’though he leaves his readers plenty of room to
work it out themselves. All they can do is wait and work, follow the

path, try not to worry, have faith and Be, Be like some or many of
the souls, the people, White has given us in his poetry.
White gives us a neighbourhood to journey in for our Dreaming.
Sometimes the path is too hard to walk on; sometimes on the path
our tentative moves will be welcomed and our sure moves rebuffed.
But for each of us, the Dreaming is particular and we must work out
our own narrative vehicles for gaining access to the general sacred
order that White gives us on page after page of his poems. But the
big Story, when it strikes, is a metaphysical cyclone because it is
particular to the individual, interpreted in a singular context and it
surges up within us. Some of the Story, the Dreaming, is erudite,
some simple and everyday. White’s poetry is, at times, a complex
virtuosity and, at other times, the essence of simplicity like the
Story he is conveying. White provides what Dr. Johnson described
in his preface to his edition of Shakespeare, namely, a place for the
mind to repose “on the stability of truth.” After the endless prod-
ucts of the mass media, what Johnson might have called “the irregu-
lar combinations of fanciful invention...and that novelty of which
the common satiety of life sends us all in quest,” White creates for
his readers “a golden world superior to the brazen world of reality,”
a world with a special kind of optimism, a world with:
The hieroglyphics gouged in air
By an impatient fire-gloved hand
Are given as our library--
We, star-affrighted, gaze to land.
All roads in White’s poetic journey converge at one spot: the teach-
ings of Baha’u’llah and His life. Baha’u’llah is not the hero, like
Achilles in that Greek Dreaming, simple and splendid. He is the
eternal mystery, the enigma, but His life takes place in a precise his-

torical time and place where the participants are real personages
who were born, lived, suffered and died. They happened along once
upon a time. This time the physical Story, the historical account
contains a massive detail compared, say, with the account, the
Dreaming, of the New Testament or The Iliad or Odyssey. White’s
stories seem to coalesce out of the primal mist, the clouds, the gold
sparks of Babi-Baha’i history going back over two hundred years to,
arguably, say, 1793 when Shaykh Ahmad left his home to prepare
the way for the Promised One.
White helps us to carry our stories within us, into the world and
out of it. In the end it is often, not so much that we read White’s
poems but, rather, that they read us. Sometimes, as George Steiner
says of Franz Kafka’s works, White’s poems “find us blank.” We
turn away from his poems as we often turn away from the
Revelation, from their potential for enchantment, for exuberance.
We turn away from his invitation to explore our Dreaming. For in
this world of confused alarms our sensory emporiums are so bom-
barded that the best that is written and thought eludes us as we set-
tle for that which can not satisfy or appease the hunger.
White’s poetry is, of course, more than Story. It is both praise and
criticism of life, social analysis and psychological diagnosis. It is the
expression, the result, of his search for unity. For many writers in
the last decades of the twentieth century, this search for unity was
constantly frustrated in its narrative, historical and subjective
domains with the result that they often reduced history to autobi-
ography and society to their own consciousness. Former and appar-
ent blueprints for social change that many had found in religion or
politics became increasingly delusory. As the expressions of social
and political unity increased in the world so, too, did the expressions
of fractured, divisive, violent and anarchous activity increase. When
White started writing poetry the world’s population had something
less than three billion; when he finished nearly fifty years later, that
population had become something less than six billion. To document
the changes in that half century are not possible in the context of

this essay. But White’s history, his view of the past, is inseparable
from the world he lived in and the changes it went through.
White’s poetry is an expression of what for him was “true historical
sense,” of his existence among countless events and of his definition
of history’s landmarks, points of reference and its perspectives. In
writing his poetry, his history becomes ours if we want to share it
with him. Among the multiciplicty and immensity of it all White
finds and preserves coherence, wholeness and unity. This, too, is our
task. For we, too, must mold our historical and personal conscious-
nesses, our historical unity. We must make our own story into his-
tory, our multiplicities into a oneness, our narrative into a portion of
that “mass of billions of local stories" that is universal history.
White offers to us a series of synthesizing mechanisms that help
bring together history and our lives, the macro and the micro, as it
is sometimes expressed today. White would have liked to achieve, as
any poet would, what Johnson wrote in his life of the poet Gray:
“Images which find a mirrour in every mind” and “sentiments to
which every bosom returns an echo.” Still, he left his mark. He
gives us old knowledge, old history, rednered in new ways, the
familiar made unfamiliar and the unfamiliar familiar, as one writer
once put it.
Roger White is one of the finest wordsmith’s to have written in
English in the Baha’i community in recent epochs. If you love liter-
ature, history and the Baha’i Faith, I could do no better than suggest
you patiently pursue poem after poem of what is an extensive opus
and devour, as much as you can, White’s delicious instances of wit,
wisdom and sheer genius. Hagiographers may indulge the pleasing
task of describing the religion they espouse as it descended from
heaven arrayed in its native purity; a more melancholy and at the
same time more joyous and intellectually satisfying duty falls upon
the poet. The poet’s task, certainly as White sees it, is to discover the
inevitable mixture of humanity and ordinariness, vanity and weak-
ness, heroism and virtue, which is associated with the subtle and
complex system of action and conviction in the emerging world reli-

gion he was part of for nearly half a century. The given moment of
history, to White, is something more than a mere circumstance. It is
a moment he must seize as a moral, an aesthetic, fact. In seizing this
fact, the reader is often required by White to do a little digging,
exert some intellectual effort, exercise more than a little brain
power and imagination. If the reader is not capable of giving some-
thing of himself he cannot get from White’s poetry the best it has to
give him. If that is the case he had better not read White’s poetry,
for there is no obligation to do so.
White seems to have some of that “inexhaustible ardour for
insight” that the poet William Blake evinced and “his sensibilities so
heightened that ordinary events were translated into extraordinary
ones.” The outward creation was certainly, from time to time any-
way, a transparent shell through which White beheld the fiery
secret of life and its burning ecstacy. It was a secret and an ecstacy
that he had seen and experienced thanks to the teachings of the
prophet-founder of the Baha’i Faith and His transforming influ-
ences. But it was a many-splendoured, many-sided, thing. White
knew that:
We court a miracle and see the candles fail,,
The petals rust. What do our hearts avail?
No sword of vengenace cleaves us as we stand,
Our supplication brings no answering shout.
An ant crawls by persistent as our doubt
And in the comprehsnding hush we understand
Our mediocrity and godliness:

White would have agreed with Jane Austen when she wrote: “Real
solemn history, I cannot be interested in. The quarrels of popes and
kings, with wars or pestilences in every page; the men all so good
for nothing and hardly any women at all.” The record of the past
has never been easy to render; in some basic ways the content of the
social sciences in general is much more complex than the physical
sciences and so the telling of history, in or out of poetic form, is a
difficult task. It helps to know a great deal and it helps to have
thought long and hard about it. So often it is in vain that with ret-
rospective eye we can conclude a motive from the deed. For charac-
ter is unstable, life at best only partly explainable and the individual
only understandable to a degree. It is not surprising that for many,
even the more informed, history still is what it was to Gibbon two
and a half centuries ago: “little more that the register of the crimes,
the follies and misfortunes of mankind.”
History for White was also, as Gibbon put it much later in that
grand work, “a record of the transactions of the past for the instruc-
tion of future ages.” White knew what the American historian
Charles Beard once wrote, that “the writing of history was an act of
faith;" that the historian, the poet, indeed, all of us, must makes cer-
tain assumptions, wind our emotions around these assumptions and
proceed through life. As far as possible we must ground these
assumptions in truth, in fact, but inevitably there is an act of faith
involved somewhere in the process. White knew that facts about the
past “are no more history,” as historian of biography Ira Nadel
expressed it in a light and perceptive way, “than butter, eggs and
pepper are an omelette.” They must be whipped up and played in a
special fashion.
For White the writing of poetry, and his particular take on histo-
ry, is a ’dance of life,’ as the Australian poet A.D. Hope once defined
the art of poetry. Some pedestrian or not-so-pedestrian person in
Baha’i history acquires a fresh, new, life with a compactness, an
economy of language, a concern for things as they really happened,
as the nineteenth century historian Leopold von Ranke would have

expressed the recording of history. White does what Karl Popper
advocates in his The Poverty of Historicism. He consciously intro-
duces “a preconceived point of view” into his history” and writes
“that history which interests” him, but he does not twist the facts
until they fit a framework of preconceived ideas, nor does he neglect
the facts that do not fit in. Popper says that such an approach, that is
the introducing of a preconceived point of view, should be seen as
one that begins with a scientific hypothesis. Such a focus of histori-
cal interest, Popper emphasizes, is a historical interpretation. Of
course, one should endeavour, as far as possible, to know the facts of
history but, as Kant once argued, it is difficult if not impossible to
know the facts, the reality, of things. The real use in knowing what
happened in history lies in the interpretation of history’s facts, its
events. The recreation of a life is one of the most beautiful and diffi-
cult tasks a literary artist can perform.
White gains access to meaning by interpreting events, arranging
patterns, making descriptions, by actively engaging in practical
rationality. This is what is at the heart of hermeneutics and phenom-
enology, sub-disciplines in the social sciences that have grown up in
the twentieth century and influenced philosophy and sociology
among other fields. In the process he brings forth hidden meanings,
messages, as it were, from the past and the reader engages in an end-
less chain of listening and some essential thinking. For hermeneutics
and phenomenology are both science and art. They aim at the attain-
ment of historically effective consciousness, at a dialogue with the
past, with those who lived in that past and those who thought about
that past. Understanding is the filter, the door, through which
thought passes. White attempts to open that door. And, in the end,
he achieves what the art critic and historian Herbert Read said that
T.S. Eliot achieved in his poetic opus: an enlargement or intensifica-
tion of the “very consciousness of the world in which we are vitally
involved.” White writes each historical poem from “an exclusive
point of view,” as Charles Baudelair once said that biographical work

must be written from, but also “from a point of view which opens
the greatest number of horizons.”
White attempts to create a narrative, a concept of the Baha’i nar-
rative, which Baha’is can readily identify with. For without this
identity time turns into an unsolvable conflict of voices of authority,
an antimony. Understanding, to White, is bound and embedded in
history and the meaning changes over time according to how it is
received and read. Meaning can never be fixed. From his first chap-
book in 1947 to his final published work in 1992, White gives his
readers slice after slice of history, of his interpretation of a shared
memory. It is useful for his readers to have read some of God Passes
by, Nabil’s Narrative or any one of a number of books that explore
the history of the Baha’i Faith. A sensitive appreciation of so much
of White’s poetry depends on some background knowledge of the
belief system, the points in time and place that White is coming
from, that all Baha’is are coming from. With this background the
reader can often gain an insight, an understanding, of Baha’i history
and its teachings that many hours of patient reading of other vol-
umes will not yield.
Matthew Arnold once wrote that the Greek dramatist Sophocles
saw life whole, with its moral and emotional meaning inside it. The
modern world, the modern condition, on the other hand acknowl-
edges no publicly accepted moral and emotional Truth, only perspec-
tives toward it. But like Sophocles, White believed in submission to
divine law as the fundamental basis for both individual motivation
and social cohesion. To put it another way, both writers strongly
believed that religion should play a very large part in the way socie-
ty should be organized. Both writers had “a delicate sense of the
complexity of experience,” a sense of the tension between public
interaction and private life and a clarity of vision that came from
the world of myth. “Myths were a living body of meaning,” for
both Sophocles and White, “that illuminated the essential processes
of life.” For each writer, of course, the mythic base is different.
Sophocles was, arguably, the last major thinker, certainly the last

Greek dramatist of the fifth century BC, to see the “need for a law-a
divine law-above the state and its holders of power.” For both
White, and Sophocles, this mythic base, this common world view or
cosmology and its accompanying moral and spiritual system,
provides the ethos, the overall dramatic context, the external stan-
dard, the very structure for something ennobling for the communi-
ty, something that contributes to its well-being. Without this
commonality, people live with incompatible ends and develop politi-
cal systems in which the end justifies the means. As Ivanov contests
in Koestler’s Darkness at Noon: `The principle that the end justifies
the means is and remains the only rule of political ethics.’ Perhaps
Ivanov puts the case a little too strongly but we get the drift and it
appeals to our skepticism about partisan politics.
This is partly why White sought to draw his readers away from
his personality. Indeed, he was downright embarrassed with the
whole notion of drawing attention to himself. This was utterly alien
to what he was trying to achieve as an artist, a poet. The voice that
spoke in his art was not that of his limited personality, but rather of
a soul who had identified himself with divine and eternal truth.
Indeed, “the slightest whisperings of self,” the whole pursuit of self-
expression, was, for White, done in the context of the upturned mir-
ror of his soul in which the light of the will of God and His teach-
ings were reflected, at least that is how he envisaged the process.
This process helped produce, over time, White’s voice. What under-
lies White’s success, indeed all success in poetry, is voice. It gives us
confidence in what he says. It is poetry’s decisive factor. It is contin-
uous and accumulates as he writes and as you read.
Some things in life must be savoured slowly. White’s poetic histo-
ry is one of these. The first poem in White’s first major book of
poetry Martha begins with a conversational, a casual, tone as if the
poet was speaking to this famous Baha’i teacher, as if he was writing
her a letter:
Have patience, Martha,

White is informal but serious as he continues with thirty lines of
graphic description which includes his depiction of Martha Root’s
inner mental state and her motivational matrix in the years after
World War I when the apocalyptic images ineffaceably etched there-
the poisoned air
the towers afire
the maimed trees
the human pyre
sent her “hurtling in exquisite arc/across the blackening sky,”. And
so she did ’hurtle’ for two decades between the wars before she died
in Hawaii in 1939. Her life became:
..........a solitary warning cry
against engulfing dark
and ultimate night.
The darkness was so great during these inter-war years when mil-
lions perished in Stalin’s and Hitler’s fiery death camps that
Martha’s efforts, however heroic, are described by White as follows:
Your eyes were dippers
used against the fire,
Apparently insignificant, her efforts, he goes on:

purchased brief respite
that on the ramparts might arise
the legioned guardians of light.
These ’legioned guardians’ began to arise in the teaching Plans that
the Guardian initiated just two years before Martha died so that, by
the 1960s, thousands would arise ’on the ramparts.’ By the time
White was to write this poem and by the time its first readers would
enjoy his succinct and pithy summation of her life there were
indeed “legioned guardians of light.” White advised Martha, still
addressing her in that colloquial and informal tone, to:
Be patient:
we may yet ourselves become
God’s gadabouts,
meteoric, expire
Martha-like,
in conflagrant holy urgency.
And so in five lines, the last five of White’s first poem in his first
major book of poetry, White gives his readers a vision, a direction,
for their own lives, linked as it is with the greatest Baha’i teacher of
the Formative Age. He was not trying to renew “a decadent civiliza-
tion,” as Ezra Pound had tried to do and unsuccessfully as he admit-
ted in his epic poem The Cantos, written over more than half a cen-
tury. But there is no doubt that White was trying to play his part,
by the time he wrote this poem in the late 1970s, as one among mil-
lions of his co-religionists, in the construction of the new world
Order associated with the Faith he had joined some thirty years
before. The part he played, par excellence, was the writing of a long

series of statements, a dialectic, a development, a form, which
attempted to lead the mind to some conclusion, to some affective
condition, a quality of personal being judged by the action it leads
to. But the language he used, poetic language, was largely one of
indirection and symbolism.
There is an authenticity here, something behind and beyond
the text, the life of Martha as we know it in the extant biographies
and histories, beyond and behind the representation or embodiment
of Martha Root in the photos of her that are part of our history.
White undertakes to reveal a Martha Root who is doing more than
looking past the camera into the distance with an air of weighty
seriousness, of farsightedness, a look which might strike some
viewers as anachronistic or too detached. Indeed there is no visual
image consistent with White’s written portrait. There are many
and whatever image one could find would produce radically
different interpretations.
Even the face of Martha, usually characterized as photographs of
faces are by its ability to convey the essence of an individual, her
innermost nature and qualities, its seemingly direct portrayal of the
individual, of Martha and her life, a vivid representation of the liv-
ing being who was Martha Root, a truthful picture, a genuine like-
ness, not just how she looks but what she is, leaves us asking ’who is
the Martha we look at and how may we know it’? Martha’s public
persona was, as White notes in the epilogue to this poem, as a
dowdy girl, unattractive and unfashionably dressed, some might say
plain. But, White says later in the poem, we “cease to care/whether
virtue be photogenic.”
There has been a strong belief in the West since the early years
after the invention of photography, that the face and head are “the
outward signs of inner character.” The human face engrosses a large
share of our thoughts, perhaps the largest share of all, and White
dismisses this tendency which is part of our celebrity or image cul-
ture in its application to Martha Root. If Martha is to be trans-

formed into anything it will have little to do with the star or
celebrity status of the western media industry. What he projects
onto our consciousness is not a photograph, a visual image. If any-
thing it is an idea, a thought, that he foregrounds, not the visual, in
the complex configuration that goes to make up Martha Root, the
hero. Martha does not fall from hero to star with its concomitant
emphasis on the visual. White confirms her heroic status.
Indeed, it may be more accurate to say that White clarifies Root’s
mythic status. For there is an essential metaphorical nature to
Baha’i history, as John Hatcher as describes in such a straightfor-
ward way in his book The Nature of Physical Reality. Myth has a
multivalent function in this conception of history. “To limit an
image” writes Eliade, “to the concrete terminology, the physical
form, is to mutilate it.” In this view of history--and the poetry
White writes--based on this history, the reader must be creative,
must think, must participate, must transcend the physical and move
in a world of abstract thought. He or she must engage in what is
often called ’the analogical process.’ Martha, in a poem like this,
“becomes a mirror that reflects insights,” as Rollo May once wrote
in discussing myth and its function and her experience gives us
“structural undergirding to (our) beliefs.” To put this another way,
physical reality, in this case Martha Root, is a veil that is one
remove from the spiritual reality she represents. And we must use
our individual judgement and discernment to properly utilize this
myth, this metaphor, this spiritual reality, to free us from blind
adherence to dogma, to a physical reality and, thus, to participate
wisely in the physical reality that is our daily life.
In a second poem, the next one in Another Song, A Letter to
Keith, White continues with his colloquial, conversational idiom. We
learn a great deal about this attractive Baha’i woman who made an
outstanding contribution of service to the Cause and who was the
West’s first martyr. But this poem is no factual biography, no story
of a life. It is a graphic recreation not an impartial account. White is
a poet with a belief in a compelling vision, a principle, a dogma con-

taining a great emotional and spiritual potency at its source and in
its history. White possesses a technical virtuosity and he plots
meticulously as he encourages his readers to think for themselves.
We see this in his clever and witty poem, his piece of dramatic
invention, based on the life of Keith Ransom-Kehler.
The poem begins by placing the reader right at the heart of the
issue White is exploring:
Why did you do it, Keith,
And you a looker?
Not your usual religious dame
in need of a good dentist
and a fitted bra.
In White’s response to a letter criticizing his poem’s “stereotypical
thinking about religious women as rigidly pietistic,” women “lack-
ing in pulchritude who seek spiritual consolation as compensation.”
White says “no slight was intended to any woman.” He continues in
that same letter indicating that he sought “to place in the mouth of
the narrator of the poem, a fictitious peer of Keith’s, a man holding
attitudes perhaps typical of his time and place, words of grudging
and bewildered admiration for a townswoman of his acquaintance,
whose heroic example of authentically-experienced faith forces him
to reappraise those very prejudices against religious women which
he unsuccessfully masks behind an uneasy, heavy-handed humour.”
At the end of the poem Keith’s sacrifice causes this anonymous
narrator to reexamine his own life orientation:
I’m bawling,
me a grown man,

three sons and a wife in the grave
and not what you call sentimental.
White concludes his letter by saying that “we cannot lose hope that
even the narrator of “A Letter to Keith” will grow to recognize the
perniciousness of the philosophy that governs the world of sem-
blances.” White wrote, again in that same letter, that “I do not
underestimate the power of slights of cause hurt.” And I’m sure he
did not, having had his share of slights in life, a share that I’m sure
contributed in interesting and complex ways to his poetic opus. It is
a rare event for readers to possess an interpretation of a poem given
by this poet and had not a letter to the editor been critical of White
and his poem in the first place this opinion, this defence of his poem
and his intentions in writing it, would not exist. I can not think of
another commentary on a poem as extensive as this, at least not in
White’s published works.
Perhaps some of White’s skill resides in that strange ability, as
William Blake expressed it,
To see the world in a grain of sand
And heaven in a wild flower
Hold infinity in the palm of (his) hand
And eternity in an hour.
Or as another poet, Browning, emphasized that
.....a man’s search should exceed his grasp
Or what’s a heaven for.

White’s poetic pieces of history are based on the view that human
phenomena must be interpreted. They don’t just speak for them-
selves. Social reality has become, in recent decades, very complex.
The analysis of this social reality by various disciplines in the
humanities and social sciences has become interdisciplinary and has
expanded at a dazzling rate. The critical literature is now burgeon-
ing. It has become impossible to read it all, in any of the disciplines.
As one of the twentieth century’s great social analysts Joseph
Schumpeter once put it, even before this late twentieth century bur-
geoning of analysis: to make a judgement about human affairs, even
one of the smallest moment, would require much study, much
examination. And I would add, more study than most of us are
prepared, or desire, to invest. It simply takes too much time and
the disciplined exercise of our rational faculty. And there are so
many issues.
For White, “the poem comes before the form,” as Herbert Read
described the process, “in the sense that a form grows out" of his
attempt to say something. His poem becomes its own universe with
words “impressed like clay with the poet’s invention,” in a poetic
tradition that began, Herbert Read outlines, with the imagists in
1908, the year ’Abdu’l-Baha was released from confinement in
prison in Akka.
White recognizes the complexity, the interdependence and the
mystery of reality I refer to above in the following poem, The
Appointment. I have discussed this poem before in an earlier chap-
ter, but it is worth quoting again because what we have here is some
of White’s philosophy of history:
There is another kind of clock
its cogwheels fixed
in the unknowable convolutions
of God’s mind,

perhaps our galaxies
its smallest jewels,
a clock that marks
some celestial piecing
of eternity,
one that runs silently,
invisibly,
forever,
fluidly forward or back,
cancelling our time,
its tick perpetual,
attuned to the omniscient
and eternal heart.
The cornerstone of the Baha’i philosophy of history is a belief in
progress through providential control of the historical process. At
the heart of this philosophy is the concept of an ever-advancing civi-
lization. There is none of the historical pessimism and the contemp-
tus mundi of the old religions. White’s poetry and his Faith extends
to humankind an immense hope and confidence in the future,
indeed, that there will be a blissful consummation to man’s evolu-
tion. In this same poem, The Appointment, White quotes the words
of ’Abdu’l-Baha: “From this temple, thousands of temples will
arise.” Progress is not only the law it is the prerogative of the divine
ordering of history; or, as White adds near the end of the poem, the
words of ’Abdu’l-Baha, “The Temple is already built!” The essential
mystery of this divine ordering is echoed in the last two lines of
the poem:

what clock or calendar keeps Him
and Who He is.
This teleological view of history, where “intervention/rises up to
melt our mathematics/or intersect our schemes,” or, in the poem
The Pioneer, “The future is inestimably glorious,” White expresses
in poem after poem his view of man and his view of history. To
White, man is a composite being with a higher and a lower nature,
with an angelic and an animal side. Only through the exercise of his
spiritual faculties can a harmonious and beneficial world be created.
We see Siegfried Schopflocher’s generosity, Fred Mortensen’s per-
manent place in “Baha’i history,” Salman, the courier’s courage, the
spiritual qualities of a host of others: Thomas Breakwell, Juliet
Thompson, several martyrs, people spread throughout his hundreds
of poems.
It is White’s view that the revealed Word fundamentally affects
the development of social and cultural reality. Indeed the Cause of
all creation and the source of all attributes is the Primal Will which
is manifested by the Manifestation of God. All aspects of civilization
are the result of the expression of this Primal Will in the world of
creation through the utterance of the Word, or Logos. This interac-
tion is perpetual and continuous. The following poem illustrates my
point. White makes the narrator of the poem, Lullaby, an old
woman who is telling bedtime stories to children. She is telling the
story of the day she saw them take Baha’u’llah in chains to the
Siyah-Chal. It was years before and she had come
--------------as a young girl into the service of his wife
---------------
--------he was led through the rabble of the streets.
-------------------

A strange sight indeed--like seeing a white rose
in a swarm of gnats. He walked in cream-like majesty
She describes how she was about to throw a small pebble at him
but, in shame and fear, she turned and fled and hid the pebble. Years
later, as she is telling this story, she says:
it was enough to have seen that face.
Perhaps I should have cast it, but my hand was stayed.
I took it as an omen.
--------------
It grows, I think, more white each year
The silly amulet of an old fool, I suppose,
but when I am ill or sad it comforts me
-------------
So there you have it; it was his eyes, you see.
It was as though they gazed beyond us to another world.
Although this is a somewhat humble way of illustrating the whole
notion of the evolution of civilization that is at the heart of White’s
view of history, in its simplicity it makes its point. The evolution,
the progress, the development of civilization, one of the many com-
plex issues in the social sciences and an issue that has found several
major theoretical constructs to support various interpretations,
answers or explanations is explained in the Baha’i teachings by reli-
gion or, more specifically, the Manifestation of God. Economics, con-
flict, reason, power, great men, all find their place in various systems
of explanation. White places the source of development of society
squarely on the person of the Manifestation of God; this is the cause

and all else is effect. By implication, then, “only those who are not
interested in political power or worldly glory are worthy” of this
Cause and its message. There are so many illustrations in White’s
poems which illustrate what I am saying here. I leave it to the read-
ers to do their own exploration.
How does White express this interpretation of history in his
poems? What are the various stresses and strains that point to this
reality, this philosophy of history?
In a poem about Ruhiyyih Khanum White refers to “history’s
hunkered spectre/brooding watchfully in the shadows.” This ’help-
mate’ drowns, in the last two lines of the poem, “in scarlet helpless-
ness/at the marble column’s foot.” With Balyuzi “Pain had softened
the aristocratic outline” and his “will pinned furiously to one awe-
some purpose.” And again: “the panorama of the mountain/must
not blind one to the pebble.” White talks of “improvising our lives
from movies and pulp fiction.”
I could list many more takes on history, on society, on life and its
meaning but, somehow, they do not carry the weight of several indi-
vidual poems examined in full. I shall close this essay with a discus-
sion of these several poems. For they each provide points of intensi-
ty at which the force of the emotions fuse the utterance, or at least
attempt, to a glowing heat. For me, White provides poetry of this
kind frequently. He is deeply concerned with our moral sensibility
but not in any narrow evangelistic sense with its accompanying
moral superiority. He comes at us and makes his greatest impress
due to the intellectual-aesthetic content of his work more than its
moral, its religious, appeal. “Intellectual assent in literature,” wrote
Lionel Trilling, “is not quite the same thing as agreement.” Our
pleasure often comes from White’s intellectual cogency, his artistic
and emotional power, even when we don’t agree with him.
The poem, The Gift, is based on an experience Curtis Kelsey had
in 1921 when ’Abdu’l-Baha called him into his room in Haifa and
sitting opposite Him, ’Abdu’l-Baha just looked at Curtis for several

minutes in silence. Later in life when Curtis experienced difficulties
that face would appear to him. White writes the following sonnet:
With that face given to me had I need
Of other gift? With those eyes holding mine
The shrivelled earth lost power to incline
Me to its shimmering mirage, to heed
Its ashy course, its dimming stars’ design--
In one long glance the light of sun was mine!
Embossed on all my days this best of gifts,
A compelling image me to virtue past my reach.
Thus comforted, upheld, the frail heart lifts
To meet the imprinted living goad again
And pluck sweet victory like the low-hung peach.
His countenance held heaven’s very plan.
That message read, what other need I scan?
The ’shimmering mirage,’ the ’ashy course’ of earth and the ’dim-
ming stars’ design’ that White alludes to is a reflection of a view of
life, expressed in the writings of Baha’u’llah, that ’the world is like a
vapour in the desert which the thirsty dreameth to be water but
when he comes upon it he finds it to be mere illusion.’ This is not to
say that we should not strive in this earthly life; indeed, as White
points out in the first line of the sestet, the image of the face of
’Abdu’l-Baha rising in Curtis Kelsey’s brain challenges him
---------------to virtue past (his) reach

The torments and stimulants, the goads, of life must be met day
after day and we must strive to “pluck sweet victory like the low-
hung peach,” however illusory life may be in an ultimate sense. And
finally, the reader is brought face to face with the core of the mean-
ing of the poem, a core beyond the dichotomy of meaning and illu-
sion, in the poem’s penultimate line: “His countenance held heav-
en’s very plan.” This was ’the gift’ that is the title of the poem.
Curtis had no need for any other gift after ’Abdu’l-Baha had given
him the gift of ’his visage’ whenever he was in need. History rests,
as White says in so many different ways in his poems, on the inter-
action of a combination of several interrelated factors: the
Manifestation of God and his Covenant, here expressed in the per-
son of “Abdu’l-Baha, individual striving and a detachment from the
results of striving, here expressed by the sense of the illusoriness
of life.
One important part of White’s view of history, White’s view of
some essential perspectives on the meaning of history and of our
own individual histories, is found in the poem Distinction.
With every breath to celebrate breath’s source:
Was merely this the perspicuous distinction,
To be as choiceless candle hastening extinction,
Burning with single purpose its brief course
Mindful of the wick, the hand that set the flame,
The oxygen it drinks to speed its end,
Casting its light for stranger and for friend
Nor caring were one beautiful, another plain?
The faithless mind contrives a thousand ways
To fit distraction to our fleeting days
Yet sorrows for the unnamed thing we lose.

What use were lungs unless in every breath
Life’s source be remembered? Were all else death?
The purpose of our history, our life, White says is that “With every
breath” we “celebrate breath’s source,” that we burn “with single
purpose” and that we remember life’s source with every breath in
such a way that our days are not filled with distraction. He asks the
question, perhaps rhetorically, whether we would consciously choose
such a way of life, whether we would have it any other way. This is
the route out of the misery and woe, the darkness and the coldness
which fill this vale. This is part of that full participation in this
earthly life that will, in time, bring about the Kingdom of God on
earth. This full participation, this singleness of purpose is, for
Baha’is, the building of a new society. The new man and the new
society can not come about without personal effort. A spiritual
rebirth must occur in the individual and a transformation of
society in a new world Order. We all must become that"choiceless
candle hastening extinction” as we work toward that rebirth and
that transformation.
In some ways the centre of history is a spiritual path, a journey.
The Journey, White describes can often feel like “folly” and “a
dim/Dangerous progress over untracked land/Ambushed with bogs
in which illusions mire.” The whole poem describes the dangers, the
problems, the inevitabilities of the journey. “Reason is soon victim
and thendesire,” he informs us, if we don’t already know. In a pow-
erful series of statements about the nature of the journey, as well as
several other important ’journey poems,’ White’s poetry becomes
part of a literature in the western intellectual tradition going back to
Homer’s Iliad and Odyssey among the Greeks and the wisdom liter-
ature of the prophets of the Old Testament. For the history of spe-
cific individuals and the history of a people both occupy the stage in
White’s history and his stage is a rich and engrossing one for the
reader, if the reader will but give himself to White’s poetry.

In the end, any poem’s success depends on the reader participating
in the emotional life of the person/people/persona/event in the
poem. Given the little we know about White’s personal history and
given his own oft’ expressed emphasis on his poetry as the only sig-
nificant and useful basis for really knowing him, our appreciation of
his work must lie squarely on his poetry--and, of course, on Baha’i
history. This, ultimately, is the value of Roger White, the value to
the intellectual and community life of Baha’is around the world
both now and in the future. In this sense Roger White has played
and will play an important part in keeping history alive and well in
our hearts and minds.

A GALAXY OF CHARACTERS
The great bulk of the poetry of Roger White that was written and
published came in the last fifteen years of his life. Indeed it was the
culmination of a life’s work in reading, writing about, teaching and
serving in various capacities the religion he had joined in his late
teens in southern Ontario. This poetry will remain at the outer limit
of human achievement: aesthetically, cognitively and spiritually, as
it came to be expressed in the last quarter of the twentieth century
in the Baha’i community as it was just emerging from its century-
and-a-half chrysalis of obscurity. Although at that outer limit, it is
also an important part of the permanent record or revelation of the
nature of reality, the history, in that quarter century. Much of the
truth of life is knowable only through the various cultural attain-
ments of the mind. If White had not come along, perhaps we would
have learned the things he had to teach us from others. Perhaps we
would not have. His poetry is a magnificent ornament for that
unfailing occupation of our lives - the cultivation of our minds.
The galaxy of characters that White created, recreated, defined,
gave birth to, analysed with a brilliant clarity, penetrating detail, a
compression of facts - the Central Figures of the Baha’i Faith,
Shoghi Effendi, Ruhiyyih Khanum, Martha Root, Keith Ransom-
Kehler, Louis Gregory, Horace Holley, Marion Jack - are more than
just clever instances of how meaning gets extended, refined and
elaborated upon; they are expressions of how new modes of con-
sciousness come into being. White gives us a vivid, a graphic
impression of the multifariousness of life and the many layers of
the human personality. In some ways White is an enigma, a person
about whom we know only a very basic line of biography, a person
who kept saying, time and again, to examine his poetry not his life,
if we wanted to come to know him. But, if we do this, we find we
have in our hands a person who was everyone, a vision that takes in
everything, an art so infinite that it contains us and will go on
enclosing those likely to come after us. His opus may have been a
small one, apparently minuscule, compared to the collected works of
Chapter 16

many other great writers in history, but it stands on its own as a
significant body of poetry in the last quarter of the twentieth centu-
ry. White’s poetry provides what Herbert Read called “a teleological
function”, a connecting link between transcendental being and
human consciousness. His poetry was also a connecting link, a
transforming medium, that took the pain and the joy of life, his and
others, and turned it into art. It is an art that is, for many, a sublime
and moving testament to many of the significant personalities in
Baha’i history.
Perhaps I am overstating the case. But once White’s poetry floods
your consciousness and you find he is reading you better than you
are reading him, you begin to appreciate what you have in this sub-
tle quotient, this wondrous sifter of the Revelation and the history,
the philosophy and sociology of a religion that claims to be the
emerging planetary system of the coming millennium. White pos-
sesses a strength of voice and an amazing clarity of emotional lan-
guage. Spare and elegant, he gives himself to his audience in poem
after poem. I find I am being read by a poet I cannot resist, who pos-
sesses what you might call a ’fatal attractiveness’. One must read
White with a certain exertion, a certain strenuous exercise of energy
but, knowing this, his poetry will read you even more. The reader
has in White a poet who delights in other people, who has an active
and incisive mind and a practicality he brings to bear on a range of
personalities. I find him exquisitely tender. He deals with the prob-
lem that Somerset Maugham says faces the writer: “that vice can be
painted in colours that glow, whereas virtue seems to bear a hue
that is somewhat dun”. He deals with this curious trait of the
human condition by presenting his characters as ’rounded’ in E.M.
Forster’s sense, with their mix of the good, the bad, the ugly and the
beautiful all in one poem.
Most cerebral poetry functions at such a level as to lose its emo-
tive power and I am sure there will be many who will give up on
White, as they give up on Shakespeare or any other literature that
does not come easily into the sensory and intellectual emporium.

Ideas have to be given what the poet John Milton called a “local
habitation” - they have to be given shape and form before we take
them into ourselves. White does this with an artistry that is some-
times gentle and subtle and sometimes graphically straight from the
shoulder in carefully crafted images. His poetry requires that you
take a little time and I think it is here that White loses many from
the mass culture of the electronic media where stimulation is
instantaneous, visual appreciation highly refined and busy, but a
lively literary sense often dull and decaying.
After two decades of studying White’s poetry I do not feel like
Robert Bernard Martin who wrote of Gerald Manley Hopkins that
understanding his poems was “far less difficult that getting to know
the mysterious man who wrote them”. Indeed, I do not feel I need
to read a massive biography spread over, say, five hundred pages
dutifully describing each stage of White’s life in great detail and
analysing why he did what he did at each stage of the game.
Inevitably such biographies will appear, I am confident. For me,
White’s poetry provides a base line of understanding that is always
there for me to read: to read myself, my religion, my society, my
time and age. White flirts with ideas and values in an imaginative
way that exercises my mind and my heart; or, as Daniel T. O’Hara
writes of the kind of imaginative portraits that White gives his read-
ers again and again, until they often lose their appreciation in his
liberal effusions, these portraits are “written as part of a dialogue of
the mind and the heart”. White’s interpretations are part of a
process by which his disclosures give to his readers a new capacity
for knowing themselves. His is the work of a historical, a sociologi-
cal, a psychological imagination that revises the past and imagines a
myriad alternatives. Indeed one could go so far as to say that White,
along with several other writers in the twentieth century, has begun
to create a critical language in which man will speak for a thousand
years. I have come to see White as one of those midwives of an idea
whose time has come. And what may that idea be? It is the oneness
of humanity and its institutionalization in a world order. The past

cries to be recognized and the present to be transformed. White
helps us with this recognition, this transformation.
For this writer, the eminence, the genius of White lies in the sheer
diversity of people: heroes, heroines, saints, martyrs, pioneers,
administrators, servants of various kinds to the work of the Cause,
ordinary people both within and without this newest of the world’s
great religions. There are so many separate selves and, if this were
not enough, White also deals with a very wide range of ideas from
the landscape of history, society and the future. He does all this with
a gentle wit that is more than just a verbal flourish. It is part of his
poetic modus vivendi, modus operandi. His wit and humour pre-
serve “the seriousness from sentimentality and overstatement, as
the seriousness keeps the wit from flippancy”.
But far and above these literary talents, White’s greatest faculty
is unquestionably his intellect. White does what ’Abdu’l-Baha says
the intellect must do in this age if ideas and thoughts are to be the
very soul of the world in a boundless sea that must boil up “until
the waves rise and scatter their pearls and knowledge on the shore
of life”. White creates “new and wonderful configurations”. He
embellishes the world with “a fresh grace", “an ever-varying splen-
dour” which derives from his power of thought. White, of course, is
the first to admit that this gift, this “sensation of writing is that of
any unmerited grace”.
There are great poets in our time and in history who are not
great thinkers and there are great poets of conceptual originality.
Each critic would make their selection of poets to put in each of
these categories. But there are very few poets in all of history who
are both great thinkers and in the possession of a creative imagina-
tion that is highly original.
What White brings to life are, for the most part, not creatures
solely of his imagination. He does not create Falstaffs and Hamlets,
characters who in some ways are larger than life and live down the
centuries in its imaginative literature. The individuals who inhabit

White’s poetry are part of his experience, his historical memory
and/or part of the historical record of the Baha’i Faith. The presen-
tation of human character and personality remains always the
supreme literary accomplishment whether in drama, in narrative or
in poetry. White presents people with sufficient meaning that one
gets to know them sometimes quite profoundly, as well or better
than many in one’s life. Through the interaction White creates with
this history, this memory, the voices of his poetic narrative, the
recreation and inauguration of personality, of character, in history -
as well as the person he is in his verse - readers undergo slow trans-
formations of their own. The deepest meaning of White’s poetry lies
here. “It is who we have gradually become in reading this verse,”
writes J.B. White in his book about the poetry of George Herbert,
“that we can best call upon as our guide to understanding it”. It
was not without purpose that White was attracted to the poetry
of Herbert.
Shoghi Effendi, in one of his oft-quoted statements, outlines the
key to our success in teaching, namely: “the extent to which our
own inner life and private character mirror forth in their manifold
aspects the splendour of those eternal principles proclaimed by
Baha’u’llah”. White renders the characters in his poetry with an
uncanny power of highlighting, mirroring, those eternal principles.
The people in his poetry seem so real. Their reality never leaves
you, at least in the case of some of the main characters and, if it
does, a re-reading of a poem brings that reality right back. Each
reader will have his or her favourites. This is because White’s cre-
ations are real and because White gets on their insides. They strut
and fret upon the stage of life and walk proudly too, but their brief
candle, White ensures, colloquially, often in a quotidian way, will
shine in quite varied ways for us in his poetry. They will be heard
from some more, then, on this earth and in mysterious and
unknown ways in the next.
White’s compendium of characters are not unlike Geoffrey
Chaucer’s in his famous Canterbury Tales. A group of characters

who, as William Blake once wrote, exemplify “the eternal principles
that exist in all ages” are described by someone who delights in
other people, who has an active and incisive mind, who dwells only
on essentials, whose feelings are sincere and intense, who is exquis-
itely tender but clearly wily and tough minded enough to survive
the late twentieth century and its dark heart. Like Chaucer, White
wrote most of his published poetry in the last years of his life, in
fact, just about exactly six hundred years after that founding father
of English poetry. The comparison is an interesting one, but I men-
tion it here only in passing.
Like Chaucer’s work, too, White requires some immersion on the
part of his readers if they are to gain some deeper appreciation of
his meaning. White is showing his readers what and even how to
perceive, what to sense. He is trying to enlarge their world, their
perception. The problem is often simply how to read a poem. Often
the reader is left with a question, a puzzle, a mystery, because much
of the poetry is what you might call part of “a quest narrative”. He
deals in metaphor and readers must fill in meaning for themselves.
It does not jump off the page as it might off the television screen in
some straight action or passion shot. The journey is described, the
story told in what you might call a ’hidden way’. The tone is some-
times joyous and confident but the journey often possesses a pro-
portionate amount of danger and frustration, qualities that give the
goal of the journey meaning. For White’s tale is not something “told
by an idiot, full of sound and fury, signifying nothing”. The follow-
ing poem talks little of the joy and confidence, although the reward
is clear in the last line:
And they will warn you, children, as they stand
In wan ardour at the dense thicket’s rim
That your pitch venture is folly, a dim
Dangerous progress over untracked land

Ambushed with bogs in which illusions mire,
Keen fang and talon glint from every tree
And murky bats career and lean wolves prey.
Reason is soon victim and then desire--
A sharp cry marks the kills no startled plea
Postpones. No one returns uncrazed, the cautious say,
And many perish. Who might guess
How few whose passion wins the sought caress.
Who counsel flight from Love’s far lair are wise
But O! not they shall see the Lover’s eyes.
There is a wilderness, though, through which we must blaze a new
and individual trail. Occasionally people try to mitigate the story of
the pain by stressing the hopeful vision, the positive side of the
journey but few, White warns, win “the sought caress”. No easy
wish-fulfilment here. Readers return again and again to White’s
varied charactizations and his depiction of life’s journey because
they find he gives them so much of the world they find to be fact.
He is not creating a world of fantasy to escape into with one’s novel
at bedtime. He tells it how it is and he says it so well, with such
articulateness, that his readers keep coming back to hear it said
so eloquently.
White answers the needs of this first generation of Baha’is in the
tenth stage of history, the first generation of pioneers under the
aegis of the Universal House of Justice, the trustees of the global
undertaking which was initiated by the Bab and Baha’u’llah in the
nineteenth century. If White’s poetry is to endure it must answer
the needs of future generations as well. Those needs will vary but
White is an international possession and his poetry, I would argue,
will come to transcend the generations, nations and languages. I do

not think he can be confined to the decade and a half that he wrote
and published in the third and fourth epochs of the Formative Age
of the Baha’i Faith and their historical, social, political, economic,
rational and poetic contexts. I do not think White can be reduced to
a time and place. His influence on his readers is unique and it will
continue into the future. The interpretations of the first quarter-
century of what you might call the White industry are just the
beginning. Wonder, gratitude, amazement at such a mind, and some-
times shock, are accurate responses to White’s work. White writes to
be read, occasionally at public readings but, for the most part, silent-
ly due to his subtlety and comprehensive and omnipresent creative-
ness, to use Coleridge’s term.
White, of course, will mean different things to different people
but he has ensured that whatever he means it is to be found in his
poetry and not his biography. Unlike Shakespeare who seems to
have had little influence on religion over the last four hundred
years, except perhaps as part of a broad secularization that has swept
Western civilization, White’s influence on the thinking of millions
of Baha’is even in the first generation of his readership has been
significant. I like to think that White was and is popular, although
he has not been part of ’popular culture’ except in the broadest of
terms. His poetry certainly lends itself to a popularizing, but the
competition of the electronic media is pervasive, indeed overwhelm-
ing. For the moment he will remain on the cultural periphery of the
mass society.
Much of our experience of culture, our reading of poetry or prose,
our attendance at the theatre, indeed a significant part of our reli-
gion, is a search for ourself or a search for other selves. White gives
us other selves and he gives us ourselves. This is one, perhaps the
main, reason he is important to us. Whatever the social, spiritual
and intellectual provocations that animated White in the years after
the revolution in Iran, in that fifteen-year period when all his major
poems were published - and there were many as the Baha’i Faith
went through a period of significant growth and its spiritual and

administrative centre in Israel was embellished to an unprecedented
degree - his writing, as he himself says, “appears to be rooted in the
need to shut off the clamour of the external world.... to enjoy
silence and solitude”. In the process White enlarges our vision
rather than sorting out the problems we face. He helps us accept and
outgrow what Carl Jung calls the unsolvability of so many of our
problems while we move to “a new level of consciousness”.
In 1990 Geoffrey Nash suggested that our age with its fading sys-
tems of belief has given to “those bats of the night", the material-
ists, the dominance of the realms of thought and action. A grossly
materialistic, utilitarian and atheistic world has the poet to keep
alive in man, as Schiller once wrote, aims that are higher than the
material. Nash, writing just as the Baha’i community was beginning
to respond to the Universal House of Justice’s call in 1979 for the
development and fostering of the “intellectual.... life of the believ-
ers", decried the absence of an audience and the groundwork of
shared values with those among whom the poet dwells. The poet, he
argued, has had no mooring and has floated adrift in an amorphous
and frightening ocean for more than a century. With Matthew
Arnold, the poet was ’Still bent to make some port he knows not
where’.
But even in 1980 Nash offered hope. He saw the poet, then, as an
heir to the Romantic artists who sensed the dawning of a new age in
the late eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries. He saw the
Baha’i poet as raising his house on a sure foundation, inspired by
golden tapestries of the past. “The Word of God,” Nash states, “has
power to raise a score of fine poets from a hoard of illiterates who
now know nothing of philosophy, nor a word from our poets.”
White is certainly a fine poet and in the last quarter-century a host
of others have started walking beside him. Some have more talent
than others and not everyone is a Roger White.
Two years after writing the above, Geoffrey Nash was to inform
his readers that “Roger White is a significant poet whose style and

use of Baha’i subject matter heralds the development of Baha’i con-
sciousness in world literature”.
White, like Shakespeare, thinks in terms of the lone individual
but, unlike Shakespeare, White also thinks in terms of community.
The power of community will, in the end, triumph over everything
that opposes it. It will be as natural to man as breathing, Alfred
Adler once wrote. The new ideology will utilize community for the
first time in history in a way that does not sound like the repeated
sound of a single boot. For the real problem facing our human com-
munity is not so much to discover the norms for survival as it is to
discover the true basis for a revolutionary myth that will be ade-
quate for our age, that will integrate human behaviour into some
group ethos and its patterns of interdependent privacies. What
White is suggesting in so many of his poems is that “concerted
action toward a single goal” must be taken. “Vague sentiments of
good will, however genuine, will not suffice. Some explicit agree-
ment on principles will be required for any coordinated progress.”
Shakespeare’s ambassador to that undiscovered country, death,
was Hamlet. White draws on the enigmatic and wondrous poet,
Emily Dickinson. But far beyond and above Dickinson, White has
the writings of a powerful armoury of two Manifestations of God,
their successors and now more than a century of extensive, legiti-
mate and authoritative interpretation. Death, indeed so many of
life’s quintessential mysteries, is framed in a language that tran-
scends history. In all of these things White is both entertainer and
source of wisdom literature. White gives us pleasure and bewilder-
ing intelligence.
By 1963 the charismatic authority that resided in the person of
Baha’u’llah was fully institutionalised in the Universal House of
Justice, the elected body for all the Baha’is of the earth. 1963 also
marked the beginning of the last stage, ’the end’ of history. That the
first decades, the first thirty years, 1963 to 1993, when these
trustees of the global undertaking initiated by the Bab and

Baha’u’llah more than a century before put into action a series of
plans for the achievement of that single goal - that these years
should spawn such a poet as Roger White is, I think, no accident, no
mark of chance, no movement of the wheel of fortune. As
Shakespeare was to write in Hamlet “The play’s the thing,” White
was to state again and again “The poem’s the thing”. For in his
poems readers could find the most succinct expression of the reali-
ties of the newest of the world’s great religions, the Baha’i Faith,
over its first century and a half, 1844-1994.

WHITE’S FUTURE
Two hundred years before the death of Roger White in 1993,
Shaykh Ahmad-i-Ahsa’i “arose to dedicate the remaining days of
his life to the task” of preparing the way, as one of the two critical
precursors of the Baha’i Revelation for “the advent of a new
Manifestation.” In the next several years he began to write a great
deal about the metaphorical nature of the prophecies relating to the
birth of a new and independent Revelation of God. Indeed there was
a strong poetic strain in the Shaykh’s writings: symbolism and
metaphor abounded. Shaykh Ahmad was very unorthodox and
many “professed themselves incapable of comprehending the mean-
ing of his mysterious allusions”. This poetic, symbolic strand has
continued through the two precursors of the Babi Revelation, the
Revelation of the two Manifestations of God and the writings of
’Abdu’l-Baha, all part of what one might call the poetic tradition in
the Baha’i Era.
There has been, too, a series of poets beginning with Tahirih in
the 1840s, to Na’im late in the nineteenth and early in the twentieth
centuries, to George Townshend up to mid-twentieth century and
later Robert Hayden, Roger White, Bahiyyih Nahkjavani, John
Hatcher and Michael Fitzgerald, among others, who have made
important contributions to the literature and commentary on the
Bahá’i Faith in a poetic idiom. In some ways it could be said that the
passing of Roger White in 1993 marks an end of two centuries of
intense and significant poetic writing in a tradition centred on the
appearance of two Manifestations of God in the nineteenth century.
It is not the purpose of this book or this chapter to describe this
long history, this tradition of poetic influence, of poetic writing. The
experience of poetry begins anew with each generation. Since the
first teaching plan, 1937-1944, poetry written by Baha’is has slowly
become a part of world literature, first through Robert Hayden and
later through Roger White, the subject of this study. The poetry of
White is seen as a continuation and development, as part of “the
decisive, the most significant, contemporary life of tradition", as
Chapter 17

poetry critic F.R. Leavis once described the poetry of the present.
White should be seen, too, as part of that rich treasure of human life
which is now stored within the pale of a new and emerging world
religion. White had much of the culture of this embryonic Force,
this Movement, fermenting, crystallizing, in his head and it took
him on a voyage over the deep of poetry with its delicacy and ten-
derness, with its inexhaustible resources, infinitely new and striking.
The world had been exploding with ideas and inventions, knowledge
and discoveries for a century and a half. The world White was writ-
ing for was a part of this burgeoning. By the end of the twentieth
century it was teeming. White’s timing was just right. If the world
was filled with practical people who did not respond to poetry, who
had an inveterate inaccessibility to ideas, who were impatient with
them because they were unfamiliar, it mattered not. In the burgeon-
ing billions now on the planet, there was a coterie for everything.
White had his audience, an audience that his ideas could permeate
and vivify in a literary epoch that was just beginning to reach to all
the corners of the earth with audiences that were simply unimagin-
able in the past.
T.S. Eliot once defined tradition as “a way of feeling and acting
which characterizes a group throughout generations; and that it
must largely be, or that many elements of it must be, unconscious”.
Perhaps this is one way of summarizing the two-century-old tradi-
tion which White is a part of and that I have just outlined briefly
here. There is little evidence that White was ambitious to be a part
of this tradition. There is in White’s poetry little evidence of that
attitude expressed by British writer Martin Amis that writers who
mean business need to be ambitious and think they are the best.
Occasionally White makes some comment that bears directly or
indirectly on this issue but, for the most part, the question of ambi-
tion and the desire for fame and success seems curiously or, perhaps,
not surprisingly absent from his poetry. White’s concern in his
poetry is not ambition or even utility but, rather, truth which is, as
Emerson put it, “its own testimony”. Part of the necessity of this

focus is, as Hayden Carruth writes eloquently, that lying “has
become a way of life, very nearly now the way of life, in our society.
The average adult American of average intelligence believes almost
nothing communicated to him in language, and the disbelief has
become so ingrained that he or she does not even notice it”. While I
find what Carruth writes a little over the top there has developed a
pervasive scepticism in our society with its roots in many places:
advertising, religion and politics, among other sources. “Poetic
truth", that which ought to be assented to, serves as a partial anti-
dote. The difficulty with this emphasis on scepticism is that there is
also an immense quantity of credulity in society as well: millions
will believe just about anything. The issue is quite complex. Perhaps
a good poem “enables us to notice and to judge … those aspects of
experience which an intelligent, curious, compassionate, sensitive,
alert person would deem worthy of attention”. A good poem “earns
our assent”. Its truth must be discovered afresh at each reading.
The future of the poetry of Roger White is so intimately tied up
with the future of the Baha’i Faith that to discuss the one is to dis-
cuss the other. As the world moves, in the twentieth and twenty-first
centuries, through several stages of the necessary and inevitable
political and religious unification of the planet, from a Baha’i per-
spective, having already experienced earlier units of political and
social organization: family, band, chiefdom, tribe, city state and
nation, it is useful to examine one man’s poetry, apparently insignif-
icant in the large scheme of things, during one part of the great
turning point that has been the twentieth century. Although White’s
poetry has attained a certain fixity now that it has been written,
published and has slipped into tradition’s recent past, it has assumed
the character of an atemporal object which has broken free from its
historical moorings and is no longer closed in and restricted.
It is free to be interpreted in relation to the historical situations of
future readers. I am sure the future will see new and sympathetic
appreciations of White’s work and its creative invention that is
beyond explanation in terms of “influences”. To ascertain the mas-

ter-current in the literature of an epoch, an age, and to distinguish it
from the minor currents is one of the highest functions of a critic;
perhaps it is presumptuous to even try. Arnold says the ability to do
this requires “justness of spirit"; the Universal House of Justice
referred to it as an adequacy of “Baha’i perspective” and “an eti-
quette of expression”.
The future of the poetry of Roger White is also tied up with the
search for fresh answers to the eternal questions, a search that has
been a principal preoccupation of poetic minds at least from
Wordsworth’s time. An introspective voyageur, White offers more
than stoical fortitude. He builds a substantial bridge between him-
self and the natural and human world about him. At the end of that
bridge White offers a hope-bearing vision, a vision of a cosmic
order, that is more than the legend that goes: ’where the rainbow
touches earth there is a pot of gold’. White believes in the
inevitability of an unimaginably glorious destiny awaiting
humankind. The door to this destiny is to be unlocked by a Divine
Plan, one that began unfolding in his lifetime and that he played a
part in effecting its achievements; one that will continue unfolding
in the centuries to come long after he has gone. It is a Plan that he
cherished and that is presently the labour and love of millions
around the globe.
The ship of White’s poetry does not suffer shipwreck at the
entrance to the harbour where the secular imagination so often fails
to solve the enigmas and contradictions of life, where it lives in a
state of tension between belief and disbelief. And so the pervasive
melancholy and the aridity one finds in the poetry of the Romantics
is succeeded in White’s poetry by what Geoffrey Nash called that
’golden seam of joy’ and what White himself referred to, among
other things, as a ’green and wily succulence’. But one should men-
tion, if one is to be honest, “despair’s bleached skull” and “the
heart’s thin soil” and that solemn consciousness wherein joy grows
and has its being. The enthusiastic critic of White’s work must
always hold out the possibility that over time his poetry will come

to be located in a predictable and allotted portion of a progressive set
of anthologies, a portion which shrivels with the decades before dis-
appearing altogether. For critics are not seers, prophets or soothsay-
ers. They cannot tell what the future holds. The hopes which recent
progress in the unfoldment of White’s poetry has engendered may
be blasted by any number of future events.
One of the features of White’s verse that made him popular while
he was alive was his capacity to generate light verse and to inspire
laughter. In this way he was somewhat like the American master of
light verse, poet Ogden Nash, who wrote prolifically from the 1920s
to the 1960s. Nash, like White, distanced himself from any sort of
earnest literary ambition. White, I am sure, would have been com-
fortable with the terms used by Nash to describe himself: a versifier,
a trifler, a good bad poet rather than a bad good poet, a devotee of
the minor idiocies of humanity. This aspect of White’s idiom may
not have the staying power as cultural idiosyncrasies and their asso-
ciated bases for humour change.
The whole problem of “the trustworthiness of the tradition of
interpretation” which comes up in any hermeneutical tradition is
not present with respect to White’s poetry because it is not present
with respect to the ideological and religious framework within
which his poetry is written, namely, the Baha’i Faith. This is not to
say that our interpretations of White will not have their prejudices;
in fact, our very prejudices may be our “best means of preserving
the vitality and significance” of White’s poetry in our hearts. If
there has been any incomprehension of White’s poetry in his life-
time, and there certainly was, I am confident he will emerge solidly
into the light of a universal acclaim as the cause he was identified
with virtually all his life grows into the glaring light of public
recognition. More and more people will come to enjoy the poetic
fashioning he made of his experience, a process which engaged him
for over forty years. The pendulum may swing as the years go on,
of course, from what I trust is a discriminating adulation of writers
like myself, to indifference, but I think it unlikely that White will

receive the extremes of denigration that some poets get in the peri-
ods when their public reception swings into the negative. Samuel
Johnson’s words, from his preface to Shakespeare’s plays, offer
White a hopeful future: “While an author is yet living we estimate
his powers by his worst performance, and when he is dead we rate
them by his best.” I think, too, that White will be read, in part,
because his poems are a crucial index to the temperament and emo-
tions, the experience of the last half of the twentieth century.
Literary critic Jonathan Holden offers a useful perspective that for
me applies to White and his future. Holden sees a poem as a method
of analysis not “the product of analysis”. Holden sees the poem not
as a vehicle for communicating some already discovered vision,
some already fixed position, but rather as a means by which,
through the act of writing, the poet might discover and clarify his
predispositions and the precise connections between his feelings and
troublesome facts.” In this sense White points the way for us as we
try to clarify our own feelings and thoughts, rather than act from
positions where our minds are already made up. White’s poetic form
is more of a way of thinking about poetic form. It is more process
than product, more operation than structure. White’s poems ’discov-
er’ their form, develop their subject matter, their content, as they go
along. That is what keeps his poems going. This approach keeps a
certain openness present in the overall tenor of his poetry. It helps
to keep his poetry alive and fresh for generations yet to come.
The individual and society have become, if they were not in the
past, quite complex things. If they are to be written about in poetry
they must be understood at a deep level by the poet. White pos-
sessed a critical perception and understanding and it is this, as
Arnold wrote, which gives poetry its healthy relations with life.
White possessed the genius of a great philosophic poet, not as one in
mental repose as perhaps Wordsworth was, not as one who
enshrined the world of imagination at the apex of creation as
Stevens did, but as one who provided hundreds of lines of poetry
which possessed a philosophical and imaginative perception with

humor and wit, entertainment and edification. And while he did all
this he gave the Baha’is new music out of old stories. I am confident
that these lines and these stories will appeal to generations, as
Wordsworth’s The Prelude among his other poems have done for
the last two centuries. Like Wordsworth’s poetry White’s poetry,
too, may well have its periods of popularity and periods of less pub-
lic enthusiasm. White’s philosophy is embedded like gems, like
pearls, like a fine ore body, in context after context, in a great
scheme not of his own making, as was Wordsworth’s. With this phi-
losophy he helps us clarify the complex and insoluble aspects of our
lives. I see no reason why this should stop with his death.
I should say something, too, about what seems to me to be a com-
placent and uninformed view of modernist and contemporary poet-
ry, that it is endlessly experimental or for others that it does not
rhyme. If there has been a war in the last two centuries between
rhymers and non-rhymers, as some superficial view might enter-
tain, the non-rhymers have won hands down. The vast majority of
poetry written since Wordsworth got going in the 1780s and 1790s
has not been rhyming. Even some of the greatest of poets before
that time, Shakespeare and Chaucer for example, are essentially
non-rhymers. Others see the modern vogue in poetry as a superfi-
cial flouting of poetic convention, with coarse and indiscriminate
hacking up of prose into lines, without punctuation or capitalization.
White’s poetry is experimental in a much deeper and non-trivial
sense of that word and has nothing to do with experimental hacking
of words into lines. White’s future will draw on these deeper roots,
far removed from any poetic superficiality.
I like to think that White’s poetry will be, as Shelley once wrote
in his Defence of Poetry, “a fountain forever overflowing with the
waters of wisdom and delight, and after one generation and one age
has exhausted all its divine effulgence which their peculiar relations
enable them to share, another and yet another succeeds, and new
relations are ever developed, the unforeseen and unconceived
delight”. For as a poet White is partly historian, partly sociologist,

partly psychologist, partly story teller. He has a foot in so many
camps, disciplines. In some ways he is an archeologist who digs until
a portrait of the past is revealed to him and preserved for us.
I am not going to even try to begin to provide any examples
here. I can only suggest readers pick up one of the half a dozen or
more books of his poetry now available. His philosophic treasure-
house has many rooms. White seems, to me anyway, a fine example
of the person and the process Keats wrote about in a letter in 1818:
“When man has arrived at a certain ripeness of intellect any one
grand and spiritual passage serves him as a starting post towards all
the two-and-thirty Palaces… The results would be a voyage of con-
ception …. engender ethereal finger-paintings arising out of the
most mundane experiences.” And later in that same letter:
“Greatness in art …. involves losing the sense of our personal iden-
tity in some object dearer to us than ourselves.” Much of White’s
identity was unquestionably to be found in an object dearer to him
than his life’s vein: the Baha’i Faith. Its history was fresh and
recorded in great detail under the light of modernity. White conse-
quently had a great deal to write about, to sustain him, as a poet. It
was a solid ground for the future. White’s poetry possessed what
Irish poet Galway Kinnell said was essential for “true and real poet-
ry” - namely, that it “tends to be more ordinary and close at hand”.
As long as new meanings continue to come from White for gen-
erations yet unborn, then his essence will not become exhausted and
he will continue to be read. “The grand power of poetry,” wrote
Matthew Arnold, “is its interpretive power …. the power of so deal-
ing with things as to awaken in us a wonderfully new and intimate
sense of them, and of our relations with them.” White does this for
me and for many others. It is my belief that he will continue to put
readers in contact with the essential nature of what the Baha’i Faith,
its history and teachings mean, partly because he acknowledges in
so many ways the process between the discomfort in our lives and
the joy, partly because he deals with life’s bewilderment and oppres-
sion and lightens the load, and partly because he brings us closer to

life’s secrets and helps us to be in harmony with them. The result is
a certain calm and satisfaction that, it seems to me anyway, we can-
not find in quite the same way anywhere else.
After twenty-five years he appears to have the reputation of
being both a difficult poet, a critic’s poet, as well as a popular or a
people’s poet. But beyond his current reputation and the reactions of
contemporary readers, through his poetry White “defeats the curse
which binds us to be subjected to the accident of surrounding
impressions", as Shelley wrote nearly two centuries ago. White cre-
ated anew the world of his Baha’i experience after it had been, to
use Shelley’s words again, “annihilated by recurrence, blunted by
reiteration”. We too must do the same. We must, like White, redeem
time, rescue it, reclaim it, renew it, by ransom, by the payment of
our lives. White helps us with this process in so many ways: in the
reconciliation of truth and beauty; by giving his readers a satisfying
sense of reality, of the real nature of things; by helping them recon-
cile themselves with their society and the phenomenal world around
them. When you read a poem of White’s his experience becomes
your own. That may just be the core of White’s poetic longevity.
But whether White’s poetry follows a downhill trajectory toward
oblivion or an upward one to some canonical, some classic status
will depend on canon makers, publishers, editors, initiators, mar-
keters, reviewers, teachers and, ultimately, consumers, the current
interests and cultural needs of the reading public. For the moment
White is marginal and only a slow but massive shift in the value
orientation of society in its cultural capital will bring him from the
margin. For, in the end, literary works that become classic or canoni-
cal do so “because the groups that have an investment in them are
culturally the most influential”. A classic is a work that stands the
test of time, as Samuel Johnson once said, and the test is determined
by those who control the literary establishment. In the end it is the
interests and beliefs of this group that define the classic. Toward the
end of the twentieth century this group became fractured and the

whole question of what constitutes the canon has been confronted
and opened up to wider representation.
It is not so much the text that endures but the literary and cul-
tural tradition behind the text. The literary and cultural tradition
going back to the writings of Shaykh Ahmad in the 1790s, a literary
and cultural tradition containing the immense body of Writings of
two Manifestations of God and their successors, then, is the critical
matrix within which White will survive, disappear into oblivion or
remain forever on the remote and obscure margins of a contempo-
rary culture. For literature and poetry are, in a sense, an organic
society all of their own, an organic society supported by a whole
social ideology. It is my belief that White will survive as an integral
part of that larger literary and cultural tradition. Herbert Read
comes close to telling us why White will survive. “Human nature,”
Read writes, describing men like White, “saw something get a
shock” and there has been “a tremble ever since”. We are in that
tremble. This tremble we are in from White applies to a much
greater extent from the Revelations at the heart of this new Faith.
Another aspect of White’s survival quotient is the light that shines
within him and which Matthew Arnold said was so much more
important than the pleasure a writer gives. It is that inner light
which is a rare and treasured thing and which depends on some
“children of light” sharing that light and on the Canaanite having
left that land.
White’s poetry will be, it seems to me, what Wallace Stevens
called “the essential poem at the centre of things” for a minority.
His work will enable future literary critics to establish a pattern of
continuity between their cultures and the part of their heritage that
was alive and well in the last half of the twentieth century. For
White’s work has a larger historical importance in addition to the
delight it provides readers. The ultimate source of a poem is not
only the individual poet but also the social situation, the historical
process from which both he and it springs. Of course, White is not
alone in this exercise of providing historical continuity. He will have

the company of a vast range of people from the creative and per-
forming arts and the print and electronic media. Part of their role is
and will be to preserve the past and its stories, its beliefs, to be hand-
ed on to the next generations for continuity and immortality, to
keep holy, as Rilke says, “all that befalls us, even disappointment”.
And, I might add, especially disappointment. I think this is
especially important in an age like our own when “cultural memory
is remarkably short” and “communications are disintegrating”
so quickly.
There is no art more stubbornly associated with group identity
than poetry. No art expresses the deepest feelings and emotions of a
group more than poetry. No art provides that exceptional sensibility,
that exceptional power over words, with greater strength than poet-
ry. Of course in our time the electronic media in its various forms
provide for many that sensibility and that power. The great majority
of most groups, at least at this point in history, do not respond to the
poet, whether he be a Shakespeare or a White, a Dickinson or a
Hayden. “What matters,” writes T.S. Eliot about the future influence
of the poet, “is that there should always be at least a small audience
for him in every generation.” White certainly has a small audience
in this generation; time will tell as far as future audiences are con-
cerned. Inevitably, too, there will be varying reactions to White’s
work. There will be many vocabularies of encomium and oppropri-
um that arise in reaction to White’s poetry as the years go on.
Matthew Arnold’s views in his “The Study of Poetry” help us
gain a perspective on White for the future. Arnold says there are
three sorts of “estimates” we make of a writer: the historic, the per-
sonal and the real. His contribution to the study, the understanding
of the past; the contemporary relevance to the present, the time the
poet is being read; and the poetry “as in itself it really is”. Often the
personal and the real get mixed up. White was the first twentieth-
century poet I read who wrote about Baha’i themes and gave me
pleasure, comprehension and a responsive feeling. Many of his

poems are so well anchored in my head now that the task of a just
evaluation may not be a realistic expectation. For I write to a large
extent out of gratitude. It may be too difficult for me to perform an
unbiased evaluation; I may need a lifetime.
The work I am doing here may appear too effusive to some read-
ers. I think the future will bring a balance to what some may see as
my overly enthusiastic reaction. As critical accounts of White’s work
by highly and not so highly qualified students of poetry, as attempts
at a definitive analysis of his poetry by critics with pens abler than
mine, and as full, unembarrassed appreciations of his poetic virtues
that do not repel more highbrow sensibilities become available in
the years to come, the relevance of the words of the great analyst of
literature, Randall Jarrell, will be seen to apply to White’s poetry.
“The most important thing that criticism can do for a poet,” wrote
Randall Jarrell, “is to establish that atmosphere of interested respect
which gets his poems a reasonably good reading.” Put another way,
criticism ought to be experiential and pragmatic rather than theoret-
ical. Such is the context, for the most part, of this work in the tradi-
tion of Samuel Johnson and William Hazlitt. I try to bring White
nearer to his readers and his potential readers. For if he is nearer he
can be put to greater use.
The situation of poetry, it has been argued by many, at the open-
ing of this new millennium has many facets which are not encour-
aging to the poet. It is almost exclusively a non-commercial medi-
um. It is not sustained by popular success; it makes no best seller
lists, is rarely found in the electronic media and, for the most part,
languishes as an academic specialization, in corners of the Internet
and in coteries where the enthusiasms of performance poets keep
the poetic spark alive. Given that poetry seems to be possessed of no
laws, no standards, no necessary forms, it is now the form that
everyone may attempt. Criticism is extensive but again confined, for
the most part, to esoteric corners of academia. Anthologies and sur-
veys abound to cater to what has become in the last century or two
a boundless, formless domain of an ancient art. Publishing lists

expand, vanity presses multiply, and poetry bloats like the tentacles
of a bureaucracy. Criticism is essential by its exercise of judgement
and thus quality control or a Tower of Babel results with its
inevitable anonymity from the sheer force of numbers. There are
many descriptions of this perilous state, some encouraging, some
with tragic overtones.
If one accepted all that I write here, one could conclude that
White has already been lost, lost to just about everyone except a
few, and these few are so negligible as to hardly matter. White, fol-
lowing this line of thought, not only does not have a future, he has
already been lost, virtually. His days of fame and glory have gone
not with Andy Warhol’s fifteen minutes, but with fifteen years. I
take a more optimistic view. I think there may be many different
Whites to emerge in the decades and perhaps centuries ahead as a
thriving critical industry on White expands in English and other
languages. New kinds of poetry will provide new ways of reading
White, ways that give his poetry new life. In the meantime I hope
what I write will serve as a catalytic agent. The electronic media,
still in their first century of popularity, I do not think will hold their
sway over the minds and consciousness of human beings for the
entire future of humankind. The life of print is healthy now and its
future, I think, is filled with hope. White’s function in the future for
whoever his readership may be was described best and indirectly
long ago by Sir Francis Bacon. “Read not to contradict and confute,”
wrote Bacon, “nor to believe and take for granted, nor to find talk
and discourse, but to weigh and consider.” White will give what he
has already given to many: spiritual and intellectual food to weigh
and consider.
The advice of Somerset Maugham with respect to novels, slightly
altered in its application to poetry, is pertinent here to would-be
readers of White’s verse. Maugham encouraged readers to “learn the
useful art of skipping”. To skip without loss, though, is not easy.
Some poems, I find, are absorbed easily. Others require two or more
readings. Most of us read for pleasure, for enlightenment, for diver-

sion. When reading becomes a labour, most of us only read for a
time. When White becomes too heavy going we need to read some-
thing else, come back to him later and, if we are to really grasp his
work, keep coming back again and again. Do not let his books of
poetry sit unread on your shelves for years. White is good on re-
runs, second, third and more visits. Some of his poetry is hard work;
some of it is easy. Perhaps future editions of his poetry will be like
that edition of some novels which Somerset Maugham’s publisher
asked him to introduce with an essay providing a context, a setting,
a framework to take away some of the labour and provide more
meaning. I like to think White’s popularity has just begun, for he is
a good poet who never goes too far in his poetry, never claims an
expertise that is not his. He may write, for example, about the poor,
the affluent, the land, greed and money but he does not offer his
readers economic theory or the politics of poverty. He knows when
to shut-up, when to be silent. I like to think that White’s poetry
does what Emerson said the best books do: “impress us with the
conviction that one nature wrote and the same reads”.
There are several Whites one can already imagine. There is the
White with a message to give his times, an engaged social thinker
and responder, immersed in his daily environment at the Baha’i
World Centre just at the time when it and the global Baha’i com-
munity was emerging from obscurity. Here the critic has the pri-
mary role as interpreter and systematizer trying to figure out what
White means and where and how he fits into the historical develop-
ment of the Baha’i community. Then there is the caricature of
White as humorous, comedian, or writer of obscurities. Does his
humour dominate and make him the funny man, the funny poet?
After readers have had their laugh, after they have been enter-
tained, do they put White down complacent and self-satisfied? Are
the complexities of some of White’s later work, complexities which
leave many of his potential readers in the Baha’i community puz-
zled and perplexed, quite conscious parts of his poetic? Are these
complexities the visible outcroppings of some deeply laid poetic and

geo-political scheme that was itself in embryo, in its early stages,
with a future connected with Baha’u’llah’s “Wondrous Vision … the
brightest emanation of His Mind?” What White writes he writes
with and from a bias and everything he writes is conditioned by
that bias. What he writes is part of his personality, his idiosyn-
crasies, his taking sides, his loading of the dice his way, his sense of
the dramatic, his particular way of grabbing our attention. For he is
an artist, a choreographer, a director and producer - and a poet all in
one. He pleases and he informs. He is good at both.
I think White has developed an idiom that is at times so simple
and childlike and at other times so complex and dense that his poet-
ry possesses a style of such fundamental peculiarity and eccentricity
that it will facilitate his absorption by later poets, readers and critics.
White gives body to the soul of English, the language used interna-
tionally for dealing with the beliefs and attitudes of the religion
claiming to be the emerging world religion on this planet. White has
passed on to the Baha’i community of the twenty-first century a
more highly developed, more refined, more precise idiom for deal-
ing with its experience than it possessed before White wrote his
poems. “That is the highest possible achievement,” wrote T.S. Eliot
in his essay on what one learns from Dante, “of the poet as poet”.
There is in this idiom an intimacy, a familiarity, that adds to his
poetry’s verisimilitude and gives his poetry much to recommend it
to future epochs and a wide range of readers.
White enables ordinary men and women to see and hear more in
the ordinary range of their experience. He enables them to experi-
ence a greater range of emotion and perception, to interpret greater
depths of meaning than they otherwise would have seen or heard
without his help. He is like an explorer beyond the frontiers of
everyday consciousness. White helps them deal with the incompre-
hensible, the mystery of life. His poetry is only one element in that
mystery which is the culture they live in and what he writes is
dependent upon many of their culture’s elements, elements which
are beyond his control. But given the excellence and vigour of his

poetry it can affect the sensibility of the whole of the Baha’i com-
munity. Of course the language of that community is affected by
many other elements in the wider culture. Eliot argues that the poet
affects the many through his influence on the few. What matters, he
goes on, is that there always be a few in each generation who will
serve as the audience for the poet. What matters, too, is that the top-
ics White has chosen are of enduring interest. We can never know
enough people profoundly enough. It is one of our main routes to
self knowledge. If White’s poetry is to endure an enduring interest
in what White writes about is fundamental. Given the topics and the
community he deals with, White will be around as long as the
Baha’i Faith is around. Given, too, that there exists in his poetry
what Harold Bloom calls “a pleasurable difficulty", a kind of diffi-
culty he equates with the sublime, the transcendent, this generation
does not need to complete the excavation of White’s poetic. White
caters to this ’poetic sublime’ to the larger created presence of the
imagination; his work sustains close readings. Bloom says the first
principle for how to read poems is “closely”. White’s future may lie
in the creative exuberance of his packing of much into so little.
Just after White was born Edmund Wilson wrote about what he
called “the dying technique of verse”. He said that verse’s role had
grown increasingly narrow since the eighteenth century. Its territo-
ry had been usurped, he argued, by prose. Just before White passed
away essayist Joseph Epstein updated Wilson’s discussion of the
death of poetry. He said poetry was now confined to universities,
poetry’s professionals: teachers and lecturers and their creative writ-
ing programs. Epstein is a brilliant polemicist and he continues to
describe the decline in the cultural importance of poetry that con-
cerned Wilson fifty years before. Poetry is certainly not part of the
mainstream of artistic and intellectual life today. It is the occupation
of a small and isolated group, for the most part an invisible cultural
niche. Ironically this reality has slowly been taking place during a
period of unprecedented expansion of the art of poetry: books,
anthologies, prizes, public readings, published criticism, newsletters

and scholarly journals. Nevertheless poetry’s overall position in the
culture and the indifference shown by the mass media to it, as both
Wilson and Epstein have noted, is depressing. There is too, paradoxi-
cally, so much poetry appearing in journals, on the internet and in
the poetry subculture that no one can evaluate it, except perhaps the
occasional critic. White’s poetry needs to be seen against this back-
ground of analysis by Wilson and Epstein. If the rest of society has
mostly forgotten about the value of poetry, an argument about the
virtues of some dead Baha’i’s poems may seem like an irrelevant
concern for an archaic art form, or a debate in some seedy café about
some obscure and tiresome social issue. That may be the perception,
say, of a book like this on the part of your typical suburbanite in
these opening years of this new millennium.
The poetry on the Internet deserves some attention because there
is a growing subculture of poets there, thousands of them churning
out their poetry: atomized, decentralized, interdisciplinary, comput-
erized and anti-institutional, pluralistic, bohemian and middle class.
There have never been so many people writing poetry, accessing it
and spread out over dozens of websites as there is today. It is a veri-
table explosion. Perhaps White will come to be seen as one of the
few great writers of our time who has helped to lead the way for
that large body of secondary writers who, Eliot argues, are essential
to the continuity of a literature but are not necessarily read by
posterity. I do not know but, as a practising but non-professional
futurologist, I think White has led the way with the great Gestalt
that he made (that we all make) from himself and all that is not
himself, a Gestalt given shape with what his natural reticence
would allow.
How does one persuade justly sceptical readers, in terms they can
understand and appreciate, that poetry still matters, White’s or any-
body else’s? The difficulties of trying to engage an audience and of
finding out what concerns the great mass of the public has become a
major problem for the poet. The poet is marginal. He has been on
the edge, largely irrelevant, for half a century, at least just about the

entire time White has been writing poetry. With the fragmentation
of high culture, the arts are now isolated from each other and from
the general audience, although there are evidences of an increasing
cross-fertilization. This is especially true of poetry, even with poetry
on the Internet. There is an audience there in their thousands, in the
form of dozens of coteries, if you want to plug into them. The Net is
so different from the traditional poetry reading. It is public and pri-
vate all at once.
What will keep White and poets of his ilk from sitting in a
remote periphery on an irrelevant appendage of society will be what
the poet Marianne Moore said of the genuine poet. The genuine
poet, she stated, is “a symbol of the power of Heaven”. Such a poet
“lodges a few poems where they will be hard to get rid of”. Such a
poet is part of the “felicitous phenomenon” that is literature. Their
poetry will be brought to the public in new and fresh ways by peo-
ple who take responsibility for bringing their art to the public, far
beyond the stifling bureaucratic etiquette that enervates the public
art of poetry today. The enjoyment of poetry can be a complex expe-
rience in which several forms of satisfaction are mingled, in differ-
ent proportions for different readers. One way to keep poetry fresh
is to memorize it; it gives you the feeling you have written it; it
comes close to your psyche; it becomes like an old friend. There are
special and critical insights that a poem that gives itself to memo-
rization can yield. Possession-by-memory gives the reader the feel-
ing that he or she wishes they had written the poem. The poem
becomes a part of the reader. Readers come to acquire an intimate
relationship with the poet. White’s poems help us speak to ourselves
more clearly and more fully and, as Bloom says, “to overhear that
speaking” He helps us find ourselves.
The White industry and the various critiques that arise from its
several assembly lines and production plants are bound to be influ-
enced by major trends and revolutions in intellectual and social
thought. Already since 1960 there have been several trends which
could influence the interpretation of what White has to say and why

he says it: psychoanalytic criticism, structuralism and post-struc-
turalism, post-modernism, feminism, Marxist literary theory, post-
colonial theory, cultural studies and the new historicism, among
others. The influence of this efflorescence of literary theory on this
evaluation of mine is largely peripheral. Perhaps this is because
much of literary theory “seems to entail an indifference to, and
even a hostility toward, ’literature’”. Perhaps, too, the field of liter-
ary criticism and some of the interdisciplinary influences on it like
those from anthropology, linguistics, sociology and psychology are
simply too immense to adequately deal with in an introductory
book of this nature on the poetry of Roger White.
Literary theory has to do with the way in which writers and read-
ers interpret their world and the texts in it. No single mode of inter-
pretation that literary critics draw on is satisfactory for my treat-
ment of White. For the most part the world of literary theory is
confined to academic cloisters with the general public either unable
to engage in its specialized, its largely arcane and depressing lan-
guage or uninterested in doing so. After forty years of what one
writer calls the Age of Theory, literary theory does not appear to be
delivering the hoped-for intellectual revolution; on the other hand it
does not appear likely that this Age of Theory will float away. I see
literary theory as a potentially constructive and integral part of lit-
erary criticism, although a great deal of it causes resistance from
those in the very field it seeks to explore. It would take a separate
essay to deal with the relevance of literary theory and related disci-
plines to White’s poetry and its implications for this commentary.
Appreciation of poetry can be, and mostly is, quite independent of
theory and criticism, but there are several features of the literary
theory I draw on for my own personal literary architecture. First,
mine is an individual synthesis, drawing as it does on many literary
theorists. Daniel T. O’Hara says that literary theory and criticism
are aimed at creating “the critical language in which men will speak
for a thousand years” I like to think, although one can never know
for sure, that my work will fit into this futuristic perspective. I call

the literary theory underpinning White’s poetry and my analysis of
it ’Baha’i literary theory and criticism’. It stands in contrast to
Marxist literary theory and the other major literary theories with
their associated disciplinary support systems that have arisen in the
last half century, although it shares with them various specific fea-
tures. It really requires, as I indicated above, a separate study and it
is not my intention to deal with it fully here, but I will sketch its
outline briefly because it seems to me that the future of the White
industry will be involved in an elaboration of this theory in differ-
ent directions.
It is teleological; it is based on a belief in progress through provi-
dential control of the historical process. It views human beings as
essentially historically and socially determined in a complex interac-
tion of genetics and environment. It sees man as a composite being
whose nature is basically spiritual and capable of change. Primacy is
given to ’becoming’ over ’being’, to relationships, to process, to
diversity, to the relativity of truth as the basis for and essence of
any unity and harmony in human life.
Baha’i literary theory possesses a vital and dynamic theoretical
structure with a deep historical consciousness which assumes that
all of reality is in a continuous state of flux. It is based, too, on an
explicit and unequivocal dialectical method in which “a concept
passes over into and is preserved and fulfilled by its opposite”.
Finally, the philosophical principle of unity, a “structure of mutual
and reciprocal interdependence of diverse elements within a sys-
tem", which transcends both simplicity and diversity, “implies the
dynamic movement of history in the direction of increasing com-
plexity and integration”. These concepts are the domain where the
ontological and normative principles at the base of the philosophy of
history that this literary theory draws on or is based on are to be
found. These are some of the coordinating principles behind my
critical evaluation of White’s poetry. As I indicated before, it is not
my purpose here to explicate a detailed outline of Baha’i literary
theory and some of the other literary theories behind which White’s

work and my interpretation of it is based. The art of poetry is
greater, I believe, than its interpreters; not even the greatest critics
can pin down all its kinds of significance and value. In the end, all
criticism is tentative, partial and oblique.
"A work of literature - a poem, for example,” writes David
Daiches, “is an immense complex of meaning which is nevertheless
often simple and immediate in its impact, and it is impossible to
account for its impact”. Criticism and theory can help but, in the
end, however useful and helpful they may be, there is a larger
truth unexplored. As Baha’u’llah writes: “Myriads of mystic
tongues find utterance in one speech, and myriads of hidden mys-
teries are revealed in a single melody; yet, alas, there is no ear to
hear, nor heart to understand”. Perhaps this is one of the meanings
of this verse.
Beginning perhaps as far back as Columbus or Magellan sailing
the ocean blue, the planetary nature of human civilization, its inter-
dependence and interconnectedness, has been increasingly demon-
strated. In the last century to century and a half this process, this
planetization of humankind – or at least our awareness of it - has
speeded up. This speeding-up process has taken place, has synchro-
nised, at the same time as the emergence of a new world religion on
this earth. The fundamental teaching of this new world religion, the
Baha’i Faith, is that phenomenal reality is one: humankind is one,
religion is one and God is one - the earth is indeed one country.
White’s poetry is part and parcel of the global orientation that is the
Baha’i Faith. The teachings and history of the Baha’i Faith unques-
tionably inform the literary theory that lies at the base of this
analysis of White.
The realization of humankind’s oneness has become even more a
part of human consciousness in the years since the 1950s when we
began to venture into space and could literally see the spherical
shape that is the earth. White’s poetry comes at this time, as does
the poetry of Robert Hayden and, if it were the intent of this book,

one could line up their poetry with significant developments in this
increasing planetary consciousness. But that is not my intention
here. Rather it is to note, as far as my own interpretive abilities per-
mit, those elements of White’s poetic and his alone that serve the
cause, the development, of this political and religious unification in
the years ahead within the context of the evolving Baha’i institu-
tions, the nucleus and pattern of a world order currently expressed
through the instrument of Baha’i administration. Part of the reason
I focus on White to the exclusion of other poets and writers who
have influenced this planetary consciousness is that White’s poetry
helped me understand my own life, my own experience. “Is there a
better test of poetry?” wrote Ezra Pound in his tribute to Thomas
Hardy’s poetry. As I have already indicated, this study is an expres-
sion of my gratitude to White for the understanding, the power of
understanding, his poetry has contributed to the life I
have lived.
When White was writing his first poems, the first poems that
were clearly influenced by the Baha’i teachings, a process had begun
that Shoghi Effendi called ’the Kingdom of God on earth’. It had
been initiated with the completion of the Baha’i House of Worship
in Chicago in 1953 when the community numbered approximately
two hundred thousand. The expectation of many of the Baha’is in
the 1950s and 1960s was that this number would vastly increase in
the years immediately ahead. Although the process of ’entry by
troops’ could be said to have begun as early as the 1950s and
although the numbers did increase in the next forty years to several
million, it is obvious in retrospect that expectations for many were
too high. For some, disappointment was inevitable, so tied were
hopes to a vast increase in numbers.
The poetry of White reminds me of the Aeschylan drama which
emerged in the years immediately after the birth of Greek democra-
cy in 462 BC. The drama of Aeschylus, particularly the Orestia (458
BC), deals with a new understanding of personality, of law, of socie-
ty, of political institutions, of a transition from chaos to order.

“Athena has to instruct them with a new song”. White’s poetry
emerged in the years immediately after the birth of the democratic
theocracy that is the Baha’i Faith in its fully institutionalized charis-
ma in 1963. His poem The Artefact is one which, since I cannot
write five or six pages about its theme, I will simply say it is full of
the deepest, most touching and profound wisdom vis-à-vis this
newly emerging democratic theocracy. I will try to convey some-
thing of White’s sensitive, poignant and perceptive understanding
by quoting a few lines and commenting. He refers to the many
years of revelation and authoritative interpretation, 1844 to 1963, in
what is for me a deeply moving metaphor:
Long she lay there and we grew accustomed
to the crystal concentrate of beauty
as the eye to any artefact, placed, marvelled at, forgotten …
He continues, noting that -
……………..some stopped to amaze
And those that did were -
grateful that grace be so contained
as to pose no threat.
Certainly this was the case in the first two decades after the election
of the Universal House of Justice. Even now, some four decades after
that first election, the beginning of the democratic theocracy that is
the Baha’i Faith, there is a grace associated with this global institu-

tion. The “exquisite power” also associated with these new, embry-
onic institutions, and the “intolerable beauty” which may one day
“disregulate the city’s ordered ways” White describes in oh so gen-
tle, oh so touching metaphor.
"Many,” White writes in the second stanza -
……………………………….”did not see
beneath the glacial shield the girl’s mild bosom
swell with breath, or tears well in her eyes.
None asked what exquisite power she might wield.
I do not think I can capture in prose what White has hinted at in
strangely allusive, strongly indirect, poetic metaphor. The poem is
an immortal masterpiece. If I murmur something about its possible
meaning, history will inevitably smile at my effort to convey its
significance and lay me in the corner beside those cultivated people
from Oxford and Cambridge who thought Shakespeare a Hollywood
scenario-writer. I sense, as I try to interpret White, that these are
the earliest days of the imputation of meaning to his poems. The
White industry will yield much more sophistication and depth in
the years ahead than my simple efforts can offer.
As the voices of the sixties, and what the Universal House of
Justice called the dark heart of the age of transition, became more
shrill and the noises of society got louder, White offered many cau-
tionary remarks:
Let us not stroke too swiftly toward
the green opposite shore

where death rehearses. We have tried
these pearl-promising waves
before and might guess the danger.
These “pearl-promising waves” were, it could be argued, the unreal-
istic hopes of many in the Baha’i community in the ninth (1953-
1963) and early years of the tenth (1963 to, say, 1979) stages of his-
tory. White wrote this poem, arguably, about 1980. An aggressive or
even an enthusiastic proselytism alienates people and the Baha’is,
for the most part, have avoided such an overt approach to increasing
the size of their community, in spite of the fact that growth in the
West has remained, in most places, discouragingly meagre. The
complex exercise of achieving intimacy and harmony in their rela-
tionships, their marriages and in their small groups, in their private
and personal worlds, often resulted in frustration and failure, often
as much for members of their communities as for the secular socie-
ty they were part of.
White describes this process metaphorically in the same poem,
The Other Shore, in imagery that is graphic, tender and so apt:
Recall how always we turn back spent
to the sun-warmed sand
and stand anguished in separate solitudes,
though hand in hand,
each to each grown stranger.
Of course not every Baha’i is going to agree with my particular
interpretation of this poem or the general tenor of my remarks,

such is the nature, the fruit, of individual interpretation. In reading
Roger White’s poems we all must deal with metaphor in our own
way, for it is a device in which we all must fill in the meaning if we
are to unlock the significance of the passage. To miss the metaphori-
cal significance is to miss the meaning. Metaphor is a safeguard
against literalism and dogmatism. It helps explain the unfamiliar in
terms of the familiar, the abstract in terms of the concrete and, in
this case, the progress of the cause and our own dear lives in terms
of swimming, waves and the beach. If readers of this essay do not
find my interpretation of the metaphor helpful, they can and should
find their own personal meaning. This is part of the challenge of
White. His poetic presence now is continuous and inescapable. His
poetry, having become part of the landscape of Baha’i experience in
the third and fourth epochs, will breathe new life into many epochs
to come. White will be with us for some time to come.
Goethe said there were two classes of great poets. The first, con-
taining Shakespeare and Homer, were universal in their outreach
and did not bring their own individuality, their own selves, into
their poetry. The second category constantly exposed some trace of
individuality, some of the spirit of the poet, some of his character.
Perhaps White is here too. There is no question, for me, that White
belongs primarily to the former category. I give you here in this
book my White. It is your task to find yours.
White appeals to us in that same poem, The Other Shore, not to
be too hasty, to get our perspectives, our settings on social reality as
accurate as we can, to pursue a ’moderate freedom’ and, in our
eagerness and innocence, our enthusiasms and excitements, not to
expect too much too soon:
we, young, too soon said
Land! Land! and, plunging, did not see

his torn pinion, his bloodied head.
Ease us, wise love, toward this wet danger.
Our convictions, our zeal, our desire to get things right, indeed our
very sense of wonder is but a starting point. White emphasizes that
-
It is not enough to marvel: the sea asks more.
It does not casually strew enticing shells
.....................
There is calculation in its murmur,
frothed treachery laps its shore.
So many millions are not yet going to respond to our teaching
efforts or, as White puts it in the same poem in a fascinating turn of
phrase -
.........................the dead -
who did not heed the hoarse and reeling gulls -
know that in our darkest incoherence
the ocean spoke …
So much of our effort seems to be an experience of the “darkest
incoherence”. But in that incoherence the ocean does speak, through
our humble efforts and in the context of the greatest metaphorical
exercise on the planet, the establishment of the Kingdom of God on
earth. Some, a few, do respond. In time millions, nay billions, will
come under the shelter of this protecting wing. White concludes his

poem with several lines about the few among humanity’s billions
who became enthusiastic believers in the decades he was able to
observe the teaching campaigns: 1950-1990. He writes, in lines that
are among my favourites in the entire White oeuvre:
Let the dreaming, lovely drowned
who loll and bob in bubbled wonder
tell us why, returning,
weeping without sound,
we stand, wistful and incredulous,
along the shore.
Among the hundreds of thousands, nay millions, who come across
this new Faith, and who have joined it in the last several decades, so
many “stand wistful, incredulous along the shore” while it is the
few who “loll and bob in bubbled wonder”.
In another poem this same understanding of what often appears
as the slowness of the process, the need for a cautious, quiet attitude
prevails as White encourages us, points us, toward wisdom. The
poem For the Children, Watching closes with the following seven
lines:
It were wiser to stand in Magian silence,
reverent before the admonishing blackness,
and read in its long dark reign
the gathering of an astounding dawn.
Let us watch the sky, children,

incautious with hope,
jubilant with wisdom.
Here jubilation is associated with hope and wisdom, not with an
evangelising religiosity, a narrow ecclesiasticism, festive activities of
various kinds or some media event with its necessary hype and
often genuine enthusiasm. Wisdom and jubilation, conjoined by
White here, are critical to his vision of the years ahead and the
times we live in at this turn of the millennium, this “gathering of
an astounding dawn”. White is writing about that “solemn con-
sciousness” that the Universal House of Justice said must be evoked
as “the wellspring of the most exquisite celebratory joy”. For cele-
bration “does not mean merely festive activities”. It is primarily a
spiritual celebration ... occasion(s) for deep reflection”. White comes
at this subject in an indirect way through his poetry. But the point
is clear. The fact that White expresses the question, the problem, the
issue, metaphorically forces his readers to think, to work out the
meaning for themselves. White provides no quick fix.
As “the plague” spreads “invisibly", as we “lean innocently to
scoop our marbles” perhaps we need to be more “reverent before
the admonishing blackness”. Perhaps we need to base our jubilation
in wisdom and hope’s private optimism that is, for society, a public
resource and, as Lionel Tiger defined it, “a heightened form of gre-
gariousness", a gregariousness that for White often requires that we
“stand in Magian silence”.
White deals with this whole question of the spiritual journey and
the progress of the Cause in poem after poem. It seems to me one
can often learn more about the Bahá’i Faith in so many of White’s
poems than in many a learned commentary. I will cite one more
example here, part of the poem The Journey. White begins by plac-
ing the believers in the role of children and he writes:

And they will warn you, children, as they stand
In wan ardour at the dense thicket’s rim
That your pitch venture is folly …
I think most of the people I have known in my life would regard the
exercise I have embarked on as a Baha’i as “folly", as an unrealistic
utopianism. But as Teillard de Chardin once wrote, speaking of real-
ism, it is the utopians “who make scientific sense”. White continues
by saying that others, and sometimes we ourselves, see what we are
doing as:
Dangerous progress over untracked land
Ambushed with bogs in which illusions mire,
Keen fang and talon glint from every tree
And murky bats career and lean wolves prey.
Certainly the Baha’i pioneer - and we are all pioneers in different
ways - experiences this as the long decades become his journey.
“Reason is soon victim and then desire", and White goes on suc-
cinctly summarizing two of the tests that many believers experi-
ence. I will leave the rest of this poem to the reader to play with
intellectually. The poem is nothing less than brilliant, from my
point of view. For, indeed, the journey is long and “murky bats
career and lean wolves prey”. As Shakespeare left behind over the
decades and centuries many hundreds, nay, thousands of interpreta-
tions, so too will the poems of Roger White bestrew the minds of
believers with many, many views. What White will be the one you
find? Here is more of mine from that poem The Journey:

Who counsel flight from Love’s far lair are wise
But O! not they shall see the Lover’s eyes.
So ... reward there is, but there is a price and “many perish”.
White knows, then, that jubilation is not an ever present emotion.
Indeed, often -
Sparse nourishment the slow years give.
Hope beyond this life, a perspective of transcendence, is important
to White, to the survival ethic and the process and program of
building the new world order. While we are all trying to build a
society worth living in we must remember that this “sparse nour-
ishment” is a sign that -
Tells timeless feast hereafter.
This transcendentalism, this strong conviction regarding the immor-
tality of the soul, is accompanied in White by the ordinary, the
everyday and he would urge us to be -
glad of the predictable wonder
of our ordinary lives,
unscripted and flawed and plausible.
He would urge us too, as he does in the last line of that same poem,
to appreciate as fully as we can -

the incalculably priceless booty of our human joy.
But not to allow our joy and our knowledge to give us -
A taint of preening calculation(which)
makes of our knowledge knowingness, (and)
carries us too soon from innocence
and exaltation
because he knows that we so often:
......................give offence
with our borrowed and embellished
choreography of reverence ...
...............
We, deft practitioners
of protocols of piety
are stranded on uncertainty
........
joylessly
and empty-handed. .
It is important to keep in mind, when reading a poem, White’s or
anyone else’s, that “the recipient must abdicate for the moment -
must surrender his independent and outstanding personality, to
identify himself with the form presented by the poet”. Only in this

way can the reader penetrate to the heart of the mystery that is
the poem.
Only then can White’s attempts to reconcile, rather than resolve,
the contradictions of life have any tangible results in the readers’
minds and hearts.
Those who have served in the Baha’i community in the years
from the 1950s to the 1990s, the period during which White pro-
duced his poetry, have watched the unobtrusively developing system
of Baha’u’llah spread over the face of the earth and, more recently,
embellish its world spiritual and administrative centre with an arc of
great beauty on Mount Carmel. The emphasis, for the most part,
has been on establishing small groups at the local level and spread-
ing the teachings as widely as possible. Such an exercise has militat-
ed against the emergence of large concentrations of Baha’is in any
one place. In the fifteen years in which White’s poetic output has
been most extensive, 1977 to 1992, the Baha’i community continued
its rise from the shadows of an obscurity in which it had been
enveloped for over a century.
"The process whereby its unsuspected benefits were to be mani-
fested to the eyes of men,” Shoghi Effendi once wrote in analysing
the growth of the Cause, “was slow, painfully slow, and was charac-
terized .... by a number of crises which at times threatened to arrest
its unfoldment and blast all the hopes which its progress had engen-
dered.” White expressed this same theme in several ways. In Notes
on Erosion he wrote:
Neglect will foster, and dismay
but fertilize its thrusting growth.
Indeed, the potential of the Bahá’i Faith is immense; it -

thrives in the desert
where the resolute verbena
unarrestably insinuates itself
through the socket of despair’s bleached skull.
However difficult the circumstances, the growing influence of the
Baha’i community and its astonishingly creative Founder will -
astonish Death
with (its) fierce festoons,
with (its) green and wily succulence.
Down the road we are all about to travel we will find, as White
emphasizes in a poem which likens our experience to Noah on
the arc -
the lean provision of devotion, of nefarious mutiny,
the wild and mounting waters, the weeks and
months of never-ending dark. A deluge, folks,
is not a lark.
White knew quite well that there “is a tide both in public and pri-
vate affairs, which awaits both men and nations’, as Shakespeare
wrote, which is not some cataclysmic overnight event but rather
some process which we are in the midst of and it may well take
some time before the tide has reached its high-water mark, if it has
not already done so.

White is, as Geoffrey Nash once described him in a pithy phrase, a
deceptively insinuating quotient. White has us laughing and with
our guard down he tells us we are heading for hell on earth. He
does it with what might be called “an etiquette of expression worthy
of the approaching maturity of the human race", as the Universal
House of Justice described, in its discussion of the characteristics of
a judicious exercise of speech. As the decades in the last half of the
twentieth century slipped by the social and political landscape did
get hotter or at least continued the high temperatures already expe-
rienced since World War 1. The tempest the Guardian had described
so vividly back in 1941 clearly continued into the twenty-first cen-
tury. As the Universal House of Justice had informed us back in
1967, we had entered “the dark heart of this age of transition” and it
was getting darker with the century’s end. White’s interpretive
schema was not wide of the mark.
Even the affluent minority of the planet were finding their hedo-
nistic materialism paradigm and its success orientation as a recipe
for happiness was breaking down, first in the 1920s, as F. Scott
Fitzgerald showed us in his classic novel The Great Gatsby, then in
the sixties when most of the hippies who came from affluent homes
rejected affluence as a raison d’etre for living and yet again in recent
decades as the world seems to be swept daily into a deeper mael-
strom.
White gently describes the struggle we have ahead. He does it
with an honesty, a subtlety and a tongue-in-cheek humour - at
least, that’s how I read him. In one of his many, what I call, ’arc
poems’, with a timing that is perfect for the last generation of ante-
diluvians that we may be, we who have placed a heavy investment
in beauty and given the vision at the centre of this Faith a physical
apotheosis, White puts phrase after phrase in the mouth of someone
who, so the story goes, built an instrument for saving humanity and
life on earth from total extinction – Noah:

Noah will say this journey is definitely not
for the timid and the overwrought;
not for the vainly pious,
the pusillanimous of spirit,
the bloodless prig.
Now that the ark is built:
.................This much is plain:
not for those wary and in despair of love,
this ardent voyage on the unvariable storm-lashed brig,
the unreasonable rain,
the long wait for the salient dove
to bring the living twig.
The darkest hours before the dawn have indeed arrived, as White
prognosticated in his metaphorical poetics, written for the most part
in the third and forth epochs of the formative age of the Bahá’i
Faith, with his gentle humour and his often simple and sweet lan-
guage brimming over with light. But there was in his idiom a
solemn consciousness, a poetic experience that allowed him, like the
Welsh poet Dylan Thomas, to tap into “a dark river flowing inside
him to which he could lower the bucket daily”. For poetry is not so
much a criticism of life, as T.S. Eliot once wrote, as it is “a look at
life from the abyss, the bottom. Few can do so for long. They don’t
know where the depths are or they don’t know quite what to say: or
they are afraid”. But White knew, at least he had the centring wis-
dom of over a century of infallible guidance and the interpretations
of history, society and the future in the endless letters and messages

from thirty years of a fully institutionalized and unquestionably
legitimate charisma in the Universal House of Justice. He had the
example of thirty-six years of writing from someone whose master-
ly grasp of the rich vocabulary and subtle nuances of English sup-
ported a power of unerring perception.
And so White looked deep into the heart of the Revelation and at
more than a century of experience of the religion that was born
from it by the time he had become a Baha’i in 1947. He gave us
what he saw and what he thought but, in the end, we are only get-
ting one man’s views. They are not the expression of an authorita-
tive exegesis; there is nothing infallible about his narrative style;
however insightful his power of definition and however meticulous
his attention to the meaning of words, all we can enjoy is the fruit
of individual interpretation as it heightens our horizons and intensi-
fies our vision. They may satisfy and transcend the need of the
moment and serve for the future as well as the present; they may
become part of a grand design, carved as they are in the abiding
stone of language but, in the last analysis, readers of White are
caught up in an individual “creativity, characterized by an intensity
of awareness and a heightened consciousness”. White is attempting
what Plato wrote about “discovering truth by reminiscence”. He is
moulding and remoulding his world through his consciousness. He
is not seeking authority; he is seeking meaning within a structure of
willing and wishing, a structure that he has been a part of for over
forty years, a structure that is the structure of freedom for this age.
In the process he gives us, at least some of us, what Wordsworth
once gave his readers:
….that which moves with light and life informed,
Actual, divine, true.
………
In presence of sublime and lovely forms.

With the adverse principles of pain and joy….
By love,…
…………....................all grandeur comes,
All truth and beauty, from pervading love;
That gone, we are as dust.
White is pointing his readers toward joy, toward wisdom, to many
things. Among the many points on the horizon he urges us toward
is a cautious conservatism, a moderation. Shoghi Effendi had, years
before, pointed us toward a moderation in his summary of the rea-
sons for the failure of the Babi community nearly a century before.
Shoghi Effendi writes in the epilogue to The Dawnbreakers that the
moderation the Bab “had exhorted (his followers) to observe was
forgotten in the first flush of enthusiasm that seized the early mis-
sionaries of His Faith, which behaviour was in no small measure
responsible for the failure of the hopes He had so fondly cherished”.
For White the focus is on the inner life - “the extent to which our
own inner life and private character mirror forth in their manifold
aspects the splendour of those eternal principles proclaimed by
Baha’u’llah”. The success of our teaching plans, White would argue,
rests on this inner life far beyond any set of new and noble princi-
ples, any staunchness of faith, any exaltation of enthusiasm, any
force of numbers. White expresses this idea of Shoghi Effendi in a
multitude of ways. In Emily’s Song he writes:
Had heaven held sure solace
To hasten there were wise
But I, grown timid, cautious,
Search for ambush, man’s and sky’s.

One day I’ll meet fate’s boldest stare
And ask its harsh command
My apron full of gentian and
Lone daisy in my hand.
It was White’s view that few rise to great heights of service and
achievement on the spiritual path. Unlike servants of the calibre of
Martha Root -
.................We, mincing few
Tenants of a grey plain, whose nervous eye
Is peeled for tinselled honour will not trace,
Gasping, your pell-mell plunge from pride to grace.
Those few who take the plunge enjoy a spiritual banquet but, for
the many -
The sour brew, the perishable flower
From which the mind weaves garlands, the vain meat
Of will that does not nourish.....
White concludes this apparently pessimistic or, as the voice of expe-
rience might call it, realistic poem with a plea for help from heav-
en’s great souls -

..................From your pantheon
Unseat us from our thin feast to speed the dawn.
Baha’u’llah’s vision of the ’Most Great Peace’ evoked no response
from the rulers of the nineteenth century or, indeed, from the vast
majority of people who came in touch with it in His lifetime. This is
not to say there was no response, for when Baha’u’llah passed away
in 1892 He had, it is estimated, some 50,000 followers. The Faith He
founded passed through its first century with its unity firmly intact.
That was, arguably, this new Faith’s greatest achievement. A global
community has taken form inspired by and possessing a certitude
that the human race can eventually work together as one people.
But the Baha’is know - and White puts it so well – that -
Love offers first the suppliant at its gate
faith’s bricks and planks and rusted nails that wound.
To fragile shelter built of love’s spare plan,
gold-laden, comes royal lover’s caravan.
There is always a golden seam of joy, of hope, and sometimes of
sheer ecstasy in the rag-and-bone shop that is daily life in White’s
land, or ’Whiteland’ as some might call the spiritual and intellectual
landscape he has created in his poetry. But White would have us
head into the future with our eyes wide open and conscious that as
we -
........................ride the journey out
And count truth’s ribs, bemused that faith
So multiplies (our) doubt.

White has seen - and he hopes we too see – that, within the reli-
gious and non-religious circles we move in, our -
.............preening calculation
makes of our knowledge knowingness,
carries us too soon from innocence
and exaltation. Do we give offence
with our borrowed and embellished
choreography of reverence?
White selects many special themes and topics for our edification:
marriage, martyrs, faith, inter alia. Perhaps in some future volume I
may write several essays around some of his selected themes, if oth-
ers do not do so before me. In the meantime we are warned by
White that there are -
...............................a thousand ways
To fit distraction to our fleeting days …
that there are “few whose passion wins the sought caress", that
“Though privately there swarmed/Martyrs in our dreams, publicly
we warmed/To tenets socially approved, and fled rebirth”. In the
end, though, ours is not the role to judge but rather to accept, to be
easily pleased with others in the community. If we do not, the
troops that come slowly into our community in the next few
decades may find that we have developed too critical a faculty with
our intellects and use our knowledge to judge and not understand.
For knowledge needs to be about love as well as understanding.

Some of White’s aphorisms and poetic injunctions may be useful, if
they are familiar, if they are ingrained on our emotional equipment.
White was only too aware that his poetry was not for everyone,
although some of it comes as close as one could possibly expect of
poetry in a culture heavily dosed on the products of mass media and
its entertainments. Although there are more people reading poetry
and buying books of poetry in these early years of the twenty-first
century, there are millions who never get near a book of poetry and
probably never will. One poetry critic recently argued the case for
advertising and sociology being the new forms of poetry, the former
for the mass and the latter for an elite. This kind of argument alters
the whole paradigm for poetry. Either way, White will not make it
into any mass market, not yet anyway.
I have met many Baha’is who just could not get onto White’s
wavelength. They are not able to get the tuning-fork of their minds
onto White’s pitch. I am not sure how much one can will that tun-
ing, but when the frequencies do meet the effect is uniquely
White’s. I always find it slightly sad when I come across others in
the Baha’i culture I am a part of, and of which White was a major
linguistic recorder only recently, who cannot read him. This is often
due to the densely woven web of his text in many of his poems. But
he is nowhere near as dense and impermeable as John Ashbery who,
like White, raided the spoken language of his culture. White, unlike
Ashbery, is not suspicious of thought and does not leave most of his
readers unable to make out what he is talking about.
I find White’s place in the poetic tradition of the West is not
unlike Ashbery’s. I am speaking here in the broadest of senses
because Ashbery has attained a popularity that White has never
achieved among the poetry cognoscenti. They are both what you
might call ruminative poets like Wallace Stevens and T.S. Eliot
going all the way back to Walt Whitman and Emerson. All these
poets tend to turn a few subjects over and over; they all tend to
aloneness and to the world of self as “solitary singers”. Our world

now is a post-White landscape, a post-Ashbery landscape. Like
Ashbery criticism which defines the meaning and status of what it
is to be ’American’, White criticism defines the meaning and status
of what it means to be a Baha’i. For both White and Ashbery their
central concern, among others, was the self-world relationship.
This comparison is, for me, useful since Ashbery and White were
contemporaries, in the last half of the twentieth century and,
despite their differences or perhaps because of them, my view of
White is sharpened.
Before I close I would like to draw to your attention two simple
stanzas selected from one of many possible poems, in this case ’in
homage to Emily Dickinson’. They are symptomatic of the aphoris-
tic nature of much of White’s verse. For poetry, far more effectively
than any other art form, conveys the immediacy of thought. And
White is pithy, often with memorable lines - an effective communi-
cator, to use modern parlance.
I struggled with temptation,
Denial was the cost.
Finally I conquered
Though heavy was my loss
Across his soul’s scarred battlefield
Where all his pride was slain
The legions of his enemy
Prepare to strike again.
One of the factors that I think gives White a contribution to play in
the future is the sheer number of very fine poems that he has
brought to this and succeeding generations. His reputation does not

rest – as, say, in the case of Eliot - on a few outstanding poems
which, with some persistence, can be read in an evening. Rather, the
sheer number of individual poems he gives us will guarantee read-
ers the experience of finding a poem they did not know was there in
his collected works. Like, say, the works of Hardy, Yeats or Stevens
who offer more individually appealing lyrics than our minds can
take in, it is difficult to know all of White’s poems. He turned out a
great deal of material in his last fifteen years in slim and not-so-
slim volumes.
On the other hand, it is fatally easy to decide that one ’knows’
the few poems that one does, has heard them before and cannot be
surprised again. No matter how much White you know or, in some
cases, have even committed to memory - some of your favourite
pieces - there will always be a poem there on the next page that you
know only slightly and delight to read again as if for the first time.
White would have made a good poet laureate, an office that took
on its modern form in 1843 when William Wordsworth was
appointed, although the office itself went back to 1668. It was an
office in England that was reserved for the greatest poet of the day
as a mark of public recognition of that poet’s pre-eminence. It was
the highest office that a professional poet could aspire to. Indeed, if a
poet had achieved distinction, it was reasonable for contemporary
commentators to speak of him as ’laureated’, even if he had not
been formally granted a public laureateship with its accompanying
stipend. In 1843 there were “no specific obligations laid upon the
holder”, although that is certainly not the case today. White was
often called, therefore, the ’unofficial poet laureate’ of the Baha’i
community, an apt term given the long and variegated history of
poet laureates for some four centuries and the great distinction that
White achieved in his poetry in the last two decades of his life.
White liked the poetry of T.S. Eliot. Part of White’s enjoyment of
Eliot was an affinity for both his life and his work, although I would
have to engage with the White archives if I wanted to substantiate

that claim. Lyndall Gordon wrote of Eliot’s adult life that it could
“be seen as a series of adventures from the citadel of his self in
search of some great defining experience”. Perhaps for Eliot this
defining experience was a commitment to the Anglican form of
Christianity. White found his ’defining experience’ in a new emerg-
ing religion in his late teens and he spent his life defining, studying
and understanding it as deeply as he could. Like Eliot, White often
shuddered from his contact with the world and withdrew to his
citadel “where he could labour to record, as precisely as possible, his
strange encounters”. I am not sure White would have liked the
word “shuddered”. but my own study of his poetry suggests, like
our own dear selves, he had enough of such moments to help give
his poetry the depth it attained.
Of course in some ways, important and basic ways, it is difficult
to know how White will be considered in the future because it is
difficult to know where we are at in history. Matthew Arnold thinks
that the century ending in 430 BC was the time when poetry made
“the noblest, most successful effort she has ever made”. Toynbee,
perhaps the twentieth century’s greatest megahistorian, saw 431 BC
as the beginning of the decline of Graeco-Roman civilization, the
long decline of some thousand years. Inevitably, this is all arguable.
But Toynbee liked to think of himself as much a minor poet as a
historian; he liked to see the historical process as one divinely
inspired current, an expression of unity in the love of God.
There has been a theme, pursued for many a long year in the
Writings of the Baha’i Faith and its interpreters in the twentieth
century, that we are witnessing the dark heart of an age. Mixed with
this view is the belief we are in the springtime of a new age, a cul-
tural and intellectual quickening the like of which has never been
seen. One could certainly interpret that century 530 to 430 BC as
one which witnessed a similar quickening, a similar birth. The fifth
century BC has been viewed as the birthplace, the birth time of our
western civilization. There is no doubt that these years were a cli-
macteric of history.

It is not my intention here to examine this complex and fascinating
historical and poetic hypothesis, to compare and contrast climacter-
ics. But it may be that down the track of time historians of the
future may look back on this period of history as a period that wit-
nessed the birth-pangs of a new civilization. And in our time White,
in the last decades of the twentieth century, was there with his new
poetic, a poetic that was highly accessible to the embryonic new reli-
gion he had joined in the first years of its second century. In that
slough of despond which was part of this birth process, something
new was being born across the face of the earth and one of its criti-
cal harbingers was the poet Roger White. Like Fugita who made
’Abdu’l-Baha laugh, White made the Baha’is laugh and while they
were laughing, while he was making them glad, he slipped in some
of the finest poetry of our age. Like the religion he espoused which
was becoming for an embryonic global civilization “a source of joy
so abundant” that it was to run all “over upon the material world”
and transfigure it, White’s essential note, among so many of his
essential notes, was joy.
And finally, with respect to White’s poetry, I can only repeat the
words of Ezra Pound in relation to T.S. Eliot, with that same sense
of urgency that Pound voiced at the beginning of Eliot’s poetic out-
put: READ HIM. For White is a poet of the future and that future is
now. His poetry begins in a new myth and ends in that myth and, if
White’s poetry survives into the future, it will be because of that
myth and its powerful metaphor embedded in history. White was
just one light in a long tradition of poetic lights shining upon this
history and radiating new meanings to his contemporaries. He was a
voluminous poet, an inventor on a large scale, especially during the
last two decades of his life. His was a marvellous poetic gift and had
he lived into old age I am confident he would have gone on concoct-
ing poem after poem. But what he did produce, I am confident too,
will be enough to last into the future.
Such a book as this is not relatively but absolutely inadequate to
a body of poetry as great as White’s, both in quality and quantity. It

can be, at best, as Randall Jarrell said of his study of Robert Frost’s
poetry, “only a kind of breathless signboard”. But if, as Matthew
Arnold once wrote, humankind discovers that more and more it has
to “turn to poetry to interpret life for us, to console us, to sustain
us”,then what I have written here may find a useful place in the
burgeoning literature of this endangered species.