THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1994-08-07

To all National Spiritual Assemblies

dear b ahá’í f riends,

we take pleasure in sharing with you news of the highly successful world

forestry charter gathering held at St. james’s palace, Thursday, 28 july, in

the presence of Amatu’l-b ahá rú¥íyyih khánum and h.r.h. The prince

philip, duke of edinburgh, who were the two principal speakers. Amatu’l-

bahá’s brief and radiant address on the spiritual dimensions of the environ-

mental challenge, which cited words of bahá’u’lláh as the inspiration for her

own devotion to the environmental cause, was several times interrupted by the warm applause of her listeners. for his part, prince philip used the oc-

casion to issue an urgent call for a legally binding international convention

to halt reckless deforestation of the planet.

Among the more than two hundred distinguished guests at the luncheon

and the reception that followed were ambassadors and other diplomats, representatives of major environmental protection organizations, and prominent personalities in government, business and the professions. The

government of the united kingdom participated through a statement from

prime minister john major, read by the Secretary of State for environmen-

tal Affairs. messages of support and encouragement were received from

seventeen governments, the one from president bill clinton of the united

States capturing succinctly the vision that animated the gathering, that, in

the protection and sustainable management of the earth’s forests, there are no borders.

The idea of regular gatherings to focus government and media attention

on preservation of the world’s forests was begun in l945 by dr. richard St.

barbe baker, a well-known member of the bahá’í faith and an internation-

ally renowned pioneer in the field of ecology. The tradition was revived

on the one hundredth anniversary of his birth in l989 by the bahá’í inter-

national community acting in collaboration with the international T ree

foundation (formerly “m en of the T rees”), the worldwide fund for Nature,

the united Nations environment program, and dr. baker’s literary execu-

tor, mr. h ugh locke.188.1

188.2

188.3

1993–1996  •  T h e  Th r e e  Ye a r  Pl a n

11bahá’í leadership in the initiative won generous praise in the address

given to this year’s gathering by his royal highness and in several messages

from heads of state and government.

you are welcome to share this information with the friends in your

community.

with loving b ahá’í greetings,

189

Progress of the Mount Carmel Project Fund

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]