The Lab, the Temple,
and the Market

This page intentionally left blank

THE LAB, THE TEMPLE,
AND THE MARKET
Reflections
at the Intersection of
Science, Religion, and Development

Edited by Sharon Harper
KUMARIAN
PRESS

© International Development Research Centre 2000
Published in Canada by the International Development Research Centre
po Box 8500, Ottawa, on, Canada K1G 3H9
http://www.idrc.ca/books/
Published in Europe and the United States of America by Kumarian Press Inc.
1294 Blue Hills Avenue, Bloomﬁeld, ct 06002, usa
http://www.kpbooks.com/
All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a
retrieval system, or transmitted, in any form or by any means, electronic,
mechanical, photocopying, or otherwise, without the prior permission of the
publishers. All paper used in this book is recycled as well as recyclable. All inks
and coatings are vegetable-based products.
Canadian Cataloging in Publication Data
Main entry under title:
The lab, the temple and the market : reﬂections at the intersection of science,
religion and development / edited by Sharon Harper
isbn 0-88936-920-8
ccg cat. no. E97-7/2000E
1. Economic development — Religious aspects.
2. Technology — Religious aspects.
3. Religion and science.
I. Harper, Sharon, 1965-    .
II. International Development Research Centre (Canada)
HD75.L33 2000
338.9
C00-901336-9
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data
The lab, the temple, and the market : reﬂections at the intersection of science,
religion, and development / edited by Sharon Harper.
p. cm.
Includes bibliographical references.
isbn 1-56549-116-5 (alk. paper)
1. Economic development—Religious aspects. 2. Technology—Religious
aspects. 3. Religion and science. I. Harper, Sharon, 1965-
HD75.L33 2000
338.9--dc21
00-055935

Contents
Foreword — Pierre Beemans . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . vii
Preface — Sharon Harper . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ix
Introduction — Farzam Arbab . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
chapter 1
The Principle of Fundamental Oneness — Promilla Kapur . . . . . . . . . 7
The context . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Hinduism: the backdrop . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Self, society, and development . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Modern science and the Hindu religion. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
Devotion, knowledge, and action. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
Conclusion: an integrated paradigm . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
Annex 1: Selected ethical principles of Hinduism-inspired
movements for development . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
chapter 2
Solidarity with the Poor — Gregory Baum . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
A Roman Catholic idea of development. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
The World Bank’s new interest in religion . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 71
The subjective dimension of social-science research . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
Annex 1: Excerpts from papal encyclicals and statements by
the World Synod of Bishops concerning development . . . . . . . . 82
chapter 3
Rediscovering the Resources of Religion — Azizan Baharuddin. . . 105
Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 105
Science. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 109
Development. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 111
Religion . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 113
Islam . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 120
Conclusion. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 137
Annex 1: Islamic scholars and organizations involved
in science, religion, and development. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 138
v

chapter 4
Promoting a Discourse on Science,
Religion, and Development — Farzam Arbab. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 149
On personal experience . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 149
Faith and reason . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 177
Spiritual principles and the role of knowledge. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 195
Capacity-building . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 210
afterword
Our Way of Proceeding — William Ryan, S.J. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 239
appendix 1
Contributing Authors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 247
appendix 2
Acronyms and Abbreviations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 251
C O N T E N T S
vi

Foreword
Only the most ingenuous or wilfully blind would pretend that after a
half century of sustained effort and many, many billions of dollars, inter-
national development agencies have at last “got it right.” If anything,
there is a pervasive sense that, in some very real way, we have failed.
True, there have been tremendous achievements: thanks in large part to
the programs of these agencies, the dedication of their staff, and the
advances of modern science and technology (s&t), more people today
have more food, better health, longer lives, more access to education,
and faster communications than ever before.
And yet, more people than ever before are living in extreme
poverty — physical, social, and moral. Education, health, and employ-
ment systems have collapsed in much of sub-Saharan Africa. The Earth
is choking in the poison and filth we have generated through ever-
increasing industrial growth justiﬁed by models of human development
that focus on consumption. Population levels outstrip the capacity of
many countries to meet basic human needs, let alone the growth in
social demand for conspicuous consumption. Both developed and devel-
oping countries are facing waves of social disintegration, with crime,
corruption, and violence as only the most visible features. The global
shift in sociocultural value systems, characterized by Westernized pop
culture and the deterioration of collective bonds of community and
kinship, has deprived whole societies of their traditional spiritual and
cultural reference points and bred disturbing patterns of social and spir-
itual alienation.
I am not implying that all of these problems can be laid at the door
of international development agencies and models. These issues do
suggest, however, that somewhere along the line we lost sight of some-
thing or that we never saw it in the ﬁrst place. Most, if not all, devel-
opment agencies are inspired by a scientiﬁc, technological, economic,
and positivistic worldview; perhaps, we have been unable to listen to
what people outside our agencies and worldview have been saying.
Most people situate themselves, their day-to-day decisions, and
their hopes in the context of moral and religious belief systems that have
traditionally been seen by development agencies as outside of — if not
opposed to — our development models. As an institution with a
30-year history of looking at how s&t can be applied to resolve the
development problems of the South, the International Development
vii

Research Centre (idrc) decided a few years ago to launch a modest
inquiry that would help us better understand how our ﬁeld of action
relates to the spiritual and religious dimension of human well-being.
This was a new and contentious area for an organization like ours, which
has been accustomed to thinking of religion and spirituality as private
matters with no place in our professional lives or in a public domain like
that of “international development.” We were unsure of how to
approach the question and of whom to ask.
In the end, we were fortunate to encounter four individuals from
different cultural and regional backgrounds, all believers in their own
religious traditions and all trained as natural or social scientists, who
were willing to work together to explore how science, religion, and
development come together in their own personal and professional
worldviews. Although we had intended to bring in other actors from
various religious traditions and scientiﬁc disciplines, we decided to start
with these four as a “critical mass” and to trust that others would join
in as the inquiry progressed. This book is intended to launch that wider
stage of inquiry.
It is unclear to us at idrc where this experiment in research will
lead, either within or beyond idrc. At the very least, we hope that it
will enrich our thinking about development and about how we do our
work. We also hope that it will be a useful contribution to the growing
international discourse on the relationship between the religious, scien-
tific, and “developmental” worldviews on the improvement of the
human condition. And we would, of course, be delighted if there was
enough interest to support a continuation of our inquiry into what I
believe is one of the great challenges before governments and develop-
ment agencies: how to harness the scientiﬁc, technical, and economic
creativity of the modern world to improve the human condition while
respecting and reﬂecting the underlying values about human well-being
and our relationship with the world that are offered by religious and
cultural traditions.
Pierre Beemans
Vice President
International Development Research Centre
F O R E W O R D
viii

Preface
From the perspective of “research,” the conjunction of science, religion,
and development (srd) is an enormous challenge — even to appreciate
the scope of the issues. Merely a few of the entry points for research cur-
rently being explored in this area are global or universal ethics, ethics
and development, religious and faith-based responses to the concern for
environmental sustainability, religion and development, religiously
based development efforts, issues of globalization and cultural values,
indigenous belief systems and knowledge, efforts to create interreligious
dialogue and understanding, and religious and faith-based approaches
to conﬂict resolution. The International Development Research Centre
(idrc) srd project is a modest effort to tease out this knot of questions,
concerns, and rich insights. This effort has been speciﬁcally designed for
a research-for-development organization with an interest in supporting
scientific research and research capacity for sustainable development,
because, simply put, the srd project offered the opportunity to investi-
gate what faith and science have to offer each other in the 50-year-old
endeavour called development.
One of the strengths of the project is that, given the breadth of the
relevant issues, it does not ask people to change their approach to devel-
opment or to reevaluate the skills they have in their various disciplines
but to articulate their disciplinary contribution and the role played by
their faith in their approaches. With each person writing from his or her
perspective and skill set, we offer an eclectic set of reﬂections, but we
hope that these reﬂections allow readers to see the relevance of these
questions within various scientiﬁc and development discourses and to
see a richness of methods and results. The project highlights that the
governing tenets of organized religion and personal faith are not neces-
sarily divisive or repressive (although, like intellectual and political
ideologies, they can be co-opted to that task) and that belief can be
deeply motivational and strikingly fruitful in scientiﬁc pursuits. Most
of the authors emphasize how their faith has brought them a profound
understanding of interconnectedness and compassion and thus a wider
perspective on their research such that the horizon of their work
includes the effects of that research on other people, their community,
the ecosystem, minority and marginalized groups, and ultimately the
world.
ix

Another strength of the srd project lies in the people involved.
The project brought together a core group of people who, within
themselves, unite various disciplines and modes of thought. Without
exception, the core group also comprised people with the vision to see
another way of doing things, the courage to experiment with conven-
tional ways of thinking, and the self-assurance to challenge their own
worldviews when they come into contact with other belief systems.
Their forthrightness about their faith is also exceptional, given how
little accustomed the academic community is to examining questions of
belief and revelation. The reﬂections found in this text would have been
impossible without these people, for they chose to write personally
about their faith and their science and it is on the personal level where
the intersection of these disciplines can be seen most vividly and con-
cretely. This appreciation extends to all those associated with the srd
project, both within and outside idrc: Pierre Beemans, Chris Smart,
William F. Ryan, S.J., and Kathleen Clancy. Many thanks must be
expressed for their guidance, support, wisdom, and just plain hard
work. Special thanks must go to Chris Smart for the creative energy
behind the perfect title that is drawing so many readers to this
publication.
This project frequently faced the question of whether idrc, a
research-for-development organization, should undertake this line of
research. Given religious-based conflicts and the ambiguity of some
faiths and spirituality, some people are bound to be uncomfortable with
this focus and methodology. But those involved in the project found sig-
niﬁcant encouragement in the recent efforts of the World Bank to open
a dialogue with representatives of nine world faiths on the issues of
poverty. And the srd project also uncovered a multitude of voices in a
swiftly growing body of literature, in the work of exciting new non-
governmental organizations, and in the letters and e-mails (from people
in the North and the South) telling us that these questions in develop-
ment are ripe for research. How might this research be relevant? Could
it bring to light — indeed, question — the accepted values that under-
lie Western economic and scientific assumptions while building an
appreciation for the insights and rationalities of other cultures and
worldviews? Could it explore the potential for a new symbiosis of
science and religion to rethink the question of “human well-being” and
address the dilemmas of development? Religion and faith offer other
sets of values — some overlapping, some new — and thus new insights
and approaches to the pernicious problems of poverty, disease, conﬂict,
and social marginalization.
I feel particularly fortunate to have worked with this project and
to have met the people it has brought together. With a background in
journalism, law, human rights, and theology, I often wondered where I
would ﬁnd employment that would allow me to explore the issues and
skills I had been introduced to at various stages of my education. The
P R E F A C E
x

srd project has brought these areas of knowledge into focus in a
meaningful way, allowing me to see how thoughtful and concerned
people (secular and religious) and caring and committed organizations
(again, secular and religious) devote the best of themselves to the chal-
lenges of creating a world that is compassionate, just, peaceful, and
sustainable.
Sharon Harper
September 2000
P R E F A C E
xi

This page intentionally left blank

Introduction
F a r z a m  A r b a b
The end of the 20th century discloses to the eyes of humanity a vista of
stupendous opportunities and grave perils. Some of the more striking
phenomena are those associated with globalization, a designation that
arouses strong emotions and lends itself to a variety of interpretations.
There is no doubt — and this is true irrespective of one’s views on the
subject — that the forces of globalization have set the nations of the
world on a new and irreversible course. Economic activity, political
structures, and culture are all undergoing profound change. A global
society is being born as barriers that have kept peoples apart crumble
and are swept away. The transformation is made possible by accelerated
technological advance, an early fruit of which is a mode of communica-
tion transcending national boundaries and operating at staggering
speed.
However thrilling future prospects may be, present patterns of
behaviour do not inspire conﬁdence in the process. It is only natural to
wonder whether globalization will, in fact, unify the human race with-
out imposing uniformity or simply propel the universalization of the
culture of consumerism. Is it the bearer of prosperity for the masses or
the mere expression of the economic interests of a privileged few? Will
it lead to the establishment of a just order or the consolidation of exist-
ing structures of power?
Such caution is not without justiﬁcation, for, despite the continual
multiplication of the means for improving the human condition, age-
old problems persist and new ones present themselves at every turn.
Particularly signiﬁcant in this respect is the inefﬁcacy of the methods of
the global development enterprise, now entering its sixth decade. The
problem is complex. For one thing, with the exception of certain
notable successes, it has not been possible to halt the spread of
poverty — not the poverty to which humanity has been accustomed
throughout its existence, but one whose impact is rendered intolerable
by the disintegration of the bonds of solidarity. For another, the pattern
of economic growth being replicated has proven so detrimental to the
environment as to call its viability into question. The challenge of
1

bringing prosperity to all the peoples of the world through a process of
sustainable development will not be met solely by the application of
technology and the expansion of current schemes of organization. It
demands a radical departure from the materialistic philosophies that
have created today’s concurrence of abject poverty and irresponsible
wealth.
The thrust of history cannot be understood by the mere analysis of
cause and effect. So profound a transformation of society should also be
viewed as the exigency of an underlying evolutionary process at a time
when the principles of oneness, of interconnectedness, and of justice are
imposing themselves on the collective consciousness of humanity. The
ﬁrst global endeavours engendered by such an awakening may be tenta-
tive, inadequate, and even motivated by ambition and selﬁshness. But
there is every reason to hope that as experience is gained, energies will
increasingly be directed toward the creation of a world civilization
embodying both the unity and the diversity of the human race. In this
light, reevaluating the ﬁeld of development, its basic assumptions, and
its current strategies is a task that deserves immediate attention.
In the fall of 1997, the International Development Research
Centre (idrc) brought together a small group of us — scientists from
diverse religious backgrounds — and challenged us to contribute to this
reevaluation by exploring the theme of science, religion, and develop-
ment. The approach we were to take was straightforward. We were
asked to engage in a review of relevant literature and to reﬂect — from
the point of view of our own experiences and belief systems — on issues
we considered critical to the theme of this research. We were to meet,
as needed, to share and discuss our thoughts. We were to present the
results of our personal reﬂections in working papers, which were in turn
to be compiled in one volume and circulated to a wider group for fur-
ther deliberation. We each found the subject signiﬁcant enough to add
this undertaking to our other obligations for 1 or 2 years.
Before our project, idrc had carried out an initial analysis of issues
related to spirituality and development. Dr William F. Ryan, S.J., had
traveled on its behalf to various parts of the world and had interviewed
nearly 200 theorists and practitioners working in the ﬁeld. His conclu-
sions, presented in Culture, Spirituality, and Economic Development: Opening
a Dialogue (Ryan 1995), were of great assistance to us, as was his active
participation in our meetings and discussions. It was clear from his
study that the need to give the spiritual dimension of human existence
its due place in development thinking was strongly felt in many circles.
Dissatisfaction with dominant approaches that search for “the ‘perfect
package’ and the right ‘technological ﬁx’ for every human development
problem” was widespread (Ryan 1995, p. 4). All those interviewed
agreed that local cultural and religious values should be integrated into
research on sustainable and equitable development. While nearly every-
one showed concern about the moral and ethical aspects of development,
A R B A B
2

some went further and sought to “base their committed action” on reli-
gion and faith; they were sceptical about the effectiveness of purely
rational ethics, especially when rationality was deﬁned by “narrow indi-
vidualistic premises” (Ryan 1995, p. 42).
Without doubt, the proposition that a purely materialistic
approach to development must be abandoned enjoys substantial sup-
port. What is not clear is how development theory and practice are to
acquire a spiritual perspective. Development efforts rest upon several
scientiﬁc disciplines and professional ﬁelds, each with its own world-
view. Is it possible to enter into a rigorous discussion of spirituality —
one that is not co-opted by baseless imaginings — when the overall
framework within which these disciplines have taken shape holds
science and religion in opposition? An inquiry into the relationship
between science and religion and their interface with development,
then, seems to be a necessary step in any attempt to adjust the present
imbalance in development thinking. Our group adopted such a view
with confidence, recognizing that the crisis of modern society has
already compelled scientists and theologians alike to question the mate-
rialistic version of this relationship. The expanding scope of exploration
into the subject, combined with the growing awareness of the failures
of materialism, assured us of the timeliness of idrc’s decision to pro-
mote a discourse on the theme of science, religion, and development.
The papers in this volume are the results of our joint deliberations
and individual reﬂections on the theme. They do not adhere to any spec-
iﬁed format, nor do they address the same set of issues. They reﬂect the
decision we made together that whatever approach we adopted, we
would do our best to make our own beliefs explicit as we went about
analyzing social and intellectual reality. Each paper should be viewed as
no more than a ﬁrst contribution to a conversation that we hope will
attract more and more participants.
Dr Promilla Kapur chose to review, in some detail, the teachings
of her faith. The paper she is presenting, however, is not a theological
treatise on Hinduism. It is an account of the reflections of a social
scientist and activist on her own belief system. It begins with a brief dis-
cussion of Dr Kapur’s personal worldview and spirituality and moves on
to an exposition of what she sees as the salient features of the religion of
the Hindu people. This is a well-documented section of her paper, sup-
porting her argument that the “syncretic and pluralistic history” of the
Hindu religion and “its concept of an ultimate Oneness provide an
alternative outlook and an important balance to the divisive effect of
modern systems and materialist mind-sets” (Kapur, this volume, pp. 9).
This is an important observation, and a much-needed one, given that
the religious belief systems of India have been portrayed so frequently
as obstacles to development.
Dr Kapur’s treatment of development is built around its deﬁnition
as “the unfoldment of Truth,” a process that operates in relation to the
I N T R O D U C T I O N
3

individual, society, and the cosmos (Kapur, this volume, pp. 18).
Within this context, she has no difﬁculty arguing that the ﬁeld of devel-
opment stands in need of the proper inﬂuence of religion. The concep-
tion of science to which she adheres leads her naturally to the view that
there can be no essential conﬂict between science and religion. For her,
the physical sciences constitute “an inquiry into matter and the nature
of the external world” (Kapur, this volume, pp. 27). Religion, she feels,
is “an inquiry into consciousness, spirituality, and the nature of the
inner world” (Kapur, this volume, pp. 27). As there can be “no separa-
tion between the external and internal dimensions” of existence, science
and religion cannot but complement each other (Kapur, this volume,
pp. 27). She hopes that the two, in harmonious interaction, can be
brought to bear on the challenges of development.
In describing what she considers to be the Hindu resources for an
integrated development, Dr Kapur assumes a markedly Gandhian pos-
ture. As such, she draws on the wealth of insights from the struggle for
a Sarvodaya Order. Her thoughts are clearly in the direction of a search
for a development strategy that balances scientific and technological
achievement with critically examined values of religion, Western
dynamism with Eastern spiritual vision.
Dr Gregory Baum brought to our deliberations at least three con-
cerns: the critical treatment of development by Christian churches, the
World Bank’s recent promotion of a dialogue with religion, and the sub-
jective dimension of social-science research. In the paper prepared for
this publication, he analyzes these concerns. His presentation of the ﬁrst
theme includes instructive examples, largely from the Roman Catholic
church, illustrating that ever since the Christian churches “heard the
protests of Christian and non-Christian groups in the poorer parts of the
world” they have been ill at ease with the idea of development formu-
lated in terms of industrialization (Baum, this volume, pp. 62). In a
brief discussion of his personal convictions, he sums up what he sees as
a Catholic option, involving two commitments: “to look at society from
the perspective of its victims; and to publicly manifest solidarity with
their struggle for justice” (Baum, this volume, pp. 69–70). “The option
for the poor,” he states,
has released a new inwardness in the Christian churches, marked by
a certain spiritual anguish; that is, (1) we are deeply troubled by the
suffering of others, especially those who are oppressed (the majority
of humankind); (2) we grieve over the Church’s past and present
complicity with empire, colonialism, and other forms of domina-
tion; and (3) we willingly expose ourselves to the painful and
unanswerable question of how we can reconcile our faith in a loving
and omnipotent God with the evil we see in the world. This new
spirituality, which has its own “dark night of the soul,” is not
devoid of hope and the energy to act.
(Baum, this volume, pp. 70).
A R B A B
4

Dr Baum’s analysis of the effort being made by the World Bank to
open a dialogue with religion shows the promise that such a dialogue
holds if it is protected from vested interest. By raising the question of
subjectivity in research, his third concern, he focuses attention on an
issue of particular significance. The exploration on which we have
embarked will not advance if constrained by narrow deﬁnitions of the
scientiﬁc method. A question that cannot be avoided is whether the
attitude of the social-science researcher toward the existence of a tran-
scendent order inﬂuences his or her analysis and conclusion. Dr Baum
calls, not for belief in religion, but for empathy and openness. He asks
that development research demonstrate “a special sensitivity to the spir-
itual dimension of people’s self-constitution and to the ways the secular
presuppositions of contemporary Western culture threaten their iden-
tity” (Baum, this volume, pp. 81).
Dr Azizan Baharuddin begins her paper by drawing attention to
the consequences of the compartmentalization and reductionism that
characterize so much of today’s intellectual activity. She then sets out to
describe her conception of science, religion, and development, consis-
tently underscoring their interconnectedness. “We have to acquire a
holistic, ecological worldview,” is her appeal, “and from this reorienta-
tion will flow the realignment of our economic and development
concepts” (Baharuddin, this volume, pp. 111). In exploring religion,
Dr Baharuddin does not shy away from questioning religious precepts
and practices she feels are in need of fundamental change. This affords
her the freedom to turn to the essence of Islam and present some of its
teachings in their full beauty.
The section on metaphysics and its role in human endeavour is a
particularly welcome contribution to an emerging discourse on the
theme of science, religion, and development. Here, by examining some
of the implications of the Qur’anic term din, Dr Baharuddin illustrates
how Islam “involves the totality of life, if not reality itself” (Baharuddin,
this volume, pp. 127). Following Al-Attas’ analysis, she explains that
submission to God, the foundational precept of Islam, is intimately con-
nected with human indebtedness to God for the gifts of creation and
sustenance. In this state of indebtedness, human beings realize that
“they possess nothing themselves” and that “everything about them, in
them, and from them comes from the Creator” (Baharuddin, this vol-
ume, pp. 128). Given that they are in themselves “the very substance of
the debt,” they have no choice but to repay it “by returning themselves
to God” (Baharuddin, this volume, pp. 128). This return means giving
themselves in service to God — and thus to humanity — and living in
accordance with God’s law. It is the profound understanding of a num-
ber of metaphysical concepts such as the relationship between indebt-
edness and submission that, according to Dr Baharuddin, forms the
foundation of an Islamic approach to development.
I N T R O D U C T I O N
5

My own paper in this collection is based on my work in develop-
ment, especially in the Latin American sphere. For many years, a group
of colleagues and I had the opportunity to make a concerted effort to
create an alternative development strategy that sought to apply spiritual
principles to the transformation of social and economic processes and
structures in rural regions. The theme and approach of the present project
served as a framework within which I could make explicit the concep-
tion of science and religion that was at the heart of that effort. What I
try to describe in my paper is a worldview, informed by the Bahá’í
teachings, that considers the generation and application of knowledge
the central axis around which development takes place. The main task
of development, I argue, is the building of capacity in individuals, com-
munities, and institutions in region after region to participate in the
creation of a civilization in which the material and the spiritual join.
The purpose of our endeavour in this idrc research project was not
to reach a consensus or a set of uniform views on the nature of science,
religion, or development, and thus the papers reﬂect a variety of under-
standings and approaches. However, we shared certain thoughts about
fundamental issues, especially in the treatment of religion. None of us
wished to deal with religion as a mere instrument, either as a philo-
sophical tool or as a social factor that happens to be useful in furthering
material development. We were not interested in aligning religion with
consumerism, scientism, or political power. As believers and scientists,
we saw both religion and science as concerned with reality. We therefore
explored the role of religion in every facet of the development process:
purpose, strategy, methodology, and action. Whatever the validity of
our speciﬁc arguments, we can hope to have conveyed at least one basic
message: the various religious traditions of the world have guided
humanity throughout its history under a diversity of conditions and,
today, can offer humanity a wealth of spiritual insight that it sorely
needs. Diversity need not be a cause of conﬂict and contention as opin-
ions adverse to religion automatically assume. It is not always necessary
to think in terms of “religions” and “sects”; it is possible to speak of
religion in the same way as one speaks of science and then explore the
interactions of the two as they guide human progress.
REFERENCE
Ryan, W.F., S.J. 1995. Culture, spirituality, and economic development: open-
ing a dialogue. International Development Research Centre, Ottawa, on,
Canada. 67 pp.
A R B A B
6

C H A P T E R  1
The Principle of
Fundamental
Oneness
P r o m i l l a  K a p u r
THE CONTEXT
Does development divide or unite humanity?
As I look at society today, this is what I see: many worlds and many
peoples struggling to ﬁnd a place for themselves, their traditions, and
their ways of life while their realities change around them at an ever-
increasing pace. And I see marks of nobility in these struggles:
generosity when people have little or nothing themselves, expressions of
kindness toward others, and untiring dedication in working for equal-
ity, unity of purpose, peace, and harmony with the natural environment.
These are good people doing the best they can to manifest the good life
that their traditions, myths, religions, and conscience tell them is pos-
sible. They work hard to move toward solidarity and cooperation and
resist tendencies toward separation, selﬁshness, and conﬂict.
But it is impossible to ignore the strength of the forces pulling in
the other direction: gender imbalances; gross inequities in the distribu-
tion of wealth; the distortion of religion into fundamentalist postures
7
nb: This text would have been impossible without the support, research, and insight-
ful contributions of Tribhuwan Kapur, Associate Professor of the Sociology of Religion at
the Indira Gandhi National Open University, New Delhi, India, and author of nine books.

and actions; periodic communal violence; disregard for the principles of
moral sexuality; crassly hedonistic consumerism (that is, the production
and consumption of goods and items that have little relevance to the
real quality of life but provide sensation for the sake of sensation);
nonparticipatory development initiatives that rarely proﬁt the beneﬁciary
population; and confusion over culture, religion, and spirituality (for
example, how one religion can relate harmoniously and noncompeti-
tively with other religions) — all this occurring within the context of
the ever-pervasive and increasingly ominous pollution and destruction
of our natural resources. The problems are certainly more than I can list
here, but it seems to me that all of them ﬁnd their roots somewhere in
the divided nature of the world.
Given the recent emergence of many of these problems, it is hard
to identify holistic technological and social solutions to address them.
Each “ﬁx” has its own consequences, both good and bad, and it is difﬁ-
cult to see at the moment of its application the ultimate impact of each
new “solution.” Solutions, without an adequate moral or spiritual
grounding, often become problems themselves. For example, although
science undoubtedly has made immense and positive contributions to
human well-being, it has also been used to build nuclear weapons; com-
puter technology is used to facilitate communications, but it is also used
to target “enemy” sites. And behind all these scientific applications
gone awry, I again see the marks of a world lacking unity and cohesive-
ness. It is this insight, I believe, that needs to be brought to an analysis
of the prevalent paradigm of development.
In the issues before us, three important areas interplay — modern
science, religion and values, and development (broadly deﬁned in eco-
nomic, social, and psychological terms). I explore their interfaces in this
paper from my own perspective as a practicing Hindu woman and social
scientist. In these introductory remarks, I elucidate the details of this
perspective. In the second section of the paper, “Hinduism: the back-
drop,” I explain my understanding of Hinduism and Vedanta and some
of their cardinal principles, such as dharma and “self–Self.” In the third
section, “Self, society, and development,” I explore the approach that
Hinduism takes, moving from an inward, personal development to an
outward, social development. In the section entitled “Modern science
and the Hindu religion,” I look at the striking similarities between new
discoveries in science and very old wisdom from Hindu scriptures. In
the penultimate section, “Devotion, knowledge, and action,” I turn to a
historical description of religious movements and leaders in India who
have spearheaded action for social reform and development, leading us
ﬁnally into a discussion (in the section “Conclusion: an integrated par-
adigm”) of what resources religion, and Hinduism in particular, can
offer to the ﬁeld of development.
The dilemmas to which I have alluded seem to be so inherent to
the modern lifestyle that to reverse them would be no small
K A P U R
8

accomplishment. It would require a great and persistent effort over an
appreciable period. The present generation, I think, can do little more
than lay the groundwork of an ultimately “united” world. It is exactly
in this process that the Hindu religion, for me, offers such valuable
resources: its syncretic and pluralistic history and its concept of an ulti-
mate Oneness provide an alternative outlook and an important balance
to the divisive effect of modern systems and materialist mind-sets.
A personal perspective
At the outset, I would like to reﬂect on how I ﬁrst encountered the prin-
ciples of science, religion, and development (srd), how I use these in my
personal life and work, and how I became interested in this project of
the International Development Research Centre (idrc).
I feel that it was my parents, especially my mother, who intro-
duced me to the religious ethos and the Almighty — or Supreme Power
— when I was a child. My mother came from an Arya Samaj family
background and conveyed, in her own loving way, her understanding
that the Supreme Power is One and the Creator of the whole universe.
We are all children of that Almighty. She inculcated in me — and my
brothers and sisters — the habit of praying to God on getting up in the
morning and before going to sleep, to give thanks for God’s blessings,
to ask for protection from evil, and to impart to us the good sense and
positive attitude needed to love, respect, and take care of ourselves and
others. Thus, I received these core religious beliefs as part of my social-
ization in a liberal home, school, and community atmosphere.
I continue these practices even today. I do yogic exercises and pray
regularly on waking and again before retiring, to thank the Supreme
Power for his blessings and to internalize the divine qualities by link-
ing my personal soul with the Supreme Soul through meditation. I
make efforts to put into practice some of the cardinal principles of the
Hindu religion (sanatana dharma). For example, I have faith in an Ultimate
Reality and in the Oneness of that power from which, and in which, all
creation lives. I ﬁrmly believe that I am a soul (atman), as are others, and
that the soul is basically and fundamentally divine. I am conscious of
the potential divinity inherent in me and in everyone. On these
grounds, I try not to distinguish or discriminate between people on the
basis of sex, class, religion, region, or nationality, and I work to allevi-
ate discrimination. I make every effort to live out the values of love,
understanding, compassion, caring, sharing, nonviolence, and interfaith
understanding.
I am a believer in the law of karma, a principle that inspires me
and gives me the inner strength to carry out my responsibilities and
duties to serve humanity to the best of my ability. I work to accumulate
good karma for a better future in this life and in the lives I believe will
come (from my belief in the immortality of the soul and in reincarnation).
T H E
P R I N C I P L E
O F
F U N D A M E N TA L
O N E N E S S
9

My effort (karma) is to maximize the good I can do in the world and
minimize the evil. I work and pray not only for my family’s welfare but
also for the well-being of others and society. I endeavour to serve and
help others — those who are troubled, poor, weak, and underprivileged
— to help themselves. This gives me a great deal of satisfaction when
compared with pursuits that centre on economic gain at the cost of val-
ues and principles. I try to share my material and nonmaterial achieve-
ments — that is, knowledge, education, and training — with others. At
the same time, the principle of karma gives me strength to bear what-
ever misfortunes befall me and the courage to face all my problems
without blaming anyone else for them.
Throughout my life, my curiosity has led me to learn more, both
scientiﬁcally and empirically, about religion, exploring such questions
as Who is the Creator? and What is the purpose of life? I have read the
scriptures of various faiths in translation. I have listened to the religious
and spiritual discourses of knowledgeable individuals from diverse
belief systems, including the Bahá’í Faith, the Brahma Kumaries, the
Ramakrishan Mission, the Sri Aurobindo Society, and the Arya Samaj. I
have even tried various kinds of meditation. This has widened my
knowledge and appreciation of other religions and the revelations that
they each have to offer. I have found that, in essence, the core religious
beliefs and values are universal, and this makes me feel very close to peo-
ple of different faiths.
When I was a student of social science (psychology, counseling,
sociology, and religion), I was interested in the debate on whether
science and religion contradicted each other. I read literature on science
and spirituality, for example, the works of Chander (1988) and Kanal
(1991), the writings of Indian scientists such as physics professor
D.S. Kothari (1977, 1980, 1997), and texts by spiritualists like Swami
Vivekananda (1937, 1968); (see also Swami Bhajanananda 1976–77) and
Swami Ranganathananda (1978, 1983, 1987), who argued that there is
no clash between science and religion: the two are interrelated and are
in harmony with one another.1 These readings whetted my curiosity to
learn more about the interrelationships between these two seemingly
unrelated discourses.
Throughout my higher education, I was interested in observing
and systematically studying the changes taking place in the socio-
psycho-cultural realms and in the political-economic situations of people
from diverse societies. I was particularly interested in such changes in
relation to the situation of women, especially the women of India. I was
keen to study the problems women face and to understand their chang-
ing attitudes and feelings. I wanted to investigate how they were being
K A P U R
10
1 This might be termed the “new approach,” the understanding that it is counter-
productive to human well-being when people rely on religion or science to the exclusion
of the other. When the two are combined, they strengthen one another and bring a holis-
tic expression of human genius and total fulﬁllment (Ranganathananda 1978).

treated within and outside the family, both now and in ancient India
(based on our scriptures). I asked myself what factors had contributed to
bringing about these changes. This interest led me to do research on
gender issues and women’s development for my doctoral and post-
doctoral studies. Thus, I was introduced to the concept of development
and the social sciences quite a while ago, but I have had less exposure to
the physical sciences.
As a social scientist, I have observed developments in science and
technology (s&t) and how these affect people’s lives — women’s
lifestyles and well-being in particular. I was also strongly interested in
laying out the constitutive elements of women’s development in the
context of sustainable development. I observed that India, after inde-
pendence, has seen spectacular progress in s&t, increasing economic
growth, industrial development, and self-sufﬁciency in terms of food
and clothing. I found that governments and nongovernmental organi-
zations (ngos) were taking countless measures to improve the situation
of women and bring about overall development. I have been trying to
analyze why, despite the vast resources poured into these initiatives, we
see increasing problems of communal violence (for example, between
Hindu and Muslim groups), a rising incidence of violence generally,
widespread corruption, rampant illiteracy, casteism, unemployment,
abject poverty, overpopulation, malnutrition, and degradation of the
environment. Why do we see so much socioeconomic and gender
inequality and injustice? What is the origin of the growing emphasis on
the values of materialism and consumerism and the want in quality in
public leadership? Why do we see so much crime and violence, espe-
cially against women, even in the “developed” countries of the world?
In my studies (Kapur 1991a, 1991b, 1992, 1994a, 1994b, 1995), I
started exploring whether part of the answer could be found in the cri-
sis of human and spiritual values caused by a decline in attention to
these important questions and a lack of education on these subjects.
My efforts in this area have centred on counseling, generating
awareness of human and spiritual values, and healing marriage, family,
and other interpersonal relationships. As a counselor I try to help people
to become cognizant of their strengths and potentialities and thereby
help them solve their problems, resolve conﬂicts, understand themselves
and others more fully, and manage their stress. I try to help them help
themselves to grow in self-esteem (by helping them find their own
positive directions), improve their strong points, and overcome their
limitations. Accepting those in trouble as complete individuals, with all
their talents and weaknesses, enables me to provide this support.
While working as a counselor, trying to encourage religious and
spiritual values, I was continually troubled by certain questions: What
is science? What is religion — Hindu as well as other faiths? What have
science and religion contributed to development? How have science and
religion interacted?
T H E
P R I N C I P L E
O F
F U N D A M E N TA L
O N E N E S S
11

It was at this point that one ﬁne morning, as a pleasant surprise, I
learned of idrc’s project in srd. After some discussion, idrc invited me
to participate in this research, asking me to explore the relevant issues
as a believer in the Hindu religion. I was thrilled. Deep in my heart I
felt that this opportunity came to me because of God’s blessings and
will.
I knew that this research would require intensive study and hard
work. But I had been keen to do further research in these areas, so I was
at once drawn toward the project. I accepted the invitation with great
enthusiasm and began the work with the help of my research assistant,
Tribhuwan Kapur, who has a doctorate in the sociology of religion. We
have found it fascinating and satisfying to work on this research with
the knowledgeable, understanding, and friendly idrc group; the distin-
guished research team leader, Farzam Arbab; and the other eminent
members of the team. I hope that my practical experience with the very
intricate motivations and problems of human life (as seen from the eyes
of a sociologist and counselor), my experience of India, and my lifelong
immersion in a Hindu perspective provide a useful complement to the
expertise and knowledge of the other participants in the project.
HINDUISM: THE BACKDROP
The individual and society become one
It may be appropriate to clarify at the outset what is meant by the terms
Hindu, Hindu religion, and Hinduism. According to Ranganathananda
(1987) and Badrinath (1993), the words Hindu and Hinduism were not
coined by the people of India to refer to themselves or their religion;
these words are not found in any of the ancient or medieval Indian texts.
Instead, they suggest that invading Arabs in the 8th century ad or
ancient Persians or Iranians used these terms to designate the people
living east of the river “Sindhu” (the modern river Indus). Because
Persians pronounced s as h, the word Sindhu of Sanskrit became Hindu,
and the territory became known as Hindustan (Ranganathananda
1987). The Greeks pronounced it as “Indos,” from which came the word
India. Thus, the term Hinduism originally meant the religion of the
people of Hindustan.
In fact, Hinduism would be hard to deﬁne as any one set of beliefs.
It has always been a syncretic religion, incorporating several indigenous
belief systems in addition to the religions that came to India through
war and migration. The Indian thinkers themselves called their religion
by the significant term sanatana dharma, which can be translated as
“Eternal Religion.” Dharma is the Sanskrit word for “religion,” and it is
a philosophical concept focused on unity. “The aim of dharma,” as Badrinath
(1993, p. 27) explained, is “to create and sustain individual and social
K A P U R
12

conditions where each individual, in his or her own being and in rela-
tionship with others, is able to explore the potential of his or her life and
bring it to fruition in such ways that he or she can.” He explained the
centrality of the concept as follows:
The one concern from which everything in Indian thought ﬂowed
and on which every movement of life ultimately depended, was the
idea of dharma, order, which was not any positive order but the
order that was inherent in all life. Derived from the Sanskrit root
word dhr, which is “to support,” “to sustain,” dharma means that
whereby whatever lives is sustained, upheld, supported.
Badrinath (1993, p. 22)
Badrinath further explained the ﬁve elements of the order, or dharma, in
which our being is ﬁrmly grounded: nonviolence; an attitude of equal-
ity; peace and tranquility; a lack of aggression and cruelty; and an
absence of envy.
While each individual has a relation to himself, he has relationships
with others. In the dharmic view the two are not separate. It is only
when our relationship with ourselves is right, that our relationship
with the other can be right: and it is not until we achieve a right
relation with the other, that our relation with ourselves can be
right.
Badrinath (1993, p. 23)
Swami Vivekananda, a monk in the Ramakrishna order and the
most famous disciple of the Bengali mystic, Ramakrishna Paramahans,
placed great emphasis on the merging of the scientiﬁc attitude with the
spiritual dimension. He deﬁned religion as “the manifestation of the
divinity already in man” (Ranganathananda 1987, p. 218). By the word
divinity he meant Brahman (Almighty), a concept in which divinity is
inseparable from the individual self, or atman (soul). As he further
stated,
Religion is realization, not talk nor doctrine, nor theories, however
beautiful they might be. It is being and becoming, not hearing or
acknowledging; it is the whole soul becoming changed into what it
believes. … All religions are so many stages. Each one of them
represents a stage through which the human soul passes to realize
God.
Bhajanananda (1976–77, p. 9)
I think Vivekananda used the word religion in the special sense of
spirituality. For him it meant “the realization of God” and “not just a
means of personal salvation but a great creative force in shaping history”
(Bhajanananda 1976–77, p. 4). I see echoes of Swami Vivekananda’s
teaching in the work of Western social scientists like Pitirim Sorokin, a
sociologist, who also emphasized that spiritual training is essential to
the integration and growth of individuals, society, and culture, which in
turn form an indivisible trinity (Sorokin 1958).
T H E
P R I N C I P L E
O F
F U N D A M E N TA L
O N E N E S S
13

Swami Muktinathananda, a scientist, resided in Canada for many
years, but ultimately he renounced the world and became a monk with
the Ramakrishna Mission. In answer to a question about the nature of
the Hindu religion, he responded that it asks the following fundamen-
tal questions:
(i) Who am I? (ii) What is this world? (iii) Who is God? (iv) What
is my relation to this world and God? The Hindu concept for a
human being is that a person is trichotomous: there is a body, a
mind, and the self or atman. The aim of every being is to know who
exactly he or she is: is it the body, or the mind, or the self. In fact,
the Hindu religion begins with this question of knowing myself
and my relation to God and my World.
Muktinathananda (personal communication, 19982)
The notion of the self in Hinduism, classical and modern, differs
from that in social science. Whereas social science tends to equate the
self with the ego, or the total personality that is presented to society in
interaction, in Hinduism the self is equated with the soul (or atman)
within each living being. Yet, Self also stands for the Supreme Reality
(or Brahman). The self is seen as a small particle of the Self, and the real-
ization of the oneness of the self with the Self (or the soul with the
Supreme Reality) is the goal of human life. Thus, the movement of
Creation is a play between self and Self.3
Through reincarnation, the self is engaged in virtually endless
transmigrations (samsara) in order to come to a realization of the oneness
of the self with the Self. The doctrine of samsara or transmigration holds
that atman is immortal but deluded with all kinds of desires. According
to its karma (deeds, totality of action and interaction), the atman incar-
nates in diverse bodies until it is completely puriﬁed and ﬁnally merges
with Brahman and attains moksha (or spiritual liberation). As the
Bhagavad Gita puts it, “Just as a man casts off worn out cloths and puts
on others which are new, so the embodied [self] casts off worn out bodies
and enters others which are new” (Sastry 1977, p. 49). The karma
accumulated by a particular atman in previous lifetimes determines the
situation into which a person is reborn.
Another complementary guide to action found in Hinduism is
embedded in the varnaashram scheme, a socioreligious framework that
K A P U R
14
2 Swami Muktinathananda, Ramakrishna Math, Belur, Calcutta, India, personal
communication, 1998.
3 The Bhagavad Gita, the most popular Hindu scripture, states the following: “They
say that the senses are superior; superior to the senses is mind; superior to mind is reason;
one who is even superior to reason is He [the Self] … . Then knowing Him who is supe-
rior to reason, subduing the self by the Self, slay thou, O mighty armed, the enemy in the
form of desire, hard to conquer” (Sastry 1977, p. 117).

divides human life into four distinct stages, each with concomitant
privileges and duties:
 Bharmacharya — studenthood and celibacy;
 Grihastya — responsible householdership;
 Vanaprastha— renunciation of all societal attachments; and
 Sanyasa — contemplation of Ultimate Reality (that is, taking
on spiritual pursuits on a full-time basis) and retirement from all
social links.
This pattern of life, however, is ideal; it is typical that the last stage,
which requires separation from the family at a time when a person or
couple is most likely to require help, is very hard to achieve. In modern
India, the framework of society allows us to aspire only to the ﬁrst two
stages.
Nevertheless, many aged people do turn to a form of renunciation
and contemplation by daily reading of the Ramayana, Mahabharata,
Bhagavad Gita, and other spiritual texts. They spend money to hold or
attend religious gatherings where there are recitations of various prayers
and discussions on the teachings of various gurus (or spiritual masters),
preachers, and teachers. Hindus continue, by and large, to be ritualistic
and to spend conspicuous sums on ceremonies. We can say then that
although Hinduism has evolved over the millennia, this evolution has
been more in the form than in the content.
Vedanta: the essence of Hinduism
Hindu religion is not based on a single personal founder or group of
founders; rather, it is based on revelations of the authentic inner experi-
ences of sages and seers deeply involved in the search for Truth. The
Veda, Puranas, Upanishads, and Bhagavad Gita form the basic spiritual
literature of Hinduism. The Veda is the accumulated treasury of spiri-
tual knowledge discovered by various seers and sages — perfected
beings — at various points in history. “The term Veda, according to
Sankaracharya, primarily means knowledge, beginningless and endless,
capable of leading to liberation, and verifiable by one and all”
(Ranganathananda 1987, p. 40). That is why the Veda is the outcome
of an inquiry into Truth, very similar in nature and process to modern
scientiﬁc inquiry.4
T H E
P R I N C I P L E
O F
F U N D A M E N TA L
O N E N E S S
15
4 Joshi, a great scholar of the Veda, points out that by studying the Veda one ﬁnds
that it presents “a dynamic interpretation of the world and assigns to activities in the
world a profound meaning and signiﬁcance. It enjoins upon man to act rather than to
renounce his actions. It places before man a method of action which has been discovered
after a long and intense search by the vedic seers,” who were themselves true scientists and
experimenters (Joshi 1991, p. 19).

The Puranas are epics, the ideas and the teachings of the Veda told
in story and parable form. The Upanishads collect the concluding and
philosophical portions of the vast and varied Vedic literature and con-
tain the quintessence of the Veda. The Gita summarizes the essential
teachings of the Upanishads dealing with metaphysical reality, the
nature of self, and the need for knowledge of self and presents them in
a popular manner. The Gita addresses not only Upanishadic philosophy
but also its ethical implications; thus, it both explains the highest real-
ity and provides guidance for everyday life. This is why it has become
the scripture of the masses in India.
But the essence of Hinduism is Vedanta, the philosophical and
metaphysical part of the Hindu scriptures. Swami Vivekananda could
see clearly that Hinduism had a core of sound spiritual principles based
on the Upanishads and the Gita and that these principles, when applied
in practical life, could solve many of the nation’s problems
(Bhajanananda 1976–77). I would agree with Vivekananda and suggest
that India’s contemporary state of decline is not the result of religion
but of a failure to apply the principles of Vedanta to solve the social and
national problems (Bhajanananda 1976–77). In a lecture entitled
“Vedanta Today,” Karan Singh, an eminent diplomat, politician, and
scholar of Vedanta and interfaith dialogue, explained the central features
of sanatana dharma as formulated in the five cardinal principles of
Vedanta (Singh 1988):
1.
Unity of existence — Vedantic theory suggests that an all-pervading
existence, or single force, permeates the whole universe. Every-
thing that exists — whatever it is and wherever it exists — is illu-
minated by the same Light that promotes the happiness and
welfare of all beings.
2.
Divinity inherent in all existence (includes the potential divinity of
human souls) — In Vedanta, human beings are children of immor-
tality, with the capacity for spiritual realization. In explaining the
concept of religion, Vivekananda stated this well-known article of
Vedantic faith:
Each soul is potentially divine. The goal is to manifest this
divinity within, by controlling nature, external and internal.
Do this either by work, or worship, or psychic control, or phi-
losophy — by one or more or all of these — and be free. This
is the whole religion. Doctrine or dogmas, or rituals, or books,
or temples, or forms, are but secondary details.
Ranganathananda (1987, p. 45)
Vedanta is the realization of the divinity within oneself and in
each one of us. The crowning idea of Vedanta is the unity of the
divine within us and the divine beyond us. Vedanta describes
Brahman, the Ultimate Reality, as Sat-cit-Ananda (existence,
K A P U R
16

knowledge, and bliss). If bliss is a constituent of the Ultimate
Reality of the universe, it is also a constituent of the individual
(Ranganathananda 1987, p. 23).
To manifest one’s inherent potential for divinity, one follows
the three paths to self-realization offered in Vedanta through
which the individual soul finds a link with the Supreme Soul:
bhakti yoga, or the path of devotion to the Supreme Reality or Soul;
jnana yoga, the path of knowledge; and karma yoga, the path of
action and work. As Gangrade (1995) pointed out, no one of these
paths can alone suffice or permanently stand isolated from the
other two. A person must follow jnana, karma, and bhakti together
to completely develop his or her character and personality.
3.
The entire human race like one extended family (vasudhaiva
kutumbhkam — The bond of spirituality binds people belonging
to various parts of the human race, despite all their differences.
Ideally, all the members of an extended family care and share,
demonstrate mutual love and respect, and take responsibility for
and cooperate in maintaining and furthering the welfare of the
family; these ideals can be extended to provide models of behav-
iour for each individual toward the rest of the human race.
4.
Essential unity of all religions — The perception of the spiritual
unity of all existence in Hinduism and the emphasis on spiritual
realization as the goal of religion foster interreligious harmony
(Ranganathananda 1987). In Hinduism, various paths lead to the
Divine: one can worship a female or male deity, trees, plants,
herbs, the sun, the moon, stars, fire, the incorporeal God, the
Supreme Soul–Reality, or an idol. This pluralism is apparent in
Swami Vivekananda’s idea of the harmony of the religions of the
world and in that of a universal religion providing for the coexis-
tence of all religions, each accepting the best elements in the oth-
ers. I feel that people today very much need the pluralism of
Vedanta and the interfaith understanding it espouses.
5.
The welfare, progress, development, and happiness of all — Vedanta pro-
motes not only the fulﬁllment and liberation of the self but also the
welfare and development of all beings. This is indicated by a pop-
ular Vedic prayer that all may be happy and healthy and participate
in and be the recipient of welfare, progress, and prosperity and that
none may be unhealthy, unhappy, or ignorant. This prayer is recited
in Sanskrit during various religious ceremonies; similar prayers are
found in the Bahá’í Faith and in other religions.5
T H E
P R I N C I P L E
O F
F U N D A M E N TA L
O N E N E S S
17
5 Swami Jitatmananda (1992) has brought out the ﬁve concepts, or cardinal princi-
ples, of the Upanishads (Vedanta) very effectively in the book Modern Physics and Vedanta,
which offers an alternative to the current, primarily materialistic, paradigm.

Vedanta is both a philosophy and a religion, but it has no set
dogma or method:
While asserting the truth as one, and its mystic vision as the
only means, [Vedanta] accords recognition to multiple
approaches to this vision … . Each generation has felt free to
interpret the basic truth in the language and cultural mores of
his own generation … though strictly adhering and following
the original texts. … Thus Vedanta is the science of Reality
rather than a dogma, religious or philosophical.
Giri (1985, pp. 34–35)
Today, people are engaged in a tremendous search for new
approaches and broader understandings to guide their actions. And for
me, it is this search that makes Vedanta so relevant. Vivekananda
pointed out that the Vedantic principles are applicable not only in India
but throughout the world (Bhajanananda 1976–77) and that Vedanta
has an important part to play in the life of modern humans. It provides
them with, among other values, a philosophy of social service so lacking
in modern society (Bhajanananda 1976–77). Vivekananda believed, as I
do, that religion properly understood can be applied to help solve both
the mundane and the existential problems of humanity.
SELF, SOCIETY, AND DEVELOPMENT
Science is discovering the Truth. Religion is the manifestation of
Truth. Spirituality is Truth itself. Morality is holding on to Truth.
Ethics is application of Truth in social life.
Muktinathananda (personal communication, 1998 6)
The concept of development according to sanatana dharma is the
“unfoldment of Truth.” It embraces the development of the self (body,
mind, and spirit), others, and the entire universe (that is, the well-being
of all living beings, including the environment7). Real development
K A P U R
18
6 Swami Muktinathananda, Ramakrishna Math, Belur, Calcutta, India, personal
communication, 1998.
7 Hinduism lays stress on the psychophysical environment as a cocoon for the growth
of goodness and harmony. The Veda devotes a great deal of attention to agriculture, live-
stock, rains, and harvests (Balasubramanian 1999). An entire branch of medicine —
Ayurveda — has its base in various herbal remedies: Vrkshayurveda, classical Indian plant
science, is highly advanced (Balasubramanian 1999). Hindus greatly venerate several plants,
including tulsi (basil) and neem, and use them medicinally. The ashrams of the Vedic rishis
(seers), which taught young disciples the Veda and the way of dharma, were forest retreats.
The vivid descriptions of forest and fauna in the Ramayana and Mahabharata indicate quite
clearly that there was then no environmental crisis of the sort witnessed in the 20th cen-
tury. These accounts and indicators suggest that living according to the principles of dharma
includes, and results in, an understanding and appreciation for the natural world and a
“right” relationship with the natural environment, as well as with others in society.

from a Hindu perspective is the development of one and all in terms of
both the inner and the outer environment. As Swami Muktinathananda
said,
According to Hinduism, real development in any area consists in
removal of all imperfections and bringing about perfection. Thus,
the essential elements of real development are helping in the
removal of everything that is unreal, false or imperfect, providing
education to remove ignorance, and helping one and all to under-
stand the necessity and implications of development.
Muktinathananda (personal communication, 19988)
Self and development
That man attains peace, who, abandoning all desires, moves about
without attachment, without selﬁshness, without vanity.
Sastry (1977, p. 80)
He who hates no single being, who is friendly and compassionate to
all, who is free from attachment and egoism, to whom pain and
pleasure are equal, who is enduring, ever-content and balanced in
mind, self controlled, and possessed of firm conviction, whose
thought and reason are directed to Me, he who is (thus) devoted to
Me is dear to Me.
Sastry (1977, p. 311)
He by whom the world is not afﬂicted and who is not afﬂicted by
the world, who is free from joy, envy, fear and sorrow, he is dear to
Me.
Sastry (1977, p. 312)
Those who ever contemplate the Imperishable, the Indeﬁnable, the
Eternal, having restrained all the senses, always equanimous, intent
on the welfare of all beings, — they reach Myself.
Sastry (1977, p. 304)9
Whereas we know that the concept of the self is related to an immortal
spark of inner consciousness, the word I or me (aham) refers to the accre-
tions that cloud the pure perception of the immortal soul within every
being. The purpose then of sanatana dharma is to evolve a way of deal-
ing with society that removes the accretions of doubt, vanity, anger, and
misery and brings the atman within every member of society ever closer
to the realization of total fusion (moksha) with the Brahman. This fusion
T H E
P R I N C I P L E
O F
F U N D A M E N TA L
O N E N E S S
19
8 Swami Muktinathananda, Ramakrishna Math, Belur, Calcutta, India, personal com-
munication, 1998.
9 Sastry (1977) contains an English translation of Sri Sankaracharya’s original Sanskrit
commentary on the Bhagavad Gita.

is the goal of pursuing good karma in everyday life, and in India it pro-
vides a raison d’être for human existence.
The scriptural injunctions of the purusarthas (the doctrine of the
four goals of life) convey the four ways to fulﬁll one’s inner being:
 Dharma — moral code of conduct, rightful action;
 Artha — economic pursuits for self-sufﬁciency;
 Kama — satisfaction of desires (physical or other); and
 Moksha — total liberation, release from delusion.
Of these, the most signiﬁcant is moksha. Our discussion of this
path of the purusarthas, however, must be couched in the basic premise
of Hinduism that the soul within a human is immortal: “Him weapons
cut not, Him ﬁre burns not, and Him water wets not; Him wind dries
not. He cannot be cut, burnt, nor wetted, nor dried up. He is everlast-
ing, all pervading, stable, ﬁrm, eternal” (Sastry 1977, pp. 49–50). Thus,
the quest for moksha is a quest for a sort of immortality.
Dharma is neither a doctrine nor a dogma. In practical terms,
dharma is the overarching principle guiding a dutiful and responsible
life. It relies on reason no less than on intuition (the inner feeling and
apprehension of any situation). As one of the fundamental ideals of
human life it aims at life’s fullest manifestation and upholds and sus-
tains the individual and universal life principles, including spiritual and
social values. Dharma is the urge to grow.
Rama in the Ramayana is often cited as a mythological example of
a man–god who followed the path of dharma, even though it led him to
abdicate his right to the throne of his father, Dasratha, and go into exile
for 14 years in the forest as a result of the selfish wish of one of
Dasratha’s wives, Kaikeyi. This story demonstrates that the path of
dharma is not always pleasurable but also involves duty, even that which
is unpleasant. Following the path of dharma leads to the accumulation
of good karma, which itself leads to a better rebirth in a family that pur-
sues the path of the sanatana dharma. This is the beginning of the
process toward the goal of moksha or liberation from samsara. The
Bhagavad Gita (ch. iii 19) emphasizes this: “Therefore, without attach-
ment, constantly perform the action which should be done; for,
performing action without attachment, man reaches the Supreme”
(Sastry 1977, p. 104).
The fulﬁllment of kama, which is the principle of lawful desire
(including sexual desire within marriage) is also part of the purusarthas.
For Hindus, the fulﬁllment of desire within the limits of their under-
standing is also part of the sanatana dharma. Thus, it is clear that people
in society should be moral and not obsessed by the sensual to the extent
that it damages their psychological and physical health, or the fabric of
society, through extramarital sexuality.
K A P U R
20

The purusarthas also enjoin the principle of artha, or economic
independence. This is considered to be one of the pillars of a moral life,
as economic dependence creates a ﬂaw in all aspects of life, including
that of morality. Thus, in making kama and artha some of the cardinal
points of human fulﬁllment, along with spiritual and social goals, the
purusarthas encourage a sane and balanced approach to living in society;
in the case of artha, one balances the support of oneself and one’s family
(materialistic achievements and comfort) with the pursuit of other
equally important aims in human life. In Hindu and Indian society,
however, the drive for economic independence as a means to a life of
plenty is evident everywhere — in all aspects of the media and in con-
versation with college students, as well as with corporate executives.
Rural people who derive much of their income from agriculture or crafts
are far closer to the life of the purusarthas and might therefore be con-
sidered more exemplary of the Hindu moral system.
The purusarthas provided a path of life that applied to both men
and women. In Hindu society, societal, physical, and mental hygiene
depended on living up to the purusarthas’ high standards, and these
basic notions enjoyed wide currency in India. Yet, although the ideals
remain the same, modern Indians are unlikely to adhere fully to the
purusartha system as a guide to personal growth or social interaction.
Society and development
One might ask whether the diversity of India and Hinduism has led to
division and conflicts and whether such controversies have been in
themselves detrimental to overall development, including economic
progress. Has the emphasis on spiritual development, evident right
from the era of the Veda, come at the cost of economic development,
perhaps even itself fostering self-centredness and apathy?
How widely are the Hindu beliefs and schemes of life accepted by
the general population in India? This question is extremely important
for gauging the effect of religion on economic development. The reality
of Hinduism on the ground, both in urban centres and in villages, is
that there is a vast proliferation of sects — the two main cults being the
Viashnavite and the Saivite — which have their own local variations and
imagery, chants, bhajans (hymns), and mantras (spiritually uplifting
words, phrases, and concepts, usually derived from traditional scripture
and musically intoned to purify the mind, elevate one’s understanding
of the self, and realize the divine Oneness). Yet, the sects all have in
common their belief in God, known as Bhagwan, Ishwara, or Parmatma,
and they all claim allegiance to sanatana dharma.
Religious messages are widely disseminated. Although a sizable
proportion of Hindus may be illiterate in the sense of modern educa-
tion, they certainly are well informed regarding the precepts of the
Bhagavad Gita and the moral and ethical questions raised by the
T H E
P R I N C I P L E
O F
F U N D A M E N TA L
O N E N E S S
21

epics — the Ramayana and the Mahabharata — enacted in whole and
in part each year throughout India. In modern India, radio, television,
and cinema reinforce this educational process; programs frequently
include discourses on religion or religious stories. These modes of com-
munication serve to popularize and reinforce the values of sanatana
dharma: the honour and dignity of women, tolerance, forgiveness,
patience, humility, and obedience to the will of one’s parents.
Hindu social life is life within the community. One’s immediate
family and the wider network of kin and friends, as well as the whole
community, participate in all life-cycle rituals (weddings, funerals, etc.),
festivals, and special ceremonies. These ceremonial and ritualistic occa-
sions regenerate the religious life and bring harmony to those who take
part in them. During these ceremonies, priests recite various holy books
and scriptures and give discourses on many scriptures, including the
epics and the Gita. Local customs make a unique contribution to these
events in each region but never go against the tenor of the Veda.10
From India’s inception, its history has been one of invasions and
conquests, commencing with the Aryans and culminating with the
British colonization. Many diverse ideologies have gone into making
Hinduism what it is today. An outstanding consequence of Hinduism’s
eclectic origins is that it has sufﬁcient tolerance and patience to forge
new syntheses without totally losing its direction and basic spiritual
content. In the medieval era, for example, when the Moguls dominated
India, Hinduism survived by incorporating some of the better aspects of
other faiths. This is true also of India’s response to the Christian rulers
and missionaries under British colonization.
Hinduism’s acceptance and assimilation of such varieties and
polarities of faiths emerged from an underlying truth, eloquently
expressed by the Vedic seers in the phrase “Truth is one, Sages call it by
various names” (Ekam Sat vipra bahudha vadanti). This is one of the
greatest pronouncements in the Rig Veda and provides the foundational
philosophy of the Hindu faith. Swami Vivekananda considered this
statement the Magna Carta of religion (Ranganathananda 1987).
Enlightened Hindus have a deep faith in syncretism, that is, in the
practice of incorporating the best principles and elements of all reli-
gions. Thus, Hinduism displays an understanding of an underlying and
overarching unity, a hard-earned tolerance for all aspects of truth, and a
willingness to incorporate the truths of other faiths. As such,
K A P U R
22
10 Even in contemporary India, 47.5% of the population is still more or less illiter-
ate. The main sources of people’s knowledge of Hinduism are in the oral tradition, passed
down from parents to children; sermons delivered by itinerant preachers; discourses given
by priests on a daily basis at the temple or at the numerous religious festivals, rituals, and
ceremonies; the daily prayers to male or female deities in temples or at the home altar
(which most Hindu households have, no matter how afﬂuent or poor); and interchanges
during pilgrimages to holy shrines at the four cardinal points of India. On these pilgrim-
ages, people exchange and absorb religious ideas from other pilgrims, especially the
legends and myths connected with the shrines.

philosophically, it is not prone to intra- or interreligious conﬂict. This
is not to deny that conﬂicts have ensued but to suggest that they are not
in accord with the fundamental tenets of Hinduism. Given the hetero-
geneity of Indian society, one might ask whether these conﬂicts would
have been much worse without this philosophical and spiritual under-
pinning.
Related to Hinduism’s syncretic tendencies is the Indian under-
standing of the term secularism. India’s society is pluralistic, with a vari-
ety of cultures, ethnicities, races, languages, and religions. Although
Hinduism is the majority religion in India and a large proportion of the
Indian population is Hindu, the milieu of Hinduism contains several
other religions, like Islam, Christianity, Sikhism, Zoroastrianism, the
Bahá’í Faith, and Jainism. One of the major issues that occupied Gandhi
and Nehru was determining what position on this multiplicity of reli-
gions would best suit an independent India. This position would have
to deﬁne “clearly the relation between religion and politics and between
religion and the nation-state” (Joshi 1995, p. 3). Secularism was the
approach chosen, but a secularism with a politically convenient and dis-
tinctly Indian interpretation. “Secularism is deﬁned as ‘equal respect for
all faiths’ and a call for cultivation of religious tolerance and harmony”
(Kanal 1988, p. 1). Mahatma Gandhi summed up the secular approach
of India as follows:
Hindustan belongs to all those who are born and bred here and who
have no other country to look to. Therefore it belongs to Parsis,
Beni Israelis, to Indian Christians, Muslims and other non Hindus
as much as to Hindus … . Religion is a personal matter, which
should have no place in politics.
Gandhi (1992 [1947], pp. 277–278)
Nehru, the first Prime Minister of independent India (and
Gandhi’s chosen disciple), had a similar appreciation of the question of
secularism and felt that it was not merely a question of tolerating other
religions — it was a question of social and political justice, of creating
an equitable society (Joshi 1995). Thus, the preamble to the new
Constitution of India declared the country “a sovereign secular, democ-
ratic republic.” The state was not to interfere with people’s freedom to
practice or believe in any faith.
If this idea had been truly accepted, it would have laid the foun-
dations for an integrated development, because it would have created
the conditions for subcontinental harmony. But of all the various types
of socialization and conditioning, the religiocentric bias yields least to
any kind of pressure to change. It is very difﬁcult to let go of the cen-
tral tenet of each religion that makes believers claim, “our religion is the
best!” I would say that this is mainly a result of paranoia and the absence
of knowledge and understanding of one’s own religion and, more so, of
other religions. If India is to realize its goal of interfaith harmony, then
T H E
P R I N C I P L E
O F
F U N D A M E N TA L
O N E N E S S
23

Hindus must use the syncretism of Hinduism to take the lead in this
process.
India’s experiment in “secularism” is now about 50 years old and
bears many scars; it has not managed to avoid carnage and violence,
including the great strife during the partition of India into India and
Pakistan. On numerous occasions, communal violence has occurred
between Hindus and Muslims. These events indicate that the ethos of
secularism has not percolated into the psyche of the common person in
India. The experiment, however, goes on, and perhaps with deep knowl-
edge, understanding, appreciation, and respect for one’s own religion, as
well as for the religions of others, India’s secularism will fully succeed.
Outside India, interfaith understanding and interfaith movements are
also growing in every corner of the world; these beliefs, I feel, will form
the basis of global unity and integrated development.
In examining the question of Hinduism’s role in economic devel-
opment, I take as an example an argument put forward in the early part
of the 20th century by the sociologist Max Weber. For Weber (1958),
the caste system and the Hindu religious beliefs of karma, samsara, and
kismet (Urdu for fate) meant that Hindu society was otherworldly in ori-
entation and not geared to respond to new economic challenges. Weber,
however, did not seriously consider other factors — colonialism and
repeated invasions — that led to the conditions he observed in India.
Moreover, Hinduism is a lived and in many respects still oral tradition:
it is very difﬁcult to understand from texts. Thus, although Weber’s
viewpoint is scholarly, it is not holistic. A number of social scientists
have, in fact, rejected his perspective. On the basis of research among
entrepreneurs, Singer et al. (1966) found that the “stagnant economy”
of India could not be related to otherworldly religious values; they
observed that the family orientation of these entrepreneurs, as opposed
to Western-style individualism, was an asset in capitalist development
(see also Brzezinski 1997). Singer et al. also found that Indians used
adaptive strategies — such as compartmentalization, ritual neutraliza-
tion of the work sphere, and vicarious ritualization — to successfully
combine the economic and religious spheres (Singer 1972). Moreover,
the economist Arvind Sharma (1980) suggested that the basis for a
strong work ethic can be gleaned from Hindu scriptural tradition
(Brzezinski 1997).
The reason why India has seen little economic development might
be found in the nonparticipatory policies and practices that have always
governed its primarily agricultural economy. Farmers, especially those
with small holdings, have been exploited by the landowners, bureau-
crats, and rulers; for the landless, the situation is still worse. As a result,
in most parts of India the benefits of agricultural production have
accrued only to those who exploited both the people and the resources
and refused to share these beneﬁts with those who worked for them or
with the general population. The most recent spate of economic
K A P U R
24

development in India began with the unification of the various pre-
existing nation-states into a single sovereign Republic of India on
15 August 1947; at that time, India’s leaders confronted a host of
historical problems but failed, for various reasons, to fully enlist the pro-
gressive and reformist ethos of that period, including its participatory,
indigenous methodologies. I will return to this issue when I discuss
Gandhi’s sarvodaya (or welfare of all) model of village-based economic
development and Nehru’s preference for the heavy-industrialization
model.
Issues for Hinduism and development
Westerners raise some pertinent questions when they encounter Hindu-
based social action and development strategies: Does belief in reincarnation,
karma, and samsara have a deleterious effect on people’s awareness of, or
their action on, social problems, such as poverty and the denial of
women’s rights? Further, to what extent is “fatalism” a major inﬂuence
in people’s daily life, and is it based on Hindu religious belief? Does the
caste system create and reinforce inequity?
The concepts of reincarnation, karma, and samsara are closely inter-
related and convey the belief in the “cycle of birth and rebirth,” the
immortality of the soul, and the idea that “as you sow, so shall you
reap.” It would be incorrect to assess the Hindu attitude as fatalistic, for
this would imply the existence of a large Hindu community without
any intellection or direction. Fatalism is the attitude of people who
believe and act as if their efforts, whether great or small, will make no
difference to the ultimate outcome of plans or actions. This attitude
would result in utter indifference to efforts to bring about development.
Yet, karma (in Hindi) and bhagayavad (in Sanskrit) do not carry the neg-
ative connotations of fatalistic passivity and laziness; rather, they carry
the positive connotation of reconciliation after the event. This is the
approach, in practice, of a vast section of Hindu society; these people use
it to accept gracefully and with great courage, calmness, and strength
the outcome of adverse economic and social situations. Karma suggests
that such circumstances must stem from people’s own deeds, yet karma
also imparts conﬁdence that people have the strength and capacity to
shape their own future in this life and in subsequent ones. I feel that this
understanding of karma has, on balance, a positive rather than negative
effect on poverty alleviation, women’s rights, and developmental activi-
ties in general because it allows people to sustain their hope during
inevitable setbacks and to believe that their endeavours will yield fruit.
Besides, the existing socioeconomic system adequately inculcates
norms of competition, individuality, and ceaseless striving to better the
situation in one’s family, business, or career. This has removed all but a
token recognition of the passive side of fate and fatalism. Even though
Hindus refer to “fate” whenever they encounter a life event they cannot
T H E
P R I N C I P L E
O F
F U N D A M E N TA L
O N E N E S S
25

control or even understand, they exert strenuous efforts to follow their
desires and achieve their goals. This dual approach is consistent with
passages in the Gita that clearly refute Weber’s argument. The Gita
preaches constant action in all that one does and deep meditation as
part of action. One is instructed not only to strive in all spheres of life
but also to do this in a cool and detached manner, keeping all the con-
sequences of action in view. Hinduism is therefore not a religion that
teaches passivity; rather, it is both outward and inward looking, with a
logical connection between these dimensions.
The caste system also causes great comment and consternation.
Each caste is related to a varna, of which there are four: brahmin, kshatriya,
vaisya, and shudra. Each of these has a role to play in society:
 Brahmins are in charge of ritual and religious matters;
 Kshatriyas are warriors and allied to the defence of society;
 Vaisyas are the merchants and given to commercial pursuits;
and
 Shudras serve all people belonging to the other varnas.
Another group of people, who live outside the caste system, were
once known as the “untouchables” and then as dalits11; contact with an
untouchable was considered polluting by caste Hindus.
Many Hindus believe that the varna into which one is born is due
to fate or karma, because varna is immutable. Although the practical
effect of this system has often been inequality — with rural, illiterate,
and often destitute people bearing the brunt of exploitation by higher
castes — it can be argued that this was not the intention of the varna
system as set out in ancient Hinduism. The functional, rather than hier-
archical, nature of the varna system is manifest in Balinese Hinduism:
In the history of Hinduism, the doctrine of varnas appears before the
doctrine of karma. This raises the suspicion that the doctrine of
karma may have provided a post facto rationalization for a birth-
oriented division of society that was already in place when the
doctrine of karma became widespread. … It is possible though that
Balinese Hinduism represents the original concept of varnas … .
“In Bali varna is simply occupation. A businessman is a vaisya, a
teacher a brahmin, an employee a sudra and so on. No inferior or
superior stature is attached, and if one switches profession — say
from teacher to shopkeeper — one changes caste from brahmin to
vaisya.”
Sharma (1993, p. 25, emphasis in the original)
K A P U R
26
11 In 1937 Dr Ambedkar coined this term for untouchables, but it later came to refer
to people of all oppressed classes.

The exploitation of lower castes and untouchables was condemned
by the Bhakti mystics and by numerous modern Hindu activists, such
as Gandhi. In more concrete terms, certain provisions in the Indian
Constitution also combat the discrimination caused by this system, and
the Indian people are changing their attitudes and behaviour toward
these classes. The history of the caste system in India leads me to think
that all human systems carry the potential for abuse when material and
status considerations are foremost in our minds and we ignore spiritual
and human values.
MODERN SCIENCE AND THE HINDU RELIGION
Scientiﬁc knowledge is built upon facts. The medical side is fairly
well developed, though the causes and cures of certain ailments are
yet to be discovered. But what science does know, it is more or less
sure about, because the various factors concerned have been tested:
theories have been tried and proven. In religion it is different. Peo-
ple are given certain facts or truths and told to believe them. After
a little while when their belief is not fulﬁlled, doubt creeps in; and
then they go from religion to religion in trying to ﬁnd proof. You
hear about God in churches and temples; you can read about Him
in books; but you can experience God only through Self-realisation
attained by practicing deﬁnite scientiﬁc techniques. In India, reli-
gion is based upon such scientiﬁc methods. By experimentation,
India has proved the truths in religion. In the future, religion every-
where will be a matter of experimentation; it will not be based
solely on belief.
Yogananda (1944, p. 35)
Science without religion is lame, religion without science is blind.
Einstein (1950)
Turning to the nexus between science and religion, I should state that I
believe that as objects of study, external phenomena and the inner
dimensions of human existence are equally signiﬁcant. Thus, inasmuch
as science is a search for truth, religion is also a search for Truth. The
physical sciences are an inquiry into matter and the nature of the exter-
nal world. Religion, in contrast, is an inquiry into consciousness, spiri-
tuality, and the nature of the inner world. In the ﬁnal analysis, however,
one may ﬁnd no separation between the external and internal dimen-
sions, but a continuum between these states. Science inquires through
experiment, and religion inquires through inner experience. In this
sense, religion is scientiﬁc.
One of the most noticeable trends in science and religion in India
is that spiritual savants are recognizing the great signiﬁcance of science;
they have begun to acknowledge that contemporary humans are living
T H E
P R I N C I P L E
O F
F U N D A M E N TA L
O N E N E S S
27

in an age dominated by science. They do not see religion as opposed to
science but as having much to learn from the methods and temper of
science. Thus, Ranganathananda recorded the following statement of
Yogananda:
Pure science needs to cover a wider ground than the external phys-
ical world constituting only the external physical environment of
human life. Science has to study the inner world of man as well,
besides the outer world of nature. But in the modern context, unfor-
tunately the sciences of physical nature have far outstripped the
sciences of man … . If the physical sciences have lifted man from
many fears and uncertainties of his primitive past, it has landed him
also in new fears and uncertainties arising from ignorance of his own
inner nature. The modern man has to realise that such a study of the
“within” of nature, as revealed in nature’s evolutionary product, that
is man, is also a science like the other study by the physical sciences,
of the “without” of nature.
Ranganathananda (1983, p. 3, emphasis in the original)
I ﬁnd this statement important because people often assume that mod-
ern science alone has veriﬁable methods, experimentation, and testing.
But, as Yogananda suggested in the epigram that began this section,
spiritual aspirants can internally verify and replicate speciﬁc stages in
spiritual progress as set out in Hinduism and Buddhism. We can then
say we have a “science” of religion, which, apart from the sociological
side of it — as represented in ceremony and ritual observances — is
quite capable of providing a topography of the “within” of humans.
In answer to the question of whether the Hindu religion is scien-
tiﬁc, Swami Muktinathananda (personal communication, 199812) gave
the following response: “If we deﬁne the scientiﬁc in this way that to be
practical is to be scientiﬁc, then Hinduism is perfectly scientiﬁc.”
In his lecture on religion and science, Vivekananda said, “Religion
deals with the truth of the metaphysical world just as chemistry and
other natural sciences deal with the truth of the physical world”
(Ranganathananda 1987, p. 175). Vivekananda also taught that “reli-
gion is the science which learns the transcendental in nature through
the transcendental in man” (Jitatmananda 1992, p. 68). In Swami
Vivekananda’s view, the physicist and the mystic reach the truth of
unity by following different approaches. As he noted, “physics today is
relating itself increasingly to philosophy and drawing closer to Vedanta
philosophy” (Jitatmananda 1992, p. 70). “What the Vedic sages discov-
ered through mystic intuition, modern scientists are conﬁrming with
the help of sophisticated instruments” (Jitatmananda 1992, p. 86).
American physicist, Fritjof Capra, also supported this view:
Thus the mystic and the physicist arrive at the same conclusions;
one starting from the inner realm, the other from the outer world.
K A P U R
28
12 Swami Muktinathananda, Ramakrishna Math, Belur, Calcutta, India, personal
communication, 1998.

The harmony of their views conﬁrms the ancient Indian wisdom
that brahman, the ultimate reality without, is identical to Atman,
the reality within.
(Capra 1983, p. 338)
Another trend in Hindu religion is the discovery of various paral-
lels in religion and science where the two seem increasingly to be speak-
ing the same language, that is, language that points toward the unity of
all existing phenomena:
Modern particle physics shows the folly of trying to search for a
single object, a sub-atomic particle or electron as a separate inde-
pendent reality. Such a thing does not exist. The very experience of
the independent existence of one thing is unreal. Vedanta terms it
mithya. The right vision is to perceive the whole in the so-called iso-
lated entity. This is what the Vedantist means by the statement
“brahman alone is real.”
Jitatmananda (1992, p. 27)
As mentioned before, the Ultimate Reality for the ancient Indian
seers was Brahman (or the Self), from which all atmans (or selves)
emanate. The realization of the preexisting oneness with Brahman was
the goal of all life, but to describe Brahman, or the Supreme Reality, was
considered beyond the capacities of human language or even human
conception. For example, Yajnavalkya, a Vedic seer, attempted the
following description of Supreme Reality for his wife, Maitreyi, many
centuries ago:
For where there is duality as it were, there one sees the other, one smells
the other, one tastes the other, one speaks to the other, one hears the
other, one thinks of the other, one touches the other, one knows the
other. But where everything has become just one’s own self, by what
and whom should one know? By what should one know Him by
whom all this is known? He is indestructible for He cannot be
destroyed. He is unattached for He does not attach himself. He is
unfettered, He does not suffer, He is not injured. Indeed by what
would one know the knower?
Radhakrishnan (1974, p. 286)
A well-known mystic from medieval India, Kabir, also preached
the merging of selfhood with the nirguna (beyond any attributes), which
is clearly a linguistic reformulation of the “not this, not this” (neti, neti)
of the Upanishads’ description of Brahman.13
T H E
P R I N C I P L E
O F
F U N D A M E N TA L
O N E N E S S
29
13 See Pande (1989, p. 122): “Kabir’s object of devotion is qualityless (nirguna). This
reality cannot be identiﬁed by any creator. Kabir, in fact, identiﬁes the creator with the
created world. In this notion of transcendent immanent unity he is reminiscent of
Upanishadic or Kasmira Saiva monism as also of Madhyamika absolutism.”

Thus, two features frequently characterize the Hindu perception of
the nature of reality:
 Ultimate Reality exists, but it cannot be adequately described,
or at least it cannot be described with a great deal of precision; and
 The Ultimate Reality can be experienced in the consciousness
of the self by the latter’s merging with the consciousness of the
ultimate Self.
Further, certain other subfeatures emerge from this characterization:
 The experience of an Ultimate Reality is not the monopoly of
any single religious tradition. Buddhism, for instance, speaks of
the “void” into which everything returns and from which every-
thing emerges.
 It is not possible to quantify the “voidic experience,” and in
fact this linguistic awkwardness indicates the difﬁculty.
Modern physics suffers from similar difficulties when it attempts to
describe or predict the behaviour of quantum particles, which physicists
have described as forms of energy “dancing” without any cause or pur-
pose, a ﬁeld of energy existing for and in itself.
Hindu scientists, religionists, social scientists, and medical practi-
tioners have noted other base-level similarities between the ﬁndings of
modern science and the experiential discoveries of Hindu mystics; they
have also tried to conceive of new paradigms in which the scientiﬁc and
religious understandings converge. For example, Mukhopadhyay (a
pathologist) developed the Akhanda (“unbreakable” or “whole”) para-
digm that treats the entire universe as a living organism. He pointed
out that the “evolution or involution of species is intimately related to
evolution or involution of its environment” (Mukhopadhyay 1995). He
felt that the question of morality is intimately related to the evolution
of consciousness, and this is clear from the wisdom of the sage and
savant Sri Aurobindo, whom Mukhopadhyay acknowledged as a semi-
nal inﬂuence on his work. In the following quotation, Mukhopadhyay
expressed, in modern language, the ancient insight of the Vedas that
Brahman created the “multiverse,” to use Mukhopadhyay’s language, as
a form of play, where the self would lose consciousness of Self, and the
entire purpose of Creation would be the drama of mind, body, and
spirit, in which the self would once again merge with the Self:
The “self” within the brain understands its imprisonment within
ﬁve overlapping concentric spheres. Who am I? What am I sup-
posed to do? Where from I have come? Where shall I be doomed, if
proper precautions are not taken before hand? It is “self”, seeking
the “Self”, through “self”, for “Self”. If “self” is successful in this
K A P U R
30

mission, then inside is out and outside is in. There is inversion of
the neuraxis.
Mukhopadhyay (1995, p. 171)
Mukhopadhyay’s seminal work was thus a transformation of the ancient
religious insights of India into the modern scientiﬁc language of pathol-
ogy and biology.
Certain scientiﬁc discoveries — such as the theory of evolution,
the law of conservation of matter, and the theory of relativity — bear
striking similarities to Vedantic concepts of the universe. Sri Ramakrishna
used the concept of the nonduality of consciousness (Advaita) to build
his theory of the harmony of religions (Bhajanananda 1976–77), and
Vivekananda saw nonduality as the basis for the underlying similarities
of art, science, and religion.14 Likewise, Einstein, in his special theory of
relativity, used the constancy of the velocity of light to formulate the
principle of invariance (Bhajanananda 1976–77, p. 23). The close agree-
ment between Vedantic principles and those of the modern scientiﬁc
discoveries, despite the difference in their expression, is noteworthy
(Bhajanananda 1976–77). As Jitatmananda pointed out,
The entire world of modern physics is moving toward a knowledge
of ﬁnal unity in the universe. The Vedanta, the philosophical and
the metaphysical portions of the Vedas, afﬁrmed this unity as the
very basis of all existence and the ultimate goal of all knowledge.
Jitatmananda (1992, pp. 6–7)
Another commonality of science and religion is the idea that the
mind, or subjective consciousness, plays a great role in creating the
world and lays down the laws of perception. When mystics go “inward,”
their consciousness alters and they can perceive worlds not possible if
consciousness were not capable of altering dimensions and adapting
itself to new perceptions. Social-science researchers have recognized this
link between subject and object, in terms of the continuum of con-
sciousness, and suggest that each person “creates” a particular perception
of the world, both mental and sociophysical. Similarly, as Jitatmananda
remarked,
Unless we know the Knower we cannot also know that the known
is only the projection of the Knower. This Knower is our Pure
Consciousness, which is the only seer, the one all-pervading Exis-
tence, the one all-inclusive knowledge. This Pure Consciousness
projects the entire universe just as a spider projects its web. The
external and a separate universe is, therefore, only a superimposi-
tion, due to our desires and will, on the Pure Consciousness which
knows everything as One.
Jitatmananda (1991, p. 50)
T H E
P R I N C I P L E
O F
F U N D A M E N TA L
O N E N E S S
31
14 According to Vivekananda, “Art, science and religion are but three different ways
of expressing the single truth. But in order to understand this we must have the theory of
Advaita” (that is, nonduality of consciousness) (Bhajanananda 1976–77, p. 26).

The importance of the observer has, by now, also been recognized in the
physical sciences.
Backed by these eminent thinkers and with these comments on the
similarities between scientiﬁc and religious inquiry, I subscribe to, and try
to manifest in my work, the following statement by Ranganathananda:
There is no conﬂict between science and religion, between the phys-
ical sciences and the science of spirituality. Both have the identical
aim of discovering truth and helping man to grow physically, men-
tally and spiritually, and achieve fulﬁllment. But each by itself is
insufﬁcient and helpless.
DEVOTION, KNOWLEDGE, AND ACTION
The origins of the Hindu social ethic
Between the 12th and 16th centuries ad, Hinduism experienced an
extraordinary efﬂorescence. This medieval spiritual renaissance indicates
that Hinduism not only survived but prospered under the foreign rule
of the Moguls. Some of the better known mystics of this age were
Jnanadeva (d. 1296), Namadeva (d. 1346), Kabir (15th century), Nanak
(1469–1539), Mira (16th century), Tulsidas (1532–1623), and Eknath
(1533–99). Together, they are referred to as the Bhakti gurus. They
were spiritual masters–preceptors, who imparted knowledge to their
disciples, dispelling ignorance from their minds.
The concept of a living spiritual master has been of extreme
importance in Hinduism, and even today many cults and sects with liv-
ing gurus flourish in India and in other parts of the world where
Hinduism has spread. The guru mediates between the disciple and
Brahman, bringing the disciple closer to Brahman through counsel,
discourse, exercise, and example. In due course, perhaps after several
lifetimes, the disciple is freed from the bonds of delusion and the ongo-
ing cycle of transmigration; then the disciple can merge with Brahman.
There were a number of commonalities among the Bhakti mystics
and saints, several of whom, like Kabir, came from the lowest caste. The
medieval Indian spiritual preceptors, like the Vedic seers, enjoined hard
work in the form of service to the spiritual preceptor, community, and
society. Devotion to Brahman by means of devotion to the guru was
another common aspect of their teachings. Most advocated that caste
“untouchability” was an age-old evil and that the exploitation of the
lower castes and outcastes was a reprehensible practice that must be
reversed. They therefore made no distinctions of caste or gender in their
ashrams and attempted to inﬂuence society by their example. They ini-
tiated men and women of all castes into their faith and promised them
that they, too, could aspire to and fulﬁll the desire of spiritual liberation.
K A P U R
32

Mira stands out as a mystical luminary who was regarded as a saint, even
as a woman living in medieval times.
Kabir, for example,
refused to acknowledge caste distinctions or to recognise the
authority of the six schools of philosophy. He did not set any store
by the four divisions of life (ashramas) prescribed for Bhramanas. He
held that religion (dharma) without devotion (bhakti) was no reli-
gion at all (adharma), and that asceticism, fasting, and alms giving
had no value if not accompanied by adoration (bhajana — the
singing of devotional songs).
Pande (1989, p. 102)
Kabir taught the worship of a Reality that cannot be described. He felt
deeply that the guru was the only route to salvation.
There was a great deal of cross-pollination among the religions of
the region during this time: Islam15 and Suﬁsm (mystical Islam) had a
strong inﬂuence on the Bhakti gurus. In the case of Nanak, the synthe-
sis between Hinduism and Sufism was seminal in the creation of
Sikhism.16 A description of the medieval renaissance would be incom-
plete without a reference to the insights of Nanak. He was a spiritual
teacher who came from a Hindu family, founded Sikhism, and set in
motion a lineage of 10 spiritual masters. Nanak believed that the
Creator is a single principle from which all things evolve. Although he
believed that the Creator is beyond any speciﬁc description, he felt that
God is capable of forming a pervasive personal relationship with
humans. Nanak described God as a “pure light” that pervades every-
thing; in this sense, everything exists in God and the world is his play
(lila) (Pande 1989). Humans, according to Nanak, emanate from the
light of God and are born as a result of the desires of the mind. Humans,
by following the will (hukum) of God, can evolve in stages and realize
spiritual salvation. In this process, nothing is achievable in the spiritual
realm without the presence and guidance of the guru. In terms of action,
humans must be balanced and objective and live in the world with love
and dedication. Nanak said, “Truth is higher than everything, but the
living of Truth is higher than everything else.” Clear Upanishadic
strains appear in Nanak’s insights, and he, too, worked against idolatry,
ritualism, the caste system, and exploitative relationships.
The medieval Indian saints had a very pronounced impact on the
evolution of Hindu ideas. Almost every reformer or mystic after Kabir
and Nanak denounced casteism and tried to purge Hinduism of the per-
nicious practices that had crept into it, including discrimination against
T H E
P R I N C I P L E
O F
F U N D A M E N TA L
O N E N E S S
33
15 See Pande (1989, p. 121): “A pervasive inﬂuence of Islam on the medieval Bhakti
movement has been asserted and even Sankaracharya is said to have been inﬂuenced by
Islamic monotheism.”
16 In Sikhism, the “Holy Book” (Guru Granth Sahib) is treated as a living guru and
given every consideration that a living master would be given. For its recitations and
interpretation there are Sikh priests called “granthies.”

women. Some of the 18th- and 19th-century reformers were outright in
their condemnation of such discrimination; they praised the role of
women as mothers — as representative of the Divine Principle. Others,
like Dayanand, campaigned to abolish ghastly ritualistic customs, such
as sati (the self-immolation of widows on the funeral pyres of their hus-
bands) and the then-prevalent custom of child marriage, in which even
prepubescent children were married. He was also firmly opposed to
social restrictions against the remarriage of widows, which went so far
as to prevent a widow from remarrying even if she was only a child when
her husband died. This ﬁrst recrudescence of devotion, knowledge, and
action, in medieval times, paved the way for the second Hindu renais-
sance, the effects of which are still evident. The various sects and cults
of the 20th century owe allegiance to, and freely quote, the teachings of
Kabir, Nanak, Namdeva, Jnanadeva, Mira, and others.
The second Hindu renaissance
By the 18th and 19th centuries, despite the teachings of the mystics of
the Bhakti Renaissance, many social problems remained unresolved. In
fact, these conditions and practices — sati, obstruction of widow remar-
riages, caste exploitation, untouchability, and poverty — remained
intact under both Mogul and colonial rule. Nevertheless, certain exem-
plary movements in the fields of srd emerged and significantly
improved the economic and social conditions of marginalized people. I
will now turn to a brief examination of these movements, with a view
to outlining their ethical guiding principles and how their principles
inform their developmental activities.
Arya Samaj movements
Founded near the turn of the century (1875) by Swami Dayanand
Saraswati, under the slogan “back to the Vedas,” the Arya Samaj was
characterized by the development of an elaborate monotheistic system
of beliefs. Swami Dayanand had an acute sense of social awareness and
was active in the ﬁeld of women’s rights, women’s education, and gen-
der equality. The Arya Samaj started movements for India’s freedom, the
education of girls and women, the care of orphan children and the poor,
and the revival of religious studies and debate. Through these move-
ments, Dayanand attempted to eradicate superstition, obsessive ritual-
ism, and blind faith; caste, class, and sex discrimination; and the social
evils of dowry and untouchability. He started a movement to revive the
dignity of hard work and individual virtues. He propagated regular
prayers and “Havens” (recitations of Vedic verses while herbs, incense,
or cereals are burned to purify the inner and outer environment). He
encouraged the concept of the oneness of the incorporeal God and gave
impetus to economic development through education, vocational
K A P U R
34

training, creation of jobs and small-scale industry, and publications. The
Arya Samaj has generated an enormous amount of literature on social,
religious, scientiﬁc, and literary topics (Gupta 1998).
Dayanand acted to change society through the classical system of
education (gurukul) in which knowledge about dharma, as well as human
and spiritual values, was imparted and the ideal of equality practiced. In
Satyarth Prakash, a book that provides the fundamental principles of
Arya Samaj, Dayanand proposed education for young boys and girls in
a three-language formula — Sanskrit, Hindi, and a foreign language.
He propounded continence for students and opposed child marriage.
The Arya Samaj has founded many Dayanand Anglo Vedic (dav)
schools, especially in the Punjab; the dav schools provide modern edu-
cation with a traditional and Vedic tinge. The Arya Samaj runs a large
number of Vyayam Shalas–Akharas (gymnasiums and sports centres) for
physical health. It was involved to some extent in the anticolonial
movement, supporting the production and consumption of indigenous
goods (swadeshi) and the use of Hindi as a national language, and it
remains active in contemporary India, especially in the northern belt
(Jordens 1978).17
Ramakrishna Mission
The Ramakrishna Mission was founded at the end of the 19th century and
named after the Bengali mystic, Sri Ramakrishna Paramahans. Its founder,
Swami Vivekananda, was one of Ramakrishna’s chief disciples. The Mission
teaches the principles of Vedanta and also provides concrete service to com-
munities with its schools, colleges, hospitals, and orphanages.
Sri Ramakrishna emphasized, among other principles, “the equal
validity of all religions, the potential divinity of man, and service to
man as a way of worshipping God.”18 Ramakrishna was basically a devo-
tee of Kali, the Divine Mother. As a mystic, Ramakrishna emphasized
the spiritual side of life and the limitation of human wants. One of his
most urgent dictums was that humans should avoid the trap of sensual-
ity and obsession with material things. He also emphasized people’s
need for the spiritual and cultural traditions of the past to help them
move meaningfully into the future.
Today, the Mission addresses the question of spirituality and
science and is now preaching that science has begun to validate the
Vedantic viewpoint of the oneness of the universe — nothing can exist
outside of the Spirit. The Mission’s ideal is freedom of the self and ser-
vice to humankind. Its aim is to practice and preach the sanatana dharma
as embodied in the lives and teachings of Sri Ramakrishna and Swami
Vivekananda, who undertook their spiritual quest through social action
T H E
P R I N C I P L E
O F
F U N D A M E N TA L
O N E N E S S
35
17 For more information, consult the Arya Samaj website (www.whereisgod.com),
which, at the time of writing, was still under construction.
18 See the Ramakrishna Mission website (www.sriramakrishna.org).

and the gospel of love. The motto of the Mission is “renunciation, ser-
vice, and harmony of religions”; its method is work and worship — reli-
gious preaching and training of monastic aspirants. The preachers are all
monks in the Mission and have specific regulations governing their
clothing and food. The two components of the Ramakrishna Mission are
the math (or monastic order) for contemplative activities, such as medi-
tation and preaching the Vedanta, and the Mission per se, which has
ashrams and institutions all over the country. The activities of these
bodies include the following (Gambhirananda 1957):
 Religious teaching and discourses;
 Operation of schools at all educational levels, including gen-
eral technical education, language training, and character building
from an ethical–spiritual perspective;
 Creation of libraries;
 Social work among marginalized peoples;
 Medical service (creation of hospitals, clinics, dispensaries, and
sanitoriums and distribution of medicines to those unable to afford
them);
 Projects for poverty alleviation and income generation;
 Relief projects; and
 Agricultural and scientiﬁc research.
These organizations work closely with local communities on problems
the communities have themselves deemed relevant. They infuse their
actions with the teachings of Swami Vivekananda and Sri Ramakrishna.
Sri Aurobindo Society
The life, message, and teachings of Sri Aurobindo inspired the creation
of the Sri Aurobindo Society:
Sri Aurobindo’s teaching starts with the ancient perception of the
seers of the Vedanta that there is a supreme reality that is absolute,
eternal, and indeterminable. This is Brahman, the one Truth, Sole
and Entire … . All this is a manifestation of Brahman, by Brahman,
and in Brahman.
Pandit (1959, pp. 3–4)
The integral truth of Sri Aurobindo’s teachings is corroborated by the
hymns of Veda, the Upanishads, and the Gita. The basic aim of the Sri
Aurobindo Society is to work toward “individual perfection, social
transformation, and human unity based on a spiritual foundation.”19
K A P U R
36
19 See the Sri Aurobindo Society’s website (www.sriaurobindosociety.org.in).

The Society has established a number of research centres to inves-
tigate ways to integrate spirituality into various aspects of human life,
such as the social sciences, health, management, commerce and business,
and applied scientiﬁc research.20 One of the developmental activities of
the Society and the Sri Aurobindo ashram is to promote “integral edu-
cation” to balance and integrate the four aspects of the individual: the
physical, the vital (dynamic energy, passions, will), the mental (think-
ing and reasoning), and the psychic and spiritual (the seat of the high-
est truths of existence). The Sri Aurobindo Society promulgates this
education through various means (children’s books, educational games
and toys, teacher-training programs, and distance and digital education)
and institutions (an institute of vocational training and mass communi-
cation; study and youth camps; and health centres, with yoga and
“nature-cure” wings). Through its Women’s Council, the Sri Aurobindo
Society also focuses on women’s development premised on the full
development of the spirituality of the individual woman and an inher-
ent equality based in the divine source of all humanity. Through lec-
tures, seminars, and publications, the Sri Aurobindo Society promotes
prenatal and parental education, equal opportunity for women to work
and be of service to humanity, and economic independence for women.
World Spiritual University
Seeing illiteracy, ignorance, superstition, and blind faith and realizing
the grave erosion of India’s moral values and national character, Prajapita
Brahma (later known as Brahma Baba) started the World Spiritual
University (Prajapita Brahma Kumaris Ishwariya Vishwa Vidyalaya) to
cultivate the seeds of knowledge, wisdom, and virtuous behaviour.
The World Spiritual University is an international organization
with 450 000 members or students. It has more than 3 000 educational
centres teaching Rajyoga meditation and moral and spiritual values in
more than 60 countries. It is administered primarily by women. It is
dedicated to education for all-round development, and it focuses on
spiritual growth through contemplation, development of higher values,
and service to community. Education in moral and spiritual values is
emphasized to bring about transformation in attitudes and behaviour,
build human character, and develop an integrated personality. Enroll-
ment in the university is free and open to individuals who wish to
T H E
P R I N C I P L E
O F
F U N D A M E N TA L
O N E N E S S
37
20 The Sri Aurobindo Institute for Applied Scientiﬁc Research focuses on innovations
in alternative energy sources and appropriate technology to solve worker-identiﬁed prob-
lems while consciously emphasizing deeper psychological and spiritual values. In its lit-
erature, the institute suggests that, “while it is important to reach and work at the
frontiers of science, it is equally important to develop a technology which will be appro-
priate for rural and semi-urban India and other developing countries. The need is for a
technology which will have the least side effects and touch immediately a large number
of people directly in their lives. It will help them do their work more efﬁciently, faster,
with less health hazards and at a lower cost” (sas n.d.).

engage in an active change process through personal growth and
meditation.21
Prajapita Brahma’s vision for the world was grounded in truth,
justice, and equality, an equality based on a foundation of harmony and
balance between the sexes. At the time of the university’s inception,
Prajapita Brahma, a respected 60-year-old diamond merchant, surren-
dered all his property and assets to a trust administered by eight young
women. Women and young girls have been chosen as administrators
and spiritual teachers. The university is based on principles of equality
of the sexes and teaches that “any form of discrimination and prejudice
is destructive to a world which depends on the strategic balance of a full
and equal partnership between women and men” (bkwso 1995b).
The university has general consultative status with the Economic
and Social Council of the United Nations, has consultative status with
the United Nations Children’s Fund, and is associated with the United
Nations Peace University. The World Spiritual University works pri-
marily in the areas of environmental improvement (for example, a
project to demonstrate solar–wind–battery hybrid systems technology
in India22), health awareness and medicine, world unity and peace, and
the eradication of poverty. It has participated in a number of United
Nations conferences, published position papers taking value-based
approaches to various development problems,23 and received seven
United Nations Peace Messenger Awards.
Swadhyaya
Another spiritual movement engaged in development activities is the
Swadhyaya movement (a Sanskrit word meaning “self-study”), which
works primarily in Gujarat and Maharashtra. Using the Bhagavad Gita
and the traditional Indian worldview as its philosophical basis,
Pandurang Shastri Athavale, its founder, asked people to recognize the
self as a manifestation of divine being and thus to acknowledge the
divinity of all individuals. The followers of this movement — the
“swadhyayees” — consider service to God their main purpose and
K A P U R
38
21 See the Brahma Kumaris World Spiritual University website (www.bkwsu.com).
22 The project is summarized on a web page of the International Centre for the Appli-
cation of Solar Energy (www.case.gov.au/complete3.htm) (case n.d.).
23 For example, the World Spiritual University explored a spiritual response to
poverty in its statement for the 1996 International Year for the Eradication of Poverty,
which emphasized that the interconnected root causes of poverty go beyond material con-
siderations and advised careful consideration of poverty in relationships, spiritual bank-
ruptcy, spiritual causes of poverty, the greed factor, and conditioning and poverty
consciousness. It recommended that solutions to poverty emphasize self-worth, simplic-
ity, creativity, and self-reliance. It saw its role in poverty eradication as planting the seeds
for long-term changes in attitudes, behaviours, and lifestyles through positive-thinking
programs, developing and sharing values, inculcating abilities and responsibilities,
promoting self-reliance–empowerment of the self and community, and encouraging
intellectual development and inner knowledge (www.bkwsu.com/bkun/wit/wit6.html)
(bkwso 1995a).

translate this purpose into initiatives to improve the socioeconomic
conditions in swadhyayee villages. Swadhyayees, for example, tend com-
munal farms and regard the wealth thus generated as belonging to God,
to be distributed to those in need or to villagers to support their efforts
to become more productive. Any individual, however, only works a few
days a year on any one plot and does this as a form of devotion. The
principle has also been expanded to fruit-tree planting and fishing.
Swadhyaya is credited with teaching equal treatment of individuals,
regardless of sex, caste, class, or faith. It has no formal hierarchy or paid
workers. It does not attempt to convert people away from their pro-
fessed religion; instead, Athavale recommended that the wisdom of
swadhyaya be shared through example and by heart-to-heart or mind-to-
mind discussion (Ekins 1992; Ramashray Roy 1993).
Gandhi and the Sarvodaya Order
The developmental nexus is most pronounced in Mahatma Gandhi’s
ideas espousing “welfare of all” (sarvodaya). This concept–movement
represents a stream of thought developing from the beginning of the
20th century until Gandhi’s assassination in 1948. It propounds a
model of sustainable development as an alternative to the capital-
intensive, industrial paradigm of the West and to the nonparticipatory
communist model, which also set store in expeditious economic growth.
Gandhi preached the participation of people in decision-making and the
decentralization of power to the many villages of India. Gandhi, in his
struggle for a Sarvodaya Order, linked his economic agenda with a non-
violent (ahimsa) struggle for Indian political independence (swaraj). He
made swadeshi (indigenous production and consumption) part of his
overall developmental philosophy.
Gandhi was a self-confessed Hindu, who regularly read the
Bhagavad Gita; as such, he represents a continuity in the Hindu tradi-
tion. He injected the spirit of religion into politics and everything he
did. In Gandhi, the voice of ancient Hinduism found an interpreter who
envisioned the development of India from the bottom up, rather than
from the top down as in conventional development paradigms (Khoshoo
1997b). In fact, his entire approach to development differed from pre-
vailing methodologies that pay no attention to the depletion of the
resource base, ecological imbalances, or the needs of future generations.
Gandhi said, “The earth provides enough for every man’s needs, but not
for every man’s greed” (Khoshoo 1997a, p. 6).
Perhaps it was his adherence to the precepts of Hinduism that led
Gandhi to comprehend and articulate the inextricable link between
social transformation and self-transformation:
This method of self-transformation [Gandhi] called “satyagraha”
and it was characterized by an earnest desire and effort to make
truth, non-violence and justice pervade every aspect of one’s
personality as well as inter-personal transactions. He founded
T H E
P R I N C I P L E
O F
F U N D A M E N TA L
O N E N E S S
39

ashrams, communities where these principles could be deliberately
practised.
Palshikar (1998, p. 15)
Gandhi was also aware of social marginalization and its effects; he
fought, for example, against untouchability and for the liberation of
women, saying
I shall work for an India in which the poorest shall feel that it is
their country, in whose making they have an effective voice, an
India in which there is no high class or low class of people, and an
India in which all communities will live in harmony. Women will
enjoy the same rights as men. This is the India of my dreams.
Chowdhry (1994, p. 19)
For Gandhi, the charkah (spinning wheel) was symbolic of a proper
perspective on economic development — it should provide a minimum
income and employment to the people at large (Mashruwala 1971). In
that early era of Indian development, theories were not obsessed with
stimulating materialistic wants. The population of India was just one-
third of what it is now, allowing for sustainable levels of economic con-
sumption. Gandhi could envision a good and simple life for the people
of his country.
The Sarvodaya Order proposes that economics be based on renew-
able resources and that power be decentralized to independent, but
interlinked, villages, where employment would be generated through
agriculture and simple crafts. Kamla Chowdhry, in her Mahatma
Gandhi: Lessons for Sustainable Development (1994, p. 19), observed that
“Gandhi’s priorities for development were village development and
village industries. Development to Gandhi was abolition of poverty,
misery and fear.” Gandhi visualized a village society in India in which
all the basic amenities would be available and people would be eco-
nomically self-sufficient but mutually dependent. He saw cities as
“clearinghouses” for village products. Gandhi also believed in making
use of all human waste to produce gas or manure to replenish the Earth
for agriculture.
Gandhi was highly critical of Western-style industrialization,
writing
God forbid that India should ever take to industrialism after the
manner of the west. The economic imperialism of a single tiny
Island Kingdom is today keeping the world in chains … .
Industrialism is, I am afraid, going to be a curse of mankind.
Industrialism depends entirely on your capacity to exploit.
Khoshoo (1995, p. 33)
Yet, Gandhi was not against machinery per se, only against machinery
designed for the exploitation of people.
K A P U R
40

Gandhi wanted to decentralize the state structure and create “fully
participatory village ‘republics’ founded on a non-violent revolution, in
which landlords would voluntarily transfer their property to the people”
(Annan, cited in Starcevic 1998). Gandhi also wrote that “independence
must begin at the bottom … . It follows, therefore, that every village
has to be self sustained and capable of managing its affairs. The
Government of the village will be conducted by the Panchayat (Village
Council)” (Khoshoo 1995, p. 40).
One could say that the special features of the sarvodaya approach
are the following:
 National governance accountable to local governance;
 Self-sustaining local economies;
 Decentralized production system;
 Industry in trusteeship of, and accountable to, the community; and
 Secularism as a conﬂuence of all religions.
The desire of Gandhi’s heart was “to wipe every tear from every
eye” by encouraging India to follow its own path of development, tak-
ing into account its own realities, its own people, and its own culture.
Although Nehru agreed with Gandhi that certain objectives, like
sufﬁcient food, clothing, housing, and education, were the minimum
requirements for the country and all its citizens, he wanted to attain
these objectives “speedily.” “Speedily to Nehru meant modernization,
industrialization, building of big dams, establishing institutional infra-
structure for science and technology. In other words catching up with
the West, for, according to Nehru there was no way out but to have
them” (Chowdhry 1994, p. 19). After Gandhi’s death, therefore, India
embarked on a development strategy very different from the one he had
envisaged.
Nehru’s approach to development has been the credo for more than
ﬁve decades in India. His development strategy undoubtedly brought
about very impressive progress in many directions, but it also led to
many failures. Chowdhry (1994, p. 23) pointed out that these strategies
neglected issues such as “rural poverty, primary education and illiteracy,
unemployment, increasing inequalities and women’s drudgery.” She
went on to explain that widening disparities in income and consumption
were causing social and political unrest, widespread corruption, and the
decay of the social fabric. We cannot say with certainty that Gandhi’s
approach would have played itself out more positively and successfully,
but we can see certain results of the Gandhian approach, such as the
effects on the 8 600 villages adopted by the well-respected Sri Lankan
Sarvodaya Shramadana movement. Moreover, his thinking has inﬂuenced
some of the most important social-justice and environmental movements
in India. Some examples of these movements are described below.
T H E
P R I N C I P L E
O F
F U N D A M E N TA L
O N E N E S S
41

The contemporary environmental movement in India
The contemporary environmental movement in India started with the
Chipko Andolan in April 1973. From the Chipko Andolan to the
Narmada Bachao Andolan, environmental activists have relied heavily
on Gandhian techniques of nonviolent protest and sarvodaya philosophy,
as well as drawing abundantly on Gandhi’s polemic against heavy indus-
trialization. Some of the movement’s better known figures — for
example, Chandi Prasad Bhatt, Sunderlal Bahuguna, Baba Amte, and
Medha Patkar — have repeatedly emphasized their debt to Gandhi
(Guha 1993). Other inﬂuences on the Indian environmental movement
include Marxism (in Kerala), socialism, liberation theology, and the self-
help traditions.
The organizations participating in the environmental movement
in India demonstrate an interesting amalgamation of modern scientiﬁc
technique and traditional motivation. Take, for example, the Sankat
Mochan Foundation. The head of this Varanasi-based institution is Pro-
fessor Veer Bhadra Mishra, a priest of the Sankat Mochan Temple and a
professor of hydraulic engineering at Benares University. He is con-
vinced that science and religion have to mesh if India is to clean and
save the river Ganges. He says, “Life is like a stream. One bank is the
‘Vedas’ and the other bank is the contemporary world, including its sci-
ence and technology. If both banks are not ﬁrm the water will scatter. If
both banks are ﬁrm the river will run its course” (Chowdhry 1998).
Other participants in this movement also seem to display a ﬁrm
awareness of the interconnection of spiritual, environmental, social-
justice, and economic concerns and their solutions. Ramchandra Guha
is a professor, sociologist, and historian; his work has focused on histor-
ical and present-day interactions between humans and the natural envi-
ronment. In a lecture on Gandhi and the environmental movement
(Guha 1993), he commented on Gandhi’s approaches and those of two
well-known followers — Kumarappa and Mira Behn — who had
applied Gandhi’s ideas to environmental questions. Guha (1993, p. 9)
noted that “at the level of the individual, Gandhi’s code of voluntary
simplicity offers a sustainable alternative to modern life styles.” Guha
also commented that Behn’s primary concern, like that of Gandhi and
Kumarappa,24 “was with rehabilitating the village economy of India.”
And Kumarappa himself stated that “forest management should be
guided not by considerations of revenue but by the needs of the people”
(Guha 1993, pp. 11–13).
K A P U R
42
24 See The Economy of Permanence: A Quest for a Social Order Based on Non-violence
(Kumarappa 1984 [1948]).

The women’s movement
In India, the women’s movement started in the late 19th and early 20th
centuries. Unlike the women’s liberation movement in the West, which
adopted a militant stance and often took an adversarial posture toward
the opposite sex, in India the women’s movement was the creation of
social reformers like Raja Ram Mohan Roy, Ishwarchandra Vidya Sagar,
Keshav Chandra Sen, Dayanand Sarasvati, and Maharishi Karve —
almost all of them men. It started as a ﬁght against social injustice suf-
fered by women, the dominant-male–inferior-female mind-set, and
social customs such as sati, the ill-treatment of widows, the custom of
demanding a dowry, and female infanticide. Lord William Bentick,
Anne Besant, and Margaret Cousins were some of the foreigners who
actively supported the ﬁrst phase of the women’s movement in India.
The relevant issues were also taken up by pioneer women’s organiza-
tions, like the All India Women’s Conference. This phase was marked
by an overall, middle-class urban leadership.
In the preindependence period, the drive for women’s rights was
very much a part of the nationalist movement. Mahatma Gandhi
brought masses of women from behind the four walls of their homes to
take part in the struggle for freedom. He encouraged them to be part-
ners in the endeavour to gain India’s independence. He supported
women’s equality and recognized their potential to advance the coun-
try’s development.
After independence, the Indian Constitution guaranteed women’s
equality, and India established autonomous bodies like the Social Wel-
fare Board. It was felt that welfare-oriented programs for women would
ensure gender equality. The emphasis in government policies was on
women’s welfare: women were to be the passive beneﬁciaries of this sup-
port. And for almost two decades, the women’s movement was inactive.
These decades were marked by apathy toward women’s issues and a gen-
eral attitude of acquiescence (Desai 1988).
During the 1960s, women did not become involved in the politi-
cal arena for women’s issues speciﬁcally, yet they participated in large
numbers in the general struggle to improve the conditions of the rural
poor and indigenous peoples, as well as participating in other mass
movements, like the Chipko Andolin. This participation deﬁnitely pro-
vided a backdrop for later struggles focused on women’s issues. The
declaration of International Women’s Year and of the Decade of
Women, the creation of the National Committee on the Status of
Women in India, and the submission of its report in 1974 provided
leverage to the women’s movement in India. These factors also
contributed to the emergence of some autonomous organizations (for
example, the Self-employed Women’s Association, in 1972; the Rural
Development Society, in 1976; and the Centre for Women’s
T H E
P R I N C I P L E
O F
F U N D A M E N TA L
O N E N E S S
43

Development Studies, in 1980) and the revitalization of some main-
stream organizations.
With the National Committee on the Status of Women in the
1970s and the propagation of the government’s sixth five-year plan
(1980–85), the focus of the movement shifted from social welfare to the
developmental activities of women. Many women’s organizations con-
centrated on issues in education, economic independence, and health,
emphasizing women’s participation in all these developmental activi-
ties. The ﬁrst three World Conferences on Women addressed the themes
of equality, development, and peace, respectively. At the Fourth World
Conference on Women, in Beijing in 1995, the emphasis was on
women’s rights as human rights and on the introduction of the concept
of a “partnership” of men and women in development. The Fourth
World Conference on Women chalked out a Plan of Action for achiev-
ing the goals of women’s equality, development, and peace and for
ensuring that all participating nations would be committed to this plan.
The focus of the women’s movement then shifted to women’s empower-
ment and women’s equal participation in all decision-making and
developmental activities. Yet, despite national- and international-level
efforts to achieve the goals of women’s equality and development, these
goals are far from being achieved.
Women’s development and empowerment are imperative for
nationally and globally integrated development. I feel that to make this
a reality, we must collectively work for the transformation of the psyche
and consciousness of men, women, and society, which would involve
awakening the spiritual powers for the conversion of the heart and
mind. As suggested in the book A Global Ethic (Kung and Kuschel
1993), all men and women need to make a commitment to a culture of
equal human rights and obligations, a culture based on human, spiri-
tual, and religious ethical principles and a common ethic of mutual
understanding, peace, and Earth-friendly ways of life.
Hindu resources for an integrated development
Religion can help development by encouraging the spirit of service
and sacrifice; by showing ways to attain the Truth … and by
improving the quality of life for all. The Hindu religion gives the
exalted ideals of Atman — self — to everyone and that through the
awakening and realisation of the self, one could achieve success and
development in every ﬁeld.
Muktinathananda (personal communication, 199825)
Hinduism brings a holistic approach to development, because it does
not concentrate simply on the question of economic well-being but also
incorporates ideals of spiritual and sociopsychological satisfaction. In
K A P U R
44
25 Swami Muktinathananda, Ramakrishna Math, Belur, Calcutta, India, personal
communication, 1998.

the book Bhagavad Gita and Contemporary Crisis, the great Vedic scholar
Kireet Joshi (1996) pointed out how our modern culture looks on a
person first and foremost as an economic agent. Even attitudes are
conditioned by the demands and needs of the economic imperative.
Modern culture has developed the science of material life but neglected
the science of self-control and self-discipline and, as a result, cannot pre-
sent remedies for the crises of violence affecting individuals, societies,
and nations from time to time. We are gradually becoming dehuman-
ized because we do not have the leisure to grow inwardly (Joshi 1996).
As Joshi (1996, p. 8) further emphasized, “We need the knowl-
edge of what is within us, beyond our economic being, beyond our
physical, vital, mental and intellectual faculties. We need to know if
there is a source of peace and tranquility … free from turbulence of hur-
ried struggle [and competition].” The Gita, in a practical manner,
unites knowledge, action, and the third crowning element in the soul’s
completeness, divine love and devotion;26 the jnana, karma, and bhakti
yogas provide interrelated paths to this self-realization. Wisdom such as
this can solve the contemporary crisis of personal, and socioeconomic,
and spiritual development (Joshi 1996).
Thus, life for a Hindu is basically meant to be a spiritual journey.
When development becomes merely a means to ﬁght off hunger and
disease, without encompassing the spiritual dimension, then to that
extent it fails to provide the essential fuel of enthusiasm and hope. The
contemporary discourse of development is geared toward the physical,
without incorporating any idea of what lies beyond the attainment of
plenty. The notion of sustainability has gained credence, to my mind,
because it addresses this imbalance.
This spiritual dimension is most evident in the fourth of life’s aims
in Hinduism — moksha. Ultimately, all life action and development
activities must lead to spiritual liberation, even as they create better
economic conditions and release us from physical pain and disease.
Development efforts must create, or at least not suppress, conditions
that provide intellectual and spiritual satisfaction; “development”
should not be thankless toil — in the sense of working under compul-
sion — for one’s own material gains. Yet, despite Hinduism’s spiritual
orientation, it is not entirely otherworldly. Hinduism acknowledges the
need for people to appropriately enjoy the mind, spirit, body, and
senses, in its idea of kama; and economic accomplishment, in its idea of
artha — both kama and artha are included in life’s goals. As Danesh
T H E
P R I N C I P L E
O F
F U N D A M E N TA L
O N E N E S S
45
26 Joshi (1991, p. 20) pointed out that “in practical terms the veda prescribes that
every action of man should be sacriﬁce offered by him to higher and higher forces and
beings, to the devas and ultimately to the Supreme Being itself. … It is, in fact, in the
Gita that we ﬁnd a comprehensive and abundant exposition of the principle of sacriﬁce
[not ritualistic sacriﬁce] and of the method of performing actions as a sacriﬁce to the
Divine.” It is this approach that is needed for self-development and holistic socioeconomic
and ecological development.

(1993) stated in his examination of the psychology of spirituality, the
living person requires this integration, because the true nature of a
human being is in the total unity of the two distinctive expressions of
reality — the material and the spiritual. To achieve individual self-
transformation or self-development — and this must precede the trans-
formation or development of others and broader society — it is essential
that the individual work simultaneously at both levels of reality
(Danesh 1993).
Looking at the situation in India today, I see that uninhibited
materialism has certainly increased among the affluent classes since
economic globalization made its recent appearance. In addition to pro-
moting a consumeristic paradigm of economic development, globaliza-
tion has been lopsided: it caters to those who are already privileged,
making them richer. Moreover, it marginalizes the poor, the weak, and
the underprivileged, categories that often include a disproportionate
number of women. Although globalization “reduces” the geographic
distance through efﬁcient communication technologies and trade net-
works, it concurrently increases socioeconomic distance and disparity. In
India, it is felt that globalization adversely affects people’s human rights
and lures them away from their culture.
According to Hassija (1991, 1998), unless people retain the abil-
ity to look inward, globalization will unleash bitter competition, stark
materialism, commercialism, and the disintegration of the human and
spiritual values of world unity, compassion, and cooperation. These
effects of globalization would not only destabilize ﬁnancial markets but
also create disharmony in social and human relations. As such, global-
ization in business and trade without globalization of spiritual values
will create imbalance and tension in the world order. Hassija (1998,
p. 2) suggested that “a happy blend of economics and spirituality —
both based on values — is necessary.”
Hindu beliefs and religion certainly caution against uninhibited
consumerism and materialism. I feel that a greater emphasis on limit-
ing human wants and on the ideology of simple living and high think-
ing could counterbalance today’s consumerist ideology. The approach
and concept of the Sarvodaya Order, for example — which provides an
outline of the voluntary limitation of human wants — can certainly
help temper unmitigated consumerism, materialism, and hedonism. I
feel that Gandhi could become an important symbol in the ﬁght against
the present-day consumer ideology and the violence it nurtures.
Gandhi’s principles also provide us with another important
resource for integrated development: ahimsa (nonviolence), an ancient
Hindu principle that mandates noninjury of others in thought, word,
and deed. One of the central principles of Mahatma Gandhi in his move-
ment against the colonial British powers was nonviolence, which he
adopted as a personal credo and preached to the Indian people. A truly
nonviolent person will not retaliate with violence, even in self-defence.
K A P U R
46

The concept of nonviolence is found throughout Indian religious tradi-
tions, and it is especially emphasized in Buddhism and Jainism.
Hinduism also brings to the paradigm of development the idea
that all life in the cosmos is interrelated and interwoven — a ﬁrm spir-
itual basis for ecological balance and protection of the environment. In
the Isho Upanishad, for example, we read the following:
The whole universe with its creatures belongs to the Lord (Nature).
No creature is superior to any other, and the human being should
not have absolute power over Nature. Let no species encroach upon
the rights and privileges of other species. However one can enjoy
the bounties of Nature by giving up greed.
Khoshoo (1995, p. 13)
Kumar (1997) remarked that at the centre of the Vedic vision is
the human–nature relationship, as articulated in sacred incantations and
rituals that repeatedly remind us of the need to sustain the ecological
balance of nature. The “Bhumisukta” of the Atharvaveda (12.1.35 is one
of the most important sources of information on the relationship of
humans to their environment and their duty to preserve it. In this
hymn, the seer Atharvan presents a beautiful picture of Mother Earth as
the basis of our sustenance and a symbol for the entire environment:
Whatever I dig from thee, O Mother Earth
May it have quick growth again!
Puriﬁer, We may not injure thy vitals or thy heart.
Quoted in Kumar (1997, p. 6)
The holism practiced in Hinduism has other ramiﬁcations for the
environment. The current paradigm deﬁnes sustainable development as
development that meets the current generation’s needs without com-
promising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs
(wced 1987). The problem is that one nation’s sustainability very often
comes at the cost of another’s resources. We have no “world sustainable-
growth model” that takes into account even the poorest nation. With
Gandhi’s sarvodaya approach, the notion of sustainability would involve
all the nations of the world, not just the countries of the North in iso-
lation from those of the South. In an increasingly individualistic world,
this all-encompassing concept of sustainable development could be very
difﬁcult to comprehend, accept, and act on.
But the chief inﬂuence of Hindu belief in promoting integrated
development, I believe, would be a deep-rooted belief in God and in the
notion that we are all children of the same father, in the Oneness of the
universe, in the potential divinity and immortality of the soul, and in
spiritual values. The approach of the Hindus is to insist that develop-
ment have a conscience. This is encoded in the idea of dharma, wherein
all action, including development interventions, must be weighed
carefully in terms of an altruistic concern for village, region, nation, and
all other countries on the globe; all actions must be weighed holistically.
T H E
P R I N C I P L E
O F
F U N D A M E N TA L
O N E N E S S
47

According to Hindu belief, developmental efforts must incorporate the
spiritual welfare of the entire beneﬁciary population and, indeed, any-
one who would be affected by it. Development should not come at the
cost of exploiting the resources in other countries at cheap rates, dis-
placing marginalized populations, and living extravagantly at the ulti-
mate expense of others, for Hinduism conceives of the world as a global
family. The idea of a global family is essentially a religious one, found
in Hinduism and other traditions. The percolation of this idea into the
psyche of development practitioners might change the insidiously
exploitative bent of 20th-century development.27
Where today’s Hinduism and development meet:
the promise reappraised
I now turn to the question of how today’s Hinduism can be incorporated
into the idea of sustainable development. Agreeing with Einstein’s
observation about how peace can be brought to the world, Chowdhry
(1994, p. 33) wrote that “the problem of peace, as well as that of sus-
tainable development and environmental concerns, will only be solved
by employing Gandhi’s method on a large scale.” Echoes of Gandhi’s
voice seem to be emerging even from institutions such as the World
Bank. After visiting some 25 countries, the World Bank’s president,
James Wolfensohn, said these visits had brought home to him that the
“World Bank’s central mission is to weld economic assistance with spir-
itual, ethical and moral development” (Chowdhry 1996, p. 10). Some
recent World Bank initiatives (known as the World Faiths and Devel-
opment Dialogue), in which the Bank met with leaders of nine world
faiths to broaden opportunities for a base of common understanding and
action in tackling global poverty, may raise suspicions among Bank crit-
ics, but they suggest that the Bank is at least trying to make good on
Wolfensohn’s insight.
Development experts, like Kamla Chowdhry, Ashok Khosla, and
S.K. Sharma, and religious leaders, like Swami Muktinathananda,28
K A P U R
48
27 It must be admitted, however, that many religions and many religious leaders talk
about love, compassion, and altruism; they say there should be equity, cooperation, and
the absence of force and violence. Yet, for centuries and centuries this message, which is
both simple and profound, does not seem to have percolated very deeply into the human
psyche. Instead of Ram Rajya (Rule of Virtue and Truth) and the Kingdom of Heaven, we
have seen endless wars backed by religious jingoism. It would be safe to say that love and
compassion, though widely preached, are concepts not widely understood or practiced in
their truest sense.
28 Swami Muktinathananda observed that science can help development in the fol-
lowing ways: (1) by providing adequate knowledge to remove ignorance and superstition;
(2) by adding to the happiness of human beings through the removal of disease, poverty,
and want; (3) by providing technological means to enhance lifestyles; and (4) by reducing
destructive items and by not adding to the already existing ones (Swami Mukti-
nathananda, Ramakrishna Math, Belur, Calcutta, India, personal communication, 1998).

agree that sustainable development needs technology and science to
solve its problems. Yet, they also feel that this relationship should be
subject, in Chowdhry’s words, to the condition that it also be accompa-
nied by public awareness, political action, and a way to ignite the moral
and ethical values of the Indian heritage and psyche. Chowdhry further
suggested that we should start with a new paradigm of development,
which she described as “a people-led development, an alternative devel-
opment, a development which is ‘pro-poor, pro-nature and pro-women’,
not borrowed development” (Chowdhry 1994, p. 37). She also summed
up the elements involved in sustainable development:
Eradication of hunger and poverty is not merely an intellectual
exercise of science, technology or economics, but also involves an
inner change. To alter the system, it is necessary to alter the para-
digm of development, and to take cognisance of the spiritual, of the
inner voice, of the ethics and values that promote sustainable
development.
Chowdhry (1996, p. 11)
Khosla, founder of the ngo called Development Alternatives, and
Sharma, founder of the ngo called People First, observed that technol-
ogy can change lifestyles but does not usually change the quality of
human existence.29 The goal, they emphasized, should be to realize a
sustainable society in which people work toward attaining a high level
of human and spiritual development. In their opinion, this society could
be achieved by combining Gandhian ideology (based on the Indian
ethos and tradition of grass-roots democracy) and contemporary West-
ern democratic experience.
The experience of 50 years of independence in India has shown us
that borrowed models of development do not work. The mindless imi-
tation of Western models by developing nations has led to all kinds of
environmental disasters (Siddhartha 1998) and social malaise. When
formulating and implementing an indigenous paradigm of develop-
ment based on the Gandhian model, we have to understand and take
into account the social, cultural, ethical, and spiritual background and
values of the people concerned. Khoshoo (1997a) stated that this model
of development aims at building local self-reliance and self-respect in
villagers, alleviating poverty, and striving for social justice. He wrote
that the need for a “creative synthesis” of the Gandhian and Nehruvian
(or Western) models is imperative because the Gandhian model leads to
decentralized economic planning — an economy of permanence —
whereas the Nehruvian model of industrial economy runs the danger of
making the rich richer and the poor poorer (Khoshoo 1997a). We need
to appropriately blend tradition and modernity, religion and science in
T H E
P R I N C I P L E
O F
F U N D A M E N TA L
O N E N E S S
49
29 More information about Development Alternatives can be found at www.ecouncil.ac.cr
/devalt/damain.htm; and about People First, at www.ecouncil.ac.cr/devalt/peoplef.htm.

such a way that human-made capital does not become destructive of the
natural capital needed for development (Khoshoo 1997a).
These realizations are also manifesting themselves outside India as
international development agencies like the United Nations Develop-
ment Programme (undp) discard or revamp many of their old concepts
of development. Chowdhry (1994) felt that their focus on participatory
approaches in the last decade means that these organizations are moving
more toward a Gandhian-like focus on people. She pointed to undp ’s
use of phrases like “men, women and children must be the centre of
attention,” development strategies are “to be woven around people and
not people around development,” and “the durable solution to today’s
problems of poverty, unemployment, social disintegration and environ-
mental deterioration cannot be achieved through just more develop-
ment of the past kind” (Chowdhry 1994, p. 23).
Chowdhry’s point is well-taken. The undp’s Human Development
Report 1993 offers some indications of this change in approach. The
report calls for
new models of sustainable human development [to] invest in
human potential and to create an enabling environment for the full
use of human capabilities. … The purpose of development is to
widen the range of people’s choices. Income is one of those choices —
but it is not the sum-total of human life. Human development is
development of the people for the people by the people.
undp (1993, p. 3, emphasis in the original)
At the end of the overview, the report notes,
The implications of placing people at the centre of political and eco-
nomic change are profound. They challenge traditional concepts of
security, old models of development, ideological debates on the role
of the market and outmoded forms of international cooperation.
They call for nothing less than a revolution in our thinking.
undp (1993, p. 8)
These words give me hope that international agencies are open to
new ideas, that is, to hearing what experience has been telling them, but
I am left to wonder how this emphasis on “people centredness” will
manifest itself without a more explicit focus on spiritual principles. Are
the challenges of tapping into creativity, distributing beneﬁts justly,
and providing equal access to opportunities (undp 1993) not, in the
ﬁnal analysis, asking what motivates people to act and (perhaps more
important) to act compassionately? And does that question not require
us to ask what is at the centre of ourselves?
K A P U R
50

CONCLUSION: AN INTEGRATED PARADIGM
The Hindu religion stands for the good of humanity — social, cul-
tural, moral and spiritual. Development and science are related to
Hinduism in this sense: the ideal of beneﬁting humanity in all ways
possible.
Thus it is the paradigm of development in which there is a
synthesis of the two complementary disciplines — science and reli-
gion — being used for the well being of self and society, that will
produce fully integrated and developed human beings, and would
bring about holistic development — physical, economic, social,
environmental, moral, and spiritual.
Muktinathananda (personal communication, 199830)
Tremendous confusion surrounds the question of whether science and
religion have a meeting point and, if so, what its precise nature is.31 The
general perception in the Hindu world, today, apart from some of the
intelligentsia, is that there is no connection, or at best a tenuous one.
The relationship between science and development is well accepted, but
the nexus between religion, economic development, and the role of
science seems to many very vague.
The way forward for the Hindu world as it faces the next century
is, I believe, to integrate science and religion, broadly speaking, in all
spheres of life; development is a process that seeks to sustain and
improve human life and well-being and, as such, needs to understand,
incorporate, and implement the strengths of both discourses. Religion
provides, for example, access to the inner being — human hopes, goals,
and motivations — the place from whence all action stems. It provides
insight into thousands of years of experience and experiment with how
to live a fulﬁlling and balanced human life. Equally important, science
T H E
P R I N C I P L E
O F
F U N D A M E N TA L
O N E N E S S
51
30 Swami Muktinathananda, Ramakrishna Math, Belur, Calcutta, India, personal
communication, 1998.
31 Among the religionists and the scientists in India, one encounters various per-
spectives on the convergence of science and religion. An informal survey based on struc-
tured conversations with a cross-section of employees at various levels at a New Delhi
university indicates that many Hindus approach the question from the perspective that
both science and religion are made by God (expressed as Bhagwan, Ishwara, Sri Krishna,
or Ram). Nothing God made can be bad, but humankind has made use of both science
and religion in negative ways. I found that many informants thought of science in terms
of the help it can provide in enhancing daily life, whereas the role of religion was to incul-
cate faith in God and encourage people to do good deeds to improve present and future
lives and to accept one’s conditions in the present life. Some pointed out that science
would ultimately “prove” the ﬁndings of religion, and people had a strong bias in favour
of religion as the primary source of any lasting spiritual benefits. For many Hindus,
science is “Godless” and “atheistic,” whereas religion has the concept of a transcendent
Ultimate Reality. Certain knowledgeable persons among the sample insisted that the
world could advance only if science recognized the validity of religion, rather than treat-
ing it as an aberration or an elaborate superstition.

provides both insight into the workings of the outer world and the
means to effect change in that world.
One way to bring about such integration at the personal, commu-
nity, national, and international levels is to provide for a much broader
dissemination and much better understanding of the spiritual compo-
nent of the scriptures and holy texts so as to help make them relevant to
today’s issues. We should gradually reduce obsessive rituals, ceremonies,
and festivals. We should work to do away with the misuse of science and
religion for selﬁsh gains, along with the obsession with economic and
political power for personal aggrandizement and ill-gotten fame. With
the help of modern s&t and the media, the cardinal principles of Vedanta
can, through proper understanding, practice, and dissemination, change
the attitudes and behaviour of the masses of people and revive the human
and spiritual values of mutual love, respect, and sharing and caring.
Above, I discussed the problems of the unequal division of wealth
and distribution of resources. In India, however, one cannot ignore pop-
ulation growth as one of the biggest problems standing in the way of
socioeconomic development. Every year, the population of India grows
at almost the same rate as the economy, thus negating whatever positive
effect new economic growth might have on poverty, unemployment, or
related problems. Indian demographers and economists have been work-
ing on population control with considerable success in some states, such
as Kerala, but with little success in others. The varnaashram system
(described earlier) divides human life into four stages and prescribes
celibacy before marriage, moderate sexual indulgence within marriage,
and complete marital fidelity. I feel that reviving the varnaashram
scheme might provide guidance and part of a solution to the population
problem, as well as to the problem of hiv–aids. In addition, education
for girls and women, as well as for boys and men, with the consequent
employment potential that it creates, would be one of the key factors in
controlling population growth.
Along with education and awareness, what is acutely needed is
change, through formal and informal mass media, in the attitudes of all
members of society toward girls and women. In this way, Indian society
can work (as so many societies need to work) to become female positive
and egalitarian, that is, to empower women and girls and to improve
their status.
I strongly feel that we cannot pursue and achieve development
without the integrated development of women, who after all constitute
half the world’s population. We must, for this reason, increase, imple-
ment, and realize the measures already being undertaken all over the
world for women’s development and empowerment. For these efforts,
we can take inspiration and guidance from the spiritual texts of other
faiths, such as those of the Bahá’í Faith, in which one can ﬁnd the fol-
lowing: “The world of humanity has two wings — one is woman and
the other man. Not until both wings are equally developed can the Bird
K A P U R
52

fly. Should one wing remain weak, flight is impossible” (bpt 1994,
p. 11). Here again, I feel that regenerating ancient Vedic values of
gender equality and equity would be of great help in improving the
situation of women.32 Metaphors for an approach to equality could be
derived from the depiction of the gods and their consorts together in
Indian religious culture. The consorts are worshipped along with the
gods, and, during rituals, prayers, and devotional songs, the names of
the consorts are often used first (for example, Radha–Krishna,
Sita–Ram, Parvati–Shankar, and Lakshmi–Narayan). The symbol of
Ardhnareshwar — the god Shiva as half male and half female — also
indicates that men and women should have the same status in society.
The most important task for the Hindu community (and for the
other great faiths) is to evolve a national syllabus for education that
includes spiritual factors. In presenting Vivekananda’s ideas about edu-
cation and religion, Bhajanananda wrote that the purpose of education
is to make humans. With that purpose, religion and spirituality sit at
the innermost core of education and should be a core subject.
Vivekananda strongly felt that the purpose of education is not merely to
provide information but also to impart knowledge and wisdom, “by
which character is formed, strength of mind is increased, the intellect is
expanding, and by which one can stand on one’s own feet” and face the
problems of life (Bhajanananda 1976–77, p.39). Of course, education
should also take up internationally important issues in science, religion,
spirituality, and development and add lessons on the nexus among
them. Education has the twin responsibility of equipping people with
the latest technical skills to enable them to become economically inde-
pendent and providing them with the relevant spiritual and moral
strengths to enable them to improve the world in which they live (for
example, by making them aware of the thoughts and insights of spiri-
tual masters, scientists, and philosophers).
Education should build capacity and character, self-confidence,
and the ability to manifest for self- and social transformation the poten-
tial divinity that is in each of us. Educators can accomplish these goals
by conveying to students the principles and elements of religion (along
with its inherent human and spiritual values) through stories, parables,
and the life stories of religious masters and divine messengers. Accom-
panying this should be instruction in the scientific techniques of
concentration and yogic meditation. These ideas have been in circula-
tion for some time now, variously articulated by scholars such as Kireet
T H E
P R I N C I P L E
O F
F U N D A M E N TA L
O N E N E S S
53
32 Certain contemporary Hindu sects also provide inspiration for female equality and
equity. Take, for instance, the Brahma Kumaris World Spiritual University, which is run
by and caters mainly to women and provides knowledge about the Creator and creation.
It asks questions such as, Who am I? Who is God? What is the world? It preaches spiri-
tuality, promotes universal values of life, and teaches Rajyoga meditation for the better-
ment of self, others, and the universe. It also preaches celibacy and purity of mind, body,
and soul.

Joshi and institutions like Aurobindo Ashram. But until these ideas
gain currency in the formal and informal education systems, they will
have little therapeutic effect on the psyche of humankind or do little to
bring about the needed development. I feel it is important to go back
and remember that source of guidance — God — and have religious
faith, because that is what ultimately empowers people.
After all, in the final analysis, development involves changing
people’s psyche and behaviour, for it is people who are behind all the
planning and execution of development paradigms and it is people who
are intended to beneﬁt from them. And I believe that people cannot be
fundamentally changed unless they receive divine guidance or wisdom,
whether through holy scriptures or through the writings of divine mes-
sengers, such as Bahá’u’lláh, Buddha, Jesus, Krishna, Mohammad, or
Guru Nanak. Global unity begins with a global mind; the best way to
think globally is to at least have a working knowledge of religions, East-
ern and Western. Only religion and spirituality — as approaches that
strive after the ultimate realization of truth — will provide the guid-
ance and inspiration human beings require to rise above the instincts of
retaliation and unmitigated self-interest and to solve their problems
with dignity and nonviolence, recognizing contributions from all cul-
tures, particularly indigenous ones. Obviously, this is easier said than
done, as vested interests support the current system and many people
wish to live for themselves, even at the cost of future generations. Thus,
science and religion have to create a more balanced development in
which people seriously consider the consequences of their lifestyles for
future generations.
I would like to conclude this piece with the words of Swami
Jitatmananda (1997, p. 11): “Truth Unites. Newton’s laws of motion or
Einstein’s Relativity is common to all humanity. Universal truths of all
religions, compatible with reason, will unite humanity.” Jitatmananda
(1997, p. 10) draws his model for a new society, based on practical
Vedanta, from Vivekananda’s words to European scholar Jules Bios: “[It
will be] a successful “Superior Fusion” of Brahmin’s spiritual culture
with Kshtriya’s administrative efﬁciency, Vaisaya’s wealth-generating
capacity, and Shudra’s digniﬁed dedication to all labour, as service to
mankind.” Jitatmananda also clariﬁed the changes that could be made
at an individual level:
Acceptance of the spiritual and holistic values by today’s high-tech
econo-socio experts like scientists, technicians, industrialists, man-
agers or state leaders will help us to create complete human beings
equally enriched with the higher excellence of Western science,
technology, the Western dynamism, and organisation, along with
Eastern spiritual vision of the inﬁnite capacity and excellence hid-
den within each individual. The ultimate success, and wealth, as the
Bhagavad Gita asserts, are available through a holistic living for all.
Jitatmananda (1997, pp. 10–11)
K A P U R
54

I strongly feel that the existing development paradigm, with its
overemphasis on economic development and scientific–technological
achievement, should be balanced with the critically examined concepts
and values of religion. Thus, the empowerment of marginalized peoples
and the creation of a just society, which should be the goals of any inte-
grated development paradigm, could be brought about through educa-
tion and individual and societal synthesis of science and religion, the
cardinal elements of which are universal in nature.
ANNEX 1:
SELECTED ETHICAL PRINCIPLES OF
HINDUISM-INSPIRED MOVEMENTS FOR DEVELOPMENT
The ethical guiding principles of the movements discussed in the text
can be synthesized into some basic premises that help to elucidate the
principles of ethical action in Hinduism:
1.
God is incorporeal, eternal, omnipotent, all intelligent, all compas-
sionate, all truth, love, beauty, and bliss, the creator of the universe.
2.
The ancient scriptures of India — the Vedas, the Upanishads, and
the Bhagavad Gita — are sources of the true knowledge, the high-
est truth, and a guide to living. They should be studied, lived, and
taught to all.
3.
The power of love and necessity of world unity are paramount,
because we are all children of the same Supreme Power.
4.
The principles of a good life include work, worship, and selﬂess
service to humanity — including physical, mental, social, moral,
and spiritual improvement — especially for the beneﬁt of women
and the weaker segments of society.
5.
Humans should cultivate a constant remembrance of God.
6.
Humans should inculcate in themselves divine qualities by acquir-
ing wisdom through spiritual–religious study, education, and
prayer.
7.
Humans should work to improve and care for both their inner and
their outer environments.
8.
Humans should work to bring about communal and interfaith
harmony.
9.
Humans should practice nondiscrimination, refusing to discrimi-
nate on the basis of caste, class, sex, race, creed, or religion.
T H E
P R I N C I P L E
O F
F U N D A M E N TA L
O N E N E S S
55

10.
Humans should accept the concept of the world as one family and
live and practice in accordance with this principle.
11.
Humans should work for the welfare and well-being of all.
Humans should live at peace with themselves and their fellow
beings.
12.
Humans should work to bring aid and solace to less-privileged
people in an altruistic spirit.
13.
Humans should act according to the idea that an inherent divin-
ity exists in all life and within each one of us. We are all equally
worthy human beings. There is a fundamental unity in diversity.
14.
Humans should not cause suffering to anyone.
15.
Humans should devote themselves to truth and nonviolence in
thoughts, words, and action.
16.
Humans should proceed with their actions without expecting spe-
ciﬁc fruits or beneﬁts from them.
17.
Humans should carry out their duties toward themselves and oth-
ers; it is through duty that a human reaches perfection.
18.
Humans should be guided by the principle that our present life is
the result of our good or bad actions in the past and that our pre-
sent conduct moulds our future lives.
19.
Humans should know their human rights and responsibilities and
respect those of others, treating others as they would like to be
treated themselves.
20.
Humans should be guided in their conduct by the principles of
love, respect, righteousness, justice, equity, equality, and service
toward one and all.
21.
Humans should limit their wants and needs and thereby live a
simple life without exaggerated materialistic desires.
22.
Humans should work constantly and seek wealth but share it with
those in need; riches are but the means to do good and should not
become the goal of life.
23.
Humans should pursue the aims of becoming good human beings
and help others in their efforts to do the same.
K A P U R
56

REFERENCES
Badrinath, C. 1993. Dharma, India, and the world order: twenty-one essays.
St Andrew Press, Hungary. 352 pp.
Balasubramanian, A.V. 1999. Testing classical Indian knowledge. compas
Newsletter, 1 (Feb), 26–27.
Bhajanananda, Swami. 1976–77. Swami Vivekananda’s discoveries about India.
Reprint from Prabuddha Bharata. Journal of the Ramakrishna Mission,
Belur, Calcutta, India. 46 pp.
bkwso (Brahma Kumaris World Spiritual Organization). 1995a. Eradication of
poverty. bkwso, Rajasthan, India. Internet: www.bkwsu.com/bkun/
wit/wit6.html
1995b. Wisdom in action. bkwso, Rajasthan, India. Internet:
www.bkwsu.com/bkun/wia/index.html
bpt (Bahá’í Publishing Trust). 1994. Selections from the writings of ‘Abdu’l-
Baha. In Women. Research Department of the Universal House of Justice,
bpt, New Delhi, India. 90 pp.
Brzezinski, J. 1997. The work ethic and world religions: a study of biblio-
graphic resources. International Development Research Centre, Ottawa,
on, Canada. 72 pp.
Capra, F. 1983. The Tao of physics. Fontana Paperbacks, London, uk. 384 pp.
case (International Centre for Application of Solar Energy). n.d. Completed
projects: project summary sheet 3. case, Perth, Australia. Internet:
www.case.gov.au/complete3.htm
Chander, J. Rajayogi Brahmakumar. 1988. Science and spirituality. Brahma
Kumaris, Mount Abu, India. 215 pp.
Chowdhry, K. 1994. Mahatma Gandhi: lessons for sustainable development.
Vikram Sarabhai Foundation, New Delhi, India. 43 pp.
1996. Gandhi: the voice in the wilderness — no more. National Foun-
dation for India, New Delhi, India. Lecture in Sustainable Development
and Environment Series, No. 1, Jun 1996, New Delhi. 11 pp.
1998. Development and spirituality. The Hindustan Times, New
Delhi, 26 Jul, p. 13.
Danesh, H.B. 1993. The psychology of spirituality — from divided self to inte-
grated self. Juxta Publishing Limited, Hong Kong. 270 pp.
Desai, N. 1988. A decade of women’s movement in India. Research Centre for
Women’s Studies, Shrimati Nathibai Damodar Thakersay Women’s Uni-
versity; Himalaya Publishing House, Bombay, India.
Einstein, A. 1950. Out of my later years. Greenwood Press, Westport, ct, usa.
282 pp.
Ekins, P. 1992. A new world order: grassroots movements for global change.
Routledge, New York, ny, usa. 248 pp.
Gambhirananda, Swami. 1957. History of the Ramakrishna Math and Mission.
Advaita Ashram, Calcutta, India. 380 pp.
Gandhi, M.K. 1992 [1947]. India of my dreams (4th reprint; compiled by R.K.
Prabhu). Navjivan, Admedabad, India. 344 pp.
Gangrade, K.D. 1995. Religion and ideal society — a Gandhian perspective.
Paper presented at the International Congress on Realising the Ideal: The
Responsibility of the World Religions, Aug 1995, Soeul, Korea. Inter-
Religious Federation for World Peace, New York, ny, usa. 24 pp.
T H E
P R I N C I P L E
O F
F U N D A M E N TA L
O N E N E S S
57

Giri, M. Swami. 1985. Vedanta philosophy for the 21st century. Bharatiya San-
skriti Samaj, Delhi, India. 44 pp.
Guha, R. 1993. Mahatma Gandhi and the environmental movement. The
Parisar Annual Lecture, Parisar, Pune, India. 23 pp.
Gupta, R.P. 1998. Developmental activities and ethical guidelines of Arya
Samaj. Maharishi Dayanand Memorial Centre, New Delhi, India. 5 pp.
Hassija, J.C. Brahmakumar. 1991. Science, spirituality, ethics and environment.
Brahma Kumaries World Spiritual University, Mount Abu, India. 31 pp.
1998. Globalisation: ethical or unethical economics. Purity —
Newsletter of Prajapita Brahma Kumaries Ishwariya Vishwa Vidyalaya,
17(8), 2.
Jitatmananda, Swami. 1991. Holistic science and Vedanta. Bhartiya Vidya Bha-
van, Bombay, India. 156 pp.
1992. Modern physics and Vedanta. Bhartiya Vidya Bhavan, Bombay,
India. 87 pp.
1997. Holistic and spiritual values needed for the emergence of Asia in
the 21st century. Paper presented at the Seminar on Religion, Politics and
Society in South and South-East Asia, Dec 1997, New Delhi, India. India
International Centre, New Delhi, India. 11 pp.
Jordens, J.T.F. 1978. Dayananda Saraswati: his life and ideas. Oxford University
Press, Bombay, India. 368 pp.
Joshi, K. 1991. The Veda and Indian culture. Rashtriya Veda Vidya
Pratishthan, New Delhi, India. 115 pp.
1996. Bhagavad Gita and contemporary crisis. Nag Publishers, New
Delhi, India. 317 pp.
Joshi, P.C. 1995. Secularism and development: the Indian experiment. Vikas
Publishing House Pvt Ltd, New Delhi, India. 247 pp.
Kanal, S.P. 1988. Value education for a secular society. Dev Samaj Prakashan,
Chandigarh, India. 16 pp.
1991. Religion and science. Dev Samaj Prakashan, Chandigarh, India.
26 pp.
Kapur, P. 1991a. Religion and culture. Paper presented at the Second Interna-
tional Conference of Non-Resident Indians, Jan 1991, Parliament Annexe,
New Delhi, India. Non-Resident Indians Welfare Society of India, New
Delhi, India. 9 pp.
1991b. Family violence on women as a great obstacle in human
resource development. Paper presented at the One-day National Seminar
on Women and Human Resource Development, Aug 1991, New Delhi,
India. Parliamentarian Forum for Human Development, New Delhi,
India. 14 pp.
1992. Rajyoga — its role in bringing about universal peace — a must
for development. Paper presented at Third International Scientiﬁc Public
Conference, Novosibirsk, Russia. Gorno-Altaisk Republican Department
of Culture; Commission on Culture and Art of the Novosibirsk City Soci-
ety of People’s Deputies; Novosibirsk Roerich Society, Novosibirsk and
Indian Cultural Centre, Moscow, Russia. 11 pp.
1994a. Role of the family in the development of individual and society.
Presidential Address in a seminar of the Prachi Educational Society, Apr
1994, New Delhi, India. Prachi Educational Society, New Delhi, India.
1994b. Violation of human rights in gender bias as a great hindrance
in overall development. Paper presented at the Global Conference on
K A P U R
58

Human Rights and Terrorism, Jul 1994, Indian Institute for Non-Aligned
Studies, New Delhi, India. 10 pp.
1995. World peace through ideal family. Paper presented at the Inter-
national Congress on Realising the Ideal: The Responsibility of the World
Religions, Aug 1995, Soeul, Korea. Inter-Religious Federation for World
Peace, New York, ny, usa. 39 pp.
Khoshoo, T.N. 1995. Mahatma Gandhi: an apostle of applied human ecology.
Tata Energy Research Institute, New Delhi, India. 71 pp.
1997a. Gandhian environmentalism: an unﬁnished task. Indian Asso-
ciation of Social Sciences Institute Quarterly, 16(1), 1–16.
1997b. Open letter to leaders of South Asian Countries in Rio, ﬁve
years later. Ecodecision: Environment and Policy Journal, 24 (Spring),
68–69.
Kothari, D.S. 1977. Some thoughts on science and religion. Shri Raj Krishan
Jain Charitable Trust, New Delhi, India. 56 pp.
1980. Atom and self. Meghnad Saha Memorial Lecture 1978. Proceed-
ings of the Indian National Science Academy (Part A, Physical Science),
46(1), 1–28.
1997. Science and self-knowledge. Ninth J.N. Tata Lecture (in mem-
ory of Jamsetjee Nusserwanjee Tata), Mar 1997, India Institute of Science,
Bangalore, India. Dorab Tata Trust, Bangalore, India. 27 pp.
Kumar, S.P. 1997. Ecology and conservation in BhumiSukta of the Athar-
vaveda. Paper presented at a meeting held by Dr Kireet Joshi, President of
Dharam Hinduja International Centre of Indic Research, Dec 1997, New
Delhi, India. Dharam Hinduja International Centre of Indic Research,
New Delhi, India. 12 pp.
Kumarappa, J.C. 1984 [1948]. The economy of permanence: a quest for a social
order based on non-violence. Sarva Seva Sangh, Varanasi, India. 208 pp.
Kung, H.; Kuschel, K.-J., ed. 1993. A global ethic: the declaration of the Par-
liament of the World Religions. Continuum Publishing, New York, NY,
USA. 124 pp.
Mashruwala, K.G. 1971. Towards Sarvodaya Order. Navajivan Publishing
House, Ahmedabad, India. 150 pp.
Mukhopadhyay, A.K. 1995. Conquering the brain. Conscious Publications,
New Delhi, India. 281 pp.
Palshikar, V. 1998. Gandhi — a model of alternative thinking. In Report of the
workshop: Cultural Values and Sustainable Alternatives, December 1997,
Bangalore. Alliance for a Responsible and United World; Pipal Tree, Ban-
galore, India. p. 15.
Pande, S. 1989. Medieval Bhakti movement. Kusumanjali Prakashan, Meerut,
India. 168 pp.
Pandit, M.P. 1959. The teachings of Sri Aurobindo. Dipti Publications, Sri
Aurobindo Ashram, Pondicherry, India. 68 pp.
Radhakrishnan, S, ed. 1974. The principal Upanishads. Oxford University
Press, Delhi, India. 956 pp.
Ranganathananda, Swami. 1978. Science and religion. Advaita Ashram Maya-
vati, Pithoragarh, Himalayus, India. 235 pp.
1983. Science and spirituality. Ramakrishna Math, Hyderbad, India.
38 pp.
1987. Eternal values for a changing society: philosophy and spiritual-
ity (vol. I). Bhartiya Vidya Bhavan, Bombay, India. 572 pp.
T H E
P R I N C I P L E
O F
F U N D A M E N TA L
O N E N E S S
59

Roy, R. 1993. Swadhyaya: values and message. In Wignaraja, P., ed., New social
movements in the South. Zed Books, London, uk. pp. 183–194.
sas (Sri Aurobindo Society). n.d. saiasr: Sri Aurobindo Institute for Applied
Scientific Research. sas, Pondicherry, India. Internet: www.
sriaurobindosociety.org.in/activity/scitech.htm
Sastry, A.M., trans. 1977. The Bhagavad Gita: with the commentary of Sri
Sankaracharya. Samata Books, Madras, India. 522 pp.
Sharma, A. 1980. Hindu scriptural value system and the economic development
of India. Heritage, New Delhi, India. 113 pp.
1993. Hinduism. In Sharma, A., ed., Our religions. HarperCollins,
New York, ny, usa. pp. 3–67.
Siddhartha. 1998. Introduction. In Report of the workshop: Cultural Values and
Sustainable Alternatives, December 1997, Bangalore. Alliance for a
Responsible and United World; Pipal Tree, Bangalore, India. p. 2.
Singer, M. 1972. When a great tradition modernizes: an anthropological
approach to Indian civilization. University of Chicago Press, Chicago, il,
usa. 430 pp.
Singer, M.; Srinivas, M.N.; Cohn, B.S. 1966. The modernization of religious
beliefs. In Weiner, M., ed., Modernization: the dynamics of growth. Basic
Books, New York, ny, usa.
Singh, K. 1998. Vedanta today. Lecture presented at Habitat Centre, New
Delhi, India, 20 Apr 1998.
Sorokin, P.A. 1958. Reconstruction of humanity. Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan,
Bombay, India. 223 pp.
Starcevic, F. 1998. Human rights and development. Opening remarks on the
occasion of the 50th Anniversary of the Declaration of Human Rights,
Aug 1998, New Delhi, India. United Nations Information Centre; Forum
of Indian ngos for Cooperation with the un, New Delhi, India. 3 pp.
undp (United Nations Development Programme). 1993. Human development
report 1993. Oxford University Press, New York, ny, usa. 230 pp.
Vivekananda, Swami. 1937. Essentials of Hinduism. Advaita Ashrama Maya-
vati, Pithoragarh, Himalayas, India. 72 pp.
1968. Hinduism (7th ed.). Sri Ramakrishna Math, Mylapore, Madras,
India. 88 pp.
wced (World Commission on Environment and Development). 1987. Our
common future. Oxford University Press, New York, ny, usa. Brundtland
Commission Report. 383 pp.
Weber, M. 1958. The religion of India: the sociology of Hinduism and Buddhism.
The Free Press, Glencoe, il, usa. 392 pp.
Yogananda, Sri Sri Paramahansa. 1994. The divine romance. Yogoda Satasnga
Society of India, New Delhi, India. 468 pp.
K A P U R
60

C H A P T E R  2
Solidarity with
the Poor
G r e g o r y  B a u m
A ROMAN CATHOLIC IDEA OF DEVELOPMENT
The idea of development that emerged in the 1950s envisaged the res-
cue of poor people from their misery through the industrialization of
their societies. The hope was that the economic system that produced
the wealth of Western nations could be exported to the developing
countries and eventually make them wealthy too. W.W. Rostow (1960)
elaborated this idea in detail in his celebrated work, The Stages of Eco-
nomic Growth: A Non-Communist Manifesto. This book offered a vision and
a plan for overcoming poverty in the world, as an alternative superior to
the Marxist enterprise. Rostow, director of Policy and Planning in the
us State Department during the Kennedy administration, is said to
have inspired President J.F. Kennedy’s Alliance for Progress. The inten-
tion of this program was to promote the modernization of Latin
America by supporting industrial development and fostering an entre-
preneurial culture of self-reliance and competitiveness.
To render a full account of how the Christian churches have viewed
the idea of development would demand an entire book. Both the Roman
Catholic Church and the Geneva-based World Council of Churches have
produced significant, critical literature on the topic of development.
What I wish to do in this paper is much more modest. In this section,
I draw on a number of papal documents to provide a summary of a
Roman Catholic idea of development; in the second section, I show that
in recent years the World Bank has come to regard religion as a possible
61

factor in the promotion of economic development; and in the ﬁnal sec-
tion, I argue that the social and economic sciences are never entirely
value free and that the researcher’s political vision and attitude toward
religion are likely to inﬂuence her or his conclusions.
Critics of the idea of development
At ﬁrst, the Christian churches were ill at ease with the new idea of
development. They had heard the protests of Christian and non-
Christian groups in the poorer parts of the world, denouncing the
aggressive modernization of their regions. I will mention but two of
their objections. One is from Latin American liberation theology. The
theologians of this school, in dialogue with political economists, recog-
nized that the industrialization of the South by Northern capital created
patterns of dependency that prevented the countries of the South from
creating their own future in accordance with their own culture. If indus-
trialization was supported by Northern capital, they argued, it would be
guided by the North; it would produce goods for export to sell at high
prices on the world market, not goods needed by the local population;
it would use sophisticated technologies, not those appropriate to the
skills of the people; it would exploit the simple workers, paying them
in accordance with the law of supply and demand. More than that, these
Christians opposed the globalization of Western culture, with its com-
petitive spirit, ideals of personal autonomy, unrelenting work ethic, and
impatience with celebration and contemplation. Liberation theologians
replaced the notion of “development” (desarrollismo) with the concept of
“liberation” (Gutierrez 1973). They advocated the creation of a regional,
low-scale economy, based to a large extent on local resources, relying
mainly on local skills, and serving, for the most part, the needs of the
local population. Is there still room in today’s world, they asked, for
alternatives to Western industrial culture?
Liberation theology made use of dependency theory to interpret
the situation of the continents at the periphery of the global capitalist
system. To many observers this appeared to be an inﬁltration of Catholic
theology by Marxist ideas. Not so to Canadian observers. By the 1930s,
the Canadian liberal economist Harold Innis had already analyzed the
evolution of Canadian society in terms of the exploitative dynamics
between the “metropolis” and the “hinterland” (Drache 1995).
The arguments of liberation theology against Western-style devel-
opment are mainly economic and cultural. Yet, some communities have
also had speciﬁcally religious reasons to protest the globalization of cap-
italist culture. In Canada, we are keenly aware of this as First Nations
defend themselves against private developers and government-
sponsored development projects by affirming the sacredness of their
understanding of the land and their relationship to it. They claim that,
in the first place, natural resources are not commodities, means of
B A U M
62

creating wealth, or even objects of barter to enrich First Nation
communities; natural resources, they insist, sustain a speciﬁc lifestyle,
support a local community, and form part of a living entity. For these
people, land is not real estate to be bought and sold: it is something
sacred. They venerate it as something that has given them life and con-
tinues to support and protect them. The land claims of First Nations are
not based on a Western liberal idea of property: they demand the power
to protect their land from the invasion of developers and preserve it to
ensure the continuance of their lifestyle. Yet, they are quite willing to
share this land with people from the dominant population, as long as
these people have the same reverence for the natural environment.
First Nation peoples, whether they are Christians or practice their
traditional cosmic religion, regard with great suspicion the secular
approach to life taken for granted in business, government, economics,
and other social sciences. As all these endeavours systematically exclude
the spiritual dimension of life, native peoples often regard them as a
form of brainwashing designed to undermine their cultural identity.
This theme is developed at length by the Ecumenical Association
of Third World Theologians, which was founded in Tanzania in 1976
and has been meeting since then at regular intervals. Here, Christian
theologians from Africa and Asia offer critical reﬂections on the secu-
larism of the industrialized world (Fabella 1997). They argue that polit-
ical science, economics, and other social sciences and development
projects based on the dominant model presuppose an anthropology — a
vision of humankind — that severs the human being from the realm of
the Spirit and contradicts the understanding of human life in African
and Asian cultures. Some of these theologians are even critical of Latin
American liberation theology: they feel that in relying primarily on an
economic critique of the oppressive conditions of their continent, liber-
ation theology has become excessively inﬂuenced by the secularism of
the oppressors. The position of these theologians is that the Western
economic empire makes people in Africa and Asia suffer “anthropolog-
ical oppression,” that is, the people ﬁnd themselves caught in institu-
tions and overwhelmed by a set of symbols that rob them of their
cultural identity and produce religious anguish. If this analysis is cor-
rect, it may not be surprising that in many parts of the world people
turn to religious fundamentalism to protect themselves from the inva-
sion of the Western empire and mind-set.
It is not surprising that after listening to these and other voices of
protest, the Christian churches, especially the World Council of
Churches, made “development” an important issue, calling for a
response of faith. The major churches, Protestant and Roman Catholic,
have denounced the purely economic understanding of development
and the aggressive globalization of the free-market economy. In the pre-
sent world, marked by soul-destroying and often death-dealing inequal-
ity, the Christian churches have expressed in public statements their
S O L I D A R I T Y
W I T H
T H E
P O O R
63

solidarity with the poor and their commitment to analyzing their own
societies and the world system from the perspective of the marginalized
and excluded. This expression of solidarity has produced a new under-
standing of the church’s mission to serve God’s reign in the world, to
bear, in other words, the burden with the victims of society and promote
love, justice, and peace.
The literature on the churches and development is extensive.1 As
I indicated above, I confine myself in this paper to a résumé of the
Roman Catholic idea of development proposed in two papal encycli-
cals — Pope Paul vi’s (1967) “Populorum Progressio” and Pope John
Paul ii’s (1987) “Sollicitudo Rei Socialis” (see excerpts of both in Annex 1).
Paul vi’s “Populorum Progressio”
In the “Populorum Progressio,” Paul vi showed himself keenly aware of
the protest against development mounted by Christian and non-
Christian groups in the poorer parts of the world. As we shall see, he
pays attention to their economic and religious arguments. As John Paul ii
(1987, p. 12) later noted, the “Populorum Progressio” emphasized “the
ethical and cultural character of the problems connected with develop-
ment” and the legitimacy of the Church’s intervention in the ﬁeld.
Paul vi supported the idea that the wealthy nations of the North
must help the poorer nations of the South overcome the conditions that
produce misery and suffering. International solidarity is an obligation of
love and justice. Love of God and neighbour, which is the heart of bib-
lical faith, implies a commitment to universal solidarity, beginning
with the poor and oppressed. But even strict justice, required of Chris-
tians and non-Christians alike, demands that rich people and nations do
their utmost to help poor people and nations gain access to the wealth
of the Earth. Because God intended the goods of the Earth for the whole
of humanity, the current scandalous maldistribution of wealth is an
offence against justice and a grave sin. Paul vi praised the efforts of
international organizations, particularly the United Nations, to try to
restructure the economic order, support development projects in the
poor countries, and demand the reduction of their public debt.
Paul vi supported the modern idea of development, but in an
alternative mode. He appreciated, in particular, the humanistic devel-
opment theory of Father Louis Lebret (1959). The Pope took with
utmost seriousness the economic and religious arguments against the
dominant form of development. He gave an extended critique of liberal
capitalism and its impacts on the poorer continents. He recognized that
the plight of many Southern nations is, at least in part, the result of the
precarious economic conditions created by the colonial powers, such as
B A U M
64
1 For a useful summary of this literature, see the Dictionary of Mission (Orbis Books
1997).

the concentration of agricultural production on a single crop, which left
these nations vulnerable when they became independent (Paul vi 1967,
s. 7). He also recognized the fear that “under the cloak of ﬁnancial aid
or technical assistance, there lurk certain manifestations of what has
come to be called neo-colonialism, in the form of political pressures and
economic suzerainty aimed at maintaining or acquiring complete dom-
inance” (Paul vi 1967, s. 52). In more general terms, the Pope lamented
the emergence of neoliberalism, that is, the globalization, in theory and
in practice, of the self-regulating market system.
It is unfortunate that … a system has been constructed which con-
siders proﬁt as the key motive for economic progress, competition
as the supreme law of economics, and private ownership of the
means of production as an absolute right that has no limits and car-
ries no corresponding social obligations. This unchecked liberalism
leads to dictatorship rightly denounced by Pius xi as producing
“the international imperialism of money.”2 One cannot condemn
such abuses too strongly by solemnly recalling once again that the
economy is at the service of man.
Paul vi (1967, s. 26)
Paul vi argued that “if certain landed estates impede the general
prosperity because they are extensive, unused or poorly used, or because
they bring hardship to peoples or are detrimental to the interests of the
country, the common good sometimes demands their expropriation”
(Paul vi 1967, s. 24). The Pope also considered it “unacceptable that
citizens with abundant incomes from the resources and activity of their
country should transfer a considerable part of this income abroad purely
for their own advantage, without care for the manifest wrong they
inﬂict on their country by doing this” (Paul vi 1967, s. 24). In certain
situations, the Pope continued, injustice cries to heaven:
When whole populations destitute of necessities live in a state of
dependence barring them from all initiative and responsibility, and
all opportunity to advance culturally and share in social and politi-
cal life, recourse to violence, as a means to right these wrongs to
human dignity, is a grave temptation. … We know, however, that
a revolutionary uprising — save where there is manifest, long-
standing tyranny which would do great damage to fundamental
personal rights and dangerous harm to the common good of the
country — produces new injustices, throws more elements out of
balance and brings on new disasters.
Paul vi (1967, ss. 30 and 31)
S O L I D A R I T Y
W I T H
T H E
P O O R
65
2 The reference is to paragraph 109 of Pope Pius xi’s “Quadragesimo anno” (O’Brien
and Shannon 1992).

The Pope also asked us to question even the sacred cow of technol-
ogy, in a passage particularly prescient of today’s issues in development:
It is not sufficient to promote technology to render the world a
more humane place in which to live. The mistakes of their
predecessors should warn those on the road to development of the
dangers to be avoided in this field. Tomorrow’s technocracy can
beget evils no less redoubtable that those due to the liberalism of
yesterday. Economics and technology have no meaning except from
man whom they should serve.
Paul vi (1967, s. 34)
The Pope favoured the reform of these circumstances and dynamics,
calling for “bold transformations, innovations that go deep” (Paul vi
1967, s. 32) and encouraging individual involvement in the necessary
reforms, each according to his or her resources and capacity for action.
Yet, after reﬂecting on the nature of the human vocation and the
current condition of the world, he came to the conclusion that the
industrialization of society had become a necessity. According to the
Christian understanding of the human being, the Pope argued, the
quest for self-fulﬁllment is not optional. People must work, and work
hard, to humanize the conditions of their lives. One sentence of the
encyclical has a particularly “Western” ring:
By persistent work and use of his intelligence man gradually wrests
nature’s secrets from her and ﬁnds better application of her riches.
As his self-mastery increases, he develops a taste for research and
discovery, an ability to take a calculated risk, boldness in enter-
prises, generosity in what he does and a sense of responsibility.
Paul vi (1967, s. 25)
In this passage, the Pope endorsed modernization. In an earlier passage,
he supported industrialization. The evils of neoliberal capitalism,
according to Paul vi, must not be attributed to industrialization as such.
Industrialization can take place in a mixed economy in which market
forces — regulated by government, contained by the labour movement,
and tamed by a culture of solidarity — are made to serve the common
good of society.
Paul vi also took seriously the religious arguments against devel-
opment. He repudiated the generally accepted and purely materialistic
idea of development current at the time and suggested, instead, what he
called “integral” development, that is to say, a development that
improves people’s material conditions in the context of the fuller real-
ization of humanity in social, political, cultural, and religious terms.
Economic development must go hand in hand with the intensiﬁcation
of social solidarity, political freedom and responsibility, access to educa-
tion, cultural continuity, and the search for greater religious depth:
If further development calls for work of more and more technicians,
even more necessary is the deep thought and reﬂection of wise men
B A U M
66

[and women] in search of a new humanism which will enable mod-
ern [persons] to ﬁnd [themselves] anew by embracing the higher
values of love and friendship, of prayer and contemplation.
Paul vi (1967, s. 20)
A purely secular culture has no access to this new humanism.
According to Paul vi, it is only by calling on the hidden divine powers,
graciously and undeservedly made available to us, that humans can
make progress on the road of love, justice, and peace in today’s complex
global society. Christian faith, hope, and love are not meant as an entry
into personal piety; rather, they constitute a world-transforming power
that dwells in people’s hearts and summons forth a transpersonal piety
of solidarity3 and concern for others.
The “Populorum Progressio,” it seems to me, is a document that
supports development, but from a particular perspective. First, it
afﬁrms the need for worldwide industrialization; second, it endorses the
idea that the North must assist the development of the South, albeit in
an alternative fashion; and third, it understands the presence of God in
human life as a means to rescue us from personal and social sin and to
empower us for the sanctiﬁcation of human history.
The passage of time has shown us that many questions remain.
First, can the resources of the Earth afford industrialization on a global
scale? Are all subsistence economies destined to disappear? Second,
should the somewhat paternalistic idea that the rich North must help
the poor South be replaced by a more cooperative model that recognizes
the distinct contributions of both partners to mutually beneﬁcial inter-
action? The 1971 World Synod of Bishops moved beyond Paul vi’s
analysis when it insisted that Southern nations receiving help from the
North should remain the principal architects of their development and
the guardians of their culture (sbsga 1971). And third, is the humanis-
tic theology of Paul vi, which I fully and joyfully endorse, shared by all
people who believe in God? Members of other religions may have dif-
ferent ideas. Many Christians may interpret God as other than the
redeemer and transformer of human history — that is, acting in the here
and now — but look on God as the saviour rescuing them from history
and offering them a refuge in the sacred temple (in the afterlife).
S O L I D A R I T Y
W I T H
T H E
P O O R
67
3 Pope John Paul ii explained the term solidarity in “Sollicitudo Rei Socialis”: “polit-
ical leaders, and citizens of rich countries considered as individuals, especially if they are
Christians, have the moral obligation, according to the degree of each one’s responsibility,
to take into consideration, in personal decisions and decisions of government, this relation-
ship of universality, this interdependence which exists between their conduct and the
poverty and underdevelopment of so many millions of people” (John Paul ii 1987, s. 9,
emphasis in the original).

John Paul ii’s “Sollicitudo Rei Socialis”
To commemorate the 20th anniversary of the “Populorum Progressio,”
Pope John Paul ii (1987) composed the encyclical “Sollicitudo Rei
Socialis.” He reexamined the question of development in the light of
more recent events and, through theological reﬂections on present-day
culture, demonstrated the need for a more nuanced concept of develop-
ment. John Paul ii agreed with the positions adopted by his predecessor
in the “Populorum Progressio,” namely, the need for industrialization,
the deleterious material and cultural consequences of neoliberalism, and
the need for international solidarity to promote the integral develop-
ment of developing countries. John Paul ii grieved with his predecessor
over the misery, oppression, and marginalization imposed on masses of
people in the South. He lamented that despite major political and eco-
nomic efforts made in the North and the South, several indicators of
basic needs revealed that the global situation was getting worse and that
the social and economic inequalities between rich and poor countries
and between rich and poor people in each country were increasing.
In this paper, I mention only one issue introduced by John Paul ii’s
encyclical, namely, the cultural causes that, in conjunction with eco-
nomic and political ones, are responsible for the increasing misery in the
world. John Paul ii mentioned in particular the economistic under-
standing of human beings; and the belief, sustained and guided by sci-
ence, in humanity’s orientation toward limitless progress. The Pope
reminded his readers that both liberals and Marxists share these two
convictions, even if they interpret them differently. He pointed an
accusing ﬁnger at contemporary Western culture and suggested that to
account for the “underdevelopment” of the South, we have to examine
the “superdevelopment” of the North; in other words, to understand the
troubling situation of the poor, we must examine the trouble-creating
situation of the rich:
A disconcerting conclusion about the most recent period should serve
to enlighten us: side-by-side with the miseries of underdevelop-
ment, themselves unacceptable, we ﬁnd ourselves up against a form
of superdevelopment, equally inadmissible, because like the former it
is contrary to what is good and to true happiness. This superdevel-
opment, which consists in an excessive availability of every kind of
material goods for the beneﬁt of certain social groups, easily makes
people slaves of “possession” and of immediate gratiﬁcation, with
no other horizon than the multiplication or continual replacement
of the things already owned with others still better. This is the so-
called civilization of “consumption” or “consumerism” … .
John Paul ii (1987, s. 28, emphasis in the original)
John Paul ii analyzed “consumerism” from an ethical and theolog-
ical perspective. He argued that the urgent task of helping developing
countries overcome the conditions of hunger and misery demands a
B A U M
68

moral conversion of wealthy countries and people everywhere. British
sociologist John Hargreaves, in his book Sport, Power and Culture, offered
a detailed analysis of consumerist, capitalist culture:
It is the way discourses and practices are articulated around features
of a consumer culture, and the way this whole complex is orches-
trated by certain key themes, that gives [contemporary capitalism]
its coherence and power. The orchestrating themes of this culture
are directed at selling a speciﬁcally modern, secular version of the
good life. The dominant discourse/practice is of youth, beauty,
romance, sexual attraction, energy, fitness, health, movement,
excitement, adventure, freedom, exotica, luxury, enjoyment, enter-
tainment, fun. Above all, it is a culture that esteems “self-expression.”
A truly astonishing variety of goods and services — from washing
powder, cars and foreign holidays, to cosmetics, fashion-wear, eat-
ing and aerobics — circulate on this basis: and concomitantly,
major segments of social life are organized around this consumer
culture.
Hargreaves (1975, p. 131)
According to John Paul ii, the North needs to transform its culture,
reject the consumerist mentality, and reenter the spiritual life.
The new idea that John Paul ii added to Paul vi’s idea of develop-
ment was that the goal of a world of justice and peace that meets the
basic needs of all people is wholly unrealistic unless rich nations are
willing to undergo a spiritual conversion. This is a bold assertion. Most
of the development literature, including reports by the United Nations
and the World Bank,4 deal with the situation of the poor. If the Pope
was correct, then what we need is research on the rich: their power,
ideals, culture, and worldview and the impact of their institutions on
the world at large.5
A personal spirituality
Before turning to the other questions I want to address, I will make a
few remarks on where I stand as a Catholic theologian and what inspires
me in my work of exploring the meaning and power of the Gospel in
today’s world. One important inﬂuence on my life has been the concept
of an “option for the poor,” ﬁrst articulated in Latin American liberation
theology and then endorsed in papal and episcopal documents. This
option involves two commitments: to look at society from the
S O L I D A R I T Y
W I T H
T H E
P O O R
69
4 Most recently, the “World Development Report 2000/01: Poverty and Develop-
ment” (to be published by the World Bank in September 2000).
5 Susan George, Associate Director of the Transnational Institute in Amsterdam and
a well-known critic of economic globalization, said, “Let the poor study themselves. They
already know what is wrong with their lives and if you truly want to help them, the best
you can do is give them an idea of how the oppressors are working now and can be
expected to work in the future” (George 1976, p. 289).

perspective of its victims; and to publicly manifest solidarity with their
struggle for justice. Whereas the implications of this option are secular,
its inner spirit is religious and grounded in the Bible. Its roots are par-
ticularly evident in the Exodus story (the rescue of the people of Israel
from pharaonic oppression), the divine demand of social justice
announced by the Hebrew prophets, and the provocative preaching of
Jesus Christ that led to his condemnation as a troublemaker and to his
death on the Roman cross.
The option for the poor has released a new inwardness in the
Christian churches, marked by a certain spiritual anguish; that is, (1) we
are deeply troubled by the suffering of others, especially those who are
oppressed (the majority of humankind); (2) we grieve over the Church’s
past and present complicity with empire, colonialism, and other forms
of domination; and (3) we willingly expose ourselves to the painful and
unanswerable question of how we can reconcile our faith in a loving and
omnipotent God with the evil we see in the world. This new spiritual-
ity, which has its own “dark night of the soul,” is not devoid of hope and
the energy to act. In situations of grave injustice, Christian love trans-
forms itself into a yearning for justice and an impulse to act to lift the
heavy burdens from the shoulders of the oppressed.
What amazes many Christians, like me, is that in our association
with secular men and women committed to justice we often discover
that they also have a “spirituality.” By this I mean an inwardness of
compassion, urgency, and hope that inspires them and guides their lives,
even though they never talk about it. Perhaps they never talk about this
motivation because traditional spiritual language appears otherworldly
to them and they do not possess an alternative discourse to describe such
feelings. I often feel closer to such inwardly blessed secular people than
I do to those members of my own church who are insensitive to the
divine summons for justice. I do not speak of God to these secular asso-
ciates of mine. It does not occur to me to desire their “conversion”; on
the contrary, I marvel at their spiritual experience of standing aloof from
the dominant culture, feeling compassion for the unjustly treated, and
being empowered to act on their behalf. I detect there a moment of tran-
scendence. As a Catholic in the theological tradition of St Augustine
(354–430 ad), I am greatly impressed — as he was — by the sinful
dimension of society’s dominant structures and, at the same time, the
gratuity or “grace” of people’s capacity to love, do justice, and make
peace. Just as I respect their “secular spirituality” and have no intention
to “convert” my friends, I hope that they also respect — in their social-
scientiﬁc research and their support for public policies — the “other-
ness” in the mind-set of religious people.
B A U M
70

THE WORLD BANK’S NEW INTEREST IN RELIGION
Structural-adjustment policies
imposed by the World Bank
After World War ii, the Bretton Woods Agreement created the World
Bank and the International Monetary Fund (imf) to monitor the world
economy, loan money to poor countries in urgent need, and prevent
ﬁnancial collapse on a universal scale. At the time, the British partici-
pants were unhappy that (on the insistence of the Americans) the
Bretton Woods institutions would be guided by a liberal economic
philosophy that conceived the free market as the engine moving history
forward toward universal well-being. When, in the early 1980s, Prime
Minister Thatcher of the United Kingdom and President Reagan of the
United States implemented neoliberal economic policies in their coun-
tries, the Bretton Woods institutions were conﬁrmed in their neoliber-
alism and pursued it with even greater vigour.
The neoliberal policies had devastating effects on many of the
developing countries of the South. To promote free trade and the free
reign of market forces, the World Bank and the imf imposed the so-
called structural-adjustment policies (saps) on these countries. These
countries were to get no further loans unless they
 Opened their borders to free trade and the entry of foreign cor-
porations;
 Deregulated their national economies;
 Privatized publicly owned enterprises;
 Reduced government spending by cutting social programs
and laying off government employees; and
 Shifted production from the local market to the export market.
The saps increased hunger and misery in many countries. Instead
of growing their own food and producing the goods they needed, peo-
ple were obliged to produce for export and thus increase their depen-
dency on the centre of world power. In the eyes of the World Bank and
the imf, this bitter medicine was needed to contain what they judged to
be irresponsible governments, discipline what they thought to be lazy
populations, and convince people that in the long run the self-regulating
market system would be the wealth-creating engine of world development.
Neoliberalism has become the new orthodoxy. In response to crit-
ics, the World Bank and the imf claim that they have no alternative.
Yet, others have offered alternatives. A well-known example is the 1989
report of the Economic Commission for Africa entitled African Alterna-
tive Framework to Structural Adjustment Programmes for Socio-Economic
Recovery and Transformation (eca 1989). Pressure from the World Bank
S O L I D A R I T Y
W I T H
T H E
P O O R
71

seems to have been a strong contributing factor in the stagnation of this
report (Mihevc n.d.).
The industrialized countries of the North, I note, have increas-
ingly applied the saps to their own economies, and this has brought
about a major shift in the distribution of power and wealth. There are
signs that we are entering a new phase of human history. Central con-
trolling power has moved to international financial institutions and
transnational corporations (tncs), which are accountable to neither the
public nor any supervisory agency. National governments have lost the
capacity to promote the well-being of their people and protect them
from the tncs that enter their countries, destabilize their local
economies, and invest local profits in other countries (Martin and
Schumann 1997). As a policy and ideology, neoliberalism has widened
the gap between rich and poor in the industrialized countries; it has
produced a growing sector of chronically unemployed people and
promoted a culture of competitive individualism devoid of both social
solidarity and self-restraint. Only minority movements of spirited
people resist this culture. One such movement among the churches is
the world-wide ecumenical Jubilee 2000 Initiative,6 which addresses
itself to the Northern nations, the World Bank, and the imf. Based on
the Jubilee texts of Leviticus (25:13–24), in which God commands the
Israelites to redistribute wealth, release slaves, and cancel debts at reg-
ular intervals, this initiative demands the cancelation of the heavy debt
load that currently burdens developing countries. Accompanying this
ecumenical initiative is a major educational effort to raise the awareness
of church-going Christians.
Mounting criticism of the World Bank
We saw in the ﬁrst part of this paper that the major Christian churches
on all continents have condemned neoliberal philosophy and demanded
political and economic policies based on international solidarity and a
desire for social justice. A growing number of nongovernmental organi-
zations (ngos) active in the South have also formulated criticisms of the
World Bank and the saps. This wave of complaints climaxed in 1994,
the 50th anniversary of the Bank’s foundation, when, under the slogan
“50 Years Is Enough,” the ngos succeeded in organizing a major cam-
paign critical of the Bank. This campaign informed the public of the
destructive, undemocratic, and unaccountable policies adopted by the
B A U M
72
6 The Canadian Ecumenical Jubilee Initiative published a 30-page brochure, entitled
“A New Beginning: A Call for Jubilee,” about this initiative. It is available from the
Canadian Ecumenical Jubilee Initiative, po Box 772, Station F, Toronto, on, Canada
M4Y 2N6. More information on the Jubilee 2000 Debt Campaign can also be found on
the Canadian Ecumenical Jubilee Initiative homepage (www.web.net/~jubilee/debt.htm).

Bank and called for fundamental reforms of this institution. The cam-
paign received massive support. In fact, the leaders of the G7 countries
put reform of the World Bank on the agenda of their 1995 meeting in
Halifax.
In 1994, under its new president, James Wolfensohn, the World
Bank decided to listen to these complaints, enter into dialogue with the
ngos, and modify some of its policies. The Bank canceled its involve-
ment in a controversial project in India — the Narmada Dam. It admit-
ted that in many countries foreign debt was a serious problem and
prepared measures to alleviate it; it strengthened its commitment to
reduce poverty in the world; and, most signiﬁcantly, it began to hold
meetings with the ngos. The World Bank admitted ngos to the 1995
assembly of the Bank and imf and created a joint World Bank–ngo
committee to review the saps.
Great controversy roars around the significance of the changes
introduced by the World Bank. Some commentators think that the
Bank has adopted a new orientation more beneﬁcial to developing coun-
tries, whereas others argue that these changes are largely window dress-
ing and do not weaken the Bank’s commitment to the saps or the
neoliberal logic behind them. Today, the World Bank is deeply com-
mitted to “world governance.” Good governance has also become a
concern of the United Nations (1995). Governance, I note, is not the
equivalent of government. Governance refers, rather, to the interaction of
several factors — including government and markets — in creating and
sustaining order and peace in society, especially given the social and cul-
tural consequences of globalization. Apart from governments and
markets, the concept of civil society encompasses other governance-
producing factors. Civil society includes professional associations,
labour unions, religious institutions, schools and universities, nonproﬁt
organizations, citizens’ movements, cultural centres, and — especially
in the South — foreign ngos.
The protest movement leading up to the World Bank’s 50th birth-
day may not have been the only reason for the Bank’s new concern for
global governance. The Bank shares the fear of all well-informed
citizens that the globalization of the economy and the breakdown of
subsistence economies, cultural cohesion, and social integration in many
developing countries are producing conditions of grinding misery and
social chaos that may easily explode in violence. An explosion of vio-
lence in developing countries would cause great human suffering,
threaten investment and private property, inhibit production and deliv-
ery of goods, and thus impede the expansion of the free-market econ-
omy. For all of these reasons (humanitarian and economic), the World
Bank has decided to encourage and support good governance, that is,
the ordering and pacifying of society under conditions of poverty and
dislocation.
S O L I D A R I T Y
W I T H
T H E
P O O R
73

In the name of good governance, the World Bank now actively
intervenes in the affairs of developing countries on several levels:
 It puts new emphasis on role of the state;
 It seeks cooperation with, and offers financial support for,
ngos and other organizations of civil society; and
 It recognizes and encourages a role for religion, ethics, and
spirituality.
The World Bank’s dialogue with religion
Good governance includes support for an ethical culture that promotes
social well-being. Inwardness or spirituality has social consequences.
The world religions form patterned communities that sustain people in
difﬁcult times, strengthen them in their communal efforts, and create
close bonds of friendship, cooperation, and mutual aid. For these rea-
sons, religious communities, as part of civil society, play an important
role in ensuring good governance. It is not surprising that the World
Bank, faithful to its new, post-1994 image, has begun to show concern
for spirituality and religion. It has sponsored several international con-
ferences on these issues in the hope that a better understanding of the
Bank’s aims will allow religious leaders and teachers of spirituality to
make a more focused contribution to humanity’s well-being. At the
same time, the World Bank is willing to learn from the wisdom of the
world religions.
I wish to comment on two such international conferences: the ﬁrst,
the 1995 Conference on Ethics and Spiritual Values, held in Washington,
dc, focused on sustainable development; the second, the 1998 Confer-
ence on World Faiths and Development, held at Lambeth Palace in
London, United Kingdom, focused on cooperation between religions
and the World Bank.
At the opening of the 1995 Conference on Ethics and Spiritual
Values, James Wolfensohn gave the keynote address, “New Partner-
ships,” in which he made the following statement:
Development is not just a matter of looking at increases in gross
domestic product (gdp) par capita. In Africa I saw successful devel-
opment in villages where people were pulling themselves out of
deep poverty. Development is visible in people who, within the
structure of their familial or tribal system, possess a sense of
grandeur, a sense of optimism, a sense of hope; who talk with
excitement in their eyes about their children’s future. These people,
living on next to nothing, feel a sense of progress that is more than
economic. It encompasses recognition of roots and their spiritual
and cultural values, which we [the World Bank] need to nurture
and encourage. These values are what we should be developing … .
B A U M
74

The [World Bank’s] central mission is to meld economic assistance
with spiritual, ethical and moral development.
It is not easy to explain to most people why I would leave a
successful business practice to come and try to make the world a
better place. … I came [here] because of a background that had, I
believe, within my own Jewish religion some sense of ethical, spir-
itual and moral values that I have attempted to live by and that
guide me.
Wolfensohn (1996, p. 1)
The conference proceedings, published by the World Bank, gave
the names of the 34 men and women it had invited to address the topic.
All the speakers agreed that ethics and spiritual values must be taken
into account in formulating economic policy, especially that related to
sustainable development. Most of them lamented the indifference of
economics to ethical considerations, but, with one exception, all failed
to articulate a critique of the World Bank’s economic policies. Only
Denis Goulet, a well-known, critical development economist, said in
plain language that economic globalization (as promoted by the World
Bank) undermined local economies and dissolved traditional values and
that environmentally sustainable development was therefore impossible
under the conditions created by these neoliberal policies (Serageldin and
Barrett 1996).
The Conference on World Faiths and Development, 18–19 February
1998, was hosted by George Carey, Archbishop of Canterbury, and
James Wolfensohn, President of the World Bank, and held at Lambeth
Palace, London. Participants were leaders from nine world religions
(Baha’i Faith, Buddhism, Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Jainism,
Judaism, Sikhism, and Taoism) and included the main traditions within
these religions.
The conference at Lambeth Palace was preceded by a roundtable
conference, A Christian Response to the International Debt Crisis, on
16–17 May 1996, organized by the Anglican Community Ofﬁce at the
United Nations. This earlier conference set forth the biblical and Chris-
tian foundations for ethical norms relevant to the economy. It assigned
special signiﬁcance to the Jubilee year. As stated in the conference doc-
uments, the immediate purpose of the roundtable conference was “to
express uncompromising concern with the human impact of imf and
World Bank policies” and to explore with the participants “possible
lines of practical action which might help alleviate negative effects of
[imf and World Bank] policy on the poor and vulnerable.”7 The confer-
ence participants produced a series of policy measures that they urged
the Bretton Woods institutions to take into account.8
S O L I D A R I T Y
W I T H
T H E
P O O R
75
7 See www.aco.org/united-nations/debtconf.html.
8 A 13-page statement of these recommendations (acoun 1996), plus the conference
program, can be obtained from the Rt Rev. James Ottley, Anglican Observer at the
United Nations, 815 Second Avenue, New York, ny 10017, usa (e-mail:
anglican_un_ofﬁce@ecunet.org).

In response to the roundtable conference, James Wolfensohn
agreed to cohost, with the Archbishop of Canterbury, the 1998 Confer-
ence on World Faiths and Development. Here leaders of the world reli-
gions were engaged in sustained conversation with staff members of the
World Bank. At the end of the conference, the two co-chairs made a
joint statement summing up in 11 points the agreements that had been
reached. I offer a brief summary:9
1.
The religious leaders and the leading staff of the World Bank are
at one in their deep moral concern for the future of human well-
being and dignity.
2.
Human development must have regard for spiritual, ethical, envi-
ronmental, cultural, and social considerations.
3.
Human well-being includes spiritual and cultural expansion and
rescue from suffering that is due to poverty.
4.
It is important to listen to all the actors involved in development,
including especially the local community.
5.
The World Bank and the major religious communities agree on
the need to continue the dialogue.
6.
The religious communities will be allowed to inﬂuence the think-
ing of the World Bank.
7.
Several joint working groups will be established.
8.
The World Bank staff want more education regarding the world’s
religions, and the religious communities want more education
regarding international development.
9.
The religious communities have already contributed much to
development projects: they will continue to do so, with the back-
ing of the World Bank.
10.
A light and ﬂexible steering group will monitor progress in this
area.
11.
Governments and international agencies will be exhorted to join the
search for better understanding between religion and development.
It is difﬁcult to know how to interpret this joint statement. It is
unlikely that the churches have modiﬁed the position they have adopted
and defended over the years. Nor has the World Bank moved away from
its policy of imposing saps on developing countries or from its neolib-
eral approach. Critics claim that by engaging in this dialogue, the Bank
B A U M
76
9 The documentation can be obtained from the Press Ofﬁce, Lambeth Palace, London,
uk, SE1 7JU. It is also available on the Internet (www.worldbank.org/html/extdr/
faithsdialogue).

wants to persuade the world religions to contribute to the cause of good
governance and help stabilize society under the conditions of disinte-
gration produced by the saps. These critics think the World Bank wants
religion to save society for the globalization of the free market. In my
opinion, it is too early to judge the signiﬁcance of this dialogue.
THE SUBJECTIVE DIMENSION OF
SOCIAL-SCIENCE RESEARCH
In this section, I touch on a topic that has been an interest of mine ever
since I studied sociology. I have always been impressed by the social the-
orists who challenged the claim to objectivity, or value neutrality, made
by the social sciences. These critical theorists had great respect for the
objective methodology of these sciences, that is, the so-called scientiﬁc
method: relying on empirical research, testing hypotheses, and produc-
ing a set of arguments that can be veriﬁed by other researchers. Yet, the
critical theorists insisted that in social-science research there is
inevitably a subjective dimension that depends on the social location,
talents, and options of the researcher. I note that this claim is quite dif-
ferent from certain postmodern trends in sociology that deconstruct the
objective methodology altogether. As the social sciences are never fully
objective, or value free, the critical theorists argue that it would be more
scientiﬁc if the social scientists articulated the implicit values operative
in their research and offered a rational critique of them, not, indeed, “to
prove” them but to defend their coherence and clarify their social
implications.
In the following pages, I comment on two issues in relation to
social-scientiﬁc research: its implicit sociopolitical perspectives and its
dominant secularism. These are issues of concern to the Christian
churches because Christianity — as well as all other religions — is
linked to a particular ethic and the churches must respond to the cur-
rent situation and its irrationalities in terms of this ethic. To do this,
they must enter into dialogue with political scientists, economists, and
other social scientists. Which of the many diverse currents in these
sciences should the churches trust? To give a brief answer to this ques-
tion, I say that the churches ﬁnd social, political, and economic analy-
ses trustworthy if the evaluative presuppositions operative within these
analyses have an afﬁnity with their own sets of values (Baum 1998).
The sociopolitical perspective
That the social location of social scientists and their political options
affect their analyses of society was an insight that was ﬁrst articulated
by Marx and then explored and developed in the sociology of
S O L I D A R I T Y
W I T H
T H E
P O O R
77

knowledge. I became acquainted with the sociology of knowledge
through two German authors of the 1920s: Max Scheler (1980 [1924]),
a conservative social thinker, and Karl Mannheim (1936 [1928]), a lib-
eral sociologist. Today’s students of sociology are introduced to this crit-
ical approach — admittedly a minority trend in sociology — through
the work of Jürgen Habermas (1971 [1968]), who has systematically
explored the relations between knowledge and social interest.
This paper is not the place to develop this critical theory in any
detail. Simply put, we bring to our scientiﬁc study of social phenomena
a perspective that expresses the relationship we have with our own soci-
ety. This is part of the subjective dimension operative in social-science
research. The critical approach is also very persuasive to the ordinary cit-
izen because it explains why research institutes and think tanks —
which all apply the scientiﬁc method faithfully — arrive at such diverse
conclusions. Critical theory explains why a simple appeal to the social
sciences cannot resolve the important social debates. Let me give a con-
crete example of this dilemma, drawn from an ecclesiastical document.
When the American Catholic bishops were preparing the 1986
pastoral letter, “Economic Justice for All,” they sought an answer to the
question of why unemployment and poverty were growing, why the gap
between rich and poor was widening, and why ever larger sectors of the
population were being marginalized and excluded from participation.
In their ﬁrst draft of the pastoral letter (acb 1986), the bishops told us
that the social and economic scientists they consulted were divided on
these issues. Some of these scientists argued that major changes had
taken place in the structure of capital and the orientation of the econ-
omy; for this reason, repairing the damage and overcoming present
injustices would demand major structural changes. Other scientists dis-
agreed with this. They argued, instead, that the current economic
decline was not dramatic, that it indicated no signiﬁcant break with the
past, and that it was simply the result of unwise policies adopted by
governments and certain industries. Adopting appropriate measures
could therefore incrementally overcome these issues.
In this ﬁrst draft, the bishops mentioned another question that
remained unresolved by the scientists they had consulted. The bishops
wanted to know whether the economic collapse and the widespread
misery in the South were produced by developments in these countries
(to which American society was simply an onlooker) or whether these
conditions were in some way related to the growing wealth and power
of American society. Here, again, the scientists were unable to resolve
the question, even though they all followed an objective method and
provided demonstrations based on empirical research.10
B A U M
78
10 For the two passages in the ﬁrst draft of the pastoral letter, see acb (1984, pp. 342
and 370).

Because the scientists failed to arrive at an agreement, the American
bishops decided not to raise critical questions regarding liberal or
neoliberal capitalism in the ﬁnal version of their pastoral letter. How-
ever, not all national bishops’ conferences have been as reticent. The
Latin American bishops who met at Medellín in 1968 were keenly
aware that economists and other social scientists are guided by a social
perspective: they may operate out of an implicit identiﬁcation with the
established order or they may read the social reality from the perspec-
tive of society’s victims, that is, the poor, the oppressed, and the mar-
ginalized. The Latin American bishops were not surprised that scientists
disagreed in their analyses of society, and the bishops decided, for theo-
logical reasons, to trust those scientists who opted for the perspective of
the poor (lab 1968).
The Latin American bishops called this perspective the option for
the poor. They believed that, in ﬁdelity to Jesus, Christians want to
commit themselves to this perspective. Thanks to liberation theology
and the leadership of the Latin American bishops, the option for the
poor has become an important principle of interpretation guiding spir-
ituality and social ethics in both Catholic and Protestant churches. The
Canadian Catholic bishops, in particular, have produced a series of pas-
toral statements on social and economic ethics, based on the perspective
of society’s victims. This has created a certain afﬁnity between Christian
thought and critical theory.
I conclude from these reﬂections that because all social-scientiﬁc
research operates with a conscious or unconscious value-based orienta-
tion, “engaged research” — that is, research guided by a social-justice
commitment — is not only perfectly scientiﬁc but also more transpar-
ent, because it willingly articulates its implicit presuppositions.
Questioning the dominant secularism
of social science
Another implicit presupposition of the social sciences, closely related to
the topic of this paper, concerns their relation to the spiritual order. The
majority of social scientists recognize that, in the past, religion played
an important role in society, either as a principle of order (creating “a
sacred canopy”) or as a source of motivation (generating a common
ethos). But most social scientists have reduced religion to its social func-
tion: the study of religion does not provide them with empirical argu-
ments for a transcendent spiritual order. Most sociologists, moreover,
are convinced that in modern society, which is marked by industrializa-
tion, scientiﬁc rationality, and cultural pluralism, religion no longer ful-
ﬁlls any important social function. Religion no longer unites the social
order or provides a universally accepted set of values. As the existence of
a divine order cannot be scientiﬁcally demonstrated, many sociologists
argue that religion is becoming increasingly unbelievable. Religion,
S O L I D A R I T Y
W I T H
T H E
P O O R
79

they think, survives only as the purely personal conviction of certain
groups of people, as a sentiment and a commitment to an imaginary
universe. Religion remains wholly extrinsic to the constitution of soci-
ety. The only true reality, “the really real,” is here in the visible universe
and human history, without any relationship to an invisible order. The
traditional notion of transcendence has lost its meaning. Spirituality is
at best the private interest of the few.
This secular outlook has been adopted by vast numbers of people
in present-day society, and this secularism is predominant in the guild
of political scientists, economists, and other social scientists. These sci-
entists, we note, do not regard this secular outlook as the creation of a
particular culture, that is to say, modern, Western, industrial culture:
rather, they see this outlook as revealing the truth about the world and
hence as a perspective applicable to the understanding of all other cul-
tures. Secularism here makes its own culture-transcending claim.
The early literature on development, starting with The Stages of
Economic Growth, by W.W. Rostow (1960), regarded the religions of peo-
ples in the South as an obstacle to economic development, because these
religions often trusted the rhythm of nature, fostered social identiﬁca-
tion with family and community, and failed to promote a culture
oriented toward personal achievement and social mobility. Seen from
this perspective, development had to be accompanied by a secularization
of culture, that is to say, by an exclusion of religious values from public
policies and the organization of production and distribution.
On a previous page, I mentioned that critical voices in Asia and
Africa, as well as among native peoples of the Americas, have decried
the secular presupposition implicit in economic and other social
sciences and in the development projects sponsored by the industrial-
ized West. They regard secularization as a construct of Western empire,
aimed at undermining the identity of non-Western peoples. This out-
look ﬁnds a parallel in work such as Orientalism, by Edward Said (1978),
which demonstrated how the West’s claim to cultural superiority has
shaped the Western perception of Islamic–Arab civilization. Other
authors have shown that the same is true of the Western perception of
India and other Asian civilizations (see Lopez 1995). The contemporary
Christian theology of African theologians is critical of the secular atti-
tude of Western missionaries who looked on African belief in the
presence of spirits as a superstition to be discarded, even though the
Near Eastern world — in which Jesus himself lived — fully shared this
belief.
According to Peter Berger (1966), sociologists who study religious
phenomena must adopt what he called “methodological atheism.” The
sociologist must examine these phenomena with the presupposition
that they have material and cultural causes within history. For Berger
(who presents himself as a believing Christian), science must adopt the
perspective of Western secularism. In response, Robert Bellah, one of
B A U M
80

Berger’s colleagues, argued instead that to appreciate religious phenom-
ena and avoid their systematic distortion, sociologists must opt for
“symbolic realism” (Bellah 1970, pp. 220–221). What does Bellah
mean by this? The sociologist, he argued, must be open to the possibil-
ity that the religious symbols that define the identity of a human
community have a transcendent referent; and that the sociologist’s own
secular presupposition is a Western cultural product rather than a uni-
versal truth. Bellah argued that without such an openness to, and empa-
thy with, religious phenomena, sociologists are unable to appreciate the
creativity of religion, its resourcefulness in helping people cope with
their hardship, and its self-transforming power in new historical
situations.
The question I cannot avoid asking is whether the attitude of the
social-science researcher toward the existence of a transcendent order
inﬂuences his or her analysis and conclusion. It seems to me that a social
scientist committed to a secular outlook would be insensitive to the cre-
ative powers of religion, unless he or she reached out for a special open-
ness. By this I do not mean, of course, that social scientists should all be
theists or believers of some sort. Not belief, but empathy, is required.
Max Weber insisted that sociologists stretch their imagination and learn
to think themselves into the mind-set of religious people. He wanted
students of sociology to read the great novels of world literature to dis-
cover that their own symbolic understanding of the universe was just
one among many others. Weber also recognized that science, or formal
rationality as he called it, does not reply to the riddle of the universe.
Science was not a philosophy that replied to the great human questions:
What is the meaning of it all? Where do we come from and where do
we go? Weber regarded himself as a nonbeliever, but he was modest
about it. He did not erect his unbelief into a metaphysics. He was not
committed to secularism as a deﬁnitive interpretation of the universe.
In his study of religion, he was open to the new and unexpected; he
recognized the historical weight of religious convictions. If there is any
truth in the above reﬂections, then development research should acquire
a special sensitivity to the spiritual dimension of people’s self-constitution
and to the ways the secular presuppositions of contemporary Western
culture threaten their identity.
Appreciating the creativity of religion has been a characteristic of
the alternative development theories produced by researchers and social
thinkers since the 1950s. The paradigms proposed by Louis-Joseph
Lebret (1959) (and see Malley 1968) in France and Denis Goulet (1971)
in the United States, based on practical experience and theoretical con-
siderations, have always demanded that a certain cultural and religious
continuity be a dimension of integral development. This is why they
insisted that the local community must be recognized as a partner in
any development project, be listened to by the so-called technical
experts, and be allowed to exercise co-responsibility fully. Although
S O L I D A R I T Y
W I T H
T H E
P O O R
81

Western science plays an important role in such a project, the symbolic
meaning and creative energy to make the project work must come from
the culture and the religion of the local community. Any new attitudes
or practices must ﬁnd roots in the dynamic elements of the community’s
own tradition. As much as people are changed by participating in a
development project, they want to retain their identity or, more pre-
cisely, they want to remain faithful to the past while reconstituting their
identity under new conditions.
When we examined the concept of development proposed by the
popes, we found that they recognized several dimensions of this process,
including a religious one. Yet, they did not sufﬁciently emphasize, I
then suggested, that to assure such an integral development, the local
community must be recognized as a partner in the full sense. Develop-
ment is not a process devised by Western scientists and executed by
Western-trained men and women of the South. Co-responsibility means
that both parties — the Western specialists and the local community —
make an original contribution. This point, as we saw, was made by the
1971 World Synod of Bishops. A truly creative aspect of integral devel-
opment is the summoning forth of meaning and wisdom derived from
the cultural and religious tradition.
ANNEX 1: EXCERPTS FROM PAPAL ENCYCLICALS AND
STATEMENTS BY THE WORLD SYNOD OF BISHOPS
CONCERNING DEVELOPMENT
Excerpts from “Populorum Progressio”11
Encyclical letter of His Holiness Pope Paul vi, promulgated on
26 March 1967
7. … It must certainly be recognized that colonizing powers have
often furthered their own interests, power or glory, and that their
departure has sometimes left a precarious economy, bound up for
instance with the production of one kind of crop whose market
prices are subject to sudden and considerable variation. Yet while
recognizing the damage done by a certain type of colonialism and
its consequences, one must at the same time acknowledge the qual-
ities and achievement of colonizers who brought their science and
technical knowledge and left beneﬁcial results of their presence in
so many underprivileged regions. The structures established by
them persist, however incomplete they may be; they diminished
B A U M
82
11 Original footnotes omitted. Emphasis added by the author (bold).

ignorance and sickness, brought the benefits of communications
and improved living conditions.
8. Yet once this is admitted, it remains only too true that the resul-
tant situation is manifestly inadequate for facing the hard reality of
modern economics. Left to itself it works rather to widen the dif-
ferences in the world’s levels of life, not to diminish them: rich
peoples enjoy rapid growth whereas the poor develop slowly. The
imbalance is on the increase: some produce a surplus of foodstuffs,
others cruelly lack them and see their exports made uncertain.
…
14. Development cannot be limited to mere economic growth.
In order to be authentic, it must be complete: integral, that is,
it has to promote the good of every man and of the whole
man. As an eminent specialist has very rightly and emphatically
declared: “We do not believe in separating the economic from the
human, nor development from the civilizations in which it exists.
What we hold important is man, each man and each group of men,
and we even include the whole of humanity.”
15. In the design of God, every man is called upon to develop and
fulfill himself, for every life is a vocation. At birth, everyone is
granted, in germ, a set of aptitudes and qualities for him to bring
to fruition. Their coming to maturity, which will be the result of
education received from the environment and personal efforts, will
allow each man to direct himself toward the destiny intended for
him by his Creator. Endowed with intelligence and freedom, he is
responsible for his fulﬁllment as he is for his salvation. He is aided,
or sometimes impeded, by those who educate him and those with
whom he lives, but each one remains, whatever be these inﬂuences
affecting him, the principal agent of his own success or failure. By
the unaided effort of his own intelligence and his will, each man can
grow in humanity, can enhance his personal worth, can become
more a person.
16. However, this self-fulﬁllment is not something optional. Just as
the whole of creation is ordained to its Creator, so spiritual beings
should of their own accord orientate their lives to God, the ﬁrst truth
and the supreme good. Thus it is that human fulﬁllment constitutes,
as it were, a summary of our duties. But there is much more: this
harmonious enrichment of nature by personal and responsible effort
is ordered to a further perfection. By reason of his union with Christ,
the source of life, man attains to new fulﬁllment of himself, to a
transcendent humanism which gives him his greatest possible per-
fection: this is the highest goal of personal development.
17. But each man is a member of society. He is part of the whole of
mankind. It is not just certain individuals, but all men who are
called to this fullness of development. Civilizations are born,
develop and die. But humanity is advancing along the path of his-
tory like the waves of a rising tide encroaching gradually on the
S O L I D A R I T Y
W I T H
T H E
P O O R
83

shore. We have inherited from past generations, and we have bene-
ﬁted from the work of our contemporaries: for this reason we have
obligations towards all, and we cannot refuse to interest ourselves in
those who will come after us to enlarge the human family. The
reality of human solidarity, which is a beneﬁt for us, also imposes a
duty.
18. This personal and communal development would be threatened
if the true scale of values were undermined. The desire for necessi-
ties is legitimate, and work undertaken to obtain them is a duty: “If
any man will not work, neither let him eat.” But the acquiring of
temporal goods can lead to greed, to the insatiable desire for more,
and can make increased power a tempting objective. Individuals,
families and nations can be overcome by avarice, be they poor or
rich, and all can fall victim to a stiﬂing materialism.
19. Increased possession is not the ultimate goal of nations nor
of individuals. All growth is ambivalent. It is essential if man
is to develop as a man, but in a way it imprisons man if he con-
siders it the supreme good, and it restricts his vision. Then we
see hearts harden and minds close, and men no longer gather
together in friendship but out of self-interest, which soon leads to
oppositions and disunity. The exclusive pursuit of possessions thus
become an obstacle to individual fulfillment and to man’s true
greatness. Both for nations and for individual men, avarice is the
most evident form of moral underdevelopment.
20. If further development calls for the work of more and more
technicians, even more necessary is the deep thought and reﬂection
of wise men in search of a new humanism which will enable mod-
ern man to ﬁnd himself anew by embracing the higher values of
love and friendship, of prayer and contemplation. This is what will
permit the fullness of authentic development, a development which
is for each and all the transition from less human conditions to those
which are more human.
21. Less human conditions: the lack of material necessities for
those who are without the minimum essential for life, the moral
deﬁciencies of those who are mutilated by selﬁshness. Less human
conditions: oppressive social structures, whether due to the abuses
of ownership or to the abuses of power, to the exploitation of work-
ers or to unjust transactions. Conditions that are more human:
the passage from misery towards the possession of necessities, vic-
tory over social scourges, the growth of knowledge, the acquisition
of culture. Additional conditions that are more human: increased
esteem for the dignity of others, the turning toward the spirit of
poverty, cooperation for the common good, the will and desire for
peace. Conditions that are still more human: the acknowledgment
by man of supreme values, and of God their source and their ﬁnal-
ity. Conditions that, ﬁnally and above all, are more human: faith, a
gift of God accepted by the good will of man, and unity in the
B A U M
84

charity of Christ, Who calls us all to share as sons in the life of the
living God, the Father of all men.
…
24. If certain landed estates impede the general prosperity because
they are extensive, unused or poorly used, or because they bring
hardship to peoples or are detrimental to the interests of the coun-
try, the common good sometimes demands their expropriation.
While giving a clear statement on this, the Council recalled no less
clearly that the available revenue is not to be used in accordance
with mere whim, and that no place must be given to selﬁsh specu-
lation. Consequently it is unacceptable that citizens with abundant
incomes from the resources and activity of their country should
transfer a considerable part of this income abroad purely for their
own advantage, without care for the manifest wrong they inﬂict on
their country by doing this.
25. The introduction of industry is a necessity for economic growth
and human progress; it is also a sign of development and con-
tributes to it. By persistent work and use of his intelligence man
gradually wrests nature’s secrets from her and ﬁnds a better appli-
cation for her riches. As his self-mastery increases, he develops a
taste for research and discovery, an ability to take a calculated risk,
boldness in enterprises, generosity in what he does and a sense of
responsibility.
26. But it is unfortunate that on these new conditions of soci-
ety a system has been constructed which considers proﬁt as
the key motive for economic progress, competition as the
supreme law of economics, and private ownership of the
means of production as an absolute right that has no limits
and carries no corresponding social obligation. This unchecked
liberalism leads to dictatorship rightly denounced by Pius xi as
producing “the international imperialism of money.” One cannot
condemn such abuses too strongly by solemnly recalling once again
that the economy is at the service of man. But if it is true that a type
of capitalism has been the source of excessive suffering, injustices
and fratricidal conﬂicts whose effects still persist, it would also be
wrong to attribute to industrialization itself evils that belong to the
woeful system which accompanied it. On the contrary one must rec-
ognize in all justice the irreplaceable contribution made by the
organization of labor and of industry to what development has
accomplished.
…
30. There are certainly situations whose injustice cries to heaven.
When whole populations destitute of necessities live in a state of
dependence barring them from all initiative and responsibility, and
all opportunity to advance culturally and share in social and
S O L I D A R I T Y
W I T H
T H E
P O O R
85

political life, recourse to violence, as a means to right these wrongs
to human dignity, is a grave temptation.
31. We know, however, that a revolutionary uprising — save where
there is manifest, long-standing tyranny which would do great
damage to fundamental personal rights and dangerous harm to the
common good of the country — produces new injustices, throws
more elements out of balance and brings on new disasters. A real
evil should not be fought against at the cost of greater misery.
32. We want to be clearly understood: the present situation must be
faced with courage and the injustices linked with it must be fought
against and overcome. Development demands bold transformations,
innovations that go deep. Urgent reforms should be undertaken
without delay. It is for each one to take his share in them with gen-
erosity, particularly those whose education, position and opportuni-
ties afford them wide scope for action. May they show an example,
and give of their own possessions as several of Our brothers in the
episcopacy have done. In so doing they will live up to men’s expec-
tations and be faithful to the Spirit of God, since it is “the ferment
of the Gospel which has aroused and continues to arouse in man’s
heart the irresistible requirements of his dignity.”
33. Individual initiative alone and the mere free play of com-
petition could never assure successful development. One must
avoid the risk of increasing still more the wealth of the rich and the
dominion of the strong, whilst leaving the poor in their misery and
adding to the servitude of the oppressed. Hence programs are nec-
essary in order “to encourage, stimulate, coordinate, supplement
and integrate” the activity of individuals and of intermediary bod-
ies. It pertains to the public authorities to choose, even to lay down
the objectives to be pursued, the ends to be achieved, and the means
for attaining these, and it is for them to stimulate all the forces
engaged in this common activity. But let them take care to associ-
ate private initiative and intermediary bodies with this work. They
will thus avoid the danger of complete collectivization or of arbi-
trary planning, which, by denying liberty, would prevent the exer-
cise of the fundamental rights of the human person.
34. This is true since every program, made to increase production,
has, in the last analysis, no other raison d’être than the service of
man. Such programs should reduce inequalities, ﬁght discrimina-
tions, free man from various types of servitude and enable him to be
the instrument of his own material betterment, of his moral
progress and of his spiritual growth. To speak of development, is
in effect to show as much concern for social progress as for
economic growth. It is not sufﬁcient to increase overall wealth
for it to be distributed equitably. It is not sufﬁcient to pro-
mote technology to render the world a more humane place in
which to live. The mistakes of their predecessors should warn
those on the road to development of the dangers to be avoided in
this field. Tomorrow’s technocracy can beget evils no less
B A U M
86

redoubtable than those due to the liberalism of yesterday. Eco-
nomics and technology have no meaning except from man
whom they should serve. And man is only truly man in as far as,
master of his own acts and judge of their worth, he is author of his
own advancement, in keeping with the nature which was given to
him by his Creator and whose possibilities and exigencies he him-
self freely assumes.
…
40. In addition to professional organizations, there are also institu-
tions which are at work. Their role is no less important for the suc-
cess of development. “The future of the world stands in peril,” the
Council gravely afﬁrms, “unless wiser men are forthcoming.” And
it adds: “many nations, poorer in economic goods, are quite rich in
wisdom and able to offer noteworthy advantages to others.” Rich or
poor, each country possesses a civilization handed down by their
ancestors: institutions called for by life in this world, and higher
manifestations of the life of the spirit, manifestations of an artistic,
intellectual and religious character. When the latter possess true
human values, it would be grave error to sacriﬁce them to the for-
mer. A people that would act in this way would thereby lose the
best of its patrimony; in order to live, it would be sacriﬁcing its rea-
sons for living. Christ’s teaching also applies to people: “What does
it proﬁt a man to gain the whole world if he suffers the loss of his
soul.”
41. Less well-off peoples can never be sufficiently on their
guard against this temptation which comes to them from
wealthy nations. For these nations all too often set an example
of success in a highly technical and culturally developed civi-
lization; they also provide the model for a way of acting that is
principally aimed at the conquest of material prosperity. Not
that material prosperity of itself precludes the activity of the human
spirit. On the contrary, the human spirit, “increasingly free of its
bondage to creatures, can be more easily drawn to the worship and
contemplation of the Creator.” However, “modern civilization itself
often complicates the approach to God, not for any essential reason,
but because it is excessively engrossed in earthly affairs.” Develop-
ing nations must know how to discriminate among those things
that are held out to them; they must be able to assess critically, and
eliminate those deceptive goods which would only bring about a
lowering of the human ideal, and to accept those values that are
sound and beneﬁcial, in order to develop them alongside their own,
in accordance with their own genius.
42. What must be aimed at is complete humanism. And what is
that if not the fully-rounded development of the whole man and of
all men? A humanism closed in on itself, and not open to the val-
ues of the spirit and to God Who is their source, could achieve
apparent success. True, man can organize the world apart from
God, but “without God man can organize it in the end only to
S O L I D A R I T Y
W I T H
T H E
P O O R
87

man’s detriment. An isolated humanism is an inhuman
humanism.” There is no true humanism but that which is open to
the Absolute and is conscious of a vocation which gives human life
its true meaning. Far from being the ultimate measure of all things,
man can only realize himself by reaching beyond himself. As Pascal
has said so well: “Man inﬁnitely surpasses man.”
…
47. But neither all this nor the private and public funds that have
been invested, nor the gifts and loans that have been made, can suf-
ﬁce. It is not just a matter of eliminating hunger, nor even of reduc-
ing poverty. The struggle against destitution, though urgent and
necessary, is not enough. It is a question, rather, of building a world
where every man, no matter what his race, religion or nationality,
can live a fully human life, freed from servitude imposed on him by
other men or by natural forces over which he has not sufﬁcient con-
trol; a world where freedom is not an empty word and where the
poor man Lazarus can sit down at the same table with the rich man.
This demands great generosity, much sacriﬁce and unceasing effort
on the part of the rich man. Let each one examine his conscience, a
conscience that conveys a new message for our times. Is he prepared
to support out of his own pocket works and undertakings organized
in favor of the most destitute? Is he ready to pay higher taxes so that
the public authorities can intensify their efforts in favor of develop-
ment? Is he ready to pay a higher price for imported goods so that
the producer may be more justly rewarded? Or to leave his country,
if necessary and if he is young, in order to assist in this development
of the young nations?
48. The same duty of solidarity that rests on individuals exists
also for nations: “Advanced nations have a very heavy obligation
to help the developing peoples.” It is necessary to put this teaching
of the Council into effect. Although it is normal that a nation
should be the first to benefit from the gifts that Providence has
bestowed on it as the fruit of the labors of its people, still no coun-
try can claim on that account to keep its wealth for itself alone.
Every nation must produce more and better quality goods to give
to all its inhabitants a truly human standard of living, and also to
contribute to the common development of the human race. Given
the increasing needs of the under-developed countries, it should be
considered quite normal for an advanced country to devote a part of
its production to meet their needs, and to train teachers, engineers,
technicians and scholars prepared to put their knowledge and their
skill at the disposal of less fortunate peoples.
…
52. There is certainly no need to do away with bilateral and multi-
lateral agreements: they allow ties of dependence and feelings of
bitterness, left over from the era of colonialism, to yield place to the
happier relationship of friendship, based on a footing of constitu-
tional and political equality. However, if they were to be ﬁtted into
B A U M
88

the framework of worldwide collaboration, they would be beyond
all suspicion, and as a result there would be less distrust on the part
of the receiving nations. These would have less cause for fearing
that, under the cloak of ﬁnancial aid or technical assistance, there
lurk certain manifestations of what has come to be called neo-
colonialism, in the form of political pressures and economic
suzerainty aimed at maintaining or acquiring complete dominance.
…
57. Of course, highly industrialized nations export for the most part
manufactured goods, while countries with less developed economies
have only food, ﬁbers and other raw materials to sell. As a result of
technical progress the value of manufactured goods is rapidly
increasing and they can always ﬁnd an adequate market. On the
other hand, raw materials produced by under-developed countries
are subject to wide and sudden ﬂuctuations in price, a state of affairs
far removed from the progressively increasing value of industrial
products. As a result, nations whose industrialization is limited are
faced with serious difficulties when they have to rely on their
exports to balance their economy and to carry out their plans for
development. The poor nations remain ever poor while the rich ones
become still richer.
58. In other words, the rule of free trade, taken by itself, is no
longer able to govern international relations. Its advantages are
certainly evident when the parties involved are not affected by any
excessive inequalities of economic power: it is an incentive to
progress and a reward for effort. That is why industrially developed
countries see in it a law of justice. But the situation is no longer the
same when economic conditions differ too widely from country to
country: prices which are “freely” set in the market can produce
unfair results. One must recognize that it is the fundamental prin-
ciple of liberalism, as the rule for commercial exchange, which is
questioned here.
59. The teaching of Leo xiii in Rerum Novarum is always valid: if
the positions of the contracting parties are too unequal, the consent
of the parties does not sufﬁce to guarantee the justice of their con-
tract, and the rule of free agreement remains subservient to the
demands of the natural law. What was true of the just wage for the
individual is also true of international contracts: an economy of
exchange can no longer be based solely on the law of free com-
petition, a law which, in its turn, too often creates an eco-
nomic dictatorship. Freedom of trade is fair only if it is subject
to the demands of social justice.
…
71. We are happy that experts are being sent in larger and larger
numbers on development missions by institutions, whether inter-
national or bilateral, or by private organizations: “they ought not
conduct themselves in a lordly fashion, but as helpers and
S O L I D A R I T Y
W I T H
T H E
P O O R
89

co-workers.” A people quickly perceives whether those who
come to help them do so with or without affection, whether
they come merely to apply their techniques or to recognize in
man his full value.
Their message is in danger of being rejected if it is not presented
in the context of brotherly love.
72. Hence, necessary technical competence must be accompanied
by authentic signs of disinterested love. Freed of all nationalistic
pride and of every appearance of racism, experts should learn how to
work in close collaboration with all. They realize that their com-
petence does not confer on them a superiority in every ﬁeld.
The civilization which formed them contains, without doubt,
elements of universal humanism, but it is not the only civi-
lization nor does it enjoy a monopoly of valuable elements.
Moreover it cannot be imported without undergoing adapta-
tions. The men on these missions will be intent on discovering,
along with its history, the component elements of the cultural
riches of the country receiving them. Mutual understanding will be
established which will enrich both cultures.
…
76. Excessive economic, social and cultural inequalities among peo-
ples arouse tensions and conﬂicts, and are a danger to peace. As We
said to the Fathers of the Council when We returned from Our jour-
ney of peace to the United Nations: “The condition of the peoples
in process of development ought to be the object of our considera-
tion; or better: our charity for the poor in the world — and there
are multitudes of them — must become more considerate, more
active, more generous.” To wage war on misery and to struggle
against injustice is to promote, along with improved conditions,
the human and spiritual progress of all men, and therefore the com-
mon good of humanity. Peace cannot be limited to a mere
absence of war, the result of an ever precarious balance of
forces. No, peace is something that is built up day after day, in
the pursuit of an order intended by God, which implies a
more perfect form of justice among men.
Excerpts from “Sollicitudo Rei Socialis”12
Encyclical letter of the Supreme Pontiff John Paul ii, promulgated in
1987 on the 20th anniversary of “Populorum Progressio”
9. … Unfortunately, from the economic point of view, the develop-
ing countries are much more numerous than the developed ones;
the multitudes of human beings who lack the goods and services
B A U M
90
12 Original footnotes omitted. Emphasis in the original (italics) and added by the
author (bold).

offered by development are much more numerous than those who pos-
sess them.
We are therefore faced with a serious problem of unequal distrib-
ution of the means of subsistence originally meant for everybody,
and thus also an unequal distribution of the beneﬁts deriving from
them. And this happens not through the fault of the needy people,
and even less through a sort of inevitability dependent on natural
conditions or circumstances as a whole.
The Encyclical of Paul vi, in declaring that the social question
has acquired worldwide dimensions, ﬁrst of all points out a moral
fact, one which has its foundation in an objective analysis of reality.
In the words of the Encyclical itself, “each one must be conscious”
of this fact, precisely because it directly concerns the conscience,
which is the source of moral decisions.
In this framework, the originality of the Encyclical consists not
so much in the afﬁrmation, historical in character, of the universal-
ity of the social question, but rather in the moral evaluation of this
reality. Therefore political leaders, and citizens of rich coun-
tries considered as individuals, especially if they are Chris-
tians, have the moral obligation, according to the degree of
each one’s responsibility, to take into consideration, in personal
decisions and decisions of government, this relationship of
universality, this interdependence which exists between their
conduct and the poverty and underdevelopment of so many
millions of people. Pope Paul’s Encyclical translates more suc-
cinctly the moral obligation as the “duty of solidarity”; and this
affirmation, even though many situations have changed in the
world, has the same force and validity today as when it was written.
On the other hand, without departing from the lines of this
moral vision, the originality of the Encyclical also consists in the
basic insight that the very concept of development, if considered in
the perspective of universal interdependence, changes notably. True
development cannot consist in the simple accumulation of
wealth and in the greater availability of goods and services, if
this is gained at the expense of the development of the masses,
and without due consideration for the social, cultural and
spiritual dimensions of the human being.
…
15. … We should add here that in today’s world there are many
other forms of poverty. For are there not certain privations or depriva-
tions which deserve this name? The denial or the limitation of
human rights as for example the right to religious freedom, the
right to share in the building of society, the freedom to organize and
to form unions, or to take initiatives in economic matters — do
these not impoverish the human person as much as, if not more
than, the deprivation of material goods? And is development which
S O L I D A R I T Y
W I T H
T H E
P O O R
91

does not take into account the full afﬁrmation of these rights really
development on the human level?
In brief, modern underdevelopment is not only economic but
also cultural, political and simply human, as was indicated twenty
years ago by the Encyclical Populorum Progressio. Hence at this
point we have to ask ourselves if the sad reality of today might
not be, at least in part, the result of a too narrow idea of devel-
opment, that is, a mainly economic one.
16. It should be noted that in spite of the praiseworthy efforts made
in the last two decades by the more developed or developing nations
and the International Organizations to ﬁnd a way out of the situa-
tion, or at least to remedy some of its symptoms, the conditions
have become notably worse.
Responsibility for this deterioration is due to various causes.
Notable among them are undoubtedly grave instances of omissions
on the part of the developing nations themselves, and especially on
the part of those holding economic and political power. Nor can we
pretend not to see the responsibility of the developed nations,
which have not always, at least in due measure, felt the duty to help
countries separated from the afﬂuent world to which they them-
selves belong.
Moreover, one must denounce the existence of economic,
financial and social mechanisms which, although they are
manipulated by people, often function almost automatically,
thus accentuating the situation of wealth for some and
poverty for the rest. These mechanisms, which are manoeu-
vred directly or indirectly by the more developed countries, by
their very functioning favor the interests of the people manip-
ulating them. But in the end they suffocate or condition the
economies of the less developed countries. Later on these mecha-
nisms will have to be subjected to a careful analysis under the
ethical–moral aspect.
Populorum Progressio already foresaw the possibility that under
such systems the wealth of the rich would increase and the poverty
of the poor would remain. A proof of this forecast has been the
appearance of the so-called Fourth World.
…
28. At the same time, however, the “economic” concept itself, linked
to the word development, has entered into crisis. In fact there is a
better understanding today that the mere accumulation of goods and
services, even for the beneﬁt of the majority, is not enough for the
realization of human happiness. Nor, in consequence, does the avail-
ability of the many real beneﬁts provided in recent times by science
and technology, including the computer sciences, bring freedom
from every form of slavery. On the contrary, the experience of
recent years shows that unless all the considerable body of
resources and potential at man’s disposal is guided by a moral
B A U M
92

understanding and by an orientation towards the true good of
the human race, it easily turns against man to oppress him.
A disconcerting conclusion about the most recent period should
serve to enlighten us: side-by-side with the miseries of under-
development, themselves unacceptable, we ﬁnd ourselves up
against a form of superdevelopment, equally inadmissible,
because like the former it is contrary to what is good and to
true happiness. This superdevelopment, which consists in an
excessive availability of every kind of material goods for the. bene-
ﬁt of certain social groups, easily makes people slaves of “posses-
sion” and of immediate gratiﬁcation, with no other horizon than the
multiplication or continual replacement of the things already
owned with others still better. This is the so-called civilization of
“consumption” or “consumerism,” which involves so much “throwing-
away” and “waste.” An object already owned but now superseded by
something better is discarded, with no thought of its possible last-
ing value in itself, nor of some other human being who is poorer.
All of us experience ﬁrsthand the sad effects of this blind sub-
mission to pure consumerism: in the ﬁrst place a crass materialism,
and at the same time a radical dissatisfaction, because one quickly
learns unless one is shielded from the ﬂood of publicity and the
ceaseless and tempting offers of products that the more one
possesses the more one wants, while deeper aspirations remain
unsatisﬁed and perhaps even stiﬂed.
The Encyclical of Pope Paul vi pointed out the difference, so
often emphasized today, between “having” and “being,” which had
been expressed earlier in precise words by the Second Vatican Coun-
cil. To “have” objects and goods does not in itself perfect the human
subject, unless it contributes to the maturing and enrichment of
that subject’s “being,” that is to say unless it contributes to the real-
ization of the human vocation as such.
Of course, the difference between “being” and “having,” the
danger inherent in a mere multiplication or replacement of things
possessed compared to the value of “being,” need not turn into a
contradiction. One of the greatest injustices in the contemporary
world consists precisely in this: that the ones who possess much are
relatively few and those who possess almost nothing are many. It is
the injustice of the poor distribution of the goods and services orig-
inally intended for all.
This then is the picture: there are some people — the few
who possess much — who do not really succeed in “being”
because, through a reversal of the hierarchy of values, they are
hindered by the cult of “having”; and there are others — the
many who have little or nothing — who do not succeed in
realizing their basic human vocation because they are
deprived of essential goods.
The evil does not consist in “having” as such, but in possess-
ing without regard for the quality and the ordered hierarchy of
the goods one has. Quality and hierarchy arise from the
S O L I D A R I T Y
W I T H
T H E
P O O R
93

subordination of goods and their availability to man’s “being”
and his true vocation.
This shows that although development has a necessary economic
dimension, since it must supply the greatest possible number of the
world’s inhabitants with an availability of goods essential for them
“to be,” it is not limited to that dimension. If it is limited to this,
then it turns against those whom it is meant to beneﬁt.
The characteristics of full development, one which is “more
human” and able to sustain itself at the level of the true vocation of
men and women without denying economic requirements, were
described by Paul vi.
29. Development which is not only economic must be measured
and oriented according to the reality and vocation of man seen in
his totality, namely, according to his interior dimension. There is no
doubt that he needs created goods and the products of industry,
which is constantly being enriched by scientiﬁc and technological
progress. And the ever greater availability of material goods not
only meets needs but also opens new horizons. The danger of the
misuse of material goods and the appearance of artificial needs
should in no way hinder the regard we have for the new goods and
resources placed at our disposal and the use we make of them. On
the contrary, we must see them as a gift from God and as a response
to the human vocation, which is fully realized in Christ.
…
32. … Collaboration in the development of the whole person and of
every human being is in fact a duty of all towards all, and must be
shared by the four parts of the world: East and West, North and
South; or, as we say today, by the different “worlds.” If, on the con-
trary, people try to achieve it in only one part, or in only one world,
they do so at the expense of the others; and, precisely because the
others are ignored, their own development becomes exaggerated
and misdirected.
Peoples or nations too have a right to their own full devel-
opment, which while including as already said the economic
and social aspects should also include individual cultural
identity and openness to the transcendent. Not even the need
for development can be used as an excuse for imposing on
others one’s own way of life or own religious belief.
33. Nor would a type of development which did not respect and
promote human rights — personal and social, economic and politi-
cal, including the rights of nations and of peoples — be really worthy of
man.
Today, perhaps more than in the past, the intrinsic contradiction of
a development limited only to its economic element is seen more
clearly. Such development easily subjects the human person and his
B A U M
94

deepest needs to the demands of economic planning and selfish
proﬁt.
The intrinsic connection between authentic development and
respect for human rights once again reveals the moral character of
development: the true elevation of man, in conformity with the
natural and historical vocation of each individual, is not attained
only by exploiting the abundance of goods and services, or by hav-
ing available perfect infrastructures.
When individuals and communities do not see a rigorous
respect for the moral, cultural and spiritual requirements, based on
the dignity of the person and on the proper identity of each com-
munity, beginning with the family and religious societies, then all
the rest — availability of goods, abundance of technical resources
applied to daily life, a certain level of material well-being — will
prove unsatisfying and in the end contemptible. The Lord clearly
says this in the Gospel, when he calls the attention of all to the true
hierarchy of values: “For what will it proﬁt a man, if he gains the
whole world and forfeits his life?” (Mt 16:26).
True development, in keeping with the specific needs of the
human being man or woman, child, adult or old person implies,
especially for those who actively share in this process and are
responsible for it, a lively awareness of the value of the rights of all
and of each person. It likewise implies a lively awareness of the need
to respect the right of every individual to the full use of the bene-
ﬁts offered by science and technology.
On the internal level of every nation, respect for all rights takes
on great importance, especially: the right to life at every stage of its
existence; the rights of the family, as the basic social community, or
“cell of society”; justice in employment relationships; the rights
inherent in the life of the political community as such; the rights
based on the transcendent vocation of the human being, beginning
with the right of freedom to profess and practice one’s own religious
belief.
…
In order to be genuine, development must be achieved within the
framework of solidarity and freedom, without ever sacriﬁcing either of
them under whatever pretext. The moral character of development
and its necessary promotion are emphasized when the most rigorous
respect is given to all the demands deriving from the order of truth
and good proper to the human person. Furthermore the Christian
who is taught to see that man is the image of God, called to share
in the truth and the good which is God himself, does not understand
a commitment to development and its application which excludes
regard and respect for the unique dignity of this “image.” In other
words, true development must be based on the love of God and neigh-
bor, and must help to promote the relationships between individuals
S O L I D A R I T Y
W I T H
T H E
P O O R
95

and society. This is the “civilization of love” of which Paul vi often
spoke.
34. Nor can the moral character of development exclude respect for
the beings which constitute the natural world, which the ancient
Greeks — alluding precisely to the order which distinguishes it —
called the “cosmos.” Such realities also demand respect, by virtue of
a threefold consideration which it is useful to reﬂect upon carefully.
The ﬁrst consideration is the appropriateness of acquiring
a growing awareness of the fact that one cannot use with
impunity the different categories of beings, whether living or
inanimate — animals, plants, the natural elements — simply
as one wishes, according to one’s own economic needs. On the
contrary, one must take into account the nature of each being and of its
mutual connection in an ordered system, which is precisely the
“cosmos.”
The second consideration is based on the realization which
is perhaps more urgent that natural resources are limited;
some are not, as it is said, renewable. Using them as if they were
inexhaustible, with absolute dominion, seriously endangers their
availability not only for the present generation but above all for
generations to come.
The third consideration refers directly to the consequences of a cer-
tain type of development on the quality of life in the industrialized
zones. We all know that the direct or indirect result of indus-
trialization is, ever more frequently, the pollution of the envi-
ronment, with serious consequences for the health of the
population.
Once again it is evident that development, the planning which
governs it, and the way in which resources are used must include
respect for moral demands. One of the latter undoubtedly imposes
limits on the use of the natural world. The dominion granted to
man by the Creator is not an absolute power, nor can one speak of a
freedom to “use and misuse,” or to dispose of things as one pleases.
The limitation imposed from the beginning by the Creator himself
and expressed symbolically by the prohibition not to “eat of the
fruit of the tree” (cf. Gen 2:16–17) shows clearly enough that, when
it comes to the natural world, we are subject not only to biological
laws but also to moral ones, which cannot be violated with
impunity.
…
37. This general analysis, which is religious in nature, can be sup-
plemented by a number of particular considerations to demonstrate that
among the actions and attitudes opposed to the will of God, the
good of neighbor and the “structures” created by them, two are very
typical: on the one hand, the all-consuming desire for proﬁt, and
on the other, the thirst for power, with the intention of imposing
one’s will upon others. In order to characterize better each of these
attitudes, one can add the expression: “at any price.” In other words,
we are faced with the absolutizing of human attitudes with all its
B A U M
96

possible consequences. Since these attitudes can exist independently
of each other, they can be separated; however in today’s world both
are indissolubly united, with one or the other predominating.
Obviously, not only individuals fall victim to this double atti-
tude of sin; nations and blocs can do so too. And this favors even
more the introduction of the “structures of sin” of which I have spo-
ken. If certain forms of modern “imperialism” were consid-
ered in the light of these moral criteria, we would see that
hidden behind certain decisions, apparently inspired only by
economics or politics, are real forms of idolatry: of money,
ideology, class, technology.
I have wished to introduce this type of analysis above all in order
to point out the true nature of the evil which faces us with respect
to the development of peoples: it is a question of a moral evil, the
fruit of many sins which lead to “structures of sin.” To diagnose the
evil in this way is to identify precisely, on the level of human con-
duct, the path to be followed in order to overcome it.
38. … In the context of these reﬂections the decision to set out or
to continue the journey involves, above all, a moral value which men
and women of faith recognize as a demand of God’s will, the only
true foundation of an absolutely binding ethic.
One would hope that also men and women without an explicit
faith would be convinced that the obstacles to integral development
are not only economic but rest on more profound attitudes which
human beings can make into absolute values. Thus one would
hope that all those who, to some degree or other, are respon-
sible for ensuring a “more human life” for their fellow human
beings, whether or not they are inspired by a religious faith,
will become fully aware of the urgent need to change the spir-
itual attitudes which define each individual’s relationship
with self, with neighbor, with even the remotest human com-
munities, and with nature itself; and all of this in view of
higher values such as the common good or, to quote the felicitous
expression of the Encyclical Populorum Progressio, the full devel-
opment “of the whole individual and of all people.”
…
It is above all a question of interdependence, sensed as a system deter-
mining relationships in the contemporary world, in its economic,
cultural, political and religious elements, and accepted as a moral
category. When interdependence becomes recognized in this way, the
correlative response as a moral and social attitude, as a “virtue,” is
solidarity. This then is not a feeling of vague compassion or shallow
distress at the misfortunes of so many people, both near and far. On
the contrary, it is a ﬁrm and persevering determination to commit one-
self to the common good; that is to say to the good of all and of each
individual, because we are all really responsible for all. This deter-
mination is based on the solid conviction that what is hindering full
development is that desire for profit and that thirst for power
already mentioned. These attitudes and “structures of sin” are only
S O L I D A R I T Y
W I T H
T H E
P O O R
97

conquered — presupposing the help of divine grace — by a diamet-
rically opposed attitude: a commitment to the good of one’s neighbor
with the readiness, in the Gospel sense, to “lose oneself” for the sake
of the other instead of exploiting him, and to “serve him” instead of
oppressing him for one’s own advantage (cf. Mt 10:40–42; 20:25;
Mk 10:42–45; Lk 22:25–27).
39. The exercise of solidarity within each society is valid when its
members recognize one another as persons. Those who are more
inﬂuential, because they have a greater share of goods and common
services, should feel responsible for the weaker and be ready to share
with them all they possess. Those who are weaker, for their part, in
the same spirit of solidarity, should not adopt a purely passive
attitude or one that is destructive of the social fabric, but, while
claiming their legitimate rights, should do what they can for the
good of all. The intermediate groups, in their turn, should not self-
ishly insist on their particular interests, but respect the interests of
others.
Positive signs in the contemporary world are the growing
awareness of the solidarity of the poor among themselves,
their efforts to support one another, and their public demonstra-
tions on the social scene which, without recourse to violence,
present their own needs and rights in the face of the inefﬁ-
ciency or corruption of the public authorities. By virtue of her
own evangelical duty the Church feels called to take her stand
beside the poor, to discern the justice of their requests, and to help
satisfy them, without losing sight of the good of groups in the con-
text of the common good.
The same criterion is applied by analogy in international rela-
tionships. Interdependence must be transformed into solidar-
ity, based upon the principle that the goods of creation are
meant for all. That which human industry produces through the
processing of raw materials, with the contribution of work, must
serve equally for the good of all.
Surmounting every type of imperialism and determination to pre-
serve their own hegemony, the stronger and richer nations must have
a sense of moral responsibility for the other nations, so that a real
international system may be established which will rest on the foun-
dation of the equality of all peoples and on the necessary respect for
their legitimate differences. The economically weaker countries, or
those still at subsistence level, must be enabled, with the assistance
of other peoples and of the international community, to make a con-
tribution of their own to the common good with their treasures of
humanity and culture, which otherwise would be lost for ever.
Solidarity helps us to see the “other” — whether a person, people or
nation — not just as some kind of instrument, with a work capac-
ity and physical strength to be exploited at low cost and then dis-
carded when no longer useful, but as our “neighbor,” a “helper” (cf.
Gen 2:18–20), to be made a sharer, on a par with ourselves, in the
banquet of life to which all are equally invited by God. Hence the
B A U M
98

importance of reawakening the religious awareness of individuals and
peoples.
Thus the exploitation, oppression and annihilation of others are
excluded. These facts, in the present division of the world into
opposing blocs, combine to produce the danger of war and an exces-
sive preoccupation with personal security, often to the detriment of
the autonomy, freedom of decision, and even the territorial integrity
of the weaker nations situated within the so-called “areas of inﬂu-
ence” or “safety belts.”
…
In this way, the solidarity which we propose is the path to
peace and at the same time to development. For world peace is
inconceivable unless the world’s leaders come to recognize that
interdependence in itself demands the abandonment of the politics of
blocs, the sacriﬁce of all forms of economic, military or political
imperialism, and the transformation of mutual distrust into collab-
oration. This is precisely the act proper to solidarity among individu-
als and nations.
The motto of the pontiﬁcate of my esteemed predecessor Pius
xii was Opus iustitiae pax, peace as the fruit of justice. Today one
could say, with the same exactness and the same power of biblical
inspiration (cf. Is 32:17; Jas 3:18): Opus solidaritatis pax, peace as
the fruit of solidarity.
The goal of peace, so desired by everyone, will certainly be
achieved through the putting into effect of social and international
justice, but also through the practice of the virtues which favor
togetherness, and which teach us to live in unity, so as to build in
unity, by giving and receiving, a new society and a better world.
…
42. Today more than in the past, the Church’s social doctrine must
be open to an international outlook, in line with the Second Vatican
Council, the most recent Encyclicals, and particularly in line with
the Encyclical which we are commemorating. It will not be super-
ﬂuous therefore to reexamine and further clarify in this light the
characteristic themes and guidelines dealt with by the Magisterium
in recent years.
Here I would like to indicate one of them: the option or love of
preference for the poor. This is an option, or a special form of pri-
macy in the exercise of Christian charity, to which the whole tradi-
tion of the Church bears witness. It affects the life of each Christian
inasmuch as he or she seeks to imitate the life of Christ, but it
applies equally to our social responsibilities and hence to our manner
of living, and to the logical decisions to be made concerning the
ownership and use of goods.
Today, furthermore, given the worldwide dimension which the
social question has assumed, this love of the preference for the poor,
and the decisions which it inspires in us, cannot but embrace the
immense multitudes of the hungry, the needy, the homeless, those
S O L I D A R I T Y
W I T H
T H E
P O O R
99

without medical care and, above all, those without hope of a better
future. It is impossible not to take account of the existence of these
realities. To ignore them would mean becoming like the “rich man”
who pretended not to know the beggar Lazarus lying at his gate (cf.
Lk 16:19-31). …
43. The motivating concern for the poor — who are, in the very
meaningful term, “the Lord’s poor” — must be translated at all lev-
els into concrete actions, until it decisively attains a series of neces-
sary reforms. Each local situation will show what reforms are most
urgent and how they can be achieved. But those demanded by the
situation of international imbalance, as already described, must not
be forgotten.
In this respect I wish to mention speciﬁcally: the reform of the
international trade system, which is mortgaged to protection-
ism and increasing bilateralism; the reform of the world mone-
tary and ﬁnancial system, today recognized as inadequate; the
question of technological exchanges and their proper use; the
need for a review of the structure of the existing International
Organizations, in the framework of an international juridical
order.
The international trade system today frequently discriminates
against the products of the young industries of the developing
countries and discourages the producers of raw materials. There
exists, too, a kind of international division of labor, whereby the low-
cost products of certain countries which lack effective labor laws or
which are too weak to apply them are sold in other parts of the
world at considerable proﬁt for the companies engaged in this form
of production, which knows no frontiers.
The world monetary and ﬁnancial system is marked by an excessive
ﬂuctuation of exchange rates and interest rates, to the detriment of
the balance of payments and the debt situation of the poorer
countries.
Forms of technology and their transfer constitute today one of the
major problems of international exchange and of the grave damage
deriving therefrom. There are quite frequent cases of developing
countries being denied needed forms of technology or sent useless
ones.
In the opinion of many, the International Organizations seem to be
at a stage of their existence when their operating methods, operat-
ing costs and effectiveness need careful review and possible correc-
tion. Obviously, such a delicate process cannot be put into effect
without the collaboration of all. This presupposes the overcoming
of political rivalries and the renouncing of all desire to manipulate
these Organizations, which exist solely for the common good.
…
44. Development demands above all a spirit of initiative on
the part of the countries which need it. Each of them must act
in accordance with its own responsibilities, not expecting everything
from the more favored countries, and acting in collaboration with
B A U M
100

others in the same situation. Each must discover and use to the best
advantage its own area of freedom. Each must make itself capable of
initiatives responding to its own needs as a society. Each must like-
wise realize its true needs as well as the rights and duties which
oblige it to respond to them. The development of peoples begins
and is most appropriately accomplished in the dedication of each
people to its own development, in collaboration with others.
…
In order to take this path, the nations themselves will have to identify
their own priorities and clearly recognize their own needs, according
to the particular conditions of their people, their geographical set-
tling and their cultural traditions.
…
45. … An essential condition for global solidarity is autonomy and
free self-determination, also within associations such as those indi-
cated. But at the same time solidarity demands a readiness to accept
the sacriﬁces necessary for the good of the whole world community.
46. Peoples and individuals aspire to be free: their search for full
development signals their desire to overcome the many obstacles
preventing them from enjoying a “more human life.”
Recently, in the period following the publication of the Encycli-
cal Populorum Progressio, a new way of confronting the problems
of poverty and underdevelopment has spread in some areas of the
world, especially in Latin America. This approach makes liberation
the fundamental category and the ﬁrst principle of action. The pos-
itive values, as well as the deviations and risks of deviation, which
are damaging to the faith and are connected with this form of the-
ological reﬂection and method, have been appropriately pointed out
by the Church’s Magisterium.
It is ﬁtting to add that the aspiration to freedom from all forms
of slavery affecting the individual and society is something noble and
legitimate. This in fact is the purpose of development, or rather lib-
eration and development, taking into account the intimate connec-
tion between the two.
Development which is merely economic is incapable of
setting man free; on the contrary, it will end by enslaving him
further. Development that does not include the cultural, tran-
scendent and religious dimensions of man and society, to the
extent that it does not recognize the existence of such dimen-
sions and does not endeavor to direct its goals and priorities
towards the same, is even less conducive to authentic libera-
tion. Human beings are totally free only when they are
completely themselves, in the fullness of their rights and
duties. The same can be said about society as a whole.
S O L I D A R I T Y
W I T H
T H E
P O O R
101

Excerpt from “Justitia in Mundo”
World Synod of Bishops, Second General Assembly, 30 November 1971
71. (8) In order that the right to development may be fulﬁlled by
action:
(a) people should not be hindered from attaining development in
accordance with their own culture;
(b) through mutual cooperation, all peoples should be able to
become the principal architects of their own economic and social
development;
(c) every people, as active and responsible members of human soci-
ety, should be able to cooperate for the attainment of the common
good on an equal footing with other peoples.
REFERENCES
acb (American Catholic Bishops). 1984. Pastoral letter: economic justice for all.
Origins: National Catholic Documentary Service, 14(1884), 338–383.
acoun (Anglican Community Ofﬁce at the United Nations). 1996. A Christ-
ian response to the international debt crisis. Conference programme and
recommendations of the Round Table Conference, May 16–17, 1996.
acoun, New York, ny, usa. 13 pp.
Baum, G. 1998. Sciences sociales et option pour les pauvres. Relations, Mar,
pp. 46–49.
Bellah, R. 1970. Beyond belief. Harper and Row, New York, ny, usa. 298 pp.
Berger, P. 1966. The sacred canopy: elements of a sociological theory of religion.
Doubleday, Garden City, ny, usa. 230 pp.
Drache, D. 1995. Celebrating Innis: the man, the legacy, our future. In D.
Drache, ed., Harold Innis: staples, markets and cultural change.
McGill–Queen’s University Press, Montréal, pq, Canada. pp. xiii–liii.
eca (Economic Commission for Africa). 1989. African alternative framework to
structural adjustment programmes for socio-economic recovery and trans-
formation. eca, Addis Ababa. un Ref. No. e/eca/cm.15/6/Rev.3.
Fabella, V. 1997. Ecumenical Association of Third World Theologians
(eatwot). In Dictionary of mission. Orbis Books, Maryknoll, ny, usa. pp.
117–120.
George, S. 1976. How the other half dies: the real reasons for world hunger.
Penguin Books, New York, ny, usa. 352 pp.
Goulet, D. 1971. The cruel choice: a new concept in the theory of development.
Athenaeum, New York, ny, usa. 362 pp.
Gutierrez, G. 1973. A theology of liberation. Orbis Books, Maryknoll, ny, usa.
323 pp.
Habermas, J. 1971 [1968]. Knowledge and human interest. Beacon Press,
Boston, ma, usa. 256 pp.
Hargreaves, J. 1975. Sport, power and culture. St Martin’s Press, New York, ny,
usa. 258 pp.
John Paul ii. 1987. Sollicitudo rei socialis. Libreria Editrice Vaticana, Vatican
City, Italy. 102 pp.
B A U M
102

lab (Latin American Bishops). 1968. Medellin documents: justice, peace, fam-
ily and demography, poverty of the Church. In Gremillion, J., presenter,
The gospel of peace and justice. Orbis Books, Maryknoll, ny, usa.
pp. 445–476.
Lebret, L.-J. 1959. Pour une civilisation solidaire. Les Éditions Ouvrières, Paris,
France. 141 pp.
Lopez, D. 1995. Curators of Buddha: the study of Buddhisms under colonial-
ism. University of Chicago Press, Chicago, il, usa. 298 pp.
Malley, F. 1968. Le Père Lebret : l’économie au service des hommes. Les Éditions
du Cerf, Paris, France. 254 pp.
Mannheim, K. 1936 [1928]. Ideology and utopia. Harcourt, Brace and Co.,
New York, ny, usa. 319 pp.
Martin, H.-P.; Schumann, H. 1997. The global trap: globalization and the
assault on democracy and prosperity. Black Rose, Montréal, pq, Canada.
269 pp.
Mihevc, J. n.d. The market tells them so: the World Bank and economic fun-
damentalism in Africa. Zed Books, London, uk. 320 pp.
O’Brien, D.; Shannon, T., ed. 1992. Catholic social thought: the documentary
heritage. Orbis Books, Maryknoll, ny, usa. 668 pp.
Orbis Books. 1997. Dictionary of mission. Orbis Books, Maryknoll, ny, usa.
518 pp.
Paul vi. 1967. Populorum progressio: on the development of peoples. In
Gremillion, J., presenter, The gospel of peace and justice. Orbis Books,
Maryknoll, ny, usa. pp. 387–415. Internet: listserv.american.edu/
catholic/church/papal/paul.vi/p6popp.txt
Rostow, W.W. 1960. The stages of economic growth: a non-communist mani-
festo. University Press, Cambridge, uk. 178 pp.
Said, E. 1978. Orientalism. Pantheon Books, New York, ny, usa. 368 pp.
sbsga (Synod of Bishops, Second General Assembly). 1971. Justitia in mundo:
justice in the world. In Gremillion, J., presenter, The gospel of peace and
justice. Orbis Books, Maryknoll, ny, usa. pp. 513–529.
Scheler, M. 1980 [1924]. Problems of the sociology of knowledge. Routledge
and Kegan Paul, London, uk. 239 pp.
Serageldin, I.; Barrett, R., ed. 1996. Ethics and spiritual values: promoting
environmentally sustainable development. International Bank for Recon-
struction and Development–World Bank, Washington, dc, usa. Environ-
mentally Sustainable Development Proceedings Series, No. 12. 54 pp.
United Nations. 1995. Our global neighborhood. Oxford University Press,
New York, ny, usa. 410 pp.
Wolfensohn, J. 1996. New partnerships. In Serageldin, I.; Barrett, R., ed.,
Ethics and spiritual values: promoting environmentally sustainable devel-
opment. International Bank for Reconstruction and Development–World
Bank, Washington, dc, usa. Environmentally Sustainable Development
Proceedings Series, No. 12. p. 1.
S O L I D A R I T Y
W I T H
T H E
P O O R
103

This page intentionally left blank

C H A P T E R  3
Rediscovering the
Resources of
Religion
A z i z a n  B a h a r u d d i n
INTRODUCTION
The era of independence in the South has been characterized by decades
of “development.” Lessons learned, especially in recent years, make it
timely for the developing world to take stock of its accomplishments
and mistakes. Costs of advances in science and technology (s&t) are
steadily mounting, and the ideals of scientiﬁc progress are not without
their ﬂaws (Sardar 1988). The dramatic and lopsided impact of rapid
change, together with the disruptions of traditional values, requires the
South to reevaluate the meaning of “progress.” Technology, research
processes, and entire patterns of economic structuring have been trans-
planted and adopted from the West. The intelligentsia of the South is
increasingly realizing that it has derived its definition of modernity
from values implicit in s&t and that these are largely products of one
civilization’s worldview and historical experience. Many are beginning
to see that for true development to occur, material progress must be
accompanied by, and pursued in accordance with, intangible, yet essen-
tial, human and moral values (Sardar 1988).
As in other disciplines, the discourse on development has been
highly compartmentalized. This results from a reductionistic frame of
mind that prevents the individual from transcending narrow, often jeal-
ously guarded, boundaries of thought or academic territories and
achieving comprehensive solutions. Compartmentalization characterizes
105

much of the modern approach to the various dimensions of life (Capra
1985); it is common to consider human activities, such as commerce,
education, art, politics, and religion, as separate spheres. The result is
that human beings are not thinking and perceiving, and thereby acting
and living, in holistic or healthy ways. The dichotomy between scien-
tific knowledge and religious values has also separated development
from religion and spirituality. Within the development ﬁeld itself, the
dichotomy between theory and practice has put “people-centred” devel-
opment — loudly touted of late — in danger of becoming a cliché
(undp 1997).
One might suggest that the mind-set of this compartmentalizing
and reductionistic approach to living contributes to the problems mul-
tiplying all over the world.1 To ensure human progress, and perhaps
even survival, we must integrate the various spheres of knowledge and
endeavour. Intellectual investigation must be joined with a range of dis-
courses articulating human meaning; development, then, would be the
product of both science and values. Religion is a fundamental source of
ancient wisdom and values; its insights, tested over generations, can
galvanize large numbers of people to act on the promptings of their
highest ideals and from the centre of their sense of self and community.
But from which perspective should one reﬂect and speak on the
interrelated themes of science, religion, and development (srd) — from
that of an academician, politician, scientist, or theologian? Each view-
point has valuable contributions to make but can only speak in a certain
context and in limited ways about particular aspects of development.
No one perspective presents the entire picture. Thus, despite our best
intentions, as soon as we attempt to enter into the question of how the
ﬁelds of srd should be related, we immediately encounter the problem
of the compartmentalization of knowledge. Among the resulting set of
problems, and not the least of them, is the challenge of convincing peo-
ple from various sectors to work toward a common goal; to this should
be added the issue of dissimilar meanings assigned by various parties to
the same concepts. To clarify my understanding of these concepts, I will
start by making some general observations about srd; in these observa-
tions, I will identify various assumptions and questions that I feel need
to be addressed. I hope to show that experts working in any of the three
areas must not only transcend their own boundaries to incorporate con-
cepts and questions from the other components of the srd triangulation
but also reexamine old assumptions and try to see the precepts of their
respective fields as others do. It is perhaps not too impertinent to
B A H A R U D D I N
106
1 For example, Fritjof Capra (1985, pp. 118–119) described how the inﬂuence of the
Cartesian paradigm on medical thought resulted in the “biomedical model,” in which the
human body is conceptualized as a machine that can be analyzed in terms of its parts: “By
concentrating on smaller and smaller fragments of the body, modern medicine often loses
sight of the patient as a human being, and by reducing health to mechanical functioning,
it is no longer able to deal with the phenomenon of healing.”

suggest that it is especially important for agents of development, par-
ticularly governments and policymakers, to integrate elements of the
relevant ﬁelds into their thinking.
One must seriously ask whether the sharp separation of religion
from science and development is the result of weakness and lack of
clarity in efforts to apply religious awareness to real life issues. For
example, mosques used to be centres of learning and venues for the
discussion of politics and trade; today, they often serve only for daily
obligatory prayers, for which the congregational numbers are ever dwin-
dling. Several authors and commentators have indicated that the com-
ing millennium will see a kind of religious revival. But as John Naisbitt
and Patricia Aburdene (1990) pointed out in their book, Megatrends
2000, religiosity will not be the same as before. Individuals will want
to be in control of their own spirituality, instead of depending on per-
sons traditionally vested with religious authority. It is increasingly com-
mon that individuals desire to know the transcendent directly and to
experience its reality personally. It is not difﬁcult to see the connection
between this orientation and another trend observed by Naisbitt and
Aburdene: the ascendancy of the individual. In my initial remarks, I
will be touching brieﬂy on the need for a quiet but concrete revivalism
within the institutions of religion so that the traditional authorities
learn to be more democratic in their treatment of their ummah (or ﬂock).
My paper begins with general comments on science, religion, and
development, followed by a brief discussion of Islam and Islamic meta-
physics. I will attempt to tell my own story of how religion became
something real to me, despite my early training in science, with its
attendant sceptical and agnostic outlook. One of my main concerns will
be to share the perspective of a practicing believer. I want to persuade
the secular humanist and nonbeliever to consider the rationality of my
point of view, just as I am interested in, and try to empathize with, the
reasons for the unbeliever’s agnosticism. I feel that all the proponents of
a more just, humane form of development have a great need for genuine,
mutual empathy and acceptance. The fact of the matter is — and herein
lies the difﬁculty — we exist in a sea of cultural, philosophical, and reli-
gious plurality; indeed, the need for nonviolent modes of discourse, in
which our differences contribute to strength rather than fostering dis-
sension, is extremely urgent.
It is important for nonbelievers to see how and why believers think
as they do, if we are to open the door for religion to contribute to
R E D I S C O V E R I N G
T H E
R E S O U R C E S
O F
R E L I G I O N
107
The Qur’an says that God deliberately created human beings
into different races and tribes so that they might
get to know one another.
(Q 10:99 and Q 13:18, 29)



deliberations on science and development. The “reasons for religion”
must appeal to secular-humanist scientists and development practition-
ers. Many scientists, scholars, and philosophers — including
A.N. Whitehead (1985 [1925]) and Bertrand Russell (1976) — have
spoken of the need for convergence. For such a convergence to take
place, religion has to speak in a “language” that is intelligible to the sec-
ular humanist, including language derived from natural theology (the
understanding of religious beliefs in terms of empirical scientific
discourse) and the theology of nature (the understanding of religion by the
use of scientific facts obtained from nature). I have come to believe
strongly that science and religion are complementary ways of looking at
reality; we may often ascertain the real value of religious understanding
and increase its impact by coupling it with the way science understands
actual situations in life. I would like to share with others what the
endeavour to understand the complementarity between religious under-
standings and scientific findings might mean in terms of a new
cosmology.
In the section entitled “Islam,” I will turn my attention to a brief
explanation of what Islam can bring to srd discourse and the steps
already taken in this direction. From the outset, I reject any claims to
comprehensiveness; sufﬁce it to say that this is a new area of discourse,
even though researchers have called for the “Islamization of knowledge,”
especially science, since the early 1980s (see al-Faruqi and al-Faruqi
1986). Even earlier, in the 1960s, scholars such as S.H. Nasr (1968)
began to consider the ramiﬁcations of the loss of spirituality in modern
human beings.
In the past few decades, the Muslim world has been steadily
reawakening to an s&t that thrived during the 8th to 11th centuries
and was based on the worldview and ethics of Islam, and this has been
in no small measure a result of exposure to Western thinkers and modes
of life. People in the Muslim world are realizing that the signiﬁcance of
this legacy lies not merely in the recovery of the technological answers
of the past but also in the fact that it offers guidelines on how to incor-
porate values into current human efforts toward progress and develop-
ment. Muslims, especially Muslim scientists, are realizing that values
shared by scientists and nonscientists must determine the direction,
control, and purpose of s&t, as it is clear that no amount of technical
hardware can, of and by itself, resolve dilemmas that require moral
choice.
Muslim writers and scholars are recognizing that development is
not a ﬁxed package to be received in its entirety; they can draw on their
own distinctive perspectives and experience in history to shape moral
and ethical values to help guide the course of development. For
example, publications such as The Touch of Midas: Science, Values and the
Environment in Islam and the West (Sardar 1988) include articles on issues
related to science, values, and development in Islam. Muslim
B A H A R U D D I N
108

intellectuals are also entering into dialogue with others, earnestly trying
to alter the perceptions of those who see the awakening of Islamic
consciousness as nothing more than fundamentalist reaction and isola-
tion.In the words of a Muslim political leader, Muslims genuinely feel
that
if they are to control their destiny in the future, then they must ﬁnd
a way of expressing their moral being, according to their ethos whilst
at the same time still being able to be interdependent and inter-
connected with others as they live in one world with others and face
dilemmas and problems that understand no boundaries.
Sardar (1988, p. iv)
Muslims are acknowledging that bringing a diversity of viewpoints to
the debate can help everyone discern the essentials, allowing the most
basic and intransigent problems to be seen in a fresh light.
SCIENCE
It is often unclear to the creators of science (and even more so to the
consumers of s&t) that the impact of science is closely related to the
way one thinks about and approaches the world; worldviews are funda-
mentally linked to scientific research and the application of science.
“Science” as the method of obtaining data from nature through empiri-
cal observation may be neutral, but its purpose, direction, and application
are value laden. Two philosophies implicit in much of today’s “science”
are the following:
 Scientism — the hegemony of the modern scientiﬁc worldview
and modes of knowledge;2 and
 Reductionism — the principle that complex entities and systems
can be fully understood in terms of their isolated parts.
Scientism and reductionism are also linked to a mechanical picture
of the world. Newton based his work on the notion of a mechanistic uni-
verse, set in motion by a “clockmaker” God, who then left it to run on
its own via the operation of ﬁxed laws instituted into the body of the
universe.3 Given the incorporation of scientism and reductionism into
R E D I S C O V E R I N G
T H E
R E S O U R C E S
O F
R E L I G I O N
109
2 Also, it represents the belief that the methods used in studying natural sciences
should be employed in investigating all aspects of human behaviour and conditions, for
example, in philosophy and the social sciences.
3 This encouraged deism, or a belief in the existence of God that is based on reason
rather than on revelation. Deism is still widely prevalent today and, to my mind, is one
of the reasons behind religion’s loss of relevance, for it suggests that God is no longer
involved in the world (Brooke 1979). For a fuller treatment of this issue, see Lindberg
(1986).

modern life, it should not be surprising that these philosophies also
underlie the secular worldview. Willis Harman noted that this picture
of the universe and the approaches it gives rise to have been undeniably
useful:
The scientiﬁc view has been, in its way, outstandingly successful —
yielding both technological and predictive successes — and hence
has gained tremendous prestige. It has been broadly accepted as the
nearest we can come to a “true” picture of knowledge. But it is
nonetheless also true that the cosmos described by modern science
is devoid of meaning and largely lacks relationship to the profound
spiritual insight of thousands of years of human experience.
Harman (1988, p. 13)
Few would gainsay the accomplishments of reductionistic science.
For the purpose toward which it evolved — prediction, manipula-
tion and control of the physical environment — it is superb. The
issue is whether it needs to be complemented by another kind of
science that can deal more adequately with wholes, with living
organisms, and particularly with human consciousness.
Harman (1988, p. 16)
The physicist David Bohm supports this view and believes that
one’s way of thinking of the totality, that is, one’s general worldview, is
crucial to the overall operation of the mind itself. If we think of the
totality as comprising independent fragments, then that is how our
minds will tend to operate, and the products of our minds will tend to
reﬂect this assumption. If, however, we can see everything included in a
coherent and harmonious whole, then our minds will tend to move in a
similar way (Bohm 1981). Bohm disagreed with scientists who use
science as a mechanism simply to predict and control phenomena. As
Bertrand Russell explained, this is the attitude of those who become
interested in science only insofar as it provides power, ﬁrst to control
nature and then other human beings (Russell 1976).
Scientism inappropriately raises science and its methods to the
status of unquestionable truth, a hegemony that seems to have imposed
itself on development strategy and to have helped to create its current
inadequacies. Developmentalism — the belief that economic and even
human progress as a whole depends on an expanding consumer
society — derives from scientism. Developmentalism is the motivating
force behind the traditional model of development. It is “expressed in
such words as industrialisation, modernisation, consumerism, growth,
etc., and measured by monetary aggregates. Developmentalism deﬁnes
the principal social objectives of all countries as consumption and accu-
mulation” (Ekins 1992, pp. 204–205).
It is impossible to create a well-working society on the basis of
scientism, reductionism, and ultimately developmentalism — knowl-
edge bases that are “fundamentally inadequate, seriously incomplete,
and mistaken in basic assumptions” (Harman 1988, p. 20). Many
B A H A R U D D I N
110

sectors of society have come, or are coming, to the conclusion that the
global dilemmas we face stem from our modern picture of reality. Even
at the practical level, it can be shown that science itself is demanding a
new, holistic worldview, because the fragmentary view is fundamentally
ﬂawed and cannot adequately explain the complicated web of intercon-
nections among, for example, biology, physics, ecology, medicine, and
agriculture as manifested in the systemic problems our globe faces today
(Capra 1985).
We have to acquire a holistic, ecological worldview, and from this
reorientation will ﬂow the realignment of our economic and develop-
ment concepts. But the challenge is to ﬁnd the means to achieve this.
Scientist–philosophers, such as David Bohm, Fritjof Capra, and
Muhammad Iqbal, have pointed out that one way of articulating the
proper worldview is to consider a philosophy of nature or cosmology
that combines the religious and scientiﬁc perspectives on the universe.
DEVELOPMENT
In this section, I brieﬂy examine a few issues I feel are crucial to the
meaning of development. Writing from the perspective of their own
countries and experiences, ﬁgures like Aung San Suu Kyi (Nobel Peace
Prize laureate and head of the Burmese prodemocracy movement) have
highlighted the close interdependence of peace and development. Her
concerns centre around the uncertainty about the extent to which
democracy is indispensable for peace and therefore essential to human
development (Aung San Suu Kyi 1997).
The concept of indigenousness, or indigenous culture, is fre-
quently raised in discussions of democracy, and outsiders sometimes
give it too much credence. Culture indisputably provides fundamental
guidance and security, yet there is also ample evidence that some soci-
eties use “culture” as a pretext to resist calls for human rights and
democracy. Culture is normally defined as dynamic and flexible, but
when it is bent on serving narrow interests it becomes static and rigid:
exclusivity comes to the fore and culture assumes coercive overtones;
national culture can even become a bizarre graft of selected historical
facts and social norms, intended to justify the policies of those in power,
who insist on seeing development in the outmoded sense of simple eco-
nomic growth (Aung San Suu Kyi 1997). Aung San Suu Kyi argued
that it is not unknown for some governments to use the argument that
democracy is a Western concept, unacceptable in the context of indige-
nous values, or that democratic rights must be pushed aside for the sake
R E D I S C O V E R I N G
T H E
R E S O U R C E S
O F
R E L I G I O N
111

of economic development.4 What use is development in the materialis-
tic sense if, in the end, basic liberties have to be sacriﬁced at its altar?
Democracy and people’s empowerment must become an integral
component of any concept or strategy of development. Although every
democracy needs to acquire a character of its own, it is imperative that,
in each, people be sufﬁciently and truly empowered. National govern-
ments, Aung San Suu Kyi said, urgently need to find new ways to
empower their people. Otherwise, the people’s mounting aspirations
may clash with those of the ruling elite. The results of this clash may
ultimately serve as a setback to development (Aung San Suu Kyi 1997).
In Asia, it is widely believed that rapid economic transformation is most
likely to succeed in a context of peace, political stability, and public
order, rather than that of upheavals and turbulence. However, a real
danger is that this insight will be taken to mean that these ideals are not
valuable ends in themselves but are desirable only for facilitating eco-
nomic transformation. This is an example of how economic hegemony
can corrupt even the most basic requirements of civil life.
In many countries of the South, the record of development has
been unsatisfactory, and this has led to the search for the fuller meaning
of the term. Francis Perroux (1983), in his book A New Concept of Devel-
opment: Basic Tenets, stated that if development is taken to mean a growth
in awareness, intellectual capacity, personal development, and the free-
dom to fulﬁll one’s potential in accordance with one’s own values, then
not only has development not taken place but it has not even been
clearly perceived (Aung San Suu Kyi 1997). Even though international
economists and administrators, including the United Nations Develop-
ment Programme itself, are focusing on people’s participation, many
developing countries still see the market economy as the primary way
to make material progress. In such countries economic measures are
deemed to be all that is needed to resolve problems. Historical develop-
ments suggest that when economics is regarded as the most important
ingredient in a society’s life, human worth will gradually also be gauged
by nothing more than a person’s “effectiveness as an economic tool”
(Aung San Suu Kyi 1997, p. 2). Surely this is contrary to the idea that
economic structures, as well as social and political institutions, should
be the servants of humans rather than having humans serve their ide-
ologies (Aung San Suu Kyi 1997). In indigenous societies, for example,
many have lamented the breakdown of the old familiar and cohesive
B A H A R U D D I N
112
4 We also need to consider who has the power and how much power any sector should
have to determine the norms and deﬁnitions ultimately governing our lives. Bertrand
Russell (1976) remarked that when those in charge can even make the people say that the
sun is cold (because those who said otherwise would be liquidated), one wonders if Zeus
could have done any better! Again, in such societies, I hope that religion can play the dual
role of empowering the weak — for example, the negotiator and activist roles played by
some Christian groups in the Philippines — and making secular political leaders more
understanding and respectful of religious–spiritual sanctions.

social fabric; the decline in the spirit of voluntarism, courtesy, and man-
ners; and the rise in divorce rates, child abuse, baby-dumping, incest,
rape, and disrespect for elders and the inﬁrm. And yet, these manifesta-
tions of dissatisfaction, alienation, and greed only reflect changes in
social norms occurring in rapidly developing countries as people aban-
don — often without satisfactory alternatives — traditional ways of life
and adopt externally generated values and goals without examining
them carefully (Jeyaraj 1997a, b).
Leading development proponents must convince political leaders
in the South of the need for a paradigm shift, away from the economi-
cally oriented worldview currently dominant. Not surprisingly, many
leaders are unable to understand the need for this change: they have
been schooled in the old mechanistic–reductionistic way of thinking.
They ﬁnd the need for change difﬁcult to accept, let alone to act on.
Given this resistance, we may have to have more experts like Herman
Daly (1996) speak out; we require contributions from thinkers with
economic–scientiﬁc insights that are synthesized with religious values
into consistent and (if need be, controversial) well-thought-out theses
(Ryan 1998). The need is acute, for even among leaders aware of the
inadequacy of the materialist–scientiﬁc model there are many who fear
the political consequences of making political and social decisions relat-
ing to, for example, control of natural resources or the equitable distri-
bution of wealth and income (Ryan 1998).
Under these circumstances, it is in everyone’s interest to reexamine
the deﬁnitions of culture and development so that they are not used to
thwart basic democratic institutions, basic rights, and the fulﬁllment of
basic needs. In countries where religion is a strong actor in civil society
(for example, Buddhism in Thailand, Christianity in the Philippines, and
Islam in Malaysia), religious leaders and institutions should be brought
into the efforts to deal with this task to lend it credibility among the
people and within the government and to help ensure its success.
RELIGION
In my opinion, despite the growing interest in personal spirituality,
religion has for a long time suffered from a gradual decay in its inﬂu-
ence.5 A.N. Whitehead observed that religion in Western civilization
tends to degenerate into “a decent formula wherewith to embellish a
R E D I S C O V E R I N G
T H E
R E S O U R C E S
O F
R E L I G I O N
113
5 Many Muslims, for example, feel that it is no longer sufﬁcient that the imams or
ulama tell them what the Qur’an or God says. They want to read and, what is more impor-
tant, see the meaning of scripture for themselves. “Meaning” entails seeing the relevance
of the Qur’anic teachings in everyday experience — business, family and social situations,
the environment, and politics. Having seen this relevance, people would then automati-
cally “live religion out,” and it would be integrated into systems such as science and
development.

comfortable life” (1985 [1925], p. 233). I want to examine two reasons
for this decline: the inability of religion to deal with social and, in par-
ticular, scientiﬁc change; and the perception that the symbols and roles
assigned to religion are psychologically unsatisfying.
Religion and change
Like science, religion must be willing to respond to new data or changes
in human life. Religious ideas and interpretations can never be static
(Whitehead 1985 [1925]). No generation can merely reproduce the
interpretations of its ancestors; no society can live on borrowed faith.
Religious ideas, A.N. Whitehead suggested, can avoid fading away into
meaninglessness or outdated formulas if they are transformed by the
urge of critical reason, by the vivid evidence of universal experiences of
the emotions, and by the sureness of empirical — that is, scientiﬁc —
perception.
I take care to point out that neither I nor any of the scholars cited
here are suggesting that revelation be changed to adapt to new human
knowledge. The essential message, or shariah,6 of Islam does not change;
what needs to be modiﬁed periodically, even as it was done in the past,
is the human interpretation (the ﬁqh, or jurisprudence) of the shariah.
This tradition of tajdid (or renewal) goes back to the earliest periods of
Islam (Iqbal 1930). But the process is deemed to have stopped in the
12th or 13th century with the announcement of the closure of the doors
of ijtihad (the independent analysis and interpretation of Islamic law in
the face of new situations).
The longstanding and ongoing debate between science and reli-
gion illustrates the need for religion to be open to change. Whitehead
pointed out that on each opportunity for convergence with scientiﬁc and
rational mind-sets, religious thinkers have been unprepared. With each
challenge from science, principles once deemed vital were, after much
stress and conﬂict, modiﬁed or otherwise interpreted by religions. The
result of a succession of such undigniﬁed retreats has been a general loss
B A H A R U D D I N
114
When it is said to them: “Follow what Allah hath revealed.”
They say, “Nay! We shall follow the ways of our fathers.”
What! Even though their fathers were void of wisdom and guidance?
(Q 2:170)

6 The laws set out by God. But law is too rigid a term to explain the nature of the
shariah. Epistemologically, it means “the way,” which I think does better justice to the
concept. In connection with it, then, Muslims have derived “ways” or “laws” for doing
things. The word law in Arabic is hakm, or “good,” that is, all the “things,” “ways,” and
“laws” that God has prescribed for humans are supposed to be of maximum “good” for
them because those laws correspond best to the natural state of human beings (ﬁtrah).
Logically, who knows creation better than the Creator?


of the intellectual credibility of religious thinkers (Whitehead 1985
[1925]). If one looks into the history of Western societies in the 16th
and 17th centuries, for example, one ﬁnds that the decreasing inﬂuence
of religion is not the result of deﬁciencies in spiritual statements about
reality but of the unwillingness of religious leaders and interpreters “to
disengage their spiritual message from associations with particular
imageries” (Whitehead 1985 [1925], p. 233). We can take, for instance,
the Roman Catholic Church’s rejection for 200 years of Nicolaus
Copernicus’s heliocentric (sun-centred) model of the universe in favour
of a geocentric (Earth-centred) one. But such a position by religious
authority is hardly unique. In the Islamic world, one can see a similar
struggle with science in the 18th to 21th centuries.
Thinkers suggesting ways to reconcile science and religion have,
likewise, encountered objections from religious authorities: the writings
of the social reformists and theologian–philosophers Sayyid Ahmad
Khan (1817–98), Jamal al-Din al-Afghani (1838–97), and Muhammad
Iqbal (1878–1938) met with resistance from traditional religious teach-
ers and clerics who were unprepared to deal with the new challenges
posed by the rapidly secularizing trends of modern science and colo-
nization. Muhammad Iqbal, a poet–philosopher, never questioned the
status of scripture. Instead, based on the new discoveries in science at
the turn of the century and their ensuing Weltanschauung, Iqbal argued
that religious experience is also empirical and that a rational account of
it could be given. His theological and intellectual endeavours to bring
science and religion into closer alignment had two objectives: to provide
a new theology for the increasingly Westernized, materially and scien-
tiﬁcally oriented Muslim of the 20th century; and to naturalize what
had been considered supernatural, by arguing that religious experience
is comprehensible in terms of a religious psychology accessible to all.
He was also motivated by the lack of development and the political apa-
thy of his people. The closed doors of ijtihad never restricted his endeav-
ours because he thought and acted the esoteric alongside the exoteric
dimensions of religion.
In reconstructing Islamic religious thought, Iqbal’s efforts were
not unprecedented in the history of Islam. Iqbal’s own predecessor in
this process of explaining religion in terms of reason and science was the
renowned Sufi Shah Wali Allah (d. 1762), who visualized scientific
knowledge as emanating in the form of a light reﬂected in the West
(Halepota 1974). In his Hujjat al-Balighah (Matured Arguments), Wali
Allah wrote “then my lord inﬂuenced me with the idea that the time
has nearly arrived when the laws concerning life by the shariah could be
given exposition via the extensive and commodious garb of reasoning
and scientiﬁc method” (Halepota 1974, p. 228). In other words, modern
(even secular7) and scientific knowledge each had a role in the
R E D I S C O V E R I N G
T H E
R E S O U R C E S
O F
R E L I G I O N
115
7 In Islam the term secular actually does not exist, as knowledge is always understood
as the unity of both the worldly and the religious.

interpretation of Islam. Therefore, long before Iqbal and others of his
generation, Wali Allah had adopted a positive attitude toward scientiﬁc
knowledge. In his lecture on freedom and immortality, Iqbal (1930,
p. 97) reiterated the same message, saying that “the only course open to
us is to approach modern knowledge with a respectable but independent
attitude and to appreciate the teachings of Islam in the light of that
knowledge, even though we may be led to differ from those who had
gone before us.”
“Religion today requires,” Iqbal said, “a method physiologically
less violent and more suited to a coherent type of mind. In the absence
of such a method the demand for a scientiﬁc form of religious knowl-
edge is only natural” (Iqbal 1930, p. v). Like theologian–scientists of
other faiths, Iqbal thought that the scientiﬁc and religious processes are
in a sense parallel but different methods for moving toward the ﬁnal aim
of reaching “the most real.” Through science, we try to understand the
external behaviour of reality, whereas through religion we try to under-
stand its inner nature. Both are descriptions of the same reality, with the
difference being that in the scientific process the self is excluded as
much as possible, whereas in the religious experience the self is funda-
mentally integrated into the process. For Iqbal, it was important that,
just as Hume had helped to objectify science, so too the student of mys-
tical or religious experience can help to render an objective account of it
by studying and describing the common elements of such experience.8
In the West, Whitehead pointed out that the process of change in
science could offer religion valuable models for dealing with change.
When Einstein introduced theories that modiﬁed our entire perception
of the universe, for example, it was considered another step in scientiﬁc
insight rather than an invalidation of science, even though it proved
that previous theories were inadequate (Whitehead 1985 [1925]).
Whitehead felt that religion could learn from science and face change in
a similar spirit. He emphatically insisted (and Muslim scholars would
support him here) that if religion is a sound expression of truth, the
modiﬁcation of meanings attributed to statements of belief as they come
into contact with scientiﬁc facts can only beneﬁt religion; such changes
serve to show ever more clearly the essence of those teachings. As science
advances so too can interpretations of religious revelation become deeper
and more multilayered (Whitehead 1985 [1925]).9 Thus, the evolution
B A H A R U D D I N
116
8 We can say that no two individuals experience spirituality or the presence and
working of God in exactly the same way, but these experiences share a number of com-
monalities that can be documented and veriﬁed by others. Also, in Islam, inner spiritual
experience is preceded and accompanied by psychological, physical, and moral puriﬁca-
tion; these processes are observed by all Muslims and, as such, are also points at which the
spiritual experience can be studied “objectively.”
9 The exercise described here is an example of natural theology and theology of nature. In
the Qur’an, for instance, a verse describes the development of the embryo from the point
of fertilization to the time of birth. A 20th-century Muslim would understand this verse
much more clearly than a 7th- or 8th-century Muslim, because of the conﬁrmation and
explanation of the processes through science (see also Baharuddin 1994).

of religious thought requires a disengagement of its foundational ideas
from what Muslim writers call accretions, which have crept into doc-
trine by virtue of how individuals in a particular society at a particular
time see the world. This process allows religion to draw from, and yet
change along with, expanding human science. The principles of religion
are eternal, but the expression of those principles requires a growing and
continuous development, that is, a focusing, sharpening, and deepening
of meanings.
Experiential processes in religion
The fading interest in religion presents another challenge, that of recon-
sidering the symbols and the roles assigned to religion. Consider the
following, for example:
 Religion has exploited the fear of an all-powerful, arbitrary
tyrant who is behind the unknown forces of nature. Such appeals
to human fears and insecurities are losing their power because
science has taught people to analyze catastrophes critically in
terms of cause and effect (Whitehead 1985 [1925]).
 Some advocate the view that religion is valuable for ordering
human life and society; this is what Goulet (1992) might call the
instrumental use of religion. Religion functions as a guide to right
conduct, but without true engagement with principles its rules
can become hollow social conventions. Conduct is and should be a
natural by-product of religion, but it is not the main point of it.
Many religious teachers have spoken against the reduction of reli-
gion to a mere sanction for rules of conduct. The Qur’an denounces
those who are externally pious but internally possess no heart or
compassion for their fellow human beings.
What is needed is to accept the fuller meaning of religion, one that
charts out the human relationship not only to the cosmos but also, and
more importantly, to transcendent being. This is the relationship
emphasized in Suﬁsm (the Islamic mystical tradition), although it is not
easy to explain. Iqbal was emphatic that humans should try to inquire
into this relationship, saying “we have to ﬁnd out an effective method
of inquiry into the nature and signiﬁcance of this extraordinary experi-
ence” (Iqbal 1930, p. 183). Psychology he found unsatisfactory because,
instead of giving real insight into the essential nature of religion and its
meaning, it provides a plethora of new theories and misunderstands the
nature of religion as revealed in its higher manifestations. On the whole,
the implication of these theories is that
religion does not relate the human ego to any objective reality
beyond itself. [The psychological] view only saw religion as a kind
of device calculated to build barriers of ethical nature around
R E D I S C O V E R I N G
T H E
R E S O U R C E S
O F
R E L I G I O N
117

human society in order to protect the social fabric against the other-
wise unresistable instincts of the ego.
Baharuddin (1989, p. 328)
To Iqbal, the psychological approach misses the whole point of
higher religion because the ultimate purpose of religious life is to steer
individuals in directions far more important to their fulﬁllment than
can be dictated by reference solely to the moral health of the social fab-
ric of their present environment, although one must recognize that the
health of the social fabric plays an undeniably important role in such
fulﬁllment. Higher religious experience offers the self contact with the
source of life, or God. Through this contact, the ego has the opportu-
nity and capacity for true freedom and change; this contact transforms
the human being into a stronger and more creative person who has a
new capacity to effect change in oneself and others. Iqbal was certain
(Baharuddin 1989, p. 328) that the ultimate human religious experi-
ence “is the revelation of a new life process, original, spontaneous,” and
he felt that the moment the individual “reaches this revelation he recog-
nises it as the ultimate root of his being without hesitation.” Iqbal is at
pains to convince his audience that such an experience has nothing
mysterious about it; it is a perfectly natural phenomenon, possessing
cognitive value for the recipient, as well as biological signiﬁcance to the
self.
Bergson (1985 [1903], p. 83) said, “even though the certitude of
mystical experience cannot be simply converted into philosophical wis-
dom, the mystics have changed the philosophical perspective, that is,
we cannot philosophise about God, love and creation without reference
to their experience.” Mysticism, he thought, could perhaps form the
basis for a “universal religion.” “Genuine mysticism,” he said, “is the
guiding force of dynamic religion; it appears very infrequently in the
history of religion but it is able to move a real, if hidden, layer in our
minds and gradually transform or ennoble conservative religion”
(Bergson 1985 [1903], p. 83). He believed that “mysticism culminates
in a ‘contact’ and therefore partial coincidence with the creative effort
that life reveals. This effort is of God if not God Himself” (Bergson
1985 [1903], p. 29).
The difﬁculties of translating mystical experience into a philoso-
phy that can guide practical life become immediately apparent through
an examination of mystical texts. The Qur’an and other Islamic
religious texts, for example, use metaphorical language to describe mys-
tical knowledge. The Qur’an explains,
God is the Beginning and the End, the Invisible and the Manifest,
the Internal and the External; He is closer to man than his jugular
vein is to his neck. … His closeness is without distance; There is
not a single atom, nor a leaf that falls that He does not know about.
(Q 50:16)
B A H A R U D D I N
118

And from the sayings of the Sufi prophet (Hadith) (Stoddart 1976,
pp. 78–80), one reads
My Heaven cannot contain Me, nor can My earth, but the heart of
the believers … can contain Me.
Whoso seeketh to approach me one cubit, I approach him two
fathoms; and whoso walketh towards Me, I run towards Him.
Whoso knoweth himself, knoweth His Lord.
Whitehead has similar difficulties in precisely describing the
amorphous, all-encompassing, and paradoxical nature of mystical
experience:
The vision of something which stands beyond, behind, and within,
the passing ﬂux of immediate things; something which is real and
yet waiting to be realised, something which is a remote possibility
and yet the greatest of present facts; something that gives meaning
to all that passes and yet eludes apprehensions; something whose
possession is the ﬁnal good, and yet is beyond all reach; something
which is the ultimate ideal … the fact of the religious vision and its
history of persistent expansion is our ground for optimism. Apart
from it, human life is a ﬂash of occasional enjoyments lighting up
as a mass of pains and misery, a bagatelle of transient experience.
The vision claims nothing but worship and worship is a surrender
to the claim for assimilation, urged with the motive force of mutual
love. The vision … is always there, and it has the power of love pre-
senting the one purpose whose fulﬁlment is eternal harmony. …
Evil is the brute motive force of fragmentary purpose, disregarding
the eternal vision. Evil is overruling, retarding, hurting. The
worship of God … is an adventure of the spirit.
Whitehead (1985 [1925], p. 237)
For Iqbal, this difficulty of language is part of the problem of
understanding mystical experience, that is, we lack the necessary psy-
chological language to explain the observations of reality couched in
visions, revelations, and illuminations — genuine mystical experience
reported in every religious tradition. Iqbal’s challenge to psychology is
to develop an independent method calculated to discover a new tech-
nique better suited to the temper of our times (Baharuddin 1989).
Fortunately, as writers such as Iqbal, Bergson, Whitehead and, more
recently, Fritjof Capra (1983) have pointed out, experience traditionally
termed “mystical” can now be imagined and articulated through the
understanding and analogies provided by atomic reality.
My point is that despite the attendant difﬁculties of translation,
we must take religious experiences of a “mystical” nature seriously and
ﬁnd ways to appreciate the knowledge they offer. They can provide win-
dows onto transcendence that humankind seems to be demanding and,
I believe, a convergence of inner and outer experience that humankind
can no longer afford to defer. Within this view, a whole realm of
R E D I S C O V E R I N G
T H E
R E S O U R C E S
O F
R E L I G I O N
119

experience — one of the cardinal principles of which seems to be that
the nature of reality is unity and wholeness rather than fragmentation
and separation — awaits articulation and integration into philosophical
and, ﬁnally, social and political systems and processes. In fact, a number
of scientists and philosophers are trying to express the nature of such an
integrated reality: see David Bohm’s (1981) Wholeness and the Implicate
Order, Fritjof Capra’s (1983) The Tao of Physics: An Exploration of the Par-
allels between Modern Physics and Eastern Mysticism, and Stanislav Grof’s
(1996) Beyond the Brain: Birth, Death, and Transcendence Psychotherapy.
Although not engaged in the praxis of psychology, these thinkers are
working from within their own legitimate ﬁelds of science to create a
more comprehensive and holistic worldview.
ISLAM
Among Westerners and those involved in the development community
there is a great deal of misunderstanding about Islam and its message.
This lack of clarity might be said to begin with Muslims themselves,
especially those educated in the secular humanistic mode, either at
home or abroad, without exposure to traditional Islamic culture and
community. Lack of understanding, coupled with the militant activism
fostered in certain groups, not surprisingly gives rise to the common
stereotypical view among non-Muslims that Islam is a fatalistic religion
with an antidevelopment posture or, at best, with little to say on the
subject of development.
As mentioned earlier, there is a strong belief that the Western
model of development provides the only legitimate path. To a certain
degree, this belief arises in the developing world from a feeling of infe-
riority, which becomes especially pronounced when outsiders call into
question original and indigenous perspectives on development issues.
Yet, even though the West still exerts a powerful political and economic
inﬂuence, forums and opportunities are available for non-Westerners to
become seriously engaged in fruitful dialogue with the West and to
intellectually confront problems commonly faced by diverse peoples and
by all religions. Muslim intellectuals have yet to share with others their
belief that the Qur’an has great wisdom to offer the whole of humanity.
Understanding Islam and the reality of the Muslim faith
The discussion of what Islam can bring to the discourse on srd requires
a brief overview of some basic features of Islam, Islamic metaphysics,
and the Islamic worldview. Muslims believe that Islam is a religion that
was divinely revealed more than 1400 years ago; its essence is contained
in the Qur’an, as well as in the traditions (sayings and habits) of the
B A H A R U D D I N
120

Prophet Muhammad. It has an orthodox dimension, generally associ-
ated with the shariah, as well as an esoteric dimension, usually referred
to as Suﬁsm (Nasr 1993a). The fundamental message of Islam is the
acceptance of, and submission to, the one true God. The word Islam
means to surrender to the will of God (Nasr 1993b). Muslims believe in
all the prophets sent before Muhammad, as well as the religious texts
revealed before the Qur’an.
In addition to providing ethical and moral norms, Islam encom-
passes schools of law, theology, philosophy, and a variety of arts and
sciences, as well as a distinctive educational system and political, eco-
nomic, social, and family structures. It is not meant to be a monolithic
system but one in which believers can continue to adhere to its precepts
while performing ijtihad (fresh interpretations); these interpretations are
not supposed to stray from the essence of the law. Ijtihad, however,
remains more an ideal than a reality in many situations.
The spread of Islam around the world (for example, into Africa,
Europe, the Middle East, and Southeast Asia) and into vastly different
cultures has resulted, to cite Nasr, in various modes of development.
Similarly, the Muslim encounter with Westernism, modernism, secular-
ism, and colonialism has produced a wide range of responses within
Islam. Nasr (1993a) described the various modes and degrees of Muslim
religiosity within the following categories (which are likely to have par-
allels in other religions):
 Those who never miss their daily prayers and live as much as
they can by the shariah (these people consider their manner of fol-
lowing Islam to be the only way);
 Those who do not follow all the injunctions of the shariah and
do not perform the obligatory daily prayers yet deﬁnitely consider
themselves Muslims;
 Those who do nothing speciﬁcally Islamic except to follow a
vaguely Islamic, humanistic ethic, who nonetheless identify them-
selves as Muslims and would protest vehemently if called anything
else; and
 Those who perform the Islamic rituals meticulously and claim
to be devout even while they break many of the moral injunctions
of the shariah, including the obligation to be honest in business.
These distinctions show that the portrayal of Islam as a stagnant religion
or a “uniform wave of fundamentalism” is stereotypical and unrealistic
(Nasr 1993a).
Despite the varying degrees of ﬁdelity to their religion on the part
of Muslims, scholars such as Nasr believe that Islam remains intact in
the Islamic world today. For most Muslims, religion informs all their
relationships — among themselves, with others, and with God. This is
R E D I S C O V E R I N G
T H E
R E S O U R C E S
O F
R E L I G I O N
121

a reality they live with and strive to make manifest in their day-to-day
affairs. They make use of religious precepts not only in solving family
problems and achieving economic goals but also in exercising political
power (Nasr 1993a). Of course, it is equally true that the fears and
desires of Muslim communities (ummah) have been used by those whose
motives were anything but Islamic — a misuse that has served to dis-
credit the religion.
Apart from the modernists, the traditionalists, and the fundamen-
talists — and this Nasr is correct to point out — there is another group
in the contemporary Islamic world that is often ignored by Western
analyses. This group would like to revive the Islamic tradition from
within. It comprises those who have fully encountered the modern
world and are completely aware of its complexities and problems. With
the philosophical, scientiﬁc, and social issues clear in their minds, they
have chosen to return to the heart of the Islamic tradition to find
answers and to revive the ummah. They long to enliven the spiritual real-
ity of religion and to prove that it has a place in today’s world. Their
numbers are seldom large, and their “theatres of action” are not mass
meetings or political gatherings. They are minds and souls that usually
interact with each other in small circles. They do not reject traditional
Islam, not even its esoteric dimension, which they consider “the heart of
the whole body” of the religion; the shariah governs the limbs of this
body, and the blood from the heart animates the body entire (Nasr
1993a).
This group seeks answers in Islamic metaphysics to problems
raised by such ideologies as rationalism and materialism. People in this
group see the revival of Islam as a revival within believers themselves;
thus, they disagree with the modern dictum that emphasizes the reform
of the world but not the individual human being. They believe in and,
beginning with themselves, strive to manifest inner revival (tajdid) and
to avoid mere external reform (islah) (Nasr 1993a). The attitude of this
group stems from its awareness of a transcendental presence. It is not an
attitude of passive acceptance in the face of the myriad problems afﬂict-
ing society, both Muslim and non-Muslim, but one of realistic applica-
tion of religious precepts as guiding principles for action. This approach
has engendered some of the most meaningful Islamic responses to the
modern world, in terms of both religion and development. Examples of
these efforts are more fully described in Annex 1.
Personal experiences with religion
I was brought up as a Muslim, with substantial Suﬁinﬂuence early in
my life. My father is a Suﬁ, who teaches his murid (students), and the
subject he most emphasizes in his theological discussions with his audi-
ences is Tauhid, or the oneness of Allah (God). In this understanding of
reality, God is the beginning and the end, the seen (zahir) and the
B A H A R U D D I N
122

unseen (batin), the raison d’être of one’s being. From a very early age, I
also had instilled in me the belief that the constant remembrance (dhikr)
of God would be the only true source of strength for me to rely on in
my spiritual life and, by implication, in my physical, social, emotional,
and intellectual life.
When I was an undergraduate training as a biologist in the West
(Australia), the methods of science enabled me to see the workings of
nature in all its complexity and to feel the tremendous sense of awe that
nature can invoke. The philosophy of that science, however, was secular
and reductionistic, and one who adhered to it might, at best, claim to
be an agnostic. So convincing was the logic of the science I was study-
ing at that time that I underwent my ﬁrst spiritual crisis in my second
undergraduate year. Was God real? How does one know? In the face of
so much evidence to the contrary, how can one believe? Is there a uni-
versally veriﬁable “method,” like the scientiﬁc method, to use to answer
these questions? It was at this point that I decided to ﬁnd out whether
science and religion were truly alien to one another.
In Islam, the heart (or Qalbu) is a valid source of knowledge, as
well as of reason; the heart is the medium through which we discover
the reality of God. My assumption, then, was that God, being omnipo-
tent, omniscient, and omnipresent, should know my questions and the
confusion I was experiencing. If God was real — as my religion had
taught to me — then God would be the best teacher to demonstrate
that existence. All I needed to do was to allow God to enter my heart.
Thus began an earnest period of communication with God through
prayer and invocation, whereby I gained insight into religious truth in
my own work and experience. I have since had the opportunity to con-
ﬁrm the validity of this process with religious teachers. In a more for-
mal sense, the “method” of acquiring faith involves consciously
cleansing “evil” from one’s heart and mind, doing good, and being in a
state of constant remembrance of, and communication with, God. For
example, one can invoke God through the names that express his attrib-
utes. Later, in the works of authors like William James, Muhammad
Iqbal, and A.F. Schumacher, who explain religious experience in natu-
ralistic terms commensurate with human experience, I found a language
to articulate my thoughts.
Before undertaking my experiment with this method, the problem
for me, as I am sure it is for many other Muslims, was that God is por-
trayed as outside and totally other than oneself. In fact, God is very close
to humans, although this does not mean that God is human or that
humans are God. According to Islam, humans do not possess anything
by or of themselves. When one divorces oneself from God, one does not
have anything substantial — either integrated knowledge or a solid
sense of purpose, for example. I would say that before my experiment,
this was the situation in which I found myself.
R E D I S C O V E R I N G
T H E
R E S O U R C E S
O F
R E L I G I O N
123

After a time, I became aware that the process I had been going
through is universally accessible, as it involves only the capacities all
humans possess. The method and the experiment reminded me of those
in science, and I understood Iqbal’s comparison of the state of the
scientist in the contemplation of nature with the state of prayer. It was
important to me to see the universal applicability, or truthfulness if you
like, of the principles of my religion; without this conviction, it would
be difﬁcult for me to be true to what I profess.
How has this changed what I do? These understandings did not
change my desire to be a biologist, but they made me see my work in a
new light. My studies of microscopic organisms in Tasmanian lakes, for
instance, provided me with numerous examples of God’s design in
nature. A certain kind of plankton found in these lakes displays strik-
ing patterns — intricate, geometrical, symmetrical, and beautiful. In
their form, I also saw the intricacy of God’s design and the wisdom of
the 99 names attributed to God, for example, “the Alive,” “the Maker,”
“the Creator.” Another life form in these lakes is a tiny insect. I must
have discovered 10 species and had to describe the peculiarities of each.
I found that the distinguishing characteristic of each species was the
shape and size of the left posterior leg of the male, which played an
important role in reproduction. These creatures measure only about
1 mm. Most people would think that they are just dots in the water,
but, in fact, they are beautiful and unique. Their intricacy, despite their
size, convinced me of the value and purpose of all living beings. Simply
put, God’s reality showed itself to me through my work, even though
my work concerned only a tiny speck of the whole of creation. For me,
that tiny speck held an entire world of its own.
I suppose that these realizations have made me aware of the role
that assumptions and worldviews, whether acknowledged or not, play
in everything human beings do. We all operate on the basis of certain
assumptions about ourselves and the way the world works. For example,
Western worldviews often come with the assumption that the maxi-
mization of proﬁt is an unchallengeable good. Islam offered me another
set of assumptions and goals, based on the shariah; these are the prin-
ciples I tested in my experiments, and I found that they are, in fact, a
true representation of the way the world works. Moreover, they have
given me real happiness, peace, and acceptance of life. Thus, I now do
things with motives and intentions (niat in Islam) connected with God’s
“will” as explained in the Qur’an and the shariah. But this does not
B A H A R U D D I N
124
The heaven and the earth and all beings therein declare His glory:
There is not a thing but celebrates His praise: And yet
ye understand not how they declare His glory.
(Q 16:48–49)



mean that I act without foundation in fact or without reason. I have
found that the principles set out in the Qur’an and shariah provide a
true picture of the world; this picture can be described equally in terms
of the socioanthropological principles of social science or the natural
laws of physical science. I have been able to understand the Qur’an and
appreciate its relevance to all aspects of my life and in what I perceive
to be the whole of life; I can now see the “scientiﬁc” nature or reason-
ableness of what the shariah asks of humans. Later in this paper, for
example, I explain the concept of zakat, or tithe, as a means of redis-
tributing the imbalances of wealth and preventing social inequities. I
have also come to see that being religious is not merely a matter of
thought or remembrance of God; these must be accompanied by action.
Acting from these motivations gives me the courage to face misunder-
standings and setbacks, even denigration and hatred, because I feel con-
fident that I am acting from a valid picture of reality — one that
integrates and ensures justice for all humans and the environment.
I understand that real tranquility and peace can be achieved
through the remembrance of God, for even though one has an obliga-
tion to act and to act with the best of motivations, ultimately reality is
far too complex for any one human being to be in complete under-
standing or control of it. Rather than attempting the impossible — try-
ing to manage all the consequences of my actions and controlling all
contingencies — I now accept that only God alone, in his inﬁnite wis-
dom and knowledge, can possibly know everything. I have also come to
see what Iqbal and Bergson meant when they talked about the “discov-
ery” stage of religion, when one adheres to religious principles willingly
and without feelings of compulsion because one understands the reasons
for the tenets of one’s religion and how they contribute to a just society.
What, however, are the rewards of this approach, other than those I have
already mentioned — personal peace, well-being, and a sense of doing
good in your community and society? If one believes in the afterlife, the
reward will be an ongoing life in the presence of God. In the here and
now, this approach offers an opportunity to become, in Iqbal’s words,
“co-partners with God in creation itself” (Sheikh 1971, p. 75).
Before closing this section on my personal reﬂections about my
religion, I would like to share some reﬂections on the often controver-
sial issue of women in Islam. From the “right practices” and “right
interpretations” concerning women that I have studied and observed, I
am convinced that neither Islam nor God discriminates against women.
Allah expects the same from men and women, as seen from the follow-
ing Qur’anic verse:
For believing men and women
For devout men and women
For true men and women
For men and women who are
Patient and constant, for men
R E D I S C O V E R I N G
T H E
R E S O U R C E S
O F
R E L I G I O N
125

And women who humble themselves
For men and women who guard their chastity
And for men and women who engage
Much in Allah’s praise
For them has Allah prepared
Forgiveness and great reward.
(Q 33:55)
Muhammad, the Prophet,10 introduced Qur’anic laws to elevate
the status of women, including
 A ban on the practice of burying daughters alive;
 The maintenance of women’s property rights and their right to
keep their names after marriage;
 Women’s right to choose their own husbands;
 Women’s access to education and careers outside the home;
 Women’s access to positions of leadership; and,
 Women’s right to buy and sell.
Cultural practices and inﬂuences existing before or concurrently
with Islam have had a negative inﬂuence on men’s treatment of women.
Such attitudes and practices persist, despite the Qur’anic injunctions.
Metaphysics and its role
Nasr (1993b, p. 506) pointed out that metaphysics in Islam is not a
branch of philosophy but the “supreme science of the Real.” He consid-
ered metaphysics a science, acting as the centre of human existence,
found at the heart of all orthodox and authentic religions, and attainable
through human intellect. Metaphysics deals with both the domains of
nature and the realms of the human psyche — art, thought, and com-
munity. The establishment of a metaphysical tradition tied to appropri-
ate spiritual methods within the fold of religion could help to
rejuvenate theology; Nasr suggested that, combined with philosophy, a
theology of nature would provide the criteria for regulating the sciences.
Metaphysics gives fundamental unity to any Muslim perspective on
issues of science and development and provides the conceptual tools
B A H A R U D D I N
126
10 It is interesting to note that a rich widow, Siti Khadijah, proposed to Muhammad
when he was 25 and she was 40 years old. He was working as a trader of her goods to
places outside of Mecca. They were together for 25 years, and the Prophet only took other
wives after the age of 55. These later marriages have been attributed to missionary and
political purposes. Although polygamy is technically sanctioned by the Qur’an, in fact, it
is very difﬁcult, if not impossible, to meet the conditions set out, because they require a
man to be absolutely equal to his wives in every sense — ﬁnancially, emotionally, and
socially.

needed to understand why, historically, Muslim societies were able to
wed religion and development. In view of the current intellectual
climate, Nasr has emphasized the need to create the space for such a
science while critically analyzing the “totalitarian claims of modern
science or at least of positivism and scientism that today claim a monop-
oly over knowledge” (Nasr 1993a, p. 11).
Scholars such as Syed Muhammad Naquib Al-Attas referred to
Islam, not merely as a religion, but as (to use the Qur’anic term) din,
which involves the totality of life, if not reality itself. The difference
that this perspective makes in one’s understanding is hard to over-
emphasize. Nasr also commented on the all-encompassing nature of
Islam:
In the Islamic perspective, religion is not seen as a part of life or a
special kind of activity along with art, thought, commerce, social
discourse, politics, and the like. Rather, it is the matrix and world-
view within which these and all other human activities, efforts,
creations, and thoughts take place or should take place. … Islam
does not even accept the validity of a domain outside of the realm
of religion and refuses to accord any reality to the dichotomy
between the sacred and … secular or the spiritual and temporal.
Nasr (1993b, pp. 439–440)
According to Islam, religion is not only a matter of private con-
science, although it certainly includes this dimension, but it also is
concerned with the public domain, with humans’ social, economic,
and even political lives. There is no division between the Kingdom
of God and the kingdom of Caesar in the Islamic perspective.
Nasr (1993b, p. 442)
I use the concept of zakat (or tithe) to illustrate this integrated perspec-
tive. Muslims believe that all forms of income, beneﬁts, and harvests are
gifts from God. The Qur’an teaches that the poor have a right to the
resources of the Earth, which God created for all humans. Accordingly,
a portion of the property of the rich belongs to the poor. Many Muslims
give 2.5% of the value of their property to various groups speciﬁed in
the shariah, such as the economically disenfranchised and orphans.
Thus, on the one hand, zakat is a religious duty, but, on the other, it
helps to ensure justice in the distribution of resources in a community,
thereby preventing a huge gap between rich and poor and maintaining
social stability. Also, the principle of interconnectedness suggests that
very rarely, if ever, is any process of change uniquely positive or neutral.
The structures of society allow negative effects to visit themselves on the
poor and other marginalized groups disproportionately, and, for this
reason, zakat is not merely charity but a means to ensure justice.
In his book, Islam: The Concept of Religion and Foundations of Ethics
and Morality, Al-Attas (1992), a renowned Suﬁ, analyzed the concept of
din to provide an understanding of human submission to God, a foun-
dational precept in Islam that constitutes the basis for its idea of
R E D I S C O V E R I N G
T H E
R E S O U R C E S
O F
R E L I G I O N
127

development. Al-Attas explained the connections between din and such
concepts as submissiveness, judicious power, and natural inclination. He
showed how these concepts are all connected to the basic tenet of
humankind’s creation and sustenance by God and its indebtedness for
these gifts.
Din is derived from the verb dana, according to Al-Attas, which
means to be indebted. Finding oneself in debt — that is, a da’in — one
is under the obligation (dayn) to yield to the laws and ordinances gov-
erning debts. Being in debt and under obligation also involves reckon-
ing and judgment, daynuyah. In Islamic metaphysics, even before
individuals exist as human beings, they realize that they have to
acknowledge God as their Creator, cherisher, and sustainer of their very
selves, their souls. The nature of the debt of creation is so tremendous
that the moment humans are called into existence, they are in a state of
utter loss; they possess nothing themselves, as they see that everything
about them, in them, and from them comes from the Creator.
According to Al-Attas, as humans own absolutely nothing to
repay the debt, except their consciousness of themselves as the very sub-
stance of the debt, they must repay it with themselves, by returning
themselves to God. Returning the debt means to give themselves in ser-
vice (khidmah), sincerely and consciously, by living out the dictates of
God’s law, or way. Thus, the concept of din also alludes to a “return” to
the spiritual and physical nature inherent in being human, and this
return is therefore beneﬁcial to the individuals themselves.
Muslims believe that the love and service they give other humans
is given to God. The act of service to God is called ibadah, and the ser-
vice itself is called ibadat. Ibadat refers to all conscious and willing acts
of service for the sake of God alone, including prescribed worship. This
B A H A R U D D I N
128
Verily God has purchased of the Believers their selves.
(Q 9:111)


Verily man is in loss.
(Q 103:2)


He who enslaves himself gains.
(Q 13:18, 29)



service feels normal to humans because it is a natural inclination.
Muslims also refer to the tendency to serve and worship God as din,
which has connotations of custom, habit, and disposition. The natural
state of being is ﬁtrah, the pattern according to which God has created
all things (for example, it is the ﬁtrah of the moon to move around the
Earth). Everything is best suited to the pattern created for it and is set
in its proper place. This is the shariah of God: submission to it brings
harmony, as it means the realization of one’s true nature. Opposition to
it brings discord because it means the realization of something alien
that causes suffering to one’s true nature. Shariah is cosmos, as opposed
to chaos; justice, as opposed to injustice. Submission in this sense does
not entail the loss of freedom but the achievement of freedom, the free-
dom to fulﬁll one’s true nature. Humans who submit to God in this way
are living out the din.
Al-Attas suggested that the concept of din also reﬂects the idea of
a kingdom, or a cosmopolis, for it is only in organized societies, in
towns or cities (mudun or mada’in) involved in commercial life, that the
implications of din are realized. Towns and cities have judges, rulers, or
governors (adayyan), and thus the picture of societal life that emerges is
one of law, order, justice, and authority. Din is conceptually connected
with another verb, maddana, which means to reﬁne, to build (as in the
founding of cities), and to civilize, and these processes ﬁt well in a vision
of development. At least in theory, then, the civilizing inspiration or
“developmental push” for Muslims is commerce and trade and its vari-
ous implications as inherent in the concept of din. It is not surprising
that the Qur’an so persistently depicts worldly life through the
metaphors and analogies of commerce. It describes the cosmopolis as
bustling with commercial activity and “the traffic of trade.” From a
spiritual perspective, humans are metaphorically engaged in a form of
trade (al-tijarah) in which their selves are both subject and object, the
trader and the traded: “He is his own capital and his loss and gain
depends upon his own sense of responsibility and exercise of freedom.
Depending on how he exercises his will and deeds his trade will either
prosper or suffer loss” (Qur’an). Human beings realize that they are not
just animals that eat, drink, and gain sensual pleasure; they must tran-
scend themselves so as to redeem themselves from the obligation of their
very existence.
The concept of din presupposes in humans the emergence of higher
beings “capable of lofty aspirations towards self-improvement”
(Qur’an); this is the actualization of the desire and latent capacity to
become perfect (insan kamil). In Islam, believers are conscious that they
are microcosms of the macrocosm — that is, they are the kingdom in
miniature. Each human manifests the attributes of the Creator, because
God created human beings in his own image. Muslims believe that
humans, being both physical and spiritual, have two souls: the lower,
animal soul and the higher, rational soul. In the context of submission,
R E D I S C O V E R I N G
T H E
R E S O U R C E S
O F
R E L I G I O N
129

it is the animal soul that has to return itself to the rational soul. The
statement of the Prophet Muhammad, “Die before ye die,” refers to the
submission of this lower soul to the higher soul, or the subjugation of
one’s self to one’s true self. This process of knowing the self leads ulti-
mately to God.
In Al-Attas’s analysis, the ideal human being lives a civilized life
in a community with clearly deﬁned foundations of social order and
codes of conduct. Human obedience to the Divine Way is the means to
“realising true justice and striving after right knowledge and cardinal
virtues” (Qur’an). From this conduct, humans may hope to experience a
state of supreme peace, even in this world, and eternal blessedness.
One’s ultimate bliss would be to behold the countenance of God in his
kingdom. Thus, although the ultimate goal of the Muslim is in the
afterlife, the journey toward that life begins here, that is, Muslims must
start by development in the here and now.
These concepts provide the very foundation and motivation for the
Islamic approach to science and development.
What is Islamic science and development?
With these thoughts in mind, I will now turn to the question of how
Islam interacts with science and development. I will approach this ques-
tion in the following way. First, I address a fundamental challenge faced
by all religions: Does the promise of an otherworldly salvation thwart
attempts to achieve justice in the here and now? I then identify four
themes arising from the discussion throughout my paper that might be
called the “value perspectives” that Islam brings to science and devel-
opment and attempt to show how they apply in practice.
Denis Goulet, the economist and development theorist, noted that
Marx handed a fundamental challenge to religion when he decried that
it places human destiny outside history and thereby turns humans away
from the task of working for justice on Earth. This otherworldly orien-
tation, he argued, negates true humanism and perpetuates injustice. On
this basis, Goulet asked whether any religion can supply men and
women with a convincing rationale for building this world while striving
to bear witness to transcendence. His answer was that the “coefﬁcient of
secular commitment” contained to some degree in all religions (that is,
religious commitment to worldly affairs) needed to be analyzed, awak-
ened, and maximized (Goulet 1996, p. 226). The ability of believers to
“see” religion in real life and to apply its values and tenets in solving
B A H A R U D D I N
130
He who knoweth his self knowest his Lord.
Hadith (quoted in Waly 1991, p. 6)



worldly problems can be strengthened only if they have a ﬂuidity or
dynamism in their thinking and practice; they should not see religion
as a monolithic, isolated entity, but as a ﬂexible, practical system of
knowledge, well integrated into every facet of their lives.
Yet, this runs contrary to the generally accepted approach. In the
Islamic world, many secular leaders have conﬁned the role of religion to
the personal lives of individuals, relevant only to the afterlife. The reli-
gious sector, for its part, has tried not to become involved in “worldly
affairs.” The administrative structures and governance systems inherited
from colonialization have reduced the areas in which religion is allowed
to exercise authority to those of family and personal law. Many govern-
ments of modern Muslim countries are only now beginning to incorpo-
rate religion into their systems. A ﬁrst step in this process would be to
develop an adequate system of education that combines religious and
secular knowledge. As yet, the ulama (clergy), ruling groups (politi-
cians), and intelligentsia (academics) have not been able to organize
themselves to work together and produce this type of synthesis, even
though they are all practicing Muslims. There are exceptions, of course:
nongovernmental organizations (ngos), working in concert with, and
receiving support from, all three groups, have often managed to produce
practical results.
In tackling the issue of how to rejuvenate religion, one may ﬁnd it
useful to distinguish three phases of religious practice — faith,11
thought, and discovery — as recognized in the work of both Iqbal and
Bergson. In the faith phase, one unconditionally accepts religious com-
mands, without understanding them. In the second phase, thought,
there is perfect submission to discipline based on a rational understand-
ing of that discipline. In this phase, religious life seeks its foundation in
R E D I S C O V E R I N G
T H E
R E S O U R C E S
O F
R E L I G I O N
131
People should work as if they will live forever
and worship as if they will die the next day.
Hadith 40 (quoted in Rahman 1998, pp. 343, 345)


Part of the meaning of Islam is that we worship God as if we “see”
Him or, if we do not “see” Him, to know that He sees us.
Razak and Lathief (1980, p. 48)


11 For example, at least much of the Muslim community assumes that taqlid, or blind
acceptance, is sufﬁcient and workable. But I would argue that this type of faith is the most
susceptible to doubt, confusion, and disillusionment, especially when one confronts infor-
mation from science, technology, and secular education that is seemingly contradictory to
religion. It is not surprising that many Muslims now ﬁnd themselves quite at a loss to
know how to be loyal to their religion, given the prevalence of a totally secular and reduc-
tionistic outlook.

a kind of metaphysics, that is, a logically consistent view of the world,
with God as part of that view. In the third phase, discovery, metaphysics
is displaced by what might be termed a psychological state of being in
which the one living a religious life develops a desire or ambition to
come into direct contact with God. Individuals in this phase achieve a
“free” personality, not because they are released from the dictates of the
law or dogma but because they discover the ultimate source of the law
within the depths of their consciousness (Iqbal 1930; Baharuddin
1989). Does this mean that ordinary dogmatic religion is not impor-
tant? Perhaps this is not the right question. As Iqbal explained, no reli-
gion is without dogma, but religions often fail to emphasize that it is
the third phase that makes the dogma understandable and practicable.
In maximizing the coefficient of secular commitment, what is
important, according to Goulet (1996), are the precise links postulated
between religiously inspired commitment to human tasks (this-worldly
existence) and the transcendent reality that is the object of religious
faith. He suggested that where there is a high coefﬁcient, these links are
intrinsic and essential, rather than extrinsic or accidental. Iqbal and
others in the Muslim world would agree with Teilhard de Chardin, who
argued that those who believe in transcendence see a world that is open
and inﬁnite; they love the world no less than secular humanists, but
they work in the here and now to make this reality purer and ﬁnally to
escape from it. This escape is not an alienating ﬂight from reality, but a
means to reach a more complete reality, one providing this world and
human efforts within it full and ﬁnal meaning (Goulet 1996). For those
equipped for it, the esoteric path12 allows the “window” to transcen-
dence to be clariﬁed and even traversed. But the intimate connection
between this world and the next demands human effort in the here and
now; de Chardin would also argue that no spiritual excuse can justify
B A H A R U D D I N
132
A Muslim mystic asserted that no understanding of the Holy Book is
possible until it is actually revealed to the believer,
just as it was revealed to the Prophet.
Baharuddin (1989, p. 324)


12 But in Islam, as in Christianity and other religions, esoterism can be and has been
abused: its insights, for example, are not susceptible to objective veriﬁcation; they can be
validated but frequently only through personal practice and implementation — hence
some people’s suspicion of, and attacks on, esoteric practices. But true esoterism, or mys-
ticism, in Islam (as well as in other religions) is the internal component or content of the
unity that is Islam, as the meaning of esoterism indicates. Any internal aspect must be
accompanied by an external one, or an outer covering; this is the law, or shariah, from
which Islamic esoterism is never divorced. Everything a Muslim does embraces both the
esoteric and the exoteric realms. In giving zakat, for example, the exoteric meaning is that
you assist marginalized people in your society; the esoteric meaning is that it expands the
quality of the giver’s heart.

inertia in religious believers confronted with “an array of pressing secu-
lar tasks to accomplish, knowledge and wisdom to be gained, greater
justice to be forged, creativity and creation to be unleashed, political
fraternity to be instituted, and comprehensive human development to
be progressively achieved” (Goulet 1996, p. 227).
Even for people not inclined to esoteric lines of thinking, Islam’s
coefﬁcient of secular commitment is still clearly present in a number of
arenas. As described above, the very metaphysics of Islam dictates that
progress toward the afterlife is contingent on development of the self
and on actions performed in the here and now. According to the
renowned theologian and philosopher–scholar Imam al-Ghazali
(d. 111 ad), the knowledge–belief–action (ilm–iman–amal) triad of
being in Islam requires of Muslims two types of knowledge:
 ‘lm fardhu ‘ain, or knowledge related to individual obliga-
tions — Individuals must be taught and learn the knowledge of
God (that is, God’s attributes and the human relationship to God);
the angels (that is, what they are, their role and function in rela-
tion to God and humans); the afterlife and creation; human duties
to themselves, to society, and to God; solat, or prayers (meant to
provide strength, growth, and a means of tapping energy from the
Creator); and the signiﬁcance of giving alms and tithes, fasting
(the physical, psychological, and spiritual reasons behind it), pil-
grimage (a physical, intellectual, social, and emotional journey
toward puriﬁcation and universal brotherhood), and several other
principles by which life takes on meaning. Such knowledge pro-
vides a purpose, a code of ethics, a basis for ritual, and the courage
to live with oneself, society, nature, and God. Without this type of
knowledge, individuals are in danger of being in a state of error
and injustice in regard to both themselves and others.
 Ilm fardhu kifayah, or knowledge related to social and collec-
tive obligations — This type of knowledge deals with matters
such as the establishment of Islamic society, politics, economics,
business, trade, law, medicine, and development (Salleh 1998).
Each community must have at least a certain number of individu-
als with the knowledge to enable the community to cope with
life’s exigencies and ﬂourish. This type of knowledge applies in
various areas according to the needs of the given community: ﬁsh-
ing, sailing, agriculture, building and engineering, medicine,
economics, and science. The list continues to grow as human
endeavours expand. To the extent that the community lacks the
knowledge and know-how it requires to live properly it remains in
a state of injustice and “backwardness.”
Am I guilty of some form of caste systemization when I emphasize
the signiﬁcance of esoterism? It is not my intention to make a value
R E D I S C O V E R I N G
T H E
R E S O U R C E S
O F
R E L I G I O N
133

judgment on the different approaches to faith. Teamwork is of the
utmost importance in endeavours to develop society. The concept of
ilm–iman–amal (knowledge–belief–action) shows us that each group and
individual in society functions with different inclinations, knowledge,
and strengths. Society is the product of their teamwork. That is why in
Islam the societal factor, or the ummah (community), is important, as the
community provides the environment for the “blooming” or develop-
ment of individuals into their complete selfhood. But even though
development falls into the category of social knowledge, we cannot for-
get the importance of the individual realm; society and the individual
are inseparable and must evolve together (Salleh 1998). Ideally, the
ummah not only is nurturing but also acts to rectify mistakes and sins in
a spirit of love and mutual acceptance. In fact, the ideal product of
development would be masyarakat madani, a God-centred civil society,
one in which the ruler and the ruled are equally and mutually account-
able to one another before God, who dwells both outside the commu-
nity (transcendent) and within it (immanent).13
In Islam, human beings are seen as God’s servants and the khalifah
(or vicegerents) of God on Earth; development, by fulﬁlling these func-
tions, is a means to worship God. “In this sense, development is just a
means to another end, not an end in itself. It is a means to worship and
seek the pleasure of [God], so that humans beings attain happiness in
this world and the hereafter” (Salleh 1998, p. 18). In Islam and in other
faiths, religion has as its primary goal the attainment of salvation, no
matter how this may be envisaged. In this Earthly life, salvation is
development. In religion, doctrine–theory and practice–method are
inseparable. Doctrine concerns the mind, whereas practice concerns the
will; religion must therefore engage both the mind and the will of
believers. Thus, the mechanisms for, and of, development can ideally be
seen as manifestations of religious theories and methods. Believers act as
channels for the Spirit to manifest itself through matter, that is, for God
to act through humans.
Islam exhorts Muslims to be ﬁrmly of this world and act in it, even
while they recognize the transcendent. It puts a subtle but definite
emphasis on worldly development and intertwines it with the “inner”
personality of the individuals who embody the individually required
knowledge (‘lm fardhu ‘ain). They are to do all this in the constant
awareness of God. As Goulet suggested, a system of transcendent
B A H A R U D D I N
134
13 In 1996–97, the Malaysian Institute for Development Studies (minds), a local
ngo, organized a series of conferences at the national and state levels (Malaysia has
14 states). These conferences were intended to promote the idea of a spiritually based civil
society, or masyarakat madani (in Malay). A series of working papers describing the possi-
bilities for various aspects of this civil society were prepared by a group of local ngo
activists and academicians. I prepared a paper on city development and the environment
and helped to edit the volume of papers that subsequently emerged. This volume,
Masyarakat Madani, was published by minds in 1998. Its target audience comprised
policymakers, ngos, and the public at large.

meaning (such as Islam) can be a powerful developmental force; the
human tasks required in development can draw from a transcendent ori-
entation a “new dignity, urgency, and depth” (Goulet 1996, p. 229).
Islamic value perspectives on science and development
Here, I identify four main Islamic value perspectives that, if creatively
and thoroughly applied, could change the direction, goals, and processes
of science and development:
1.
All human activity is “religious,” even and especially economics,
development, and science, and therefore cannot be pursued in iso-
lation from the goals and values inherent in the religious world-
view, such as justice, unity, vicegerency, and recognition of God.
For example, Islam pays particular attention to economics and the
market — we have seen how Islam expresses itself in market
metaphors; it has developed its own guidelines and rules to limit
human greed, selﬁshness, and avarice. It has injunctions relating
to “how transactions should be carried out, the hoarding of wealth
as well as its distribution, religious taxation, endowment … eco-
nomic treatment of the poor, the prohibition of usury” (Nasr
1993b, p. 443). Islam consigns many resources, such as forests and
certain types of water supplies, to the public sector but also
emphasizes the right to own private property, as long as moral and
ethical guidelines are followed (Nasr 1993b). (An example of how
these ideas might be extended to development paradigms is pro-
vided in the comments on Chapra in Annex 1.)
2.
Islam has always preserved the nexus between rational thought,
mystical intuition, and revelation and offered models for integrat-
ing these interrelated processes of the mind, which have long suf-
fered the effects of separation. Willis Harman, for example,
described a “participatory” research method14 in which the
researcher gains knowledge by identifying with what he or she
observes:
[The] intuitive approach is not antithetical to that of objective
science; rather, it is complementary to it. The rational/analytical
R E D I S C O V E R I N G
T H E
R E S O U R C E S
O F
R E L I G I O N
135
You will find me with Me.
Hadith Qudsi (quoted in al-Palembangi 1953, p. 105)


14 Harman’s approach to “participation” must be distinguished from the meaning of
“participatory” research in international development discourse. Harman uses the term to
refer to research in which the researcher gains knowledge by identifying with the
observed, thus engaging the subject–object of research through “compassionate con-
sciousness” (Harman 1988, p. 15).

and the intuitive/compassionate are, in a sense, aspects of each
other. Morris Berman … makes a strong case that an adequate
science cannot be based on attempting to know nature from the
outside through controlled experiments in which phenomena
are examined in abstraction from their context. With participa-
tory research we understand that nature is revealed only in our
relations with it, and phenomena can be known only in context
(that is, through participant observation).
Harman (1988, p. 16)
A particularly Islamic example of this integration is offered by the
Islamic perspective on nature (see point 4 below).
3.
Islam emphasizes humility before God and responsibility. This
important perspective should stand alongside traditions stressing
the individual and envisaging a more anthropocentric universe.
Remembrance of humility and responsibility would be helpful in
refocusing our goals and processes in economics, science, and devel-
opment toward human well-being and sustainability and balancing
the assumptions of scientism, reductionism, and materialism
embedded in the current processes and goals of these disciplines.
4.
Islam offers a particular vision of the relationship between the
environment, humans, and God:
It emphasizes that all natural phenomena are signs (ayat) of
God, that nature shares in the Qur’ánic revelation, and that
humans, as God’s vicegerents (khalifahs) on earth, are responsi-
ble before God for not only themselves but all creatures with
which they come into contact.
Nasr (1993b, p. 529)
As an example of the integration of diverse modes of thought, the
Islamic approach to nature, as set out in the Qur’an, upholds the
view that nature provides lessons and signs for humans so that
through observation they may know themselves and thence God.
Such signs include the water cycle, the habits and characteristics
of ﬂora and fauna, and the movements of the planets. Each of these
phenomena discloses God’s will and attributes to humans. Schol-
ars such as Ismail Al-Faruqi (1986) even go as far as to see every
Muslim as having been “born a scientist,” because understanding
the content of scripture requires the serious contemplation of
nature. Muslims who do not use their faculties to penetrate the
truths disclosed by nature are deemed to have missed a fundamen-
tal point of their existence.
B A H A R U D D I N
136
I was a hidden Treasure. I desired to be known.
I created creation, that I might be known.
Hadith (quoted in al-Palembangi 1953, p. 105)



A theology of nature is an attempt to comprehend nature in the
context of a religious interpretation obtained from revelation and
religious experience. But most theology does not discuss nature or
its relation to humanity directly, and thus science can help perfect
the understanding of scripture and religious experience in terms of
the environment. For example, a scientiﬁc understanding of the
world points to continuous creation, as well as the effects of God’s
action in the here and now. Other thinkers, notably Nobel laure-
ate and biologist George Wald, have come to similar conclusions
about the nature of matter and consciousness:
Our growing scientiﬁc knowledge … points unmistakably to
the idea of a pervasive mind intertwined with and inseparable
from the material universe. This thought may sound pretty
crazy, but such thinking is not only millennia old in the East-
ern philosophies but arose again and again among the monu-
mental generation of physicists [Eddington, Schrödinger, and
Pauli, among others] in the ﬁrst half of this century.
Wald (cited in Harman 1988, p. 18)
I would take these ideas further by recalling that religion encom-
passes all aspects of life. I think these value perspectives suggest the
need to articulate a universal philosophy of nature. By this, I mean an
attempt to draw a coherent, logical, necessary system of general ideas for
interpreting all elements of our experience; a philosophy of nature
would provide us with a holistic basis of thought and action for societal
and resource problem-solving, and these are, in a sense, the goals of
development. This philosophy would attempt to provide us with a
coherent view of reality based on the exploration and interpretation of
all types of experience so that we may know and love ourselves, others,
nature, and God. Such a philosophy would, by necessity, take into
account and render coherent both the scientific and the theological
understandings of reality, a reality that includes the environment, not
merely human beings (Baharuddin 1994).
CONCLUSION
Earlier in the paper, I referred to a deﬁnition of development put for-
ward by Francis Perroux (1983). Its essential features are a growth in
awareness and intellectual capacity, personal development, and the free-
dom to fulﬁll one’s potential in accordance with one’s own values. If
these features are part, or are becoming part, of the goals of develop-
ment, my observations in this paper can bring me to but one conclusion:
our present course will fail to achieve the desired goals. In other words,
we will not achieve these goals without processes that recognize and
thus work toward them. The aims we wish to attain have always
R E D I S C O V E R I N G
T H E
R E S O U R C E S
O F
R E L I G I O N
137

belonged to the arena of religious experience and spiritual existence, and
therefore I feel that this ancient realm of experience must become an
explicit part of the objects of scientiﬁc study.
Of course, incorporating religion into every human endeavour
calls for “checks and balances” to prevent the misuse of authority and
guarantee the preservation of individual self-determination. The
approach one takes to religion, I believe, acts as a major balancing inﬂu-
ence. Without a doubt, people in positions of authority have often used
the doctrines and precepts of religion to consolidate their power. But,
clearly, this is an instrumental use of religion, using it as a means to an
end. As an end in and of itself, religion involves an internalization of its
precepts — a process that includes evaluation and comparison with
experience — and then a manifestation of these ideals in thought and
action. Such an approach demands commitment, sacriﬁce, humility and,
above all, an openness to change.15 The mystical aspects of religion
enable the individual to maintain a connection with God and rely on the
internal guidance that is characteristic of this connection.
Other checks and balances include a strong commitment to edu-
cation — nationally, locally, and personally — and a deep sense of
responsibility toward democracy, peace, and equality for all. Islam
places great emphasis on knowledge and education and regards knowl-
edge as crucial to faith. Its orientation to education supports a commit-
ment to democracy, peace, and equality. People must be in a position to
know their rights, that is, what is due to them from those in power, and
to understand their responsibilities to others and society. And they must
live in a context that allows them to exercise those rights and discharge
those responsibilities. In an environment that strives toward these bal-
ancing inﬂuences, religion and spirituality could be indispensable part-
ners with science in its search for a better understanding of the physical
and social reality; and with development in its search for a better under-
standing of human well-being.
ANNEX 1:
ISLAMIC SCHOLARS AND ORGANIZATIONS
INVOLVED IN SCIENCE, RELIGION, AND DEVELOPMENT
In this annex, I briefly describe the projects and efforts of several
Muslim academicians and ngos to effect changes that integrate srd.
B A H A R U D D I N
138
15 Consider the difference between the person who says “this is what I think my tra-
dition and my self-development demand of me and what I feel I can do to act in accor-
dance with those beliefs” and the person who says “this is what the tradition says and this
is how you should think and act.”

Seyyed Hossein Nasr
S.H. Nasr and his works are well known, and I have cited some of his
views in this paper. Originally from Iran, Nasr received his early train-
ing in the United States in geology and the history of science. In the
1960s, he began to write about the relationship between science, reli-
gion, and the environment and about the problems pertaining to them.
As we have seen earlier in the document, his main thesis is that modern
humans need to rediscover the lost science of metaphysics, which,
together with an extended and rejuvenated form of theology and phi-
losophy, could serve to make science and its use a more balanced affair.
Like George Sarton (1927), Nasr has been instrumental in reminding
Muslims of the accomplishments of Islamic civilization during the
Middle Ages, triggering, among the intelligentsia, a new set of debates
and discussions on srd issues in general. Nasr still writes proliﬁcally
regarding the contributions that Muslims can make in contemporary
society. Although not everyone would agree with his well-known
traditionalist stance, he stands out among Muslim writers for his vast
knowledge of Islamic theology, history, and philosophy.
Ziauddin Sardar
Ziauddin Sardar is another figure whose works are popular among
Muslim scientists and intelligentsia in the areas of development and the
future of the ummah (ﬂock). Trained in Manchester, United Kingdom,
and currently based in London, Sardar has a background in science,
including the history and philosophy of science. A proliﬁc writer,16 he
works closely with Western scholars and Muslim leaders in various parts
of the world on projects to enable scientists and policymakers in Muslim
societies to more fully understand Islamic philosophy of science, espe-
cially its ethical dimension.
Policymakers in the Muslim world are increasingly showing an
interest in Islamic science, both its history and its contemporary appli-
cation. Sardar’s (1988) The Touch of Midas: Science, Values and the Envi-
ronment in Islam and the West is the fruit of symposiums he organized in
Stockholm (1981) and Granada (1982) that brought together Muslim
and non-Muslim scholars to discuss the range of issues suggested by the
book’s title. The meetings resulted in a rapprochement between the
Muslim and non-Muslim participants; they agreed that the symposiums
had provided an opportunity for genuine dialogue and had succeeded in
identifying a system of values of use in understanding the crisis of
science and in shaping s&t policies to reflect Islamic cultural and
R E D I S C O V E R I N G
T H E
R E S O U R C E S
O F
R E L I G I O N
139
16 His works include The Future of Muslim Civilization (Sardar 1979a), Islam, Outline
of a Classiﬁcation Scheme (Sardar 1979b), Arguments for Islamic Science (Sardar 1985a), and
Islamic Futures: The Shape of Ideas to Come (Sardar 1985b).

religious imperatives. These value concepts derive from a set of princi-
ples forming a paradigm for development and progress within an ideal
Islamic society: tauhid (unity); khalifah (trusteeship); ibadah (worship);
ilm (knowledge); halal (praiseworthy) and haram (blameworthy); adl
(social justice) and zulm (tyranny); istislah (public interest); and dhiya
(waste) (Sardar 1988).17 Researchers frequently cite Sardar’s 10-point
value system, indicating the need felt by researchers for a framework of
action.
Muhammad Umer Chapra
Chapra is an economic adviser to the Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency.
He has written extensively on Islamic economics and ﬁnance, and his
most important work is Towards a Just Monetary System: A Discussion of
Money, Banking, and Monetary Policy in the Light of Islamic Teachings
(1985). He received the Islamic Development Bank Award in Islamic
Economics for his contributions in this area. Unlike the others we have
seen so far, Chapra is one of the few Muslim economists who seems con-
ﬁdent enough in what Islam has to offer to explain at length how eco-
nomics, development, and religion might interact. Chapra’s ideas are set
out in a work of some 400 pages, Islam and the Economic Challenge18
(Chapra 1992). In the context of today’s economic uncertainties, Chapra
earnestly appeals to Muslim countries to try out what he calls the goals
of the shariah (Maqasid-al-shariah) as a means of avoiding disintegration
(by this he means social upheavals and recolonization by multinational
corporations). A recent example is offered by events in Indonesia,
sparked by the currency and debt crisis that hit all the economies of
Asia. Through mass demonstrations, the people — many poor and job-
less — demanded the removal of the incumbent leaders. Observing the
huge disparities in wealth between the various sectors of Indonesian
B A H A R U D D I N
140
17 Tauhid — usually understood to mean the unity of God — is extended here to refer
to an all-embracing value that includes the unity of humankind, human beings and
nature, and knowledge and spiritual principles. Khalifah (vicegerency, trusteeship) means
that humans are responsible to God for their scientiﬁc and technological activities. The
vision of humans conquering and having dominion over nature has no place in this frame-
work; nor are they passive observers. Nature is a trust. It is also the medium through
which humans perform their ibadah. Although contemplation is an ibadah (good deed) in
itself, it also leads to an awareness of unity with nature and of human vicegerency. The
pursuit of knowledge (ilm), as in science, is another way to perform ibadah (worship).
Islam recognizes many categories of knowledge: a particular scientiﬁc knowledge or spe-
ciﬁc technology could be haram if it is destructive (physically or otherwise) for humans or
the environment. If, on the other hand, it is of beneﬁt to humans or the environment then
it is halal. Halal ﬁnds parallels in adl (justice), as haram does in zulm (tyranny). One knows
zulm science and technology if it destroys human, environmental, or spiritual resources or
generates waste. Such a science is often called dhiya, or wasteful. Scientiﬁc and techno-
logical activity that ensures justice (adl) also promotes the public interest (istislah) (Sardar
1988).
18 See also his Towards a Just Monetary System (Chapra 1985).

society, they understandably felt that their leaders were corrupt and
thinking only of themselves. The leaders forgot their duties as
vicegerents (khalifah) of God, because they neglected the people.
The goals of the shariah are, ﬁrst and foremost, human well-being
(falah) and a good life (hayat tayyibah). To Chapra, the shariah is the
basis of development because, in its emphasis on socioeconomic justice,
it aims to satisfy both the spiritual and the material needs of human
beings. Chapra derives inspiration from al-Ghazali, whom he quotes as
saying “the very objective of the shariah is to promote the welfare of the
people, which lies in safeguarding their faith, their life, their intellect,
their posterity and their wealth. Whatever ensures the safeguarding of
these ﬁve, serves public interest and is desirable” (Chapra 1992, p. 1).
Chapra also agrees with al-Ghazali in putting faith at the top of
the list of the Maqasid because it is the most crucial ingredient in
human well-being. Faith places human relations on a proper founda-
tion, enabling human beings to interact in a balanced and mutually car-
ing manner for the well-being of all (Chapra 1992). Faith also acts as a
moral ﬁlter to keep the allocation and distribution of resources in line
with requirements for unity and socioeconomic justice. Without the
element of faith in human economic decisions — in the household, the
corporate boardroom, and the market — we cannot possibly realize efﬁ-
ciency and equity in the distribution of resources; efﬁciency and equity
are prerequisites for avoiding macroeconomic imbalances, economic
instability, crime, conﬂict, and the many symptoms of anomie (Chapra
1992).
Chapra emphasizes that, if we are to achieve equilibrium between
scarce resources and the various claims on those resources, we need to
focus on human beings, rather than on the market or the state. It is
imperative, therefore, to reinstate the human being as the foundation of
the economic system. Humans must be motivated to pursue self-
interest within the constraints facing the world (Chapra 1992). Truly
believing in the possibility of a just and sane economic system, Chapra
sets out the various stages for achieving such a system.
Like others, Chapra begins with a critique of the present situation,
followed by a reevaluation of principles embedded in the religious meta-
physics of Islam. Choosing the three well-known principles of tauhid
(unity), khalifah (vicegerency, trusteeship), and adl or adalah (justice),
he delineates a strategy for a more enlightened economic system. In his
treatment, he deals with all the details and complexities of the modern
economic system and integrates religious principles and economics
throughout.
Chapra (1992) speaks of tawhid, khalifah, and adalah as being con-
nected with, and translatable into, ideas about universal fellowship,
resources as a trust, humble lifestyles, human freedom, needs fulﬁllment,
equitable distribution of income and wealth, growth, and stability. He
suggests reviving systems laid out in the Qur’an, such as the zakat (or
R E D I S C O V E R I N G
T H E
R E S O U R C E S
O F
R E L I G I O N
141

tithe) system, and other principles pertaining to wealth. He deals clearly
with an entire complex of ideas, starting with the role of the ulama
(clergy), the restructuring of policies, land and labour reforms, education
and training, access to ﬁnance, and the size of land holdings, and he
moves then to the restructuring of the ﬁnancial and investment systems,
just and efﬁcient taxation, tariffs and import substitution, and priorities
in spending. To do justice to Chapra’s ideas, however, I urge readers
knowledgeable in economics to read his writings and engage with his
ideas more directly.
Chapra (1992) concludes his treatise by reiterating that imbuing
economics with religious values would imply a serious effort to raise
(along Islamic lines) the spiritual and material well-being of all people.
On the spiritual side, inner happiness can be achieved only by drawing
nearer to God; on the material side, Islamization requires the just and
efﬁcient allocation of resources so that the good life can be achieved
(hayat tayyibah). Islamization is not against liberalization; rather,
Islamic liberalization involves passing public- and private-sector eco-
nomic decisions through the ﬁlter of moral values before they affect the
market. Without the Islamization of Muslim societies (including a fun-
damental sector like the economy), that is, without integrating srd, it
will be virtually impossible for Muslim countries to achieve develop-
ment. Chapra observes, however, that there seems to be little evidence
that Muslim policymakers have been inspired to translate Islam’s
economic ideals into development policies. Chapra predicts that, even if
attitudes change, the task will be arduous and time consuming; he urges
policymakers to read the signs of the times quickly.
International Institute of Islamic Thought
The International Institute of Islamic Thought (iiit) was founded in
1981. Its main aims are to revive and encourage Islamic thought and
promote the Islamization of knowledge in contemporary disciplines. It
also explores the potential for packaging knowledge so that it integrates
tauhid (the concept of oneness) and the shariah. It addresses problems
relevant to the development of the Muslim community and economic
development in general through the values and principles of the Islamic
religious paradigm.
iiit’s primary appeal has thus far been to academicians. To achieve
its goals it promotes research in the social sciences, especially in the
methodology and philosophy of science. Moreover, it organizes seminars
and conferences and sponsors the publication of specialized works. It
awards scholarships and offers guidance to research students. Currently,
it is planning to establish special programs of higher studies to
strengthen Islamic culture. Although based in the United States, it
receives technical and monetary support from countries such as
Malaysia. More information about iiit is available on the Internet
(www.iiit.org).
B A H A R U D D I N
142

Malaysian Academy of Islamic Science
In 1977, Muslim scientists in Malaysia got together to revive the tradi-
tion of an Islamic science. This group, which includes many top scien-
tists and engineers working in key sectors, aims to Islamicize attitudes
and practices in s&t in ways that follow the ideas explored in this paper.
They are also interested in promoting s&t among Malaysians. What
may be of particular interest from the viewpoint of srd, however, is how
they focused their efforts on the issues of science, Islam, and develop-
ment in the recent National Science Policy Seminar. Like a number of
other countries, Malaysia has been trying to telescope a few centuries of
development into a few decades. Its current statement of general
policy — called Vision 2020 — states that Malaysia should strive to be,
among other things, a producer of its own s&t and not merely a user of
technologies imported from abroad. Despite the honourable and bold
intentions expressed in this document, not much thought has been
given to implementing its goals. Thus, even though Malaysia has a
national science policy, there is no widespread, substantial awareness of
it, let alone a healthy critique. Nor is there an ongoing debate about the
role and character of science in the country’s development in general.
Anxious to prove that an Islamic ideal could be universal, however, the
Malaysian Academy of Islamic Science (mais) has undertaken to explore
a developmental model based on science and religion. Its work is
promising, as it has thus far managed to garner the support and partic-
ipation of some Malaysian policymakers.
The two most active proponents of mais ideas are Shaharir
Mohamad Zain (a professor of mathematics) and Wan Daud (a professor
of chemistry). Zain and Daud looked at the approaches and ideas of
other Muslims on srd before establishing their own perspectives. Below
I have brieﬂy summarized the main tenets of their approach to deﬁning
a Malaysian model for the integration of srd. They presented these at a
seminar in September 1998 (Daud and Zain 1998):
1.
Development in Islam is the holistic development of humans
themselves; material development is merely a by-product or effect
of human development. Humans develop on the basis of ta’dib (a
civilizing factor), the cleansing of the heart and mind (tazkiyah),
and education (tarbiyah). The goal of human development is the
good human, of which the highest form is the perfect individual,
or insan kamil. Such individuals are in a state of total acceptance of
God; and God, of them.
2.
Capital should be gained and increased through labour and not
merely through investment. In the secular model, the accumula-
tion of capital through investment requires savings. In Islam,
savings alone cannot give rise to proﬁt because usury (riba) in the
form of charging interest is prohibited. Instead, Islam encourages
R E D I S C O V E R I N G
T H E
R E S O U R C E S
O F
R E L I G I O N
143

people to save through a medium or simple lifestyle and the
avoidance of waste. To avoid usury, the banks neither pay interest
to depositors nor charge it to borrowers. Because they need to
operate as sustainable economic enterprises, however, the banks
receive a share of the borrower’s proﬁts and distribute a portion of
these proﬁts to depositors; this spreads the risk out across borrow-
ers and depositors. Accumulated capital is taxed through the
“alms tax” and tithe so that wealth ﬂows back and can be distrib-
uted to the poor.
3.
Under this proposed system, economics in Islam would not be as
liberal as in the current laissez-faire system, because the institution
of hisbah would watch and regulate the market; hisbah is an insti-
tution akin to a district governorship, possessing judicial and polic-
ing power and having access to all government records. The hisbah
was once a living institution in the Islamic civilization (al-Faruqi
and al-Faruqi 1986). The muhtasib (a person in charge of the hisbah)
deals with cheating and usury, as well as other haram acts.
4.
Proposed development models must be based on the good (masla-
hah) of society and not only on the motive of gain for the investor.
5.
In economic terms, science helps to increase proﬁts through the
use of labour- and resource-saving technologies. mais is inspired
by Ibn Khaldun (d. 1404), the famous Muslim sociologist from
Tunis. In his treatise Muqadimah (literally, The Introduction),
Khaldun not only wrote on the importance of s&t in human life
but also suggested a model of Islamic development for the achieve-
ment of a high civilization (umran); from a concrete historical per-
spective, this goal began with the Prophet and the city of
Madinah. The first believers were strong in their faith because
their ta’dib and tazkiyah took place in the hands of the Prophet
himself. Thus, they possessed a genuine feeling of unity (ideally
faith is incomplete unless believers love the next person as they
love themselves); this is called ‘asabiyyah. Khaldun observed that
the downfall or disintegration of a nation occurs, not so much
because of a breakdown in its economic system, but more because
of the breakdown of the political power of the ruling elite, begin-
ning with the loss of ‘asabiyyah.
6.
In the modern view, economic development involves industrial-
ization, basically using resources, labour, and technology to pro-
duce an assortment of products and services in large quantities so
as to be cost-effective. This process is, in principle, acceptable
because the Qur’an mentions the use of resources (tashkir). Human
dominion over nature is not an absolute fact, however; it is based
on the condition that humans use nature only in accordance with
the limits, purposes, and ethics prescribed by the Qur’an.
B A H A R U D D I N
144

7.
Technology as a means of controlling nature or gaining political
power is rejected. In the religious perspective, technology is a
branch of the practical sciences used to achieve a practical end.
Both the means and the purpose of the technology, however, must
conform to principles such as those outlined by Sardar so that the
effect is harmonious and balanced with humans and nature.
8.
Local people must have the freedom to innovate or improvise on
imported technologies. Such indigenization is required at every
level of technological development (that is, conception, form and
design, production, and application). Usually, however, developing
countries are only passive receivers and users of technologies
imported from developed countries. Giant corporations own these
technologies and exercise their right of ownership to maximize
their proﬁts; the motive of assisting developing nations is not part
of the scenario. The Southern users of technology have little oppor-
tunity to innovate or indigenize the technology to make it truly
theirs. Technology transfers often involve patent and copyright
conditions preventing any indigenous innovation. This framework
serves to ensure the continuous dependency of the South on the
North, which some characterize as an ongoing form of colonialism.
9.
An ironic situation exists in some developing countries, where the
local population may be proud of the tallest buildings, the latest
sophisticated transport systems, television satellites, and
cybertechnologies, but the truth is that these are almost com-
pletely imported technologies. Some see globalization as a pretext
for ensuring the dependency of Southern countries. Efforts should
be made to strengthen local knowledge and capacity in s&t.
10.
The negative effects of current development interventions on both
humans and the environment are lamentable. Many developing
nations prefer to hasten their development projects by imposing
laws, for instance. But development is not a transparent process;
the context of land acquisition for project implementation pro-
vides us with an example of the unintended consequences of legal
measures. In some cases, they include no requirement to inform
landowners, let alone consult them, regarding the project to be
implemented; planners and politicians make the decisions. In
addition, people are rarely provided with cost–benefit and
risk–beneﬁt analyses so that they can participate in the decision-
making that will affect their lives so acutely. Compensation hardly
removes the suffering caused by the loss of land, nor can it provide
the security of livelihood provided by land ownership.19
R E D I S C O V E R I N G
T H E
R E S O U R C E S
O F
R E L I G I O N
145
19 Personally, I feel that problems such as this can be linked to the lack of empower-
ment in general among people in developing countries. This question, in turn, is linked
to a poor grasp of the meaning of religious principles such as khalifah, amanah, and
humans’ being accountable to God for all their actions.

REFERENCES
Al-Attas, S.M.N. 1992. Islam and the concept of religion and the foundation of
ethics and morality. Dewan Bahasa dan Pustaka, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
50 pp.
al-Faruqi, I.R.; al-Faruqi, L.L. 1986. The cultural atlas of Islam. Macmillan
Publishing, New York, ny, usa. 512 pp.
al-Palembangi, A.S., Sheikh. 1953. Sirrus Salikin. Maktabah Wamatbaah
Walmuarif, Penang, Malaysia.
Aung San Suu Kyi. 1997. Towards a culture of peace and development. just
Commentary, New Series No. 6 (Nov), 1–4.
Baharuddin, A. 1989. Islam and science: some neglected perspectives. Univer-
sity of Lancaster, Lancaster, uk. PhD dissertation. 520 pp.
1994. Science and religion as the basis of a universal philosophy of
nature. In Baharuddin, A., ed., Science and belief: discourses on new per-
spectives. Institute for Policy Research, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. 233 pp.
Bergson, H. 1985 [1903]. Introduction to metaphysics. In Kolakowski, L., ed.,
Bergson. Oxford University Press, New York, ny, usa. 115 pp.
Bohm, D. 1981. Wholeness and the implicate order. Routledge and Kegan
Paul, London, uk. 224 pp.
Brooke, J.H. 1979. Natural theology in Britain from Boyle to Paley. Milton
Keynes; Open University, London, uk.
Capra, F. 1983. The Tao of physics: an exploration of the parallels between mod-
ern physics and Eastern mysticism. Fontana Paperbacks, London, uk.
384 pp.
1985. The turning point: science, society and the rising culture.
Fontana Paperbacks, London, uk. 464 pp.
Chapra, M.U. 1985. Towards a just monetary system: a discussion of money,
banking, and monetary policy in the light of Islamic teachings. Islamic
Foundation, Leicester, uk. 292 pp.
1992. Islam and the economic challenge. Islamic Foundation and
International Institute of Islamic Thought, Leicester, uk. 428 pp.
Daly, H.E. 1996. Beyond growth: the economics of sustainable development.
Beacon Press, Boston, ma, usa. 253 pp.
Daud, W.R.W.; Zain, S.M. 1998. Islamisation and Malaysianisation of science
and technology in the context of the National Science Policy. Paper
presented at the National Seminar on National Science and Technology
Policy, 16–17 Sep 1998, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. Academy of Islamic
Sciences (Malaysia), Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. 24 pp.
Ekins, P. 1992. A new world order: grassroots movements for global change.
Routledge, New York, ny, usa. 248 pp.
Goulet, D. 1992. Development: creator or destroyer of values? World Develop-
ment, 20(3), 467–475.
1996. Development: historical task or opening to transcendence? Cross
Currents, 46(2), 221–230.
Grof, S. 1996. Beyond the brain: birth, death, and transcendence in psy-
chotherapy. State University of New York Press, New York, ny, usa.
466 pp.
Halepota, A.J. 1974. Shah Waliyullah and Iqbal: philosophers of the modern
age. Islamic Studies, 13(4), 7–11.
B A H A R U D D I N
146

Harman, W. 1988. The transpersonal challenge to the scientiﬁc paradigm: the
need for a restructuring of science. Revision, 11(2), 13–21.
Iqbal, M. 1930. The reconstruction of religious thought in Islam. Ashraf,
Lahore, India. Ashraf Publication 19. 128 pp.
Jeyaraj, S. 1997a. Downside of urban spiral. Sunday Magazine, Kuala Lumpur
Sun, 30 Nov, pp. 4–5.
1997b. Modern sickness. Sunday Magazine, Kuala Lumpur Sun,
30 Nov, pp. 6–8.
Lindberg, D.C., ed. 1986. God and nature: historical essays on the encounter
between Christianity and science. University of California Press, Berkeley,
ca, usa. 516 pp.
Naisbitt, J.; Aburdene, P. 1990. Megatrends 2000: the new directions for the
1990’s. Avon Books, New York, ny, usa. 384 pp.
Nasr, S.H. 1968. Man and nature: the spiritual crisis of modern man. Unwin
Paperbacks, London, uk. 151 pp.
1993a. The need for a sacred science. Curzon Press, Surrey, uk. 187 pp.
1993b. Islam. In Sharma, A., ed., Our religions. HarperCollins
Publishers, New York, ny, usa. pp. 427–532.
Perroux, F. 1983. A new concept of development: basic tenets. Croom Helm;
United Nations Educational, Scientiﬁc and Cultural Organization, Paris,
France. 212 pp.
Rahman, M.A. 1998. Hadith. Dewan Pusataka Fajar, Shah Alam, Malaysia.
Razak, H.A.; Lathief, H.R. 1980. Translation of Hadith Sahih Muslim (vol. 1).
Pustaka Al-Husna, Jakarta, Indonesia.
Russell, B. 1976. The impact of science on society. Unwin Paperbacks, London,
uk. 127 pp.
Ryan, W.F. 1998.The book that the World Bank wouldn’t publish. Review of
Herman Daly, Beyond growth: the economics of sustainable development.
Catholic New Times, 12 Apr, p. 18.
Salleh, M.S. 1998. Globalisation, development and Islam. Institute of Compar-
ative Culture, Sophia University, Tokyo, Japan. admp Series, No. 28.
50 pp.
Sardar, Z. 1979a. The future of Muslim civilization. Croom Helm, London, uk.
288 pp.
1979b. Islam, outline of a classiﬁcation scheme. C. Bingley, London,
uk. 81 pp.
1985a. Arguments for Islamic science. Centre for Studies in Science,
Aligarh, India. 63 pp.
1985b. Islamic futures: the shape of ideas to come. Mansell, London,
uk. 308 pp.
, ed. 1988. The touch of Midas: science, values and the environment in
Islam and the West. Pelanduk Publications, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
253 pp.
Sarton, G. 1927. Introduction to the history of science (vol. 1). Williams &
Wilkins Co., Baltimore, md, usa. For the Carnegie Institution of
Washington.
Sheikh, M.S., ed. 1971. Studies in Iqbal’s thoughts and art. Bazm-e-Iqbal,
Lahore, India. 271 pp.
Stoddart, W. 1976. Sufism: the mystical doctrine and methods of Islam.
Thorsons Publishers, Wellingborough, uk. 91 pp.
R E D I S C O V E R I N G
T H E
R E S O U R C E S
O F
R E L I G I O N
147

undp (United Nations Development Programme). 1997. Human development
report 1997. Oxford University Press, New York, ny, usa. 245 pp.
Waly, K.H.M. 1991. The essence of the wisdom in Tauhid and Tasauf. Pustaka
Nasional, Singapore.
Whitehead, A.N. 1985 [1925]. Science and the modern world. Free Association
Books, London, uk. 265 pp.
B A H A R U D D I N
148

C H A P T E R  4
Promoting a
Discourse on
Science, Religion,
and Development
F a r z a m  A r b a b
ON PERSONAL EXPERIENCE
It seems to me essential that, at the outset of a research program on the
theme of science, religion, and development, one should acknowledge
candidly the privileged role science must play as the source of method-
ology. The issues surrounding the choice of scientiﬁc methods, however,
are in themselves complex, and a few words here on the subject may be
in order.
Science in its broadest sense, embracing a wide range of phenomena
in both nature and society, admits a variety of approaches and methods,
each suitable to the character of a speciﬁc object of inquiry. In the study
of innumerable systems and processes, questions related to the existence
of God or the spiritual dimension of life simply do not arise; proper
method must necessarily exclude them from consideration, if for no
other reason than the preservation of scientiﬁc rigour. Yet, when such
exclusion becomes a rule to be applied dogmatically across the board, an
inflexibility sets in that robs science of some of its powers. Rigidly
“scientiﬁc” approaches make it difﬁcult to weigh science’s own assump-
tions in balance with belief systems lying outside it. They allow the
study of religion, but usually as a psychic or social phenomenon created
149

by the interactions of human beings among themselves and with their
environment, interactions that, in the final analysis, are thought to
occur among aggregates of atoms and molecules, each behaving in strict
compliance with the measure of complexity accorded it by nature. That
this is not the view of the vast majority of humanity, who, everyone
agrees, will have to participate fully in the process of social transforma-
tion and whose cultures, beliefs, and values are to be incorporated into
the design and implementation of development activity, poses a contra-
diction that severely limits the usefulness of development studies
carried out according to narrow deﬁnitions of the “scientiﬁc method.”
I take it to be a premise of our research program that it is possible
to rigorously explore issues of religious belief without trivializing them
or explaining them away, relegating matters of faith to the private and
isolated world of the individual, or conﬁning religious practice to the
domain of ritual, legitimized by the needs of humanity as a social
species. This, of course, is not a new premise: it underlies the work of
social scientists and theologians of various schools. Unfortunately, it has
not had a signiﬁcant inﬂuence on the kind of thinking that has shaped
the ﬁeld of development in the past few decades.
Furthermore, it appears unavoidable that to deal properly with the
difficulties of methodological choice, our approach to this research
should remain measured and judicious. Thus, I hope that for some time
to come the emphasis will continue to be on the formulation of a dis-
course on the theme of science, religion, and development, rather than
shifting to elaborate studies or the articulation of hypotheses. Naturally,
to be scientiﬁc, our discourse would have to fulﬁll certain conditions.
For example, its language must strive to be rational, unambiguous, and
objective. The challenge before us is to achieve this when the object of
inquiry touches so intimately on each participant’s own faith.
I ﬁnd quite inadequate the approach to the study of religion that
divides the researcher into two separate entities, the scientist and the
believer, the ﬁrst bound to the rules of academia and the second obliged
to ignore the absurdities this duality introduces into his or her belief
system. That so untenable an approach should have widespread accep-
tance is due to the impositions of secularism acting as a kind of funda-
mentalist creed. As a result, much of the reality of science, religion, and
the forces that transform society has ended up hidden behind a veil cre-
ated by false objectivity.
The alternative to the prevailing situation is not apologetics or
sectarian controversy. What is called for is a new look at the interpene-
tration of reason and faith, as well as a systematic exploration of ratio-
nal approaches that are not tied to materialism. Although such a
thorough exploration is not part of the mandate of this project,
acknowledgment of its absolute necessity is important to our frame of
reference.
A R B A B
150

An immediate consequence of this realization, it could be argued,
is to require the researcher in certain ﬁelds to make explicit the relevant
aspects of his or her own belief and experience. To do so in a meaning-
ful way, one must be convinced that it is possible to be ﬁrm in one’s con-
victions without being judgmental. Although the statement “if I
believe something to be right, then he whose opinions differ from mine
must be wrong” passes the tests of formal logic and although it is
applicable in countless situations, its usefulness vanishes once the object
of discussion becomes relatively complex. It is not that “A” and “not A”
can both be true, but that the vastness of truth does not allow most mat-
ters of belief, if there is any depth to them at all, to be reduced to such
comparisons. The only options this simplistic posture ﬁnally leaves open
are either religious and ideological fanaticism or the brand of relativism
that does away with faith, embraces scepticism, and idolizes doubt. It is
instructive to note how the assaults of such relativism on belief, initially
launched against religion, have been directed in the postmodern era to
the very foundations of science.
It is for the reasons expressed above, and not because of an urge to
defend a set of religious beliefs, that I will incorporate in this paper brief
explanations of certain elements of my own faith. In this introductory
section, I will try to describe how my personal experience and belief sys-
tem determine the way I address issues in the subsequent sections.
My introduction to development
I was ﬁrst introduced to the ﬁeld of development in 1971, when I was
invited to join the deliberations of an interdisciplinary group concerned
with integrated approaches to rural development. At the time, I was a
visiting professor at the Universidad del Valle in Colombia, helping to
reorganize its department of physics to meet the standards of universi-
ties in North America and Western Europe. Our project was part of the
Rockefeller Foundation’s intensive effort to improve higher education in
several universities around the world and turn them into efficient
instruments of modernization.
To contribute to the formation of a generation of scientists who
would lay a ﬁrm foundation for progress in their country was an exciting
prospect and one that indeed had drawn me to Colombia. Yet, I was
uncomfortable with the distance that separated our formal academic
endeavour from the lives of the millions of people whose needs and aspi-
rations demanded immediate attention. Participation in the delibera-
tions of the interdisciplinary group at the university was a welcome
opportunity to pursue my search for a more direct use of science in
systems and processes relevant to the social reality of the masses of
humanity. After all, science, the source of technology, was for me the
most crucial force moving at the very heart of modernization, that
PROMOTING A DISCOURSE ON SCIENCE, RELIGION, AND DEVELOPMENT
151

magical process that I had been taught to cherish and revere all through
the various stages of my education.
As it turned out, my enthusiasm for the group’s intellectually
stimulating discussions on the nature of social and economic develop-
ment lasted for about a year. In keeping with our original motivation
for moving to Latin America, my wife and I were simultaneously
becoming involved in the activities of the Colombian Bahá’í commu-
nity, especially in a rural region near Cali known as Norte del Cauca.
The gap between the reality of life we encountered there and the elabo-
rate constructs of the interdisciplinary group uncovered contradictions
that I found difﬁcult to ignore.
By the time I had joined the interdisciplinary group, my col-
leagues had already decided on a series of deﬁnitions about development
and were committed to constructing a model to guide their future activ-
ities. According to this model, well-being resulted from the conver-
gence of several factors such as health, housing, education, employment,
family life, community organization, and other elements that could be
grouped together under the general heading of “culture.” Integrated
development implied the simultaneous and united action of various
governmental organizations to improve these factors. The role of the
university was to coordinate these interventions and provide the neces-
sary theoretical framework.
The exercise in which our group was engaged was by no means
unique. Those were the years when the ﬁeld of development was begin-
ning to focus on the poor, and the World Bank, under the leadership of
Robert McNamara, was promoting growth with equity, attention to
basic needs, and integrated rural development. We were often in contact
with world experts, some of whom visited us and brought us the latest
in development thinking. With their help our theoretical elaboration
became increasingly more sophisticated; we discovered new factors,
refined our definitions, saw new relationships, and contemplated the
effects of a change in one factor on the workings of the others.
If I remember correctly, the subject that presented the greatest
challenge to us was “participation,” a theme that, at the time, was gain-
ing prominence in development discourse. It was my dissatisfaction
with the way this challenge was faced that helped crystallize in my
mind a series of objections to the premises underlying the approach our
group had taken. My response was gradually to distance myself from the
group and, with the help of a few other colleagues, begin to formulate
the framework for the activities of a small organization of our own:
Fundación para la Aplicación y Enseñanza de las Ciencias (fundaec,
Foundation for the Application and Teaching of the Sciences).1 Some of
the questions we asked ourselves at that time — and some of the
answers we found over the years as the scope of our actions increased and
A R B A B
152
1 More information on fundaec’s principles and activities can be found at its website
(www.bcca.org/services/lists/noble-creation/fundaec1.html).

fundaec became a well-established development organization — seem
highly relevant to the present inquiry on the theme of science, religion,
and development.
The inside–outside dichotomy
The ﬁrst question was cast, initially, in the language of the previous
group: What was the role of the villagers themselves in interdiscipli-
nary, multi-institutional development intervention? The analyses we
found in the literature on participation, though thought provoking,
were not entirely satisfactory. No matter how hard we tried, we could
not escape an uneasy feeling that by adopting any of the prevalent
approaches, we would be asking a people to participate in our plans and
follow our models. That we would do everything possible to give them
a voice in the endeavour, especially at the level of implementation,
would do little to change this underlying message, which, we had no
doubt, would be picked up by the people themselves.
What was curious about these deliberations on the theme of par-
ticipation was that the more one thought in terms of “we” and “they,”
the farther away seemed the people one wished to serve. The pendulum
seemed to swing from extreme to extreme, from the paternalism of the
previous decades to the glorification of cultural autonomy and self-
determination. Why were so many development organizations taking
on with such tenacity the role of an outsider? Are human beings
doomed to be outsiders to every group except a single one, a subculture
narrowly defined by nationality, ethnicity, social class, religion, and
occupation?
My experience with the Bahá’í community presented a sharp con-
trast to the efforts of most development projects I had come to know.
Here, I was a member of a community — in this case consisting mostly
of people of little material means — morally bound to participate in its
plans, to follow the guidance of its elected institutions, and to contribute
my talents and resources to its spiritual and material advancement.
Although learning the subtleties of a new culture would take time,
I was, by deﬁnition, part of the collectivity from the very beginning: I
was not an outsider.
Becoming acquainted with a people as an agent of a development
organization or bearer of charity is profoundly different from working
among friends for a common purpose. In the latter case, one’s percep-
tion of reality is not shaped simply by academic theories that describe,
from the outside, the needs and aspirations of the great masses of
humanity. Although the gravity of social injustice is felt and under-
stood, the integrity and capacity for joy of its victims offer protection
against some of the emotions that afﬂict external observers of poverty:
pity, fear, sanctimonious indignation, ambivalence, and the inordinate
desire to direct others to irrelevant paths laid out in accordance with
PROMOTING A DISCOURSE ON SCIENCE, RELIGION, AND DEVELOPMENT
153

one’s own accomplishments or frustrations. For me, what was most
striking about my new community was not material poverty per se but
the wealth of talent that went uncultivated, together with the dreams
of noble futures that went unfulfilled, as injustice systematically
blocked the development of potentialities.
Over the years, I have become increasingly convinced that what I
originally perceived as a matter of personal choice — to learn to see the
world from inside the population I wish to serve and become a partici-
pant in their endeavours to transform the world — represents in fact a
fundamental issue inadequately addressed in development theory. That
so many development programs are interventions managed from the
outside, while the praise of participation is conﬁdently sung, is a mani-
festation of a social structure that has accepted separation as the
norm — the dividing of people into groups of “we” and “they” who
ﬁght, who compete, who negotiate, who cooperate, or who help each
other from across the boundaries that deﬁne their separateness. This ten-
dency reinforces, and is reinforced by, an intellectuality that sees as the
hallmark of intelligence the ability to identify differences, to divide, and
to relativize, all in the name of being scientiﬁc. Such an approach is a
gross misrepresentation of science, for although it is true that science
analyzes, it also integrates and points to underlying patterns of oneness.
Religion, of course, has done its full share to contribute to the con-
solidation of separateness. Yet, it would be a mistake to imagine that a
posture of superiority, often assumed by one religious group in relation
to another, is inherent to religion. Belief in the unity of humankind,
with its implications of equity and selﬂess love, is, after all, ultimately
a religious conception of reality. Viewed from the angle of oneness,
development ceases to be something one does for others. A vision begins
to emerge according to which the rich and the poor, the illiterate and
the educated, are all to participate in building a new civilization, one
that ensures the material and spiritual prosperity of the entire human
race.
How the poor are perceived
The second of our questions — which remains as relevant today as it was
to us in the early 1970s — had to do with the way development pro-
grams tend to view the essential nature of the masses of humanity whose
participation they seek to secure. From the beginning, my colleagues
and I at fundaec identiﬁed ourselves with approaches that later came
to be known as people-centred development. But we felt uncomfortable
with the images that were being evoked by the phrase “the poorest of
the poor,” used so extensively in development literature in those days.
When, after World War ii, development economists began to pro-
mote growth policies among the nations of the world, the technical talk
about industrialization, capital accumulation, planning, foreign aid,
A R B A B
154

and transfer of know-how carried connotations that were not of mater-
ial poverty alone but of peoples’ backwardness. This was especially true
when referring to the inhabitants of rural areas, who were described, no
matter how politely, as ignorant, unmotivated, lazy, and superstitious.
It was even assumed that up to 50% of them lived virtually unproduc-
tive lives and could readily be moved to the cities to provide cheap
labour to accelerate industrialization. Perhaps to mitigate the moral
implications of such an assumption, the highest compliment was then
bestowed on these masses: they were called the hidden capital of the
developing nations. The ﬁrst stages of migration from rural to urban
areas, now so sorely lamented, were not accidents of history: they were
inspired and driven by the ﬂawed perception development thinkers held
of their fellow human beings.
The pioneers of the Green Revolution argued against this view of
peasants but without abandoning most of the other cherished premises
of development economics. It was not the peasant, they pointed out, but
the state of technology that was the cause of equilibrium at a low level
of production. Villagers were indeed clever and efﬁcient in the use of the
tools at their disposal. The solution to the problem lay, therefore, in the
transformation of traditional agriculture. Like their other colleagues,
these pioneers revered what they saw as modern rationality. Thus, they
went on to proclaim that peasants, too, belonged to the species Homo eco-
nomicus, an article of faith that underpinned their elaborate — and
admirable — efforts to modernize agricultural and animal production.
The Green Revolution was only partially successful. Food produc-
tion increased notably, and millions were almost certainly saved from
pending starvation. But the gap between the rich and the poor also
increased both in the villages and in the cities that received a constant
stream of migrants in search of a better life. In the meantime, develop-
ment thinking had moved ahead to emphasize the needs of the poor and
their share and participation in economic growth. But there was still no
fundamental change in the way the poor were perceived. The new
image, which has persisted since the early 1970s, is that of the materi-
ally poor as a bundle of problems and needs; people suffering from
malnutrition and lack of sanitation; people with little education, living
in inadequate quarters, lacking capital, with no access to modern tech-
nology, and unable to enjoy any reasonable level of consumption. How
such aggregates of problems are expected to become active protagonists
in development is not easy to understand.
The problem runs very deep. Efforts to free development thinking
from such paternalistic views tend all too often to fall into ideological
traps, at the heart of which is a misconception of human nature. In the
cherished notions of these ideologies, the liberated agents of change are
either competitive, tireless labourers and entrepreneurs busily accumu-
lating wealth or politicized social actors focused single-mindedly on
matters of individual and group power. Neither the excessive
PROMOTING A DISCOURSE ON SCIENCE, RELIGION, AND DEVELOPMENT
155

individualism of the former nor the consecration to conﬂict of the lat-
ter, of course, supposedly serves only the self. Through some alchemy
never quite explained, these labours and struggles result in social forces
that will modernize underdeveloped nations and usher humanity into
an age of prosperity. At the altars of such tragic misconceptions of
human nature the lives of the masses of humanity have been sacriﬁced
for decades.
It is difficult to see how development theory and practice can
undergo fundamental change unless the corresponding discourse admits
a reexamination of the nature of the human being. Such exploration can-
not be effected simply through speculation and arbitrary expressions of
uninformed opinion. The serious discussion of this vital matter
inevitably calls for a new level of dialogue between science and religion.
Conceptions of human nature
So much of what I will present in the following sections is based on my
view of human nature that I should make a few comments on the sub-
ject. Ideas of the kind I express here run the danger of being dismissed
as utopian. But, then, the instinctive rejection of noble aspirations in
the name of realism has become habitual with approaches to social issues
that have failed both to uplift the human race and to acknowledge their
impotence. The prevailing — presumably realistic — views of human
nature are confusing and self-contradictory. On the one hand, we dream
of, and labour for, a world of peace and prosperity; on the other, what
passes for scientiﬁc theory depicts us as slaves to self-interest, incapable
of rising to the heights of nobility we must achieve to meet our chal-
lenges. We work, then, for objectives lying forever beyond our selﬁsh
means. It is such contradictions that have led to the paralysis of will that
today pervades all strata of society.
To liberate ourselves from these paralyzing contradictions, we
must ﬁrst ask if the history of the human race, with all its follies, sub-
stantiates any such theories as original sin, the innocent being corrupted
by civilization, the human who is only one step away from being a god,
or the animal who is driven by a collection of insatiable needs. When
the operations of love, of the will to conquer the ego, of transcendence,
and of beauty are examined — along with the cruelty that has afﬂicted
humanity in its arduous evolutionary path — the picture that emerges
is of a human being with a dual nature, and a set of complementary
forces that shape and reshape that nature.
We cannot deny that we have inherited from millions of years of
animal evolution attributes that belong to those origins. In the animal,
such characteristics are neither good nor bad; they are merely traits
required for individual or collective survival. But they do not constitute
a realistic base upon which human society can be constructed. There is
ample historical and experiential evidence that we also possess a higher
A R B A B
156

nature, a spiritual one that has gradually made it possible for us to
understand and satisfy material needs within appropriate limits while
rising above the exigencies of animal existence. None of the usual atti-
tudes toward our physical nature — rejection, guilt, passive acceptance,
or loving ﬁxation — is conducive to transcendence. The challenge is to
overcome the limitations urged on us by the demands of survival, to
learn to control the appetites of the animal, and to develop the qualities
of the higher nature that struggles for expression. This is a personal task
to be tackled by every individual and, at the same time, an imperative
in the collective evolution of the human race.
The primary force propelling this, now conscious, evolutionary
process is knowledge, a knowledge that is created and constantly re-
created on the basis of a sound understanding of one’s self, of those
promptings that lead to abasement and of those that lead to dignity and
honour. The two repositories of this knowledge are religion and science.
With their aid we discover in ourselves the powers of nobility, freedom,
and oneness and learn to apply these powers in building an ever-
advancing civilization. “Thou art even as a ﬁnely tempered sword,” says
Bahá’u’lláh, “concealed in the darkness of its sheath and its value hid-
den from the artificer’s knowledge. Wherefore come forth from the
sheath of self and desire that thy worth may be made resplendent and
manifest unto all the world” (bpt 1994, 2:72). Only belief in its inher-
ent nobility can equip humanity to respond to the demands of this
crucial historical moment. Far from the familiar expression of unbridled
individualism, the freedom that is a corollary of such belief is a gift
received through obedience to the laws of spiritual reality, a fruit of the
recognition of the principle of oneness and interconnectedness that gov-
erns the universe.
The urge to be scientific
Another set of issues to which my colleagues and I at fundaec gave a
great deal of attention — one that again is highly relevant to the pre-
sent discourse — concerns the scientific nature of the development
enterprise. My ﬁrst reaction to the way science was being discussed in
the interdisciplinary group that started me in the ﬁeld had been one of
astonishment. Why was there — in a still-emerging area of human
knowledge — so much emphasis on creating elaborate models, on mak-
ing precise measurements, and on ﬁnding “witness” populations, as if
science was reducible to a simplistic application of a few rigidly deﬁned
methods? My attitude was somewhat surprising to the group that
expected the newly acquired physicist to bring rigour to its endeavours.
What it received, instead, was a plea for flexibility, for the gradual
consolidation of a set of facts, and for seeking insights, rather than for-
mulating grand theories and complex models.
PROMOTING A DISCOURSE ON SCIENCE, RELIGION, AND DEVELOPMENT
157

Having observed a wide range of policies and programs for many
years, I am now convinced that the ﬁeld of development suffers at various
levels from an inadequate understanding of science. First, in the absence
of a consistent conceptual framework acceptable to most practitioners,
it falls prey to the impositions of competing disciplines — economics,
agricultural science, public health, anthropology, management, and so
on — each of which, while acknowledging a role for other disciplines,
insists on fashioning the field according to underlying ideological
premises of its own. Second, lacking a clear interpretation of the con-
nections between science and technology, development thinking
overemphasizes the latter and does not pay the necessary attention to the
advancement of the scientiﬁc culture of peoples. Third, by focusing on
certain tools and procedures — for planning, for reporting, for evaluating —
it loses sight of the exigencies of systematic and structured learning, an
essential characteristic of any approach that claims to be scientiﬁc.
By arguing the above, I do not wish to suggest that the very com-
plex set of social, cultural, political, and economic interactions necessary
to bring about change should be scientiﬁc. But neither is it reasonable
to assume that social transformation is an engineering problem to be
managed by technocrats and moved in directions set by political and
economic power. What we have the right to expect is systematic learn-
ing about development through which some kind of ascertained knowl-
edge can be gradually accumulated in communities and institutions.
Reﬂections such as these led fundaec to dedicate its ﬁrst efforts
to the creation of what was called the rural university, an institution
deﬁned as the “social space” in which the inhabitants of a given rural
region would learn about the path of their own development. Within
this context, we focused our attention on various spheres of activity in
rural life — production, marketing, decision-making, education, social-
ization, and the like — for each of which we set in motion a learning
process that consisted of research, action, and training carried out with
the growing participation of the people of the region as they gained a
sense of ownership of the rural university.
That development is not a package the “developed” deliver to the
“underdeveloped” but a process in which entire populations must, in
one way or another, participate is a realization that came about simulta-
neously in many organizations and agencies. Early in our experience of
the rural university, we learned that such a view of development, while
freeing the ﬁeld from simplistic formulas, raises new challenges. The
process is not advanced by the mere application of technology, even
when it is supported by political will, and must be intimately connected
to structured scientiﬁc learning. But while science can offer the meth-
ods and tools of inquiry and learning, it alone cannot set the direction;
the goal of development cannot come from within the process itself. The
path of development must be illumined by the light of moral and
spiritual principles emanating from religion, but religion willing to
submit its proposals to the scrutiny of science.
A R B A B
158

The rural–urban balance
My experience in development began with intense involvement in the
life of a relatively small rural population and only gradually grew to
embrace issues in a global context. Throughout, the immediate future
of rural life on the planet was a question of paramount importance in my
thinking. The question is signiﬁcant for the present inquiry in that it
brings to focus the direction that has been set for the social and eco-
nomic development of nations.
No one would claim that development objectives are set by con-
sensus, through profound religious reﬂection on the nature and purpose
of human existence, or through the scientiﬁc exploration of the options
open to the human race. So simplistic a demand could not be made by
anyone aware of the complexity of human affairs. Yet, it is not unrea-
sonable to expect that, after these many decades, deﬁning the aims of a
signiﬁcant global enterprise, which development has become, would no
longer be approached haphazardly.
The present direction of development continues to be — in prac-
tice, if not in theory — modernization through an industrialization pro-
pelled by feverish activity to sustain technological progress. It was set
by individuals whose experiences were shaped by World War ii and by
the breakdown of colonial empires. The theories that helped deﬁne it,
Marxist or capitalist, viewed the city as the fairest fruit of civilization
and the factory as the wellspring of wealth. They assumed that devel-
opment would ﬁnally lead to a world in which rural dwellers would
represent an extremely small percentage of the total population and that
even these would have the characteristics of industrial workers.
Personally, I have never surrendered to romanticism about the
beautiful past, the tranquil village life, or the spirituality of the rejec-
tion of means. The future I envision is highly technological, one in
which scientiﬁc advances will have enabled humanity to live free from
the struggle for mere survival. Nor do I see much value in speculating
about the eventual form that cities and villages will take, although I
ﬁnd it difﬁcult to believe that a mature humanity will live under the
conditions we deﬁne today as either urban or rural. What seems to me
indispensable is the creation of a viable future for the vast number of vil-
lages in the world so that their dwellers can participate meaningfully in
building a world civilization. The poverty belts of Lima and Calcutta
are not viable options.
A most disturbing fact about the current disintegration of rural
life is that it is a direct result of policy. Beliefs that predict and applaud
the rural–urban trend are self-fulfilling, for they are translated into
strategies that impoverish the countryside and increase urban problems,
thus absorbing more and more resources and accelerating the cycle.
Colonialism transferred to the emerging cities of the South the abhor-
rent conditions that characterized so many European cities at the dawn
PROMOTING A DISCOURSE ON SCIENCE, RELIGION, AND DEVELOPMENT
159

of industrialization. Five decades of development have brought about
the multiplication and growth of these cities whose problems seem
insurmountable, despite the combined efforts of thousands of institu-
tions toiling indefatigably to overcome them. But the victims of these
erroneous policies are not only the broken families living partly in the
village and partly in the slums of the city. The entire planet has suffered
from its infatuation with a certain brand of industrialization and urban-
ization, as its leaders and policymakers, following their dreams and liv-
ing in islands of prosperity, have lost touch both with the soul of the
masses and with nature. Their relentless pursuit of what they have
deﬁned as progress is not sufﬁciently inﬂuenced either by the power of
rigorous scientiﬁc inquiry or by the spiritual insights of religion.
The direction of development
Throughout the years, my colleagues and I in fundaec participated in
numerous deliberations on the nature and purpose of development and
learned much from theories that focused attention on a growing set of
interrelated themes, such as technological choice, the environment,
basic needs, human development, and participatory research and action.
Yet, it has always been difﬁcult for me to see how the results of these
deliberations can by themselves change the direction of development.
Will a new direction ever be set if the masses of humanity continue to
be considered mere beneﬁciaries of projects rather than the real protag-
onists of development? And can this change come about in the institu-
tional vacuum that characterizes the life of such a vast number of human
beings?
The majority of the interventions directed to “the poor” by gov-
ernment and nongovernmental organizations (ngos) are of two kinds:
the provision of services and the creation of groups that in one way or
another cooperate to improve their own conditions. Usually, both kinds
include a notable component of training. The objectives of training vary
from preparing beneﬁciaries to receive services all the way to raising
political consciousness and empowerment. No matter how extensive,
however, these interventions and the accompanying training do not
deﬁne the path of development for most nations. This is done largely
through policies that crystallize in institutions charged with governing
and administering the people’s affairs, institutions that, alas, belong to
and are chieﬂy accessible to a privileged minority, regardless of the fact
that most people are constantly voting for this or the other candidate to
run them.
Why the enhancement of institutional capacity among rural pop-
ulations and the inhabitants of poor city neighbourhoods has been
neglected by so many development plans is a question for which I have
never had an adequate answer. The economists who set the tone for the
entire enterprise at the beginning talked a great deal about the
A R B A B
160

importance of institutions. But their focus on the traditional–modern
dichotomy seems to have led them to concentrate on creating and
strengthening institutions in the so-called modern sector. After all, the
existence of the traditional sectors was coming to an end, and their
members were to move gradually into a modern world that was being
built for them. The dream, of course, did not come true. What has
emerged, rather, is a world in which the majority not only lives in
poverty but is increasingly marginalized from the institutional channels
that would allow it a voice in shaping its future. The traditional insti-
tutions of most societies were not faultless or even viable in a world in
rapid transition. The point is that they were mercilessly assailed by the
forces of modernization without substitutes being offered to those who
could only be passive witnesses to the disintegration of their systems
and processes of life. The result is today’s widening gulf that separates a
technologically advanced society from the world in which the great
majority of the human race lives.
The inability of development theory and practice to adequately
address the creation, transformation, and strengthening of the struc-
tures of an emerging world civilization has been exacerbated by the
long-standing conﬂict between two extreme views. At one extreme lies
the conviction that change is basically effected at the level of the indi-
vidual; at the other stands the conception of the human being as a mere
product of society, and revolutionary structural change as the only way
out of the predicament of most nations. The adherents of the ﬁrst view
include, of course, the followers of religious movements who see the
solution to human problems in the salvation of souls, offered either to
ﬁxed numbers or to everyone on the planet. Although such a position
would be frowned upon in development circles, it is surprising to note
how many internationally supported development plans have sought to
overcome poverty with minimum structural change by upgrading the
skills of individuals through elaborate training programs designed to ﬁt
them to receive credit or employment. Insistence by those clinging to
the second position, some of whom have gone so far as to label efforts to
improve the human condition as mere attempts to postpone revolution,
has done its share to divert attention from the challenges of institutional
development. Perhaps today, when the debate between these extremes
seems to have been exhausted, social theory can examine the transfor-
mation of human society in detached consideration of a complex set of
interactions between profound changes within the individual and delib-
erate systematic re-creation of social structure.
The creation of the institutions of a global society, a web of inter-
connected structures that hold society together at all levels, from local
to international — institutions that gradually become the patrimony of
all the inhabitants of the planet — is for me one of the major challenges
of development planning and strategy. Without it, I fear, globalization
will be synonymous with the marginalization of the masses. I do not see
PROMOTING A DISCOURSE ON SCIENCE, RELIGION, AND DEVELOPMENT
161

how, in their present state, the social sciences can adequately address
this challenge. The enormous scientiﬁc advance required by the task
demands volition and a rigorous application of the methods of science.
But method alone is not enough. A vision is needed, and the proper
vision will never take shape if the entire spiritual heritage of the human
race continues to be neglected.
Technique, power, spirituality, and knowledge
Finally, in my attempt to make explicit certain elements of personal
belief and experience that influence my treatment of our theme of
research, I should comment on the way I view a number of interrelated
development concerns.
As mentioned before, my initial invitation to join the delibera-
tions of a group on development was as a scientist expected to be
concerned for scientiﬁc rigour. Soon I realized that what was required of
me was to make technical contributions to the group. This I endeav-
oured to do with great pleasure. However, I gradually learned that to
deal with development, and in fact with most social issues, at the level
of technique is a growing and disturbing tendency of our times. I
became increasingly aware of the limitations of a technocracy and grew
weary of belonging to it. But the choice offered by the critics of tech-
nocratic rule was the veneration of politics and political power, which I
found even less appealing.
That change and transformation entail the operation of power is an
undeniable fact. That numerous issues in the ﬁeld of development have
a signiﬁcant political dimension is also irrefutable. But the premise that
political and economic power — interpreted as advantage enjoyed by
persons or groups or as an attribute of individuals, factions, peoples,
classes, and nations used to acquire, to surpass, to dominate, to resist,
and to win — is the agent that will bring prosperity to the entire
human race is untenable. Despite all claims to the contrary, there is no
convincing historical evidence for this supposition. It appears to me that
adherence to such a premise in the name of realism is in itself an indi-
cation of the confusion afﬂicting social thought.
The rapid expansion of Western civilization takes to every corner
of the world both the blessings and the curses of the Enlightenment.
The blessings include the systematic removal of the veils of superstition.
But, unfortunately, this is accompanied by a coarseness of mind that
tends to dismiss the ideal and to call real that which is ugly and base.
The result, after a few centuries of insistence, is widespread forgetfulness
of those many powers of the human spirit that are in fact responsible for
some of the greatest accomplishments of humanity’s past. Among these
are the powers of unity, of humble service, of noble deeds, of love, and
of truth. But even to mention the word truth in respectable discourse has
become unacceptable; truth has been dethroned and reduced to
A R B A B
162

something that is negotiable or a mere expression of dominance. The
loudest message broadcast all over the world for an entire generation to
hear is “he who is successful is right.”
The only explanation I have found for how a process of intellectual
enhancement, so intimately associated in its origins with the free inves-
tigation of reality, has led us to our present predicament is persistent
neglect of the spiritual dimension of human existence. Modern scientiﬁc
knowledge has shown its power to liberate us from the fetters of religion
ruled by superstition and maintained by self-righteousness. But it has
also demonstrated how it can lose its bearings when it falls victim to
materialism. The knowledge system currently propelling the develop-
ment of the world is fragmented. Its fragments by themselves cannot
address the highly complex and interrelated problems of societies in dire
need of profound transformation. Yet, the power that can ultimately
raise humanity from its present condition is the power of knowledge. It
is my perception of the role of knowledge in development that leads me
to examine the theme of our research in the context of capacity-
building, which is the subject of the fourth section of this paper.
Further comments
In the remainder of this section, I address a number of points with direct
bearing on the arguments of the preceding pages. These comments are
intended to provide additional context for the ideas presented thus far
and to lend them further clarity.
Definitions of science
In writing this document, I have tried to avoid explicit deﬁnitions of
science. The literature of various ﬁelds is, of course, replete with such
deﬁnitions. To none of them do I seriously adhere, convinced as I am
that complex entities reveal their inner operations only if they are
approached on a multitude of fronts. Statements of what science is and
is not are useful so long as they are employed to offer insight and not to
reduce. For the purposes of this paper, a phrase like “a system of knowl-
edge and practice” seems sufficient, in that it allows me to discuss
science in broad terms. I do hope, however, that what emerges is con-
sistent with the notion of science as an expression of those faculties of
the rational soul that, through both sensible and reasonable perception,
shed light on the reality of inner and outer phenomena.
My own view of science has been shaped by theoretical physics, a
modest amount of reading in the philosophy and history of science, and
years of exposure to the social sciences as I worked in development-
related ﬁelds. But the unshakeable faith I have in science, one that I
trust comes through in the arguments presented in this paper, has its
roots in religious belief as well as in scientiﬁc training. So insistent are
PROMOTING A DISCOURSE ON SCIENCE, RELIGION, AND DEVELOPMENT
163

the Bahá’í teachings about the critical role of science in the advance-
ment of civilization that it would be difﬁcult for a Bahá’í not to stand
in awe of both the scientiﬁc heritage of humankind and its potential for
future accomplishments. These teachings unambiguously declare as
superstitious any religious belief that clearly disagrees with the con-
ﬁrmed results of scientiﬁc inquiry. Such statements as the following,
from ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, are representative of numerous passages on this
subject:
The virtues of humanity are many, but science is the most noble of
them all. … Science is an effulgence of the Sun of Reality, the power
of investigating and discovering the verities of the universe, the
means by which man ﬁnds a pathway to God.
Science is the ﬁrst emanation from God toward man. All created
beings embody the potentiality of material perfection, but the
power of intellectual investigation and scientific acquisition is a
higher virtue specialized to man alone. … The development and
progress of a nation is according to the measure and degree of that
nation’s scientiﬁc attainments. Through this means its greatness is
continually increased, and day by day the welfare and prosperity of
its people are assured.
bpt (1982, p. 49)
It would be misleading for me to give the impression, however,
that science receives only praise in the Bahá’í writings. Also present are
passages that warn of the harm science can do when it is divorced from
spiritual perception. “The sciences of today are bridges to reality,” stated
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. “If then they lead not to reality, naught remains but
fruitless illusion” (bpt 1997, 72:3).
Religion and development
The limitations of a discourse on development restricted by narrow def-
initions of the “scientific method,” to which I have alluded, are not
solely theoretical in nature; they affect the operation of development
programs at every level. From its very beginnings, development think-
ing adopted the attitudes of a secular tradition, which, historically, has
suffered from an inadequate conception of knowledge:
This reductionist approach to knowledge leads most development
specialists to become one-eyed giants: scientists lacking wisdom.
They analyse, prescribe and act as if man could live by bread alone,
as if human destiny could be stripped to its material dimensions
alone.
Goulet (1980, p. 481, emphasis in the original)
The attitudes toward religion fostered by the secular culture
within which the ﬁeld of development has ﬂourished range from dis-
missiveness to outright hostility. Gunnar Myrdal’s now classic Asian
A R B A B
164

Drama provides a candid — by no means exceptional — statement of
this self-conﬁdent article of secular faith:
Religion is, of course, crucial, but not the interpretation of old
scriptures and the lofty philosophies and theologies developed over
centuries of speculation. It is, indeed, amazing how much Western,
as well as South Asian, writers think they are saying about the
peoples of the region when they refer loosely to the impact of
Hinduism, Buddhism, or Islam, which they think of as general con-
cepts and often as intellectualized and abstruse. Religion should be
studied for what it really is among the people: a ritualized and strat-
iﬁed complex of highly emotional beliefs and valuations that give
the sanction of sacredness, taboo, and immutability to inherited
institutional arrangements, modes of living, and attitudes. Under-
stood in this realistic and comprehensive sense, religion usually acts
as a tremendous force for social inertia. The writer knows of no
instance in present-day South Asia where religion has induced
social change. Least of all does it foster realization of the modern-
ization ideals. From a planning point of view, this inertia related to
religion, like other obstacles, must be overcome by policies for
inducing changes, formulated in a plan for development. But the
religiously sanctioned beliefs and valuations not only act as obsta-
cles among the people to getting the plan accepted but also as inhi-
bitions in the planners themselves insofar as they share them, or are
afraid to counteract them.
Myrdal (1972, pp. 48–49)
Magisterial statements of this kind long inhibited development
workers from paying due attention to the force of religion, even when
they themselves held ﬁrm religious beliefs. But now that ﬁve decades of
intervention have revealed the strengths and weaknesses of dominant
patterns of thought, development practitioners are becoming increas-
ingly vocal in expressing their dissatisfaction with the consequences of
this narrow approach to their field of expertise. This message comes
through strongly in Culture, Spirituality, and Economic Development:
Opening a Dialogue, William F. Ryan’s (1995) account of his interviews
with some 200 experienced individuals around the world, which served
as the point of departure for our present endeavour.
To incorporate the subject of religion into development discourse
is no easy matter. It is true that the ﬁeld has been reasonably open to
new ideas, but it has shown extraordinary reluctance to abandon its fun-
damentally materialistic mind-set. With painful slowness, people’s
participation, their culture, and their values have become accepted as
legitimate matters to be addressed; even the mention of spirituality is
now beginning to enjoy a certain acceptance. A thousand objections are
raised, however, the moment the word religion is introduced. There is no
opposition, of course, to what Goulet called an “instrumental” use of
religious beliefs. These are “viewed primarily as mere means — aids or
obstacles — to the achievement of goals derived from sources outside
PROMOTING A DISCOURSE ON SCIENCE, RELIGION, AND DEVELOPMENT
165

the value systems in question” (Goulet 1980, p. 484, emphasis in the
original). Although development agents may be sensitive to local
values, they
usually derive their goals from outside these values: from develop-
ment models or the common assumptions of their respective scien-
tiﬁc disciplines. Thus, a demographer will strive to “harness” local
values to his objective of promoting contraception or achieving zero
population growth. Similarly, the agronomist will search for a
traditional practice upon which to “graft” his recommendation to
use chemical pesticides. Similarly, the community organizer will
“mobilize” a population for political ends around traditionally
cherished symbols.
Goulet (1980, p. 484)
This instrumental treatment of religion is accompanied by a host
of superficial remarks about the relationship between religion and
progress that expose an unwillingness to study in any depth the way
various religious traditions deal with the issue under discussion. A
statement by W. Arthur Lewis illustrates the prevalent attitude:
Does religion have an independent effect in shaping economic
behaviour, or does religion merely reﬂect economic conditions? It is
obvious that religious beliefs change as economic and social condi-
tions change. Religious doctrines are continuously being reinter-
preted, and adjusted to new situations. …
We cannot accept the conclusion that it is always economic
change which causes religious change, and never religious change
that causes economic or social change. It is not true that if economic
interest and religious doctrines conﬂict, the economic interest will
always win. The Hindu cow has remained sacred for centuries,
although this is plainly contrary to economic interests. Or, to take
another example, the failure of Spain to seize and exploit the
economic opportunities presented by the discovery of the New
World cannot be explained satisfactorily without taking into
account religious beliefs and attitudes which hindered Spain in her
competition with other countries. It is possible for a nation to stiﬂe
its economic growth by adopting passionately and intolerantly reli-
gious doctrines of a kind which are incompatible with growth. Or
it is possible, alternatively, for conversion to a new faith to be the
spark which sets off economic growth.
Lewis (1955, pp. 106–107)
The field of development
The word development — which spans an enormous range of meaning in
the English language — is used in this paper chieﬂy to denote a partic-
ular historical process. During the late 1940s and early 1950s, follow-
ing the breakup of the colonial empires, a world poised for
unprecedented social and economic transformation witnessed the
A R B A B
166

emergence of a set of activities the purpose of which, apart from the
reconstruction of Europe, was the “development” of the nations then
considered backward. This ﬁeld of activity, originally the concern of a
band of development economists (see, for example, Meier and Seers
1984), rapidly grew into a gigantic global enterprise involving govern-
ments, a constellation of international agencies, the private sector, and
an ever-increasing array of ngos.
In its early years, development practice was intimately connected
with foreign aid. In all but a few countries, however, the ratio of ﬁnan-
cial aid channeled through development programs to the funds
expended by governments and private companies to effect social and
economic change has gradually decreased until, today, in many cases it
has become negligible. Yet, the ﬁeld of development itself has steadily
gained in importance, in terms of both the number of those who par-
ticipate in its activities and the inﬂuence it exerts on public opinion and
policy. Its successes and failures have become vital issues in the social
and political lives of nations, challenging the intellectual resources of
outstanding thinkers in a variety of scientiﬁc and professional ﬁelds. Its
language has even entered the popular vocabulary, with terms like the
Third World, technology transfer, basic needs, and sustainability now
commonplace.
It is not unreasonable to claim, then, that today’s multifaceted dis-
course on development is important for humanity’s future and that the
direction it should take in the coming years is a subject worthy of seri-
ous consideration. Given the magnitude of the forces at play, new ideas
will become widespread only as their timeliness is proven, and this can-
not be done without an adequate understanding of the evolution of
development thought over the five decades or so since its inception.
Although an extensive discussion of the subject is beyond the scope of
the present examination, a few comments seem to be in order.
At a ﬁrst glance, certain features of development discourse may
suggest a linear evolution of thought through a series of well-deﬁned
and progressive stages. Indeed, the ﬁrst three decades of activity have
repeatedly been described in these terms. Dennis A. Rondinelli, for
example, offered the following account in his 1983 work, Development
Projects as Policy Experiments:
The complex and uncertain changes that have come about in devel-
opment policies and aid strategies can be seen in three major peri-
ods in the history of development theories. The industrial
development policies of the 1950s and early 1960s sought maxi-
mum growth in the economies of developing nations and assumed
that trickle down and spread effects would incorporate the majority
of the poor into productive economic activities. The policies sought
rapid and high rates of growth in national output with little
PROMOTING A DISCOURSE ON SCIENCE, RELIGION, AND DEVELOPMENT
167

concern for distributive effects, and thus used largely untargeted aid
strategies.
Development policies of the 1960s were designed to overcome
obstacles and eliminate bottlenecks to economic growth by redis-
tributing productive assets, developing human resources, control-
ling population growth, and increasing productive capacity in
lagging sectors of developing economies. Sectoral development
plans sought to change those social and economic conditions that
were considered to be obstacles to development. These policies used
semi-targeted aid: technical and financial assistance was more
focused and concentrated on speciﬁc development problems and on
groups of people with characteristics thought to be adverse to eco-
nomic growth.
The policies of the 1970s sought economic growth with social
equity; they were concerned as much with the distribution of ben-
eﬁts as with the rate and pace of economic output. They sought to
channel aid to the poor majority and resources to subsistence popu-
lations in rural areas, provide for basic human needs in the poorest
countries, and improve the living standards of “special publics” or
groups of the poor. These objectives were largely pursued through
targeted aid strategies.
Rondinelli (1983 pp. 23–24)
Accounts such as the above give a more or less accurate picture of
what may be called “mainstream development effort” from the end of
World War ii to the early 1980s. To be complete, they would have also
to describe the rise to prominence of the organizations of civil society,
imperceptible at ﬁrst, but already notable toward the end of the period.
Thus expanded, they would be able to tell the story of how, through the
interactions of two streams of endeavour, and in a little more than three
decades, development discourse broadened its range of concern to
include such essential issues as growth with equity, basic needs, appro-
priate technology, the status of women, planning and project imple-
mentation as instruments of learning, evaluation, participation, and
community organization in people-centred development.
Despite this impressive accumulation of ideas, however, it would
be difﬁcult to argue that development policy and practice unfolded in
systematic and successive stages. Already in the early 1980s, the signs
of a breakdown could be detected. Rondinelli continued thus:
Turbulent changes in the world economy and in the economic,
social and political conditions within developing nations in the
early 1980s created an environment of greater uncertainty, in which
the objectives and approaches to foreign assistance changed quickly.
A new emphasis was placed on macro-economic adjustments to the
rising cost of imports for developing nations and lower demand for
their exports. Greater attention was given to private sector produc-
tivity. Less resources were available for international assistance, and
the strong emphasis on meeting the needs and increasing the
A R B A B
168

productivity of the poor that had characterized development theo-
ries in the previous decade began to wane.
Rondinelli (1983, p. 24)
What had once seemed to be a forward movement, then, began to
look rather cyclical as development discourse resumed some of the atti-
tudes that had characterized it at its beginning. The entire 1980s would
come to be regarded by some observers as a “lost decade.” Others, how-
ever, would be less benevolent in their analysis of the spread of
poverty — especially in Africa — to which structural-adjustment poli-
cies had so decisively contributed. It is true that, during the same
period, concern with the sustainability of development began to take
centre stage, but, as the decade of the 1990s drew to a close, it was
becoming clear that the concept never did possess the power needed to
achieve its objectives. It proved unable to bring focus to the ever more
diversiﬁed set of activities striving to narrow the widening gap that sep-
arates the world’s materially rich and materially poor, a condition that
strains the moral ﬁbre of modern society.
It seems to me, then, that in our effort to explore the theme of
science, religion, and development, we would do well to remember
some of the opposing features of development discourse as it has evolved
over the past 50 years.
First, a great deal of knowledge has been generated that serves to
clarify the nature of the many interacting factors that contribute to the
highly complex development process. Development thinking, at least in
its literature, has become increasingly more profound as layer after layer
of interconnected issues have been discovered and analyzed, sometimes
with dazzling brilliance. Yet, policy and practice have tended to ignore
the lessons learned. The same mistakes have been repeated periodically,
and fads and fashions have been adopted with remarkable enthusiasm.
Strategies, dormant for a span of time, have been suddenly revived, and
substantial resources have been made available for favourite programs
and approaches as the leadership of inﬂuential agencies has changed.
Second, at every stage of this progress, development thinkers have
exerted their utmost to express their observations and theories in tech-
nical terms. Technocracy, with its familiar claim to freedom from value
judgments, has tended to dictate the prevailing mode of operation. Yet,
in ways apparent to everyone involved, important decisions have been
value driven and reached through political power play.
Third, the evolution of development thinking has led to an
increasing concern for people. Consequently, peoples’ cultures, values,
traditions, and worldviews have come to be considered pivotal to devel-
opment planning and implementation. Yet, despite the fact that spiri-
tuality is so central to the worldviews held by the vast majority of the
Earth’s inhabitants, the premises of development theory and action have
remained almost entirely materialistic, oblivious of the spiritual dimen-
sion of human existence.
PROMOTING A DISCOURSE ON SCIENCE, RELIGION, AND DEVELOPMENT
169

Development intervention
The ideas expressed earlier, under the heading “The inside–outside
dichotomy,” are elements of a broader category of consideration that
may most accurately be termed “the ethics of development.” As a ﬁeld,
development has to be constantly on its guard not to transgress those
limits beyond which efforts to improve the lives of people degenerate
into unethical interference. The question “Who gave me the right to
intervene?” should always trouble the conscientious development prac-
titioner. Majid Rahnema brings out, perhaps rather harshly, the dis-
quieting aspects of the challenge:
To prevent the development debacle from being followed by yet
new forms of colonization and more pernicious systems of interven-
tion, the very concept of intervention should be explored in depth.
In particular, “activists,” and the so-called agents of change, as well
as intellectuals for whom the written or oral word tends to give life
meaning, should try to examine the ethical dimensions of
intervention.
My personal, sometimes bitter, experience has taught me to be
so cautious in this respect as to perceive intervention as an act bor-
dering on the sacred. What right do I have to intervene in the life
of another, whom I don’t know, when I have only a personal, ego-
centric impression of his or her reality?
There is, indeed, the spontaneous, compassionate gesture of the
Good Samaritan who, without harboring any project of interven-
tion, goes over to an apparently wounded and dying man on a desert
road and comes to his aid. That act is not an intervention, in the
sense used in the modern aid vocabulary. It is a gesture that has no
other purpose but the act itself, and hence, it is an act of love and
compassion, a “right action” in the Buddhist sense of the word.
Here, the actor does not ask himself whether the person to receive
help would some day be useful to him or not, whether he is a saint,
a poor person, or even a would-be criminal. That is why the act of
the Good Samaritan borders on sacred territory.
The case is different with a project of intervention, which is pre-
pared and developed somewhere, often in an institutional frame-
work, with a view to changing the lives of other people, in a manner
useful or beneﬁcial for the intervener. That person must realize, at
least, that he or she is launched on an adventure fraught with con-
siderable danger. That awareness makes it necessary for interveners
to start by questioning the whys and wherefores of their acts.
Exceptional personal qualities are needed to avoid the possibility
that well-intentioned interventions may end up producing the
opposite of what is intended. Most of those qualities are actually
qualities that are essential for any type of genuine relationship, in
the true sense of the word.
The most signiﬁcant quality is to be open and always attentive
to the world and to all other humans (attentive, meaning indeed to
attend). Attentive implies the art of listening, in the broadest sense of
A R B A B
170

the word, being sensitive to what is, observing things as they are,
free from any preconceived judgment, and not as one would like
them to be, and believing that every person’s experience or insight
is a potential source of learning. Such an attitude is basically differ-
ent from that of experts or highly paid consultants who generally
act on the basis of a series of certainties coming from their “knowl-
edge” or “professional experience.” Such “authorities,” particularly
when they refuse to question their certainties, not only tend to mis-
lead the people in whose lives they intervene, but also lose touch
with the very objects of their knowledge. Because they are unable
to listen, they ﬁnd that their accumulated knowledge soon becomes
obsolete and of little relevance to the changing realities they
address. Militants and other votaries of various “isms,” missionaries,
charismatic politicians, and other professional “seducers,” preach-
ers, salespersons, and specialists of all kinds, including “scholars” in
search of recognition and fame, are all examples of interveners
whose incapacity to listen to and learn from their target audiences
disqualiﬁes them from any type of intervention. They seldom real-
ize that they do to others what their all-powerful egos, with their
seductive and manipulative tricks, do to them.
Intervention should therefore be envisaged only in the context
of a constant exercise of self-awareness, of “meditative” state where
one learns to see oneself as one is, not as one would like to be. Such
intervention stands opposed to institutionalized aid and develop-
ment, which represent the corruption and the complete opposite of
the spontaneous, compassionate gesture of the Good Samaritan.
Rahnema (1997, pp. 8–9)
Human dignity
The following passage from Robert L. Heilbroner’s The Great Ascent: The
Struggle for Economic Development in our Time (1963) is quoted here, not for
the relevance of its economic arguments, but to highlight the way
development discourse has often treated the materially poor. By “the
great ascent,” Heilbroner meant the economic development of the entire
world, a process by which more than 100 nations, most of which,
according to him, previously “had no history,” would become national
entities living in “the chronicle of recorded events.” This he considered
“the ﬁrst real act of world history.” The book was published before polit-
ical correctness had taught us to avoid sensitive phrases — alas, all too
frequently without changing the attitudes underlying apparently tech-
nical arguments:
From what we have learned about the strictly economic aspect of
underdevelopment we know already what the core process of eco-
nomic expansion must be. It must consist of raising the low level of
productivity which in every underdeveloped area constitutes the
immediate economic cause of poverty. This low level of productiv-
ity, as we have seen, is largely traceable to the pervasive lack of
capital in a backward nation. …
PROMOTING A DISCOURSE ON SCIENCE, RELIGION, AND DEVELOPMENT
171

But how does a backward nation begin to accumulate the capi-
tal it so desperately needs? The answer is no different for a backward
nation than for an advanced one. In every society, capital comes into
being by saving. This does not necessarily mean putting money in
a bank. It means saving in the “real” sense of the word, as the econ-
omist uses it. It means that a society must refrain from using all of
its current energies and materials to satisfy its current wants, no
matter how urgent these may be. …
This release of productive effort directed to present consump-
tion wants, in order to make room for effort directed at the future,
does not present an overwhelming problem to a rich nation. But the
problem is different in a poverty-stricken one. How can a country
which is starving restrict its current life-sustaining activities? How
can a nation, 80 percent of which is scrabbling on the land to feed
itself, redirect its energies to building dams and roads, ditches and
houses, railroad embankments and factories, which, however indis-
pensable for the future, cannot be eaten today? The peasant
painfully tilling his inﬁnitesimal plot may be the living symbol of
backwardness, but at least he brings forth the roots and rice to keep
himself alive. If he were to build capital — to work on a dam or to
dig a canal — who would feed him? Who could spare the surplus
when there is no surplus?
In capsule this is the basic problem which most underdeveloped
lands face, and on the surface it seems a hopeless one. Yet when we
look more deeply into it, we ﬁnd that the situation is not quite so
self-defeating as it seems. For a large number of the peasants who
till the soil are not just feeding themselves. Rather, in so doing,
they are also robbing their neighbors. In the majority of the under-
developed areas, as we have seen, the crowding of peasants on the
land has resulted in a diminution of agricultural productivity far
below that of the advanced countries. …
Now we begin to see an answer to the dilemma of the unde-
rdeveloped societies. There does exist, in nearly all of these societies,
a disguised and hidden surplus of labor which, if it were taken off
the land, could be used to build capital. It is, to be sure, capital of
a special and rather humble sort: capital characterized in the main
by large projects which can be built by labor with very little equip-
ment — roads, dams, railway embankments, simple types of
buildings, irrigation ditches, sewers. However humble, these
underpinnings of “social capital” are essential if a further structure
of complex industrial capital — machines, materials-handling
equipment, and the like — is to be securely anchored. Thus peas-
ant labor released from uneconomic ﬁeld work makes possible a cru-
cially important ﬁrst assault on the capital-shortage problem. …
We have seen how an underdeveloped society can increase its
agricultural output and simultaneously “ﬁnd” the labor resources it
needs for development tasks. But where is the saving — the release
of consumption goods — we talked about? This brings us to a sec-
ond necessary step in our process of capital creation. When agricul-
tural productivity has been enhanced by the creation of larger farms
A R B A B
172

(or by improved techniques on existing farms), part of the ensuing crop
must be saved.
In other words, whereas the peasant who remains on the soil will
now be more productive, he cannot enjoy his enhanced productiv-
ity by eating up all his larger crop. Instead, the gain in individual
output must be siphoned off the farm. The extra crop raised by the
fortunate peasant must be saved by him, and shared with his for-
merly unproductive cousins, nephews, sons, and daughters who are
now at work on capital-building projects.
We do not expect a hungry peasant to do this voluntarily.
Rather, by taxation of various sorts, or by forced transfer, the gov-
ernment of an underdeveloped land must arrange for this essential
redistribution of food. Thus in the early stages of a successful development
program there is apt to be no visible rise in the peasant’s food consumption,
although there must be a rise in his food production. Instead, what is apt
to be visible is a more or less efﬁcient, and sometimes harsh, mech-
anism for assuring that some portion of this newly added produc-
tivity is “saved” — that is, not consumed on the farm, but made
available to support the capital-building worker. This is why we
must be very careful in appraising a development program not to
measure the success of the program by individual peasant living
standards. For a long time, these may have to remain static — pos-
sibly until the new capital projects begin to pay off.
Heilbroner (1963, pp. 92–97, emphasis in the original)
It is encouraging to note that, over the years, numerous voices
have been raised against such assaults on human dignity and are ﬁnally
getting a hearing. Ethical and Spiritual Dimensions of Social Progress, a
report prepared for the 1995 World Summit for Social Development,
provides a helpful example:
A frightening trait of many cultures — ancient and modern — is
that of associating different levels of dignity with a hierarchy of pro-
fessions and activities. At the bottom of the totem-pole are, of
course, adults who have never worked or have lost their jobs and
cannot provide for their families. The “job” — not what he is or
does — determines the individual’s identity. One must have great
courage and inner resources in order to resist the social and cultural
pressure which strips the individual of his dignity when he is no
longer “productive.” At the international level, the dominant cul-
ture also tends to strip social groups and nations of their dignity
when they do not contribute or no longer contribute to the growth
and prosperity of the world economy. As with poverty eradication,
the ﬁght against unemployment and underemployment must begin
with recognition of the dignity and value of all human labor, even
if it is humble, insecure, “unproﬁtable” or unremunerated.
United Nations (1995, pp. 32–33)
Religion, of course, is a stronghold for the preservation of human
dignity. It is unfortunate that, historically, its characteristic summons to
freedom from the obsessive accumulation of material wealth has often
PROMOTING A DISCOURSE ON SCIENCE, RELIGION, AND DEVELOPMENT
173

been grossly distorted. The result has been a tendency toward rejection
of the world and the exaltation of a passivity that has invited oppression.
Such distortions must be corrected for the force of religion to play its
role in the struggle against today’s cult of greed, and the signs are that
this is indeed occurring in many religious movements.
One element of religious belief seems crucial in this respect,
namely, the conviction that work done in the spirit of service to human-
ity is worship before God. It gives rise to attitudes that value economic
progress but reject servitude to an erroneous notion of material produc-
tivity. In the words of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá,
In the Bahá’í Cause arts, sciences and all crafts are counted as wor-
ship. The man who makes a piece of notepaper to the best of his
ability, conscientiously, concentrating all his forces on perfecting it,
is giving praise to God. Brieﬂy, all effort and exertion put forth by
man from the fullness of his heart is worship, if it is prompted by
the highest motives and the will to do service to humanity. This is
worship: to serve mankind and to minister to the needs of the
people. Service is prayer. A physician ministering to the sick, gen-
tly, tenderly, free from prejudice and believing in the solidarity of
the human race, he is giving praise.
bpt (1995a, 55:1)
The state and the market
The two ideologies that dominated the social and economic life of the
planet after World War ii held in opposition the state and the market,
the former being regarded as the guardian of the collective good by the
one side; and the latter being regarded as the protector of individual
freedom by the other. The demise of the Soviet system has apparently
brought to an abrupt end the deiﬁcation of the state. But adoration of
the workings attributed to the “invisible hand” has yet to exhaust itself.
On the contrary, at least for the present, its exuberant voice can be heard
more loudly than ever promising a prosperity that is clearly beyond
attainment by the great majority of human beings. Meanwhile, the
most readily observed phenomenon is marginalization. Is it too much to
hope that the development ﬁeld, concerned as it is with the conditions
of the poor, could draw on its vast experience and lend wisdom to the
pursuit of what seems to be an otherwise elusive dream of progress?
Although no clear commitment to this task is discernible, state-
ments can be found in development literature that reﬂect a readiness on
the part of some agencies to assume such a responsibility, provided the
political will to do so is created. The World Bank’s World Development
Report 1992: Development and the Environment offers an example:
The achievement of sustained and equitable development remains
the greatest challenge facing the human race. Despite good progress
over the past generation, more than 1 billion people still live in
acute poverty and suffer grossly inadequate access to the
A R B A B
174

resources — education, health services, infrastructure, land, and
credit — required to give them a chance for a better life. The essen-
tial task of development is to provide opportunities so that these
people, and the hundreds of millions not much better off, can reach
their potential.
But although the desirability of development is universally rec-
ognized, recent years have witnessed rising concern about whether
environmental constraints will limit development and whether
development will cause serious environmental damage — in turn
impairing the quality of life of this and future generations. This
concern is overdue. …
There are strong “win–win” opportunities that remain unex-
ploited. The most important of these relates to poverty reduction:
not only is attacking poverty a moral imperative, but it is also
essential for environmental stewardship. Moreover, policies that are
justiﬁed on economic grounds alone can deliver substantial envi-
ronmental beneﬁts. Eliminating subsidies for the use of fossil fuels
and water, giving poor farmers property rights on the land they
farm, making heavily polluting state-owned companies more com-
petitive, and eliminating rules that reward with property rights
those who clear forests are examples of policies that improve both
economic efﬁciency and the environment. Similarly, investing in
better sanitation and water and in improved research and extension
services can both improve the environment and raise incomes.
But these policies are not enough to ensure environmental qual-
ity; strong public institutions and policies for environmental protec-
tion are also essential. The world has learned over the past two
decades to rely more on markets and less on governments to promote
development. But environmental protection is one area in which
government must maintain a central role. Private markets provide
little or no incentive for curbing pollution. Whether it be air pollu-
tion in urban centers, the dumping of unsanitary wastes in public
waters, or the overuse of land whose ownership is unclear, there is a
compelling case for public action. Here there may be tradeoffs
between income growth and environmental protection, requiring a
careful assessment of the beneﬁts and costs of alternative policies as
they affect both today’s population and future generations. The evi-
dence indicates that the gains from protecting the environment are
often high and that the costs in forgone income are modest if appro-
priate polices are adopted. Experience suggests that policies are most
effective when they aim at underlying causes rather than symptoms,
concentrate on addressing those problems for which the beneﬁts of
reform are greatest, use incentives rather than regulations where pos-
sible, and recognize administrative constraints.
World Bank (1992, p. 1, emphasis in the original)
Nobility
A striking aspect of Bahá’í belief is the extraordinary optimism it dis-
plays about humanity’s future. Such hopefulness would be untenable
were it not for a profound conviction, which arises from the Faith’s
PROMOTING A DISCOURSE ON SCIENCE, RELIGION, AND DEVELOPMENT
175

teachings, that the human being was created noble. The reader may ﬁnd
it useful to see a few examples of how the question is treated in Bahá’í
scriptures.
The ﬁrst adornment (taráz) of the human character, according to
Bahá’u’lláh, is self-knowledge:
The ﬁrst Taráz and the ﬁrst effulgence which hath dawned from the
horizon of the Mother Book is that man should know his own self
and recognize that which leadeth unto loftiness or lowliness, glory
or abasement, wealth or poverty. Having attained the stage of ful-
ﬁlment and reached his maturity, man standeth in need of wealth,
and such wealth as he acquireth through crafts or professions is
commendable and praiseworthy in the estimation of men of wis-
dom, and especially in the eyes of servants who dedicate themselves
to the education of the world and to the ediﬁcation of its peoples.
They are, in truth, cup-bearers of the life-giving water of knowl-
edge and guides unto the ideal way. They direct the peoples of the
world to the straight path and acquaint them with that which is
conducive to human upliftment and exaltation. The straight path is
the one which guideth man to the dayspring of perception and to
the dawning-place of true understanding and leadeth him to that
which will redound to glory, honour and greatness.
bpt (1988, pp. 34–35)
Walking the straight path, with the perseverance it demands,
would be impossible without faith in the nobility of one’s own nature.
Bahá’ís are to call to mind often the voice of an all-merciful Creator
expressed in such exhortations as these:
O Son of Being! Thou art My lamp and My light is in thee. Get
thou from it thy radiance and seek none other than Me. For I have
created thee rich and have bountifully shed My favor upon thee.
bpt (1994, 2:11)
O Son of Spirit! I created thee rich, why dost thou bring thyself
down to poverty? Noble I made thee, wherewith dost thou abase
thyself? Out of the essence of knowledge I gave thee being, why
seekest thou enlightenment from anyone beside Me? Out of the clay
of love I molded thee, how dost thou busy thyself with another?
Turn thy sight unto thyself, that thou mayest find Me standing
within thee, mighty, powerful and self-subsisting.
bpt (1994, 2:13)
In no way does the Bahá’í belief in the inherent nobility of the
human race, however, give credence to the romantic notion that, left to
themselves, human beings will instinctively avoid evil actions. ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá emphatically rejected this position:
There are some who imagine that an innate sense of human dignity
will prevent man from committing evil actions and insure his spir-
itual and material perfection. That is, that an individual who is
A R B A B
176

characterized with natural intelligence, high resolve, and a driving
zeal, will, without any consideration for the severe punishments
consequent on evil acts, or for the great rewards of righteousness,
instinctively refrain from inﬂicting harm on his fellow men and will
hunger and thirst to do good. And yet, if we ponder the lessons of
history, it will become evident that this very sense of honor and dig-
nity is itself one of the bounties deriving from the instructions of
the prophets of God. We also observe in infants the signs of aggres-
sion and lawlessness, and that if a child is deprived of a teacher’s
instructions his undesirable qualities increase from one moment to
the next. It is therefore clear that the emergence of this natural sense
of human dignity and honor is the result of education.
bpt (1990, pp. 97-98)
In another passage, he stated the following:
The root cause of wrongdoing is ignorance, and we must therefore
hold fast to the tools of perception and knowledge. Good character
must be taught. Light must be spread afar, so that, in the school of
humanity, all may acquire the heavenly characteristics of the spirit,
and see for themselves beyond any doubt that there is no ﬁercer hell,
no more fiery abyss, than to possess a character that is evil and
unsound; no more darksome pit nor loathsome torment than to
show forth qualities which deserve to be condemned.
bpt (1997, 111:1)
In the Bahá’í Faith, then, ﬁrm belief in the nobility of the human
being is intimately connected with an equally strong faith in the power
of education, but an education that sheds light on the path of true
understanding, not one that perpetuates the tyranny of self.
FAITH AND REASON
Our eagerness to promote a discourse on the triple theme of science,
religion, and development arises from the conviction that development
theory and practice must give urgent attention to the spiritual dimen-
sion of human existence. That such a claim should ﬁnd a sympathetic
audience at all is, to some extent, a sign of the growing maturity of the
development ﬁeld. Yet, we have to admit that willingness to discuss
spirituality is not the result of measurable theoretical advance; it is
being forced on every area of human endeavour by a deepening crisis
that is shaking the very foundations of social order. Materialistic
philosophy has spent itself. Promises announced with immense self-
assurance by its prophets have not been fulﬁlled. And everywhere the
awakening victims of the systems and processes it has engendered raise
their voices, calling it to account for its failures:
PROMOTING A DISCOURSE ON SCIENCE, RELIGION, AND DEVELOPMENT
177

The time has come when those who preach the dogmas of materialism,
whether of the east or the west, whether of capitalism or socialism,
must give account of the moral stewardship they have presumed to
exercise. Where is the “new world” promised by these ideologies?
Where is the international peace to whose ideals they proclaim their
devotion? Where are the breakthroughs into new realms of cultural
achievement produced by the aggrandizement of this race, of that
nation or of a particular class? Why is the vast majority of the
world’s peoples sinking ever deeper into hunger and wretchedness
when wealth on a scale undreamed of by the Pharaohs, the Caesars,
or even the imperialist powers of the nineteenth century is at the
disposal of the present arbiters of human affairs?
bpt (1995b, p. 21)
It is tempting to argue, of course, that the need to incorporate
spirituality into one’s frame of action, no matter how incontestable, does
not justify delving into religious matters. The prospect of becoming
involved in what is widely perceived as an old debate between science
and religion will be even less appealing, especially to those who see the
urgency of applying immediate solutions to practical problems. But
once aware of the need for spirituality, how does one avoid inquiry into
religion — not sectarian disputation, but the exploration of a system of
knowledge and practice that has played a determining role in the
advancement of civilization? The issue is not a vague notion of spiritu-
ality — a spirituality that recent studies urge be made available as a
product required to maximize satisfaction, a veneer of activities to sooth
the nerves in a life that is materialistic at its very core. The questions
before the development ﬁeld, concerned as it must be with the prosper-
ity of humankind, relate to the nature of the human being, the under-
lying purposes of individual and collective life, and the direction of
society. Answers to these questions must shed light on the next stage of
evolution in the relationships that are essential to existence and
progress: between the species and nature, within the family, within the
community, and between the individual and the institutions of society.
Humanity must become increasingly engaged in a quest for meaning,
and such a quest is inherently religious in nature.
In rejecting the materialistic approach to development, we do not
claim that the issues at hand will somehow be resolved by religious con-
siderations. The task before us is not the dethroning of science, as so
many seem bent on doing. Given its extraordinary accomplishments,
one could maintain that science deserves a higher station than human-
ity has so far been willing to bestow on it. To bring in the question of
religion is not the same as return to superstition. Nor is the introduc-
tion of pseudoscience in its myriad forms the door to spiritual percep-
tion. Solutions to the pressing problems facing humankind must be
sought through a rigorous application of science in the full meaning of
that term. But to fulfill this expectation, science must engage in a
A R B A B
178

serious dialogue with religion. At the 20th century ends, both systems,
along with the rest of the social order, are in profound crisis. But crises
in systems of knowledge are welcome occurrences, for they are invari-
ably harbingers of progress. I hope to demonstrate in this paper that
development theory and practice have, for the most part, been inﬂu-
enced by views of science and religion that are bound to disappear as
both undergo rapid and radical transformation in the coming decades. I
will argue that the ﬁeld of development, by admitting a rigorous explo-
ration of the issues related to faith and reason and acknowledging their
relevance to its policies and programs, will achieve the great advance
that all those committed to the work believe is possible, and doors to
the discovery of effective strategies will open.
Scientific truth
We live in a time when science is blindly adored or rashly attacked by
those who have an inadequate understanding of it. Many see science
chieﬂy as the author of creations that verge on the magical. Unfortu-
nately, this is often true even of individuals who, without having
reﬂected in any depth on the nature of either science or technology, are
engaged in narrow scientiﬁc activity. An assortment of courses on the
scientiﬁc method offered to students on various career paths perpetuates
deep-rooted misunderstandings.
Science starts with observation. Thus begins the commonly told
story. The scientist uses his or her senses to observe things and occur-
rences. Scientiﬁc training ensures that such observation is carried out
with an unprejudiced mind and the utmost objectivity. The immediate
products of a puriﬁed and disciplined use of the senses are numerous
“observation statements,” from which laws and theories of science will
ﬁnally emerge.
Observation statements are singular in the sense that they refer to
a particular event at a particular time. But the trained mind is capable
of arriving at more universal statements through the careful application
of the principle of induction. For generalizations to be true, it is neces-
sary to repeat observations in as wide a variety of conditions as feasible.
The number of observation statements forming the basis of the general-
ization must be sufﬁciently large to justify the application of inductive
reasoning. Once universal statements are discovered, the principles of
deduction are used to explain other observed facts and to derive conse-
quences that can then be checked through experimentation. The power
of science to predict is one of its essential characteristics, one that gives
validity to its claims to grandeur.
By presenting this simplistic view of science, I do not wish to sug-
gest that even within what may be called the positivist camp, develop-
ment theorists do not have considerable familiarity with far more
sophisticated perspectives. In recent times, discussions of science have
PROMOTING A DISCOURSE ON SCIENCE, RELIGION, AND DEVELOPMENT
179

often referred to the complexities of the relationship between theory and
observation and the strong inﬂuence the former exerts on the latter. By
invoking the notion of probability and separating the way a generaliza-
tion actually occurs from its subsequent justiﬁcation, certain schools of
thought have moved away from the simplistic explanation of “the
scientiﬁc method” in terms of observation and induction followed by
deduction and prediction. Elaborate and ingenious efforts to explain
scientiﬁc reasoning in terms of falsiﬁcation — scientiﬁc knowledge as a
set of falsiﬁable hypotheses and theories in constant danger of being
eliminated by fitter rivals — have led to valuable insights into the
methods of science. The introduction into the discourse of science of the
concepts of a scientiﬁc paradigm, on the one hand, and of competing
research programs, on the other, has had a notable impact on most intel-
lectual circles. Yet, strong convictions about the nature of scientific
truth, which were arrived at on the basis of an essentially naive concep-
tion of science, not only survive but shape entire fields of human
endeavour. The deplorable consequence is that an outmoded historical
debate between science and religion is perpetuated, and meaningful dia-
logue between the two systems is blocked.
“Scientiﬁc knowledge is proven knowledge” is at the heart of such
convictions. “Science in its uncorrupted form is objective and free from
personal opinions.” “Scientiﬁc knowledge is reliable knowledge because
it is the result of the rigorous application of a method whose validity is
beyond question.” However, objective, rigorous, and reliable are not value-
free words. Language plays tricks on the thought process. Science soon
becomes the only source of indisputable truth, and every other source of
knowledge comes to seem less valuable, less reliable, and ultimately value-
less and unreliable. Under these conditions, how can religion receive a
hearing so that the question of a harmonious interaction between the
two may be explored? The contemporary crisis calls for a substantial
change in humanity’s perception of science, for the prevalent perception
arose from early attempts to understand a new and powerful force and
became popularized too quickly, before it was critically examined.
Whatever the precise nature of its processes and methods, science
is clearly a dynamic system of knowledge and practice that defies
attempts to reduce it to any simplistic formula. The fascinating and
vital work of philosophers and historians of science leads to theories that
explain some of its results and some of its processes. Like the other mod-
els that science makes of various portions of physical, intellectual, or
social reality, each such explanation has a finite range of validity.
Together, they bring to light many of its salient features, but none of
them describes science in its totality.
Science clearly contains elements that are essentially articles of
faith — to begin, faith in the existence of order in the universe and faith
in the ability of the human mind to make sense of that order and express
it in a precise language. In the words of Einstein (1954, p. 52), “those
A R B A B
180

individuals to whom we owe the greatest achievements of science were
all of them imbued with the truly religious conviction that this universe
of ours is something perfect and susceptible to the rational striving for
knowledge.”
Scientific theories are all based on assumptions, some of which
cannot be proven logically. They simply represent propositions accept-
able to human reason, deriving their value from the success of the mod-
els and theories built on them. For centuries, accepted science assumed
that the laws governing the behaviour of objects on Earth were differ-
ent from those ruling heavenly bodies. Theories based on this assump-
tion proved inadequate. Today, a basic premise of science is that the laws
of physics are the same in the heavens as on Earth; the force of gravity,
for example, is believed to determine much of the behaviour of space,
time, and matter everywhere in the universe. For the time being, this
assumption has led to models that seem to explain whatever we have
observed, thus justifying its widespread acceptance.
The practice of science also draws on such specifically spiritual
qualities of the human being as love of beauty and commitment to
veracity. It is highly dependent on the use of the faculties of intuition,
creativity, and imagination. These resources of the rational soul do not
operate haphazardly in scientiﬁc activity. They are productive, as they
are trained and disciplined and as the results of their operations pass the
tests of a rationality acceptable to the community of scientists.
Science’s main task is to make models of reality. Its models —
called theories when sufﬁciently complex — seldom take the form of
simple physical representations. Rather, they are structures in a language
that uses both words and mathematical expressions. The language of
science has characteristics unique to its aims. Among other things, it
seeks to be rational in a highly deﬁned way, unambiguous, and objec-
tive. Whether these qualities also distinguish all the processes through
which science is generated is not easy to determine: scientiﬁc thinking
itself is obviously too complex to be completely objective, faultlessly
logical, or entirely devoid of ambiguity. By being bound to a strict
language through which it must be expressed and communicated, how-
ever, science takes on many of the attributes for which it receives well-
deserved praise.
Although the flaws intrinsic to positivism have been clearly
exposed in recent years, the indispensable role of disciplined observa-
tion, albeit conditioned by theory, remains central to scientiﬁc practice.
Generalization, formulation of hypotheses, deduction, testing of predic-
tions, and falsiﬁcation are vital components of any scientiﬁc method.
But it should be borne in mind that they are not carried out mechani-
cally by programed entities but by members of communities of scien-
tists who are subject to the inﬂuence of social forces. These communities
exhibit patterns of behaviour characteristic of groups made up of human
beings. Speciﬁcally, they work within certain worldviews and theoretical
PROMOTING A DISCOURSE ON SCIENCE, RELIGION, AND DEVELOPMENT
181

frameworks that determine the kinds of questions they are willing to
ask and the kinds of answers they are willing to explore. The concept of
a paradigm, although not universally valid, is a highly useful tool for
thinking about science. Scientiﬁc knowledge is accumulative only to a
certain extent; some of the advances in science occur through pro-
nounced shifts in paradigm, the dynamics of which evoke images of a
revolution.
Scientiﬁc practice depends on a variety of coexisting research pro-
grams. Each program is essential to the very proposal of the theory to
the building of which a community of scientists chooses to commit
itself. One of the goals of such research is to extend the range of phe-
nomena that a theory can successfully explain. But no community of
scientists sets out to answer all the questions in the world. An indis-
pensable element of any scientiﬁc model is a set of statements deﬁning
its range of validity. More advanced theories do not necessarily prove
previous ones wrong but clarify the limits within which they operate
and provide an understanding of why they work inside those limits.
Thus, relativity and quantum mechanics, for example, do not “disprove”
Newtonian physics; rather, they deﬁne the range of size and velocity for
which the latter’s predictions are totally reliable.
In making these remarks, I do not intend to be eclectic, somehow
merging the work of Kuhn and Popper, Lakatos and Feyerabend. My
intention is to argue that without entering into debate on the profound
issues explored by philosophers and historians of science over the past
decades, we can readily decide that the relation between science and
truth is not the simplistic one propagated by naive descriptions of
science. Certainly, the relationship between science and truth is enor-
mously important. Scientiﬁc statements are about objective reality; they
have an existence of their own and are not merely the products of the
minds of a few scientists. Not satisﬁed with offering explanation only,
science demands application and engenders technology — and policy, in
the case of some of the social sciences — which in turn act on objective
reality. In this sense, technology seems to be intrinsic to science; it is
born of it and, together with other factors, deﬁnes the arena of its oper-
ations. Although driven by the powers of the rational soul, science is
also an exigency of social existence, one of whose imperatives is techno-
logical advancement. Scientiﬁc knowledge is thus an expression of truth
that sheds light on interconnected realities: the physical reality of the
universe, social reality, and the inner reality of the human being.
Religious truth
With this perspective on science, let us now turn to religion. In doing
so, we confront at the outset the question of whether scientiﬁc knowl-
edge, with the degree of complexity intimated above, encompasses all of
reality that is knowable to the human mind. What if the elements of
A R B A B
182

faith underlying our worldview — not acquired by blind imitation, but
through a process of observation, study, and reflection — include a
belief in a spiritual reality beyond the world accessible to our senses?
What if we cannot lend credit to the assumption — and it is only an
assumption — that intelligence is a mere product of higher orders of
organization, but regard it, instead, as a quality of being that transcends
physical existence? What if that quality of being determines the struc-
ture and operation of the world, including the evolutionary appearance
of a human mind capable of observing and thinking about the universe?
What, indeed, if our inextinguishable sense of individual identity —
which after all gives deﬁnition to the statement “I know” — ﬁnds the
assumption that it will end with physical death quite meaningless and
drives us on to explore the implications of timelessness and immortality?
The usual assertion that certain beliefs and premises are not
needed and, therefore, according to some kind of minimalist principle
should not be brought into the picture begs the question in at least two
ways. First, it presupposes that the denial of an expanded reality is
somehow objective and not, in itself, an assumption that has profound
consequences for the direction of intellectual endeavour. Thus, it dis-
torts the fact that the choice in each case is between two elements of
faith, neither of which is provable, and not between “no assumption”
and an “extraneous assumption.” Second, it takes for granted the
supremacy of science as the uniquely valid means for the investigation
of reality and its claim to autonomy as somehow an irrefutable proof of
this validity. Certainly, assumptions related to the spiritual dimension
of existence are unnecessary in many scientiﬁc studies, but by what rea-
son do we extend this to all investigation, denying the need for any
other system of inquiry with which science must interact if it is not to
become dogmatic and vulnerable?
Historically, religion has been the system concerned primarily
with spiritual reality and its relation to individual and collective life.
Like science, religion is a highly complex system of knowledge and
practice, with a pattern of evolution particular to its nature and a his-
tory inextricably intertwined with the unfoldment of civilization. As a
practice of human communities, it has inevitably had its share of folly,
corruption, and abuse of trust. But it has also been the unfailing voice
raising the call to transcendence, the ultimate source of every praise-
worthy aspiration, and the light that has illumined human understand-
ing and enabled it to distinguish between the base and the noble.
If we are to examine religion with an unprejudiced mind and dis-
cover how its interactions with science should occur, we need to set
aside misgivings that, for whatever justifiable reasons, have gained
widespread acceptance. The most notable of these is expressed in the
opinion that there is no such thing as “religion,” but merely numerous
religions in fundamental disagreement with one another. Such a
conclusion represents a highly restrictive view of religion. It is unarguable
PROMOTING A DISCOURSE ON SCIENCE, RELIGION, AND DEVELOPMENT
183

that religious strife, along with tribal, national, and racial conﬂict, has
been a prominent feature of humanity’s past and, like these other ills,
continues to plague us during what may be seen as an age of transition.
But if we accept that the path we must walk is one of both material and
spiritual advancement, we must be willing to look more deeply into the
spiritual heritage of the human race than so precipitate a judgment
would encourage.
As science and its multiple structures exist and unfold, so do reli-
gion and its structures. Religious teachings and belief are expressed in
myriad forms, and these expressions show signiﬁcant differences. But
this circumstance does not deny the existence of a dynamic knowledge
system with its own ﬁeld of inquiry and its own evolving methods and
language. Once we free ourselves from a preoccupation with differences,
we are astonished at the unity of themes explored by the major religions
of the world and the continuity of the solutions they propose to the
most perplexing problems. In this context, variety of expression
becomes a source of richness of insight, rather than being a cause of con-
tention. But such a perspective is possible only if each major religion is
examined primarily through the eyes of those whose gaze has remained
focused on the moral and spiritual teachings enshrined in its authentic
scriptures. Separating these from the dogmas added by those who had
an insatiable thirst for worldly power is, admittedly, a difﬁcult task in
some instances, but it is by no means impossible.
In the case of science, that which is understood and explained is a
basically observable, objective reality — physical, psychological, or
social. But what is the objective reality on which religion focuses in
order to serve as a system of knowledge and practice within a commu-
nity? To answer this question, it would seem essential to reﬂect on the
body of teachings that lie at the core of each of the major religions of the
world and have provided their primary impulse. Without entering into
the familiar theological debate on transcendence versus immanence, one
may simply observe that the encounter between human consciousness
and the Divine has repeatedly resulted in a religious text, oral or writ-
ten, at the heart of which are the pronouncements of the
prophet–founder and a few historical ﬁgures intimately connected to
this person. In the text is described life in both its material and its spir-
itual dimensions. It “reveals” aspects of spiritual reality, which, once
uttered, can become the subject of exploration, not only by the individ-
ual soul, but also by entire populations. Without the revealed text, spir-
ituality would be an expression of personal experience, never to be
validated by the intellectual interactions that create social knowledge.
For, by religious truth is not meant mere assertions about the esoteric,
but statements that lead to experimentation, application, and the cre-
ation of systems and processes, whose results can be validated through
observation and the use of reason. Humanity, by its very nature, is thus
A R B A B
184

endowed with two Books, that of Creation and that of Revelation, the
study of which, as “science” and “religion,” propels the advancement of
civilization.
Harmony between science and religion
A note of caution is in order. Efforts to describe religion as a system of
knowledge are always in danger of going too far by advancing argu-
ments that would ﬁnally make religion a mere extension of science, a
branch of scientiﬁc learning dedicated to the study of the unseen. That
a system of knowledge is capable of penetrating every aspect of individ-
ual and social life does not imply that it has to be science. Clearly, as two
major systems of knowledge and practice, religion and science will have
many features in common. Articles of faith, assumptions, the use of var-
ious faculties of the soul, such as reason, intuition, and imagination, the
ability to create models of reality — including the metaphysical and the
inner life of individuals and communities — worldviews, and even
something akin to a set of coexisting research programs are all elements
readily observable in the operation and evolution of religion. Indeed, it
can be persuasively argued that in many of its applications, the methods
of religion are, and have to be, scientific. Yet, science and religion
remain distinct knowledge systems, neither representing a subsystem of
the other.
Of particular importance is the distinction that has to be made
between the language of science and the language of religion. In many
respects, the language in which religious truth is expressed, like scien-
tiﬁc language, strives to be unambiguous and objective. But its primary
challenge is to transcend the limitations of the language of science and
to exploit poetic images, stories, parables, commands, admonitions, and
exhortations so as to convey meaning and speak directly to the human
heart in ways science does not pretend to do.
To emphasize the distinction between religious and scientific
knowledge is not to deny interrelationship. The widespread belief in an
intrinsic conﬂict between the two arose at a time of crisis in the history
of Christianity, when the very conceptions of science and religion were
inadequate to deal with rapid intellectual development. Today, several
centuries later, the question before us is whether the type of under-
standing that has been achieved in recent times makes possible a new
basis for interactions between the two systems. Is it not equally likely
that harmony and not conﬂict should characterize these interactions?
Indeed, is it not essential to demand such harmony to ensure that nei-
ther system degenerates into vain imagining and that both remain true
to their nature?
Issues related to the harmony between science and religion can be
addressed in a number of ways. It can be reasonably argued that the two
systems are so distinct that there is no possibility of signiﬁcant conﬂict
PROMOTING A DISCOURSE ON SCIENCE, RELIGION, AND DEVELOPMENT
185

between them. Science studies the material universe. The knowledge it
generates becomes the basis for technological progress, and technology
can be used either for the good of humanity or to its detriment, for
building civilization or for its destruction. Science in itself does not
have the ability to determine the uses to which its products should be
put. Religion, in contrast, is concerned precisely with the spiritual
dimension of human existence. Its task is to throw light on the inner life
of the individual, to touch the roots of motivation, and to engender a
code of ethics and morality to appropriately guide human behaviour. It
can set the ethical framework within which technology can be devel-
oped and employed. The civilizing process depends on both these sys-
tems of knowledge; so long as each remains within the sphere of its own
genius, there is no reason for them to come into conﬂict with each other.
This view of the harmony between science and religion is valid,
but only at the level of application. Ultimately, in this approach, science
and religion are separated and allowed to pursue their own ways, and
what assumes importance is the interaction between technology and
morality, the progenies of the two. But such an analysis of the relation
between science and religion soon reaches its limits, for the two knowl-
edge systems have too much in common and overlap in the range of
phenomena within their realms of study. Commonalties include certain
assumptions and elements of faith, qualities and attitudes, methods, and
mental and social processes; other aspects of religion and science, while
not contradictory, are needed in only one of the two. Overlap is intrin-
sic to the operation of the two systems and arises from the fact that a
sharp division between matter and spirit is in itself impossible.
Although for many practical purposes it is necessary to separate the two
systems and allow their processes to run parallel to each other, attempts
to deny their interconnectedness in the mind of the human being and
in society can only rob them of the extraordinary powers they both
possess.
In thinking about the relationship between religion and science, I
have always found it helpful to draw upon some of the insights into the
workings of the universe offered by the principle of complementarity. In
its strict formulation, the principle asserts that the particle–wave dual-
ity clearly observable at the level of the smallest constituents of matter
is inherent in the process of scientific observation and measurement
itself. It is not that, for example, the electron is sometimes a wave and
sometimes a particle; nor that it is both or neither. Complementarity
takes us beyond the question of “either–or” and asks us to deal directly
with the fact that under certain experimental “setups” the electron will
always behave as a particle and under others it will always act as a wave.
These two types of setup exhaust all the possibilities of measurement. It
is impossible, that is, to establish an experiment in which one could ask,
What is the electron really, a wave or a particle?
A R B A B
186

It is not my intention to claim that the complementarity of quan-
tum mechanics is somehow directly applicable to the duality between
science and religion. In fact, what is known as the Copenhagen inter-
pretation, with which the above formulation is associated, has once
again come into serious question in recent years. But whatever the res-
olution of the difﬁculties faced by the model, the fact remains that at
the most fundamental level nature does not allow simultaneous mea-
surements of certain quantities and lends itself to complementary
descriptions. Given the intricacies of the process of measurement in
science, such a statement cannot be only about the physical universe.
Theoretical models elaborated by the human mind underlie the arrange-
ment of instruments in the experimental setup, models that, as already
noted, are structures in language. Therefore, complementarity, in any of
its possible formulations, is telling us something fundamental about
two coexisting realities and their interactions — human consciousness
and objective reality. Particularly, it is offering insights into how the
human mind can embrace aspects of the universe too complex to admit
of a single description.
Accepting that this is the case, we cannot avoid asking ourselves
related questions about levels of reality beyond the world of matter. Is
it unreasonable to assume that when the object of exploration is the sum
of both spiritual and physical reality, an object far more complex than
the material universe, a single description would also prove to be inad-
equate? Is it not possible that to understand and explain this reality,
humanity needs at least two languages, that of science and that of reli-
gion, which together enable it to penetrate its mysteries?
Further comments
The following comments expand and elaborate on the arguments pre-
sented in the foregoing pages.
The purpose of religion
The passage quoted in the opening of this section on faith and reason
comes from The Promise of World Peace (bpt 1995b), a statement written
by the international governing body of the Bahá’í Faith. The document
presents an analysis of the social and spiritual forces that contribute to
the establishment of peace among the Earth’s peoples, a condition that
implies far more than the mere absence of armed conﬂict. It claims that
world peace is inevitable but that its advent requires the collective will
of the world’s leaders and the application of a range of speciﬁc religious
principles.
The arguments set out in The Promise of World Peace reflect the
emphasis the Bahá’í teachings place on religion as an instrument to
build civilization. But, although the role of religion as a positive social
PROMOTING A DISCOURSE ON SCIENCE, RELIGION, AND DEVELOPMENT
187

force is extolled, it is also acknowledged that it can be distorted through
the manipulation of self-seeking leaders. Indeed, misunderstandings
and confusion perpetrated in the name of religion are among the causes
of the deplorable conditions of the world today. To attribute these con-
ditions to the rise of secularism would be unfair. In many respects sec-
ularism is clearly a welcome development in the history of humanity, an
inevitable and necessary reaction to religion fallen prey to fanaticism
and superstition. Referring to religion as a means for human progress,
Bahá’u’lláh stated the following:
The purpose of religion as revealed from the heaven of God’s holy
Will is to establish unity and concord amongst the peoples of the
world; make it not the cause of dissension and strife. The religion
of God and His divine law are the most potent instruments and the
surest of all means for the dawning of the light of unity amongst
men. The progress of the world, the development of nations, the
tranquility of peoples, and the peace of all who dwell on Earth are
among the principles and ordinances of God.
bpt (1988, pp. 129–130)
For Bahá’ís, as for millions of religious people from every tradi-
tion, the fact that religion, despite its originating impulse in the
Divine, has been subject to the same distortion that affects all human
constructs does not diminish the signiﬁcance of its role in advancing
civilization. What must be accepted is that religion stands in need of
science if it is to avoid the pitfalls of fanaticism.
The crisis of science
Most readers of these pages will readily accept that, as is the case with
much of civilization, religion is in crisis. But there are many who may
hesitate to attribute a similar crisis to science as a system. The ethical
problems faced by humanity as a result of accelerated scientiﬁc and tech-
nological advance are, of course, commonly acknowledged. It is possi-
ble, however, to regard these issues as challenges that emerge naturally
in the course of progress and that will in time be addressed by science
itself. The crisis to which I refer is a systemic one with many more
dimensions than those that are purely ethical; it arises from inadequa-
cies in the very process through which scientiﬁc knowledge is generated
and applied. In his celebrated book of some years ago, Scientiﬁc Knowledge
and Its Social Problems, Jerome R. Ravetz exposed the alarming conse-
quences resulting from the lack of a “renewed understanding” of the
nature of scientiﬁc inquiry:
The activity of modern natural science has transformed our knowl-
edge and control of the world about us; but in the process it has also
transformed itself; and it has created problems which natural
science alone cannot solve. Modern society depends increasingly on
industrial production based on the application of scientiﬁc results;
but the production of these results has itself become a large and
A R B A B
188

expensive industry; and the problems of managing that industry,
and of controlling the effects of its products, are urgent and difﬁ-
cult. All this has happened so quickly within the past generation,
that the new situation, and its implications, are only imperfectly
understood. It opens up new possibilities for science and for human
life, but it also presents new problems and dangers. For science
itself, the analogies between the industrial production of material
goods and that of scientiﬁc results have their uses, and also their
hazards. As a product of a socially organized activity, scientific
knowledge is very different from soap; and those who plan for
science will neglect that difference at their peril. Also, the under-
standing and control of the effects of our science-based technology
present problems for which neither the academic science of the past,
nor the industrialized science of the present, possesses techniques or
attitudes appropriate to their solution. The illusion that there is a
natural science standing pure and separate from all involvement
with society is disappearing rapidly; but it tends to be replaced by
the vulgar reduction of science to a branch of commercial or mili-
tary industry. Unless science itself is to be debased and corrupted,
and its results used in a headlong rush to social and ecological cat-
astrophe, there must be a renewed understanding of the very special
sort of work, so delicate and so powerful, of scientiﬁc inquiry.
Ravetz (1973, p. 9)
Scientific facts
Reﬂections on the nature of scientiﬁc truth in the context of an emerg-
ing dialogue between religion and science can beneﬁt from a careful
reading of Ludwik Fleck’s (1979 [1935]) monograph Genesis and Devel-
opment of a Scientiﬁc Fact. In this insightful work, written originally in
German, Fleck chose to examine in detail the emergence and ﬁnal estab-
lishment of the fact that a serodiagnostic procedure developed in the
1920s, known as the Wassermann reaction, indicates, within acceptable
statistical limits, the presence of syphilis in a patient. He described the
complex set of factors that had to converge, over a long period of time,
before syphilis would come to be considered a definite “disease
entity” — beginning with an undifferentiated and confused mass of
information about various chronic diseases that were characterized by
skin symptoms and were frequently localized in the genitals, diseases
that, in the 15th century, were all lumped together. Fleck showed how
various beliefs and patterns of thought played crucial roles in the tortu-
ous path leading to the unreserved recognition of this disease entity. For
example, it was believed at the time that the “conjunction of Saturn and
Jupiter under the sign of Scorpio and the House of Mars on 25.xi.1484”
was the cause of carnal scourge, for “benign Jupiter was vanquished by
the evil planets Saturn and Mars,” and the sign of Scorpio “rules the
genitals” (Fleck 1979 [1935], p. 2). Belief in carnal scourge laid the
PROMOTING A DISCOURSE ON SCIENCE, RELIGION, AND DEVELOPMENT
189

“corner-stone of syphilology, ascribing to it a pronounced ethical
character” (p. 3).
Next, we are told, “As a result of decades of practice, certainly
spanning several generations, it became possible to distinguish and iso-
late from the host of chronic skin conditions a particular group which,
when treated with mercury ointment, reacted favorably” (Fleck 1979
[1935], pp. 3–4). “Thus two points of view developed side by side,
together, often at odds with each other: (1) an ethical–mystical disease
entity of “carnal scourge,” and (2) an empirical–therapeutic disease
entity” (p. 5). This dual approach was then supplemented by a convic-
tion that syphilis is associated with a change in the blood, which left its
“natural state,” becoming from the very outset of the disease “befouled
by an infection attacking it without festering, and therefore relatively
unnoticed” (p. 12). Later on, with the rise of the modern idea of patho-
genic microorganisms, the agent causing syphilis was identified as
Spirochaeta pallida. The discovery of the Wassermann reaction further
reﬁned and speciﬁed the association of the disease with the blood and
“helped to classify tabes dorsalis and progressive paralysis definitely
with syphilis. Since this spirochaeta was found in the lymphatic ducts
very soon after infection, even the ﬁrst stage of syphilis was no longer
regarded as a localized disease” (p. 17).
In his analysis of the evolution of the concept of syphilis as a
clearly deﬁned disease entity and of the development of the Wassermann
reaction and the emergence of serology as a scientiﬁc ﬁeld, Fleck (1979
[1935]) introduced a number of ideas such as systems of opinion,
thought styles, and thought collectives. The use of concepts of this
nature is by no means free of problems. Yet, whatever one’s disagree-
ments with some aspects of the analysis, one can no longer be beguiled
by simplistic deﬁnitions of scientiﬁc truth after reﬂecting on Fleck’s
brilliant arguments. One may seek to modify but cannot ignore his
statement that
Cognition is the most socially-conditioned activity of man, and
knowledge is the paramount social creation. The very structure of
language presents a compelling philosophy characteristic of that
community, and even a single word can represent a complex theory.
To whom do these philosophies and theories belong?
Thoughts pass from one individual to another, each time a little
transformed, for each individual can attach to them somewhat dif-
ferent associations. Strictly speaking, the receiver never understands
the thought exactly in the way that the transmitter intended it to
be understood. After a series of such encounters, practically nothing
is left of the original content. Whose thought is it that continues to
circulate? It is one that obviously belongs not to any single indi-
vidual but to the collective. Whether an individual construes it as
truth or error, understands it correctly or not, a set of findings
meanders throughout the community, becoming polished, trans-
formed, reinforced, or attenuated, while inﬂuencing other ﬁndings,
A R B A B
190

concept formation, opinions, and habits of thought. After making
several rounds within the community, a ﬁnding often returns con-
siderably changed to its originator, who reconsiders it himself in
quite a different light. He either does not recognize it as his own or
believes, and this happens quite often, to have originally seen it in
its present form. The history of the Wassermann reaction will afford
us the opportunity to describe such meanderings in the particular
case of a completely “empirical” ﬁnding.
This social character inherent in the very nature of scientific
activity is not without its substantive consequences. Words, which
formerly were simple terms become slogans; sentences which once
were simple statements become calls to battle. This completely
alters their socio-cogitative value. They no longer influence the
mind through their logical meaning — indeed, they often act
against it — but rather they acquire a magical power and exert a
mental inﬂuence simply by being used. As an example, one might
consider the effect of terms such as “materialism” or “atheism,”
which in some countries at once discredit their proponents but in
others function as essential passwords for acceptability. This magi-
cal power of slogans, with “vitalism” in biology, “specificity” in
immunology, and “bacterial transformation” in bacteriology, clearly
extends to the very depth of specialist research. Whenever such a
term is found in a scientiﬁc text, it is not examined logically, but
immediately makes either enemies or friends.
Fleck (1979 [1935], pp. 42–43)
Beauty
Examining the role played in his or her research by a scientiﬁc inquirer’s
attraction to beauty can open invaluable insights into the nature of
science. Unfortunately, it is not possible in a brief exposition, and with-
out the use of mathematics, to explore with any precision the concept of
beauty, for example, in physics. In The Mind of God: The Scientiﬁc Basis
for a Rational World, Paul Davies (1993) employed his admirable talent
for making scientiﬁc ideas accessible to the nonspecialist to express the
following:
It is widely believed among scientists that beauty is a reliable guide
to truth, and many advances in theoretical physics have been made
by the theorist demanding mathematical elegance of a new theory.
Sometimes, where laboratory tests are difﬁcult, these aesthetic cri-
teria are considered even more important than experiment.
Einstein, when discussing an experimental test of his general theory
of relativity, was once asked what he would do if the experiment
didn’t agree with the theory. He was unperturbed at the prospect.
“So much the worse for the experiment,” he retorted. “The theory is
right!” Paul Dirac, the theoretical physicist whose aesthetic delib-
erations led him to construct a mathematically more elegant equa-
tion for the electron, which then led to the successful prediction of
the existence of antimatter, echoed these sentiments when he
PROMOTING A DISCOURSE ON SCIENCE, RELIGION, AND DEVELOPMENT
191

judged that “it is more important to have beauty in one’s equations
than to have them ﬁt experiment.”
Mathematical elegance is not an easy concept to convey to those
unfamiliar with mathematics, but it is keenly appreciated by pro-
fessional scientists. Like all aesthetic value-judgments, however, it
is highly subjective. Nobody has yet invented a “beauty meter” that
can measure the aesthetic value of things without referring to
human criteria. Can one really say that certain mathematical forms
are intrinsically more beautiful than others? Perhaps not. In which
case it is very odd that beauty is such a good guide in science. Why
should the laws of the universe seem beautiful to humans? No
doubt there are all sorts of biological and psychological factors at
work in framing our impressions of what is beautiful. It is no sur-
prise that the female form is attractive to men, for example, and the
curvaceous lines of many beautiful sculptures, paintings, and archi-
tectural structures doubtless have sexual referents. The structure
and operation of the brain may also dictate what is pleasing to the
eye or ear. Music may reflect cerebral rhythms in some fashion.
Either way, though, there is something curious here. If beauty is
entirely biologically programmed, selected for its survival value
alone, it is all the more surprising to see it re-emerge in the esoteric
world of fundamental physics, which has no direct connection with
biology. On the other hand, if beauty is more than mere biology at
work, if our aesthetic appreciation stems from contact with some-
thing ﬁrmer and more pervasive, then it is surely a fact of major sig-
niﬁcance that the fundamental laws of the universe seem to reﬂect
this “something.”
Davies (1993, pp. 175–176)
My own inclination is to suppose that qualities such as ingenuity,
economy, beauty, and so on have a genuine transcendent reality —
they are not merely the product of human experience — and that
these qualities are reﬂected in the structure of the natural world.
Whether such qualities can themselves bring the universe into exis-
tence I don’t know. If they could, one could conceive of God as
merely a mythical personiﬁcation of such creative qualities, rather
than as an independent agent. This would, of course, be unlikely to
satisfy anyone who feels he or she has a personal relationship with
God.
Davies (1993, pp. 214–215)
Davies is, of course, correct in assuming that a mere personiﬁca-
tion of creative qualities falls far short of the concept of God held by
most religions. But the concept that the physical universe reﬂects in its
structure the attributes of God is one that ﬁnds considerable resonance
in religious discourse. Bahá’u’lláh, for example, whose teachings uphold
the existence of a God forever unknowable in essence, stated that
Whatever is in the heavens and whatever is on the earth is a direct
evidence of the revelation within it of the attributes and names of
God, inasmuch as within every atom are enshrined the signs that
A R B A B
192

bear eloquent testimony to the revelation of that most great Light.
Methinks, but for the potency of that revelation, no being could ever
exist. How resplendent the luminaries of knowledge that shine in an
atom, and how vast the oceans of wisdom that surge within a drop!
bpt (1983b, pp. 100–101)
Rationality
All too often, rationality is identiﬁed with one or another speciﬁc way
of thinking. The rational soul is a unique characteristic of the human
being; its powers include scientific investigation, comprehension of
meaning, and contemplation of beauty. These powers can express them-
selves in the creation of more than one mode of rational thought and
action. Only if we are willing to abandon narrow deﬁnitions of ratio-
nality will we appreciate the underlying harmony between science and
religion. The deﬁnitions at which we arrive should allow for the scepti-
cism that characterizes any scientific method, but we should also
acknowledge the need for repeated leaps of faith, for it is an undeniable
fact of life that one without the other leads nowhere. The following pas-
sage from David Bohm’s Wholeness and the Implicate Order illustrates what
I mean by a “way of thinking”:
Nevertheless, this sort of ability of man to separate himself from his
environment and to divide and apportion things ultimately led to a
wide range of negative and destructive results, because man lost
awareness of what he was doing and thus extended the process of
division beyond the limits within which it works properly. In
essence, the process of division is a way of thinking about things that
is convenient and useful mainly in the domain of practical, techni-
cal and functional activities (e.g., to divide up an area of land into
different fields where various crops are to be grown). However,
when this mode of thought is applied more broadly to man’s notion
of himself and the whole world in which he lives (i.e. to his
self–world view), then man ceases to regard the resulting divisions
as merely useful or convenient and begins to see and experience
himself and his world as actually constituted of separately existent
fragments. Being guided by a fragmentary self–world view, man
then acts in such a way as to try to break himself and the world up,
so that all seems to correspond to his way of thinking. Man thus
obtains an apparent proof of the correctness of his fragmentary
self–world view though, of course, he overlooks the fact that it is he
himself, acting according to his mode of thought, who has brought
about the fragmentation that now seems to have an autonomous
existence, independent of his will and of his desire.
Bohm (1981, pp. 2–3, emphasis in the original)
Complementarity
Attempts to apply the principle of complementarity to areas other than
physics do not enjoy every scientist’s blessing. For one thing, physicists
do not agree on the precise meaning of complementarity, nor do they
PROMOTING A DISCOURSE ON SCIENCE, RELIGION, AND DEVELOPMENT
193

share all the philosophical views expressed by the architects of the
Copenhagen interpretation, primarily Niels Bohr. One issue on which
profound differences exist, for example, is whether human ideas can
grasp the essence of things. Bohr was clearly doubtful of such a possi-
bility; for him, as Henry P. Stapp (1993) put it, “progress in human
understanding would more likely consist of the growth of a web of
interwoven complementary understandings of various aspects of the
fullness of nature.” “Such a view,” Stapp continued,
though withholding the promise for eventual complete illumina-
tion regarding the ultimate essence of nature, does offer the
prospect that human inquiry can continue indefinitely to yield
important new truths. And these can be ﬁnal in the sense that they
grasp or illuminate some aspect of nature as it is revealed to human
experience. And the hope can persist that man will perceive ever
more clearly, through his growing patchwork of complementary
views, the general form of a pervading presence. But this pervading
presence cannot be expected or required to be a resident of the
three-dimensional space of naïve intuition, or to be described fun-
damentally in terms of quantities associated with points of a four-
dimensional spacetime continuum.
Stapp (1993 p. 70)
Personally, I am not at ease with every aspect of the Copenhagen
interpretation of quantum mechanics, least of all its extreme pragma-
tism. But in relation to human knowledge, the ideas I have expressed in
this paper resonate far more with the above statement than, say, the
belief that all explanation will be ﬁnally reduced to the ramiﬁcations of
a single overall scientiﬁc theory.
Duality
There is a vast difference between the duality of quantum mechanics
and the dichotomies on which the mechanistic worldview seems to have
thrived. One of the most signiﬁcant contributions of “new physics” to a
pattern of thought that is emerging in the world today is its rejection
of this worldview. In The Quantum Self: A Revolutionary View of Human
Nature and Consciousness Rooted in the New Physics, Danah Zohar (1991)
gave an insightful analysis of the alienation resulting from the mechan-
ical interpretation of the universe:
The three “pernicious dichotomies” left us wondering how we con-
scious human beings related to ourselves (our own bodies, our own
past and future, our own sub-selves), to each other or to the world
of nature and facts. In trying to resolve these questions, our psy-
chology, our philosophy and our religion fragmented into opposite
extremes. As Yeats said of this era, “Things fall apart, the centre
cannot hold.”
The split between mind and body, or between inner and outer,
gave rise to the dichotomy between extreme subjectivism (a world
A R B A B
194

without objects) and extreme objectivism (a world without sub-
jects). Thus Idealism denied the reality or importance of matter and
reduced everything to mind, while materialism denied the reality or
importance of mind and reduced everything to matter. Freud
assumed that the inner was real and accessible, while the outer was
all projection, and many strains of mysticism mirrored this view —
for example the world is the veil of Maya, a veil of illusion. At the
other extreme, Behaviourism assumed the outer was real but denied
the relevance of the inner. It became psychology without the
psyche.
The split between the individual and his relationships led on the
one hand to an exaggerated individualism, to a selﬁsh will to power
and possession, and on the other to an enforced communitarianism
like that of Marxism, which denied the meaning or importance of
individuals at all while stressing the absolute primacy of relationship.
The split between culture and nature led both to relativism of
all sorts — factual, moral, aesthetic and spiritual (value judgments)
— and to dogma and extreme fundamentalism. There seemed no
middle ground between the two extremes of saying that a given way
of looking at things was only one of many contingent and relative
ways of looking at them, or between saying there was only one, true
and absolute way of looking at them. There seemed no way to say
that we were not either wholly creatures of culture, and therefore
unrooted in any established facts, or wholly creatures of nature (of
the given), with no ﬂexibility or room for creative development.
In the West, these dichotomies robbed our individuality of its
context and landed us in the deepest isolation, leading to narcis-
sism. We were cut off from an outer conﬁrmation of our inner life,
leading to nihilism, and denied the conﬁrmation of our ideas, leav-
ing us with relativism and subjectivism. Each nourished a form of
alienation, and the sum total of this alienation is the curse of
modernism.
Zohar (1991, pp. 217–218)
As we try to promote a discourse on science, religion, and devel-
opment, the greatest challenge before us is to overcome the habits of
mind described by Zohar in the above passage. What is daunting is that
our discourse has to focus primarily on development, the very process
that took it upon itself to propagate these habits throughout the planet.
SPIRITUAL PRINCIPLES AND THE ROLE OF KNOWLEDGE
Development programs will continue to be relevant to the life of soci-
ety only to the extent that they are formulated and carried out in the
context of an emerging world civilization. This is not to argue that the
ﬁeld of development must broaden its scope to touch on every aspect of
human existence. On the contrary, as a global enterprise its value lies in
its consecration to the task of fostering prosperity among the diverse
PROMOTING A DISCOURSE ON SCIENCE, RELIGION, AND DEVELOPMENT
195

inhabitants of the planet. Yet, to achieve the required vitality, system-
atic effort to bring about the social and economic development of
nations must be conceived in the context of a greater process that will
carry humanity into the next stage of evolution.
No matter how cursory, a survey of the historical forces that are
shaping the structure of society — along with the devastating upheavals
that these forces have already precipitated and the prodigious changes
they have engendered — should convince even the staunch defenders of
today’s global policies that unchecked material progress is not what is
needed. A dual cry can everywhere be heard rising from the heart of the
great masses of humanity. It demands the extension of the fruits of
material progress to all peoples, and, at the same time, it calls out for
the values of spiritual civilization. For material civilization “is like a
lamp-glass. Divine civilization is the lamp itself and the glass without
the light is dark. Material civilization is like the body. No matter how
inﬁnitely graceful, elegant and beautiful it may be, it is dead. Divine
civilization is like the spirit, and the body gets its life from the spirit”
(bpt 1997, 227:22). True prosperity has both a material and a spiritual
dimension.
That humanity is being impelled irresistibly toward some kind of
coherent global form of existence can no longer be disputed. The choice
lies in that which is to be globalized: the basest of human desires or
noble ideals and aspirations. The ideas set forth in these pages originate
in the conviction that the apparent dominance currently enjoyed by the
former is an illusion; it is the latter that will have the ﬁnal say in the
destiny of the human race. The vision projected here, therefore, is opti-
mistic, not in relation to the immediate but a more distant, yet entirely
foreseeable, future.
It is a characteristic of numerous forms of existence that they
undergo successive stages of transformation before reaching the level of
maturity destined for them. Even the human being must pass through
the stages of infancy, childhood, and adolescence before the full powers
of the human spirit begin to manifest themselves. The attributes of the
adult are not defined by the imperfections of childhood; nor do the
vicissitudes of adolescence last beyond the age of transition. Does his-
tory not suggest a similar pattern in the collective life of humanity?
If humanity is indeed approaching adulthood, the revolutionary
changes occurring with bewildering swiftness in every department of its
collective life assume the character of two parallel processes, one inte-
grative and the other of ruinous disintegration. The operation of both is
necessary during such a tumultuous period when the barriers raised by
the thoughts, attitudes, and habits of the childhood of the race must be
uprooted and the structures of a new civilization that can reﬂect the
powers of maturity must be shaped. If this assessment is a reasonably
accurate view of the contemporary crisis in civilization, then it is imper-
ative that those of us who work in the global enterprise we call
A R B A B
196

development, which is to contribute to the emergence of the institu-
tions and practices of adulthood, understand the nature of the dual
process affecting our endeavours. For, inevitable as the ﬁnal outcome
may be, disintegration can be painfully prolonged by the decisions of
world leaders who refuse to respond to the exigencies of a new age.
This interpretation of the nature of our times can help us free our-
selves from excessive attachment to the standards of the past and move
on to ﬁnd new and viable paths of development. If old conventions are
allowed to persist, the fate of humankind will be a global society ruled
by the interests of a relative few and held in the grip of political and eco-
nomic forces. Such a society will be unacceptable to a human race that
has successfully shed the habits of adolescence. In this context the view
of development as something that is handed over by the “developed” to
the “underdeveloped” or as the imitation by every nation of the pattern
of industrialization that historically led certain countries to material
prosperity cannot survive as a realistic option. Equally inadequate is a
vision of development as a haphazard process whose aims emerge from
within its own dynamics. The transition to maturity referred to here
anticipates the attainment by humanity as a whole of a new level of col-
lective consciousness. As this increasingly occurs, the only acceptable
development strategies will be those that centre on people and their
institutions as the real protagonists of change — all of humanity and
the institutions that legitimately serve its interests. If development is to
be deﬁned at all, then it will have to be in terms of the building of
capacity in individuals, communities, and institutions to participate
effectively in weaving the fabric of a materially and spiritually prosper-
ous world civilization.
Spiritual principles
Clearly, the relationship between spiritual and material civilization,
introduced above, is not a simple one. Matter and spirit interact in intri-
cate patterns and at various levels. In the ﬁeld of development, an essen-
tial interaction should occur at the level of principle. Recognizing the
need to modify the statement at a later stage, I would like to propose
that progress in material civilization receives its impetus fundamentally
from the force of science. It results from diverse applications of the ratio-
nal faculty of the human soul, for example, to understand the laws of
nature and society, to promote agriculture and industry, to learn the
lessons of history, to gain insights into viable social organization, and to
devise just methods of human governance. Yet these applications must
respond to, and be governed by, the principles of spiritual civilization,
without which material progress leads as much to misery as to
happiness.
In today’s world, it will not be easy to argue that development
practice should be guided by spiritual principle. The prescription that
PROMOTING A DISCOURSE ON SCIENCE, RELIGION, AND DEVELOPMENT
197

the “end justiﬁes the means” has been so long and so widely accepted by
so many that it is now a feature of culture, and the accompanying idea
that success is the ﬁnal arbiter of truth compounds the problem. Con-
sider, for example, the question of justice. If justice is to be a binding
principle of development practice, then the purposeful creation of injus-
tice even as a temporary measure to achieve prosperity at a future date
is not permissible. Yet, not only did development thinking endorse such
policies to that effect in its early years, but three decades later, after
painfully acquired experience, similar policies, albeit expressed in
vocabulary designed to make them more palatable, emerged and con-
tinue to survive up to the present day.
The effort to incorporate the discussion of spiritual principles into
deliberations on social and economic development entails other difﬁcul-
ties, most of them rooted in a long history of misbehaviour on the part
of religious movements. Even the suggestion brings to mind experience
of the arrogance of self-righteousness and inevitably generates resis-
tance. Yet, as argued elsewhere in this paper, extreme reactions by
enlightened minds to corrupt forms of religious belief have taken a
heavy toll on humanity, and it is time to show discipline in this respect.
To believe in principles and to uphold them does not imply a sense of
spiritual superiority. There is a difference between believing in high
ideals and claiming to be their embodiment. To translate principles into
action, one must engage in a process of learning, a process whose meth-
ods must be scientiﬁc. Furthermore, effective learning depends on a pos-
ture of humility, and our fear of hypocrisy should not prevent us from
giving humility its due merit. The discussion of principles that follows,
then, is not a treatise on religiosity; it is presented in the context of
learning as the ideal mode of operation in the development ﬁeld.
The oneness of humankind
The hallmark of the age of maturity will be the uniﬁcation of the human
race. The principle of the oneness of humankind is not a mere expres-
sion of a romantic notion of brotherly love or the praise of some vague
ideal of tolerance and respect. It is not a summons to uniformity. It has
nothing in common with the aggressive advance of a superﬁcial culture
that idolizes the unfettered gratiﬁcation of desire and devours every cul-
ture it encounters in the name of universality.
To believe in the oneness of humanity, as advocated here, implies
the rejection of theories that explain the collective life of human beings
in families, groups, tribes, cities, and nations solely in terms of the
imperatives of survival. Rather, the evolution of such collective life and
its institutions is viewed as a gradual unfoldment of the potentialities of
the human spirit. This evolutionary process will attain a stage of fulﬁll-
ment when humanity is at last able to undertake the task of laying foun-
dations for a uniﬁed and advanced civilization. Progress toward such a
A R B A B
198

goal demands rapid and organic change in the very structure of society,
accompanied by an equally profound change in human consciousness.
Efforts to understand the operation of this principle should bear in
mind that oneness must necessarily express itself in infinite variety.
Diversity and oneness are complementary and inseparable. Diversity
does not invariably give rise to enmity and opposition. The differences
of ethnicity, nationality, and race that exist today can be appreciated in
the context of a historical process that has entailed progressive stages of
unity. Differences that are perceived as causes of division and conﬂict
should in fact be treated as sources of stability. Diversity brings enor-
mous strength to the composition of the whole as uniﬁcation occurs.
Gradual awareness of the signiﬁcance of interconnectedness in the
workings of the universe is arising from not only religious and philo-
sophical but also scientific observation. Several advances in the past
decades — for example, in understanding the evolution of biological
and learning systems, in ecology, in the study of the cosmos and its tini-
est particles — have made obsolete a worldview that was founded on the
mechanics of a clock and the interactions of billiard balls. Development
thinking must similarly be challenged to leave behind visions of society
that have originated in minds given to fragmentation and seek in
emerging scientiﬁc paradigms the ideas and tools it needs to perform its
tasks.
The analogy that seems to demonstrate the operation of the prin-
ciple of oneness in society is the human body. Within that system, mil-
lions of cells, with an extraordinary diversity of forms and functions,
collaborate to make the existence of a human being possible. They give
and receive whatever is needed for their individual function, as well as
for the growth and welfare of the whole. No one would try to explain
the life of a healthy body in terms of some of the principles we use so
freely in our social theories, such as competition among the parts for
scarce resources. The principle that governs the functioning of the body
is cooperation. But this is not cooperation without a purpose — exis-
tence for the sake of existence. The outcome of this complex set of inter-
actions is a system that serves as the temple of the soul. The rational
faculty appears, and intelligence, a quality that seems to be present deep
in the structure of the universe, manifests itself. Could not society also
become the arena for harmonious interactions among human beings,
interactions whose purpose is not the mere enjoyment of a few ﬂeeting
moments on this Earth, but the appearance of a higher form — human
civilization?
Viewed in this way, the principle of the oneness of humankind
would enter development discourse at three levels. The ﬁrst would be at
the level of policy and direction. That which furthers separateness, con-
solidates isolation, and strengthens the ascendancy of one group of
people over others — even in the guise of unity and globalization — can
hardly be considered development. The second would be at the level of
PROMOTING A DISCOURSE ON SCIENCE, RELIGION, AND DEVELOPMENT
199

approach and methodology. Development understood as extending
prosperity to all cannot be advanced through the gloriﬁcation of con-
ﬂict, whether of class or of ideology. Nor can the pursuit of selﬁsh aims
and competition be considered the organizing principle of society and
the only path to excellence, although one may accept that ideas and
products should be allowed to compete with one another. Excellence
will be achieved if the noble qualities of the human soul are allowed to
flourish in the environment of freedom created by cooperation. The
third level at which the principle of oneness would be felt is that of
program activity. The cementing together of human hearts and the pro-
gressive achievement of unity of purpose, unity of thought, and unity of
action must be incorporated in both the goals and the methods of
development projects; so, too, have to be measures that promote the
integration of peoples everywhere into a growing network of global rela-
tions. It is in this sense, I believe, that the well-known phrase “Think
globally, act locally” takes on its true signiﬁcance.
Justice
To say that justice must be a fundamental concern of development strat-
egy is to express a truism. There is, however, little agreement on the
means by which justice can be worked into actual plans and promoted
in action. Recognizing that justice is primarily a spiritual principle, an
exigency of the human spirit, helps overcome the difﬁculty and opens
doors to possibilities that are not available when discussion is limited to
the distribution of income or the rule of democracy. As a concept inap-
plicable to the web of connections deﬁning the animal kingdom, justice
is irrefutably a requirement of a life that transcends animal existence.
Beyond mere concern with social issues, justice as a spiritual principle
touches the individual at the deepest level of consciousness. Its inﬂuence
motivates participation, raises awareness to new levels, and empowers
individuals, communities, and institutions.
The spiritual roots of the principle are to be found in that faculty
of the human soul that enables us to see with our own eyes and not with
the eyes of others. The cultivation of this faculty creates in the individ-
ual the responsibility to investigate reality free from the chains of tra-
dition perpetuated through imitation. When sufﬁciently developed, it
protects the individual, for example, from being a naive victim of market
propaganda, constantly induced to buy things, services, and ideologies.
The elimination of such credulity is, clearly, a requirement of a devel-
opment process that calls for the participation of the people in tracing
their own path of collective advancement.
Understood as a spiritual principle, justice helps policymakers
avoid the pitfalls of uniformity while still respecting the exigencies of
equity. The analogy of the human body discussed in relation to the ideal
of oneness takes on new meaning when examined in the light of this
principle. Rather than deﬁning relationships among the members of
A R B A B
200

society in terms of a sameness foreign to the very structure of creation,
one is moved to see individual and collective well-being as the result of
the intricate operations of a system that measures needs, aspirations,
talents, motivations, and performances and rewards all equitably. When
appropriately brought to bear on social issues, justice is the single most
important instrument for the establishment of unity.
Without justice, the goals of development become distorted. They
either are dictated by the interests of dominant ideologies and powerful
groups or represent simply no more than the beliefs, admittedly often
rooted in altruism, of those who work professionally in the development
ﬁeld. Consider how loudly the praise of defective approaches to global-
ization is sung and how much effort is expended on covering up the
resulting marginalization of the masses. Review the thousands of pro-
jects that have set out to alleviate poverty but have merely succeeded in
offering a small group of beneﬁciaries a few advantages while the gap
between the rich and the poor in the area under their inﬂuence has con-
tinued to widen. Surely, at every stage of activity — from the formula-
tion of policies, to the design of programs, to the implementation of
specific projects — the principle of justice has to be made the final
arbiter.
Equality of men and women
There can be no doubt that the equality of men and women will be a
distinguishing characteristic of the civilization destined to emerge from
the present passage through an age of transition. The challenge is to
ensure that, on the one hand, the principle is permitted to give direc-
tion to development strategy and, on the other, its translation into
proper structures and attitudes is accepted as an integral goal of speciﬁc
projects.
Acknowledging that the equality of men and women is an ele-
mentary spiritual principle closes all those arguments that, overtly or in
subtle ways, sustain the notion of the superiority of men. To promote,
as an element of religious belief, the conviction that the soul of the
human being has no sex — as is the case with race or colour — is to
attack the very foundations of the age-old prejudice against women.
Science, of course, does much to shatter erroneous belief. But history is
replete with examples of entire peoples who readily accepted error as sci-
entiﬁc truth because their inherited preferences inclined them to do so.
Unfortunately, so far as the treatment of women is concerned, the
record of most major religions has been anything but impressive. To
denounce religion as the perpetrator of inequality between women and
men, however, is not justiﬁed. Religious teaching has been progressive,
certain elements of it addressing only the historical reality of the people
among which it was promulgated. These have to be understood in the
context of an ongoing process through which spiritual truth has been
brought progressively to bear on the challenges of civilization.
PROMOTING A DISCOURSE ON SCIENCE, RELIGION, AND DEVELOPMENT
201

Contemporary society is ill-served by a prevailing tendency to rel-
egate certain principles, even after their value has been acknowledged,
largely to the realm of rhetoric and academic discussion. If the principle
of the equality of women and men is not to meet this fate, it must be
given sustained expression through the adoption of one goal: ensuring
that men and women work shoulder to shoulder in all ﬁelds of human
endeavour — scientiﬁc, political, economic, social, and cultural — with
the same rewards and in equal conditions. For the vast majority of
women in the world, the most immediate implication of such a goal
must be to make education available to them, an education that is of the
same scientiﬁc quality as that being offered to men, and it is therefore
of great signiﬁcance that the education of the girl child is ﬁnally being
recognized internationally as an indispensable theme of policy. The seri-
ousness of this commitment can be appreciated in the care being taken
to complement the emphasis on the education of women with measures
to change the attitudes of men.
However welcome, attitudinal change is nevertheless only part of
the answer in a society organized according to past prejudices. The prin-
ciple of the equality of men and women has profound implications for
the changes of structure that will characterize humanity’s coming of
age. It is no exaggeration to claim that the rigorous application of this
principle will revolutionize every institution of society, from the family
to government, from the smallest productive unit to large financial
organizations, from structures that support individual creativity to the
most complex channels for the collective expression of culture. For the
objective is not the mere opening of opportunities to women to do
everything that men do today, so much of which is shameful and cruel.
The principle of the equality of men and women sheds light on how the
true qualities of the human soul are to govern social existence. It is a
statement about human reality, and its application constitutes a requi-
site for the establishment of peace, a deﬁnite move away from violence,
an exigency of the long-awaited spiritual civilization. Without it, devel-
opment simply will not occur.
Stewardship of nature
The modern scientiﬁc era has witnessed a well-justiﬁed rebellion against
religious views that preach the abandonment of this world in exchange
for rewards in the next. For people everywhere, it became increasingly
apparent that placing the spiritual and the material in forced opposition
engenders passivity, itself a major influence in the perpetuation of
poverty through oppression. The creed of materialism that accompanied
rebellion against the tradition, however, did not mend humanity’s rela-
tionship with the material world in which it lives. As God was set aside,
the answer to every question was to be sought in the workings of nature,
vaguely deﬁned as all that was accessible to the senses. But with this
shift, there vanished also the reverence for nature that had been a vital
A R B A B
202

feature of earlier stages of social evolution. The Earth became basically
a reservoir of material resources to be exploited within an approach that
could only be characterized as hostile and irresponsible. The resulting
ecological disaster now forces world leaders to reexamine the meaning
of progress and the appropriate relationship between humanity and
nature.
Much of the blame for the great imbalance created in the ecosphere
is placed on the anthropocentrism of today’s civilization. The alternative
often suggested, however, is a biocentrism that seems equally untenable.
In its extreme formulation, this philosophy is but another brand of
materialism, a worship of nature that ignores the exigencies of a con-
sciousness unique to the human species and absent from the material
universe. Once again, the focus is exclusively on the survival of the race.
Can human beings now be induced to believe that their only purpose is
to pass a few scores of years on this planet in harmony with nature, as
do the ﬁsh and the bird?
The principle of stewardship advocated in this paper takes as a
given the human aspiration to transcend the limitations of the material
world, but does so while maintaining an attitude of respect and cooper-
ation with nature that is in harmony with the oneness of existence. It
upholds a vision of wholeness and interconnectedness throughout cre-
ation, which includes both nature and human consciousness, the former
being an expression of God’s will in the contingent world and the latter
an imperative of a higher order of existence. Stewardship of nature,
then, constitutes an inescapable role that humanity, from among count-
less species in the biosphere, must play — the role of being a conscious,
compassionate, and creative participant in the evolution of the life of the
planet. Far from considering the present ecological crisis a cause for
despair, development thinkers should recognize it as a providential
turning point in the evolution of human consciousness, a turning point
in which fragmentation gives way to wholeness.
Work and wealth
As has been the case with nature, wealth has received contradictory
treatment in every period of social evolution. Repeatedly, the pendulum
has swung from one extreme to another, from contempt for wealth as the
corrupter of the human soul to its adoration as the ultimate dispenser of
happiness. The concept, clearly, needs to be reexamined in the context
of a development process that can contribute to the spiritual and mate-
rial advancement of the human race.
The spiritual principle that can help define a proper attitude
toward wealth is one that is consistent with the real nature and purpose
of work. Work is both an exigency of life on this planet and an urge
inherent to human character. Through it, essential requirements of the
human soul ﬁnd fulﬁllment, and many of its potentials are realized. To
accomplish its purpose, however, work cannot be reduced to a mere
PROMOTING A DISCOURSE ON SCIENCE, RELIGION, AND DEVELOPMENT
203

struggle for survival. Nor can its aim be solely the satisfaction of the
demands of the self. Work’s highest station is service to humanity, and
when performed in that spirit, it becomes an act of worship.
The noblest fruit of work is spiritual and intellectual attainment.
But work must also produce the material means to sustain the individ-
ual and society and make progress possible. The prosperous world civi-
lization now within humanity’s grasp will call for the production of
wealth on a scale hitherto unimagined. The success of such an effort will
depend on a rigorous deﬁnition of the parameters of the ownership of
wealth so as to avoid the pitfalls of both excessive state control and the
unbounded accumulation of riches by the relatively few. Extremes of
wealth and poverty are closely interconnected; the latter cannot be abol-
ished while the other is allowed to exist.
Seen in such a light, personal wealth is acceptable so long as it ful-
ﬁlls certain conditions. It must be earned through honest work, physi-
cal or intellectual, and its acquisition by the individual must not be the
cause, no matter how indirectly, of the impoverishment of others. More-
over, the legitimacy of material possessions depends equally on how
they are earned and how they are used. One should enjoy the fruits of
one’s labours and expend one’s wealth not only for the good of one’s fam-
ily, but also for the welfare of society.
Freedom and empowerment
At the heart of spirituality is the yearning of the human soul for free-
dom from the chains and struggles of material existence. Paradoxically,
the impulse is opposed by another: licence to follow the dictate of one’s
desires. Throughout history, these two urges have coexisted and have
become intertwined, spinning dozens of ideologies, each appealing to
noble aspirations and each carrying within it the seeds of its own
destruction. Revolution has followed revolution — driven initially by
legitimate longing to be free, only to be co-opted later by the cruelest
manifestations of a lower nature. The despair that characterizes today’s
society owes much of its force to the confusion of those who cannot
distinguish between true freedom and surrender to animal desire.
Science provides tools and methods that can be used to achieve
freedom. But it is the light of religion that separates nobility from base-
ness. From a religious point of view, true liberty is compliance with
divine teachings. For only to the extent that human beings awaken to
the capacity for love, generosity, justice, compassion, trustworthiness,
and humility can they manifest the extraordinary powers with which
they have been endowed.
Certainly, freedom from oppression is a cause to be upheld
throughout the age of transition from childhood to maturity. Those
working toward this goal will have little trouble detecting the oppres-
sive behaviour of tyrannical regimes and the political and economic
measures instituted by one group to suppress another. What is
A R B A B
204

somewhat more difﬁcult to appreciate is that the reigning version of
democracy, so closely tied to the operations of the market, breeds other
forms of oppression, subtle but equally damaging, for the greatest crime
of oppression is that it robs people of their true identity. Its weapon is
the prolongation of ignorance through the manipulation of information
and the denial of access to knowledge. Ironically, the perpetrator and the
victim both ﬁnd themselves deprived of opportunities to develop the
potentialities on which fulﬁllment ultimately depends. A central task of
development, then, is the systematic propagation of spiritual and mate-
rial knowledge for the clear purpose of empowering people.
The role of knowledge
If development practice is to be governed by spiritual principles, the
role it assigns to the generation and application of knowledge must be
reevaluated. Materialism, whether cogently defined or hidden in
implicit assumptions, has little choice but to place economic activity at
the centre of human existence. In one way or another, all other processes
of social life end up subordinate to this activity, deriving the greater
part of their signiﬁcance from the contributions they make to the gen-
eration of material comfort and wealth. Specifically, knowledge, too
often confused with information, acquires much of its value from its
enormous potential to drive economic progress.
An alternative claim, one advanced in this paper, is that a world-
view that is cognizant of the spiritual dimensions of consciousness
would regard the generation and application of knowledge as the very
central process of social existence. Clearly, the creation of wealth and its
just distribution would continue to be indispensable. But economic
activity would not be seen as an end in itself. Beyond attention to the
needs of survival, it would concern itself with the multiplication of
means through which humanity would pursue goals of a higher
purpose.
In the ﬁnal analysis, whether the necessity to make such a funda-
mental shift in our perception of social life is acknowledged or dis-
missed depends on one’s convictions about life’s meaning and purpose.
But whatever these convictions, it is becoming increasingly difﬁcult to
ignore the evidence that points overwhelmingly to the inability of
development practice rooted in dogmatic materialism to ensure even
the material well-being of the great masses of humanity. Indeed, how
can one escape the conclusion that economic and political oppression is
inherent in the materialistic view of existence? No matter how heroic
the struggle against misery may be, oppression, the main cause of mis-
ery, will prevail in one or another of its myriad forms until society
becomes the expression of the higher imperatives of human nature.
The building of a world civilization — the content within which,
I have argued here, the field of development needs to organize its
PROMOTING A DISCOURSE ON SCIENCE, RELIGION, AND DEVELOPMENT
205

operations — calls for a level of capacity far greater than anything
humanity could have imagined during its long childhood. Reaching
such a level will require an enormous expansion of knowledge. But if all
that is accomplished is growth in magnitude, the practical results will
be sad indeed. If the current arrangements that assign the ownership of
modern science to small sectors of society are maintained, the conse-
quence will be no more than the widening of the gap between the poor
and the rich. Development, that is, cannot be viewed as the mere prepa-
ration of the majority of humankind to become efﬁcient users of the
products of science and technology. A fundamental concern of any pro-
gram of social and economic development has to be the right of the
masses of humanity not only to have access to information, but to par-
ticipate fully in the generation and application of knowledge; the extent
of each human being’s participation should be determined only by the
measure of his or her capacities.
The availability of good-quality education to every member of the
human race will clearly play a crucial role in bringing about the level of
participation being proposed here, as will the extension of the work of
sophisticated research centres to every region. But beyond these, the
ﬂow of knowledge in the world will have to be rearranged.
For the most part, what may be referred to as modern scientiﬁc
knowledge is currently generated in universities and specialized
research centres of the industrialized countries. Replicas of these insti-
tutions in the South participate in this process to only a limited degree.
The majority of the people in the world receive from this elaborate
research and development system an inadequate formal education,
instructions by agents of governments and ngos on the proper use of
technological packages, and a variety of short courses on the many
aspects of a modern life into which the masses of humanity are to be
incorporated. They are simultaneously subjected to the commercial,
political, and cultural propaganda of innumerable groups and organiza-
tions constantly competing for their attention.
That highly sophisticated centres in the world dedicated to
research and development in the frontiers of modern science are essen-
tial is undeniable. The need for efﬁcient channels through which indi-
viduals and communities receive beneficial services in areas such as
health, education, and production is equally evident. What is widely
ignored is that, in addition to training and the delivery of services, the
application of knowledge for the purpose of transforming complex
social realities requires the generation of new knowledge through
dynamic and effective research and the participation of an ever greater
diversity of minds.
Further, it is surely self-evident that research on development can-
not have as its sole purpose the enlightenment of academic circles or be
carried out by scientists from outside the population whose progress is
being promoted. Valuable as the fruits of such research may be, it fails
A R B A B
206

to promote the development of the institutional capacity within the
population to deal with the generation and application of knowledge,
not necessarily in the forefront of modern science and technology, but in
areas where the natural and social sciences must together tackle speciﬁc
problems of speciﬁc people. It is addressing this latter need that consti-
tutes one of the primary challenges facing the ﬁeld of development. If
successfully met, the result will be to break the present pattern of ﬂow
of knowledge in the world, dissociate development from an ill-
conceived and destructive process of modernization, and focus attention
on true cultural advancement.
Further comments
The following two comments seem necessary to clarify the nature of the
principles I have attempted to describe here.
Relation to Bahá’í text
As mentioned earlier in the paper, the methodology adopted for this
research project invites each participant to make explicit the religious
beliefs underlying the arguments he or she is advancing. This sub-
section is primarily an exposition of some of the Bahá’í teachings rele-
vant to capacity-building, the topic to be treated in the next section.
Although the ideas expressed represent my own understanding of these
teachings, I have tried to follow Bahá’í texts as closely as possible. Let
me give an example to illustrate how I have gone about doing this. My
brief description of the concept of humanity’s coming of age is based on
a number of passages from the Bahá’í writings. Bahá’u’lláh made
repeated reference to the opening of a new stage in the life of humanity:
This is the Day in which God’s most excellent favors have been
poured out upon men, the Day in which His most mighty grace
hath been infused into all created things. It is incumbent upon all
the peoples of the world to reconcile their differences, and, with
perfect unity and peace, abide beneath the shadow of the Tree of His
care and loving-kindness. It behoveth them to cleave to whatsoever
will, in this Day, be conducive to the exaltation of their stations,
and to the promotion of their best interests.
bpt (1983a, iv)
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, interpreting his father’s teachings, further elabo-
rated on this idea:
From the beginning to the end of his life man passes through cer-
tain periods, or stages, each of which is marked by certain condi-
tions peculiar to itself. For instance, during the period of childhood
his conditions and requirements are characteristic of that degree of
intelligence and capacity. After a time he enters the period of youth,
in which his former conditions and needs are superseded by new
PROMOTING A DISCOURSE ON SCIENCE, RELIGION, AND DEVELOPMENT
207

requirements applicable to the advance in his degree. His faculties
of observation are broadened and deepened; his intelligent capaci-
ties are trained and awakened; the limitations and environment of
childhood no longer restrict his energies and accomplishments. At
last he passes out of the period of youth and enters the stage, or sta-
tion, of maturity, which necessitates another transformation and
corresponding advance in his sphere of life activity. New powers and
perceptions clothe him, teaching and training commensurate with
his progression occupy his mind, special bounties and bestowals
descend in proportion to his increased capacities, and his former
period of youth and its conditions will no longer satisfy his matured
view and vision. Similarly, there are periods and stages in the life of
the aggregate world of humanity. …
From every standpoint the world of humanity is undergoing a
reformation. The laws of former governments and civilizations are
in process of revision; scientiﬁc ideas and theories are developing
and advancing to meet a new range of phenomena; invention and
discovery are penetrating hitherto unknown ﬁelds, revealing new
wonders and hidden secrets of the material universe; industries have
vastly wider scope and production; everywhere the world of
mankind is in the throes of evolutionary activity indicating the
passing of the old conditions and advent of the new age of
reformation. …
This is the cycle of maturity and reformation in religion as well.
Dogmatic imitations of ancestral beliefs are passing. … Bigotry and
dogmatic adherence to ancient beliefs have become the central and
fundamental source of animosity among men, the obstacle to
human progress, the cause of warfare and strife, the destroyer of
peace, composure and welfare in the world. …
This reformation and renewal of the fundamental reality of reli-
gion constitute the true and outworking spirit of modernism, the
unmistakable light of the world, the manifest effulgence of the
Word of God, the divine remedy for all human ailment and the
bounty of eternal life to all mankind.
bpt (1982, pp. 438–439)
The operations of two processes, one of integration and the other
of disintegration, through which the “coming together” of the peoples
of the world is to be realized, are also the subject of detailed exposition
in Bahá’í texts. Bahá’ís are called on, then, to do all they can to promote
the forces of integration in society but to understand well the inevitable
effects of the destructive forces that are at work in their own lives and
in the lives of others. As they do so, they are to keep before their eyes a
vision of a future that is depicted in terms such as the following:
National rivalries, hatreds, and intrigues will cease, and racial ani-
mosity and prejudice will be replaced by racial amity, understand-
ing and cooperation. The causes of religious strife will be
permanently removed, economic barriers and restrictions will be
completely abolished, and the inordinate distinction between
classes will be obliterated. Destitution on the one hand, and gross
A R B A B
208

accumulation of ownership on the other, will disappear. The enor-
mous energy dissipated and wasted on war, whether economic or
political, will be consecrated to such ends as will extend the range
of human inventions and technical development, to the increase of
the productivity of mankind, to the extermination of disease, to the
extension of scientific research, to the raising of the standard of
physical health, to the sharpening and refinement of the human
brain, to the exploitation of the unused and unsuspected resources
of the planet, to the prolongation of human life, and to the further-
ance of any other agency that can stimulate the intellectual, the
moral, and spiritual life of the entire human race.
bpt (1991, p. 204)
The reader unfamiliar with the Bahá’í Faith may ﬁnd these ideas
utopian and deterministic. For Bahá’ís, they do not carry such connota-
tions. When examined in the context of the totality of the belief system,
which places great emphasis on individual and collective choice, these
statements are understood as descriptions of a process of organic growth,
the unfolding of the potentialities with which human existence has been
endowed.
Knowledge, love, faith
The principles brieﬂy analyzed in this section of the paper represent the
convictions of a growing number of people from many religious and
secular backgrounds today. For Bahá’ís, they are considered essential ele-
ments of their belief system and receive extensive treatment in their
scriptures. Given the theme of this research project, the beliefs I have
tried to make explicit are related primarily to the transformation of soci-
ety. This, I fear, could convey a narrow view of the Bahá’í Faith as a
religion. In fact, a high percentage of the Faith’s literature pertains to
the mystical aspects of life, to matters of worship and religious practice,
and, of course, to theological concepts. Although these do not bear
directly on the issues under discussion, I should express my conviction
that without them the principles I have discussed lack the force needed
to bring about transformation. Knowledge must be accompanied by the
will to act if ideals are to be translated into reality. For a religious per-
son, the will to act receives its impulse from two main forces: that of
love and that of faith. According to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, “Love is heaven’s
kindly light, the holy spirit’s eternal breath that viviﬁeth the human
soul. … [it] revealeth with unfailing and limitless power the mysteries
latent in the universe” (bpt 1997, 12:1). And faith, according to him,
is “the magnet which draws the confirmation of the Merciful One,”
whereas service is “the magnet which attracts the heavenly strength”
(bpc 1930, 1:62). “By faith is meant, ﬁrst, conscious knowledge and
second, the practice of good deeds” (bpt 1930, 3:549).
“In the garden of thy heart plant naught but the rose of love” is
Bahá’u’lláh’s admonition (bpt 1994, 2:3). “Only by love,” says the
PROMOTING A DISCOURSE ON SCIENCE, RELIGION, AND DEVELOPMENT
209

Bhagavad Gita, “can men see me, and know me, and come unto me”
(11:54). “Many waters cannot quench love,” we are assured by the Song
of Solomon, “neither can ﬂoods drown it. If a man offered for love all the
wealth of his house, it would be utterly scorned” (8:7). From Buddhist
teachings, we learn that “the man of faith is revered wherever he goes:
he has virtue and fame, he prospers” (Dhammapada, 21:303). “If ye have
faith as a grain of mustard seed,” Jesus promised, “ye shall say unto this
mountain, Remove hence to yonder place; and it shall remove; and
nothing shall be impossible unto you” (Mt 17:20). And the testimony
of the Qur’an is equally emphatic: “God is the protector of those who
have faith: from the depths of darkness He will lead them forth into
light” (Q 2:257).
CAPACITY-BUILDING
In an attempt to explore the characteristics of a development theory that
takes into account the spiritual dimension of human existence, I have
outlined certain principles that I propose should govern both strategy
and project operation. The view of development set forth has been one
of a global enterprise whose purpose is to bring prosperity to all peoples,
an enterprise that, I have claimed, must pursue its aim in the context of
the emergence of a world civilization. I have argued that humanity is
experiencing an age of transition, best appreciated as a passage from col-
lective childhood to collective maturity, and that, to be effective, devel-
opment efforts must transcend the behavioural patterns of adolescence.
I have singled out the force of knowledge as the propeller of civilization
and asserted that participating in the generation and application of
knowledge is an inalienable right of every human being on the planet.
Within this context, I have proposed that development focus on the
building of capacity in individuals, communities, and institutions —
the three protagonists who must participate in the construction of mate-
rial and spiritual civilization.
If we accept that development is to be shaped by the exigencies of
humanity’s transition from its collective childhood to collective matu-
rity, we need to acknowledge that in the process the conceptual build-
ing blocks of cultures and ideologies must undergo profound changes of
meaning. The list of terms to be redeﬁned is long — man, woman, youth,
work, leisure, wealth, honour, loyalty, freedom, nation, state, governance, and
so on. Particularly urgent is the task of rethinking conceptions of the
individual and the community and the relationship of each to the insti-
tutions that make organized life on the planet possible.
Those who founded development as a distinct ﬁeld of endeavour in
the middle years of this century convinced themselves that the world
was essentially populated by two types of individuals. On the one side
A R B A B
210

were placed the vast majority of humankind, who, depending on the
propriety of the occasion, would be labeled as backward, lethargic, tra-
dition bound, constrained by the demands of the extended family and
the community, ruled by taboos, content with too little, and lacking in
initiative. On the other side stood “modern men” — and they were
men — energetic, hardworking, disciplined, self-motivated, and ratio-
nal. Development aimed at gradually changing the former into the lat-
ter. Fifty years later, thinking about the inhabitants of the planet is far
more sophisticated, and the greater part of modern man’s behaviour has
been subjected to severe questioning. Unbridled individualism has
taken an appalling toll on society and nature, and an overly self-
conﬁdent liberalism has proven a fertile breeding ground for despair and
confusion. The need for a clear understanding of the rights and respon-
sibilities of the individual has become a pressing concern.
While maintaining such decided views on the individual, early
development thinkers showed remarkable ambivalence toward the
notion of community — but then the concept had been in crisis for
decades in the West, and its nature and role in the modern world were
not well deﬁned. Thus, despite the heroic efforts of a variety of pro-
grams, community life disintegrated and the traditional social struc-
tures crumbled, without being replaced by institutions able to hold the
community together. For a while it seemed that small communities,
especially those in rural areas, were doomed to disappear and that the
only option open to human beings was to live in overcrowded, soulless
cities. Then suddenly, extraordinary advances in communications tech-
nology in recent years began to introduce unexpected elements into the
picture. The need to centralize, characteristic of industrialization in the
past, rapidly diminished to the point that it has become possible to
claim that a relatively small local community, at once conducive to par-
ticipatory collective endeavour and connected globally to a vast reservoir
of information, may be an attractive and viable alternative for growing
numbers of people. It is evident that the concept of community is also
in need of redeﬁnition.
The idea I would like to put forward is that new deﬁnitions of the
individual and the community will emerge only as we are willing to
reexamine the concepts of authority and power in depth. Further, as
development is to be intimately connected to knowledge, fresh insight
into the nature of authority and power will have to come from a dia-
logue between science and religion.
Power and authority
In the opening section of this paper, I expressed certain misgivings
about the way power has been perceived and used throughout human-
ity’s childhood and subsequently during its adolescence. I will argue
here that, as maturity approaches, power should be viewed primarily as
PROMOTING A DISCOURSE ON SCIENCE, RELIGION, AND DEVELOPMENT
211

an attribute of the individual and the local community — power to
carry out, at the prompting of the human spirit, the tasks required by
the common purpose of creating civilization.
For this conception of power to become widely accepted, we need
a new understanding of what it means to exercise individual initiative
and participate in collective enterprise. Individual initiative is not the
same as the pursuit of whatever the heart desires or random motion
according to some romantic deﬁnition of creativity. To be fruitful and to
avoid the alienation that results from unrestricted individualism, cre-
ativity must accept discipline, and initiative must move in the direction
of oneness.
Discipline needs to be maintained by the force of inner conviction.
When discipline is imposed, it succeeds only in quenching the ﬁre of
creativity. Yet, it would also be misleading to view inner discipline sim-
ply as a product of the individual’s will. The human soul manifests its
latent powers as it learns submission to a higher authority, fundamen-
tally the authority of the spiritual and material laws governing exis-
tence. These laws are explored in the texts of science and religion.
Understanding them not only inﬂuences individual conscience but also
gives meaning to the authority society bestows on its institutions. The
latter is, in its essence, the authority to channel the powers of the indi-
vidual and the group to achieve a common good, an authority all too
often abused, degenerating into the power to control and to manipulate.
Conﬂict between the individual and the institutions of society —
the one clamouring for ever greater freedom and the other demanding
ever more complete submission — has been a feature of political life
throughout the ages. The model of democracy vigorously propagated in
the world today takes this state of conﬂict for granted but tries to ﬁx the
parameters so that the individual’s rights are not transgressed in the
process. Beyond any question, the version of democracy so far achieved
is preferable to the despotic systems of governance to which humanity
has been subjected time and again. But the historical process of democ-
ratization does not have to end here, at its current immature stage; the
interaction between institutional authority to decide and individual
power to accomplish has only begun to realize its possibilities. Better
arrangements will emerge, however, only when institutions cease to be
seen as instruments for imposing on society the views of a particular fac-
tion, whether democratically elected or not. To the extent that institu-
tions become channels through which the talents and energies of the
members of society can be expressed in service to humanity, a sense of
reciprocity will grow in which the individual supports and nurtures
institutions and these, in turn, pay sincere attention to the voice of the
people whose needs they serve.
Social existence, of course, cannot be reduced to the interplay
between individuals and institutions. These can only exist and interact
in an environment from which they must derive sustenance and to the
A R B A B
212

enrichment of which they must dedicate themselves. Thus, a new
understanding of power and authority has profound implications for the
nature of community life and hence for culture. On the community rests
the challenge of providing that environment where individual wills
blend, where powers are multiplied and manifest themselves in collec-
tive action, where higher expressions of the human spirit can appear.
With these brief remarks on the character of the three protagonists
of development, I now turn to the subject of capacity-building, ﬁrst to
discuss it in general terms and then to analyze a few speciﬁc capabilities
I consider indispensable to the progress of a people.
Decision-making and implementation
Capacity-building, as proposed here, entails the enabling of the indi-
vidual to manifest innate powers in a creative and disciplined way, the
shaping of institutions to exercise authority so that these powers are
channeled toward the upliftment of humanity, and the development of
the community so that it acts as an environment conducive to the
enrichment of culture. The challenge to all three is to learn to use the
material resources of the planet and the intellectual and spiritual
resources of the race to advance civilization. Meeting this challenge
implies a fundamental change in the process of decision-making, both
individual and collective. Today, unbridled competition, obsession with
power, and the abuse of authority vitiate the way decisions are made.
The process suffers from extremes: apathy or overenthusiasm, attach-
ment to technique or haphazardness, devotion to minutia or the propen-
sity to deal only with abstractions. What is vitally needed is a mode of
operation into which systematic learning has been woven.
To facilitate the discussion here and in the rest of this paper, I will
present my arguments in the context of one region of a country, a region
that embraces several towns, many villages, and possibly one or more
cities. Such regions, usually with well-deﬁned ecological, cultural, and
political identities, are often the focus of development programs in
which international agencies, the government, and some of the organi-
zations of civil society all have distinct parts to play.
We can safely assume that the majority of the inhabitants of our
typical region have seldom had a voice in substantial decisions affecting
their collective life — for example, those related to physical infrastruc-
ture, the nature and size of agricultural and industrial production, tech-
nology, education, or communications. These decisions are made either
outside the region or by a regional elite who, depending on the extent
of decentralization achieved in the country as a whole, play a more or
less important part in the overall structure of power through which the
nation is governed. The elite itself is divided in numerous factions, this
whether or not the political arrangements are democratic in character.
PROMOTING A DISCOURSE ON SCIENCE, RELIGION, AND DEVELOPMENT
213

The region being described here is not one from which political
processes are absent. Democratization, with its recurring cycles of tri-
umph and setback, has encouraged the rise of institutions that touch the
life of the individual in the towns and villages. As acceptance of the val-
ues of decentralization has advanced, a measure of authority may have
even been devolved on these local institutions. But what is in place is a
far cry from a political system conducive to the participation of people
in the administration of their own affairs. In reality, even elected coun-
cils in the smallest of villages function as instruments in the hands of
the appointees of various political bosses. These use their connections to
bring resources to their people and in turn deliver allegiance, increas-
ingly in the form of votes as more and more nations join the ranks of
those who hold democratic elections.
Despite all these inadequacies, it would be a mistake to regard the
situation of the region as hopeless. The elite is not impervious to reform,
and individuals of uncompromising integrity do rise to inﬂuential posi-
tions. Corruption is widespread, but there is frequently also a genuine
desire to bring prosperity to the masses. Altruism and greed exist side
by side in constant opposition to each other.
A great source of hope for the region is the gradual ascent of non-
governmental development organizations. These have now been labour-
ing in every corner of the world for a few decades. Much of their work
is effected through grass-roots organizations — cooperatives, associa-
tions, clubs, and so on — endowing civil society with indispensable
social, political, and economic structures. Important as their work may
be, however, even these institutional arrangements are no substitute for
a proper system of governance. In the absence of such a system, non-
governmental bodies, too, tend to reinforce the power of local interest
groups that are ready to absorb the resources of whatever development
projects appear on the horizon.
Effecting a fundamental change in this condition clearly involves
creating and strengthening authentic structures of governance, espe-
cially at the local level. But where, the question must be asked, are
development thinkers to look for those concepts that would help ﬂedg-
ling institutions engage in a sound process of decision-making and
implementation? It would be naive to expect that politics as practiced
in the region would be a source of helpful inspiration. After all, the pur-
pose is not to learn to manipulate, to amass personal wealth and consol-
idated group power to the detriment of others, and to be skilful players
in an endless game that has already led to the impoverishment of the
masses.
What, then, of the processes characteristic of materially advanced
countries? Are they the models that should be emulated by the rest of
the world? Do they embody the values needed to enable the inhabitants
of our region, until now marginalized from decisions governing their
collective life, to forge a path of progress for themselves? Are the past
A R B A B
214

contributions of these political processes to the afﬂuence of some nations
sufﬁcient proof of their ability to bring about the transformations that
will engender material and spiritual prosperity of the human race as a
whole?
If we were to follow the mood of our times, we would be enthusi-
astic about the latter alternative as long as measures were instituted to
avoid corruption. To attribute the obvious inadequacies of current
modes of political behaviour solely to corruption, however, is to ignore
deeply rooted ﬂaws in certain fundamental conceptions. For example, it
is true that the use of physical force, a cherished instrument of author-
ity throughout history, has lost credibility and appeal in recent years.
But democracy, deﬁned as the dividing of people according to interest,
talent, and ideology, who then “negotiate” decisions, continues to
embrace violence. The purpose of each component group is to win. The
means to this end are economic advantage and the mobilization of sup-
port to overwhelm the opponent. So strong is this legacy of “he who
wins is right” that it essentially determines the way justice is adminis-
tered. Are we to accept this as the crowning achievement of the evolu-
tion of collective decision-making on the planet?
Rather than deﬁning collective decision-making as the mastery of
the art of political manipulation, development strategy would do well
to view it as the collective investigation of reality and the rational analy-
sis of options. Such a process is open to the use of methods that,
although not necessarily sophisticated or complex, are fundamentally
scientiﬁc. Indeed, over the years, programs concerned with community
action have devised highly imaginative methods to detect needs, analyze
causal chains, weigh alternative courses of action, plan, and monitor. It
is true that some of these efforts involve an almost mindless application
of technique. But there are also programs that have clearly assisted
groups of people to acquire the intellectual tools to deal with collective
decision-making, understood as the systematic investigation of reality.
The particular features of these methods are not at issue here. What is
signiﬁcant is that valuable knowledge already exists within the social
sciences and could be incorporated into mainstream activity if policy
looks favourably upon this dimension of development.
That the power of science can be brought to bear on the design of
effective mechanisms for collective decision-making is half the story.
The success of a consultative process that takes on the characteristics of
the investigation of reality and does not easily degenerate into conﬂict
and power play depends also on the spiritual qualities of the partici-
pants. Honesty, fairness, tolerance, patience, and courtesy are a few that
readily come to mind. To make a list of such attributes is not difﬁcult.
The question is how to develop them. What force can enable people to
oppose their passions, to cling to truth even when it does not gratify
some of their own perceived interests, and to accept a discipline that
invokes both the courage to express frank opinion and the wisdom to
PROMOTING A DISCOURSE ON SCIENCE, RELIGION, AND DEVELOPMENT
215

become an active participant in a consensus? Clearly, this inner force is
religious in nature.
To insist on the acquisition of qualities that a dispassionate inves-
tigation of reality demands is not to ignore self-interest. Nor can one
deny the difﬁculties in reaching consensus on matters that affect the
well-being of the participants in a consultative process. All that is being
asked is that people draw upon the resources of science and religion to
develop in decision-making bodies certain abilities required of them by
their functions in society. These include the abilities to maintain a clear
perception of social reality and of the forces operating in it; to detect
some of the opportunities offered by each historical moment; to prop-
erly assess the resources of the community; to consult freely and harmo-
niously as a body and with one’s constituency; to realize that every
decision has both a material and a spiritual dimension; to arrive at deci-
sions; to win the confidence, respect, and genuine support of those
affected by these decisions; to effectively use the energies and diverse
talents of the available human resources; to integrate the diversity of
aspirations and of activities of individuals and groups into one forward
movement; to build and maintain unity; to uphold standards of justice;
and to implement decisions with an openness and ﬂexibility that avoid
all trace of dictatorial behaviour.
Even a cursory review of these abilities suggests the need to re-
create the decision-making bodies of our region as learning organiza-
tions. What is at stake is the transformation of the present mode of
governance, based on traditional concepts of power and authority, into
one shaped by a genuine posture of learning. There is no denying that
the task will demand a commitment to principle that development pro-
jects have seldom managed to muster. Yet, is not the shift from govern-
ing by force to administering by learning one of the distinguishing
features of humanity’s passage from childhood to maturity?
The university
For development efforts to operate entirely in a learning mode, some-
thing more than the experiential learning of communities and organi-
zations is required. Every developing region is in need of an institution
devoted to the formal generation, application, and propagation of
knowledge. I will refer here to this institution as the university. The
extent to which this university undertakes the traditional tasks assigned
to it — those of offering higher education and carrying out research in
the frontiers of modern scientiﬁc endeavour — will depend on the spe-
cific conditions of the region under consideration. In the context of
development as capacity-building, its essential functions are research,
action, and training related to the entire spectrum of processes of social,
economic, and cultural life of the population it serves. What is being
suggested is not mere academic activity, but research carried out with
A R B A B
216

the participation of the population in the very spaces where they are
engaged in such undertakings as agricultural and industrial production,
marketing, education, socialization of values, and cultural enrichment.
In its relation to regional development, then, the university is an
institution present in almost every instance of social action, accompa-
nying the population, systematizing existing knowledge, generating
new knowledge, incorporating the results of systematic learning into
programs of formal and nonformal education, and providing decision-
making bodies with insights and enlightened perspective. Establishing
such an institution and deﬁning its mode of operation are crucial com-
ponents of capacity-building in any region — a challenge that calls for
creativity and the ability to innovate. Traditional models of an already
stagnant higher education have little to offer. New parameters have to
be set for both research and action. The goal is to create a social space,
every one of whose structures — the farm, the factory, the school —
serves as a dynamic centre of learning.
Development, transfer, and adoption of technology
One of the most demanding tasks before the people of our region, a task
that will claim the constant attention of the university and decision-
making bodies at various levels, is that of making proper technological
choices. The subject of technology has been integral to development
discourse since its inception, and by now has been examined from
almost every angle possible. An array of adjectives — large or small,
capital or labour intensive, modern, advanced, intermediate, indigenous, energy
efﬁcient, environmentally sound — has been used to describe the appropri-
ateness of technology in one or another of its various forms. Its associ-
ated processes of transfer, innovation, research and development,
adaptation, and diffusion as applied to most ﬁelds of human endeavour
have been scrupulously analyzed and the ﬁndings fully debated. The
interplay between technology and the economic, cultural, political, and
social determinants of a nation’s life has also been studied in detail. It is
puzzling, then, that discussions of technology in the development ﬁeld
have remained so inconclusive. In most developing countries, formulat-
ing effective science and technology policies continues to be a formida-
ble challenge. Every time the topic of technology takes centre stage, a
host of other factors, largely economic and political, are introduced,
with the result that focus is shattered.
Apart from the complexity of the issues involved, technological
advance is itself an elusive theme, for it is both a goal of development
and a means of effecting it. Much of modernity is deﬁned in terms of the
use of modern technology. This does not reflect a misconception, as
technological change is inherent in material progress. Thus, when run-
ning water is brought to a village, the inhabitants can rightfully claim
that access to this new technology constitutes a step forward in
PROMOTING A DISCOURSE ON SCIENCE, RELIGION, AND DEVELOPMENT
217

development. By the same token, the introduction of computers into a
society can be considered a contribution to its advancement. The prob-
lem arises when the essential link between material and spiritual
progress is ignored and material civilization is allowed to race forward
with little or no attention paid to spiritual reality. The role of technol-
ogy as a means of fulﬁlling higher aspirations slips from view. Instead,
technology becomes a mysterious and autonomous force that deﬁnes the
shape of the future. People recede into the background, as if they had no
choice but to follow whatever trend the invention of a new technology
establishes.
The solution to the dilemma is obviously not to deny the intrinsic
value of technological progress, much less to perpetuate defective
notions of spirituality and harmony with nature. What is needed,
rather, is to foster in the inhabitants of each region the capacity to make
increasingly more valid choices, both individually and collectively,
regarding the development, transfer, and adoption of technology.
In a world all too given to twisting words to suit economic inter-
ests, the capacity to make proper technological choices could easily
become synonymous with the possession of the skills of a good con-
sumer. This is clearly not what is intended here. The type of capacity
under discussion represents a complex set of attitudes, convictions,
understandings, skills, and habits, all of which characterize the behav-
iour of individuals and organizations in their daily interaction with
technology.
A major determinant of such behaviour is what may be called a
scientiﬁc and technological culture of the people. The inability of devel-
opment strategy to address this aspect of culture and to seek to achieve
change through it — preferring to focus on fragments of modern sci-
ence and technology — is responsible for many of its past failures. The
university, I believe, is the institution that can remedy the situation by
introducing in the region a dynamic process of learning about technol-
ogy at various levels.
As deﬁned earlier, the university is to operate in a variety of social
spaces, from the most sophisticated intellectual circles to the farms and
factories of the region it serves. It can use these learning centres to pro-
mote a discourse on science and technology that is balanced in its
approach to change. Militant defence of traditions is almost always an
expression of fear on the part the masses and those who control them.
Disdain for and neglect of knowledge systems already present among
the people of a developing region similarly stem from insecurity, in this
case the insecurity of those who wish to impose change; among the
undesirable outcomes of this special form of arrogance are alienation and
resistance. The university must strive to cultivate a healthy relationship
between the cultural heritage of the population whose education it fos-
ters and the fruits of modern science, thus enabling the people to take
A R B A B
218

possession of the new knowledge generated by the interaction of the
two.
For such a sense of ownership to be meaningful, it must be accom-
panied by the understanding that technology is not neutral. The notion
that technology can be good or bad depending on how it is used has
validity, but only within a very limited context: clearly, a knife can be
used to kill or to cut bread. But at a more fundamental level, technol-
ogy carries with it an ideology and pronounces on the way individual
and social life should be organized. Technological choice bears on every
other choice made about the quality and direction of life in a region. It
is itself an expression of values — political, social, cultural and, ulti-
mately, moral and spiritual. The task of the university would be to so
infuse this understanding into the general thinking of the people that it
becomes an undisputed element of the culture.
Creating an adequate understanding of the nature of technology in
the population of a region is only an initial step in building its capacity
to face technological choice, not as a helpless victim of the market, but
as a conscious entity in charge of its own destiny. The university must
pursue ceaselessly the goal of promoting a dynamic discourse on science
and technology in the region, cognizant that at any moment the forces
of political and commercial propaganda can disrupt the process of learn-
ing set in motion. The point is not to turn development programs into
courses of philosophy and become lost in endless academic debate;
selected technologies have to be disseminated widely and applied prop-
erly for material progress to become a reality. The challenge is to ensure
that such dissemination does not occur as a series of isolated events
whose implications for social transformation are never taken into con-
sideration.
At least two types of effort should move forward in a region if
technological change is to be a deliberate process open to the scrutiny of
an informed population. First, steps have to be taken to make explicit
the values underlying the operation of each set of interrelated products,
instruments, processes, and procedures introduced in the region.
Unfortunately, in recent years, the word values, like a number of other
important terms brought into fashionable social discourse, has been
tossed about so carelessly that it has nearly been rendered useless. The
kind of exploration into the subject being proposed here implies coura-
geous opposition to an aggressive culture that cannot deal properly with
the question of values and seeks, therefore, to reduce it to a matter of
personal taste. How could it be otherwise in a moral and spiritual vac-
uum in which purpose and identity represent no more than derivatives
of activity itself? In a culture still connected to its religious roots, in
contrast, values arise from spiritual teachings that shed light on indi-
vidual and collective identity and define the purpose of constructive
endeavour.
PROMOTING A DISCOURSE ON SCIENCE, RELIGION, AND DEVELOPMENT
219

Second, measures should be adopted to develop in the region the
ability to comprehend the science behind the technology being
propagated. Speciﬁcally, at least part of the scientiﬁc text responsible for
each step forward in technological progress should be introduced into
the knowledge system of the region. The level of sophistication at which
this is done depends on the nature of the technology, the complexity of
the particular scientiﬁc text, and the previous achievements of the pop-
ulation. To accomplish this goal, the university has various means at its
disposal, from publications and ﬁlms that popularize particular scien-
tiﬁc themes to formal curricula for every educational level. It also has in
its armoury research, if not at the cutting edge, then substantive enough
to move the population from the position of mere receiver and user of
technology to being its owner.
In addition to concern for culture, the technological dimension of
building capacity in a region has clear implications for the autochtho-
nous agencies charged with the development, adoption, and propaga-
tion of technology. These agencies need to be strengthened in taking up
their many crucial responsibilities, which include assessing the techno-
logical requirements of the development process; surveying the natural
resources of the region as well as the by-products of ongoing activities
and determining how they should be put to use; planning and moni-
toring the transfer of speciﬁc technologies and measuring their effects;
carrying out high-quality research and ﬁnding technological solutions
to concrete problems; and attending to the needs of technical education.
All these tasks must be performed with intimate and detailed knowl-
edge of the ecology of the region and a profound understanding of the
evolving social reality of the population; to ensure that learning does
indeed occur, the university needs to accompany the agencies and insti-
tutions involved in these processes.
From the immensity of the tasks described above, it is clear that
no single development program with a focus on a speciﬁc region can
endow its population with the capacity to make sound technological
choices. Technology is a global issue, and its role in the advancement of
civilization has to be explored and clariﬁed in that context. The dis-
course on science and technology — several elements of which have
been mentioned here — has to extend beyond regional boundaries. The
university referred to in these pages is to be but a component of a larger
network of learning institutions operating in every society independent
of its degree of material attainment. What is really needed is an open,
worldwide exploration of issues related to technological choice, one not
easily co-opted by privileged groups bent on setting the direction of
material progress and receiving a giant share of the power it generates.
This vigorous endeavour must be scientiﬁc in its approach to problems
but should also be allowed to draw freely on the religious heritage of
humanity to clarify questions of value and purpose. The present revolu-
tion in communication makes such a global effort eminently practicable.
A R B A B
220

The revolution itself now opens possibilities for rapid technological
change in every corner of the world in ways unthinkable when, several
decades ago, the ﬁeld of development was born.
The education of children and youth
From the beginning, enhancing the ability of the world’s governments
to impart education to their citizens has been a major component of
development strategy. Initially, the emphasis was largely on infrastruc-
ture, but, over the years, other matters related to curriculum, admin-
istration, educational technology, teacher training, and even the
relationship between the school and the community were also
addressed. It must be acknowledged that enormous progress has been
made in these interrelated areas of endeavour, particularly in the context
of the universalization of primary education. Yet, there is a widespread
feeling that despite these impressive accomplishments, education is not
living up to its promises, indeed that educational systems everywhere
are in crisis.
A thorough analysis of the ills afﬂicting modern education lies
beyond the scope of this paper. But one point needs to be brieﬂy dis-
cussed so that the line of reasoning being followed here can be made
clear. Apart from a relatively small number of fortunate students attend-
ing exceptional schools, the majority of the world’s children and youth
today receive an increasingly superﬁcial education that systematizes the
fragmentation of the students’ minds, advancing thereby the fragmen-
tation of society. The solution to the problem cannot be sought in sim-
ply better management of the parameters and relationships that deﬁne
the school, improvement of teaching–learning dynamics in and outside
the classroom, application of the latest technology, or elaboration of a
stream of documents that deﬁne an impressive set of objectives for every
course and every area of study. These measures are important in them-
selves and certainly create the image of a progressive movement ever
engaged in educational reform in country after country. The roots of the
crisis gripping education, however, are to be found in the way knowl-
edge is perceived and treated in many educational systems.
In most schools, curricula are organized by subject matter.
Although more advanced approaches allow for educational activities
that try to integrate two or three subjects, the choice of the content of
every course is made within a framework that divides knowledge into
distinct and disconnected components. Division into disciplines is seen
as virtually inherent to knowledge itself, which is deﬁned in terms of its
fragments — as the sum of all the disciplines in natural and social
sciences, arts and humanities, and professional ﬁelds such as engineer-
ing and medicine. Year after year, the students accumulate knowledge
in separate categories without becoming aware of the essential relation-
ships uniting the parts, without perhaps even getting a glimpse of the
PROMOTING A DISCOURSE ON SCIENCE, RELIGION, AND DEVELOPMENT
221

underlying interconnectedness of social existence, much less of the
material universe.
The problem is exacerbated by the emphasis that is placed on the
assimilation of facts rather than on the understanding of profound con-
cepts. Rote learning is categorically condemned but is blandly replaced
by the mastery of techniques to manipulate information. Even the
attractive pedagogy of learning by doing becomes distorted by an exag-
gerated attitude of play. Nowhere is this more apparent than in so-called
modern approaches to science education where, in the name of individ-
ual discovery, tinkering is presented as the essence of scientiﬁc inquiry,
and appreciation of the complex structure of science as an evolving body
of knowledge receives little attention. Morality, if addressed at all, is
treated as another fragment, another discrete subject matter. The notion
of service to humanity is minimally present, and the fostering of a spir-
itual consciousness is almost entirely ignored. A dichotomy between
theory and action results in a tendency to teach practical and manual
skills to some and book-learning to others, the ability to participate in
planning and decision-making to the few and to carry out orders to the
majority. And in those infrequent circumstances when learning to think
is given priority, the analytical method is essentially assumed to ﬁll the
requirements. The result is a population of sharp-minded individuals
who can focus increasingly on more and more minute parts of reality, to
the point of being incapable of seeing larger, particularly historical, con-
texts. Not surprisingly, as such individuals rise to positions of leader-
ship, they are prone to making judgments without awareness of the
moral and ethical implications involved. They are capable of denying to
themselves the noblest of human sentiments in the name of the “bottom
line” or expediency. Only now does the havoc wrought in our physical
and social environment by such polished and ostensibly educated
minds, with alarmingly narrow ranges of understanding, begin to be
recognized.
Today, the task of expanding the coverage of education fortunately
enjoys general and enthusiastic support. If the foregoing assessment of
education’s plight is at all plausible, however, the reformation of the
educational system must have the highest priority in the development
plans of our typical region. Here again, in an approach that places learn-
ing at the heart of all efforts to transform society, the university must
play a preponderant role in fostering a proper educational process
among the population it serves. By its very nature, the university is
concerned with education at higher levels. What is required of it in the
context of so speciﬁc a dimension of capacity-building is a concerted
effort to systematically develop the contents and methods of three pro-
grams of education: preschool, basic education for children from 6 to
14 years of age, and high school focusing on the intellectual and moral
development of 15- to 18-year-old youth.
A R B A B
222

The university’s greatest challenge in this respect is harnessing rel-
evant knowledge to the creation of pedagogically sound programs that
respond to the exigencies of each stage of the intellectual and emotional
development of the students. In an era of accelerated progress in science
and technology, no one will deny the need for specialization and high
expertise in narrow ﬁelds of human endeavour. But before specialized
training takes place — whether in a trade or profession or in research
and development — the basic structure of the mind of the student has
surely to be addressed. Most of today’s textbooks seem to assume that
every student is being prepared to specialize in the speciﬁc subjects with
which these texts are dealing. The result is neither sound intellectual
development nor a reasonable knowledge of any one discipline. An indi-
cation of the seriousness of the problem is the concern commonly
expressed by universities everywhere about the quality of education
received by the majority of their entering students.
The situation calls for a fresh look at the universe of knowledge
and for a new way to bring together its diverse elements in curricula
that respect the wholeness of knowledge yet anticipate specialization at
a later stage. The focus of each set of interrelated educational activities
should be the development of one or more capabilities — scientific,
artistic, technical, social, moral, and spiritual — endowing the individ-
ual with the understanding of concepts, knowledge of facts, and mastery
of methods, as well as the skills, attitudes, and qualities he or she needs
to lead a fruitful life. Speciﬁcally, in this age of transition, it is impera-
tive to endow youth with a twofold moral purpose: to take charge of
their own intellectual and spiritual growth and to make signiﬁcant con-
tributions to the transformation of society.
The claim being advanced here, one for which I have ample evi-
dence, is that an educational process organized around the development
of a set of carefully selected capabilities can impart far more knowledge
to children and youth than programs concerned with covering the usual
array of skills and subject matter. Cultivating such capabilities makes
special demands at each of the three stages of the pedagogical enterprise.
Preschool needs to emphasize the building of character. It should pay
attention to the emotional makeup of each child and help with the
acquisition of the spiritual qualities that will ﬁnally shape the attitudes
and outlooks of the future youth. It must teach joy and freedom by
instilling self-discipline and laying the foundations of a lasting moral
structure. It needs to foster habits of investigation and reﬂection and
encourage the early manifestations of clear thinking and eloquent
speech. Such objectives are entirely harmonious with the development
of the various types of dexterity and powers of perception that have
tended to preoccupy so many preschool programs earnestly being prop-
agated internationally.
Whatever one’s deﬁnition of basic education, an appropriate level
of proﬁciency in such areas of knowledge as mathematics, the natural
PROMOTING A DISCOURSE ON SCIENCE, RELIGION, AND DEVELOPMENT
223

sciences, history, geography, language, and literature is clearly an
important element. But the approach advocated here would allow edu-
cational systems to go far beyond today’s rather modest goals. We must
ask what attributes some 8 years of schooling should have cultivated in
a 14-year-old adolescent so as to enable him or her to make a clear-cut
transition from childhood to youth. We can readily identify a few that
are especially helpful in exposing the nature of the education being
called for: the realization that it is chieﬂy service to humanity and ded-
ication to the unification of humankind that release creative powers
latent in one’s nature; the understanding that not only knowledge of
principles but the exercise and application of will is essential to both
personal growth and social change; a conviction that honour and happi-
ness lie not in the pursuit of wealth and power for their own sake, but
in self-respect and noble purposes, in integrity and moral quality; and a
disposition to analyze and a desire to understand the features of differ-
ent forms of government, law, and public administration. To these must
be added other attributes that enhance social effectiveness: an adequate
understanding, at least in the local context, of the concerns of programs
of social progress in such areas as health and sanitation, agriculture,
crafts, and industry; some development of the power of intellectual
investigation as an instrument of successful individual and collective
action; certain ability to analyze social conditions and discover the forces
that have caused them; the corresponding ability to express ideas and to
contribute to consultation on community problems; the capacity to take
part in community action as a determined yet humble participant who
helps overcome conﬂict and division and contributes to the establish-
ment of a spirit of unity and collaboration; and a reasonable degree of
excellence in at least one productive skill through which to experience
the truth that work is worship when performed in a spirit of service.
These are admittedly demanding objectives for the 8 years of basic
education. But a good beginning can be made in every one of these
directions. High school, then, must assume the responsibility of ensur-
ing that such capabilities — concerned with both the acquisition of
knowledge and the qualities of the mind and spirit — develop to the
point that each man and woman can go on to play a fulﬁlling role in the
life of the human race. This is not to imply, however, that the high-
school program should be a mere continuation of basic education. On
the contrary, the transition calls for a qualitative change, particularly in
terms of scientiﬁc rigour, use of language, and social content, for it is in
this stage of education that vague hopes and ideals regarding one’s
future and service to humanity must crystallize into the twofold moral
purpose mentioned above. The student must now become a purposeful
agent in charge of his or her own education. Every effort needs to be
made to raise the student’s consciousness to a higher level — a con-
sciousness of the ramiﬁcations of personal choices being made, of the
A R B A B
224

social forces to which one’s community is subjected, and of the nature
of the historical processes in which one is immersed.
There is no doubt that the design and implementation of these
three programs present a daunting challenge both to the university and
to the school system in any region. It can only be met if a global devel-
opment enterprise is willing to come to the aid of every population and
ensure the availability of creative imagination and ﬁnancial and human
resources. For this to happen, it is imperative that we learn from the
experience of the nearly ﬁve decades of development. New generations
have to be empowered — as opposed to being simply instructed — if
development is to offer more than superﬁcial solutions to ever-occurring
social and economic crises.
Material means
To illustrate the challenge of building the capacity of a population to set
the direction of its own development, I have presented a brief analysis
of two processes — one related to technological choice and the other to
education. A more thorough treatment of the subject would have also to
cover such diverse capacities as those of dealing efﬁciently and accu-
rately with information, rather than responding unwittingly to politi-
cal and commercial propaganda; interacting with other cultures in a
way that leads to the advancement of one’s own culture and not to its
degradation; manifesting rectitude in private and public administra-
tion; and imbuing social interaction with an acute sense of justice. In
focusing on the technological and educational dimensions of capacity-
building as examples, it has not been my intention to belittle the
importance of economic development. As mentioned earlier in the
paper, to place the generation and application of knowledge at the heart
of the development process is not to deny the indispensable nature of
material means. Development as envisioned here requires the multipli-
cation of material means at the disposal of the diverse populations of the
world at a scale never achieved by the human race.
Enhancing the capacity of a typical region to achieve the material
and spiritual prosperity of its people involves the strengthening of its
economy, a process that includes but is not identical to economic
growth. Such an effort must, of course, take place in the context of some
kind of economic thinking. The search for an appropriate theoretical
framework, however, is far from easy at a time when the fundamental
concepts of today’s “economic thinking” — considered the embodiment
of rationality for many decades — are being vigorously questioned. The
resulting loss of faith is steadily exacerbated by the deepening environ-
mental crisis and by the rise and fall of economic systems whose perfor-
mance receives extravagant praise until they begin to disintegrate and
expose the real conditions under which their victims live.
PROMOTING A DISCOURSE ON SCIENCE, RELIGION, AND DEVELOPMENT
225

Criticisms of mainstream economics come from both within and
without; they call for a revision of both methodology and the concep-
tual framework of analysis. According to the critics, economists, unlike
scientists in many other ﬁelds, have shown little willingness to examine
in a detached spirit the nature of their methodology or to understand its
origins. Admiration for classical physics has inspired them to abduct
metaphors and methods without taking into account the disparity
between the objects of study. The mechanistic structure of their mind-
set has prevented them from giving proper attention to such crucial fac-
tors as knowledge, purpose, and qualitative change. The concept most
central to their analyses has been an imaginary “man,” the sole judge of
his own whims and desires, making decisions to optimize his utility.
The mechanism through which these “rational” choices are supposed to
be realized has been an abstraction of the market, an abstraction well
beyond what is allowed in reasonable scientiﬁc practice. And, in a curi-
ous way, both the physical world, the origin of all material resources,
and culture, the milieu within which human resources are shaped, are
relegated to secondary consideration.
I do not feel competent to analyze in depth the arguments of the
critics and the defenders of present-day economic theory. At this point,
however, it does seem clear that the gates of a mighty fortress, until
recent times presumed unassailable, are now being successfully stormed.
What this rapidly expanding intellectual activity will bring and how it
will affect development strategy are not easy questions to answer. But
the few indications about the nature of the “new economic thinking” are
most encouraging. One can safely assume, for example, that new eco-
nomics will not ignore the question of values or be allowed to hide them
behind the convenient veil of externalities. It will uphold the principle
of the equality of women and men, acknowledge the role and needs of
the community, and cease to promote unrestrained individualism. And,
one may conﬁdently state, it will pay considerable attention to the ques-
tion of natural resources and the environment.
Promising as the new directions being explored may be, a break-
through in economic theory cannot be anticipated in the near future.
For one thing — and this is to be expected of a science that has entered
a period of crisis — the range of exploration is too broad and there is a
tendency to look for a theory that touches on too many aspects of indi-
vidual and social existence. Admittedly, humanity needs a renewal of
moral philosophy. But it is also true, at least from the point of view of
development strategy and planning, that we require a science of eco-
nomics, one that is directly concerned with the generation, distribution,
and utilization of material means. This science must be rigorous with-
out being reductionist. It will need to choose methods appropriate to
the object of study and not blindly follow some inadequate impression
of physics. It will have to be concerned with purpose and make explicit
its assumptions and the values underlying them. Above all, it must be
A R B A B
226

a science capable of progressively modifying its premises — especially
those related to human conduct — as the process of civilization-building
advances. Recognizing that the policies it engenders have the capacity
to change value systems, it will have to take into account its own inter-
actions with a changing object of study and allow for a constant
reexamination of the facts about human beings and social structures out
of which it builds its models of economic development and behaviour.
Whether such a science is possible is a question that I hope we will
address in our discourse on science, religion, and development in the
future.
It is not the purpose of this paper to comment substantively on
economic theory. What is being emphasized is that a development strat-
egy based on capacity-building needs to pay enormous attention to
those dimensions of regional capacity that have to do with the creation
and utilization of material means — from speciﬁc instances of economic
activity such as commercial agricultural production and small family
farms, industrial production in units of various sizes including micro-
enterprises, and a vast variety of services both private and governmen-
tal, all the way to the formulation and implementation of economic
policies that enable the region to participate in a global economy, not as
a helpless victim but as a strong and self-reliant contributor. The work
required to achieve such strengthening of regional economy is complex
under any circumstances, but evermore so today when economic theory
must undergo a thorough and fundamental revision. Once again, the
institution whose participation in the process is indispensable — if we
accept the approach being proposed in this paper — is the university.
As deﬁned here, it is the only institution that can shoulder the twin
responsibilities of keeping abreast of progress in the worldwide search
for new theories and of coordinating learning in various spaces where
economic activity takes place in the region.
A word of warning, however, is needed. It would be a mistake to
assign responsibility for economic development to programs that focus
only on the poor. Indispensable to the creation of prosperity for
humankind is the elimination of the extremes of wealth and poverty.
Development strategists, then, would do well to heed the statement
attributed to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá that wherever you ﬁnd great poverty, look
close and you will ﬁnd extreme wealth. This is true for a region, an
entire country, or globally for the community of nations and peoples.
Further comments
Capacity-building is a vast subject that I have only touched upon in
these pages. The following comments offer further insights.
PROMOTING A DISCOURSE ON SCIENCE, RELIGION, AND DEVELOPMENT
227

The concept of the university
In my references to the university, I have drawn upon my own experi-
ence at fundaec, where the conceptual framework and mode of opera-
tion of the rural university mentioned in the ﬁrst section of this paper
were developed. Throughout those years of intense research and action,
I was often asked why I insisted on using the title of “university” for
what appeared to be another, albeit innovative, development organiza-
tion. I hope that the ideas presented in this paper somehow justify this
use of the term. Basically, what is being said is that at the heart of the
development of any people must be a learning process. It is always
highly desirable that learning occur in international decision-making
circles and inﬂuential academic institutions. But this, by itself, is insuf-
ﬁcient. In each region, too, development programs must operate in a
learning mode, with the population of the region assuming an active
role in the process. Such systematic learning cannot occur in an institu-
tional vacuum. There is a need for an institution to take charge of col-
lective learning, and the university is the one candidate with the
intellectual discipline required by the function.
Unfortunately, in most developing regions, the university has
become irrelevant to the life of the people; it is focused almost entirely
on the routine process of producing graduates for various careers. The
desire to re-create the university, then, arises from two considerations.
One is the need for coordination of learning in the context of develop-
ment; the other is the urgent necessity to save this pivotal institution of
society from its current state of stagnation.
Autonomous technology
As I was reﬂecting on the theme of the present project — science, reli-
gion, and development — I revisited a book that had signiﬁcantly inﬂu-
enced my thinking about the ﬁeld. The work is the brilliant Autonomous
Technology: Technics-out-of-Control as a Theme in Political Thought, by
Langdon Winner (1978). More than 20 years ago, at a time when our
research in the area of technology at fundaec had advanced consider-
ably and we were eager to share our results and insights with other insti-
tutions, Winner’s rigorous and thorough analysis proved invaluable to
me. It was clear to me at the time that despite the great popularity of
the appropriate-technology movement there was a general tendency to
treat technology hastily and not in sufﬁcient depth. Winner’s arguments
convinced me that we owed much of this unfortunate situation to the
widespread idea that technology is an autonomous force inducing
change in society in ways beyond the control of human beings. Some
celebrated the operation of this force, and others lamented it. But both
groups were victims of the subtle paralysis of thought that such a belief
produces in everyone who submits to it. The realization underlined for
me the enormity of the task of persuading development programs to
A R B A B
228

engage in the building of capacity to make technological choices in the
populations they served — a notion with which we were already work-
ing at fundaec — and abandon the habit of seeking solutions to the
problems caused by haphazard technological change in newer and bet-
ter technological ﬁxes.
In expressing his conclusions — as true today as when they were
written — Winner seized on the imagery of Mary Shelley’s Frankenstein:
The best single statement of her view comes on the title page of the
book, a quotation from Milton’s Paradise Lost:
Did I request thee, Maker, from my clay
To mould me man? Did I solicit thee
From darkness to promote me? —
Suggested in these words is, it seems to me, the issue truly at
stake in the whole of Frankenstein: the plight of things that have
been created but not in a context of sufﬁcient care. The problem
captures the essence of the themes my inquiry has addressed.
Victor Frankenstein is a person who discovers, but refuses to
ponder, the implications of his discovery. He is a man who creates
something new in the world and then pours all of his energy into an
effort to forget. His invention is incredibly powerful and represents
a quantum jump in the performance capability of a certain kind of
technology. Yet he sends it out into the world with no real concern
for how best to include it in the human community. Victor embod-
ies an artifact with a kind of life previously manifest only in human
beings. He then looks on in surprise as it returns to him as an
autonomous force, with a structure of its own, with demands upon
which it insists absolutely. Provided with no plan for its existence,
the technological creation enforces a plan upon its creator. Victor is
bafﬂed, fearful, and totally unable to discover a way to repair the
disruptions caused by his half-completed, imperfect work. He never
moves beyond a dream of progress, the thirst for power, or the
unquestioned belief that the products of science and technology are
an unqualiﬁed blessing for humankind. Although he is aware of the
fact that there is something extraordinary at large in the world, it
takes a disaster to convince him that the responsibility is his.
Unfortunately, by the time he overcomes his passivity, the conse-
quences of his deeds have become irreversible, and he ﬁnds himself
totally helpless before an unchosen fate.
Winner (1978, pp. 312–313)
Having argued that the entire world now faces this same problem,
Winner continued:
Beyond these dominant beliefs and attitudes, however, lies some-
thing even more fundamental, for there is a sense in which all tech-
nical activity contains an inherent tendency toward forgetfulness. Is
not the point of all invention, technique, apparatus, and organiza-
tion to have something and have it over with? One does not want to
bother anymore with building, developing, or learning it again.
PROMOTING A DISCOURSE ON SCIENCE, RELIGION, AND DEVELOPMENT
229

One does not want to bother with its structure or the principles of
its internal workings. One simply wants the technical thing to be
present in its utility. The goods are to be oriented without having
to understand the factory or the distribution network. Energy is to
be utilized without understanding the myriad of connections that
made its generation and delivery possible. Technology, then, allows
us to ignore our own works. It is license to forget. In its sphere the
truths of all important processes are encased, shut away, and
removed from our concern. This more than anything else, I am con-
vinced, is the true source of the colossal passivity in man’s dealings
with technical means.
Winner (1978, pp. 314–315, emphasis in the original)
The purpose of education
Some of the comments made earlier may seem overly critical of the
world’s educational systems. But it is difficult to assume a detached
position in this matter knowing how thirsty are children and youth in
every society for knowledge and having experienced the enthusiasm
with which they engage in educational activity when their spirit is
touched. A highly successful program developed by fundaec as part of
its efforts to define the parameters within which a rural university
would operate is known as Sistema de Aprendizaje Tutorial. It covers
the ﬁnal stages of what in this paper I have called basic education, as
well as the program of high school in its entirety. It now reaches some
40 000 students in the rural areas of Colombia and is gradually enter-
ing other Latin American countries. Each time I have visited a group of
youth participating in the program and observed their activities, I have
been ﬁlled with a mixture of joy and sadness. The level of intellectual
performance of the participants is astounding. But I have never been
able to feel satisﬁed with fundaec’s accomplishment knowing that it is
only a small step toward an educational process commensurate with the
enormous potentialities latent in every human being.
A characteristic of the curriculum developed by fundaec is the
effort it makes to progressively raise the students’ level of consciousness.
This applies to the process of education as well as all the other transfor-
mational processes in which they are engaged. For example, in a unit
whose main purpose is to strengthen capabilities in the area of language
during the last year of high school, students are presented with a series
of readings, with the corresponding exercises, which make explicit the
fundamental concepts underlying their own education. To illustrate
some of the ideas I have brieﬂy discussed, I would like to quote from a
number of these readings:
[From Reading 1]
For an educational process to be truly successful, it must encourage
students to reﬂect on the conceptual foundation of their own edu-
cation. The units entitled “Basic Concepts” are to provide you with
A R B A B
230

the opportunity to engage in such reﬂection. As with other units in
the area of language, their purpose is to assist you in developing
your skills of expression. Their content, however, will explore fun-
damental concepts that you have encountered in various courses
without having had a chance to examine them in depth.
Let us begin by looking at the purpose of your education. You
have been told time and again that your education is purposeful.
What is this purpose and how does it manifest itself in the educa-
tional program you have been following now for a number of years?
To say that your education has a purpose does not, by itself, have
a great deal of signiﬁcance. Every educational system sets out to
accomplish laudable aims. To become a useful citizen, to contribute
to the progress of one’s country, to become a productive member of
society, to achieve happiness, to ﬁnd work and improve one’s stan-
dard of living, such expressions abound in books and documents on
education. Why is it, then, that today, in spite of these explicit
aims, the majority of students in the world are confused about the
purpose of their education? Why are there so few who are truly
motivated to learn? What has motivated you to show zeal and
enthusiasm during the course of your studies? Does your under-
standing of the purpose of your education have anything to do with
your high level of motivation?
If we were to summarize everything we have discussed on the
subject of education throughout the years, we would say that the
purpose of your education is your growth as an individual and the
development of your capacity to contribute to the transformation of
society. This is a simple statement with numerous ramiﬁcations.
The readings that follow shed light, each in its own way, on the
meaning and implications of this statement.
fundaec (1998, p. 1)
[From Reading 3]
The enhancement of understanding is one of the most fundamental aims of
the educational process in which you are participating. The next two read-
ings are taken from a series of lectures on curriculum development given by
one of the founders of FUNDAEC. They contain a number of ideas — some of
which are more or less self-evident — that will be useful to you in reﬂect-
ing on your own education, even if the secondary education you received was
not through FUNDAEC.
The verb “to understand” obviously has to have a subject and an
object. The subject of the verb is the human mind and heart, which
need to fulﬁll certain conditions in order to reach the shores of true
understanding. “Objects of understanding” are those things that
the human mind and heart are supposed to understand; they are
extremely varied and fall into many seemingly unrelated categories.
PROMOTING A DISCOURSE ON SCIENCE, RELIGION, AND DEVELOPMENT
231

A cursory examination of a few statements made in conversation
points to some of these categories:
“I don’t understand why you act this way.”
“I don’t understand why suffering exists in the world.”
“He doesn’t understand our friendship.”
“I wish I could understand chemistry.”
“Do you understand how this gadget works?”
“I understand what you are saying.”
“I don’t understand what you are driving at.”
“You should try harder to understand his feelings.”
“I fully understand his views.”
“We need to gain a greater understanding of the dynamics of
crisis and victory.”
“We need to understand the true nature of man.”
From these few examples it is easy to see that objects of under-
standing fall into categories such as subject matter, relationships,
feelings, views, interactions, the causes of things, the reason for
things, the meaning of things, the purpose of things, the workings
of things, and the reality or essence of things. To this you may add
visions, contexts, approaches, attitudes, results, conventions — and
undoubtedly a myriad other things — and you will have a rather
formidable list of categories of things to be understood. What is
important for you to realize is that in the course of your education,
we were careful to address a sufﬁcient number of objects of under-
standing from various categories so as to sharpen your faculties and
to equip you with those mental tools needed to achieve an under-
standing of yourself and the world that surrounds you.
Two of these mental tools, both extremely powerful in the
process of investigation of reality, are worthy of mention. One is
analysis, that is, breaking things into smaller parts and then exam-
ining the relations and interactions of these parts. The other is plac-
ing things in larger and larger contexts in order to gain insights
into causes and reasons for their existence and behavior. …
fundaec (1998, pp. 15–16)
[From Reading 5]
The educational process in which you are participating is characterized by
its emphasis on moral and ethical considerations. Concern with morality,
however, is not expressed in the form of sermons on good behavior; the dis-
cussion of moral and ethical issues is incorporated into every element of the
curriculum. The next two readings consist of a few paragraphs from a doc-
ument exploring a framework for moral education appropriate for this period
of human history, a period to which the document refers as the age of tran-
sition from humanity’s childhood to maturity. Slight modiﬁcations have been
made in order to render the readings suitable for this unit.
In order to act effectively during the present period of transition
in human society, individuals must, above all, be imbued with a
strong sense of purpose that impels them both to transform their
own selves and to contribute to the transformation of society. On a
A R B A B
232

personal level, this purpose is directed towards the development of
one’s vast potentialities, comprising both those virtues and qualities
that should adorn every human being and those talents and charac-
teristics that are the individual’s unique endowment. On a social
level, it is expressed through dedication to the promotion of the
welfare of the human race. These aspects of the sense of twofold pur-
pose are fundamentally inseparable, for the standards and behavior
of individuals shape their environment, and in turn are molded by
social structures and processes. Unless the transformation of both
individual character and environment are addressed simultaneously,
the full potential of humanity’s age of maturity cannot be realized.
A profound awareness of the reciprocal relationship between
personal growth and organic change in social structures is, then,
essential to moral education. One cannot develop virtues and talents
in isolation, but only through effort and activity for the beneﬁt of
others. Idle worship and prolonged withdrawal from society, advo-
cated by some philosophies of the past, can neither promote indi-
vidual development nor aid humanity’s progress. To focus one’s
sense of purpose only on the development of one’s own potential is
to lose objectivity and perspective. With no outside interactions
and social goals, one has no standard by which to judge personal
progress and no concrete results by which to measure one’s devel-
opment. A person forgetful of the social dimension of moral pur-
pose is prone to subtle forms of ego — combinations of guilt,
self-righteousness and self-satisfaction.
Conversely, a sense of purpose driven only by the desire to trans-
form society, with no attention to the need for personal growth and
transformation, is easily misdirected. The person who blames soci-
ety for every wrong and ignores the importance of individual
responsibility loses respect and compassion for others and is prone
to acts of cruelty and oppression. Social transformation, if divorced
from the desire to transform one’s own character, is an extremely
fragile enterprise. …
fundaec (1998, p. 35)
[From Reading 7]
By the term “capability” we mean developed capacity to think and to act
in a well-deﬁned sphere of activity and according to a well-deﬁned purpose.
We use the word to refer not to individual skills but rather to com-
plex spheres of thought and action each requiring a number of
related skills and abilities. Moreover, we place great importance on
the notion that the gradual acquisition of a given capability, in
addition to the mastering of skills, is dependent on the assimilation
of relevant information, the understanding of a set of concepts, the
development of certain attitudes, and advancement in a number of
spiritual qualities.
Classiﬁcation, for example, is a capability, in this case a mathe-
matical one, which an individual can acquire at different levels of
competence. At the most elementary level, say, at the beginning of
secondary school, it involves acquiring an understanding of the
PROMOTING A DISCOURSE ON SCIENCE, RELIGION, AND DEVELOPMENT
233

concepts of sets, of an element of a set, and of belonging to a set. It
also requires an understanding of the concept that things can be
divided into sets according to common properties. But, even at this
level, such an understanding is not sufﬁcient. The ability to recog-
nize the properties according to which the elements in question are
to be classiﬁed, as well as some relevant information about those
elements, is also necessary. For example, if someone is to classify
objects according to size, the skill of estimating or measuring the
size of the objects in question becomes essential. As to attitudes,
carefulness and appreciation for order are clearly desirable. At a
more fundamental level, truthfulness is a spiritual quality that
helps generate positive attitudes towards precision and care.
In language, to cite another example, the mechanics of reading
and writing are skills, but to read at a certain level of comprehen-
sion is a rather complex capability. Another language capability is
that of describing what we observe in the world around us in ever
greater contexts. To describe the world around us quantitatively is
a mathematical capability. Examples of highly desirable scientiﬁc
capabilities are those of making organized observations of phenom-
ena and designing experiments to test a hypothesis. Participating
effectively in consultation is a capability needed in the social realm,
as is the capability of participating in collective enterprises. To
manage one’s affairs and responsibilities with rectitude of conduct
is a moral capability. Another essential moral capability is that of
building environments of unity based on an appreciation of
diversity.
fundaec (1998, pp. 60–61)
[From Reading 8]
The approach we adopted to curriculum design, organized around
capabilities rather than subject matters, helped our students learn
with extraordinary rapidity. That the capabilities we were trying to
develop all had the same explicit social purpose enabled us to
address one of the basic challenges of curricular integration: how to
overcome the dichotomy between theoretical and practical knowl-
edge. Most current educational systems tend to teach practical and
manual skills to some and book-learning to others. The capacity to
participate in planning and decision-making is developed in a few,
while the majority are trained to carry out orders. What we tried to
achieve is to maintain the interest of the students simultaneously in
concrete and abstract activities. For example, the skills of animal
husbandry were taught in conjunction with the study of animal
physiology, and the steps to establish a village store with the analy-
sis of abstract social and economic theories. To the degree that we
succeeded in integrating theoretical and practical knowledge, we
saw prejudices and false scales of prestige gradually disappear and
be replaced by a purposeful attitude towards learning and change.
But the most difﬁcult challenge of our educational innovation
proved not to be the fusion of elements of knowledge of the physi-
cal universe and society. A far greater task was the integration of
A R B A B
234

material and spiritual concepts into a knowledge system that would
enable individuals and entire populations to contribute to the cre-
ation of a world civilization, towards which, we felt, humanity is
inexorably moving. To meet this challenge, we did not develop spe-
ciﬁc courses on religion; nor did we engage in humanistic studies of
ethics and social behavior. Spirituality was treated as a state, an
inner condition, that should manifest itself in action, in everyday
choices, in profound understanding of human nature and in mean-
ingful contributions to community life and society. Following this
interpretation, we tried to integrate spirituality into every educa-
tional activity: every act had to be a means for the clariﬁcation and
application of spiritual principles.
In doing so, we found that a number of issues needed to be tack-
led. Spirituality has to be built into curricula without denying
material well-being or relegating prosperity to another life. What
has to be done is to elevate everyday activities to a more sublime
station by imbuing them with the spirit of service. However, iden-
tifying spirituality exclusively with service poses the danger of con-
veying the notion that spirituality arises from actions that lead to
well-being. To counterbalance this effect, the manifestations of the
most profound yearnings of the human soul, such as the search for
nearness to God through prayer and meditation, also have to be
given due consideration. “Being” and “doing” are intimately con-
nected and should not be artiﬁcially separated.
Furthermore, this integration of the spiritual and the material
calls for increasing understanding of the delicate balance that must
exist between the many forces at work in the human mind and
heart: balance between personal liberty and social obligation,
between being the master of nature and living in harmony with it,
between humanism and science, the rational and the emotional. To
achieve such a balance, one has to go beyond the attributes of the
mind and touch those qualities of the soul that are the foundation
of human character. An essential requisite for achieving a balance
between the forces at work in the human mind and heart is, then,
the development of spiritual qualities, such as justice, love, gen-
erosity, compassion, humility, and truthfulness. Moreover, if these
qualities are to give rise to attitudes and behavior which are a true
reﬂection of spirituality, they must be developed in such a way that
they moderate one another. Otherwise, all that is achieved in the
name of spirituality is self-righteousness and fanaticism. Further, it
is only through understanding the interaction of spiritual qualities
that we learn to distinguish moderation from mediocrity — justice
moderated by compassion, not half-justice; lavish generosity
together with humility, not cautious giving; absolute truthfulness
acting in the medium of love, not the mixing of truth with lies
whenever it is convenient.
fundaec (1998, pp. 71–72)
PROMOTING A DISCOURSE ON SCIENCE, RELIGION, AND DEVELOPMENT
235

REFERENCES
Bohm, D. 1981. Wholeness and the implicate order. Routledge and Kegan
Paul, London, uk. 224 pp.
bpc (Bahá’í Publishing Committee). 1930. Tablets of Abdul-Baha Abbas.
3 vols. bpc, Chicago, il, usa. 730 pp.
bpt (Bahá’í Publishing Trust). 1982. The promulgation of universal peace: talks
delivered by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá during his visit to the United States and Canada
in 1912. bpt, Wilmette, il, usa. 513 pp.
1983a. Gleanings from the writings of Bahá’u’lláh. bpt, Wilmette, il,
usa. 346 pp.
1983b. The Kitáb-i-Íqán: the book of certitude. bpt, Wilmette, il,
usa. 274 pp.
1988. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh revealed after the Kitáb-i-Aqdas. bpt,
Wilmette, il, usa. 299 pp.
1990. The secret of divine civilization. bpt, Wilmette, il, usa. 126 pp.
1991. The world order of Bahá’u’lláh: selected letters. bpt, Wilmette,
il, usa. 234 pp.
1994. The hidden words. bpt, Wilmette, il, usa. 52 pp.
1995a. Paris talks: addresses given by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in Paris in 1911.
bpt, London, uk. 208 pp.
1995b. The promise of world peace. bpt, Wilmette, il, usa. 40 pp.
1997. Selections from the writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. bpt, Wilmette, il,
usa. 359 pp.
Davies, P. 1993. The mind of God: the scientific basis for a rational world.
Simon and Schuster, New York, ny, usa. 254 pp.
Einstein, A. 1954. Ideas and opinions (based on Mein Weltbild, edited by Carl
Seelig, and other sources, with new translations and revisions by Sonja
Bargmann). Crown Publishers, Inc., New York, ny, usa. 377 pp.
Fleck, L. 1979 [1935]. Genesis and development of a scientiﬁc fact (edited by
T.J. Trenn and R.K. Merton and translated by F. Bradley and T.J. Trenn).
University of Chicago Press, Chicago, il, usa. 203 pp.
fundaec (Fundación para la Aplicación y Enseñanza de las Ciencias). 1998.
Basic concepts: education. Palabra Publications, Riviera Beach, ﬂ, usa.
79 pp.
Goulet, D. 1980. Development experts: the one-eyed giants. World Develop-
ment, 8 (7/8), 481–489.
Heilbroner, R.L. 1963. The great ascent: the struggle for economic develop-
ment in our time. Harper and Row, New York, ny, usa. 189 pp.
Lewis, W.A. 1955. The theory of economic growth. Richard D. Irwin, Inc.,
Homewood, il, usa. 453 pp.
Meier, G.M.; Seers, D., ed. 1984. Pioneers in development. Oxford University
Press, New York, ny, usa. 372 pp.
Myrdal, G. 1972. Asian drama: an inquiry into the poverty of nations. Random
House; Vintage Books, New York, ny, usa. 464 pp.
Rahnema, M. 1997. Signposts for post-development. Revision: A Journal of
Consciousness and Transformation, 19 (Spring), 4–12.
Ravetz, J.R. 1973. Scientific knowledge and its social problems. Oxford
University Press, New York, ny, usa. 449 pp.
A R B A B
236

Rondinelli, D.A. 1983. Development projects as policy experiments. Methuen
and Co., London, uk. 167 pp.
Ryan, W.F., S.J. 1995. Culture, spirituality, and economic development: open-
ing a dialogue. International Development Research Centre, Ottawa, on,
Canada. 67 pp.
Stapp, H.P. 1993. Mind, matter and quantum mechanics. Springer-Verlag, New
York, ny, usa. 248 pp.
United Nations. 1995. Ethical and spiritual dimensions of social progress.
United Nations, New York, ny, usa. 115 pp.
Winner, L. 1978. Autonomous technology: technics-out-of-control as a theme
in political thought. mit Press, Cambridge, ma, usa. 386 pp.
World Bank. 1992. World development report 1992: development and the
environment. Oxford University Press, New York, ny, usa. 308 pp.
Zohar, D. 1991. The quantum self: a revolutionary view of human nature and
consciousness rooted in the new physics. HarperCollins Publishers;
Flamingo, London, uk. 245 pp.
PROMOTING A DISCOURSE ON SCIENCE, RELIGION, AND DEVELOPMENT
237

This page intentionally left blank

A F T E RWO R D
Our Way of
Proceeding
W i l l i a m  F .  R y a n ,  S . J .
This publication, on the International Development Research Centre’s
(idrc’s) Science, Religion, and Development project, features personal
essays on the human-level interaction of science, religion, and develop-
ment (srd). The appearance of this publication at this juncture of
human history is both timely and insightful. Calls for more “people-
centred” development and for a higher quality of life beyond the culture
of consumption are increasing. This implies what some are calling a
qualitative step in human consciousness. Significant changes have
occurred in the world agenda and in scholarly reflections on these
changes since my earlier research on behalf of idrc. The results of my
work, carried out in 1994, were published under the title Culture, Spir-
ituality, and Economic Development: Opening a Dialogue (Ryan 1995). This
unconventional research was intended to respond to a concern voiced in
a conversation with a Muslim leader that development research did not
seriously take into account the inﬂuence of local cultural and religious
values, systems, and institutions. A series of interviews conducted in a
number of developing countries uncovered a strong consensus among
nearly 200 theoreticians and practitioners in the international develop-
ment ﬁeld that local cultural and religious values must be better inte-
grated into research on sustainable and equitable development.
That early study has generally been welcomed. The major objec-
tions to it have come from Western researchers who fear that if cultural
and religious values form part of the development paradigm, it will
jeopardize some human advances stemming from the Enlightenment.
With justiﬁcation, they resist the spectre of reintroducing paralyzing
and self-defeating concepts and practices, such as fatalism and the
subordination of women, which are still prevalent in some traditional
239

cultures and religions. Of course, those who are still convinced that the
global free market’s invisible magic is adequate to the job of increasing
human well-being see no need to introduce culture or religion into the
development paradigm.
The ﬁeld of research on religion and development is much more
crowded in 2000 than it was in 1994. idrc can no longer claim to be a
pioneer in it, although its attempt to articulate the relationship among
the ﬁelds of srd still sets it apart. But now other organizations are tak-
ing up related questions. Space limitations require that I mention but a
few of these endeavours. I offer as an indication of the sheer volume of
these new inquiries a bibliography issued by the Centre for Develop-
ment Research in Copenhagen, Denmark, in February 1998, Religion
and Development: A Bibliography (cdrls 1998). It lists 435 new entries
between 1 January 1993 and 17 April 1997. This is a spectacular
increase in work on this ambiguous topic for so short a period, especially
considering that the Danish listing is still far from complete. Most of
the works listed in this bibliography seem to have been written in
response to recent world developments in the dynamic process of glob-
alization. Many people, assuming that the current global free-market
paradigm, with its Western accompaniments, is inevitably universal
believe that globalization is threatening to homogenize local cultural
and religious values and institutions.
The various faiths have themselves long been involved in develop-
ment efforts, but recognition of the relationship between religion,
development, and world affairs has also come from other, more unex-
pected quarters. James Wolfensohn, the president of the World Bank,
himself a practicing Jew, recently initiated a dialogue with the leaders
of nine of the world’s faiths to ﬁnd a way to cooperate in their efforts to
rid the world of poverty and misery. Likewise, the us State Department,
confronted with the reality of Islamic fundamentalism, recently aban-
doned its long-accepted taboo against reporting religion in official
diplomatic dispatches as an inﬂuence or causal factor in world affairs.
Another recent and unexpected champion for the powerful, if ambigu-
ous, inﬂuence of religion and culture in shaping civilizations is Samuel
Huntington, a well-known political scientist from Harvard University.
In his controversial book, The Clash of Civilizations and the Remaking of
World Order (Huntington 1996), he argued that cultures and religions
are key factors in shaping world affairs. This perspective clearly ﬂies in
the face of The Economist’s persevering declaration that “Asian values”
have had no significant influence on Asia’s recent rapid economic
development.
Ecologists, too, are turning to religion for sympathetic support
and motivation. For example, the Center for the Study of World Reli-
gions (cswr) at Harvard University has, over the last few years, involved
more than 1 000 scholars — religionists, scientists, and ecologists — in
its ongoing forum on the religions of the world and ecology. The forum
R YA N
240

aims to recover vision and meaning from religious teachings to
enlighten and motivate people to act decisively on the current global
ecological agenda.
Among economists, however, Herman Daly still seems to be
uncommon: in his recent book, Beyond Growth: The Economics of Sustain-
able Development (Daly 1996), he speciﬁcally invoked religious insight
from the Hebrew scriptures to ground the ethical principles he consid-
ers necessary for managing, through public policy, limits to both nat-
ural capital and personal income to achieve sustainable development.
It is also evident, I believe, that the conversation between science
and religion has intensiﬁed at the opening of the new millennium. In
the last 2 years, articles have appeared in publications such as Science
(“Science and God: A Warming Trend?” [Easterbrook 1997]), The New
York Times on the Web (“Science and Religion: Bridging the Great
Divide” [Johnson 1998]), and Newsweek (as a front-cover feature)
(“Science Finds God” [Begley 1998]). But popular articles discussing
questions like these represent only the front edge of a long-standing
research problematic. J.M. Templeton and the John Templeton Founda-
tion have long been investing signiﬁcant resources in numerous efforts
to bring rapprochement and increased understanding between science
and religion. John Paul II’s remarks on the occasion of the 300th
anniversary of Newton’s Philosophiae Naturalis Principia Mathematica
(mathematical principles of natural science) are also highly relevant:
“‘The unprecedented opportunity we have today is for a common inter-
active relationship’ in which science and religion retain their own
integrity and yet are ‘open to the discoveries and insights of the other’”
(John Paul ii 1988, p. 375). And at the September 1998 cswr confer-
ence on ecology and religion, scientists brought the following question
to the table: Can religions of the world adjust their own world visions,
stories, and myths of creation to enhance and put soul, meaning, and
motivation into scientists’ current theory of how the universe is unfold-
ing since the initial “big bang”?
Increased desire for citizen participation and accompanying cyni-
cism about public institutions, especially government, have led to a
worldwide explosion of nonprofit nongovernmental organizations
(ngos) and coalitions of such ngos. This offers us another good exam-
ple of the new awareness and incorporation of religion into discourses
until recently considered secular; increasingly, groupings of ngos in
every sector of society include faith-community membership. Recent
ngo successes include lobbying for the International Land Mine Agree-
ment, stalemating the proposed Multilateral Agreement on Investment,
and blocking the construction of the Narmada Dam in India. These are
just a few of the more signiﬁcant and current international issues in
which ngos have played a large role. Some people have become opti-
mistic — probably too quickly — that these new balances of power,
much aided by the Internet’s ability to connect millions of like-minded
AFTERWORD: OUR WAY OF PROCEEDING
241

people worldwide, signify the ultimate death knell for monopoly power
in all its multiple forms.
For my present purpose of reﬂecting on our authors’ essays, per-
haps the most signiﬁcant development is the widespread deprivatization
of religion and churches to give them a more active role in the public
forum. This process was well-documented in the work of sociologist
José Casanova of the New School for Social Research. The central thesis
of his book, Public Religions in the Modern World (Casanova 1994), is that
we are witnessing everywhere the deprivatization of religion. Casanova
supported his thesis through sociohistorical case studies in Brazil,
Poland, Spain, and the United States and corroborating references to
similar happenings on other continents, such as the Islamic revolution
in Iran. He documented the fact that “religious traditions throughout
the world are refusing to accept the marginal and privileged role which
theories of modernity as well as theories of secularization had reserved
for them” (Casanova 1994, p. 234). In other words, for Casanova, the
narrow secular point of view that holds that religion is dying or wither-
ing away is itself now dead. And more and more sociologists are recog-
nizing this trend. But this is not the place to develop Casanova’s
unexpected thesis; it is enough to take seriously the cocky challenge he
threw at reductionist social scientists in the ﬁnal paragraph of his book:
Western modernity is at a crossroads. If it does not enter into a
creative dialogue with the other, with those traditions which are
challenging its identity, modernity will most likely triumph. But it
may end up being devoured by the inﬂexible, inhuman logic of its
own creations. It would be profoundly ironic if, after all the beat-
ings it has received from modernity, religion could somehow unin-
tentionally help modernity to save itself.
Casanova (1994, p. 234)
The issue, then, is no longer whether there should be a dialogue
between the ﬁelds of srd. It is already happening, piecemeal, in various
sectors. Rather, the key question is how to ﬁnd a productive methodol-
ogy for this type of conversation. How can these very different kinds of
knowledge, diverse kinds of rationality, be brought together so that
they can beneﬁt from the insights of the others without encroaching on
the integrity of the other realms of knowledge? We are not without his-
torical precedents for such interactions. Religious belief has long
accepted the unity and interconnectedness of all creation, which science
is just now coming to understand and endorse. And modern science
painfully brought Christians to the realization that the sun did not, in
fact, circle the Earth, as they had always assumed. But these historical
shifts offer little in terms of models for the mediation of constructive
interaction.
For some, the answer lies in a new and more compelling global
rational ethic. Experience shows us, however, that for the great majority
of people, reasonableness alone simply does not lead to decisive action
R YA N
242

as effectively as belief. Belief, whether religious or secular, engages the
human will and emotions, as well as the human intellect; indeed, it
engages the whole human being. So what is to be our way of proceed-
ing? Obviously, it has to be interdisciplinary in the sense that each side
has to recognize humbly both the strengths and the weaknesses of the
other’s approach. A jousting of infallibilities will prove futile. The goal
cannot be religious conversion, although a degree of intellectual con-
version is probably necessary for the participants to become open and
empathetic to each other’s beliefs and convictions. Even the politely tol-
erant approach of certain scientists, such as distinguished biologist
E.O. Wilson, would likely prove counterproductive. As he reiterated at
the cswr meeting, he accepts the usefulness of, even the need for, dia-
logue between science and religion but steadfastly holds that a time will
come when biology will no longer need any help from religion, because
it will itself have decoded the whole human story.
This idrc team of researchers chose the essay approach to present
evidence of how individual scientists–believers can harmonize their per-
sonal understandings of the various epistemologies, rationalities, and
assumptions involved in the discourses of srd. If we, as individual
believers–scientists, can experience a unity of consciousness and under-
standing in our daily work, why should it not be possible for other
groups of scientists and believers to achieve, or at least appreciate, the
benefits of an analogous experience of shared consciousness and
understanding?
Some believers, such as the renowned Islamic scholar Seyyed
Hossein Nasr, have long been advocating the development of a new (or
rediscovered) cosmology as an overarching framework to provide, as in
earlier times, a common point of reference to facilitate dialogue between
religion and science. I believe that Dr Baharuddin is sympathetic to this
approach in her own efforts to establish that her Islamic faith is not in
contradiction with her science of biology. A key insight in this approach
is, I believe, that many statements in science and religion are not con-
tradictories as they at ﬁrst appear. Rather, they are contraries — differ-
ent ways of understanding the same reality that can often be harmonized
at a different level of knowledge or integrated within ancillary ﬁelds
(such as development) that have human well-being as their primary
goal. For example, Dr Baum is at peace with his understanding that sci-
entiﬁc and religious approaches produce different kinds of knowledge
that can be mutually beneﬁcial to each other, provided that scientists
and believers are at least empathetic to each other’s beliefs and convic-
tions, whether secular or sacred. Like an increasing number of social sci-
entists, he has little difﬁculty acknowledging the personal inﬂuence of
religion on his scholarship or adding religion as an endogenous variable
in his sociological analysis.
Today, most believers want evidence that their faith is not concep-
tually in contradiction to the findings of science. They also want to
AFTERWORD: OUR WAY OF PROCEEDING
243

know that their faith is an evident force for good in shaping human his-
tory. For example, Dr Kapur seeks to understand and articulate how the
Hindu faith has, over the centuries, been a fertile environment for
human material development grounded in spiritual principles, even if
the Hindu tradition has not always been actively supportive of such
development. Dr Arbab’s personal experience of seeing ﬂawed develop-
ment models foisted on marginalized people in Colombia led him to
discover a more holistic and participatory model of human development
in the vision and tenets of the Bahá’í Faith. His commitment to the
tasks of development is realized through concrete methods and pro-
grams, based in religious and spiritual principles, that promote the per-
sonal human capacity of poor people.
Following the preparation of this volume, a still larger group of
10–15 people, with diverse experiences of srd, was invited to bring fur-
ther personal experiences, insights, and approaches to this discussion.
They were believers from different faiths or scientists empathetic to the
role of belief systems in the process of development. They came from
countries in the South and countries in the North. This group met with
the original essayists at an international conference in November 1999.
The purpose of this meeting was to agree on a way of proceeding with
the srd discourse and to legitimize the discourse for wider dissemina-
tion. The participants at this meeting were clearly invigorated and
excited by the possibilities of seeing worldviews that integrated both
faith traditions and science to help guide development research. Partic-
ipants created bonds spanning disciplines, religions, and nationalities,
demonstrated in their desire to maintain contact and collaborate with
the other researchers, scientists, and ngo participants at the meeting,
and talked of ways to bring this discourse into their respective ﬁelds.
Finally, they agreed on a third and ﬁnal publication, in which the pro-
ceedings of the meeting would be disseminated and for which they
would transform the documents they had prepared for the meeting into
messages for youth — messages of hope and invitation for the young to
explore new ways of looking at the world.
Through the three volumes generated by this project, the fruits of
the srd research process may prove helpful to both theoreticians and
practitioners in the ﬁeld of development, concerned religious leaders,
and a future generation of researchers, scholars, practitioners, and
policymakers. Our ultimate hope is that this dialogue will engender a
creative, new consciousness — both personal and public — of how sci-
ence and religion can work together effectively to their mutual beneﬁt
and create a more humane and just world. Should this happen, idrc will
be abundantly rewarded for undertaking what seemed at ﬁrst a daunt-
ing experiment in unconventional research.
R YA N
244

REFERENCES
Begley, S. 1998. Science ﬁnds God. Newsweek, 20 Jul, 46–52.
Casanova, J. 1994. Public religions in the modern world. University of Chicago
Press, Chicago, il, usa. 320 pp.
cdrls (Centre for Development Research Library Staff). 1998. Religion and
development: a bibliography. Centre for Development Research, Copen-
hagen, Denmark. cdr Library Paper 98.1. 54 pp.
Daly, H. 1996. Beyond growth: the economics of sustainable development. Bea-
con Press, Boston, ma, usa. 253 pp.
Easterbrook, G. 1997. Science and God: a warming trend? Science, Aug,
890–893.
Huntington, S. 1996. The clash of civilizations and the remaking of world
order. Simon and Schuster, New York, ny, usa. 367 pp.
John Paul ii. 1998. A dynamic relationship of theology and science. Letter from
John Paul ii to Jesuit Father George Coyne, Director of the Vatican Obser-
vatory. Origins, Nov, 375.
Johnson, G. 1998. Science and religion: bridging the great divide. The New
York Times on the Web. Internet: http://www.nytimes.com/library/
national/science/063098sci-essay.html
Ryan, W.F., S.J. 1995. Culture, spirituality, and economic development: open-
ing a dialogue. International Development Research Centre, Ottawa, on,
Canada. 67 pp.
AFTERWORD: OUR WAY OF PROCEEDING
245

This page intentionally left blank

A P P E N D I X  1
Contributing
Authors
Farzam Arbab
Farzam Arbab’s doctorate in theoretical particle physics led him to
Colombia to work with the University Development Program of the
Rockefeller Foundation to strengthen the Department of Physics at the
Universidad del Valle. While there he began to study the relationship
between science, technology, and educational policy and their effects on
development, which led him and a group of colleagues to form the Fun-
dación para la Aplicación y Enseñanza de las Ciencias (Foundation for
the Application and Teaching of Science). This organization still func-
tions as a successful development program in Colombia and has earned
an international reputation for its application of spiritual principles in
education and development. In 1993, Dr Arbab was elected to the inter-
national governing body of the Bahá’í Faith, on which he currently
serves.
Azizan Baharuddin
Dr Baharuddin’s degrees in biology and the history and philosophy of
science allowed her to pursue her interest in the relationship between
Islam and science. Her research interests and teaching areas include the
history and philosophy of science; science and religion; ethics, environ-
mental ethics, and bioethics; gender studies and human development;
and futures studies. She has written various publications on the issues of
science and faith and ethics and the environment. Dr Baharuddin is an
associate professor in the Department of Science and Technology Stud-
ies at the University of Malaya.
247

Gregory Baum
With degrees in mathematics, sociology, and Catholic theology,
Dr Baum has for 40 years been a professor of theology and religious
studies. He currently teaches religious studies at McGill University in
Montréal, Quebec. He has written more than 20 books on ethics and
economics, solidarity, and various approaches to social justice within the
Christian churches. He is a member of the Karl Polanyi Institute at
Concordia University and was a member of a research team on environ-
mental ethics at Université du Québec à Montréal. He is also an ofﬁcer
of the Order of Canada.
Pierre Beemans
Pierre Beemans has degrees in education and philosophy and has worked
in the ﬁeld of international development for more than 30 years, includ-
ing living and working for extensive periods in Latin America and
Africa. He has held both ﬁeld and management positions with cuso and
the Canadian International Development Agency and was for 3 years a
policy adviser in the Privy Council Ofﬁce of the Government of Canada.
Since 1992, he has been Vice-President, Corporate Services Branch, of
the International Development Research Centre.
Sharon Harper
Her degrees in journalism, law, and theology led Sharon Harper to seek
a position that would allow her to explore the scriptures and practice of
the world’s religions and their manifestations, roles, and effects in the
public sphere. After graduating from Harvard Divinity School, she
became the project ofﬁcer for the International Development Research
Centre’s Science, Religion, and Development project. She is a lawyer
and legal researcher with experience in human-rights and discrimina-
tion issues, both domestic and international; an experienced writer and
editor; and a program manager who is knowledgeable about mediation
and arbitration techniques, issues of gender and research for develop-
ment, and feminist ethics and epistemologies.
Promilla Kapur
With degrees in psychology and sociology, Dr Kapur has worked as a
researcher, teacher of sociology, and counselor–therapist for more than
30 years. She specializes in the sociology of women, family, and mar-
riage and has done extensive empirical research on women, adolescents
and girl children, working women, family violence, and sex workers.
She has published extensively in these areas, with books in English,
Hindi, and Japanese. She has been a student of Indian culture, Hinduism,
interfaith dialogue, and integrated human development. Since 1984 she
has been the director of the Integrated Human Development Services
Foundation, a charitable organization providing counseling and crisis
intervention based on the principle of whole health, which includes
human and spiritual values. She has been honoured by the British
A P P E N D I X 1
248

International Biographical Centre, the American Biographical Institute,
and the All India Conference of Intellectuals.
William Ryan, S.J.
Dr Ryan entered the Jesuit Order in 1944 and was ordained into the
priesthood in 1957. He has an ma in labour relations and a PhD in eco-
nomics from Harvard University and has been very active in Canada and
the United States thinking, writing, and organizing around social-
justice, ethics, and economic issues. He was the founding director of the
Center of Concern (Washington, dc) and has been a senior research fel-
low at the Canadian Institute for International Peace and Security and
held the chair in Social Faith and Justice at St Paul University in
Ottawa. He is the director of the Jesuit Project on Ethics in Politics in
Ottawa and was recently appointed coordinator of the Jesuit Centre for
Social Faith and Justice. Dr Ryan is the author of many articles and lec-
tures on multinational corporations and the new international economic
order, the poor, the relationships between faith and social justice and
between faith and culture, and the role of religious people in socioeco-
nomic change. He has been working with the Science, Religion, and
Development project since its inception in 1993.
CONTRIBUTING AUTHORS
249

This page intentionally left blank

A P P E N D I X  2
Acronyms and
Abbreviations
cswr
Center for the Study of World Religions
dav
Dayanand Anglo Vedic
fundaec
Fundación para la Aplicación y Enseñanza de las
Ciencias (Foundation for the Application and Teaching
of the Sciences) [Colombia]
idrc
International Development Research Centre
iiit
International Institute of Islamic Thought
imf
International Monetary Fund
mais
Malaysian Academy of Islamic Science
minds
Malaysian Institute for Development Studies
ngo
nongovernmental organization
s&t
science and technology
sap
structural-adjustment policy
srd
science, religion, and development
tnc
transnational corporation
undp
United Nations Development Programme
251