A manual for pioneers

[Blank page]

[Greatest Name image]

[Blank page]

[‘Abdu’l-Bahá photograph]

[Blank page]

The frontispieces

The Greatest Name, “Yá Bahá’u’l-Abhá”, was written in Persian script by the famous Bahá’í calligrapher Mishkn-Qalam in the days of Bahá’u’lláh Himself.  Later ‘Abdu’l-Bahá chose this design and advised the believers to place it in their homes as a blessing and protection.

This beautiful portrait of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and was the one He Himself and Shoghi Effendi preferred and has been widely known for many years as the “Centre of the Covenant” photograph.

Both of these frontispieces have been reproduced in this book so that you can have a photograph of each of them made, to keep for yourself, and order copies whenever you wish to give a precious gift to other people.

[Blank page]

A manual for pioneers

Rúhíyyih Rabbani

Bahá’í Publishing Trust

New Delhi, India

Copyright by the National

Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of India

First Edition 1974

Second Edition 1981

Third Edition 1993

Fourth Edition 2002

ISBN:  81-7896-017-6

Bahá’í Publishing Trust

F-3/6, Okhla Industrial Area, Phase-I

New Delhi 110 020, India

“O that  could travel,

even though on foot and in the utmost

poverty, to these regions, and, raising

the call of Yá Bahá’u’l-Abhá in cities,

villages, mountains, deserts and oceans,

promote the Divine Teachings!  This, alas,

I cannot do.  How intensely I deplore it!

Please God, ye may achieve it!”

‘Abdu’l-Bahá

[Blank page]

Contents

The frontispieces	vii

Preface to the Fourth Edition	xv

Foreword	xix

Selected quotations	1

Guidance	5

Where to pioneer	6

What to do when you get there	12

Depression	18

Problems that face pioneers	20

A short course on how to love your fellowmen	27

The path of wisdom	31

“The Help in Peril”	38

The real Oneness	41

The pioneer and the administration	43

Public contacts	54

R.S.V.P.	72

Patience	76

“Culture shock”	81

How to speak	84

Meetings	88

Laziness and customs and clocks	90

Problems of giving	93

Children	97

Husbands	106

Tribal and local customs	109

Boredom and curiosity	111

Reflections on behaviour	113

Climate and environment	119

Morals	123

Contributions	133

Visas	136

Servants	139

Mud huts and stick homes	143

How to furnish a nice place to hold meetings	146

Eating and other habits	154

Transportation and equipment	159

The mosquito net	165

Sanitary facilities	167

Adapt and economize	170

Your personal environment	176

Job openings	178

Bahá’í elections and administrative bodies	181

Warnings section	191

Health and pioneering	196

Rest	199

Water	201

Some common illnesses and hazards	205

Food	216

Bachelor’s corner	253

Some basic recipes	257

Collison’s mixture	270

Hints	271

Health hints	276

Fare thee well, traveller	278

Bibliography	288

Preface to the Fourth Edition

Shortly after the establishment of the Universal House of Justice in 1963 and the completion of the Ten Year Crusade, Amatu’l-Bahá Rúhíyyih Khánum , Hand of the Cause of God and beloved consort of the Guardian of the Bahá’í Faith, embarked upon extensive and eventful travels across the five continents of the globe.  As a vivifying breeze, she infused a new spirit into the tired bodies of the pioneers.  We cannot say enough about the extraordinary impact these travels had on the Bahá’í communities, the institutions of the Faith, and on individual believers, particularly the pioneers, who, for many years and with great courage and oblivious of their own physical hardship, held the banner of the Faith aloft in every corner of the planet.

Pioneering—a phenomenon initially established by the Báb, Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá—was given a new dimension when the beloved Guardian announced the Ten Year Crusade in 1953, and pioneers opening certain new countries and islands were extolled by him as Knights of Bahá’u’lláh on the “Roll of Honour”.  The unexpected passing of Shoghi Effendi only a few years later shocked scores of Bahá’ís into arising in a wave of love as additional pioneers in order to fulfil the goals of his World Crusade.

By the time Amatu’l-Bahá began her travels, there were hundreds of pioneers of all ages who had left their native lands and settled in a variety of places:  the heartland of Africa, Latin America, the Pacific Islands, the countries of Europe.  The immense cultural differences and the constant struggles endured by living in inhospitable climates for

years caused fatigue in many of these dedicated pioneers.  Only the love of Bahá’u’lláh sustained these brave souls and enabled them to accept sacrifices in His path and remain at their posts.  It was in 1964 that Amatu’l-Bahá Rúhíyyih Khánum, in her sincere desire to teach and proclaim the Cause, combined with her love for these pioneers burning in her heart, began journeys  took her to isolated communities far in the bush, to cold, wind-swept islands, and to lone pioneers in humid villages deep in the jungle.  In the course of her historic travels, she shared the glad tidings of the Cause with unnumbered receptive souls, attracted them to the divine teachings, and encouraged the local believers in their efforts to expand and consolidate the Faith.  Likewise, in the eager hearts of the pioneers she met she instilled a fresh confidence and awareness of the inestimable importance of the service they were rendering to God and His Cause.

There were many occasions after Rúhíyyih Khánum’s international teaching travels when those who serve in the Holy Land had the opportunity to listen to her recounting thrilling stories about these travels in moving, inspiring and encouraging terms.  Many times we heard her express how proud she was of the achievements of the self-sacrificing pioneers, and at the same time she would, like a worrying mother, share her concern for their well-being and comfort.

While the practical advice offered in this book may not entirely be applicable to all friends everywhere, the tender love and affection of Amatu’l-Bahá are apparent.  She also brings to the attention of the friends the love and pride which the Bahá’ís of the world hold for those who arise to serve the Cause, particularly as pioneers, be it in a foreign land or on the homefront.

It is befitting that the Bahá’í Publishing Trust of India has

undertaken to publish the fourth edition of this book, as India was the country where Rúhíyyih Khánum chose to begin her extensive teaching visits.  Through this book, her tender concern and gift of common sense will continue to travel to the hearts of pioneers everywhere.

Hushmand Fatheazam

Haifa, 2002

[Blank page]

Foreword

This manual represents the personal experience and random observations of the author; it is neither exhaustive nor all-inclusive; it may, however, prove helpful to others who are increasingly arising from the East and from the West, and more recently from the North and from the South, to carry the Message of Bahá’u’lláh to their fellowmen.  The first great travelling teachers and settlers in foreign lands—who later became known as “pioneers”—were the Persian believers in the nineteenth century, followed, during the first decades of the twentieth century, by Bahá’ís primarily of North American origin.

During the final years of the First World War ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, the Son of the Founder of the Bahá’í Faith, Bahá’u’lláh, revealed His great teaching Tablets which became known as the “Divine Plan”.  In 1937 His successor Shoghi Effendi, the Guardian and Head of the Faith, inaugurated its first phase, given to the Bahá’í Community of North America, which marked the commencement of a systematic implementation of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s own instructions; this was followed by a second Plan and then a third Plan—a ten-year World Crusade—to carry the news of Bahá’u’lláh’s appearance and His teachings to every country, territory and major island of the world.  It was during the first year of this Plan that the Bahá’ís dispersed far and wide over the face of the globe and implanted the banner of Bahá’u’lláh in no less than 131 countries which His Cause had hitherto never reached.  From 1964 to 1973 a Nine Year Plan, inaugurated by the Supreme Body of the Bahá’í Faith, the Universal House of Justice, was

added to the process set in motion by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá Himself and carried systematically forward by Shoghi Effendi during his ministry.  We are now in yet another phase of the majestic unfoldment of this historic scheme designed to ensure that all men are given the opportunity to hear the Message of God for this Day.  During this latest phase there is probably a greater need for pioneers and travelling teachers than ever before in Bahá’í history.

In the course of my travels in Asia, Africa, Latin America and the Caribbean and Indian Ocean islands I have met a great number of pioneers and learned to admire their consecration and fortitude in the face of many difficulties and problems.  I saw them sometimes run-down, ill, discouraged and disillusioned, and occasionally heart-broken and hopeless, and longed to be able in some way to help them, to lighten their load and cheer them up and perhaps through suggestions make their road a little smoother and assist them to a better understanding of their task and some of the peoples they will live with and teach, for I believe a great many of their hardships, heartaches and problems are caused by their own ignorance and improper orientation to the tasks they have undertaken with so much devotion and enthusiasm.  That is why this book is such a mixture of quotations, findings, suggestions, recipes and admonitions, and what may appear to be aphorisms and even platitudes!  Often I wish people would spell things out clearly for me; I have tried here to at least say what I mean in unambiguous language that perchance it may be of help to others.

Rúhíyyih

Haifa, 1974

[Blank page]

[Blank page]

Selected quotations

Bahá’u’lláh tells us:  “Be unrestrained as the wind, while carrying the Message of Him Who hath caused the awn of Divine Guidance to break.  Consider how the wind, faithful to that which God hath ordained, bloweth upon all regions of the earth, be they inhabited or desolate.  Neither the sight of desolation, nor the evidences of prosperity, can either pain or please it.  It bloweth in every direction, as bidden by its Creator.”

Of those who arise to teach His Cause He says that they must “spread it abroad on the earth with high resolve, with minds that are wholly centred in Him, and with hearts that are completely detached from and independent of all things, and with souls that are sanctified from the world and its vanities.  It behoveth them to choose as the best provision for their journey reliance upon God, and to clothe themselves with the love of their Lord, the Most Exalted, the All-Glorious.  If they do so, their words shall influence their hearers.”

“They that have forsaken their country for the purpose of teaching Our Cause—these shall the Faithful Spirit strengthen through its power.  A company of Our chosen angels shall go forth with them, as bidden by Him Who is the Almighty, the All-Wise.  How great the blessedness that awaiteth him that hath attained the honour of serving the Almighty!  By My life!  No act, however great, can compare with it, except such deeds as have been ordained by God, the All-Powerful, the Most Mighty.  Such a service is, indeed, the prince of all goodly deeds, and the ornament of every goodly act. …

Whoso ariseth to teach Our Cause must needs detach himself from all earthly things, and regard, at all times, the triumph of Our Faith as his supreme objective.”

When one of His followers “determineth to leave his home, for the sake of the Cause of his Lord,” Bahá’u’lláh states, “let him put his whole trust in God, as the best provision for his journey, and array himself with the robe of virtue.”

“Whoso ariseth, in this Day, to aid Our Cause, and summoneth to his assistance the hosts of a praiseworthy character and upright conduct, the influence flowing from such an action will, most certainly, be diffused throughout the whole world.”

“Centre your energies in the propagation of the Faith of God.  Whoso is worthy of so high a calling, let him arise and promote it.  Whoso is unable, it is his duty to appoint him who will, in his stead, proclaim this Revelation …”

With all His encouragement to teach, however, Baha’u’llah adds this stern admonition:  “Whoso ariseth among you to teach the Cause of his Lord, let him, before all else, teach his own self, that his speech may attract the hearts of them that hear him.  Unless he teache his own self, the words of his mouth will not influence the heart of the seeker.  Take heed, O people, lest ye be of them that give good counsel to others but forget to follow it themselves.”

“God hath prescribed unto every one the duty of teaching His Cause.  Whoever ariseth to discharge this duty, must needs, ere he proclaimeth His Message, adorn himself with the ornament of an upright and praiseworthy character so that his words may attract the hearts of such as are receptive to his call.  Without it, he can never hope to influence his hearers.”

“Gird up the loins of thine endeavour” Baha’u’llah tells us, “that haply thou mayest guide thy neighbour to the law of God, the Most Merciful.  Such an act, verily, excelleth all other acts in the sight of God, the All-Possessing, the Most High.  Such must be thy steadfastness in the Cause of God, that no earthly thing whatsoever will have the power to deter thee from thy duty.  Though the powers of earth be leagued against thee, though all men dispute

with thee, thou must remain unshaken. …”

It behoveth anyone who is a real lover of God, He goes on to state, “to fix his gaze upon the fundamentals of His Faith, and to labour diligently for its propagation.  Wholly for the sake of God he should proclaim His Message, and with that same spirit accept whatever response his words may evoke in his hearer.  He who shall accept and believe, shall receive his reward; and he who shall turn away, shall receive none other than his own punishment.”

It is Bahá’u’lláh’s followers, Shoghi Effendi tells us, who are the true lovers of mankind, to such a degree that to them, “every foreign land is a fatherland, and every fatherland a foreign land.”  How much more must this be true of the pioneers who, forsaking their countries, journey to live among other people and put down their roots in a foreign soil?  They are of those who, the Guardian states, “warmed by the energizing influence of God’s creative love cherish His creatures for His sake, and recognize in every human face a sign of His reflected glory.”

“Now is the time”, Bahá’u’lláh asserts, “to cheer and refresh the down-cast through the invigorating breeze of love and fellowship, and the living waters of friendliness …

Show forbearance and benevolence and love to one another.  Should any one among you be incapable of grasping a certain truth, or be striving to comprehend it, show forth, when conversing with him, a spirit of extreme kindliness and good-will.  Help him to see and recognize the truth, without esteeming yourself to be, in the least, superior to him, or to be possessed of greater endowments.”

What must he the teacher’s attitude towards those he teaches?  In one of His prayers Baha’u’llah, addressing God, says that He is “summoning all the inmates of heaven and all the inhabitants of earth to the immensity of Thy mercy and the court of Thy grace.”  It is above all a message of hope,

forgiveness, love and happiness that the pioneer takes to others, and the main emphasis must be on unity:  “We love to see you at all times”, Baha’u’llah says, “consorting in amity and concord within the paradise of My goodpleasure, and to inhale from your acts the fragrance of friendliness and unity, of loving-kindness and fellowship.”  The entire keynote of His Revelation is unity, within the family, within the community, the clan, the tribe, the nation, the world.  “So powerful is the light of unity that it can illuminate the whole ”, He tells us.  It is not enough to read these words and say to ourselves, “How beautiful”, and dismiss them.  We should ponder what the light of the sun does when it shines all day long; unity, Bahá’u’lláh is telling us, is comparable to the sun’s light and its life-giving effect on the entire world.

What must be the teacher’s attitude towards himself—also a very important factor in pioneering?  Bahá’u’lláh Himself, as usual, has given us the key in His own wonderful words, expressing what we believers should be like:  “Adversities are incapable of estranging them from Thy Cause, and the vicissitudes of fortune can never cause them to stray from Thy pleasure.”  In brief words—full of divine compassion and understanding for His followers’ frailties and shortcomings—He writes in one of His prayers, “accept from Thy servants what they are capable of showing forth in Thy path”  Not what the ideal standard would be, but what we are capable of giving!

The Master was the greatest teacher of all; over and over Shoghi Effendi told the friends to study the teaching method of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, His talks, His example, His entire approach, which is essentially extremely direct, simple and lucid.  When He was leaving America He gave a farewell talk to the Bahá’ís, and some of His words and thoughts were as follows:  “I … give you my instructions and exhortations today

and these are none other than the teachings of Bahá’u’lláh.

You must manifest love and affection towards all mankind.  Do not exalt yourselves above others but consider all as your equals, recognizing them as the servants of one God.  Know that God is compassionate toward all; therefore love all from the depths of your hearts … ever speak disparagingly of others but praise without distinction.  Pollute not your tongues by speaking evil of another …  Let not your heart be offended with anyone …  Do not complain of others.  Refrain from reprimanding them and if you wish to give admonition or advice let it be offered in such a way that it will not burden the hearer.  Turn all your thoughts towards bringing joy to hearts.  Beware!  Beware! lest ye offend any heart …  Be the source of consolation to every sad one, assist every weak one … and shelter those who are overshadowed by fear.

In brief, let each one of you be as a lamp shining forth with the light of the virtues of the world of humanity.  Be trustworthy, sincere, affectionate and replete with chastity.  Be illumined, be spiritual, be divine, be glorious, be quickened of God, be a Bahá’í.”

Guidance

‘Abdu’l-Bahá said guidance was when the doors opened.  If a person wants to do a thing, prays about it, exerts every effort to do it, questions his own sincerity and desire to do it, and still, in spite of all this, the way does not open for him to do it, then he should accept that it was not the right thing for him to do.  However, to be sure it was not the right thing, the prayers, the motive and the effort to accomplish it must have been sincere and sustained in the first place.  If he makes a half-hearted attempt to do something and fails, he

cannot very well excuse himself by saying, “It was not the will of God”!

Where to pioneer

I would suggest certain things, particularly to pioneers.  Travelling teachers, as their stay is brief, may not find them applicable to themselves.

If an individual has a weak stomach and is prone to getting digestive and intestinal upsets, he should not go to those countries whose foods contain a great deal of chili, peppers and spices, such as Pakistan, India, Sri Lanka, Indonesia, Mexico and so on.  He may think he can avoid eating them, but it is impossible to do so unless he has a home of his own or eats in first class, expensive restaurants for tourists in the main cities.  As this is a very confining and expensive way of living, it is much better for a person to recognize his limitations before he gets involved in a way of pioneering that he cannot maintain.  A great deal of the time he will find almost no food that does not contain these spices.  I remember a personal experience in India:  I got quite ill travelling, had a high fever and was obliged to stop and go to bed in a Dak bungalow in a small town; with great difficulty a chicken was procured and given to the cook with strict instructions to boil it with a little rice and salt and nothing else, no curry or spices at all; as I was very weak and this was my first “meal” I looked forward to it very much; it was full of black pepper corns!  When the cook was scolded and reminded of his instructions by the dear Bahá’í who was taking care of me he lamented, “But I didn’t put anything in it—only pepper!”  Although I love hot curries and can eat chilis raw, that day I could not touch the broth.  Of course the exception to this

general advice is the person whose heart has such a love and longing for a place not really suitable for his health that he will either learn to endure or partly overcome his difficulties.

If a person really cannot stand intense heat (and some countries though not hot all the time have terrific hot seasons) he should not go to a place where he will waste his time through being completely enervated and unable to work, not to mention the waste of money involved in getting him there.  There is a tremendous need for pioneers all over the world; let him choose another place.  The same advice holds true for someone who has a marked intolerance for great cold; go somewhere else.

If an individual has high blood pressure or some heart condition for which his doctor considers high altitudes would be bad, let him avoid the mountains, as to go there would be wasting time and money and might do his health serious damage.

My personal opinion is that, with the exception of such extreme cases as those cited above, almost anyone, from a purely physical standpoint, can pioneer almost anywhere.  Man is the most adaptable creature on earth; our species exists anywhere and everywhere; we live amidst arctic snows and their depressing month-long nights; we cling to the bitter, wind-ravaged heights of barren mountains; we steam in suffocating tropical jungles and swamps.  Obviously, if a person is born an Eskimo, a Bushman, an Andean Indian or a Pygmy, he is better suited to his environment and native diet than a settler from somewhere else.  But even such extreme adaptations can take place, I believe, for three reasons.

First, physically:  the very blood in our veins adapts itself, getting thicker in cold climates and thinner in hot ones; a man learns to live where he is and eat what he can get;

circumstances may be extremely difficult, but the very nature of man is that he adapts to them.

Second, mentally:  much more of life takes place in our minds—conscious and subconscious—than we dream of.  If we want to do a thing, like doing it, believe we can do it, then usually we do do it without much trouble.  If a pioneer approaches a new country, a new environment, with prejudice, constantly comparing it to “back home”, disliking every single thing about it, complaining daily over its climate, it does not take him very long to hate everything, consider himself a martyr, look down on the people he has come to teach and become violently homesick.  All of this not only prevents him from showering love and encouragement on others but they sense this criticism, voiced or unvoiced, and are repelled rather than attracted, for a critical attitude does not attract one human being to another—it may possibly attract a scientist to a problem, but certainly not one heart to another!

I remember when I was first faced by the burning heat of the plains of India that strikes one like a blast from a furnace; I felt, being a North American child of the snows, I could not endure it, it shrivelled me.  Then I thought of my love for India, the beauty of India as a great centre of human culture; I thought of the sun as the life-giver of the world, the symbol of God Himself, and I opened my arms to it all, so to speak, and welcomed the heat as something dazzling and purifying and a blessing.  It was this mental change that enabled me to endure the climate.  When I found, in Africa, that I was running perspiration from every pore in the tropical, humid heat, I told myself that people pay money to take steam baths so they can perspire and eliminate many poisons by this method; and here am I doing it as a regular health cure free of charge!  I have found that if I resist these great

natural forces, I cannot stand them—neither the force nor my own struggle of resistance—but if I welcome them, I find that through being relaxed and receptive I can endure them relatively easily.

The third element of course is spiritual:  we have it all, all the guidance, all the challenge, all the encouragement, all the vision we will ever need, set forth in clear perspective by the Guardian.  The torch of the Faith, he said, must be carried “to regions so remote, so backward, so inhospitable that neither the light of Christianity or Islám has, after the revolution of centuries, as yet penetrated.”  “Braving the fearful cold of the Arctic regions and the enervating heat of the torrid zone; heedless of the hazards, the loneliness and the austerity of the deserts, the far-away islands and mountains wherein they will be called upon to dwell; undeterred by the clamour which the exponents of religious orthodoxy are sure to raise, or by the restrictive measures which political leaders may impose; undismayed by the smallness of their numbers …; placing their whole trust in the matchless potency of Bahá’u’lláh’s teachings, in the all-conquering power of His might and the infallibility of His glorious and oft-repeated promises, let them press forward …”  The winning to the Faith, Shoghi Effendi said, of fresh recruits, would presage the day prophesied by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá when we “will witness the entry by troops of people of divers nations and races into the Bahá’í world—a day which, viewed in its proper perspective, will be the prelude to that long-awaited hour when a mass conversion on the part of these same nations and races, and as a direct result of a chain of events, momentous and possibly catastrophic in nature, and which cannot as yet be even dimly visualized, will suddenly revolutionize the fortunes of the Faith, derange the equilibrium of the world, and reinforce a thousand-fold the

numerical strength as well as the material power and the spiritual authority of the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh.”

The task of the pioneers is to assist in laying the foundations of the Administrative Order of Bahá’u’lláh throughout the entire globe, under whose “sheltering shadow”, Shoghi Effendi stated, people of every race, religion, colour and country will be gathered.

There are two other factors in where to pioneer which I think should never be ignored and these are whether a person has a particular asset, or a predilection that would either contribute greatly to his services in a place or, on the contrary, mitigate against his success as a pioneer there.  For instance the need for French-speaking pioneers and travelling teachers is very great; we have far fewer French-speaking people available than English-speaking ones; therefore, if there are no other over-riding considerations it seems logical to send French speakers to those places where it is spoken in preference to one where English prevails; how much more should this be a consideration if a person knows a relatively restricted but important language, such as Quechua, spoken widely in Bolivia, Peru, Ecuador and neighbouring countries; or Chinese, which, though very widespread throughout the world, is a language which almost nobody willing to pioneer can speak.  That is the special asset factor; the predilection, I believe, should not be ignored, any more than the asset.  Some people are eager to serve the Cause of God and ready to go wherever they are needed; other people have a strong urge either towards or away from a race or a continent or a country; I think this must be taken into consideration by the individual himself and by those responsible for sending him out because the love for, the yearning of the heart of a person towards say, the Pacific islanders as opposed to the Africans, or vice versa, can mean the difference between the

pioneer remaining there and being a great success or never quite feeling in tune.  I am referring to really deep feelings of attraction, or of antipathy, and not to caprice, which may sweep over a pioneer and make him or her feel the other end of the world would have been better, so lets now go there!

A pioneer who plans to move into a goal and serve the Cause of God and earn his living there should carefully inquire, from proper Bahá’í sources as well as non-Bahá’í ones, what kind of a job, if any, he can get when he arrives.  The situation differs greatly from country to country; one place may never grant a residence visa to a person who has entered on only a tourist visa, obliging him, even if he has obtained a job, to go out and re-apply for a residence visa which he may never get.  Another country may require the pioneer to go there on a tourist visa first, obtain employment and then grant him a residence visa.  It is absolutely essential to be properly informed before one leaps out, full of devotion and enthusiasm, into the unknown!

There is also the all-important question of where to settle in the country one has pioneered to:  if a village—where the need is always very great—the strong probability is the pioneer must have a personal income or receive help from the Fund as jobs are likely to be non-existent; if he can get a job in that country, the secondary towns—small cities or large villages—should certainly have priority over the capital or other big cities.  Provincial capitals are very important because settling there means the pioneer can either open to the Faith a new rovince or tate or epartment, as the case may be, or assist and foster the work in a large area where he or his family are more than likely the only pioneers.  Far too often—to the great detriment of the Bahá’í work—one finds most of the pioneers congregated in the capital of the country, busy earning their living, having personality

problems with other pioneers and really, if they only knew it, spiritually frustrated because they are not accomplishing for Bahá’u’lláh what they set out to do when they left their native land for His sake.  So far from the path of ideal service they originally envisaged can this way of life in the big cities lead them that I have heard pioneers say they were in an embarrassing position because in the apartment house or district they lived in the poor village Bahá’ís could not come to see them or attend meetings in their homes because people of that class were not welcome in such places!  The pioneer must be on his guard, as much as lies within his power, not to be deflected from his spiritual course or ensnared in the traps of our moribund society as exemplified in the life of big cities.

When we arise to teach, whether as pioneers or travelling teachers, we are like little boats setting out on the down-flow of a mighty river  automatically carries us on by its own force.  We must always remember that by leaving our homes and our countries to serve the Cause of God divine confirmations become available to us, the Hosts of the Supreme Concourse become eager to help us, our meagre powers become infused by the divine outpourings from on High.

What to do when you get there

Many times the Guardian used to say, “This is the religion of the Golden Mean, the middle of the way”, in other words, balanced and not full of extremes.  What does this imply for a person arriving in a foreign place new to him in every way?  To me it means he should never lose his common sense.  Relying on God he must at the same time have enough sense to remember that God helps those who help themselves, that

He gave us a brain to use.  For instance, when all of us know perfectly well that everybody is honest in our own country, why should we suppose everyone is honest in the new place we have arrived in?  If we had enough sense at home to lock up the house and the automobile when we left them, thought twice about how we spent our money, and made an effort to get good value and not be cheated, why should we leave these sensible qualities behind when we arise to serve the Cause abroad?

One of the great arts of living, one we all strive to attain, is to be able to strike the happy medium between idealism and realism, between using good judgement personally and still, ultimately, placing all our affairs in the hands of God and letting Him guide us.  Too often we consider that to be spiritual is to not be practical!  Yet what could ever be more intensely practical than the Teachings Bahá’u’lláh gave us?  Do we ever stop to think that when He was alive He was the most practical, efficient and competent person in the whole world?  We are so overpowered by His spiritual station that we forget the many ways this manifested itself.

All my life I have been the witness of acts of extreme impracticability committed by Bahá’ís in the name of spirituality.  Let me give some examples of the kind of acts I am referring to:  normally people associate keeping in good health with certain sensible principles, but when they get carried away by their enthusiasm and “spirituality”, they ignore all these and often fall ill needlessly; normally they would ponder certain economic realities before embarking on a project like opening a school, starting a business, entering into a partnership, or making some substantial investment, but in the name of “Baha’u’llah will look after me” they leap in without proper investigation and forethought, often suffer humiliation and bankruptcy, involve others in

hardship and disgrace, and then are hurt and shaken to the core because they feel that God deserted them in their hour of need!  No wonder Shoghi Effendi constantly advised the friends that in technical matters they should seek the advice of experts.  I could write a good-sized book about the cases when they did not, and they and the Cause were the losers.  All this adds up to:  if you are ill get a good doctor; if you want to invest money consult a reliable banker or business adviser; if you plan to go into business with someone (a Bahá’í or non-Bahá’í) investigate them as to reliability and competence, honesty and capacity to really do what they claim they can and will do; and, above all, do it in a legal way.  Have a legal contract stating your relationship, affairs, and responsibilities.  When something, is in writing, properly signed and according to law, many future misunderstandings and consequent inharmony can be avoided, and all those remarks such as, “But you promised”, “I thought you meant”, “You were the one who was supposed to do that, not I …”, which are so often said when some understanding falls apart, need never be said.  This holds true in many cases for work being done for the Faith, aside from purely individual contracts.  I remember a pioneer who wanted to build (with his hard-won money from an underpaid school job) a centre in a village area.  A local believer assured him he was a competent contractor, showing him some pretty drawings, and the pioneer advanced quite a sum of money to order the mud bricks required.  Some time later, on visiting the site, he found a heap of deteriorated, improperly baked, useless bricks; when he called the contractor to account and demanded that he furnish proper bricks as he had not fulfilled his promise, the contractor wrote to him that he had been insulted and would have recourse to the law!  However dishonest this man’s conduct was, I blame the

well-educated, informed Bahá’í for not going out to supervise what was being done in the first place.  If one cannot carry something through properly it is often better not to start it at all.  In this case the devoted pioneer could not afford to replace the sum already paid out and start over again, the dishonest man gained successfully by his dishonesty and the villagers (aside from what may have gone on in their minds) had the unedifying sight of a huge pile of melting mud bricks to remind them of the centre they had hoped to have.

Aside from this general advice there are certain specific things that a pioneer or travelling teacher should be aware of:  when he arrives with no notification in a strange country and a strange city he can, through no previous arrangements having been made, find that a few days in a hotel can take almost all the ready money he has, or even the allowance for a whole month’s living expenses.  In developing countries in Africa, the islands of the Indian Ocean, the Pacific and other places, the cost of living for travellers is often exorbitant; the hotels available are either first class tourist ones, where rooms and meals are prohibitively expensive, or the native lodging houses—provided they exist at all, and often they do not—may not be at all suitable for newcomers, for many reasons, particularly if they have children; young men travellers might find they could take such accommodations, but for women alone or families it would be difficult.  After a person lives in a place for a while he learns what to do, but in the beginning everything is strange and new and he needs help and advice.  In order to ensure he gets this, careful plans, well in advance of his arrival, should be made.  The traveller should always bear in mind that the time it takes for mail to arrive and decisions to be made varies greatly from country to country and that what he, from his

past experience, believes will be handled in a few hours can take a few weeks or even a few months to be taken care of in some remote place.

It is here that a more serious and better organized effort needs to be made by both pioneers and travellers, as well as the Bahá’í bodies responsible for assisting them to go out or receiving them when they arrive.  Proper advance notice should be given to the National Spiritual Assembly, the Local Spiritual Assembly, or the committee which is responsible for incoming travellers and pioneers, so that someone is aware of when they will arrive and can, if they are asked to, arrange for a place for them to sleep.  In some cases it may be a local Bahá’í or pioneer who offers hospitality; in this case I feel a word should be said on their behalf.  Too often such kind and loving souls become victims of the thoughtlessness of the newcomers who do not, after a few days, go to them and suggest it might be better if they moved to a hotel or pension or place of their own; or failing this, at least openly and frankly insist on paying their share of the expenses.  I have met pioneers whose backs have been almost broken by a constant flow of arriving teachers and pioneers on their way to some place and who expect to be met at the airport, entertained, taken here and there, fed and bedded, as if by some royal right, or a mistaken belief that this exists in the Teachings when, as a matter of fact, the opposite is true, for Bahá’u’lláh enjoins us to enter no man’s house without his permission and without his wanting us there!

Before a person goes to a place, he should try to get reliable information about the climate.  Misinformation on this subject has been one of my own greatest problems in travelling.  People say it is very hot because it is in the tropics; what they fail to add is that at certain seasons, and often

after sunset—particularly, I found, even in the hottest jungles, 4 a.m. in the night—it can be chilly if not downright cold, and one needs a sweater and a blanket if one is at all inclined to be a chilly person.  Remember deserts and savannas are always really cold at night.  In the Andes I found that in the rarfied air of the heights if I sat in the sun with any wool on I began to perspire from the heat, but if I moved into the shade in a minute I was shivering from the cold.  It is extremely difficult to be prepared for all these changes in temperature, but long experience has taught me (being sensitive to the cold) to adopt what I call the onion system—layers—so that if I am hot I can peel down to something cool, and if I am cold I can add a sweater or coat or poncho to get warm.  Of course there are places, such as southern India, where it stays so hot that the only time we could take a shower was late at night because otherwise the water (from the “cold” tap) burned our skins!  But this I have found is the exception, so my own principle is:  if I am going to a hot country I have at least one or two wools I can add if required, and if I am going to a cold country (such as Alaska in the summer) I have at least one or two cottons to wear if it gets too hot, which it often does!  A cardigan sweater is an excellent investment, and many are the nights I have slept in mine.

If a person is in the habit of taking vitamins he had better take them with him, for, except in main cities, he may get none or they will be expensive.  Such things for ones health are rare whereas aspirin and cosmetics one can buy anywhere!  Likewise if the traveller or pioneer requires some special medication for a heart or skin condition, asthmatic attacks, and so on, he had better take a supply with him because no matter what anyone tells him to the contrary, he may not find it available where he is going.

Depression

When a person arises to serve the Cause of God, leaves his home and journeys to distant lands, he often feels Baha’u’llah very near.  This does not mean, however, that all of us are not subject to moments of depression, of wondering if we are doing the right thing, if we are in the right place, if we should not leave and go somewhere else.  There are many reasons for such feelings and many answers to such questions.

The body itself has its moments of better health and poorer health, and this in turn affects our minds and our outlook on life.  Often we get depressed because we are over-tired have a stomach upset are not sleeping well or some other purely physical condition; the passing of this physical condition, a change of environment for a few days, or even a change of occupation such as doing something relaxing we enjoy doing, will be sufficient to cure our depression, not to mention the spiritual assistance prayers can give us.

We must recognize our condition sensibly and objectively and not immediately jump to the conclusion that God has abandoned us, we are not worthy, we have made the wrong choice in going out to pioneer and had better go home!

It is admittedly difficult to judge what is caused by a purely physical, temporary condition and what is really fundamental.  A person can be really ill and need medical care; if he is suffering seriously from some condition, he should immediately consult the best doctor available; some doctors, alas, are themselves unduly pessimistic and willing to send a person home immediately—unaware that there are spiritual powers to help and sustain Bahá’ís and that maybe by treatment the condition could be ameliorated or cured without the pioneer having to go back to his own country.  Sometimes a

good native doctor—I mean one who is a properly trained medical graduate, an African in Africa, an Indian in India and so on—is better than a foreign doctor because he knows his own country well and the kinds of ailments people get in it, and he does not scare so easily or judge everything by an American or European standard.

There is another kind of depression which is caused by changes of temperature and which can have as much physical effect on us as on a piece of wood or violin strings or the head of a drum which contracts and expands according to the degree of heat, cold, humidity or dryness of the weather; rain depresses some people very much; storms, thunder and lightning depress others; a person may suffer an aggravation of his own personal idiosyncrasies, such as sleeplessness, headaches and so on, by arriving at the seashore or at a high altitude.

We must all learn to look at our own reactions objectively and dispassionately and not get all emotionally entangled, confusing purely physical reactions with spiritual things, and the state of our body with the state of our soul.

The thing the Cause of Bahá’u’lláh needs today is active servants to propel it forward more rapidly in these days of world crisis; the thing that humanity needs is to hear of Bahá’u’lláh; to dwell on ones self, to ponder ones own shortcomings, to spend precious time either despising ones self or pitying ones self is going to be of service to neither God nor man.  Though a little soul-searching every now and then is both necessary and salutary and spiritual stocktaking essential, these are not the times in which to sit idle, enclosed in a little personal cell of “depression”.  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, according to what my mother told me, said “The secret of self-mastery is self-forgetfulness.”  Whether He said it or not it is certainly a profound truth, for the more one dwells on

ones self the more entangled, self-centred and frustrated one gets, whereas the more one serves this blessed Faith the greater becomes ones freedom from the bonds of self and unhappiness.  Bahá’u’lláh, in a wonderful passage of His Writings, says “Beware lest thou allow anything whatsoever to grieve thee.”  I quote it in full:

Wherefore, be thankful to God, for having strengthened thee to aid His Cause, for having made the flowers of knowledge and understanding to spring forth in the garden of thine heart.  Thus hath His grace encompassed thee, and encompassed the whole of creation.  Beware, lest thou allow anything whatsoever to grieve thee.  Rid thyself of all attachment to the vain allusions of men, and cast behind thy back the idle and subtle disputations of them that are veiled from God.  Proclaim, then, that which the Most Great Spirit will inspire thee to utter in the service of the Cause of thy Lord, that thou mayest stir up the souls of all men and incline their hearts unto this most blessed and allglorious Court.

Problems that face pioneers

In addition to where to pioneer and what work may be available when one gets there, in what city or town to reside and how to adapt to a new country and conditions, there are special factors of a purely Bahá’í nature which the settler or traveller should know something about.  The French have a proverb  is wise and, if not 100 per cent true all the time, at least holds good most of the time:  “tout connaître, c’est tout pardonner” or “to know all is to forgive all”.  Every year that passes I accumulate more examples from my own

experience of life of how true this is.  So often we—all of us—misjudge others by appearances, condemn them in our minds without a hearing (when we are supposed to not judge others but to love them and forgive them) and leap to false conclusions because our emotions are involved and we are upset over or hurt by something, occasionally with just provocation, but usually purely imaginary.

Bahá’ís coordinate their activities through their administrative institutions hey usually consult committees and their National Assemblies about their pioneering plans and when they get to where they are going they expect to render their services under the guidance and with the help advice and encouragement of the National Assembly of that country.  If the pioneer himself comes from a country where the Bahá’í administrative experience is relatively new and does not yet function very efficiently, he is neither very shocked nor surprised to find the same holds true of where he has arrived.  But if he comes from a country where an efficient administration answered his questions and letters and advised and helped him, he may find that he gets no answers, or long delayed ones, to his questions and letters, that there seems no administrative body set up to help or guide him and that in addition to being in a new country and entering upon a new life, it looks as if no one cared he was there anyway!  This is a plain statement of facts and not hypothetical.  We may well ask “What is wrong?  Why should such conditions exist?”  Well, there is nothing very wrong, just combinations of circumstances affecting other people’s lives and now, because we are involved with them, affecting our own.  One reason pioneers are so much needed all over the world, aside from the vast field open for mass teaching, is that in many countries what the word “administration”—Bahá’í or otherwise—means is not understood at all.  To administer is to

manage and coordinate something so that it goes ahead smoothly and produces the desired result.  In the economic field this implies trained, skilled experts and in the field of government, political parties and manoeuvres.  But in our Bahá’í administration, the people who run it are just ordinary people, elected, entirely secret ballot, because they seemed the best the believers could find.  This means that National Assembly members are usually busy earning their living, may have long distances to cover in order to attend meetings, are employees who are circumscribed in their time by their employment, are farmers from the interior, or villagers to whom time does not mean what it does to us.  All of this has nothing to do with the good-will, intelligence, spiritual capacity, faith or devotion of National Assembly members, Local Assembly members, or a committee’s.  It is just a self-explanatory statement of fact.  Many National Assemblies all over the world have difficulty in holding meetings at all.  I recall one vast country where it costs over a thousand dollars in air tickets to get an Assembly together and then it is seldom more than a bare quorum.  If an Assembly, labouring valiantly in the face of difficulties similar to this, does not promptly answer its letters or pay attention to pioneers there are reasons for it which the pioneer, putting himself in its place, can easily see and should make him more determined than ever to stay and teach in that country and help that national community and that National Assembly all he can.

Many National Assemblies have great trouble in finding, among their nine members, a person who will accept to act as secretary; mostly it is the secretary on whom the heaviest burden falls, who is expected to come and live at the National Centre and develop a National Secretariat.  I remember the case of a farmer who was chosen secretary of one Na-

tional Assembly; he had to leave his home over 200 kilometres away and, with only a rudimentary school education and an extremely limited knowledge of English, unable to type and not good at writing in his own language, take up his Bahá’í burden because that National Assembly could not find among its members anyone else to do it!  He grew into his job, and grew spiritually and matured, until he was scarcely to be recognized as his original self.  We cannot judge.  A pioneer must be loving patient and understanding and must persevere—the four cardinal characteristics required for this blessed and unique type of service to the Cause of God.

Pioneers are drawn from many categories:  sometimes old and experienced believers in both the teaching and administrative fields of service, and sometimes young, new ones with no experience and not much knowledge.  It does not matter; all are desperately needed, all over the world.  Each one, however, is likely to have his own kind of test!  For those with much experience it is maddening to know how to do something and not be able to see it is done right; and yet just here is where the older Bahá’í is supposed (one hopes!) to have acquired enough experience, and be a mature enough believer, not to scold and preach and say, “Do it as I tell you because I know what I am talking about!”  Patiently, gently, politely, lovingly, he should be of so much help to the Bahá’í that all will return that love and seek to benefit from his knowledge.  The newer and less experienced believer who goes pioneering, not having lived for years in a home community, is less likely to find himself tried and tested on such matters as Bahá’í administration and the conduct of affairs but may well feel disillusioned and unwanted when he finds no proper plans have been made for his services and he is getting neither the help nor advice he needs.  One of the reactions to all

such problems as these is that the pioneer immediately sits down and writes a long and often accusatory lament (I have read some of them) to the committee who sent him out, describing the degree, in his eyes, to which the National Assembly or the committees or the Local Assembly of the country he has arrived in, is not properly discharging its duty towards him and often towards everything else!  Such letters to an administrative body, while they undoubtedly relieve the pioneer of a lot of steam, can, in the repercussions they set off, create inharmony and even promote a lot of useless gossip about a national community on the other side of the world.  I am not saying the pioneers have no legitimate complaints.  I am trying to say that I believe at least 80 per cent of everything that seems wrong in the beginning will sort itself out within say a year, if the pioneer will be patient, loving, understanding and will persevere.  How often has each one of us regretted a hasty or thoughtless action when later more facts came to light or we got to know the other person and their problems and felt sympathy for them instead of condemnation?  The people of the world today, whether Bahá’ís or non-Bahá’ís—no matter how desperately they need everything in the Bahá’í administration—are not going to benefit by being banged on the head by rules and regulations; they need love and encouragement.  They need the spirit ‘Abdu’l-Bahá showered upon all men,  He is our Exemplar.  A good question for every one of us to ask our own selves is “Would the Master behave like this?”

There are many comforting words of our beloved Master to assist us when we find it is all just too much and we cannot bear it.  “Grief and sorrow”, He says, “do not come to us by chance, they are sent to us by the Divine Mercy for our own perfecting …  Men who suffer not, attain no perfection. …  The more a man is chastened, the

greater is the harvest of spiritual virtues shown forth by him.  Man is, so to speak, unripe the heat of the fire of suffering will mature him. …  To attain eternal happiness one must suffer.  He who has reached the state of self-sacrifice has true joy.”  As most people are suffering, one way or another, a great deal of the time, these words seem to fit all of us.  They fit the pioneer in his trials; they fit the National Assembly members and committee members in their trials, just as real but of a different category; they fit the ill, the diseased, the poor, the downtrodden and abandoned.  They give a glimpse of what life is all about, how to bear with it ourselves and help others to bear with it.

“Whenever you recognize the fault of another,” ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says, “think of yourself  What are my imperfections?and try to  them.”  “Contentment”, He says, “is real wealth.  If one develops within himself the quality of contentment he will become independent.  Contentment is the creator of happiness.  When one is contented he does not care either riches or poverty.  He lives above the influence of them and is indifferent to them.  When we were in Baghdad often with one pound of meat we served dinner to fifteen or twenty people.  We cooked with it Persian stew and filled the pot with water so everyone could have a bowl of soup.  Notwithstanding this we were all very happy and thought that ours was the most delicious dinner.”

In our teachings there is advice for all and for every occasion.  It seems to me the following quotations from ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s words apply equally to those elected to administrative bodies and individuals who find themselves in some position of importance—a pioneer, a Board member, a travelling teacher—as well as just the rank and file:  “The ones in real

authority are known by their humility and self-sacrifice and show no attitude of superiority over the friends.”  “he very first testthat of rejoicing over the success of  neighbour, at which God rejoices.  Only by such a sincere joy can the gift of God descend unto a pure heart y assisting in the success of another servant in the Cause does one in reality lay the foundation for one’s own success and aspirations”  “The friends must be prepared to efface themselves at all times eeking the approval of men is many times the cause of imperilling the approval of God.”  “Let the servant be known by his deeds, by his life  To be approved  God alone should be one’s aim.”  “Ambitions are an abomination before the Lord.”

Sometimes pioneers who have given years of faithful service in the land of their adoption not only get tired and discouraged but get exasperated because they feel that those they have taught, often a whole national community they have established, do not show them enough respect for their services or pay enough attention to their advice.  Yet all parents know that as their children grow up they pay them less respect and follow their advice less often!  Why should they be surprised if their spiritual children follow the same pattern?

Aside from this there are two points to always be borne in mind first, everyone who pioneers, or arises anywhere to teach the Cause of God, should do it for the sake of God, offering this service to God alone and expecting rewards from Him and no one else; if he has any other expectations he will invariably be hurt and disappointed.  Second, he should teach people that now they have accepted the Message of Baha’u’llah their relationship is a direct one to Him; He has become their Baha’u’llah, their own Messenger from God, and their connection with Him is not through the pio-

neer, or some foreign teaching committee in another place; they are on their own; though the pioneer will always be there to love, to help and to advise as needed, the relationship they have now established with the Cause of God is an independent one.  It is really all remarkably like a family:  the child grows up, begins to assert its freedom and the loving parents see it getting hurt and making mistakes which, if only it would listen, ould not happen!  But the child will not always listen and the parents cannot live its life for it.  The Bahá’í pioneer who is a spiritual parent must just resign himself to the same thing.

A short course on how to love your fellowmen

We are so different from each other in this world, by temperament and tastes and the way our minds work, that to love each other because we find the person opposite us sympathetic is often quite impossible; he is not sympathetic and we do not get on with him and consequently find ourselves disliking instead of liking him.  There are three principal remedies for this.  The first and most important is based on some wonderful words of Shoghi Effendi to a Bahá’í who told him quite frankly he did not like and was not happy in the Bahá’í community he was living in.  The Guardian said it was natural that we should not feel drawn to everyone, to people very unlike ourselves whom we really felt no love for at all.  He then pointed out that it was like the members of a large family who were often very different from each other and even disliked each other.  But, said Shoghi Effendi, if each child loved its father truly and deeply, because it knew the father loved all the children and wanted them to love each other, then, because of their love for their father, they would love

each other.  What in fact this means is that we can love each other with a vicarious love, not directly one to another, but with our love for Bahá’u’lláh which fills our hearts like a light, and this light of His love we turn upon others, thus loving them.

The second factor in loving our fellowmen is to take seriously what Bahá’u’lláh says about mentioning the virtues and not the faults of others:  if a person immediately reacts to another person in a negative manner—from not liking his teeth to not liking his mind—naturally he starts out with a feeling of prejudice and tends to go on adding other things to it; any feeling of love becomes only a vague theory; though his conscience says he should love that other person, as a matter of fact he does not do so but still feels antagonistic because all his reactions to that individual were negative from the very beginning, negative and critical.  But if, from the beginning, he had forced himself (and it often takes inner forcing to do it) to see the good points rather than the bad ones, a feeling of warmth, of understanding and love would have been fostered.

The third remedy or factor in learning to love our fellowmen is to appreciate that there is a natural animal-inherited tendency in all species—the human included—to fall back into a feeling of solidarity with its own kind, a drawing away from the other race, the other nationality, the other tribe or class for the paramount reason that they are not like you.  One must always, everywhere in the world, but particularly when pioneering, be on ones guard against this and aware of it for what it is—a strong animal trait inherited from our past.  It is what in the barn yard keeps chickens together with other chickens, ducks with ducks, pigs with pigs, cows with cows—and in their wild state crows with crows and lions with lions!  It is scarcely a quality a Bahá’í should tolerate in

himself!  And yet each one of us is likely—some of the time or, alas, most of the time—to fall into this pit of comparing others with ourselves (to their detriment, naturally) and of condemning their habits and way of life as compared to that which we were used to in our own country.  Far too often in foreign lands one finds a community where all the Persians are lumped together and associate with themselves (talking Persian all the time) and all the Americans associate with each other almost exclusively; yet if you asked either group why they do this you more than likely would hear indignant denials that it was so; we do such things often unconsciously, not even aware we are doing them, just following the old animal pattern inherited from millions of years of evolution:  stick to your kind.  Yet this is just what Bahá’u’lláh has destroyed, saying we are all the leaves of one tree, and that honour is his who loves mankind, not his tribe, his race or his nation.

I have thought about this subject a great deal, for all of us suddenly find we, at some time, are cleaving to our own kind with a sense of relief, self-righteousness and superiority.  I have come to a somewhat prosaic way of getting my own mind back on the Bahá’í track, so to speak.  I play a sort of mental game of what I visualize as matching cards:  an ace comes up, I put another ace on it; a 10 is turned over, I put another 10 on it.  What this amounts to is that whenever I find an event or a fact in the country and among the people I am visiting that arouses a violent reaction of criticism on my part I immediately try to find a counterpart in another part of the world, preferably my own.  I will give some examples:  I get black fungus in my ears and am distressed mentally and physically; my first reaction is a strong reproach to myself:  “Well, of course, if you will travel in the tropics!”  Then I at once remind myself I already had it four times, once in my

own home and my home is not in the tropics!  I have matched card with card—and feel quite calmed down as a result.  I go into a very dirty, smelly wash-room and naturally a feeling of enraged revulsion sweeps over me as I think of all the immaculate toilets in Switzerland and Canada.  Then I recall the unspeakably filthy toilets in many of the capital cities of Europe attached to good restaurants—just as dirty and just as smelly as this place—and I no longer have a quarrel with the country I am in.  I go to bed in the mud hut of a villager and the rain starts dripping on me through the thatch; as I put my raincoat over my mosquito net I begin to consider myself a martyr—until I visualize that time in Montreal when the spring thaw clogged up the roof drains and my newly painted ceiling was ruined, indeed all kinds of pots were set around on the floor catching the water dripping through it; and I remembered doing the same thing dozens of times over the years in the Master’s House in Haifa.  As I travel in Africa, Asia and Latin America I read about the terrific amount of stealing going on, as well as embezzlement of government monies.  I am shocked at these evidences of increasing crime and moral degeneration all about me—until I get a hold of an American or European newspaper and read of exactly the same things taking place there—only on a far bigger and better scale!  The only subject I can never find a parallel for in my own part of the world is the roads.  This matching cards process is a game that will keep you a much better, happier, more useful pioneer or travelling teacher than you ever were before you tried it.  Do not draw away from people, draw towards them; do not exclude, include them.

To not carp on what one disapproves of or finds missing in the new environment is of supreme importance for the pioneer; none of us like to have our country criticized; an “I am holier than thou” attitude is unbearable; so is an “I know

best” attitude.  Which one of us has not been subjected at some time to a guest that looked us and our house and way of life over and showed unspoken if not actually voiced disapproval?  And which one of us in our minds has not silently said, “I wish you were back in your place!  Since it is so much better than mine why don’t you go home?”

The people one will come in contact with in the mass conversion areas, often the so-called developing countries, are extremely sensitive to criticism, spoken or not even voiced.  They seem to almost have a sixth sense that catches radiations, and strong disapproval and criticism can be a wordless radiation that will hurt their feelings, dampen their spirits and cool off their zeal, indeed they can lead to the complete melting-away of the local Bahá’í community.

They are even more sensitive to inharmony, to such an extent that among some native peoples they literally seem to be incapable of standing it; they just cant take it.  As I myself have now become like this I deeply sympathize with them and understand their reaction, which is to withdraw from the sickening and intolerable atmosphere serious inharmony produces.

In His great teaching Tablets of the Divine Plan ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says:  “O ye friends!  Fellowship, fellowship!  Love, love!  Unity, unity!—o that the power of the Bahá’í Cause may appear and become manifest in the world of existence.”

The path of wisdom

“It began to dawn on me that, beyond the teeming romance that lies in the differences between men—the diversity of their homes, the multitude of their ways of life, the dividing strangeness of their faces and tongues, the thousand-fold

mysteries of their origins—there lies the still profounder romance of their kinship with each other, a kinship that springs from the immutable constancy of man’s need to share laughter and friendship, poetry and love in common.  A man may travel a long road, and suffer much loneliness, before he makes that discovery.  Some groping along dark byways, never have the good fortune to stumble upon it.”

Thus wrote Arthur Grimble in A Pattern of Islands, the fascinating account of the years he spent as a colonial administrator in the Gilbert and Ellice Islands of the Pacific Ocean.  I have quoted here some passages from his book because I feel any pioneer who goes out to teach among people still living in their tribal ways, still cast in the proud mould of their ancestors, can well profit by the wisdom and understanding, the gentleness and modesty of Sir Arthur and his ways.

All people have their own manners and my own belief is that villagers have much more strict codes of courtesy than exist any more in urban centres of civilization.  Grimble tells of a Gilbertese saying:  “Small is the voice of a chief” which meant, generally speaking, that gentleness and courtesy should walk hand in hand with power.  He notes how shocked some of the islanders were when the Resident Commissioner, out for a stroll down a village street, had passed between two women holding a conversation from one side to the other without so much as a “by your leave”—to the native people a terrible discourtesy, least expected from the highest ranking person among them.  In western countries to pass between two people speaking to each other, even strangers on the street, without saying “pardon me” is bad manners, but we would not carry it to the point of feeling we need excuse ourselves because we interrupted a line of vision and conversation from one house to another across a street.

It only shows that one should make an effort, in a new environment, to understand at least the main points of the etiquette of the people one is associating with.

Oratory, all over the world, by peoples of many different origins, has been prized as a great art; it was so among the ancient Greeks and equally so among the Polynesians and indeed, as Sir Arthur states, was true of the Gilbertese, to whom he pays this remarkable tribute:  “I have met in the Western Hemisphere no oratory in high debate that could compare, for average pithiness of content, beauty of diction and ease of delivery, with that of those rugged brown fishermen …” and goes on to assert that “… two readings aloud by the Island scribe of any letter or record in Gilbertese were enough to store the whole text of it in their minds forever.  The spread of Mission education brought with it in the long run a natural demand for literacy … yet, excellent as it was, it certainly produced no finer breed of justices or administrators than those unlettered and, more often than not, pagan native magistrates of old …”, pointing out, what I firmly believe from my own experience, that to judge of people’s wisdom, capacity and abilities on the basis of whether they can read and write or not is ridiculous.

“Most Europeans who believe in an after-life draw a clear horizon line between the worlds of the living and the dead.  The pagans of the Gilbert Islands, as I knew them, imagined no such comfortable partition.  The seen and the unseen made but one world for them … the belief was that the more recently departed could and did return …  There was love as well as fear in the ancient cult of the ancestor, and mostly the love predominated …  The sad thing was that the earliest Christian teachers in the Gilbert Islands gave no honour to the spirit of filial gratitude and fatherly goodness that breathed through the old beliefs … indiscriminate derision poured upon

the old ways of thought … had destroyed almost all veneration for the pagan dead. …  Affection had made its exit with respect, and only superstition remained.  Ancient superstitions are not rooted out as easily as ancient loves.  The ghosts of the dead still haunted the villages; the difference was that they had become wholly vindictive now in the belief of everyone but a handful of the dying generation.”

Here Sir Arthur is dealing with the fundamental thinking of many millions upon millions of villagers not only in the Pacific area but all over the world, and his analysis is very penetrating and should not be skipped over lightly.  To deny what we do not understand ourselves, to dismiss as nonsense or superstition other people’s beliefs just because in our society no comparable beliefs of this nature may still exist, is both foolish and unkind.  I remember a conversation with the President of Rwanda, who said he had studied Western philosophy as well as African philosophy and that the difference was that to the Westerner the sequence of birth, childhood, puberty, death and the hereafter was interrupted, broken off by death, but to the African it was one uninterrupted process.  This impressed me very deeply because it is also the Bahá’í viewpoint—life and death are seen as one great, unbroken experience of the soul of man journeying towards his Creator.

Bahá’u’lláh teaches that those who have passed beyond the veil of death can be aware of us and our doings in this world; indeed, He makes the truly astonishing statement that pure and sanctified souls who have passed away assist and guide humanity in this world:  “The light which these souls radiate is responsible for the progress of the world and the advancement of its peoples.  They are like unto leaven which leaveneth the world of being, and constitute the animating force through which the arts and wonders of the world are made manifest …  These souls … have provided, and will

continue to provide, the supreme moving impulse in the world of being.”

When we join to this Baha’u’llah’s teachings on the power of intercession, that we may ask those who have gone beyond to intercede with the Almighty on our behalf; when we add the fact that He teaches that our prayers for the dead, and good deeds done in their name, can speed the development of their souls and increase the spiritual outpourings they receive; we see how inextricably interwoven are this world and the next and, if we take the trouble to ponder upon it tolerantly, can acquire at least a little insight into what ancestor worship means in the lives of millions of people.  It may have become fogged with superstition and distorted through ignorance, but there is, evidently, from our own Bahá’í teachings, an indissoluble and primary bond between us who are here and those who have preceded us into eternal life.

Sir Arthur’s analysis of the forces at play in witchcraft is no less worthy of consideration, for obviously he knew whereof he spoke and any pioneer among primitive people would do well to ponder his words:  “A brown man with sixty generations of terror-struck belief whispering in his blood, and no trust any more in the saving love of his ancestors, and not yet any deep hold on the comforts of his new religion, was easy meat for the death-magic.  The sorcerers had little to learn in practice about the murderous force of auto-suggestion … it is my experience that malice and fear are strong infections.  They can taint things and places, just as human love can sweeten them.  Generation upon generation of sorcerers who willed evil, and of people who dreaded their power, had lived out their lives in those islands.  The piled-up horror of their convictions had achieved, down the ages, a weight and a shadow of its own, an imminence that

brooded over everything.  It was man’s thoughts, more potent than ghosts, that haunted the habitations of men.”

With real understanding of the problems involved in the practices of sorcerers and witch doctors, who, though often in the background nowadays, nevertheless still wield a great influence over people living primitive lives, Sir Arthur points out the profound psychological factors involved, and that to merely deny a thing does not remove it.  Beliefs need to be re-channelled, to be explained, to be re-directed and sublimated, not to be made fun of and scorned as ignorant or heathen.  How often has each one of us had a vivid and disturbing dream, or was seized by a great fear on some subject, or was harassed with negative thoughts and doubts, and gone to someone in the hope he would listen to us and comfort us, only to be told:  “Nonsense, don’t be silly, it’s all your imagination!”  This solved nothing and only left us more miserable and lonely, more prone to weave our fears and doubts into an even worse form than before.

Indeed a harsh and intolerant attitude can be both cruel and self-defeating.  Sir Arthur’s wide experience, over a period of many years, led him to the conclusion that in many instances the missionaries’ fanatical approach to those they believed, perhaps quite sincerely, they had been sent to save, had done much damage to the lives of the people and that “Their indiscriminate hate of everything pagan uprooted by the way much that was beautiful and useful in native custom, and in so doing destroyed agencies that could have been enlisted not only to illumine the message of Christianity, but also to ease the difficult passage of the race from unsophistication to knowledge.”

So heavy can be the impact of our infinitely more complicated and artificial civilization upon people still living in a more or less natural environment and traditional ways that it

can, and has, more than once in the present century, led to racial disaster; as Grimble puts it:  “There have been in the past some grim cases of depopulation … due to the premature blotting out of interests that kept people alive in their environment.”

The freedom of an individual to believe as he pleases should always be respected, including the freedom of a pagan to be a pagan and his freedom to pay his witch doctor for charms or treatments.  An old Gilbertese pointed these values out to Grimble and added:  “If the Government or missionaries could give them something to keep their hearts alive … perhaps they could be happy without ‘their sorcerers …’  But if you cannot give them an equal thing in return, you will kill their hearts by robbing them of their loved wizards.”

It is in the nature of most men to crave a spiritual lightning rod, a protection against the caprice of accident, the convulsions of nature, the evil in other men’s hearts.  One of the first things villagers should be taught is the power in the two shortest of all Bahá’í prayers “Alláh-u-Abhá” and “Yá Bahá’u’l-Abhá”; they should be told that in danger, in calamity, in sorrow or illness the repetition of one of these is a mighty protection and assistance; they should teach it to their children, and even the babes learning to talk, for the power in these words is very great.  They should also be taught to memorize that short prayer, known as the “Remover of Difficulties”:  “Is there any Remover of difficulties save God?  Say:  Praised be God!  He is God!  All are His servants, and all abide by His bidding!”  They should know that one of the prayers given us by Bahá’u’lláh is the repetition, ninetyfive times, of “Alláh-u-Abhá”, and that we may use a string of seeds or beads, ninetyfive in number, to aid us to say this prayer the requisite number of times, without having to count as we go along, by merely passing them through our

fingers till we come to the end.  Indeed, a string of prayer beads makes a very beautiful and special gift from one Bahá’í to another.  If the village people can also be given a tangible thing, such as a photograph of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá or a reproduction of the Greatest Name, to put in their homes, this also is very important.  The Master Himself said to put the Greatest Name and His photograph in ones home as a protection.  A Bahá’í ring, however simple, is a thing many new Bahá’ís long to possess and if cheap enough will gladly purchase for themselves.  It is the immemorial human story, to possess some tangible thing associated with the one we love and revere, particularly from our Prophet, our Manifestation of God, the One come from Him in this new Day.

“The Help in Peril”

No relationship could be more direct and dynamic than that which Baha’u’llah in His Writings shows to exist between the soul of man and his Creator.  Unlike so many philosophies, decrepit and disoriented from their original spiritual inspiration, which believe that if there is a source and motive power for the universe it is an entirely impersonal force with no interest in men and their lives the entire concept of God given us by Baha’u’llah is of a wondrous, all-knowing and loving Being Who is intensely aware of each human soul and has established innumerable ways by which He can guide, assist and bless each soul on its journey through life.  Over and over in His prayers He refers to God as “the Help in Peril”.  What could be more immediate than this, a God Who is ever ready to stretch forth a hand to meet ours in moments of danger and crisis?  Not only should the pioneer or teacher draw upon this assured assistance himself but he should,

unless, exceptionally, he finds the person he is teaching is an atheist, and therefore must be approached in another manner, be sure to convey to those he is teaching the concept of the singleness of Almighty God, that, in addition to having created men, He never abandons them but rather guides and helps them at all times and has always done so, down through all the ages of history, through a series of divinely-sent Prophets.  They must be taught that individually God will hear their prayers and watch over them if they turn to Him for help.  The intimacy that Bahá’u’lláh so clearly teaches exists between God and man must be conveyed to them as a source of both joy and protection.  They (and we, too, to a far greater extent than at present exists among the believers) must realize that the word that comes from the Manifestation of God, the word of God Himself, is entirely different from all other words because it is the Creative Word, endowed with the power of spiritual life and the capacity to regenerate the souls of men.  That is why it is so important for all National Spiritual Assemblies, and those concerned with getting literature into the hands of the new believers, to ensure that they receive some of Bahá’u’lláh’s own Writings, because in this Dispensation they alone constitute the Word of God.  No matter how essential and illuminating the writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and Shoghi Effendi may be, they do not constitute that bread of life which is divine because it comes from God, and the bread of life today is the Words of Bahá’u’lláh.

My own belief is that one of the things most needed today, which will have dynamic repercussions on those we have already taught, and on non-Bahá’ís as well, is to have the long prayer of Bahá’u’lláh for the dead translated into the local language and given to the friends for their funeral service.  This prayer not only constitutes the Bahá’í funeral service

(to which of course other readings, music, talks and so on may be added as desired) but is one of the most deeply moving experiences a person who has lost a loved one can have.  The fact that each of the six special verses is repeated 19 times has a strangely soothing and comforting effect which is no doubt why Bahá’u’lláh in His wisdom revealed it in this form.  Slowly the cramp of grief and distress relaxes as the wonderful words, like rain, fall again and again on the heart.  I quote it in full here as it appears in Prayers and Meditations of Bahá’u’lláh translated by Shoghi Effendi.

O my God!  This is Thy servant and the son of Thy servant who hath believed in Thee and in Thy signs, and set his face towards Thee, wholly detached from all except Thee.  Thou art, verily, of those who show mercy the most merciful.

Deal with him, O Thou Who forgivest the sins of men and concealest their faults, as beseemeth the heaven of Thy bounty and the ocean of Thy grace.  Grant him admission within the precincts of Thy transcendent mercy that was before the foundation of earth and heaven.  There is no God but Thee, the EverForgiving, the Most Generous.

Let him, then, repeat six times the greeting “Alláh-u-Abhá”; and then repeat nineteen times each of the following verses:

We all, verily, worship God.

We all, verily, bow down before God.

We all, verily, are devoted unto God.

We all, verily, give praise unto God.

We all, verily, yield thanks unto God.

We all, verily, are patient in God.

(If the dead be a woman, let him say:  This is Thy handmaiden and the daughter of Thy handmaiden, etc. …)

Prayer for the Dead

All over the world, in all societies outside of those in big cities and among the ultra-sophisticated and spiritually inert, death is the most important ceremony of a man’s entire life.  Neither puberty, marriage, birth or anything else celebrated by people together compares with the importance of the ceremonies and customs associated with death—the supreme event—when a man goes all alone out into an unknown world, a new life.  None of the existing world religions, philosophies or cults have the concepts about death we Bahá’ís have received from Baha’u’llah’s teachings and as much illumination on the nature of the next world as we have in the Bahá’í writings.  To talk about these things—death and the life after death—I have found is a wonderful way to teach people; there is a hunger in men’s hearts, particularly in this troubled, threatened world of today, to know what death means and what they may hope comes after it.  We Bahá’ís have the most assured and detailed answers to these questions that any people so far have received from God; now is the time to share them.

The real oneness

The Bahá’ís must always bear in mind that generally in the world today any idea of oneness—whether advanced by a

political or a religious group—is based on the concept of uniformity:  “You be like me, accept my philosophy, my way of doing things, my standards in life, and then we will have a united, peaceful world.”  The concept of unity advanced by Baha’u’llah is, on the contrary, based on diversity; this is a very profound difference, and as one is the concept of men, and the other the Divine Revelation of God, it behoves us to truly grasp what Bahá’u’lláh means.

Most people think of unity—the act of unifying a group of people—as a process of exclusion.  The members of a religious sect, for instance, condemning all those who do not adhere to it as inferior, misguided or, even damned, create a feeling of unity based on exclusiveness; tribes, races, nations do the same thing, whereas the entire Bahá’í concept of unity is inclusive, not exclusive; we are fundamentally united with others because we believe they are right too, equally right, whether as a religion having its origin in a Manifestation of God, or as a people or a nation whom we view as our human brothers and sisters with the same rights as our own.  The method by which most men measure others in relation to themselves is to denigrate the other person’s religion, or customs, or country, as the case may be, in comparison to their own.  This method of seeking to raise ones self—whether nation, race, religion or individual—by stepping on the back of the other fellow and trying to push him down, never really works, for as he sinks you sink with him.  It seems to me this is one of the most calamitous of all the unsavoury traits we human beings have, this oblique form of self-praise based on belittling, criticizing and exposing the weaknesses of others in order to show what fine fellows we are in comparison, and is in direct opposition to the clear injunction in our teachings to be silent about the faults of others and mention only their virtues.  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá told a story of Jesus Christ

Who, walking with His disciples, came upon a dead dog, at which they all turned away, revolted by the stench, but Jesus went and with His foot pushed away the lip of the dog and said:  “See what beautiful teeth it has.”

The pioneer and the administration

The Guardian very kindly used to give me the minutes of various National Assemblies to read; I can remember a day when I rushed to him, very indignant over something I had read, and said:  “They cannot do that!  I am going to write them!”  Shoghi Effendi calmly informed me that I could not interfere at all, the American National Assembly was no longer my National Assembly, I was now living in another country entirely outside its jurisdiction.  This information came as a surprise because I had not really registered the fact that, of course, having moved out of my native land, I was no longer concerned with that National Assembly or it with me!  Wherever a pioneer, or even a travelling teacher goes, he is under the jurisdiction of the Bahá’í body responsible for that country; he owes it as much love, help, obedience and moral support as he is capable of summoning up.

The pioneer cannot have it both ways; often a pioneer is elected to the Local or National Assembly; no use for him to say of his fellow members “these people”.  From now on it has to be “we”.  This identification, for all of us, is extremely hard to make as I well know from personal experience.  It is just one more thing the individual has to pray about and work on in his own character, and it is extremely important for him to do so, because at all times the characters of human beings are in motion, so to speak; either one is getting better or worse, nearer or farther, gentler or harsher, more

tolerant or more prejudiced.  Pioneers must be constantly on their guard lest as time goes by their identification with the people they have come to live among and teach becomes weaker instead of stronger.  It is a purely animal trait for a species to cling to its own kind and exclude a different species; it is really the projection of this protective animal instinct that has caused the sharp and usually prejudiced and bitter sense of distinction that characterizes the relation of tribe to tribe, nation to nation, race to race.  Very often, the foreigner, the pioneer, is not only, obviously, in the minority, but unconsciously has a tendency to cling to his own kind.  This is such a strong natural instinct that one need not be ashamed of it, rather one should analyze it and struggle against it.  I have seen, East, West, North and South, in various Bahá’í communities, how all the Americans tend to mostly associate with each other; all the Persians do the same; the same language, the same habits and background not only draw them together and make them feel more at home with each other, but it is the line of least resistance, the line that conforms to millions of years of animal behaviour.  This does not mean a pioneer, like other people, should not be free to form his personal relationships; life would be intolerable if he could not do this; it does mean he should be conscious of such psychological pitfalls and try, aside from the natural personal friendships he makes, to establish real relationships with both the people of the country and other pioneers.  Social relationships, such as going and coming to each other’s homes, eating together, baby-sitting for each other, going on picnics together, will help to create the feeling of oneness so essential to a harmoniously functioning Bahá’í community.  This kind of social intercourse is the cement that binds people together and one of the ways pioneers can create active and united Bahá’í communities.

There is another question that should certainly be borne in mind by the pioneer (who will often find that in no time he has become an administrator as well) and that is deprivation of voting rights.  Although the Guardian introduced to us the sanction of removing people’s voting rights—their administrative rights, in other words—he made it quite clear that this was the heaviest administrative sanction we can wield at this stage in the unfoldment of the Faith and that it should under no circumstances be used lightly.  At the World Centre of the Faith we are able to obtain a purview of the Bahá’í world, and over and over again it comes to our attention how lightly and unjustifiably Assemblies apply this heavy sanction.  Not only are they willing to chastise a believer for some minor departure from principle but, for inexperienced and immature Assemblies, it is sometimes a convenient method of getting rid of one of its members who may be considered a thorn in its flesh.  At the present stage of our Bahá’í development, although Assemblies must deal with their affairs on a basis of fairness and justice, this does not mean that love, tolerance, mercy and understanding should not animate them in all their dealings with the Bahá’ís who compose their communities.  The Universal House of Justice, at the same time that it guides and guards the laws and institutions of the Faith, is showering the Bahá’ís of the world with a protective love and comprehension of their weaknesses, their immaturity and their needs, without which no progress in the present stage of their development could be made.  If this Body, whose supreme function is justice, can hold us all in its arms until we are strong and old enough to be more disciplined and walk in the ways that we should, how much more then should National and Local Assemblies feel humble before their tasks and protect, love and help their immature communities and the inexperienced believers under their jurisdiction?

The process of mass conversion is many times a shock to the pioneer and to the travelling teacher.  He cannot understand why a person is accepted as a Bahá’í, so quickly, with so little preparation and no previous “deepening”.  Yet ‘Abdu’l-Bahá Himself—the greatest example we have in every single way of life—has made it quite clear:  “Those souls who have the capacity and ability to receive the outpourings of the Kingdom and the confirmation of the Holy Spirit, they become attracted through one word. …  No sooner is the oil touched by fire than it is ignited, but the heat of fire will not  any effect upon black stone.”  In so few words He makes it clear that no amount of teaching and effort, however prolonged, can enable some people to accept Bahá’u’lláh, and that others cannot be prevented from an instantaneous acceptance in their hearts of Him as the Messenger of God for this Day.

Many times I am asked, by journalists in particular, how a person becomes a Bahá’í, and I explain by one of two doors, the head or the heart.  Each is valid, but the person who enters by one might never be able to enter by the other, and we must accept this fact.  Often in the West people read, ask questions, study for years and maybe in the end become Bahá’ís.  But for others something tells them this is right, they are overwhelmed in an instant by an inner assurance and conviction.  After all, it was this mysterious inner process of acceptance that characterized the conversion of the Báb’s Letters of the Living, who, Shoghi Effendi wrote, “… spontaneously, some in sleep, others while awake, some … through dreams and visions … were enlisted under the banner of a new-born Faith.”  In the course of my travels I have come across many villagers, and others, who have accepted the Faith because of a dream.

Bahá’u’lláh says, addressing God in one of His prayers:

“Thou summonest them to that which will recreate their hearts and immortalize their souls.”  He does not say that which will change their minds and recast their living standards and customs; the emphasis is on the spiritual spark that will be the means of regenerating their inmost beings; once this faith in Bahá’u’lláh’s Message is planted in the heart, from it can grow all the other qualities and convictions necessary if one is to mature into an exemplary believer.

There is no time to lose; wherever there are Bahá’ís, however many they are, it is insignificant in relationship to the world’s population.  The system of Baha’u’llah, His Administrative Order which must flower into a Divinely ordained and guided World Order, is applicable in its entirety only to masses of human beings; society is formed by dealing with vast masses of people; social and economic changes, an enlightened system of education, a healthful and constructive application of science to men’s needs, all presuppose large numbers living according to new values and laws.  Of Bahá’u’lláh’s Dispensation, which must endure for at least a thousand years, over 150 have already passed.  It seems to me it is up to His followers to go out and carry, quickly, His Message to all the peoples of the world, particularly to those remote regions where the hearts of men are still uncontaminated by the virus of our present-day, increasingly corrupt, materialism.  This means ioneering.  Having arrived somewhere as a pioneer, the next step is to concentrate on bringing people into the Faith, as many as possible, through ones personal teaching efforts and through doing all in ones power to assist and stimulate the administrative bodies in ones new land to concentrate on teaching and constantly adding new Bahá’ís, as well as on deepening and educating those who have been enrolled.

In addition to this there is yet another step beyond this to be taken when teaching the Faith.  Baha’u’llah says:

O ye beloved of God!  Repose not yourselves on your couches, nay bestir yourselves as soon as ye recognize your Lord, the Creator, and hear of the things which have befallen Him, and hasten to His assistance.  Unloose your tongues, and proclaim unceasingly His Cause.  This shall be better for you than all the treasures of the past and of the future, if ye be of them that comprehend this truth.

The new believer, it seems, receives not only the blessing of accepting the Manifestation of God but a great honour and privilege is immediately conferred upon him for he now may hasten to Bahá’u’lláh’s assistance and, unloosing his tongue, proclaim His Cause to other men.  Such an astonishing statement deserves to be deeply pondered by all of us for it seems to clearly imply the new Bahá’í not only may, but should immediately begin to teach the Message himself.  If this were not so it is hard to see how we are ever going to bring humanity under the shadow of Bahá’u’lláh.

Hitherto we have had the concept that an individual should be first educated in the teachings and prepared and then enrolled; but it seems this is not the way in mass conversion; the individual, if he wishes to become a Bahá’í—and he should appreciate the salient fact that by doing so he is accepting the Divine Messenger of God for this Day—should be accepted, should be encouraged to teach; and then all the combined forces of the pioneers, the travelling teachers, and the administrative bodies of the Faith, should ensure that his knowledge and understanding of the Faith and its teachings are steadily expanded.

The sequence of events in our Bahá’í teaching activity has

always seemed to me most mysterious, indeed at times puzzling; as already pointed out, we are supposed to teach, and if the hearer wishes to become a Bahá’í we have no right—except for a valid and exceptional reason—to deny him and say that he must wait, he must do this and that first, that now is not the time for him to be accepted as a believer.  There are two reasons why we cannot do this, first, there is no time, and second, we are not the judges of other people’s hearts and their relationship to God’s Messenger for this Day, sent to them just as much as to us.  Bahá’u’lláh is the Baha’u’llah of anyone who believes in Him.  Having been obliged to accept new believers we are informed in our teachings that whenever there are nine or more adult Bahá’ís they must form or elect a Local Assembly on April.  The result of this is that we get a great many uninformed Bahá’ís and a large number of never-functioning or poorly-functioning Local Assemblies.  There is evidently no alternative method of doing it.  If this, then, is our method, given us by those guided by God, then obviously instead of complaining about it we had better get busy and see how we can make it work better:  the teacher, at the initial contact, should teach with more concentrated wisdom and information in his words and then return, as often as possible, to impart more information to the new believers and assist not only in the election of new Local Assemblies but in their organization and functioning.  If he cannot do this himself then he should make every effort to see that some other Bahá’í does.  This is the essence of deepening.

For a long time I have believed that although summer and winter schools and institutes are essential and in many ways of great value to the friends, we will never succeed in what we mean by deepening and consolidation unless we carry some programme of Bahá’í education to the villages.  There

are many reasons for this:  the people who are invited to attend some course somewhere else are invariably very few and must be selected for some reason or other—because they are outstanding, already travelling teachers, or are headmen, or Assembly members, and so on.  Among those who cannot come in to take an advanced course and thus increase their knowledge are usually the women.  My firm conviction is if there are strong Bahá’í women in a village there will be a strong Bahá’í community there.  Often I advise the friends to concentrate on teaching the grandmothers.  The women, in many tribal societies, and particularly the older women, exert a tremendous influence, even though it may be invisible; if they are against something it will be very hard for it to take root, and if they are for something it will be almost impossible to uproot it.  Another group that is reached by taking the course, or institute, or whatever one wants to call it, to the village is the children; they are not only open-minded and intelligent, but usually those adults who are not Bahá’ís, and even have a resistance towards the Faith, will tolerate the children attending the meetings or special classes held just for them.  This type of village teaching, which a pioneer, unless he speaks the language, cannot carry on alone, requires the individual, or the team, to stay some days in the homes of the villagers, or make some other provision for accommodation in a car or a tent, and then hold classes convenient to the villagers.  This might mean during a season when there is no agricultural activity, at night when the men come home from their work or in the middle of a broiling hot afternoon when the mothers are relatively free before they start getting the evening meal.  The teacher should be at the disposal of the villagers and not vice versa, and the local people and Assembly if one exists should be fully consulted and if they come up with any remotely reasonable suggestions the

pioneer should follow them and not start all over with that interminable “We are used to doing it this way …” in America Persia Australia or wherever he hails from!  Until we do this at village level, all over the world, we will never be able to reinforce the grass roots of the Administration.  Needless to say, native teachers, with no outside help, can carry on such courses to excellent advantage.  But the presence of a foreigner, a pioneer, has great value not only in demonstrating the oneness of mankind but in adding an attraction to the course which one of themselves—the native teacher—does not provide.  However, my own observation has been that a well-informed Bahá’í of his own country can teach the Faith and answer questions often not only as well as but better than we foreigners can.  All people who still live closely in contact with nature have to have their wits about them to survive; the wilderness or forest is no place to be vague or absent-minded!  The concise thinking, clarity and wisdom of villagers’ minds is a never-ending joy to me.

Although “visual aids” may be of use they are far from being a universal cure.  Many typically American and European visual aids are becoming available for the teaching work.  Undoubtedly many of them are of real assistance in illustrating a point or enabling people to grasp a concept.  It does seem to me though that increasingly National.  Assemblies, and particularly the native Bahá’í teachers of a country, should choose what they feel is suitable and useful for their own people.  One cannot go into such a big subject in detail here but certain facts may be of help:

Childish games and gadgets to illustrate a theme can be well-received by some people and insulting to others, such as the people in an African village we heard about who, after being treated by the visiting Bahá’í to a sample of

western visual aids, angrily asked, “Are we children?  Let them talk to us!”

Many of the examples we use in countries with temperate climates—such as the “Divine Springtime”, the barren “winter” at the end of a religious Dispensation before a new “springtime” appears—are useless in areas of the world around the equator because there are no seasons, no one has ever witnessed a spring, so the comparison means nothing.

To play a game with Bahá’í cards may be under some circumstances educational but to throw dice with it is, to me, not only very undignified, but also creates a very bad impression indeed, for in many villages, not to mention cities, gambling games are played with dice; in fact in our own western civilization it is really impossible to disassociate dice from the element of chance and gambling.

Far too many slide shows and films and coverage of Bahá’í events, both in what one sees and what one hears, are far too sophisticated and geared to a mentality that is exposed to not only cinemas but also to television.  A villager who has never heard of television and never seen a film in his life simply cannot understand or follow pictures that convey innuendos or oblique references to a thing symbolically or that jump about from scene to scene.  On the contrary, the deep joy and wonder and satisfaction one sees in villagers’ faces who are given a slide show about the Faith, with every little thing carefully pointed out and explained, is most touching.  They can neither understand nor want to hear a long rigmarole about the history of the Faith and this reference and that to it; it is too far away from their experience and understanding.  Above all, they do not want the pictures to jump from subject to subject or change fast; they just want to sit and be told, “See, that is where Bahá’u’lláh lies buried, that is His Tomb, our holiest Shrine, and we go

in by that door, we approach by that path, those are the beautiful gardens around it, that is the building He died in, see that window on the balcony there?  That was His room.”  I must confess, I, too, enjoy that kind of a show!  I am tired of sophistication.

Pioneers, through an intelligent contemplation of the countries they have gone to live in and the people they are called upon to teach, can be a great help in assisting indigenous methods of teaching, ideally adapted to the mentality of the local people, and thus foster the development of unity in diversity, not unity in uniformity.

Stories, to people all over the world, have a unique fascination.  People everywhere, Bahá’ís and non-Bahá’ís, w sit for hours if someone w only recount to them the details of Bahá’u’lláh’s life, the Báb’s martyrdom, the Master’s words and deeds and travels, how the martyrs died, the saga of this or that famous Bahá’í’s activities.  Among so many new Bahá’ís there is a deep hunger for more information, not just to know more administrative rules, or more of the teachings, but to know all those warm, alive, endearing details associated with the lives of the Central Figures of their newly accepted Faith and with its heroes and heroines.  This is as it should be; for 2,000 years people have lived over and over the life of Christ and His apostles; to tell the wondrous story of such things means as much today as it did in the past.  This is history in stories.

There is another kind of story and that is the illustration; one stresses ones point by giving an example; ‘Abdu’l-Bahá Himself used this method a great deal and His stories and examples are fascinating; but one can make up ones own examples and they are often very effective if one uses something before the audience’s very eyes, such as we are all the leaves of one tree and its branches, and one points to the tree

the meeting is being held under and elaborates the theme.  This is one way that the village teachers of the country excel us in teaching, because they know not only how the minds of their hearers work, but also what examples are in their own tradition and therefore strike them more forcibly.  It took me ages to learn to simplify both my language and my thoughts in order to be effective in village teaching.  It has had a wonderful effect on my own mind, for all my philosophical, involved, abstract, big-word meanderings had to give place to understanding and expressing something as clearly and concisely as I could, both for the sake of the interpreter and the sake of my hearers.  How many times, as I listened to my own forcible and lucid exposition of the Faith I reconverted myself!

Public contacts

Under this heading comes the press, television, radio, public lectures, invitations, meetings with officials and our own general attitude.  Obviously all these require much more detailed treatment than can be given in these pages, but here at least are some suggestions and hints.

To proselytize—that is to unduly insist on ones own beliefs and bring pressure on other people to accept them—is forbidden in the Bahá’í Faith.  We have the right, nay the obligation, to let other people know that this is the Day of a new, long-awaited Manifestation of God.  In doing this we should try at all times to be discreet, courteous, amiable and open-minded towards others and their viewpoint.  Nothing is more distasteful than fanaticism.  The beloved Guardian used to say that we Bahá’ís are “orthodox but not fanatical”.

We must not argue with other people.  Occasionally I have

found that during the question period in my lectures someone begins to dispute with me; when I find we are about to have an argument I say, “Argument is forbidden in my religion, I have no desire to argue with you, you are quite free to hold your own views and I to hold mine.”  Bahá’u’lláh Himself has made this very clear in His own words:  “Beware lest ye contend with any one, nay, strive to make him aware of the truth with kindly manner and most convincing exhortation.  If your hearer respond, he will have responded to his own behoof and if not, turn ye away from him, and set your faces towards God’s sacred Court …  Dispute not with any one concerning the things of this world and its affairs, for God hath abandoned them to such as have set their affection upon them.  Out of the whole world He hath chosen for Himself the hearts of men …”  He furthermore exhorts us:  “Sow not the seeds of discord among men, and refrain from contending with your neighbour …  Open … the city of the human heart with the key of your utterance.”

It is not necessary to have a question period at the end of a lecture, and my advice to speakers who may not have had much experience is to avoid a question period until they feel they are skilled enough to handle it properly, or to arrange the programme in such a way that another Bahá’í, if better able to do so, will reply to the questions.  Very often one of the local believers knows the mentality of the people better than a pioneer or visitor does, and can do this much more satisfactorily.  This does not apply to village meetings, where all the friends will be disappointed if they cannot have this more intimate contact and discussion with the visiting teacher.

Over and over Shoghi Effendi advised the Bahá’ís to study the talks of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and follow His example.  The Master’s talks (which in the West were invariably translated)

were very short, simple and direct and He often underlined His point by telling an anecdote or a story; He seldom dealt with more than one or two subjects at a time.  A great mistake all of us make, in lectures and in encounters with people, is to try and tell them every single thing we can think of about the Bahá’í Faith all at once!  In some lectures, to some audiences, a comprehensive survey of the teachings may be indicated, but generally speaking it is better—particularly where at least half of ones time is taken up by the translator—to stick to a very few sentences about the history of the Faith, and a short outline of what we call its basic principles, and then place special emphasis on the principle of progressive revelation because it is this concept that places the Bahá’í Faith on the stage of history and helps the hearers to grasp the grand—and usually to them unheard of—concept of the over-all scheme of God:  one God, educating one humanity, through what is fundamentally one religion, all down the ages.

The Guardian, in a small pamphlet entitled The Faith of Baha’u’llah, a World Religion, which was a statement he prepared as Head of the Faith for the United Nations Special Committee on Palestine, at its invitation, in 1947, has given the most perfect and complete short outline of what this Faith represents that we will ever have.  I quote it herewith in full so that it may be available to the friends for easy reference in making their own outlines of their talks, which is what I myself often use it for.  In addition to this, it is an excellent introductory pamphlet to give to scholarly people; the English is too advanced, however, for the average non-English-speaking person to understand unless he has had a very good education in that language.

The Faith established by Bahá’u’lláh was born in Persia about the middle of the nineteenth century and has, as

a result of the successive banishments of its Founder, culminating in His exile to the Turkish penal colony of ‘Akká, and His subsequent death and burial in its vicinity, fixed its permanent spiritual center in the Holy Land, and is now in the process of laying the foundations of its world administrative center in the city of Haifa.

Alike in the claims unequivocally asserted by its Author and the general character of the growth of the Bahá’í community in every continent of the globe, it can be regarded in no other light than a world religion, destined to evolve in the course of time into a world-embracing commonwealth, whose advent must signalize the Golden Age of mankind, the age in which the unity of the human race will have been unassailably established, its maturity attained, and its glorious destiny unfolded through the birth and efflorescence of a world-encompassing civilization.

Though sprung from Sh‘h Islám, and regarded, in the early stages of its development, by the followers of both the Muslim and Christian Faiths, as an obscure sect, an Asiatic cult or an off-shoot of the Muhammadan religion, this Faith is now increasingly demonstrating its right to be recognized, not as one more religious system superimposed on the conflicting creeds which for so many generations have divided mankind and darkened its fortunes, but rather as a restatement of the eternal verities underlying all the religions of the past, as a unifying force instilling into the adherents of these religions a new spiritual vigor, infusing them with a new hope and love for mankind, firing them with a new vision of the fundamental unity of their religious doctrines, and unfolding to their eyes the glorious destiny that awaits the human race.

The fundamental principle enunciated by Bahá’u’lláh,

the followers of His Faith firmly believe, is that religious truth is not absolute but relative, that Divine Revelation is a continuous and progressive process, that all the great religions of the world are divine in origin, that their basic principles are in complete harmony, that their aims and purposes are one and the same, that their teachings are but facets of one truth, that their functions are complementary, that they differ only in the non-essential aspects of their doctrines and that their missions represent successive stages in the spiritual evolution of human society.

The aim of Bahá’u’lláh, the Prophet of this new and great age which humanity has entered upon—He whose advent fulfils the prophecies of the Old and New Testaments as well as those of the Qur’án regarding the coming of the Promised One in the end of time, on the Day of judgment—is not to destroy but to fulfill the Revelations of the past, to reconcile rather than accentuate the divergences of the conflicting creeds which disrupt present-day society.

His purpose, far from belittling the station of the Prophets gone before Him or of whittling down their teachings, is to restate the basic truths which these teachings enshrine in a manner that would conform to the needs, and be in consonance with the capacity, and be applicable to the problems, the ills and perplexities, of the age in which we live.  His mission is to proclaim that the ages of the infancy and of the childhood of the human race are past, that the convulsions associated with the present stage of its adolescence are slowly and painfully preparing it to attain the stage of manhood, and are heralding the approach of that Age of Ages when swords will be beaten into plowshares, when the Kingdom promised by Jesus Christ will have been established, and the peace

of the planet definitely and permanently ensured.  Nor does Baha’u’llah claim finality for His own Revelation, but rather stipulates that a fuller measure of the truth He has been commissioned by the Almighty to vouchsafe to humanity, at so critical a juncture in its fortunes, must needs be disclosed at future stages in the constant and limitless evolution of mankind.

The Bahá’í Faith upholds the unity of God, recognizes the unity of His Prophets, and inculcates the principle of the oneness and wholeness of the entire human race.  It proclaims the necessity and the inevitability of the unification of mankind, asserts that it is gradually approaching, and claims that nothing short of the transmuting spirit of God, working through His chosen Mouthpiece in this day, can ultimately succeed in bringing it about.  It, moreover, enjoins upon its followers the primary duty of an unfettered search after truth, condemns all manner of prejudice and superstition, declares the purpose of religion to be the promotion of amity and concord, proclaims its essential harmony with science, and recognizes it as the foremost agency for the pacification and the orderly progress of human society.  It unequivocally maintains the principle of equal rights, opportunities and privileges for men and women, insists on compulsory education, eliminates extremes of poverty and wealth, abolishes the institution of priesthood, prohibits slavery, asceticism, mendicancy and monasticism, prescribes monogamy, discourages divorce, emphasizes the necessity of strict obedience to one’s government, exalts any work performed in the spirit of service to the level of worship, urges either the creation or selection of an auxiliary international language, and delineates the outlines of those institutions that must establish and perpetuate the general peace of mankind.

The Bahá’í Faith revolves around three central Figures, the first of whom was a youth, a native of Shíráz, named Mírzá ‘Alí-Muhammad, known as the Báb (Gate), Who in May, 1844, at the age of twentyfive, advanced the claim of being the Herald Who, according to the sacred Scriptures of previous Dispensations, must needs announce and prepare the way for the advent of One greater than Himself, Whose mission would be according to those same Scriptures, to inaugurate an era of righteousness and peace, an era that would be hailed as the consummation of all previous Dispensations, and initiate a new cycle in the religious history of mankind.  Swift and severe persecution, launched by the organized forces of Church and State in His native land, precipitated successively His arrest, His exile to the mountains of Ádhirbáyján, His imprisonment in the fortresses of Máh-Kú and Chihríq, and His execution, in July, 1850, by a firing squad in the public square of Tabríz.  No less than twenty thousand of His followers were put to death with such barbarous cruelty as to evoke the warm sympathy and the unqualified admiration of a number of Western writers, diplomats, travelers and scholars, some of whom were witnesses of these abominable outrages, and were moved to record them in their books and diaries.

Mírzá Husayn-‘Alí, surnamed Bahá’u’lláh (the Glory of God), a native of Mázindarán, Whose advent the Báb had foretold, was assailed by those same forces of ignorance and fanaticism, was imprisoned in Tihrán, was banished, in 1852, from His native land to Baghdad, and thence to Constantinople and Adrianople, and finally to the prison city of ‘Akká, where He remained incarcerated for no less than twentyfour years, and in whose neighborhood He passed away in 1892.  In the course of His

banishment, and particularly in Adrianople and ‘Akká, He formulated the laws and ordinances of His Dispensation, expounded, in over a hundred volumes, the principles of His Faith, proclaimed His Message to the kings and rulers of both the East and the West, both Christian and Muslim, addressed the Pope, the Caliph of Islám, the Chief Magistrates of the Republics of the American continent, the entire Christian sacerdotal order, the leaders of Sh’h and Sunní Islám, and the high priests of the Zoroastrian religion.  In these writings He proclaimed His Revelation, summoned those whom He addressed to heed His call and espouse His Faith, warned them of the consequences of their refusal, and denounced, in some cases, their arrogance and tyranny.

His eldest son, ‘Abbás Effendi, known as ‘Abdu’l-Bahá (the Servant of Bahá), appointed by Him as His lawful successor and the authorized interpreter of His teachings, Who since early childhood had been closely associated with His Father, and shared His exile and tribulations, remained a prisoner until 1908, when, as a result of the Young Turk Revolution, He was released from His confinement.  Establishing His residence in Haifa, He embarked soon after on His three-year journey to Egypt, Europe and North America, in the course of which He expounded before vast audiences, the teachings of His Father and predicted the approach of that catastrophe that was soon to befall mankind.  He returned to His home on the eve of the first World War, in the course of which He was exposed to constant danger, until the liberation of Palestine by the forces under the command of General Allenby, who extended the utmost consideration to Him and to the small band of His fellow-exiles in ‘Akká and Haifa.  In 1921 He passed away, and was buried in a vault in the

mausoleum erected on Mount Carmel, at the express instruction of Bahá’u’lláh for the remains of the Báb, which had previously been transferred from Tabriz to the Holy Land after having been preserved and concealed for no less than sixty years.

The passing of ‘Abdul-Baba marked the termination of the first and Heroic Age of the Bahá’í Faith and signalized the opening of the Formative Age destined to witness the gradual emergence of its Administrative Order, whose establishment had been foretold by the Báb, whose laws were revealed by Bahá’u’lláh, whose outlines were delineated by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in His Will and Testament, and whose foundations are now being laid by the national and local councils which are elected by the professed adherents of the Faith, and which are paving the way for the constitution of the World Council, to be designated as the Universal House of Justice, which, in conjunction with me, as its appointed Head and the authorized interpreter of the Bahá’í teachings, must coordinate and direct the affairs of the Bahá’í community, and whose seat will be permanently established in the Holy Land, in close proximity to its world spiritual center, the resting-places of its Founders.

The Administrative Order of the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh, which is destined to evolve into the Bahá’í World Commonwealth, and has already survived the assaults launched against its institutions by such formidable foes as the kings of the Qájár dynasty, the Caliphs of Islám, the ecclesiastical leaders of Egypt, and the Nazi regime in Germany, has already extended its ramifications to every continent of the globe, stretching from Iceland to the extremity of Chile, has been established in no less than eightyeight countries of the world, has gathered within its pale repre-

sentatives of no less than thirtyone races, numbers among its supporters Christians of various denominations, Muslims of both Sunn and Sh‘h sects, Jews, Hindus, Sikhs, Zoroastrians and Buddhists.  It has published and disseminated, through its appointed agencies, Bahá’í literature in fortyeight languages; has already consolidated its structure through the incorporation of five National Assemblies and seventyseven local Assemblies, in lands as far apart as South America, India and the Antipodes—incorporations that legally empower its elected representatives to hold property as trustees of the Bahá’í community.  It disposes of international, national and local endowments, estimated at several million pounds, and spread over every continent of the globe, enjoys in several countries the privilege of official recognition by the civil authorities, enabling it to secure exemption from taxation for its endowments and to solemnize Bahá’í marriage, and numbers among its stately edifices, two temples, the one erected in Russian Turkistan and the other on the shore of Lake Michigan at Wilmette, on the outskirts of Chicago.

This Administrative Order, unlike the systems evolved after the death of the Founders of the various religions, is divine in origin, rests securely on the laws, the precepts, the ordinances and institutions which the Founder of the Faith has Himself specifically laid down and unequivocally established, and functions in strict accordance with the interpretations of the authorized Interpreters of its holy scriptures.  Though fiercely assailed, ever since its inception, it has, by virtue of its character, unique in the annals of the world’s religious history, succeeded in maintaining the unity of the diversified and far-flung body of its supporters, and enabled them to launch, unitedly and systematically, enterprises in both Hemispheres, designed

to extend its limits and consolidate its administrative institutions.

The Faith which this order serves, safeguards and promotes, is, it should be noted in this connection, essentially supernatural, supranational, entirely non-political, non-partisan, and diametrically opposed to any policy or school of thought that seeks to exalt any particular race, class or nation.  It is free from any form of ecclesiasticism, has neither priesthood nor rituals, and is supported exclusively by voluntary contributions made by its avowed adherents.  Though loyal to their respective governments, though imbued with the love of their own country, and anxious to promote, at all times, its best interests, the followers of the Bahá’í Faith, nevertheless, viewing mankind as one entity, and profoundly attached to its vital interests, will not hesitate to subordinate every particular interest, be it personal, regional or national, to the overriding interests of the generality of mankind, knowing full well that in a world of interdependent peoples and nations the advantage of the part is best to be reached by the advantage of the whole, and that no lasting result can be achieved by any of the component parts if the general interests of the entity itself are neglected.

Nor should the fact be overlooked that the Faith has already asserted and demonstrated its independent religious character, has been emancipated from the fetters of orthodoxy in certain Islamic countries, has obtained in one of them an unsolicited testimony to its independent religious status, and succeeded in winning the allegiance of royalty to its cause.

“It is like a wide embrace,” is Queen Marie of Rumania’s own tribute, “gathering together all those who have searched for words of hope.  It accepts all great Prophets

gone before, it destroys no other creeds and leaves all doors open. …  The Bahá’í teaching brings peace to the soul and hope to the heart.  To those in search of assurance, the words of the Father are as a fountain in the desert after long wandering. …  It is a wondrous message that Bahá’u’lláh and His son ‘Abdu’l-Bahá have given us.  They have not set it up aggressively, knowing that the germ of eternal truth which lies at its core cannot but take root and spread. …  It is Christ’s Message taken up anew, in the same words almost, but adapted to the thousand years and more difference that lies between the year one and today …  If ever the name of Bahá’u’lláh or ‘Abdu’l-Bahá comes to your attention, do not put their writings from you.  Search out their books, and let their glorious, peace-bringing, love-creating words and lessons sink into your hearts as they have into mine.”

“The teachings of the Bábís,” wrote Leo Tolstoy, “… have a great future before them ...  I therefore sympathize with Bábism with all my heart, inasmuch as it teaches people brotherhood and equality and sacrifice of material life for service to God …  The teachings of the Bábís which come to us out of Islám have through Bahá’u’lláh’s teachings been gradually developed, and now present us with the highest and purest form of religious teaching.”

“Take these principles to the diplomats,” is the late President Masaryk’s advice, “to the universities and colleges and other schools, and also write about them.  It is the people who will bring the universal peace.”  “The Bahá’í teaching,” is President Eduard Benes’ testimony, “is one of the great instruments for the final victory of the spirit and of humanity …  The Bahá’í Cause is one of the great moral and social forces in all the world today.  I

am more convinced than ever, with the increasing moral and political crises in the world, we must have greater international coordination.  Such a movement as the Bahá’í Cause which paves the way for universal organization of peace is necessary.”

“If there has been any Prophet in recent times,” asserts the Rev. T. K. Cheyne in his The Reconciliation of Races and Religions, “it is to Baha’u’llah that we must go.  Character is the final judge.  Baha’u’llah was a man of the highest class—that of Prophets.”  “It is possible indeed,” declares Viscount Samuel of Carmel, “to pick out points of all creeds.  That is the essential purpose of the Bahá’í religion, the foundation and growth of which is one of the most striking movements that have proceeded from the East in recent generations.”

“Palestine,” is Professor Norman Bentwich’s written testimony, “may indeed be now regarded as the land not of three but of four faiths, because the Bahá’í creed, which has its center of faith and pilgrimage in ‘Akká and Haifa, is attaining to the character of a world religion.  So far as its influence goes in the land, it is a factor making for international and inter-religious understanding.”

And, finally, is the judgment passed by no less outstanding a figure than the late Master of Balliol, Professor Benjamin Jowett:  “The Bábí movement may not impossibly turn out to have the promise of the future.”  Professor Lewis Campbell, an eminent pupil of Dr. Jowett, has confirmed this statement by quoting him as saying:  “This Bahá’í Movement is the greatest light that has come into the world since the time of Jesus Christ.  You must watch it and never let it out of your sight.  It is too great and too near for this generation to comprehend.  The future alone can reveal its import.”

The statistical information in this statement (made over half a century ago) needs to be updated as follows:  the literature of the Faith has been published in over 802 languages; its National Spiritual Assemblies now number 182, of which 148 are legally incorporated or registered; the races and tribes represented within it exceed 2,112 and it has spread to 236 independent countries, territories and major islands of the globe.  When asked how many Bahá’ís there are in the worldthe correct reply is the one Shoghi Effendi himself always said we should give, namely, the number of centres where Bahá’ís reside which, at the present time, is approximately 128,000.  In mentioning Bahá’í Templesthe ones in Frankfurt, Germany; Sydney, Australia; Kampala, Uganda; Panama City, Panama; Apia, Western Samoa; and New Delhi, India should be added to the one in Wilmette, in the United States; if any question is asked about the first Bahá’í House of Worship, erected in Russia at the beginning of the twentieth century, the reply should be that it was destroyed some years ago by a severe earthquake in ‘Ishqábád.  The above figures can be brought up to date annually as new statistics are released by the Universal House of Justice.

I myself often quote that brilliant sentence that the Faith is “essentially supernatural, supranational, entirely non-political, non-partisan, and diametrically opposed to any policy or school of thought that seeks to exalt any particular race, class or nation”, and as most people know what “supernatural” means but have never heard of “supranational”, I give the illustration that it is like the sky, which covers everything, the whole earth.  People are delighted to add this new and interesting word to their vocabulary and it drives home the concept of our Teachings in relation to the whole world.  In places outside Europe and North America it has been my experience that in meetings and receptions given by

Bahá’ís the public is not anxious to leave.  To decide that one is going to give a thirty or forty minute talk, with a ten minute question period, or to decide that an hour and a half should take care of the reception and make another engagement for after that time is up, does not work out at all.  Sometimes one feels impelled to speak for an hour or even longer, sometimes there are no questions, and sometimes one cannot get the audience to stop asking them and let the tired, often non-Bahá’í chairman go home, not to mention ones self!  People can come over an hour late to the reception in ones honour—or not at all!—and remain, having a lovely time and eating everything in sight, long after one had calculated the whole thing would be over.  The way to meet these things is to be relaxed, resigned to ones fate and as friendly amiable and patient as one can manage to be often at the point of utter exhaustion!  Probably, in more than one moment of zeal, the pioneer has prayed, “May my life be a sacrifice”; occasions such as these are the pay-off—one of the pay-offs!

Most people are conservative and in Africa and Asia and many other places there is a definite formality on all public occasions; they dress formally, the men often wearing ties and jackets with their suit, the women their best.  For the foreign Bahá’í to slouch in in slacks or jeans or a sweat shirt is definitely a test to those of the country, and surely a wholly unnecessary one, as courtesy, and to dress properly, are enjoined in the teachings; if the travelling Bahá’í does not possess anything formal in the line of clothing, then he can at least make an effort to appear as neat and clean and well-groomed as possible.  In all societies, everywhere in the world, to honour ones guests is customary and also to honour ones host.

In many village as well as town meetings a careful pro-

gramme has been arranged with every detail planned and often this is written or even typed, and the visitor gets his copy.  I remember one on which I was item seven and invited to speak fifteen minutes.  I waited my turn, needless to say, but I spoke a lot longer than fifteen minutes—having at that point travelled well over 20,000 miles to get there!

If a gift is presented, it should be graciously accepted and thanks given.  I recall an occasion on which a pioneer who was with us refused to allow villagers to present a gift of food to take away with us, saying we did not need it but they did.  The intention was good but the act was insulting to our hosts; the best thing is to accept gracefully.  Among some groups of people to present this gift of food is a time-honoured tribal custom and to refuse it is humiliating to them and their ways.  In this connection it is well to remember that if the pioneer or travelling teacher is going to stay with a Bahá’í family, or in someones home, to take a gift of food, such as sugar or tea or some canned goods or something else, is both courteous and acceptable.  One has to have enough perception and fine feeling to sense what is the right thing and tactful thing to do and one should also inquire a little into local customs.  But under all circumstances the most important thing to do is not to offend or hurt others.

In all such matters one must seek to find the proper balance.  Baha’u’llah tells us:  “o man should enter the house of his friend save at his friend’s pleasure, nor lay hands upon his treasures nor prefer his own will to his friend’s, and in no wise seek an advantage over him.”  This is a very strong statement and it certainly protects the rights of the individual not to be imposed upon by unwanted guests or guests he cannot afford to even feed.  In many places of this world the rural people well know that to take a traveller in—any traveller—can mean the difference between life and

death, particularly in areas where water is very scarce and where their kindness and hospitality is literally life-giving.  But there are occasions, and I have seen many of them, when travelling Bahá’ís seem to think that part of the duty and function of other Bahá’ís with homes is to take them in and house and feed them.  This surely is not the right attitude nor according to Bahá’u’lláh’s explicit injunction.

In press interviews and radio and television programmes the focus is usually on one of two things:  the individual as a person—who are you, why are you here, what do you think about our country, where are you going?—or it is directly on the Bahá’í Faith.  It has been my experience that as time on radio and television is usually brief—often about five minutes spot news—the main thing is to get over certain key words, to say at least once, clearly, “Bahá’í” and founded by “Bahá’u’lláh”, in some way mentioning His name, and to state if possible the great central themes of our Faith, namely, progressive revelation, peace, world unity, the oneness of mankind and the abolition of all prejudices; of course if one has time to say more, to give the basic principles and an idea of how widespread the Faith is today, all the better.  I have long since decided that in these public contacts, whether lectures, press interviews, or radio and television talks, the supremely important thing is that people should be left with the impression that “Bahá’í”—one hopes they get at least that word into their memories—is a good thing.  We want to create waves of friendliness, not unfriendliness towards the Faith; we want people to say, “Bahá’í?  Oh yes, I once heard something about that.  It is a good thing.”  More than this, in superficial contacts, we cannot hope for.  Never antagonize, never criticize, never be negative.  Often one starts to say something and is never given a chance to finish, so one should avoid any negative approach, mistakenly believing

one can explain what one means later on.  Sometimes I made a point to praise the work of missionaries, for two reasons:  first, because of the many wonderful services they render mankind and second, because it is very difficult to attack someone who praises you, you find you have been disarmed.

When a pioneer or a local community decides to give a reception and invite important guests to honour a Bahá’í visitor or notable, or on some other special occasion, it should be well planned, with proper invitations either printed or written by hand and sent out well ahead of time to ensure that those invited have had enough notice; if government and municipal officials, ambassadors or consuls are to be invited, as well as other prominent people and leaders, they must know at least a week or more in advance, otherwise they will have other engagements.  I have attended more than one reception to which almost no one except the Bahá’ís came because of the fact that the invitations were not properly issued or sent sufficiently ahead of time.  Another point to remember is that as far as possible the Bahá’í reception should not come at the same time as some other reception or event to which all these officials will automatically be going; if an embassy is giving a party, or there is some municipal or government event taking place, priority will be given to it by all this class of people and they will not turn up at the Bahá’í reception.  I find a great many mistakes Bahá’ís make are just because they do not do what other people do and they do not inquire as to proper usage.  In this connection it is well to remember that one should not invite both ambassadors and consuls; generally speaking higher-ranking officials are insulted if lower-ranking ones are also invited and it may be sufficient for them not to come.

For those who may not be familiar with the accepted wording of a formal invitation, here is the general pattern:

The Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Chicago

requests the pleasure of the company of

His Excellency the Greek Ambassador and Mme. Peter Appolo

at a reception in honour of

Mr. Horatio Smith

to be held at the Masonic Hall, 119 West Portfolia Street

on Thursday, January the tenth

at 5 p.m.

r.s.v.p.

This is only an example; the top line could be the name of the pioneer, if he were giving the reception as an individual, or the name of the National Assembly if it were giving the reception.  In any case the set-up is the same; the line where the guest’s name comes is left open and the name written in by hand.  In big cities the hour of the reception should also be carefully chosen to make it convenient for the maximum number of people to attend; a reception can, in principle, be held at any hour; at whatever hour is chosen some refreshments must be served; these can be expensive catering, or bottles of pop and sweet biscuits, depending on where, when and who!  It is customary to put r.s.v.p. in the corner (an abbreviation of the French expression to please answer this invitation and say if you are or are not coming) but, alas, nowadays people seldom respect this and one has to calculate about how many people there may be.  In almost every town of any size one can find a little print shop to print these invitations and often the printer may have a form to show one which can be adapted and copied.  One can get good

advice in such matters from a consulate or people who are connected with foreign companies and have experience in such formal social occasions.

In planning a public lecture one should likewise be careful to choose the hour day and place which will ensure the greatest success, and as far as possible suitable advance publicity should be given and people invited at a time some other competitive event is not taking place, otherwise the effort, and often the expense of renting a hall, is wasted and through lack of forethought the pioneers and local believers are disappointed that their big event fell flat.

In meeting with officials one should be extremely careful what one says.  Higher officials, the President, Ministers and Members of Parliament, should not be contacted without advice from the National Assembly of that country or, failing the possibility of this if no meeting is scheduled or some other real hindrance exists, then at least asking the advice of one of the Counsellors or a Board member.  There are often delicate and important relationships being established by the Bahá’í administrative bodies with officials, often under the direct guidance of the Universal House of Justice itself, and all Bahá’ís, including pioneers and travelling teachers, must remember that they are under the jurisdiction of the National Assembly of the country they are in and have no right to seek interviews with such high officials without its permission.

My own experience is that officials and reporters invariably want to know how many Bahá’ís there are in the world.  The Guardian said that we should not give any numbers—indeed we do not know them to give—but rather state the widespread nature of the Faith.  In other words the answer is that because in some countries Bahá’ís are still suppressed, and we cannot take a census, and in many others are living in rural areas and are illiterate, or are nomads, we have no

exact lists, but what we do know is that we now have Bahá’ís everywhere in the world, in about 128,000 centres; we should inform people that we are accredited to the United Nations as a non-governmental organization with consultative status, pointing out that this is a privilege which we take full advantage of by attending and taking part in conferences, mentioning the latest ones if we happen to know them.  There are also likely to be very pointed questions as to “How many Bahá’ís are there in this city?  In this country?”  The best, and strictly truthful answer to this is, “I do not know.  I am a visitor here, but I understand there are many Bahá’ís (or a few)”, depending on which statement is more accurate.  My personal policy is that if I find my questioner is antagonistic—and he may well be so as a devout Christian or Muslim—I am doubly careful not to be provocative.

If the person one is talking to is a reporter, remember that no matter what one says he is likely to print things the way he wishes or sees them, and if the person is an official he may, through ones indiscretion or carelessness, get an entirely prejudiced idea of the Faith which can do it a lot of harm and undo the painstaking efforts of the local Bahá’ís and older pioneers.  If the travelling teacher or pioneer decides to write an article on the Faith for publication, he should remember it must first be submitted to a proper Bahá’í body for approval.  Through precautions such as these we can protect the Cause at the same time as we promote it.

In connection with publicizing the Faith it should be borne in mind that the “Bahá’í Faith” is the correct term to use and not “Bahá’í World Faith”.  The Universal House of Justice, in a letter to a National Spiritual Assembly written in 1967, made this quite clear, stating that:  “The designation ‘The Bahá’í Faith’ is more dignified and is preferable.  Any adjective added to this name tends to a diminution of its

stature and might be taken to mean there are other ‘Bahá’í Faiths’.”

It is extremely important, as already pointed out, for the Bahá’ís to avoid “confrontations” with other people on the Faith.  If a violent attack on it is made, one can rise to defend it in a meeting or to correct a flagrant misstatement of facts in the press.  But to seek out the followers of other religions, or their priests, and attempt to argue it out, and demonstrate that Bahá’u’lláh and His teachings are right, is not proper and can do nothing but harm.  Likewise to frequent mosques and churches in order to argue and debate with others regarding our teachings is certainly wrong; such acts, far from creating goodwill towards the Bahá’ís and the Message of Bahá’u’lláh stir up trouble, alienate people, and prejudice them against us, not only temporarily, but in villages for many years to come.

Another point to be borne in mind is that in this age of abbreviations, when increasingly so much is being reduced to a kind of verbal shorthand, and initials are taking the place of words, we Bahá’ís seem to have fallen into this same bad habit and glibly refer to the nsa, itc, cbc, ntc, rtc, av and Lord knows what!  Although some Bahá’ís may know what all this stands for, some of us do not, and certainly people in other countries do not, for the Spanish French or Swahili for “nsa” would be entirely different and no one could dream it meant “National Spiritual Assembly”, the highest body of a community of Bahá’u’lláh’s followers in any given area.  If it is confusing (not to mention unnecessary and undignified) for Bahá’ís themselves to hear all these abbreviations, they mean nothing at all to non-Bahá’ís and it is both rude and irritating to other people for us to constantly refer to things in a kind of code, more particularly so as we would like them to know what our Bahá’í institutions are

and to admire and respect them.  If the purpose of using abbreviations is to economize on words, I suggest this can be done by going back to a simple, direct use of small English verbs and nouns:  instead of saying, “he proceeded to embark on his transportation at the conveyance terminal”, just say, “he got on the bus”.  Instead of saying, “the rhetorical hyperbole displayed by Professor Smith in his dissertation”, just say, “Professor Smith spoke very well”.  In foreign lands, at any rate, this clarity and simplicity will be much appreciated and make it a great deal easier to teach the Bahá’í Faith.

Patience

Nothing is a better training for the soul than the amount of patience that has to be summoned up when one goes out as a pioneer or travelling teacher.  Strictly speaking, although the merit in being a pioneer is far greater—having abandoned ones home and native land to serve God—the patience required of a travelling teacher exceeds even that required of a pioneer!

Always we must keep before our eyes a fact, not a theory, that over two billion of the almost six billion people in this world are living a life atypical to the minority.  Urban and suburban life—and to a great extent the rural life of Western Europe and North America, as well as the life in the vast metropolises of this world such as Rome, London, Paris, New York, Teheran, Calcutta, Rio de Janeiro, Tokyo, and so on—is not shared in at all by the majority of the world’s population who still live in villages or as nomads.  Strangely enough, during the various plans that have formed part of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s great Divine Plan, it has usually been the city individual, from an advanced-standard-of-living environment, who has arisen to serve in far places and written his

or her name in letters of gold in the annals of the Formative Age of our Faith.

The point is that whereas people living in the highly competitive urban atmosphere of our present devastatingly materialistic civilization of the West are governed by clocks, by a perpetual sense of haste and of fear of not being the first, ahead on time, the vast majority of the human race do not even own a clock or a watch see no reason to hurry, and therefore go through life much more relaxed, sweet-tempered, ulcer-free, and high-blood-pressure-free, than their city counterparts.  Bahá’ís pioneering or travelling in Africa, Asia, Latin America and the Pacific, must realize this fact.  It is, I believe, of supreme importance for them to appreciate it and accept it because constantly they are going to be subjected to what is for them, at least in the beginning, a great strain, and the strain is far from being confined to clock problems!  Take some of the things that happen (chosen at random) as one travels or lives in these places so different from the places some of us come from, yet so fascinating, interesting, and warmly human.

You call the hotel room boy to come clean your room while you are still in it because you have so many papers and bits and pieces lying about that you prefer to keep your key with you when you go out.  Although the hotel you are staying in is one of the best in that big Latin American city, the boy has no bucket to wash the bathroom floor, so he uses the wastepaper basket; he also has no cloth, so you see him take the used face towel he is going to change anyway and clean the toilet and floor with that, knowing the “clean” one he carefully places on the towel rack was used for the same purpose yesterday!  He has no dust pan, but neatly sweeps the debris across the wall-to-wall carpeting and out into the corridor.  Usually such a servant is tidy and clean according

to the possibilities given him, very courteous and, if you treat him decently, probably honest.  Why, you ask yourself, does the hotel give him no bucket, dust pan, floor cloth or vacuum cleaner?  The answer is because it will be mislaid or pilfered in no time, or the employee has no sense whatever of how to treat a machine, and an expensive electrical appliance will soon be ruined.  You steam with impatience while the servant thoroughly, slowly, accomplishes his task by methods you heartily disapprove of.

You have an appointment to speak at a public or Bahá’í gathering, yet even in a place like Latin America’s capital cities, your chairman may inform you that he will drive you there half to three-quarters of an hour after the time the meeting is scheduled to begin so that you will not be kept waiting while the audience straggles in.

You, a travelling teacher, limited in time, having perhaps given your vacation to render this service, are handed a schedule of meetings arranged for you in villages and towns; with some, or a lot of difficulty, often by local bus or taxi service, often even entirely alone in a strange country, you arrive at your destination to find either no Bahá’ís gathered, the only person whose name you had to contact has unexpectedly had to go out or go away, there was a death and all the villagers are at the funeral, there is a football game or a political rally—or, or, or!

So many personal (and in retrospect!) very endearing memories come back to me:  such as the meeting where we sat in an open courtyard, after driving 80 kilometres to get there, and waited for over an hour for the Bahá’ís to turn up; a mother hen and her chicks, one pullet and two ducks were the only living things that came!  Finally, after asking a housewife who was cooking her supper in a corner of the yard if she spoke any French, and ascertaining she did, I

asked her to tell anyone who might eventually come, that we had been forced to return to the city as night was falling.  We heard later that forty people came—but when!  This incident was far from unusual but in this case part of the blame fell on the arrangements made as the meeting was scheduled to start when most of the Bahá’ís were still at their employment and could not get away.

Aside from such contingencies there is the ever-present one of the road and the meeting.  I recall an extreme example of this when a National Assembly (who love me very much and whom I love) arranged a meeting ahead of time; it had rained during the night and I asked the member with me, who had already been there a few days before, if the road was passable.  Oh, yes! quite passable, and there were over a hundred believers there.  It was a eight mile trek, in and out, in mud-filled ruts over the axles of the Land Rover.  Without the Land Rover I would never had made it, and my arms and shoulders ached for days afterwards from the effort of holding the heavy car to the slippery road and forcing her over it in low gear, four wheel drive.  We finally arrived to find four people gathered under six trees on a hillside.  I was really irritated that time and added my own steam to the already steaming atmosphere of the countryside!  But an old man, a new Bahá’í, chastened my spirit by thanking me most courteously for coming, and saying:  “We new believers are like children, we need care and to be visited and taught more.”  I have never forgotten him or his words and spirit, and would drive to that rendezvous gladly again to see him.  Often in our disappointments are hidden precious rewards.  What reward could be greater than for a Bahá’í pioneer to hear an old man, an African villager, say:  “I lost my heart.  I had no heart and the Bahá’ís came to my village and gave me back my heart; they gave me back my heart—thank you.”

Another experience, by no means uncommon in some places, was our arrival, dead tired after driving in the intense heat for hours, at a farm where many friends had gathered for the meeting.  Our hostess, after we had driven into the back yard and she was sure we were there, counted noses and went off to cook the lunch for everyone (boiled plantains), which was then served three hours later when we were faint with exhaustion and hunger.  It was a very happy occasion, and the hardship has singled it out in my mind as such.

Experiences like these teach us patience.  Without it one had better stay at home, for anger, impatience and irritation will do no good but only ruin ones own nerves and digestion, and hurt, alienate and puzzle the native people of the country one is a guest in.

One not only needs patience with the climate, the roads, the food and often the living conditions, as well as the people who live in a totally different time world from our own—usually the villagers’—but the pioneer or travelling Bahá’í must muster his patience and fortify himself with it and with prayers when he has any work to do in a foreign country with either government officials or in government offices.  This is really a point of great importance, for usually, somehow, he is recognized as a Bahá’í; Bahá’ís are better known than they think and often observed covertly with intense interest and curiosity—and sometimes animosity herefore it is absolutely essential to be polite, patient and share a warm word or smile with the people one is dealing with.  One of the most wonderful things about Africa—where a white person can sometimes find he is being paid back for a long history of the way his race emphasized it was white to the detriment of the black race—is that a warm smile almost invariably will be met by a smile in response.  It is one reason I miss Africa so much.

My personal experience is that in almost no case does a public servant consider he is there to serve you as a member of the public; he is much more likely to treat you as someone over whom he temporarily has power and is determined to make you feel this.  Because of this almost universal attitude of petty officials it is much better, if at all feasible, to try to see the person at the top.  This is particularly true of things that concern important Bahá’í business and not merely ones own personal affairs.

“Culture shock”

This term—one being bandied about at a great rate these days inside Bahá’í circles—irritates me extremely.  It is typical of the new quasi-scientific jargon being increasingly used in our modern society, as if what it describes had been recently invented, and no one ever—under another name—had the same thing a million years ago!  It means, as far as I can discover from listening to its silly application, that a person leaves his own place, goes to another, different place, and, as the place he left was something he was used to and had its own characteristics—in other words constituted his “culture”—and the new place he has arrived at is different, he has a “shock”, a “culture shock”.  So what?  Why make it sound so important?  The young stork that was hatched in Scandinavia, when he arrives in Egypt with his parents to spend the winter, must also have a frightful culture shock, and the salmon spawned up in a cold northern river must get a jolt when he gets down to the warmer salt waters of the sea, but both species do it annually—and hundreds of others—and tremendous differences of environment are experienced by each new generation of such animals.  It is all,

evidently, perfectly natural and no one, before this new term came along, ever made much fuss about it.  I never heard that my ancestors who migrated to North America from Scotland and England suffered “culture shock”, nor do we read it in the diaries of the pioneers who crossed America in covered wagons and were shot at by Indians.  It was different, but it was not a shock; to adapt to things that are different is innate in man, the most highly adaptable creature on the face of the earth!

The pioneer, before he starts out, should make up his mind that quite naturally things are going to be different and that this is one of the great charms of and incitements to go pioneering.  He need have no “shocks”; he undoubtedly will have many surprises, and sometimes things that happen will, indeed, be shocking, but shocking things already happened to him in the course of his life at home and will happen to him again if he goes back.  Whenever people use this term “culture shock” it always seems to be applied to and arouse all ones sympathy for the person who arrives at his pioneer post.  I have never heard anyone talk about the formidable “culture shock” we foreigners must constantly present to the people of the countries we are visiting!  Is it because we are so over-civilized, so spoiled by our materialism, so arrogant about our accomplishments and so conceited that only we are shockable?  When I think about our manners, the way we dress and what we insist on eating and the insulting criticisms we make openly of the people different from ourselves whom we meet, I am horrified at what they must think of us.

One day, when visiting a tiny village of Bushman families in the Kalahari Desert, a young college student who was with us, eager to buy an ostrich egg, went around and gathered up a number and reappeared with them all in his arms, asking me which was the best?  I was horrified and said “You

didn’t go into their houses and take those out?”  It seemed he had.  When I was his age I would probably have done exactly the same thing, but I asked him how he would feel if someone went into his room in his home and took out his belongings without so much as a “by-your-leave”?  It would be a rare tribesman who would offer any of us a similar inconsideration and discourtesy.  On that occasion, who received the greater “culture shock”, we or the Bushmen?

The more one comes to know different men in different places the more one grows to appreciate the fact that we are all the same, all the leaves of the one tree—humanity.  I love people’s differences, of colour, dress, hair, houses, customs, music, art, language food, but I never have been able to feel that any human being was different from me inside; the likenesses between all men are so deep and uniform that the superficial differences fade into insignificance and only remain to add charm and distinction  never to divide us from each other.

Let us analyse this and prove it is true.  Suppose someone is asked what is your sister Jane like?  Would one reply she is a pair of brown canvas shoes, a blue wool skirt, a cotton blouse, three daisy hair clips, one cheap wrist watch, an imitation gold ring and a necklace of artificial pearls?  Is that really Jane or are these her outward trappings?  One would have to at least say she has two hands and two feet, is five feet tall, has two brown eyes and wavy hair, a nice nose and thick lips, and so on.  But still this would not be Jane.  One would have to say she has a loving nature is very musical has quite a little temper of her own her memory is good she likes sports she is a good cook, but a little heavy with the salt and is inclined to be a bit lazy by nature.  The deeper one goes into the description of a human being, the more it can be a picture of anyone in the world.  We must see each others

likenesses so as to feel no strangeness between us and then see each others superficial differences as part of the unending beauty of God’s creation.  Such an understanding of our fellowmen is based on the teachings of Bahá’u’lláh; the oneness He has pointed out as being absolutely fundamental; the differences are not only part of life and its charm but constitute the very shaping of life’s forces so as to make each individual, each group, each tribe and race different and therefore capable of making unique and precious contributions to the whole, to the one world of the future.

How to speak

As language is a means of conveying thought, the first step is to have a clear idea of what one means before trying to express it.  In other words, to focus ones mind on ones thought and try not to have it all blurred around the edges.  Practise clarity.  From the standpoint of teaching the Faith, it seems to me that this involves a study of the Teachings.  But supposing a person has neither the time nor means to do this properly; then at least he should try to order his thoughts and disentangle different, seemingly contradictory teachings, getting their outlines clearly in mind.  To give an example of what I mean:  on one hand are the many teachings about justice Bahá’u’lláh says justice is loved above all things and teaches us that society rests on two pillars, reward and retribution; yet on the other hand He exhorts us to love and forgive in our relationship to each other.  These two things, justice and love, seem equally stressed in His Writings and equally important  et, if our thinking is blurred, we find we are advocating love and mercy towards criminals convicted of heinous crimes, who well deserve the rigour of the

cold justice of the law  supposedly dealing “justly” with our fellowmen in our personal contacts with them, judging and condemning them and often sanctimoniously setting ourselves up above them as superior  hat we are enjoined to do in the Teachings is to show them kindness, tolerance, love, and to look upon them with a sin-covering eye!

The second step is to use, at least most of the time in our daily contacts and in our talks to people whose native language is not English, plain and simple words and simple verbs.  The pompous, puffed up, verbose pedantic misuse of words today is rapidly becoming a contagious disease.  For example, the weather bureau over the radio wants to tell us it may “rain” later in the day, but what it actually announces is that there will be “precipitation activity”.  If one wants to say “I am sorry I am late” or “I am early”—short, clear, easily understood sentences—do not change them into “behind schedule” or “before schedule”, which are terms informative and useful for an air terminal a railway or bus station but not for villagers and ordinary people who, if they know any English, know straight, simple, classic English—in fact in many cases Biblical English—but not modern American or the journalese jargon that passes for English in too many publications.

The over two billion m of the human race are for the most part extremely polite people, exemplifying Bahá’u’lláh’s injunction to be courteous; aside from this, people have their own pride and will seldom admit they do not understand what someone is saying to them.  If asked, they may politely say “yes”, because in a great many societies, in both Africa and Asia, to say “no” is considered extremely discourteous if a person is addressing someone higher in rank than himself, such as a guest, a teacher, a foreigner and so on.  Through heedlessly and inconsiderately

using his own “jargon”, whether it be mixed with slang or just the modern, high-brow, long-and-complicated-word usage now so much in vogue, the Bahá’í who has gone out to teach the Message of Bahá’u’lláh defeats his own ends, his primary object, which is to convey to other people what Bahá’u’lláh has said and what His Revelation means.  What is the use of going to a village and giving a talk if the translator, and the other few people who may know some English, cannot understand more than 20 to 50 per cent of what the speaker says?  It should be one of the pioneer’s primary objectives to be understood by his hearers, and he should work at it so as to not only use simple words but learn to have a clear and direct delivery of his thoughts.

The third step is to learn to speak relatively slowly, pronouncing all the syllables of a word clearly, and neither dropping ones voice at the end of the word or swallowing it, that is mumbling it.  One hears people these days all too often say “go’n” for “going”, “thinkin” for “thinking” (not to mention “hi’yer” for “how do you do”), and other unintelligible contractions.  This clear enunciation makes a tremendous difference to ones hearers, not only in giving talks but if one speaks on the radio, is being translated, or is just conversing with another individual.  The foreigner should always remember that if he finds it difficult to understand a person who is talking to him in his own language (which I frequently do!), that other person may be having even more difficulty in understanding him.  Sometimes I tell people quite frankly, “I am sorry, I did not understand what you said”; in the question period of public talks I often ask my native, or at least local chairman to re-state to me the question, saying I did not catch it clearly; naturally I try always to give the impression it is my fault I did not hear or understand clearly so as not to offend the other person.  What is the use of going

to the end of the world to teach if the pioneer or teacher does not ensure that he can be understood by someone who at least speaks his own language when he gets there?  Strangely enough, I have noticed many times that in foreign countries the natives understand more easily a Persian who is speaking English than a person whose native language is English.  I think this is because that Persian, or other person whose language is not English, and who may not speak it grammatically or well, is speaking more simply and clearly just because it is not his own language.  In India and other Asian countries one often finds a perfect English spoken, where the real value of the words has been perpetuated in the schools and in general usage  onsequently although the accent may be very poor the language is beautiful and puts the way many young people speak in America, who have received a higher education, to shame.  In Africa, thanks to the education mostly received in mission schools, the people often have a wide knowledge of English based on the Bible, and because of this have little difficulty in reading Shoghi Effendi’s beautiful translations of Bahá’u’lláh’s Writings.  But by and large the best thing for any Bahá’í to do when he goes to another country is to make an intelligent effort to be sure what he says is clear, well-pronounced, and simple.

‘Abdu’l-Bahá, in His Tablets of the Divine Plan written over eighty years ago, urged the Bahá’ís not only to go forth all over the world to pioneer but to first learn the language of the people among whom they planned to teach.  Very few people have ever been able to achieve this degree of preparation; most have gone forth knowing only their mother tongue; as it is so extremely urgent for the Bahá’ís to arise disperse and teach the Message of Bahá’u’lláh uring the five Plans  have already implemented the Master’s Divine Plan, emphasis has not been placed so much on learn-

ing the languages as getting up and going.  However, a far greater effort should be made by pioneers on arrival to learn the language of the country they settle in, or at least the regional language of the area they are teaching in; it makes all the difference, in every way, when a pioneer can speak directly to the people.  I remember years ago in a conference in Panama one of the very devoted South American Indian Bahá’ís said, wistfully, that their languages must be very difficult because no pioneer ever learned them.

If the pioneers cannot comply with the advice of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá that the “teachers travelling in different directions must know the language of the country in which they will enter”, then at least let them make a serious effort when they get there to learn them.  There are in most countries concentrated courses available where one can quickly master the native language  it is astonishing the degree to which pioneers—and the committees sponsoring them—ignore these facilities, along with ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s own instructions, and either make no attempt to learn the native language or dawdle along trying to “pick it up”.  Not everyone can master a new language but the people who cannot do so are the exception and not the rule  odern methods one  learn much faster than ever before.  At least the pioneer or travelling teacher should make an effort to learn the common phrases of “how do you do”, “good-bye”, “thank you” and so on.

Meetings

Meetings all too often seem to consist of a steady procession of “comings” and “goings”, late arrivals, early departures, someone taken by an afterthought or an urgent necessity to get the child out.  One must just learn to suffer all this pa-

tiently and amiably.  As I find that delivering a talk requires intense concentration on my part, especially when I am speaking in French or being translated into another language, this constant state of flux in an audience disturbs me very much.  Incidentally, it is characteristic of almost all village audiences to easily have their attention removed from the speaker; a car passing by can draw all eyes as if it were the latest jetliner coming into an airport, and even a pedestrian walking along has the same effect.  One way to handle this is to just stop talking and quietly wait until the disturbance is over or to turn ones own head and goggle at the bus, along with ones hearers, in a relaxed and human way, until the diversion has passed.  I am sorry to say many times the ones who were most disturbing to the audience were the pioneers themselves  would fidget, whisper, and bounce up in response evidently to some urgent brain wave that impelled them to do something other than sit still and show a good example of paying attention.  If someone takes a photograph or fiddles with a tape recorder, the entire audience gives him its undivided attention, usually when one is about to drive home ones most important point!  The audiences I have found most capable of sustained attention are those in India, South East Asia, and the youth in North America.  But in spite of all this shifting about, I have found that many villagers will listen and ask intelligent questions for hours on end until one is ready to drop with fatigue  ften their questions will revert to something that was said at the beginning of the meeting, indicating that in spite of the various digressions that occurred, they were not only listening to but retaining what the speaker said.  As they are mostly illiterate, their memories are excellent and they can carry abstract thoughts without the help of visual aids—very clearly in their imagination.

Laziness and customs and clocks

In many relatively primitive societies, particularly in Africa, the men seem to do almost no work while the women labour hard in the fields, gather and carry heavy loads of firewood, fetch water, often from long distances, to the village in containers on their heads, do all the cooking and housework, and not only sell in the markets but are often regular merchants.  There is, at least in Africa, a good explanation for this:  for thousands of years there has been constant tribal fighting; no outsider realizes to what an extent the African people have wandered over their continent and migrated from place to place; stronger tribes pushed out weaker ones or conquered them, even enslaving them; many large and powerful kingdoms emerged and dominated an area as big as one of the present African republics; indeed, even in these republics today one can find an Ashanti King and an Emperor of the Moshis and other very powerful traditional Chiefs.  In these societies the men were the warriors, constantly on the alert to defend their villages, crops, women and children and cattle.  There is no longer, in modern states, any real need for them to do this, but the division of occupations between men and women—the old pattern of “women’s work”—has remained for the most part intact.

In connection with the historic background of Africa, it does no harm to remember that it was the Africans themselves who were the great slave catchers, selling what became known as the precious “black ivory” to both the Arab and European slavers who exported this human merchandise East and West.  When I found the attacks, usually in question periods in universities, on the white race and colonialism getting too violent and out of proportion, I would remind the students that Africans as well as whites battened on the slave

trade, and that evil and criminal as has been in many ways the history of the white man’s relationship to Africa, he nevertheless was responsible for Africa’s blooming and important position in the present-day world; without the white man, the Europeans in particular, it is hard to see how such a vast and inaccessible continent could have been developed so fast.  A dispassionate exposé of facts goes far to dispel the red and steamy clouds of prejudice—no matter whose prejudice it may be!

In societies where the economy is of the simplest nature, where clocks and watches are non-existent or a rarity and soon get out of order in the intense humidity or extreme dryness of the climate, as the case may be, the entire tempo of life is different from our own hagridden sense of the passing of not only hours but minutes, the time sense which dominates the lives of our over-civilized urban populations and creates the deluxe diseases of ulcers, high blood pressure, heart attacks and mental and nervous breakdowns.  So drastically different from ours is the rhythm of this other almost timeless way of life that it takes real imagination and patience on the part of the foreigner to adjust to it.  This effort, however, must be made, otherwise the pioneer or teacher becomes exasperated, critical, antagonistic and impatient, and completely defeats his own ends with the very people he has left his home to serve.

The pioneer must remember that he not only can get used to these things, he must get used to them!  One day I remember a very nice Bahá’í friend came to our hotel to take us on an errand, as we had arranged; we were not quite ready so he said he would be back in ten minutes; he came back ten hours later—said he had had a flat tire!  I heard from a friend, whose husband had been an ambassador to a South-east Asian country some years ago, that when they formally invited peo-

ple to dinner they would often come not only some hours late but even some days later!  This complete indifference to clocks and to appointments strictly bound to clocks in our own part of the world demands a truly erculean adjustment on the part of some of us.  In some places there seems to be—where clocks do exist—a positive antipathy to punctuality.  Many is the time in Latin America (and other places!) when I have waited an hour or so for the audience to arrive at my scheduled lecture.  Strangely enough I found African audiences more punctual than Latin American ones.

Another thing that cannot be emphasized enough and which is not only common in societies where the time sense is different from ours but also throughout the Near and Far East, is that people simply do not say “No” or “No, I cannot come” or “No, I will not do it”.  “No” is extremely impolite and will just not be said.  It will not only not be said but in its place one is likely to get a “yes” as “yes” is polite!  Years ago, talking to an oriental believer who constantly kept up a polite “Yes, yes”, I began to suspect something was wrong and so asked her point blank “Do you understand what I am saying?”  She was so taken aback by this sudden attack that she inadvertently burst out with “No, madam!”  One may not care for this kind of politeness but one has to be tolerant of it because it is other people’s way of doing things and their traditional courtesy.  In Latin America—and other places—one may meet a fellow Bahá’í and say, “Will I see you at the Feast tonight?” or “Will you come to the gathering in my home on Friday?” or even invite him to a meal and fix the time and the answer will be an assurance that he will come even though he may already know he cannot or will not be there!  This is aggravating but does no real damage except to ones own feelings and convenience.  What does do damage is if, while lecturing and teaching the Faith, the hearers do

not understand but will not admit it.  The best way around this is to either have a little “review” of some of the points, to ask some of the friends to explain what was the point, in their own words, so as to be sure they did understand or to ask one of the native believers to tell you frankly—when you get him alone—if you were really speaking clearly enough so as to be understood.

Problems of giving

For those who arise and leave the so-called “affluent society”—poverty stricken though it be in spiritual and moral values—and go forth to spread the Message of Bahá’u’lláh in “backward” or “deprived” areas—usually rich in spiritual and moral values the contrast between what they were used to at home and what they see about them is often unbearably painful.  Here are people who often have nothing at all except what they can grow or make themselves.  They will often ask for help, individually and collectively, from requesting that the Bahá’ís open a school for their children to a tentative hand placed on your dress or your earring and a laughing demand, “Give it to me?”.  Some villagers are shameless in their importunity and some extremely proud and reserved.  In other words they are human beings, for all of us know shameless people at home and also very reserved and proud people who would never ask for anything under any circumstances.  There are no minute rules to follow in giving or not giving, but much observation and experience has led me to be convinced of certain things which I believe are fundamental.

The only remedy to the manifold ills of this world, in the smallest village or the biggest city, is the Teachings of Bahá’u’lláh in their entirety; His system, in other words.

When a river is in flood its destructive power attacks left and right and people do what they can to save themselves, but it is no solution at all, the solution is to remove the flood waters at their source, to restore things to normal.  The only solution for the problems of the human race is that it should accept its Lord for this Day and apply His laws.  We Bahá’ís neither have the manpower, the financial resources nor any other material powers sufficient to carry out such social programmes as opening schools, giving economic aid, medical services and so on—we not only cannot provide such things but the pioneer or travelling teacher must be very careful not to promise them.  I remember a large meeting, in a remote area, for which a number of villages had combined, raising an elaborate canopy of tree pillars and branches to shade the audience and generally going to a great deal of trouble; after my talk, when questions were asked, they wanted to know when we would start the school they had been promised by a very prominent Bahá’í traveller who had been there some months before.  They were waiting for it, and the land was set aside for it.  Knowing perfectly well that neither the National Assembly of that country nor any one else was either contemplating such a project or had the funds to carry it out, I had to try and explain to them the difficulties involved; they were angry and sullen, considering a promise had been broken.  Such events are extremely bad for the Cause; they are a great test to the local believers, in this case a newly opened zone, and can lead to their not only abandoning the Faith but becoming antagonistic.  One cannot blame them, one must blame the folly of any Bahá’í who goes around making rash promises, either because he wants to attract people through them or appear a jolly good fellow in their eyes.

In a religion, one of whose cardinal principles is universal education, the pioneer or visiting teacher must be par-

ticularly careful what he says on this subject.  Again, I feel it is very important for each one of us to think things through clearly before talking about them because misunderstandings can easily arise, particularly on a subject that means so much to people thirsting for an education, as this principle does.  A great many of both the laws and principles of Bahá’u’lláh cannot be put into effect yet because they presuppose a changed society in which there are sufficient Bahá’ís to shape its conduct according to His Revelation; we also believe in universal suffrage, a universal language, an international currency, a parliament of nations and so on.  The point is that the teacher or speaker at a village meeting must be very careful not to give the impression that this principle of universal education means the Bahá’ís will open a school there.

At all times the travelling teacher or pioneer must remember he is under the jurisdiction of the National Spiritual Assembly of that country and has no right to promise any material benefits, such as a school, a local centre, that a well will be dug, that a child will be sent out to school or a sick person to hospital, unless he has been informed by the National Assembly that such an undertaking will indeed take place and his promise be honoured.

The friends must realize that such problems as these are one of the reasons for the creation of the Bahá’í administration, so that resources and work can be coordinated and the pitfalls of individual decisions on matters that do not concern the individual alone can be avoided.

The best way to handle the personal demand for something of ones own is, I find, to be perfectly frank.  Sometimes the demand may be based on a real need, but very often it is just “trying it on”, having a little fun and experimenting to see what can be got out of the traveller free, and showing off in front of any one of their friends that may be

watching.  Villagers, it must be remembered, are shrewd and parsimonious themselves; they invariably bargain for anything they get, expect to do their best on the one hand to beat the other fellow down and gain as much as possible by the transaction, and on the other not to be fooled or imposed upon—in other words, they have the same mentality that is required, in other circles, to make a famous financier.  Therefore either ignore the matter completely by silence, or say, “I am sorry, I need it myself”; if they say, “Give it to me, I like it”, say, “So do I, that is why I bought it”; or, as in the case of the ladies who ask for ones dress or jewellery, try putting your hand on their things and saying, “I want that!”  They usually get the point amidst riotous peals of laughter.

Whatever one has will be wholly inadequate to meet the material needs of almost any poor village.  The best general solution is to give the Teachings of Baha’u’llah and the news of His advent, this is the most priceless gift of all, it is God’s Own gift to every one of His creatures today and they must be made to understand that they are being offered it by right and not as an act of charity or condescension on the traveller’s or pioneer’s part, that it has no strings attached, no material benefits to be obtained from it, that through accepting it their people’s, our own people’s, all humanity’s problems will be ultimately solved by a God-imposed world solution.

I heard the following true story from a Bahá’í who had pioneered in Latin America, and requested him to write it down for this book because it so truly and tragically illustrates the points I am trying to make:

The red sweater

After an extensive trip through Mexico a Bahá’í couple, with the purest of motives, decided that action was

needed—not words—to help alleviate to some degree the suffering of humanity as they saw it.

Therefore, with a well-organized slide show they toured some southern states and collected clothing to give to the needy ones of Yucatan, Mexico.

Their trip was successful, as one can imagine; when the tenderhearted Bahá’ís saw the pictures of naked and half-naked children and adults they loaded up a truck as full as could be managed, and took it to Yucatan.  It was with great difficulty that they got through customs.

It has been several years since Operation Clothes took place, yet the heartache and unhappiness even today still lingers on.

For example, one person says, “Those people from Texas didn’t love me because I wasn’t home and I didn’t get anything.”

From having had to work over the same area after this gift-giving, I can only say that unless we have a red sweater to give to every single soul in Mexico we had better not give anything except the Greatest Gift of all, the Cause of Baha’u’llah, because this we can indiscriminately offer to not only every human soul in Mexico but to every soul on the planet; and it never leaves in the recipient, heartache and unhappiness.

Children

Throughout Africa, and in many places in the Western Hemisphere and elsewhere, it is the custom to carry the latest baby on the mother’s back, sitting astride and supported by a shawl that goes around the woman’s shoulders or under her arms and is securely tied in front.  This goes on until the baby

is well over a year old or even more.  To see a woman in Africa without a baby on her back is almost the exception rather than the rule.  Even in the big capital cities one will see a Europeanized African mama in modern clothes shopping in a supermarket with baby on her back in a smart lace shawl!  If mother is not available for the moment, a tiny girl—sometimes only twice the size of the baby—or even a little boy, is carrying baby instead.  This is a very common sight in the villages and one marvels at how these children can carry such a heavy load when they are so small themselves.  It seems to do them no harm for they all grow up strong and straight and crazy about babies.

This seems to other people of other lands a strange, tiring, entirely unnecessary custom, but after years of travel among people who do this I have come very seriously to believe that one reason neither the African nor the American Indian is a nervous, high-strung, irritable individual—characteristics he lacks to a marked degree—is because the children have this bodily warmth, this complete sense of “security” in their infancy.  “Insecure” has become a common psychological term these days; in many hospitals in the West volunteers come in daily to take babies in their arms and give them this muchneeded sense of warmth and nearness and “security” for a few hours, because they have found it makes a big difference to the baby’s health.  Other primates, mostly the monkey and ape population of the world, carry their babies on the mother’s body until they are past infancy.  So at least let us look with interest and respect at this custom, so different from our own of shoving the baby off in a crib or play pen or nursery so mother can be free to work or to play or assert her own personality unencumbered by the nuisance of the baby.  Who knows, science may yet come around full cycle to believing in the million-year-old wisdom of nature.

One often hears the lament, mainly from those pioneers living in cities, that there is no one to teach and no one is interested or comes to the meetings.  There are always children to teach and children are always interested.  I remember one pioneer who made a point of getting into conversation with little street urchins, of which there are many in towns and cities where the children have nowhere else to go; from six years up she would stop and converse with some bright-eyed and curious imp, telling about the new Day, telling about Bahá’u’lláh as if the child were an equal and had a right to hear it.  It was enough for her to appear in the street to get her amiable and friendly little audience about her.  She claimed that not only did the children have a right to hear it but something at least would stay in their eager and enquiring young minds and that anyway, the children were the future!

Another pioneer’s experience touched me very much.  He had been actively teaching in an Alaskan village and was walking down the street when a little seven-year-old Indian girl came up to him and said:  “Can I please be a Bahá’í?  Can I help build a new world?”  She was given a book of Bahá’í prayers and told to memorize them and pray; she said she would and pointed to her three- or four-year-old brother whom she was leading by the hand and said:  “And I am going to teach him too!”

In many poor districts, where there is much crowding and the children are at a loose end in the streets on week-ends, Bahá’í Sunday classes can be started.  The mothers, once they see it keeps the children quiet a few hours, that they learn songs and prayers and good teachings, approve, even though they may be rigorous followers of their own church; many times such children’s classes have led the parents to investigate what it is all about, this thing the child says it has heard in the class, not the least of which is the teaching of

progressive revelation.  A sports club for boys, a sewing class for girls—all are ways of serving and reaching the people.

Many pioneers make a special point of taking their children when they go out teaching, even though the children may be very young and the villages very dirty.  I will never forget being met in a village by a pioneer and her one-week-old baby; it was the first trip outside for baby; when she was placed in the arms of an African grandmother to admire and hold, one should have seen the woman’s face!  This is one way of spreading the message of the oneness of mankind and a way that, not being confined to words, is not easily forgotten.  Many pioneers who have brought up their children in the pioneer field have made a special point of taking them—even when very young—on their teaching trips in the villages and elsewhere.  All villagers, everywhere, seem to love children, and all people, everywhere, appreciate the fact that if you will bring your child—your dearest, most intimate possession—into their midst, then you really trust them.  The white man has shared lots of things with the foreign races he went to live among:  religion, education, his concepts of economy, sociology, political science and so on, but he almost never shared his children.  His children were sacrosanct.  They had their own way of life, their own nursery, their own special schools.  When the Bahá’ís show this is not their attitude, which it most certainly cannot be, the effect on other people can be decisive.

The Bahá’í child should be encouraged to not only teach this Faith (at any age!) but to commit to memory prayers and recite them in public, in meetings, and at Feasts, and to look forward to the thrill of going out in the villages to teach other children the Faith.

It is sometimes heartbreaking to hear the laments of devoted Bahá’ís whose children are not interested in the Faith

at all or do not even wish to be considered Bahá’ís.  Almost invariably it is the fault of the parents and not the child.  We all know that old joke about a parent telling a child, “Don’t do as I do, do as I say!”  As children are extremely perceptive and easily influenced, all the “saying” in the world has no effect upon them when the example differs from the words.  The complaints of children are usually the echoes of their parents’ complaints, and as they generally manage to hear everything, and understand at a much earlier age than they are given credit for, the attitudes of the parents become reflected in the children.  If they hear the parents complain that their children cannot celebrate a Christmas or a Muslim or Jewish holiday, they are going to feel aggrieved.  If, on the other hand, they are told, quite matter-of-factly, that everyone has his own Holy Days and you have nine very special ones all your own; that although your schoolmates or friends are celebrating their Feast with a party—which of course you can go to—you will have your party on the day of your own Feast like Naw-Rúz, your New Year’s day, and they will come and all have just as good a time as you had at their Christmas party.  This approach cuts down the youthful complaints and can lead to a lot of pride and anticipation in how the children are going to entertain their friends on their own Holy Day.

My own observation is that although Bahá’ís may be willing to give their own lives to the Cause they are not willing to give their children’s.  Whether psychologically this comes from a mistaken sense of virtue or a martyr complex, “Well, it is all right for me, but I have no right to impose it on my poor children”, or from the strange misapprehension that a child chooses at 15 to be or not be a Bahá’í, I do not know.  The fact, however, remains that children are one of the main reasons for pioneers leaving their posts or people who long to go pioneering not doing so.  No doubt if the children, or

the oldest child, is already a teen-ager, a real resentment in some cases can develop because of having to leave the environment the child is used to or go to a foreign school.  A lot depends on the individual child and how much it understands and is enthusiastic about serving the Faith.  Younger children, depending on how happy and exciting the parents can make the whole experience, should be able to be taken pioneering without the risk of resentment building up or much adjustment being needed for the new life.

There is often a grave misunderstanding of the significance of the age of 15 in the Bahá’í teachings:  Baha’u’llah calls it the age of maturity; according to His Laws at 15 an individual can marry, and at 15 the obligation to fast and say one of the obligatory prayers comes into force.  There is no mention in the Writings about accepting the Faith or declaring ones self to be a Bahá’í at the age of 15.  Indeed a little reflection should show us how utterly ridiculous and impracticable such a concept is because it implies that at any time during the Bahá’í Dispensation, each generation, over and over again, would have to “accept” Bahá’u’lláh as the One sent by God under Whose guidance it was living and Whose Laws were divinely ordained and Whose Order was the Kingdom of God an earth.  To carry it to its ultimate point of ridiculousness it would mean that millions of human beings every day were being asked whether they really believed the whole society they lived in was based on a message from God or some kind of accidental phenomena or false!

A long time ago, in my own youth, in the United States the National Spiritual Assembly decided to register Bahá’í children at 15 so that a record would be available to prove they were Bahá’ís when they later applied, on religious grounds, for non-combatant military service; this registration also helped in keeping track of the age of the children so they could be

appointed as Bahá’í youth to committees.  It was a purely functional, administrative ruling with no spiritual overtones; somehow the misapprehension grew up that as Bahá’u’lláh had enjoined the independent investigation of truth, one brought up Bahá’í children in a sort of spiritual fog in which they were taught all religions were good and they could make up their own minds which one—if any—they would like to join at the age of 15!  As Bahá’u’lláh strictly enjoins His followers to rear their children in the Cause of God, this unfortunate misunderstanding of the significance of the age of 15 must be rooted out once and for all.

To me one of the most criminal mistakes pioneers—or any Bahá’í parents anywhere—can make is to complain about their work, lament their sacrifices and air their grievances in front of their children.  Even very young children listen much more than one would think, and if they do not catch all the words or understand them they are extremely keen on catching the tone!  If mother bemoans the hardships of a pioneer’s life and stresses her “sacrifice”, if father reminisces about the good things and the better paid job he has “given up for God”, if the parents are depressed, discontented and critical, what on earth do they expect the minds and hearts of their children to be filled with—devotion, and willingness to sacrifice, and joy in service’?

I had a conversation with a Mormon some years ago that shamed me for us Bahá’ís and left a profound and unforgettable impression:  I asked him about the two years’ missionary service so many of them render their church, and he told me it was entirely voluntary, either deputized or paid for by themselves, but not by the church.  That in itself was an eye-opener.  He had already done his own two years’ service and was married, with small children.  He told me they had a little bank into which they put their pennies against the day

when they, too, would go out and do their two years of voluntary service to their church, and he described with what joy his children would count their money at the end of each month and think of their future plans!  I wondered what the Bahá’í world would be like in one generation if we brought up our children with this sense of dedication, of thrill that one day they, too, could go out and teach the Cause of God!

One of the first things we inform people is that our religion has no priests, clergy or missionaries, that every Bahá’í is free to teach and share this message with others.  This includes the children.  Children love being useful and active and should be encouraged to serve in every way, whether teaching or praying or passing the cookies.  They should be taken to the meetings on Holy Days and the Nineteen Day Feasts (providing they will either not disturb the meetings or there is a place they can be put separate so they will not do so).  In this way they will feel Bahá’í activities are a part of their own lives, something to look forward to, maybe a special sit-up-late occasion.

‘Abdu’l-Bahá over and over stressed the importance of teaching children to memorize the Prayers and Writings.  There is a mistaken idea running about that to commit things to memory is unnecessary and even undesirable as then the child repeats it “parrot-like”.  Undoubtedly a young child does not ponder very much over what the meaning is, he concentrates on becoming word-perfect; but the words are there, engraved on his mind, precious words of the Message of God, to protect him and to come back to him later on, maybe in a time of need or while travelling when reading may not be possible and the memory becomes the book.  To be able to recite something from memory I find is very much enjoyed by audiences in meetings, it is particularly appreciated in villages where many of the people are illiterate.

I remember a meeting in Africa of about 100 people, half of whom were children; at the end I asked the African chairman if one of the children could not say a prayer, and his ten-year-old son did so.  Then the seven-year-old son of a Persian pioneer family came forward and recited a prayer from memory and his five-year-old sister, not to be outdone, said she would say one too!  I then lifted up onto the table in front of me the three-year-old sister and told her not to be afraid, but to say her prayer, as I had heard her do the night before in a very small meeting.  She bravely folded her little arms, closed her eyes and in a barely audible peep, recited her short prayer.  I am sure this example of the children had a much more profound effect on the audience than my long lecture!

Not many years ago a nine-year-old child of pioneers in South America, who could write, went out with an illiterate adult Indian Bahá’í teacher and helped elect four Local Spiritual Assemblies on April 21st.  Pioneers should make their children feel the thrill of such things, that they, too, are needed by God and can help Him.  Another nine-year-old child asked her teacher in school if they could have a Bahá’í prayer too.  This led to so much discussion that the child was eventually summoned by the principal who asked her a lot of questions which she answered so well that he became interested and phoned her father and asked him to come and address the school about the Bahá’í Faith.

A delicate question for many pioneers is where to send their children to school, and in many cases they decide on the special, and often exclusive, school for Americans or other foreigners.  Although this is certainly a matter in which individual families must be absolutely free to make their own choice, it seems to me that such a choice is justified when there is absolutely no native school to send them to that has even a remotely decent standard of education.  But all too

often there tends to be an attitude that although there is this native African or Latin American or Indian or some other country’s school, high school or university, which has to be good enough for the children of the elite of that country, it is not good enough for the pioneer’s child, who has to go, eventually and if at all possible, to one of the big-name universities, like Oxford, Cambridge, the Sorbonne, Harvard, or some other “Ivy League” university.  What it all really amounts to is that seldom does a pioneer ever go to a country to make it permanently his home and the home of his children, the place he will love, serve and ultimately bless by laying down his bones in it.

Many of us who are people of the New World, the Western Hemisphere, are very proud that our ancestors left their homelands to live in a bigger, freer, often much harder and more challenging environment, believing that the creative effort of the individual would be more rewarding.  Surely the present-day equivalent of this challenge to conquer in new fields is to pioneer and spread the Cause of God.

Husbands

Not unusually it is the man who first goes out to pioneer, and having gotten settled then brings his family to join him or, if he is not yet married, he goes home to look for a wife.  My own observation in this field, fraught with possible complications, is that it is not so much a question of what to do as what not to do.  One friend who had previously lived some years in Africa persuaded his European wife to join him there with their two children.  In his anxiety to make her feel at home and happy in a strange environment he moved her into a super deluxe house in the best residential area, a house that even had wall-to-wall carpeting (wholly unnecessary in

the tropics anyway and merely a nuisance and status symbol!).  It was located in the wealthiest quarter; it was also located in the place that had the most armed robbery; it also was so new that the water system of the city most of the time did not supply any water to it.  For some months the young wife sat amidst tubs of water, as her sole supply to be drawn upon for all purposes, and lived in terror of some armed man breaking in on her and the children, as was happening fairly often in other houses near her.  The result was, after several months, scared and disillusioned, she went back to Europe with the children—a decision with which he agreed—and left him there, both accepting this sacrifice in an exemplary spirit in order for him to continue his pioneer service.  It is possible that this wife could not have adjusted to life in the tropics of Africa, but I think this very unlikely.  She just had too many strains placed on her in the beginning, when everything was already new and different anyway.  If she had even been forced to live where water was hauled by hand from a well it would not have been half as wearing as to look at a perfect modem bathroom and kitchen in which every tap was dry, week after week, because the city had not got the water pressure working yet in this newest and most fashionable district!  If they had gone to live in a less pretentious place it would not have been a regular target for thieves.

There is a period in pioneering which to myself I always visualize as comparable to that period when the honeymoon is over and a couple have to learn to live together and give and take and make concessions and adjust their egos to the other person’s rights.  It is the let-down, the time when one thinks one has made a terrible mistake, one never was cut out to be a pioneer in the first place.  In fact the idea may even cross ones despairing mind, “Why did I become a Bahá’í!”  This is the point when much prayer and patience with ones own self

is needed, when one must realize it is like living through a bad storm which will surely pass and the sun come out again and the sky be washed clear and bluer than ever.  One must just sit it out, not funk and run away.

When a man is wholly devoted to his pioneer service, loves the unique rewards it holds for anyone who arises in this field to teach the Faith, he should, I believe, think twice about whom he marries.  I have seen many a devoted pioneer marry an equally devoted-to-the-Cause woman, who said she was dying to pioneer, only to discover that this young lady of his choice—whether from a huge metropolis or a village in Persia—could not adjust, or more often, would not adjust to living in the mountains, the savannas, the deserts or the jungles where pioneer service is at once most needed and most rewarding.  This is not a criticism of young Bahá’í women; far from it, because a host of most dedicated and wonderful women are serving in the pioneer field all over the world with unique distinction.  In fact a veritable miracle has taken place in the last ten years because now one sees young Persian and other oriental girls out serving as pioneers with great courage and success, and many of these girls present a challenge to any man to equal them in self-sacrifice and service!

The point is that if a man is really consecrated to his pioneer service, and wants a wife to share it with him, he should not believe that just because a woman says she, too, wants to pioneer she is fitted for it mentally and can go through with it.  I say mentally because except in unusual circumstances the adjustments to be made are in the mind; the body, unless one suffers from a serious ailment, will almost invariably adjust if the mind has adjusted first.  Many very successful marriages are taking place these days between pioneers, often of different national and racial backgrounds, because both parties really love pioneering.

Tribal and local customs

When I visited in the home of some American Negro friends in Africa I was surprised and even a little hurt to discover that their adopted grown-up African son, a very fine young Bahá’í, always ate his meals in the kitchen and never with us; I simply could not understand how such lovely people could treat him this way.  Finally someone explained to me this was the old, time-honoured custom of the boy’s own tribe by which he could not sit and eat with his seniors lest he be spoiled before his character was formed and his quality as a human being proved and he had learned the necessary respect for his elders.  This American family had bowed to the adopted son’s tribal relatives and customs and were, incidentally, doing a wonderful job of bringing him up.  Considering the behaviour of so much of the youth influenced by western ideas, and what excellent characters and behaviour so many young people have who are brought up in various tribal traditions, we might well more often study their methods and their concept of how to raise children.

In many, many places all over the world, places that have never heard of Islám, it is the local custom for the men and women to sit separately; one sees it among the Indians of Latin America, many tribes of Africa, in the villages of Asia and so on.  It has nothing to do with equality.  I recall the excited comments of an American visitor attending an Indian conference high in the Andes in Bolivia; when she saw all the women sitting on one side she cried “This is all wrong!  We believe in the equality of men and women, tell them to sit together!”  I stopped her, for after all what right had she, a foreign visitor, to tell people where and how to sit in their own meeting in their own country?  And who says sitting next to a man in a meeting constitutes equality and not sitting

next to him inequality?  In lots of European countries men and women sit together, eat together, vote together, but the woman has no real equality at all, and in lots of African tribes the women are certainly equal to the men, indeed, in some tribes, where matriarchy prevails, the women hold the power, but still they may not sit together at meals.

A pioneer or a travelling teacher does not go out to another country to make people over in his own image and teach them his personal opinions and the customs of his nation, he goes out to tell them Baha’u’llah has come and that they too are welcome to drink from the life-giving waters of His Revelation and be recreated by them as we hope we ourselves have been.  We must constantly bear in mind that there is not yet a Bahá’í world order or Bahá’í culture or civilization; the tiny embryo of these is developing in the Faith through the spread of its teachings and the establishment of its Administrative Order all over the world.  No one knows how much or how little of any one race’s, nation’s or tribal group’s customs and outlook may eventually become part of that glorious future World Order.  So how can any pioneer—be he American, Persian or from some other place—tell the people he is teaching: “Be like me!”  Who says his way of life is the pattern, or even better than the ways of the people he is teaching?  And yet this is what many of the pioneers do, from sometimes trying to get the villagers to say “Khoda-ha-fez”, which stands for nothing more nor less than “good-bye” in Persian, to trying to get them to brush their teeth with the pioneer’s favourite toothpaste!

In Sri Lanka we went to visit a Government project to settle some Veddas—the aborigines of that island and a stone-age people—in an agricultural settlement with cement houses; the diminishing virgin forest, in which they have always lived a nomadic existence, subsisting by hunting and gathering

what wild things they could find, is now not sufficient to feed them and they are faced with extinction if they do not adopt another way of life.  For thousands of years they had lived in hovels made from the branches of trees, where, in the steaming hot jungle the air could circulate freely.  As I looked at the neat little houses, each with a door and small windows, I wondered how they would ever survive and what diseases would soon be ravaging them, shut into those roasting cement boxes, and why their own more beautiful type of housing could not be adapted to the new way of life.

Every year of my life it is borne in upon me more forcibly that we human beings, more particularly in the countries with an advanced system of education and high standard of living, live by wholly undigested ideas rather than by realities.  It is the “modern way of life” to build with cement, and a tin roof is cheap and enduring; small windows may be seen in building catalogues for Europe and North America so, of course, in the raging tropical heat, under the blazing sun of savannas, in the steaming, debilitating, suffocating humidity of the equatorial forests, the “modern”, “educated”, “advanced” civil planning engineer—or whatever other benighted term he flourishes under—goes ahead and builds his nice new cement boxes.  The fact that the houses built by entirely local methods are better ventilated, often 100 per cent cooler, and a lot cheaper, does not matter.

Boredom and curiosity

If you find that on stopping in a garage to see why your horn does not work, immediately ten children—as well as two mechanics—put their noses into your engine, do not get upset or be surprised.  People are naturally curious and you are

a stranger.  Also, they are bored and this is an event, something a little different to break the routine and monotony of life.  Do not be indignant and short tempered; if there are too many just say, “That’s enough, so many people are not necessary”, and gently send some away, and if no one understands or will budge, just be patient and agreeable.  In some circumstances, however, too much crowding up can lead to pilfering of your things lying about, so close and lock the car or stay close to or in it.  It is unjust to assume everyone is a thief, and stupid not to realize some person might be one again the golden mean of wisdom.  Be careful not to walk off, ever, and leave your bag on the seat or anywhere else.  Crime is much rarer in the villages—in fact in villages off the beaten track it is almost unheard of—but in towns and cities all over the world it is spreading.  Bag snatching in Africa in the cities is very prevalent in some places as is also expert car theft—the whole car, not just pieces of it, though they can go, too.  It is very sad because sixty or seventy years ago, even in cities like Kampala, Uganda, the white people never locked their houses as the Africans were strictly honest and it was unnecessary.  Now, through the corruptive influence of our civilization, all this has changed and their moral fibre (just like our own) is steadily deteriorating.

Curiosity is a universal human (and animal) characteristic.  It is not in itself an evil or an unpleasant thing.  When I went to live in the Near East, after growing up in Canada, I was very surprised to be asked by any casual Arab acquaintance all sorts of highly personal questions:  How old was I?  Was I married?  Did I have any children?  If not, why not!  This is not what to us is unpardonable nosing into ones private affairs, it is a form of courtesy, and strangely enough it is common in many countries throughout the world.  It is showing a friendly interest in the other person.  Even if there

is an element of curiosity in it, what difference does it make?  I have come to adopt this myself and find it often makes a bridge between myself and a total stranger; except for our own civilization people like being asked—usually, not invariably!—about themselves.  I am interested in them, and they are warmed and flattered by this interest and respond to it in a friendly manner, and it often makes a good introduction for me to tell them where I came from, that I am a widow, with no near relatives (this always produces head shakes of sympathy) and am making this long trip because I am a Bahá’í.  Did they ever hear of the Bahá’í Faith?  Then one can give a little explanation or a pamphlet.  In Africa if one gives one pamphlet, one is literally stormed on all sides by hands demanding one each.  It is impossible to ever keep or to have enough free literature.  All too often we feel that only a contrived occasion, a planned event, is when we should mention the Faith, but in a natural and spontaneous way it can be mentioned almost any time, anywhere.  Nothing is more tiresome than a fanatic, a bore who pours forth, unsolicited, a stream of information his listener does not want to hear at all.  But between this and dead silence there is a happy medium; cast out, if the opportunity is there, a worm on a hook, in other words casually bring in the word Bahá’í, and if you get a bite, if some interest is shown, say a little about the Teachings and more only if demanded to do so.

Reflections on behaviour

People’s customs, particularly in tribal Africa, are very marked and often very regional; in fact, as one travels the world, the degree to which traits and customs are particularized is truly extraordinary.  Near Mysore in India we once

had a large meeting of jungle people, representing, we were told, three distinct tribes, the woodcutters, the honey collectors and the basket weavers and there was no overlapping of occupation.  Motoring through Africa one passes through a tribe that is famous for its wood carving, suddenly, along the same road, with a gap of a few kilometres between villages, one enters a new tribal area where the people, except for rare exceptions, do no carving at all but are skilled in leather and bead work.  In the unspoiled, typical bazaars of the Middle East each trade has its own section, the pearl sellers and jewellery workers, the embroiderers, the makers of sweet cakes, the butchers, the coppersmiths whose deafening din rises from only one quarter—hundreds of particularized, fascinating trades, each keeping to itself.  It is late in human history that the emporium, where all kinds of goods can be found for sale in one place, has come into existence—the most devastating example being the new supermarkets.  The reason for this specialization whether in what a man produces or the style of his house or the food he eats, is, I believe, a reflection of our animal heritage; where and how a bird or animal lives and what he eats are highly specific things in nature, and death results from trying to get the creature to live like another different one.  Men too have developed in tight little groups over hundreds and even thousands of years and hence these marked differences between tribes and races and various societies.  It is part of the beauty, the wonder and fascination of our world and it also means that each group of men—in this new age of the oneness of mankind—can and will bring its own gifts to add to the richness of the whole, its particular talent, its exceptional skill, its different outlook, its unique charm and abilities.

This is yet another reason (if politeness and consideration for others’ feelings were not enough) for us to respect and

take an interest in the customs, traditions and beliefs of those we go among to teach.  By and large the white man, in his power and conceit, has succeeded in impressing all other races with a sense of his superiority and their inferiority.  With the exception of those people of Asia of Chinese and Indian stock, who, because of their long, unbroken cultural memories and experience, which exceeds by thousands of years that of the white man in the West, this seems to be universally true.  It is too long a subject to be gone into here but the fact remains that a vast number of people who were living in the nineteenth century in primitive societies, and a great many who still are, have been given an inferiority complex by the white man.  By making a man look down on himself one persuades him his qualities, his way of life, even his thoughts are not worth while or at best poor and shabby compared to ones own.  This is little short of criminal.  It has had the effect of making a vast number of human beings, in addition to beginning to despise their own values, begin to worship and covet those of western civilization, a white man’s product, which Shoghi Effendi has assured us is, at least in its present form, a “cancerous materialism”.

People require encouragement and praise, the way plants require sunlight and water.  This is one reason why we Bahá’ís are admonished to mention the good points and not the bad in others.  So often I have seen, as if a cloud lifted, a change in the faces and the spirits of villagers—and plenty of non-villagers too!—when they, their history, a custom, an artfact they had made or a thought they expressed was praised.  Many times villagers, responding to this sincere encouragement, particularly the older ones, would tell me a tradition or piece of folklore or produce some native thing that even their own children, let alone the pioneer or visitor from outside, had never known of before.  God, we are taught, created and

loves each man for himself.  Then let us give back to many people their self-respect, because it helps a man to not only be himself but to grow and develop and that alone can lead him to a deeper relationship with his Maker, and to establish a deeper relationship with ones Maker is the main object of our life on this earth.

The more people are still living a tribal or traditional life the more strict and formal are their customs, a thing foreigners do not usually either suspect or respect.  Whereas all too often the city American’s greeting has become “hi!” as he slouches into a room and throws himself in a semi-recumbent position into a chair, in Africa and Asia, Latin America and the islands of the world and, to be fair, also in many villages of North America, not to mention Europe, there are set and polite forms of greeting which can often take some time to exchange.  As courtesy is a command of Baha’u’llah, we may well rejoice that it is already practically a universal characteristic of most races, with the exception of a great many members of the white, urban population of the world and those who imitate their ways.

When the father and mother of ones host come into their son’s compound, in some places in Africa, and refuse to either eat with him or their daughter-in-law or enter their home, one is taken aback at what appears a senseless lack of cordiality.  Yet when one learns that this is a custom based on the observation of human nature and frailties, designed to solve the mother-in-law problem at village level and maintain family unity and peace, one ceases to be shocked and controls the words of disapproval that were about to be heedlessly poured forth into the lives of other people.  Again, an excellent principle to adopt is to mind ones own business and to remember that neither God nor the pioneer committee has sent one out to mind other people’s.

As we passed the Nigerian frontier I read and copied the following, issued by the Ministry of Information, Lagos, Nigeria, and titled:

Guides on human relations

Have self-control

Understand it from other people’s point of view

Make others’ interests your own

Admit it when you are wrong

Never criticize publicly

Reason, don’t argue

Explain thoroughly

Lead, don’t drive

Avoid snap judgements

Take care of little things

Inform people of matters affecting them

Offer helpful suggestions

Never forget to give compliments for a job well done

Stress the positive

I thought it one of the best pieces of advice I had ever read.  Particularly “stress the positive”.  Bahá’u’lláh’s words we believe are the words of no less than God Himself.  When He says, “Breathe not the sins of others so long as thou art thyself a sinner.  Shouldst thou transgress this command, accursed wouldst thou be, and to this I bear witness”; when we are enjoined in His teachings to mention the good points of others—to such an extent as to be silent about all the faults and mention only the one virtue—we are not dealing with a

nice set of spiritual platitudes but rather with far-reaching spiritual laws that will enable us as individuals to live in harmony with each other and assist us to bring out and strengthen the good qualities in each other.

It is strange, how much psychology we think we know in this modern age and yet never even practise its rudiments.  The powers of the mind are as strong as, and sometimes even stronger than the powers of the body.  If one is convinced one cannot do a thing one seldom can; if one is equally convinced one can do a thing seeming miracles take place.  To give an example, if one wanted to light a room the addition of one candle would add one more unit, to add 1,000 candles would be to add 1,000 units—a brilliant light; with the addition of every candle the light would be increased.  But supposing one starts taking the candles away, one by one?  With each subtraction the light diminishes.  Constant criticism, dwelling on the negative aspects of a person’s character, or a community’s joint character, is like taking away one candle after another until only darkness or a gloomy twilight prevails and a misery of despair or hopelessness envelops the individual or even the entire community.

I have observed that unless pioneers are on their guard they seem prone to becoming negative in their outlook; it seems at times almost an occupational hazard!  In a strange land, amidst a strange people, after the exhilaration of the spiritual honeymoon of leaving ones country and arriving in the new one, the pioneer has to begin, very much like a newly-wed, to adjust to a new way of life, a different and maybe difficult climate, different living standards and foods; he may pick up a germ and have intestinal troubles or the flu—germs and insects I find are very fond of foreigners in their midst—in any case there may be a real let-down, both physically and psychologically; the answer is prayer, and for

the pioneer to realize that such things are a normal part of anyones experience who leaves his home and goes far afield to serve this wonderful Faith, and that if he is patient, body and mind will adjust to the new environment and his spirits will rise again and enthusiasm flow back.

I have long since come to the conclusion that we must do what we do, in our effort to serve this Cause of God, for His sake alone, seeking only His good pleasure, neither expecting nor demanding appreciation and praise from others.  I recommend this attitude because it has made much of my own work in life endurable.  Although people may appreciate what we do much more than we realize, we often get crushed and hurt by what we feel is lack of any encouragement or appreciation for our services and efforts.  To expect reward and recognition only from Baha’u’llah frees one from these tangled feelings.

Climate and environment

It was Shoghi Effendi who called my attention to the fact that the temperate zones of this planet are few and far between, whereas the badlands, the arid lands, are vaster and more numerous.  For someone from Northern and Western Europe, North America, New Zealand and a few more areas, the green, the flourishing agriculture, the bracing climate with marked seasons, the snow-capped mountains, the abundance of water, are all things taken for granted.  The unending steppes, tundra, savannas, and deserts of the world are an abstraction, something in books.  Do people from the temperate climates realize there is no spring, summer, autumn and winter throughout practically the entire African Continent?  There is only a rainy season, maybe two rainy seasons—the

little rain and the big rain—and otherwise it is always the same.  I have learned in my travels that the greatest single blessing on the planet is water, yet how often do we ever think of it as such, living in countries where there is always rain and water?  So when we people from such privileged countries, from a geographical standpoint, travel in other less favoured lands, it often takes us a long time, a stupidly long time, to get it into our heads that one reason others are not like us is because neither they nor their ancestors for thousands of years lived in the same kind of an environment we and our ancestors did, that they still do not, and therefore their approach to living and its possibilities are fundamentally different from ours.

It is my own experiences—dearly won and highly prized—that have opened my eyes to these things in the course of my travels in now 109 countries.  In the south of India, at the end of the dry season before the monsoon broke, we motored every day to villages in Orissa; the sweat poured out of our bodies at such a rate that it was acrid and irritating to the skin and quite unbearable if one could not wash it off.  When we drove at the end of the day back to our hotel, I looked at the village pond, shrunk down to a mere large puddle of green slime, in which men, women, children, cattle, and dogs all bathed and mostly drank, and I realized that if I could not go back to my comfortable room, with its bath and cool drinking water, but were forced to stay in that village, I, too, at the end of a day of that heat, sweating, and intense thirst, would have taken my place in that slimy green pond, gratefully, like man and beast.

On another occasion, in a remote Indian area in the interior of Argentina, in a barren wilderness, the river was in

spate, but so filled with mud it was like a gruel and we could not drink it, though the Indians could.  We fetched our water from a swamp, every drop an elixir to our parched bodies, “disinfecting” it—in theory at least—with Halazone tablets.

In the Andes, way up above the altiplano in Bolivia, I remember sleeping in a stone hut while attending a conference of the Bahá’ís of that area.  There are no trees, almost no shrubs; a bitter wind blows over the barren heights, adding to the intense cold in the thin air of that altitude of almost 16,000 feet; there is no fuel for heating; the buildings usually have no other opening than one door, to preserve the inhabitants as much as possible from the elements; at night, even though it was going on to summer, we were so cold I stuffed newspapers around the crack of the door to keep out the icy draft.  I came to understand then why the Indians never bathed; in what? how? and decided that I, too, under no circumstances whatsoever would take a bath (nor, indeed, could take one!) if I lived in their environment, where, aside from the climate, water is very hard to come by.

When travellers from the sophisticated environment of our over-civilized cities, with all their comforts and facilities, arrive in countries and towns so extremely different from their own in every respect, one of the first things they do (along with harbouring a lot of other prejudiced judgements) is to condemn the local people, especially villagers, as “lazy”.  For a long time I think I more or less shared this judgement.  Then gradually, as I drove and drove through the wastelands of this world, past one sun-baked mud village after another, or one cluster of huts in the deep jungle after another, an idea began to shape up in my mind:  what would you do if you lived there?  Well, being an artist, I would do something of some kind with my hands.  But most people, my mind answered, are not artists, so what would you do?

Then, I thought, I would repair the walls of my mud home and certainly make it look neater and nicer.  But then I remembered how one has to do this—when the rainy season comes, because otherwise the large quantities of water needed to work the mud are not available.  Well, I argued, I would repair the roof—but I remembered that can be seasonal too, in some places depending on the grass.  Well, then I would paint the frames around the door and paint the little windows; really, I said to myself, with what?  Paint costs money and the nearest place to buy it is 30, 50, 100 or more kilometres away—besides, what would I use for money?  I have not even got money for matches or oil or salt and sugar …  Then I thought why don’t they at least cultivate something?  Again my mind answered me that this was usually seasonal too and very short in drought areas or, in the truly tropical belts, all one did was to clear a patch of jungle (hard work) and plant plantains and cassavas or maybe a little maize and it all grows so fast there is almost nothing one can do to it except eat it when it is ripe!  Then, why don’t the housewives take more pride in their culinary skills and make more effort?  I ask myself.  Don’t be silly, I answer me, people here eat to live, eating is not a luxury or a social rallying point as it is with us, it is like a bird or an animal that takes gratefully and humbly its daily gift from the gods of sustenance to sustain life.  So in the end, as I travel the long dirt road, I see again that given their circumstances I would live as they do.  Then, believing that many economic advancements and social changes are the will of God for this Day, I realize, once more, that it is because of this belief, that Baha’u’llah’s teachings offer the sole remedy to the problems facing the world, I am travelling on this dusty road, in the suffocating heat, to assist in creating the Kingdom of God on earth by the only way it can be done

through mankind’s acceptance in their entirety of the teachings of God for this Day, not a piecemeal remedy through this or that nation’s plans and schemes, which so often conflict with those of other nations, but a universal remedy for all men.

Morals

The light of a good character surpasseth

the light of the sun.

Bahá’u’lláh

Bahá’ís should make a sharp distinction between what is the state of the so-called civilized world at present, what is expected of them as followers of Bahá’u’lláh, and what is the framework in which a tribe or a given group of people functions.

Shoghi Effendi, in 1938, in The Advent of Divine Justice, said the society of North America was suffering from “an excessive and binding materialism”, “an excessive and enervating materialism”, that it was “notorious” for its “laxity in moral standards” and that this “moral laxity and licentiousness” defiled “the character of a not inconsiderable proportion of its citizens .  ..”  It is, alas, the standards of this society of North America—so prevalent in Europe as well—which have ever-increasingly spread to the rest of the world, until now in the capitals and chief cities of the nations of Asia, Africa, the Pacific and Latin America, their evil effects are increasing by leaps and bounds.  The world, Shoghi Effendi wrote, was “enervated by a rampant and brutal materialism”.  It is very illuminating that more than once he associates the word “enervating” with materialism for to enervate means

to deprive of vigour, to sap the strength; he seems to depict materialism as a virus that so weakens the resistance of human society that all other ills prey on and devour it.  Indeed he refers in his writings to a “cancerous materialism”—cancer being the dread killer that transforms normal cells into rapidly proliferating and destroying, diseased cells.  No words were ever idly used by the Guardian and those who go out to teach the Faith in developing countries should ponder what are the implications of the civilization from which they themselves may have come.  “The civilization,” Bahá’u’lláh says, “so often vaunted by the learned exponents of arts and sciences, will, if allowed to overleap the bounds of moderation, bring great evil upon men. …  If carried to excess, civilization will prove as prolific a source of evil as it had been of goodness when kept within the restraints of moderation.”  “The day is approaching when its (civilization’s) flame will devour the cities …”

One of the things which this pernicious civilization is most rapidly destroying is the moral standards of humanity.  The present so-called “permissive” society is the exact opposite of the society envisaged by Bahá’u’lláh, which is anything but permissive in its nature and is governed by law, order and strong moral principles.  We should make this quite clear to officials, educators and leaders of public opinion with whom we come in contact.  The moral standard to which Bahá’ís should adhere is set forth very clearly by Shoghi Effendi in that same great epistle:

A chaste and holy life must be made the controlling principle in the behavior and conduct of all Bahá’ís, both in their social relations with the members of their own community, and in their contact with the world at large.  It must adorn and reinforce the ceaseless labors and merito-

rious exertions of those whose enviable position is to propagate the Message, and to administer the affairs, of the Faith of Baha’u’llah.  It must be upheld, in all its integrity and implications, in every phase of the life of those who fill the ranks of that Faith, whether in their homes, their travels, their clubs, their societies, their entertainments, their schools, and their universities.  It must be accorded special consideration in the conduct of the social activities of every Bahá’í summer school and any other occasions on which Bahá’í community life is organized and fostered.  It must be closely and continually identified with the mission of the Bahá’í youth, both as an element in the life of the Bahá’í community, and as a factor in the future progress and orientation of the youth of their own country.

Such a chaste and holy life, with its implications of modesty, purity, temperance, decency, and clean-mindedness, involves no less than the exercise of moderation in all that pertains to dress, language, amusements, and all artistic and literary avocations.  It demands daily vigilance in the control of ones carnal desires and corrupt inclinations.  It calls for the abandonment of a frivolous conduct, with its excessive attachment to trivial and often misdirected pleasures.  It requires total abstinence from all alcoholic drinks, from opium, and from similar habit-forming drugs.  It condemns the prostitution of art and of literature, the practices of nudism and of companionate marriage, infidelity in marital relationships, and all manner of promiscuity, of easy familiarity, and of sexual vices.  It can tolerate no compromise with the theories, the standards, the habits, and the excesses of a decadent age.  Nay rather it seeks to demonstrate, through the dynamic force of its example, the pernicious character of such theories, the falsity of such standards, the hollowness of such

claims, the perversity of such habits, and the sacrilegious character of such excesses.

Leaving no room for ambiguity the Guardian quotes from the pen of Bahá’u’lláh Himself, showing that chastity is enjoined upon the Bahá’ís of both sexes until they marry.  In one quotation it is clearly stated by Him that His words refer to men, for He says:  “… And if he met the fairest and most comely of women, he would not feel his heart seduced by the least shadow of desire for her beauty.  Such an one, indeed, is the creation of spotless chastity. …” and in another He directly refers to women:  “Purity and chastity have been, and still are, the most great ornaments for the handmaidens of God.”  Although these passages refer to the relationship of men to women and women to men, in addition it must be clearly understood that homosexual relationships are forbidden by the Bahá’í teachings, and those so afflicted must make every effort to overcome such tendencies through determination to obey the law of Bahá’u’lláh, through prayer and through medical and psychological assistance if required.

All this is really in the nature of a preamble to the subject of morals and pioneering.  Those who leave the more “advanced” civilizations and go among the more “backward” ones—both obviously very arbitrary terms—may discover that whereas immoral conduct is, or at least was, more covert in the former places, it is much more overt in the latter ones.  It seems to me that in our judgement of other people’s moral behaviour we must always take this into consideration and realize it is certainly not more virtuous to gild wrongdoing with hypocrisy than to do what is wrong openly.  Perhaps an example of this will make it clearer than words:  on more than one occasion, when I was in the home of Bahá’ís,

I commented on a lovely baby, the child of the daughter of the house, only to find, when I asked to be introduced to the husband, that he did not exist.  Though the family may have deplored this fact, the baby—certainly the most blameless party—was adored.  Remembering the intense hypocrisy surrounding immoral behaviour in my part of the world when I was young, and the secret disposal of the unwanted illegitimate child, I could not but feel this attitude was much better, and certainly much fairer to the child, who grew up in a home surrounded by the love it was entitled to.  As openly acknowledged illegitimate children are very common in many parts of the world, Bahá’ís from other places, with other standards, must be extremely careful to in no way hurt or insult other people as regards their moral mores or customs; our duty is to be better Bahá’ís ourselves and through our example help others to change the pattern of their lives to conform to the laws of God for this Day.  As Bahá’u’lláh so aptly puts it in His luminous Hidden Words:  “How couldst thou forget thine own faults and busy thyself with the faults of others?  Whoso doeth this is accursed of me.”

According to the standards given us in this Dispensation by Bahá’u’lláh, to find moral behaviour in conformity with His teachings anywhere in the world today is extremely difficult.  The best person, therefore, to begin reforming is ones own self.

I firmly believe, however, that Bahá’í Assemblies, national or local, as well as their committees, should be much more vigilant in supervising the arrangements made for travelling teachers and the accommodation provided for them as regards sleeping arrangements; the same applies to schools and institutes.  An unmarried couple or young men and women should not be accommodated on Bahá’í property with no chaperon.  Whether their moral behaviour is above reproach

is not the point; firstly, it is not in conformity with the above ideas quoted from Shoghi Effendi and secondly, it is impossible to persuade those who are not Bahá’ís that the moral conduct of our young people is above reproach; in conformity with human nature they are going to think the worst so that in either case we defeat our own objective, which is to show the world we have a very high moral standard and that we not only preach it and practise it but give the appearance of it as well.

In many places throughout different continents of the world it is very bad for a young woman, unaccompanied by a husband or older woman, to go on a teaching tour; villagers, especially, consider it not only very peculiar but are convinced she is immoral.  I recently heard of a case, in southern Asia, where a young, very devoted, charming and gifted Board member went on a tour of villages; she was not only constantly shadowed by the secret police of that country but her tour was unfavourably commented on by non-Bahá’í villagers who simply could not conceive of a young woman doing such a thing.  When I called the attention of the Counsellors to the unwisdom of such an act they said they had no one else to send.  The answer—unless there is a truly extraordinary emergency of some kind—is to not send anyone.  It is far better for the Cause to do nothing than to do the wrong thing.  There is an oriental proverb that says it is better to deal with a wise enemy than a foolish friend!  If people have no attitude towards the Faith, because they never even heard of it, that opens the door for us to teach, but if their first impression of it is unfavourable it takes a long time to eradicate their prejudice, a very long time in villages, particularly.

On the other hand, there are places all over the world where a young and unmarried Bahá’í woman can go out and teach on her own; she will be well received; there is no gos-

sip about her and she can do infinite good.  As I said, it is up to the bodies responsible to be wise, well-informed and vigilant; this certainly applies to the individual Bahá’í as well.

In Latin America in particular, young Bahá’í women—and older women too—cannot be too careful in the way they conduct themselves and particularly, if they are young, in where they live.  A girl living unchaperoned, not, in other words, under the wing of an older woman or a family, is likely to find herself almost automatically considered at least a loose woman if not a prostitute and she may find herself courted or shunned as such, as the case may be.  It is no use to say she comes from Europe or North America, and that such an attitude is all old-fashioned nonsense!  The purpose of her pioneering is to attract souls to the Cause of God, to present it in such a light that people will turn to it for their and the world’s salvation, not to arouse a violent local reaction against it and the one who teaches it!

Not only must single women in Latin countries be very careful where they live but they should never invite a man to their room alone; the same is true for young men; they are much freer in choice of a place to live but they should guard their own good name by not inviting a girl to visit them alone.

Such admonitions and advice, I fully realize, can be very irksome to young people with the excessive freedom they enjoy these days.  Nevertheless, they are based on both the Bahá’í Writings and long experience and observation on my part.  Ignoring these things has often caused much damage to the teaching work and the reputation of the Faith, and personal tragedy to dear and devoted but unwise and inexperienced believers.

Prevalent in Latin America, but not exclusively confined to that part of the world, is the common custom to leave ones wife or husband (often divorce is non-existent by law)

and take up living, on a more or less permanent basis, with another partner; this can go on for years and a whole new family be born.  In many cases, even though any obstacle to getting married has been removed or does not exist, still the parties concerned do not want to get married at all but just to continue as they are.  In some cases this is due to a mental attitude and habit that sees no reason to change, but in others it is based on the laws of the country by which the woman has almost no rights and could, if she married the man, lose all her rights over her own money and her children.  When people in such a situation desire to become Bahá’ís it is not the business of the pioneer or teacher to tell them what to do about their personal life or to lay down conditions for their acceptance as Bahá’ís.  What people did before they became Bahá’ís is one thing and what they do after they become Bahá’ís is another.  If any action at all is indicated in these cases of common law marriages it concerns National Assemblies, who either have or will secure advice from the Universal House of Justice as to how they should proceed.

We must be very careful to always draw a sharp line between what we, who are Bahá’ís, must do and what laws we must obey, and what other people, who are not Bahá’ís, can do:  drinking is strictly forbidden to us because this is the law given us by Bahá’u’lláh.  But if a Jew, a Christian, or anyone else chooses to drink we have no right to upbraid them with breaking a law because, as they have not believed in and accepted Bahá’u’lláh, they are not bound by His law.  We can point out it is not good for their health and why, but we have no right to tell them not to drink.

The same is true of monogamy:  this is the new law of God for this Dispensation; it does not for a moment imply anyone who practises polygamy is a sinner.  When a well-known African Chief accepted the Faith he had seventy

wives and that was perfectly all right as far as we were concerned for he had acquired them under his tribal laws and customs; but now he is a Bahá’í he cannot add one more.  No blame attaches to his previous acts and certainly it would be grossly unjust to require that he divorce all his wives but one; but having accepted the teachings of Bahá’u’lláh, he cannot add another wife for that would then break Bahá’í law.  It is this wonderful reasonableness and tolerance that is yet another proof of the perfection of this Cause.

An immemorial Chinese custom is for a man to have one or more concubines in addition to his wife; in Tibet a woman often had more than one husband; the point is that for us Bahá’ís there can be no condemnation of people who obeyed the laws of other religions and followed the customs of other cultures.  The most we can say is mankind has now reached a new and higher point in its evolution and therefore, quite naturally, requires new laws.  We must never think that by decrying other people’s customs and ways we are exalting Bahá’u’lláh’s Revelation.  Think of with what love ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, the Perfect Exemplar, surrounded all men of all backgrounds.

In the words of Shoghi Effendi cited above, he points out that “moderation in all that pertains to dress” is also a standard we Bahá’ís should exemplify.  My own mind works best with examples so I will quote two from my own recollections:  after the passing of the beloved Guardian I met for the first time a Hand of the Cause who had been very active in teaching the masses in one of the islands of South East Asia; I asked him about those people and their customs and he said they went naked in their steaming tropical jungles, clothed only in tattoo marks!  I asked him if he had said anything to them about wearing clothes.  He said, “No; why should I, my purpose was to teach them about Bahá’u’lláh.”  To me this

seemed entirely right.  On another occasion a young pioneer to Africa approached me and asked if he could consult me alone; I said yes, and it turned out that when he went to teach in the villages he was often driven there by a very devoted European Bahá’í lady who wore mini-mini-skirts; he said, “When my eyes fall on her sitting there I look away in embarrassment and then my eyes fall on the tribes-women and it is their custom to be naked from the waist up.  Where shall I look!”  To me there is a very subtle point involved in these two stories:  the two different tribes, one Asiatic and one African, were neither immoral nor indecent in their lack of clothing because it was based not only on thousand-year-old custom but also because there was no provocation involved whatsoever.  In my own experience of undressedness in dozens of places I have never seen a villager’s eyes follow a woman because of her nakedness; it just does not exist for him, or, alternatively for her if the men are naked.  But the introduction and propagation of the mini-skirt and plunging necklines has acknowledgedly been a device to attract and excite sexual attention.  Therefore to me it was appropriate to call the European matron aside and ask her not to wear her mini-skirts in the villages or in Bahá’í meetings as it shocked the Africans very much—which it does—but to say nothing to the tribal matrons about putting on more clothes as no one was shocked in their environment and it aroused no feelings.  If foreigners go to the villages, nakedly exposed in modern western dresses, they scandalize and are a test to the local people, who, whatever they are wearing or not wearing, adhere to rigid social customs.  This is particularly true at present in Africa where a very modest costume, with full length skirts, is being increasingly worn as a form of national costume in many countries.  One should also add here, while on this subject, that trousers are a very shocking costume to

many people in Africa, Asia, Latin America and other places because the people associate them with male attire.  It is therefore much better for Bahá’í women to wear skirts in such places, whether they like it or not.  On my own tours I have insisted that any woman accompanying me should not wear trousers in meetings; if she wanted to travel in them that was all right, but for meetings and In villages she must appear in a skirt.  This rule, however, does not apply to countries where women, as their own national costume, wear pants or trousers, such as Pakistan, Chinese countries, Vietnam and so on.  The point is not to offend people and make teaching more difficult, but to please and attract them and make it easier.  Good judgement and good taste are required in approaching all such matters.

Contributions

The beloved Guardian said contributions are the life-blood of our Bahá’í work and pointed out the aim must be universal participation in giving to our various Funds.  We cannot oblige people to give; one of the points I always try to bring out in public talks and interviews with important government officials as well as the press is that this is a religion which accepts for its work no money from non-Bahá’ís and to which contributions are made voluntarily by its members.  These statements are not only impressive but give one the opportunity of explaining why we are not able to do some particular thing at present, such as opening a school, buying a Centre, building a Temple or a hospital and so on.  It makes sense to people who would like us to immediately do such things, to explain why we cannot, and it also is a true and very useful statement in allaying the fears of those who are

jealous of the spread of the Faith and if they saw signs of our becoming stronger locally, might start to actively move against us.  It is also essential sometimes to state these two facts to Bahá’í villagers who can be importunate in their demands for a school or local Hazíratu’l-Quds, pointing out to them that Bahá’í money comes as voluntary contributions from people often as poor as they are or poorer and that they should therefore make an effort to build what they need themselves, with perhaps a little outside help if possible.  We talk about our world-wide Bahá’í community and all being one in it and yet when we go to a village often treat them condescendingly as if they were backward children; they are not; they are often shrewd, business-like adults to whom facts can speak for themselves as clearly as they do to anyone else.  If they are going to be a part of the whole they have to be made to feel a responsibility for the whole, and the way they respond to this can provide, in its turn, moving examples to cite to not only other Bahá’í communities but to non-Bahá’ís as well.

When the Panama Temple was being built, in a remote village in Nigeria the local believers were told about it and an old woman brought three eggs as her contribution toward its construction; another Bahá’í bought these and the small earmarked sum went to the National Spiritual Assembly who forwarded it to the Panama National Spiritual Assembly and in due course the old woman in her village received a receipt in her name.  I recently told this story to a high-ranking government official in India, pointing out the Delhi Bahá’í Temple would be erected by love and contributions as universal as this.

High in the Bolivian Andes a Spiritual Assembly informed me proudly it had contributions in its local Fund and wanted to show them to me.  I was very willing to inspect them but

not when a building was pointed out about 1,000 feet down in a valley!  I said if I got down there I should never get back—which was true; at 16,000 feet altitude I was already out of breath.  However, the Indian Board member went and inspected it for me and made me a list of the potatoes and maize which would be sold in the town and the money sent to the National Fund.  I sent that precious list to the Universal House of Justice.

We must find the key to people’s minds on the subject of giving because to make offerings to God, to statues, to ones ancestors, has been a universal practice by all men.  It seems to me the connection between what they did before and the necessity to now give to the Cause of Bahá’u’lláh must be made.  All over Asia people give to their Temples—flowers, food, incense, votive offerings; why cannot they be made to realize that giving those few pennies to the Bahá’í work is the same act?  Perhaps in some cases the people must be appealed to for something far, not near, like constructing a new Bahá’í House of Worship.  They must form the mental pattern of giving to the Faith and this being established, to give to other Funds will become easier.  Often villagers, sometimes not without reason, mistrust the Local Assembly or treasurer and will therefore not give; or they are afraid their precious money (for money is very scarce in villages) will never reach the National Spiritual Assembly.  Through better supervision, through promptly issuing receipts in the donor’s name, through letting the friends know where their money went, confidence may be built up.

I believe there are two channels we might try in this connection:  one is to give in the name of the dead; ancestor worship, the little shrine in a corner where joss sticks burn and miniature food offerings are placed, can perhaps be gradually transmuted into the Bahá’í concept of doing good

in the name of the dead one and this should be written into the receipt and the name of the donor and the dead one both appear on it, as well as the sum given and for what purpose.  The other is deputization, to give towards other teachers going out to teach in ones stead, which is explicitly stated by Baha’u’llah Himself:  “Centre your energies in the propagation of the Faith of God.  Whoso is worthy of so high a calling, let him arise and promote it.  Whoso is unable, it is his duty to appoint him who will, in his stead, proclaim this Revelation …”  Is there any reason why a whole village cannot help deputize an individual?  When the hearts of the friends become involved in giving and their pride in service is enlisted, we may find some, at least, of the keys needed to tap the vast reservoir of Bahá’í contributions.

Visas

Although a National Assembly—or its Pioneer Committee if it has one—should be able to give information regarding visas for different countries, the pioneer would do well, in my opinion, to check all the details for himself.  Every place has different regulations:  a transit visa, as the name implies, is for only a few days; a tourist visa is for much longer, often for a three-month period, but if you do not make sure what kind you are getting you may find that although you thought you had one for three months, actually 30 days is written in your passport.  Do not leave things to chance; use your own eyes and your own head, for after all it is you who are going to suffer the maximum inconvenience if something goes wrong and not someone back home, who thought they were right but were wrong!  Residence visas—permits to stay a year or longer—are much harder to obtain.

If the pioneer plans to work or already has a job in the place he is going to, visa regulations become even more important.  Many a devoted servant of the Faith, turning his back on his home and previous pursuits, has gone out to his pioneer post on the wrong visa basis and been put out of the country—sometimes at a moment’s notice or even under arrest—because proper enquiries and proper arrangements had not been made in the beginning.  For instance, you could find that if you entered on a tourist visa you are forced to leave at its expiry, job or no job, because you should have entered on a residence visa or one specifically covering permission to work; this oversight can in many cases mean the government in question refuses you both permission to return to your job and a residence visa because you did not do the right thing in the first place.  In other places the exact opposite may be true, you enter on a tourist visa, find work and then are granted, inside the country, a permanent or residence visa.

There is another very important point and that is that some countries require you to report to the police or immigration authorities after a specified period in the country; I have found that this information is often casually mentioned or hidden away on some form and on a number of occasions have inadvertently ignored it and been caused a lot of unnecessary embarrassment and inconvenience; so be sure you know from the beginning, on entering a country, what is expected of you as regards its regulations.  The same holds true for the date of renewal of your residence visa inside the country or for a work permit that requires periodical renewing or any other special arrangement the government may require.  To let such things overrun the date of their expiry can lead to your expulsion or loss of work or loss of some permit to travel in a special area where you are serving the Faith.

Many countries require that you have a ticket to return to your place of origin, or at least are provided with a ticket to another country beyond the frontiers of the country you are getting the visa for, or produce evidence that you have adequate money to leave their country when your visa expires and thus not be a burden on them.  Remember also that either as a travelling teacher or as a resident pioneer, when you leave the country for even a day and cross its frontier, your visa becomes automatically terminated unless you have one that is good for more than one entry and this is rarely issued; if it is valid for more than one entry, it will be clearly written that this is so in the visa in your passport.  You may require for every time that you leave a country a new visa to get into it again, and you may be given it or you may not, depending entirely on circumstances.  In other words, you might find that by going even on an excursion of one day to a nearby country, you forfeited your permission to be in the country you are pioneering in and could not get back into it.  In any case, be sure to inform yourself from some reliable source before you take any action of this kind.  Shoghi Effendi always advised the Bahá’ís in technical matters to consult experts.  An expert is a man who has experience in a certain field and knows what he is talking about; an expert is not just somebody who tells you he knows what he thinks you should know.

There is another aspect to visas and permits and that is that bureaucracy is such today that an act that should take 15 minutes can take days; you can be flatly told, by a silly clerk in an empty office, that they are so busy they cannot possibly attend to your affairs at once, come back tomorrow.  The wise traveller knows all these kinds of things can (and no doubt will!) happen and is therefore cautious and allows sufficient time to arrange his affairs properly.

Servants

The question of servants is an important one because in Asia and Africa, and other places outside Europe and North America, a vast number of people earn their living in this manner.  To be a servant is no disgrace.  Whatever work a person does in the spirit of service, Bahá’u’lláh tells us, is worship, which surely has abolished once and for all the prudery of “white collar workers” and the prejudices associated today in the West with someone being a servant.  The current concepts of equality and superiority are very confused and misleading:  is a man intrinsically better because he is a chemist instead of a street sweeper?  Surely it is preferable to have an excellent character and sweep streets than to have a bad character and be a highly paid chemist?  In no Holy Scripture has one ever found that the wealthy, the powerful and the educated shall inherit the Kingdom of God!  The standard of God is far different from the standards of men and has nothing to do with external appearances but only with intrinsic values.  Bahá’u’lláh advises every man to learn a trade or profession, whatever else he may know as well.  A trade is usually associated with some form of manual labour; ‘Abdu’l-Bahá Himself knew the trade of weaving mats.

My own recommendation is that if a pioneer can afford a servant in countries where they are available and not too expensive, then by all means engage one; it will give employment to a person who is struggling to earn a living; it will also give the pioneer more time to teach the Faith by being freed from domestic chores, especially if he is himself employed and thus has less time to devote to his Bahá’í activities.  In engaging servants, the pioneer should not be foolish and sentimental, accepting them just because they want the job or have been recommended by a relative or

because he feels sorry for them.  This method seldom works satisfactorily and the pioneer can well be imposed upon by a dishonest person or saddled with someone who is much more of a liability than an asset.  He should choose a servant as he would go to a shop and pick out the best apple or the best flower and not the worst one.  His home will then be run better and a happier atmosphere prevail than if he is constantly worried by or scolding the person he has engaged.

There is another very important point involved in this question of engaging servants; pay the servant what other people in the country pay theirs and no more.  There is a sound reason for this.  The economy of every country is bound up with local wage scales and the purchasing power of its own money in its own way of life and is not based on the standard of the country the pioneer came from which, in all probability, was a developed rather than a developing one and had a quite different economy.  If the pioneer over-pays (doing his mathematics as we all do when we go abroad, namely, in our own currency which we are used to), he is guilty of two errors, to me both unjust:  in the first place he spoils the standard by which other, local people are paying their servants and which is in accord with their income and their nation’s standard of living, and by doing this he creates a lot of ill will against himself on the part of others who must employ servants to do exactly what he is now paying more for his servant to do; in the second place, by doing this the foreigner—in this instance the Bahá’í pioneer—usually ruins the servant he has employed by accustoming him to a wage for his services which he will be unable to get from either his own people or from those more experienced foreigners living in his country who are sufficiently intelligent to pay only the local price.  This may sound far-fetched but it is not.  The servant thus treated vaunts himself as more highly paid than

others and when the day comes that he has to accept a job at the lower market price for domestic labour, he is usually disgruntled and discontented and may even become unemployable.  It all comes back to the same principle:  adapt yourself and your thinking to the ways of the country you are living in and do not try to impose your national standards and customs on other people.

Another wise piece of advice for anyone who finds that for the first time he can afford a servant is not to invite him (or her) to eat with him.  It will not be understood or appreciated, is not necessary and would not be done in the servant’s own village circle.  If the servant is a Bahá’í and is going to a Feast, a meeting or a teaching course, the pioneer, the servant and all the other believers will share together, for we are all Bahá’ís together, but in daily life each of us has his place and things run smoother if we accept this principle and respect it.  A basis of kindness, fairness, dignity and respect on both sides establishes the best relationship between employer and employee.

Above all, the pioneer should avoid forcing his food ways on his employee.  I have come to the conclusion that probably the strongest, most ingrained of all habits of the human race is its food habits.  This is not the place to debate the merits of this, but the fact remains and it is a very pertinent fact.  If a servant should turn out to be an ardent Muslim or a Methodist and spends all his time trying to convert others to his doctrines, the pioneer is not going to like this propaganda and pressure, so let him not try to force his foods and his eating habits, his customs and his beliefs on his servant.  “Do unto others as you would be done by” applies in a great many fields.  We must always respect another man’s right to be himself and always bear in mind that the individual not engulfed in western civilization is likely to be a hundred times more polite than we are and that he will, in his

courtesy, say “yes” when he would like to say “no” and even if one explains to him—and thinks he understands—that he should be quite frank and not say “yes” if he means “no”, still he will do it because it is his ingrained custom.  So leave him free to eat his own diet if he wants to.

The pioneer should neither nag a servant all the time nor allow him to shirk his duties and make a fool of his employer, because neither the one extreme nor the other is good for either his character or the one who employs him.  It seems to me if the pioneer engages a servant he has a clear duty to not spoil his character or future employability by being over-indulgent or unduly over-dominating.  Most domestic servants in the East and Africa are men; they often have wives and families at home in the villages, and this is their way of life.  The pioneer should not interfere in it and insist they should come and join the man in the city or live in the pioneer’s home unless that was included in the terms of employment.  Often the wives are keeping up not only the man’s farm (to which he almost invariably plans to return) in his village but his place in tribal life as well, and neither he nor his wife and their families have any desire to change it.  The golden rule is “mind your own business”.

One last admonition:  the pioneer (or travelling teacher), in his desire to show his great spiritual detachment and his love for his fellowmen, as well as his trust in their higher qualities, should not leave money and valuables lying about openly or easily accessible and thus put undue temptation before others.  A person who, without this flagrant temptation, is normally honest may, for one reason or another, suddenly succumb and who then is more to blame, the one who provoked this dishonesty or the one who was too weak to resist?  Remember that through your folly or carelessness you might be instrumental in helping another person to be dishonest.

Mud huts and stick homes

If I had another lifetime to live I would devote part of it to studying native houses and their style and the materials used to build them.  I have the highest conceivable respect for mud as a building material.  Not long ago I went to the site on Lake Tiberias where some of the Bahá’ís had once lived on lands bought in response to the words of Bahá’u’lláh regarding the vicinity of the River Jordan and there, to my great surprise, I discovered that the houses had been built of sun-baked mud bricks reinforced with straw; in one of these now ruined houses ‘Abdu’l-Bahá used sometimes to spend the night.  The ancestral home of Bahá’u’lláh in Tkur is, I understand, constructed partially of adobe—a polite word for mud.  The tower of Babel was mud and so were the famed walls of Babylon.  The villages of the Africans, the Indians and other South East Asian nations, the homes of many people throughout the Americas and in China, as well as the Middle East, are mostly made of mud.  Mud, being earth, is surely God’s richest gift to men.  Having many times slept and lived in mud huts, I am well aware of their advantages and disadvantages.  The main reason I mention them in this book is not only to remove most “educated” people’s strong prejudice against them but to help the pioneer to counteract the growing feeling of inferiority that is slowly spreading among villagers who live in mud houses because of the scorn and criticism most white men pour upon them.  I have heard of Bahá’ís rebuking people for living in a “mud” house, saying they are Bahá’ís and should know better!  A more unwise and ignorant remark, not to mention unkind, one could scarcely find.  People live in mud houses because they must and have no choice.  But I believe they should be told—and we who come from city houses should know—that all men,

in all continents, have made serviceable and often beautiful houses of mud, which has marked advantages over other building materials.  Mud is found almost anywhere, it is the cheapest building material in the world, it is cool in the heat and warm in the cold and buildings many stories high, in places as far apart as Tibet and Bolivia, are successfully built of it.

Let me give some examples:  houses in Africa are built either round or square, often with very wide over-shadowing eaves that shade the walls and create a sort of porch all around the house where one can sit or work.  This shading of the wall is one of the most “modern” architectural techniques in the desert areas of the United States as it greatly lowers the temperature of the interior, but they have been doing it a long, long time in Africa.  Some houses have a gap of 3 or 4 metres between the top of the wall and the roof which lets hot air and smoke out, a dim light in, and provides ideal air-conditioning.  Roofs are usually of deep grass thatch, the result being a house that in the hottest heat of noon, in the hottest season of the year, is still an oasis of coolness.  A number of times I went from such huts to a school or other building of cement, with plenty of windows and a tin roof; the heat was as intense as a furnace and I wondered how the health of the children would stand up to it in the long run.  On some occasions I have helped a local community to build its Bahá’í Centre—with one stipulation:  that the roof should be the best quality of thatch.  It is impossible, when it rains on a tin roof, to even hear people singing at the tops of their voices, the din of the rain is so deafening, as I have found out to my cost on many occasions when I could not give a talk at a school or other “modern” meeting place.  On the contrary, when it rains on thatch one is not disturbed by the sound.  I have often wondered, as plastic can be

a by-product of other industries, if in the future an imitation plastic grass in strips will not be developed and made cheap enough so that it can fulfil the function and have the advantages of the natural thatching materials (insulation, coolness and pleasing appearance) and be more enduring because one reason villagers are giving up thatching with grass or special branches of trees is that increase of population and agriculture is making them scarcer and they have to be carried greater distances.

One day, when I was visiting the San Blas Islands in Panama, I waited for the Chief to join us in the typical big meeting hall of the village.  Having nothing to do but wait, I studied the building which, according to their local methods, is entirely constructed of straight branches of trees or saplings, about 4 imetres in diameter, stuck in the ground with a space of 2 or 3 imetres between each one.  An immense thatched roof of sloping eaves, set on tree trunk pillars, covered the whole building.  Between these columns were swung the hammocks of the Indian Chiefs and headmen, whose custom it is to lie in them and smoke and consult (and doze!) while lesser fry sit around on benches next to the wall.  (I never got higher than a bench.)  That meeting but had 40 hammocks, was about 8 metres wide by maybe 16 metres long, cool, shady and solidly built.  Being an architect’s daughter, by the time the Chief turned up I had paced it all off, was very enthusiastic over it and proceeded to tell him what I thought of it.  He was an old, fat, wise Indian Chief and after we had finished discussing what I had come to see him about, he said I was the only person who had ever praised a single thing the Indians had and to come again!

This stick construction is widespread in South America; I even slept in a stick house in an Indian village in Argentina.  It is ideally suited to the weather for it gives shelter from the

rain and sun while at the same time allowing a constant free circulation of air.  Contrary to what I had supposed, I found, when I stayed in one, that passers-by, unless they were sufficiently vulgar (which the Indians were not) to go up and glue their eyes to the gaps between the sticks, could not see clearly into these houses but the person inside could see very clearly what went on outside.  Sometimes, depending on the climate, one finds in Africa that the mud house has given way to a similar stick house or one with half-height walls of woven matting; indeed, the latter type of construction occurs in many parts of both Asia and the Pacific Islands.

Many African tribes have special techniques in making their mud floors:  in some places in Uganda they produce a polished surface as smooth and beautiful as wood and resistant to water; in Lesotho I have seen polished floors of exquisite design reminiscent of those produced in Italy with marble marquetry.  In many places all over the world the ingenuity of man has created functional, ornamental, liveable buildings  are economic in every sense of the word and, unlike the vast majority of modern constructions, grace the countryside and blend into the beautiful setting of nature rather than hideously scarring it.

How to furnish a nice place to hold meetings

Where to entertain guests is often a problem for the pioneer.  If he lives in a rented room his landlord may object to his holding meetings in it, and some other place where he can teach people must be found.  If he has an unfurnished home, however modest, of his own, the question is how to seat people for meetings at a minimum cost.  The following suggestion is based on an old Turkish custom.  In the Mansion of

Baha’u’llah at Bahjí, in many of the rooms there is a long seat running the whole length of one wall; the name of this is a mandar” and it is the best and cheapest way to furnish any sitting room.  In the old days it was built as part of the wall and one could probably copy it in constructing a mud hut, but the method suggested here is practical and cheap; the point is the exact dimensions must be followed if it is to be comfortable instead of uncomfortable.  A mandar is much more useful if it runs the entire length of a wall, right up to the corners, but can be any length one likes; a large one can even run along one wall, across the top of the room on the second wall and down the other wall so that the whole room on three sides is lined by this couch; it depends how many people one wants to accommodate; it has the great advantage of seating more people than is possible by any other method.  A mandar is also quite wide enough to be used as a couch to sleep on and this extra space is often of great help to pioneers because it means they can put someone up overnight.

Again I reiterate, the dimensions given here are what make a mandar really comfortable; if they are not followed, and you get the idea your legs are too long or too short for this proportion, or you cannot easily find wood the right size, and it will be all right to change these proportions, you will find that you have an uncomfortable piece of furniture to sit on.  To build a proper mandar boards are required:  loose planks of unfinished raw wood can just be laid side by side, or the pieces joined; their length depends on the length of the mandar but the width must be 75 imetres (30 inches).  This is the width of the bench one sits on.  If you are building a mandar say three metres long against one wall, or one and a half metres long and then joining to make a corner, you have to make your measurements either by what you want or perhaps by the length of the wood planks available.

In other words, do it the most sensible and economic way.  Remember that in making the corner one section must be pushed right up against the wall into the corner and the end of the second section, which is going to go down the other wall, must be pushed up against it so there is no empty corner.  Mandars can also be placed in such a way that the corner is left empty and a small table or lamp put in it, but it is much more practical, as far as seating capacity is concerned, if the mandar fits into the corner.  If you use loose long boards they can rest on trestles on the top of which the boards are laid, or on a series of wooden boxes that happen to be the desired height, but if you build your bench solid, like a table, legs can be attached under the corners and also in the middle for extra support, if the mandar is very long.  The height of your mandar from the floor to the top of the boards should be 33 imetres (13 inches).  More than this will not produce a comfortable seat because on top of this must now be placed a mattress the same width and length as the boards and about 10 to 13 imetres high (4 to 5 inches).  This mattress can be stuffed with cotton, with kapok (a natural vegetable silk-like fibre that grows on trees in many parts of the world), some type of straw or grass, or even excelsior or foam rubber—though the latter will be hot and may be much more expensive.  The final part of your mandar consists of the cushions that form a solid row all along the wall, the same length as the seat.  Again, the proper dimensions of these make all the difference in comfort.  They should be about 35 imetres high (14 inches) and 15 imetres deep (6 inches).  Their length will depend on how many divide into the length of the mandar itself.  In other words if each wood seat is 2 metres long you can have either four cushions 5 metres in length or, if your mandar was only 15 metres long, you could make two cushions 75 metres in

length.  The cushions look much better if they tend to be longer rather than shorter, so study the length of your mandar and divide it into three four or five cushions, if it is a very long one, or two or three if it is a shorter one.  Now you have your benches, mattresses and cushions.  How they are covered is part of their charm for it is very easy to do and can cost a little or a lot depending only on what material you care to buy.  Your material must hang over the front of the mandar so it clears the floor by 2 or 3 imetres (12 inches) then come up over the mattress and be smoothed across it towards the wall, any excess being tucked under the mattress.  This simple process means you need no fancy cover for the mattress, your goods can be either a beautiful handwoven wool blanket or yardage of some inexpensive and cheerful African or Indian print or other dress goods, or a good quality of upholstery goods with a design or plain, as desired.  Remember a plain goods shows dirt much quicker than a patterned goods.  Your cushions can either be in slip covers of the same material or you can take a length of the same goods, cut it in half lengthwise, first tuck it well underneath the row of cushions where they are standing up against the wall on the mandar mattress, then bring the material up over the face of the cushions, across their tops and fold down between the wall and the cushion at the back so that the goods form a tight long band the whole length of the cushions at the back of the mandar.  Be sure and remember that at either end of the mandar you must leave about 4 metres (16 inches) extra goods in order to fold back over the end of the cushions and make a neat joint against the wall.  The same thing applies to the material that you stretch over the seat of the mandar.  Be sure in making your measurements that it goes the full length, not only to the end of the mandar, but that you have enough to turn the corner

and carry the goods up to the wall and tuck in at the back, holding it in position by either safety pins or basting the two together.  In this way people who are looking at the mandar can neither see under it in front nor is there an open and ugly gap at the ends.  Make your measurements very accurately to begin with, drawing them on a piece of paper, and you will have the main furnishing of your living room ready in no time, and at little cost, to seat many guests.

Either make your mandar yourself or, in most countries, you can easily order it from a local carpenter.  Many times people who make sofas have already available standard seats for arm chairs, about 8 by 8 metres or 8 by 6 or 75 metres and 10 or so imetres high, and these can be adapted without having to make something special for the mandar seats.  Your mandar’s length can then be based on the number of these units you find it convenient to buy and put in your room.  Also, sometimes cushions that approximate the dimensions of the cushions that you require for the back of your mandar are already available and it saves the trouble of either making them or ordering them.  Remember that soft cushions are absolutely useless as these cushions are like the back of a chair, to support the back comfortably, and not for sleeping on.  Whatever you do, be sure that the length of the boards, the length of the mattress and the total length of the row of cushions at the back is all going to come out the same size because it will be very ugly if something is too short or too long.  After giving it considerable thought I have come to the conclusion that one reason the proper proportions given above for a mandar are so important is because it is far less tiring to sit when your knees are raised higher than the level of your buttocks.  The Africans discovered this long ago and all their native style chairs and stools are based on this principle.  I have found one can sit a long time on a small, hard,

wooden stool with no back rest and not feel tired because of the position.  Another convenience the mandar offers is that one can draw ones legs up onto it, sit cross-legged or sideways and more or less lounge and relax.  Extra scatter cushions can be placed on the mandar as needed so that people whose legs are shorter can put an extra cushion behind their backs and sit with more comfort and these can also serve as pillows at night.

Throughout many continents and countries, in village and town alike, inexpensive tailors are available, often sitting out on the street in front of a shop, who will, for an extremely small sum of money, sew up the seams of your cushion covers, hem the sides of the cloth you wish to use for your mandar or, for that matter, do any other sewing you require, including making you a suit, a shirt, a nightgown, a dress or whatever you ask them to do.  Be sure however to check the measurements and leave nothing to chance.  If you are wise you will stand and watch it being done, or at least stand long enough to see it is going to turn out exactly as you wish it to.  It also is a very nice opening to chat about the Faith with the man doing the sewing, providing of course he is at all interested.

In nearly every country of the world there are all sorts of cheap and charming things used all the time locally that can help furnish a room.  To use such things fulfils two objectives:  first of all they are, being handmade, more pleasing to the eye than a lot of cheap junk imported from abroad, and second, it makes the local people see that what exists in their own background is not despised and unworthy in comparison with the products of western civilization, that on the contrary, we appreciate, enjoy and prize the things made by them.  On my long African safari I always had one or more wooden stools, usually bought for about $1.00 apiece, and I now use them constantly here in the Home of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.

As a night table, as a chair when camping, or to sit on and sort things out when they are spread all over the floor prior to packing them, they are charming and useful articles.  In fact, in Bahá’í centres where we visited, my four stools (I actually had four in the back of the Land Rover) helped to seat the friends at more than one large meeting.  The number of baskets I have travelled with in my Land Rover was at one time twentyone—big ones and little ones; some of them beginning the journey in East Africa, crossed the entire continent twice; they have held dishes, stoves, utensils, clothes, the commissary department, papers, cameras anything and everything.  Cheap, strong and often of very fine workmanship, they have proved invaluable, from 3 feet high to 3 inches wide.

Clay cooking pots, water pots and dishes of village workmanship may be found in all parts of the world.  They are useful, extremely inexpensive and often beautiful and decorative.  If you study the way the natives themselves use them, you can use them in the same manner, in other words you can cook in them.  You can also buy them for other purposes such as flower vases, storage jars in the kitchen, or jardinieres to put potted plants in.  Aside from carvings—which are usually made for tourists and can sometimes be decorative and not too expensive—the things people make for themselves for their daily use can have a great deal of ornamental value and charm:  wooden scoops and spoons, gourds and large calabashes, native cups, sometimes made of horn, a local bell for animals made of two rolls of wrought iron joined together by a loop at the top—one pioneer had artfully used a number of these as a wall decoration by the simple expedient of hanging them one above the other on a string.  Straw mats of all kinds, qualities and sizes can be bought cheap all over the world and used on the floor, or hung on the

wall to not only fill in a space or provide a background for other objects, but to cut down echoes in the place where meetings are held, especially if the building is of cement which has a tendency to produce a very loud echo and very metallic tones of voice.  These mats withstand a lot of wear and tear and may be washed in cold water.

I have noticed that in an astonishing number of small local markets in Africa and Asia and other countries real Chinese porcelain dishes can be bought, the heavy kind we associate with Chinese restaurants and which is usually called Canton wear.  They are not only infinitely more beautiful than plastic, but are often very much cheaper than anything else available in the shops—including expensive imported China sets—and you can make up a selection of useful dishes which you and others will enjoy at a very small cost.  A lot of native weaving, wax prints or tie and dye batik are now common all over the world; these may be used for innumerable purposes:  they make delightful table cloths and also bed covers; they can cover a mandar; a decorative one can be hung on the wall.

To live in a room with nothing beautiful or charming to look at is wholly unnecessary.  One weed flower in a Coca Cola bottle is still better than nothing at all, and tin cans, pierced at the bottom, can be little flower pots for strange and charming wild things dug up and brought home; even the spiky top of a pineapple, cut off before peeling the fruit, can be stuck in a glass bottle or a jar and will start to grow roots and create the illusion of a cactus plant or an aloe; a sweet potato placed so one tip is in contact with water will grow a luxuriant green, creeper-like plant; a dish of lentils or wheat wetted and kept in a dark place for a few days will begin to sprout and when brought into the light and kept watered, but not soaked, will produce a thick patch of brilliant green grass in a soup plate or any other flat dish, that

cheers your heart every time you look at it, though it will not last forever as it soon grows tall and falls down—but it has its temporary charm; even a mango seed can be coaxed into a small tree and so can an avocado pit.  There is no end to the charm and beauty you can create in your own little nest when pioneering just by having a little imagination and taking the trouble to do it, and it will certainly impress and encourage other people who come to your room and see with what simple, humble things from their country you have made a place that is so attractive, so full of charm to the eye and so full of love and kindness for the heart.

Eating and other habits

Everyone has different customs and there is no justification for believing ones own are better than those of some other group.  At least onethird of the world’s population eats with chopsticks—in my personal estimation the most civilized way to eat.  Another third eats with its hands.  At first I found it very hard to do this, but once I got used to it I liked it and have done so all over India, many times in Africa—and sometimes at home!  It is the universal custom of those who do so to wash their hands both before and after eating.  The Guardian told me Bahá’u’lláh has instructed not to put ones hand in the common dish; in other words, not to put ones hand into the common dish and then back to ones own mouth; obviously this method of eating is very unsanitary and can convey germs to other people.  In India people usually eat exclusively from a dish of their own but in many other places all eat from the same dish, and one must be very careful not to hurt the feelings of other people unnecessarily by telling them to change their ways and assuring them they

are breaking the instructions of Bahá’u’lláh!  When one is a guest in Africa one is almost invariably given a separate plate for ones self, and served separately as the people are very considerate towards their guests in every way.  Incidentally one should accept this courtesy and not argue about it, insisting one wants to be treated just like everyone else.  Accept to be treated the way your host wishes to treat you, for this may be a unique occasion in his life and he has planned it very carefully.  Indeed, the host may even have borrowed special dishes and cups from neighbours in order to honour his guest.  Sometimes in South America I was served my boiled beans and potatoes in the corner of my poncho, no plate being available.  Occasionally in India I ate off a dried leaf dish or from a banana leaf.  It makes no difference, the main thing is that the pioneer or travelling teacher should be as considerate and polite as those who are entertaining him.

How humanity chooses to eat in the future is not our concern, and Shoghi Effendi, in writing, has made it very clear that those friends who come from the Middle East and speak Persian and Arabic have no right to introduce into other countries any laws or ordinances of Bahá’u’lláh not already given by him to the West and other parts of the world.  Any changes in our manners and customs should come directly from the World Centre, the Universal House of Justice being the sole judge of when the time is ripe to introduce these changes.  In its  of Kitáb-i-Aqdas, it states in its introduction:  “The number of laws binding upon Bahá’ís is not increased by the publication of this .  ”

All those arising to serve the Cause in distant lands, with different historical backgrounds from their own and hence different customs, should bear these words of our Supreme Body in mind and refrain from any interference in the personal lives and customs of others and above all in any criticism of them, for not one of us has any guarantee that it will be our viewpoint, our way of life or our concept of what is befitting, that will prevail in the as-yet-unborn world Bahá’í society of the future.  The Faith is born, the World Order and its nascent institutions are born, but Bahá’í culture and civilization must come later, as a natural outgrowth of the impregnation of men’s lives with the spirit of the Teachings, and that will take a long time to develop.  Who knows how much or how little of the cultures and ways of life of Africa, Asia, Europe, the Americas and the Pacific Islands will be included or discarded in the world of the future?  Meantime there is quite enough for us to teach people without interfering with their local customs.

My own feeling is if you are going to hurt or offend other people, stay at home in your own country.  You are not only free to go out and carry the Message of Bahá’u’lláh to other people, you are strongly urged to do so; you are not free, however, to hurt and insult them and impose your ways on theirs.

To get back to customs.  A pioneer in Africa described her heartbreak over her first entertainment in her own home for the local community:  she was very excited about this occasion and arranged a beautiful buffet table, worthy of Paris, London or New York, with each dish nicer looking than the other; she then invited the friends to help themselves; in the resultant crush and grab she was so disillusioned she broke into tears and fled from the room!  What had happened?  Her intention was excellent, she honoured her guests as she

would have done at home in America and that surely was the right spirit too.  Her mistake was she neither consulted with anybody who knew the country better than she did nor did she study the people she had come to live among.  She just assumed it was like her own background and it was not.  People in Africa, except those who have completely identified themselves with white ways, usually through having studied abroad, eat by taking from the common dish or else each is served a dish with his portion on it.  To serve ones self to a buffet is a completely unheard of situation except to the sophisticated city dweller.  I found myself in a comparable situation at the beginning of my trip in India when my host placed before me a steel tray with a lot of little dishes on it and no cutlery.  I was appalled and did not like to ask for a spoon as I suspected he might not have one so I hastily asked the guest next to me to start eating so I could see what he did and do likewise!

So many situations of this kind, which often shock and embarrass everyone concerned, could be avoided if only we all had enough sense to ask beforehand about local customs and then tried to follow them; “When in Rome, do as the Romans do” is good advice.

On another occasion of cultural mix-ups a pioneer presented her African servant with not just an ordinary wax candle but a very expensive and fancy one and a rarity outside of Europe or the States and told him with great kindness this was a present for his mother, who was a poor woman living in a village; when the servant later presented the candle to another Bahá’í, whom he had previously worked for and was fond of, his new mistress was hurt and surprised.  I pointed out to her that the African had shown much better judgement than she had, giving to some one who could really appreciate it an object  to his own mother would have had no

special value at all and would be not only a waste of money but a wasted gesture of kindness.  A  of sugar would have been a much better gift.  But the American was not really thinking at all, she was only being kind in a completely thoughtless way.

Many times pioneers are puzzled and a little hurt by never being invited to the homes of the people among whom they have come to teach the Faith; no matter how many times a person comes to their home and is entertained and asked to partake of meals, there is no similar invitation extended to them.  The reason for this is not so much (as pioneers often think) that their native friend is ashamed of his home and cannot offer any hospitality commensurate with what he has received, but rather that people call on their friends uninvited, as a matter of course and with no formality at all.  It would never occur to them that one invited a friend to ones home—the friend would come if he wanted and be welcomed, at meal time or any other time!

This unreflecting approach we have towards people of another culture reminds me of an incident in my own life when I was first married and came to live in the oriental home of Shoghi Effendi’s family; in the East, as in almost all parts of the world not highly westernized, the floors are swept by a special grass tied in a bundle and coming to a point, in other words a short whisk broom; by doubling over, and usually keeping the legs stiff, the floor is energetically and quickly swept.  I was horrified and felt the poor maids were ruining their backs and rushed to buy them the long-handled brooms and mops I was used to in my part of the world; they politely used these once or twice and then they never reappeared!  After observing the oriental women in my new environment I noticed they were very supple, could bend over and touch the floor at almost any age and did not have stiff backs or

hips.  I promptly changed my own method of sweeping to theirs so that my back will not stiffen in my old age!

Over and over throughout Africa one sees grass being cut by a machete or sabre, as it is called in some countries—a knife about half a metre long and 6 imetres wide—which is swung in a slashing motion by a man doubled over and, to ones astonishment, seems to do almost as good a job as an electric lawn mower.

Throughout all countries—India, Africa, the West Indies, and so on—where people carry their loads on top of their heads they have straight backs, flat shoulders and walk like kings and queens.  The sense of balance this creates is unbelievable; I once saw a woman gardener in Tanzania sweeping the public paths, easily and rapidly, bent double, with a small empty tin can perched on her head!  Also in those countries of Asia where it is the custom to sit cross-legged people have supple joints and straight backs and their knees do not stiffen up as ours do as we get older.  The principle is live and let live and learn something new and better if you can.

Transportation and equipment

After crossing Africa from east to west and returning via its southern territories I can reiterate what was my conviction when I undertook this great safari:  I would not care to do it except by Land Rover, and 36,000 miles of driving only served to confirm this personal opinion.  This does not mean, however, there are no alternatives.  Many factors are involved in buying a car for serious travel in the interior—whether it is the interior of Africa, Asia or Latin America or some other place with bad roads—but I stipulated three essential points:  the car must have four-wheel drive; it must

have high clearance from the ground to the bottom of the chassis; it must be a car for which I was reasonably sure I could buy parts to replace those broken or worn out.  After driving in deep mud ruts (usually made by huge trucks that plo through the dirt roads in the rain and leave a high hump or bank of mud down the middle), or driving through loose sand a foot or two deep with its terrible drawing power (which I hate much more than mud!), or driving where roads have deteriorated until there are drops of a few feet, or huge boulders spaced all down the road, or gullies where the rain has eroded it into deep crevices, or cutting out over the open country where one was told it was easy, but where more and more bushes, tall grass, fallen trees and ditches appeared in the middle of nowhere—after these experiences I am convinced really nothing will get you where you are going but a four-wheel drive vehicle which ensures both power and control in emergencies.  Land Rover spare parts can be found all across the African Continent.  The second car which is highly considered, but which is not yet as widely distributed, is the Japanese Toyota; the third in this category is the “jeep”, but it is seldom seen so spare parts would be difficult to find; this applies to Africa.  The distribution of four-wheel drive cars in other countries I do not know much about.  What I do know is that one should be very careful, making thorough enquiries from people who have direct experience (in this case not likely to be a pioneer committee) as regards the places one plans to go, road conditions and available transport.

My own experience has been such that I would not, for such a country-to-country tour as the one I made, buy a car fitted up for sleeping.  I have met a number of young men, and a few couples, crossing Africa in this way but I cannot visualize where they put their car at night; a great many

highways—even 1,000milelong ones—are not only dirt but single track and it seems as if only divine protection ever gets one to a place where two cars can pass each other if they meet—fortunately infrequently, for traffic in many developing countries is scarce and most of it heavy transport; the evidence of what happens when two cars meet unwisely lies in decomposed wrecks the length and breadth of the African Continent, for there is almost no means whatsoever of salvaging and repairing them.  The road is either a narrow track with dense jungle right up to the edge of it, barely a place for a pedestrian to draw aside, or it has a deep drainage ditch along it or swamps surround it.  One can easily drive an hour or more just looking for a place to pull over to have lunch.  Therefore where could one park at night to sleep?  I admit in theory one could get permission to stay inside a village but it would take pretty thick-skinned people to eat and sleep with the entire population watching wide-eyed every move; the children in particular never get tired of the performance!  One cannot blame them, there is no entertainment and the arrival of foreigners is the equivalent of the circus coming to town.  Finally, if one should find a place to pull off the road, every motorist will stop and ask you if you need help.  This is a wonderful spirit and one I admire very much but not if I am trying to get a night’s sleep.  What all this amounts to is that if I had known all this in the beginning I would not have bought the large-size Land Rover with a view to sleeping in it.  The smaller model would have done me just as well and Land Rovers are expensive cars to run.  For the cross-continent trip I had an extra sixteen-gallon tank for petrol added underneath at the back, in addition to the ten-gallon tank of the car, and I carried  more gallons in a Jerry can.  As petrol stations can be few and far between and all the petrol sold out when one

does find one—and no more until the next delivery at an uncertain future date—this was an essential precaution and saved us from being stranded on many occasions.  For the same reason it is advisable not to wait till the tank is empty but fill up as one goes along.  Another wise precaution was to have a sheet of iron riveted on the chassis underneath the engine to protect it from damage if one hit a rock or other protuberance, which we did unavoidably many times.  We also carried two spare tires, extra springs, electrical parts, fan belts and two oil filters.

Trips to places with little or no facilities for modern life and machines must be very carefully thought out.  We carried eight gallons of extra water that was safe to drink; five gallons went into the radiator the day the fan belt broke in the middle of a waterless wilderness.  We also carried a well-stocked first-aid kit and various medicines, all of which were essential if one happened to need them.  We had folding army cots, heavy in weight but durable and compact in size, which stood high off the ground; lots of camp beds are lighter but flimsy and low lying perhaps women have a strong objection to being near the floor and things that may be crawling about!  We also carried mosquito nets, small feather pillows (rubber is terribly hot), cotton bed covers, light blankets, thin foam rubber mattresses, and sleeping bags—each person’s bedding rolled tight in its own duffel bag to keep it clean.  We had gas camping stoves, a small one for boiling water and a big one for cooking; it is advisable to carry a supply of refills for in many places they may be unavailable.  Automobile accidents are steadily increasing all over the world.  I pass on my personal rules for driving which have kept me accident-free in not only deserts and jungles but in New York, Chicago, and many of the world’s busiest cities.

1.	Obey traffic regulations.

2.	Never pass a red light, even in the middle of the night on an empty street; you risk accustoming your mind to the possibility of passing on it and may forget and do it the wrong time.

3.	Never pass another car on a curve or a hill where you cannot see the road ahead for a considerable distance to be sure nothing is coming; more people are killed through ignoring these two precautions than any others.

4.	Never believe the other driver either knows or intends to obey the law; take all the precautions for both of you; if you believe he is irresponsible enough to cause your death you may live longer.

5.	Obey the white traffic lines on roads, even if you do not agree with them.

6.	Both in the city and open country I keep my eye on bicycles and children and often slow down when I have to pass near them as both can suddenly swerve into your car or dash across the road in front of it.

7.	I always slow down when I see cattle on the road or approaching it from the side; cows in particular will usually keep right on coming across the road in spite of the blowing of your horn; even if you do not mind killing an animal remember either the jolt to your car or the blood could throw you into a skid and lead to your or your passengers’ death.  It is not right to kill or injure a human being for the sake of avoiding killing a cat or dog or cow.

8.	Do not believe that as you approach another car coming towards you the driver will give way to you or even give you your own half of the road; usually he will not and expects to force you to give way; all over the world wrecked cars testify to the fact that neither side gave way!

9.	If you become sleepy when driving either stop by the road and take a nap, get someone else to drive, or wake yourself up thoroughly; that fraction of a second when the driver dozes off causes many fatal accidents.

10.	Driving, especially at high speeds, is a serious business so pay attention to it; to my horror I have watched temperamental drivers take even both hands off the wheel to wave them about in conversation; to take your eyes off the road to look at the person beside you or even those in the back seat is even more dangerous!

11.	If a person is a really bad and irresponsible driver do not ride in the car with him.  There are good and bad drivers all over the world.  In Africa, however, I found the black man was less reckless than the white.

12.	Do not let other people drive your car.  I realize this rule—on long drives and where there is only one car in a family—cannot be strictly adhered to but if you want to keep your car safe and in good condition do not pass the keys around to oblige other pioneers, travelling Bahá’ís or local people.  Cars, in a great many countries, are often prohibitively expensive and even irreplaceable.  It may seem unkind and selfish to not share yours but by being firm in this respect

it may mean the only “Bahá’í car in a whole district or even a whole country will go on existing to serve the Faith for a while longer instead of being piled up as a wreck by a poor driver or deteriorating rapidly and becoming a total loss.

The mosquito net

Many people nowadays have never heard of a mosquito net and try to cope with mosquitoes by using sprays or repellents.  Although these are helpful they are expensive, sometimes irritate the skin and soon wear off; the same is true of the sprays, which I often found about finished me off but left the mosquitoes in fine shape.  Outdoors (or indoors if one has no effective fly screens in the windows), a mosquito net ensures protection and therefore a restful night’s sleep.  In tropical countries a net can usually be purchased ready-made; it consists of an oblong top the size of a bed, which has four “walls” of net hanging down all around which are tucked under the mattress so nothing can get up the sides; the four corners of the top must be attached to something to keep the net suspended above the bed or sleeping bag.  I always tie strings about 2 metres long or more to each corner so that I can hang it up when I want to and not have to look about for a usually non-existent piece of string.  I also carry with me a supply of nails to drive into the walls and attach the strings to.  One of the most important things for a person going to sleep in villages to take along is a mosquito net.  Although the following type of net can sometimes be purchased (they make them in Japan and elsewhere) I herewith give directions for making one and will call it by its Persian name “Pashiband” out of gratitude for all the services it has

rendered me in my life in the Holy Land and while travelling.

I always make mine sufficiently large for a double bed but a single bed size may be made the same way.  In principle a Pashiband is a small room with a floor, four walls, ceiling and “door”; the top and bottom should be equal in size and for a double bed roughly 2 metres or 220 metres long by 2 to 22 metres wide; the bottom should be of cotton goods—sheeting, unbleached cotton, anything that washes well and is durable; the top may be of the same goods if one wants the “roof’ to be more substantial, so as to catch dust and what-not that might fall on one, otherwise the same mesh or net as the sides will do and be cooler; the sides or “walls” should be at least 15 to 2 metres high in order to make a big airy space inside; to sleep in a mosquito net is always hotter than not having one, and though in cool places this can be an advantage, in great heat it can be suffocating—but safe; these sides are then sewn all around to both the top and bottom pieces, putting small tucks every now and then and specially at the corners so it will hang freely and not stretch the walls tight; in other words for a 2 metres length of the ceiling allow material 215 metres or more in the wall attached to it.  On one side of a wall leave an opening in the middle, vertically (where seams meet will do) about 15 metres high and to each side of this opening sew a piece of net the same length and about 15 metres long, and at the top and bottom sew these pieces together, but leave the end open; if you visualize it you now have a square room and on one side a sleeve or corridor of net extending out about 15 metres; hem this open end and put a 15 metre or longer draw-string through it:  The method is when your mosquito net is erected over the bed or floor or ground you plan to sleep on, and

you have put your pillows, cover and anything else you want inside, go in through the opening and pull the sleeve in after you, draw the string tight and wind it a number of times around the bunched up end so no insect can get through.  If there is danger of lice or fleas, the mesh of the net will have to be much finer to keep them out, like a muslin or gauze, but for mosquitoes and flies, netting will do.  Not only is one protected by this type of mosquito net from all insects but also from scorpions, spiders, lizards, snakes, rats and so on—a psychological if not actually a physical advantage not to be despised!  I remember how comforting it was in a mud but in Zaïre to lie in my net and look at all the big flat spiders on the wall—outside.  Incidentally, in Latin America special mosquito nets are made which fit over hammocks.

Sanitary facilities

The cycles that characterize the intimate bodily functions of people’s lives—what they eat, how often, when and how they sleep, birth customs, their habits of elimination—are deeply ingrained by hundreds if not thousands of years of purely local habits.  In this respect we are very much like birds or animals of different species.  Denying this or getting upset about it and pretending it is all nonsense does not change anything at all.  We are dealing with hard facts.  I recall how, after weeks of travel together, our African companion began to show signs of flagging.  It became apparent that day after day of our relatively “well balanced” western diet, with plenty of protein and fruit, was going to make him ill; his ancestors had been eating, perhaps once or twice a day only, a large quantity of unrefined starch (in his case millet

was the staple, but all over Africa it is the same, the staples being cassava, maize, sorghum, plantain or millet) and his whole body and its proper functioning required this ancestral diet.  I do not say eventually a villager will not get adjusted to another diet if he has to—but why should he?  Throughout Africa most Africans living in cities still eat their traditional food.  People with other habits might not be able, without adding some fruit and vegetables, to live more than a brief period on this African diet without indigestion and constipation.  It is interesting to note in this connection that an article in the Readers Digest for 1971 states that the African’s bowels on his diet move more often than the American’s do, colon cancer being very infrequent, whereas in the United States it is now the second most prevalent form of cancer; investigators consider that the huge increase, during the last eighty years, in the consumption of refined carbohydrates (mostly white flour and white sugar) is responsible for this.

The toilet facilities of the vast majority of the human race (countries following European-North American culture excepted) are based on the natural position of squatting, not sitting; it is better and far more hygenic but can be very difficult to adjust to.  People who may have become accustomed to linking the activities of their intestinal tract to reading would do well to develop a more natural approach as the environment and facilities of the vast majority of toilets all over the world are not conducive to either sitting or reading.  Ignorance of customs associated with what is a daily part of life for everyone can impose hardships that may wreck a pioneer’s or travelling teacher’s much-needed work in rural areas.  Of the complications village life involves for over-civilized people not the least is this question of toilet facilities.

When touring South East Asia some years ago I was distressed that I never slept in the homes of the village Bahá’ís as I had so often done in Africa, but always had to stay in a hotel or a Government Rest House or Dak bungalow.  At last I got the explanation:  there just are no toilets in the villages and there are usually no trees or bushes to provide cover; it is the custom of the people to get up before dawn and disperse in the dark over the fields around the village.  This is true of conditions in the Andes of South America as well.

Some African village toilets (where they exist) are too small or too flimsy in construction for a large person to enter and white ants may have eaten away the wood supports in the floor, making it even more risky for a heavy person; usually these village toilets are much cleaner and less smelly than the European facilities in towns and cities and certainly a hundred times more pleasant and sanitary than the old-fashioned privy I remember in rural districts of New England in my youth.  One has to learn, in many places, to use nature.  One also has to learn that all bodily functions are taken as a matter of course, treated unself-consciously—but with delicacy and no curiosity—by all rural people, all over the world.  Travellers will do well, in every part of the world, to take their own toilet paper as no paper exists in rural areas; villagers should not be foolishly looked down on for this because often no paper was ever manufactured in their culture, it is unknown as a toilet article, and there would be no money to buy it even if they knew it existed.  All over the East water is used instead of paper, including in the cities.  Also, in most places, people blow their noses into the air—a most revolting and unsanitary habit.  But having neither handkerchief nor Kleenex where would you blow yours?

Adapt and economize

The following general information may assist those who are keeping house in a strange land; although much of it applies to Africa, undoubtedly a great deal can be adapted to other places.

An inexpensive and excellent grater for grating carrots, apples, cheese or anything else, can be easily made from any small tin can by punching holes close together in the bottom, from the inside outwards, with a nail; if a fine grater is desired use a small nail, for a coarser grater, use a larger nail.  Another possibility is to take a shallow aluminium dish or basin and punch holes in it in the same way, always from inside outwards, using it as both a grater and a colander or strainer for washing vegetables, straining cooked rice, and so on.  Any small, round, empty tin can can be used as a cookie, biscuit or doughnut cutter.  Any tin can can be used as a baking dish in the oven; an oblong, square or round biscuit or candy box without the lid will do very well; smaller tins, even empty herring or sardine tins, can make individual baking dishes.  When any of these things get old or rusted they are easily replaced at no extra cost.

Keep aluminium dishes and vessels clean by a soap that does not have a lot of soda in it as this tends to both stain and adversely affect the aluminium.  One can clean all pots and pans with fine sand, or ashes sifted from the fire, as an abrasive; it is not necessary to buy an imported expensive abrasive powder.  In India, when the women went to the well with their beautiful brass water pots, I noticed they sat down and polished them with the wet earth around the well until they shone like pure gold, rinsed them off, then filled them with water and came back to the village with them on their heads, looking very much like the handmaidens of a queen carrying

golden vessels to a feast.  Do not leave iron vessels wet as they will rust very quickly; dry them off at once and rub on a little cooking oil.  Clean rusty iron knives with lime or lemon juice and ashes; brass and copper can also be beautifully cleaned by this method.  Take half a lemon or lime (it may be a left-over half after one has squeezed most of the juice out) and dip it in fine wood ash and then rub it on whatever needs to be cleaned; it immediately removes the tarnish; an orange or grapefruit may also be used but lemons or limes are best.  Leaves from a papaya tree will have the same effect used in the same way.  Never under any circumstances cook acid foods in brass or copper containers or stir with brass spoons.

Wood dishes are widely found in many places in the world and wooden mortars for pounding grains and foods.  They are cheap, useful and charming and if taken care of properly, very endurable.  Wooden mortars are used universally in Africa for pounding foods and grains to prepare them either for cooking, or eating if they are already cooked.  If the starchy grain sticks to the sides of these, soak in cold water to loosen before washing with a rough sponge or the outside husk of a coconut.  The fibre of a coconut is excellent for scouring utensils, wood floors or anything else, but always go in the direction of the grain of the wood, otherwise it will roughen it up.  Do not use steel wool or a metal abrasive on wood under any circumstances.  Generally it is not necessary to use soap on wooden vessels unless they are very greasy and need a good washing.  Whenever I have used any of my wooden bowls (which I do daily), I wash them off quickly, put a little cooking oil on my hands and rub this over the wood while it is still moist; it not only protects the wood from drying out and cracking but gives it a soft and beautiful finish and incidentally puts some much-needed oil on my own hands.  Wooden spoons are immemorial in all parts of the world for cooking.  Unless wooden

spoons and bowls have been well smoothed off with sandpaper when bought, I myself always give them an extra finish, sanding them over until they are satiny soft.  Sometimes one finds that after using them the grain again roughens up and then they need to again be carefully sanded, washed and oiled.  In the end, one has a wooden object that is so lovely to look at and to feel that it becomes a treasure, even if it is used daily.  Wooden spoons, incidentally, can be very ornamental hanging on the wall.

In a great many parts of the world, native—in other words what is used locally—pots and receptacles, are not only cheap but useful and charming to look at.  Throughout southern Africa three-legged iron pots are inexpensive and cannot be excelled if one cooks with them in the way they were designed to be used.  It is a fascinating sight to see an African housewife cooking, with three or four of these tall-legged pots standing around in the fire, from a little tiny pint size for sauces to a big pot large enough to stew an entire sheep in.  She adjusts the temperature by either putting intense flame right under the middle of the pot or pulling the firewood out and allowing the pot to sit in a bed of ashes to stew gently.  This method not only gives a special flavour to food but is ideal for people who are able to cook on a hearth or out of doors; it astonished me to see how rapidly even a large pot of water would come to the boil.  The staple food of South Africa, the mealie meal (maize porridge) is cooked in this way and is a most delicious dish if properly done.  Ragouts, goulashes, soups, anything and everything can be cooked in such a pot.  It is not only ideal when cooking for large numbers of people but also for camping, as I found when I cooked in mine in the Kalahari Desert.  The best way is to learn the technique of how to cook in one of these pots from a village woman.  These three-legged pots, which had their origin in

the inglenooks of Europe, cannot, however, be used on electric or gas stoves as they stand too high for the heat to reach them properly and also they are in danger of toppling over.

Native clay pots anywhere in the world can be used for cooking, Observe how the local people use them and do the same thing.  They are not only very cheap and ornamental but make food taste good.  Many people consider aluminium is not a good metal to cook in from the standpoint of health.  Be this as it may, undoubtedly steel is the best material but it is usually very expensive.  Iron and enamel ware are also excellent for cooking but one has to be very careful of enamel because it chips off easily if it gets a blow and then can be dangerous because the enamel may go on flaking and parts of this sharp, glass-like material get into the food and be eaten unawares.

No matter how dirty the rest of the house may get, try to keep the kitchen clean and all kitchen utensils, cutlery, dishes, towels, and washrags as clean as possible because this is the place where one can most easily be infected through eating contaminated food.  Scrub the kitchen table well after it has been used.  Put vegetables away as clean as possible.  Hygiene is essential in the kitchen for the purpose of keeping the whole family healthy and it is more important fundamentally to have a clean dish towel and a clean washrag for the kitchen than it is to have a clean face towel or body towel for ones self in the bathroom.

One of the greatest causes of chronic ill health, as well as acute intestinal and stomach upsets, is stale cooking fat.  One should be careful when eating in restaurants that the fat being used is not stale; a sensitive nose detects the difference between the odour that comes from a restaurant where the fat is clean and fresh and one where it is stale or they are mixing in stale fat with the fresh supply, which is a very bad

thing to do.  One should use up what has been already used to fry or cook something in as quickly as possible and then start on a clean supply of fat or cooking oil, washing out thoroughly the receptacle in which one keeps ones oil or fat before filling it up with a fresh supply.  Stale fats place an intolerable burden on the liver and cause a great many ailments of a serious nature, including the production in the body of the wrong kind of cholesterol.  There is a great deal of talk today about cholesterol and arteriosclerosis, but our bodies constantly use and need cholesterol; eating the wrong kind of foods, one of which can be stale fats, produces the wrong kind of cholesterol which, among other things, is damaging to the arteries.

In many places calabashes or gourds are available and can be used to great advantage as dishes or containers.  Wash them with strong soap.  If they become dirty and rough inside they can be scoured out with ashes or fine sand and a cut lime or lemon, or one may use as an abrasive finely pounded up egg shells.  Having had a great many of these calabashes, I have found that they are wonderfully useful as a salad dish, a fruit dish, a catch-all for papers, beads or other articles; sometimes they have been carved or decorated, in which case they can be hung on the wall as ornaments.

Baskets are found in infinite variety everywhere in the world.  They are cheap and useful receptacles for anything and everything:  the baby, the dog, ones laundry, onions, potatoes, for travelling, for picnics, for the bread or the fruit to be served on the table.  Personally, any room is not a place fit to live in if it has not got a wastepaper basket, so this is likely to be one of my first purchases anywhere I find myself, even for a few days, providing of course that I am not already travelling with one in my car, which I usually am!  Wastepaper baskets keep the house cleaner, longer.

Backache, in highly civilized countries, is steadily increasing as a national ailment and one reason is because of the way people sit and lie, with the spine curved, the chest caved in, the shoulders humped forward.  Primitive people have beautiful posture and straight backs and I never heard backache was one of their problems.  They sleep flat and hard, either on mats on the ground or bench-like beds.  One of the worst things a pioneer can do is to put up with a bed that has springs so soft he sinks down into it; he would do well to put boards over the frame and then a mattress on top or go buy himself a hard local bed.  One pillow or none is good for the neck.  It is interesting to note that the pillow of the Far East, and also some places in Africa, is a hard support that fits under the neck only and does not shove the head up at an acute angle from the shoulders the way our European method of sleeping does.  Incidentally, hammocks are a widely used form of bed in many countries; I found them hard to get used to but once the technique of sleeping in them is mastered, they are extremely comfortable, practical, cool and healthful.

Whatever people have done to meet the requirements of their own environment is usually highly intelligent, practical and suitable, and to observe these different customs is fascinating; many times what they do we might like to imitate; at least we should not criticize or interfere in their ways.  To give a few instances:  carrying babies on mothers’ backs is ideal for the child, though many western mothers will not accept what seems to them an unnecessary sacrifice and burden; carrying loads on ones head or a back-pack frees the hands and balances the body; the carrying stick of Asia is based on the same principle, putting the weight down the main shaft of the body rather than pulling the arms out of the shoulder sockets or pulling the frame to one side.  I watched

Chinese travellers in Hong Kong, men and women, with their suitcases and bundles all strung along a notched carrying pole across their shoulders; they frequently shifted the pole from one shoulder to the other but were obviously not as burdened as those carrying the same things in their hands; a great longing to try a carrying pole myself came over me!  The Africans, people in Asia and elsewhere can all squat on their heels for an indefinite period of time (my Arab laundress washes all the clothes in this position) yet the average North American or European cannot even get into this position, far less maintain it, but people who do so are less likely to have stiff knees, hips, backs and ankles.  The lesson is:  native ways are very often the best way, so learn where you can and adopt and adapt for yourself.

Your personal environment

A dog, in memory of the days when he was a jackal or a wolf long before he came to dwell by the hearth of man, will often turn around a number of times before he finally lies down.  The reason he does this is that he is following an ancestral urge to flatten the deep grass and make a little nest for himself.  A bird works hard to feather its own nest.  Each one of us, it seems to me, needs an environment of his own, however small or tenuous it may be, that houses his own personality.  Perhaps this is why so many people never pioneer or go forth as travelling teachers, because they cannot, snail-like, leave their shells, and they are afraid of feeling naked and defenceless in a strange place.  They probably do not recognize the feeling as such but subconsciously it affects them.  To me one can pioneer or even travel with at least a token of ones own walls with one.  It is hard to put into words:  some people are

great readers; some people are musical; some people, like me, derive their joy mainly from their eyes; each one of us may be used to something or need something there near him to be his home, so why not try and take it with you?  You cannot take the grand piano or your bass viol very easily, but a less pretentious instrument can go along, or take a little tape recorder and tapes with the music on it that you need and love, or when you get to your new home buy a local instrument and have fun learning to make music on it and new friends to teach you how; take a few favourite books or economize and buy new books for a new home; what is a room without a book?  Or, like me, make a small oasis in your room with a cheerful little table cover of some native print or weaving, a wood bowl or basket on it, a picture of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, in a nice little frame, your travelling clock set on its own little ornamental doily—something, anything all your own, an extension of your own personality.  Did you say you had no table beside your bed?  Why not a native stool, or a plastic stool, or even a carton box with a gay rag over it?  You would literally have to be in a most extraordinary place not to find something to feather your nest with.  An empty soup or bean tin may be your vase for a handful of flowers or wild grasses or even dead leaves; you can paint it or stick contact paper on it to make it look gayer, or even an empty glass jar or a bottle may be used as your vase.  One very ordinary small green bottle was so pleasing to my eye with one flower in it that I carried it over 10,000 miles!  There is no excuse for your not having something in a room to reassure you that your personality is there and this is your home.

Whatever else the pioneer may take into his new life, I would suggest he take his Bahá’í library as it will do more to make him feel at home than anything else, he will need it constantly for comfort and reference and he will usually not

be able to duplicate it where he is going—no matter what anyone assures him to the contrary!

Job openings

The following kinds of work may ensure a pioneer can earn his or her living:  a first-class shorthand typist in English almost always can get a good full- or part-time job; if a woman knows dressmaking fairly well she can usually earn all or some of the money needed to stay at her pioneer post; hairdressing likewise can be a good profession; experience as an accountant for a woman or a man can provide job openings; a skilled automobile mechanic seems to be the male counterpart of the skilled secretary and is rarely unable to find employment; the same is true for someone who can do radio repairs and watch and clock repairs.

Developing countries are faced today with a tremendous flow of their own youth coming out of high schools and colleges and looking for employment—employment which, if the government does not provide it, can lead to unrest and demonstrations.  The range of jobs, therefore, still open to foreigners is getting more and more limited every year.  My own observation is that generally (though every country differs) workers in highly skilled trades, or people in the highest brackets of professions such as medicine, education and the sciences, will still get jobs relatively easily.  This is not a hard and fast rule, however, for pioneers on the spot often get established in all kinds of jobs, professional and otherwise.  Top flight surgeons, particularly in such fields as eye, nerve or brain surgery, I think would be very welcome in most countries and able to render not only a great humanitarian service in the exercise of their profession but

also greatly enhance the prestige of the Faith as such professional men have access to the highest government and diplomatic circles.  The trouble is, alas, that even Bahá’ís, when they reach this level of prestige and efficiency, are unwilling to go to developing countries because they cannot stand the local operating facilities, lack of administrative efficiency and in general an atmosphere very different from what they are used to.  We need some David Livingstones in this Faith.

Many countries are so desperately in need of teachers for their primary schools that they are putting in their own even ungraduated high school students as teachers; they are often willing to employ any foreigner who has a BA, even though this may not be in the field of teaching at all; the pioneer may find he gets this kind of a job relatively easily when he is on the spot—providing he is in a place that accepts outside teachers.  Many universities, colleges and high schools are willing to employ foreign educators but usually demand high qualifications—maybe on the principle if one is paying then one should get the best; whereas they might accept a BA or MA from their own national they would like a PhD from abroad!  Again, in the field of education, the specialist may increasingly stand a better chance of employment abroad.

Skilled laboratory technicians are also a good profession for pioneers to have.  Everything to do with radio and television—except perhaps in the technical field of maintaining and repairing equipment—is usually a tightly closed door to foreigners as jobs that confer prestige (as these do in developing countries) are much coveted and usually handed out as plums; pioneers, no matter how well qualified, will practically never get jobs of this kind.  Detailed information regarding job possibilities should be

sought by prospective pioneers from their National Spiritual Assemblies and Pioneer Committees.

The pioneer who does get a job—as well as the committee which may have sent him out—must bear in mind that not infrequently he will not be paid his salary either on time or even after the lapse of months.  These are hard facts that are little known and may lead to the pioneer’s getting in a position where in disgust or despair he quits his job and leaves; it would be much better if the committee at home tided him over and he persevered in his job, because it has cost a lot of Bahá’í money, and usually sacrifice on his part, to get him there, and given enough time the situation will usually resolve itself; it just takes patience and perseverance.  I know of one pioneer who only got bed and board at her school and was never paid the salary they had promised her!  She remained because of the need for pioneers in that country; without the job she could not have done so.

Although the assistance given pioneers from the Bahá’í Fund constitutes neither a job nor a salary, it had better be mentioned here that committees, National Spiritual Assemblies or individuals who remit the money the pioneer receives should be extremely careful to ensure it reaches him monthly or quarterly, whatever the arrangement is—on time.  I have known cases of pioneers going hungry because of delays in transmitting the sum they needed to subsist on.  Not only are the local believers usually too poor to borrow from but the pioneer, having been sent out specially from another country to teach the Faith, is too ashamed to let anyone know the position he is in.  It is the duty of those concerned to set up a method of payment whereby there will be no delay; the mails, the postal and banking procedures in many countries, are such that there are often long delays.

Bahá’í elections and administrative bodies

In a world becoming daily more political minded, where rural peoples are being educated politically and urged to become politically active, the attitude towards Bahá’í elections within our own administrative order—which is in no way political but has to do exclusively with the management of the internal affairs of a religious community—is of the greatest importance.  It is essential for the pioneer or travelling teacher to impress upon the believers—new or old—the fundamental, and one might say extraordinary difference between our Bahá’í elections and elected bodies and the elections and elected bodies which constitute the various political systems of the world, which are essential for government and the management of state affairs and, one may add, to which we Bahá’ís are obedient, each in his own country.

Whether in the election of delegates to the National Convention or members of a National or Local Spiritual Assembly the basis is the same:  the believer, without previously discussing the merits of any individual with other Bahá’ís, or paying any attention to either foolish and immature or ambitious and scheming people who may seek to electioneer for themselves or their favourites or their relatives, is called upon to vote for only those persons he is conscientiously convinced are the most worthy ones available.  In voting for the members of Spiritual Assemblies he should particularly bear in mind that Shoghi Effendi said they should “be representative of the choicest and most varied and capable elements in every Bahá’í community.”  But no matter whom the Bahá’í voter is electing the attitude and principles involved are the same, the primary one being a prayerful, dispassionate, unprejudiced and guidance-seeking approach:  it is as if

the voter, prior to casting his ballot, makes his heart and mind a mirror turned to Bahá’u’lláh for guidance; he prepares that mirror through his prayers; perhaps he already had some ideas of whom he would vote for, but in his pre-voting prayers he asks for a wisdom greater than his own and seeks only to do what is best for the Cause.  As Shoghi Effendi expressed it, the voter must approach his task with a purity of spirit which alone can ensure he discharges it as ‘Abdu’l-Bahá would wish him to do, in other words in a rarefied atmosphere of “selflessness and detachment”; ‘Abdu’l-Bahá Himself assured us that every Assembly elected in this spirit will be truly inspired and assisted by God.  The Bahá’ís must be taught that Bahá’í elections deal with spiritual power, not temporal power.

We must seek, in those we elect to hold office as Assembly members, certain “prime requisites” laid down by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá:  “purity of motive, radiance of spirit, detachment from all else save God, attraction to His Divine Fragrances, humility and lowliness amongst His loved ones, patience and long-suffering in difficulties and servitude to His exalted Threshold”.  To this the Guardian has added that when voting we should also consider the record of service of the person being voted for (if such people are available), and, irrespective of any material considerations, seek the qualities of unquestioned loyalty, selfless devotion, a well-trained mind, recognized ability and mature experience.  Always realistic, Shoghi Effendi states:

If we but turn our gaze to the high qualifications of the members of Bahá’í Assemblies, as enumerated in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Tablets, we are filled with feelings of unworthiness and dismay, and would feel truly disheartened but for the comforting thought that if we rise to play nobly our part

every deficiency in our lives will be more than compensated by the all-conquering spirit of His grace and power.

There is no breath of worldly ambitions or considerations—money, position, prestige, influence, education—in any of the above-mentioned qualifications when prayerfully considering whom to vote for.  It is to me highly significant that the very first qualification mentioned by the Master is purity of motive; over and over again Shoghi Effendi stated how important it was, in anything, that ones motive should be pure.  The other qualifications are equally illuminating:  radiance of spirit—it recalls the first Arabic Hidden Word “My first counsel is this:  Possess a pure, kindly and radiant heart, that thine may be a sovereignty ancient, imperishable and everlasting”; detachment from all save God, attraction to His qualities, servitude to Him and unquestioned loyalty and selfless devotion to His Faith; humility and lowliness among ones fellow believers; patience and endurance in difficulties.

“Ambitions”, ‘Abdul-Baba is reputed to have said, “are an abomination before the Lord!”  None of the ambition rampant in the outside world must be allowed to taint Bahá’í elections.  The friends must realize that to be elected to an Assembly, appointed on a Committee, serve as a delegate or be a Board member are not positions of power and prestige or in any sense a reflection of the political world outside the Faith.  If ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, the son and Successor of Bahá’u’lláh, the Centre of His Covenant, the Perfect Exemplar and Interpreter of the Holy Writ said “My station is the station of servitude”, what right has any ordinary Bahá’í, if he holds any kind of office or performs the functions of a delegate, to consider himself exalted above others?  He should consider he has been given the privilege of serving, not of dominating, and do his best to follow meekly and prayerfully the example

of his Master.  “The keynote of the Cause of God”, Shoghi Effendi wrote, “is not dictatorial authority but humble fellowship, not arbitrary power, but the spirit of frank and loving consultation.”  The Guardian made it clear that the all-important function for a Bahá’í to perform was to spread the Message of Bahá’u’lláh and said that to vote or serve on an administrative body was not more important.

This does not, however, exonerate those who are elected from performing their tasks conscientiously and according to the teachings.  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá writes:

In this day, assemblies of consultation are of the greatest importance and a vital necessity.  Obedience unto them is essential and obligatory.  The members thereof must take counsel together in such wise that no occasion for ill feeling or discord may arise.  This can be attained when every member expresseth with absolute freedom his own opinion and setteth forth his argument.  Should any one oppose, he must on no account feel hurt for not until matters are fully discussed can the right way be revealed.  The shining spark of truth cometh forth only after the clash of differing opinions.  If after discussion, a decision be carried unanimously well and good; but if the Lord forbid, differences of opinion should arise, a majority of voices must prevail.

The first condition is absolute love and harmony amongst the members of the assembly.  They must be wholly free from estrangement and must manifest in themselves the Unity of God, for they are the waves of one sea, the drops of one river, the stars of one heaven, the rays of one sun, the trees of one orchard, the flowers of one garden.  Should harmony of thought and absolute unity be non-existent, that gathering shall be dispersed and that assem-

bly be brought to naught.  The second condition …  They must, when coming together, turn their faces to the Kingdom on High and ask aid from the Realm of Glory.  They must then proceed with the utmost devotion, courtesy, dignity, care and moderation to express their views.  They must in every matter search out the truth and not insist upon their own opinion, for stubbornness and persistence in ones views will lead ultimately to discord and wrangling and the truth will remain hidden.  The honored members must with all freedom express their own thoughts, and it is in no wise permissible for one to belittle the thought of another, nay, he must with moderation set forth the truth, and should differences of opinion arise a majority of voices must prevail, and all must obey and submit to the majority.  It is again not permitted that any one of the honored members object to or censure, whether in or out of the meeting, any decision arrived at previously, though that decision be not right, for such criticism would prevent any decision from being enforced.  In short, whatsoever thing is arranged in harmony and with love and purity of motive, its result is light, and should the least trace of estrangement prevail the result shall be darkness upon darkness …

Shoghi Effendi himself also elaborates on the attitude and duties of those elected to Spiritual Assemblies:

The duties of those whom the friends have freely and conscientiously elected as their representatives are no less vital and binding than the obligations of those who have chosen them.  Their function is not to dictate, but to consult, and consult not only among themselves, but as much as possible with the friends whom they represent.  They

must regard themselves in no other light but that of chosen instruments for a more efficient and dignified presentation of the Cause of God.  They should never be led to suppose that they are the central ornaments of the body of the Cause, intrinsically superior to others in capacity or merit, and sole promoters of its teachings and principles.  They should approach their task with extreme humility, and endeavor, by their open-mindedness, their high sense of justice and duty, their candor, their modesty, their entire devotion to the welfare and interests of the friends, the Cause, and humanity, to win, not only the confidence and the genuine support and respect of those whom they serve, but also their esteem and real affection.  They must, at all times, avoid the spirit of exclusiveness, the atmosphere of secrecy, free themselves from a domineering attitude, and banish all forms of prejudice and passion from their deliberations.  They should, within the limits of wise discretion, take the friends into their confidence, acquaint them with their plans, share with them their problems and anxieties, and seek their advice and counsel.  And, when they are called upon to arrive at a certain decision, they should, after dispassionate, anxious and cordial consultation, turn to God in prayer, and with earnestness and conviction and courage record their vote and abide by the voice of the majority, which we are told by our Master to be the voice of truth, never to be challenged, and always to be wholeheartedly enforced.  To this voice the friends must heartily respond, and regard it as the only means that can insure the protection and advancement of the Cause.

The duties of a National Spiritual Assembly, who, Shoghi Effendi says, “constitute in the eyes of the people of their country the supreme body in that land that officially repre-

sents, promotes and safeguards the various interests of the Cause” are obviously more important than those of a Local Spiritual Assembly.  He states:

Let it be made clear to every inquiring reader that among the most outstanding and sacred duties incumbent upon those who have been called upon to initiate, direct and coordinate the affairs of the Cause, are those that require them to win by every means in their power the confidence and affection of those whom it is their privilege to serve.  Theirs is the duty to investigate and acquaint themselves with the considered views, the prevailing sentiments, the personal convictions of those whose welfare it is their solemn obligation to promote.  Theirs is the duty to purge once for all their deliberations and the general conduct of their affairs from that air of self-contained aloofness, from the suspicion of secrecy, the stifling atmosphere of dictatorial assertiveness, in short, from every word and deed that might savor of partiality, self-centeredness and prejudice.  Theirs is the duty, while retaining the sacred and exclusive right of final decision in their hands, to invite discussion, provide information, ventilate grievances, welcome advice from even the most humble and insignificant members of the Bahá’í family, expose their motives, set forth their plans, justify their actions, revise if necessary their verdict, foster the sense of interdependence and co-partnership, of understanding and mutual confidence between them on one hand and all local Assemblies and individual believers on the other.

As to the body of the believers, their role in supporting the Bahá’í Administrative Order is likewise made amply clear in these words of ‘Abdul-Bahá:

It is incumbent upon every one not to take any step without consulting the Spiritual Assembly, and they must assuredly obey with heart and soul its bidding and be submissive unto it, that things maybe properly ordered and well arranged.  Otherwise every person will act independently and after his own judgment, will follow his own desire, and do harm to the Cause.

It is the duty of the pioneers and the teachers to explain painstakingly and patiently these standards and these instructions to the believers so that they may ever-increasingly reflect the Bahá’í attitude towards both elections and their conduct when elected; villagers are usually practical and spiritual and a great many abuses we complain of are entirely the fault of those who do not explain the spiritual nature of Bahá’í elections to them, do not encourage them to pray, individually, before voting or for that matter either give them an opportunity to pray and reflect or create a prayerful attitude in the meeting at election time.  Over and over I have seen how people neither have patience themselves to pray and meditate before voting nor are willing to allow others time to do so; like children who are going to cut open a big cake that has a ring baked in it, they cannot wait to cut up the cake and see who gets the ring!  The atmosphere is very far indeed from turning the mirror of ones heart to God to receive the reflection of His guidance.

One of the greatest difficulties facing pioneers, as well as the National Spiritual Assemblies responsible for the work in those countries where there are thousands of Bahá’ís in rural areas, is to ensure elections, during the period from sunset on April 20th to sunset on April 21st (the Bahá’í day beginning as it does at sunset, not midnight), of Local Spiritual Assemblies, which must take place on this particular

day, according to the teachings.  In many cases new believers are too inexperienced to carry out such elections and careful plans should be made well in advance so that the friends not only know there will be an election on this day but provision is made for someone to go and assist them.  Often a car can go out with a number of people, dropping them off all along the line so they can each go to one or even more villages.  This is an excellent type of service for Bahá’ís living in towns to render and many a housewife would do well to make provision for her home and family and go out to share in this thrilling experience of helping to form a new Assembly.  Often teen-agers take on this job and there is no reason why capable and intelligent children should not help illiterate but excellent native teachers by writing down the ballots.

In addition to ensuring that Local Assemblies are elected it is also essential to make it absolutely clear that only enrolled Bahá’ís 21 years of age and older are eligible.  I well remember the unbelieving expression on the faces of members of an African community when I told them they could not vote for a very active young believer who would be 21 in a few days’ time.  To them it seemed just one more example of the highly arbitrary rules of white men!  But when I pointed to the photograph of the Bahá’í Temple in America and explained that the Assembly owned it legally so that no one could take it away from the Bahá’ís because the Assembly was registered as a legal body, and that if such a body has members elected to it who are not of legal age then the Temple could be stolen from us, they got the point, and were absolutely satisfied; so often we do not explain clearly why we must do things a certain way.

The supreme work of all Bahá’ís, whether acting individually or as members of a Bahá’í body, is to spread the glad

tidings of the appearance of Bahá’u’lláh in our midst.  Shoghi Effendi epitomizes this in these words:

As the administrative work of the Cause steadily expands, as its various branches grow in importance and number, it is absolutely necessary that we bear in mind this fundamental fact that all these administrative activities, however harmoniously and efficiently conducted, are but means to an end, and should be regarded as direct instruments for the propagation of the Bahá’í Faith.  Let us take heed lest in our great concern for the perfection of the administrative machinery of the Cause, we lose sight of the Divine Purpose for which it has been created.  Let us be on our guard lest the growing demand for specialization in the administrative functions of the Cause detain us from joining the ranks of those who in the forefront of battle are gloriously engaged in summoning the multitude to this New Day of God.  This indeed should be our primary concern; this is our sacred obligation, our vital and urgent need.  Let this cardinal principle be ever borne in mind, for it is the mainspring of all future activities, the remover of every embarrassing obstacle, the fulfilment of our Master’s dearest wish.

The following is a prayer of the Master  He revealed for use by a Spiritual Assembly; as many pioneers become members of Assemblies they may like to have it handy:

O God, my God!  We are servants of Thine that have turned with devotion to Thy Holy Face, that have detached ourselves from all beside Thee in this glorious Day.  We have gathered in this spiritual assembly, united in our views and thoughts, with our purposes harmonized to exalt Thy

Word amidst mankind.  O Lord, our God!  Make us the signs of Thy Divine Guidance, the Standards of Thy exalted Faith amongst men, servants to Thy mighty Covenant.  O Thou our Lord Most High!  Manifestations of Thy Divine Unity in Thine Abhá Kingdom, and resplendent stars shining upon all regions.  Lord!  Aid us to become seas surging with the billows of Thy wondrous Grace, streams flowing from Thine all-glorious Heights, goodly fruits upon the Tree of Thy heavenly Cause, trees waving through the breezes of Thy Bounty in Thy celestial Vineyard.  O God!  Make our souls dependent upon the Verses of Thy Divine Unity, our hearts cheered with the outpourings of Thy Grace, that we may unite even as the waves of one sea and become merged together as the rays of Thine Effulgent Light; that our thoughts, our views, our feelings may become as one reality, manifesting the spirit of union throughout the world.  Thou art the Gracious, the Bountiful, the Bestower, the Almighty, the Merciful, the Compassionate.

Warnings section

There are many pitfalls and tests for unwary or uninformed travellers and a few are mentioned here.

In many places in the world freedom of religion, speech and action do not exist; in some few cases the Faith itself is outlawed and no Bahá’í activity or teaching is permissible.  Under all circumstances the Bahá’ís must obey the laws and injunctions of the State they are in and its ruling party; they have no right to argue in such matters; wherever any ambiguity exists, or a delicate situation is not clear, recourse should be had to the guidance of the Universal House of Justice.

At present there are some places where the pioneers and local believers may suffer great inconvenience, and the Bahá’í work itself be placed in jeopardy, through their receiving Bahá’í books and newsletters or papers mentioning the World Centre of the Faith; individual believers should not seek to contact the friends in these places, or visit them unless they are sure they are wanted, or do any teaching if they do visit or pass through such countries.  If an individual is not sure of what is wise in any particular case he should consult his National Spiritual Assembly or a member of a Board of Counsellors as these institutions are kept specially informed by the Universal House of Justice itself.  In the present highly disturbed state of the world ever-greater wisdom is going to be required on the part of individuals serving the Cause in any area that has unusual problems and they should be sure they are working in accord with the wishes of the Universal House of Justice.

In the world today there are many States that follow a one party system and many of these States require by law that their citizens go to the polls.  A Bahá’í pioneer or travelling teacher who comes from a different political background may in such cases give very foolish advice to the local friends, based on his own country’s laws.  He should never, in circumstances such as these, tell other people where their duty lies until he has carefully inquired from the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of that country what the correct answer is.  The general answer is always the same:  all Bahá’ís are required to obey their country’s laws and government.

Currency regulations are very strict in some places:  one can only take in or out a certain amount of the local money; there may be a black market for foreign currency.  The laws of the country should be strictly obeyed by the Bahá’ís.  I

remember a case where a pioneer was put in jail for dealing on the black market—an event which greatly humiliated the local believers and the Faith itself in the eyes of the authorities.

On arrival in a strange city, young men in particular may find that they are approached and offers made to bring them liquor, drugs or girls; loose women abound in towns and cities all over the world and are quite shameless in hunting down their prey; to such approaches and offers the Bahá’ís must be so firm in their refusal that they gain a reputation for being adamant in virtue and obedience to the moral teachings of their Faith.  It will gain, for both themselves and the Cause, a golden reputation and the news will rapidly spread, reaching the ears of officials, missionaries and politicians alike—all of whom are increasingly aware of our existence and watching us.  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá said:  “Should any one of you enter a city, he should become a centr of attraction … so that the people of that city may cry out and say:  ‘This man is unquestionably a Bahá’í, for his manners, his behavior, his conduct, his morals, his nature, and disposition reflect the attributes of the Bahá’ís.’”

Bahá’u’lláh has admonished us very clearly as to whom we should associate with and whom we should not:  “The company of the ungodly increaseth sorrow, whilst fellowship with the righteous cleanseth the rust from off the heart.”  “Beware!  Walk not with the ungodly and seek not fellowship with him, for such companionship turneth the radiance of the heart into infernal fire.”  “Infernal fire” is a very strong statement indeed!  He goes on to say:  “Wouldst thou seek the grace of the Holy Spirit, enter into fellowship with the righteous …”  Shoghi Effendi, over seventyfive years ago, wrote that as the “prestige, fame and influence” of the Faith grew the malice and ill-will of strangers and enemies would

correspondingly grow and that it therefore became increasingly important for every individual Bahá’í and Spiritual Assembly “to be on their guard lest they fall innocent victims to the evil designs of the malevolent, the self-seeking and greedy.”  If such warnings and advice are important to us when we are at home, how much more important are they when we go abroad?  The golden mean, the middle of the way, between being loving and kind in our attitude towards all humanity, and, at the same time, suspicious and on guard to protect both the Faith and ourselves from the “ungodly”, “the malevolent, the self-seeking and greedy” must be sought and we must pray for wisdom, guidance and protection.

Be careful not to be robbed; dishonesty is steadily increasing, handbags are snatched in the streets in many cities daily; luggage robbery in airports and stations is common, the thief abstracting the contents of thin plastic or cloth suitcases without even unlocking them by just slitting them open with a knife; pickpockets abound everywhere; one is constantly cheated in paying bills and short-changed in stores.  There are ways of defending ones self against these dangers:  if you are a woman, form the habit of neither laying your handbag down and walking off, whether in a public place, a meeting or the home of strangers, nor giving it to other people to carry—not so much because everyone is going to rob you but because if you form this habit of always having it on your own arm or in your hand, when it is not there you will notice it and this precaution prevents you from losing it.  When travelling, with my money, passport, etc.  in my handbag, I make a point of having one with a number of compartments inside so I can put away my checks and the bulk of my money separately; nothing is more dangerous than to have everything shoved loose into one big container as you risk pulling things out accidentally and also letting other people

see what you have inside; slip the handle of your bag over your shoulder, particularly in crowded places, and hold it tight under your arm; in this way it is almost impossible for anyone to snatch it or open it.  Men should carry their money in an inside pocket and put a safety pin to close the top; it sounds silly but side and hip pockets are most easily picked and inside pockets too.  The method is two pickpockets work together, one jostles you, in a bus or crowd, from the back and profusely apologizes so that you turn your head to look at him while the other then presses against your chest, slips his hand in—and off goes all your money!  In the old days people had a money belt under their clothes and some wise travellers still use them.

On arriving in a country make a point of ascertaining what the equivalent is in local money of your own unit you are accustomed to—an American dollar, a Persian tmn, an Indian rupee, or whatever it is.  Fundamentally this does not solve your problems because you do not yet know what is cheap or expensive judged by the local economy, but it does give you some way of controlling what you spend.  If the local money is 1,000 to 1.00 you may be horrified and think for one dollar you are going bankrupt; if it is 2.30 to 1.00 you may be fooled into thinking it is cheap and spend money like water and go broke in no time!

When paying any bill anywhere add it up and count your change carefully to be sure both are correct; do not be ashamed to take your time; you are only obeying the Báb Who said we should neither cheat nor be cheated.  When paying in foreign money I find this is one of the moments I am most likely to be cheated, for the hotel cashier (or whoever it may be) will try to confuse me on the rate of exchange and short change me.  Many people employed in hotels, restaurants and shops have found the tourist is the easiest person

to cheat as he seldom checks anything or counts anything.  Shoghi Effendi invariably added up all bills himself to be sure they were correct and if he was overcharged pointed it out, and if he was undercharged also pointed it out!

Half of our troubles, inconveniences and accidents in life come to us because we are not concentrating on what we are doing.  Focus your attention on the task at hand, whatever it is.  When you want to be dreamy and full of philosophical contemplation, stop doing anything else!

When travelling, be careful not to hand your belongings about to every hand stretched out to help you; in the general confusion of friends who have come to receive you or see you off things can be forgotten, lost or stolen.  You must be responsible for your own belongings and cannot expect other people to pay as much attention to them as you yourself should.

Be very careful not to make fun of other people to another English- or Persian-speaking person like yourself, as very often, by what seems to be a sixth sense, or telepathy, they understand what you say and are hurt and insulted.  Even if this is not the case, when a person uses a language no one else understands except his compatriots, people always jump to the conclusion they are being discussed; it is better to not exclude and offend people in this manner or else politely translate immediately into their own language what you have said.

Health and pioneering

In view of the amount of devotion, effort, money and self-sacrifice involved in pioneers’ reaching their posts, it seems to me that for them to ignore every rule of health and nutria-

tion when they get there is inexcusable, for by doing this they not only place in jeopardy the success of their own endeavours but the over-all, world-wide pioneering plans of which they form a part, and which are being carried out by various National Assemblies under the guidance of the Universal House of Justice.

It is inevitable that travellers will sometimes pick up infections and fall ill; people from Europe and North America, going to countries where various types of dysentery are endemic, are more prone to getting it because they have not developed a natural resistance to germs they were perhaps never exposed to at home; people from Africa and Asia, on the contrary, who go out to pioneer in such countries have usually much less trouble as their natural immunity has been built up at home.  There are ways of eliminating such hazards or at least cutting them down to a minimum.  From the long experience of a North American in Asia and Africa I have certain general suggestions to make:  one must not be so afraid of germs that one becomes too intimidated to do anything; the body constantly has disease germs in it and is exposed to new ones all the time, yet in spite of this onslaught usually manages to survive; the best protection is to try and keep in as good health as possible because a healthy body defends itself against infections.  The three things that run down ones health the quickest are bad eating habits, chronic disease and continuous exhaustion; when one is exhausted and allows a few days, or even a few hours, of real rest, lying-down-and-sleeping kind of rest, the reservoir of vitality fills up again, but if one persistently pushes ones strength—and this does not mean necessarily bodily strength but can be nervous and mental strength—to its uttermost limit, day after day and week after week, then almost any germ can cause a minor or major illness.

The human body is capable of extraordinary feats of endurance and people everywhere in the world are daily performing what seem like minor miracles.  Bahá’ís, with the power of faith and prayer to reinforce them, will be astonished at the nature and range of the things they do as pioneers which they never in their wildest dreams considered themselves capable of doing.  It is very much like racing, all the effort comes forth and lasts the course till the finishing line is reached and the race won, but then there is a respite.  It is the respite rather than the race that is often the weak point in the activities of pioneers.

Older people, I believe, are in many ways actually tougher than young people.  My mother used to say that they had to be or they would not have reached that age!  Forty years, sixty years of coping with life not only give older people both a physical and psychological stamina often lacking in youth but an accumulated resistance to disease, all of which in many ways make them ideal pioneers.  Young people, however, are often better suited to take the really tough roughing-it required by trips to the wilderness where they seem able to sleep in the corner of any hut, eat anything that comes their way, tramp over mountains and paddle up jungle streams.  To meet the needs of the present stage in the prosecution of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Divine Plan we not only need hundreds of David Livingstones—the great and famous Scottish missionary who was not only an intrepid explorer but an outstanding servant of humanity—but pioneers of all ages and backgrounds to fulfil all kinds of needs in hundreds of pioneer goals.  But whoever they are, whether older or younger people, more wisdom is needed in safeguarding their health; the suggestions and information included here are to help them to do this.

Rest

It is difficult to say what constitutes rest because what is rest for one individual might make another person exceedingly nervous.  One excellent definition of rest is change of occupation, which can be reading a book or a magazine or going to a cinema for one person and playing a set of tennis or swimming or climbing a mountain for another.  I, for instance, find reading restful, cooking restful and going to the market—particularly a big native one—very refreshing, whereas another person might find it an ordeal!  The people, the things they are selling, the pageant of it all, takes me completely out of my thoughts and myself and therefore has a restful effect.

But rest, in the sense of horizontal repose—lying down in other words—can be essential for ones health, either as a daily, brief respite from the wear and tear of activities, or as an aid to curing a more serious condition.  Young people usually sleep long and heavily and if given a chance can quickly recover depleted energy or throw off some ailment just by a good bout of sleeping.  But older people should learn the value to their health of just lying down.  All my life I have resented afternoon naps and hated lying down, but after fifty years passed I was forced to learn their advantages, and they are tremendous.  To a dear doctor friend I owe a precious gift, namely, the knowledge that if one lies down and rests—even if one does not sleep a wink all night—the body recuperates and the store of energy is replenished; of course it is not as good as sleep, but she taught me to not be afraid of sleeplessness, to stop panicking and saying to myself:  “My goodness!  It is 2.30 a.m. and I have not slept a wink, I will be a wreck in the morning!”  When one overcomes this fear of not

sleeping, this idea that one can do nothing because one has lost sleep, a major battle in life has been won.  Especially if, like myself, one refuses to take sleeping pills or tranquillizers; one must learn to lie quietly and accept the sleeplessness, adjust ones mind to it, read or think of pleasant things and try to relax the body; often this changed mental attitude in itself induces sleep.  Before going to bed a dessert-spoonful of honey, plain or dissolved in a cup of hot water, can put one to sleep as it has a very calming effect on the nerves.

A great deal to do with sleep depends on ones attitude towards a bed; a bed should be considered a place to sleep not a place to worry, a blessed spot which God in His mercy has given us to lie down in.  As one grows older, when at last bed is reached at the end of the day, one learns to thank Him most humbly for it.

In many parts of the world, especially the tropics, the custom of taking a siesta, an afternoon nap or rest, is common and is an excellent habit.  Strangely enough, even five minutes of sleep can have a refreshing effect, like passing an eraser over a blackboard it seems to brush away the tensions in both mind and body.  As little as fifteen minutes lying down flat can have a recuperative effect.  If one is ill, or has a bad cold or a bout of dysentery, to go to bed for a day or two, if at all possible, can be very helpful in addition to therapeutic measures.  If one has been walking or standing for a long time, particularly in the heat, to lie down flat on ones back, with the legs stretched out straight but slanting upwards—in other words the feet higher than the head—changes the circulation and is very soothing and well worth the effort of arranging pillows, a coat, a board or even a sack or suitcase under ones legs in order to get in this position.  Swollen legs and ankles in the heat can also

be a symptom of loss of salt in the body through heavy perspiration; salt tablets or taking additional table salt may help this condition.  It has been found that people not used to tropical heat lose, at least until their bodies adapt themselves to the climate, a great deal more salt in their perspiration than native people, even though they may perspire just as heavily as the newcomers.  Aside from these circumstances, however, it is advisable to take as little salt as possible in ones diet.  Reflection on how to handle ones problems, and self-discipline, are essential for a pioneer to learn.

Next to protection against protracted exhaustion as opposed to the normal, logical effort of carrying a difficult undertaking through to the end, however tiring—comes wisdom in what one eats and above all what one drinks.

Water

After years of experience I am convinced that the number one thing for a pioneer to seriously pay attention to is drinking water.  Whenever I go out to villages on a trip I make sure I have a container of either water that has been boiled (which effectively kills all germs) or properly filtered through some apparatus (in many countries people have them in their homes) or comes from a reliable city water supply.  One might suppose that what comes out of the tap in a big city is reliable but it may not be; in some cities the filtering system may be faulty or through other factors the tap water is contaminated.  Halazone tablets are a reliable water disinfectant and may be used if necessary but taste awful.  When we crossed Africa twice by Land Rover we sometimes carried five or more gallons of water

3,000 kilometres—from one safe supply to another—where we washed out our plastic containers and filled up again with new water.  The fact that the water was weeks old never did any harm and we either drank our own or made sure the water we could get was safe; by this I mean that it came from a deep well or had been boiled.  Tea and coffee are usually safe because boiling water is used to make them.  We always accepted such drinks—whether we felt like it or not—so as to not refuse the loving hospitality of the friends.  In India and Africa the tea or coffee, together with the sugar and milk, are often all boiled together to make a sweet hot drink that is safe and pleasant—though it tastes usually quite different from what one is used to!

Because soda water can be bought in a bottle with a proper sealed top does not for a moment mean it is safe to drink; I myself have seen a little “water factory” in Sikkim in the shed behind a very dirty home where bottled water was being put up; how the bottles were washed (if at all) and where the water came from heaven alone knew, yet seeing it for sale in a grocery store or served in a restaurant one might be tempted to think it was hygenic.  I have also seen a sealed bottle of water with a dead fly sealed in.  The best policy is for the pioneer or traveller to supervise his own water supply, carry some in a flask with him to drink and be very firm about the fact that because he is a foreigner he has to be careful not to get intestinal upsets and this water is his main precaution and this is why he cannot share it.  The native people of any place are adjusted to their own water and, whether it is clean and healthful or dirty and contaminated, there is nothing the visitor can do about it and sharing his own glass of special water is not going to solve their problems.  On one occasion in India I remember we went over to an island off the mainland where a big meeting was to be

held and we were to sleep the night; all the sanitary facilities were privies above little irrigation ditches cleaned out by the tide; our precious bottles of water for the trip were laid down somewhere and after my lecture not a drop was left, it had all been drunk up.  The danger of our getting dysentery, through drinking the local water, was very great and as there was little fuel and no Halazone and we were guests in a very humble home, it was difficult to ask for boiled water or even tea so we had an anxious and thirsty time of it—and did not drink the local water.  It must be always borne in mind that sewage in the sea is a dangerous source of disease not only through direct contamination but through eating shell fish from such waters.

I put all this emphasis on water because I have seen so many cases during my travels where pioneers have not only had “upset tummies”, which were usually caused by dysentery germs, but have developed bad cases of either acute or chronic dysentery which ran down their health to such an extent that they had to abandon permanently their pioneer activities as in such cases the slightest touch of any bacterial infection can again make a person seriously ill.  It is not worth it.  As the old saw goes, “An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure”, so watch your water.

It is only right to state, however, that I have found there are times when it is impossible to refuse a drink of water offered.  I vividly recall one occasion when we arrived in Niger in the raging midday heat at the home of a very isolated but devoted Bahá’í and the first thing offered to each of us was a clean bowl of what appeared to be very pure water.  We drank it gratefully, though I had seen the milling herds of cattle and people clustered about the village well from which it came.  On a similar occasion my host brought me a glass of swamp water to drink which was so grey as to be almost

opaque; I drank it.  I did not know, in those days, that swamp water is not all that dangerous to drink, so I worried quite a bit over the possible consequences.  However, I prayed God to protect me, and He did.  I believe one must act intelligently, take precautions, try to always be on the safe side and then, if the moment comes when one cannot do this—pray and not worry.

Shoghi Effendi used to drink plain water as if it were an elixir, saying it was the best drink in the world.  Not only is water the best drink in the world, it is one of the most precious things on the planet, as one gradually comes to understand through travelling in barren and arid lands.

Imported bottled waters are always expensive, wherever they are found, and drinks like the prepared colas and lemonades—“pop”, in other words—even if they are put up (as many are) by reliable big factories, are not as good for ones health as plain water because of the sweetening, sugar or artificial sweetening, or, what is even more dangerous, analyne dyes as colouring, which are added.  However, it is often not only impossible to avoid taking them when travelling but safer to do so where the ordinary water is in question; one should at least make sure, however, they came from a proper national factory and are not locally made.

There is one other kind of water which is delicious, very good for the health and absolutely safe, and that is coconut water, the juice inside coconuts; before they are ripe there is more water than when all the flesh has grown and the water space has thus become much smaller.  It is remarkable how little they are used by native people or by pioneers even when the trees are full of them!  Oranges and grapefruit, if obtainable, are also a safe drink but one must be sure the juice is obtained after washing and drying the fruit first.

Some common illnesses and hazards

The diseases and illnesses enumerated in this extremely brief list are mentioned not because there is much probability of the pioneer’s getting one of them but rather to set his mind at rest as to what they are, what causes them and how they may be avoided.

Ordinary sore throats and colds:  These are caused by germs in the mucus of the lungs, nose and mouth and transmitted by fine droplets expelled through sneezing and coughing as well as by direct contact; the degree to which people are careless and uninformed on this subject is unbelievable; any of the excretions from the head of someone suffering from a cold or flu are highly contagious so that to kiss or embrace that person, touch his sticky, unwashed hands or inhale his breath exposes one to catching it.  One good sneeze or cough is enough to fill the air of a room with the germs of the sneezer for hours—and yet how generously people share their sneezes with others, raining germs happily right and left!  Cold compounds are available; these commercial remedies put out under different trade names, which, especially if taken when a person feels he is coming down with a cold or has caught it from others, can suppress the infection or curtail its duration; a reliable pharmacist can probably recommend one.  Some people, however, do not tolerate these remedies and may prefer to try heavy doses of Vitamin C instead—3,000 to 5,000 milligrams a day or more—taken at the beginning and continued while the cold lasts; there are differing opinions about whether this is efficacious or not.  Another recommendation is that at the beginning, when a person feels he is coming down with a cold, or senses a change in his condition, a glass of water with a half a teaspoon of salt and a half a teaspoon

of bicarbonate of soda will be helpful.  Undoubtedly the very best way of avoiding colds is to keep away from contact with infected people and not to get too tired and run-down.

Insect bites:  There is no doubt in my own mind that a heavy dose of Vitamin C—1,000 to 2,000 milligrams—taken before one goes to a place where one will be bitten by mosquitoes, not only lessens the itching but helps prevent the bites from getting angry and infected.  It should be noted that Vitamin C has no known effect in preventing malaria; a non-harmful insect repellent, however, usually protects one from being bitten and is a useful thing for every traveller to have at hand.

Malaria:  A miserable disease which can produce serious and recurrent illness; it is caused by a microscopic parasite which completes part of its life cycle in the body of a particular variety of mosquito, the Anopheles, which, when infected, passes on to a human being the malaria germs through its bite; these germs rapidly multiply in the red blood cells and cause them to rupture; icy chills and high fever are usually—but not invariably—part of the symptoms of malaria, which can be readily diagnosed through a microscopic examination of the patient’s blood.  Although the Anopheles is distinguished by its hind legs sweeping upward when it lights, most people are not going to waste time trying to find out what kind of mosquito is biting them!  Malaria is very widespread throughout the world; in places where it exists the traveller should inquire before he goes there from a medical source—either a doctor or health department—what type of anti-malaria medicine he should take and start using it a week or so before he goes to that country; as long as he is in a malarial zone he should never neglect to take his pills; some kinds are taken once or twice a week, some daily;

he should seek the advice of a good doctor in the country as to which type of pill he recommends as people’s reactions differ and the pills available differ from country to country; on leaving the malaria area he should continue taking the pills from two to four weeks so that in case he has malaria germs in his blood they will not develop.  Under no circumstances should any members—young or old—of families living in malarial zones neglect this precaution as malaria is a disease that can be usually suppressed through taking the necessary pills and to catch it through ignoring this fact is sheer folly.

Typhoid fever:  A highly contagious disease caused by microscopic bacteria which affects mainly the intestinal tract and which is transmitted through the contaminated bowel movements or feces of the patient reaching others.  Although it is the feces that contains the germs, the carriers are innumerable, such as flies, a person’s fingers, foods, fluids, any soft cloth or paper to which the excretion of the bowels could adhere, like underwear, diapers, toilet paper, etc.  Flies are one of the most dangerous carriers of disease in the world because they light on filth and then on food, which it is almost impossible to keep them off.  Inoculation against typhoid fever is available now and effective.

Cholera:  A hitherto much-dreaded plague but now no longer so fatal if the patient is immediately given intravenous fluids to offset the acute dehydration the violent diarrhea of this disease brings about and which is mainly the cause of death.  Cholera, like typhoid, is transmitted through the feces and the carriers are the same.  Although vaccination against it is not totally effective, the disease is being brought under control.

Dysentery:  There are many kinds of intestinal upsets loosely classified under this name, most of which are produced by two large families of bacteria called Salmonella and Shigella which can cause mild to violent intestinal upsets with flatulence, cramps, diarrhea and sometimes fever.

Amoebic dysentery:  A serious ailment which may be acute or chronic and hard to get rid of; what are considered recurring attacks may be due to re-infection; in some tropical countries the population is highly infected with it, but treatment for it is now effective.

Hepatitis or epidemic hepatitis (also called epidemic jaundice):  This disease is increasing in many places; it affects the liver, produces anaemia, causes great debility, often takes a long time to recover from and can do permanent damage to the spleen, not to mention weakening the liver itself and making it susceptible to further attacks.  This type of hepatitis is transmitted through both water and milk, as well as sewage contamination, making it all the more essential for pioneers to be sure of what they are drinking and eating and to make every effort to ensure that their food and kitchen are clean.

Serum hepatitis:  Far less common than epidemic hepatitis, serum hepatitis is sometimes transmitted from an infected to a healthy person through injections from hypodermic needles which have not been properly sterilized.

For all forms of intestinal diseases such as those mentioned above there are certain rules of hygiene which, if followed, can protect one from being infected:

1.	Wash ones hands with soap or detergent before handling food in the kitchen and before eating.

2.	Insist that the cook or servant do likewise; in Africa and Asia people have the habit of washing their hands both before and after eating; to get the cook to keep his hands clean while handling food is more difficult.

3.	Do everything possible to keep flies out of the kitchen and off ones food, as they are, next to the cook (who may be yourself or your wife!), the worst food contaminators and carriers of infection.

4.	The general and safest rule, in most places in Africa, Asia, Central and South America and the Pacific—but not necessarily all—is never to eat a raw fruit or vegetable that one cannot peel; this means strawberries and other berries, figs, lettuce, parsley and so on.  If one wishes to eat raw foods (and the craving for them often becomes insufferable, I find), then my own precaution which I realize is by no means 100 per cent sure—is to wash well with soap or detergent the cucumber, tomato, orange, melon, papaw or whatever it may be, rinse it well, dry it thoroughly and then peel off the skin or juice it or cut it up, as the case may be.  In this way one runs less risk of carrying germs into the fruit or vegetable through cutting the skin.

5.	Remember boiled water and milk, well-cooked foods, meat cooked through and not half raw, have had micro-organisms in almost all cases killed and are safe to eat.

6.	In many countries, particularly in Asia, human excrement is often used as a fertilizer and because of this raw fruits and vegetables are very likely to carry dysentery and other germs, as well as worms, which infect and infest the digestive tract.

7.	Food poisoning is of different kinds caused by different families of bacteria but certain general precautions are worth taking:  cakes and pies and desserts that have a custard filling are excellent breeding grounds for bacteria so it is better to avoid these if they have been exposed to handling and to flies, particularly in hot weather; I myself always avoid minced meats and chopped up foods in hot weather because I think they are more easily contaminated; of course if one prepares it in ones own home that is different.

8.	Raw shell fish are a dangerous thing to eat unless one is more or less sure of their source or that the restaurant one is eating in is a well-known one and consequently has its reputation to think of.  In these days sewage often contaminates the shell fish in bays or other places where they are caught and therefore they can be carriers of typhoid, cholera, dysentery and hepatitis.

Typhus (Epidemic Typhus):  A fever disease transmitted by lice and found mainly in Europe, Asia and North Africa; it is not a truly tropical disease.  There is another kind of typhus (New World Typhus) which is caused by rat fleas and also red mites and is endemic in Europe, Asia, Africa and Latin America, as well as in certain places in the United States.  A third type of typhus (called sometimes Mite Typhus and Japanese River Fever) is widespread throughout the Asiatic-

Pacific region.  Without being bitten by the carrier one cannot contract the disease.

Malta or Undulant Fever:  Though not very common, undulant fever can be easily avoided if one takes precautions with milk—whether cows’ or goats’—as this is the carrier of the disease; wherever one is not absolutely sure that fresh milk comes from a safe source and has been pasteurized, one should boil it before using; goats’ milk cheeses, which are often made with unpasteurized milk, can carry undulant fever germs.

African Sleeping Sickness:  An illness confined to certain tropical areas in Africa where its carrier, the tsetse fly, exists; I mention it here because it is often a fatal disease and the traveller in places where the fly occurs should be on his guard as much as possible.  The fly is a large sort of squarish-looking horse-fly and like all its species very persistent; however, just because one has been bitten by a tsetse fly does not mean automatically one is going to get sleeping sickness; the fly may not have the germs in him or one might not contract it.

Elephantiasis (Filariasis):  Transmitted by mosquitoes who carry the larvae of these minute parasitical worms through their bites from an infected to a healthy person, it is found in nearly all the tropics of the world and also occurs, to a lesser extent, in the West Indies and Central and South America.  It is a disease rare among Europeans, even after they have lived years in infested areas; it takes repeated infections to produce its worst form.

Filariasis):  A general term for all diseases (including Elephantiasis) caused by these minute parasitical worms and the

much more prevalent eye worms, easily contracted by people living in tropical Central and West Africa and transmitted by a fly elongated in shape, reddish brown in colour, that stands on high legs and is over a imetre (half an inch) long; for anyone familiar with the Mediterranean fruit fly it looks very much like it.  It is such a large, conspicuous, rather slow-moving fly that if one is on the alert one should be able to spot it and avoid being bitten, or at least make an effort to be exposed to it as little as possible.  Eye worms are also transmitted by gnats.  Antidotes and treatment are available.

Trachoma:  A widespread, horrible and highly destructive eye infection found, along with other forms of chronic infectious conjunctivitis, among poor people in many parts of the world; these infections are propagated by flies, sand flies and midges from eye to eye.  One sees a great many children, as well as adults, with sore, inflamed eyes; they squint, and many of the older people have lost the sight of an eye or both eyes entirely; the eyes look blurred by a whitish, sick-looking film caused by scarred corneas.  The small flies feed on the watery excretion of these sick eyes and carry the infection to healthy eyes.  I well remember when I was a girl in Egypt—where the disease was then very prevalent even in the cities—how these horrible flies would aim like a bullet for the inner corner of my eye and before I could protect myself one would try to settle there and drink.  In the Kalahari Desert, seeing a Bushman mother nursing a baby whose eyelids were covered with flies, I had a hard time shooing them off with my hand, practically having to pick them off, before I could place a thin veil I had been wearing on my hair over the baby’s face.  I tried, through an interpreter, to impress on her that the baby would be blinded if she did not wash its eyes, keep them clean, and keep the flies off, but I

doubt if it had any effect as the mother had no grasp of why I put the veil there and probably removed it right away, finding it pretty for herself and a nuisance for the child!  In order to help I would have had to live nearby and myself wash and treat the baby’s eyes every day and teach the mother to do the same.  This question of trachoma is one way pioneers can often be of help to villagers through explaining how flies form the habit of collecting at the eyes, and that by fanning ones face and keeping them off—and above all protecting the eyes of babies—the eyes will have a chance to recover; though there will still be plenty of flies about, they will not have this habit of automatically lighting on the eyes and thus carrying disease from one person to another.  Antibiotic ointments and also sulphonamide salves can cure such diseases.  As such eye ailments are highly infectious one must be very careful that ones own eyes do not get infected.

Jigger or Chigoe:  A species of sand flea, the female of which burrows under the skin, usually on the feet, to lay her egg from which very rapidly a larvae develops and creates a sealed pocket, with fluid in it, which almost invariably becomes infected around the minute creature in the middle and which itches very much.  In order to heal the infection this parasite must be carefully removed in its entirety.  It is a common complaint in Africa, South America and other places; a house servant, or anybody’s mother or grandmother, will often be more expert at removing them (but not as hygenic!), and cause less pain, than someone at the hospital.  One can also do it ones self by soaking the foot in hot water for a few minutes, then digging the flea out with a sterilized needle, and putting antiseptic in the wound and bandaging it.  The same treatment can be given to villagers, who are a hardy lot and endure pain much more stoically than city people.  The

hole heals once the parasite is removed.  These jiggers can be so terrible—if not removed—that part of the flesh of the foot or a whole toe may be literally eaten away.  One can pick these up from walking barefooted, or wearing open sandals, on earth, sand or lawns in towns or villages.

Chigger:  Not to be confused with chigoe, is a red mite which is often found in grass and whose bite irritates the skin; some kinds even work their way under the skin where they cause intense itching, redness and irritation for some days.  There are a great many varieties in different parts of the world, some of which carry serious diseases such as scrub typhus.

Blister beetles:  These are insects which produce a secretion that raises blisters on the skin; in many countries where these occur clothes hung out to dry may have these insects light on them, leave their secretion, and when the garment is worn, blisters are produced; this can also happen with baby diapers.  It is well to know such things because strangers to a country, or a foreign doctor, might not be aware of this fact and could be puzzled and worried by blisters unaccountably appearing, not knowing either the cause or that they are not dangerous.

Bilharzia Disease or Schistosomiasis:  Caused by minute worms which live in the veins of the pelvis and produce this serious disease; the eggs of the worms are released through both the urine and feces of an infected person and when this occurs in fresh water, larvae develop which lodge in snails; the life cycle of the worms then undergoes a further metamorphosis inside the snails which release the parasites in the water and in this form they can enter the body of anyone bathing in the snail-infected water.  Because of this peculiar

life cycle people travelling from one place to another have not only spread it widely throughout Africa but it is now spreading in Latin America.  The traveller in Africa, because of its prevalence, and because it is still difficult to cure, should never wash or bathe in ponds, lakes or streams no matter how hot he may feel and how tempting the water may be.  In deep off-shore, or fast-running water it is safe to bathe but in all still water, even if one cannot see snails, they may nevertheless be there, some varieties being very small, and the danger of infection is too great to run the risk; just because the natives are bathing one must not assume the water is safe; on the contrary, both they and the water are more than likely infected.  Unless one is informed by a highly reliable source—a doctor or health department—that the local water is not infected with bilharzia, whether in Latin America or Africa, the rule must be to keep out of it.  Remedies now exist for this disease but every precaution should be taken not to catch it.

Tetanus:  A bacterial infection which is carried in the manure of horses and some other animals; commonly known as lock-jaw, this is a dangerous infection which enters the body through wounds coming in contact with the soil which may be contaminated.

Tuberculosis:  Rife in the tropics but good specific treatment now available.

The following brief summary of immunizations is given for the information of anyone wishing to obtain them:

Typhoid and Paratyphoid:  two separate inoculations a week apart, efficacious for up to three years.

Yellow Fever:  one inoculation supposed to provide permanent immunity.

Smallpox:  vaccination required once every five years.

Poliomyelitis:  one immunization now claimed to be sufficient.

Diphtheria, Tetanus and Pertussis (Whooping Cough):  mainly for protection of children, given in a three-in-one inoculation  should be renewed after a few years.

Mumps, Measles and Rubella (German Measles):  mainly for protection of children, given in a three-in-one inoculation said to be sufficient for a lifetime.

Tetanus (Lock Jaw):  one inoculation required every three to five years.

Food

Pioneers and travelling teachers all too often, feeling the necessity to economize, or being hurried and taking the easiest way out (as we all do when under pressure!), do not pay proper attention to the principles of sound nutrition and live on sandwiches, pastries, cookies and other sweets month after month and through this very unbalanced diet often feel exhausted and below par, weaken their digestion seriously, undermine their health and finally become ill.  Young people are particularly prone to this form of neglect, which is not only unnecessary but stupid.  To acquire a simple knowledge of various foods and their nature and make an effort to apply this to ones self is not difficult and is the purpose of this section.

‘Abdu’l-Bahá said that treatment of disease and ailments will in the future be through foods and waters and that eventually mankind would become vegetarian; Baha’u’llah advocated a simple diet and not to mix many foods at one meal.  What guidance do these things hold for us, and particularly those living in foreign countries where the native food is very different from their own?  Surely the first thing is to not be opinionated regarding what is a proper diet for another man!  Millions of people all over the world either rarely or never eat meat; it is not the business of a Bahá’í from another country to try to change them or to prattle about the necessity of a heavy animal protein diet; either religious convictions, or circumstances over which they have no control, may make it impossible for them to live differently.

Are you a Hindu-background pioneer, or of a vegetarian family?  Then do not feel obliged to eat meat because you are in Scotland or Australia or some other country of heavy meat-eaters.  Are you an Australian or from Scotland living in Africa or India?  Then do not force yourself to become a vegetarian because you may not keep in good health without a certain amount of animal protein.  I remember a Jain sadhu in India—Jains are a particularly fanatical sect who eat no meat and in some cases go to the extreme of covering their mouths and noses by a veil so that they will not even inhale and kill an insect.  This Jain had just become a Bahá’í and looking at me with tears in his eyes, he said he really could not eat meat.  I said whoever told him he should?  It had nothing to do with being a Bahá’í; he could live and die a vegetarian.  But, I added, he must accept that another Bahá’í, who came from a background of meat-eaters, had the same privilege of being free in such matters and was allowed to eat meat if he wanted to.

Many people, particularly when they travel, by a psychological process I do not profess to understand, seem to think it a virtue to pay no attention to what they eat.  Take, for instance, people going on a trip, whether in their own car or some local bus or other conveyance:  instead of taking some food with them or making sure they can get a decent meal on the way, they usually make no provision at all for their journey; to carry some bread, a few boiled eggs, some nuts, a candy bar, an orange or banana or apple, is not difficult, gives a person something safe to eat and prevents exhaustion—which alone brings on many illnesses.  Yet it is remarkable how many people never think of such things or make the slightest preparation for a journey.  Even more forethought should go into being sure they have something safe to drink on the way:  a flask of good water, tea or coffee or a bottled drink from a reliable factory is essential (read reference to this subject in the “Health and Pioneering” section).

In my long African safari we always made a point of eating breakfast before starting out and preparing something to take along for our lunch; usually this was sandwiches of corned beef, or tuna fish, chopped eggs and mayonnaise, or cheese, or even ham purchased from a reliable shop; sometimes we even had—as a special luxury—a roasted chicken if we found one already cooked; we always had a thermos of tea or coffee and always carried water, and when available, fruit or nuts to nibble on.  The best policy is to be prepared and not trust to luck to find safe food—or sometimes any food—on the way, also not to believe that at the end of the journey good food will be found.  There is no guarantee that the travellers’ conveyance will not break down and that they may not be delayed for many hours in some place where there is nothing at all to eat or at least nothing safe for them.  By that I mean the only things available may be exposed to

flies or be so peculiar that the uninitiated do not wish to experiment with them while travelling.  To serve God with a spirit of detachment should not be confused with being foolish and forgetful!

Because travellers should use common sense and be cautious does not mean they should be afraid to eat anything local.  On the contrary, local food is fresh, not canned, cheap and often more suited to the climate.  Many pioneers in Africa and other continents of the world eat local food and enjoy it.  A meal in a native restaurant often costs a quarter or even a tenth of the price of the food in a European restaurant.  One must bear in mind that when food is cooked over strong heat, worms and harmful germs are destroyed and if the restaurant is not too dirty—and one avoids fresh salads and things that might not agree with one—native dishes can be both tasty and inexpensive.  Meat from native butchers can be perfectly safe to eat as long as one is sure it is fresh and cooks it properly.  Most villagers all over the world have no refrigeration whatsoever and therefore insist their meat should be fresh killed; they are well aware of the danger of eating fish or meat that is stale, particularly so when the weather is very hot.

There are many ways of economizing and food is one of them but it requires intelligent thought to do so safely.  This is one reason I have gone into so much detail in this section on food.  The other is to introduce certain valuable foods and stress the need to understand what is best for ones health.  The greatest economy, almost everywhere in the world, is to cook at home and not eat in restaurants; the exception to this can be in Asia where catering (sending to your home from restaurants already prepared food) is a local custom and can be very good and cheap.  Buy inexpensive cuts of meat rather than expensive ones like steak, the vegetable that is in

season and the cheapest, local fruit, rather than imported fruit and the one in season.  Do not economize on quality of food:  by this I mean canned peas may be cheaper than fresh spinach but the fresh vegetable is better for the health; when shopping buy the freshest vegetables as they rapidly lose their vitamins through being stale and wilted though the wilted ones may be cheaper.  For instance, small new carrots and potatoes may cost more, but larger, older ones less; if both, however, are equally fresh, economize by buying the older ones which are usually cheaper although the food value is the same; learn to eat tropical fruits which are delicious and rich in vitamins.

Cooking can be fun and a relaxing occupation.  It is also creative and the good housewife from one country can experiment with local produce and discover new jams and pickles can be put up by old methods used at home; she can also try the often strange vegetables, grains and fruits found in the new country and instead of shunning them welcome them to her table, either cooking them as she did a similar vegetable or learning how they are cooked by the natives.  For instance in African and Asian markets there are many greens—including sometimes leaves of trees and vines—unknown to most of us but which can provide the food values needed for health; learn to use them.  Motoring across Africa we tried to always eat fresh food; if a hard green squash or some okra or tomatoes or carrots or spinach was all we could find, we cooked and ate that; whatever else one eats, one should make a point of trying to get a fresh vegetable.  Green beans are very good for the health so this was the only canned vegetable I carried; canned apple sauce was the best fruit value; when we had nothing else we could fall back on these; the beans, drained and served with French dressing, made a tasty salad.

Here are a few fundamental cooking rules to preserve food values, save time and promote better health:  Never soak vegetables and fruits in water, even though it appear to freshen them, as it leaches out the vitamins; wash and rinse them and cook at once or dry them well and store them.  The fresher things are, the more vitamins they contain; this is true of all fruits and vegetables with the exception of things like bananas, melons, citrus, squash, potatoes, beets, onions, etc., which can be kept much longer.  The best cooking methods to preserve the vitamin value of food are to steam—where the food is placed over, not in, boiling water—or quick-fry; the Chinese people are masters of this system of cooking, which is one reason why their food is so healthful and delicious; things boiled in water or stewed a long time lose their vitamins which is why the quick method of cooking is preferable and to eat raw vegetables and fruit most valuable for ones health.

Meat and fish should be cooked right through, with no pink left; grains and other starches should also be thoroughly cooked as otherwise they are indigestible.

People from Europe and North America, who were rarely exposed to infectious intestinal disorders at home, should strictly avoid eating raw berries, grapes or lettuce because no matter what anyone says they cannot be safely disinfected; only those fruits and vegetables that can be washed, dried, and then peeled are safe.  A nice fresh salad can be made, however, by steaming cabbage until nearly cooked through and serving with a tasty dressing.

Meat:  Nowadays in large towns one can usually find frozen imported meat, but this is prohibitively expensive.  There is no reason why native meat should not be bought in the local markets; cook it thoroughly, never eat it rare or half done.  It

is liable to be tough but this can be overcome by:  rubbing it all over (marinating it) with onion juice or yogurt or the white juice in the skin of papaw fruit and leaving some hours or overnight; putting it in cold salted water and cooking it very slowly until tender; or mincing it to use as hamburger or meat loaf or meat balls, but in this case be sure it is freshly ground as stale pieces mixed into it can cause food poisoning.  (Because of this I personally avoid all minced meat dishes in restaurants in hot climates.)  Beef and goat (a perfectly good meat to eat) should be bright red in colour with no darkening or tainted spots; mutton and lamb are less red and veal and pork are pale meats; fat should be healthy looking and light in colour except in full-grown beef when it can be a deep yellow but perfectly good.  Kidneys, tongue, liver and heart are all excellent food value; brains are often very inexpensive and delicious but must be absolutely fresh as they spoil fast; all meat adhering to bones makes delicious stews and soups.

Chicken:  These are often readily available.  Usually a chicken is purchased in the market alive and ones servant or alternatively ones self—or perhaps a helpful neighbour, if one cannot bring ones self to do it—will kill it and dress it.  The heart, liver and gizzard of poultry are all edible and good.  One can ask a sensible looking person doing her own marketing to help select a good chicken if one does not know how to ones self.

Eggs:  Although eggs are relatively plentiful in most large cities, in villages they are scarce and one has no guarantee they are fresh because the villagers collect the eggs the hens—running around free—lay anywhere the spirit moves them.  One of the ways to test an egg to see if it is fresh is to

put it in a pan of water and if it goes down to the bottom and stays there, it is probably fresh.  Do not be shy, just call for a bowl of water and do it.  I have seen many an African do so in his own market!  Eggs are a valuable and relatively inexpensive food and many dishes—such as fried or scrambled eggs and omelets—can be made with them very quickly, which makes them useful for entertaining unexpected guests.  It is well to remember, however, that contrary to popular belief they are very low in protein compared to meat and fish.

Snails:  In many native markets land snails are sold alive; I have never eaten these, or for that matter ever been able to bring myself to eat them in Europe where they are considered an expensive delicacy, however, snails are a good source of protein and there is no reason why one should not cook and eat them.

Fish:  All over the world fish is found, and, surprisingly, is available throughout Africa, either fresh or dried, including the desert regions and the heart of the jungles.  Fish is an excellent source of protein.  Whenever we travelled near the coast we found sometimes we could buy very tiny fish from the fishermen who were hauling in their nets.  These need very careful washing as the sand gets in the gills and is most unpleasant to chew on; aside from this, they need not be gutted or trimmed at all but are fried in very hot fat until they are crisp like French fried potatoes; by this method one eats the head, tail and all the bones, which provide an excellent source of natural calcium.  Larger fish, however, must be cleaned by slitting their bellies lengthwise and throwing away everything but the roe (eggs) which is very good; they may also need to have the scales removed, which can be

done by scraping them against the grain with the back of a knife, so as not to tear the skin.

Sweets:  One of the main causes of the increase in diabetes, overweight, decayed teeth in children and adults and many other ailments is the tremendous increase in the consumption of white sugar.  Whereas fifty years ago sweets were usually a treat, they are now consumed in one form or another at almost every meal and between meals as well.  Civilization with its new standards, its marketing and advertising techniques and the competition they give rise to, has flooded our urban lives—and would like to flood every village on earth—with more and more sweets in various forms.  To this is added the curse of “pop”, or sweetened bottled drinks of all types now found literally everywhere in the world.  Doctors and nutritionists are well aware of the dangers involved in this modern way of life and have issued many warnings, but people are either ignorant of them or will not change their ways.  Perhaps if they knew there are alternatives they would make a more serious effort to protect their health.

Natural sugar occurs in almost all foods, particularly in fruit and vegetables, but because of heavy consumption of ice cream, candies, sweet bottled drinks, desserts, and too much sugar taken with everything, particularly tea and coffee, people can no longer taste it.  Because of this abuse the liver and pancreas are overburdened and debility, ill health and illness, including diabetes, can result.  Sugar gives quick energy and a vicious circle of more sugar to boost ones energy, greater fatigue produced by this abuse and then still higher consumption of sugar is established.  The way to get back to normal is to steadily cut down on white sugar:  two instead of three spoonfuls of sugar in tea or coffee, then one and if possible none; less sugar in recipes; avoid sweets

and sweetened drinks and ice cream—particularly in hot weather as it may carry typhoid; eat fruit, a handful of nuts, a piece of cheese, bread and honey, or a snack of meat as a pick-me-up because these also produce quick energy without damaging the health.  Starch products, such as bread, rice, potatoes, macaronis, porridges and other grains, all contain considerable sugar as carbohydrates and will to some extent provide the lift that taking sweets does without being as damaging to the health.  Dried raisins and other fruit can easily take the place of candy; try to buy them with an indication on the package that they are unsulphured as in that way they are better for ones health.

This does not mean one should become a food fanatic or feel guilty if one eats a piece of candy!  It does mean—at least to me—that a knowledgeable approach to the subject of nutrition and keeping ones self in as good health as possible is surely intelligent and that to ignore the subject and impair ones health—thus jeopardizing ones service to the Faith in the all-important field of pioneering—is foolish and unnecessary.  There are times when one needs the quick energy that a chocolate bar or other sweet can give, especially when travelling under difficult circumstances.  During my African safari we found that a cup of very sweet, strong, hot tea provided the best and most lasting stimulus when we were exhausted and we took time off to stop and either make it by the wayside or drink what we had already prepared in our thermos bottle.  It is not what one does under exceptional circumstances or occasionally that is so bad for ones health but the forming of an essentially unsound pattern of daily life, and the consumption of too many sugars falls in this category.

Honey:  Though it may be expensive and hard to find, honey is the best and most natural of all sugars.  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá both

praised it and prescribed it.  For thousands of years it has been sought out and cherished by men as a unique and precious substance; even the little Bushmen of the Kalahari Desert adore it and have given it a delightful name—“moon’s water”.  The properties and uses of honey are too many to enumerate in detail but here are a few of them:  honey given to small children at night is supposed to help prevent bedwetting; if taken plain or dissolved in milk or water before going to bed it soothes the nerves and can produce sleep; it makes an excellent cough syrup mixed with a little water and sipped; it can replace sugar to sweeten tea, be used in cooking instead of sugar, and half honey and half fruit vinegar (apple cider, grape or wine vinegar) mixed together can be kept in a bottle and one or two tablespoonfuls be added to a glass of water as a refreshing beverage which many claim is excellent for the health in general.  One of the most delicious desserts is yogurt mixed with a spoonful of honey and certainly one of the most healthful for children and adults.  Honey is expensive compared to other sweetenings and may seem a luxury but what one spends on health one often saves on doctors’ bills.  Many honeys are adulterated by being mixed with sugar syrup and one should try to purchase pure honey—usually marked on the jar as such.

Brown sugar:  In Africa, India and most parts of the world where there are sugar factories or where the native people themselves refine sugar from sugar cane, brown sugar sometimes called natural sugar, in other words a dark sugar that is unrefined—can be bought.  It is very much better for the health than white sugar, though not as sweet, and because it has not been refined more of the valuable minerals which are in the cane itself to begin with have been retained.  I remember when I was a child the pick-me-up, or between

meals sweet that I was allowed to beg for in the kitchen was a thick slice of buttered brown bread sprinkled liberally with brown sugar.  It still tastes better to me than cake!  In some countries in the native markets a cone or hunks of very unrefined brown sugar can be bought.  If this is used in cooking it can do no harm because of course the boiling kills any germs that might be in it and the impurities may be skimmed off.  It may also be boiled down, purified, and stored as a sweet syrup for drinks, cooking, on desserts and so on.

Molasses:  A syrup that is a by-product of sugar cane refining, molasses can be sometimes bought from the factory, if one exists in the country, or found in tins for sale in the stores of countries that import from England or the United States.  The least refined, called blackstrap molasses, is very dark and thick and has a strong flavour which to some palates makes it unsuitable for eating raw on bread or desserts; it is the best for ones health, however, as it contains the most vitamins and very valuable minerals; it is excellent in cooking, especially with dried bean dishes and in muffins; the more fluid and lighter-coloured molasses is also excellent for the health and has been more refined so it tastes very good on bread in place of a jam, or mixed with yogurt, which is a delicious way of having it; it is also very useful as a sweetening and to add flavour to cooked breads and other food; both kinds act as a natural laxative which in itself adds a very welcome element to the diet, particularly for children.  Because of these qualities molasses is well worth the trouble and expense of procuring it, if it is at all possible to do so.

Sugar cane:  In almost every continent of the globe one will see in the markets, or in front of a country shop, or in the hand of somebody walking along by the roadside, long stalks

about two metres high of something which appears to be a variety of reed or bamboo.  It belongs to the family of grasses and is the source of most of our sugar.  The natives of Asia, Africa and many places in Central and South America chew it for its juice which is sweet and refreshing.  As it takes a considerable amount of chewing, it is also good for the teeth.  The pulp is spit out.  The hard outer skin of the cane is peeled down and sections of the pith, about an inch long, cut up and chewed.  If one has weak teeth avoid sugar cane!  But for children to munch on and strengthen their teeth it is excellent; also for a thirsty traveller, worth buying and chewing on as he goes along.  Its juice makes a very refreshing beverage.  Put through a juicer, as they do it in India, and flavoured with a little fresh ginger, it is delicious.

Fruits and nuts:  Nature, in every climate, has given men valuable sources of natural sugar and vitamins in fruits, and minerals, protein and oils in nuts; except for what is in season and available locally fruits are not a cheap food; nuts—with the exception of peanuts and coconuts where they are indigenous—are usually a relatively expensive food.  The pioneer should look around and see what is on the market and purchase native rather than imported fruits and buy nuts that are the best price, as well as quality, that can be found.  By this I mean that stale and wormy nuts, even if half the price, are not worth buying instead of fresh ones, but there is no necessity to pay extra for larger nuts, especially if good, and cheaper, smaller ones are available.  Wise shopping means better value for ones health and for ones money.  Fruits (as well as vegetables) should be judged by weight, fullness, colour, smell and freedom from spots as well as insects.  If things are wrinkled, dull looking, flabby or light when they should be heavy, and if they should smell like

themselves (an apple or a melon odour) and do not, they are not really good.  Of course if they are all one can get, that is a different matter.

The subject of food values is a fascinating one but involves a study at least of charts, and there is no place for them here.  But a slight idea of the factors involved is that one egg, for instance, has 6 grams of protein and about 600 i.u. of Vitamin A and only 80 calories (these are the fuel units and, roughly speaking, the part that makes one fat).  A half a cup of bran breakfast cereal, however, also has 6 grams of protein, no Vitamin A, but almost 250 calories.  This means a person who gains weight easily should eat the egg not the bran, while the thin person should be glad of the same amount of protein in the bran plus an extra 170 calories to fatten him up and acquire his valuable Vitamin A through some other food, like a vegetable.  Almonds are about 20 per cent protein and over 50 per cent fat; peanuts 27 per cent protein and almost 50 per cent fat; they also contain valuable minerals—but they are very high in calories.  I have mentioned only a few fruits and nuts here for the benefit of people unfamiliar with what is readily available in the tropics and how they can be used.

Avocados:  A very nourishing fruit now grown, in many varieties, all over the world; the colour can be a bright or a deep green or a purplish brown, with a shiny skin, sometimes smooth and sometimes rough; avocados can be as small as eggs or as large as grapefruit.  There is a stone in the centre which is useless except to grow another avocado tree with—in case you wish to do so, you put the pointed end up and stick the bottom just touching a little bit of water in a glass or a can; if you wait long enough it will eventually sprout and develop into a beautiful sturdy little tree which,

when it is  high, can be planted in earth in a pot as an agreeable house plant or transferred to the garden.  The rather oily flesh surrounding this stone is delicious and many different things can be done with it:  cut in half it can be eaten with a spoon as a fruit; peeled and sliced it can be added to salads or mixed with salad dressing; very ripe avocados mashed with a fork to a cream and honey added, or put in the blender and whipped up, make a delicious dessert and if one wishes, mashed bananas may also be added.  This is an excellent way of adding a healthful, fattening and strengthening food to children’s diets.

Mangoes:  Originally Asian they have migrated to Africa and many other countries and are one of the most delicious fruits in the world, rich in Vitamin A.  There are dozens of varieties, some much better than others, but I found while travelling in Africa that during the season the small ones, which were found in great abundance in town and village markets, not only were very inexpensive but had the best flavour, although they were very stringy.  To overcome this, first wash the fruit very carefully with soap, rinse and dry so no germs will get inside when cutting them, but before cutting, without breaking the skin, massage them to reduce the flesh inside to a pulp; this pulp can then be easily put through a coarse colander and produces a most delicious thick liquid which can be used as a drink, frozen as a sherbet in the freezer compartment of ones refrigerator, served as a custard over other fruits or puddings or used as a dressing on fruit salad.  Needless to say the finest mangoes, which are fleshy and have no strings, are too good to make a pulp of and should be peeled and served in slices or cut in half, the pit taken out, and eaten in their skin with a spoon.  Another way of preparing mangoes, which is done in India, is to get them while they are

still green, in other words not bullet-like in hardness but at the same time not fully ripe and sweet, peel and cut them up and cook them with some onions which have been already browned in oil, adding a little salt and some brown sugar to relieve the sourness of the fruit and some grated fresh ginger or powdered dry ginger; this dish, with or without meat cooked with it, is inexpensive and very tasty.

Bananas:  A positive boon to humanity, this universal, excellent and nourishing fruit has many varieties, from little finger bananas which melt in ones mouth, to perfumed red bananas equally delicious.  Bananas with custard sauce are a wholesome dessert; in the West Indies they slice them in half lengthwise and put them in the oven in a deep dish in layers sprinkled with fat and brown sugar and bake until cooked into a succulent whole; they may be fried and help out as an extra dish with meat or chicken; made into fritters; whipped up as a fancy dessert; used in fruit salad or just eaten plain.  As they shrink a lot when cooked one must calculate much more per portion than when eaten raw.  Bananas are easily digested and hence good for babies and sick people.  One of the greatest advantages of the banana is the ease with which its skin peels off, thus protecting it from dirt and germs on the outside getting inside the fruit; because of this one can afford to eat them from stands in markets while travelling and to give them to children.  Bananas are always picked green and ripened off the tree so one can buy them unripe and keep until ripe.

Papaws:  Also called in many countries papayas, these are another wonderful fruit.  The papaw tree, about 15 feet high, grows with the greatest of ease in most tropical climates; it is not a palm but resembles one with a bunch of

umbrella-like leaves spreading out in a cluster from the top of its trunk and melon-like fruit—in all stages of growth—hanging down thickly under its leaves.  Because of this useful peculiarity papaws stay in season almost the entire year round.  It is the white juice in the skin of this fruit that is used as a meat tenderizer and is prepared for export in many countries.  Papaw, before it is ripe is a green colour and can be cooked like a squash and eaten as a vegetable; when it is ripe it turns yellow or orange and is eaten as a melon:  cut in half lengthwise, the seeds taken out and served with a little lime or lemon juice squeezed onto it, it is a delicate, delicious and refreshing fruit, particularly served at breakfast.  Like bananas it is usually ripened off the tree; one can buy a green papaw, take it home and wrap it up in a piece of paper and it will ripen nicely by itself.  It has a lot of Vitamin A, acts as an excellent natural laxative and is a Godsend to people living in countries where there are many fruits they are afraid to eat because they grow exposed to dust, and hence germs, whereas the papaw, being a melon-like fruit, if carefully washed and dried, can be cut open and eaten with little danger to ones health.  It is a great pity more native people do not understand the merit of this fruit as one often sees it fallen off the trees and never eaten.

Pineapples:  Another valuable addition to ones diet in the tropics is pineapple, which, like papaw, grows very easily:  slice the top off, where the tuft of leaves is sprouting out, and plant it in the ground, with the leaves sticking up in the air; every plant produces only one fruit and is easily propagated by this simple method.  So strong and prolific is the pineapple that many times on jungle roads I saw that a top, thrown away by somebody passing by, had taken root and was vigorously growing.  Pineapple is both refreshing and good for

the health but its juice is tart and with some people not only puckers the mouth but produces sores.  To overcome this, after peeling a pineapple, one can sprinkle it with salt for a few minutes and then rinse it off, which removes some of this caustic quality in the fruit.  One can also boil it a little bit—not cook it—and pour off the water.  Always remember that salt leaches out the juices of vegetables and fruits and their vitamins and consequently should never be allowed to stay on for any length of time.  A large pineapple is sufficient to serve eight or ten people and if one has not used it all up, and the weather is hot and no refrigeration available, by stewing it in a little water, with or without sugar added, one can keep it for at least a day without any danger of its going sour.  To test if a pineapple is ripe pluck out some of the leaves growing from the centre of the top; if they come out easily, it is ripe; in addition it should be brown not green and have the fragrant smell of a pineapple; but even if it is not yet ripe one can still buy it and take it home and wait a few days for it to ripen.  Do not buy any fruit that is damaged or has a soft spot on it as it will rot in an unbelievably short time.

Passion-fruit:  These are found in many countries and a number of varieties, ranging from small, dark brown, almost purplish-coloured fruit the size of a golf ball, with a wrinkled dry skin, to a large and bright orange-coloured one the size of a small grapefruit.  The seeds of this fruit are contained inside in a sweet membrane, the juice of which is absolutely delicious; usually one can swallow the seeds if they are tender without worrying about them but otherwise one can force the pulp through a sieve or colander, using the puree with other fruits or food or diluting it half and half with the rather sour native African orange juice, or with water, as a drink.  It is rich in vitamins.

Guavas:  Some people like to eat these raw when fully ripe but when cooked they make an excellent jelly or compote.  For the latter, peel the fruit, cut in halves, cover with water and boil until the seeds separate from the flesh, then rub through a strainer, return to the cooking pot, add sugar or honey to taste and boil until tender.  Guavas are rich in Vitamin C and also have a strong perfume and flavour.

Lichee:  A large Chinese tree on which grow clusters of round fruit, each about as big as a walnut with a thin reddish-coloured skin covered with prickles like horse chestnut burrs; inside is a large kernel covered by a very tasty, sweet, white flesh, which is the small edible part.

Jack fruit:  A weird fruit  occurs in South East Asia, Africa and other tropical lands and grows on large trees in a very strange way—namely, straight out from the trunk!  Jack fruit looks like a squash, of a yellowy-green colour, covered with huge, rough warts and its skin is so extraordinarily tough that it is almost impossible to cut open.  Inside are elongated seeds, each one enclosed in a silken pod of delicious, perfumed, sweet fruit.  If one oils ones hands first, one can separate the fruit from the seeds easier as the whole process is a sticky one.  People in India and Africa sometimes cook jack fruit when it is green as a vegetable, very much like unripe mangoes; it must, naturally, be skinned and pitted first.

Durian:  Exotic in the extreme this Asian fruit, which grows on large trees, is about the size of a melon with a coarse, prickly, brownish-green skin; it is famous for its odour, which to some foreign noses comes as a perfume and to others as an unbearable stench; one should not take it into the

car or the house as the smell can be overwhelming if one is not used to it.  I found the taste like eating a rare perfume, but a little bit was sufficient.  However, many people become extremely fond of it.

Other fruits:  When travelling one sees many unknown fruits, but the principle is always the same:  if other human beings eat them, so can you; try them, but go easy in the beginning; they are usually rich in vitamins and being fresh and indigenous, cheaper and better for your health than imported fruits.

Dates and figs:  Full of nourishment and natural sugar they are an excellent food, but, due to probable exposure to dysentery germs, a risk for those who have not developed a strong immunity; in theory peeling them should remove the danger but it is much wiser to bring them to the boil in water and pour it off.

Dried fruits:  All types of dried fruits provide, for their weight and bulk, a most concentrated and healthful (and fattening!) source of nourishment.  However, if they have been exposed to flies they can be germ carriers and one risks intestinal infections by eating them without first cooking them.

Coconuts:  Wherever these are found they are usually so common and cheap it is hard to buy one.  That may sound strange but it is literally true.  People have them growing in their back yards, they grow often along the streets of the town, hanging up temptingly above ones reach, they grow in groves and all along the sea shore and unless one pays a boy, or begs somebody to go up and fetch one down, it is

often extremely difficult to purchase a coconut at all.  They are one of the most delicious and useful things that the Creator has provided for the human race.  I once read that there are something like 200 uses to which a coconut palm is put.  In any case, when the coconut is not yet ripe it is full of a most delicious, slightly sweet juice, exceedingly good for the health, which not only quenches ones thirst but because it is sealed into its own nut, is absolutely safe to drink.  Inside, the “cream” forms as the nut matures and this cream can be scraped off and eaten while it is still soft and the nut is half developed; in other words a green nut will have more water and a little cream and an entirely ripe coconut will have very little water and a thick coating of what we usually associate with being coconut—the white flesh.  Maize meal or rice, cooked in coconut water, has a delicate and delightful flavour.  Coconut water also is supposed to be an excellent face lotion and one can use it on ones skin to good advantage.  The meat of ripe coconuts is not only nutritious but when grated can be added to fruit salad, to cakes or to food and in making the sauce for curries; it is full of oil and very heavy; one must remember this, because the flesh is so tempting one eats too much and gets a stomach ache.  In addition to the water and flesh of coconuts being so useful as a drink and for food, the rough outside husk is used as an abrasive to clean pots and polish and scrub floors.

Peanuts:  Also known as “ground-nuts” and called “arachide” in French-speaking Africa, this modest and ubiquitous plant is not a nut at all; it provides a source of excellent and cheap nourishment and is sold all over Africa where one frequently sees people buying a spill of them for a few cents.  Peanuts are sold in their pods, or shelled, but one should make sure they have not been boiled as I found them in this form very

indigestible and not so tasty; strangely enough raw peanuts when freshly picked are delicious and not indigestible.  Generally peanuts are sold roasted which is the best way to eat them.  Some African tribes make a delicious sauce with pounded peanuts; peanut butter is very nutritious (also exceedingly fattening) and can be made at home by shelling, skinning and lightly roasting the nuts, mincing through a meat grinder and adding peanut oil to obtain the right consistency and a little sugar and salt to taste.  Some spoonfuls of peanut butter dissolved in the milk one is going to pour over a dish of cooked macaroni or noodles to be finished in the oven, adds a very interesting taste and extra nourishment.

Kola nuts:  A nut eaten in many parts of West Africa, large and triangular in shape with a pinkish or reddish colour; it has a bitter taste and is not only nourishing but a stimulant like tea.  As one is sometimes offered these nuts as a sign of hospitality and welcome, it is not a bad idea to get used to the taste sufficiently so that one can munch on one as a sign of politeness.  There is a smaller variety of kola nut  tastes much better.  It is interesting to note that African villagers for the most part enjoy bitter, sour and peppery things and do not like sweet things, a preference which is certainly much better for their health.  It is a pity that we do not learn the good habits of other people instead of being so eager to impart our own bad habits to them.

Cashew nuts:  Like the peanut, cashew nuts are widely found in Africa and elsewhere and like all nuts, highly nutritious and very useful to have when travelling as an extra source of food  is concentrated and not bulky to carry.  Wherever there are mountains one will find a wider variety of nuts than

in the tropics; the cashew is a truly tropical nut.  All nuts contain both protein and oil, both of which are needed by the body.

The great staples:  Carbohydrates, mainly in the form of starches found in grains and tubers, are the major source of food for mankind; they are also the cheapest and the most easily digestible form of fuel which the human body converts into energy—the human body being an unbelievably intricate and marvellous chemical laboratory.  The sugars  occur in honey, fruit, vegetables and to a lesser degree other things, are likewise carbohydrates.  How these other elements are synthesized and converted in nature’s laboratory, their value and qualities, are all part of the modern science of nutrition.  If one could see a map of the world divided into starch zones one would see wheat eaters, rice eaters, maize eaters, millet eaters, cassava eaters, potato eaters, plantain eaters and so on.  Starches should always be thoroughly cooked, but fried at high temperatures (like French fried potatoes and chips) they become, like other foods, less digestible.  Ready-to-eat or pre-cooked cereals, which require almost no further cooking time due to the high temperatures used in preparing them, have lost some of their valuable amino acids.  Unpolished rice is far richer in natural minerals than the polished white rice we use all the time, in fact it is the skin that is polished off which contains these minerals and is sold in health food shops as a special addition to ones diet—or bought up by cattle and poultry farmers, who often feed their livestock with more intelligence than we feed ourselves and our children!  If one can get rice or wheat from villagers, who do their own polishing in crude mills or with grindstones, it is much better for ones health and much tastier.

In June 1971 the Reader’s Digest published an article on the findings of a distinguished research doctor who blames the rising incidence of colon cancer in western and westernized nations on the high intake of refined carbohydrates, mostly white flour and white sugar, and goes on to state that Africans eat fewer of these and more roughage and have better bowel movements and cancer of the colon is seldom found.  In other words unpolished grains such as rice, maize, millet and wheat (often available in many wheat-growing countries in the form of cracked wheat) offer the best starch plus a high nutritional value, as well as the roughage which is good for the intestines.  Next to these would come the legumes and the fresh vegetable starches, such as sweet potatoes, yams, bread-fruit, plantain, etc.  The staples which are the least beneficial to our health, but alas the ones consumed most in the modern way of life, are the white flour breads and macaronis and polished rice and the flour made from it.

Over half the world’s population has never eaten bread and never heard of it.  The wheat eaters of Europe, the Antipodes and the Western Hemisphere do not exist where wheat is not the staple food; they are replaced by men having breakfast on rice or rice noodles and an African mother giving her family its porridge of some other grain or a dish of cassava or plantain.  This is a vast subject and only a few staples are mentioned here which may be of use to pioneers in different countries.

Bread-fruit:  Widely found all over the world in the tropics this fruit, resembling in size and colour a grapefruit, grows high up in the branches of a very beautiful tree; blander in taste than even a potato it has not been given its name for nothing because it can be peeled, sliced and toasted and take the place of bread; as it is very dry I personally think it needs

a lot of butter or oil on it to make it palatable.  It can be roasted over a camp fire or in an oven and served with sugar or something sweet or with a savoury sauce or to go with other dishes in place of potatoes or rice; it is a very inexpensive food (or costs nothing if one has access to a tree) and makes excellent imitation potato chips.

Maize:  To Americans this is “corn” but to most of the world corn means grain.  Freshly boiled or roasted (but usually very tough) or the dry kernels ground into a coarse meal (grits) or a finer meal or a flour, maize is an excellent food staple.  The unrefined local cornmeal is, unlike the horrible bleached, pre-cooked rice that one buys in packages in the big cities of many countries—devoid of practically all nourishment and taste—much more nutritious, very much cheaper and very much better for the health.  It can be made into corn bread or muffins or cornmeal mush, or as it is cooked all over southern Africa, a porridge with which is eaten a meat stew or a peppery meat sauce or a vegetable.  In many countries where both maize and coconut are found the native people cook their maize in coconut juice and boiled in this way it is unbelievably delicious; if one adds brown sugar, one can produce an extremely nourishing dessert acceptable to anyone, particularly children.  All the Mexican recipes where maize is used can be made in many other countries to great advantage.

Millet:  In Africa, India and the Middle East millet has been used since prehistoric times and is widely eaten in East Africa and the upper countries of Central and West Africa.  When properly prepared it is a very delicious, highly nutritious food rich in magnesium and potassium, but I found in some villages it was almost inedible because of the stone-

powder from the grinding stones being mixed into it.  There is a red and a grey variety of millet, the tiny grains being about the size of a pinhead.  If ground to a fine flour it can be mixed with wheat flour in the proportion of 1 to 5 to make an interesting bread.

Sorghum:  A grain similar to millet, with larger seeds, and found in the Middle East and some areas of southern Africa.  Sorghum porridge is delicious.

Buckwheat:  A grass-like grain often eaten in Europe and also some parts of Africa; it is high in potassium and phosphorus and can be used as a porridge.  In Nigeria (where it is called “kasha”) they roast the grains before cooking them to bring out the flavour; they also boil them, half and half proportions, with rice.  The native recipes for all kinds of food should always be investigated as they may prove to be not only inexpensive but new in taste and very healthful.

Arrowroot, tapioca and sago:  Arrowroot is sometimes seen for sale in packages as a starch, flour or powder; it is easily digested and can be used in invalid and baby dishes; make a smooth paste by slowly adding warm milk or water and honey as a sweetener.  It can also be used as a substitute for cornstarch and to thicken gravies, soups and fruit compotes.  Tapioca makes an excellent pudding; all three are recommended for babies and weak stomach conditions; they are more digestible than maize, wheat or rice.

Barley:  The whole grain is best in soups and stews but the grits (coarsely ground meal) make an excellent, tasty, quick-cooking cereal for breakfast or served to replace rice, potatoes or macaroni as the main dish.

Cassava:  All over Africa one sees groves of slender short trees with spreading tops; these are the cassava plant, called “manioc” in the French-speaking countries.  The tubers which form part of its root system are the edible portion and when young and roasted in the fire are a little like a baked potato or bread-fruit in flavour but very dry and need some fat or sauce.  There are many varieties, some of which have a poisonous element  must be leached out through involved processes of soaking, drying and grinding (well known to Africans and done efficiently all the time); millions of people live mainly on cassava, prepared in many ways.

Plantain:  Plantains are not a fruit in the strict sense of the word but are invariably cooked and used as a vegetable.  They are a big, green, cooking banana which can be boiled, steamed, cut up and fried as chips or in strips and is quite tasty and very useful although not particularly nutritious.  A mixture of half boiled and mashed plantain and half boiled and mashed potato makes a very good and inexpensive main dish if one has a lot of company; it tastes better than plantain by itself and it costs less than potatoes by themselves, which can be very rare, and hence expensive, in the tropics.

Sweet potatoes:  Wherever these can be found they are usually excellent in taste and a very good starch; if the skins are smooth enough and healthy enough to be eaten, scrub them well with a brush and bake them; in this way the skin itself, which is highly nutritious, may also be eaten and forms a very delicious addition to the meal.  Generally speaking a great deal of the valuable nutrients in food are found under the skin, not only in vegetables and fruits but also, I understand, in the skin of fowls and fish, so whenever possible, and tasty, the skin should be eaten.

Yams:  These are a staple food in many countries.  The African yam is not the same thing at all as the yam that we associate in the southern part of the United States with being a deep orange-coloured sweet potato; it is a heavy root vegetable and has almost no sweet flavour but it can be used as a potato substitute—boiled, fried or mashed—and with a little experimenting can be a useful addition to ones diet.

Flour:  It is extraordinary how many different kinds of flour men have developed:  maize, millet, plantain, cassava, bean, rice, yam—to mention only a few found in Africa alone.  See what the people of the country do with these and copy it or adapt it to your own style of cooking.  The method of making flour is much the same for all the grains or alternatively all the roots one uses; I have gone into a little detail here as a lone pioneer family in a village might find such information useful:  to make a flour from yams, plantain, or cassava, peel and cut them into thin slices, soak in water overnight, drain and dry them thoroughly in the sun; they are then ready to be ground or pounded into a flour; beans or peas must be soaked, skinned, sun dried and similarly made into flour; grains need not be either soaked or sunned (grains have usually been sun dried at harvest time) but all earth and stones must be carefully picked out and the seeds pounded to flour with a pestle and a mortar—in daily use all over Africa—or given to a small local mill to grind up.  The easiest way, of course, is to buy such flours ready-made from the villagers.  Wheat flour is usually imported and is the white, ultra-refined flour used in our very unhealthy civilization; the village flours contain all the natural good of the food and are not over-refined or full of preservatives.

Fats:  The highest fuel (calorie) value per weight of any food is found in fats which are divided into two categories:  the hard fats such as butter, lard, margarine and other solid vegetable fats—all of which in cooking terms come under the heading of shortening—and the liquid fats known as oils.  There are a number of essential vitamins  can be absorbed by the body only if some fat is taken at the same time, Vitamin A being one of them.  Without some fat in the diet one cannot either keep well or lose weight, two tablespoons of vegetable oil a day in ones food being recommended as a minimum requirement in a reducing diet.

Butter, surprisingly enough, is available in many places, even in the smaller cities everywhere throughout Africa.  It is usually imported, fresh or sometimes sold in tins but makes breakfast much more enjoyable.  I no longer cook with butter as it is a saturated fat and very heavy on the liver.  Margarine is also widely available and if one wishes to use it in place of butter, one can do so; I never buy it, however, unless I am forced to because these days one is no longer sure how healthful the ingredients are.  The best thing is to buy the local cooking oils; these vary from place to place and can be made from cotton seed, sunflower seed, maize, soya beans, olives or peanuts and in West Africa from palm nuts, to mention a few; all such natural vegetable oils are excellent for frying, cooking, making salad dressing, etc.  and can certainly do ones health no harm; mineral oil, however, taken internally for any purpose, is dangerous for the health.  The approach of the pioneer to the oils used in native diets is usually a prejudiced one:  “I couldn’t possibly eat that!”  For instance palm oil, used commonly in Nigeria and neighbouring countries, is a deep almost reddish-orange colour and I found it very delicious but some foreigners claim it is too heavy for their digestion.  However, this might very easily be their imagina-

tion because whenever one approaches something that is completely unknown, and one is chary of accepting it, the best excuse for not doing so is to say that it disagrees with you!  The less oils have been refined or homogenized, the better for the health; oils should be clear, with no sediment at the bottom, and rancid fats and oils never used.

Vegetables:  If the great carbohydrate family provides most of our energy and nourishment, and the various animal foods, including milk products, are an important source of our proteins, the fruits, and particularly the vegetables, give us the essential vitamins and minerals which spell good health.  The rule is:  the fresher the vegetable, the less soaked in water and overcooked, the better it is for ones health.  All over the world in native markets one will find strange vegetables for sale; if the local people eat them, so can the pioneer; find out how they prepare them, experiment and remember that any fresh vegetable, no matter how unknown or monotonous as a diet it may be, is better than forever eating tinned foods and also is likely to be very much cheaper.  On my long safari we always went to the local market and bought whatever we could find; this included strange greens we had never seen before and which we found we could cook very much like spinach.  It is remarkable what one can find in a native market if one makes an effort; in the smallest village market there is often one single vegetable available; buy it, whatever it is, as it is valuable for ones health.

I have found that wherever there are people whose ancestors were of Chinese origin—all of North East and a lot of South East Asia—beautiful vegetables in many varieties are found; they not only eat them as the main staple of their diet in conjunction with the ubiquitous bowl of rice, they cook them better than any other people in the world—

so investigate the Chinese cooking method for it is the best and most healthful there is.  In Africa, however, vegetables are often rare so one must take advantage of whatever one can find.  I have mentioned only a few vegetables here, choosing them for special reasons.

Tomatoes:  Of all shapes and sizes these are a most useful vegetable because by plunging them into boiling water for a minute or so (after first carefully washing them with soap and rinsing off well) the skin becomes loose and can easily be peeled off; this enables one to safely eat them raw—a great advantage.  Cut up and fried with onions they make an excellent sauce; they can be added to stews or to vegetables such as beans or squash; peeled and stewed with a little brown sugar—or better still big ones cut in half, sprinkled with bread crumbs, brown sugar and oil and then grilled—they become a delicious and fancy dish.

Cucumbers:  If these are thoroughly washed with soap, rinsed well and dried, they can then be safely eaten raw; or safer still, peel the skins off.  In many countries one sees a huge, fat, almost yellow-coloured variety of cucumber which, although the seeds are well developed, can nevertheless be eaten to advantage raw or, if the seeds are too tough, they can be scooped out and the flesh next to the skin eaten.  It is possible to cook these like squash but they are practically tasteless so need onions or peppers or something to give them flavour.

Cabbages:  Seldom good enough in hot climates to make a fresh salad they can be rapidly steamed—but not overcooked—in a little boiling water and then cooled and used as a salad or just served hot as a vegetable; they may also

be cut up and fried in vegetable oil or the partially cooked leaves be used for dolmeh (stuffed cabbage leaves).  A cup of fried, dry bread crumbs sprinkled over boiled or steamed cabbage makes it much more tasty.

Alfalfa:  Most people do not know that this plant, widely grown in some places as a fodder for cattle, can be eaten raw in salads (if one lives in a dysentery-free place) or fried in oil as a vegetable.

Okra:  Of all the hundreds of vegetables in the world one might wonder why I single this one out for mention; the reason is that it is not well known in North America but is often the only vegetable in season in an African market.  It is a strange looking thing, big at the stem end and tapering to a point with sides to it—not uniformly round, in other words; it is never a dark green but rather the colour of green beans; okra can be tiny (in the southern United States it is often called “lady fingers”) or 2 or 3 inches long.  It has a sticky quality and is full of soft seeds like a tomato but it is an excellent and filling vegetable; stewed with fried onions and tomatoes, with or without meat added, it makes a tasty dish.

Squash:  Native, dark green, round squashes the size of footballs and with skins like cast iron can often be not only bought but kept for some time before cooking them.  We found if we managed to cut one open and peel it the flesh, cut up and stewed with onions and very little water, was delicious; we added vegetable oil and seasoning to it.

Garlic and onions:  Garlic grows in a round cluster of cloves contained in a white paper-like skin and is the bulb of a

plant; it has been known for its medicinal qualities for 5,000 years:  it kills worms if taken regularly—at least in animals, according to a famous English veterinary doctor; it is said to help keep blood pressure down; it is good for ones chest; according to the Persians it reduces flatulence or wind in the stomach; it is a strong intestinal disinfectant if taken raw and some people like every now and then to retire from the companionship of their fellowmen and have a 24 or 48 hour period alone in which they indulge themselves in a garlic cure.  Although garlic was an almost unknown thing in my life, I have now devised a recipe of my own which is delicious but makes one smell of it for at least 36 hours.  Peel many garlic cloves, a cupful or more, depending on whether one wants a large or small quantity, and fry them slowly in oil until they are brown and becoming transparent —a sign they are almost cooked, then add generously some honey and a tiny bit of water to prevent from burning and cover and simmer a few more minutes to let the oil and honey sauce glaze the garlic cloves.  This makes a delicious relish served instead of a pickle or a sweet preserve with meat; avoid everyone for two days as you will not be welcome unless you live in a community of garlic eaters.  Next to garlic, onions are excellent for the health and also have definite medicinal properties.  Onions cut up and fried are an essential addition to almost any kind of stew or soup; they can be served boiled, in a white sauce, as a vegetable or raw, cut up in salads; often, however, they are a luxury in countries that are not used to growing them and are therefore rare and expensive.  Both onions and garlic keep for some time, particularly garlic, so one can lay in a supply if one finds them.

Legumes:  Dried beans, lentils and peas come under this heading and are common in most parts of the world and

much more so in Africa than foreigners realize.  They are, next to meat and fish, high in protein.  They are also inexpensive, nourishing and filling.  Aside from the dried ones, one often finds shelled, fresh lima, soya or other beans for sale in native markets; as these can be cooked without first soaking them they are a quick way of getting a meal which has a high nutritional value.

Luffa:  This vine, which grows very easily in both tropical and sub-tropical countries, produces a long squash-like fruit often called “dishcloth gourds”; when they are tender and young they may be cooked and eaten like squash but when fully ripe and dried out the skin is crumbled off and inside is the fibrous skeleton of the fruit which is used as a rough body sponge or to scrub things in the kitchen.  It is obviously a most useful plant and could be a welcome asset grown in any pioneer’s garden.  In very humid climates the gourds may get wormy before they can ripen so pick them and hang them up to dry out.

Milks:  The best milk is obviously absolutely fresh untreated milk but it is becoming harder and harder to get, even in big milk producing countries.  Fresh local milk, in many countries of Africa and the Pacific area, is rare if not unobtainable and therefore one must fall back on dried or canned milk.  My personal opinion is that the best is dried full-fat milk powder reconstituted with water.  In India and many parts of Asia, however, milk from water buffaloes is abundant and delicious; in some places goats’ milk is obtainable and though strong-tasting sometimes makes a more digestible milk for babies than cows’ milk; sheep’s milk also can be found in some countries; both goats’ and sheep’s milk are excellent for yogurt or cheese.  All fresh milk, when boiled, is safe to use.

Yogurt:  One of the best ways of using any milk is in the form of yogurt, or curd, as it is often called.  As milk must be brought to the boil to make this, it becomes a safe and very healthful addition to the diet.  In many African countries importing from France it can nearly always be bought in the supermarket.  Yogurt may be used in an infinite variety of ways, either plain or on fruit salad in place of cream; it makes a delicious dessert if a spoonful of molasses or honey or some jam is mixed with it; the rientals eat it with meat, vegetables and rice dishes.  As yogurt is a culture and made from itself, one can only make it if one has a sample to begin with.  Anywhere in the world where there are East Indian people living one can usually procure yogurt from them; the same is true of people of Arab and Greek origin and as most people are surprisingly kind if asked for a favour, one can beg from these yogurt-eaters enough to start a culture with, a half a cup being sufficient; any unsweetened milk may be used.  Remember that each time one makes yogurt a half a cup must be kept back to make the next culture.  The bacteria found in yogurt are manufacturers of Vitamin B and very good for the intestines, especially after the normal bacterial content has been impaired through taking antibiotics.  (See how to make yogurt in “Basic Recipes”)

Tea:  During my long, exhausting drives in the Land Rover across the continent of Africa, often in tropical heat that was almost unbearable, we discovered the best pickup was to stop the car, make some very strong tea and drink it with a good deal of sugar added.  Although this made us burst into drenching perspiration—adding to what was usually a very drenched state in the beginning—it also had a remarkably cooling and refreshing effect and more than anything else seemed to put us back on our feet.  It gave us a lift very much

stronger than coffee did and we found that it did not wear off as fast, although normally I am more fond of drinking coffee.  Remembering that the Báb Himself highly praised the qualities of tea, we were not surprised at the good effect it produced.  Tea has a wonderful effect on the eyes:  a strong infusion of dark tea, either used as an eye bath right on the eye balls or soaking cotton in it and using it as pads over the closed eyes, refreshes and strengthens them and removes inflammation.  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá recommended tea for this purpose on many occasions; this does not mean, however, that one should wash ones eyes daily with tea, but it may be used in a medicinal manner when required.

Herbal teas or infusions:  In all of Europe, West Africa and many other places one can buy special herbal teas packaged and ready to be used to make an infusion exactly in the same manner as an ordinary tea bag:  rose hips, camomile, vervain, mint, and so on; one of the best is rose hips.  These teas are refreshing and soothing, will not keep one awake at night and provide a hot beverage to which, if one desires, one can add honey or sugar for sweetening; one bag is sufficient for two cups.  Another herb that has remarkable qualities is citronella, called fever tea in many countries of Africa and also used throughout the West Indies; in fact I imagine it is probably a universal herb; in Africa one often finds it growing in villages around the huts of the people; it grows about 5 metres high and looks like a tall, coarse variety of wild grass, but when one crushes it between ones fingers it smells strongly of lemon.  It is this herb that in my childhood was used to produce an oil called citronella which we rubbed on as a strong mosquito repellent.  In addition to making a delicious infusion to drink as tea, in both Africa and the West Indies it is used to reduce the temperature of

people who are suffering from fever.  There is no doubt that it has this effect because we discovered that some nights, when we drank a cup or two before going to bed in order to refresh ourselves, we actually felt chilly although the weather was very hot.  The way to make it is to boil about five or so long blades of the grass in water for a few minutes until the flavour and colour come out; it can be drunk with or without sugar, as desired.  Another way of using citronella  is very delicious is to brew ordinary tea in the water the citronella was boiled in; in other words, one makes a tea composed of ordinary tea leaves with the citronella tea poured over it to brew it.  They say that citronella planted around ones house in clumps helps keep mosquitoes away.  It grows very easily and one can take a root from a plant and start ones own patch of it at home.

Tamarind:  In Africa the Indians sell it, imported from India, but it is obtainable in many countries, including South American ones.  It looks a sticky and horrible dark brown mess, like a mass of dates that have all got stuck together, but it produces a delicious, refreshing, very healthful drink.  The method is to boil a handful or more in about four glasses of water, both to sterilize it and bring out the flavour, which is sour and tart.  One has to learn the quantity one likes by experimenting; strain the juice through a cheese cloth or fine sieve and drink, either hot or iced, with any sweetening added that one desires.

Citrus beverages:  The juice of lemons, limes, oranges and grapefruit can all be used as a drink diluted with water and sweetened if required:  wash each fruit thoroughly by hand with soap, rinse, dry and then cut in two and juice it; in this way one reduces the danger of having germs enter the fruit

when it is cut open; do this always whether you are going to eat the fruit or use its juice.

Doogh:  The Persians make an extremely refreshing drink called “doogh”:  for one glass use between a quarter and a half a cup of yogurt, depending on how thick it is, and mix well with cold water, adding a pinch of salt to taste.  This refreshing beverage can be drunk with meals or at any time.  Yogurt has a very important action on the intestinal tract and facilitates the assimilation of Vitamin B and the development of bacteria that are good for ones health, so the more one includes it in ones diet, the better.

Sekanjabeen:  This is another delicious Persian drink:  make a syrup by boiling together half sugar and half fruit vinegar by measure (one to one) and when it has thickened bottle it; this sherbet is then diluted with ice water to taste and makes a very cooling drink in hot weather.

Bachelor’s corner

As many young men arise to pioneer often not, it would seem, with enough experience to even boil an egg or make a cup of tea, this section is for them and should help them to economize and live better abroad if they are not boarding but have a home of their own.  Let us start with how to offer a guest a warm drink.

How to make a decent cup of tea:  If one really enjoys tea then make an effort to have it good:  first, buy a good tea; tea is better if not in individual packages and is always better for being two kinds or more mixed together.  In other words, a

small tin of orange pekoe or Ceylonese tea and one of a Darjeeling or Indian blend of tea, or even a little Chinese tea mixed with it, tastes much better than one brand all by itself, though there is no objection to using just one brand of tea.  If, however, you are not a connoisseur and do not want to be bothered with tea leaves in your teapot, try putting, for two or three people, one tea bag into the pot, or for four or five cups, two tea bags.  It is always more economical if you want to make a number of cups of tea to put the bags in the teapot as in this way the tea will go further than just handing each person a single tea bag for his own cup.  To make good tea the water must be really boiling and a little should be poured into the teapot to heat its stomach, so to speak.  Pour this off, then put your tea, or your tea bags, into the heated pot and add the boiling water.  Allow it to stand, preferably keeping hot over the pot of boiling water, for five to ten minutes.  Tea tastes very much better if it is properly steeped and there is no comparison in the pleasure of drinking it when it has been brewed for a few minutes instead of just having hot water poured on it and then poured right off it into the tea cup.  If you are making tea with loose tea leaves instead of tea bags, count one level teaspoon for the teapot and another teaspoon for every cup.  This may be made very strong, in a small teapot, and a little then poured into the bottom of each of the tea cups, filling them up with hot water afterwards, which is the Persian way of serving tea.  A handful of peanuts or other nuts makes a good snack to take with a cup of tea if you are planning to have it between meals instead of the interminable habit of eating a cookie.  Remember tea has a very stimulating effect and, strangely enough, very hot tea in very hot weather has a much more cooling effect than a cold beverage.  Indeed, strong tea is an antidote for heat stroke.

How to make coffee:  Coffee made from grains instead of one of the instant powdered coffees available nowadays is better for the health and usually tastes better.  It can be made in one of many ways, a percolator, a drip percolator, or by just putting the coffee in a pan with boiling water and allowing it to boil up once and then passing it through a fine strainer to take out the grains.  The proportion should be about one heaping teaspoonful for every cup of water but it can be more or less according to the taste of the person making it.

How to make cocoa:  About two level dessert-spoonfuls of cocoa for each large cup or glass:  pour first a little cold water onto the cocoa powder and mix completely with a spoon to take away any lumps, then add the boiling milk or boiling water or a dilution of half and half, stirring all the time to avoid lumps, and put the mixture back on the stove and bring to the boil as this thoroughly cooks the starch grains in the cocoa and makes it more digestible.  Sugar may be added while it is boiling or each person to his own taste afterwards.

Economy:  If the bachelor will learn to make his own breakfast he will not only save money but eat much better than he could possibly do in a restaurant or a hotel.  Also, if he will take the trouble to learn to cook a little—remembering that all the world’s most famous chefs are men—and he does not want to cook three times a day, he can make his dinner or lunch at home and plan to have one meal out in a restaurant.  By this method he can afford to eat very much better and more nutritious food.  Cooking is fun and once one gets a little interested in it one can enjoy very much improvising and seeing what one can do for ones self and

ones guests.  I firmly believe that young people who are out on their own, travelling and pioneering, should study at least a little about food values and conscientiously make an effort to see that they get the fruit, vegetables and proteins needed to keep their bodies in good condition.

Far too many people these days ignore the importance of breakfast literally to break ones fast after not eating all night; the blood sugar is low in the morning; a good breakfast not only raises it but keeps it up for hours and gives one the energy needed to tackle the day’s work.  Have some bread, preferably brown, on hand, honey or jam, butter or margarine, if one can keep it fresh, and tea or coffee and then consider adding eggs, done in any of the following ways, from easy to more complicated.

How to boil eggs:  Have water boiling hard; if possible avoid taking an egg out of the refrigerator and putting it in the boiling water as it is almost sure to crack, so have the egg at room temperature to begin with.  Lower it carefully on a spoon into the water.  Three and a half to four minutes in fast-boiling water makes a soft-boiled egg; eight to ten minutes is sufficient to boil eggs hard.  To skin hard-boiled eggs put them immediately in cold water and the shell will come off more easily.

How to fry eggs:  Heat any fat or oil in a pan; break the eggs first into a separate dish or cup to be sure that they are fresh, and if they do not smell or have any blood mixed into the yolks or look unhealthy, then slide them into the fat in the pan; in this way the yolks will not break.  Either put a lid on to cook the white part through or tilt the pan a little and with a spoon baste or pour over the eggs the hot fat.

How to scramble eggs:  Break the number of eggs desired, counting at least one egg per person, into a dish and add a tablespoonful of either milk or water for each egg, also pepper and salt to taste, and mix very well together with a fork.  Pour this into a heated pan in which already a little fat or oil has been melted and stir it all as soon as the eggs begin to cook, keeping them soft, and well mixed, in other words not a solid sheet of egg mixture as one does when one is cooking an omelet.  This is the quickest and simplest way of preparing eggs and is very light on the stomach for people who have been ill or require something that is easy to digest.

Simple omelet:  Break two eggs in a bowl and mix well with a fork or egg beater, adding a pinch of salt and a little pepper; pour into a frying pan already heated with about a tablespoon of fat in it; cook the omelet slowly over low heat; if it is not seen to be cooking through properly, make a hole or tilt the pan so that the liquid eggs on top go underneath and get cooked also.  If a drier omelet is desired carefully turn it over and fry it on the other side.  Two eggs make a small omelet for one person.  For each additional person, add one to two eggs.

Some basic recipes

Cooking terms explained

Bake or roast:  cook by dry heat, usually in an oven.

Barbecue:  roast on a spit or grill over an open or charcoal fire.

Broil or grill:  expose food to direct heat.

Stew:  cook very slowly in liquid a long time.

Fry:  cook in deep fat.

Steam:  cook with the heat from slowly boiling water; a double boiler is used (one pot sitting in another which has the water in it) or a pot with a tray or sieve that keeps the food above the boiling water.

Sauté:  cook in small amount of fat.

Boil:  the water or other liquid must be so hot bubbles constantly rise up and break (watch boiling things to be sure all the water does not evaporate and the food burn).

Simmer:  liquid is just below boiling point so that it moves but does not bubble.

Baste:  moisten roasting meat or other food while baking with the juice in its own pan or other liquid.

Blend:  mix ingredients together until well combined.

Beat:  with fork or spoon rapidly mix together by either over-and-over motion or round-and-round.

Whip:  beat very rapidly with egg beater or electric device so that air fluffs up the mixture and the volume increases like whipping white of egg or cream.

Mix:  combine by beating or stirring.

Pare:  remove the skin.

Shortening:  any kind of fat suitable to bake with, such as butter, margarine or lard.

Measurements and equivalents

Note:  all measurements are level

1 kilogram = 1,000 grammes or 2.2 pounds

1 pound = 16 ounces or 454 grammes (when shopping those who are used to thinking in pounds can figure that 1/2 a kilo is roughly 1 pound)

1 ounce = 28 grammes

3.5 ounces = 100 grammes

Although it helps to have a set of standard measuring cups it is not essential:  any glass or cup or tin that holds 1/4 of a litre or 1/4 of a quart can be used as the equivalent of 1 cup.  Teaspoons are fairly standard and can constitute ones measure.

1/8 of a teaspoon is a “pinch” or “a few grains”

3 teaspoonfuls = 1 tablespoon

12 teaspoonfuls or 4 tablespoonfuls = 1/4 cup (the English measure of 1 gill is also 1/4 of a cup)

16 teaspoonfuls = 1/3 cup

24 teaspoonfuls = 1/2 cup

16 tablespoonfuls = 1 cup or 1/4 litre or 1/2 pint

2 cups = 1 litre or 1 pint

4 cups = 1 quart

4 quarts = 1 gallon

The following scale of substitutions can be used in recipes:

1 cup of molasses or honey plus 1/4 teaspoonful of soda = 1 cup of sugar

1/2 cup of condensed milk plus 1/2 cup of water = 1 cup milk (but because this milk is sweetened, reduce sugar in recipe)

1/2 cup of evaporated milk plus 1/2 cup water = 1 cup milk

4 tablespoonfuls dry milk powder plus 1 cup water = 1 cup milk

1 cup butter = 7/8 cup of any oil

7 tablespoonfuls of butter or margarine = 100 grammes

7 tablespoonfuls of sugar = 100 grammes

11 tablespoonfuls of bread flour = 100 grammes

14 tablespoonfuls of pastry flour = 100 grammes

1 cup of bread flour minus 2 tablespoonfuls = 1 cup pastry flour

1 cup raw rice becomes 3 cups of cooked rice

Best methods

If one wishes to extract from meat or vegetables the flavour as well as the minerals they contain, boil them in salted water; the liquid thus becomes the valuable part, as in soups.  If, on the contrary, one wishes to keep the flavour and minerals in them fry them quickly and then cook with as little fluid as possible or, for vegetables and fish, steam them.  This is the method for stews and casseroles.  The Chinese method

of cooking is the best for the preservation of food values and for obtaining delicious flavour.

Leafy vegetables:  For spinach, beet tops, mustard and other greens, wash the leaves very thoroughly to get all the sand and earth out, sprinkle a very little salt on them and put them still wet, but with no extra water added, in a pot and let them wilt down until tender, turning them about so they will not burn and all will be cooked at the same time.  Most people ruin vegetables by putting them in a lot of water and boiling them until they are mushy; by this time all the good of the vegetable is in the water, which is usually thrown away.  If you do use this method of cooking, at least drink the water or use it as a base for soups or sauces and do not throw it away!

Yogurt or curd:  For 2 cupfuls of milk (1 litre) 2 tablespoonfuls of yogurt will be required.  Boil the milk and let it cool to body temperature; add to a small amount of it the yogurt and mix well, then add to the entire quantity of milk and stir together; stand the milk in a place were there is no draft and cover well with towels or some warm cloth and leave from three to four hours, which should be sufficient to set it if the weather is warm.  However, if the weather is cold have the milk hot enough so that when tested the tip of ones finger is nipped by the heat.  As yogurt requires more time to develop when the weather is cold, wrap it up well and put it in a cupboard or the warmest place available; it may take all night to set.  If yogurt is wrapped up and allowed to ferment too long the bacteria grow too fast and water forms on top of the milk; in this case, if it tastes too sour or sharp, drain it through a cloth and use what is left as a light cheese, which in itself is delicious to eat.  Some people do not like yogurt at first, but it is so important for the health, and so delicious when one gets

used to it, that it is well worth the effort to acquire a taste for it and learn to make it; it is an excellent nourishment for children.  Note that sweetened milk is not suitable for yogurt, but any canned or powdered milk can be used.

Easy white cheese:  This is excellent and simple:  boil at least a litre (2 cups) of milk; the milk may be fresh, made from milk powder or canned, but unsweetened; when it is boiling add salt to taste and, if desired, a pinch of nutmeg powder, of thyme, of chopped up chives or grated cashew, walnut, hazel or any other kind of nut, if available; while it is still boiling add 2 tablespoonfuls of either vinegar or lemon juice; this should immediately cause the milk, to curdle, but if it does not do so at once leave it on the fire until it comes to the boil again and it will curdle, in other words separate and form curds or lumps; pour it into a fine sieve or a piece of cloth and drain off the fluid without leaving it to get too dry; put it aside in a container to cool into a cake of cheese and, if not eaten soon, keep in a cool place or in the refrigerator.  This kind of cheese is usually much cheaper than an equivalent in weight that one can buy in any shop and in countries where milk products are scarce one can make ones own combinations by experimenting with what, if anything, one wishes to add to it.

Agar agar:  A natural sea grass gelatin, agar-agar is better for the health than other kinds, certainly, if obtainable, much better than packaged, processed jellies full of white sugar and colouring and synthetic flavours.  It can be used to thicken soups; it has a slightly laxative effect; it comes as flakes, granulated, or as a bar.  Quantities:  3 1/2 cups liquid for 2 tablespoons flakes; 3 1/2 cups liquid to 1 tablespoon granulated type; 3 1/2 cups liquid to 7 inches of the bar form.

As the fruit juice or vegetable juice used as the liquid need not be boiled but only heated, more of the health values are preserved than in the usual boiling necessary for other jellies.  It can be added to jellies and jams in place of pectin and less sugar will be necessary.  Method:  soak agar-agar in 1 cup of the fluid for 10 minutes, then warm until dissolved and add remaining liquid at room temperature (not chilled).  It will jell without refrigeration but can be chilled if desired.

White sauce:  I am giving this in its simplest, basic form which is most useful for general purposes; refer to a cook book for the more orthodox type!  Place about 2 level tablespoonfuls of butter, margarine or cooking fat (I usually use vegetable oil) in a saucepan and melt; add flour and stir in fast until the two blend, in other words until it begins to roll up in lumps; add slowly either hot water or preferably hot broth from soup stock or the water a vegetable was steamed in and stir hard until it has no lumps and is like a thick cream, then add either hot milk or more stock, stirring constantly until it becomes like a soup; flavour with salt to taste and boil so the flour will not taste raw, at least five minutes, stirring all the time.  The classic white sauce uses only milk but this forms lumps very easily whereas the above method seldom does.  This is my basic sauce.  If I have boiled onions I use the onion water, boiled cauliflower I use the cauliflower water; I pour this sauce over the vegetable and serve.  This same sauce I also use, making it with some of the hot water the macaroni or noodles were boiled in, to pour over them in a casserole to put in the oven; I often add to it grated cheese, or a chicken soup bouillon cube, or some spoonfuls of peanut butter for a different taste.  Curry powder can also be used or chili powder added to such a sauce to make it hot.  Experiment and have fun with it.

Fancy omelet:  The method of making this is exactly the same as that used for plain omelet but one pours over it, in the pan, at the last moment, any kind of filling one pleases:  small pieces of cooked ham, any cooked vegetable, any rice or macaroni or potatoes that are left over, some cheese grated or cut into small pieces—almost any and every kind of leftover, or something specially prepared, can be used as a filling for an omelet and it goes further and becomes more of a main dish.  A very nice omelet can be made for dessert by pouring jam on top of it when it has already been cooked.  In any case all omelets, particularly filled ones,, should be doubled over on themselves to make a half circle when served.  If one does not wish to fill an omelet but still desires to make it more fancy, one can put chopped up chives or parsley in it, grated cheese, minced ham or some other thing stirred into the raw egg mixture before it is pouted into the pan to be fried.  Eggs burn quickly so do not turn your back on the frying pan or be absent-minded, but concentrate on your omelet.  Omelets enable one to provide a fairly substantial dish at short notice.

Cornmeal:  This is a superb food; when deep yellow in colour it has more Vitamin A; throughout southern Africa it is called mealie-meal where—like lots of places in the Americas—it is the staple food and cooked as follows:  salted water is brought to a fast boil and the quantity of meal to be used just dumped in in handfuls and not stirred to get the lumps out; this is left to boil until it looks like a gruel, in other words watery like a soup, and then more dry cornmeal is added but not stirred much; when the meal is cooked through into a thick porridge it is stirred vigorously to work the lumps out.  By this method it tastes delicious.

The Africans, at least in southern Africa, do not like it overcooked.  I personally like some kind of fat added before serving.  This dish is more nourishing than potatoes or polished rice (in other words the rice we usually get) and makes the basis for an excellent meal, as a cereal for breakfast or a starch main course.

Millet cereal:  Toast 1 cup of millet in a pan until it smells nutty toasted, add 2 cups of boiling broth or water with 1 teaspoon of salt and 2 teaspoons of butter or cooking oil.  Simmer covered for 30 minutes or until the moisture is all absorbed.  This can be, if made with plain water, a breakfast cereal, or if cooked with a vegetable broth or meat broth base, a grain dish in place of potatoes, rice or other starch.  Cracked millet is finer-ground, and thus makes a finer textured porridge when cooked and also cooks faster.

Bread salad:  One can make a very tasty salad by using cubes of stale bread (preferably brown), sliced cucumbers and tomatoes, chopped mint, parsley, coriander (looks like parsley but smells more fragrant), sliced onions—whatever combination is available—and mixing all with a good quantity of French dressing.  This kind of salad helps out when no lettuce is advisable or available.  Nearly all vegetables (except potatoes) are better eaten raw if they are tender and fresh because there is no loss of vitamins through cooking.  Carrots, however, have a lot of cellulose which just chewing them does not break down; because of this their high Vitamin A content is best extracted if they are lightly cooked; if eaten raw, the best extraction of vitamins is when they are grated and the least benefit is obtained when they are served as sticks.

French salad dressing:

1/2 cup of olive or any other vegetable oil

2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar (preferably apple or grape)

2 tablespoonfuls lemon juice

2 teaspoonfuls sugar

1/2 teaspoon salt

1/2 teaspoon pepper

Combine these in a shaker or a jar with a cover and shake thoroughly before pouring over the salad just before serving it.  This is the basic recipe but one can use all vinegar or all lemon, add mustard powder, add different spices, or change the proportions to suit ones self.

Steamed rice:

1 cup dry rice

1 1/2 cups water (or liquid in which meat, chicken or vegetables have been boiled to make a broth)

1/4 cup of any oil for cooking

1 teaspoon salt

Carefully pick over the rice to remove any small stones as these can break ones teeth; wash and drain; combine all the above ingredients in a pot and place on hot fire, stirring once or twice; when the rice has absorbed all the liquid (half cooked) lower the temperature and cook slowly another half an hour or so with lid on; this makes a dry and delicious rice because all the liquid is steamed away into it.

One cup of dry (raw) rice makes 3 cups of cooked rice or enough for two people; rice is always good re-heated so it is better to cook too much than too little.

Persian Pilau:  This recipe can only be made with the special long-grain rice.  Remove all stones from the rice, wash and drain; calculate how many portions you wish to cook, allowing 1/2 cup of raw rice per person.  Rice, if soaked in heavily salted cold water, toughens and the kernels do not break when boiled.  The principle is the more salt, the longer the soaking, the better the rice; coarse salt can be added to the water in such strength that it no longer dissolves; soak overnight or at least some hours; although desirable this treatment is not essential.  Always remember that rice as it cooks swells so that 1 cup of raw become 3 when cooked.  Place on a hot fire a large pot of water sufficient for all the rice to increase its volume and still have plenty of water to boil in; add salt (or use some of the salt water the rice soaked in) until the water tastes really salty but not terribly salty; when this is boiling hard add the rice, drained of water, and boil hard for 10 minutes or until a grain when tested is soft on the outside but hard inside; pour it off into a colander to drain; if it tastes too salty pour cold water over it.  The best part of Persian rice is the crust which sticks to the pot at the bottom; this forms from the rice itself or else one places flat on the bottom of the empty pot slices of raw potato or onion and then puts all the rice on top, pouring over it a mixture of 1/4 cup of oil, or melted margarine or butter and 2 tablespoonfuls of water for each cup of raw rice used.  In other words for 4 cups of raw rice one would use 1 cup of fat and 1/4 cup of water, mixed together (incidentally this would feed at least 8 people).  Place the pot of rice on a very hot fire for 5 minutes, then put a clean towel or cloth over the pot (not on the rice itself) and put the lid on and lower the heat so it steams slowly for a half an hour or so.  Variations of this are to add cooked pieces of meat or chicken or cooked vegetables such as carrots or shredded cabbage, in layers between the rice to steam with it.

Stews:  These may be cooked on the fire or in the oven by one of two methods:  braise or sear meat first or put right in without frying; almost all stews improve by standing and being re-heated.  A stew should be a one pot dish and one pot meal.  Cooking meat tightens and hardens it; to overcome this it must be cooked slowly for some time and then it becomes tender again.  One can cook in a heavy ample stew pot or a big heavy frying pan but in either one the lid must fit tight.  Water makes poor stews; use meat or vegetable broths, or fruit juices.  In addition to salt, pepper and spices a strip of orange or lemon peel with all white scraped off adds flavour.

If there is some bone and fat with the meat the stew is tastier and one of the best stew meats is the neck and shoulder; although not essential, it is always more delicious if the ingredients are first quickly fried, particularly the meat, to brown it and seal in its juices and flavour; do not completely cook it as it still has to cook for some time slowly.  The following recipe is more or less basic and can be used with other meats or fowl in the same amount, and other vegetables can be added or substituted.  That is the joy of a stew almost anything can go into it, so adapt it to what you can find in the market.

Lamb stew:  (serves 4 people)

boned lean lamb, cut into  cubes

3 tablespoons oil

1 cup chopped celery

2/3 cup chopped green sweet pepper

1/4 teaspoon nutmeg powder

1/2 to 1 teaspoonful salt

1/2 teaspoonful pepper

2 cloves minced garlic

1 cup broth or water

Brown meat in oil, remove and then sauté the onions until limp, add celery and green peppers and then meat; stir in the broth or water, salt, pepper, and other seasonings; cover tightly and simmer slowly about 2 hours (if it gets too dry add more fluid).  As vegetables cook much faster than meat, quick cooking ones like peas, eggplant and fresh beans may be put in when the stew is half cooked (after 1 hour) instead of at the beginning.

Beans and garlic:  (serves 4 people)

2 cups dried beans

8 large cloves of garlic, peeled

2 teaspoonfuls cooking salt (really salty salt)

Soak the dry beans in 4 glasses of water overnight to soften, put them with this water in a pot, add garlic and salt and boil slowly for 1 1/2 hours or until tender.  Serve with hot butter or oil poured over them.

Basic rice pudding:  Always carefully pick out any stones in the rice, wash well and drain.

No. 1

1 cup dry (raw) rice

6 cups hot milk

1 teaspoonful salt

Place the rice, salt and milk in a double boiler and steam 1 hour or more, stirring every now and then, until thoroughly cooked and milk absorbed.  This makes an unsweetened dish, nourishing and easily digestible for sick people; it can be served with brown sugar, honey, jam, stewed or fresh fruits, etc.

No. 2

1 cup of already boiled rice

2 cups of milk

1 egg (optional)

1/2 cup sugar

1/2 teaspoonful salt

Bring the rice in the milk to the boil, add sugar, salt and slightly beaten egg yolk (if you are making it with the egg) and cook slowly in double boiler; one can cook it without a double boiler directly over a low fire but in this case it must be constantly stirred so as not to burn on the bottom; when it is cooked to the consistency of porridge whip up the egg white until stiff and fold into the rice, removing it from the fire and adding 1/2 teaspoon of either vanilla extract or lemon juice if desired.  This is also a very light, digestible dessert to which other things may be added.

Note:  some other recipes are found under the various headings in the “Foods” section.

Collison’s Mixture

I have put this under the name of two wonderful.  Knights of Bahá’u’lláh for Africa who were very knowledgeable as regards health and food values.  When visiting villagers it is both impolite and unkind—and are they not usually synonymous?—to refuse to eat the food they offer and yet the pioneer may find it a difficult and inadequate diet to live on; he cannot possibly carry enough of his own food to live on and share with them, and their food makes him ill or constipated.  To help solve this problem the Collisons devised a mixture which they took for breakfast that was highly nour-

ishing and had a somewhat laxative effect:  the proportions are 1 cup of wheat germ, 1 teaspoon brewer’s yeast, 1 tablespoon powdered milk, 1 tablespoon or more of brown sugar, and dried nuts and raisins if they had any.  They mixed a supply of this and carried it in a closed container and in the morning, if possible, before they found themselves in the presence of other people, they would take a half a cup of this, mixed with either hot or cold water, and if available a sliced banana could be added.  As this was a dish they could quite truly take as a kind of medicine, they felt justified in keeping it for themselves and not being obliged to pass it around.  The very high content of B vitamins, minerals, and calories in this mixture would sustain them throughout the day no matter what else they did or did not eat.  Both wheat germ and brewer’s yeast are not readily available so if one plans to carry such a combination as this, arrange to either take a supply or ensure that someone sends a supply from abroad.  Gradually a person learns what things are worth spending money on and are not luxuries because they preserve health and keep down medicine and doctors’ bills.  Wherever milling of wheat flour takes place the by-product is wheat germ; if not available in local shops it is usually sold to poultry farms and by inquiring where the wheat germ is disposed of one may be able to get a supply.  Brewer’s yeast may not be available even in pharmacies, which sometimes do carry it, but the wheat germ will suffice.  It is the more important part of the mixture.

Hints

Shaking out, pulling and smoothing with the hands washed clothes is often enough to have them dry flat without ironing; millions of peasants never iron anything and still look neat.

Handkerchiefs can be pressed, after washing and squeezing some of the water out, by placing them on any smooth surface like a mirror, a windowpane or the tile walls of a bathroom and pressing them absolutely flat with all the air bubbles out.  They will dry looking as if they had been ironed.

Mildew is a real problem in humid climates and clothes, shoes, suitcases, etc., put away in cupboards or kept closed too long, are soon covered with it; circulation of air, brushing, and, if possible, exposing to sunlight, help to control this condition.

In the tropics, once fruit has been washed it rots very much faster, so it is wiser not to wash it until the time when one plans to use it.

The intense humidity in some climates makes even the hairpins in one’s hair rust; carry a small piece of emery or very fine sandpaper, it will come in handy for polishing such things and removing the rust, but do not use on silver or jewellery as it will scratch them.

Silver jewellery and other objects may be cleaned with any toothpaste.

Chewing gum can be used (after being thoroughly chewed) as a glue for many articles; if the sole of ones shoe separates, a wad of it will often stick it together enough to enable one to walk on it temporarily.

In hot countries travellers may think long sleeves are unnecessary but this is not true; whether a man or a woman, it is essential to have some garment with long sleeves—preferably a cotton shirt—to protect one from insect bites, sunburn, wind and rain.  If one is going to be in the sun a long time or walking, riding, or travelling in a boat, a pair of thin cotton gloves should also be taken for the same reasons.  For cold weather and driving a car a pair of leather gloves greatly adds to the body’s warmth.

Though hats are no longer the style any traveller in hot countries exposed to the sun for many hours at a time would be well advised to wear a hat; it is even more important to protect the back of the neck from the sun’s rays than ones face.  Too much exposure to sun can cause skin cancer; it can also be cumulative so that suddenly one finds one can no longer stand the direct rays of the sun.

My advice is if one needs and can afford to install only one air-conditioner in a hot climate, put it in the bedroom; nature herself drops the temperature at night and to sleep cool will do ones health more good than to be cooler in the daytime in an air-conditioned room, and hotter at night in one that is not.  If necessary the children too can be brought into the cooler room to sleep.  Throughout the tropics large electric fans in the ceiling cool the rooms; they are excellent and have the advantage of not drying out the air the way air-conditioners do, which affects ones eyeballs, sinuses and skin—the latter being very aging.  In addition, one of the big overhead fans is often much quieter than an air-conditioner, the constant sound of which is extremely wearing on the nerves.

In many countries, during the hottest season, a screen of dried camel thorn or other twig-like weed is placed before open doors and windows and kept constantly wet; this enables the air to circulate and cools it at the same time, making a remarkable difference in the temperature inside the building; wet cloths may also be used but they cut out the breeze.

One of the most useful objects one can possess for rural travel is a thin, strong rope 3 to 4 metres long which can be used for innumerable purposes:  as a clothesline, to tie bundles and suitcases whose locks have suddenly given way, to lash things to ones self or to the automobile, and

numerous other purposes.  Beautiful handmade hemp ropes are often procurable in village or native markets; some even have an eye at one end and taper to a tail at the other!

The heel of ones shoe, a rock or almost anything can serve as a hammer but nothing takes the place of a nail; carry a few medium sized ones because they, like pins, are remarkably useful.  Also carry some string for it will eventually be needed when none is available.

The small pieces of soap that are left when the bar is almost all used can be kept in a jar of water for washing the dishes and serves this purpose very well, saving on expensive dish-washing soaps and other detergents.

No traveller—man or woman—should be without a good folding penknife to peel fruit, cut string and for many other uses; it should be carried in ones pocket or handbag, readily available.

If the cap of the toothpaste, a ring or any small thing drops into the wash basin one should quickly place a hand over the drain and not attempt to catch the object rolling around in the basin as more than likely it will pop right down the hole while one is frantically trying to capture it, but if the drain is covered it cannot escape.

Dry cleaners often provide very thin, light-weight clothes hangers:  travel with a few of these as hangers are often non-existent in hotels or expensive to buy.

Wherever the weather is cold, if one is a chilly person carry a hot water bottle; to lie and shiver all night is neither virtuous nor intelligent and lowers ones resistance.

One should always carry a box of matches in ones purse or pocket and a candle in ones luggage; the electricity, even in large cities, frequently goes off and one is left miserably to grope around in the dark and risk accidents.

Every traveller should carry a small sewing kit with a pair

of scissors; the moment you do not have one you invariably need one.

Cockroaches can be killed by placing small containers—such as bottle tops—filled with a little sugar and boric acid, or oatmeal and boric acid, well mixed together, in cupboards or elsewhere needed.

Boil a big pot of eucalyptus leaves and let the strong odour fill the kitchen or house; it is said to drive away cockroaches and other bugs for at least a time.  It is also very good to inhale for ones chest.

Except in game reserves wild animals are seldom seen; all of them, including snakes, avoid human beings, seemingly aware that we are the most dangerous creatures alive.

If one is sitting outside and the mosquitoes become unbearable they can be driven off by lighting a smudge (smoky fire) of cow dung, damp leaves, grass or anything else that produces smoke.  In some places, at some seasons, biting insects may be a real torture, especially to strangers who have not yet built up any immunity to the poison in their stings; long sleeves and trousers, high boots and a mosquito hat that encloses ones entire head in a net, as well as insect repellents, all offer protection.  The insect repellents, however, should not be damaging to ones health.

A traveller should carry a flashlight and be sure the batteries are working; but failing this a fire can be lit and by its light a tire changed or other repair work done.

In countries that have scorpions, centipedes and poisonous spiders it is a wise precaution to shake out ones boots or shoes before putting them on so as to be sure nothing lurks inside; in cold weather snakes have been known to seek the warmth of a sleeping bag so one might have a look in that too before getting into it.

Health hints

Breast feeding:  Many reliable organizations concerned with infant welfare in developing countries have discovered that not only is mothers’ milk healthful and nutritious but that the breast fed baby is less vulnerable to certain infections and that because of bad water and unhygenic conditions in the homes it can be positively dangerous to feed babies on the powdered milks so widely advertised these days all over the world.  It is good for pioneers to know this; not only in case they wish to breast feed their own babies but so that they will not, with mistaken ideas of modem progress, be responsible for native mothers giving up breast feeding, buying expensive imported babies’ milk they can ill afford and perhaps exposing their children thereby to dangerous intestinal infections which may lead to death.

In case of burns immediately apply preferably ice, or the coldest water available, for at least a half an hour or longer as required; this treatment relieves pain and prevents blisters.  (Never use dry ice or freeze the spot as this can be very harmful.) A good burn ointment may also be applied and is a useful remedy to keep on hand.

Too much sun in sub-tropical and tropical countries can be very dangerous and not only cause sunstroke and heat stroke—which might affect the brain or the circulation—but also cause fever and produce skin blisters, which may break open, suprate and become infected; very strong, sweet tea is an antidote to sun and heat stroke, though in serious conditions one should get a doctor at once.

Diarrhea and upset stomach require a special diet for a few days:  plain tea with no milk and preferably no sugar, dry toast with no butter or jam, plain boiled rice, yogurt and grated raw apple can be taken; when improvement sets in,

steamed zucchini and grilled chicken or meat may be added; avoid all greasy food, vegetables and fruits as they have a laxative effect and can make it worse or cause a relapse.

The best treatment for almost all ailments in the beginning is to stop eating and completely fast except for water or weak tea.  This removes the burden of digestion from the liver (the most complex organ in the entire body) and gives it a chance to combat the condition.

Both ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and His sister, the Greatest Holy Leaf, recommended tea as a healing thing for the eyes; strong tea, with nothing in it, may be used as an eye wash on the eyes or for a wet compress placed over the closed eyes to refresh and soothe them and remove inflammation caused by dust, fatigue, etc.  This is a good home remedy to teach villagers as they often have tea available.  It will not, however, cure serious eye diseases.

Big green cabbage leaves, crushed a little but kept in one piece, make a strongly drawing poultice and can soothe and heal many congested conditions:  place right on the skin for gall bladder, liver and chest congestion, as well as boils, and inflamed, sprained joints, etc.  Papaw leaves treated the same way have very much the same effect; the compress must be kept on for some time until improvement takes place or in the case of boils, until they open.  Put fresh leaves when the compress becomes dry.

The only oil that does not burn when it gets in the eyes is castor oil, which is so soothing that for dry eyeballs one can safely rub the oil all over the eyelashes for inflamed eyes and let some seep into the eyes or even put one drop in each eye; it is also said to promote the growth of eyelashes and eyebrows.

In Latin America the seeds of papaw are sucked or lightly chewed (and then spit out) as a remedy for diarrhea.

The fresh young leaves of avocado trees can be infused by pouring boiling water over them and drunk as a tea (no sugar) by diabetics as it is said to help their condition.  Nothing, however, will really help a diabetic person if he does not keep to a very strict diet with a minimal intake of carbohydrates of all kinds—sugars, starches and fruits.

On taking up residence in a city or town the pioneer would do well to enquire who is a reliable doctor and get his address and phone number so he can be called upon if required; to wait till the need arises and then start looking for a physician is unwise.

Pyrethrum liquid not only calms and removes the itch from insect bites ,hut in dilution, rubbed on, acts as an insect repellent; it is an excellent and harmless plant product and can be bought at A. Nelson and Co., Homeopathic Pharmacy, 73 Duke Street, London, England.

Fare thee well, traveller

“Assist Thou Thy servants 0 my God, to help Thy cause … that they may quit their homes in Thy name, and summon all the multitudes unto Thee”, wrote Bahá’u’lláh.

“It has often happened that one blessed soul has become the cause of the guidance of a nation”, said ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.

“Humanity, torn with dissension and burning with hate, is crying at this hour for a fuller measure of that love which is born of God, that love which in the last resort will prove the one solvent of its incalculable difficulties and problems”, stated Shoghi Effendi.

If the ultra-civilized parts of the world are desperately in need of the healing message of Baha’u’llah—but for the most part turn a deaf ear to it—the less civilized parts

of the world, standing as they do at a great turning point in human history, reaching out for the supposed benefits they think this highly materialistic civilization will confer upon them, are in even more urgent need of it; and what for us is of the greatest importance is that they will listen to this call of God and still possess the spiritual capacity to accept His Teachings.

The Guardian wrote a long time ago that “the lights of religion are fading out, and its restraints are one by one being abolished …”  This is a process daily gathering momentum; the opportunities before us today will not be there tomorrow; the services we fail to render now will not even be possible perhaps a year or two from now.  For all men, at all times, individually and collectively, there is the choice of the short direct way to ones goal or the long, painful, devious wandering in the wilderness before reaching it.  To the degree to which the Bahá’ís go forth at once and convert the masses to this Faith may well depend the entire character of the Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh in coming centuries.  We seem to anticipate that regardless of any effort we put forth the result will be the same as if we do nothing but occupy ourselves with our own personal affairs, but this is against all logic and all experience; the quality and quantity of the result will be different.  The entire history of individuals and nations alike is based on seized opportunities, on effort and success, negligence and failure—why should these inevitable laws be suspended in the case of our own religion?  The Kingdom of God on earth must and will come, but just how effulgent and consummated that Kingdom will be may depend more than we dream on the daily efforts of the generations of Bahá’ís labouring during the Formative Age of this Faith.  The purpose of the Divine Plan of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá is to ensure the speedy coming and fullest realization of God’s Kingdom on earth.

All the Prophets have foretold a time that can best be summed up in “the Day of Judgement”.  Baha’u’llah elaborated on this during His lifetime; ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, during His journeys to the West, added His own stern warnings; the Guardian, until the end of his life, indicated that the worst ordeals still lay ahead of us.  A famous journal sums up our present plight in these words:  “Acts of casual terrorism, committed for one cause or another or for none are part of the texture of our lives in the 1970’s … there is no pause in violence.  It is not only as though the vanguard of anarchy were loose in the world; they are indeed at loose in the world …  It is like a sign of a civilization in regression, turning back from achievement to neobarbarism.”

“The world”, Bahá’u’lláh stated, “is in great turmoil, and the minds of its people are in a state of utter confusion.”  Everywhere we turn is test, strife and chaos; nowhere is there hope except in carrying out the Plan of God and this is something which, to a greater or lesser degree, each of us can do.  At the very inception of this Dispensation the Báb admonished His followers:  “Heed not your weaknesses and frailty; fix your gaze upon the invincible power of the Lord, your God, the Almighty.”  Bahá’u’lláh likewise admonished the believers in the same vein:  “O people of God!  Beware lest the powers of the earth alarm you, or the might of the nations weaken you, or the tumult of the people of discord deter you, or the exponents of earthly glory sadden you.  Be ye as a mountain in the Cause of your Lord …” and assured them that:  “This is the day in which to speak.  It is incumbent upon the people of Bahá to strive, with the utmost patience and forbearance, to guide the peoples of the world to the Most Great Horizon. …  Happy is the man that … hath arisen to teach the Cause of Him Who is the King of Eternity.”  And what greater reassurance

could He give to us all than these very strong words:  “I swear by My life!  Nothing save that which profiteth them can befall My loved ones.”

Though all of us Bahá’ís form the communion of the Most Great Name, it would be most unreasonable to expect we are all alike.  We must always bear in mind that there are many different kinds of believers in different stages of development.  I myself believe one division is between those who are active of themselves and those who will be active if someone else makes it easy for them to do so; for example there are those who will make the effort to attend distant meetings under inconvenient circumstances and those who will only go if someone calls for them and drives them there.  The first kind (including many pioneers) resent the second and take the attitude “If I do it, why can’t they?”  But all categories of society, everywhere in the world, have these two types of people and if one belongs to the former, energetic, doer type, who runs on his own power, he should be willing—like a train engine, so to speak—to tow those carriages who have no power of their own, but will gladly go if taken along!  Shoghi Effendi said “the Cause triumphs in spite of the inaction of a large number of its supporters, in a mysterious way it works.”  The Guardian himself was extremely loving and tolerant towards new believers, particularly in countries so different from North America and Persia where, during his lifetime, the main body of the Bahá’ís resided.  Long before the formulation of his great global Crusade he gave his own instructions on how one should teach the Faith:  “Let him refrain, at the outset, from insisting on such laws and observances as might impose too severe a strain on the seeker’s newly-awakened faith and endeavour to nurse him, patiently and tactfully, and yet determinedly, into full maturity and aid him to proclaim his unqualified acceptance of whatsoever

has been ordained by Bahá’u’lláh …  Let him not be content until he has infused into his spiritual child so deep a longing as to impel him to arise independently, in his turn, and devote his energies to the quickening of other souls, and the upholding of the laws and principles laid down by his newly adopted Faith.”

A very steadfast European pioneer in Africa, who has certainly exemplified the great French statesman George Clemenceau’s recipe for success—“an abstinent adherence to settled resolutions”—has expressed thoughts which every pioneer serving among people still cast in the mold of their ancestors would do well to remember:  “We are the strangers in their country and in their world and we have to learn again and again to become more devoted to them, more patient, more radiant … through the last hundreds of years they are made dependent by the politics, by the churches, by the employers.  They don’t know independence and responsibility.  They think they like it.  But at the same moment they have elected their Local Spiritual, Assembly with great joy and enthusiasm, in most cases a regressive development starts, because from all sides they have to hear that they are now independent and that they have responsibilities.  And these good abilities of independence and responsibility were restrained all the time in the life of their forefathers and in their own lives.  The request to become administrative and disciplined comes very often too unexpected, too strong, too shocking, too unwise …”

Shoghi Effendi summed up perfectly what our attitude must be at all times:  “To discriminate against any race, on the ground of its being socially backward, politically immature, and numerically in a minority, is a flagrant violation of the spirit that animates the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh.”  In other words, in plain language Shoghi Effendi is telling us not to

be prejudiced against those we teach because of their limitations, because they are different from us, because they come of another background.  To accept this intellectually is easy, but to put it into practice out in the field of pioneering can be a great trial and test.

A letter of the Guardian to pioneers, written on his behalf by his secretary, gives a clear picture of the importance of reaching all strata of society:  “… he views with great favour your plan of establishing contacts with as many sections and classes of the population as possible, and hopes that you will equally succeed in attracting to the Faith individuals of high social position and influence, as well as those of lowly and humble origin who, no matter how limited in their capacity and influence, can nevertheless, once introduced into the Cause, render services of far-reaching value, outshining those which their fellow-believers of higher origin and of better social standing may be able to accomplish.”

In a world where terrorism and anarchy are spreading daily it is of great importance for the pioneers and travelling teachers to have fixed clearly in their minds Bahá’u’lláh’s teachings on the subject of liberty for they are at sharp variance with the current concepts:

Consider the pettiness of men’s minds.  They ask for that which injureth them, and cast away the thing that profiteth them.  They are, indeed, of those that are far astray.  We find some men desiring liberty, and priding themselves therein.  Such men are in the depths of ignorance.

Liberty must, in the end, lead to sedition, whose flames none can quench.  Thus warneth you He Who is the Reckoner, the All-Knowing.  Know ye that the embodiment of liberty and its symbol is the animal.  That which beseemeth

man is submission unto such restraints as will protect him from his own ignorance, and guard him against the harm of the mischief-maker.  Liberty causeth man to overstep the bounds of propriety, and to infringe on the dignity of his station.  It debaseth him to the level of extreme depravity and wickedness.

Regard men as a flock of sheep that need a shepherd for their protection.  This, verily, is the truth, the certain truth.  We approve of liberty in certain circumstances, and refuse to sanction it in others.  We, verily, are the All-Knowing.

Although these thoughts may be criticized and opposed in circles which believe in total liberty for the individual, in most developing countries and tribal societies they will meet with heartfelt approval from officials, clergy, chiefs and the ordinary man—all of whom take an intelligent attitude on this subject, closely approximating the views of Baha’u’llah.  We must teach the new believers what He Himself defines true liberty to be:

True liberty consisteth in man’s submission unto My commandments, little as ye know it.  Were men to observe that which We have sent down unto them from the Heaven of Revelation, they would, of a certainty, attain unto perfect liberty.  Happy is the man that hath apprehended the Purpose of God in whatever He hath revealed from the Heaven of His Will, that pervadeth all created things.  Say:  The liberty that profiteth you is to be found nowhere except in complete servitude unto God, the Eternal Truth.  Whoso hath tasted of its sweetness will refuse to barter it for all the dominion of earth and heaven.

Unless a person has an exceptional memory he is likely to misquote from the Teachings, mix up pilgrims’ notes and reported conversations and the remarks of prominent Bahá’ís, and consequently maintain a false idea himself on some subject and pass it on to those he is teaching; it is always safer to refer to the text itself, as Bahá’u’lláh has told us this alone is the standard of reference.

Some may ask:  “Why?  Why all the effort, all the pressure, why me?”  Before he passed away the Guardian explained this in a letter I wrote, as his secretary, on his behalf to the National Spiritual Assembly of the United States; I quote it because it is so valid at this time when the Bahá’í world is undertaking, under the aegis of the Universal House of Justice, yet another step in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Divine Plan:

The Guardian feels that, if the friends would meditate a little more objectively upon both their relationship to the Cause and the vast non-Bahá’í public they hope to influence, they would see things more clearly.  The friends are not being forced to do anything, either by the Guardian or by the National Assembly.  However, the condition that the world is in is bringing many issues to a head.  It would be perhaps impossible to find a nation or people not in a state of crisis today.  The materialism, the lack of true religion and the consequent baser forces in human nature which are being released, have brought the whole world to the brink of probably the greatest crisis it has ever faced or will have to face.  The Bahá’ís are only a part of the world.  They too feel the great pressures which are brought to bear upon all people today, whoever and wherever they may be.  On the other hand, the Divine Plan, which is the direct method of working toward the establishment of Peace and World Order, has perforce reached an important

and challenging point in its unfoldment; because of the desperate needs of the world, the Bahá’ís find themselves, even though so limited in numbers, in financial strength and in prestige, called upon to fulfil a great responsibility.  They must, at all times, remember that when the Guardian makes his appeals to the friends, he is only presenting the situation to them.  Each one must evaluate what his own response can be and should be; nobody can do this for him.  There is no other pressure than the pressure of historical circumstances.  He fully realizes that the demands made upon the Bahá’ís are great, and that they often feel inadequate, tired and perhaps frightened in the face of the tasks that confront them.  This is only natural.  On the other hand, they must realize that the power of God can and will assist them; and that because they are privileged to have accepted the Manifestation of God for this Day, this very act has placed upon them a great moral responsibility toward their fellowmen.  It is this moral responsibility to which the Guardian is constantly calling their attention, as he too cannot but obey the compelling force of circumstances and fulfil his paramount duty of calling to the attention of the believers their opportunity, their privileges, and their responsibilities.

Shoghi Effendi himself, however, has summed up the course that we should pursue at this crucial point in the destiny of mankind:

… let us arise to teach His Cause with righteousness, conviction, understanding and vigour.  Let this be the paramount and most urgent duty of every Bahá’í.  Let us make it the dominating passion of our life.  Let us scatter to the uttermost corners of the earth; sacrifice our per-

sonal interests, comforts, tastes and pleasures; mingle with the divers kindreds and peoples of the world; familiarize ourselves with their manners, traditions, thoughts and customs; arouse, stimulate and maintain universal interest in the Movement, and at the same time endeavour by all the means in our power, by concentrated and persistent attention, to enlist the unreserved allegiance and the active support of the more hopeful and receptive among our hearers.  Let us too bear in mind the example which our beloved Master has clearly set before us.  Wise and tactful in His approach, wakeful and attentive in His early intercourse, broad and liberal in all His public utterances, cautious and gradual in the unfolding of the essential verities of the Cause, passionate in His appeal yet sober in argument, confident in tone, unswerving in conviction, dignified in His manners—such were the distinguishing features of our Beloved’s noble presentation of the Cause of Bahá’u’lláh.

So fare thee well, traveller, and may you be what ‘Abdu’l-Bahá said you should be:

Should any one of you enter a city, he should become a centre of attraction by reason of his sincerity, his faithfulness and love, his honesty and fidelity, his truthfulness and loving-kindness towards all the peoples of the world, so that the people of that city may cry out and say:  This man is unquestionably a Bahá’í, for his manners, his behaviour, his conduct, his morals, his nature, and disposition reflect the attributes of the Bahá’ís.

Bibliography

Miss William’s Cooking Book.  Langman, Nigeria Limited, Third Impression, 1970.

Folk Medicine.  D. C. Jarvis, M.D.; Henry Holt and Co.; New York.  Also available in paper back, Pan Books Ltd.; London.

Arthritis and Folk Medicine.  D. C. Jarvis, M.D.; Pan Books Ltd.; London.

The Yoga Way to Figure and Facial Beauty.  Richard L. Hittleman; Hawthorn Books Inc.; New York.

Let’s Eat Right to Keep Fit.  Adelle Davis; Harcourt, Brace and Co.; New York.

Let’s Get Well.  Adelle Davis; Harcourt, Brace and World, Inc.; New York.

Food Is Your Best Medicine.  Henry G. Bieler, M.D.; Random House; New York.

A Pattern of Islands.  Arthur Grimble; John Murray; London.