THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1987-06-28

dear b ahá’í f riends,

your letter of 25 may 1987 concerning mr. . . . has been received by the

universal h ouse of j ustice, which has directed us to reply as follows.

in considering the status of believers such as mr. . . . , it is necessary

to review the requirements for membership in the bahá’í community. The

basic considerations are set out by the g uardian in his statement:

. . . i would only venture to state very briefly and as adequately as

present circumstances permit the principal factors that must be taken into consideration before deciding whether a person may be regarded a true believer or not. f ull recognition of the station of the f orerunner,

the Author, and the T rue exemplar of the bahá’í cause, as set forth

in ‘Abdu’l-b ahá’s Testament; unreserved acceptance of, and submis-

sion to, whatsoever has been revealed by their pen; loyal and steadfast

adherence to every clause of our beloved’s sacred will; and close as-

sociation with the spirit as well as the form of the present day bahá’í

administration throughout the world—these i conceive to be the fun-

damental and primary considerations that must be fairly, discreetly and thoughtfully ascertained before reaching such a vital decision. . . .

(Bahá’í Administration, p. 90, o ctober 2,	1925)32.1

32.2

32.2a

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

ing the issue of acceptance of new believers, when it wrote:

Those who declare themselves as bahá’ís should become en-

chanted with the beauty of the teachings, and touched by the love

of bahá’u’lláh. The declarants need not know all the proofs, history,

laws, and principles of the faith, but in the process of declaring them-

selves they must, in addition to catching the spark of faith, become basically informed about the central figures of the faith, as well as

the existence of laws they must follow and an administration they

must obey.

(from a letter to all National Spiritual Assemblies, 1 j uly 196)32-1

it follows that individuals who do not satisfy these requirements cannot

be regarded as members of the bahá’í community, irrespective of what-

ever statements they might make concerning the nature of their belief in

bahá’u’lláh. Such a situation arises, in some instances, when a person claims

to accept the station of bahá’u’lláh but does not accept the authority of the

Administrative institutions. The guardian clarified this matter in a letter

written on his behalf, stating:

. . . To accept the cause without the administration is like to accept

the teachings without acknowledging the divine station of bahá’u’lláh.

To be a bahá’í is to accept the cause in its entirety. To take excep-

tion to one basic principle is to deny the authority and sovereignty of bahá’u’lláh, and therefore is to deny the cause. . . .

(letter to a National Spiritual Assembly, 0 m ay 190)

if you feel that mr. . . . does not accept “the authority and sovereignty

of bahá’u’lláh” as explained above, despite the statements he might make

asserting his acceptance of the bahá’í faith, you should remove his name

from the list of members and regard him as being a non-b ahá’í.

if you feel that the continued association of the bahá’ís with mr. . . . is

potentially damaging to their belief or is detrimental to the unity of the

community, you could well consider advising the believers to avoid associa-

tion with him.

32-1. See muhj, no. 18.32.2b

32.3

32.3a

32.4

32.5

1986–1992  •  T h e  S i x  Y e a r  P l a n

6The house of justice advises you to deal with this matter in a straightfor-

ward way, avoiding any actions which might serve to increase mr. . . .’s sense

of his own importance or which might needlessly antagonize him and hence

provoke him into active opposition of the i nstitutions.

The house of justice will offer its prayers at the Sacred Threshold for

your guidance in resolving this matter.

with loving b ahá’í greetings,

Department  of tHe secretariat

33

Functioning of an Executive Committee

of a National Spiritual Assembly

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]