i

Dimitri Tishler
A Placeless Sun
Toward Our Configured Destiny

Published by The Ninth Bird Press 2023
Copyright © Dimitri Tishler 2023
All rights reserved.
This book comes in two forms: in digital form as a free eBook and in printed form. The
price of the printed version only covers the cost of printing. Individuals, companies, or
organizations may distribute or host the eBook version on their websites but should not sell
on or charge for its use in any way. The only exception to this rule is if a website has a
“minimum charge,” in which case royalties should be paid to the author.
Disclaimer: This book is in no way an official representation or interpretation of the
Bahá’í Faith and its beliefs. In many instances the concepts highlighted or presented are
purely those of the author, which is his personal understanding of Bahá’í beliefs. The
characters’ beliefs or actions are not necessarily representative of the author’s views or
actions. However, the quoted Bahá’í writings themselves are authoritative, and all source
material can be found in the notes and bibliography. For all authoritative material and
interpretations of the Bahá’í Faith please visit www.bahai.org.
Icon for The Ninth Bird Press sourced for free from www.icon-library.com.
Attribution link: https://icon-library.com/icon/bird-icon-vector-25.html.html>Bird Icon
Vector # 170406.

This book is dedicated to Bahíyyih Khánum.

Preface
As you read the quotes at the beginning of each chapter from The
Seven Valleys and the Gems of  Divine Mysteries, you will notice that their
meaning does not relate directly to each chapter. If I had made the
narrative conform to this structure, the story would have become
too inflexible. I have tried to keep the basic linear order of the
quotes relative to The Seven Valleys, which expresses the logical and
gradual progression of the soul through the hierarchical levels of
consciousness. And it is my hope that if you find any of these
quotations beautiful or inspiring, you will read The Seven Valleys in its
entirety.
You may find the quotes a little hard to penetrate at first, but
don’t worry, as this is normal. The style of The Seven Valleys is poetic
and mystical, so it requires a little effort and contemplation; it took
me many years to even come close to a cursory understanding of its
themes. In fact, The Seven Valleys was one of the first Bahá’í books I
ever read, and I remember clearly now putting it down and
wondering what it was about; at the time I understood close to
nothing about it, but I felt that there was something about it that
was deep and enduring. So I guess my advice is to persist with it.
Also, a quick overview of spiritual principles of the Bahá’í Faith
will help you read this book, as many of its beliefs, several of its
teachings, and some of its history are explored in this novel. Please
see Appendix 1: Brief Overview of Spiritual Principles and
Teachings of the Bahá’í Faith. You will also find a large and
comprehensive body of material related to the principles of the
Bahá’í Faith on the internet. Start with www.bahai.org.
I would now like to talk about my weaknesses as a writer and
my literary journey. This novel represents my first attempt at fiction.
During the time that I have been writing it, roughly nineteen years,
I thought several times that I might have overstretched myself as I
was tackling many difficult and complex subjects and themes; many

times, I couldn’t even face writing it. It seemed far beyond my
abilities. And even with all the research in the world, a writer makes
mistakes with either content or artistic treatment, and my limited
knowledge of the Bahá’í Faith was another obstacle; it can take an
entire lifetime to come to grips with its teachings, and in many cases
a lifetime may not be enough, let alone the entire panorama of
philosophy, religion, and history. And because of this I felt alone at
many stages in the development of the work, and I asked myself if
what I was saying was true, real, or even relevant. Was there an
audience for this book, I wondered.
So this book is an imperfect attempt on my part to write an
idealized work of art and to try not to distort the subjects I have
been grappling with, and I hope the reader will paper over the
cracks with any ideas that don’t ring true or seem poorly expressed.
This book is more of an open-ended journey rather than a
definitive destination. Even my own characters are better people
than I am, and I hope that the art will transcend the imperfections
of the artist.
Future writers will come closer to realizing the spiritual
foundations of the Bahá’í Faith and will be able to reflect more
faithfully on its principles. The world as it is today is a distorted lens
through which to perceive humanity’s true spiritual potentialities,
either now or in the future: a lens that I cannot escape from, but
through which, on the one hand, I have tried to correct or
understand any distortions I have seen, but paradoxically, on the
other hand, through which I have perceived alluring fragments of
an ideal future society that fills me with hope for humanity’s
ultimate destiny—its symmetrical and configured destiny.
Anyway, ultimately, I hope the reader enjoys something here in
these pages and that this book does find a place in the world. I
wanted to leave behind, in this ephemeral world, an object that
represents my worship of God and his staggering beauty through all
the endless worlds in eternity—a house of words.
Lastly, the quote below is a reflection of the entire seven valleys,
and my entire novel revolves around this one pivot.

I’ll see you all on the other side.
Praise be to God Who hath made being to come forth from nothingness;
graven upon the tablet of  man a measure of  the mysteries of  His eternity;
taught him from the storehouse of  divine utterance that which he knew not;
made him a perspicuous book unto such as have believed and surrendered
their souls; given him to behold, in this dark and ruinous age, a new
creation within all things; and caused him to speak forth, from the midmost
heart of  eternity, and in a new and wondrous voice, embodied in the most
excellent Temple.◊ And all to this end: that every man may testify, in
himself  and by himself, before the Seat of  the revelation of  his Lord, that
there is none other God but Him; and that all may reach that summit of
realities where none shall contemplate anything but that he shall perceive
God therein.1
—Bahá’u’lláh, The Seven Valleys
◊ The Manifestation of God / a Prophet

A Word on Symmetry
. . . in each realm, to every letter a meaning is allotted which pertaineth to
that realm. Indeed, the wayfarer findeth a secret in every name and a
mystery in every letter.1
—Bahá’u’lláh, The Seven Valleys
This book introduces the reader to the idea of symmetry and
asymmetry in letters, names, actions, and visual phenomena as we
see it in nature, like flowers, Romanesco (spiral) broccoli, Nautilus
shells, human faces, and even our own Milky Way galaxy. We
actually encounter symmetry and asymmetry every day but
overlook its mystery purely through overfamiliarity; the mystery of
all reality is in plain sight.
How strange that the Beloved is as visible as the sun and yet the heedless
still hunt after tinsel and base metal. Yea, the intensity of  His revelation
hath veiled Him, and the fullness of  His shining forth hath hidden Him.2
—Bahá’u’lláh, The Seven Valleys
I would like the reader to be aware of this idea as they read the
book. Be aware that the repetition of character names and the
names of objects or places is intentional and not intended to
confuse the reader but rather to show how we are all interconnected
through the symmetries and asymmetries in language and names in
particular. Just let the names wash over you as you read and avoid
trying to work out if you have met this character before. A more
detailed analysis of the symmetry and asymmetry of names can be
found in the appendix. Please see Appendix 4: Symmetry of Names
and Letters.


Coming to America
By My life, O friend! Wert thou to taste the fruits of  these verdant trees that
spring from the soil of  true understanding, once the effulgent light of  His
Essence hath been reflected in the Mirrors of  His names and attributes,
yearning would seize the reins of  patience and restraint from out thy hand
and stir thy spirit into commotion with the splendours of  His light. It
would draw thee from this abode of  dust unto thy true and heavenly
habitation in the midmost heart of  mystic knowledge, and raise thee to a
station wherein thou wilt soar in the air even as thou treadest upon the
earth, and wilt walk upon the water even as thou movest over the land.1
—Bahá’u’lláh, The Seven Valleys
The plane passed over Manhattan. The city’s buildings were lit by
the warm colors that came with the beginning of the evening light.
It overshot the city and turned over Upper Bay’s dark water. Allison
stared at the texture of the water for a moment before looking up at
the sun.
She held an origami bird up to the light to observe the
translucent shapes in the paper; it was a powerful symbol for the
contours of humanity’s collective destiny. She imagined that the
edges of the folds and the shapes between folds represented nations,
and as each fold crossed another fold, intersections in people’s lives

in the past, present, and future became inextricably bound, and the
bird then stood for the entirety of the planet. The ubiquitous
phenomenon associated with the symbol of the bird was flight; it
denoted freedom in the mind and imagination, where the intellect
and heart could fly on the horizon of life, beyond any physical
limitation.
The knowledge of flight had come down the tree of history
with birds, until its secrets were molded into airplanes—metal birds.
This had led to the migration of people around the planet and the
gradual fusing of cultural diversity. The emergence of the
consciousness of the oneness of humanity had arisen from this
integration.
Her thoughts turned to her own migration. She knew that the
subtle differences in American culture would highlight the limits
surrounding her identity and allow her to remold herself. This had
also been the case when she had lived in Paris and London. But it
was the cancer that had invaded her body six years before, and
more recently, that had really transformed her. Her ongoing illness
had forced her to reprioritize her life. Consequently, the
inconsequential aspects of her life had fallen away. In 1992 Allison
had her right breast removed, but the doctors had said there was no
guarantee that all the cancer had been removed, and at the time
they could not give her a definitive long-term prognosis. In the
previous two months, a small secondary tumor had appeared in her
left breast, which the doctors had also removed.
The plane turned again and lined up with the runway. She
placed the paper bird in her top pocket. After a few minutes, her
body dropped with the plane as its wheels touched down on a snow-
covered runway.
The plane made its way through the traffic of other planes. It
pulled into gate nine. She stared into patches of snow surrounding
the airport buildings. The snow was pure and luminescent in the
warm light.
People shuffled in their seats. A domino of buckles clicked at
random around her as people undid their seat belts. She watched

other passengers search for magazines, books, and other
paraphernalia to pack into their carry-on bags. She took a large
notepad, which she had used to make her origami bird, from the
flap in front of her. On the top page she had been practicing
versions of her signature. The woman who had sat next to her on
the flight left her seat. Allison followed her and moved into the aisle.
She took her backpack down from the overhead compartment. She
checked for all her travel documents and then put the notepad into
the backpack. Rummaging further through her bag, she found feta
cheese, olives, and Lebanese bread. Her brother, Paul, had bought it
so she could avoid plane food. The feta had broken through its
packaging. Some of it had crumbled onto her 1970s Soviet-era
camera. She picked it up and wiped the metal casing clean with her
sleeve. She also had a mid-eighties Leica, which she used to take
most of her higher-quality photographs. As she put the camera
back into her bag, the sweet smell of tobacco and ashes rose up and
permeated the cabin around her. Deeper in her bag she saw the old
pipe and a pouch of tobacco that she had bought at Melbourne’s
Queen Victoria Market two days before her flight.
The aircraft door opened, and more passengers milled into the
aisle. In the first-class section, the cabin crew assembled near the
exit door. They were preparing for pleasant and superficial
departing smiles. She wondered about their motivations, and what
life would be like if we were never paid to be accommodating—if
our smiles were underpinned by pure motives rather than the
inspiration of trying to make the monthly rent. And what would
remain if human motive could be stripped away? Peeled back one
lie at a time, until a selfless instinct at the core of the psyche was
found undamaged behind changing masks.
Allison focused on one of the flight attendants, whose teeth
were over-white. Her lipstick flashed with the color and lushness of
a tropical flower, but Allison thought she was insincere—hiding
behind a plastic smile. Allison saw two worlds: the world of her face,
with its changing landscape, and its subterranean counterpart, the
world of feeling, where truth, in all its beauty and ugly terror, was

held tightly within her. She passed the flight attendant and walked
toward the door.
As she stepped off the plane, her thoughts narrowed quickly to
the shock of cold that enveloped her body. She had no solid
memory of this kind of temperature in Australia. Even Paris had
never seemed this cold in winter.
She walked into the main building. Her feet were especially
cold; she had worn her white Birkenstock sandals. She looked
around and absorbed the minutiae of the terminal and the people
spread around her; she knew already that New York would be an
immersive experience. In the plane American accents, with their
New York nasal pitch, had rung out, and as she chatted to the
customs officer checking her passport, the din of difference grew.
Her Australian accent felt clearer and more defined as it contrasted
with the American voices that surrounded her.
The airport wore a skin older and shabbier than she had
expected: the walls were drearily colored, the green linoleum on the
floors was shoe scuffed, and the faded orange plastic furniture was
something out of the seventies. Even the models in the
advertisements appeared slightly dated. The models were definitely
nineties but with a thin overlay of the fifties. The past seemed closer
to the present here.
Her own appearance felt shabbier too. It had been dulled by the
flight. After customs, she went into a bathroom. She saw her
disheveled hair as she looked into a mirror above a washbasin. She
surveyed the effects of summer. Her skin was tanned and covered
with a thin, greasy film. She refreshed her face with water and
wiped the oil off with a paper towel. She smiled and slapped her
cheeks. Her smile was sincere and real. As it should be, she mused.
* * *
Light streamed down into a small courtyard in the back of one of
Paul and Allison’s restaurants. They were sitting alone at a table
near the back fence. After the death of their father, they were jointly

left the two restaurants. Paul managed the restaurants. Allison
helped out when she wasn’t studying or volunteering at Friends of
the Earth.
Both restaurants were located on Lygon Street in Carlton, an
inner-city suburb, and known as the Little Italy of Melbourne.
Allison was nineteen then, and even in those early years Paul always
had the impression that his sister was an odd person; he had
followed her development from childhood. But the strangeness in
her personality was not always immediately obvious to a casual
observer—inconsistencies only emerged over time, and only those
close to her saw her subtle but odd nature. Her friends knew her to
be a cross between an intellectual and a hippie, though there were
even stranger dimensions of Allison’s nature that made her more
divergent relative to mainstream society.
An example of her divergence had come in the previous week
when Paul was hosting one of his dinner parties. Paul had listened
uncomfortably as she summed up what he knew was her view of the
widespread mediocrity and materialism in mainstream Western
society. The room went predictably silent after she had slipped her
opinion into the conversation. “Humans never like to talk about
subjects with no easy or immediate answer. For that reason, most
conversations between people are highly prefabricated and fall into
circular patterns of cliché: like the cliché of the security in having
an investment property or an investment portfolio.”
Only friends who were close to her could cope with her intense,
shifting, and polarized personality and her penchant for killing, with
utter precision, any congenial suburban mood.
Paul aired his concerns as she was looking at the sky above the
courtyard.
“You know, some of our friends find you difficult to understand.
They think you need to chill out and settle on one thing for a
while.” Under this facade Paul hid his real thoughts: that she should
try to be more conventional. He was about to return to a
conversation that they had had many times before.

“I’m not mixed up, you know. I just like to be in other people’s
skins. I want to be objective and empathetic. It’s my way. My way to
understand myself.”
Paul did not respond. He was still considering her words. So she
added something to strengthen her point. “Or at least find the
human archetypes in me.”
Frustration washed over him. “But you can’t be anybody but
yourself. We’re all limited, Allison. Each person is a piece in a
puzzle. We’re limited, but we fit with each other. It’s not bad to be
fixed in one kind of way. You don’t need to immerse yourself in
others in the way that you do.”
Allison was silent for a moment, then said, “You’re right in a
way. Because I can’t absorb everyone’s feelings or perceptions. I
have to pull myself out before I drown in them.”
“This is what I mean, Allison! People don’t drown in others.
Not to mention that you’re a walking fashion freak half the time.
You swing from tie-dye skirts to builder’s overalls. I wish you would
stop dressing like the next random stranger that you meet.” He
regretted this comment immediately, and despite this feeling added,
“People don’t know who you are. You’re always shifting around.”
Tears ran down her face. He got up from his chair and bent
down to embrace her.
“But this is who I am,” she said.
He could not ignore the sadness in her face, and he knew his
words were a revelation to her. His real intentions were partially
revealed now. The trust that had always existed between them
lessened after this conversation.
“I suppose, in the end, it doesn’t matter what you wear or say. I
will always love you. You’re my little sister. That will never change.
It’s only when other people say . . . you’re . . .”
“Odd,” she offered.
“No . . . no, just . . . interesting, I would say.” But this was a lie.
“Odd” was definitely a more appropriate word to describe her
behavior. He felt her body slump slightly in his arms as she
whimpered. Paul knew that some of the instability in her life had

come from the death of their father when she was sixteen. Their
parents had been in a car crash. Their mother had been in a coma
for the last three years. Allison visited her nearly every week, and
Paul came when he could, but he had always felt Allison’s deep love
for their parents.
* * *
Paul had driven Allison to Melbourne Airport to catch her flight to
New York. He looked over at her in the passenger seat and
remembered that conversation vividly. It was now 1998. Six years
had passed, yet it felt like only a year or two. He was amazed how
the years had smeared over each other and contracted. He knew
now that he had been superficial in his assessments of her character,
but recently old fears about her mental stability had resurfaced.
Some of Allison’s colleagues at Friends of the Earth, where she
worked as a volunteer on occasion, had expressed this to Paul. On
the surface their remarks seemed straightforward enough. They
joked about her strange comments and behavior, but their words
were veiled intimations that her mental stability might be in
question.
A few months before she left for New York, a few specific words
resonated in his memory. Allison had brought one of the volunteers
from Friends of the Earth into the restaurant. The guy looked like
he was straight out of a hippie commune, but one thing he said,
when Allison was out the back, did strike him.
“Your sister, she’s a real head-trip, man.” Even he could see
what Paul did. Those were the resonating words. She was a head-
trip.
* * *
While waiting with fellow travelers at the baggage carousel, she
observed what she assumed were New York locals, who wore big
puffer jackets and snow boots, and although her retro leather jacket

kept her relatively warm, she felt the cold air penetrate her feet and
legs.
She remembered seeing vast stretches of snow several hours
before landing, and she wondered why she had not considered the
possibility of the cold. The plane had flown over broken ice sheets
floating on the Great Lakes. It had glided over what must be either
Chicago or Detroit; she could not remember which was which. At
the time the flat whiteness was expansive and dead yet in the same
instant compelling. The snow had been no more than a curiosity
and a picture with no other context than her detached imagination.
The comfort and protective envelope of the plane’s interior had
masked the difference in temperature.
“You look a little cold.” An older voice vibrated behind her.
She turned around. “Yes, I’m afraid I underestimated the
weather.”
A lady in her sixties smiled and stared at her feet. Allison
recognized the lady from the plane. She had sat next to her on the
flight from the Los Angeles leg of the journey.
“Yes! I know . . . I don’t know why I wore these sandals. They
are totally impractical in this weather, although I can get away with
it in Australian winters.”
“It’s twenty-seven degrees Fahrenheit windchill factor out there,
dear. You had better put something else on.”
Staring longer than needed, Allison presumed the woman was
curious about the missing toe on her right foot.
“Are you from New York?” Allison asked.
“No, dear! My son and his wife live here. I visit twice a year to
catch up with my grandchild. You know how it is—Christmas get-
togethers and all that.”
Allison nodded but was not sure what “you know how it is”
meant exactly.
The woman looked at Allison’s wrist. “Nice watch, dear.”
“Yes, it’s vintage. A bit tatty, but I like it. I’ve had it for years.”
In the periphery of her vision, Allison saw bags spilling onto the
carousel. She turned back to see them pass by her and searched for

her own baggage. The woman did not take the conversation any
further. Allison saw her worn red hiking pack come onto the
carousel. When it came to her, she slipped it over her shoulder as
she turned around again. She now took the woman’s aging face
more firmly into her memory. The woman’s iridescent green eyes
reminded her of the old man who had sold her the pipe at Queen
Victoria Market. The shade of green in both their eyes was similar.
Allison felt around in her top pocket. She grasped the paper bird.
“Okay then. Nice to meet you . . . and I hope you have a nice
stay with your son and family . . . this particular year.” She wanted
to be truthful and sincere. She raised her hand with her fingers
clasped around the bird. “Can I give you this?”
“Yes, dear. What is it?”
“A paper bird.” She opened her hand to reveal the bird.
“Why?”
“I don’t know exactly. I just feel compelled to give it to you.
There’s a poem inside the bird. If you unfold the paper, you’ll find
it.”
The woman took the bird, looked at it for a few moments, and
placed it in her handbag. “And you have a nice time here in the Big
Apple. And don’t forget to put some cold-weather shoes on.” The
old woman stared at her feet again.
“Yes . . . yes, I will, thanks . . . bye.” Allison waved.
Turning, she walked toward the arrivals exit. She felt vaguely
connected to this stranger even in this transitory slice of time, which
seemed like another addition to the anonymous and disconnected
chunks of her life: the comings and goings of strangers and those
wearing plastic smiles.
People were spread around the arrival area as she walked
through. If she had told Nava about coming here, she would have a
friendly face to look for in the crowd and a warm car to zip away in,
but she had not wanted to impose on Nava.
She had kept in regular contact with Nava until a year ago; then
the emails had stopped, and Nava gave up contacting her. She

supposed that if she did call her, Nava would be glad to see her, but
she pushed that thought away.
Arriving at the main exit, she paused to think. What next? The
automatic doors opened and closed periodically as people left for
destinations unknown to her. Air carrying heavy snow wafted
through the automatic doors whenever they opened. She asked
herself again whether she should call Nava. The other option was
to catch a taxi and find a hotel. As these thoughts went through her
mind, a yellow taxi pulled up almost in front of the doors. Her eyes
moved between the people leaving the taxi and the slow drift of
heavy flakes floating into the foreground of spotlights. The
beginning of night, and the snowfall, had come when she was in the
airport building. She stared in wonder at the snowflakes and the
way their weight made some of the flakes almost hover in midair,
much like a bumblebee, before continuing their descent to the
ground. Her mind took a snapshot of this curious vista.
The driver gave change to his passengers and stepped onto the
sidewalk. He panned around the entrance area. He then looked
straight through the doors and met Allison’s stare. She smiled and
waved.
“You want a ride?” he shouted through the closing doors, but
she did not answer. She waved again.
He came through the doors, brushing the snow off his jacket as
he walked. “Did you want a taxi, or are you just saying hello?”
“Do you know of any cheap accommodations near Columbia
University?”
“I think so . . . yes. I’m not sure of the exact prices, but I’ve
been told about a hotel on the Upper West Side recently . . . it’s
close enough to Columbia.”
“Great! Let’s go.”
They walked back to the taxi.
“Can I help you with your hiking pack?” he asked as they
walked.
“Thanks. I’m okay, but you can take my backpack if you want.”
He took the backpack.

When they came to the taxi, he opened the back door, and she
threw her hiking pack onto the seat. She then turned around and
slipped out of her sandals. She began to trace a small circle in the
snow collected on the sidewalk. “It’s so soft and powdery. Wow . . . it
really feels nice against my skin.” She smiled at him.
Looking at the circle and her bare feet, he commented, “If you
continue like this for much longer, you won’t feel anything.”
Grinning, he added, “You obviously don’t get to see much snow.”
“I’m glad that you are amused by my little adventure here,” she
said.
He passed her the backpack, and she slipped back into her
sandals and got into the taxi. The warm air in the taxi enveloped
her body. In her hiking pack she found protection from the cold.
She put socks on and pushed her feet into a pair of well-worn
brown builder’s boots. The taxi pulled away from the terminal and
began to ascend a steep ramp. It lifted imperceptibly into flight at
the crest, and from that higher vantage point a white and organic-
looking modernist building came into sight. Terminal 5 glowed in
the night like an otherworldly pod. She suppressed an urge to stop
and look at the interior of the terminal; she remembered the
interior from an architectural book she had seen when she had
studied photography years before.
The taxi left the airport and turned onto a highway. She looked
down at the white sidelines twisting and curving on a glistening wet
backdrop. Dim orange streetlamps highlighted continuous patches
of snowbound New York suburbia.
“Are we near Manhattan yet?” she asked after some time had
passed.
“Soon . . . yes. We are getting close to the Queensboro Bridge.”
The warmth in the taxi and the hum of the engine soothed her.
Tilting her head so that it rested on the frosty glass, she watched
snowflakes melding with water droplets before they slipped down
the glass. She drew shapes mindlessly where her breath left its mark.
Gradually the snow fell heavier and thicker until it built a slushy
crust at the base of the taxi window.

The sensations inside the taxi evoked memories of childhood
vacations during long Australian summers. From the back seat of
her parents’ car, she had stared for hours at all the twisting
variations in the sideline, which flowed in a blur beside her. She had
felt the wind and the sun and her hair rhythmically whipping her
face as she stuck her head out the window into the stream of air.
She had tried to make out muted conversations between her
parents, which competed with the music playing on the car stereo.
The song “Forever and Ever” by Demis Roussos played
incessantly in the car then. At the time Allison had hated the music
because of the continual repetition, but she enjoyed the memory of
it now because of the memories connected with it: her parents and
the long trips that the family made up the east Australian coast over
the years. She missed having them in her life all these years after
their deaths. The song played away in her mind for a while. Its
sentimentality took deeper root before fading into the sound of the
taxi engine. In another memory she saw an image of her face in the
side mirror of her parents’ car; the air pressure forced streaming
tears out of her eyes. Those tears distorted the sunlit world before
her. In the present she mimicked that earlier time by squinting her
eyes at the orange streetlights flowing by rhythmically in the dark
sky.
“You’re from Australia, right?” the taxi driver said.
“You recognize my accent.”
He smiled and looked at her in the mirror. “I have some
Australian friends here, so I know the accent . . . I’m Paul, by the
way.”
“Oh, my brother’s name is Paul.”
“Oh really?”
After a short silence, she asked, “Do you like driving taxis? Does
it make you happy?”
“Happy . . . I suppose that is one way to describe it, but it’s just
a job to me . . . Midtown Manhattan is coming up on the left.”
“Oh right, thanks,” she exclaimed with a touch of exuberance.

The taxi turned onto the bridge and merged into the end of
rush-hour traffic.
The traffic slowed. They stared through the steel supports on
the bridge that slid by slowly as they passed.
“This is a great view of the skyline.” She closed her eyes for a
few moments.
When she opened them, she tried to perceive the panorama of
the city, through the gauze of snow, as just a collection of
disconnected abstract colors and shapes with no reference to either
the past or future, an escape from clichéd observations of the city
that she had remembered seeing in various books over the years
before.
“The city looks familiar and unknown at the same time, and
almost alien,” she said almost to herself. But she could not see it
without the past or the future, without memory, and her mind
asserted an order on what she saw.
She opened the window just enough for a breath of cool air.
The city and its lights exuded an intangible allure, and the
temptation to give in to it was real and visceral. The haze of snow
fell into the taxi’s interior through the gap in the window. The snow
melted on her warm face.
“You don’t mind if I roll the window down farther?” she asked.
“No, go ahead.”
She rolled it fully open. Resting her head on her folded arms,
she leaned on the windowsill. The snow hit her face with more
intent now. She imagined the snow forming in continuous layers on
her skin, and inside the oblivion of time, she would be cocooned
forever.
The traffic began to move again.
“I’ve seen this view so much that I don’t see it anymore. I’m
blind to it now,” he said.
“Maybe you need to forget it, so you can remember it again and
see it new.”
“Maybe, yeah.”

“Are there really people out there? It seems like an empty city
from here, in a way. I can’t tell which light and which room has a
person in it.” Were they all just empty rooms with the lights on? So
she added, “They are all boxes of light, filled with people who live
out an existence in a bliss of clichés.” She was thinking of the
stewardess on the plane as an empty room with a smile that was
represented as a light. This gave the impression that someone was
home when in fact the room was deserted. And so much of life fell
within the influence of certain empty social expectations.
“What do you mean by a bliss of clichés?” he asked.
“Oh, nothing much. I was just thinking how all our lives, our
actions, fall into predictable and circular patterns, which sometimes
bear no real connection to who we are potentially. We never move
beyond the obvious surface of our life. We exist in the marginal
aspects, content with superficial appearance. It is, I suppose, a kind
of social veneer that we all take part in. What I think we need is a
form of truthfulness and a purity of motive that transcends all our
empty smiles.”
* * *
“This girl . . . she was wearing clothes stranger than hell for this
weather. Strange for any weather now that I think about it.” Rose,
the lady who had sat next to Allison on the airplane, was speaking,
and Paul Nightingale was listening; he was listening patiently to his
mother, who was sitting diagonally behind him in the back seat of
his car. Mapping the time from her door in Los Angeles to his in
New York, he knew she would give him a rundown of the world’s
misdemeanors. She had fallen into this groove over many years, and
she would start talking from the airport until they got home. He
would listen until she ran out of things to say, and then they would
talk about his world.
“Stranger than hell. I haven’t heard you use that phrase before.
Where did you get it from?” he said.

“Huh. What? It doesn’t matter. She was wearing sandals. In this
weather, if you can believe it! She was sweet . . . but strange.
Definitely. She had nine toes. There was something else about
her . . . about her manner. And I only said a few words to her, and
then she gives me this.” Rose leaned forward, and her son took the
paper bird from her hand.
He turned it over. “What sort of bird is it, I wonder? Maybe a
white swan. Or some other bird.”
“I don’t really care for it. I just wanted to be polite, so I took it.”
“I’ll give it to Alison, then.” Paul thought of his adopted
daughter.
His mother went quiet. He guessed she was ruminating on the
girl and the ongoing theme of a world that represented a future of
decadence and maladaptation. He smiled and thought about his
mother’s fixed nature.
“Mother.”
“Yes, what is it?”
“I’m going away for a few days. To Europe. I’m attending a law
conference . . . I’ll be leaving soon. Will you be okay without me
around? I mean with Sophie and Alison.”
“Okay? I’ll be fine. I’ll be teaching your daughter some
manners.”
“Go easy, Mother. Alison is only a child. She’s afraid of you.”
“She’s soft. Way too soft. Thanks mainly to you, of course.”
“Try to include Sophie, please.”
Paul’s wife and his mother had a distant regard for each other,
and he would try to pull the two personalities closer, but his mother
was hardened against sentimentality. His kind of love—a soft and
yielding kind, as she had repeated over the years—was a commodity
for the weak-minded.
“She’s soft too. They both are.” She paused for a moment.
“That girl. I can’t get her out of my head. There’s something
irregular about her.”
“What do you mean by irregular?”
“I don’t know. I can’t define it. Work it out for yourself.”

Paul negotiated the Manhattan traffic silently for several
minutes. His mother continued as he parked in front of his Upper
West Side house. “That’s it! I knew I’d seen that before.” His
mother raised her voice. “Her watch. It was male and vintage. Your
father had one for a few years before he died. It was a gold watch.
The gold leaf on hers, it was wearing away . . . and I remember the
pattern on the front. It was a diamond lattice weave. And the face
had a greenish tint to it.”
“Yes, that’s interesting.”
He closed the driver’s door and walked around the car to open
the passenger door. He took her hand and helped her step onto the
sidewalk. “When I get back to Los Angeles, I think I’ll start wearing
your father’s watch. Like her. Like the girl,” she said.
* * *
Allison had drifted through high school, not making any lasting
friendships. She was intelligent and so she was able to maintain
good grades, but nothing interested her. All her subjects seemed
empty or bland. In fact, her whole life up to recent times had
seemed like a haze of background noise; she was just passing
through it like a detached observer in an alternate and alien culture
—an anthropologist. She felt compassion and empathy for people
and their different lives, but no one seemed to be able to see her as a
viable friend, so she just moved on, contented within herself,
knowing that she would find a place in the world eventually if she
just kept moving on as she always had.
Even enrolling in a photography course was an impulse
decision, and she didn’t expect to become a photographer as such.
She couldn’t see herself as anything, and the whole idea of a career
seemed slightly shallow. She had always wanted to be defined by her
own humanity and not by what she did for a job. Oddly, the only
person remotely interested in her as a friend was Nava, which made
no sense to her since Nava was quite mainstream. She only really
found friends in the photography course and a few more friends at

Friends of the Earth, who were a more community-minded and a
largely alternative crowd.
She realized in the end that she needed to seek out people that
were interesting to her but who were not going to be friends, and
she would live through these people in a melded empathy.
Toward the end of November 1992, Allison’s Certificate IV in
Photography and Photo Imaging course was winding up. Three
weeks later RMIT University held an exhibition of the students’
artwork on December 18, which almost coincided with her
twentieth birthday on the 19th.
At the exhibition Allison was dressed in her usual “odd” style
that seemed to match her “odd” behavior, an observation that her
brother, Paul, had made to her five months earlier as they chatted in
the courtyard garden of one of their restaurants. She was friendly
with her fellow students but felt a growing distance between herself
and people. She had felt it quite intensely as she walked around the
gallery. The people in the room seemed empty: there, but not in
reality, or her reality at least; people were almost cardboard cutouts.
This feeling of emptiness was accentuated by the death of her
mother on the ninth.
The only people she was glad to see at the exhibition were
Jasper, a lecturer in philosophy at the University of Melbourne, and
Nava. A friend of Jasper’s taught the History of Art and Design
class that had been part of her degree, and it was where she had
met Nava. Allison had met Jasper at a student party at the
beginning of the year, and they had hung out regularly most of that
year. He had encouraged her to come back to university after her
road trip and complete a BA with a philosophy major and maybe
French as the other major, a double major.
Jasper and Nava were standing in front of her photographic
triptych. She had borrowed a medium-format Hasselblad from the
university store and taken shots of homeless people in St. Kilda and
the Central Business District.
She walked up behind Jasper.
“What do you think?” she said.

He turned around. “Fabulous, darling,” he said, putting on a
camp voice.
She put her arms around both Jasper’s and Nava’s waists.
“Hello, babe,” Allison said to Nava.
“I love these photos,” Nava said.
“So, don’t forget to stop at my shack when you get to
Queensland,” he said.
“I won’t forget. Thank you.”
“It’s not far past K’gari Island.”
She had bought an old Holden a few days before the exhibition
and had packed the car, ready for a long journey, the road trip
around Australia that she had planned to make for many years.
Finally, she could travel alone and leave humanity and those too-
familiar relationships behind her. As much as she loved Paul, she
wanted some emotional distance from him. After that conversation
in the restaurant, she realized that he loved her but did not
understand her. Jasper had given her a collection of books on
philosophy, particularly the existentialists and postmodernists. She
planned to read them during her trip. And in the previous month,
she had bought a secondhand 35mm Leica M6 camera, built in the
mid-eighties, which she planned to use to document her travels, like
a visual diary.
She had left her Fitzroy house a few days before. She had found
someone to take over her room, someone that her fellow roommates
were happy with. She had packed most of her belongings into
Paul’s garage in St. Kilda.
On the day after the exhibition, the day of her birthday, Paul
and Nava were standing next to her car in front of his house. She
hugged him and Nava and then removed a pair of bricks from the
front tires before getting into the driver’s seat.
“What are the bricks for?” Paul said.
“The handbrake is broken.”
“Is that safe?”
“Probably not. I’ll call you in a few weeks,” she said.
“I love you, babe,” he said.

“I love you too, babe,” Allison said.
“So, I’ll see you in Perth at the end of next year, around
Christmas time,” Nava said.
“Where are you going to stay tonight?” Paul asked.
“In the desert in Northern Victoria. I’m going to return to
Hattah-Kulkyne National Park.”
“Yes. Okay, cool. Be careful on the road.”
“Where will you go after Hattah-Kulkyne?”
“I’m going to spend New Year’s Eve at ConFest.” She knew he
was worried about the cancer returning, but he had not said
anything in the last few months. She wondered if he would say
anything now since she had said she wouldn’t be following up with
any doctors until she got back to Melbourne in a year. But he did
not say anything. “I’ll have a checkup when I get to Adelaide,” she
said.
“Oh, babe, that would be great.”
She reached over and took one of the nine mixtapes that she
had made for the trip.
He leaned through the car window and kissed her on the cheek.
She smiled and waved to them both. She drove away, but after
only nineteen feet, she stopped and leaned out of the window,
looking back at Paul and Nava.
“Visit Mum and Dad while I am away.”
“I will, babe. I’ll look after their graves. Please don’t worry.”
The first song on the tape was Tracy Chapman’s “Fast Car.”
She put her left turn signal on and merged into rush-hour traffic
on Barkley Street. As she drove past Acland Street, she took one last
look at St. Kilda’s main shopping area, knowing that she would not
see it again for at least a year.


The Girl with the Yellow Dress
The true seeker hunteth naught but the object of  his quest, and the sincere
lover hath no desire save reunion with his beloved. Nor shall the seeker reach
his goal unless he sacrifice all things. That is, whatever he hath seen, and
heard, and understood—all he must set at naught with “no God is there”,
that he may enter into the realm of  the spirit, which is the city of  “but
God”1. Labour is needed, if  we are to seek Him; ardour is needed, if  we
are to drink the nectar of  reunion with Him; and if  we taste of  this cup, we
shall cast away the world.2
—Bahá’u’lláh, The Seven Valleys
The city’s windows presented Hooman with an array of altered
mirrors. He contemplated the buildings surrounding his corner
office. He thought of Alice and the book Through the Looking-Glass. In
each reflection he saw a slightly changed world and thousands of
worlds in parallel.
Hooman’s laptop dinged. There was a task he needed to
complete, and he looked at the screen. His diary said, “Monday,
December 14, 1998, 4:15 p.m. Complete paper for law conference.”
He looked at the Hudson River in the distance. The thick,
polluted air textured the sun and obscured the outline of buildings
beyond the river in New Jersey.
He glanced in the other direction toward the East River.
Through the glass walls that separated all the other offices on his

floor, a flash of sunlight from a reflection cut into his eyes as he
looked at another building in the distance.
Beginning to feel tired, he supported his head in his hands and
closed his eyes for a while. His mind vanished into brief moments of
unconscious time, and as his head lolled, his cell phone rang. It
hammered his ears as it vibrated on the desk.
“Hello . . . this is . . .” He tried to remember his name, but
nothing came.
She laughed. “You’re so cute when you’re disorientated. Are
you sure you know who you are?” she said in a low, even voice.
“Anyway, what are we doing for dinner tonight?”
“Oh . . . yeah, some of the girls in the office have invited us to
dinner in the Village. I’m going to leave work early today. Do you
want to go?”
“Sure, why not. So anyway, text me the address, and I’ll see you
there. But I’ll be a bit late, as I have to see a client—just half an
hour or so. Okay, so text me,” Nava said.
“There’s no need for a text. It’s at the Seven Stars Café. Do you
remember it? We were there a few months back.”
“It’s on West 8th Street, right? Near 6th Avenue?”
“Yes, that’s it . . . so I’ll see you there then . . . bye.”
“Bye, sleepy head.”
He attempted to respond and was contemplating one of his
standard verbal parries when she hung up. He flipped the phone
shut and placed it in his shirt pocket.
Taking the laptop from the desk, he tried to relax on the couch
near the window. He followed this pattern at the end of every day to
extract a few extra words from his tired and unwilling brain. He
started to reread the document he had been working on over the
last week; he tried to fall into the flow of it. The paper explored
trends in globalization and the need for world citizenship. He was
scheduled to present it at a law conference in Europe. Though on
this evening, he felt like a toy that was overwound. Continual late
nights were beginning to accumulate.

After a few minutes of writing, where nothing of significance
came into his mind, he stared over the screen and focused on the
world outside. He did not have the concentration to continue
writing, so he closed the laptop. He got up and walked over to the
intersection of glass in the corner of his office. He looked down at
Bryant Park. People were walking through the snow, and as he
glanced at another building, he saw people through office windows.
He saw the worlds beyond the mirrors and a plethora of human
activity. He looked back at the main office space on his floor, and he
saw yet more people: his colleagues and office staff. They look
happy, for the most part, he thought. He was content with what he
saw.
Daylight was fading as he gazed out over the city. In
concurrence, artificial lights slowly appeared. The reds and oranges
of sunset gradually gave way to blue-white illumination. New York
would soon take on its nightly transformation, a rhythm that was
worn into his daily life, and he noted that his own reflection in the
window had appeared now as the light outside continued receding.
He stared at his face for a few moments, then went back to the
couch and lay down. He closed his eyes for what he thought would
be only a few minutes. He intended to rest and then head out to the
café. He glided steadily into the horizon of sleep. The borders
between waking and dreaming seamlessly folded into each other.
In a dream he found himself lying on the couch. He opened his
eyes and stared at the ceiling for a moment. He thought that he was
still awake, so standing up and walking over to the window, he
looked down at Bryant Park and then at 42nd Street.
A girl in an intense yellow dress was walking through a large
crowd of people, and she cut through them effortlessly. The shade
of yellow in her dress struck like a bell against muted tones in the
dusk-lit snow.
Leaving the sidewalk behind her, she crossed the street near one
side of the New York Public Library and the beginning of Bryant
Park. She walked in a perfect line and fell in flawlessly with the

crisscross of the traffic. She did not deviate for them or they for her.
Each passed by unhindered in a harmony of color and movement.
Entering the park, she walked along a sidewalk that ran parallel
with 42nd Street. The stark, denuded trees and their entangled
branches obscured her figure. He realized that she would eventually
disappear behind buildings on the far side of the park, and he felt a
strong need to run after her. If he lost her now, he may never find
her again. He sprinted from the office to the elevator and soon
found himself in the park, crunching the snow beneath his shoes as
he followed her. At a distance ahead, near the end of the park, was
a fountain. She passed by it, then crossed a street and disappeared
into 41st Street. He increased his pace to try to catch her, but she
moved farther away: she was moving quickly through the streets
without the need to run and seemed to be skipping through time in
fast-forward.
By the time he ran from 41st Street into Broadway, the
beginning of night had come. He continued to run toward the
center of Times Square. He caught sight of her in the distance for a
moment, but she was soon lost in a blur of people. He stopped and
leaned on his knees to catch his breath. As he looked around, he saw
that the square was filled with knee-high grass and a light layer of
snow. The streets and sidewalks were replaced by a large meadow.
The advertising lights and glass structures rising up from the
meadow were more than alien in this context. The grass was
suffused with subtle, muted colors coming from the lights in the
square.
At the center of the square, he walked on into the meadow.
Tears ran down his face. He stopped again and slumped to the
ground. The soft grass pushed against his knees, and, in that
instance, he felt someone’s arms supporting his body from behind.
“I know who you are,” a female voice uttered in delight.
She laughed as if she had just solved a playful riddle, and her
voice was overlaid with harmonic resonance and echo.
And arising from her words, his feelings changed from
depressed to exuberant. He felt an absolute radiance penetrate deep

into his body. It imparted a drug-like ecstasy that was both beautiful
and personal. He then rose to his feet and in the periphery of his
vision saw the yellow fabric in her dress. As he was about to act on
the impulse to turn around and face this unknown person, he heard
a voice. Initially it was in the tone of the woman behind him, but
then it morphed into another voice.
“Hooman . . . Hooman. Hey, Hooman! I’m sorry to wake you,
but the others are gone.”
In a daze he sat up. He looked up at Elliot. “Sorry, I don’t
understand. Who is gone?”
“They went to the café. I had a few things to do, so I stayed
back.”
“Oh . . . the café.”
“Are you sure you still want to come? You look tired.”
“No, I’m fine . . . and besides, my sister is meeting us there
later.”
“Shall we go together, then?”
Still in a daze he looked straight ahead. Fragments of the dream
were still replaying in his mind, and he could still feel a faint
resonance of ecstasy in his body.
She went to the corner of the office and took his herringbone
suit jacket and scarf from the coat stand. She came back and said,
“Here’s your jacket. I’ll wait next to the elevator.” She smiled,
placed his jacket and scarf in his lap, and then left the office. After a
minute, he got up and left.
In silence they took the elevator to the first floor.
Walking through the lobby, their footsteps echoed on the black
granite floors and reverberated off the gray and white marble walls.
Hooman looked over at her. “It’s great to have you as part of
our team. And I’m sorry I haven’t said hello earlier, but work has
been hectic recently.”
“That’s all right. The girls in the office said you would say hello
eventually.”
As they stepped through the rotating doors and out onto the
street, a flurry of snow fell over the park.

Putting his hand out, he commented in a whimsical tone,
“Look, a new season. Winter is on its way.”
“Apparently it’s going to come down heavy soon.”
“Oh good. I like the snow at this time of year. It’s decorative
but without the full intensity of winter. But strangely today has been
quite cold for this time of year. It’s twenty-nine degrees Fahrenheit,
and with the windchill factor that makes it twenty-seven, and I
didn’t bring my overcoat today. I didn’t think it would be this cold. I
guess we should find a taxi, or we could take the subway, I suppose.”
They crossed 42nd Street. As Hooman stepped off the road, he
realized they were standing on the sidewalk that the girl in his
dream had walked along. He stopped for a moment and stared at
the sidewalk.
After a while, he realized he was staring into space. “Sorry, I just
zoned out there,” he said.
They walked on toward the other end of the park, where they
crossed 6th Avenue and found themselves near one of his favorite
bookshops.
“Hey, can we stop at that bookshop?” he asked. He pointed at it
down 42nd Street.
The bookshop was old. It had overtones of a neglected
warehouse. The books were stacked into teetering piles, and the
space was generally chaotic in appearance, although books stocked
here were of a higher quality than the surroundings suggested.
Hooman had bought many obscure titles here that were not
available in more mainstream bookshops.
Squeezing their way toward the back of the store through the
narrowing aisles, they slowed in the middle of the long room.
“Are you looking for something in particular?” Elliot said.
“Huh . . . oh, no, I just had a feeling . . . I mean over the last
couple of days . . . that I should go look for a book. Any book,
really. I don’t know which one in particular. I’m guessing that may
sound a bit random.”
“No, not at all. I sometimes get an urge for chocolate that I
can’t explain either.”

He laughed. “You’re funny.”
Hooman continued to push toward the back of the bookshop.
They stopped at tables stocking architecture books. He flicked
through a few titles. “I was sure I would find something here . . .
well, maybe I’ll try somewhere else. None of these books look very
interesting.” He was quiet for a while, then turned to her. “You
know, I had an odd but compelling dream when you came into the
office.”
“Really . . . I hope I didn’t cut it short.”
“No, well, actually, I think you woke me at a pertinent time in
the dream.”
“What do you mean?”
“I am not sure exactly why . . . but, anyway, I saw this girl. And
she was wearing an intense yellow dress. She was walking through
Bryant Park . . . it’s hard for me to describe the way she was
beautiful.”
“Was she beautiful like a model is beautiful? I would have
thought it was easy to describe a beautiful woman.”
“You think so? I didn’t see her face . . . it’s like you know things
in some dreams. You don’t know how you know, you just know . . .
intuitively. This was more like . . .”—he hesitated—“a personal
beauty.”
“A personal beauty? I think I know what you mean. Her
personality was compelling.”
“Sort of . . . but it seemed broader than just personality. She
seemed transcendent. I can’t capture it in my mind. She had a
certain uniqueness . . . indefinable, really. And when I woke, I had a
certain ecstasy in my body that I have never felt before.”
“Sorry to change the subject, but are you into things of a
philosophical bent?”
“Actually, probably more . . . metaphysical or religious, but, yes,
for the most part philosophical. Can you tell?”
“I have to be honest. I heard from colleagues at the office that
you are not to be asked about philosophy or religion. I was just
curious because someone said . . . well, you seem like an interesting

person. From what I’ve heard. But I find it strange that people have
a need for spirituality . . . or metaphysics these days. A need for
philosophy is understandable, stripped of religion. And I heard you
follow some kind of Eastern religion.”
“Yes, I’m a Bahá’í.”
“Oh, yes . . . I’ve heard of that religion, vaguely. I think it
developed in what used to be the Ottoman and Persian Empires in
the 1800s. But these days it’s more global . . . right?”
“Yes, that’s right.”
“It is obscure, isn’t it? I read an article about it a long time ago.
Something about all religions being one and all humanity united as
one. I think the article revolved around the idea that there is only
one God for every religion. But it doesn’t mean much to me
personally. I’m not a believer in anything much . . . least of all
metaphysics or religion. Are your parents Bahá’í as well?”
“No, they’re Jewish. I became a Bahá’í in my early twenties. My
parents knew Bahá’ís in Iran and hooked up with them in Australia
after they emigrated. That’s where I learned about it. But I didn’t
become a Bahá’í officially until I came to New York to study law.
There was a Bahá’í Society at New York University.”
“Yes, I heard you’re from Iran. But your accent? It’s very
international. I couldn’t fully tell where you were from when I first
heard you in the office. You have a bit of an Australian and
American accent . . . it’s always moving around, between the two.”
“Like I said, my parents immigrated to Perth when I was a kid.
That’s where I got the Australian accent from. My father’s brother
had a business in Perth, so the family moved to Australia to help
him with the business, but many Jews were repatriated to Israel after
the formation of the state in 1948. Since then, there has been a
steady flow out of Iran. And a lot left after the Iranian and Cultural
Revolutions in Iran too.”
“I can’t say I know much about Iranian politics, other than
snippets in the news.”
“Well, it has always been difficult for minorities in Iran in recent
history. I mean I never had anything but good memories of Iran,

mostly. But as some of my friends point out, I never lived through
either of the revolutions. When you are a child, your parents tend to
shield you from certain negative aspects of life, so I was oblivious to
the hardships back then. I wasn’t very aware of the difficulties in
Iran, politically or religiously. My innocence and ignorance of life
was only broken in my teens.”
“And your sister, is she Jewish too?”
“Nominally, let’s say. She does believe in God but has never
elaborated on her belief much. Which is fine. But what about you?”
“Oh, me? Well, my parents are loosely Russian Orthodox
Christians. My grandparents were stricter, but I don’t subscribe to
their faith. I don’t believe in God really and can’t see the point. I
think it’s just a kind of mass . . . well, a sad delusion, like fairy tales
or something. I mean, I suppose a belief in God is based on ancient
myths, before science could actually explain existence in real terms,
you know, scientifically and rationally.”
“I see,” he said, smiling.
“Oh . . . I’m sorry. I realize that sounds like I think believing in
a God is childlike or something.”
“No, that’s fine. Being childlike has its advantages.” He smiled
and continued. “Do you mind working with a person who is
irrational and unscientific?”
“That doesn’t mean that I think your beliefs are silly. I am just
speaking from my own perspective . . . about religion in general.
Growing up as I did, religion seemed like another type of Santa
Claus story, a fairy tale or something, like I said before. Like God
being an old man who lives in the sky and who enjoys punishing us
for our sins. Do you know what I’m trying to say?” she said.
“Well, yes, I do, but I think religion is a little more complex than
Santa Claus and the old man in the sky. But, hey, don’t worry. It’s
great that you have thought about it that much. You’re very honest
and I like that. Most people in the office ignore me when I start
talking about subjects with even the faintest religious aspect. It
makes me feel like a child who has an imaginary friend.” They
laughed, and he continued. “I don’t mind you saying God is like a

child’s fairy tale. Life itself is a fairy tale and full of its own
particular illusions. Every person has their own subjective
expression of the strange, unexplainable beauty of it all.”
“Yes, it is like that sometimes, I guess,” she responded.
“Religion is just a collective way to organize the fairy tale. And
it is possible for religion and science to find some middle ground
when it comes to explaining the mysteries of existence. Well, that’s
how it is in my world.”
She laughed at that last comment.
Hooman noticed that Elliot’s hand was unconsciously resting on
a book titled Modernist Architecture in America. The cover was an
interior photograph of Terminal 5 at JFK Airport.
“This looks nice.” She picked it up and turned the pages over in
a measured way. “The print quality is quite special. Nice thick pages
too,” she said and rubbed a page between her thumb and forefinger.
He looked at it with more intent. “Oh, yes. It might make a
good coffee-table book.” She passed the book to him, and he
opened it and buried his face in its pages. His muffled voice escaped.
“I love the smell of books, the ink and paper. It’s the perfume of
meaning.” He withdrew his face from the pages. “Shall I get it?
What do you think?” he asked.
“I would buy it,” she exclaimed with restrained enthusiasm.
A line of people stood at the counter in the front of the shop.
He glanced at his watch. “Actually, we better go . . . we’re already
late. Maybe I’ll get it another time.”
“Don’t worry, Hooman, I think it’s a fairly loose arrangement
tonight at the café. Let’s go line up at the counter.”
Hooman stepped out of the bookshop and onto the sidewalk.
He noticed that the snow had dissipated. Instead of taking the
subway, they hailed a taxi and headed toward Greenwich Village.
Hooman leafed through the pages of his new book with an absent
mind; he strained his eyes in the low and dappled light that filled the
taxi.
Elliot stared out of the window. He looked over at her and
noted her pale skin and high cheekbones contrasting against the

multicolored blur of the street passing by outside; the colored lights
passed through the foggy glass and painted her skin in soft, subtle
hues. Her life played out against the backdrop of many others. She
was an interesting person: initially shy but direct and honest. He
liked her. The snow began to fall heavily as their taxi found a way
through the streets in Greenwich Village.
As they arrived, two of their colleagues were visible from the
street. They were huddled around a rickety wooden table. The café,
darkly lit, exuded a retro air. Liberal helpings of secondhand,
mismatched furniture crowded the space, and every table had its
own 1950s lampshade.
Hooman and Elliot went through the door, and a bell rang out.
He moved toward his colleagues and sat beside a lampshade near
the table.
After sitting down, Elliot tapped the cover of Hooman’s new
book. It now lay in the light of the lamp. She tried to attract his
gaze.
Picking it up, he reciprocated. “Yes, this is an interesting book.
There are some great black-and-white shots.”
He was looking at Paula now, who was about to reply, but he
peered over her shoulder at the door. The bell had rung, and Nava
came through the doorway with an unfamiliar figure behind her.
“I thought you were coming later?” he asked.
“I was. But I was diverted. A pleasant diversion, I might add.”
The shape of Allison’s face emerged from the half-light. As she
came closer to the table, everyone swiveled to greet her and Nava.
“Hi . . . I’m Allison . . . from Melbourne, Australia.”
“This is Hooman,” Nava said, pointing at her brother.
“Hi, Hooman, it’s nice to meet you.” Allison leaned over the
table and shook his hand.
He returned her gaze. Something about her voice seemed
familiar to him, but he could not quite place the tone in her voice;
he thought he could hear a faint version of the harmonic resonance
in the voice of the woman in his dream. This soon faded, and he
did not take the impression any further.

Nava introduced Allison to the others. “This is Paula, Rachel,
and, sorry, I don’t know your name.”
“I’m Elliot.”
“These are Hooman’s law colleagues, from the firm.”
Allison walked around the table and took a big leather armchair
from another table. She dragged it between Elliot and Hooman.
Everyone slipped back into the groove of previous talk, which was
mostly legal. Allison slumped into the seat, and, after a while,
Hooman observed her listening quietly to the various conversations
around the table. She maintained a pseudo interest in Nava’s
conversation. Nava animatedly recounted the events of the day so
far and ended with her surprise at Allison’s out-of-the-blue phone
call. Allison seemed to exude a certain indefinable detachment.
Nava giggled, turning to Allison. “It’s going to be such fun,
showing you around the city. It’s a much better place than boring
old Melbourne! I can’t understand you. Were you really thinking
not to call me straight away? You crazy girl!” Allison smiled.
Allison was out of place amongst the crisp-suited gathering but
perfectly in keeping with the establishment. Allison’s tired leather
jacket and her male vintage watch blended with the faded armchair.
Hooman hoped she felt comfortable with the group, and after
several minutes of seeming to ignore her, he turned to Allison. “You
look worn out. I hope Nava didn’t drag you out against your will?”
he asked.
“Well, yes, I am a bit tired from the flight over. I didn’t sleep
much, but that’s okay. I would have been bored in the hotel staring
at the ceiling and attempting to sleep.” She glanced at her watch
and tapped it. “My watch is still set to Australian time. It’s nine in
the morning, but I feel relatively bright considering the time
difference. Waking up tomorrow and staying awake, that’s going to
be interesting. Hopefully the jet lag will wear off soon.”
“Nava has told me a lot about what you two got up to . . .
studying together at RMIT Uni,” Hooman said.

“Yes, we were in different degrees but shared a crossover class:
the History of Art and Design. At the time I was studying
photography.”
“But didn’t you study something else? I can’t remember what it
was now.”
“Yes. After RMIT, I went to the University of Melbourne,
where I did a bachelor of arts with two majors in philosophy and
French. When I think back, we had some great times together,” she
said, smiling.
“Are you visiting for a while?”
“I am, yes. I’ll continue my studies here: a master’s in
philosophy at Columbia University. It’s been two years since I
finished that University of Melbourne course.”
“Don’t mention philosophy, Allison,” Nava interrupted. “He’ll
start talking about religion.” She rolled her head back, closed her
eyes, and pretended to snore.
The others laughed.
Allison put her hand on Hooman’s arm. “It’s a guess on my
part, but Hooman seems intelligent enough not to be fanatical,” she
said.
“Oh noooo . . . not you too. Are you on Hooman’s side now?”
Nava asked.
Allison laughed, looking at Hooman. He turned to Nava with a
faint smile. He wanted to laugh but held himself back.
“I know being part of a religion these days can be considered
abnormal by some. But just think of all the wars humanity would be
missing out on. There’s nothing like a religious war to divert the
great unwashed from their suburban slavery. I’m grateful to religion
for that. Aren’t you?” Allison asked in mock seriousness.
She looked around the table for a response and finally to
Hooman. He smirked.
“Don’t start, Allison! You’re getting too serious. No serious talk
please. Weirdo alert!” Nava bleated out blip sounds, which increased
when she directed her hand, with her pretend weirdo meter, toward
Allison.

“Blip . . . blip . . . blip . . . blip, blip, blip, blip, blip.”
“Hey, hey! Don’t be mean, Nava. That’s enough,” Hooman
inserted.
Nava ignored him. “I’m so very sorry, Allison, but it appears
you have some worthy competition in the running for the weirdo
awards.” She now pointed her pretend meter at her brother, but this
time with no blipping sound.
“It’s not working,” he said, raising his eyebrows.
“It broke . . . it couldn’t handle the strain,” Nava said.
He smiled and shook his head.
Nava then leaped into his lap, nearly toppling the chair he was
sitting on and bumping the table. “Oh, I’m sorry. Do you forgive
me?” She wrapped her arms around his neck.
“Of course, I forgive you. It goes without saying, but you spilled
Rachel’s coffee.” Rachel began to soak up the spill with napkins.
“Sorry, Rachel,” Hooman said and smiled.
“That’s okay. I’m enjoying the spectacle,” Rachel replied.
“Gee, thanks for the support.” He stretched his neck and peered
over Nava’s shoulder at Allison. “Do you want to have a hug, too,
from my wonderful sister?” he asked Allison.
“No, thanks. I’m fine over here. She’s all yours. Besides, she
looks comfortable with you.”
“Hey! That’s a great idea.” Nava swapped laps and wrapped
her arms around Allison. “You little devil! Here you are, after no
word for a year, and, of course, I forgive you for ignoring me. You’re
always depressed—you can’t help it.”
“Yes, yes . . . I’m always depressed and I can’t help it,” Allison
said in a monotone, robotic voice. They laughed.
Nava turned to Hooman and began telling him about Allison’s
road trip around Australia. Hooman tried to talk further with
Allison about her travels, but Nava, still sitting in Allison’s lap, was
painfully hyperactive and kept sidelining the flow of their
conversation until Elliot engaged Nava. Asking the standard
questions, Elliot started with what Nava did for a living. Once
distracted by Elliot’s questions, Nava took a seat next to her, and

they began talking about the latest developments in the world of
interior design.
“Hey, I’m sorry about that. Nava can be a bit over the top
sometimes, but you may already know that,” Hooman remarked
sympathetically.
Allison nodded once and slowly said, “That’s what I love about
her. Nava is playful, but what comes with that is a certain openness.
And I like her exuberance and radiance. It gives me energy.”
“That’s true. You’re right. I guess I might take that for granted
sometimes. When we were growing up, she was always the same.”
For some time Hooman was attentive, with his usual politeness.
Dinner came and disappeared, but eventually—with a mixture of
his week’s accumulated fatigue and the warmth coming from the
café kitchen—he found his mind drifting sideways. Allison’s mouth
opened and closed silently. He saw the words come out but did not
hear them.
Following the lines and forms of her face, his vision arrived at
her eyes. In an instance of languid, still time, he saw clear white,
then blue rims enclosing a black sea of circular space. He noted his
own face and the dark reflection of the café interior sitting on the
curve of her eye. After a few moments of staring, and with the
faintest embarrassment, he felt that he had stared too long at her
and somehow seen through to her more private self.
Overwhelmed with sleep, his eyelids closed involuntarily for a
moment. Then with no idea of the line of conversation, he asked,
“Sorry, what was that?”
“I was saying, I loved the view of Manhattan when I came over
the bridge tonight. Isn’t it great? I can’t help liking it. Do you get
sick of people like me, tourists, asking you about New York?”
“No, of course not. No, you’re excited. You’ve never been here
before, so that’s only natural. I haven’t tired of New York yet. The
view from our apartment is good too. Come over and have a look
whenever you want. Where are you staying?”
“In a hotel on the Upper West Side, but I hope to find
something more permanent near the university.”

“I imagine you will find something soon. There are plenty of
student accommodations up near Columbia. And I am sure Nava
has already asked you to stay with us.”
“Yes, on the way over here. That’s kind of you both, but I’ll be
fine.”
“Why don’t you come for dinner tomorrow? I’ll make some
Persian rice and kebab and . . . and something else, when I think of
it.”
“That’s all arranged.”
“Oh! It is? Of course, I should have guessed Nava would ask
you.”
He pushed the corner of the book unconsciously and then
rhythmically tapped his fingers on its cover.
He watched Allison stare at the cover image, which was an
interior shot of Terminal 5. She picked the book up. “That’s such a
lovely building. What’s your opinion? I passed it tonight on the way
out of the airport. I saw photos of the interior years ago,” she said.
“Yes, it is an interesting building—though I’ve never been
inside.”
“Really! How long have you been here in New York?”
“I haven’t seen the Statue of Liberty either. Not up close,
anyway.”
“Oh, well, that’s forgivable, but not seeing an Eero Saarinen
building in the flesh, that is bad,” she said and smiled.
“Well, yes, I’ve been busy. You like the building that much?”
“Yes, of course. I like a few key pieces of modernist
architecture. Not everything . . . just some of it, and that is really a
beautiful example. It’s the interior that I am really fond of. I mean,
it’s an instance where the circular form has been used in modernist
architecture instead of the dreaded utilitarian square. And did you
know Saarinen used two curved triangles back-to-back, to make it
look like an abstract bird with its wings outstretched?”
“No, I didn’t, but I get it. It makes sense now that you point it
out,” said Hooman.

“And, well, I like anything connected to the image or likeness of
a bird.”
“Really, why?” asked Hooman.
“My surname is Bird.”
“Oh . . . okay.” Hooman nodded.
She put the book back on the table, and he then picked it up
and slowly flipped through its pages. The book cover of the interior
of the terminal had intimated something to him: a connection to
Allison, the girl whose voice was like the voice of the girl in the
yellow dress in his dream who had said to him, “I know who you
are.” The building’s forms tugged at him. He resisted the urge to
read more into this; however, the fragments of the day had an
underlying power and floated up into his consciousness. They
shuffled into a compelling order. He found it hard to shake the
prescience of this meeting, which had become clear in retrospect. It
seemed that he had already met her in the past and knew the exact
moment that he would find her again in the future.
“You seem distracted,” she said.
“Oh, no. Just tired. I’m sorry. I haven’t been entirely present
with you tonight, but I am now.”


The Lion and the Sun
On this journey the wayfarer dwelleth in every abode, however humble, and
resideth in every land. In every face he seeketh the beauty of  the Friend; in
every region he searcheth after the Beloved. He joineth every company and
seeketh fellowship with every soul, that haply in some heart he may discern
the secret of  the Beloved, or in some face behold the beauty of  the Adored
One.1
—Bahá’u’lláh, The Seven Valleys
Late in the morning on the following day, Allison stood in line for
coffee at a Starbucks café on Times Square. Although it was not
snowing, the air was still frigid. Before leaving the Seven Stars Café
on the previous night, Nava had loaned Allison her thickly lined
winter jacket, a scarf, and a beanie. Allison felt insulated from the
weather now.
Her body swayed slightly, and she fought to keep her eyes open;
the effects of jet lag had set in now. She ordered two small coffees: a
mocha and a latte.
She found a table under an intense halogen light near the front
window. The glass front of the café was a border between two
worlds: the warm, bright interior and the blue, overcast light in
Times Square. Rummaging around her backpack, she felt her
camera and then her Rough Guide to New York. She took the guide out,
opened it, and scanned the contents page. But her lack of sleep and

the general din of surrounding chatter coalesced and broke her
concentration. She gave up reading and began to observe people in
Times Square walking past the café window.
On the previous day, the plane had picked up more American
passengers on the Los Angeles to New York leg of the flight. At the
time she had noted that the hum in the cabin had increased.
American voices were slightly louder than other nationalities.
Beyond voices there were other signs of cultural inflation: the size of
food servings was one thing she noticed immediately. She recalled
the size of her diner breakfast early that morning on Amsterdam
Avenue. She had felt thoroughly bloated afterward and did not
understand her compulsion to eat it all; it seemed like a waste to just
leave it unfinished. She took a sip of her mocha, and her thoughts
returned to the night before. As she was about to get into the taxi,
she remembered seeing cars picking people up at the entrance to
the terminal. The cars were gargantuan even by Australian
standards. Everything was big, and people swelled to accommodate
it as they gulped it all down either literally or figuratively.
Everything hummed and vibrated as if it were a large furnace-like
god (a Deva) unconsciously consuming and burning energy. Now
she could throw her meager sacrificial offerings into its mouth.
Attempting to read again, she looked down at the guide. Once
more, the volume of everyone’s conversations drew her attention
into other peoples’ lives. It was hard to resist becoming an invisible
symbiotic organism, and she had to concentrate to block out the
conversations around her. Opening the book at random, and with
her latte in hand, she began to read. The information in the guide
was the customary fare one would have expected: summaries of
watered-down facts about the many neighborhoods in Manhattan.
But only one area on the island seemed interesting to her: Harlem.
She flicked through the book until she found it.
The neighborhood was referred to in the first paragraph as an
area in which early Dutch settlers tended farms in the early to
mid-1600s. Roughly three hundred years after this, the Harlem
Renaissance movement flourished, and she highlighted one

sentence in her mind: “Jazz musicians and writers who emerged
from Harlem at that time increased the credibility of the artistic
contributions of all African Americans to the life of America, and
because of this, they have left an indelible mark on history generally,
above and beyond American history.”
Although Harlem’s famous historical figures were interesting to
her, what really interested her were the many secret histories of
ordinary people: the average person’s contribution to Harlem may
be just as significant as that of its public figures. One unseen act of
selflessness by someone whose life seems ordinary might create a
ripple in time and positively affect the course of history.
But the lives of average people were always shrouded in
historical darkness and obscurity. Their lives were never recorded
tangibly beyond a few artifacts, photographs, or home movies.
Their memories—the keepers of all their secret histories, with all
their uncertainty and fuzzy subjectivity—died with them. And this
was how history faded out after successive generations, with no way
to tell what a person’s contribution to this life had been or would be
if it were carried over into the future. As Allison was a newcomer to
America, and more specifically Manhattan and Harlem, it would be
hard for her to penetrate the historical undercurrents flowing
beneath these places.
Her solution to reveal the hidden mask of history was to
construct a thought experiment: to follow the life of every individual
in Manhattan in an imagined omnipresence. To make it workable
for her imagination, she narrowed the proportions of the idea down
to everyone she could observe milling past the café or through
Times Square generally. For each person she imagined fresh pages
written on the fly and stored, at the end of each day, in a massive
life-story depository—an infinite version of the New York Public
Library. In each life-book Allison could examine personal attributes,
loves, hates, goals, predicted fates, or any other conceivable type of
information from droll facts to sublime aspirations.
As she took another sip from her latte, she thought about the
man who served it. She had read his name tag and pondered the

name, Frank Paul. What was his secret history? What action,
reaction, or memory of his had silently entered into the slipstream
of life and indelibly changed the course of the future for everyone?
Then she thought about the power of names to underpin our lives
because names were the fundamental tags that ordered the
conceptual hierarchy of people who had influenced the course of
history. She wondered what the power of his name was. She
thought about the symmetry of Frank’s name. “Frank” and “Paul”
were two first names, so his name had first-name symmetry instead
of first and last name asymmetry; when she had read his name tag,
he felt like two people instead of one. She then realized that if she
switched his name around, it would come out as Paul Frank, the
clothing designer.
In her mind she began to construct sentences to add to Frank’s
life-book:
Frank Paul, a man with first-name symmetry, serves Allison Bird, the one
person, two different coffees. He worries about his impending exams in
French. God, ever the unhelpful narrator, would continue with, “If  Frank
had known that Allison had taken the same major in her undergraduate
degree, she could help him review the mock exam papers. Coincidentally,
Allison was on her road trip, and Frank was on vacation. On January 4,
1993, with only 130 feet separating them, they stood with their hands on
the railing of  Sydney Harbour Bridge. Frank saw the Opera House. From
her own vantage point, Allison gazed out at the bay. She watched all the
intense white sails tilting on the water and boats cutting white wounds into
the bay’s rich blue flesh.” Allison took over the narration again. Frank then
worries he has put too much froth on Allison’s latte.
This kind of knowledge would be useful, she thought. Because
if she had known that in her future she would meet Frank, she could
have walked the 130 feet that had separated them and introduced
herself. “Hello. You don’t know me, but we are going to meet again
in roughly six years, in a café in Manhattan, and you are going to
serve me a mocha and a latte coffee. And even though you’re not

interested in it now, you will study French. But don’t worry, you will
like it, and I will be able to help you . . . in five years and eleven
months.” But her thought experiment was no more than a
whimsical attempt to deny reality its many masks and find the
counterpoint between our desires to achieve great things in the
future and the vagaries of history that bring us low and prove the
powerlessness of our dreams.
And beyond the individual contributions in history were the
collective contributions, made up of crisscrossing individual
journeys. She could see in this the possibility of rich personal
intersections in lives, which if consciously pursued, rather than left
to chance, could lift every person a little higher in their
understanding of our collective and configured destiny. A
configured destiny is a destiny by design, a destiny that each person
can, by the choices they make, shape and form themselves into a
desired arrangement or configuration of intersecting pathways that
move them toward their individual and collective destiny in this life
and beyond.
And even though it might seem trivial that a person could lift
another higher in the evolution of humankind by serving the other
coffee, when thinking about Frank Paul again, Allison’s latte tasted
fractionally better. Her coffee was not just a crass, mass commercial
latte pumped out by an impersonal, global coffee grinder. Frank
Paul’s latte and mocha had been made especially for Allison Bird,
with all his care and attention, and that was a useful intersection in
the lives of two people, a small act of selflessness that made the
experience of being human a little better. As she finished her latte,
Allison had thought up a new name for her own fantastical
organically grown and ethical coffee company: The Selfless Latte
Company.
By now her mocha coffee was lukewarm, and she gulped most
of it down before it became cold. She looked around cautiously
before letting out a burp and laughed at her own impertinence. As
she dumped the cup onto the side table, it tipped over, and a small
amount of coffee spilled out; it formed a random shape. Its

attractive form impelled her to think about the possibility that her
imaginary life-story depository could store books on more than just
people, but objects also, and perhaps concepts, places, and any
other conceivable entity, be the entity concretely tangible or not.
Objects could have meaningful intersections too, and these could
become symbiotically fused with human existence and become an
extension of the mind.
Allison now added the possibility of a book of Numbers and
books of Coffee Spills, Impertinent Burps, and Red-Sock-Wearing People—
the last book was inspired by a girl passing the café with a pair of
red socks so vivid that they burnt a faint echoing impression into
Allison’s retinas.
But these books in isolation would not necessarily be significant,
because each book would only be a catalog of names, dates, times,
or lists of attributes with a certain linear logic that might be
interesting but not remarkable. The crisscrossing intersections, the
invisible hyperlink-like connections, across each book were what
really interested her. She arranged a sequence of superficially
disconnected events in her imagination: these were herself burping
and spilling the coffee, the spill forming a shape, everyone in
Manhattan wearing red socks on that day, and a mathematician in
Columbia University’s School of Mathematics who would be
working away on an algorithm.
As the mathematician wrote the final answer to his algorithm
and penned the final digit, the last stroke of his pen would coincide
with her burping. At the time of the burp, all the red-sock wearers
would align into the exact shape of her coffee spill. Unconsciously
the algorithm was pushed from the mathematician’s mind into a
larger algorithm that controlled the movement of the people
wearing red socks. There must be many hidden algorithms
supporting the delicate interplay and dance of the universe; thus the
mathematical complexity of the universe must be large and
incomprehensible.
Even to a person flying over Manhattan at that exact moment,
this shape would seem random unless they knew that this was the

exact shape of Allison’s coffee spill, and only then might it seem
oddly coincidental. All this might be recorded in a book entitled
Totally Ridiculous Symmetrical Conjunctions of  Happenings, and this was
how it was—the strange, wonderful, and surreal wonderland of her
mind.
In reality no one could ever really know these connections,
because people commonly existed in a finite bubble of awareness
and did not see the connections in life beyond the limits of their
senses. Nor did they look past what they classed as rational. People
usually looked for symmetrical relationships in nature and
humanity, which were obvious and easy to see; this ruled out a large
chunk of the hidden asymmetric universe. People did not see the
synergy in their everyday life, the web of causation that came down
the line of history, and the remarkable beauty of the unremarkable
that they took for granted with every breath. Every seemingly
disparate thing in the universe was held together with a web of
gossamer threads. Allison desperately wanted to see the web of
creation shimmer in the light of her mind in a unity of unshakable
connections.
* * *
After several minutes of staring out the café window, she drifted
back to reality. She flicked to the section in the guide on Soho and
Tribeca. She had wanted to visit some of the galleries in that area,
so flipping to the map of the Times Square area, she worked out a
possible route to the nearest subway entrance, which was not far
from the café.
Near the entrance to 42nd Street Station, she stopped in front
of a subway map. Her finger traced along the A train line until her
finger stopped at Canal Street Station near Chinatown. She then
descended into the subway tunnels, which were dusty and tortuous,
and the platforms, with their connecting gangways, felt like an
Escher print that she had seen called Relativity. She waited, and after
a few minutes, a train came into the platform.

At Canal Street she got off and walked out of the subway via a
stairway. Chinatown was a visual feast. There was a mass of gaudy
trinkets, cheap computer books, strange herbs, and empty crates
with rotting vegetables sporadically strewn about; Melbourne’s
Chinatown seemed small and clinical by comparison. She walked
past several side streets before stopping in front of a fish market.
Her hands felt the shock of cold as she took her hands out of her
pockets to find her guidebook in her backpack. The pungent smell
of dried fish was something she had not experienced before, and it
was on par with the shock of the cold. She looked at the map in her
book and decided to walk up Broadway. Walking along the sidewalk
for a few more minutes, she passed more side streets, then turned
left onto Broadway. After nine minutes, she heard a train rumble
beneath her as she passed over a grilled air vent. On a street corner
she noticed a thick ice sheet on a large puddle. She cracked the ice’s
surface with her foot and felt the pleasant vibration rise through the
sole of her boot.
As she neared the heart of Soho, the shop fronts became
smarter. Outside a Prada store she peered through large windows.
She eventually turned around and saw a gallery on the other side of
the street. She crossed over and walked up to the gallery. Its
polished brass window trim framed a stark, white, halogen-lit
interior; the searing whiteness of it pulled her into the gallery.
After she walked by the large color-saturated, abstract canvases
at the front of the gallery, she saw a curious exhibit toward the back.
She walked up to a series of small white cubes that sat atop waist-
high white plinths. At first glance they appeared quite plain, but as
she walked closer, she could see that a glass lens sat on the top of
each cube. The lenses were roughly the size of her hand. Beneath
the lens of the first cube, she peered at a small sculpture of a green-
bronze lion swallowing a yellow sun. The surface of the lion had a
certain rough texture to it, and on its side were seven yellow stars.
Each lens gave the illusion that the lion was sitting on the top of the
white cube rather than being trapped inside. As her hand reached

out and touched where she expected the sculpture to be, her skin
felt only the cool curved glass of the lens.
“It’s fun, isn’t it?” came a voice from behind her.
Startled, she jumped back. She turned to find a well-dressed
man in his early fifties.
“I’m sorry . . . I didn’t mean to startle you,” he said.
“You own the gallery?”
“Yes. This is my place.”
Allison could discern a mixed French American accent. He
seemed bemused by something she could not fathom.
Allison began talking in French. “These boxes . . . they’re
quirky.”
He responded in French. “They’re optical illusions . . . but such
fun, such fun.”
“Yes. Initially, I had a fleeting thought that they might be
holographic, but clearly they’re not.”
“Please continue looking. I didn’t mean to interrupt you.”
“Are there more animals?” she asked.
“Yes . . . and, well, no. You’ll see.”
The bemused expression had been fixed to his face the whole
time, and he then motioned her to continue with an open hand
pointing to the next cube.
She proceeded to it, but when she peered in, it contained not
another animal but the same lion swallowing a sun. “It’s the same.”
She looked for an acknowledgment, and, after a short pause, he
chuckled, which confused her as her remark did not seem that
comical.
He recovered his composure. “Yes . . . and, well, no. Look
again.”
Peering in, and this time straining her eyes to their limit,
something appeared that she had not seen before. What she had
assumed was surface texture or maybe fur was not actually texture.
Script emerged from the surface of the lion, which was barely
legible.

Just able to make sense of it, she remarked, “It’s a Middle
Eastern language. I’ve seen script like that before. Is it from a book?
Is it some kind of narrative?”
The owner walked over to the plinth. They both looked into the
cube.
“Yes. It’s The Conference of  the Birds: a poetic narrative. Written on
each lion is a page or extract maybe. So the artist tells me. And the
green lion is an alchemical symbol. When a person on a higher
spiritual plane allows the green lion to eat them, they become
purified. They become spiritual gold. It’s the metaphysical version
of the transmutation of metals. Their soul is transmuted. And can
you see the seven stars on the side of the lion? The artist told me
that the stars are a reference to the seven valleys. The birds must go
through them to reach the goal of their quest. The Simorgh is what
they seek. It’s like the Phoenix. It’s the King of Birds.”
She had a fleeting thought of the Seven Stars Café on the
previous night and wondered if there was an odd and subtle
crisscross connection.
“The Conference of  the Birds. I’ve never heard of it,” she said. She
looked at the sculpture again. “Wow, it’s amazing. It must have
taken an eternity. The script . . . it’s unbelievably tiny,” she said.
“Yes, unbelievable and, yes, tiny. It’s fun, isn’t it?” He wrinkled
his forehead and raised his eyebrows. “But of course, dear,
everything took an eternity. It is before us . . . and behind us.” He
paused for a moment. “Everyone must traverse eternity,” he said,
then chuckled. And then his face went through the strangest
transformation as it went from a smile to an expression of utter
seriousness. She had seen all the wrinkles on his forehead smooth
out, and she had noted his eyes, which were an unusually saturated
blue. There was nothing in his expression now. It was vastly empty.
An infinite horizon to walk through with no goal, no beginning, and
no end. For just a moment she thought she heard him whisper, and
a faint harmonic resonated above the whisper. But she was not sure
if the whisper she had heard was her own dim thoughts or if
perhaps his thoughts had melded with hers.

“It is before us and behind us, eternity.”
She had continued to look at his mouth, and it had not moved.
A fading reverberation of his words echoed through her mind, and
somehow her thoughts carried that peculiar mixed accent of his,
and they even seemed to exude a mental identity that was not hers.
Perplexed by the accent that permeated her thoughts, and
uncomfortable with the silence that ensued, Allison was about to say
something to move the conversation along, but, appearing in the
periphery of her vision, a middle-aged woman left the street and
entered the gallery. The owner must have heard the woman’s
footsteps behind him. He grinned and bowed to Allison as he
backed away and spun around.
“Excuse me, my dear, have a look at the others, please, why
don’t you,” he said over his shoulder as he walked off to greet the
woman. Allison explored the remaining sculptures. All the lions had
the same stance and green patina and were differentiated only by
the script covering their bodies. She counted nine lions as she
panned around.
Her hands were regaining feeling now after the cold wind of
earlier. She looked at her watch and decided to move on and find
some of the more alternative galleries in Soho. When she turned
and looked for the gallery owner and the woman, they could not be
seen. Both had disappeared. She felt strangely alone in the space,
strangely exposed.
* * *
Later that day, after passing through several galleries dotted around
Soho, Allison slowly made her way toward Midtown, where she had
arranged to meet Hooman at his work toward the end of the day.
He was leaving work early today. But she ran out of time at
Madison Square Park, so she took a taxi for the remaining distance
and eventually got out at Bryant Park. Hooman’s building was
facing the park on 42nd Street. She walked through the park near

the New York Public Library, and then she crossed 42nd Street until
she walked through the rotating doors.
In the lobby she sat on a hard, minimalist chair and waited for
him to finish work. She observed workers depart through the
rotating doors. Studying the black granite flooring, she stared into
the line of wear made by many years of shoes treading over the
surface. Looking into the more polished sections, she noticed a dark
reflection moving toward her. She lifted her head up and saw
Hooman’s face beaming at her.
“Hello there!” he said with brightness in his voice. “How was
your day exploring the city?”
“Great, thanks. I had a good day. I really think I am going to
love living here. For a while at least.”
“It’s good to hear that. I want to know your impressions of the
city.”
She got up, and they walked to the back of the lobby, where
they descended the stairs to the basement parking garage. Hooman
had borrowed Nava’s car for the day. Once they were in the car, he
drove onto 42nd Street and headed toward Downtown Manhattan
via 5th Avenue.
“I thought we were going to New Jersey. Isn’t that where you
guys live?” she said after they had been driving for a few minutes.
“Yes, but I was talking to Nava today. We thought we would try
getting some tickets to The Lion King. We haven’t seen it but have
always heard it’s good, and we wanted to take you to a show.”
“That’s sweet, but you don’t have to.”
“Not your thing, eh? I told Nava you might prefer something
arty. Off-Broadway, perhaps.”
“Sometimes . . . but no, that’s fine. I don’t mind the glossy
productions now and then. I meant I didn’t want to trouble you
guys, that’s all.”
“Don’t worry about that. We like doing this. It gives us a chance
to see things we wouldn’t normally make time for. And besides,
Nava and I can be your cultural guides while you are here with us.”

“Well, that’s fine, then. I think I might enjoy this. A bonanza of
the obvious.”
“It’s fun, isn’t it?” he said.
These words stretched out and resonated. They touched Allison
gradually. “It’s fun, isn’t it” floated in her mind for a while more.
She had heard this. The realization found her eventually. “Sorry.
What did you just say?” she asked.
“I said it’s fun, isn’t it . . . going to these big Broadway
productions.”
“Oh, yes, yes, that’s true.” She sought to conceal her thoughts,
but her dimly agitated body language filtered through her.
“What’s up?”
“You just reminded me of that gallery owner. I told you about
him when we were in the parking garage.”
“Oh, right, the guy with the French accent.”
“Yes. It’s just that you said something that he said to me.”
“Really. What was that?”
“You said: ‘It’s fun, isn’t it.’”
“Oh, okay.”
“But it doesn’t really mean anything.”
They did not talk much after this as Hooman was concentrating
on navigating the rush-hour traffic. He turned onto Broadway.
Allison looked up at the city buildings passing by in the beginning
of the late afternoon sunlight. After twenty minutes, the car
rounded a corner, and the World Trade Center came into view.
Looking out the window, Allison looked at the looming towers as
they reached into the sky. The upper floors disappeared into clouds,
but eventually the blue sky beyond was clear when they came closer.
She looked up through the gaps in the passing clouds.
“Look at that. Wow! A monument to capitalist democracy,” she
said.
Hooman hunched forward over the steering wheel. “Yeah, tall,
aren’t they? Looking up at them from their base is the best way to
appreciate them properly. We come here for shopping now and
then.”

“Shopping?”
“In the basement, under the main towers.”
“Oh, okay.”
“This is where we’re picking Nava up from. There’s a last-
minute ticket place in the lobby of the North Tower. We’ll have to
take you up there one day—to the top, I mean. If you liked the view
on the bridge last night, there’s a restaurant on the top floor you
might like. The city is amazing from up there. It has a certain unreal
quality from that perspective. It’s like seeing the world in miniature
colored dots and lines of light—an abstraction of our humanity.”
“I’d like that.”
“Ah! Here she is. That saves us looking for a parking spot.”
Nava ran down the steps near the North Tower. She wobbled
on her high heels as she came.
Waving them down from the sidewalk, she launched herself
into the back seat. “Hey, sweetie, give us a hug.” She leaned over the
front seat, partially strangling Allison, then turned to Hooman.
“Well, there were no tickets for the show tonight. Only separate
seats, not three together. I’ll have to try some other sources I know.
What a waste. Damn.”
“That’s a pity. I was ready for a night out,” said Hooman. He
raised his forehead and continued. “Well, it’s back to our place for
dinner instead as we originally planned. Sorry, Allison.”
“Hey, that’s fine. There’s plenty of time for shows. I’ve only
been here two days now . . . there’s no rush.”
As they turned into a street heading back uptown, Allison
looked over her shoulder. Staring at the towers, now framed by the
car’s rear window, she thought about their monumental style. They
seemed, in a way she could not totally pin down, like two gigantic
megaliths from an age long gone. The cloud front broke for a few
minutes and revealed the upper floors fully.
Later that afternoon the car joined the traffic entering the
Lincoln Tunnel just as the snow began to fall. Eventually, at the
New Jersey end, the car drove out and passed into a small stretch of
riverside suburbia.

The convergence and divergence of all aspects of America
relative to her past life in Australia was still fresh in her eyes because
she was still peering at New York through the lens of a cultural
voyeur. On the way to Hooman and Nava’s home, Allison had once
more taken in the obscure detail that she presumed New Yorkers
would not see as anything other than ordinary. She saw that the
grubby tiles on the old tunnel walls contrasted sharply with the
many clean and modern cars filing through the tunnel; it was like
seeing fresh blood in old veins, she mused. New York as a world city
flexed in growth, age, and continual adaptation.
They drove through New Jersey. Allison observed the riverfront
with its white picket fences accompanied by simple wooden houses.
Nearly all these houses were painted white. The pervading
whiteness of the scene, augmented by the snowbound streets, was
occasionally broken by American flags drifting around in the breeze.
The reds and blues on many of these flags appeared washed out
and faded from either the sun or the cycles of many seasons;
roughly every fourth or fifth house had a flag.
As she continued to look out at the suburb, she saw Hooman in
the periphery of her vision look over his shoulder for a moment.
“Have you noticed all the flags hanging off the fronts of the
houses here?” he said.
“Yes, I have. I am looking at them now.” She did not look over
at him but continued to look out at the houses and the side streets,
where she could see even more flags in the distance.
“Interesting, eh?” he said.
“Yes, they are interesting. I have never seen this many flags on a
suburban street in Melbourne.”
“All the flags here was one of the first things I noticed when I
moved here. They’re everywhere, but you get used to them
eventually and then stop seeing them. They just sort of blend in and
become just ordinary. If you know what I mean,” Hooman said.
She finally looked over at Hooman, but he had looked back at
the road and continued to drive. The car hit some ice on the road
and lost traction for a few seconds; Allison felt the car slide sideways

slightly before correcting itself. She continued to look at yet more
flags as they passed by more houses.
Allison thought about a Jasper Johns painting of the American
flag, which was painted using similar muted, washed-out tones; she
had written an essay about the painting in the art history class that
had been a part of her photography certificate. At the time it
seemed to her as if Johns had stripped the flag of some of its
patriotism and recontextualized it as a purely artistic object.
The flags in these streets seemed that way to her now: a pattern
of colors and shapes without an undercurrent of national identity,
because she was still detached from American culture, an outsider,
looking in with both fascination and curiosity.
Though beyond Allison’s curiosity, American culture was not
straightforward; there were many incompatible elements within the
American Dream, either implicit or explicit, like any culture, even
her own. Clearly, there were winners and losers as not everyone
could attain the dream; hidden inside it was a false promise:
equality. In fact, it was deeper than just winners and losers. For
there to be winners, there had to be losers.
Allison thought about the long struggle that African Americans
and American Indians had faced to find cultural and economic
equality over hundreds of years; even now that equality had not
been fully realized in these two communities.
Since the early 1980s, Australia seemed to be drawing nearer to
American culture, more than at any time in the past. Allison saw a
blurring of distinct cultural identity between the two nations. Today,
as Australia’s strong socialistic past gradually disappeared, aspects
of American culture, particularly laissez-faire capitalism, seeped in
to fill the gaps, revealing many incongruous elements within
Australian culture.
She thought about the poverty and incarceration rates within
First Nations peoples across Australia that were similar to the
experiences of many African Americans in America. Not that
Allison had seen this growing up in Melbourne in the seventies and
eighties. Her eyes had only been opened to this after she had

finished high school, when she started hanging out with a more
socially aware crowd of people. A colloquialism in Australia that
reflected its socialist ideals was the idea of “a fair go,” which was the
idea of fairness to all or equal opportunity when trying to achieve
success within Australian culture, be that material or social, and it
paralleled aspects of the American Dream. This value was being
challenged now, and even globally the gap between the poor and
the wealthy was slowly increasing.
And when she had taken her photographs of homeless people
in Melbourne for the end-of-year exhibition, she had spent a lot of
time with these dispossessed and placeless people, even sleeping on
the streets for many weeks with her newfound friends; they were
birds with nowhere to rest or land, always hovering above an
unequal earth, hoping someone would see their humanity and lift
them up, so they could escape their poverty and find a home, either
metaphorically or literally.
A desert metaphor illustrated the incongruities of national
identity perfectly and encapsulated both her curiosity and her
disappointments within American and Australian culture. She had
been on her way to Hattah-Kulkyne National Park in northern
Victoria on the same day that she had left Melbourne and had
stopped to take a walk into scrub that had been burned by a forest
fire. She found wild honey from a beehive hidden in the hollow of a
blackened tree stump and had slit her tongue on a sharp leaf that
she had used to scoop the honey out of the stump; in the peculiar
taste of blood mixed with honey was her personal metaphor for
nation.
Issues of inequality across the world were not all negative in
Allison’s mind; there were many positive dialogues developing in
many countries across the world that addressed issues of racial and
economic inequality. Although, there was still much to be done that
might take many generations to fix before we could be satisfied that
we had reached the pinnacle of our ideals of equality both within
and across national boundaries in our emerging global community.

Eventually, they passed beyond the white wooden houses and
entered a part of New Jersey that was dotted with high-rise
apartments overlooking the Hudson River and facing the
Manhattan skyline. She looked back at the houses through the back
window of the car and realized that this encounter with New Jersey
suburbia was the first truly resonate experience of the precise reality
of American culture that she had hoped to see.
* * *
Allison’s decision to come to America was more than just a place to
finish her master’s degree, which she could have easily done in
Melbourne, and she had said this to Paul not long before leaving
Australia. “I want to get up close and personal . . . and, anyway, it’s
the minutiae I want to see. That precise reality that you can never
know unless you go to a place. I want to be properly immersed in
American culture.”
Paul responded, “But life is the same everywhere, just about. At
least in Western countries, I suppose. Why do you want to go there?
It’s nothing special.”
However, it was not only that she needed to experience the
special phenomena of the place. It was far more personal, even if
she would not admit it to herself. She needed a new mirror: a larger
and different cultural surface on which to project her meager image.
* * *
The snow dwindled as the car entered the underground parking
garage at Hooman and Nava’s apartment complex. From the
parking garage ramp, Manhattan, across the river, was visible
through portholes, and Allison watched the viewpoint lower and
eventually disappear as the car corkscrewed deeper into the
complex.


A Book of Birds
And if, by the help of  the Creator, he findeth on this journey a trace of  the
traceless Friend, and inhaleth the fragrance of  the long-lost Joseph from the
heavenly herald, he shall straightway step into THE VALLEY OF LOVE and
be consumed in the fire of  love. In this city the heaven of  rapture is
upraised, and the world-illuming sun of  yearning shineth, and the fire of
love is set ablaze; and when the fire of  love is ablaze, it burneth to ashes the
harvest of  reason.1
—Bahá’u’lláh, The Seven Valleys
In Hooman and Nava’s apartment, Allison warmed her hands in
front of a wall radiator that was mounted under the window. She
studied the view of the Hudson River and beyond that the
Manhattan skyline. The low sun was fading and peeked through the
horizon as it cast its diagonal light. Clouds spread ephemeral
shadows on the water as they moved. The warm light also
illuminated the buildings close to Manhattan’s waterfront, and these
subtle gray-red tints changed from moment to moment. It reminded
her a little of the muted hues in the desert back home. The desert
expressed a certain severe beauty, which the city now mirrored, as
both possessed attributes paradoxically full and empty.
Allison’s thoughts were broken as she heard Nava and Hooman
rummaging about the kitchen.

“Can I make you a coffee or herbal tea or something cold,
perhaps?” Hooman’s muffled voice came through the kitchen
doorway.
“Yes, please. Have you got any chamomile?”
A few moments later Hooman leaned out of the doorway. He
read the tag to her. “Chamomile mixed with spiced apple. Is that
okay?”
“That’s fine. Thanks.”
With warmth back in her blood, she left the window and the
radiator and looked around. The apartment was not what she had
envisaged from the little she knew of Hooman. The size of the
apartment was a peculiar conundrum. It was too small for a lawyer
of the stature described by Nava. He seemed to her to be a
somewhat conservative person, with restrained but not inarticulate
tastes, and she concluded that the apartment must have been his
place originally. The interior was fairly plain, with white walls and
worn parquetry wood floors, and Nava would have moved in later,
adding the hard-edged designer furniture, which Allison now
observed with a smile.
On the opposite wall, facing the view of Manhattan, was an
entire wall of books. The stark adjoining wall hosted only a single
large and colorful abstract canvas, which Allison knew must be
Nava’s too, as it was over-designed and not art so much as wall
decoration.
At the bookshelf she began to browse through the many titles. It
seemed to Allison that every genre and category of book she could
think of was represented. Hooman appeared with two cups of
steaming herbal tea.
“Ah, thanks,” she said. He passed her a cup. “I’m just looking at
your books here. You have some interesting and rare titles.”
“Thanks. Yes, I haven’t read half of them. My collecting
outstrips my ability to read them all.”
“Could I borrow some of these sometime?”
“Of course you can. No problem! Whatever you like, go for it.
You might like some of the philosophy, religion, and psychology

books over there.” He pointed to the lower shelves at the other end
of the room. “I mean, you won’t find anything to help you with
your master’s degree. There is nothing as intense or convoluted as a
university textbook, but you’re most welcome nonetheless.”
She made her way to the lower shelves and crouched down.
Her fingers moved across the spine of each book. Methodically she
read each one. From time to time she paused to blow on her tea to
cool it down before taking a tentative sip. Occasionally, she voiced a
title aloud, “Plato, The Republic,” then reverting to her mumbling,
she continued along the shelf, “Jung, Dreams . . . The Buddha,
Lankava Sutra, Rumi, hmm.” The aroma of the spiced apple and
chamomile tea and the smell of the old books transported her into
the world of the printed word. She contemplated the breadth of
knowledge that the bookshelf held. “This is like a small bookshop,
really,” she commented.
He laughed. “This is not everything, either. I have boxes full in
the closet and under my bed,” he said.
She smiled and took another sip of her chamomile tea. As her
eyes refocused on the bookshelf, they picked out the words The
Conference of  the Birds. The print on the spine was cracked, and
certain letters had faded away. She put her cup down and reached
out for the book. Sliding her fingers over the cover, she read the title
out twice and in a quizzical tone.
“Found something that would interest you?” he asked.
“Yes, strangely, but it’s weird.”
“Why?”
“This is the same text that was on the lions in those optical
boxes today at the gallery in Soho. Strange, huh?”
“You didn’t mention they had text on them.”
“It didn’t seem important then. I think it was Arabic script.”
“Oh no, it has to be Persian, for sure. Attar, the guy who wrote
the book, was Persian.”
“Do you mind if I borrow this?”
“No, go for it. My favorite part is:

“‘Come you lost Atoms to your Centre draw,
And be the Eternal Mirror that you saw:
Rays that have wander’d into Darkness wide
Return, and back into your Sun subside.’” 2
He gulped the last dregs of tea down and went over to the table
for the book he had purchased on the previous night. “I’ll just find a
place for this in the architecture section. Do you want any more
tea?”
“No thanks, I’m fine. I might start reading this.”
Allison watched Hooman place the new architecture book on
the shelf and then started reading through The Conference of  the Birds.
The fibrous and yellowed pages were frail as she turned them over.
“That book is a first edition of the second English translation.
Shidan, a good friend of mine, bought it for my birthday a couple
of years ago.”
“Oh, are you sure you want to lend this to me?”
“Yeah, sure. And it needs to be read. I haven’t picked it up for
ages. Anyway, it’s not worth that much.”
She found it strange that on the same day that she had seen the
text on the sculptures in Soho the book had made its way toward
her. And it puzzled Allison why this could be so significant. The
story she made out, as she skimmed through the scenes, was an
archetypal theme of a group of birds on a journey together: a quest.
The story was not particularly remarkable, she thought. She left the
bookshelf and returned to the chair in front of the window to
continue reading the book. As she read, her eyes took occasional
snapshots of the city.
The sun had gone now as night glided into Allison’s focus, and
the horizon had an orange afterglow that faded into blue. As she ate
her dinner, she occasionally looked up at the city and its lights.
Allison questioned them about ghormeh sabzi, which was a
traditional Persian dish.
“It’s a mix of lamb, dried limes, and chopped greens,” Hooman
answered.

She mixed it with rice and yogurt on her plate before spooning
the mixture into her mouth and muffling a response. “Wow, this is
so tasty. Do you guys have it often?”
Nava burst out, “Are you kidding? This kind of cooking requires
a woman at home with plenty of spare time and no career
prospects. Feminists don’t make ghormeh sabzi.”
Allison laughed.
“We eat takeout a lot,” Hooman added quietly.
“But you are privileged, though. Hooman did most of the
preparation last night, after we got back from the café. He was up
late.”
“It was an excuse, having you around, to do something special,”
he said, smiling at Allison. “I was going to make kebabs, but I
thought this would be better.”
“Thanks, Hooman, I do feel privileged. It was nice of you to go
to so much trouble.” She leaned over and patted him on the arm.
“Thanks, mate,” she said with an exaggerated Australian accent.
Allison thought he seemed a little self-conscious with her
attention. Half expecting some nominally self-deprecating line, she
was surprised when he said nothing in reply; instead, he smiled and
shrugged.
“You would make a good partner, you know. What do you
think, Nava?”
“Uh huh, definitely. He’s a better cook than I am. That is, if he
makes an effort and goes out and finds someone.”
Allison saw immediately where the topic was leading. She
remembered a series of conversations about Hooman at Jasper
Coffee in Melbourne many years before. It was in 1992, from
memory. The three friends would occasionally go there after Jasper’s
lectures at the University of Melbourne. The owner of Jasper
Coffee was Wells Trenfield, Jasper’s father, and Wells had named the
business after his son, Jasper. Allison could feel sympathy for
Hooman welling up as she recalled a long conversation about
Hooman knocking back several women over the years. Jasper had
said to Nava, “Look, Nava, it is Hooman’s life. Leave him in peace.

It is better that he takes his time to find the right person, or no
person at all, if he feels that that is his destiny.”
Back in the present, while savoring Hooman’s Persian lamb
dish, Allison could sense that Hooman’s eyes were upon her.
“What about you, Allison? Have you ever found anyone you
wanted to spend this brief life with?” Hooman said.
“There were a few guys that I thought might be life partners,
but they cleared off when things became difficult, or when I dashed
their rather limited idea of a relationship. And I could never picture
the future with just one person. The future seems too uncertain a
thing to spend an entire life with just one person.”
“The future is uncertain for us all, yes. But isn’t that half the fun
of it? Not knowing what will come next. Wouldn’t you want to
spend a life with someone and find out together what that future
could be?”
The word “fun” in Hooman’s words resonated in Allison’s
thoughts again and with the same tone that the gallery owner had
used earlier in the day. “Fun” now carried another connotation,
which somehow meant that the future was a comic cipher. Life
could then be mysterious and beautiful but also ridiculously funny
in the darkest possible fashion as it bled into eternity. This was her
conclusion, and her thoughts flowed back to the conversation in the
present again as Hooman waited for a response from her.
“I suppose, on the positive side, even though none of my
relationships ever worked out in the long term, I figured out that
love is not the feeling of being loved or being attracted to another
person as much as it is mutual self-sacrifice. Relationships break
down when one person doesn’t want to sacrifice something of
themselves anymore. I’m not saying I can commit to that sacrifice
myself; I just recognize what is needed.”
“That’s an interesting idea,” Hooman said.
Nava raised her voice. “Can you believe it? He is looking for
someone to spend eternity with. He’s always banging on about
going through ‘all the worlds of God.’” She rolled her eyes and
shook her head. “Can you imagine what an advert in a singles

column would sound like? ‘Looking for someone who is willing to
travel throughout infinite spiritual dimensions. Must have an active
imagination. Must be spiritual.’”
He scrunched up his face. “Well, Nava is making fun of me
now, but that is essentially true. I won’t deny it.”
“My god! Who would ever answer that ad? Hooman. Really!”
continued Nava.
“Some qualities of compassion and kindness would be good
too, not superficially happy-go-lucky, but a person able to take the
vicissitudes of life with grace. That would do.”
“And that basically rules out a large chunk of perfectly
reasonable girls. And, Hooman, you’re not as spiritual as you
believe you are.”
Allison smiled as she put her chin in her hands and leaned on
the table. She looked between Hooman and Nava.
“Nava, you’re right. I am not exceptionally gifted in the
spirituality department, but so what? I aspire to it. That’s all anyone
can expect! If a partner is more spiritual than me, then great.”
Allison chuckled but perceived Hooman was being unfairly
browbeaten. She tried to defend him a little. “Look, I think there is
nothing basically wrong with that, Nava. If that is what he wants,
then leave him be.”
“Finally, support. Thank you. You see?” he appealed to Nava.
She sighed and shook her head. After a short silence, Nava
began rubbing her temples. “He’s ridiculous! I’ve been watching
him for years as girls throw themselves at him like the surf onto
rocks. He’s completely unmoved.”
Allison perceived that this conversation had expressed a
fundamental part of Nava’s being. “It’s my duty, as a sister, to help
find him a partner, but he’s always so unwilling.” That slice of
conversation from 1992 at Jasper Coffee popped into Allison’s head.
At the time she thought Nava was being a bit meddlesome in the life
of her brother but had not said anything to the contrary because it
seemed like one of those intractable issues.

Allison took her last spoonful of the lamb dish and, in a
diversionary tactic, pointed out the window. The clouds that had
obscured the city during dinner had moved on. There were now
only fragments floating in the night sky. “Look, you can see the city
clearly now.”
The others followed the direction of Allison’s pointing hand.
“Yes . . . it’s great . . . I knew you would like it. I never tire of it.
Do you want to go onto the balcony for a better look? It won’t last
long. The clouds will be back soon,” Hooman said.
“Yes, please.” As they stood up, Allison glanced at Nava. “Are
you coming too?”
Still dimly agitated with the unresolved conversation, Nava
replied in quiet resignation. “No, it’s too cold. I see it every night.”
Diverting her gaze, she began clearing the dishes.
“I’ll just get our jackets and gloves,” he said.
On the balcony a blanket of snow covered most surfaces.
“Thanks for the exit to the conversation in there.” Hooman
smiled.
“That’s okay.” Allison smiled back.
She looked down at her feet and then began to walk in slow and
deliberately even steps, trying, as she did on her first night in New
York, to make a perfect circle in the snow. Taking a glove off and
crouching down, she patted the crunchy snow inside the circle.
Scooping several handfuls from the center, she made a snowball.
Looking up at him, she tried not to smile but felt her cheeks holding
a perceptible grin.
Searching his face as she stood up, she discerned that he had
pre-empted the shape of her thoughts. “You don’t mind, then?” she
asked.
“No, be my guest.”
“This is my first ever snowball fight . . . well, not really, but I
want to pretend it is. I’ve never seen this much snow before, in
suburbia, in a city like this. In Australia you have to travel to the
mountains to find this amount of snow.”

Allison’s face changed from deep reflection to mischievous fun.
“Are you ready?”
He stood still. He was a calm totem with closed eyes as the
snowball hit him in the chest. He opened his eyes and looked down.
“Hmm. You’re a good shot. That’s dead center.”
“You’re not going to fight back?”
“Me? No.”
“Go on.”
He hesitated. “No, it’s okay. Maybe another time.”
“Okay . . . but you’re being a party pooper, you know that?”
“Well . . . anyway, we came out for the view.” He brushed
himself down, smiled, and leaned on the railing.
“Yes, we did, but you have to promise to get me back another
time; otherwise, I’ll feel guilty.” Allison joined him at the railing.
They gazed out over the river and beyond that to Manhattan.
“Okay, I promise. I’ll get you back some other time,” he said as
he stared straight ahead.
The sounds of New Jersey traffic moving along the river edge
rose up to meet them, and Manhattan’s muted noises, drifting across
the water, mingled with the traffic noise in a delicate interplay.
They listened to these sounds for a few minutes in silence, and
Allison tried to disentangle the source of each sound.
After a while she said, “I’d love to get a shot of all this. I totally
forgot to use my camera today. I was just so absorbed by
everything . . . though I’d definitely need a tripod in this light. I
have a good one back in Australia, but it was too bulky to bring
here.”
“I think Nava has a tripod for her work. She got it ages ago for
interior shots, and I don’t think she ever opened the box. It’s brand
new.”
“It was just a vague wish. I’m going to buy a small one for
myself soon, anyway. I could do it another time,” Allison said.
“Nava wouldn’t mind, but it’s up to you.”
She thought about it for a moment. “You think so?”

“Yeah. And we can go up to the roof to take some shots, if you
like.”
Energized by the randomness of going to the roof, she clapped
her hands. “A mini adventure . . . wow! It might be fun!”
Less than fifteen minutes later, after searching for the tripod,
Hooman and Allison were standing on the roof of the apartment
complex. Hooman stood with his back to Allison as he looked out at
Manhattan. His hands were in his pockets and his shoulders were
slightly hunched as he braced himself against the cold.
Allison set up the tripod and wondered what he was thinking.
She placed the camera on the top of the tripod, and it clicked into
place.
After a while she asked, “Do you want to take some shots?”
He turned to face her. “Me? I don’t know anything about
photography. Nothing would turn out.”
“Have a go. I’ll show you what to do.”
He walked over to her. When he came to the camera, he looked
at the dials and numbers quizzically. He then held the cable release,
and his face went blank.
She smiled, and leaning over the camera, she set the focus to
infinity. “Right . . . ready to go. When I give you the go-ahead, you
squeeze this cable lever and hold it until I say release. We can take a
series of shots at different times and see which ones work out. Oh,
but before we start, I should compose the shot first.”
Holding his arm and steadying herself on the icy rooftop, she
crouched down and looked through the viewfinder. Making minor
adjustments to the angle of the lens, she then stood up and smiled at
him. “That’s good. Here, hold the cable again. I’ll time it.”
She looked down at her watch. “I can’t see the dials on my
watch.” She swiveled around and tried to find an angle at which
indirect city light would illuminate her watch face.
“Here, use mine . . . it has an internal light.” He undid the
wristband and passed her his watch.
In the gloom two things were obvious about this watch: its
intense shininess and its expense. The watch was made by Cartier. It

was a real Cartier, and this was the first time in her life that she had
seen one up close.
Standing behind him, she watched the scene, smiling internally,
as he continually stared at the city and then back at the cable with a
blank look on his face. She counted down time, initially at a twenty-
second interval, then an interval of thirty seconds.
Between each shot she observed him gingerly winding fresh film
into the frame.
“This is easier than I thought,” he said after another shot.
“Yes, it is.” She smiled and shook her head once he had turned
back to look at the city.
Even though she had only seen a limited glimpse of his
personality in the few days she had known him, she had found him
interesting and still did. Allison actually knew a fair amount about
Hooman already through conversations with Nava in Melbourne all
those years ago. And what Nava had said about him was now
revealed. He had a mix of qualities she had not seen before in a
single person. She mused over the fact that he was paradoxically
liberal and conservative in the same instance. But he gave off mixed
signals.
“Sixty seconds . . . okay, release,” she said.
He released the cable lever and continued to look out over the
Hudson at Manhattan. He had the typical appearance of a lawyer,
with his suits and glistening silk ties and his Cartier watch. She
looked at the watch face again and counted time. The watch
seemed to symbolize how far away she was from the life that
Hooman led. Normally, she would be slightly repelled by someone
like him. One of the mixed signals he gave off was his choice not to
live at a level to which he was clearly capable of financially, and
there were other incongruous elements sitting underneath the sheen
of his urbane existence, like his book collection, which gave her a
measure of his intellect. His interests were clearly broad and deep,
and this made him compelling to her in a manner that was mostly
indefinable but that she knew would become clearer as time passed.

“Two minutes. Now.” As she continued to press the button for
the light on his watch, she finally concluded that she liked him, and
he would be a friend: a good friend.
She surveyed the hazy air on the upper part of the Hudson
River. The weather was changing rapidly. A mist and a bank of
heavy snow clouds moved in from the Bronx. The clouds and mist
swallowed Washington Bridge as they crossed the river toward the
apartment complex. At first, small snowflakes appeared. Then
gradually a barrage of larger, feather-like flakes descended. The
snow cut a diagonal swath through the blackness and further
obscured the city, which appeared now only as a dull glow behind a
coarse veil of fabric. They took a shot of the snow and clouds
engulfing the city.
Hooman turned around. “Are we finished now?” he said.
“Yeah, that’ll do. Anyway, we can’t see much with the snow like
this.” She released the camera from the tripod and then packed it
into its pouch along with the cable release.
“You know, this camera reminds me of Iran when I was a
child,” he commented.
“Really, why?”
“I knew I’d seen this camera before. I just realized. I think one
of my uncles had this exact model, a Zenit. There were a few
Soviet-built goods in the country at that time. The communists tried
to infuse Iran with more than just their ideology.”
“That is so interesting.”
“What . . . about Soviet goods in Iran?”
“No . . . I mean, what I meant was, I’m connected to your life
now, through this camera. I’m a part of your history, your
childhood memory. Objects always have an interesting life as they
pass through time and intersect with our lives,” said Allison.
“You know, I can remember taking a picture of the extended
family with my uncle’s help. He held the camera, as it was too heavy
for me. And I pressed the button. That was in 1972. You know,
mop-tops, flared jeans, and miniskirts. We were in his pomegranate
grove in Southern Iran. It was one of the family’s yearly reunions,

just outside of Isfahan. And I gorged myself on pomegranates at
dinner later on that day.” Hooman smiled. “It’s a nice memory.”
“Sounds bizarre . . . like an Iranian version of The Brady Bunch.
I’m not sure I’m ready for that yet.”
He laughed.
Once back inside the apartment, they brushed the snow off
their coats and hung them in a closet near the door. Nava had
recovered most of her good humor.
“So how was it? Did you get some good shots?” Nava asked
with excitement in her voice.
“I don’t know. We’ll see. I’ll show you the results when we see
each other next, but Hooman was the main camera operator.”
“Really? I would have liked to have seen that. His photography
skills are as good as my cooking skills. He can barely take good
happy snaps.”
“Well, he did okay, I think.”
“It wasn’t so hard,” he said.
Nava grinned. “Yeah, whatever.”
She shot Allison a knowing glance, which she didn’t attempt to
hide from Hooman. She kissed the air in his direction and smiled.
“Hey, can I use your computer?” asked Allison. “I assume you
guys have internet. I want to send an email to my brother and let
him know I’ve landed safely.”
“Yeah, my laptop is in the spare room. I’ll show you, and then
I’ll make hot chocolate for us all, shall I?” he said.
After showing Allison the spare room, Hooman walked into the
kitchen.
Nava spoke to him in Persian. “You look happy. So, what do
you think?”
“Of Allison, you mean? From what I can tell, she is very
perceptive, quite unconventional, in a way that is interesting.”
“Cute, eh?” He knew immediately that Nava intended to fish
ever so non-subtly. He smiled at her in his mind.
“Yes, nice. Don’t speak in Persian, please. Speak English. You
know I don’t like it. Especially with guests around.”

“She would make a good friend, I think,” Nava continued in
Persian. She smiled.
“Yes, but I guess I don’t know her well enough yet. You can’t
presume, Nava,” Hooman responded in English.
“Yes, but I know her, and she is worth getting to know, believe
me.”
Looking at her sideways, he smiled affirmatively, despite his
vaguely cynical thoughts, because firstly he did not want to crush
her enthusiasm, but also he sensed an assenting possibility. Nava was
not a hugely competent judge of character, and she had said this
many times before and had proven to be universally wrong. Now, by
sheer chance, she might be right, and he thought about chance
meetings and Allison coming through JFK after he had bought the
new book with Terminal 5 on the cover. But then she had not flown
into that terminal. Terminal 7 was the one that she had mentioned
coming through, so it was probably nothing. He had a thought of
the Seven Stars Café, and the number seven resonated in his mind.
Reverting to English, Nava asked, “What’s up, Hooman? You’ve
gone all quiet. What happened to the hot chocolate?”
Standing in front of three empty cups for some time, he saw
what he should be doing and opened the cupboard in search of
chocolate powder.
* * *
Allison decided to go back to her hotel that night and suppressed
any attempts to insist she stay the night. And she refused a ride in
Nava’s car. She decided to catch the bus back to Manhattan.
Hooman then offered to ride on the bus with her, but she said no to
this also. They had just put their jackets and gloves on. He had just
managed to wear her down to being escorted to the bus stop in front
of the building when, in mid-conversation, she spun around and
walked out of the apartment. He stood with half a word in his
mouth and was befuddled for a moment by her abrupt departure.

He noticed himself staring straight at the book she was going to
borrow but had now left behind. It sat alone on the dining table.
Running down the corridor in a way that made him feel
moderately indecorous, he managed to slip the book through the
closing gap in the elevator doors. She was vigorously thrashing the
button that closed the door.
“Thanks,” she said and ripped the book from his hand. She
laughed as she hit the button again one last time, but he was already
halfway through the doors.
“Hey, hey! Stop trying to leave without me.”
They reached the first floor, and as they exited the building
through the lobby doors, they walked into a rush of cold air. The
snow on the path crunched under their shoes as they moved to the
edge of the road. Hooman stopped and pointed at the bus stop,
which was under a slightly orange streetlamp on the other side of
the road.
He cautioned her about the black ice on the edge of the road.
“It’s very slippery. You can’t always see it in this light. The salting of
the road doesn’t always cover it all.”
She ignored his advice and crossed the road in a diagonal line.
“God . . . stubborn,” he muttered quietly with muted
frustration. A feeling of playful annoyance transformed itself into
an uncharacteristic impulse. He watched himself, with calm
detachment, as he leaned down and padded together a snowball.
Just as she had crossed over to the other side of the road, it landed
in the back of her head.
The shock of the blow and the ice on the road propelled her to
stumble forward onto her knees. One of her hands sunk deep into
the icy slush in the gutter, and the book skidded along the road over
the black ice. It stopped six feet away from her, just on the edge of
the slush.
“Oh my god!”
He ran over to her, slipping as he went. When he reached her,
she had pulled her hand out of the gutter and was crouching on her

knees laughing. He stopped behind her and helped her to stand
upright. She turned to him, smiling.
“Oh god! I’m really sorry. Are you okay?” And he brushed the
snow from her hair.
But she laughed again. “You really keep your promises, don’t
you? I knew you would get me back eventually, but I never thought
it would be tonight.”
“I don’t know what I was doing. Sorry.”
“No. You’re feistier than I thought, Hooman. It’s a good thing.”
She looked down at her wet knees and gloves. Turning her
hands over, she smiled.
He took his gloves off and offered them to her. “I’m really sorry.
You have these.”
“Don’t sweat it. Here . . .” She took her wet gloves off and
passed them to him. They were the gloves he had lent her earlier in
the night. “They’re yours anyway. I’ll buy some tomorrow. I saw a
little hat and glove stall this morning on the corner of 72nd and
Amsterdam Avenue.”
He pushed his gloves at her again, but she pushed them away.
Leaning up, she put both her hands on his shoulders and kissed him
on the cheek. “I’ve gotta go now. The bus is here,” she said.
He turned and saw it coming down the street toward the stop.
“Oh, I almost forgot,” she said.
She took a few steps and picked up The Conference of  the Birds
from the road.
Stepping up through the bus door, she stopped on the first step
and turned. She waved with a sweet smile. It penetrated him in a
subtle way. She turned again and continued up the stairs as the door
closed behind her.
As the bus moved off, she opened a window, shouting, “Hey! It’s
my turn next to get you back!”
He tried to think of something remotely interesting to say, but
nothing arrived in that moment. He felt unsophisticated. It was a
sensation almost forgotten from his teenage years that washed over
him. Continuing to wave self-consciously, he watched the bus

becoming smaller as it drove farther along the main road in
suburban New Jersey, and he listened to the engine whining
occasionally when the bus lost traction on the ice. Eventually the
bus faded into the darkness.


The Harlem Apartment
Wherefore, O friend, renounce thy self, that thou mayest find the Peerless
One; and soar beyond this mortal world, that thou mayest find thy nest in
the abode of  heaven. Be as naught, if  thou wouldst kindle the fire of  being
and be fit for the pathway of  love. . . . Wherefore must the veils of  the
satanic self  be burned away in the fire of  love, that the spirit may be
cleansed and refined, and thus may apprehend the station of  Him but for
Whom the world would not have been created1.2
—Bahá’u’lláh, The Seven Valleys
Ten days passed, and it was Christmas Eve. Allison’s birthday was
on the 19th. It passed without her mentioning it to anyone. She did
not want to make a fuss. She was twenty-six.
In broad, arching sweeps Allison cleaned the walls of her room
with a large sponge. Steam from a bucket of warm water drifted
toward the ceiling. A myriad of small water spheres were caught,
released, and frozen again in a series of snapshot stills that her mind
carved in imagined time. Dan, one of her new roommates, had lent
her his CD player, and one of his compilation CDs was playing in
the background.
She pressed her cheek flat against the wall. Her eyes searched
for a well-placed shadow to provide a stronger contrast for the
drifting steam. She shuffled on her knees, moving closer to the
window. Her movement disturbed the dust on the floor. A swirl of

dust angels joined the warm air rising from the bucket. Allison
plunged the sponge into the bucket and continued to clean the wall.
Occasionally, she rested her arms and stared at the wall, which
was now a clearer pitch of white.
* * *
The room had been described on a small scrap of paper in the
window of a café close to the university.
Room available in an apartment in Harlem, near Morningside Park on
West 116th Street. Share with other Columbia students. We are a friendly
bunch of  people, looking for a happy-go-lucky person to complete our group.
Rent includes bills. $220 per week. Call Dan. Phone: 212 221 8894.
She knew that “happy-go-lucky” did not describe her, but few, if
any, advertisements would ask for an “intense” or “serious-minded”
person. She thought that it sounded like she would be sharing with
lots of Nava types, and she thought that would work for her.
When she first saw the room, it was bare except for a single
mattress on the floor. It was obvious, as she walked around the rest
of the apartment, that this had been a student apartment for some
time. Most of the furniture was falling apart, an assorted
accumulation of several disjointed styles. She said, “Yes, I’ll take it,”
and moved in four days later.
Allison realized on the day after moving in that the other
roommate, Maddy, whom she had not met during the interview, was
even more serious than her. So, in the end, she knew that relative to
Maddy she was actually quite happy-go-lucky.
* * *
While continuing to clean the walls, the word “dust” emerged from
her thoughts. The song “Into Dust” by Mazzy Star began to play on
Dan’s CD player. In her mind she began to repeat the word once

more, but the word did not end in the normal way. It dissolved
before the last two letters could be completed, and she could taste a
faint but tangible sensation of dust in her mouth. As this strange
sensation left, an associated childhood memory arose in its place.
* * *
She saw her mother and father in the front seat of the family car.
The family was traveling through Northern Queensland on their
way to Cairns. Allison was twelve years old at the time. It was 1984.
The sun was streaming into the interior of the car, and there was
absolute blue above them. Allison looked over the contours of Paul’s
face in the intense light. He was asleep in the back seat with his
head resting in her lap. Sitting in the front seat, her mother had
leaned over and prodded Paul from sleep. He got up. Their mother
then directed the kids to look out the windows at a pineapple farm
that they were passing. Allison looked at a huge fiberglass pineapple
on the farm, which was an attraction for tourists. Her mother had
then pointed out the color of the earth; it was a rich red, like blood,
amongst the ordered rows of forming pineapples.
* * *
Allison was puzzled by the memory, and why it should be associated
through taste with the word “dust.” After a few moments of staring
at the wall, the remaining part of that memory came to her.
* * *
She had dreamed of the farm while she was asleep on the previous
night, and particularly the large fiberglass pineapple, so what she
saw from the car was almost exactly what she had seen in her
dream.
“Mum, I saw this farm in a dream. I saw this farm, Mum.”

But her mother had not taken any notice. “Look kids, more
farms. Bananas now,” she said to the kids as they passed another
farm.
* * *
Another memory came of a time many years later. She was
nineteen then, and her mother’s coffin was being lowered into the
ground shortly after her death on December 9, 1992. The priest
expressed the familiar words: “ashes to ashes, dust to dust.” The
color of the earth was a similar shade of red to that of the
pineapple farm. She now understood the connection to “dust,”
which had come from the priest’s words, and now she added the
word “fruit” to the associations in her memory. In the cemetery the
fruit of the human temple was laid in ordered rows in the red earth,
and from those seeds something new would grow and form in a new
world: a world unseen but tangible in our imagination.
The rain had fallen earlier in the day, and the mound of earth
near the burial hole was sodden, so the earth had stained her hand
as she threw it onto the coffin. After everyone else left, she stood
next to Paul at the base of the hole. Neither she nor Paul had cried
when everyone was around them, but now she allowed herself to
weep. It began to rain again, and, from under the umbrella that
Paul held, she stretched her hand out. The rain fell into her palm.
The earth that had stained her hand was then wet enough for it to
run and “bleed” red dust.
* * *
Allison had forgotten, until now, the dream in her childhood that
had allowed her to see into the future and link the metaphor of fruit
to death. Like the dust in her mouth, this was not the first time she
had uttered a word in her mind and a physical sensation of its
attributes had taken over her awareness. In the years before she had
left for New York, the same kind of forceful memory had overtaken

her mind. As much as she had tried to divert her thoughts from the
implications of all her memories, an emotion, disturbing and
unknown, rose up in her. The emotion was a fear of something
hidden from her conscious mind but obvious in its subtle
manipulation of her thoughts and feelings. The shape of her mind
had an uncharacteristic pattern. This change in the structure of her
mind had formed slowly over several years and was now clearer
than ever. Something or someone was interfering with her mind.
The word “dust” had come into her mind from nowhere, and she
had not been thinking about dust or anything associated with that
word. Why and how had it just arisen with no obvious cause? Words
and thoughts, disconnected from her conscious will, rose up and
shook her mind’s encapsulated identity. She allowed herself to think
this far but then began to suppress any conclusion.
After a while she realized that she had been sitting on her knees,
staring into space. The song “Into Dust” finished, and she leaned
over and pressed the stop button on the CD player. She immersed
the sponge in the water and watched the diminishing steam snaking
around her arm. She observed it as it blew off course. The wind
had picked up, and a gust of cold air was blowing from a slight gap
in the window. She felt the cold air on her face, so she got up and
walked over to the window to shut it. She looked at the snow
gathered on cars on the street below and then at Morningside Park,
which was at the end of the street. The snow covered the lawn area,
the paths, and the hill on the far side of the park. She shut the
window and returned to the bucket to finish cleaning the walls.
Two hours later, once the walls were mostly dried, Allison
pinned up a few movie posters. She had been shopping during the
week for a few secondhand items to fill the room and give it some
character: posters, a large mirror, and a few old books. She had
found a copy of Dante’s Divine Comedy. Was it a comic cipher? she
wondered.
The wooden frame on the mirror had been sanded back, and
she had a small corner section to finish, so she moved it out of her
room toward the fire escape to avoid getting dust in her room. The

phone rang. She had just managed to slide the mirror halfway
through the window onto the fire escape.
Nava almost shouted down the line. “Hey, you, how about we
catch up tonight? How’s the new apartment going?”
“Good. Good. I’ve been cleaning my room today, but we can’t
catch up tonight. I said I would go to a Christmas Eve party. My
new roommate is going. But actually, you could come too, I think. If
you want to come, I’ll ask Maddy. I don’t think she’ll mind.”
“Totally! I’m there,” Nava said.
“Great. What about Hooman? Do you think he’d like to
come?”
“Yeah, sure. I think he’s okay to come. He’s a bit tired from his
trip to Europe. He got back last night.”
“What was he doing in Europe?”
“A conference or something. He mentioned delivering a paper
on globalization or something like that. God knows.”
“Sounds interesting. Oh! By the way, do you have anything
black you can wear? Anything with overtones of Morticia Addams
will do. And you better tell Hooman as well. He should be fine in a
black suit. I don’t suppose he has a black tie?”
“No, I don’t think so. Anyway, this sounds interesting. Is it a
goth party?”
“Yes. Maddy was a bit sparse on the details, but I’m assuming
it’s a goth gathering of some description. I went shopping a few
days ago for some secondhand black clothes.”
By the time Nava and Hooman arrived at her new apartment
the night had come. Allison was dressed like a goth and was out on
the fire escape sanding the last section of the mirror frame. The
snow had fallen earlier in the day, and the surrounding streets had a
light blanket of snow covering them.
Allison shouted down through the iron railings as they neared
the apartment. “Wait there, guys. I’ll be down in a sec. The party is
close by, so we can walk from here.” She pulled the mirror through
the window and leaned it against the living room wall.
“Maddy, we can go now,” she shouted.

At the party Maddy brushed over introductions quickly and in a
monotone voice. “This is Allison,” then she pointed at Hooman and
Nava, “and her friends.”
None of Maddy’s friends responded, and they all wore
expressions that were blank and unrevealing. Allison quickly realized
that Maddy had made a mistake in inviting them. The party was a
private gathering: for the initiated only. Without further elaboration,
and without introducing her own friends, Maddy turned around
and walked away. She was swallowed by the swell of people in the
room. Her friends were unmoved by her abrupt disappearance.
Nava was the first to speak and directed her comment to the
middle of a rough circle that had formed during the introductions.
“Do you guys believe in death as the final end to life?”
“That depends on who you talk to,” a woman responded.
“My brother believes in many after-life dimensions,” Nava
added.
“Really? Many?” asked the woman with interest.
“Yes, many worlds. Are you interested in what lies beyond this
life?” Hooman inquired.
“You’re wrong. There’s nothing when you die: just extinction,
man, oblivion, nothing else. I accept that, while others deny the
truth,” a man said. His face was empty of emotion.
“Really? Do you like the idea of extinction?” Hooman replied.
“Yeah,” the man said.
Silence ensued for a few moments.
The woman spoke again. “Don’t mind him. Goths have many
different ideas about death. There’s no one truth about it. But what
do you mean by many worlds?”
“There are five infinite worlds, including this one, the mortal
world. Although they are infinite, so dividing them into five is just
one way to conceptualize them,” said Hooman.
Nava pulled at Allison’s shoulder. “Let’s go to the bathroom. Let
Hooman pick this one up. Anyway, we need to put some makeup
on,” she whispered.

Weaving through a mass of people dancing, they found their
way eventually to what looked like the bathroom door.
“Wasn’t that a little mean, leaving him in the middle of that
conversation, alone?” asked Allison.
Nava smirked. “He’ll be fine. You watch. He is way too polite to
be in any danger. He has a habit of endearing himself to almost
anyone. You’ll get to know him in time. You’ll see what I mean.
Don’t worry. He’ll be fine.”
“Why did you mention life after death? Isn’t that a bit
random?”
“Hooman talks about it quite a bit. He calls the afterlife the
‘worlds of God.’ And, anyway, goths are fairly obsessed with death.
I mean, they are always dressed in black. Isn’t that a symbol of
death or something?”
“That’s true, I suppose.”
In the bathroom, the mirror, bright and large, captured a brief
snapshot of two worlds. One was their world, and the other was all
the goths in the bathroom. As Allison observed everyone in the
mirror, she noticed that despite their efforts to blend in, it was clear,
in the omission of certain precise details, that both she and Nava
were unmistakable fakes. Hooman was even more out of sync. He
had come dressed in a black suit and a shimmering red tie. Nava
passed her eyeliner to Allison.
Allison leaned into the mirror and began to apply black outlines
to her eyes. Occasionally, she snatched glimpses of Nava applying
black lipstick. She wondered about death being no more than
extinction, which was a popular perception in the West: a total
extinction of the body, of the senses, and of consciousness at the
moment of death. But clearly some people did believe in an
afterlife. And what if we could choose, as if by some fantasy,
between these two options? Those who wished for death as the
complete and final end would attain it. They could pass into dust,
extinction, and nothingness as they had emerged from it at birth,
like her father had believed. While others, wanting another life, a
life beyond, could follow that line into eternity.

She remembered something her father had once told her about
immortality after she had relayed a conversation to him that she had
had with one of her school friends. The girl was from a Christian
family, and she had elaborated on the idea of an eternity beyond
this life and the immortal soul transcending the body at the moment
of death.
Her father said finally, “Allison, if you get buried next to an
orange tree when you die, your body is recycled. You get sucked up
through the roots, and someone eats you when they pick the fruit.
That is the only immortality. It’s a physical immortality of matter at
the atomic level. There is no eternity beyond this. And a child is
made from ancient, recycled matter, from the dust of stars, so there
is no ultimate death or birth, old age or youth, just changing states
in matter. That and the fact that others carry a memory of you, but
even this fades in time. Sorry to say that, but it’s the truth.”
But Allison was not sure of that truth now, and would those
people who chose the option of dust and extinction as the final end
really be happy? Surely not, if their consciousness could move to
another dimension of existence in some altered form. An afterlife
seemed like a neat solution in a way, as opposed to living forever in
this world. Physical immortality, if science found a way to extend
life indefinitely, would not be viable just from an ecological point of
view. Space would be at a premium after a few generations, so death
seemed natural, and it was right that we die, she mused. For death
to be banished, birth would need to go too. Life was a fine balance
of dualities that were tied into the cyclical process of change and
transformation in matter and being, and these dualities could never
be separated, as they were interdependent. And if we chose a
segment of the timeline and called it death or birth, then it was only
linguistic artifice. And if there was nothing there when we died, we
should not protest. We could just merge into nothingness without
complaint. We could even be happy about it as we made way for
future generations. As we slipped into the void, we could go in the
knowledge that someone was emerging from it to take our place.

In that light, dying had an element of selflessness: civilizations
came, disappeared, and rolled over like seasons, and individual lives
in that scheme were only a delicate, evanescent, and beautiful
second in time.
Nava interrupted Allison’s thoughts as she put her arms around
Allison’s waist and leaned into her.
“How are you feeling, girl? You look good. I’m sure you’re fine.
You look fine to me.”
“Yeah. Fine, I am. No jet lag now.”
“No, I mean after the operation and everything. The cancer.”
Nava passed Allison the black lipstick.
“Oh, that. It’s clear so far. I had another checkup before I left
Australia, and it’s all okay, so the doctors told me. I mean the second
operation, to remove a small tumor from my left breast, was only a
few months back.” Allison shrugged and started applying black
lipstick.
“Oh, I didn’t know about the second operation . . . you didn’t
have chemo, did you? After the first operation?”
“No. I thought I would try alternative therapies.”
“So when are you going to have a reconstruction? Of your
breast.”
“I’m not.”
“Really, why?”
“It’s fine as it is. Anyway . . . I don’t want it to be a waste of
effort.”
“My god, don’t say that. You’re not going to die or anything.”
Nava’s face partially pressed into Allison’s back, and her eyes peeked
over Allison’s shoulder. Although others in the bathroom seemed
oblivious to their conversation, Nava lowered her voice. “Really,
Allison, you have to do something about it,” directing her eyes at
Allison’s chest. “It looks unbalanced . . . it needs a companion.”
“A companion?”
They both laughed.
But Allison had wondered recently why it should be so
problematic. The remaining breast was not large, and it was not

that noticeable with loose clothes on, though even expressing this
sentiment to Nava would be inadvisable. The loose clothes hiding
her lack of a breast could be interpreted as a ploy to look normal or
even desirable to men.
“Seriously, Nava. My breast doesn’t need a companion, and nor
do I, if that is where this is leading . . .”
“I wasn’t suggesting anything. I just—”
“Yes, you were! Do you think I don’t know you well enough by
now? Don’t kid yourself. I don’t care what other people think. And
I’m not going to start wearing padding in my bra either. I want to
cut you off on that score too, before you suggest it.”
Staring into the mirror, they were silent for a while. Nava still
had her hands around Allison’s waist, and she felt Nava squeeze her.
She then rested her chin on Allison’s shoulder and smiled.
Nava’s views were bolstered with a societal undertow and were
fed by the meaningless struggle with fading youth that was so
prevalent in Western culture. Allison was not going to give in to a
limiting idea of herself. She wanted her body to reflect an honesty
about herself. Of course, Nava would never understand this, but at
least Nava was fairly transparent, which made her easier to deal
with. She mused, as she had many times, over the magical otherness
of their friendship because Nava would accept most things in their
relationship at face value. It was Nava who made their friendship
work, so Allison conceded a little.
“Well, I might think about an operation in the future
sometime.”
Nava stood up straight. She grinned. “Anyway! I have some
good news to take your mind off your impending studies. I beat the
waiting list. I got tickets for . . . wait for it . . . The Lion King . . .
finally! A client of mine knew someone in The Lion King production
team, and they got the tickets for me. Boy, that cost me a lot, I’m
telling you. Blood and money. And I hope you are going to
appreciate this and not come out with some downer comment at the
end of the show, some cryptic one-liner.”

Allison laughed and imagined all the maneuvering Nava would
have gone through to get the tickets.
“Cool. Hooman will finally get his wish,” Allison said.
“What’s that?”
“A fun distraction from his work. He was genuinely
disappointed when we couldn’t go the other week.”
“He’s such an idiot. He works too hard. He just needs to slow
down. I don’t know why he works so hard. He doesn’t need to. And
he’s way too serious about everything. You two are dangerously
serious when you start talking. You’re not good for each other in
that way,” added Nava.
The diversion of topic that Nava had attempted to change the
mood had not reached its objective entirely. The line drawn around
Allison’s private thoughts on mortality widened now. She continued
to think about death underneath the conversation about The Lion
King. Death stretched out to embrace her own self, and not just
civilization viewed from a safe philosophical distance. Allison’s own
figure, as a mental object, was clear and delimited now, thanks in
part to Nava’s comment about her cancer and subsequent
disfigurement. Allison admitted her attachment to living now. She
reflected on her father’s orange-tree metaphor for physical life
beyond the human grave with the body’s decomposition. She
wanted to taste every drop from this soggy orange called life: this
house of recycled star dust with its perennial wheel of birth and
death.
Averting any more questions or conclusions on death, and
feeling perturbed, she turned to Nava. “Maybe we better go home
now. Anyway, I don’t think we’re supposed to be here tonight.
Maddy’s friends never meant for us to come, and I think we’re going
to find it hard to fit in. Let’s get Hooman and go back to my place.”
“But Allison, we just got here! This is so typical of you.”
“I don’t care. We can have a party of three . . . back at the
apartment.”
* * *

Opting to make coffee while the others relaxed on the couch, Nava
found the kitchen. The sound of her turning the water on came
through to the living room.
“Hey, Allison, it’s a bit grubby in here. You need to clean,” she
shouted.
“Yeah, I know. I’ll get around to it soon.”
Allison asked Hooman, “Hey, do you want to see my new
room? I’ve been decorating it. Actually, I might get you to help me
move my mirror.”
“Sure. Is this it?” He pointed to the mirror leaning against the
living room wall near the back window.
Once the mirror was back in place in her room, she sat next to
it on the end of her mattress. She picked up a pile of photos and
began to stick them to the edge of the mirror frame with adhesive
putty. He immediately recognized the pictures as the ones they had
shot on the roof of his New Jersey apartment block. He crouched
down and studied how each exposure time had affected the depth
and contrast of black and white.
“They turned out well, eh? I like them,” he said.
“Yes . . . interesting, aren’t they?”
“Why didn’t you use your Leica? It’s a better camera, isn’t it?”
“The cheaper lens in the Zenit has a softening effect on the
photos it produces. If I want sharper images, I use the Leica.”
“Ahh . . . okay, that makes sense. These photos do have a soft,
fuzzy appearance.”
He then noticed the movie posters, and raising his eyebrows, he
stood up and commented on one poster in particular.
“Hitchcock, North by Northwest. I’ve seen that . . . a long time
ago.” Then his eyes traced around the room until he saw a pile of
rusty nails sitting on newspaper in one corner of the room. “What’s
that?”
He walked over to the pile, and Allison got up and followed
him.

“I’ll show you.” She scooped up a handful of nails. “This is a
mental note. It’s like a Post-it note, but more concrete. I found them
near the bins in the alley a few days ago. What do you think it
means?”
“I have no idea.”
“Guess.”
“Well, they’re rusting. So maybe that’s about getting old: decay,
perhaps. I don’t know. Maybe it’s about time too: Chronos, the god
of time,” he said and smiled.
“Good! You’re right on topic but take it one step further.
Elaborate. Here, hold out your hand.”
She put the handful of nails back on the pile and took his hand.
Turning his palm up, she wiped the powdered rust onto his hand
and smiled. They gazed at the rust particles on his skin for a
moment.
“Is it about decay . . . and merging into an origin? Perhaps back
to the earth, where the iron came from originally,” Hooman said.
She clapped her hands casually. “That’s it. I might have said
death and change for simplicity’s sake, but that’s pretty much it.
Death is the soil in which the new flower is born. It’s a symbol that
exists at every level of life. In fact, death becomes the flower, so it
never was death to begin with. It’s transfigured into the deathless
mask, the illusion of time. Actually, I was thinking about death at
the party tonight, after that conversation with Maddy’s friends,
about death being only extinction.”
“I see. So this pile here reminds you of certain ideas connected
to death and change. Certain philosophical lines of reasoning,” he
said thoughtfully. “That’s quite a lateral thing to do,” and he
continued to stare at the pile of nails.
She looked at his palm. “And you know your hand, covered in
this red dust, reminds me of my own hand many years ago, at my
mother’s funeral. And I’m reminded of a painting by Bruegel, The
Triumph of  Death,” she said.
“I’ve never heard of that particular work, although the name
Bruegel is familiar.”

“Bruegel was Dutch. He lived around the 1500s.”
“What is the meaning of the painting?” Hooman asked.
“In the picture, every means of deferring death is explored but
to no avail, and the armies of skeletons sweep through from a
hellish landscape to take all from earthly existence. It’s supposed to
highlight the fragility and impermanence of this life. And I think it
is a moral tale about being attached to this fleeting existence over
and above an eternity beyond death.”
“I can see you think in ways that don’t occur to everyone. It’s
not simple or obvious to use physical objects like this for thought
associations. I’ve already mentioned him, but you should meet
Shidan. I think he would love to chat with you. I’ll introduce you
sometime.”
“Okay, thanks.” Allison removed the oversized black male shoes
she had worn to the party and placed them in the other corner of
the room.
“But why go to so much trouble? Why not just write these ideas
on paper?” Hooman asked.
“I do sometimes. It’s just that this is more tangible than words
in a certain way. Anyway, words can be distant, don’t you think?

Reading words is no substitute for the direct experience that words
describe. Would you prefer to read the word ‘ocean’ or swim in the
real thing? It seems to me that words are like cardboard men in a
cardboard world: a signpost of reality and a placeholder of real
existence.”
“Yes, I see what you mean. But sometimes there are worlds in
words that are hidden from the senses. Words allow the mind to rise
above reality and become more abstract, to recast reality in an
imaginative light, which concrete physicality doesn’t allow. This
comes from semiotics and the—”
Allison interrupted Hooman. “By ‘semiotics’ you mean . . .”
“Semiotics is the study of signs and symbols and their use or
interpretation.”
“That’s right. I remember now.”
“Signs, symbols, and words can describe the invisible principles
that shape the physical universe. And there is a mental framework
of spirituality beyond the physical world that exists only in words.”
Hooman paused for a moment, then added reflectively, “In words,
there are worlds that are strange and sublime. I think this to be
true.” He raised his eyebrows. “Don’t you think so?”
She responded after a pause. “Yes . . . yes. You’re right. And
actually, what occurs to me now is that words can contain symbols,
metaphors, and references to concrete attributes or associated
memory with lateral networks of other words inside each other. And
when imagination, perceptible realities, and words collide and meld
into each other, something new and unique is born. Imagine that?
Wouldn’t that be fabulous? To transcend the senses and live through
words in a purely intellectual sphere. You’re right. Words do have a
unique power in the mind to transcend the senses.”
* * *
At the end of the night, Allison went into her room and picked out
two photos of Manhattan obscured by snow. She put them in
Hooman’s hand.

“I remember you saying you took photos when you were a kid,
in Iran. Do they still exist? I’d love to see them,” she said.
“Yes, I still have a few, but most of them are in a box in
Perth . . . at our parents’ place. But my uncles and aunts took most
of them.”
“The other night I was trying to imagine the sixties and
seventies in Iran, as you described it to me on the roof. I liked how
your experience of your childhood departed from my preconceived
ideas. It seems that Iran would have been an interesting place to be
in at that time.”
“It was. I was born in 1967 and left for Perth with my family in
December 1975. This was two and a bit years before the Iranian
Revolution. I’ll have to search for those photos. Nava, have you seen
any of our old photos?”
“No, not recently. They’re in a box somewhere,” Nava replied
disinterestedly.
“Don’t worry about it. If you come across them, then that’s
cool, but don’t go out of your way,” Allison said.
“No, it’s okay. I’ll have a look for them. Anyway, we’ll see you
soon, and I’ll let you know how I got on,” said Hooman.
Hooman kissed Allison on both cheeks and hugged her. Nava
just hugged her.
“Nava, you give such good hugs. Thank you,” said Allison.
Nava and Hooman turned and moved through the door, then
descended into the stairwell.
“Hey, Hooman, do you think people can see into the future?”
Allison asked.
He stopped and looked back at her. “Yes, it’s possible. Not that I
have ever done it, but it can happen. Why do you ask?”
“I was thinking about it today. I’ve never asked anyone about it
before. I just thought it would be something you might believe in.”
“Do you believe it’s possible too?” he asked.
“Yes. I do.”

“I haven’t ever looked into this topic much myself. I might try
and read up on it in the meantime. I have a few books lying around
somewhere that might shed some light on it.”
She leaned over the balustrade and waved as they descended
farther into the stairwell and disappeared. Momentary glimpses of
Hooman’s hand were visible as he spun around the rectangular
spiral of the stairwell. Eventually, he vanished as they reached the
lobby, and a few vague echoes of Nava and Hooman’s indiscernible
conversation merged with the street sounds. She watched the empty
stairwell for a while before going back through the front door.
The apartment was too empty now, and her bare feet on the
creaking wooden floors were the only sound. She picked up the
empty coffee mugs and took them to the kitchen. As she watched
herself wash the mugs in the sink, a part of her wished they had
taken her home with them. Another part of her fought this feeling
adamantly. Maddy would probably not appear again until late, and
her other roommate, Dan, was out with his girlfriend. She was
happy to have the place to herself, and she did not feel like
socializing anymore that night.
After a quick shower, she sat cross-legged and naked in front of
the mirror. Staring at the photos of Manhattan for a moment, she
then ran her hand over the smooth texture of the wooden frame.
Working backward through time, she arrived at the conversation
with Nava at the party. She traced the line of the scar where her
breast used to be. She noted its subtle undulations. Her hand had
traveled diagonally from under her right arm toward the base of
her remaining breast.
Although she may have said to Nava that she accepted her body
as it was, she felt diminished by her body image: the grief of losing
part of her physical being. She did not think her scar was
unattractive. But others would, particularly men, and this
relinquished barrier that protected her ego cut a way into her.
Water welled in her eyes as her stark outline in the mirror softened,
blurred, and abstracted into shifting, fluid shapes and forms, a result
of her reflection passing through her tears. A price for being altered

must be paid, and, as for death, she did hope for something after it,
even if it was no more than a wishful dream. As she looked again at
the reflection of her face in the mirror, a memory from many years
before arrived in her mind.
* * *
She had been sitting alone in her Holden after having only just
arrived at Hattah-Kulkyne National Park on December 27, 1992,
when she was twenty years old. She stared at the desert dunes in the
evening light and observed the many tufts of grass being pushed
around by the wind. Her memories returned to an earlier time.
As a sixteen-year-old, she had come to this desert as part of a
school excursion in 1989. Some heavy metal was playing on the
radio in the school bus. She was alone in the bus, sitting in the
driver’s seat. She turned the dial, and there was some arts program
on about some obscure Australian poet, and she remembered a line
in one of the poems: “The beauty we behold in life is equal to the
pain we relinquish.”
* * *
In the present she dwelled on the memory of the phrase in the
poem about relinquished pain.


The Ice Rink and the Christmas Tree
And if, confirmed by the Creator, the lover escapeth the claws of  the eagle of
love, he will enter THE REALM OF KNOWLEDGE and come out of  doubt
into certitude, and turn from the darkness of  wayward desire to the guiding
light of  the fear of  God. His inner eye will open and he will privily
converse with his Beloved; he will unlock the gates of  truth and supplication
and shut the doors of  idle fancy.1
—Bahá’u’lláh, The Seven Valleys
On a Saturday morning after New Year’s Day 1999, Allison was
sitting on the fire escape applying the last coat of clear varnish to
her mirror frame. She had spent New Year’s Eve in Times Square
with Hooman and Nava. She was tired today and anticipated that
going to see The Lion King would be difficult and not the
entertainment that Nava had promised.
All her submerged insecurities were floating upward and were
buoyant with an undercurrent of depression. She felt both a need
for some company but also a need to be alone. These two
conflicting needs oscillated back and forth in her mind. She could
not say why she felt depressed exactly. But as she thought about it
more, Paul entered her thoughts. She missed him. Her life in
Australia was at a distance, and she concluded that there was an
element of homesickness to her mood.

She put the brush down and picked up a cup of coffee. She
took a sip. After a few minutes of looking at people milling down
the street, she got up and moved the mirror to the window. She put
a few sheets of newspaper on the floor in the living room and pulled
the mirror through the window, then leaned it against the wall to
dry.
Dan and Maddy had left the apartment earlier and were going
about their lives in ways only vaguely imagined by Allison. She put
her coffee on the side table and sat on the couch, trying to reread
the last few pages of The Conference of  the Birds.
Because of the poetic and condensed structure of the text, it
had been hard to penetrate the meaning of the poem, which was
why she had to keep rereading sections, but eventually what she was
able to make out was that thirty birds, those left at the end of the
journey—among them the pheasant, nightingale, parrot, owl, and
partridge—had been challenged to take the “Road” toward the
Simorgh (God), in the form of a Phoenix; however, at the
beginning, each bird had an excuse not to make the journey due to
some earthly attachment, which was pure anthropomorphism, as it
was clear that the birds were meant to mirror human attachment to
this world with all its earthly distractions.
Eventually, the birds are convinced to make the journey by the
hoopoe bird and begin a series of tests as they fly through the
various valleys, seven in all, until through self-negation and the
annihilation of the lower self, in the last valley, they are transformed
by suffering, symbolized as the fire and ashes of the Phoenix, and
they finally meet the Simorgh only to realize that they had
journeyed toward themselves as they merged into the Phoenix and
that they had always been the Phoenix, even when they had
regarded themselves as distinctly separate at the beginning of their
journey.
Not only had they been transformed, but also the earth itself
was now burned to ashes and had been transformed: the death of
all things. The journey was the transfiguration of the soul and this

world. The very things that had stood in the way of spiritual
development were also the means of growth, thus the lines:
I was the Sin that from Myself  rebell’d:
I the Remorse that tow’rd Myself  compell’d: 2
The poem was an allegory, charting human identity and our
hidden spiritual potential, particularly if we identify as humanity
both individually and collectively (the thirty birds). Each individual
identity is needed to see the whole of the image of the Phoenix, and
our potential within that identity is interdependent since we all
represent a different aspect of the world.
She read the end of the poem one more time just so she was
clear on its meaning.
For such a Prayer was his—“O God, do Thou
With all my Wealth in the other World endow
My Friends: and with my Wealth in this my Foes,
Till bankrupt in thy Riches I repose!”
Then, all the Pile completed of  the Pelf
Of  either World—at last throw on Thyself,
And with the torch of  Self-negation fire;
And ever as the Flames rise high and higher,
With Cries of  agonizing Glory still
All of  that Self  burn up that burn up will,
Leaving the Phoenix that no Fire can slay
To spring from its own Ashes kindled—nay,
Itself  an inextinguishable Spark
Of  Being, now beneath Earth-ashes dark,
Transcending these, at last Itself  transcends
And with the One Eternal Essence blends.
. . .

Once more they ventured from the Dust to raise
Their Eyes—up to the Throne—into the Blaze,
And in the Centre of  the Glory there
Beheld the Figure of—Themselves—as ’twere
Transfigured—looking to Themselves, beheld
The Figure on the Throne en-miracled,
Until their Eyes themselves and That between
Did hesitate which Sëer was, which Seen;
They That, That They: Another, yet the Same:
Dividual, yet One: from whom there came
A Voice of  awful Answer, scarce discern’d
From which to Aspiration whose return’d
They scarcely knew; as when some Man apart
Answers aloud the Question in his Heart—
“The Sun of  my Perfection is a Glass
Wherein from Seeing into Being pass
All who, reflecting as reflected see
Themselves in Me, and Me in Them: not Me,
But all of  Me that a contracted Eye
Is comprehensive of  Infinity:
Nor yet Themselves: no Selves, but of  The All
Fractions, from which they split and whither fall.
As Water lifted from the Deep, again
Falls back in individual Drops of  Rain
Then melts into the Universal Main.
All you have been, and seen, and done, and thought,
Not You but I, have seen and been and wrought:
I was the Sin that from Myself  rebell’d:
I the Remorse that tow’rd Myself  compell’d:
I was the Tajidar who led the Track:
I was the little Briar that pull’d you back:
Sin and Contrition—Retribution owed,
And cancell’d—Pilgrim, Pilgrimage, and Road,
Was but Myself  toward Myself: and Your
Arrival but Myself  at my own Door:

Who in your Fraction of  Myself  behold
Myself  within the Mirror Myself  hold
To see Myself  in, and each part of  Me
That sees himself, though drown’d, shall ever see.
Come you lost Atoms to your Centre draw,
And be the Eternal Mirror that you saw:
Rays that have wander’d into Darkness wide
Return, and back into your Sun subside.’’—
This was the Parliament of  Birds: and this
The Story of  the Host who went amiss,
And of  the Few that better Upshot found;
Which being now recounted, Lo, the Ground
Of  Speech fails underfoot: But this to tell—
Their Road is thine—Follow—and Fare thee well.3
The second to last stanza was the most interesting; it said that
we are birds of fire and light, or immortal sun birds, and that we
must merge back into the Sun and return to our source as pure
light. Since she knew that Attar must have been inspired by Islam,
she searched a digital version of the Qur’án and found a quote that
might have been his inspiration for the allegorical theme underlying
the poem.
Indeed we belong to Allah, and indeed to Him we will return.4
—Qur’án 2:156
But she knew that there was a difference between Sufi and
Bahá’í notions of merging into God’s essence. She had done some
research and found a Bahá’í website full of scholarly articles that
discussed the fact that the human soul could never merge into the
essence of God in any absolute way as this would be a movement
from state to state, whereas ‘Abdu’l-Bahá had said that the soul
could only transform or evolve within its own state through an
increase of spiritual perfections: virtues and the Names of God. So,

the Bahá’í idea was that the soul merged into its own higher
potential, or that the human soul was like a mirror that only
reflected the Sun, but this did not make it the Sun, only a perfect
reflection.
So, because of this, it was clear from the Bahá’í model that
humanity would always need an intermediate soul to make these
transitions in perfection, such as a Manifestation of God or a
prophet, symbolized in the poem as the hoopoe bird.
But this whole idea of God was problematic, and she still felt
that it was humanity that had created God to satisfy what she felt
was a void of meaning in this world. The existentialists had always
said that it was a brave soul that realizes that there is no meaning to
anything in this world other than what we ascribe to it, that we must
face this emptiness or nothingness without fear, that we could never
escape the subjectivities of the human mind, and ultimately that
there was nothing hidden within or behind reality. Being was
encapsulated and complete with only a hole in reality where God
might have been in the past. This hole had been made by science
and secular philosophy as Christian and Islamic ideas of God had
been challenged over many centuries.
And God had never revealed his reality in any way that
departed from the laws of physics, other than a few miracles.
The station of prophethood in the form of a human body was
clearly the schema of God throughout history; the world was then a
closed unit. We were always just left with our own image no matter
how hard we tried, like Sisyphus always rolling the same boulder of
meaning up the hill only for it to roll back down again, and we
would have made no progress toward or into the essence of God.
Apart from the development of science and technology in the last
century, the only transformation was internal, within the human
mind. So then it was true that we could never become God anyway.
She thought about the last stanza of the poem and the eternal
mirror and thought about her own mirror in the apartment and the
words “And be the Eternal Mirror that you saw.” This clearly meant
that we should reflect God within ourselves so that when we looked

into each other, then all we should see is God, or rather our higher
spiritual reflection, and as she had thought before, we would
become immortal firebirds reflecting the Glory of the Sun.
If there was a God, then she knew she would have to think
deeply about the possibility, but she had inherited some fairly fixed
and maybe limiting ideas from existentialism and postmodern
philosophy.
Eventually, she lost concentration and stared aimlessly at the
many varied shapes inside the faded wallpaper. She then listened to
the faint hum of the city outside the apartment. Her head rested on
the arm of the couch as she lay down, and the book rested on her
chest beneath her crossed hands. She stared at the ceiling, then
closed her eyes, and at that exact moment the phone rang. She got
up, putting the book on the coffee table, and walked over to the
receiver near the kitchen.
Hooman sounded happy to hear her voice. She could not bring
herself to mention not wanting to go out, especially because Nava
had gone to so much trouble to find the tickets.
“Hey! I had a great idea just now.”
She responded to his enthusiasm and hid her mood. “Yes?”
“Well, I thought we could go ice skating in Central Park today.
A few hours before we see the show. What do you think? It’s near
the bottom of the park, near 5th Avenue. Meet us there at five
o’clock.”
“Okay, that sounds good,” she said with as much energy as she
could summon, and it was a deception that succeeded. Before she
hung up, she noticed that his voice was still chirpy. He had not
discovered her real mood.
In the afternoon she caught a train downtown. She spent the
time trying to cheer up and drag life-affirming thoughts reluctantly
from her mind. In her distraction she nearly missed her stop. She
got off at Columbus Circle Station, and making her way to street
level, she walked through the bottom quarter of Central Park along
Central Park Driveway. Surrounding her were snowbound lawns

and stark, denuded trees lining the road, and after a short walk, she
turned right down a path that would lead her to the ice-skating rink.
The winter clothes she had purchased in the last couple of
weeks kept her body warm, but after a long walk, she was
overheated. As she neared the edge of the rink, she took her gloves
off and unzipped her puffer jacket. It took a few moments to locate
the other two. They were already skating on the ice. Both saw her
and came to a halt on the other side of the barrier.
Hooman leaned over the barrier and kissed Allison on the
cheek. “You can get skates over there.” He pointed to a building
near the entrance to the rink.
“I’m sorry, guys, I’m just going to watch. I don’t feel up to it.
Sorry, Hooman, I know you really wanted me to skate, but I didn’t
sleep well, and I’ve changed my mind now. Is that okay? Plus,
there’s the fact that I’m a hopeless skater. I don’t feel like crashing
on the ice today.”
“Of course, that’s fine. There are seats near the entrance.” He
pointed to the main building again.
“She’s depressed,” Nava said to Hooman. “Typical.”
“It’s true, Nava, but I do want to be with you guys this
afternoon. I just need to think and not exert myself. If I get too
tired, I won’t be able to concentrate on the show later on.”
“That’s fine. We won’t be long. Take it easy,” Hooman said.
“I’ll watch you skate. That’s enough fun for me.”
Hooman and Nava merged back into the crowd of people
circling around on the ice, and Allison walked to the seating area.
She brushed away a section of snow with large, sweeping arcs and
then sat down, watching the others with her chin in her hands.
After five minutes, Allison saw that Hooman had stopped a
couple who were walking near the rink barrier. He was talking and
shaking hands with them while Nava kept skating. A dark-skinned
child was sitting on her White father’s shoulders. The mother was
also White, and Allison assumed the child had been adopted. After
several minutes, the couple and their child walked down the path

that she had come along earlier. Hooman waved at the couple as
they walked away and began skating again.
She mulled over some of the ideas that she had thought about
earlier in the day and recalled the last section of The Conference of  the
Birds. She eventually lost track of Hooman and Nava on the ice.
She found it interesting how the birds, in their search for the
Simorgh, had found their image reflected at the end of the journey.
The idea of transfiguration was interesting to her: We become what
we are searching for. We came to the end of the road only to see
that we were already that reality when we started on our journey
but had not seen who we truly were, what our true destiny was.
She thought about the idea of God in Attar’s poem. Maybe a
part of her did believe in God as our higher potential or being, but
not the God that most people believed in; the Simorgh was just a
symbol of a deeper and more expansive humanity. Her friend
Jasper had said many times that God was a reality beyond any
known human reality. At the time she had never really pursued this
idea to its completion, but it made sense to her now. Jasper said that
we anthropomorphize our own reflection onto the face of God and
then disbelieve in our own limited and distorted image of God and
not God’s true image, reality, or being.
There was one interesting thing that came from the poem that
she felt deeply connected to: the idea of the Road, with a capital R.
She had thought immediately about her road trip through Australia
alone and in emotional isolation for much of the trip. It was clear
that the desert, the defining feature of her trip, was a mirror of
nothingness and being. That its emptiness was actually full of that
nothingness and a perfect mirror for identity: that Eternal Mirror.
The Road was pure. A Road that we are always walking along,
always moving through, always seeking ourselves in.
And what was even more fascinating was that Attar and Sartre
were pursuing two different kinds of nothingness and different kinds
of being, both with the realization that the world was empty but
with different end goals. For Attar the world was empty because of
its superficiality and impermanence. For Sartre it was empty of

absolute meaning, beyond our subjective constructions of God and
reality.
In The Conference of  the Birds the last valley was that of poverty
and annihilation; from it came a nothingness that left all the worldly
attributes behind. They were burned away as the birds entered the
internal spiritual worlds of being: of being with God and without
this earthly world.
Attar wanted the soul to seek God, hidden in creation, and then
transcend the world as it is, whereas Sartre wanted to transcend the
need for God and exist without transcendence from purely
intellectual and human outcomes for meaning within being and
from being without any other higher reference point. Maybe Sartre
was sincere in attempting to reject outmoded systems of belief in
God, superstitious and limited.
In the end Attar had said: “Their Road is thine—Follow—and
Fare thee well.”
This meant that her Road was a road that must lead to God
within the limits of her own being, and maybe, as she had thought
before, the birds had realized they had always been on this road
their whole life but had not known it until the end of their journey.
Follow that Road and fare thee well, she thought: this was
interesting and profound.
Hooman shocked her out of her reverie soon afterward. “Hey,
Allison, do you want some company now?” he shouted.
She got up and walked over to meet him at the barrier.
“I don’t mind either way. But you should skate. That’s why
we’re here.”
“Oh, okay, that’s fine. I’ll leave you be.”
“Hey, I saw you talking to some people just now.”
“Oh, yeah, that was Paul Nightingale and his wife, Sophie. And
Alison is their daughter. I met Paul at a law conference I attended in
the Netherlands this week. The conference took place in the Hague,
the home of international law and arbitration. I was delivering a
paper on trends in globalization and world citizenship. He liked it.
It was just a coincidence that he was passing by with his family. He

lives nearby in the Upper West Side somewhere. He asked me to
come and work for him, but I’m not sure I want to leave my current
firm.”
“Conference and bird,” she said slowly.
“Sorry, what did you say?”
“Today I was reading that book you gave me. Remember? The
Conference of  the Birds. You went to a conference and you met Paul
Nightingale. It’s a bird name and it’s from the book. The
nightingale attempts to reject the journey toward the Simorgh,
saying that its love for the rose is sufficient. The hoopoe bird, the
guide bird, then tells the nightingale that its love for the rose is a
superficial attachment to this world of dust. The rose’s beauty is
ephemeral. It fades and dies.”
“Yes, I remember that part of the book, but why is that
interesting?” asked Hooman.
“It doesn’t matter, really. It’s just that I like to match up words,
to see patterns in names and places. As you mentioned after the
party on Friday, there are worlds in words. But, you know, the most
interesting thing is that my brother, and his partner are called Paul
and Sophie. And, of course, Paul Nightingale’s daughter is Alison—
she has my name. Do you see the symmetry of names?”
“That is an interesting coincidence. Strange, really, now that I
think about it.”
Nava interrupted them as she skated past. “Come on, Allison,
don’t be boring. Go get some skates and join us.”
“Don’t feel pressured by her. You stay here, take it easy, and I’ll
get going and leave you alone for a bit more.”
Hooman began skating slowly as he waited for Nava to circle
around and catch up to him. Hooman reached out and took Nava’s
hand as they continued to skate.
Allison went back to the seat. Brushing away more snow, she lay
down. The sky was gray-white, with clouds catching the beginning
of the evening light. She thought about the strange convergence of
Hooman’s life and her own. Her eyes closed, and a pleasant
emptiness overtook her mind where only the cold breeze on her face

was present. After a few minutes of relative emptiness in her mind,
she felt the weight of someone sitting on the seat next to her head.
When she opened her eyes, Hooman was there, leaning back and
looking straight ahead.
“Sorry to come and disturb you. I know you probably want to
be alone.”
“Yes and no. I think I needed company today, despite myself. I
miss my brother, Paul.”
“You’re close, I gather?”
“Quite close, even though we are very different people.”
“The other day, you asked me about seeing the future. About
precognition,” said Hooman.
“Yes . . . it’s because I had a dream about the future when I was
a kid. We were on our way to Cairns for the Christmas vacations in
December . . . 1984. I was twelve at the time. It has happened a few
times in my life . . . these moments of lucid daydreams or visions
maybe, I can’t always tell, in which fragments of the future come to
me.”
“That’s fascinating, and I’ve been reading up on this. There is a
theory that the soul, as opposed to the body, sits outside of time and
space in an eternal world that some call Malakut. This is the world
of angels. It is also known as the world of images. So the soul
doesn’t exist in the physical world, and it is neither in nor outside
the body. Its reality is only reflected in the mortal world of time and
space like an image on a mirror. Actually, the whole physical world
is only a metaphoric expression of Malakut. For every reality in the
physical world, there exists a counterpart, or image, of it in the
spiritual worlds. In eternity the past and future are visible and more
tangible, whereas here in the physical world, for the most part, we
experience only the present moment without knowing what lies in
the future. And the past only exists as a memory. We are bound by
the reality of linear time through the limits of the senses. So,
because of the nature of eternity, it is possible to see future events in
the dream world. Dreams are our link to these other worlds.”

“Yes, I’ve read things like that in the past, informally though,”
added Allison. “A lot of that kind of writing is labeled as crackpots
spouting pseudoscience. Modern readers don’t take those writers
too seriously.”
“Yes, but for me it rings true. The idea of an eternity beyond
time is the basis of my belief in the afterlife,” said Hooman
seriously.
“I guessed as much.” Allison closed her eyes again and noticed
the noise of the many conversations on the ice. The light around
Hooman and her had faded a little. As she opened her eyes,
Hooman was still staring ahead at what she guessed was either Nava
or the other skaters on the ice. She got up and unzipped her puffer
jacket. She then tucked her legs inside it.
“My knees are getting cold now.”
He looked at her and smiled. “I see you have some good cold-
weather clothes now.”
“Yes.” She put her gloves back on and stretched her fingers out.
“I still have to get you back for that snowball you threw at me the
other week.”
He smiled. “Yes, that’s true.”
The other day at the party, you said there are five spiritual
worlds.”
“Yes, I did.”
“I’m curious. What are they?” Allison turned her head and gave
her full attention to Hooman.
Hooman responded in kind, swiveling slightly as he turned to
face Allison. “Well, Nasut is the physical world and is symbolized by
the color red. As I mentioned before, Malakut is the angelic world,
or world of images, which is green. Jabarut is the world of
command and eternal spiritual laws and is yellow. Lahut is the
world of the creative essence, the Word, the attributes and names of
God, which is white. And lastly there is Hahut, the world of the
hidden essence, which is also white.”
“Are these higher worlds accessible to us?” asked Allison.

“No, these worlds are way beyond the average person. It is only
the world of Malakut that we can see with any certainty, and even
this can only be expressed through metaphor or simile. In fact, each
world is a veil to the next world, which is higher up, in the same way
that the physical world, Nasut, veils the world of Malakut. It is like
the fetus in the womb who can never picture the physical world
outside the womb until it is born. The fetus also develops the five
senses and arms and legs, which it will only use after it is born. So,
in the physical world we must develop our spiritual qualities, such as
compassion, truthfulness, kindness, and all the others, so that we can
progress in the spiritual worlds now and after death.”
“That’s interesting. And it makes sense. You have to practice
compassion to grow in compassion, and practice kindness to
become better at being kind. I can see that. So, I suppose all the
worlds are interlocked and interdependent. Like the foundation of
the physical world where mineral, vegetable, animal, and human
are all built on top of each other.”
Hooman nodded and continued. “Hahut is the invisible and
inaccessible foundation for all the worlds. In fact, the relationship
between the essence and the attributes is like the TV signal and the
TV set.” Hooman started to move his hands to help with his
explanation. “We can’t see the signal with our senses, but we can
infer its existence because of the images we see on the TV set,
though ultimately this inference is just the unseen realities in the
physical world. And although it completely surrounds us, no being
knows the reality of Hahut. It exists beyond any comprehension
and beyond either direct or indirect experience. It is an absolute
mystery.” His hands stopped moving, and he was quiet for a
moment. “You know, you’re an interesting person,” he said with
brightness in his voice.
“I am?”
“Yes. When we talk, I find myself thinking about things that I
like to think about but that I don’t normally. It’s because I don’t
make the time and because I usually don’t have anyone to talk to

who is interested or at least open to talk about these kinds of ideas.
You know what I mean?”
“Yes, I know what you mean. I find that I am very much alone
in my thoughts too, and I’m happy to be that person for you,” said
Allison.
“That’s good, then. We can be a mirror to each other, but don’t
tell Nava,” Hooman replied.
Allison laughed and then became serious. “You know, speaking
about interesting things, I wonder what you think about symmetry.
Not just symmetry in names but other kinds of symmetry, because I
think there must be many unique mixtures of it in life. Before I met
you at Bryant Park last week, I was wondering about the
relationship of diverse and typically unrelated areas in life. How
they connect laterally and symmetrically.”
“Like what?” Hooman asked.
“Well, imagine that the shape of a coffee spill was mirrored by
the formation of many people across town wearing red socks. I
mean, I know it’s highly unlikely that this would happen, but it was
a thought experiment.” Allison was warming to her topic and
became more animated.
“So, you’re saying if these things lined up, that would be a kind
of lateral symmetry.”
“Yes. I think these things, in a very toned-down way, might
happen all the time, but we don’t see them because we exist in a
finite bubble of awareness, which is set around the limits of our
senses, and we only see the person next to us in their bubble. But I
guess if we could pull back and see every person from a distance, all
the dots could merge into lines of interconnection in symmetry and
asymmetry, uniting diversely separated aspects of physical reality
and maybe even our minds. Like the repetition of the words ‘It’s
fun, isn’t it?’ you said the other day and how it aligned with the
gallery owner’s own words in Soho. And then you said the word
‘fun’ later in that day, which also resonated in my mind. And we
may even have the same thought patterns as other people without
knowing it. And when these two kinds of symmetries merge into

each other, you then have a new overarching thing, a super-
symmetry, I suppose. Does that make sense?” Allison stopped to let
Hooman respond.
“I get what you are saying, but what you call super-symmetry, I
call a sign of God. And although God is beyond every physical and
mental attribute, His signs are there, which again point to the
unknowable essence. I am reminded of The Seven Valleys: ‘He
beholdeth in illusion the secret of reality, and readeth from the
attributes the riddle of the Essence.’5 And it seems to me that like
The Conference of  the Birds, all the birds’ diverse personalities merge
together to form a symmetry. And the riddle of the essence might
be from this symmetry—that the reality of the souls of humankind
is one of the signs of God, a symmetry of diversity. Are you
following me?” Hooman stopped to let Allison respond this time.
“I see. Yes, I think I do see what you mean. I am not sure if I
agree, though. The words sound lovely. I like the words you use,”
Allison responded.
Hooman continued. “The soul, like the essence, is an
unfathomable mystery beyond all comprehension. Its core will never
be discovered. So you see, it is a sign of its Creator: a reflection of
His Glory, of His Mystery.”
“Don’t get me wrong. That’s fine. I just think the term ‘God’
these days is historical, and it might be obsolete. But what you say is
interesting to me.”
“There is a way to free the historical concept of God from the
past so that it is relevant to today’s modern world, but that would
involve many conversations over a long time. About the unity of
science and religion.”
“Well, convince me if you think you can,” Allison replied.
Nava had come off the ice and taken her ice skates back to the
hire place.
She walked toward them. “Well, I got a guy’s number, but I
don’t think I will call him,” she said. “Although he was cute.”
Hooman got up. “Excuse me for a moment. I’ll just take my
skates back.”

* * *
They walked toward the car down snow-covered paths that ran
parallel to East Drive. After fifteen minutes, they found the car,
which was parked a little way down East 60th Street.
As they had walked, Allison had looked up at all the expensive
apartment blocks surrounding Central Park.
This part of Manhattan was very different from the part of
Harlem she lived in, and against Nava’s advice she had even
explored South Bronx for a day one week before. She had got the
train from 125th Street Station on Line 6 and got off at Hunts Point
Avenue Station and walked north through the Foxhurst
neighborhood. She then went west into Forest Houses and then
south into Melrose and Mott Haven. The area had a touch of
urban decay, but Allison knew, from research on the internet, that in
the seventies and eighties, the urban decay was far more extreme,
with all the demolished and fire-damaged buildings, bricked-up
windows in houses, and the general detritus scattered around some
of the streets, which had made it almost post-apocalyptic. A few
people stared at her in a strange way as she walked by, and one
woman even came up to her and said she should not have her
camera around her neck; it would be an invitation for someone to
mug her. Allison then realized how stupid it must have looked to the
locals. She put the camera in her backpack for the rest of the day
and only took it out to take discreet photographs. Toward the end
of the day, she circled around and returned to Hunts Point in the
evening. The prostitution and gang activity were obvious to Allison
as she made her way through the neighborhood. She had seen a
drug deal going down in a side alley as she passed by on Hunts
Point Avenue. A man had passed what was either crack or heroin
wrapped in aluminum foil to another man.
Having walked from the ice rink to Hooman’s car, Allison and
Nava sat in the back seat. Allison leaned forward and put her hand
on Hooman’s shoulder as he was turning the ignition over.

“The other night, on New Year’s Eve, Nava told me that your
law firm does a lot of consulting work for the United Nations.”
“Yes, it does.”
“So what was your paper about? The one you delivered in the
Hague.”
She leaned back and put her seat belt on.
He moved the car out of the parking spot and drove down East
60th Street. He slowed behind a buildup of traffic.
“Well, basically it focuses on the need to develop better ways to
regulate global companies and nations. To make an ethical interface
that balances the interconnected needs of different sectors of the
global community. But it’s not enough to change societal institutions
alone. There is a threefold process between the spiritual and
intellectual transformation of the individual, community, and
institutions. Together they have a symbiotic relationship.”
“Interesting idea,” Allison said. Nava just stared out of the
window.
“At the moment there are many different models of economic
globalization, each benefiting different sectors of society, but I think
we need to expand this idea of only economic integration and
develop a model with a basis in fundamental human rights. It’s as
the preamble to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights
suggests. The fragment I like is: ‘Whereas recognition of the
inherent dignity and of the equal and inalienable rights of all
members of the human family is the foundation of freedom, justice
and peace in the world.’”6
“I have never read it,” Allison said.
He leaned forward and looked up at the sky for a moment, then
continued. “We haven’t quite understood this very simple sentence
and all its implications. Let’s hope the future brings us closer to its
true meaning. And to achieve this, a much deeper and richer level
of global unity has to take place, which will only happen when most
people on the planet have a fundamental identity entrenched in
global citizenship, in the spiritual oneness of the human race.”

“That might take some time to eventuate. In the West we need
to leave behind us the models of capitalism that we currently
subscribe to. At least I think we do,” added Allison.
“The current system is based on competition, which is a
structure that has self-interest at its heart.”
“Yes, it has a Darwinian ethic to it, doesn’t it? I suppose the
survival of the fittest is supposed to lead to innovation and material
success.”
“But really that is an old-world model with severe limitations for
the future. We need cooperative structures, and cooperation is more
dynamic than competition. It is a selfless model. Imagine if
corporations shared knowledge and innovations rather than keeping
them secret and profiting from them,” Hooman said reflectively.
“Well, that’s a new kind of utopia that I haven’t heard about
before . . . good luck with that! But really, I’m happy you are
pushing such a positive model. When I used to volunteer at Friends
of the Earth, I read things that I didn’t like about trends in
globalization. There is a good reason for anti-globalization
organizations to push against some of the current trends,
particularly the nefarious influence of some of the large
multinational companies. Although I must admit, some of the anti-
globalization people go about dissent in a violent way. Not all, but
some, which I don’t agree with. When I was in London, I took part
in the May Day protests. At the time it all got a bit out of hand,”
Allison admitted.
As they came to the intersection of East 60th Street and 5th
Avenue, she looked over Central Park. The sun had disappeared
from the horizon, and she looked into the dark clouds over the city.
Snow began to fall as they drove down 5th Avenue. Eventually they
turned onto West 49th Street and passed by Rockefeller Plaza. At its
center Allison saw a large Christmas tree lit up against a dark night
sky. The tree was still up from Christmas.
Nava jumped in her seat. “Let’s stop and have a look . . . can
we?”

Hooman pulled up near the plaza and let the girls out. He went
to find parking close by.
At the base of the tree, Allison stared at the dark sky and the
skyscrapers surrounding the square. Her eyes moved around the
tree and passed over the large and shiny baubles. She enjoyed
watching snowflakes fall and dissolve on the tree’s many lights. Nava
put her arm around Allison’s waist. They looked up in silence for a
few minutes. Allison thought about the different colors in the
baubles and wondered about the color codes of the various spiritual
worlds described by Hooman at the ice rink. Maybe the worlds were
like the spectrum of color in light where the colors eventually bled
back into white.
Hooman approached them and stopped behind Allison. “It’s
pretty,” he said.
“Yes, it reminds me of my childhood. Our family would go on
vacations in North Queensland. Although the Christmas tree we
had when I was nine wasn’t as grand as this one, since we were in
an RV park at the time, I still thought it was marvelous. It was the
best Christmas tree I had had in my life up to that point,” Allison
said. Nava wandered around to the other side of the tree. She
looked up as she walked.
“I was thinking about what you said before at the rink,”
Hooman said.
“Yes.”
“Paul Nightingale.”
“What about him?”
“His last name reminds me of a small section of a tablet by
Bahá’u’lláh, which I say semi-regularly. It’s called the Tablet of
Ahmad. The first part of it goes: ‘Lo, the Nightingale of Paradise
singeth upon the twigs of the Tree of Eternity, with holy and sweet
melodies, proclaiming to the sincere ones the glad tidings of the
nearness of God . . .’”7
“Nice words, but what do they mean?”
“Bahá’u’lláh is referring to himself as the nightingale. He is the
intermediary between God and humanity. His voice is singing to

humanity and drawing them into paradise and eternity. He is like
the hoopoe bird, guiding the other birds toward the Simorgh.”
“Interesting.”
“The nightingale is a bird of the night. It sings in the night, and
the night is a metaphor for this time in history. It’s the dark time
before the dawn of a new era.”
“Even more interesting.”
* * *
Hooman had driven them on from Rockefeller Plaza and pulled
into a parking garage near Times Square. On 7th Avenue they
walked toward the Minskoff Theater. They crossed two
intersections as they passed through Times Square. Allison looked
up at the many billboards advertising every conceivable product.
The windows on the cars moving through 7th Avenue reflected the
multicolored advertising lights that flashed and throbbed in the
night. Her body, as she looked down at her hands, was like a subtle
mirror. Her skin was saturated with the light around her, which
changed from moment to moment. She looked at the mirrors of
other people’s bodies as they passed by and thought about the
nature of reflection and its illusion. And from illusion came the
secrets of true reality: the mirror in her apartment, the lion
sculptures in the gallery, and the baubles on the Christmas tree at
Rockefeller Plaza. All these were a symbol and a metaphor of the
real reflection, which was the eternal mirror of time and eternity,
and the soul reflecting its image into the body, as Hooman had said
at the ice rink. There must be other worlds beyond this one, she
thought, where there was no illusion and all reality was peeled back
to its essence.
Elliot stood outside the theater, huddled against the wind. As
they approached her, she was shouting into her cell phone to some
unknown person. In front of the entrance, Nava distributed the
tickets to everyone.
“This is going to be fabulous,” she said.

They found their seats in the theater. Elliot sat with Hooman,
and they chatted about work matters and the highlights of the law
conference in Europe.
Allison watched them interacting during the performance of
The Lion King, and they both seemed to like the show.
Preoccupied with her thoughts, she could not concentrate on
the show. She saw only fragmentary glimpses of the story’s
narrative, and the whole thing was just a disconnected blur of color,
sound, and movement.
Later on in the night, they had found a café adjacent to Times
Square, and they began to conduct a postmortem of the show.
Allison could barely contribute to the conversation. She had
thought again about the large red, green, yellow, and silver-white
baubles on the Christmas tree at Rockefeller Plaza. Though this
time she did not think of the spiritual worlds but rather of the
psychological worlds in which each spherical image held a distortion
of her face and body. The baubles were like mental filters in which
we view life, and in which everything is tinted with a specific color,
leading to a diversity of identity through culture and society. This
was a feature of postmodernism. That ideas we regarded as
objective were always tinged with the subjectivities of our culture
and the age into which we were born and developed within. But
although some cultural diversity was subjective, there had to be
universal aspects of our own reality that we all shared. There must
be a universal metanarrative that we could all live by, one that could
overcome some of the negative aspects of metanarratives associated
with specific cultures, nations, and belief systems.
Allison’s thoughts returned to the book she had read earlier in
the day. She borrowed a pen from Hooman and then took out a
subway ticket from her pocket. On the back of the ticket, she wrote:
“Allison Bird, Paul Nightingale = law conference = The Conference of
the Birds.” She put the ticket back in her pocket and stared at
Hooman as he chatted to Elliot. She passed the pen back to him
when he stopped talking to Elliot and looked over at her for a

moment. Her mind wandered into blankness as she stared at the
advertising lights and people in Times Square moving past the café.
In the end she tried not to say anything disparaging about the
show.
As Nava did not have enough tickets, Shidan could not join
them initially, but he came to the café after the show.
Shidan came through the door and greeted everyone in turn.
Allison was the last person to be addressed.
“My dear, you must be Allison. It’s an absolute pleasure to meet
you. Hooman thinks you are a rare mind. Is that true?”
“Well, he might be exaggerating, but anyway, it’s great to meet
you.”
Shidan sat next to her, and they talked exclusively for half an
hour. Allison could see Hooman was right about Shidan, but it was
clear that Shidan was the rare mind and not her.
As they were walking back to the car, Nava engaged Elliot and
Shidan in conversation. Hooman walked with Allison.
“How is the preparation for the master’s going? Is it all working
out?” he asked her.
“The course is fine. I’m enrolled and have started looking at
books on the reading lists of some of the coursework units. I start
classes in two weeks, on January 19.”
“You didn’t really enjoy the show, did you? You seemed
subdued and, well, distant.”
“Today wasn’t a good day. I’m not myself, really.” Allison
paused for a moment. “Actually, I wonder if we can talk about
something?” she said.
“Sure.”
“This is probably not the best place”—she looked toward
Shidan, Nava, and Elliot, who were walking a fair way ahead of
them—“and I want this to be just between us.”
“Why don’t we have a coffee one night this week? Toward the
end of the week, if that is okay. I’ll be away until Friday.”
“Okay. Great, where?”
“Let me think about it, and I’ll call you.”

“I look forward to the surprise.”
“Oh, I forgot. I have some photos to show you.” Hooman
reached into his jacket pocket and passed her a small stack of
photos. “They’re from Iran. That’s me and Nava in our backyard in
Tehran in March 1975. That was nine months before we left for
Australia.” The photo showed Hooman and Nava standing on the
roof of a small shed next to a fruit tree. Nava, legs spread apart,
had an apricot in her mouth and was smiling as her arms reached
for the sky. Hooman looked more subdued but still happy. “We used
to pick apricots. From the roof, we got the best pickings.”
“Cute.” Allison flipped to the next photo, which was a picture
of the whole family, including what she guessed were grandparents.
They were standing in front of an orchard.
“Those are pomegranate trees,” Hooman said. “Do you
remember that I said I took a shot on my uncle’s Zenit?”
“Yes.”
“This is that shot. A family reunion near Isfahan.”
“Ahh . . . so this is the Iranian version of The Brady Bunch?”
“Yep, this is my family.” Then he pointed at the clothes they
were wearing. “You see, the clothing is typical seventies style. See
the flared jeans and that miniskirt. This was pre-revolution, 1972.
Close to six years after this picture was taken, everything changed to
what you know of Iran today—Chadors and generally more
conservative clothing. Clearly, the country wasn’t ready for the
change it encountered in the sixties and seventies. It reverted back
to a more conservative version of Islamic culture. And we got out
well before the whole revolution saga. As you probably know from
Nava, we spent the rest of our childhood growing up in Perth.”
“It is such a strange contrast between then and now. It’s hard to
believe it is the same country,” mused Allison. “And there seems to
be a distortion in the equality of women that has resulted from the
revolution. I imagine men dominate women’s lives now.”
“You’re right about that. Women carried a large portion of the
burden of that society’s expectations and still do.”

Allison continued to flip through the remaining photos, which
were mainly group family shots. Her mind returned to Hooman
and Nava in their backyard picking apricots, so she flipped back to
that photo and this time really pressed the image into her memory.
Running through her life was a theme of fruit, which was
symbolized by the orange, the pineapple, the pomegranate, and the
apricot. The theme expressed the continuity of life through the seed
and the cycle of birth and death.
“Thank you for showing me these. I know you a little better
now,” she said.
* * *
After camping in Hattah-Kulkyne National Park for five days in late
December 1992, Allison packed up her tent and prepared for the
drive southeast to Moama, this year’s location for ConFest, which
was an alternative lifestyle festival held every year in the Australian
bush. She had been to the festival in the previous year, traveling
there with people she had met at Friends of the Earth. This year she
had agreed to manage the stall for Friends of the Earth for a day as
she had done the year before.
She got into the car and was about to drive off when she
decided to take one last look at the desert. She leaned over and took
her camera from the back seat. She got out of the car and walked to
the edge of the camping area. She then walked over several dunes
before she found one that afforded her a good view of the
surrounding desert. She looked through the viewfinder at her feet.
They were partially submerged in the sand. She took the shot, then
put the camera in her lap as she sat down, contemplating the
expanse around her. Her mind turned to the books that Jasper had
lent her, and many of the philosophical ideas that they had talked
about in the previous year.
She had spent the week flicking through various existentialist
books, plus a few books by Carl Jung. She had managed to get
halfway through Being and Nothingness by Jean-Paul Sartre, and she

thought that the desert was a perfect place to contemplate relative
nothingness. Ultimately, she was interested in the idea of an
existence with or without a God, and whether the meaning
framework that underpinned consciousness was based on a template
created by God or was purely from evolutionary processes like
natural selection, whereby the meaning surrounding or
underpinning being was subjective and self-defined.
If being came slowly from evolutionary processes, then it must
have been initially a way to navigate spatial environments and
manipulate physical objects through the five senses, purely to
function for survival and reproductive needs, and then it must have
begun to evolve higher functions, which allowed intellectual
abstraction without reference to concrete reality, using creative and
logic functions in the brain. The ability to build collective meaning
must have come with the slow development of shared languages.
And a good example of the abstraction of the physical environment
is a metaphor, which is a word or phrase applied to an object or
action to which it is not literally applicable. A part of our higher
brain functioning was built on metaphoric and symbolic logic that
would have been the foundational concepts with which religion and
creation myths needed to evolve.
These were precursors for natural philosophy and then
eventually science, which discovered the true nature of causal
realities in the physical world. So, in the last few hundred years,
consciousness had evolved to its highest level: empirical logic. And
existentialism had attempted to fill the void of meaning that science
had left behind, making God obsolete. But Jasper thought that two
things might be possible. Either God never existed and was
constructed by human imagination to explain existence, or God did
exist, but we were never able to explain God’s reality sufficiently,
and science was just clearing away thousands of years of historical
superstition to make way for a more expansive understanding of the
existence of God. And the peak of evolution was clearly
consciousness itself because without that, religion, philosophy, and
science would have never come into being.

Jasper had explained to her that consciousness was built from
invisible conceptual frameworks that could exist within and outside
of language frameworks. We used these frameworks every day as we
moved through spatial environments and interacted with physical
objects, and as she looked out at the dunes, she began to analyze her
thoughts. She looked at the next dune in front of her and saw a tree
half-buried by the next dune. She knew it was a tree without
thinking about it with words in her mind. She stood up and walked
down the dune face toward the tree. In fact, if we needed to use
words every time we performed a physical or even mental action,
our life would be one unending narrative speech. She did not say in
her mind, “I am standing up. I am walking down the dune. I am
touching the tree. I am plucking a leaf from its branch.” Her mind
just worked on the periphery of language, and she thought in
formless conceptual frameworks. But we needed language to build a
shared meaning of reality because we could not use telepathy to
communicate directly.
She put the leaf into her pocket and turned around. She walked
back over the dunes to the main camping area and got into the car.
She put the leaf on the dashboard and drove off down the dirt road
that eventually joined the main highway. Looking in the rearview
mirror, she saw the dust kicked up by the car.
“Good bye, Hattah-Kulkyne. I will miss you,” she said and
smiled.


The Museum
He breaketh the cage of  the body and the hold of  the passions, and
communeth with the denizens of  the immortal realm. He scaleth the ladders
of  inner truth and hasteneth to the heaven of  inner meanings. He rideth in
the ark of  “We will surely show them Our signs in the world and within
themselves”, and saileth upon the sea of  “until it become plain to them that
it is the truth.” 1,2
—Bahá’u’lláh, The Seven Valleys
Standing in front of his apartment window, Hooman’s eyes panned
around the Hudson River before moving from the Manhattan docks
to the Midtown skyline. He always picked out the Empire State
Building and the Chrysler Building. All the other skyscrapers
remained indistinct as they always did. The different light
conditions and the play of light at different times of day were fused
into his memory. He could almost keep time based entirely on the
light reflecting off the Midtown skyline rather than his wristwatch.
* * *
Hooman’s daily work routine was to catch a ferry from the terminal
near his apartment in West New York and walk from the Manhattan
terminal to his Midtown office.

After walking to the ferry through the snowbound streets of
West New York, New Jersey, he got on the boat and sat near the
front. If it was not taken by anyone else, he always sat in the same
seat. From this position he liked to contemplate the water, the
skyline, and the sway of the boat. His thoughts turned to Allison.
He thought about the conversations they had had in the short time
she had been in New York. He thought about what he had said to
her at the ice rink: that he could talk to her about ideas related to
metaphysics and religion; these were the specifics of mirroring each
other. And her openness to these topics probably stemmed from her
studies in philosophy. With all his other friends, there were certain
limits to what he could express to them. Something in him knew
that they would become good friends, and he wondered if God had
arranged it all. He also wondered if she had come into his life for a
particular reason that was unclear to him now but would reveal
itself in the future. Because of her interest in art, Hooman thought
she might like to visit MoMA, The Museum of Modern Art. He
had called her from Philadelphia on the previous day, and they had
arranged to meet at MoMA in the evening after work in the
basement café.
* * *
Hooman paid the taxi driver and opened the door. He stepped onto
the sidewalk before looking up at the night sky for a moment and
then reading the sign above the entrance, The Museum of Modern
Art.
He walked through its entrance doors and continued until he
came to an escalator that took him down to the basement café. As
he descended, he saw one person sitting alone at a table; her posture
and body shape had become familiar to him now. She wore the
same black clothes from the goth party a couple of weeks before.
The only incongruous elements were her long brown hair and
oversized brown worker boots. The boots in particular stood in

isolation as they contrasted against her black-and-white striped
stockings.
As he approached the table, he saw that she had one finger
submerged in a glass of water. Hunched down, she tilted her finger
at different angles.
“Is your finger thirsty?”
Allison looked up. “Oh, hello.” She removed her finger from
the glass and smiled.
“I am wondering what you are up to.”
“I’ve developed an interest in the nature of visual distortions
and optical illusions. It’s a recent thing. It’s my new obsession. I
think it started with the green lions at the gallery in Soho.
Remember?”
“Oh right. Yeah, actually I noticed the other night.”
“What night? Oh, last weekend.”
“You know, you seemed fascinated with those baubles on the
Christmas tree at Rockefeller Plaza. I noticed you touching the
baubles and staring. I was wondering what you were thinking about
at that moment, and now I know.”
“Right. You noticed that.”
He smiled. “Yes. What is it about distortions that you like so
much?”
“Well, it’s not that I like them. It’s more what they mean beyond
the obvious, from a psychological perspective and, maybe more
than that, a metaphysical viewpoint. Anyway, it is about the
possibility for an object to give the illusion and projection of reality.
I’m thinking of those white cube sculptures in particular where the
lens makes it appear as if the sculpture is sitting on top of the cube
when it is actually sitting trapped inside the cube. Glass bends light
in some interesting ways, don’t you think?” Changing the topic, she
continued. “Shall we go see some art?”
Rising to her feet, she linked her arm into his, and they walked
toward the escalator. He listened to her boots clip-clop on the floor
and smiled.
They walked onto the escalator.

* * *
After exploring several of the collections on the first and second
floors for half an hour, they eventually came to minimalism. In one
of the larger rooms, Allison and Hooman faced an expansive
canvas. It stretched from the floor to the ceiling, and they stood
completely engulfed by the view. The painting was composed of
two equal squares with two large circles, one inside each square.
Allison looked at the left side, which was a black square with a white
circle at its center, and on the right was a white square with a black
circle.
“So, what is this painting about? Does it mean anything?
Besides being a backdrop for your clothes,” he said.
She laughed.
“You’re right. It does go with my goth clothing. But as for
meaning, I think it represents the division of perfection from one
into two, the beginning of duality, of opposites. And it does this
with a combination of symmetry and asymmetry. The two squares
and circles are symmetrical, but the difference between the shades
of black and white are asymmetrical.”
“I would see this as being the black ink of words and the white
of paper. These two circles look like two rather large periods.”
Facing him, she raised her hand in a vertical line from her chin
to her forehead. “So, take my face for instance. I want to talk about
beauty and bilateral symmetry. My face is symmetrical in one way,
okay? Because my facial features are equal from ear to ear. So, we
have perfect symmetry, right?”
“Not exactly.”
“Huh! We don’t?”
“No, you have more freckles on your left cheek. You’re not in
perfect symmetry.”
She smiled and ignored his comment. “Right . . . so from the
top of my face to the bottom, from my forehead to my chin, my face
is asymmetrical. You see. Otherwise, I might have lips on my

forehead and likewise a chin where my forehead should be. It may
be considered ugly by some.”
“Very ugly, indeed. I like your face as it is.”
“So do I. But let me finish. So, unless the human face has both
symmetries in balance, beauty is not there. It combines both dual
symmetric and asymmetric elements at the same time, creating a
oneness between the two. That is the face.”
“That’s interesting,” said Hooman. “So art is considered
beautiful when it has these elements in balance, but there is also
fluidity between everything because of relativity and context. It’s the
same in literature too, really. That side I know more. I never studied
visual aesthetics much. But this conversation is great.”
“There are many elements in art, but I suppose even color,
shape, texture, concept, and many others conform to this basic
template of a combined symmetric and asymmetric aesthetic,” said
Allison. “Hey, can we sit down?” She smiled. “My legs are getting
tired.”
They sat on a bench at the back of the room and continued
talking.
Hooman spoke first. “Forms are all one at their root, I
suppose.”
“Yes, Plato talks about it in his writings. They are the perfect
forms. He thought that this material world is a world of shadows,
feeble approximations of the real ideal perfections that are eternal
and changeless. They apparently transcend temporal and spatial
dimension. And ideas are forms, basic templates, on which all
physical and ethical objects are based. They are the physical,
intellectual, and moral forms. He called the highest perfect form
‘The Good,’ which is the root form on which all others are based.
You could appreciate that idea, I expect. Have you read Plato?”
“Yes, I have, and you know in a way he meant God by using the
word ‘Good.’ You just need to remove an o. Plato said ‘The Good’
was the absolute measure of justice. And the world of ideas was in
essence the next world, I think, an invisible empyrean—the highest
and most pure heaven. Like I said the other day, the whole of the

physical world, Nasut, is a metaphor for the next world, Malakut,
and all forms in the physical world have their counterparts in the
world of Malakut. The templates for all reality are the five
interlocking worlds of God, where the essence and attributes are
expressed like Russian dolls. An attribute on one level is an essence
on the next level down. Of course, the worlds of God are infinite
and countless in their range, and dividing the worlds of God into
five tiers is based on the older Sufi traditions.”
“That’s interesting,” said Allison. “I always wondered why, near
the end of The Republic, Plato is talking about morality and truth
and then presents this apparently random story about Er—the
soldier who visited the Elysian Fields and Hades, then awoke from
death while the wood was burning on his pyre. Plato obviously
meant to connect ‘The Good’ with the afterlife. I suppose he
wanted to connect justice with deeds and rewards and punishments
with the afterlife. But I tend to think that ideas come from the
physical world first, as we see them in nature, and are then
manipulated in the mind, then regurgitated back into the physical
world as tangible objects or abstract scientific discoveries.”
“That’s true up to a point,” said Hooman, “but I think there are
objective truths that exist independent of time and the external
world. There is much beyond what the senses perceive directly. The
mind allows us to see the invisible principles that shape the universe.
The universe is inside us, in our minds. Look at the other artworks
or nature itself.” He swept his arm across the room. “These are all
just mirrors, and what you see in them is yourself, an objective self,
because we both know you exist.” He put his hand on her shoulder.
“That’s an indisputable fact, a truth, but there’s also a subjective
self, in the sense that you can’t entirely transcend the limits set
around your finite individual perception. You can’t move beyond
the personal filters through which you view the world and interpret
it. These are prone to untruth, or perhaps fractional truths that
approach greater objectivity over time. It’s like the distortions in the
glass of water you were observing before. The senses and mind can
deceive us since we see distortions in the glass and not the true form

of an object that is projected through it. It’s the truth of the water
and glass but not the truth of the object that is the source of the
reflection. This is why interpreting art, and indeed reality can be so
subjective, so personal. And if duality exists, it is in the mind; in
reality, all things are one undifferentiated emanation of God’s mind.
This is what I believe.”
“I know where you’re going with this,” Allison responded with
caution in her voice. “I’m persuaded, but not for the same reasons
as you. So, you would say, then, that there is an objective and
absolute foundation in the human mind?”
“Yes, pretty much, that’s where I think Plato was going with
‘The Good,’” said Hooman. “But there are limits to what we can
see of this. It is infinite, whereas we are finite. One can’t embrace
the other fully. After death, it’s easier, so I read in certain books.
Once we pass into the world of Malakut, the world of forms, the
truth becomes clearer.”
“I agree that there are some objective truths or approximations
of objectivity. I can go that far with you,” said Allison. “After all, if
the mind is completely subjective and prone to untruth, how could
it discover facts that it maintains are physically objective and have a
foundation of truth, like science? But I don’t see why you have to
add God to the mix.” She was quiet for a period. “Well . . . I don’t
know. Maybe there is a place for God in reality. I am still
unconvinced though.”
Hooman turned away and looked at some of the other works in
the room.
“On the weekend I said I wanted to talk to you about
something. Something quite personal, actually,” she said.
“Right. Yes. I almost forgot. That’s why we’re here, isn’t it?”
“But whatever I say, it has to be between the two of us, okay?”
“Sure, no problem.”
“I couldn’t think of anyone else who might be open to what I
want to say, at least in New York anyway. And after our conversation
just now, I think you might be interested in what I have to say.”
“Okay then, I’m intrigued. What is it you want to talk about?”

After a considerable pause, Allison turned to Hooman. “You
know, it’s just occurred to me that it’s quite apt and coincidental that
we’ve been talking about the true perception of reality. Have you
heard of any situation where normal perception breaks down?” she
said.
“Well, that’s a sign of madness, I suppose.”
She laughed. “I thought you might go there. That’s why I find
this hard to talk about. In case someone might misinterpret me,
which is why I stopped talking to my brother Paul about certain
things in my life in recent years. He wouldn’t understand me.”
“Really, you seem fine to me.”
“Thanks for the vote of confidence, but I do feel that I’ve been
slowly submerging into . . . well, a strange landscape. Like
sometimes, something might appear fine on the surface, yet a part
of me knows something is wrong with what I am seeing mentally.
Like a mirror being ever so slightly bent that it looks normal, but at
a certain angle something looks wrong or distorted.”
“I’m not really following you. But is that why you’ve been
interested in visual distortions?”
“Yes. But there are no visual distortions in my perception. I’m
not hallucinating. It’s psychological distortions that I see. Although I
do sometimes hear extra harmonics on the top of other sounds, like
in peoples’ voices especially.”
“Hey, me too,” added Hooman. “I heard some harmonic
overlays in a dream I had last year, and there was a little resonance
in your voice when we first met at the café in Greenwich Village.”
“Really?” Allison was pleased but returned to her topic of
conversation. “And I can trace this to about a year after my first
operation to remove my breast. You might know through Nava that
I had cancer. Anyway, I started having vivid flashbacks of my life.
But not like normal memories. They seemed somehow more real.
And the thoughts that triggered these memories seemed
disconnected from my conscious will. Like they were not from a
clear line of causation or free will in my mind. Something is
dissolving the traditional symmetrical structure of my mind, and a

new symmetry is rising up that connects both my inner and outer
worlds. It’s like my face is changing its form and shape, and a new
face is emerging, a new mental identity.”
“Wow, are you sure about this?” asked Hooman.
“Well, yes and no. It’s been coming over me so slowly and
gradually that it took a long time for me to even suspect something
was wrong in the first place. But now there are some really odd
things going on.” Allison paused as a woman passed through the
room. “Three weeks ago, at that gallery in Soho. Something strange
happened,” she said.
“You mentioned seeing bronze sculptures. They sound
interesting.”
“The thing is that the script on the sculptures was from that
book I borrowed from you.”
“Yes . . . The Conference of  the Birds.”
“And also, those sculptures were lions, and this was on the same
day you decided to take me to see The Lion King. There were also
seven stars on the side of each lion. This is connected to the fact
that we went to the Seven Stars Café on my first night in New York.
I also heard the gallery owner repeat a phrase that you repeated
later on in the day, ‘It’s fun, isn’t it?’”
“Yes . . . I did say that. I remember,” agreed Hooman. “You
mentioned it in the car that day.”
“I won’t forget it. You both said exactly the same phrase. Do
you see the symmetry in these events? And his voice—it had a faint
harmonic to it. His thoughts entered my mind, melding with my
own thoughts. And the blue of his eyes—they were so intense. It
was like looking at the sky.”
“I see.” He paused. “And so are you saying these were a series
of synchronized and symmetrical events?”
“It’s like in the present moment, the past and the future are
expressed in symbolic form, in relation to those green lion
sculptures, but I’m not absolutely sure of the links between these
events.”

“I do believe some people can be intuitive, and synchronicity
exists, but we can also read purpose and point into the accidents of
life. It happens all the time. It could be just chance.”
“Yes, I thought so too for a while. I am with you on this. I’m not
the type of person who reads purpose into chance happenings at all,
but this is the totally strange thing. I went back to the gallery in
Soho several days before last Christmas. It was a few days before
you came back from Europe. I wanted to ask the owner about
something he mentioned to me, about the nature of eternity, but he
didn’t remember meeting me, not at all. In fact, he seemed like a
completely different person. He was colder than I remembered,
unemotional. The lions were there, but he thought the work was
garbage. He was merely indulging the tastes of his wife, who liked
the artist. I’m telling you, he was a completely different person.
Externally he looked exactly the same, but his personality was just
too different for it to be a coincidence. I was totally flummoxed.”
“Well, I must admit that sounds a little strange. Are you sure he
didn’t remember you? I mean, it was the same man. Are you really
sure?” asked Hooman.
“Yes, absolutely. I kept insisting to the man that we’d met. He
told me to leave. Can you imagine that? How out of this world is
that?”
“It is odd. No doubt. I can’t understand it myself, but if that’s
just an isolated incident, then I wouldn’t worry about it.”
“Yes. Maybe. It could be just me.” She studied his body
language. “I can see you still don’t believe me.”
He hesitated. Before he could answer, she added, “Look, I know
how implausible it sounds. Don’t think that I think this is normal
either.”
“I do believe you. I can see you’re disturbed by it.”
“Look, if you have an opinion other than it’s just my
imagination, which I already think anyway, then I’d love to hear it.
But I suppose I’m just glad I could share it with someone.”
“That’s no problem. Although I don’t think I’ve been much
help to you.”

“No, you have been a help. I am just going to the bathroom. I’ll
be back soon.”
“Okay,” he said.
She stood up and walked away. She found the escalator and
descended down to the next level, eventually finding the ladies
symbol.
* * *
Hooman wandered around the room and looked at more
minimalist paintings before walking into an adjacent room. He
stopped in front of a large stainless-steel cube and then circled
around it. He thought about what she had said about the shape of
her mind changing, assuming a new symmetrical form. If she was
right, what did it mean? It could be something or maybe nothing,
and he did not know her well enough yet to know the difference.
After five minutes in minimalism, he wandered back to the
escalators and waited for her. He missed her arrival but felt a gentle
tap-tap on his shoulder.
“Hello. I am back,” she said.
He turned around and smiled at her. “I am glad.” He assumed
that she must have gone into one of the adjacent rooms to view one
of the other collections.
They then rode the escalators up to the Abstract Expressionist
collection. They walked into the main room and stopped in front of
a Jasper Johns painting, which was the American flag piece that he
was known for. He had seen the painting before during his last visit
to the gallery.
“I have seen this painting before,” she said.
“Yeah, me too.”
“I wrote an essay about it at uni.”
They were quiet for a while.
“I have an admission,” he said, finally.
“Oh yes, what?”
“When you first arrived, you know, the day you flew into JFK.”

“Yes.”
“Well, I was on my way to the café that night, and I had a
strong impulse to buy a book. Mind you, I get these impulses a lot,
so there is nothing interesting about that, but this was different
somehow.”
“Right, I remember it. You had a book with Terminal 5 on the
front.”
“Yes, but at the time I didn’t have that particular book in mind
or any title for that matter. Actually, Elliot picked it out. So, what
I’m saying is, it occurred to me as a little odd, a coincidence maybe,
that you arrived at JFK on the same night that I bought a book with
Terminal 5 on the cover. It’s a tenuous thread I know, but, well, I
thought it might be significant. I don’t know. You did seem to have
an inordinate interest in the terminal, more than average. That’s
why I thought there might be a connection. A subtle connection . . .
between us.”
“That resonates,” agreed Allison. “It does seem synchronistic,
yes. I didn’t think about it at the time, but in retrospect, I see your
point, yes.”
Hooman wanted to comfort her. “These things have happened
to me too. But usually, they are isolated events, but even then, I can’t
always be sure if anything is obviously connected, or if it’s just my
imagination over-interpreting reality,” he said.
“So, how do you explain my experiences, then?”
“Well, I see that God is not a large part of your life or you are
yet to be convinced, as you have said tonight, but I believe that most
events in life have some link to life’s true objective reality.”
“I’m not sure that I’m a complete nonbeliever. I am open to the
possibility. It’s just that I haven’t seen or heard anything strong
enough yet. God is more like a pure principle to me of goodness,
that humans have as a goal to be better people, but not a conscious
entity, up there, you know, in heaven or wherever God is supposed
to exist.” She pointed to the ceiling.
“I have another theory,” he said.
“What’s that?”

“Well, you know we were talking about the worlds of God the
other day and just now about the connection to Plato’s forms. And
the relationship between the world of images and forms, Malakut,
and the physical world, Nasut?”
“Yes.”
“Well, I believe that the worlds of God beyond this life flow into
the physical world, imparting purpose and energy. It is like the air,
which, although it’s invisible, we know exists because of the
movement of objects, like the grass in a meadow, which moves and
bends in submission to invisible realities.”
“So, you are saying I have some connection to the world
beyond.”
“Yes, that’s exactly what I’m saying. Other ways this can
happen is through dreams and prayers. The dead can speak
through the living. Not directly, but in a subtle way. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá,
the son of Bahá’u’lláh, talks about this when he says:
“‘Those who have ascended have different attributes from those who are still
on earth, yet there is no real separation. In prayer there is a mingling of
station, a mingling of  condition. Pray for them as they pray for you! When
you do not know it, and are in a receptive attitude, they are able to make
suggestions to you.’3
“And with regard to internal mental symmetry, I am reminded
of a Hidden Word by Bahá’u’lláh:
“‘O SON OF THE THRONE! Thy hearing is My hearing, hear thou
therewith. Thy sight is My sight, do thou see therewith, that in thine inmost
soul thou mayest testify unto My exalted sanctity, and I within Myself  may
bear witness unto an exalted station for thee.’” 4
“That’s interesting,” Allison responded. “So God stands within
us as the base of our perception of the world, like an onion skin of
consciousness, as layers within layers. I am not sure that fits—he

could be the core of the onion rather than the skin—but I suppose
it is good to have some theory rather than none.”
“Sometimes, God is the silent witness within us, watching the
thoughts and images that flow through our mind; and, at other
times, we are the silent witness, and God’s thoughts and images flow
through our mind,” Hooman explained.
“Hey, can we go somewhere less public? My legs are really tired
now. Maybe we can continue at another café or something?” Allison
asked.
“Oh, I know a place downtown. It is better than a café. It even
has a big couch you can lie on if you want.”


The Symmetries of a Face
He in this realm is content with the divine decree, and seeth war as peace,
and in death findeth the meaning of  everlasting life. With both inward and
outward eyes he witnesseth the mysteries of  resurrection in the realms of
creation and in the souls of  men, and with a spiritual heart apprehendeth
the wisdom of  God in His endless manifestations. In the sea he findeth a
drop, in a drop he beholdeth the secrets of  the sea.1
—Bahá’u’lláh, The Seven Valleys
Hooman and Allison got out of a taxi they had caught from MoMA
to Tribeca. Allison looked up at a large warehouse and the night sky
beyond that. They walked into the building. Allison liked its patina
and general atmosphere but knew it was an object of desire for a
cashed-up hipster and not her. They came to a cage elevator and
walked into it. Hooman closed the door, and they ascended to the
top floor. They walked into a stark, modern loft apartment. Without
a word Allison looked around.
“Yeah, it’s a bit over the top, I know,” he said.
“Who owns this? It’s huge and shiny.”
Hooman smiled. “A friend. You haven’t met her yet. This is
Sara’s place.”
“What does she do for a living?”
“She’s a stockbroker. . . and relatively successful by all
accounts.”

“It shows. Where is she?”
“Away on a business trip. I don’t know exactly where, but at a
guess she is probably attempting to invest in more property
somewhere. Don’t ask me why she does it. She could retire now if
she wanted. I don’t follow that part of her life much these days.
Anyway, I’ll make some coffee. Have a seat.”
Allison watched Hooman move into the kitchen. He opened a
cabinet. Pulling out two mugs, he placed them on a stainless-steel
countertop.
She walked around the couch to an expansive set of windows.
She placed her hands and face on the glass. The wind pushed
against the weight of her body on the other side of the glass. Pulling
back, she focused on the condensation. Her hands and face were set
in relief. Her body moisture revealed a crude photographic
emulsion that had formed on the glass. The flimsiest of historical
documents, she thought.
Behind the evaporating image of herself, she saw a thicket of
Manhattan night towers reaching up into the dark sky. All their
lights shone in the night. Turning around, she stood in front of a
long brilliant-white couch. It was almost too clean. Afraid to leave a
smudge on it, she looked over her sleeves and backside to see if they
were in any way grubby. On her shirt sleeve was a slight mark from
the rusty nails in her room. She then looked up at Hooman.
“Listen, don’t worry about it. I’ve spilled coffee on it a few
times. It’s dry-cleaned quite regularly,” he said.
“Well, okay, if you say so.” Her eyes closed for a moment as she
spun around and dropped backward onto the couch, relaxing
deeply into its soft cushions.
“You seem impressed with this place . . . or at least a little
impressed. I wouldn’t have thought it possible,” Hooman said.
She opened her eyes and turned toward the kitchen. He filled a
French press up with hot water.
“Really! Why?”
“Oh, I don’t know. You don’t seem, well, overly concerned with
material comforts. From the little I know of you.”

“We all have a beast of desire within us. I try to keep mine
tamed, not always with the success I would like. But what about
you? Don’t you like this place?”
“It’s nice enough, but I would feel a degree of guilt living in
something like this.”
“Really! Why? You work hard, don’t you? You deserve this
lifestyle too.”
“Why do you say that?”
“I guess it seems reasonable. Everyone works to better
themselves.”
“But there must be limits.” He took a glass from the cabinet and
filled it with water. He held it up to the light. “Take this glass of
water, and let’s say I could afford to purchase it, and you could not
afford to buy any of it. Do I deserve to drink it all? Knowing full
well that you will be deprived, and let’s exaggerate to say you will
probably die of thirst. What would stop me from letting you die?”
“That’s a bit simplistic, don’t you think?”
“Yes, of course it is, but this is just a thought experiment
between you and me. In certain other contexts, not so far removed,
like the developing world, it’s perfectly true. Take bottled water. It is
sold in developing countries to people who can hardly afford to pay
for it. Many large multinational companies are making huge profits
at the expense of the poor. Like Nestlé, which has just opened a
factory that manufactures bottled water in Pakistan, where many
don’t have access to clean drinking water, and as a consequence,
waterborne diseases continue to affect many people in the country.
According to the World Health Organization, access to clean
drinking water should be a human right. In fact, there are three
central human rights: justice, education, and health.
“Let’s talk about justice. What is justice? Is it a natural right,
which transcends social and economic distinctions? Or is it a right
that is dependent on one’s ability to buy it? If justice, or any other
human right, becomes commodified, is it any longer a right? Justice
is a principle at the same level as the body’s need for water. Nothing

in society would function without it. It’s a perfect form at its most
ideal.”
“Actually, I agree with you, in principle,” said Allison. “But
where do you draw the line? If you’re a millionaire, do you choose
to live in the gutter from social guilt?”
“Where the line is drawn is a decision for each person. But for
me, it’s a way to develop my spiritual potential. It’s like fasting, but
instead of denying myself food, I choose to give up certain material
comforts. Like a car for instance, I don’t have one. I go on public
transport, take taxis, or borrow Nava’s car. Plus, there’s the principle
of sharing limited resources.”
“I see. Yes, I understand that.”
“I know in a city like this, the shrine of a capitalist god, choice
becomes obscured, lost in a morass of materialism, but really there
is no such thing as a choice without a consequence. Everything
exerts an influence, without exception. And if you have to start
somewhere, start with yourself. Of course, that’s just my choice. You
have to make up your own mind. I try not to make judgments of
other people.”
“Mmm, you’re interesting.”
“Do you have sugar?” Hooman slowly pushed the plunger
down.
“Yes, one please. With milk. So how do you know Sara?”
“Sara is one of my failed attempts at a relationship. Sara was a
girlfriend . . . for a short time. We were together for just under a
year.”
“I see. I relate to that. My boyfriends too were sparse and brief.
When you add them together, they just barely came to the outline
of a whole man.”
“Anyway, so we’re good friends now, after nearly five years.
That’s why I still have a key to this place. And she’s going out with
Shidan now. So that all worked out well.”
“Did your relationship just fizzle out or was it more to do with
the issues we’ve been discussing just now?” She paused for a

moment to think how far she could push it without getting too
personal. “Of guilt and wealth.”
He looked up from stirring the coffee. “You’re analyzing the
ethics of my relationships.”
“Am I?”
He looked into her eyes. “Okay then, I’ll be honest with you
about Sara. I think Sara would like to think everyone can be a
millionaire, potentially, okay. Something with overtones of the
American Dream: ‘I pay homage to the Deva of wealth within me,’
or ‘I deserve to be successful.’ Mantras like that, but even that would
be too yoga for her, but something like that. Anyway, you get my
point. But I know for me that’s just not true. Someone has to be
poor for another to be wealthy. That’s the way our society is
structured, with distorted hierarchies. We can’t all live in lofts like
this. Inequality is an unintentional aspect of the American Dream,
and although nobody is organizing inequality within government
bodies as a necessary part of capitalism, many in our society are
ignorant of the consequences and illusion of wealth and how it
manifests itself on a global stage when we do not share. And let’s
say seven billion or so people on the planet consumed like the
average wealthy Westerner. Would the planet cope with the strain?”
“No, it wouldn’t. I know that.”
“So, I have to take less for others to take an equal share. But the
problem is someone else who doesn’t need the part that I am giving
up will take it. Not those who need it. So there has to be regulation,
a conscious balance. That’s why I got into international law. It’s
about a form of global justice, of systems that have to be developed
over time to create that balance, and a renaissance of spiritual
values at the level of the individual that will moderate our
consumption and create a vibrant global community where
everyone has the resources they need to fulfill their human
potential.”
Allison thought about the day she had first driven to Hooman’s
apartment along the Hudson River. She had thought about the
incompatible elements within the American Dream. Hooman had

highlighted these ideas tonight, about the winners and losers. And
what was fascinating to her now was that he had outlined ways to
correct this. He saw what she saw, and he cared about the poor.
“Justice again. The conversation is circling around it.”
“I can see I am ranting now.”
“No, this is a great rant. I’m seeing you clearer now . . .”
He smiled and continued. “Shakespeare said: ‘It is the mind
that makes the body rich.’”2
He brought the coffees over and passed her a mug.
“But you’re wealthy. I mean, I presume you are. As a lawyer,
you earn a fair deal, right?”
“Yes, that’s true. It’s a side effect of my job, but it’s not the
primary reason I got into law in the first place. Besides, I give much
of it away to various causes.”
They got comfortable with their coffees and settled into the
couch, repositioning and arranging cushions to prop up their
bodies. Hooman placed one large cushion in front of him. He held
his mug between his hands and rested it on top of the cushion. She
observed his irises contracting as he focused on her face.
“Am I getting too intense for you?” he said.
“Intense . . . you? I don’t think you know me well enough yet.
I’m usually the intense one. Well, now I’m intrigued. Did Sara ever
find this kind of conversation a bit hard to digest?”
“We never spoke at this level. I never thought it would interest
her really, but don’t get the impression that I think less of Sara
because we don’t agree on the state of global poverty, or that she
thinks my beliefs are cute but deluded.”
“Cute but deluded. I’ll remember that. Nice phrase. But what
do you really feel about people who don’t hold your particular
ideals? Be truthful. Do you really want to associate with people who
have harmful materialistic ideas?”
He laughed at her suggestion.
“I do see your point, really. But if you believe in justice for the
poor, I want you to think about something. Do you have any friends
who live near the poverty line? Do you know what kinds of

conditions poorer people live in? And I don’t mean in theory. I
mean in practice. I walked around Harlem the other day. I’ve seen it
there and in South Bronx, and I lived amongst the poor in Australia
on and off over the years. There’s a big contrast between Harlem,
South Bronx, and the rest of Manhattan. And I saw the poverty in
East London and Paris, too, when I lived in those places. If your
answer is no, then aren’t you living in a kind of walled paradise: a
private pleasure garden? Even if it’s a humble one compared to
this.” She spread one arm out to encompass Sara’s loft apartment.
“You should move to South Bronx or Harlem and live near me.
Then you can say you’ve known the poor.”
He was silent and, from what Allison could gauge, shocked by
her suggestion.
* * *
The ceiling, a featureless plane, could be sleep-inducing most nights,
but now it provided a meditative surface. Hooman’s eyes traced the
empty planes of white paint and in contrast the visual stimulus
where the familiar cracks and paint peels had formed. The day’s
events replayed in his mind. He pondered the various things that he
and Allison had discussed that night. She was a beautiful person. He
was drawn to the things she said and the way her mind worked. He
also thought about that morning and was convinced now that she
had come into his life for a specific purpose.
The door to his room opened. Nava walked into the bedroom
and slumped on the bed. “You are late,” she said.
He put his arms around her shoulders. They both looked at the
ceiling together now. “Yeah. I saw a friend. Sorry, I should have
called.”
“Anyway, I thought you might be working late, so I ordered
takeout again. It’s in the fridge if you want some.”
“How was your day?” he asked.

“Good. I convinced a client not to change a few design
elements. They would have brought my whole design down.” She
closed her eyes and seemed to Hooman to drift away.
He did not pursue the detail of her day. Instead, he carefully
removed his arm from around her shoulders and said quietly,
“Great. Good for you.”
As he closed his eyes, his mind drifted away. His thoughts
returned to Allison. She was independent, and to a point that
seemed needlessly excessive. Once more she would not allow him to
escort her home. He felt the same frustration that had moved
through him on the night she had crossed the black ice in front of
his apartment block. He was tempted to do something out of
character again, and his irritation mystified him. But then he
realized that it was because she lived in an unsafe part of town and
did not seem to acknowledge this, or, if she knew it to be true, she
brushed it aside carelessly. And although New York, and Harlem in
particular, was safer now than it had been, it was still unsafe in
certain circumstances, but the main issue was that she had somehow
permeated and penetrated his being. She had burrowed into the
private recesses of his mind—areas that he had forgotten himself
and assumed were beyond question or reproach—and she had been
right about his walled paradise. He had protected himself from a
firsthand experience of the poverty in New York, and the truth of
this made him feel hollow. His final conclusion was that her
observation, although strangely uncomfortable, was somehow
liberating.
Now he was curious to know who this person was, because she
could be distant as well as warm and open. Something was given,
and something was held back. He did not fully understand her, and
that was what he could see now. There was a lifetime’s worth of
history that he did not know about. She was a puzzle to construct: a
personality that must have taken so many interesting twists and
turns in this life.
Nava stirred beside him.
He opened his eyes.

“Hey, does Allison have any sisters?” Hooman whispered.
“No, just a brother. Paul, remember? I mentioned him the other
day.”
“Oh, yes.” He recalled that Allison had referred to him tonight
and the day at the ice rink. “What about her parents?”
“They did own a few restaurants, in Lygon Street, the Little
Italy of Melbourne.”
“Were Allison’s parents Italian?”
“Her father was.”
“But her surname, Bird. It’s not Italian, is it?”
“Her father changed his surname to integrate better into
Australian culture. Originally it was some Italian name, but Paul
runs the restaurants now.”
“Did her parents retire?”
“No, not exactly. Both parents are dead. There was a car
accident when Allison was sixteen. Her father was killed, and her
mother was in a coma for some years, in some care home
somewhere. She died about six years ago. Allison used to visit her
mum a lot for a while. But she would never talk about her mother
when we were together at university. Actually, it was Paul who told
me all this.”
“Oh, I see. She mentioned her mother’s funeral last week. I
remember now that she said she is close to Paul.”
“Very close. For a long time, they only had each other.”
“Her interest in death makes sense now.”
“What makes sense?”
“It’s nothing.”
While still maintaining a conversation with Nava, his mind
drifted back to the end of the conversation with Allison in the loft.
In an abrupt turnabout Allison had said to him, “I agree with
you totally.”
They were in the cage elevator descending to the lobby. “Agree
with what?” He had looked at her face for an indication of
playfulness, but he could not read her, and she seemed quite serious.
“Everything.”

“Everything? What do you mean by everything?”
“I thought about your ideas earlier on, like justice, wealth, and
poverty. It’s all good. The God and spirituality thing I will need to
look into further before I pass judgment. But on the whole, I’m
convinced now that you’re right, mostly, most of it . . . anyway, it’s
all good.”
“Really?”
“Totally. In fact, I’m going to test this all out in my master’s. I
finished reading The Conference of  the Birds. I think there’s something
in it. And look, even if I can’t explore it in my master’s because
most of it is set papers, I might do my own personal studies and try
and nut everything out.”
“You will?” He was uncomprehending of the abrupt
turnaround and said, “When did you decide this?”
“Just now . . . listen, I was only playing around with you before
when I questioned you on wealth. I just wanted to see how your
mind works. I have always thought about these things.”
He did not dare make a joke. He did not know if she was
sincere or just playing around again.
In the street he was thinking of something in response, but by
the time he had prepared something it was too late.
She had kissed him on the cheek. “Bye,” she said and turned
around. She walked toward the stairs to the subway. Just before the
entrance she turned her head toward him. “By the way, that Cartier
watch is ridiculous. You know that, right?”
“Yes, I know it’s ridiculous. Sara gave it to me.”
“Well, I am glad to hear you weren’t the one who bought it.”
“Yes, I know. I was—”
She smiled, then turned and disappeared into the stairwell at
Chambers Street Subway Station.
Nava had fallen asleep again. He swung his legs slowly off the
bed and gently raised himself to a sitting position. He did not want
to disturb Nava. He washed his hands and face meditatively in the
bathroom sink before adjourning to the living room for his daily
prayers and meditation.

He opened his prayer book and began to read his daily
obligatory prayer aloud:
“‘O Thou Who art the Lord of  all names and the Maker of  the heavens! I
beseech Thee by them Who are the Day-Springs of  Thine invisible Essence,
the Most Exalted, the All-Glorious, to make of  my prayer a fire that will
burn away the veils which have shut me out from Thy beauty, and a light
that will lead me unto the ocean of  Thy Presence . . .’” 3
But the words he uttered were a wall rather than a gate, and
there was no path leading to a world of transcendence beyond.
Even if his words could be a gate, he doubted his ability to open it,
and this gate was made of letters, mere abstract shapes, whose fine
tracery coiled, looped, and touched. They created an impregnable
barrier and a mesh of restricting detail. To find a way through the
tangle of letters and words, he looked to the white of the page to see
the meaning. He thought about the painting at MoMA, and the
positive and negative space of words, which was the white of paper
and the black ink of words.
How often had he vainly hoped to possess spiritual abilities
beyond himself? To be on the other side of the gate looking back at
his past self who might be peering into a garden. A different garden
than the one Allison had mentioned but connected. He saw that
now, but no amount of wishing would help because he was still that
past self. And he had hoped that one day he would find a word or a
phrase acting as a catalyst or even a single letter as a secret gate
handle. Once triggered, the words would unravel, and the locking
tracery would unroll until only a book of pristine white pages
remained. The ink would fade in the illuminating light and leave
pure understanding above the form of words that hovered and
shimmered above the radiant, undiscovered, untrammeled beauty
of the pages beneath them.
But for the moment he would have to content himself with the
sound of words and the sensation of the surface sheen of paper. He
observed the oily mark from his thumbs in the page corners where

he had read over those familiar prayers through the years. The
more familiar they were, the more impenetrable they had become.
He needed a fresh way to perceive his life: a way of being and a
new beginning. His stomach leaped within faintly, which seemed
insignificant at first, but then an image entered into his mind. It was
a precursor to an admission. The image he saw was Allison. He had
noted the symmetries of her face in MoMA and the freckles on her
skin. She was very pretty, which was a pleasant sensation, but one
that now outgrew itself and turned to pain. Now he saw her. Now
he knew her anew as a painful form and not just a pretty face but
instead a beautiful one, and this was uncomfortable in its
consequence. He was beginning to love her.
* * *
More than six years earlier, after a three-hour drive, Allison arrived
at the front gate of ConFest on December 31, 1992, in Moama,
New South Wales, Australia, where she would see out the old year
and welcome in the new one. She paid the entrance fee and drove
through. She headed away from the main camping area and tried to
find a camping spot on the northern bank of the Murray River that
was isolated from most of the other campers. After a while, she
could not take the car any farther because of the thickness of the
scrub. She got out and propped the wheels with bricks to stop the
car from rolling. She then walked along the river and eventually
found campers who’d had the same idea as her and had set up in a
small clearing next to the river.
So she walked back to the car, got her tent, her smaller
backpack, and her hiking pack and set up next to the other tents in
the clearing. She then walked to the bank of the river and put a
blanket on the ground. She sat down and continued reading Being
and Nothingness.
After half an hour of reading, she heard peoples’ voices coming
toward her. She closed the book and looked back at the campsite.
Eventually, she saw two girls walk into the clearing. They were

barefoot, wearing slightly familiar tie-dye skirts and large, loose-
fitting tie-dye shirts. One girl had long blonde dreadlocks. They
walked up to Allison.
The girl with the dreadlocks said, “Hello. I’m Aurélie.” She had
a thick French accent.
Allison stood up and hugged Aurélie.
“And I’m Io, but most people call me I.”
Allison then hugged Io.
“You don’t mind if I camp next to you?”
“No, not at all . . . I remember you from last year,” Io said.
“I’m sorry, I don’t remember you,” Allison said.
“That’s okay. We were in the same meditation workshop, and I
visited you at the Friends of the Earth stall.”
“Ahh . . . okay.” Allison then remembered where she had seen
the tie-dye skirts before. The clothes were from a clothing stall next
to one of the workshop tents. She assumed that was where Aurélie
had bought hers too.
“What are you reading?” Io said, pointing to the book on the
blanket.
“Oh, that is Being and Nothingness by Jean-Paul Sartre.”
“Wow. I have heard that that is difficult,” Aurélie said.
“Yes, it is.”
“I am surprised to see you reading that. I mean, that is way too
much . . . for the average person. Even in French I have heard that
it is very difficult,” Aurélie said.
“Hmm . . . yes, I suppose it would be. I would never attempt to
read it in the original French. But changing the subject, where are
you guys from?” Allison asked.
“Oh, I’m from Nimbin. It’s near Byron Bay,” Io said.
“And I’m from Paris. But I am staying in Sydney at the
moment. I mean, my boyfriend is there right now,” Aurélie said.
Allison had studied French in school, so she began talking to
Aurélie in French. Allison could tell by the look on her face that
Aurélie was impressed by her mastery of French. She explained to
her that she was going to study French next year at the University

of Melbourne. Allison asked where Aurélie had been in Australia so
far.
“Nowhere really. My boyfriend and I arrived in Sydney last
week,” Aurélie said in English.
“Hey, we’re going for a swim. Do you want to join us?” Io said.
“No . . . I’ll keep reading. But thanks anyway.”
“Okay, cool.”
Allison went back to her blanket and sat down. The girls
stripped off their clothes and jumped into the river.
* * *
Allison had spent a few hours toward the end of New Year’s Eve
Day managing the Friends of the Earth stall at the festival with a
few people she knew from the organization in Melbourne. Aurélie
and Io came to meet her after her shift. Allison saw them in the
distance walking toward the stall through the gum trees in the
campsite. They were both topless and barefoot but wearing their tie-
dye skirts.
“Hello,” Aurélie said brightly as they came to the stall.
“How was your day?” Io asked.
“Good,” Allison replied.
Allison turned toward Bess. “Are you okay to run the stall for
the rest of the day?”
“Yeah, sure. You guys go and enjoy yourselves. Oh, the fashion
show is about to start if you want to go,” Bess said.
“Ahh. Okay, sounds good,” Aurélie said. “Do you want to check
that out?”
Just next to the Friends of the Earth stall, a tantric sex workshop
was under way. The girls passed by the workshop and headed
toward the fashion show.
The fashion show was not at all like other fashion shows in
mainstream society. There were many amazing folk wearing
extremely odd and colorful clothes. It was meant to be a fun event

celebrating social and cultural diversity. They sat down with many
other people and watched the show continue.
Aurélie took Allison’s hand. “I have been wondering about the
book you are reading.”
“What about it?”
“Yesterday, you said to me that you think there is no true
meaning in life. Sorry, I have forgotten the word you used in English
. . .”
“I said there is no true objective meaning in life beyond what we
construct in our imagination?”
“Yes, that is right. ‘Objective.’ It sounds similar in French, as
you probably know.”
“And that God is no more than a mental construct that satisfies
our search for ultimate meaning in this life.”
“Yes, exactly,” agreed Aurélie.
“Well, that comment was just from the viewpoint of
existentialism. God, who has been defined in the past as the object
of meaning and devotion, was only conceived of within the limits
of human understanding at various times in history, and in many
cases we had no real understanding of what God might actually be.
And even existentialism was a reaction against this limited
conception of God.”
“Ahh. Okay, that is so interesting. So, people who reject God are
really only rejecting old ideas of God?” asked Aurélie.
“Yes and no. It is an open question. Even though some people
misconstrue God and use him as a puppet for their own limited
ideas of his so-called true reality, that doesn’t actually mean there is
a God. A friend of mine, Jasper, believes that God’s transcendent
self will never be grasped by the human imagination no matter how
far it progresses, and that humanity nearly always
anthropomorphizes God’s reality through the immanence of God’s
reflection in the physical world. He believes we will never escape our
finite, subjective, perception-orientated human selves because by
our very nature we have certain inbuilt fundamental limitations in

us. But regardless of that argument, I am still not convinced that
God exists beyond human intellectual projection.”
“Wow! Interesting.”
The next person to parade in the show was an old man with a
multicolored patchwork suit. He danced down the avenue of people
sitting on both sides of the show. Everyone laughed and clapped
their hands. Two young girls got up and danced with him.
The day eventually faded into night, and Aurélie and Io went
for another swim in the darkness before joining a circle of people
sitting around a campfire burning in a forty-four gallon drum.
Everyone was waiting for the new year to arrive.
“Hey, how are you guys getting back home tomorrow?” Allison
asked.
“We were going to hitchhike. And there are people from
ConFest going to Sydney.”
“Why don’t you come with me? I am going past Byron Bay.
That’s near Nimbin, right? But I am going to go south first, via
Wilsons Prom. And then I plan to go to Sydney via the coast road
rather than going straight there by the Hume Highway. It will
probably take three days or longer than the usual eight-hour drive.”
“That would be great. I have never been to Wilsons Prom,” Io
said.
“Nor me,” said Aurélie. “Can we pick up my boyfriend on the
way? He is in Sydney. We were planning on traveling up the east
coast.”
“That’s fine. Can we share the driving?”
“No problem,” Aurélie said.


New Friends
Gazing with the eye of  absolute insight, the wayfarer in this valley seeth in
God’s creation neither contradiction nor incongruity, and at every moment
exclaimeth, “No defect canst thou see in the creation of  the God of  mercy.
Repeat the gaze: Seest thou a single flaw?” 1,2
—Bahá’u’lláh, The Seven Valleys
Allison was sitting on the steps of the Visitors Center at Columbia
University. She had her back resting against one of the neoclassical
columns at the entrance of the center. She had just finished a
lecture and was eating sandwiches for lunch. It was March 12,
1999, and Allison had been attending philosophy lectures for seven
weeks.
Winter had gradually faded into spring. Allison had observed
the slow departure of snow from the square. The square was
surrounded by an assortment of neoclassical buildings. Most of her
lectures were held in the philosophy building, which also faced the
main square, and from there she had often walked around the lawns
or down the central avenue of the South Lawn on her way to the
Butler Library, where she had often worked on her essays or
conducted research; however, as spring came, she had spent more
time in a small room at the back of Shidan’s bookshop. The name
of the shop was the Sun Tongue, and she was as attracted to the
name as she was to the space itself. Shidan had mentioned that the

word “tongue” when combined with “sun” was supposed to evoke
the idea that words were like spoken light.
The room overlooked a light well with a cherry tree planted at
one end. The light well had been modified when Shidan first
bought the building. He had removed two brick walls from the back
of the room and replaced them with floor-to-ceiling glass. Shidan’s
desk faced the light well. Allison would often stare through the glass
wall for brief moments and then continue tapping away on Shidan’s
laptop, which she had borrowed for her essay writing. Shidan
encouraged her to study there, and, as the weather had become
tolerable, he had bought a table and chair for the light well. She had
then moved from his desk into the light well to study.
Allison finished her sandwich and stood up. She walked toward
her bicycle, which was chained up on Broadway. Dan, her
roommate, had lent her his bike. So she used it to go shopping for
food each week. She eventually left the square and walked between
Dodge Hall and the school of journalism. She came to the bike and
unlocked it. She rode down Broadway toward an Italian deli that
was a few blocks away. She was planning to cook an Italian dinner
for her roommates and Shidan and Sara and wanted the raw
ingredients to make homemade ravioli.
Initially her study had gone well, but recently Allison was
finding it hard to concentrate. Her conclusion was that somehow
the philosophy course appealed to her intellect but not to her heart.
She realized that society often talks about the heart and the intellect
as if they are separate things. One ruled by love and the other by
logic, but this was a false dichotomy. They were intimately
interconnected, so from the two came the one overarching “logic of
love.” She supposed that as long as love was the dominating
principle in the soul, then we could not go astray in our life, and
then indeed the combination of the heart and intellect would be
light upon light. And we could speak our way into the light of
eternity with our sun tongues.
So, despite her misgivings about the course, she pushed on.

The bookshop’s interior was not unlike the university library,
with antique wooden shelving, but where the shop departed from
the university was in the exterior. The shop was a 1960s redbrick
building, and it stood in contrast to the many neoclassical buildings
at the university, but both buildings smelled similar, like old books or
old paper and dust.
Shidan hardly ever managed the front of the shop. He hired a
girl called Nikki to look after it, and he spent several months each
year traveling around the world looking for rare manuscripts. Often
these rare books never made it to the shelves in the bookshop, as the
bulk of these items were purchased by people who never frequented
the shop. The shop was partially a visual facade for the business, but
it was also a hub for people who liked to be among books and book
people, and the shop was well known as a source for very obscure
titles that could be found nowhere else in Manhattan.
As the months since their first meeting went by, Allison and
Shidan spent more and more time with each other. They went to
cafés and movies and sometimes Broadway shows. Hooman and
Nava would join them occasionally, but often they were alone and
enjoying each other’s company.
Over that time Allison had noted that Shidan had a habit of
never looking directly at people when they were talking. He looked
off somewhere else, and it was as if the human face was a
distraction to him. And although he never appeared to observe a
person’s body language while in conversation, she had noticed that
he did observe people when they were not talking. Silently he
watched and took a person in, and it appeared, superficially at least,
that although he was here living his life, a large portion of him
seemed to be gone. He was traveling somewhere else in the broad
expanse of his mind, but whatever his surface persona told Allison,
she concluded eventually that a good portion of him must be here
in the present moment. This was borne out by the fact that while he
might say very little much of the time, when he did say something, it
was highly rational and keenly observed, and it shot to the center of

an issue with accuracy and always a certain dry irony. She could see
why Hooman liked him.
After a short ride, she came to Milano Market where she locked
her bike and entered the deli. She knew immediately that they
would have everything she needed as her eyes panned around the
interior of the shop, and she began selecting the different
ingredients.
* * *
In the apartment that evening, Allison began preparing the ravioli.
She hadn’t made it for a long time, but it seemed like yesterday that
she would assist the chefs in the restaurants back in Melbourne.
Dan and Maddy were out and not due back for several hours. From
the kitchen window she could see Morningside Park. She looked at
the green lawns and the hill; it blocked a view of Columbia
University that was on the other side of the hill.
After making the dough, she began to roll it out with a rolling
pin. As she rolled it, she became aware of the smell of the dough
rising up from the kitchen countertop and had a flashback of the
kitchen in one of the restaurants in Melbourne. She had always
loved the commingling aromas of all the different ingredients in the
restaurant kitchen. She thought about Shidan and smiled. She was
looking forward to getting to know Sara a little better.
* * *
The next day was Saturday, and Allison was sitting in the light well
writing an essay out in longhand. She had just finished a draft and
was leaning back on a chair, looking up at the pink blossoms and the
sky.
Shidan opened the glass door and leaned out. “You ready to
go?”

“Sure.” Allison was still leaning back, and she took one last look
at the blossoms to imprint them into her memory. She leaned
forward and packed up her papers.
“The Chevy is out front.”
Shidan kept a sports BMW at his mother’s garage in Brooklyn,
which he hardly ever used. The Chevy was for Manhattan, and it
was covered in scratches and dents from being thrown around in
open parking on the streets and exposed to the extremes of the
seasons. The model was a 1959 Chevrolet Impala with flat fins at
the back of the car. Allison loved the shapes in the body of the car.
It almost seemed like some strange insect from another world or
maybe a version of the 1966 Batmobile, except for the fact that it
was white rather than black.
“Can I drive?” she asked.
“Of course you can. I knew you would ask.” Shidan smiled and
offered his hand to help her stand. She stood up, and they walked
from the light well into the office. She put her camera into her
backpack. Shidan closed the glass door to the light well.
“Let’s get going,” she said.
They then walked through a door into the front of the shop
where Nikki was standing behind the front desk. She waved. “Bye,
guys. Have a nice afternoon.”
“We won’t be long. I’ll be back in a few hours or so,” Shidan
said as he opened the front door to the bookshop.
On the street Allison went around the car and opened the
driver’s door. Shidan slipped into the passenger seat and passed the
keys to her. “Here you go.”
She started the car, and they merged into the traffic on East
59th Street behind a large truck. She immediately smelled the diesel
exhaust fumes from the truck and began to close the driver’s side
window. Shidan began to close his window too.
* * *

Hooman found a parking space adjacent to the Guggenheim
Museum. Because 5th Avenue was one-way at this section of the
road, he had gone north for several blocks before turning around
and coming down 5th Avenue. He had turned onto East 88th Street
and had then backed the car into the parking space. As he opened
the driver’s side door, he looked up at the large spiral form of the
museum. They had arranged to meet in front of the museum, so
Hooman and Nava walked toward the entrance. As they arrived,
they saw Allison and Shidan driving down 5th Avenue toward them.
Allison pulled over and pointed at the museum. “Hey, why don’t we
have a quick look inside before we go to Central Park,” she shouted
at Hooman and Nava.
Shidan nodded.
“Okay, why not,” Hooman said. He turned to Nava.
“It’s been a while since I was here. I hope they’ve managed to
rotate the collection,” Nava said.
Allison and Shidan found a parking spot nearby, and the friends
walked into the building. They were soon making their way up the
interior of the spiral form. Halfway up, Nava stopped in front of a
painting by Marc Chagall, Paris through the Window. She took Allison’s
arm, and they were soon talking about the various compositional
aspects of the picture. Hooman leaned over the railing and looked
down at people milling about in the hall below. Shidan joined him.
“How’s your mother? Nava said she’s unwell,” Hooman asked
Shidan.
“It’s nothing too serious.”
Allison left Nava and linked arms with Shidan. “Hooman was
telling me the other day that you lived in Iran during both the
Iranian and Cultural Revolutions,” she said.
“Yes, I did. I spent some of my time in Iran and some in
England. I went back to Iran in the same year that the Iranian
Revolution started. Bad timing, I know. Why do you ask?”
“Curiosity, I guess. A couple of months back Hooman showed
me a few photos of Iran, before the revolution, and it got me
thinking about the scale of change in Iranian culture during that

time. I’m surprised that in the two and a half months we have
known each other, you have never mentioned it once.”
“I don’t like to talk about it. My memories are full of
paradox . . . and pain,” replied Shidan.
“We missed it. I was eight when we got out. That was late in
1975 . . . two and a bit years before everything went bad. Nava and
I spent our childhood growing up in Australia,” Hooman said.
Shidan added, “And because of that Hooman has a certain
nostalgia for Iran that I don’t share. As a Bahá’í, he can never go
back, or at least it would be difficult to live there. So, not long after
the revolution started, some of my parents’ assets were confiscated,
but Maman, my mother, managed to get out of Iran with most of
her wealth intact. She was independently wealthy from her father’s
side of the family and had invested in a few properties in London.
And my sister and I were educated in English boarding schools in
the early seventies, but she went back to Tehran before me and got
married. Almost five years after the Iranian and Cultural
Revolutions started, late in 1983, we came to America, and I went
to New York University to study English literature. But it was a
sacrifice for my parents. My father, in particular, wanted us to have
a cultural education that was broader than just Iran. I can see his
farsightedness now. He was broad-minded. And I suppose in the
end he was sacrificed by his own virtue.”
Hooman looked at Allison. “Shidan’s father and sister were
killed.”
“I’ve tried to rationalize the mentality of my own culture,”
Shidan offered, “but I can’t. It’s as if I was sane but orphaned to a
madhouse. You just had to be there to understand how stupid
humans can be.”
“Tell me about your sister,” Allison said.
“She was married to a Bahá’í, and the cost of that union was
her life, as well as contributing to my father’s death.”
“Why did they kill him?” she said.
“Dad was a journalist and secular philosopher. He was known
to be sympathetic to the plight of unfortunates in the community,

not just Bahá’ís but other minorities too. He used to write about the
obvious inconsistencies in the regime, nothing outrageous, just the
truth. He was in favor of the secularization of Iran that had come
under the rule of the shah. Although he didn’t like that particular
regime, with all its corruption, he still thought that religion shouldn’t
rule societal institutions. So he and many other intellectuals were
gradually snuffed out over the years.”
“So terrible. So bizarre,” Allison said.
“The mind boggles, Allison. And I’m afraid I have to lay the
blame squarely at the feet of religion. Especially all forms of
fundamentalist Islam. Wipe it out. Stop the fanatical madness of it
all. The brainwashing. That society needs a big purging to rid it of
the ticks and fleas gorging on its back. It’s an authoritarian
madhouse.”
Hooman looked at Shidan. “But religion has also been a source
of good in the world, historically speaking, and it can be again.
Also, remember that Islam, at one point in history, brought great
cultural and social development to the Middle East. This also had a
civilizing effect on other cultures in the world at that time, both
intellectually and spiritually. It only decayed later in history.”
“Well, I do make some concessions for the Bahá’í Faith and
some moderate forms of religion,” Shidan said.
“Virtues are what define a religion. If a religion doesn’t possess
the basic attribute of living humanely, then it can’t claim the name
of being a religion,” Hooman offered.
“I agree,” said Allison, joining the discussion. “It doesn’t matter
if people call themselves religious outwardly. If they are not
compassionate people, then there is no religion there—only a shell
with no light in it, just empty words. I think some people have
forgotten the true form of their respective religions, as has always
happened throughout history.”
“Religion always passes through natural cycles of both growth
and decay. It’s relative, not absolute. And with a renewal, things will
change. I believe there will be a renaissance of the spiritual in the

future. It will begin to wipe away all forms of prejudice and hate,”
Hooman said.
Shidan grinned, then answered Hooman. “A renewal. Hmm, I
don’t know. Maybe.” Shidan looked over at Allison. “Has Hooman
won you over to his viewpoint?” he asked her.
“No, no. I think I see both sides. In some cases there seems to
be a need for it, and in other cases certain aspects of religion could
be gradually abandoned. It depends on needs and contexts in the
modern world.”
“Shidan actually knows quite a lot about religion, despite his
dislike of some of it,” Hooman said.
Shidan looked thoughtful as he looked across the spiral form.
“If what you say is true, then I suppose as Bahá’í principles spread,
many of the problems with Islam will fade in time,” he said.
* * *
After half an hour of visiting various side rooms adjacent to the
main spiral form, the group of friends left the Guggenheim for
Central Park. As they were about to cross 5th Avenue, Allison
suggested that after walking to the top of the park, the group could
then make their way toward Harlem’s Marcus Garvey Park.
“After Marcus Garvey, we can wander up to 125th Street for a
coffee or something. And there is a recreation center at the park that
I want to look at. I am wondering if there are any photography
classes for local Harlem kids. If there isn’t anything like that
happening, I thought I could start something in the future. I don’t
know. What do you think, Shidan?”
“Sounds like a good idea.” Then he added, “Hey, people, why
don’t I take my car on ahead, so then I can drive you all back to
your car near the museum.”
“Okay. So meet us at the recreation center,” Allison said.
“Fine. See you all there, guys.”
Shidan watched awhile as the group of friends crossed 5th
Avenue. They then walked along a path that skirted the lake near

the middle of the park. He watched them disappear, then walked
back to his car.
All the talk about the Iranian and Cultural Revolutions and his
early years in Iran had uncovered memories that he did not
normally dwell on. As he approached the car, he sifted over the
conversation in the museum, and an image of his sister’s face came
to his mind.
* * *
On a spring day in the mountains north of Tehran, the snow was
melting. Bleak and clean rock sat up on one side of a narrow gravel
path. The rocks glistened in the sun. The sprawling city below ate,
with cancerous fingers, into the base of the mountains.
Mona had chased Shidan up the path. He had slipped a
snowball down her back, and he remembered her trying to be angry
but bursting into laughter as she caught him. Some of her vibrancy
and radiance was in Allison. Some of Hooman’s kindness was in
Mona’s husband, Peshman. Walking up the track slowly, Peshman
had caught up with them. They all embraced, laughing.
* * *
Shidan opened the car door. He sat in the driver’s seat, staring
ahead for a moment. Before turning the key, he stopped himself. He
was trying to suppress more memories of a time one year after their
mountain outing.
* * *
The Iranian Revolutionary Guard had dragged Peshman by his feet
through the front door of his house and into the street. Shidan,
twenty at the time, was watching from a street corner with his hands
full with a dish of food that his mother had asked him to deliver to
his sister. He had thought that if he had walked on over that

invisible line toward the house he might not walk back. He could
not go forward even when Mona ran from the house screaming. She
clung to Peshman’s body. The Revolutionary Guard tried to pry her
away but then decided to drag them both off. Crowds of neighbors
and passersby gathered, yelling abuses. “Prostitute!” It was a word
used for Bahá’í women who were considered immodest for their
lack of a veil. Though officially she was not a Bahá’í, which was
why Shidan could not understand their need to take her away.
Mona had seen Shidan looking at her just before being bundled
into the back of a nondescript van. A man was putting handcuffs on
her wrists. As she stared at Shidan, her face was expressionless for a
while. She had looked at him first, then at the plate of food in his
hands, and then back to his face. At the last moment she smiled.
Her smile was sweet, like the day in the mountains, and he never
saw her or Peshman again.
The family was informed one month later that they had been
executed. The authorities refused to give a specific reason for the
execution—all they said was that the two had committed crimes
against the state—nor would they say where the bodies were buried.
Not long after that time his father was taken away too. He was
never seen again.
* * *
Shidan adjusted the rearview mirror and stared at his face for a few
moments. He began to weep. He finally turned the ignition over
and drove toward Harlem with lines of water running down his
face.
* * *
In Central Park Allison observed the blooms that she had seen
budding only a month ago. She bent down and smelled the faint
honey scent from a large swath of white daisies. There was an array
of different flowers in the Conservatory Garden swaying in the

slight wind that was passing through the park. She pointed out the
layout of the flowers to Hooman: they were laid out in large circular
shapes surrounding hedges and a central fountain. Although the
cherry blossoms in the bookshop had no definable scent when
compared to the various flowers in the Conservatory Garden, she
still preferred the cherry blossoms in the light well.
Beyond the garden was a series of open lawns and the Harlem
Meer, which they passed, and after a short walk, the group of
friends left Central Park behind. They walked up Malcolm X
Boulevard and then turned down West 121st Street.
Marcus Garvey Park was in the distance at the end of the street,
and Hooman pointed to it. “I don’t think I have ever been to this
park,” he remarked.
“I think you’ll like it. It is smaller than Central Park but lovely
in its own way,” Allison responded.
As they neared the middle of the street, Allison saw a “for sale”
sign in front of a burnt-out shell of a house: a brownstone. Allison
saw the scorch marks on the tops of the windows. Crossing the
street, they stopped at the gate.
The house was boarded up and covered in graffiti that was
obscured by vines. Moving through the gate and up the stairs,
Hooman removed a plank of wood from the window frame. Allison
joined Hooman, and they both saw through to the space where the
back door should have been. The back of the house was a paradise
of lush weeds and grass reaching for the sky. The interior of the
house was a charcoal cavern, and most of it was burnt out.
Nava peeked into the empty interior. “This might make a good
investment property, Hooman,” she said.
“I don’t know . . . it needs a lot of work,” remarked Hooman.
Nava took out her cell phone and recorded the number of the
real estate company on the “for sale” sign. “I’ll call on Monday and
find out how much they want for it.”
The friends then walked on to Marcus Garvey Park and found
Shidan waiting near the front of the recreation center.

Allison approached Shidan. “I’ll just take a quick look at the
notices inside, then we can either walk around the park or head to
125th Street for coffee,” she said.
Allison walked down a short sidewalk until she came to the
front entrance of the center, and as she neared it, she saw a young
African American girl leaning against the glass front. The girl must
have heard Allison and Shidan talking. Allison approached her.
“Hello. Are you looking for classes too?” the girl said.
“Hi there,” Allison replied. “I am looking for classes, but not to
join. What are you looking for?”
“There’s a computer class that I’ve just signed up for.”
“What’s your name?”
“Jessica.”
“I’m Allison.” She smiled and then asked, “Jessica, do you know
of any photography classes in the center here for young kids?”
“No. There aren’t any photography classes here.”
“Are you waiting for someone?”
“My friend is inside.” She pointed over her shoulder at the door.
“Okay.” Allison studied the girl’s face for a moment. She was
beautiful in a way that Allison could not quantify. “Do you mind if I
take a photo of you?” she said.
“Sure.” Jessica was still leaning on the glass front. The others
walked up the path and stopped behind Allison.
Allison took the camera out of her backpack and crouched
down to Jessica’s head height. She took the shot.
After a few moments, another young African American girl
came out of the recreation center. She walked up to Jessica. “Who
are these people?” she asked.
“I don’t know,” Jessica said.
“My name is Allison. What’s your name?”
“Sarah.”
“Are you signing up for the computer class too?”
“No, I was putting up a lost sign for my cat, Mojo.”


The Philosophy of the Heart
. . . the denizens of  the city of  immortality, who dwell in the celestial
garden, see not even “neither first nor last”: They fly from all that is first
and repulse all that is last. For these have passed over the worlds of  names
and, swift as lightning, fled beyond the worlds of  attributes. Thus is it said:
“The perfection of  belief  in Divine Unity is to deny Him any attributes.”1
And they have made their dwelling-place in the shadow of  the Divine
Essence.2
—Bahá’u’lláh, The Seven Valleys
On the last day before spring break, Allison was sitting on the steps
in front of the Visitors Center near the philosophy building. She was
waiting for a lecture to start and staring at the lawns in the main
square as students passed through it. She had finished her last essay
a few days before and had submitted it by email to her tutor a few
hours before coming to the university.
A week had passed by in which she had not seen anyone.
Shidan had spent the week traveling around Europe. He also spent
a day in London at a Sotheby’s auction. He planned to acquire a
Gnostic manuscript on behalf of the Smithsonian Libraries. He had
arrived back in New York on the previous night, and they had
arranged to catch up in the evening and go to Vineapple Café near
his apartment in Brooklyn Heights. He was only in New York for
one day before he was scheduled to fly on to Washington, DC, to

pass the manuscript over to the Smithsonian. He would then fly
from there to Russia to see a private collector in Moscow who was
ready to sell some of his collection to Shidan. After many years of
resisting Shidan’s offers of large sums of money for several rare
books in his collection, he was now ready to talk to Shidan.
Allison was lost in her thoughts and looking up at the sky. She
could feel a slight breeze on her face. She smelled that faint smell of
the pipe tobacco drifting up from her bag. She took the tobacco
pouch out and put it to her nose. It had a beautiful, deep sweet
smell. She looked at her watch and realized she was now late for the
lecture. She descended the stairs and walked down the path to the
philosophy building. She walked through the doors and along the
corridor until she came to the door of the lecture hall. Trying to
make an innocuous entrance, she took a seat in shadow at the back
of the lecture hall.
The lecturer moved his arms about with some enthusiasm as he
talked about the various streams of political and ethical philosophy.
Allison found she could not follow the lecture. His words droned on
as background noise. Her thoughts were focused on her continued
discontentment with her master’s. Hooman had recently given her a
Bahá’í journal called Lights of  Irfan with an article by Ian Kluge
about the relationship between the Bahá’í Faith and postmodern
philosophy.
It became clear in that moment that what she needed was the
philosophy of religion and not secular philosophy, which made up a
large part of her course, like the existentialists, the nihilist
philosophers, and the other contemporary secular philosophers
attached to postmodernism. She remembered her promise to
Hooman that she would follow up on his belief system and faith in
the existence of God within the framework of Bahá’í ethics. Was
there a philosophy of the heart that transcended the intellect, she
wondered, or did the intellect need to be informed by the heart?3
With postmodernism there was no universal human reality, only
competing subjective viewpoints that were all man-made and had
some kind of power agenda. This left no room for a transcendent

realm beyond death and no God interacting with the human realm
and guiding it toward its higher potential. God was entirely
constructed by the human imagination and used as a puppet for
those who might have an agenda of power.
The end result of this was that there was no higher truth to be
discovered, no progressive unfoldment of objective reality: truth was
made flat in all directions and relativized.
Postmodernism was an empty belief system that failed to ignite
the heart with hope for the future of humankind, and Allison felt a
deadness in her heart from it, an emptiness. She knew quite keenly
that postmodernism would not take her to her higher humanity or
potential and knew that she now needed to reject its underlying
assumptions about the nature of truth and being.
And to say that all metanarratives were equal was to deny
history its atrocities. There was a difference between the Nazi
metanarrative and that of the Western democratic nations. The
universal declaration of human rights was born from the conflict
between these metanarratives in the hope that it would never be
repeated, the Holocaust and the bombings of Hiroshima and
Nagasaki in particular. Unfortunately, history had continually shown
us that hatred and violence between ideologies still existed and that
only the unifying and healing metanarrative of the Bahá’í Faith,
with its focus on the oneness of humanity, could bring about lasting
peace; Allison knew this in her bones. And she knew that far from
improving humanity’s fortunes, secular philosophy was
undermining it.4
And there were the social and spiritual ethics within the Bahá’í
framework too, which focused on the unity of all religions and the
oneness of humanity, creating a new paradigm for human existence.
Bahá’u’lláh had said: “That which the Lord hath ordained as the
sovereign remedy and mightiest instrument for the healing of all the
world is the union of all its peoples in one universal Cause, one
common Faith.”5 This would transform the current materialistic
and capitalistic principles now circulating in global culture and
change the course of history.

Again, she tried to follow the lecture. As she did, she noted the
distinct British accent of the lecturer, and it occurred to her that a
short trip to London during the spring break would be a good idea
to take her mind off her studies. She had lived in London in the
previous year and liked the city for its historical ambiance.
The more she thought about London, the more appealing it
seemed. She could even quit her studies completely and just travel
around Europe with no fixed plan. With that thought she got up
and left the lecture hall.
Shidan had arranged to meet her at Columbia University, and
they would then go to the café in Brooklyn Heights. She waited for
him on the corner of Amsterdam Avenue and West 116th Street. As
she waited, she took out the pipe she had bought in Melbourne.
Stuffing the pipe with tobacco, she took a light to it. As she drew a
few puffs, she sent a text message to Shidan. She told him that she
had left her class early, and he could pick her up sooner if he
wanted.
* * *
The cell phone in Shidan’s pocket vibrated. He read Allison’s text
message and got up from his desk. Before he left the room, he
looked out into the light well for a moment and then at a camping
bed that he had set up for her. When she was working late on essays
and research, she could avoid a trip back to her Harlem apartment.
He smiled and took another look at the light well. There was
something about her, about her way of moving through life. She
was a true traveler. An explorer. An adventurer. A seeker. Not like
him. He traveled mostly for business, and maybe she was traveling
somewhere where he could not follow. He felt close to her even now
after such a short time knowing her; it was like they had been
friends from childhood and had a deep familiarity.
He went to his desk and, putting his cotton gloves on, picked up
the manuscript that he had recently purchased in London.

He left his office for the front room. As he left, he said goodbye
to Nikki.
He was about to open the front door when he stopped and
turned. “Hey, Nikki, why don’t you go home early today?”
“Gee . . . thanks.”
“I don’t think many people will come this afternoon. Close up,
take some money from the cash register and treat yourself to
dinner.”
“Okay. Thanks!”
Shidan opened the door and stepped out onto the street. The
Chevy was parked at the front of the shop, and Shidan was soon
navigating the afternoon traffic. He skirted Central Park and
Morningside Park before turning onto Amsterdam Avenue, and
after a short drive, he saw Allison sitting on the sidewalk smoking a
pipe.
“Hey there!” Shidan said. He leaned over to open the door for
her.
As she was about to get into the car, she saw the manuscript
sitting on the passenger-side seat and stared at it for a few moments.
“Here. Put on these gloves. Pick it up, but don’t touch the
pages,” he said.
She got in, struggled into the gloves, with the pipe clenched
tightly in her mouth so ash would not fall, and placed the
manuscript carefully in the back seat. She then removed the gloves
and placed them on the dashboard.
“How was London?” she said once she was relaxed. She
fingered her pipe as he drove off and merged into traffic.
“London was its usual self. I visited my old school: Westminster
School. Some of my teachers are still there after all these years.” He
stared at the pipe. “I haven’t seen that pipe before,” he said.
“I got it in Melbourne just before coming to New York. Take a
few puffs if you like.” She handed him the pipe and lay back with
her head on the seat back. She stared up at what he assumed was
the sky framed by the car’s sunroof. He sucked air through the pipe.
The smoke rose up and wafted toward and out through the sunroof.

“Do you believe in coincidences?” she said, still staring at the
smoke’s patterns through the sunroof.
She closed her eyes, saying, “Everything, it seems to me, has a
reason larger than just chance . . . I think. Even the smallest events
can have a huge impact on the lives of others. Everything is
interlinked. Fate, if that is the right word for it, seems to touch our
lives in unseen ways. Our destiny is transfigured within the light in
our minds,” she said.
“What, you mean some kind of greater destiny?”
“Yes . . . that is exactly what I mean. A greater destiny. Thank
you. That’s a beautiful thought, Shidan.”
He laughed. “You’re a funny girl, but I love you just the same.
And you should save those thoughts for Hooman tonight. He will
agree with you, I think.”
He passed the pipe back to her.
After a long silence, they left Manhattan and drove over the
Brooklyn Bridge.
He occasionally looked over at her as she stared at the bay and
continued to smoke her pipe. She was always breaking female
stereotypes. He loved her for that, like smoking the pipe, which
normally only an old man would do. Something about her did seem
old or maybe beyond time. Then she turned to him.
“I am thinking I might quit my studies.”
“Really? But you haven’t even completed the semester.”
“I know, but I don’t think I will enjoy it. The structure of the
course follows a line of secular academia. It hasn’t been very
fulfilling so far, and I don’t expect it will get any better. I didn’t mind
it so much in my undergraduate degree, but I’m a different person
now. I need to do my own personal research into matters of faith. I
think philosophy should touch the human heart.”
“What will you do instead?”
“I don’t know. I was thinking of going back to London. I think I
might go soon. In the next week or so, once I clear up the
cancellation of the course. I might use London as a base to explore
Europe maybe. I could even head back to Paris for a while. I just

have a feeling that I need to move on. And I miss London for some
strange reason. When it comes to travel, I always use my intuition
even when I can’t rationalize my decisions.”
“Well . . . you will be missed, very much. You know that.”
“Yes, I will miss you as well. But you can come over and visit
me. I know that your work takes you to Europe often.”
“Yes, it does and, yes, I’ll see you there. So you don’t think you’ll
come back to New York?”
“It depends on the type of visa I can get in the future. If I did
decide to come back to New York, I don’t think I would qualify for a
work visa. And the good thing about London is I can stay as long as
I want. I have an Italian passport as well as my Australian passport,
so I am an EU citizen.”
At the end of the bridge, he turned off the main arterial road
into Brooklyn Heights and, after a few minutes, stopped in front of
his apartment on Orange Street.
He put his gloves on and reached over, taking the manuscript
from the back seat.  “I’ll be back in a sec. I just have to put this in
the safe. . . . Hey, why don’t you come up.”
“Sure.”
They got out of the car and walked into the lobby and up the
staircase to his apartment.
He opened the door, and they walked into his apartment. “I’ve
cleaned up since you were here last.”
“Have you moved some of the books to the bookshop?”
“Yes. I have.” He smiled and raised his eyebrows.
They walked into his spare room. It was less chaotic, but there
were still teetering piles of books spread around the room. He
walked over to the safe. “If you could read Greek, you might like
this manuscript.” He opened the safe door.
“Why?”
“Because this manuscript is a very old Gnostic manuscript that
includes the Gospel of Mary. In recent years there has been a lot of
study of early versions of the Bible and early Gospels and texts that
did not make it into the Bible as we know it today. Also, historians

have now increased the legitimacy of Mary Magdalene’s role as one
of the early disciples. Early Christians had downplayed her role
purely because she was a woman, and yet ironically it was early
Christian women that had spread the religion throughout Europe
and the Middle East. But then I suppose that history is always
shaped and distorted by those that have the greatest power to
manipulate it rather than those who were the embodiments of its
true narrative.”
“Oh, that is interesting.”
“Yep . . . okay, let’s go to the café.”
“Hey, Hooman told me the other day that Truman Capote
lived around the corner from you. And that Harper Lee used to
hang out there.”
“Yes. I pass the house all the time.”
As they were about to leave the spare room, Shidan stopped.
He walked back to one of the piles and rifled through it. He came
back to her and handed her a book. “If you are going to look into
the Bahá’í Faith, then you should start with this. It’s an introductory
book. Then you can look at something deeper and more
philosophical later on.”
She read the cover, The Bahá’í Faith: The Emerging Global Religion.
“Thanks.”
* * *
Shidan parked the car on Pineapple Street. Allison got out and
walked toward Vineapple Café. She looked up at the surrounding
buildings, noticing the old apartment buildings that reminded her
of her part of Harlem, only the buildings here were better
maintained.
The facade of the café was small. She waited for Shidan at the
entrance. She expected the space inside to be small and poky, but, as
they stepped inside, the back of the café opened up into a bigger
space.
The owner of the café greeted Shidan.

“Hi, Oliver,” Shidan replied. He put his hand on Allison’s
shoulder. “This is my friend Allison.”
“Hi, Allison. Welcome.”
She waved and smiled.
“This is my daily spot for coffee. I come here every morning
before work.”
Allison and Shidan sat at a table in the back of the café. The
décor was shiny and trendy, unlike the shabby chic of the Seven
Stars Café. On one side of the café was an old redbrick wall. On
the other side of the café was a clean white wall. The floor was
wood, and the furnishings were a mix of stainless steel and various
woods. Allison rubbed the wooden table to feel its texture. She liked
the ambiance of the place even though it was not quite her fit. It
looked similar to many other cafés in New York: an upmarket, more
sophisticated version of Starbucks.
“Nice table,” she said. “What wood is this?” She tapped it with
her knuckles.
“Not sure,” he said.
She looked out of a large white window at other redbrick
buildings next to and behind the café.
After a few minutes, Allison saw Hooman coming toward them.
She got up and embraced him. “How are you? I’ve missed you
this last week,” she said.
“Well, I’m fine, thank you,” he said and took a seat opposite
Allison. “Nava sends her love,” he added and smiled.
Shidan put his hand on Allison’s shoulder and looked at
Hooman. “You don’t know the big news.”
“What news?”
“Allison is leaving us for London.”
“Oh my god . . . really. . . but why?”
“My studies aren’t working out as I thought they would . . . and
I think I need a change of scene.”
“When will you leave? Will you ever come back to New York?”
Hooman asked. Allison could see he was slightly shocked.

“I’ll leave in the next week, I think, and I’m not sure when or if
I will come back. And, of course, I will be looking into metaphysical
and religious issues that were not explicitly in the philosophy course.
When I studied philosophy for my undergraduate degree, I wasn’t
very aware of the difference between religion and philosophy, but I
am now, and I think they are very distinct. Maybe philosophy is a
natural extension of religion and needs to be informed by religion.”
She stopped for a moment. Then continuing, said, “I also think I
need to travel.”
A waitress came to their table, and they ordered food and coffee
and continued talking.
“Are you going on a journey of meaning?” Hooman said.
“Yes, I am. I have questions that I want answered. I am seeking
a peak experience from where I can see the reality of truth beyond
the many veils of everyday perception. And I need a mentor.”
“Maybe reality can be your mentor,” Hooman said.
“Yes, maybe it can.”
“Do you seek a truth that places God at the center of all reality,
or are you just seeking an enhanced perception of material reality,
with some kind of intellectual transcendence?” Shidan asked.
“I think I can combine both. From my reading of The Conference
of  the Birds, which is basically a mystical journey, one finds oneself
on the path to God. And as for material reality, I think there is a
need for it; otherwise, why would we need this world to learn the
lessons of existence? But, Shidan, I thought you hated most forms
of religion?”
“Not all forms. Just those that are superstitious and ignorant in
the modern world. Like I said at the Guggenheim that day. And
although I don’t follow any path myself, I hope you find what you
need. I think Hooman can help you at various stages in your
search.”
“Yes, that would be helpful. Thank you. That is thoughtful,
Shidan. Are you going to help me, Hooman?”
“Sure. No problem.”
“We can exchange emails while I’m in London.”

“Oh, I almost forgot, I have a Bahá’í prayer book for you.”
Hooman passed the book to Allison.
“Thank you. I’ll use this, I promise.”
She put the prayer book down on the table and picked up the
other book. She flashed it at Hooman.
“Shidan just gave me this to start off my search.”
“Oh, that’s a good book. It will give you a general outline of the
Faith’s belief system.”
Allison leaned over and hugged Shidan. She then stood up and
went around the table to embrace Hooman. He seemed a little shy
and embarrassed. She took her seat again and smiled at them both
in silence for a while before turning to Shidan.
“Oh, Shidan, can I leave some of my stuff with you?”
“Sure. You can throw it in my spare room.”
“You can have my mirror if you want it.”
“Is it a magic mirror?”
“Yes,” she said, smiling.
“Oh, good. I can see who the fairest of them all is.”
“Well, if it is my mirror, then I suppose that makes me the Evil
Queen,” Allison said.
“No way. You’re definitely Snow White,” Shidan said.
“The only thing that is missing is the Seven Dwarfs,” she said.
They all laughed.


Returning to London
“Guide Thou us on the straight path,”1which is: “Show us the right way;
that is, honour us with the love of  Thine Essence, that we may be freed
from occupation with ourselves and aught else save Thee, and may become
wholly Thine; that we may know only Thee, and see only Thee, and think
of  none save Thee.” 2
—Bahá’u’lláh, The Seven Valleys
Ten days later Allison had managed to book a flight to London. On
Sunday morning she caught a train from Heathrow Airport. As it
neared central London, the train descended into the ground with a
slight rise and then dip reminiscent of a fairground ride. Her body,
backpack, and red hiking pack rose and fell slightly as they
synchronized with the other passengers in the carriage. The view
from the windows, which had framed a blue dawn, was lost in the
blackness of the tunnel. This changed the tone of the fluorescent
light, which was harsher without the soft effect of the dawn light. As
the carriages rounded a bend, she heard an unpleasant sound of
grinding and screaming coming from the steel tracks.
Pale faces stared off in all directions, except into each other’s
eyes. Her head dropped lower as her eyes closed involuntarily. In a
vague dream she saw an abstract sequence of disconnected faces
and voices flashing by. Toward the end of the dream, the faces
resolved into Hooman’s face. Then she saw a tent inside the

burned-out house in Harlem. She and Hooman were camping
inside the house. Inside the tent Hooman and her were lying beside
each other holding hands and laughing.
“The next station is Knightsbridge,” said a pre-recorded voice.
The accent was soft and rounded and almost too perfect. This
pulled her back to consciousness, along with the abrupt halt at the
stop. She had passed by a few stops already, but her drowsy mind
had skipped over them in what seemed like only a few moments.
Looking at the tired, yellowed tiles on the station wall, she read
the word “Knightsbridge” on an old sign. She had now arrived in
central London. The doors opened, and there it was: that same
familiar smell of the London Underground, dust mixed with warm,
stale air. She enjoyed it for a minute before the train, and its
passengers moved on.
After a few more stops, she changed trains at Euston Station for
the Northern line, which would put her on track to Camden Town.
She knew of a hostel in Camden that she had used when she last
came to London. Her mind soon closed down again, and she lost
contact with time.
As the train approached Camden Town, she tried to stay awake,
and leaving the train at the stop, she took the escalator up to the
surface. She drifted down Camden High Street toward the hostel.
Inside, she checked in and left her hiking pack in her room.
On the street again she continued up Camden High Street until
she came to Camden Lock Market, where she had been many times
in the past. In a familiar café she ordered a coffee and took a seat.
She stared at the canal lock for several minutes and tried to keep her
eyes open. Long canal boats passed by. They rose up in the lock
and, once the water equalized, continued on their way. Once her
coffee arrived she got up and went to the entrance, where she had
seen several notices of apartment rentals and people looking for
roommates. One notice caught her attention; it was an apartment in
a converted church. Tearing off the tab with the contact number,
she sat back in her chair and punched the numbers into her cell
phone. As the phone rang, she took a sip of her coffee.

“Hello, Jade speaking.”
“Hi, my name is Allison. I’m just wondering if the room you’ve
advertised is still available?”
“Oh yes, it will be free next week.”
“Can I come and have a look at it? Today, if possible.”
“Sure. Come.”
“I’m in Camden Lock Market at the moment, so I presume I’m
nearby. Hang on one sec.” She took a notepad out of her backpack.
“What’s the address?”
“It isn’t far from the market, a ten- to fifteen-minute walk. If
you follow the canal toward Regents Park, you’ll come to Gloucester
Avenue. Turn right, walk for a bit, and then go left down Fitzroy
Road, then it’s right into Chalcot Road. Walk until you get to
Chalcot Square. The church overlooks the square at the far end. It’s
apartment seven, twenty-seven Chalcot Road. Come whenever you
like. Call me again if you get lost.”
Jade hung up. Allison finished her coffee and left the café. She
proceeded to walk down the canal. The coffee began to kick in, and
she felt less tired. After a short walk, she found the square, which
housed the church, her destination, at the far end. The church was
partly obscured by old plane trees at her end of the square. As she
walked toward the church, she became aware of the dappled light
penetrating through the large, verdant-green, star-like leaves of the
plane trees, moving over her face in soft, crisscross patterns.
At the entrance she pushed the doorbell and climbed the stairs.
Walking past several apartment doors, she came to the end of the
corridor. Jade was waiting at the door. Allison walked into the
apartment and immediately looked up at the large wooden roof
beams and the thick adjoining stone walls.
“Hello, Jade.” Allison extended her arm and shook Jade’s hand.
“This is a beautiful conversion.”
“Yes. I really love being here,” Jade said.
“Is anyone else looking at the place?”
“A few people have come through in the last couple of days. But
nobody has shown any interest so far.”

“I’m surprised. It is such a nice place. Can I see the room?”
“Oh sure, it’s through this door.” The room was small, and she
guessed that its size was the reason no one had taken it. She liked
the windows, typical for a church, which were constructed with
stone arches, and the glass was a lattice of diamond-paned sections.
The room overlooked the square, and she anticipated staring at the
lawns, plane trees, and people passing by and finding herself lost in
daydreams.
“So, if you want, it’s yours.”
“Don’t you want to ask me a few questions about who I am?”
Allison said.
“No, no. I get a good vibe from you.”
“Okay, great then. I’ll take it. It’s mine,” she said and smiled.
She looked up at the roof beams again. She felt a deep satisfaction
about the apartment wash over her. She walked slowly over to the
wall facing the square and ran her hand over the textured stone
surrounding the window. More old things, she mused. Allison liked
old things. She rested her head gently on one of the stone arches
before looking more intently at the square again as a young couple
strolled through it holding hands.
Allison and Jade went upstairs to the living room come kitchen,
where they sat talking for half an hour.
Allison eventually left the apartment and crossed the street. She
walked into the center of the square and sat on a bench; leaning
back, she looked up at the sky. After a few minutes, the clouds
opened up, and the warmth of the sun penetrated the skin on her
face. She closed her eyes. Almost as soon as she had closed her eyes
her cell phone rang.
“Hey, how is London?” Shidan said. She smiled.
“Good . . . I just found a room in an apartment near Camden
Town.”
“So, I guess it’s settled, then. You aren’t coming back to New
York.”
“Not soon, no. I’ve pretty much made up my mind.”
“Do you feel like a little trip?”

“A little trip. To where exactly?”
“Oh, I don’t know, I’m thinking Turkey and then possibly Iran.
There is a book in Istanbul that I want to buy. An old copy of the
Qur’án.”
“That sounds like more than a little trip.”
“So, are you coming?”
“I’m a bit low on funds right now, and I need to find a job soon.
I can’t keep asking Paul to send me money.”
“Don’t worry about money. I can cover all the expenses. I’ll
book the tickets and post one to you. All you have to do is cover the
train trip to the airport, then the rest is on me. What do you think? I
need a traveling companion. Iran is very beautiful in spring. And
there are many cherry trees to see along the way, I promise.”
She thought for a moment. “Sure, why not, it sounds
interesting. I was hoping to travel soon. When are we going?” she
asked.
“In one month. In May. It’ll take a couple of weeks to arrange
the visas for Iran and Turkey. I’ll email the details on how to apply
for the visas, and I can pick you up from the airport in Istanbul. We
can go from there by car. I’m thinking of buying an old four-wheel
drive in Turkey, then selling it once we make it to Tehran. And I can
escort you back to London on the trip back.”
“Okay then. But there is no need to pick me up at the airport.
I’ll make my own way to the center of Istanbul.”
“Will you? Are you sure? I can pick you up, no problem.”
“When I figure out where to meet you, I’ll let you know via
email.”
“Okay, wonderful. I’ll email you in a few days.”
“Bye. And thanks for thinking of me for this trip.”
“It will be great to have you with me. Anyway, you’ll hear from
me soon, okay?”
“Okay then. Bye. And say hi to Hooman when you see him
next. Tell him that he was in my dreams today.”
“I’ll tell him.”

“Oh, by the way. Why didn’t you ask Sara to come on this
trip?”
“I did, but she was busy with work.”
* * *
Eight days passed, and Allison moved into the apartment. While
waiting for the apartment to become available, she had spent the
time looking for casual work in cafés and restaurants. She needed
the flexibility of taking time off so she could travel through Turkey
and Iran in May. When she had lived in London before, she had
worked in a café in central London near Leicester Square. She went
back there to see if the café had any work for her, but they were not
hiring. She went to a café in Camden, but nothing was available
there either. Jade suggested she try Spitalfields Market in East
London, so one morning she traveled into Covent Garden and went
to an internet café to print out a few copies of her résumé.
Coming out of the underground at Liverpool Street Station,
she made her way to the market. In the first couple of cafés, she had
no success, but in a café restaurant called Canteen she found a job
and started work the next day.
* * *
On the day after ConFest 1993, the girls got up early to begin the
drive south toward Wilsons Promontory. Before they left, Io went
through the camp and said goodbye to old friends and people she
had met at this ConFest. Allison hugged Bess as a few others packed
up the Friends of the Earth stall.
“I’ll see you in Melbourne in a year,” Bess said.
“I’ll miss you,” Allison said, smiling and walking back to the car.
As she walked, Allison looked around the campsite. Many large
workshop tents were still up, but many smaller tents were being
dismantled, and belongings were being packed into cars. Some

volunteers were cleaning the site by picking up litter and other
items.
Allison came to the car and got into the back seat. Aurélie was
sitting in the front passenger seat. They waited for Io to come back
to the car. Io had agreed to begin the first shift of driving, so Allison
lay down in the back seat, propping her head on a pillow, and tried
to finish Being and Nothingness.
Aurélie switched on the ignition, and Allison heard her shuffling
through the mixtapes. Aurélie put a tape into the stereo, and Allison
waited for a song to begin playing; it was “Scarborough Fair/
Canticle” by Simon & Garfunkel.
After a few minutes, Allison saw Io bend down and remove the
bricks from the tires—the car stayed where it was—and Io jumped
into the driver’s seat. She backed up and turned around. They
drove slowly out of the festival grounds. They came to the gates and
drove out.
As they passed by the main township of Moama, they were
stopped by the police. They gave Allison three days to have the
taillight fixed. She concealed the fact that the handbrake didn’t
work. After the police let them go, they passed over the border from
New South Wales back into Victoria, passing through Echuca.
Instead of driving through Melbourne, which was a quicker
route, they went via the Yarra Ranges toward Warburton. They
passed through many small and obscure towns on the way, only
stopping once for gas. The main reason for the trip along this route
was the Mountain Ash forests and the mountain ranges that began
in the town of Taggerty. Once they came to Marysville, they were
surrounded by mountains on all sides. At this point Allison stopped
reading and sat up. She began to absorb the mountainous
surroundings.
After a three-hour drive, they came to Warburton. It was a
small tourist town nestled in a valley between two steep hills that
reared up on both sides of the valley. Allison had been here with her
parents when she was nine years old. It had changed significantly
since then, but they did not stop there.

Allison took over the driving just outside Warburton, and Io
navigated. They found an obscure dirt road through a forest.
“Wow, this forest is cool. We have nothing like this in France.”
“It is cool, isn’t it? That’s why I wanted to come this way.”
Allison took out her Leica, and they stopped in a few places so
she could take shots of the forest. They found some particularly
ancient Mountain Ash trees. Allison left the car and walked into the
forest. She came to the base of one particularly large Mountain
Ash, and looking through the viewfinder, she took a photo looking
up through the canopy at the sky above.
They eventually came out of the mountains onto flat ground
near Yarra Junction. And after thirty minutes, they passed back into
the mountains as they headed toward Nayook.
Beyond Nayook they drove into mostly flat farmland for two
and a half hours until they came to Wilsons Promontory National
Park. The first thing that Allison saw was a wetland area leading up
to the base of a series of large hills. There were long grasses and
reeds with patches of dark water.
They drove into these hills, and on the other side of them, they
came to the main camping ground, Tidal River. They stopped at
the visitors center, where they found maps of the different hiking
trails. They bought some supplies from the store near the center,
then drove to the beginning of a hiking trail that started from the
parking lot near the peak of Mount Oberon.
* * *
The sun was beginning to set as they arrived at the Sealers Cove
camping ground after a three-hour hike. The two girls set up the
tents and began to prepare a meal, and Allison took a walk down
the beach at Sealers Cove. She was the only person on the beach. At
the end of the beach, she lay down and watched the stars emerge as
night came into focus. After an hour, the two girls found her.
“We brought you dinner,” Aurélie said. Io passed Allison a bowl
with boiled potatoes and a plastic bag with a salad inside it.

She sat up. “Thanks and sorry. I was about to walk back.”
“That’s okay. We can join you instead,” Io said.
The two girls lay next to Allison as she ate dinner, and they
watched the night sky together for another hour before they all went
back to their tents.


Finding Mona
If  thou be a man of  communion and prayer, soar upon the wings of
assistance from the holy ones, that thou mayest behold the mysteries of  the
Friend and attain the lights of  the Beloved: “Verily, we are God’s, and to
Him shall we return.” 1,2
—Bahá’u’lláh, The Seven Valleys
Early in the morning Allison’s plane landed in Istanbul at Ataturk
Airport. Once she was outside the airport building, she waved down
a taxi. The taxi driver got out and began to help her with her
luggage.
“There’s not much. Do you speak English?” she said.
“Yes, I do. But not too good. Get in. I get luggage.”
She passed him her hiking pack and got into the back seat with
her backpack, removing her camera and sitting it on her lap.
She heard him slam the trunk shut. He got into the driver’s seat
and turned around. “Where you going? Old city?”
“Yes. Have you heard of the house of Bahá’u’lláh? Do you
know of the Baháʼís here in Istanbul?”
“No. Where that house?”
She opened her backpack and pulled out a notepad. She read
the address. “Meymenet Street, in Atikali.”
“I know that place.”

“Can you take me through the more modern suburbs on the
way?”
“Modern?”
“New suburbs. Not the old city.”
“Sure, but why?”
“I want to see the Istanbul that most Turkish people know.”
“Sure, but very boring. Is that right English? There is another
word, but I have forgot.”
“Yes. You mean ‘dull’.”
“Yes, dull. Very dull. I take you by coast road. Better view, the
sea.”
“Yeah, sure. Thanks.”
They left the airport and drove along a road that hugged the
contours of the bay. It eventually turned into an expressway. She
looked out over the water and then up at the sun for a moment.
There were ferries and boats crisscrossing each other as they made
their way to various destinations in the bay. In the distance, on the
far side of the harbor, were hills. The harbor was beautiful and like
Melbourne’s Port Phillip Bay, a large encircling bay but on a larger
scale as parts of the bay were just a horizon of sea. After a while,
she looked at the coastal suburb that rimmed the road. The
buildings were mostly six- to seven-story concrete apartment blocks.
Some were new and modern, but many were cheap sixties and
seventies constructions.
After twenty minutes, the taxi driver turned onto an exit ramp
that took them away from the coastal road and into a suburb.
He turned again into backstreets, and after a few minutes, he
said, “Is this what you want?”
“Yes. Perfect,” she said as she panned around the suburb with
her eyes and then her camera.
“This is Incirli. I grew up here.”
“Oh, cool.”
They drove for ten minutes through all the narrow backstreets.
These buildings were all three- to four-story concrete apartment
blocks. Many were very roughly constructed, but some were more

modern and cleaner. The facades of all these buildings were quite
plain, and it reminded her a little of the newer and poorer parts of
Paris.
“We go back a bit, but I think you like it. I show you
something.”
“Sure.”
“It not new, but I think you like it.”
Eventually, they came to an intersection between two streets,
where they stopped.
“Look,” he said. “What you think?”
She looked up at a slightly rotten and wonky wooden house,
with sections of the roof fallen in on the second story. “Wow, that is
so cool. Thank you for bringing me here. This is amazing. That is
really old. Can you wait here for a bit? I might be a while.”
“Take as long as you want,” said the taxi driver. “Use cell phone
when you want me. I go get a coffee. We passed café one block
back.” He gave her his number. Allison got out of the taxi with only
her camera and backpack and waved to him as he did a U-turn and
drove off.
She walked up to the house. The street sign said Revnakli Sk.
The first floor of the house was surrounded by a solid metal fence to
stop people going in; the house was probably a death trap and
obviously very old. There were simple carvings in the corners of the
eaves. All the paint had peeled away a long time ago, and it looked
weather beaten and water stained. The wooden cladding was mostly
a coffee color but was faded to gray in places. When she looked
closer at the window frames, she saw traces of faded white paint
that had mostly peeled away. It was not a house for a rich person;
that was clear. It had a certain humility about it.
She guessed it dated from the mid to late 1800s or maybe
earlier; it was hard to tell. And there must have been whole suburbs
with buildings like this that were pulled down to build the modern
apartment blocks that now surrounded the wooden house; it was
like a small, rotten but beautiful island in time, sitting in a sea of
concrete boxes, the remnant of a generation that was completely

gone, with only the ghosts of people that had passed through
history. Maybe it was waiting to be restored, she thought. She
hoped, at least. Next to this house, on the other side of the
intersection, were a few more like it but smaller. She looked up at
them for a long time.
She looked back at the larger house and looked for a way to get
inside. She walked closer to the house. She had to pull the metal
fence back a little and was able to squeeze through. After shuffling
along between the house and the fence, she found the weather-worn
wooden front door. She walked up the steps. She then held the
round brass doorknob and turned it. The door clicked open, and
she walked in. The interior was empty and in much better condition
than the exterior, but it was still slightly wonky. The house had
clearly seen a lot of life passing through it. Allison looked down at
the floorboards, which were polished with age and mottled from
many people walking over them for at least a hundred and forty or
more years. There was more wear near the front door. She
wondered when it had stopped being a useful house. How long had
it been in this dilapidated and unlivable state? Who had lived and
died here?
She crouched down and ran her hand over the worn
floorboards to feel their smooth surface texture. She then studied
their unique patina. She sat down and crossed her legs as she moved
her eyes around the entire interior. She took a few photographs that
needed the camera’s inbuilt automatic flash. The fire of life had
been flickering away over many years and had eventually gone out
and moldered; the bodies that had passed through the house had
rotted, like the house, in the earth and in the ground of memory.
The puppets were gone, but the stage still remained, if only a little
faded. And now even the memories were gone, as anyone who had
ever known the people in this house had also died and passed
through their own houses of relativity into the obscurity of an
unknown history. And here Allison was now trying to “renovate”
those lost lives in her memory: in Latin she knew the word as
“renovato.” But she then realized that she did not know who had

lived here, and without the exact knowledge of who they were, she
could not renovate their lives even in her memory; their deaths
made that impossible. There was no renovation of the dead body.
The house could be renovated but not the people. The only way
that a renovation of people could be realized was if someone else
moved into this house after it had been renovated: someone living.
And she then knew that the births and deaths in humanity and
nature were a form of renovation: spring renovated winter in the
same way that one generation renovated the preceding generation.
She thought about a poem she had written many years before
called “The House of Relativity.” We throw our hearts to the sky,
but it does not answer. So we long for the renovation of the house
of time. It is a strange, broken mystery longing to be reborn in the
light chamber of our dreams.
She looked over at the staircase and up to the second floor,
where she saw the sun peeking through the collapsed roof. She
decided against exploring the second floor as she might fall through
the floorboards or the staircase.
She thought about the end of the poem. For the mirror to
create illusion, it must empty its own self to become nothingness;
the house of relativity is the secret mirror for the unchanging self to
seek itself. But this is never declared to the house of relativity. It
knows not its own self, so it is forced to look up, not down, for the
sky, away from the lakes of forever and their reflection of the sky.
The dream tells the dreamers that they are awake. They had never
slept, so there was no need to wake. The dreamers in the house of
relativity told the mirror, “Don’t seek reality, but illusion, because
that points to reality.” The mirror foundation of forever said
through the nothingness of reflection, “Don’t seek reality either.
Construct your own self from my image of nothingness because I
don’t understand myself, nor will you ever understand your own
self.”
She closed her eyes for a few moments, then stood up. She
kissed the air. “I love you, house of relativity: house of time, house
of death, house of decay.”

She walked back out the door and down the steps, then rang for
the taxi driver. “I am ready now,” she said to the driver. She shuffled
along the metal fence and back onto the street.
She dawdled, feeling deep connections while looking at the
house. The taxi arrived just as she was ready to move on. “Thank
you. That was enlightening and beautiful.”
“I know somehow you like that. Even though I don’t know you
so well.”
The taxi driver did a U-turn, and they moved back through the
suburb and onto the expressway. After ten minutes, they turned
away from the coast and joined another expressway. There were still
more apartment blocks with flat facades yet a little more modern
and better built. Eventually they entered an area that had more
ambiance and character, with cafés and shops, but it was still not the
typical old part of the city that was either Byzantine or from the
Ottoman Era and the mostly stone-built structures that Allison had
expected to see from her research of Istanbul.
The taxi arrived and dropped her near the house of Bahá’u’lláh
with her luggage. There were a few people on the street.
She thanked him and paid for the ride.
She crossed the street and walked up to the entrance where she
had arranged to meet Shidan.
The house was a fairly plain two-story building with a flat
facade, but only Bahá’ís could enter the building. So she stood near
the entrance looking up at it. She wondered about Bahá’u’lláh’s
continual stages of banishment from Iran, through Iraq, to Turkey,
and eventually to an Ottoman prison colony—in Akka, which is in
today’s Israel—where he was imprisoned until a time close to his
death in 1892. Bahá’u’lláh was the prophet founder of the Bahá’í
Faith, and Allison knew a little about his life from conversations with
Hooman. At that time in 1863, Istanbul was known as
Constantinople. Bahá’u’lláh had arrived in the city on August 16 of
that year with his family and a group of Bahá’ís. The only other
thing she knew about Bahá’u’lláh’s family was about his daughter

Bahíyyih Khánum. She was seventeen then and had rejected the
idea of marriage, which was unusual for a woman at that time.
She walked up to the front of the house and brushed her hands
over the facade and looked into the windows, but the drapes were
drawn.
As she was staring up at the building, she felt a hand on her
shoulder. She turned around. Shidan was smiling at her. They
embraced and then turned back to the house.
“I never visited this house in the past . . . but there is a mosque,
the Blue Mosque, nearby that I have seen. Bahá’u’lláh visited it
during his stay here,” he said.
Allison did not respond and kept staring up at the building.
Eventually, she turned to him. “Shall we get going?” she said.
“Sure.”
She crossed back over the road, stowed her camera in her
backpack, put her hiking pack on her back, and picked up the
backpack.
The car was near Bahá’u’lláh’s house, and, after a short walk,
they got into the four-wheel drive.
“When did you buy the car?”
“I got here yesterday so I could get it for the trip.” Shidan
turned on the ignition. “We need to travel to Ankara. So our
options are that we can stay here for the day, then drive to Ankara
tomorrow. It takes a half day to drive. Or we could explore here for
an hour or two, then drive to Ankara.”
“What would you prefer?”
“Well, I’ve been here a few times before, so there is not much
here that I haven’t already seen, so it’s up to you. The only thing I
need to do before we leave is get the manuscript I came for.”
“How about we explore here for a few hours and then head off?
I’m not sure why, but my preference is to see as much of Iran as we
can. I am sure Turkey is wonderful, but Iran seems somehow more
resonant culturally. I would like to see Tehran, where Hooman and
Nava grew up. Do you know much about Hooman’s childhood in
Tehran?”

“No, not really. I know the suburb where he grew up. It is near
the place where Bahá’u’lláh first received his revelation, but I don’t
know the street.”
“Oh, it doesn’t matter. It would be good to just pass by the
general area.”
“We can drive through it when we get to Tehran.”
They drove off toward the old city proper. They started in the
suburb of Eminonu; it definitely reminded her of the older parts of
Paris, and the buildings had a lot of character but were a bit
shabbier and dirtier than Paris, with a largely inconsistent mix of
buildings from different periods. The older Medieval or Byzantine
parts of Istanbul were mixed in with newer Victorian-like buildings;
the city definitely had a European edge to it.
After an hour of walking around the maze of narrow streets in
the old parts of Istanbul, they stopped at the book dealer. It was a
small, narrow shop opposite the Grand Bazaar. They stepped into
the bookshop, and a man approached them.
“I am going to attempt my very basic Turkish and see if this
guy speaks Arabic,” said Shidan.
“Okay.”
They exchanged what Allison thought was a polite Turkish
greeting and a short, stilted conversation.
Shidan turned to her. “Luckily he speaks a bit of Arabic.”
Allison looked around while Shidan began talking in Arabic to
the shop owner, and they disappeared into the back rooms. She
could hear them talk in a way that seemed animated. Her eyes ran
over the many old books on the shelves. After a quarter of an hour
of what she assumed was haggling, he stepped back into the front
room of the shop and held it up.
“Got it,” he said, smiling.
“What is it?”
“An old copy of the Qur’án. I got it for a fair price too.” He
patted the cover and laughed in an exaggerated manner, like
Dracula. She smiled and half-chuckled.

They stepped back into the street, crossed over, and entered the
Grand Bazaar. This was something that Allison had never seen
before. They walked down narrow avenues with an array of small
shops selling every conceivable obscure item. Allison stopped in
front of a spice shop with many small mounds of different spices
displayed out the front of the shop; it was a fragrant and colorful
mix of sensations. The bazaar was packed and humming with
people and noise. Shidan crossed over to a clothing shop on the
opposite side of the avenue.
He came back and passed her a black silk headscarf. “You may
want to wear this when we get to Iran. Otherwise, we will attract
unwanted attention from the authorities.”
Allison took the scarf and looked up at the arches in the roof of
the Grand Bazaar. The arches were decorated with Islamic
geometric designs and faded yellow paint. Light flooded down
through arched windows near the roof of the Bazaar building, and
it had an ethereal quality. For a wild moment the light seemed to
transport her somewhere blissful. This impression soon faded, but
she still felt slightly euphoric, which was strange and new, and she
didn’t understand where this feeling had come from.
A short time after exploring the Grand Bazaar and its market
stalls, they decided to head toward Ankara, so they walked back to
the car that was parked a few blocks away.
They got in.
“You don’t want to see any of the old mosques or museums? Or
any of the old Turkish palaces?”
“No, they don’t interest me.”
“I agree. The palaces were never filled with the most interesting
people in the world. The kings and courtiers of the Ottoman
Empire were nasty pasties for the most part.”
“Yes. I agree. I don’t want to be reminded of their superficiality.
I saw what I needed to see earlier today in the taxi.”
“What was that?”
“The poorer suburbs.”

“Hmm . . . why don’t we drive past the Blue Mosque, and you
can at least see the outside.”
“Okay.” She smiled.
They drove on, and after five minutes, they passed in front of
the Blue Mosque and stopped to look at the outside. Allison had to
concede that it was beautiful with its stacked domes and minarets.
She thought about taking a photograph of it but decided that there
were enough pictures of it in the world should she ever need to be
reminded of it. They got out of the car. Shidan took Allison’s hand,
and they strolled around part of its perimeter before retracing their
steps and getting back into the car. Shidan drove off toward the
Bosporus Bridge via an expressway that passed near the Central
Business District where all the modern high-rise buildings were
standing, hiding “her” old wooden houses; she knew more houses
like the one she had seen that day must exist. Small time capsules in
a sea of concrete and stone. It seemed like modernity was eating
away at the past and engulfing it: the present could taste the past as
it destroyed it.
As they left the city along an arterial highway, Allison noticed
the transition from the older part of the city to the new modern
suburbs. After a while, these outer suburbs faded out, and they were
in the countryside, moving through green hills along the edge of the
bay. The highway was interspersed with small towns and villages.
Allison observed the day slowly fade into night. It took five
hours before they reached Ankara. When they arrived, it was dark,
and after half an hour of driving around, they found a hotel they
liked.
* * *
On the morning of the next day, Shidan and Allison drove around
Ankara. Since they had decided not to visit any mosques, palaces, or
museums, they concentrated on domestic architecture. They drove
through all the modern and newer suburbs, which were similar to
Istanbul with many multi-story concrete apartment blocks all

packed tightly together. Then they came to the old city of Ankara—
and particularly the suburb Hamamonu with all its restored 1920 to
1930 houses.
Allison thought this city was an interesting place but not as
interesting as Istanbul. She wondered why she felt that way for a
moment. Was it because of the limited architectural diversity here
in Ankara compared to Istanbul? No, that was not it, she thought.
Then a thought came into her mind of the house of Bahá’u’lláh.
The house was beautiful for a reason she could not justify given its
rather plain appearance. Then she looked up at the sun, and it was
ethereal again, like the day before. It seemed like she had never seen
it before, and it was incredibly beautiful. And that was what this
drab little world was like most of the time; it had a mundane veil
beyond which was a deeper, more resonant reality if only one could
penetrate that veil.
It was lunchtime, so they decided to have lunch at a café that
was next to a crumbling Tudor-revival building. They sat outside on
the street at a small red table with matching red chairs. Their
Turkish coffees were in hand, and they watched the world drift by
the café. He had the Qur’án that he had purchased on the previous
day in his bag. He put on his white cotton gloves and pulled it out,
placing it flat on the red table. He opened it and carefully turned to
random pages, mumbling in Arabic. She could tell it was valuable
just by the quality of the script. The book was obviously hand
drawn, and the calligraphy curled and looped around the page. At
the beginning of each chapter, the script was formed into a circular
shape, and the sentences were running from right to left. She knew
this because she watched Shidan follow the text with his index
finger traveling above the page as he read. It was also an illuminated
manuscript with many geometric patterns incorporated into the text
that would be typical of Islamic traditions.
“Is that old?”
“Yes, but not really old.”
“It’s so beautifully made. Like the early Christian texts that are
illuminated.”

“Yes, but the really old and expensive copies of the Qur’án are
much simpler and have not been illuminated. They were meant to
be used often for purely pragmatic purposes; it was the text itself
that was meant to be beautiful and not the way it was made or
embellished.”
“Are there any interesting things in the Qur’án?” she said.
“I suppose there are a few things of interest. I studied the
Qur’án when I was growing up in Tehran. That was before I went
to London in the seventies. We used to learn it by rote. There is a
small quote around here that expresses the idea that this life is a
passing joy.” He turned one page and then the next. “Here it is. It is
in Sura 40—The Believer: ‘O my people! This present life is only a
passing joy, but the life to come is the mansion that abideth.’”3
“Thank you. Interesting.” She thought about the house of
relativity back in Istanbul. Whoever had lived in and through that
old wonky house had passed on to a mansion that abideth; that
wonky house was a clear symbol for this life.
* * *
The next day they left Ankara early in the morning. They passed
through many small towns in Central Anatolia. The terrain between
these towns was quite bare, with primarily broad hills and flat
grassland between the hills; these were punctuated with farms that
were growing a variety of crops that were in the middle of their
cycle now that it was late spring. If there were trees, they tended to
grow along the rivers they passed by.
Allison had her feet on the dashboard for most of the time. She
stared for hours at the road lines and the mostly flat horizon. She
and Shidan did not speak much; they did not need to.
The sun beat down on her skin, and the air pushed her hair
around her face. It was quite exhilarating at different points on this
journey, and she felt an indefinable freedom of self. She felt this way
whenever she traveled somewhere unfamiliar. Allison consciously
turned her mind on to record some of the images of the

surrounding countryside, becoming hyper-aware of her awareness.
Most of the time Shidan had the radio on, and Allison listened to
the incomprehensible Turkish pop music with those eighties-style
synthesizers blaring away. She looked over at Shidan from time to
time and smiled as he was bopping away to the music.
Toward the end of the day, they drove toward a small city on
the outer edge of Central Anatolia called Sivas. Twenty minutes
before they came to the town, the highway began to run along the
Red River. Allison guessed the name of the river came from the
dark reddish-brown color of the silt in the water. Ten miles before
coming into the town, they stopped at a gas station where the
benzinci, the gas station attendant, filled up their tank.
When they entered the town, Allison surveyed all the concrete
apartment blocks. If there was an old part of the town, it had been
swallowed up by all these quasi-modern buildings. There were
bigger hills around this town than most of the terrain they had
passed through during that day.
“Oh, by the way, if you are interested, Bahá’u’lláh and his
family passed through this town on their way to Istanbul.”
“Sivas must have been very different at that time,” she said.
“I believe they camped on the north side of the Red River.”
She tried to imagine the town during the time of Bahá’u’lláh.
They occasionally passed by old stone walls and buildings that were
part of the town all those years before, and she liked the idea of
passing through history this way and using her imagination as a tool
to strip modernity of its reality in the present. After fifteen minutes
of driving around Sivas, they found a small hotel and stayed the
night.
* * *
On the second day they passed into Eastern Anatolia with its
isolated and vast landscapes of mountainous terrain and occasional
plateaus in between. They passed through many small towns and
villages. At dusk, after a nine-hour drive, they came to another

plateau between tall mountains in the distance on each side of the
town. Dogubayazit was a rather tired little town off the tourist
track, but Allison liked it. It lacked some of the polish of Istanbul
and Ankara but had its own unique dusty ambiance. They found a
tired-looking hotel to rest their tired bodies overnight.
That night Allison lay in bed and listened to the sounds of cars
and motorcycles passing in front of the hotel. All the images of the
last two days traveling flowed through her mind. She saw the road.
Of all things that remained, and it reminded her of her travels
through Australia. The road endured in the landscape and always
remained the same even when the landscape changed; she thought
about the last line of The Conference of  the Birds: “Their Road is thine
—Follow—and Fare thee well.”4 But the road was an internal road,
not an external road, although the external road led to the internal
road. In a vision she saw herself in the desert, walking on a desert
highway, but it was a transcendent highway leading to fire and light
and the absolute annihilation of self and transfiguration of identity.
She closed her eyes, and in a dream she was still walking that road
alone. She would never find another person in that new world; it
was just Allison and the road: the illimitable road.
* * *
Late in the morning on the next day, Dogubayazit was behind
them. The town was framed in miniature in the car’s side mirror.
Allison looked at the town for a few moments. She remembered
men on the previous day playing backgammon in the bustling
teahouses on the main street of the town.
Everything about Turkey had been a series of cultural
revelations, and this was her first foray into a culture with strong
Islamic history and traditions. Nothing could have prepared her for
what she saw, and she was now up close to the culture with a
mixture of mild culture shock and wonder, despite her statement
that she thought Iran was more resonant culturally.

She turned her head to see the grasslands pass by as their four-
wheel drive crossed a wide plateau. She observed the various small
farms with old run-down-looking tractors and rusty farm
equipment. The road turned, and they moved into a valley between
low hills to the south and the snow-capped Mount Ararat to the
north. For a few moments her view of Ararat was dulled by a haze
of dust kicked up by the car in front of them. They came off the
paved road and passed slowly by a broken-down truck that was
sitting in the middle of the road. “Is that the same Ararat that’s in
the Bible? Noah’s Ark? That mountain?” she asked as she pointed at
it.
He glanced at the mountain for a moment, then looked back at
the road.
“Well, it depends on whom you talk to. There’s not much
science that backs up this location. And I doubt they will ever find a
real boat. Some have claimed it’s in the hills closer to the border, but
anyway, who cares about a few decayed sticks of wood? It’s the
symbol that matters. Don’t you think? And symbols last longer too.
The symbol never dies really. Although I am not a believer, I
remember Hooman saying that while a physical boat decays, the
idea of an ark remains forever in a plethora of symbolic
transmutations in the minds of people. The real ark, according to
Hooman, is the salvation of abiding by the spiritual laws of a
religion, which see you through this life and eternity. It’s the basic
covenant between God and humanity that you will find in all
religions.”
She thought about Plato’s book Laws, relating to both societal
and religious laws, and how it related to the ideas in the Republic.
“And I suppose the boat symbolizes safety from the changeable
conditions of the material world. It’s a pity Hooman isn’t here to see
this history. Whether it’s real or not,” she said.
“I did ask him to come with us, but he didn’t want to, and he
was afraid for us, plus he couldn’t take the time off work. And I
suppose he’s right. We are taking a bit of a risk entering Iran now.

Especially me, with my father’s history of dissent toward the current
regime.”
“You didn’t tell me you called him.”
“I didn’t think you needed to know. You know that’s how I
work; it’s Mission Impossible here, babe. It’s a need-to-know basis.”
“Typical,” she said. She smiled and looked south at the
landscape. The land was empty, with short green grass in the valleys
ascending up to bare rocky outcrops in the hills.
They reached the border crossing after twenty minutes. The
crossing was a low pass between hills. After an hour, their papers
were processed, and finally they drove over the border into Iran.
Allison put her black headscarf on as they drove into a small border
town called Bazargan. Shidan had read the sign to her.
Several other cars and trucks had crossed the border with them,
and this convoy wound around the mountain roads on either side of
their four-wheel drive.
After half an hour, they entered a large, flat plain with patches
of desert and only a few farms scattered around. Allison picked up
her Leica and took shots of the desert as they passed through it;
they stopped at a gas station halfway through the plain. Allison got
out of the car to stretch her legs and smelled the gas as a gas station
attendant filled the tank. There was something amazing about being
here in Iran like this, in these obscure little towns, a world away
from big cities. She watched several trucks and cars pass by the
station. Shidan, who was also stretching his legs, paid the attendant
before he and Allison got back into the car and drove off.
After twenty minutes, they left the desert and passed back into
yet more green farmland situated along another river. They then
came to another mountain range. They followed that river until,
after driving two and half hours from the Iranian border, they came
to Marand, a small city in the East Azerbaijan Province of Iran, but
they did not stop there. They continued driving along a bypass on
the outskirts of the city. They eventually stopped in Sufian for
lunch, a half-hour drive past Marand, where they found a small

teahouse next to a relatively small mosque on the outskirts of the
town.
Sitting in front of the teahouse, Allison took a bite of her salad
sandwich, which was made with flatbread. To the right of the town,
she stared into the distance at bare mountains. Her eyes then
panned around until she was looking at a flat expanse to the south.
Her thoughts rewound back to the few minutes she had spent
standing in front of the house of Bahá’u’lláh in Istanbul.
“Did you like the house of Bahá’u’lláh?” she asked.
“Yes, I suppose so. Though it was a plain-looking building.”
“Yes, I thought that too. But there was something about it that I
can’t define intellectually, and I wonder how these holy places
release spiritual power into the world. When I told Hooman I was
going to Istanbul, he suggested I visit the house. He told me about
their power. It’s a pity we couldn’t go inside.”
“True, I suppose.” Shidan took a sip of his tea.
“I mean, it is essentially only an empty house whose history has
faded into the past, but there is something beautiful about its
emptiness, which is a gift to the present.”
“I guess these places are symbols,” he said.
“So, you don’t think these places have any sort of power to
uplift a person’s soul?”
“I don’t know. Maybe. You’re asking the wrong person. Only
Hooman would know the answer to that. But then, I suppose these
places must have some power. If believers of religions are supposed
to turn toward them during prayer, then they must have some
significance. When I was young, my mother got me to turn toward
Mecca when I prayed. She was religious, unlike my father. But I
never felt anything. Nothing obvious. I mean, I did feel a few
positive things when I prayed as a young boy. But when I was at
school in England, I gave up praying. Secular culture in England
opened my eyes. One of my teachers and my father, too, taught me
about secular humanism and other philosophies that divorce ethics
from religion and thus make the need for religion less compelling.
My intellectual development changed my mind about religion and

fed my cynicism, but I sometimes miss the innocence of my
childhood and the positive things I felt I got from Islam at that
earlier time. I wonder if I will ever recapture those things:
innocence and ignorance.”
“Ignorance is a good thing to lose,” said Allison.
“Yes, of course. I was meaning the loss of innocence, really. Of
recapturing the positivity of an innocent belief in God. But
strangely, my ignorance of secular belief is what allowed my
innocence to exist within the context of Islam, so in a way, that
ignorance was kind of positive at that time in my life.”
“Hooman said these places are an outer symbol of an inner
condition. That we should turn toward God both externally and
internally. Bahá’ís turn to Bahjí, which I think is in Israel. Where
Bahá’u’lláh is buried. Is that correct?”
“Yes, they do face Bahjí. That is correct.” He looked out at the
plain to the south of the town and took another sip of his tea. After
a while, he turned to her. “Send Hooman an email when you get
back to London. He’ll have some firm ideas on this topic,” he said.
Allison then heard Shidan’s phone bing. He took his phone from
his pocket and read it.
“It’s Sara. She’s wondering how we are going.”
“Please send her my love.”
“I will.”
Shidan began to text a reply to Sara.
After enjoying a long, languid afternoon tea, they left Sufian
and drove into the plain they had seen from the teahouse. Allison
looked at the mountains to the north of the plain for a moment,
then back at the flat expanse. The flatness was a mix of grassland
and patches of desert. She had her feet on the dashboard again and
continued staring at the expanse as they drove through it. The sand
reminded her of the Australian desert and in particular the
Nullarbor Plain, which she had driven through many years before;
the nuanced differences between the two deserts were clear in her
mind: one was more yellow and the other, the Nullarbor, redder.

They passed a cement factory and, not long after that, a large
factory complex.
Driving for another thirty minutes, they arrived in Tabriz at two
in the afternoon; it was the largest city since Ankara.
Tabriz was surrounded on both sides by mountain ranges in the
distance, and closer to the town were a series of low hills with a red-
ochre tint. The haze of pollution sunk into the basin between these
hills, and it softened the afternoon light. Allison looked at the low
hills, and again their color reminded her of the outback in
Australia.
They drove into the outer suburbs. They were mostly the
concrete apartment blocks that she had come to expect. They also
passed a few industrial areas on the outskirts, but as they came
closer to the old city, she started to see several older eighteenth- and
nineteenth-century buildings. The beauty of these buildings stood
in stark contrast to the majority of the poorly designed 1970s-style
architecture. After driving around semi-randomly, they passed in
front of the Ark, and Shidan stopped in front of the building and
looked up at it. Shidan read an information sign on the side of the
road and explained that it was a fourteenth-century fortification that
had been repurposed many times throughout Persian history.
Allison noticed Shidan looking in the other direction at a hotel
opposite. He explained to her that it was called Ark Hotel, obviously
taking its name from the old building sitting opposite it.
“This hotel will do. Kind of appropriate since we were talking
about the other Ark this morning,” he said.
“So, what’s next?” she asked.
“I want to call Tehran today. I have a cousin there, Payman . . .
I have to talk to him. Maybe we can go exploring on foot for a few
hours and have some dinner somewhere.”
She put her hand on his arm. “We’re going to Tehran to find
your sister and father, aren’t we? That’s the real reason for this trip.
There is no other business in Tehran, is there?” she asked.
“Aren’t you perceptive.”
“Do you think we’ll find their graves?”

“Graves? I think nameless plots or trenches at best, not graves.
We’ll have to see, won’t we? We’ll get as close as we can. Anyway, if
we just go to Tehran, that would almost be enough. You know I
haven’t been back for close to fifteen years. I’ll show you the house
where I grew up and some of the streets I used to play in.”
“Good, I look forward to seeing those places.”
They got out of the car and walked into the Ark Hotel with
their luggage. They left their luggage in their rooms and came back
to the lobby. The concierge at the hotel gave them a map of the old
city with the sights and restaurants. While Shidan was talking to the
concierge, she saw a tourist brochure of a village on a small table in
the lobby. It was written in Persian, so she could not read it, but the
photos of the village intrigued Allison.
“This looks really beautiful.” She brought the brochure over to
the counter and gave it to the concierge. “What is this place called,
and how far is it from Tabriz?”
Shidan translated her question into Persian and then the answer
back into English.
“It’s called Kandovan, and it’s an hour each way,” the concierge
said.
“Okay, cool. Can we go?”
“Of course. We can have dinner down there and come back
before nightfall,” said Shidan.
They left Tabriz and found a highway heading south. Shidan
got lost because he didn’t take the correct turnoff. After asking
around, he finally got onto a smaller road going southeast. They
drove through a landscape of low, grassy hills until after an hour
they came into Kandovan.
“This is absolutely incredible!” Allison exclaimed as they drove
into the village.
Shidan looked over at her and smiled.
“This reminds me so much of Coober Pedy in Australia where
everyone lives underground in rock dugouts, but here it is above
ground and in these conical stone structures . . . this is crazy
beautiful!”

“Calm down. Calm down. You’re going to have a heart attack.”
Allison laughed.
“Oh man, what an amazing accident of chance.”
They drove into the narrow streets. Part of the village was made
of regular stone structures that were partially rendered with mud,
but toward the back of the village were the conical stone houses.
They reared up into the hill. People had burrowed into the stone
and hollowed out houses with wooden doors and windows.
They came closer to the hills and parked. They got out of the
car and walked into the streets. Allison now saw that the conical
stones were filled with holes and looked like molten molasses with
all their organic undulations. It was incredibly beautiful to Allison,
and she started taking black-and-white photos with the Leica.
“These must be volcanic formations,” she said, looking through
the viewfinder.
“Yes, plus a bit of erosion.”
They kept walking around the village and eventually found a
teahouse. They walked through the door and sat at a small wooden
table near a window. Allison looked around at the interior stone
walls that had been carved out.
“Amazing,” she said.
Someone came up and put tea on the table.
Shidan got his cell phone out.
“I am just going to call my uncle and get Payman’s cell
number.”
“Okay.”
Shidan started talking in Persian. Allison listened for several
minutes before he hung up.
“My uncle is going to text me Payman’s number, but he thinks
we are mad poking around for Mona’s and Dad’s graves. He told
me to be very careful who we talk to about them. The Iranian secret
police have a lot of informers.”
“Are we going to visit your family?”

“No. I suggested it, but my uncle said no. He said I was selfish
for even calling him and suggesting it. He was very angry at me
toward the end of the conversation.”
“Why?”
“Because he thinks I am putting the family at risk by coming to
Iran now. But Payman might meet us. I grew up with him. I mean,
we used to hang out quite a bit when I was young. Before the
revolution. After that, not so much.”
“What side of the family are they on?”
“Dad’s side. Mum’s sister died of cancer years ago, and my
grandparents are all dead now.”
“Hey, why don’t we stay here tonight? I mean, I know we have
the hotel back in Tabriz to go to, but it would be so cool to stay here
tonight.”
“Okay, sure. We passed a hotel a few streets back.”
“Was it carved into the stone?”
“Sure was.”
“Okay, cool.”
Shidan’s cell phone beeped.
“Ahh . . . that’ll be Payman’s number.”
* * *
In the morning Shidan and Allison drove back to Tabriz from
Kandovan to pick up their luggage from the Ark Hotel. Shidan paid
the bill and they left, loading the car with their luggage. Shidan
drove north toward the center of the old city.
“Let’s head in the general direction of the Grand Bazaar,” he
said. When they did eventually come to the Grand Bazaar, he
pointed at it and drove past.
“We’re not stopping here?” she said. She looked back at the
bazaar as they passed by it.
“It’s not the bazaar I want you to see. It’s something else, a little
farther along. Here, take this.” He passed her a hand-drawn map of
a few streets in Tabriz. “Hooman drew it for me.”

Under the map was a quote from the Báb. Hooman had written
it in cursive, and it was obvious that he had taken great care to
make it as beautiful as he could:
I am the Primal Point from which have been generated all created things. I
am the Countenance of  God Whose splendour can never be obscured, the
Light of  God Whose radiance can never fade. Whoso recognizeth Me,
assurance and all good are in store for him . . .5
“In 1844 the first founder of the Bahá’í Faith, the Báb,
attempted to wipe away hundreds of years of Islamic dogma. For
which he paid . . . with his life. It was a similar story with my father
and sister. And you know their story.”
“Yes, I do.”
“Truth is a heavy burden for the ignorant. It burns a path as it
makes a way forward . . . into the future, an unrepentant future.
Hooman described those early beginnings as the heroic age of the
Bahá’í Era, where many thousands lost their lives for upholding
principles that were supposedly contrary to Islam. In fact, these
were the very fulfillment of Islam. That’s the irony of it.”
After a few minutes, he pulled over and parked the car next to a
tear-shaped square. Traffic passed around it on each side, and the
space was large, with trees on its rim surrounding an open lawn
area.
“This is Shohada Square,” he said.
In the middle of the lawn sat a large circular fountain.
Walking through several lanes of traffic, they came up to the
lawn. Farther on they stopped at the fountain. He sat down on its
rim, looking at a building on the opposite side of the square. He ran
his hand over the water as Allison listened to the falling water near
the center of the fountain.
“What do you think I can see here?” He then pointed at the
building. “That is a bank. Melli Bank.”
“I can’t see anything special here. What is it?” She looked in the
direction he was pointing.

“It’s not what is here now, it’s what was here . . . in 1850.”
Shidan stood up and spread his arms out to encompass the
bank plus two other buildings on either side of it.
“This was once a military barracks and square. It took up all
that area there. And there on my left . . . where that government
building is—it’s a finance department now—the Báb was executed,
here somewhere, in this general area, by firing squad. Killed by the
Mullahs and governmental authorities of the time. Let’s get a better
look at it. We can’t see everything from here.”
They left the fountain and walked to the other road on the
opposite side of the square. They stopped under trees on the edge
of the square, and he stared at the bank for a while in silence.
“I am going by the instructions from Hooman. He knew about
the location. By the way, my cousin Payman doesn’t want to meet
us. I called this morning before you got up. He’s jumpy because
we’ll be digging up the past in Tehran. But he did provide a useful
contact.”
“Who?”
“A former guard who used to work in Evin Prison in Tehran,
where Mona spent her last days. He may be able to direct us to
where she was buried. As I said before, it will most likely be some
unmarked piece of ground somewhere . . . when I was younger, I
never knew why she was killed. It was a form of mystery to me. I
knew it was because of religion, but I didn’t understand the absolute
mechanics of it, the subtext. It seemed illogical to my limited
worldview at the time, and I always wanted to know what it was
about. I wanted the chain of causation, and now I finally see it. It
started here. From this spot, where the Báb was killed, came
reverberations that went through the society of that time, and still,
one hundred and fifty-something years later, the ripples continue to
spread out and engulf both this community and the whole world.
“And more than this, according to Hooman, the future will
vindicate the Báb. In the distant future, and focalized through the
revelation of Bahá’u’lláh, a resonant hum will exist from the shock
wave sent out from here, this very spot, as humble as it seems to you

and me now. Can you see? My sister’s death is linked in causation to
this death, the Báb’s death. And, indeed, these Manifestations of
God are life and death itself.”
“Shidan, how do you know all this?”
“Conversations with Hooman over the years. And when I grew
up in Tehran my sister and Peshman told me much of this. I didn’t
really understand it all in those early days, but I was able to put it all
together later on and align the fragments. I have thought about the
Bahá’í Faith quite deeply over the years. I suppose my dislike of
religion stems from Islam, because it has caused so much pain in my
life. Mona and Dad were swallowed by Islam.”
“Yes, that’s true.”
“It’s funny, I was thinking about their lives recently, and I was
reflecting on what you said in New York, before you left for London.
About there being a greater destiny for us all. How our lives
intersect. How all our choices change other people’s destiny.”
“Yes, our choices do intersect.”
“And I think that although Mona’s life was short with Peshman,
it was richer than it might have been without him. Death is a funny
thing. Who knows why some die early and others not; it’s a great
mystery.” Shidan was quiet for a while. “Remember, I said the
symbol of Noah’s Ark was more important than the actual boat,”
he said.
“Yes.”
“The symbolic boat is the Covenant, a vessel of the ever-
renewing faith in God, which comes in every age, like the Buddha,
Christ, and Muhammad, and all the others. And the boat takes
many symbolic forms that appear to differ in history. In the Bahá’í
context, it is called the Crimson Ark. Bahá’u’lláh refers to himself as
the Holy Mariner and bids his ark to ride upon the Seas of Light
and for us to find its mysteries if we join him. Hooman says it’s a
face of light over which pass a thousand masks and into which the
weave of the duality of hell and paradise splice into an abiding and
transcendent oneness. And as I said before, where we are standing is
a part of that symbol, which stands above the mundane appearance

of these buildings and people and this time.” He pointed to the
bank again. “You see, the thread of every life will find its way,
eventually, into this weave. We choose to be a luminescent thread, or
a black thread, or an in-between thread, with a shade near white.
That is the grayness of our being; we are children of the half-light.”
Allison smiled. “Shidan, you are sounding like a Bahá’í.”
“Me? No, not at all, but it is the only religion that I make
concessions for. And I think you might become a Bahá’í one day.”
“You think so?”
“Yes, definitely.”
“It is possible.”
He turned around. “Well, time to go. We’ve got a six-hour drive
ahead of us before we get to Tehran. And if we stop for a rest, it
will take longer.”
“Can I drive?”
“Of course you can. Why didn’t you ask earlier?”
“I was enjoying being a passenger.”
“Of course you were.”
Shidan laughed and took her hand.
They walked back to the car.
* * *
In Tehran, on the following day, Shidan took Allison to Pamenar—
the suburb where Hooman and Nava grew up. They drove through
the narrow streets, and there were many very old buildings from the
1800s, and some were even older. He explained that originally when
Tehran was small, this part of the city had large walls around it with
several gates, and, as the older part of the city had expanded north,
this then became southern Tehran. Not far from Pamenar they went
on a tour of Shidan’s teenage years. His old home—a traditional
Persian dwelling with a courtyard and fountain—was gone; it had
been replaced by an apartment block. The place where he had
stood as he watched his sister being dragged away by the
Revolutionary Guard was the same. The plane trees had grown

taller, but the houses had stayed as they were all those years before.
His sister’s house had been illegally confiscated by the government
after her death and sold on to another family. They stood near the
house.
“I wish I could have known her.”
“She was wonderful. She would have loved you dearly. I know
it, without any doubt.”
They stared at the street for several minutes before Shidan said,
“We should go now.” They walked away. Shidan turned several
times to take a few last snapshots in his mind. The street
disappeared as they took a corner.
In the car they sat for a few moments in silence. “We have to
drive past Evin Prison. She and Peshman were kept there for a
month before they disappeared,” he said.
He called his cousin again, but Payman still did not want to
meet them.
The prison was located at the base of the mountains in the
north of the city. They took a main arterial road, and, after half an
hour, they passed by the prison. It was nondescript with high walls
and a light blue gate. They didn’t stop. They just looked and drove
on. The building itself was ugly, which mirrored his feelings about
the place and what went on inside the prison now and all those
years before, but Shidan felt a sense of completion as he continued
to look over the details of the building. He then looked up at the
Alborz Mountains beyond the prison and recalled the memory
when Mona had chased him up the gravel path just below the snow
line. What resonated in his mind now was his embrace with Mona
and Peshman and their laughter. And the only things now left to
find were his sister, Peshman, and his father and the places where all
their laughter ceased to be.
* * *
At the Tehran Grand Hotel in the afternoon, Shidan and Allison
parked on the opposite side of the street, and Shidan saw that a

police car was parked near the front of the hotel. Instinctively, he
felt a sharp stab of fear in his gut, and as Allison was about to get
out of the car, he grabbed her arm.
“Stop,” he said.
“What. What’s wrong?” she asked as she looked over at him.
“The police. Look. Over there.”
He pointed to the police car across the street.
They waited for half an hour for the police to come out of the
hotel and leave, and just to be safe, they waited another half hour.
Shidan and Allison then left the car and crossed the street. In the
lobby they approached the concierge at the front desk. He told them
that the police had confiscated both Shidan’s Iranian and American
passports. The police had not taken Allison’s passport. As they asked
more questions, the concierge kept insisting they leave. So, Shidan
packed the car, and they left the hotel behind. Before they drove off,
he scanned the streets near the hotel to see if the police were parked
nearby, but he could not see anyone.
As they drove, he spoke. “Don’t worry, we’ll leave Iran by
Afghanistan, and from there we can travel to Pakistan, or we could
go farther south and enter Pakistan directly. I can apply for another
American passport at the embassy in Islamabad or the consulates in
either Karachi or Lahore. There’s no American embassy in Iran or
Afghanistan at the moment. I could apply for a new passport at the
Swiss embassy, but it takes four to six weeks to process it, and we
can’t afford to wait here that long. I’ll call Sara and ask her to
forward my paperwork to the US embassy in Pakistan.”
“What about the borders? How will we get across?”
“You’ll be fine. They won’t make trouble for a tourist. At least
that’s my guess. I just hope we weren’t followed. We had better park
the car and catch a metro train around the city and see what
happens. Someone may already be on our tail.” Shidan was
thoughtful, then added, “I think if they wanted to arrest me, they
would have done it by now. But what I can’t figure out is how they
knew I was here. I wonder if customs officials talked to the police.”
Then he wondered if his cousin or uncle had called the police to

show their cooperative nature to the authorities and of course to
divert attention away from the unfortunate family connection
Payman and Shidan’s uncle had with Shidan’s father. The stigma of
those deemed a threat to the state during the revolution often
tainted whole families.
They parked the car a short drive from the hotel at Mofateh
Metro Station and descended into the subway system via the
escalators. They caught a train south and headed back toward the
old part of the city.
“It’s a cleaner version of the New York subway,” Allison said.
“True,” he said, slightly distracted. He kept looking around
them and scanning the carriage as he watched people get on and
off at the various stations. He could not see that they had been
followed. After several stops, they got off at Khayyam Station. On
the surface again, they walked to the Grand Bazaar.
The first part of the bazaar that they passed into was the carpet
section. They walked past carpet shops. He looked around at the
multitude of colors in the carpets and then up at the brick arches in
the ceiling. He remembered this part of the bazaar because
Peshman had had a carpet shop here, and, as a child, Shidan would
often sit drinking tea with him while they looked out at the stream
of people passing by. They came to the shop. He pointed at it. “This
was once Peshman’s shop.” He walked into it, and Allison followed
him.
A man came toward them. “Can I help you,” he said in Persian.
“No, we are just looking.” Shidan went to the wall and ran his
hand over a carpet that was hanging from it. The shop had that
familiar smell of new carpets, which were invariably made from
wool. He thought about the police and turned to Allison. “I think
we’ll be okay. If it’s just the police, we should be fine. If it’s the
Revolutionary Guard, then that’s another matter. Although it might
be better if you leave today and catch the next available flight to
London,” he said in a low voice.
“Yes, that might be a good idea.”

“Once the police return to the hotel and find us gone, then
things will escalate.”
“What about tonight? Where will you stay?”
“There is a small obscure hotel nearby. We passed it before
coming into the bazaar. I won’t be asked any questions there if I
give them money, at least for the first couple of nights. I shouldn’t
have told Payman where we were staying either. I made a mistake.”
He turned to the entrance. “Let’s go. I want to show you something.
And there are some other parts of the bazaar that are quite
beautiful.” They walked toward the door, and he thanked the owner
as they walked through it.
After walking for a while, the carpets disappeared, and an
assortment of shops appeared that sold everything from spices to
clothing and every other obscure thing. He looked up at the brick
arches in the roof of the bazaar. Old tin roofs soon replaced the
arches; the sky peeked through in several spots. The walkways
occasionally split off at right angles, and he weaved through the
various forks in the rows. He followed his childhood memories of
the layout of the bazaar.
He stopped for a moment in front of a bookshop. He turned to
her. “When you fly out tonight, go to Turkey, and then you can
catch a flight on to London from there,” he said.
“But I don’t want to leave you here, Shidan.”
“Don’t worry about me. I’ll be fine. There are people who I can
pay to help me pass over the borders in relative obscurity. I’ll get
out, don’t worry. And I’m thinking I want to stay a few days longer
and see if I can find the location of Mona and Peshman’s bodies.
And my father too, but I don’t want to put you in any danger for my
sake, so I think that is the best plan. You leave, and we’ll meet back
in London. Okay?”
“All right, but I’m worried for you.”
They continued to walk, and the brick arches soon reappeared,
and they came out into a large open space, which was situated in
the jewelry section of the bazaar. The colored mosaic patterns in
the roof were exquisite, and Shidan watched Allison look up at it. It

was like a mosque in some ways and was very old. The roof
structure had complex geometrical shapes with many interlocking
and converging arches. They became smaller and smaller as they
reached the apex of the roof. At its center was a circular skylight
with light flooding down into the bazaar. Allison took out her
camera to take a shot of the shops and the roof.
“I said I wanted to show you something.”
“Yes, what is it?”
“Let’s keep walking. We are almost there.”
After several minutes, they left the bazaar and came out into a
large, enclosed square. He pointed to a large building on the other
side of the square, beyond a small jewelry store and on the other
side of a street that ran through one side of the square.
“It’s a bank now,” he said as they walked toward it, “but a
hundred and thirty or so years ago, it was part of the southern
section of Golestan Palace. Somewhere behind, or maybe under the
bank, I am not sure of its exact location, is the place where
Bahá’u’lláh first received his revelation from God. It was known as
the ‘black pit’ back then. In Persian we say Síyáh-Chál. It was
originally a water reservoir for one of the public baths, but they
turned it into a dungeon for criminals. It was destroyed in 1868 and
filled in. They built an open-air theatre over the site, then this in
turn was destroyed in 1947, and there is now the bank that you see.
You seemed to have a fascination for Bahá’u’lláh’s house in
Istanbul, so I thought you may like to see this location.”
“Yes, I do have a fascination for anything connected to his life.
Do you know more about Bahá’u’lláh’s time there?”
“Yes, Peshman explained it to me many times. To reach the
prison a person would walk through a dark passageway and then
down three flights of stairs. There were no windows, so it was pitch-
black. Nearly one hundred and fifty prisoners were crowded into
this dark space. The floor was covered with dirt and filth.
Apparently, the smell was foul beyond belief. Under these conditions
Bahá’u’lláh and a number of Bábís were imprisoned by the king.
Bahá’u’lláh’s feet were put in shackles, and a heavy chain was

placed around his neck, which left a scar that would remain with
him for the rest of his life. Bahá’u’lláh and his companions, also in
chains, all huddled together in one cell. They had been placed in
two rows, each facing the other. Bahá’u’lláh taught them to repeat
certain verses. Every night they chanted. ‘God is sufficient unto me:
He verily is the All-sufficing,’ one row would chant, and the other
would reply, ‘In Him let the trusting trust.’ Into the early hours of
the morning, the chorus of their happy voices could be heard. The
king heard the chanting. ‘What is this sound?’ he asked. ‘It’s the
anthem the Bábís are intoning’ was the reply. The king fell silent.”
Shidan continued telling the story as they walked on. “Every
day, the jailers would enter the cell and would call out the name of
one of the Bábís, ordering him to arise and follow them to the
gallows. They jumped to their feet and, in a state of uncontrollable
delight, would approach Bahá’u’lláh and embrace him. He would
then embrace each of his companions and with a heart filled with
hope and joy meet death.”
He stopped talking, and they came to a circular fountain near
the center of the square. He sat down on the edge of the fountain.
He scooped up a handful of cool water before letting it run back
into the fountain.
Allison stood next to him. “But what about Bahá’u’lláh’s
revelation?”
“Oh that. Yeah. A spirit spoke to him. A maiden. One night in
a dream he heard, on every side, exalted words that no one could
bear to hear. He experienced the force of his mission. It flowed like
a large torrent of water from his head to his chest, and every limb
of his body was set afire. In a vision the Most Great Spirit appeared
to him in the guise of a maiden calling with a wondrous voice above
his head while suspended in the air before him. She pointed her
finger at his head, imparting words, which rejoiced his soul.
“Speaking to his inner and outer being, she referred to him as
the Best-Beloved of the worlds, the Beauty of God, and the power
of God’s sovereignty. He was assured that he would be made

victorious by himself and by his pen, and by the aid of those whom
God would raise up.”6
“Wow. Amazing,” Allison said.
“Yes, it is kind of fabulous in a way. Peshman couldn’t tell the
story without tears in his eyes. And Bahá’u’lláh did not inform
anyone of what had occurred until many years later when he
declared his mission in Baghdad in the garden of paradise. Or the
Garden of Riḍván as it is commonly known amongst Bahá’ís.”
Shidan stood up. “I should take you to the airport now.”
They walked up to the street, passing in front of the bank and
caught a taxi back to the four-wheel drive and then drove on to the
airport. He escorted her to the check-in counters. “Hopefully, you
can get a flight tonight. Let’s swap cell phones and chargers. I need
a clean line. Nobody here knows your number.” She passed him her
cell phone. “Here, take my phone and call me just before take-off so
I know you’re safe. Do the same in Turkey when you land. Call
me,” he said. “Okay, I will see you back in London, then.”
Shidan embraced Allison, but when he tried to break away, she
was still holding him tight.
“Shidan . . . I’ve changed my mind. I want to keep traveling
with you.”
“Are you absolutely sure? It won’t be safe.”
“I know that, but I want to visit your sister’s and father’s graves.
Wherever they may be.”
“Okay then, we’ll travel together.” He smiled. “You’re so brave,
babe,” he said.
* * *
Five days had passed before Shidan had been able to meet the
former prison guard from Evin Prison. He had suggested two
possible locations where he thought Shidan’s sister and Peshman
might be buried.
The first location was a factory on the outskirts of Tehran, and
the second, which was probably where his father was also buried,

was an unmarked mass grave that had been used for political
dissidents in the eighties. The grave was adjacent to the Bahá’í
section of Tehran’s Anousha Cemetery, and he had been to the
location a few times in his life. There was no sign of the police, so
he assumed they had given up looking, or they could not locate him.
At the start of each day, they had moved to a different hotel. They
had been asked for their passports, but he passed over cash, and the
staff usually said nothing about him not having a passport.
On the morning of their last day in Tehran, he stood outside a
textile factory in an industrial part of Tehran known as Zeravshan
Industrial City. If the information he had bought was correct, Mona
and Peshman, along with many others, might be buried under the
foundations of the factory, which had been built over the site one
year after their execution in 1984. The only thing he did not know
was where exactly, and he knew he could not do any more on this
trip or possibly for a long time to come. He might even have to wait
for decades to pass before he could come back to Iran, let alone dig
up this location for a sign of her body. The Iranian regime currently
in power, since the beginning of the revolution, might last for a long
time. There had been talk over the years, after the Iranian hostage
crisis, that America might invade and topple the government at
some point, and only then might he return, or if there was some
unforeseen transformation in the culture over time. He thought that
it might take many generations before a groundswell, at the
grassroots of Iranian society, would remove the extreme influence
of the religious system currently in place. He speculated that it
would take between thirty and fifty years to change. And he realized
that if America invaded, it might retard this slow transformation as
the populace would unify against the invaders and support the
current regime. He could see inklings of a nonviolent movement
forming in Iran, which made him hopeful.
He walked back to the car on the opposite side of the street and
sat there looking at the factory for a full half hour before driving off.
As he did, he began to weep.

“The guard from Evin Prison might have been wrong about this
location,” he said as he looked at Allison. He had paid a
considerable sum to the guard, and he wondered if he had lied.
She put her hand on his shoulder. “Let’s go to the cemetery.
There’s an equal chance that they are there. I can drive if you
want,” she said.
“No, I’m okay,” he said, as he looked briefly at the other
factories. They drove off. “Life can be so bitter sometimes. God, I
hate what this country has become.”
Driving toward the cemetery, which was on the other extreme
of Tehran, they took an expressway that hugged the city limits.
They passed many farms and orchards. He observed cornfields, and
other crops dispersed by small pockets of outlying suburbia.
Eventually, they came to another expressway heading south. Soon
the farms disappeared, and he looked up at a large hill close by the
road and then south at the flat expanse of desert beyond the hill.
Shidan sat in the slow lane and watched cars overtaking him
periodically.
An hour and a half after leaving the factory, they arrived near
Anousha Cemetery. He drove onto an underpass and headed back
to the cemetery on the opposite side of the expressway, where he
pulled over and turned into a street running beside the cemetery.
They parked and walked through a gate. As they passed into the
cemetery, he looked around, and he was hit by the bleakness of it.
They were standing adjacent to the Bahá’í part of the cemetery. He
knew his way around because of visits he and his mother had made
just after his sister’s and father’s executions around April 1983. At
the time there had been rumors in the community that this was
where many of the political dissidents had been buried in a mass
grave. This plot of land was known as the “graves of the infidels,”
but he and his mother never found where they were buried. Only
years later, when people had dug around this location for a sign of
their relatives, was the exact location revealed. By then, late in 1983,
Shidan had moved to New York with his mother, where they were
granted humanitarian visas.

In addition to his first impression of bleakness, he now added
the word “desolation.” They walked past a few headstones, which
were flat on the ground and not upright in the typical fashion. Some
graves had brick rims and small slabs of rough concrete with names
inscribed with a stick or finger, but mostly it was gravel and sand
with weeds and many tufts of grass sprouting up through the dry
ground. He knew that the authorities did not allow some families to
put up headstones here and there was no definitive order to the
graves. And although there were some rows, like the other parts of
the cemetery, it looked random on the whole.
Shidan and Allison walked up to an old lady kneeling on the
ground next to a grave with a rectangle of broken cinder blocks and
one rough blob of concrete in its center. She was arranging flowers
in a glass bottle that was stuck in the ground. The mass grave that
he was so desperate to find was in no way obvious or visible, and so
he asked the old lady if she knew anything about it.
“The ones executed from 1981 onwards are there somewhere,”
she said in Persian as she pointed at a piece of ground in the near
distance. She added, “Those killed in the massacre of 1988 are over
there, beyond that avenue of trees, near the wall to the Armenian
part of the cemetery.”
“Who are these flowers for?” he asked the old lady.
“My son. They killed him,” she said.
“Why did they kill him?”
“He was a writer and a communist.”
He was about to ask her more about her son but thought better
of it, as he did not want to upset her by dredging up the past. He
thanked her, and they walked over to the area she had initially
pointed to.
“Well, they are either here or back at the factory. I guess this is
as close as we will ever get, and I can’t do more than this.”
“Who is buried in this mass grave?” Allison asked.
“Intellectuals, political dissidents, free thinkers, and even
atheists, I have heard. Basically, anyone opposed to the regime at the
beginning of the Cultural Revolution. I think that the general term

they used for them was apostate. There were thousands killed, so
they can’t all be buried here. And although Mona wasn’t killed in
’81 or ’88, she might be here somewhere.” He looked up at the sun
for a moment and then at the mountain range beyond the cemetery.
The mountains were bleak too. They mirrored his feelings about
this place.
They left the cemetery and continued to drive southeast down
the expressway. This would eventually bring them to either
Afghanistan or Pakistan, and a whole day’s drive was ahead of
them. They had just passed by what looked like a crumbling mud-
brick fortress.
“So where to from here?” Allison asked.
“I suppose we can drive south and enter Pakistan directly, or we
could go via Afghanistan. What do you want to do?”
“Well, if we have a choice, I would like to see a bit of
Afghanistan.”
“No problem. Done. But one thing we need is a guide to get us
over the Afghan border . . . I suppose once we reach the Iranian
border towns, I can ask around.”
He looked over at Allison. She was looking at the scenery slide
by as they passed more farms that were separated by large sections
of empty desert on a flat plain. The expressway followed the
contours of a mountain range to the north, and they slowly drifted
east toward Afghanistan.
“I haven’t mentioned it to you before, but there was another
Mona like my sister, but younger, who was executed at around the
same time in 1983. She was a Bahá’í too. Peshman knew her father,
Yad’u’llah Mahmudnizhad. Peshman owned a carpet business in
Shiraz in addition to his shop in the bazaar. And when he was
staying in Shiraz, he would often go for dinner at the
Mahmudnizhad’s house.”
He went on to explain that Mona was one of several Bahá’ís,
including women and teenage girls, who were imprisoned in the fall
of 1982 by the Islamic Revolutionary authorities in Shiraz. One of
the last stories that Shidan’s father documented, before his own

execution, was Mona’s story. He had sent the report to the BBC in
London.
* * *
The prisoners, including Mona, endured months of abuse,
interrogation, and torture as the Islamic judges and their
Revolutionary Guards attempted to force them to deny their
religion. All refused, and ten of the women, including Mona, were
secretly sentenced to death by hanging in June 1983. In a final effort
to break their wills, the authorities hanged the women one by one as
the others were forced to watch.
Mona asked to be the final victim executed so that she could
pray for the strength of each one who was hanged before her. When
her turn came, she kissed the rope and put the noose around her
own neck.
She had been arrested with her father, who was hanged in
March 1983, several months before her.
When the Mahmudnizhad family first moved to Shiraz, they
considered it a dream come true. In Tabriz they had prayed
fervently that they would be able to visit the House of the Báb, the
most holy place for Bahá’ís in Iran, and were thrilled that they
would be living in the same city. But even when they were finally
living in Shiraz, however, Yad’u’llah still did not feel that he had
earned the right to visit the House of the Báb on his own. “I shall
not visit the Blessed House of the Báb unless he calls me himself,”
he told his family.
One day Yad’u’llah received a phone call and was asked to go
to a certain address to repair a television set. The television, as it
turned out, belonged to the mother of the caretaker of the Báb’s
house. After doing the work, Mr. Mahmudnizhad was ready to
leave. “Don’t you want to visit the Blessed House? There is nobody
there, and I will let you in,” the woman said.
So, in this unexpected way, Yad’u’llah had his prayer answered.
He had been summoned to the House of the Báb to provide a

service for the caretaker’s family. Later he told his family that it was
the happiest day of his life. He walked around the yard several times
and then up and down the stairs, kissing the edge of each step;
finally, he entered the room where the Báb had first declared his
mission, and bowed his forehead to the ground, immersed in
spiritual ecstasy. Every time he talked about this visit with family or
friends, his eyes would fill with tears.
Because of the rise to power of the Islamic clergy, the Islamic
Revolution inaugurated a new period of severe repression of the
Bahá’í Faith. The mullahs had branded the Bahá’ís as “unclean
infidels” at the earliest beginnings of the religion in 1844 and had
continued to incite popular prejudice against them under all
regimes. Over twenty thousand Bahá’ís had been put to death, often
after barbaric and public torture, throughout the nineteenth century
and in sporadic pogroms as recently as 1955 and 1963, when
Bahá’ís were murdered and Bahá’í centers destroyed by the
combined forces of the clergy and the late shah’s army.
As the crisis for the Bahá’ís worsened, Mona had many
disturbing thoughts of the destiny that God might have in store for
her father and for herself. She had a dream in which both she and
her father were killed for their faith. After the dream, Mona added
another virtue to those she already possessed—fearlessness. As the
persecutions worsened, she talked and wrote to her friends about
the need for courage in the face of their fundamentalist persecutors,
showing no fear of death.
Mona’s life changed on September 10, 1980, when she turned
fifteen, the age of spiritual maturity in the Bahá’í teachings. Mona
had already begun following in her father’s footsteps as a Bahá’í
teacher and wanted to teach young children, for whom she had a
special love, and she began teaching Bahá’í children’s classes, which
included the study of the great religions, developing spiritual
qualities, encouraging the children to put their talents and
education to the service of humanity, and especially learning to
appreciate the oneness and diversity of the human family.

The persecution of the Bahá’ís extended to every level of
society. While the Islamic authorities tended at first to single out
only the more prominent members of the Faith for arrest and
execution, cancellation of pensions, freezing of bank accounts, and
dismissal from employment, they extended their repressions even to
the school level by expelling numerous Bahá’í children, especially
those attending high school and university.
Arrests and executions of Bahá’ís were taking place all over the
country. In Shiraz the public prosecutor had initiated mass arrests in
late October 1982.
Mona’s arrest occurred at 7:30 p.m. on October 23, 1982.
Mona was at home with her parents. Her father opened the door,
and four armed Revolutionary Guards demanded entry.
In the prison all of the Bahá’í women were interrogated, and
several were severely beaten as well. These beatings took place
separately from the interrogations, in the basement of the prison.
The Bahá’í women were tied to a specially designed table and then
beaten on the soles of their feet with a rod or a piece of wire cable.
A woman was given a few lashes, allowed to regain sensitivity, and
whipped again and again until they passed out. When they regained
consciousness, the beatings resumed.
They were then made to walk on their bleeding feet and often
additionally tortured by being taunted with a glass of water.
Mona was in Seppah Prison for a total of thirty-eight days and
was interrogated for roughly one week during that time. In
November 1982 she and five other Bahá’í women were transferred
to Adelabad Prison.
During the second stage of Mona’s interrogation, she was
awakened at four o’clock in the morning and transferred an hour
later by car to the prison. The session lasted most of the day. She
was asked the same questions that she had been asked over and over
again at Seppah about her beliefs. “I told them that I believed in
God and all his messengers who had revealed a Holy Book and that
we consider them all to be Messengers of God.”

One day, which coincided with a Bahá’í holy day, Mona wanted
to say prayers alone instead of joining a small prayer session
organized by the Bahá’í prisoners.
Mona had been spending increasing amounts of time alone.
Often, when the others would gather together, Mona would find an
empty cell to pray and meditate in by herself. This time, however,
her mother insisted that Mona join them, so she acquiesced.
Later in the day Mona then took her aside. “Mother, I want to
tell you something, please come with me.” She led her mother down
a corridor that was so narrow that they had to walk in single file.
Mona stopped and turned around.
“Mother, do you know that they are going to execute me?” Her
mother became very upset and refused to listen.
She was completely unaware of the spiritual state that Mona
had reached. “No, dear, you’ll be free, released from the prison. You
will have a family and children. I want to see your children. Please
don’t think this way,” her mother said.
Mona became upset. “I swear to God that I don’t wish this for
myself, and you shouldn’t wish it for me. I know that they are going
to kill me, and I want to tell you what I am going to do when that
happens. If you don’t let me tell you now, you will regret it in the
future. Do you want to let me tell you or not?” Mona said.
Mona’s mother was stunned. “Yes, tell me,” her mother said.
Then Mona faced her. “You know, Mother, they’re going to take
us to our execution soon. We will have to go up and stand on
something high where they will put a rope around our necks . . .
then I’m going to kiss the noose and say a prayer,” Mona said.
Mona then folded her arms across her chest, closed her eyes,
and with a blissful look on her face said a short prayer. Then she
opened her eyes. “I’ll say that prayer for the happiness and
prosperity of all humankind and bid farewell to this mortal world
and go to God,” she said. Then she looked at her mother, who was
staring at her in a state of confusion and bewilderment.
“That was a nice story, Mona,” was all her mother could say.

Mona’s eyes filled with tears. “Mother, it was not a story. Why
won’t you believe me?” she said quietly.
During their last visit together, Mona’s sister realized that Mona
would soon be executed and that she was fully prepared. “You’re
going to be executed too!” her sister said.
“I know. I know,” Mona replied calmly, and added, “Taraneh, I
have a request for you. I want you to pray for us, so we go to our
execution dancing.”
By that point, Mona was crying and laughing at the same time,
talking about her execution as a foregone conclusion even though
she had not yet even been sentenced.
* * *
The hangings of the ten women took place on the eve of June 18,
1983, under cover of darkness, in a nearby polo field. The driver of
the bus, who later met the grandmother of one of the young
women, told her, “They were all happy and were singing many
songs on the way. I could not believe that they knew they were going
to be executed. I have never seen people so happy.”
The families of the women learned of the hangings the next
morning. Mona’s mother and sister Taraneh finally succeeded, after
great difficulty, in getting permission to see the bodies. Mrs.
Mahmudnizhad, who had been their companion until the last few
days, kissed each woman on the cheek. “I wish the whole world
could see through my eyes how those dead bodies testify to the love
of Bahá’u’lláh,” she said.
Mona’s sister later recounted, “It was a bitter day, and for the
last time, without having thick glass in between, I kissed the tranquil
face of my dear sister and said goodbye to her. I was hoping that she
would open her eyes and smile. But I know that now, forever, she is
observing us with an everlasting smile, and if I cried it would only
upset her. So, because of you and the love that you have for
Bahá’u’lláh and for humanity, I laugh to let the people know why

you sacrificed your life and why all those wonderful women gave
their sweet lives in His path.”
A young man who was able to see the ten bodies after their
hanging wrote, “When I found myself in the morgue, I felt as if I
would explode. I could not stop crying . . . when I entered, the first
thing I saw was Mona’s face, lying with her head resting on
Mahshid’s shoulder. Mahshid looked as if she were in a deep sleep.
“To Mona’s right was Shirin. Her eyes were covered by a
blindfold.
“I could not believe that I would never see them again. I paused
for a moment on the threshold and promised them all that I would
continue their work by serving humanity.”
The hangings of the women shocked the entire city. One
person wrote, “Shiraz smelled of blood, of love and devotion. . . .
The families were all in astonishment and awe.”7
* * *
Shidan finished the story, and Allison had tears in her eyes. “Wow.
What a beautiful soul.”
“I know. They were all beautiful souls, Allison. Each and every
one. And although my sister was not officially a Bahá’í, I think in
her heart she was one. She must have said as much to the
authorities so that she could die with Peshman. I think she could not
live without him.”
* * *
About six years earlier, on the morning of January 3, 1993, Allison,
Aurélie, and Io packed up the tents and began the three-hour hike
from Sealers Cove back to the parking lot near Mount Oberon.
Before getting into the car, Allison took her camera out of her
backpack and took her shoes off. She took a photo of her bare feet
on the asphalt; this was a part of her visual diary. Allison wanted to
call her brother, Paul, and let him know she was okay, so they drove

down to Tidal River. The girls went to feed the birds while Allison
went to a phone box near the visitors center. Before making the call,
she took a photo of the coins she was about to use in the payphone.
She lined them up on the tops of her feet so they were symmetrical.
She called him at the restaurant. “Hi, babe,” she said.
“Oh, babe, it’s good to hear from you. Where are you?”
“Wilsons Prom.”
“Are you okay?”
“Yep. Got stopped yesterday by the police about a faulty
taillight. They didn’t know about my handbrake. Io had her foot on
the brake while I got out and chatted with the police about the light.
If they had found out about it, they would have pulled me off the
road right there, and that would have been the end of my big
adventure. I promised to get the light fixed in the next town. I
didn’t, as you would expect,” she laughed.
“You have to get that fixed, babe. Particularly if you are
traveling at night.”
“I will. I will. Promise. Okay, I’ll get going. I just wanted to let
you know where I am. I am heading toward Sydney today. We’ll
stop in Eden overnight. I’ll call in a week or so.”
“Okay, cool. Love you, babe.”
“Love you too, bye.”
“Bye.”
Allison returned to the car and waited for the girls to finish
feeding the birds. After fifteen minutes, they came back and got into
the car. Io pulled the bricks from the front wheels, and they drove
off.
“I want to stop at Squeaky Beach before we leave Wilsons
Prom.”
“Sure,” the girls said almost in unison.
They drove from Tidal River toward the beach, and after a
short drive, they came to the parking lot near Squeaky Beach. The
girls walked to the beach, and Allison immediately walked toward
the large granite boulders embedded in the sand at one end of the
beach.

“Hey, the sand actually squeaks,” Aurélie said as she followed
Allison to the boulders.
The boulders were sixteen to nineteen feet high at the highest
point and covered in red moss. The hue reminded Allison of fall
leaves. A small stream ran around the boulders into the sea. Allison
stopped to take her shoes off and walked into the stream. She
stopped in the middle of the stream and looked down at her feet on
the sandy bottom, which were slightly distorted by the rush of
water. The cool water was nice against her skin. After a few
moments, she walked on and came to the boulders. The stream
water was running around them and there was no way to climb
them here, so Allison went to the back of the boulders and stepped
out of the stream. Aurélie followed behind her, and Allison looked
around to see Io in the distance, walking toward the other end the
beach.
Once the two girls had climbed the boulders, they sat down and
looked out at the sea for several minutes in silence.
“What part of Paris do you come from?” Allison said in French.
“Oh, I’m in the seventeenth arrondissement. My neighborhood
is called Épinettes. Do you know Paris?”
“No, I have no idea where that is.”
“Épinettes is near Montmartre. If you are ever in Paris, then
you are welcome to stay with me and Gabriel.”
“Thank you,” she said and put her hand on Aurélie’s shoulder.
Allison and Aurélie sat on the boulders for thirty minutes and
continued talking about various things in French. After a time, Io
came and joined them. They sat there for another half an hour,
staring at the sea and listening to the waves roll in. Allison then
closed her eyes and just listened to the sea.
After a long while, she opened her eyes. “Okay, we better go. I
want to make Eden by the end of the day, and then tomorrow we
can make Sydney,” Allison said. Before they left, Allison took a shot
of her feet on the granite surface.
The girls climbed down from the boulders and stepped into the
stream where, on the other side, they brushed the sand off their feet

and put their shoes back on. They walked back up the beach,
squeaking as they went, and then up the sandy track to the parking
lot.


The Nightingale
After passing through the Valley of  Knowledge, which is the last station of
limitation, the wayfarer cometh to THE FIRST STATION OF UNITY and
drinketh from the cup of  oneness, and gazeth upon the manifestations of
singleness.1
—Bahá’u’lláh, The Seven Valleys
On the morning of the following day, the sun shone down on a
small town near the border of Afghanistan called Torbat-e Jam.
Shidan had managed to sell the car that morning. In the evening on
the previous day, they had found a guide with a good reputation; the
owner of the hotel they stayed in knew of him.
Sitting in a courtyard at the back of a teahouse close to the
hotel, they waited for their guide to arrive. Near the back wall were
several weeping cherry trees. Half of the petals had fallen to the
ground. Allison was sitting under one of the trees. She leaned back
in her chair and brushed the cherry blossoms with her hand. The
occasional petal glided down from the branches and landed gently
on her face. It reminded her of the light well in Shidan’s bookshop.
She looked around the courtyard. She liked its rough mud-brick
walls. She then looked up again. “Beautiful, Shidan . . . the sky. It’s
so intense today.”
“Yes, intense is the right word.” He looked up at the sky for a
moment.

“When is this guy coming?” she asked.
“He should be here now.”
“Where is he coming from?”
“Kabul. But by chance he was in a small city on the other side
of the border when I called him last night.”
Another fifteen minutes passed, and then a tall man stepped
into the courtyard and approached them. “Hello,” he said in
English, “my name is Vahid.” Allison leaned forward and put her
hand out. Vahid looked about the courtyard. There were a few
other people in one corner. “Sorry, normally I would shake your
hand in private, but in public it would draw unwanted attention
from others. You never know who is watching,” he said.
“Oh, okay, sorry.”
Vahid sat down next to Shidan.
“So, what is the plan?” Shidan asked.
“Well, we can pass over the border today. Are you ready now? I
have a few people waiting for us in a village close by. They will help
carry your baggage. We have to go on foot part of the way.”
“Our bags are in the hotel. It’s nearby.”
“Okay. Great, let’s go. I’ll call now and let them know we are
coming.” Shidan passed Vahid a large wad of money. “This should
get things going,” he said.
After leaving the hotel, they found a taxi and drove toward the
border village of Jannat Abad. On the way Allison observed all the
small farms on the plain with wheat and other crops. Occasionally
there were wild meadows saturated with red poppies. They then
passed into hills until they arrived in Jannat Abad. The locals that
Vahid had said would help carry their baggage got into the taxi and
were all jammed into the back seat.
Eventually, they arrived at an obscure part of the border. They
left the road and walked toward the border fence. They hunched
down and passed through a hole in the wire. They walked toward
low hills through a meadow of grass and poppies. Allison put her
hands out and felt the tips of the grass brush against her palms and
the warmth of the sun beating down on the backs of her hands.

It took an hour to walk around the base of the mountains along
winding, rocky tracks. They slowly ascended until they came level
with a small mountain road that was perched up on a high plateau.
Allison was breathless when they came to Vahid’s four-wheel drive;
the road was surrounded by a panorama of undulating hills nearby.
As the helpers packed the baggage into the car, Allison looked
around at the surrounding hills. The view was beautiful and bare,
with little or no vegetation. Before he got into the driver’s seat,
Vahid went to the back of the car and opened the trunk. He came
around the other side of the car and opened the back door for
Allison. He gave her a blue burka. “It would be good if you can
wear this; otherwise, the Taliban will stop us. I will tell them that
you are my sister. Is that okay?”
“That’s fine.” She looked at the color of the burka in her hands,
and the shade of blue reminded her a bit of the color of the front
gate of Evin Prison in Tehran. The burka was a mobile world that
masked female identity.
“Oh, and you had better hide your hands when we are stopped.
Your skin is a bit light.”
Vahid walked around to the driver’s seat, and Shidan got into
the front. The people who had carried their luggage returned down
the rocky track. As Vahid drove off, Allison looked back at the
panorama of empty hills through the dust kicked up by the car. A
montage of all the emptiness across Turkey and Iran ran through
her mind. Then all the deserts she had ever seen in Australia also
passed through her mind. It was a swirling mass of incoherent
thought, and she liked it. The desert, the desert, the desert and the
waves of sand and tumbling grains of time. Endless spectral dunes
moving into each other, a slow-moving sea of sand on the curve of
her eye. Never to see the end of life. You. The forever face and mask
of eternity as I walk on in this dead expanse, watching my fictional
death on a spinning blue Earth, this motion world circling the solar
barge. The sky will kiss our skin with its light. The sun will come
down to meet us. We spin entwined. Worlds spin with us.

Our love will create all things. Nothing we see will ever die.
Swirling brisk milk sweet fairy sugar floss, our milky light galaxy. Us
riding the dunes on our ships of desire and innocence. The desert,
the desert, the desert and the waves of sand and tumbling grains of
time spinning, spinning, spinning beyond death.
It was a bumpy ride through more mountainous terrain with
small, winding dirt roads that were almost too small for the four-
wheel drive, and after an hour, they came down from the mountains
and found a main highway. They drove into a flat valley surrounded
by a sparse ripple of hills and passed by several pomegranate
orchards.
“I remember Hooman said his family owned a pomegranate
farm in Southern Iran. Actually, I saw a photo of it now that I think
about it,” Allison said. She had a sustained flashback of walking in
Times Square with Hooman.
“Yes, that sounds vaguely familiar,” Shidan said.
After an hour and a half, they came to Herat, which was a small
city. Just before they entered the outskirts, they came to a Taliban
checkpoint. Vahid passed over a small amount of cash, and they
passed through the checkpoint with no questions.
“I’m sorry, Allison, but because I didn’t have much time, I
wasn’t able to get the paperwork for you to look at some of the
tourist sites here in Herat. As a tourist, you need government
paperwork to get into these old buildings.”
“That’s okay. I can look at the outside of these buildings, but,
anyway, these suburbs and all this domestic architecture are great.
Shidan and I have already seen a lot of really beautiful old buildings
in Turkey and Iran.”
They drove through the suburbs of Herat. The dwellings were a
combination of baked brick, mud-brick, and concrete houses. They
came to a few roadside stalls and what seemed to be the main
shopping area, where they stopped for lunch.
“We’ll get some supplies for the rest of the trip,” Vahid said. He
got out of the driver’s seat and came around to Allison’s window.

“Can I get you anything to eat? A kebab? Sorry, but there isn’t
much choice here.”
“Yes, please. Get me whatever you like.”
Shidan got out, and he walked around the car and through the
stalls.
Vahid asked Allison to stay in the car. She watched Vahid and
Shidan walk away from the car and disappear into crowds of
people. She looked around and became aware of all the traffic and
people crisscrossing each other. There were muddy cars, three-
wheel motorcycle taxis, and the shimmer of heat surrounding them.
She looked at the many mud-brick structures, and a large, fortified
wall that surrounded what she knew must be the old part of the city.
She looked into the distance and saw a three-story wood and mud-
brick house leaning sideways and crumbling.
After leaving Herat, they drove along an unpaved road parallel
to a river in one continuous valley for many hours. Mountains sat
up on both sides of the valley. They stopped in a few spots, and
Allison took her Leica out to take black-and-white shots. Initially,
she looked into the viewfinder through the crocheted mesh of the
burka, but Vahid eventually told her that she could take it off when
no one else was on the road near them. The landscape was bare,
unadorned in yellow and red dirt. There were occasional rocky
outcrops leading up to mountains and, at different points along the
road, strips of flat green vegetation in narrow floodplains near the
river. Locals were growing crops and vegetables where the
landscape allowed. There were also sheep and goats grazing near
the edges of the river in various meadows. Between the fields there
were occasional mud-brick houses.
Vahid stopped in various places along the road and called
ahead. This part of Afghanistan was dangerous, and he explained
that he needed to call people he knew along the route to see if the
road was safe to proceed along. People were often shot and killed by
bandits over seemingly paltry objects like watches and jewelry, since
most people wouldn’t carry much cash anyway.

Allison realized that life here was cheap and challenging for
everyone.
They passed through several small villages during that day.
There were muddy buses and old cars passing them in both
directions. And Vahid was weaving around on the road to avoid
potholes and cars going past at ridiculous speeds, given how bad the
roads were.
They decided to stop for a break in a small floodplain. Vahid
pulled over next to a meadow saturated in red poppies. Allison got
out and walked through the long grass and flowers with her burka
on. With her arms spread out and her palms facing the sky, she spun
around a few times before sitting down. She reached out to pick one
of the flowers from beneath her burka. It seemed strange that most
women here would have to live out their existence in this way—
looking at the world through a strip of elongated hexagonal mesh,
living a life invisible in public—but she was glad that she was able to
experience their reality if only for a short time. After ten minutes,
Vahid called out to her, and she came back to the car to continue
on.
At one point they saw a Western couple riding mountain bikes.
As they passed by, Vahid laughed and said, “These guys are either
stupid or brave. I have a pistol. Not that I have ever used it, but it is
there if I need it.”
“You have a pistol?” Allison said brightly.
“Yep. Nine millimeter.”
“Can I have a look at it?”
“Sure.” He leaned over and took it out of the glove box. He
passed it to Allison over his shoulder. “Careful, it is loaded, and
don’t touch the safety catch or trigger.”
“Okay, I’ll be careful.” She turned it over in her hands. It
seemed strange that a person would live in a country where they
even needed a gun like this on a regular basis. She passed it to
Shidan. He put it back into the glove box. In that moment it felt
kind of wrong to enjoy the scenery when people here lived in such
poverty and danger every day. Her reality suddenly broke into two

as she was now able to weld “beauty” to “danger” and see her own
world and that of the Afghan people as two separate perceptual
filters that tinted everything that was regarded as beautiful in
different ways. And she felt more comfortable now as she was less a
tourist and more a detached observer in two parallel worlds. For the
rest of the day, she did not see as much beauty in the surrounding
countryside; it was now a changed and altered beauty.
The highway eventually left the river and began winding
around dusty hills and valleys. Late in the night, after fifteen hours
of driving, they rejoined the river and came to the village of
Chaghcharan. The village was located on the southern side of the
Hari River. Vahid had arranged their accommodation with a local
village family. They had been passing mud-brick houses all day from
Herat onwards, but now Allison saw inside one of these houses for
the first time. They were very different from the mud-brick houses
she had seen in Australia over the years, which were mostly in
hippie communes.
The next day was another long journey, but the landscape was
breathtaking with its sparse peaks and more green valleys with
narrow floodplains. Allison tried to resist that beauty, attempting to
regain her inner dichotomy from the previous day, but it was hard
to separate herself from her delight in the landscape. At yet another
small village, she observed the inhabitants going about their life.
Some were harvesting in the fields, and there were children playing
soccer. Several women were washing clothes in a river.
“I can understand why people fall in love with this country . . .”
Shidan said. Then added, “The mountains are bleak, but they’re so
beautiful.”
“I can’t help falling in love with its beauty too, but I am
conflicted. Peoples’ lives here are difficult. Can you really see it as
beautiful without feeling conflicted, given what people have to
endure here?”
“I suppose you’re right,” he said. “My bad.”
“And the Taliban have made life even harder than it was
before,” Vahid said.

“Hmm . . .” Allison guessed that Shidan was ruminating on
something connected with the landscape and reality for Afghan
people.
“How long will it take to get to Kabul?” she asked Vahid.
“It will be another two days’ drive, maybe more. It depends on
traffic conditions and how fast I can go. As you can see, the roads
here are not great.”
After another full day of driving, they came to Gardandeh,
where they spent the night in another mud-brick house owned by a
local family. The house was perched up on an incline and nestled
amongst many other mud-brick houses overlooking a series of
valleys near the village. They unpacked the car and then had dinner
with the family. Allison was tired and went to bed early.
In the morning Allison rolled out of her bed. Through the
windows she could see the valley below. The light peeked over the
mountains, and the light in the valley below was hazy. In that
moment she had a thought to say a prayer. Her prayer book was in
her backpack. She went to it and fished around until the book came
into the light. She passed her hand over the leather cover and saw
that it had a nine-pointed star impressed on it. She remembered
vaguely that Hooman had said the star was a symbol of perfection,
and the number nine was the numerical value of the word “Bahá,”
which meant “glory” in Arabic.
Sitting cross-legged on a large Afghan carpet, she opened the
book randomly to a page, where she started reading a prayer by
Bahá’u’lláh:
From the sweet-scented streams of  Thine eternity give me to drink, O my
God, and of  the fruits of  the tree of  Thy being enable me to taste, O my
Hope! From the crystal springs of  Thy love suffer me to quaff, O my Glory,
and beneath the shadow of  Thine everlasting providence let me abide, O my
Light! Within the meadows of  Thy nearness, before Thy presence, make me
able to roam, O my Beloved, and at the right hand of  the throne of  Thy
mercy, seat me, O my Desire! From the fragrant breezes of  Thy joy let a
breath pass over me, O my Goal, and into the heights of  the paradise of

Thy reality let me gain admission, O my Adored One! To the melodies of
the dove of  Thy oneness suffer me to hearken, O Resplendent One, and
through the spirit of  Thy power and Thy might quicken me, O my
Provider! In the spirit of  Thy love keep me steadfast, O my Succorer, and in
the path of  Thy good pleasure set firm my steps, O my Maker! Within the
garden of  Thine immortality, before Thy countenance, let me abide for ever,
O Thou Who art merciful unto me, and upon the seat of  Thy glory
stablish me, O Thou Who art my Possessor! To the heaven of  Thy loving-
kindness lift me up, O my Quickener, and unto the Daystar of  Thy
guidance lead me, O Thou my Attractor! Before the revelations of  Thine
invisible spirit summon me to be present, O Thou Who art my Origin and
my Highest Wish, and unto the essence of  the fragrance of  Thy beauty,
which Thou wilt manifest, cause me to return, O Thou Who art my God!

Potent art Thou to do what pleasest Thee. Thou art, verily, the Most
Exalted, the All-Glorious, the All-Highest.2
She felt immediately refreshed and a little more grounded. She
tried to absorb the beauty of the text, and, in particular, she liked
the line “. . . essence of the fragrance of Thy beauty.” She closed
the prayer book and placed it on the carpet. As she did this, she
noted the rich design, shapes, and colors in it. The overall design
was floral. She ran her hand over and in amongst the texture of the
carpet. Our configured destiny was like the weaving in a carpet. We
were free to make our own unique design, and that was the
fragrance of beauty, so each soul would then have a pattern of
identity that could never be repeated, and the complexity of the
existence of a mass of souls and their interdependent and
interwoven designs must be incredible, where all the souls were a
collective “we” as well as a collective “I.” She wondered if we could
recognize a person’s spiritual identity as quickly as we could see
their facial identity, and the symmetries of the face were absolutely
unique, so the spiritual identity must be the same: a pattern of
being. Then she remembered what Shidan had said in Tabriz. That
every thread makes its way into the weave and destiny of the
Manifestations of God, and that we choose to be a luminescent

thread or a black thread or an in-between thread, which was the
essence of free will.
She heard soft taps on the door. “Come in.” She turned to see
Shidan coming through the door.
“Hi. Are you ready to go? We have another full day’s drive
ahead. We should reach Kabul this afternoon,” Shidan said.
“Ready and refreshed,” replied Allison with a smile.
Once the car was packed, they thanked the family for letting
them stay the night and left Gardandeh behind them.
* * *
In the afternoon they drove into the outskirts of Kabul. The
mountains were behind them now as they entered a flat plain. Near
the road they passed farms with an array of different crops. Small
pockets of outlying suburbia occasionally punctuated the farms. In
the distance Allison could just make out a series of low hills with
houses ascending up the hills on steep inclines. The houses were an
assortment of what she guessed were mud-brick and some concrete
that blended into the hills. As they were about to enter the suburbs
proper, they came to another checkpoint. Vahid pulled over to the
side of the road, and her view of the city was partially obscured by
dust that was kicked up by the car in front, which had also pulled
off the road into the checkpoint.
Vahid rolled his window down and greeted one of the guards.
They spoke in Dari, which is known as Afghan Persian. She guessed
that they were talking about her because the guard looked at her for
a moment and then back at Vahid and asked more questions. She
was covered with the blue burka and was about to ask Shidan what
the guard was saying when she stopped herself. She realized that if
she said anything in English the Taliban would detain them.
Vahid passed over a roll of cash. The guard took the money
and hesitated for a moment. He looked at her again, then back at
Vahid. He turned to one of the other guards, who was sitting on a
chair nearby with a Kalashnikov between his legs. The other guard

must have said something about letting them go because the guard
turned to Vahid and said something in Dari. He finally waved them
off.
As they drove off, she looked back at the checkpoint. “I wasn’t
sure we would make it through this time,” she said.
“Most of the time, money is all they want. If I didn’t give them
money, they would ask more unwanted questions,” Vahid said.
“I almost blew it, Shidan. I was going to say something in
English. What did they say?” Shidan did not respond. He was
looking out at the city and its buildings as they passed by.
“They just asked where we came from and where we were
heading. He asked who you were. I told him that you’re my sister,”
Vahid said.
“What did the other guy say?” she said.
Then Shidan turned and answered. “The other guy said
something about making some tea. That it was someone’s turn to
make it.”
“People here are obsessed with tea,” Vahid said.
“Shall we explore? Or we could find a hotel?” she said.
“There’s no need. You can stay with me . . . and my sister,
unless you really want to stay in a hotel. It’s up to you.”
“Yes . . . why not. We’ll stay with you,” she said with a bright
voice.
As they drove into the Kabul suburbs, Allison surveyed the
range of hills she had seen before. They surrounded a flat plain
where the main part of the city was located. She observed all the
diversity of architecture through the mesh of her burka. Some were
concrete apartment blocks and what she guessed were multi-story
governmental buildings, but many were run-down and crumbling
mud-brick houses that were mostly domestic dwellings. The poverty
of the place was clearly visible, but the city had a certain interesting
character that she could not define yet. They drove for twenty
minutes down a main highway. As they went, she kept looking at the
life on the side of the road. This life was a mix of muddy
motorcycles, children in grubby clothes playing soccer, and some

people riding old bicycles. The street vendors stood out, and she
noted a man pushing a wooden cart with fruit and vegetables on it.
And above shop fronts were the many faded signs in Dari, which
she looked up at for a moment, and then she became aware of the
warm light on her face coming through the mesh of the burka. She
closed her eyes and felt the jolt of the car after it hit a pothole.
This was another world compared to New York or London.
Even Tehran was not this run-down, but as she had this thought,
they passed a modern-looking, glass high-rise building that looked
completely alien in its surroundings.
“In the West, we take the material aspects of our lives for
granted,” she said as she leaned forward. She put her hand on
Shidan’s shoulder.
Shidan turned to her. “We do, don’t we? Without doubt, war
and poverty have had their impact here,” Shidan said, then he
turned back to look at the buildings passing by.
“Afghanistan is a cursed country when it comes to war,” Vahid
said.
Vahid’s house was located at the base of one of the hills that
Allison had seen coming into Kabul. The house was a concrete
compound with high walls on all sides and nestled amongst mud-
brick structures, which rose up into the hill. A small avenue ran
along one side of the building. Once they stopped in front of the
gates, Vahid got out and opened them. They passed into the
compound. “Well, this is it. This is where I live. How do you say it
in English? It’s not much, but it’s home,” Vahid said.
A woman came out to greet them. “Hello,” she said in English
before continuing to talk to Vahid in Dari. He closed the gates and
turned to the others. “My sister, Nasim, wants to know if you have
enjoyed your travels through Afghanistan so far.”
“Tell her we have.” Allison walked around the car and took the
burka off as she walked. She shook Nasim’s hand. Shidan followed
Allison and also shook Nasim’s hand. Vahid started to take the
luggage inside. Allison looked over the detail of the house, which
was a shabby-looking two-story building.

Inside, they entered the living room. Allison was surprised to
find a group of girls sitting in a circle. They were drawing a still life
arrangement placed in the center of the room. The girls ranged in
age from what she guessed were nine to sixteen years of age. “Who
are these girls?” she asked Nasim.
“They are my hidden school.” Nasim had attempted English.
“Hidden?”
Vahid came back into the room. “What she means is this is a
secret school. If the Taliban found out, they would put us in jail.
Women are not allowed to go to school, and they are definitely not
supposed to do any kind of art. We had our piano confiscated about
a year ago. Can you believe it? They took it into the courtyard and
burned it. I managed to save some of the keys.” Vahid walked over
to the fireplace and took a partially burnt piano key off the
mantelpiece. He waved it around and smiled. “It’s a souvenir of the
stupidity of the Taliban.”
Allison asked Vahid to say hello to the girls. Some of them
responded in Dari and others in broken English. After ten minutes,
the girls finished up, and Nasim packed the colored pencils away.
The girls then slowly left the house for the courtyard and put on
burkas as they walked. They left in small groups of two or three
through a small doorway that opened onto the avenue beside the
house. Vahid explained to Allison that they avoided going in one
large group to make sure they did not invite suspicion from the
Taliban.
Allison and Shidan decided to explore the streets before dinner.
They stepped out onto the avenue along with the last group of girls.
The light over the city was beginning to fade.
The avenue was narrow, with no concrete paving or asphalt.
The ground was just mud that was hemmed in on both sides with
mud-brick houses. As they walked up the steep incline, she observed
the crowds of people walking by them. She stopped in front of one
boy with the bluest eyes she had seen in the Middle East and
thought that the color of his eyes must be rare in this country. He
smiled at her, then reached out to touch the fabric of her burka. She

lifted the burka up and used her hand to ruffle his hair. The boy
then said something in Dari and walked on past them.
“What did he say?” she asked Shidan.
“He said, ‘Bye, mother.’”
“What a strange thing to say.”
“But he was cute. His eyes were intense,” Shidan said.
“Yes, true. Very cute.”
After a few minutes, they came to small shops selling birds. The
shops were just rough wooden lean-tos. Allison looked down at the
hem of her burka, which was muddy now. They stopped at one
shop. Allison looked into a wooden cage at a rather plain-looking
bird. It sang, and Allison thought this compensated for its plain
appearance.
“What bird is this?” she asked the owner.
Shidan translated for her, and then the owner responded to
Shidan. “It’s a nightingale,” Shidan said.
* * *
After dinner, Vahid took them to the roof. They drank tea and
watched the sun continue to fade. Allison observed the gradual
afterglow beyond the mountains in the distance. The city lights
came on slowly. Allison turned to look up at the lights from houses
on the hill behind them. Everyone was quiet for a while as they
sipped their tea. Allison listened to the sounds of the traffic as a few
noisy motorcycles passed by in front of the house.
After a few hours of talking, everyone went to bed. Allison
asked if she could sleep on the roof. Sitting on a mattress, she
looked up at the night sky for a moment. An exterior light was
shining down. She opened her prayer book randomly. She could
just make out the words as she prayed again for the second time that
day. This was another prayer by Bahá’u’lláh:
Create in me a pure heart, O my God, and renew a tranquil conscience
within me, O my Hope! Through the spirit of  power confirm Thou me in

Thy Cause, O my Best-Beloved, and by the light of  Thy glory reveal unto
me Thy path, O Thou the Goal of  my desire! Through the power of  Thy
transcendent might lift me up unto the heaven of  Thy holiness, O Source of
my being, and by the breezes of  Thine eternity gladden me, O Thou Who
art my God! Let Thine everlasting melodies breathe tranquility on me, O my
Companion, and let the riches of  Thine ancient countenance deliver me from
all except Thee, O my Master, and let the tidings of  the revelation of
Thine incorruptible Essence bring me joy, O Thou Who art the most
manifest of  the manifest and the most hidden of  the hidden! 3
* * *
The dawn was dark when they left Kabul for Jalalabad. Initially,
they passed through a wide plain and, after a short time, left the
suburbs behind. In the distance were mountains. Allison stared at
them as they moved through the plain. Once they came to the
mountains, they entered deep gorges. After a few hours of driving,
the road began to hug a river. Along different points in the road, the
traffic slowed due to a trail of trucks and cars winding around the
narrow roads. She observed a tired and rusty red bus in front of the
car. Strapped to the roof were luggage and a bike. Amongst the
luggage was a crowd of Afghan men. They were wearing distinctive
white turbans and baggy pants. Some of the men were wearing
those brown Chitrali caps.
By 2:00 p.m. they came into Jalalabad where the terrain had
flattened out again. They opted not to stop but to keep driving
through and try and make the Pakistan border by the end of the
day. Vahid did not know any customs officials at the main border
control on the Torkham border crossing so they headed north. They
skirted along the Afghan side of the border and passed through the
Hindu Kush along a river. The mountains were snow-capped and
exceptionally steep in places. Even though she had never been
there, she immediately thought of Switzerland. The road was
narrow and bumpy, but she felt a certain exhilaration as they passed

through the mountain range. They stopped at a few places along
the road, and she got out to take photos on the Leica.
Several hours after dusk, they passed over the border. Vahid
knew a border control official there, and he passed over some cash.
They passed into Pakistan and came immediately to the village of
Arandu, where they stayed overnight.
The next day at dawn, they headed north for an hour until they
reached the main highway heading south to Islamabad. It took close
to a day to get to Islamabad, and they arrived just after dark. They
went to a small, cheap hotel that Vahid knew about that was located
in central Islamabad.
On the morning of the following day, Vahid took them to the
US embassy. The standard time to process passports was around
two weeks, but for Shidan they said they could process his in four
days because Sara had already sent them all the required
paperwork.
They left the embassy and drove back toward the hotel. On the
way Allison noted the layout of the city, which was a grid of
interlocking squares, a bit like New York in that way, but her
immediate impression was that the architecture in central
Islamabad was bland. The city lacked the worn-out look that Kabul
had that was so attractive to her. She mentioned this blandness to
Vahid as they drove through it.
“Well, if you find this place boring, we should go south to
Rawalpindi. I know a good hotel there, and, anyway, it’s close to the
airport,” said Vahid. “You can catch a taxi back to the embassy in a
few days when the passport is ready.”
So they went to the hotel for their luggage and drove south for
half an hour.
When they arrived in the old part of Rawalpindi, Allison felt
comfortable again, as it had that shabby ambiance but with no
mud-brick buildings like Kabul. The architecture was of a higgledy-
piggledy style and primarily concrete and brick. The layout of the
streets was more organic too.

They found a café near their new hotel that was adjacent to the
Nankari Bazaar. They sat in chairs on the street, drinking coffee and
watching all the street life pass by.
She rummaged through her backpack and took out the burka
that Vahid had given her at the beginning of the trip. “Thanks. I
don’t think I will need this now,” she said as she handed it back to
him.
She was now wearing the headscarf that Shidan had bought in
Turkey.
“Did you enjoy pretending to be my sister?” he said.
“I did,” she said. She smiled and titled her head sideways.
“My sister told me that she really liked you, Allison.”
“I liked her too. It is amazing what she is doing with her
school.”
Shidan took out his billfold and gave Vahid the last installment
of money for the trip. “There is a bit extra for Nasim,” he said and
smiled. “Thank you, by the way. You’ve been a good guide and very
entertaining.”
Vahid got up. “Well, I should go. It was good to meet you both.
And good luck with the rest of your trip back to London.”
Shidan stood up and shook his hand. Allison waved goodbye as
Vahid left the café and headed back to his car. A little way down the
street, he stopped and turned around. He waved and smiled, then
continued until he disappeared into a crowd of people coming out
of the bazaar. Allison then stood up and ran after Vahid, trying to
find him amongst the crowd of people. Eventually, she saw him
walking away, and she then caught up to him and put her hand on
his shoulder. He turned around.
“Sorry, Vahid. Can I give you a hug? Would that be okay?”
“Sure,” he said, and smiled.
They embraced.
“Thank you for looking after us.”
“No problem.”
“Okay, I’ll let you go now. Bye.”
“Bye,” he said, and turned away.

She watched him fade into the street and stood there for a full
minute before returning to the café. Shidan was sitting in his seat,
and she sat down next to him.
“Vahid is such a nice person.”
“Yes, he is.”
They were quiet for a while. Allison was watching the people
pass by the café.
“Hey, you know, I had a strange dream last night,” she said.
“What about?”
“I was getting married to Hooman. Isn’t that bizarre? We were
somewhere in a meadow. Everyone was holding hands in a circle. I
knew intuitively that it was Upstate New York.”
“Hmm . . . interesting.”
“Yes, it was. But in the dream, I didn’t seem to mind. I was
happy. Isn’t that strange? Me and Hooman. Together.”
Shidan then turned to her. “I want to go to Rome. I was going
to go there after I dropped you off in London, but if you want, you
can come with me. I think we can get a flight via Dubai. I want to
make some inquiries about a manuscript.”
“Rome would be an interesting diversion. My father was born
there. And I have family there. I went there once when I was living
in Paris.”
“Okay, great. It’s settled, then.”
Allison took another sip of her coffee and paid attention to the
abiding taste of cinnamon and cardamon, which were typical
ingredients in Pakistani coffee.
She then put the cup down on the table and watched everyone
walking by the café.
* * *
On the afternoon of their last day in Rawalpindi, they were
scheduled to fly to Rome. They had gone back to Islamabad in the
morning and picked up Shidan’s passport and were now wandering
through the streets near their hotel. Allison had stopped in front of

a spice shop and was looking up at a faded sign above the shop. She
was standing next to a street vendor selling yellow and red apples.
As Shidan picked up the fruit and smelled it, a very tired but
colorful bus drove toward them. The bus nearly collided with her,
and she jumped out of its path just in time. In that moment she felt
her cell phone vibrating in her pocket. She saw Hooman’s number
come up.
“Hello. Perfect timing. I was just thinking about you,” she said.
“Hey! How are you guys going? Actually, I should say, Where
are you?”
“We’re in Pakistan. We fly to Italy this afternoon. In four
hours.”
“Oh, okay, great. So how did you like Iran?”
“It was fabulous, amazing, and awesome . . . I visited the suburb
where you and Nava grew up. We searched for your old apricot tree
from the streets, but we didn’t know where your old house was, so
we eventually gave up looking.”
“Oh, right, yeah. You knew about that from the photo I showed
you in New York.”
“But we had trouble in Tehran. Shidan’s passports were
confiscated by the police. We had a guide take us over the border
into Afghanistan and then on to Pakistan.”
“I had a feeling that you might encounter some trouble. But I
am glad you are both okay now.”
“Yeah, we’re fine. . . . Hey! I want to ask you something. When I
was in Kabul, I was reading a prayer from that prayer book you
gave me.”
“Did you like the prayer?”
“Yes, I did, but I want to ask you about the last line of the
prayer. It said something that I couldn’t quite fathom. I’m
paraphrasing it, but it went something like this: ‘God is the most
manifest of the manifest and the most hidden of the hidden.’ How
can this be? It’s a paradox, isn’t it? I got stuck on the word
‘manifest,’ which I have never heard before in that context.”

“Well, there are a few possible interpretations of that line. I
know the prayer you are talking about, by the way. I say it quite
often. Well, anyway, God’s essence is hidden, but his creation, his
attributes, are manifest. It’s like a mirror in which God’s image is
manifest, which is a metaphor for creation. And imagine that God is
represented as a person standing in front of the mirror. The mirror
itself has no ability to understand the reality of the person standing
before it. So the person is hidden from the mirror because the
mirror has no senses to perceive the person. And the difference
between the person and the mirror, in terms of superiority, is
infinite. One is in three dimensions, and living, and the other is a
two-dimensional representation. All movement in the mirror comes
from the person. And the mirror, no matter how far it progresses,
can never become the person. Imagine also that at the atomic level,
each atom in the mirror is a single human consciousness, which
reflects only a fragment of the whole image, and so it is only when
minds are unified that humanity can be conscious of the whole
image projected onto it. So, the person is the essence, and the
mirror is the collection of attributes that manifest the image of the
person.”
“So, is that related to the concept of immanence and
transcendence? The word ‘manifest’ stands in for immanence, and
the word ‘hidden’ is transcendence?”
“Yes, completely.”
Allison had a thought pop into her head in that moment. Nasim
had used the wrong word to describe her secret school. She had
called it her “hidden school” before Vahid had corrected her. The
school was manifest to Nasim and Vahid but hidden from the
Taliban. And she wondered if there might be a hidden school in
creation too, in which God teaches us about our true nature.
“Okay, thanks. That makes sense to me now.”
“Great. Glad I could help. So anyway, I’ll get going now. I just
wanted to check that you guys were okay. I’ll email you when you
get back to London.”

“Oh, oh . . . I almost forgot. I got to visit the house of
Bahá’u’lláh in Istanbul.”
“That’s cool. Did you like it?”
“Yes, for reasons I can’t understand. But I wanted to ask you
about the house or these holy places. About how they work . . . how
they affect the soul.”
“Well, these holy places are transfigured symbols, pointing to a
higher plane both internally and externally, but if there were no
inner condition to make the journey of transfiguration, then they
would be no different from any other house, but to a mature or
illumined soul, they are utterly transcendent.”
“Thank you. That is really helpful. That throws some light onto
my feelings about the house of Bahá’u’lláh. Okay. Well, I’ll let you
go.”
“Okay, cool. Bye.”
Allison put her cell into her pocket. “I guess we should head
toward the airport now,” she said to Shidan.
“Sure. Here . . . have an apple.”
He threw an apple at her. She caught it and smiled.
* * *
In the taxi on the way to the airport, Allison pulled out five packets
of photos from her backpack that she had had developed that day.
They were all the black-and-white photos that she had taken from
Turkey to Iran and through Afghanistan and Pakistan. She took
photos out of the first packet and began to flick through them.
Shidan looked over at her. “Where was that photo taken?” he
said, pointing at an interior photo of the crumbling roof structure
inside the old house in the suburb of Incirli.
“I call that ‘the house of relativity.’ That was in Istanbul. I took
it just before I arrived at the house of Bahá’u’lláh.”
“Hmm . . . interesting. It is definitely old.”
“Isn’t it amazing?”

“You absolutely have tastes in architecture that move beyond
the average.”
“Thank you. I will take that as a compliment.”
“I can see why you were never interested in the usual tourist
destinations. You have been trying to avoid the architectural clichés
that normally qualify for beautiful.”
“That’s right. Exactly.”
She continued to move through the stack of photos and was
able to relive the stillness of time. She liked that photos represented
a more tangible, concrete version of memory, where we could revisit
moments that had faded in our memories.
“Can I see that house again?” Shidan asked.
She went through the stack and pulled out several shots of the
interior. As she passed them to him, she said, “The puppets have
gone, but the stage still remains, if only a little faded.”
“How very Shakespearean of you. ‘The world’s a stage’ and all
that.”
She laughed.
* * *
After a nine-hour drive from Eden, the girls arrived in the outer
suburbs of Sydney close to 3:00 p.m. on Monday, January 4, 1993.
They had arranged to meet Gabriel at Martin Place Station in
Sydney’s Central Business District. He was going to catch the train
from the Blue Mountains after a meditation retreat. Allison found a
parking garage, and the girls walked to the station. They intended to
walk around Sydney for the day, then drive north to Wisemans
Ferry at the end of the day and stay the night with Cathy, a friend
of Io’s.
As they walked toward the station, Aurélie waved, and Gabriel
waved back. When the girls came to Gabriel, Aurélie and Gabriel
kissed and hugged and uttered a few phrases in French.
“How was the meditation retreat?” Aurélie said in English.
“Good, good,” he said.

Gabriel then hugged both Io and Allison in turn. “It is nice to
meet you both,” he said. Allison expressed a few polite phrases in
French, then she asked about his childhood. Did he grow up in Paris
or was he born in another part of France?
Gabriel laughed. “Oh, impressive. Your French is good. And
no, I didn’t grow up in Paris. I was born in Lyon. I went to Paris to
study at École normale supérieure. That is where I met Aurélie.”
“Okay, cool,” Allison said.
“Okay, so what is the plan for today?” he asked the girls.
“Allison wants to go to the Art Gallery of New South Wales,”
Aurélie said.
“Is that okay?” Allison asked Gabriel.
“Sure. No problem,” he said.
So they turned around and walked down Martin Place toward
the Domain, where the gallery was situated. Once they were in the
gallery, Allison suggested to Aurélie and Gabriel that they look at
the Australian Aboriginal section.
“Have you guys seen any Aboriginal art before?” Allison said.
“I have seen a few pieces in the Centre Pompidou in Paris,”
Gabriel said.
They eventually entered the Aboriginal section, and Allison
explained some of the backgrounds of the artists she was familiar
with. They talked about the Dreamtime and what that meant to
different tribes.
After spending an hour in the gallery, they walked out and
began to walk through the botanical gardens toward the Sydney
Opera House. Allison had seen the harbor a few times before as a
child, but it was nice to see Sydney Harbour through an adult lens.
They walked around the Opera House, and Allison sat on a bench
as the others continued to walk. She lay down on the bench and
closed her eyes. She felt the warm light on her face and listened to
the sounds of the city around her. She pondered the road trip that
was still ahead of her and felt a subtle contentment wash over her.
She looked forward to expanding the depth of her relationship with
the land and exploring relative emotional isolation.

After fifteen minutes, the others came back, and Allison opened
her eyes and sat up.
“What else would you like to do?” Allison said.
“Can we catch the ferries around the harbor? Io has been
telling us how cool that is,” Aurélie said.
“Sure. I have never caught the ferries myself.”
They walked away from the Opera House toward Circular
Quay and embarked on a ferry that was headed for the inner part
of the harbor, a route that naturally took it under the Sydney
Harbour Bridge. Allison looked at the panorama of the water and
surrounding suburbs and cliffs for several minutes until the boat
passed under the bridge. She then looked up in awe at the bridge
with all its tendrils of steel supports. They stayed on the ferry for an
hour and a half as they looked out at Sydney. They went to the end
of the line at Parramatta Wharf and then turned around and came
back down the Parramatta River to Circular Quay. They arrived at
the Quay in the evening and then walked back to the car at Martin
Place and drove on to Wisemans Ferry to stay with Cathy overnight.


Prayers at the Graves
In this station he pierceth the veils of  plurality, fleeth the realms of  the flesh,
and ascendeth unto the heaven of  unity. With the ear of  God he heareth;
with the eye of  God he beholdeth the mysteries of  divine creation. He
steppeth into the inner sanctuary of  the Friend and, as an intimate, shareth
the pavilion of  the Well-Beloved. He stretcheth forth the hand of  truth from
the sleeve of  the Absolute and revealeth the mysteries of  divine power.1
—Bahá’u’lláh, The Seven Valleys
On a sunny fall day, Sunday, May 23, 1999, the sun streamed down
on St. Kilda Pier. With a stab of pain in her left foot, Sophie lost
focus on reading. She looked down at the fibrous pier planks
warming her bare feet. She tucked several A4 pages under her arm
and balanced on one foot. With her free hand she removed a
wooden splinter, then dropped her flip-flops next to her feet and
slipped into them.
She took the pages and flipped back and forth through a few
printed emails. She tried to follow Allison’s movements. Paul had
printed out three emails from Allison. Two she had sent from
London before traveling in the Middle East, and the other one was
recent, from Italy.
His voice touched her thoughts through the breeze from the bay
but soon dissipated into that breeze. She was distracted by his voice
as she heard him, louder now, talking to a man fishing nearby. The

air buffeted the three sheets of paper she was attempting to read.
Their conversation faded as she held the top of the paper back with
her thumb and forefinger to prevent the wind from moving through
the paper again. She began to read the most recent email from
Allison.
To: paul.bird43@yahoo.com.au
From: allisonbird1919@yahoo.com
Date: May 22, 1999
Subject: Hello from Rome
Hey Paul,
I’m in Rome with Shidan. We managed to get out of Iran and
Afghanistan with a bit of maneuvering on Shidan’s part. The police
took his passports in Tehran. Anyway, today we’ve been sitting in a
café adjacent to the main square in Trastevere, just sipping lattes
and watching the Italians go by with their usual exuberance. We
spent yesterday climbing all seven of the Seven Hills in Rome. I
visited Dad’s sisters and brother, plus all the cousins, today. They are
all well. I’m going to catch a plane to London tomorrow. As I said in
a few emails back, the master’s is on hold. I’m not sure when, or if, I
will resume it.
Yesterday, I saw a Caravaggio painting in a church near central
Rome, The Conversion on the Way to Damascus. Hooman thinks that,
like St. Paul, maybe God will reverse the fortunes of humanity in
the future, a renaissance of spiritual values and a collective
conversion of sorts. He calls it “entry by troops.” Anyway, sorry to
bore you with that. Paul, could you please print this email out and
recite this quote at Mom’s and Dad’s graves, as well as the two
prayers in the other emails I sent from London?
O SON OF THE SUPREME! I have made death a messenger of  joy to
thee. Wherefore dost thou grieve? I made the light to shed on thee its
splendor. Why dost thou veil thyself  therefrom? 2

—Bahá’u’lláh, The Hidden Words
It would mean a lot to me if you could do this. I’ll let you know
how I’m going in London in my next email. I will most probably be
back in London when you read this, as I fly out from Rome
tomorrow. Nothing more to tell you. I love you.
Allison
Roused from thought, she felt Paul’s hand touch her back lightly
through the fabric of her dress.
“What’s up, Sophie?” he said.
“Hello.”
“Shall we go home?”
“Actually, I wanted to pick up some bread from Acland Street.”
She looked at the end of the pier in the distance. “Why don’t we go
and walk to the end for another half an hour? The weather is so
nice . . . and then you can take the car. I’ll go get bread and walk
home on foot.”
“Okay. That sounds like a plan,” he said.
They walked on.
“God, what a lovely day,” she said.
She took his hand and swung it back and forth between them.
“Yes, it’s a freak day, isn’t it?” he responded.
“It’s strange that Allison has dropped her master’s . . . to go and
make coffees in London . . . and why leave New York? I thought she
liked it there. I suppose she thinks she’ll learn philosophy serving
lattes rather than through university. And the fees you paid are
wasted now.”
“Yeah, I know. It’s typical of her, but it’s her money too, and it
was only one semester. Plus, she does have a stake in the business. At
least half.”
“But she was never there to support you, Paul. Or hardly ever.”
“She was in the early days . . . anyway, I am tired of lecturing
her.” Paul laughed. He put his hand on his head. “She lives by a

different set of rules to us. It’s an unconventional way, but it makes
sense to her, so I don’t care anymore.”
“When will you visit your parents’ graves?”
“I was going to go in a couple of hours, but I think I will go
tomorrow instead.”
They reached the end of the pier. Leaning on the railing, they
surveyed the curve of the bay and the smoggy center of Melbourne
city off on the right. With the water shining in a golden-white
sheen, the dirty smudge on the skyline seemed almost romantic
rather than the polluted haze that it was. Waves lapped at the pier
pylons. In the light-saturated water, a school of fish swayed back
and forth with the waves. They stared in silence at the fish for
several minutes. Sophie felt the breeze from the bay on her face as it
pushed her hair around.
Paul placed his elbow on the railing with his chin in his hand.
“Did I ever tell you about her travels around Australia?” he asked.
“Briefly. I can’t remember the details. It was a while ago that
you told me the story.”
“She left on the day after her exhibition. In that week she had
bought a car for the trip, a Holden HT 1969 to 1970, I think it was.
You could see the road through the floor of the passenger’s side
seat. The handbrake was broken, and she had to use a couple of
bricks to prop up the wheels so the car wouldn’t roll. Anyway, you
get the picture.”
“Yeah. Not surprising though. It sounds like her.”
“She had the money to buy a better car, but I think she liked the
character of it. I had a phone call a couple of weeks or so later. She
had been stopped by the police a day before that. They gave her a
ticket and told her to get the car’s taillight fixed. She didn’t mention
to the police that the handbrake was broken. She never got it fixed,
at least not straight away. No, wait, I just remembered. She got it
fixed in Nimbin. She slept in the back seat for a year as she traveled
around Australia.”
“A year! Living in a car. Amazing.”

“I think she supplemented the back seat with a tent here and
there. Anyway, she had some interesting adventures on the road.”
A large oil tanker on the horizon made its way toward the
Melbourne docks.
“But what amazes me is how different you both are,” she said to
him.
“Maybe we’re just two sides to one personality. Everyone has a
place in the world, Sophie, even if we can’t always see it.”
“Well, you’re more tolerant than I would be, but I suppose that
is why I love you.”
* * *
After a day’s drive north from Sydney, they arrived in Byron Bay on
Tuesday, January 5, 1993. Io’s commune was in the hinterland, not
far from Nimbin, the counterculture capital of Australia. After an
hour’s drive into the hinterland, they passed through Nimbin and
then headed toward Tuntable Creek where they turned off the
main road onto a dirt road that cut through thick subtropical
rainforest. They drove for several minutes until they entered the
commune.
The house Io and her partner lived in was not a very humble
structure like most of the other wooden and mud-brick houses in
the commune. It was a large wood and glass structure made of
intersecting polygon shapes. These were constructed with
intersecting triangles, and it was not built in the common fashion of
a geodesic dome. The structure was more organic, with a sprawling,
rounded, and soft asymmetric form, like large droplets of water that
had partially merged into each other.
Io’s husband was an architect, and they had decided to drop out
of society after being in well-paid jobs in Sydney for over two
decades. Io had asked Allison to stay in their spare room.
The next morning, as Allison had looked up at the sky from her
bed, she noted the intersecting glass triangles and wondered if the
minds of people could form complex shapes and intersections like

this and whether collective consciousness had forms beyond the
limits of the senses.
Allison spent the day exploring the commune. There was
extensive virgin forest with several tracks passing through it. There
were also orchards and a large vegetable garden. Then there were
the animals: sheep, goats, and chickens. There were also several
bush turkeys wandering around the property.
At the end of the day, everyone usually gathered at Io’s house
for dinner. It had the largest dining area of all the houses on the
commune, so it was the default place for dinner every night. The
resident composer, Simion, was playing his latest piece on a classical
guitar, and his partner, Shelly, had been the cook that evening and
was bringing out several dishes. Everyone else was eating dinner
and talking as they sat at a large table. Children were playing in the
background.
“Where will you go next?” Gabriel said.
“North. I have no fixed plan. I’ll leave tomorrow,” Allison said.
“Please stay with us a bit longer,” Io said.
“No, I have to move on.”
“Please stay longer,” Io said.
“Hmm . . . well, okay. I could stay longer, I suppose.”
Simion finished his piece, and everyone clapped.
“Great,” Io said.
“And you must come and stay with us in Paris,” Aurélie said.
“Okay, I promise. I will go to Paris too.”
Allison smiled and turned to Io. “Are there any mechanics
nearby? I should probably get my handbrake fixed. And I could
smell gas in the car yesterday.”
“Yeah, I smelled that too.”
“You must have a leak somewhere,” Gabriel said.
* * *
Alone with the night, Allison had liked the meditation of watching
rolling white road lines emerge out of the darkness into the beam of

the headlights before disappearing beside the car, and the sound of
the heating fan rattling away. It competed with Joni Mitchell’s
album Blue.
She had left the commune on Friday, February 5, 1993, after a
month in Io’s spare room. She had spent the day in Nimbin waiting
for her car to be fixed by a mechanic. She was now having issues
with the clutch after having the handbrake fixed a month before.
She was driving toward the Queensland border, heading for a small
town called Murwillumbah. Once she was near the town, she
planned to pull off the road and sleep in the back seat for the night.
Then on the next morning, before dawn, she would climb Mount
Warning and watch the sun rise over the valleys and hills
surrounding the mountain, all forming part of the ancient caldera.
* * *
Allison broke from her past memories of her road trip in Australia.
She was inside her London apartment now on May 23, 1999. She
found herself cross-legged and staring out of her window at the
plane trees in Chalcot Square. Shidan came through the door to her
room.
“I’m going now. I’ll head back to my hotel and get my bags,”
Shidan said.
“Do you want company? I’ll come to the airport.”
“No, it’s okay. I’ll make my own way.”
“When will you come back to London?”
“I’m not sure. I’ll let you know when I have a clear plan.”
“Thanks for letting me tag along. Through Iran and all the
rest.”
“It was an absolute pleasure. That’s the best fun I’ve had in
years. And I am sorry. I put you in unnecessary danger. I should
have foreseen that. Sorry.”
“No. It was fun. I don’t regret a moment of it.”
Allison got up and embraced Shidan. “It was wonderful. Thank
you. When you get back, send my love to Hooman. I’m sure he will

love to hear more about our travels. And particularly all the places
that are meaningful to Bahá’ís.”
“I’ll let him know about everything. You know, he talks about
you a lot. I think he misses you.”
“Really?”
“Yep . . . okay, I’d better go.”
Shidan turned to go but stopped at the door. He turned back
and faced her.
“Do you like Hooman?”
“Yes, of course I do. He’s a very sweet person and—”
“Hooman likes you.”
“Yes, he’s a great person.”
“No . . . let me rephrase that. He loves you.”
“He what! Since when?” Her voice lowered. “Hooman said
that?”
“No, Hooman hasn’t said anything, really. I noted a few things
in conversation, that’s all. Nothing overt. Just wondering how you
were going in London and why you left New York so suddenly.”
“So what does that mean? He never mentions that in our
emails. It’s just friendly conversation, as always.”
“I’ve been reading the subtext in Hooman’s emotions. He’s
been careful to hide his feelings. But I know that he loves you,
absolutely. It’s up to you if you want to do anything about it. Maybe
he thinks that you think you are both not matched. That you would
not see him as the right person for you. It is true that you are both
quite different, at least superficially, but I don’t think that matters.”
“Right, yeah, I suppose. I haven’t thought about it to be
honest.”
“Well, you have something to think about now.”


The Paper Bird
O My brother! A pure heart is as a mirror; cleanse it with the burnish of
love and severance from all save God, that the true sun may shine therein
and the eternal morning dawn. Then wilt thou clearly see the meaning of
“Earth and heaven cannot contain Me; what can alone contain Me is the
heart of  him that believeth in Me.” 1 And thou wilt take up thy life in thy
hand and with infinite longing cast it before thy newly found Beloved.2
—Bahá’u’lláh, The Seven Valleys
Allison came out of a train station stairwell at Oxford Circus
intersection. A number 23 bus, an old Routemaster, stopped near
the stairwell, sitting behind a car. She looked up at the remnants of
dusk for a moment, then at the red bus that reflected orange and
gray clouds on its windows. She ran and jumped onto the rear
platform as the bus moved with a green signal. Her fist tightened
around a pole as both she and the bus swung into the intersection.
The bus continued down Regent Street.
Nine weeks had passed by since she had returned from her
travels in the Middle East. She was surprised to calculate that
almost seven months had elapsed since she and Hooman had first
met in New York. He was a beautiful person. She had to admit it.
She turned these things over in her mind. She had arranged to meet
Hooman at Piccadilly Circus this evening. He had business in the

Netherlands and had a day free to meet her in London before he
went back to New York.
A habit of catching alternating odd- and even-numbered buses
had progressed over the months that she had been in London. Her
memory rewound back to the last bus she had caught near Oxford
Circus intersection, and this was an odd-numbered bus; it was not
even as it should have been. She realized that she was now out of
sequence.
She climbed the cramped stairs to the top deck. The back seat
was the only empty seat on the bus, so she slid into it and shuffled
toward the window. She observed a Friday night swell: a bustle of
people and the noise of their conversations. She undid the buckle
on a tattered and slightly grubby canvas bag and opened it. She
stirred through its contents. Her bag was a dumping ground for
every significant moment in her life: movie tickets folded and bound
in a rubber band, many receipts with words and numbers scrawled
on them, and plentiful Post-it notes upon which dreams and
memories were drawn and theorized about.
A map, her symmetrical destiny map, came to the surface of all
the random objects tumbling in her bag. Amongst other things she
had drawn bus routes on the map. She had felt that all our destinies
were interlinked in a web of intricate balance and synergy, which
was an equilibrium between free will and the grace of God.
Unfolding the map, a large piece of A3 paper, she pushed her pencil
into a sharpener and twisted it a few times before scrawling a note
on the Regent Street route: At this intersection catch two even-
numbered buses in a row, then continue with the odd then even
pattern. That was her resolution to the conundrum of not catching
an even-numbered bus on this night. That would bring her back
into sequence and balance, but at some stops there was not a choice
between buses, so in such cases she would catch whatever number
was available.
This map also recorded shop signs and street names that
seemed significant. “Singlepoint” was in her destiny map. It was a
cell phone shop on Oxford Street where she had purchased a new

SIM card for her cell when she first arrived in London. She had
written a quote from the Hadith under the shop name: “Knowledge
is a single point, but the ignorant have multiplied it.”3 Shidan had
emailed her this quote prior to her leaving for the Middle East. At
the time the quote intrigued her. She took it to mean that the single
point was one reflection in the Eternal Mirror, and ultimately it was
God who was the single point of knowledge and, even further, the
oneness of all being, and she had elaborated on the oneness of
being in relation to the senses and had written:
All the senses converge at a single point: an axis of  the soul. This is an
association between the eye, tongue, ear, nose, and touch but also
transcendent above them. Beyond the duality and division of  the senses, the
soul exists on a plane of  oneness in a visual soundscape. The soul sees with
ears and hears with eyes until nothing exists except pure form.
The compulsion to record words and names and even numbers
from seemingly random sources in her travels around London had
come from her ideas about the symmetric convergence of the
names of people, places, and objects, like The Conference of  the Birds
incident late last year when Hooman had met Paul, Sophie, and
Alison Nightingale at the ice rink in Central Park. She loved the
symmetry of their names with her own brother and his girlfriend,
Paul and Sophie, and herself. And then there was the idea that
Bahá’u’lláh was the Nightingale of Paradise in the nighttime before
the dawn of the new era. Allison now knew that both the plain
appearance of the house of Bahá’u’lláh in Istanbul and the
nightingale in Kabul were metaphors for the veils of the physical
world that hid the true beauty of the Manifestations of God in this
world. And linked to that was the present time that also hid
humanity’s true potential, which must be unfathomably radiant and
beyond anything that anyone could ever understand or unravel
today; flowers would bloom in the future from the seeds that had
been planted earlier in history. Shoghi Effendi had called them
“seeds of undreamt-of potentialities.”4 She had stumbled upon this

quote when reading sections of God Passes By online in the previous
week at an internet café near Camden Town. And she now
wondered if different classes of names possessed different spiritual
potentialities.
There were the names of everyday physical objects that we
classed as relatively mundane. But Allison knew that underneath
this apparent ordinary surface was a mystical order with obscure
patterns and relationships that a certain strange logic could reveal.
Above this mundane class of names were the names of human
virtues, like truthfulness, compassion, generosity, detachment, and
courage; these were only a few amongst many.
These virtues fell within the realm of spiritual reality and were
underpinned by the Word of God for this age, which had been
revealed by Bahá’u’lláh. His teachings and spiritual reality were the
seeds, and a template laid down by God that would allow human
spirituality and virtues to spread and flourish and eventually
transform the generality of humankind over the course of history.
The source and power that underpinned these potentialities came
from God’s spiritual attributes, his names, which gave form to the
created worlds of God: the Ever-Forgiving, the Most
Compassionate, the Most Powerful, the All-Glorious, the Fashioner,
the Creator, the Almighty, the Omnipotent, and the Omnipresent.
Allison recalled her thought experiment about the life-story
depository at Times Square all those months before. The two
attributes of “Omnipotent” and “Omnipresent” were a significant
part of the life-story depository, and maybe it wasn’t just a thought
experiment but a reality in the worlds to come: a transcendent type
of social media with highly complex profiles of people and all their
interlocking destinies. Aspects of her symmetrical destiny map were
linked to her idea of a life-story depository, but she had found it
challenging to find how her life intersected with others because she
didn’t possess any form of omnipresence. And even though our
intertwined actions in this world were becoming clearer as
technology had developed, Allison’s need for information beyond
her finite awareness was still out of her reach, which had been her

conclusion when she had been sitting in the Starbucks coffee shop
on her second day in New York. It was only by linking all our
awarenesses together through technology and an emerging global
consciousness that humanity could achieve a human form of
Omnipotence and Omnipresence, thus mirroring, to a degree,
God’s names and spiritual attributes in this world.
Finally, she concluded that if she continued to collect names
and their patterns for her symmetrical destiny map, she might be
able to unravel the spiritual potentialities of this world and her place
within it to a limited degree. In fact, in an email Hooman had sent
her not long after she had returned from the Middle East, he had
called this world (the created world) the “Kingdom of Names,”
which meant that everything in this world had a name and without
which nothing could function; this demonstrated the power of
names and their potentialities within the structure of language and
within reality itself.
She folded the map. It went back in her bag, down deep below
the everyday items.
Regent Street’s shop-window displays slid past. She looked up
through the bus window to find the orange aspect of the sky was
gone. The light gray had been supplanted with darker charcoal in
the clouds and a dark blue backlight: a sky now unencumbered by
dusk. It began to reflect the beginning of the night.
She stared at the reflection of the bus interior with its people
and the colors of their clothes splashed around the top deck. The
dark glass presented a crisp image, and an unfamiliar face stared
back.
For the first time since some vaguely remembered time in
Australia, she had made an effort to look appealing. Acknowledging
this more-than-conscious effort made her nervous. She grimaced at
herself. Her hair fell straight about her shoulders; she looked at the
geometry of a fresh haircut. Her lips were a glistening red, which
was sympathetic to the bus’s own coat of red paint. On her eyelids
she wore a green shade of eye shadow: it was makeup that she
hardly ever wore or knew how to apply with much skill. Around her

eyes she had applied black eyeliner with almost Egyptian contours.
And she felt a certain indefinable ridiculousness surrounding this
culture of female adornment.
On the previous day, after her haircut, she had trawled through
several department stores. In Selfridges she had found a backless
yellow dress that expressed overtones of the sixties.
Cut off at the knees on the left side, the dress tapered farther
down on the right, and she was wearing brown sandals she had
found on Carnaby Street. The leather straps from the sandals
wound up her legs. Something about her clothing felt primal; it
could almost accompany a modern love dance but in parallel to
some collective African tradition.
While studying the alien face in the window, her mind drifted
back to the preceding month. She surveyed the strands of her
emotional transformation: the reasons for her bus ride toward Eros
and Hooman. The catalyst of her transformation began with a
stream of seemingly insignificant thoughts that were carried along
on the currents of daily consciousness. These thoughts revolved
around books; eventually they matured into something resembling
love.
On a day off work from the café restaurant, Canteen, she was
walking down Charing Cross Road. She stopped in front of a
bookshop that sold rare books. A book in the window display caught
her attention: Medieval Philosophy in Islam and Christianity. Hooman
would like this, she had thought, so with that innocuous beginning
she found a series of similar books on metaphysics and spirituality.
After a short time, she had posted him several titles. She had to have
them, and a strange imperative overtook her.
To: allisonbird1919@yahoo.com
From: hooman.hassidim@nightingaleshapiro.com
Date: June 19, 1999
Subject: Thanks for the books
Hey Allison,

Thanks for the latest book. The Alchemy of  Happiness has some
fascinating ideas, and of course it might have been a precursor, a
foundation stone, for Rumi’s work, whom I think might have been
influenced by the author later on in history.
On the topic of alchemy, I thought you might like this quote
from Bahá’u’lláh:
Is it within human power, O Hakim, to effect in the constituent elements of
any of  the minute and indivisible particles of  matter so complete a
transformation as to transmute it into purest gold? Perplexing and difficult
as this may appear, the still greater task of  converting satanic strength into
heavenly power is one that We have been empowered to accomplish. The
Force capable of  such a transformation transcendeth the potency of  the
Elixir itself. The Word of  God, alone, can claim the distinction of  being
endowed with the capacity required for so great and far-reaching a change.5

I expect this quote might help you with your own spiritual
investigations. The quote is referring to the spiritual gold, the virtues
in our character that are refined by leaving behind earthly
attachments. And it is the metal in alchemy associated with the sun.
The green lion is associated with vitriol or acid that corrodes all
metals except gold. So gold is symbolic of virtue, and vitriol is
symbolic of the acid that removes all other worldly attachments.
And, of course, I was thinking of those sculptures you found. The
green lion is a symbol for the world of Malakut (the angelic world),
which is green, swallowing the sun, which is a symbol for the world
of Jabarut (The world of command), which is yellow. Remember we
talked about the different color codes of the worlds. And there is
this quote from Bahá’u’lláh, which seems to be connected to the
world of Lahut and the five-world mystical system:
Know thou, moreover, that the Word of  God—exalted be His glory—is
higher and far superior to that which the senses can perceive, for it is
sanctified from any property or substance. It transcendeth the limitations of
known elements and is exalted above all the essential and recognized

substances. It became manifest without any syllable or sound and is none
but the Command of  God which pervadeth all created things.6
I think you may know that alchemy was eventually superseded
by chemistry and other branches of science. Today it seems a little
primitive, but I think some of the symbolism is still valid, and this
reflects the alchemy of the soul rather than elements and metals.
For example, that book on alchemy that you sent me, The Birds of
Transmutation, charts the five stages of spiritual development through
the five birds: crow, white swan, peacock, pelican, and Phoenix.
Nava says hello, but I’ll write a longer email soon, when I have
finished the current book you sent, and maybe we can chat further
over the phone sometime? Nava and I miss having you around, at
close hand, you know, to talk about various things. I don’t suppose
you feel the same as we do. When you were in New York, you
always seemed to me to be quite self-sufficient in many ways, kind
of detached emotionally, but always interested in and kind to us.
Well, anyway, thanks for your thoughts and ideas. The more we
communicate, the more I like your imagination.
Your spiritual brother,
Hoo
Hooman Hassidim
Public International Law,
Nightingale Shapiro,
656A Fifth Avenue, New York, NY 10103.
hooman.hassidim@nightingaleshapiro.com
www.nightingaleshapiro.com
Making a latte in the café where she worked one Sunday
morning, she had the thought that Hooman was a significant aspect
of her own personal alchemy of happiness. She thought about his
virtues and the radiance of his heart. He was kind, thoughtful, and

intelligent. These quiet thoughts called to her from the periphery of
her mind: the same subtle imperatives that had motivated her need
to buy him books, which had formed in the weeks before. And
amongst these thoughts was a simple realization: I miss him. He had
been right about physical presence because there was no substitute
for it. She wanted to read all the nuances of his body language.
Many things, precious and unspoken, had surfaced between
them when they were in New York. She had only imagined they
were incompatible based on those early times when she had made
some superficial and sketchy assessments of his character. And she
realized that it was only his outward appearance that was different.
Internally, they were quite similar.
“Go back to New York” was the thought that tugged at her. Was
London an “odd” city and New York “even,” she wondered? Had
she lost the correct symmetry of their destiny?
She had been hit too by his observation that she might be too
self-sufficient. His observation was barely veiled code that he
wanted her to reveal more of her private self to him. After work,
she sat in an internet café and wrote a reply.
To: hooman.hassidim@nightingaleshapiro.com
From: allisonbird1919@yahoo.com
Date: June 28, 1999
Subject: I keep a map
Hello Hoo,
I want to share with you something of my inner life. I have this
thing that I call “symmetrical destiny.” It’s based on our earlier
conversations on symmetry and asymmetry in names and actions.
Remember that conversation in MoMA? Anyway, I keep a map
where I try to achieve alternating symmetries across a range of
things in my life. To see if patterns arise when I choose to take
ordered paths over chance.
I see symmetry in everything. I realize this may seem a bit odd,
but I thought you might like to know. I am thinking, more and more

now, that there are some utterly deep secrets out there, beyond
material causes, and I want to know the invisible skeleton on which
creation is hung: its hidden patterns and pathways. I can’t be
content with the cliché of actions that qualify as normal or desired
in this life. But I think you know this about me. We had many chats
before I left New York, right? Thank you for those chats, by the way.
I realized that I never thanked you, and you are a dear friend
because you did not expect thanks. I wrote this poem a few weeks
back and thought you might like it.
“Passage”
In the night,
her naked body plunged silently into a mirror of  stars.
Their light a configured radiance.
Their love a matchless beauty.
In the opalescent day, when the ripples had found the water’s edge,
he could not tell that she had been that way.
Love, from your sister in mind and imagination,
Allison
P.S. Thunderbirds are go!
The last segment in the arc of her emotional transformation
came in the form of a square package from New York. It came
three days after her last email to Hooman. A notice came to her
apartment saying she had to go into the local post office near
Camden, but when she went to the depot, she found that the
package had been misdirected to Holburn instead.
Walking back from the Holburn Post Office, she went into the
Seven Dials intersection and stopped in the middle of the
intersection. She thought about the Seven Dials as seven types of
time and the convergence of seven types of destiny. She chose
Upper St Martins Lane and thought about Martin Place in Sydney

as she walked down the lane. At another intersection she stopped
and decided to open the package in a café near Covent Garden. On
her way she passed a restaurant she had not noticed before—
Simurgh. The name lodged in her head because she recognized it as
the Phoenix-like bird from The Conference of  the Birds. The spelling
was different from the book, but the reference was the same.
Although she had not read the book since New York, she had been
thinking of the different animals in alchemical symbolism that were
in the books she had sent to Hooman. A midafternoon sun-shower
began as the café came into view, and she ran to avoid the rain. The
package weighed her down, but finally she ran through the café
door.
Slightly damp, she sat at a table with a warm coffee in her hand
and stared at the package for a while. She initially tried to guess the
contents, but then, impatient, she began to shred the cardboard box
until she pulled a white wooden cube from the packing foam. She
could smell fresh paint and knew from this that the cube had been
created recently. On its top was a large, curved lens, and
immediately she understood what this was. Hooman must have
gone to some trouble to track it down. The sculpture was like those
from the exhibition she had seen almost seven months before in
Soho. He had remembered her fascination for these objects;
however, when she looked through the lens, she was surprised to
find a white bird with its wings outstretched and not the green lion
she had expected. The Persian text, in minute form and inscribed
all over the bird’s body, she assumed was from The Conference of  the
Birds. She wanted to see the script close-up, so she removed the lens
and reached in to see if she could remove the bird. The bird was
slotted into the base of the cube with a long pin, and it slid out as
she pulled it gently. She held it up to the light and spun it around by
rubbing the pin between her thumb and forefinger. She then put the
bird on the table and spun the cube around. There was a quote on
the side. She knew it could have only come from Hooman. He must
have asked the artist to inscribe the quote onto the cube. It read,
“The Phoenix of the realms above crieth out from the immortal

Branch: The glory of all greatness belongeth to God, the
Incomparable, the All-Compelling!”7
The Simurgh Restaurant came to mind immediately, and she
knew it was no coincidence that she had passed by it, and even the
fact that the package had been misdirected to Holburn so that she
had the opportunity to pass by the restaurant was perfect. Without
fate pushing her, she would have never seen it. She then realized
that she had passed through the Seven Dials intersection and
connected it immediately to the seven valleys in The Conference of  the
Birds. The seven valleys had been supplanted by the Seven Dials and
seven types of time with seven roads leading through it, which
equated to seven roads of destiny. She had passed down one road
that led her past the Simurgh Restaurant. She could hear the
Phoenix of the realms above calling her. She could hear it cry from
the immortal Branch.
She then thought about the book she had sent him, The Birds of
Transmutation, and the stages of the five birds: crow, white swan,
peacock, pelican, and Phoenix, realizing that in all the years she had
made origami birds it was the white swan that dominated any other
bird species; she was now the white swan passing into the peacock.
She would then need to transition through the other birds until she
finally came to the Phoenix, and this was symbolized by the
sculpture sitting on the table in front of her.
Touched by his gesture, she wrote, expressing her thanks. When
he replied, he passed over the fact in a cursory fashion, and she
observed that he did not realize how much this gift had meant to
her.
To: allisonbird1919@yahoo.com
From: hooman.hassidim@nightingaleshapiro.com
Date: July 2, 1999
Subject: Hello again
Hi again,

I knew you would like the bird. I found the artist after making
some inquiries at the gallery. He wasn’t making lions anymore, but I
didn’t think you would mind.
Oh, by the way, I may be in your area soon. I have to do some
work in the Netherlands and have the option to stop over in London
for a day. I’ll arrive on a Friday night and leave sometime in the
afternoon on Saturday. Maybe we could catch up? Would that be
okay? Would you like that?
I really hope that we can meet soon,
Hoo
Hooman Hassidim
Public International Law,
Nightingale Shapiro,
656A Fifth Avenue, New York, NY 10103.
hooman.hassidim@nightingaleshapiro.com
www.nightingaleshapiro.com
Allison sat at a computer in an internet café on Oxford Street,
suggesting, with restraint, that they could catch up before he was
due back in New York. “If it’s not too much trouble” was her casual
insert at the end of the email. After the email left she regretted the
casual tone in her email because there was a degree of suppressed
emotion in her and she wanted to be honest about this. She just did
not like those excessively romantic sentiments and the typical
clichéd remarks that people expressed when they liked someone.
In the afternoon, a few hours afterward, she went back to
Oxford Street and saw his reply. She had been thinking of ways to
make a second email a little more urgent, but now he was coming
anyway so it did not matter. She was really happy he was coming to
London to see her.
Staring past her reflection, she observed people on the sidewalk
walking down Regent Street. The number 23 bus became bogged

down with traffic near the Piccadilly Circus intersection. It moved,
crawling bit by bit, toward her destination. Allison watched the
slow-moving traffic ahead on the curve of the street as it
disappeared into Piccadilly Circus. Being late, and impatient to
meet Hooman, she moved down the stairway. She jumped off the
bus while it moved slowly on and walked the rest of the distance on
foot. Her hands were shaking slightly, and she felt a trickle of sweat
roll from her armpit and down her right side. At Piccadilly Circus
she searched the hundreds of people at the Eros statue on the
opposite side of the intersection. Hooman’s figure was
indistinguishable amongst the crowd.
* * *
Feeling quite relaxed, he stared up at the oscillating and flashing
advertising lights in Piccadilly Circus. The atmosphere was similar
to Times Square but on a smaller scale. He was standing in a crowd
of people near the Eros statue.
He had stopped in Amsterdam to see the house of Anne Frank,
then went on to the Hague, where he had a meeting with another
law firm and several meetings with policy committees linked with
European Union governance mechanisms. In the Hague he had
visited the Escher Museum before flying on to London. Several
woodcuts and drawings by Escher interested him and reminded him
of recent conversations with Allison, like Circle limit III 1959 or
Square Limit 1964. Her intellectual efforts were Escher-like: the
geometry of humanity and particularly consciousness. Hooman
compared it to a type of bounded infinity through pattern, like the
Mandelbrot Set with broad relationships within the symmetry of
minds and pushing the edge of the impossible. Her thought
experiments were related to time and space on one level but beyond
it in another way. He wondered how symmetrical destiny could
work. He found it all fascinating but partially incomprehensible.
And then the thought occurred that only in Malakut after we die
would we be able to see the proper symmetry that exists between

souls. Then we might be able to see how our thoughts and identity
align and flow into each other without the restriction and
boundaries of the physical world.
Before he could contemplate her ideas any further, a pair of
hands emerged from between his arms and wrapped around his
chest. He did not attempt to turn around. He knew the shape of her
hands.
“Are you happy to see me?” he said eventually.
“I am . . . I’m happy.” He turned around. She added, “You look
well.”
She immediately took his hand and led him away from Eros
and down Coventry Street. “We have to find a cab.”
“Where are we going?” She pulled his arm with some force.
“I’ve organized tickets for a Bach concert at the Barbican. I
remember you said once you liked Bach. Right? Oh, here’s a cab
coming. Wave it down, quick.”
The cab stopped. She opened the back door, and he got in. She
followed him.
In the cab she pulled down a folding seat and positioned herself
directly opposite him. Her hands were tucked under her legs. She
smiled. Hooman stared at the quiet figure before him. Nothing
seemed appropriate or worth uttering. The sounds and lights of
London outside the cab kept distracting him, but then, in a moment
of clarity, he absorbed her appearance properly.
“You’re beautiful,” he said, without his usual censure, and
paused for a moment, then continued. “Your dress. I’ve never seen
you wear something like this . . . the yellow—”
“It’s intense, isn’t it? I went shopping yesterday. And it’s
funny . . . the first time I dress formally, in a long while . . . and you
are now dressed utterly casual.” Allison smiled and added with a
wavering voice, “But it doesn’t matter, we have switched our usual
symmetry. Normally you are the one dressed formally, and I am the
one dressed casually.”
She had made an effort to dress, he thought, and it was out of
character for her.

“I almost forgot what you look like,” he said as he looked at her
face and noted her straight hair resting on her shoulders. The
dappled light moved around her body. He added, “And you know, I
thought the other day that I don’t have a single photo of you.
Nothing substantial. Nava has a few grainy shots of you guys when
you two were studying in Melbourne. You somehow managed to
stay out of all the group shots I took in New York. And the other
day, I saw an interesting bunch of photos you sent Nava. I think
they were of your travels around Australia: of the road and horizon,
the desert, and the sky. It reminded me of Western Australia. We
made some trips into the desert there when I was nine, just after we
came from Iran. The color of the earth there was so different from
Iran. In Australia the earth is so red, and in Iran it seems mostly
yellow.”
“Yeah, I made it to Western Australia toward the end of that
trip in 1993. And that was an interesting time in my life. A year on
the road . . . you know, we almost met in Western Australia.”
“We did? Oh god, yes . . . I remember now. You were going to
come up to Perth for Christmas, but Nava got an interview that
year, and we called it all off. I remember now. God, that’s right. It’s
strange how things unfold. I wonder how different our destiny
would have been had we met that year.”
“Actually, I have to say thanks for sending the sculpture. I was,
well, surprised is the right word, when it came. I know it was
probably ridiculously expensive. No one has ever given me anything
like it.”
“Everyone has missed you.” He paused and picked up her last
words. “Oh, the white box, yeah, right. Don’t worry about it. I’m
happy you liked it. It’s not a big deal.”
“It is definitely a big deal for me, Hooman. Thank you. And
you know the best part is I passed a restaurant called Simurgh just
before I opened it. Can you see the symmetry?”
“That’s interesting for sure. I don’t seem to attract it like you
do.”

“Yes, you do, Hooman. It’s there if you look for it. It’s just
behind you. Every time you turn, it moves behind you again. You
have to catch God out, with all his playful tricks.”
“I often thought God created chance as a shield to hide the
signs in creation that point to his essence,” Hooman said.
“Chance does have symmetry to it, absolutely, I agree . . . and
within the bounds of relativity, randomness can be shown not to
exist at all. We only need to penetrate it with determined effort and
some creative imagination to find a complex and precise order
beyond chance. And even if the universe is built on no more than
chance, then who rolled the dice? And if this is too much to
presume, then how did the dice roll themselves?”
“Yes . . . I suppose we call it chance because we don’t know all
the variables. It is chance to us, but to God it may not be.”
They got out of the cab in front of the Barbican Centre
entrance. Hooman looked up at the building that rose above them,
standing in stark relief against the night sky.
“Wow. It’s kind of ugly and beautiful in the same breath.”
“Yeah. That’s the right way to look at it. It’s called brutalist
architecture. It’s a concrete version of a termite mound, using the
square form.”
“Brutalist?”
“Yeah, it’s based on the principles of Le Corbusier.”
They walked through the entrance, and as soon as they walked
into the foyer, he looked up at the roof, and then his eyes panned
around the interior. It was made from many intersecting concrete
cubes.
They walked toward the concert hall entrance.
“The acoustics here are amazing,” she said as they walked into
the concert hall.
As they took their seats, he observed, when they were shuffling
past people, the space where the toe on her right foot should be.
Allison saw his discreet stare. “I was nine. My family was
staying in Cairns for the Christmas vacation. I jumped off a sandy
cliff at the beach. As I landed, my toe got wedged between rocks

and a section of broken glass from a bottle that was wedged into the
rocks. It came clean off at the joint. I think it was the angle . . . and
I twisted around as I fell. It was one of those odd accidents.”
“I noticed it at that picnic in Central Park, in the spring, but I
didn’t want to intrude, so I didn’t ask about it.”
“Why would you think that you’re intruding? We were close
enough then that you could have asked those things. I’ve been
making an effort to try and reveal my more personal thoughts to
you.”
“Yes, I know. I observed that more recently. Thank you. I’ve
been very interested in your activities and life here in London.”
“Good, I’m happy to hear that. Hey, can I keep your ticket?”
“Sure.” He gave it to her.
She took a pencil out of her bag and wrote their names on the
back of the two tickets, then read out the seating numbers, which
were Q 18 and 19. She then took out a wad of tickets from her bag
and added them to the collection after she had removed the rubber
band. Once the rubber band was around them again, she then
dropped them into her bag. The orchestra tuned their instruments.
He saw her in his imagination, jumping off a cliff somewhere,
on some beach in Cairns, Australia. The blood flowed from her foot
and washed away in the sand until it found a way into the ocean.
He wished he could have been there and somehow been threaded
into her childhood memories. He was in Perth at that point in her
life. He missed not being a friend at that earlier time. He was fifteen
then and Allison was nine. That is what he wished now but he
acknowledged the uselessness of having these impossible thoughts
and wondered why we always desire things that can never be. The
words for this sentiment came out automatically. “I wish I could
have been a friend when you were a child.” She smiled and turned
back to enjoy the concert proceedings. The orchestra started with
Bach’s Piano Concerto in F Minor.
The music played for two hours. They exchanged only a few
words. Toward the end his eyes were closed. He was trying to
concentrate on the music and felt her hand touch his arm.

“I want to show you something after this,” she said in a low
voice.
He opened his eyes to speak.
“Don’t ask. Just let me take you there. I promise you’ll like it,”
she said.
* * *
On the platform at Moorgate Station, the wind pressure from the
train pushed through the tunnel in advance; a warm, musty wind
increased until the train shot out of the tunnel and then slowed
rapidly to a stop. They got on. The carriage was relatively empty for
that time of night. They sat opposite each other and began talking.
“Did you like the concert?” she said.
“I did. It was more than beautiful. Thank you.”
“How was Amsterdam?”
“Wonderful. I’ve been there plenty of times before, though.”
“Cool.”
“I visited the house of Anne Frank for the first time.”
“How was it?”
“Interesting . . . Anne’s story is one where the human spirit
triumphs over the darkness of humanity. And that is despite the fact
that she eventually died at the hands of the Nazis.”
“Yes, I agree. . . . And I have always wondered why we don’t
learn the lessons of history. You would have thought that after the
genocide in Germany, Poland, and the rest of Europe we would
never repeat that, but only five years back we had the Rwandan
genocide.”
“Yes, I know. I did quite a bit of research into the Nuremberg
trials in my undergraduate law degree. And nearly all the Nazi
officials were completely unrepentant about the extermination of
the Jews. And as you may know, the United Nations was created
after World War II to prevent this very thing happening again. The
Holocaust was a sad indictment of humanity’s capacity for hatred.”

He was quiet for a moment, then said, “Oh, did I tell you I’ve
switched jobs.”
“Yeah, I noticed your new work email. Are you working for
Paul Nightingale now?”
“Yes, I am. And the great thing is I am cutting my hours back to
focus on writing. I have some ideas—half-formed—but I am not
totally sure what I want to write about yet. I mean I have a few
vague themes.”
“That doesn’t matter. At least you have made the space in your
life. The words will follow. When you’ve had a chance to think more
about what you want to write, I want to know all your thoughts. I’ve
been reading about law and its application in Plato’s utopian city of
Magnesia. It was a thought experiment for the most part, but I
remember you saying that you thought a utopian Bahá’í society
would come about in the future. Is that what you are going to write
about?” she said.
“Yes. Pretty much, and the seed of that future society is already
here in the form of the Bahá’í community. The broader utopia will
become a reality eventually. It’s the fruition of all past religions. The
community has achieved, to a limited degree, aspects of its
potential. And there is a link between the laws of Plato’s Magnesia
and the citizen’s acquisition of virtue, which leads to a utopian
reality. Bahá’u’lláh also wrote a book of laws, the Kitáb-i-Aqdas.
The law is the secret path and the way to acquire virtue for the
individual and the society. Spiritual law unlocks the gates of  the heart.”
“What about exploring some of the dystopia in current
society?”
“Yes, I suppose that might be the first part of the book—about
global poverty.”
“Good, I want to know everything.”
“I suppose that there are both positive and negative tendencies
ascending and descending in world culture at the moment. It’s hard
to know what will carry over into the future and what will die away.”
“Yes, true. In the West many of us live in a materialist utopia
and at the same time in a spiritual dystopia. But these things will

reverse in the future as the extremes of wealth and poverty and
other negative human traits fade into history. Bahá’u’lláh once said:
“‘Soon will the present-day order be rolled up and a new one spread out in
its stead.’” 8
“How long do you think it will be before the utopia you are
talking about will appear?” she asked.
“Oh, I think hundreds of years. A long time. It is hard to say
when it will come, but I have no doubt that it will come. There has
to be a critical mass within the Bahá’í community relative to the
wider community until Bahá’u’lláh’s teachings spread. And
humanity needs to reach a higher potential as well.”
“Mmm . . . interesting.”
They were quiet for a few minutes, and Allison thought about
the idea that all humanity lived in perceptual relativity when
judging if the society they lived in was ideal or not. Materialism in
some Western societies, such as America, had created a buffer
against experiencing many negative realities either within their
countries or in the developing world. On the surface, America and
other countries seemed utopian, but they harbored a level of
indifference to the suffering of others in relation to poverty. And this
had made them dystopian with a materialistic veneer of utopia. She
let these thoughts float through her mind. After a few minutes, she
became aware that she was drifting mentally, and Hooman was
waiting for her to come back to reality.
Allison continued, “I mean, I know that the common meaning
of ‘utopia’ is an unattainable future society with perfect ideals and
governance that are either unattainable or impractical. The word
‘utopia’ has been tarnished with many negative associations from
failed utopian visions from the past, which has cast it as an object of
derision with often very dismissive reactions toward any ideal of
future societies. Strangely, the Nazis were attempting to build what
they thought was a utopian society, and we know how bad that
turned out: one person’s utopia is another person’s dystopian

nightmare, primarily because inequality and hatred were built into
their utopia as well as the motive of power and control. There must
be a universal utopian existence for all humanity based around the
ideal of perfect equality. And hopefully, we can claw back the
negative associations of the term, recontextualize its meaning in the
present and the future, and realize utopia as a society of staggering
beauty and selfless potentialities.”
“Yes. I think you are right about that. I have always thought of
utopia as being a more positive word. Both utopia and dystopia
could be applied to current world culture, in addition to any future
society. Although, I think the dystopian aspect will fade eventually,”
Hooman said.
There was silence again. Then Allison began an entirely new
topic of conversation. “Do you know London well?” she said.
“Not really, no. I’ve visited London quite a few times, but I have
tended to stick to central London, and I was always on business, so I
never strayed much to take a good look at the place.”
Good, because I want this to be a surprise. So I won’t tell you
any more about where we are going.”
* * *
Fifteen minutes after arriving at Highgate Station, they were
weaving in and out of dark streets in the surrounding suburb. Just in
the last few minutes the houses had become statelier.
Crossing a highway, she pointed as they walked. “There . . . I’ve
found it.”
Allison led him into a forest along a narrow gravel path. The
path ran initially alongside a dark lake. The house lights on the far
side of the lake were reflected in the water, but the path soon
vanished entirely in the darkness of trees.
Walking in close to pitch-blackness, he could not see the outline
of her figure. He stopped. “Allison . . . I can’t see you.”
Her hand touched him on the shoulder. “I’m behind you. I just
had to stop and remind myself where to go. The path forks in a few

places, and it was a while ago that I came here with my roommate,
Jade.”
Beginning to adjust to the low light, his eyes made out the line
of the path and his dark feet moving on the path. After several
minutes in darkness, they came around a corner. The landscape
widened out, and they were in the open again. He stopped to
absorb a meadow, and through long grass his eyes traced the curve
of a broad hill.
She walked past him. “It’s beautiful here and almost better at
night than in the day,” she said.
Her figure grew smaller as she walked up the hill. An overlay of
something familiar played out in his mind, and it was related to the
place, the long grass, her dress, and even her hair. These familiar
impressions eventually assembled into a compelling order.
This was connected to the dream he had had on the first day
they had met. She was the girl in the yellow dress crossing Bryant
Park. He was dumbfounded. It was her. He looked at the ground
and the grass. He had seen a fragment of their future, which
manifested in this moment. He looked at her again as she walked
over the crest of the hill, and just before she had disappeared from
his sight, he took another impression of her hair. It had been longer
in New York, but now he saw the shape of the cut, the reduced
length, and the end squared off. She was that girl, and he wondered
about her crossing through the traffic so effortlessly on 42nd Street
with absolute synchronicity. This was her symmetrical destiny. This
was how she lived her life. This was her movement through the
world, and she was utterly beautiful to him. He started walking up
the hill.
As he reached the top of the path, the horizon of London
spread out below the other side of the hill. All the lights turned up
at the sky obscured the stars. People were sitting in the grass
watching the city. He found her near the path but farther along. She
was sitting away from the main gathering of people.
He sat down next to her and looked out at the panorama below.
“I knew you’d like it,” she said.

“It’s fantastic. Where is this? It’s huge.” He looked left, across a
dark valley of grass meadows and forest below. He gazed at lights
from the houses farther in the distance on the far side of the valley.
“This is Hampstead Heath.”
For several minutes they looked at the city in silence.
After the long silence, he said, “I had a dream about you. It was
on the same day that we first met in New York.”
“Really . . . that’s interesting.”
“Only I didn’t know it was you until tonight. Although at the
café, I did have a fleeting impression that I had heard your voice
before. There were faint harmonics in your voice.”
“Yes, I remember that. How do you know it was me, then?”
“Because of the yellow dress you are wearing.”
“Fascinating.”
“Yes, it is.”
“I wonder what it means.”
“I’m not fully sure yet what it means.”
She got up. “Let’s walk farther into the heath. Let’s be alone
together,” she said.
* * *
After several minutes following the path along the rim of a hill,
Allison eventually saw a series of dark hills and valleys lower down.
The lights of London vanished as they descended along another
narrower path that branched away from the main path. On a lower
hill they left this new path and slowly waded through knee-high
grass, approaching the edge of a forest.
Allison turned around to look at the view below them. She saw
darkness. The suburban lights had gone. “Here, let’s stop for a
while.”
The heath surrounded them completely now, like the matrix of
a dark womb. They were enveloped within a private world of
meadows with forest walls. Allison dropped her bag at her feet, then
lay down on the grass. She felt the grass push against her mostly

bare back. Hooman sat next to her. The stars were now less
obscured by the city lights.
“I wanted to talk to you about something . . . Shidan told me
something in London.”
He hesitated for a moment. “Shidan told me a few days ago,
when I told him I was going to meet up with you in London. I know
what you want to talk about,” he said.
“Shidan told me how you feel about me.”
“I’m sorry. I wish I had said something earlier. I was working up
to it, but just couldn’t find the right moment to mention it.”
Smiling, she sat up. “Well, I suppose it doesn’t really matter
now.” She hesitated once more, then said, “Because I think we both
have similar feelings for each other.”
“Really?” She could see he was stunned. He added, “We do?”
“Yes, I think so,” she said in a low, even voice. She lay back and
rested on her elbows and looked at the diffuse light in the meadow.
“Our relationship will be an interesting experiment for me,” she
added thoughtfully.
“An experiment?”
“I don’t think I've ever loved another person properly. Only
fractured pieces that didn’t quite make a whole.”
She lay back down again and looked at the sky.
She then patted the grass next to her. “Come . . . lie next to
me.”
He lay next to her, and she reached out and took his hand.
The grass swayed gently about her face. She imagined that, like
thin black blades clashing, the grass speared and perforated a thin
sheet of blue-black fabric floating just above their faces; she saw the
light of eons weeping through the myriad holes as the grass pricked
the night sky.
“Look, all those suns . . . and all that time from the past. The
loves of long ago have gone and faded,” she said.
* * *

Alison Nightingale had long contemplated the paper bird her father
had given her in the previous year, but it was an empty
contemplation as she only viewed its planes and folds—nothing
symbolic. As she sat at her desk, she turned the object over and
around between her thumb and forefinger. This was a white swan,
she concluded. She knew there were words among the folds, but
until now she’d had no curiosity for them. In one fold she noticed
the words “paper and ink heart.” The words appeared crisp in the
light coming through her window. She was now motivated to unfold
the bird back to a flat plane. Once the paper was flat on her desk,
she saw that the words “paper and ink heart” formed part of a
poem. Its meaning made only partial sense to her, but she liked the
pure sound and rhythm of the words in her mind.
Death turns my right palm to the sky,
we smile, as he turns my left palm to the earth.
In my right hand, an empty nest—a world.
In my left, another world, from which a broken eggshell falls.
A paper bird has flown.
Its story written and gone.
The loves of  long ago faded—unfolded in light and its paper and ink heart.
Creases remain, shapes, and white bone, the source of  paper,
Until even this is ground under foot into white dust, on a word road,
Where everything returns to its first form, absolute and complete, into
formless words on formless paper.
What then remains of  Death?
He too has flown.
Seeking his own death.
She wondered who had written the poem. As she had this
thought, she saw names on the paper near the bottom of the poem;
they were only just visible. When she held the paper up against the

morning light, they became clearer. She put the paper back on the
desk and rubbed one of the names with the broad side of her pencil
tip, and it was then that one of the names became fully legible.
She was another Allison except with a different spelling. Alison
concluded that the other Allison had been practicing her signature
on a sheet of paper above the sheet with the poem on it. The
signature she had revealed was large, and the letters looped and
curved on the page. Alison put the tip of her pencil into the groove
of one of the letters and continued tracing over the whole of the
other Allison’s name to make it even clearer.


The Symmetrical Destiny Map
Wherefore the lovers of  the countenance of  the Beloved have said, “O Thou
Whose Essence alone can lead to His Essence, and Who transcendeth all
likeness to His creatures.” 1 How can utter nothingness spur its charger in
the arena of  eternity, or a fleeting shadow reach to the everlasting sun? The
Friend addressed by the words “But for Thee” hath said, “We have failed
to know Thee”; and the Beloved alluded to by the words “or even closer” 2
hath said, “nor attained Thy presence.” 3
—Bahá’u’lláh, The Seven Valleys
On the morning of the following day, Hooman and Allison had
arranged to meet at Green Park Station on Piccadilly Road.
Coming out of the stairwell, Allison saw Hooman with his back to
her. He was standing on a gravel path near the edge of the park,
looking toward Buckingham Palace through an avenue of plane
trees. She noticed him wearing a slightly beaten retro leather jacket.
She walked toward him and embraced him from behind as she had
done on the previous night at the Eros statue.
“Good morning,” he said. He turned around to face her. “How
did you sleep?”
He passed her a coffee and waved a small paper bag at her.
“I slept well, thank you. What’s in the bag?”
“Croissants.”

“Oh good, I love croissants.” She looked up at the sky through
the branches and leaves of the plane trees. “It’s a beautiful day . . .
hey, great jacket, by the way,” she said.
“Thanks. You like it?”
“Yes, it’s the sort of thing I would normally wear.”
“I know. That’s why I got it. To remind me of you.”
She noticed the diagonal weave of leather strips on the side and
top pockets of the jacket. It reminded her of the diamond weave on
her watch face. She looked at her watch for a moment but did not
take the impression any further.
She then linked arms with Hooman. “Let’s walk,” she said.
“Okay, where to?”
“I don’t know. Let’s see where these paths take us.”
They began to walk down the avenue of plane trees toward the
palace. She took a few sips of her coffee.
“So, what are we going to do now, about our relationship?” he
asked.
“I’m not sure.”
“Do you want to come back to New York?”
“Well, I can fly back in the next few weeks.”
“What will you do about a visa?”
“I’m not sure about that either. I don’t have a career that fits the
visa criteria. So I won’t be able to get a work permit.”
“Yes, I know. I was thinking about it this morning. You’ll either
end up back in Australia or here in London. That’s why I was
thinking I could come here. It would be easy for me to find work in
London.”
“I know . . . but the thing is . . . I don’t want to stay here
anymore. It’s simple in a way. I love you . . . and your life is in New
York. So I’ll come back. And besides, I do miss Shidan and Nava.”
“Okay then. That part is solved.”
“And I can apply for a tourist visa. That will last for six months,
and I can get an extension for another six months if I need it, and
we’ll see how things between us pan out in that time.”

They eventually came to a fork in the path. She looked into the
distance at St. James Park beyond Buckingham Palace. She then
looked right, in the direction of Hyde Park.
“Let’s head down this path.”
And they began walking along another path toward Hyde Park.
They walked in silence for a few minutes. He put his paper bag and
coffee in one hand, and with his free hand he took her hand.
“You know you can stay with Shidan when you get back to New
York, if you want. He has a spare bedroom in his apartment that is
jammed with books. Once he clears that room out, I am sure he
would be happy to have you. And I can help financially too, since
you won’t be able to work on the visa,” he said.
“I would love to stay with Shidan. And Paul sends me money
from time to time, some of the profits from the restaurant
businesses. So between the two of you, I should be okay. Besides, I
don’t need much money to live on.”
As they came to the end of Green Park, she observed a large
intersection and Hyde Park on the other side. They stopped and
watched buses and cars pass by for a while. She took another sip of
her coffee.
Eventually she pointed at a stairwell. “Over there. Let’s
continue to the other side of the road,” she said.
They descended the stairs into an underground tunnel, a
walkway leading to Hyde Park, which passed under the intersection.
Halfway through the tunnel Allison noticed a young homeless girl
sleeping in an arrangement of cardboard boxes. Her bare feet,
protruding out the end of the boxes, were covered in grime and
dirt. Her hair was disheveled. Allison stopped when she came to the
girl and crouched down.
She placed her hand on the girl’s shoulder. “Are you hungry?”
The girl opened her eyes but did not say anything. Allison looked up
at Hooman. “Can you please give me one of the croissants?” she
said.
Hooman bent down. He opened the paper bag and passed one
of the croissants to the girl.

The girl sat up. “Thanks,” she said and began to eat.
Allison passed the girl her cup of coffee. “I hope you don’t mind
drinking from a used cup. I haven’t had much of it.”
“No, that’s fine,” the girl said, and she gulped the coffee down
in a hurry.
Allison and Hooman stood up again. “Bye,” Allison said.
“Thanks,” the girl said.
They continued through the tunnel and came out of a stairwell
into one corner of Hyde Park. They entered the park through one
of the neoclassical arches.
“God, I hate the powerlessness I feel when I see that kind of
poverty,” Allison said.
After a while, they walked through a large circular garden with
many flowers and shrubs of diverse colors. Allison stopped at a
lavender bush and rubbed a flower between her thumb and
forefinger. She put her hand to her nose and smelled the fragrance
floating in the air, then put her forefinger under Hooman’s nose.
“Nice,” he said.
Beyond the garden they came to the Serpentine Lake, where
they continued walking until they came to a bench. She sat down.
He passed her his coffee and then took out the remaining croissant.
He broke it into pieces. Walking to the edge of the water, he began
to throw pieces into the lake. A group of birds, ducks, and black
water birds with orange beaks bobbed in the water and began to
congregate around him. He also threw some of the croissant onto
the path, where a crowd of pigeons began to gather.
“Hey, Hooman, come sit down.”
He walked over to the bench and sat down. Some of the birds
followed him, but they soon dissipated, as he had nothing left to
feed them.
Allison faced him as she sipped the coffee and pulled her legs
into her chest. She took one of his hands. “I have a good feeling
about us,” she said.
“Yeah, me too.”

“Do you think Nava and the others will be okay with us? It
might seem a bit random.”
“Random? For Nava, I don’t think so.” Hooman smiled.
“I had a dream we were married, you know. We were in New
York, Upstate somewhere. And there was this tall grass, a meadow,
like last night, and everyone we know was there in a great circle, as
well as people we don’t know. What was amazing to me was that we
weren’t in the middle of it. We were an equal part of the circle.
When I woke up, I had the distinct feeling that I was married to
everyone in the circle. Strange, huh? This was a couple of months
ago when I was in Pakistan. You know I like circles.”
Allison put her coffee down and jumped up from the seat and
put her hands out.
“Come, let’s go.”
Hooman stood up and took her hands in his. “Okay. Where do
you want to go?”
“I don’t know. Let’s just wander.” She pointed at the Serpentine
Bridge in the distance. “Let’s cross over there.”
He waved at the birds. “Bye-bye.”
She picked up the coffee, and they continued along the edge of
the Serpentine toward the bridge.
After walking over the bridge and crossing the open lawn area,
they came to Speakers’ Corner. They stopped to listen to people
with their various causes for a few minutes, then went on to Oxford
Street, where they passed a variety of shops that Allison had not
seen before. Eventually they came to Selfridges. They stopped in
front of a window display. One of the mannequins was wearing the
same dress that Allison had worn on the previous night.
She turned to Hooman. “What do you think your dream about
my yellow dress means?”
“I’m not totally sure. I just think that you were meant to be in
my life from the beginning.”
“Yes, I think so too,” she said, smiling.

“I wanted to ask you more about your symmetrical destiny map.
What is it? What does it mean? I mean you mentioned it in an
email, but I want to know more.”
“Well, my yellow dress is a good example of the symmetry and
asymmetry that I look for to add to my map. There is symmetry
between your dream back in New York and my life in London, and
the dress that as an object has its own distinct destiny.”
“I know. How is it even possible that I should dream about this
exact dress seven months before you bought it.” Hooman shook his
head. “Amazing.”
“It is kind of amazing when you think about it. And the dress
might not have even existed seven months ago; it might have only
existed in a designer’s head or not at all. Interesting, really, how life
works and how everything converges, like interlocking eddies,
swirling into and away from each other with precise ineffable
relationships, and on the surface life seems ordinary and
coincidental.”
“Yes. I think you’re right, absolutely. I have often thought about
that, but I have never been able to penetrate that surface. Actually, I
don’t think many people are able to see beyond the ordinary.”
“This dress went from pure mental abstraction to concrete
reality. So, yesterday I saw the dress in this window display. Then I
went inside and counted the number of dresses on the rack, which
came to eighteen. So, including the one in the display, the number
comes to nineteen.
“If I were to tag that dress for future reference, I would call it
‘dress yellow nineteen.’ Then if I took the seventh dress on the rack,
I would tag it as ‘yellow seven Allison.’ And if I were omniscient, I
could know the names of all the women that bought that dress and
in what order from the first to the last. And then I might want to see
if there was symmetry in the lives of those women, either with
regard to their names, places of birth, or the streets they live on,
and there are many other kinds of symmetry, all of which are linked
in various ways, like words, numbers, shapes, colors, and all manner
of objects. And I would use symmetry and asymmetry to make

choices in my life that would otherwise be left to chance. And then I
would try to see an overarching pattern in all the choices I could
make and all the realities I could experience in the world around
me.”
“Okay, I think I understand what you mean now. So you are
making your destiny more conscious. I was thinking about it in the
Hague when I was at the Escher Museum. About Escher’s use of
interlocking geometry and patterns, which merge into each other.
And I was thinking that consciousness must have its own geometry,
a hidden geometry that may only be apparent after death. And that
maybe your symmetrical destiny map might uncover some of that
in this life, if life were a mystical cipher.”
“Absolutely.”
“Amazing . . . just amazing.”
She smiled and took his hand.
“Come . . . let’s keep walking.”
They walked on and left Selfridges behind.
“So, is it a pattern that you have written down? Like you said, ‘a
map’?”
“Yes and no. Some of it is written down on an A3 piece of
paper. Some of it is in various notebooks. Some of it is on my wall
as a concept map, and some of it is in my head.”
After a while, they came to the intersection of Oxford Street
and Regent Street. Allison stopped. “Okay, last night I caught the
number 23 bus, an odd-numbered bus, but today, or in the future
when I come to this stop, I need to catch two even-numbered buses
to complete the right symmetrical pattern. Even being ‘symmetrical’
and odd being ‘asymmetrical.’ You understand?”
“Okay, I understand. You are intensifying free will.”
“Hey, that is a great way to describe it. I’ll remember that.”
“So, shall we head to my hotel now? Do you want to come to
the airport to see me off?”
“Absolutely.”
They turned left onto Regent Street and walked up to a bus
stop.

After a few minutes, the number 12 bus came toward them, and
they jumped on the back of the bus and took seats next to a
window.
The bus passed by the shops that Allison had seen on the night
before, and she thought about the asymmetry of night and day and
how the geometry of space in the solar system and the universe in
general set up circular rhythms and patterns.
They passed through Piccadilly Circus, and the bus then turned
onto Haymarket Street, where they got off. They walked down
Orange Street toward St Martins Lane Hotel. Allison thought about
Shidan’s apartment in Brooklyn Heights. It was also on Orange
Street. She then thought about passing through Martin Place in
Sydney during her road trip in 1993.
They came to the hotel and walked through the lobby.
“Do you want to wait here? I’ll go get my suitcase.”
“Sure.”
Allison watched Hooman walk toward the elevator, then looked
around the lobby, which was a homage to minimalism. She saw a set
of brushed stainless-steel seats with red velvet cushions. Sitting in
front of the seats was a row of large gold-colored teeth that she
guessed were supposed to be tables. She walked over to the seats
and sat down.
She thought about his comment that consciousness might have
a specific geometry that would only be apparent after death, and
that maybe the brain was not a self-contained organ but was instead
a receiver of consciousness, like a wireless modem that received
invisible radio signals, but since the soul transcended space and time
these signals must be different from and far beyond the reality of
radio signals. Allison remembered the metaphor that Hooman had
used all those months before, that the body was a mirror, onto
which the soul reflected its reality.
So, the soul didn’t exist in the physical world, and it was neither
in, nor outside, the body. Actually, as Hooman had said at the ice
rink in Central Park, the whole physical world was only a
metaphoric expression of Malakut.

And the invisible geometry might transcend language, which
was only a partial carrier of its geometry, and have its own distinct,
divine programming language that also manifested its reality in the
mind.
And that there might be symmetrical geometric markers in the
world that stood for this mental geometry in the same way that a
metaphor carried the meaning of a reality or action to which it was
not literally applicable. She thought of the idea behind semiotics
and the abstraction of the world through words that had developed
from visual signs. There was an underlying structure in reality that
could be uncovered with language in the same way that
mathematics described the patterns and structure underlying the
universe. She also wondered if there was a divine, mystical, and
formless language.
She thought of architecture and the word “house” that
represented a finite location that housed the body. And the body
was the house of the soul and mind, a house within a house. If you
looked at the word “house” stripped of its concrete reality, it stood
for the identity of self and the projection of self within the physical
world. And if there was a world beyond death, then what did the
idea of “house” represent in a more abstract mental existence
where there was a more expansive notion of body and house?
She thought about the fact that this hotel was a large house with
a collection of transitory rooms and that one’s identity in such a
hotel was not defined as strongly as it would be in one’s own house.
We only passed through hotels, and so we did not allow our notion
of love and self to be associated so strongly with them. So, if we
were to think of a “home,” it could be a purely mental and spiritual
reality disassociated from the physical world. The two houses of
love between her and Hooman were now beginning to merge into
one house. He lived in her heart now, in her house in eternity, in a
way that he had never been before.
And one of those symmetrical markers was her yellow dress. It
represented their collective destiny in eternity. And the clothes were
a mask or veil of the body that was removed in the house and

associated with the intimacy of sex, of becoming naked before the
other person whom we loved. She would be removing the masks
and veils of the mind, becoming naked spiritually and merging her
identity with his, stripping bare the mind in the houses of eternity
and mapping her destiny beyond the world of naked bodies: the
transitory houses of our minds that only death could free.
After fifteen minutes, Hooman walked toward her with his
suitcase trailing behind him. He smiled and took her hand as she
stood up. “I called a cab from my room. It should be out front.”
They left the lobby and stepped onto St Martins Lane. They got
into the cab, which drove off and headed toward the airport.
* * *
At Heathrow Airport Hooman gathered his passport and ticket
from the check-in counter and thanked the lady serving him.
Hooman turned toward Allison. “I’ll call you every day, or every
few days at a minimum, okay?” he said.
“I think I’m going to miss you.”
“What do you mean by ‘think’? You’re going to miss me, okay?
Love is not some detached intellectual pursuit. It’s better if you
throw away any rules you know. Start again. Start at zero.” Then he
laughed and embraced her. “I know I’ll definitely miss you. And
none of this brave self-sufficiency, please, okay? There is no need for
it. We are beyond that now.”
“I promise. No self-sufficiency.” Water began to well up in her
eyes.
Hooman started walking toward the security area. With one
hand he pulled his suitcase along, and with the other he took
Allison’s hand. They came to the security barriers, and Hooman
turned and embraced her again and then kissed her on the cheek.
“I love you,” he said, then turned and began to line up to get
through security. Not until he was gone for some time did she allow
herself to cry fully.


The Book of the Dead
Indeed, the references that have been made to the degrees of  mystic
knowledge pertain to the knowledge of  the effulgences of  that Sun of  Truth
as it becometh reflected in various mirrors. And the effulgence of  that light is
present within the hearts, yet it is hidden beneath the veils of  selfish desires
and earthly attachments, even as a candle within a lantern of  iron, and
only when the cover is lifted doth the light of  the candle shine out.

In like manner, when thou dost strip the veils of  illusion from the face
of  thine heart, the lights of  Oneness will be made manifest.1
—Bahá’u’lláh, The Seven Valleys
On her last day in London, Allison passed through Hyde Park. She
was due to fly to New York on the next day. Late in the morning she
came to the spot near the lake where they had sat on the bench
under the plane trees a few weeks before. Now she lay under the
tree next to the bench, looking up through the layers of leaves to an
unfamiliar sky. For most of the time that she’d spent in London the
sky was its usual gray and overcast self. All these abnormally sunny
days were a strange bliss: the weather held some otherworldly magic
over everyone. Because of that, Hyde Park was full of people. Some
were walking and others sunbathing. She saw a woman close by
sitting on a tartan blanket reading a book.

Hooman had sorted out flying his parents over to America to
meet her. And she had found someone to take her room at the
church.
It was hard to fathom the change that the events of the past few
weeks would spell in her future with Hooman. All of it, no matter
how she looked at it, was amazing somehow, even if she did not
know what “amazing” or “friendship” or “love” was. All these old
words had a new shimmer.
The next few years would require adaptation and change. A
new place in her mind would have to open up to accept who she
might become. Marriage? She questioned the reality of her dream
of marriage in Upstate New York. And what exactly was this thing
called marriage? She was not sure that she knew absolutely, but it
would be interesting to discover its meaning with Hooman. She
threaded her thoughts through their recent conversations. He was
calling her most nights, and she tried to trace a design or purpose to
all this. When they talked, there was a new urgency in their life
together. Their collective reflection in the world was rapidly
changing from friend to partner. As she had thought before, their
houses in eternity were merging.
Her focus on the leaves above her resumed, and as it did, a leaf,
at the peak of the canopy, came floating toward her. It landed on
her stomach. Picking it up and sitting up, she examined the leaf,
which was young and fresh. A symbol perhaps of their new identity
together, and in the midst of this thought, her mind said to her
quite unreasonably, “Get up . . . leave.” Her inner voice was
commanding and compelling, so up she went. Her body, almost
without her full consent, had picked itself up, and her legs walked
automatically toward Kensington Road.
A red Routemaster slowed as she found the stop and put her
hand out to hail the bus. The number of the bus was even, as it
should be for this route. She sat down next to a window and relaxed
as she watched the grand Kensington houses pass by; the bus
headed towards Knightsbridge. She passed Rutland Gate where the
Bahá’í Centre was based. She had attended two devotional meetings

there in the last month, and after the last meeting, she had
wandered into the Bahá’í bookshop at the center. She bought the
book ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in London, which chronicled his travels in the city.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá had stayed in London in 1911 and had walked around
Hyde Park on one particular day. She had bought the book about
him because she had been reciting prayers written by him in the
nineteenth century and the early part of the twentieth century and
was curious about his life.
At Knightsbridge Station she took the descending escalator. As
she stepped off it, a train pulled into the platform. After several
stops, she eventually came to Leicester Square, where she changed
to the Northern line, which would put her on track to Camden
Town Station. Eventually she came to Warren Street Station, where
she looked up at an advertisement offering a Spanish vacation. She
read the advertisement: “Go back to the real Spain.”
But the words “go back” were all her mind registered. She
looked at the words again. “Go back.”
The words began to feel like a threat, and she felt rattled as she
realized what it meant. Fearful and panicked, she got off the train
and changed platforms. After three minutes, she took a train going
back in the opposite direction.
On the train she sat next to a man reading a book on Italian
modernist architecture. The page that was open was a photo of a
high-rise apartment building, and it seemed interesting, but why?
The image pressed into her memory. Even though a part of her
wanted to look away, another part of her would not allow it.
The Tottenham Court Road stop arrived. Framed by the train
window, a perfume advertisement beckoned her, but it was less
threatening now and almost playful: “Here is the real fragrance.”
But only the word “here” jumped out of the advertisement at
her. Understanding now, she got up and left quickly; she felt less
manipulated now, and she drifted up the escalators to the surface.
She thought about the line in the prayer she had read in
Afghanistan: “unto the essence of the fragrance of Thy beauty,
which Thou wilt manifest, cause me to return.”2

As she came out of the stairwell, she observed the Tottenham
Court Road and Oxford Street intersection and a colorful blur of
people: shoppers, tourists, and Londoners of all shapes and sizes.
They were compelled by a multitude of unseen goals as they
crisscrossed each other. Although she was acutely aware of this
collective purpose, her own purpose seemed more in the dark than
ever.
In a shop-front window the news played out silently on a
multitude of TV sets. She watched, only half interested, until she
became aware of a background picture in the news program.
Behind the news presenter was the exact image of the building she
had just seen, only seven minutes before, in the book on modernist
architecture.
At first this event seemed only an odd coincidence. Its
significance only asserted itself when amateur footage focused on
the building began to play in full; a light plane in Italy had crashed
into the side of the building in a freak accident. This is connected,
she thought.
The news item changed to a fun-run. The word “run” came out
at her with purpose, and at that precise moment a man brushed
past her. He was running and weaving in and out of the milling
people at the intersection before he disappeared in the reflection of
the shop-front window. She turned around, but he was gone. Facing
a newsstand attendant, she read the newspaper headline board next
to him. The headline shot out at her, from which she deduced that a
cabinet member was about to be dropped from his position in the
Labour Party. At the exact moment she read the word “dropped,”
the newsstand attendant dropped his cup of coffee. It slipped from
his hand and landed on his boot. He swore and stepped back to
survey the spill.
She could hardly take in the immediacy of these events and in
such quick succession too. Both shocked and expecting more, she
stood fixed as she waited for something further to happen. Three
minutes passed, and nothing seemed obviously strange or out of
place. Streams of people passed by in the normal way. Relaxing a

little, and figuring that this strangeness was now over, she wandered
aimlessly across the intersection. She was floating along on a weird
high. She walked along New Oxford Street, then turned left and
walked on a little way down Bloomsbury Street until she stopped
and looked right. She walked into a side street without a fragment
of a notion of her direction. Two minutes later, after a slow
meander, she stopped at the black iron gates in front of the British
Museum and looked up at the sky. A cloud passed in front of the
sun for a moment. As she passed through the gates, the clouds
moved on, and for one full minute she stood and felt the warmth of
the day on her uplifted face. Relaxing a little more, she was ready
for her next new experience. The light and shadows falling on the
neoclassical facade at the entrance invited her into the museum.
She passed through the Ionic columns and into the Great
Court: a large square space. In its center was a circular reading
room, and looking up, she noticed the diamond lattice structure of
glass in the roof, which was backlit with an intense blue sky; she
observed that the sun was at the midpoint in its arc. A memory of
the Frenchman in the gallery in Soho flashed through her mind. His
eyes were the same blue hue. She remembered the diagonal weave
on the pockets of Hooman’s jacket. She looked down at her watch
for a few moments; it had a diamond lattice pattern as well, but
with a green backing color rather than the blue above her.
Wandering up the grand staircase, winding around the reading
room, she found herself in the Egyptian funerary section near the
top of the staircase.
The first caption she saw read: “Osiris—Judge of the Dead;
God of the afterlife, Otherworld, or unseen place.”
The weighing of the heart was explained.
Before a soul went onto the section of  afterlife it deserved to inhabit, it was
asked if  it had acted in a good way while on earth; its heart or deeds were
then weighed on the scales of  Maat (truth and justice). If  these deeds were
determined to be good and truthful, its evolution in the world beyond would
be assured.3

She realized that this was the same as the life review, which was
a universal feature of people’s near-death experiences regardless of
their religion or even if they had no religion at all.
She walked toward the elaborate coffins. The intricate designs
on each coffin leaped out at her. On some lids she saw a human
figure with outspread wings as the soul symbolically took flight and
moved to a higher plane. The caption next to the coffin read: “The
Egyptians believed that birds were able to travel between this world
and the afterlife.” This thought moved her in a subtle way.
She continued to read: “The hieroglyph for the personality (Ba:
a part of the soul) is a bird with a human head, and it is believed
that this is where the idea for wings on the human figures on many
of these coffins came from.”
And how long had this idea of an afterlife been around? Maybe
it did not matter. It may just be one of those intractable realities that
just existed regardless of a person’s belief in them. Some truths
were changeless from one culture to another but may have shifted so
much through time that people might think these were different
realities unique to their own culture when in fact they were the same
truth in the guise of different names and forms. She thought further
about these differences and remembered her reflection in the
colored baubles on the Christmas tree at Rockefeller Plaza. The
baubles were a new metaphor for all the different religions. All these
were the same reflection yet perceived in difference through color.
This created a plurality and multiplicity of truth in religious identity,
which reflected the limitations and relativities of the age in which
each was born.
She noticed that one square-shaped coffin had hieroglyphs on
its side. The information caption explained that The Book of  the Dead
was often used on coffins to help the dead pass into the Otherworld.
From one of the funerary texts, forming a part of The Book of  Gates,
she read a small snippet about the soul passing through a gate and
uttering a password to the keeper of the gate.

As she walked on, another caption came into view. She wedged
herself amongst a group of schoolchildren and a teacher who were
reading the caption: “Egyptians believed that this life was only a
brief prelude to the afterlife. It was considered to be like a small
antechamber inside the Otherworld.”4
The physical world, the world of Nasut, was totally
encompassed by Malakut, the angelic realm, and it was ultimately
an emanation of Malakut. Allison thought about the energy and
spiritual animation of the kingdoms of the physical world: mineral,
vegetable, animal, and human. She contemplated the worlds higher
up; maybe they were layered in a similar way with a cascading
emanation cast down through the hierarchy of worlds.
So maybe the afterlife was the real life and this life only a
limited temporal reflection of it, which was cast in change and
impermanence: a cyclical wheel of birth and death ever turning
over a transient and ephemeral world of beauty and decay. The
world beyond might be a world of endless and changeless beauty
but hidden in this world behind distortions and earthly conditions.
It must have been hidden intentionally too, by God, behind
thousands of veils of light. She remembered the snippet from the
Qur’án that Shidan had read to her in Turkey. The life to come was
the mansion that abideth. Allison felt convinced now that the same
afterlife existed for everyone; however, the different realities or
worlds in the afterlife that a soul went to were relative to the good
and bad actions it had undertaken in this life. The next caption
confirmed what happened to a soul after the weighing of the heart
ceremony:
After the heart is weighed and found worthy, it joins Osiris. Merging with
him, the deceased soul is both God and eternity, therefore God is eternal, and
His servant partakes of  the attributes of  the Deity and lives forever with
him. From The Book of Gates, we learn that in the Dynastic Period a
belief  was prevalent that those who lived according to Maat, i.e.,
uprightness and integrity (truth and justice), would receive a good reward
because they had done these things. The texts in these books state that the

beatified live forever in the kingdom of  Osiris and feed daily upon the
heavenly wheat of  righteousness that springs from the body of  Osiris, which
is eternal; he is righteousness itself, and they are righteous, and they live by
eating the body of  their God daily. . . . If, however, the soul is found to be
unworthy, it is thrown into the lake of  fire.5
Allison could not shake off the similarity of this concept with
that found in Christianity. The analogy of the righteous wheat of
Osiris, which sprung from his body as truth, translated directly to
Christ: “I am the living bread which came down from heaven: if
any man eat of this bread, he shall live forever: and the bread that I
will give is my flesh, which I will give for the life of the world.”6
It made sense that the Otherworld was a world of justice, and
deeds determined one’s position in it and one’s closeness to God.
Reading further, the text stated:
Life as a blessed soul was not wholly guaranteed. The deceased would have
to negotiate its way through a series of  seven or more gates in the Tuat (the
Otherworld) both to find the Kingdom of  Osiris and move within it. The
Tuat was divided by a river on which the Boat of  Millions of  Years, or the
Boat of  Eternity, would pass as it carried the dead to each division, or
place, in the Tuat. Osiris was the Mariner guiding this boat; it was at his
behest that the dead could journey with him. But before they could pass into
each division they would have to pass a gate protected by a wall of  fire.
Each gate had its Watchman, in the form of  a serpent, and its Herald. In
The Book of Gates, the soul is directed to utter the name of  the gate
and, to its keeper, secret words of  power. Prayers or incantations were also
required to open each gate and pass into a different region of  heaven. But of
utmost importance are good deeds, as they determine the state of  the heart
and allow the soul to progress onwards.7
Allison was reminded of the fact that The Conference of  the Birds
stated that there were seven valleys for the birds to traverse, and that
The Book of  the Dead put the number of gates at seven too. Hooman
had also said that through prayer there was a mingling of stations or

states of being. But what really caught her attention was the fact
that Osiris and Bahá’u’lláh referred to themselves as Mariners on
the Boat of Eternity, or the Crimson Ark as Shidan had said in Iran.
They rode on the Seas of Light. The deceased and the living
traveled in the boat with them.
Looking into another glass case, a large wooden sarcophagus
was painted with a ladder; the deceased was mounting the ladder.
These gates, or regions in heaven, could also be interpreted as
ladder rungs, denoting division, hierarchy, and mode of travel
between earth and heaven. In the Old Testament the story of
Jacob’s Ladder described Jacob seeing a ladder connecting earth
and heaven. Again, all these traditions were talking about the same
reality.
Wandering near the exit door, she was about to leave when
another caption forcefully impressed itself on her: “Temu. The
evening form of Ra: the Great Hidden God.”
Egyptian scripture states that at one time death did not exist. This was
before the Great Hidden God Temu created all the other Gods, angels, and
humans. Temu was considered to be the father of  Osiris. And from a
collection and compilation of  certain very old hieroglyphs, we can deduce
with tolerable certainty that the Egyptian religion was monotheistic; it
descended into polytheism only later and after a long period of  time. Temu
is described in the following terms in an ancient prayer: one and alone,
without a second. He existed in the beginning when nothing else was. Father
of  beginnings, eternal, infinite, and everlasting. Hidden one. No man
knoweth his form or can search out his likeness; he is hidden to gods and
men and is a mystery to his creatures; his name is a mystery and is hidden.
He is truth; he created but was not created. He made his own form and
body. He himself  is existence; he neither increaseth or diminisheth. When he
speaketh, what resulteth therefrom endureth forever.8
The forceful and direct nature of the words hit her in an
epiphany. It was what Hooman meant when he said that no one has
known God. Not even the gods knew him fully; neither Osiris nor

Christ nor any other Manifestation of God that had come through
history knew him in his hidden form. Only the hidden essence
could show the way to the hidden essence. All they could do was
reflect the light of God, of Temu, and she recalled the few lines in
the prayer she had said in Afghanistan. God was the most manifest
of the manifest and the most hidden of the hidden. The
unfathomable world of Hahut shimmered through time.
She left the room down a small staircase in awe and wonder.
On the first floor the Grand Egyptian Hall enveloped her. The hall
was a large open space in the museum flooded with natural light.
Whole temples had been moved here from the Nile and
reassembled. She walked past one of these temples, then between
two rows of seated stone gods. As she walked between them, they
stared ahead, facing each other off with expressions halfway
between a benevolent smile and vacant emptiness. They were lost in
some far-off horizon and gazing into eternity.
Entering the Great Court again, she looked up at the sky. In her
distraction, she tripped over a three-wheeled child’s stroller. She fell
flat on her face. Turning over slowly, and propped by her elbows,
she smiled at the woman and then her child.
“I’m sorry, I didn’t see you there,” Allison said.
“Are you okay? You hit the floor pretty hard.”
“Yeah. I think I’m okay.”
The child in the stroller was laughing with delight from all the
commotion, and his voice seemed to her more resonant somehow.
She then heard a faint bell-like sound riding on top of the laughter,
and it began stretching out and then slowing down. The woman’s
smile also penetrated her. The blue of the sky above descended
toward her. The sky was richer and deeper, and it embraced her
body tightly in a way that was intangible.
These sensations manifested slowly at first but eventually began
to intensify and wash over her mind and body. She lost her way in
the woman’s smile, the child’s laughter, and the blue closing in; these
impressions penetrated the core of her being. This has always been

here, and this realization was sweet beyond reckoning. Why had she
not understood this? Why?
The woman knelt down and leaned over her. “Are you sure
you’re fine? You seem a little dazed,” the woman said.
“Yes. I’m fine,” she said slowly. “It’s so beautiful.”
Allison saw through the diamond lattice in the roof to the sky
and sun above them, and the air seemed alive with a beauty
unknown to her as she breathed it in. She lay down, and the
coolness in the ochre marble floor pushed its fingers into her back.
Stretching out her arms at right angles to her body, she lay her
palms on the floor as she continued to look straight through the
glass roof. She was strung to a cross and revealing that beauty and
the transfiguration of eternity in the physical world.
The woman’s hair waved slowly above her face; these strands
were ropes from the sky descending toward her. They lifted her
higher. The woman grinned at the odd behavior of this stranger on
the floor. Allison watched the woman look up at the roof to find the
source of her glassy stare.
“I don’t understand. What do you see?” the woman asked.
“We can stay here forever.”
“Stay where?”
“It never had a beginning or end.”
Allison began to cry and then laugh in joyful ecstasy, and a
strange wonderment overtook her. She thought about Mona. She
had laughed and cried before her execution. The child’s bell voice
joined in her laughing, and she remembered the words of the
gallery owner in Soho: “Everyone must traverse eternity.”
She whispered to herself: “Everyone must traverse eternity.
Everyone must traverse eternity. Everyone must traverse eternity.”
People in the museum walked past them unconcerned. The
three were trapped in an unseen bubble. Ra was above them,
hemmed by blue, and the Boat of Millions of Years surrounded
them all. And nothing could eclipse its splendor, but only a few
could perceive its truth. The whole culture that had worshipped Ra

was now gone. All had died and faded into history. Only the sun
remained, stripped of Ra.
“Everyone is already dead,” she said.
The words resonated sweetly in her mind after she had said
them. That was clear, and she remembered what Christ had said:
“Let the dead bury their dead.”9 Our soul was only born, in the
proper sense, when we recognized the station and reality of the
Manifestation of God for the age in which we lived. Then and only
then would we be truly alive as death faded into immortality and we
became free from the boundary and confinement of the physical
world. And there were two kinds of death and birth, which
overlapped in our lives: the spiritual and the physical.
We chose to see God or not, and that was the essence of free
will and our configured destiny. Her mind rewound to her thoughts
on death at the goth party, which seemed like it had happened only
moments ago. And it seemed strange that we couldn’t see God
when he was as manifest as the sun. He was Ra shining on gate and
wall without a veil, and the intensity of his shining had hidden him,
but God had come to the town of the blind. He was a lonely old
man with no one to love him or recognize his beauty, and he was
replete with disappointed hopes. All those loves of long ago had
faded. For a moment she was lying in the grass and staring at the
stars above Hampstead Heath. She thought of Hooman’s love for
her.
Allison looked at the woman’s smile, and it was not a plastic
smile like the one expressed by the female flight attendant on her
first day in New York. Allison saw through the woman before her to
a transcendent reality. And she was beautiful beyond comparison to
any earthly reality: supramundane.
The woman was now perturbed by Allison’s strange behavior
and stood up. “Goodbye. I have to go,” she said as she disappeared
with the child through the columns at the entrance of the museum.
A moment later, and broken by the woman’s departure, Allison
came back to herself quickly. The invisible light, the light of being,
she saw suddenly turned down in her mind like a dimmer light, and

she got up, hardly able to feel the weight of her body, which was
tingling.
“Boy . . . that was bizarre,” she whispered, and she was herself
again.
Allison walked back to the train station on the intersection of
Tottenham Court Road and Oxford Street. On the train Allison
looked at every face. The veil between the two worlds became
permeable again for a few brief moments. She felt an echo of her
experience in the museum. Some people looked away,
uncomfortable with her stare, but she could not help it, and she had
to look at their eyes. She was compelled to look for something or
somebody else. She floated around London aimlessly for a few
hours trying to focus her mind and stopped in her favorite café in
Covent Garden for a while. The white bird sculpture that Hooman
had given her came to her mind. The Phoenix was rising from the
ashes of this dull, dreary world. It was flying high above this world
of cardboard and paper people. They were burning: a conflagration
of innocence and ignorance.
Not until the end of the day did she finally return to reality
completely.
In her apartment she pulled her red hiking pack from under the
bed. Pulling clothes out of drawers, she packed them away. She
then looked under furniture for stray items. There wasn’t much to
pack anyway, and the only object she cared about was the cube with
its bird trapped inside. And we were all trapped in our own way, she
thought. New York waited, and she was ready for it. On the wall
next to her bed, she began to pull down a complex arrangement of
Post-it notes; the arrangement was a concept map exploring her
theory of symmetrical destiny. She piled them up to be stowed
somewhere in her hiking pack and was about to pull the last few
from the wall when the phone rang upstairs.
“The phone!” Jade shouted down the stairwell. “I think it’s for
you. The number coming up . . . it’s not local,” Jade said.
Allison ran up to the living room, expecting Hooman, but it was
Nava whose bright voice greeted her.

“Hello.”
“My god. Finally. I’ve been calling all week. Where have you
been?” Nava said.
“It’s great to hear your voice.”
“Of course it is. I can’t believe it! Is it true what Hooman is
telling me? He was keeping it secret for a while. I had to drag it out
of him. I can tell you, I was as mad as hell when he did finally tell
me.”
“Yes, it is. What do you think?”
“I think it’s fantastic.”
“You don’t think we’re unsuitable?”
“No way. But I got the absolute shock of my life. You have been
off my radar. When did you realize you liked him? Or even loved
him?”
“We were always friends. But that deepened, and I am not sure
why, but my mind has been moving toward him for a while now. I
wasn’t really aware of it until I came back from my trip to the
Middle East. I think I saw his love and kindness. Is Hooman there?”
“No, he’s at work. Listen, I’ll see you at the airport tomorrow.
Okay, well, I’ve gotta go, we can talk about it all tomorrow. I want
to hear everything tomorrow. And I mean everything. Unbelievable.
Allison, I’m completely blown away. All right, I’m going . . . bloody
hell, Allison.” Nava hung up.
Placing the telephone receiver on its holder, she felt tired. Going
back downstairs, she pulled the last few Post-it notes off the wall
and lay on the bed to read them. “Friends are strange people,” was
the last scrap of paper that she read, which seemed all too
appropriate. Jade had said this recently after a long conversation
with an old friend. Not just friends were strange, she thought.
Actually, everything was strange, but we justified it. She reviewed
the events of the day, which were also strange. She had seen the
advertisements on the London Underground that she had been
compelled to follow, and that had led her inexorably to the child
and the woman in the Great Court. With that last thought she
closed her eyes for what she thought would be a few short minutes.

She still had to finish packing, but her eyes would not open until the
next day.
In a dream Allison found herself in a meadow of luminous and
semi-translucent flowers and knee-high grass. In the sky were
charcoal and silver clouds, and beyond the clouds was a resonant
blue. But the colors and their relationships diverged away from
those on Earth, being more akin to layers in a watercolor painting,
bleeding into each other. In the distance was an expansive city of
light, with forms like vertically orientated shards of crystal floating
above the ground. There were also other strange organic shapes
moving around and merging into each other like liquid
translucence. She walked through the meadow toward the city with
her heart overflowing with ecstasy and joy. Her palms brushed the
tips of the grass. The feeling in her hands was exquisite, both
painful and pleasurable. At the other end of the meadow, she saw a
pinpoint of light appear. It morphed into a human form and walked
toward her. As this person approached, she saw that it was a young
woman. Her body was emitting a light so intense that it was hard to
look at her. The meadow also intensified its light, and the light
flowed in waves through the grass. Eventually the woman
approached Allison and embraced her. The woman then stepped
back, and the light from her body and the meadow subsided slightly.
Allison was fascinated by the appearance of her body, which was
like translucent, light-filled glass. It still had a low and rhythmic light
that flashed and throbbed periodically like a strobe light. And the
surface and interior of her body looked like many stacked and
layered semi-transparent circuit boards with millions of pinpoints of
differently colored lights moving around on each circuit. Her body
was a miniature city with incredible internal complexity. There were
also unifying geometrical patterns apparent on each circuit board,
like a triangle, a square, and a circle, as well as abstract organic
three-dimensional shapes.
The woman took Allison’s hands and kissed her on the cheek.
“My name is Mona. I am Shidan’s sister. I’m here to tell you a little
about the world to come: the world of images and forms,” she said.

“This is so beautiful. This place. And you . . . I am utterly
dumbfounded. I don’t have words to describe this place,” Allison
said.
“Yes, this is an intermediate world. It stands between the
physical world and the spiritual worlds above it. We call it the
shadow, or duplicate, of Nasut. And these duplicates are layered like
a cake and eventually meld into Malakut in the proper sense. It is
hard to describe the real relationship between the two worlds
because everything is Malakut, really. And what you see is my light
body.”
“My god, this is amazing. This is not a dream, is it? I feel like I
am immersed in a higher world. Like I am fully awake in my
dream.”
“What you say is true. The first thing I want to express is that
you have been slowly passing into the spiritual worlds for the last
few years. Hooman already suggested that this process was in play
when he spoke to you in MoMA. Your thoughts and mind have
been slowly synchronized with souls already in the world to come.
You have only been partially aware of this. For the most part it has
happened in the background of your consciousness, behind what we
call the countless veils of light. You may have noticed the structure
of your mind has been changing, and this will continue for the rest
of your life. You have three and a half years left to live before you
die and merge with us in the absolute sense. We are waiting with
joyous expectation for you to join us.
“Also, there are different levels of consciousness that you need
to know about. The first is the individual soul separate from other
souls with thoughts and identity encapsulated. The other is the
collective of souls where thoughts and identity can be shared,
transferred, and synchronized. This is one form of symmetry
between souls, of unity and oneness, in the absolute worlds. On this
level the dewdrop of the soul is cast with longing into the eternal
ocean, and who can say if the drop exists after this.
“So, if a soul merges into Malakut before it dies in the physical
world, the nature of its free will changes, and its choices in life flow

into the needs of other souls. It lives in perfect symmetry with God’s
will as expressed in the physical world, and the higher worlds are
then reflected into the physical world. This is a reflection of your
idea of the symmetrical destiny map.”
She remembered a quote from the Qur’án that Hooman had
sent her in an email: “Nothing can befall us but what God hath
destined for us.”10
Mona continued, “Every choice a person makes is linked to
every other soul and can change their future destiny. One choice
here changes the choices of another. This is where the identity and
minds of souls are so fused into each other, and the integration is so
complete, that were one choice out of place the whole geometric
structure would fall. It is like the structure of harmony and melody
in music where the notes and phrases are absolutely unified. When
you were younger, you were in Io’s house, and you thought about
the unity of minds, forming complex shapes and intersections in the
structure of consciousness. It is exactly as you had thought. But the
structure is so complex and beautiful that no earthly shape can do it
justice. It is exalted beyond what the senses can perceive.”
“Wow, that is amazing. I am dumbfounded. This is beyond my
wildest dreams.”
“You should also know that souls here are grouped in various
ways and exist on different levels. The first is by name, then by
color, and then by three-dimensional shape, but these shapes and
forms are exalted beyond earthly forms. People who read the Word
of God only understand its significance relative to their world or
spiritual state. The Word transcends earthly languages. Those lower
languages lack the subtlety and beauty to describe these higher
realms. There are many other groupings, but I won’t go into that
now. Souls advance not just as individuals, but also as groups, all
linked symmetrically in a delicate interplay of interdependence.
This reality is like the interdependent systems that we see in nature,
which are a web of balance and spiritual integration.”
Mona smiled and continued, “For the sake of familiarity, I am
in a human form. But you should know that the soul can take on

many forms in thousands of different bodies with thousands of
transmutations. In our language we call them skins, but for your
sake I’ll call them bodies. One is the light body, which I exist in now
in conjunction with the glass-thread body. They can be used
separately or combined and overlaid one on the other. The main
body we use much of the time is the glass-thread body, with all the
other souls represented as singular threads, or circuits, showing their
linear and lateral connections to other souls. You can touch a thread
and see the history of a soul. If you want, you can contact them. It
is the spiritual version of the internet on Earth.”
Mona moved her light-filled arm toward Allison. “Here, look at
my arm. I want to show you something. See, I have a light tattoo on
my arm; it is an extension of the thread body. Can you see the
colors and shapes of flowers scrolling about my arm? If I pass my
hand over the yellow color of the tattoo, you will see many yellow
threads. These are the yellow group, and amongst these is a single
thread. That is the other Mona’s eternal timeline, Mona
Mahmudnizhad. And there are many other Monas, and we are all
connected. You will also notice that the tattoo is continually
changing, expanding, and moving about my arm, and there are
various points of light moving along each circuit. This reflects the
dynamic process of movement and ascension in the spiritual
worlds.”
Mona moved her arm back to her body. “And as for worlds like
the Earth, we call them ‘environments.’ But they transcend the
earthly worlds. And nothing decays like Earth. Time here is also
very different to Earth. Everything here is changeless and eternal; it
only has the appearance of change. In the physical reality we can
only really imagine these worlds through metaphor and poetic
image. These worlds are so unspeakably glorious that words cannot
express their true reality. The words ‘eternity,’ ‘absolute beauty,’ and
‘transcendence’ are completely useless and lost on this plane.”
Allison was speechless and in awe for a while. “Wow! I had no
idea of this form of reality,” she enthused and then asked, “So the

virtues and intellectual qualities that we acquire on Earth will see us
through eternity?”
“Yes, that is true. Good deeds done in the mortal world of
Nasut, which are metaphoric symbols, have their counterparts in
Malakut. Their true relevance is obscured by earthly conditions.”
Mona paused briefly before continuing. “One other reality is
the relativity of hell and paradise and the proximity of God. To a
soul on a higher level of reality, the stages below are like hell. But
these lower conditions are paradise to another soul. Everything is
relative to a soul’s own level. We should be self-effacing to those
souls that are lower than our station, with no trace of superiority. To
those souls above us, we should have no envy and be the essence of
contentment with God’s will in that moment until we receive the
command to move higher. The most important thing is continual
motion toward God and fulfilling our innate spiritual and
intellectual capacity. We should always strive to progress toward
God.”
“So we should also be concerned with other souls’ spiritual
growth in our group and individually,” Allison said.
“Their progress is our progress. We wait until the last person
has gone before us into paradise before we progress into paradise
ourselves. That is the essence of selflessness. And you never know
whether the mind and heart of a soul in the depths of hell may hold
the key to your own progress. You can only truly love a person if
you are prepared to descend into hell for the sake of their progress,
but the paradox is that you take the higher worlds with you
wherever you travel so you don’t see the lower worlds as hell;
everything is dynamically interactive and transcendent.”
Part of Mona’s body seemed to open up, and more light
flooded out in a stream. “Here is a quote by Bahá’u’lláh that I want
you to contemplate:
“‘O My servants! Could ye apprehend with what wonders of  My
munificence and bounty I have willed to entrust your souls, ye would, of  a
truth, rid yourselves of  attachment to all created things, and would gain a

true knowledge of  your own selves—a knowledge which is the same as the
comprehension of  Mine own Being. Ye would find yourselves independent of
all else but Me, and would perceive, with your inner and outer eye, and as
manifest as the revelation of  My effulgent Name, the seas of  My loving-
kindness and bounty moving within you’11
“You are now a student in the hidden school beyond the veils of
the mortal world.” Mona then embraced her, and as she did, Allison
saw that light was now coming from her own body. The dream
ended in that moment. Her consciousness dissolved into the deeper
rhythms of sleep.
* * *
On the morning of the following day, the girls embarked on the
Northern line train at Camden Town and headed to the Tottenham
Court Road stop. They had slept in and were running late to get to
Heathrow Airport in time for Allison’s flight to New York. A few
minutes after they had left Camden Town Station, Allison pulled a
small notepad from her backpack and began to write down her
dream. Her notes ran to several pages, and she was writing so fast
that her handwriting looked like a scrawl of loops across the page.
Jade commented that her handwriting did not even look like
English.
The train arrived at their stop, and they disembarked. Allison
was weighed down with her red hiking pack, but she still moved as
fast as she could up the escalators. On the street they ran down
Charing Cross Road toward a bookshop.
Foyles Bookshop had a large section on Egypt, and there were
various funerary texts connected to or a part of The Book of  the Dead,
which was a loose collection of these texts, spells, and incantations,
with no absolute final form. Finally, The Book of  Gates caught her eye.
Flipping the book over, the back read: “The Book of  Gates refers to
different regions in the Egyptian afterlife, which were separated by
gates.” That was it. That was what she knew would provide

answers. This was the book referenced in the information captions
at the British Museum on the previous day. She remembered that a
soul came to a gate and uttered a secret password to the gatekeeper
of that particular gate to pass through. She wondered if these
worlds had some form of password security or cryptography and
whether only souls with the right mental and spiritual development
could access certain higher worlds.
She spoke to one of the staff about Osiris, the god of the
afterlife, and the woman recommended Osiris & the Egyptian
Resurrection, which were two volumes by Sir Wallis Budge. He had
translated The Book of  the Dead and had linked it to the cult and myth
of Osiris. She immediately saw the link to Christianity through the
idea of resurrection and asked the woman about this connection,
but the woman said that Egyptians did not believe in a physical
resurrection. They believed in the resurrection of the soul as it
moved into the next world after death, and the soul’s ultimate
destination being the Field of Reeds, paradise for Egyptians, where
they could eat the wheat of righteousness. The woman then
explained the main theme underlying The Book of  Gates, saying that
the dead were ferried along a river in the afterlife in the Boat of Ra,
the “evening boat,” which was controlled by the god of the afterlife,
Osiris, and the dead were left in the region of that world relative to
their degree of righteousness, which was based on their good and
bad deeds in this life. She also said that the gates could also be
interpreted as the secret portals of the Mansion of Osiris in the
Field of Reeds.
* * *
Allison and Jade came running into the airport building breathless.
The woman at the check-in counter issued Allison her boarding
pass. “Your plane leaves in nineteen minutes. You might miss it, but
you can try.”
At the security entrance Allison turned and hugged Jade. “Are
you going to come and visit me in New York?” Allison said.

“I’m not sure. Let me think about it.”
“Okay. It’s been really great getting to know you. I love you.”
Jade laughed. “You don’t love me. We haven’t known each other
that long.”
“It doesn’t matter.”
“Mmm, you’ve been all weird on me since yesterday. What’s
come over you?”
“Well, anyway, I think you’re a wonderful person.”
“Okay. Whatever you say. You’re a strange bird.” Jade laughed.
“And you had better go.”
“Yeah, okay, well, see you later.” Allison choked up. All this
crying was getting to her. Jade laughed again and patted her on the
shoulder. Allison rushed off. When she reached the security barriers
and the X-ray machines, she turned and saw Jade wave. The words
“strange bird” stuck in her head as she walked through the metal
detector.
After a run toward the gate, she made the plane just in time; the
aircraft door closed behind her. And the thought occurred that this
metal bird was a strange bird too, and a memory of her first day in
New York resurfaced. Invisible hands held the plane up. The
knowledge of flight had been hidden, like Temu, for millions of
years, yet always visible in the shape of bird’s wings. And the shape
and power of the plane had to conform rigidly to the laws of
physics to allow flight, and the spiritual laws were the same. The
closer we came to living by these laws, the more spiritual freedom
we attained, and she remembered something ‘Abdu’l-Bahá had said:
“As ye have faith so shall your powers and blessings be.”12 As she
took her seat, she thought about the different gates in the airport
being linked to the gates in the afterlife. The original means of
transport for Egyptians moving along the Nile was a boat, so it
seemed plausible that they should describe the means of transport
in the afterlife as a boat, but today the main form of transport for
long distances was the airplane.
Her mind was still as she looked out at London. The plane took
off. She looked down at the city as it appeared intermittently

through the clouds. She then opened Osiris & the Egyptian
Resurrection, and the first page she opened to was a description of the
nine parts of the soul in the Egyptian schema of immortality, eight
of which were resurrected after death.
Khat: The physical body.
Ka: The vital essence, or spirit of the body, which leaves the body
after death.
Ba: The personality, or center of the soul. It could travel between
earth and heaven.
Shuyet: The shadow self.
Akh (Khu, Ikhu): The transfigured intellect.
Sah: The spiritual body. Somehow related to the physical body.
Sechem: The life-force of the soul.
Ib: The heart, and the source of good and evil.
Ren: A person’s name. Related to the soul and important for the
evolution of the soul.
The Ba was of most interest to Allison, as it was the part of the
soul that could cross between the worlds: between earth and heaven.
She remembered the discussion that she had had with Hooman at
MoMA, and that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá had said that in prayer there was a
mingling of station, a mingling of condition. The Ba could travel
into those worlds before physical death. She then realized that the
plane she was traveling in was owned by British Airways, which if
you took only the first initials was BA, or Ba (for the Egyptian soul);
this was another connection in the meaning and symmetry of letters
for her symmetrical destiny map. And indeed, people inside planes
were like the soul inside the body.
She closed the book and stowed her new book in the flap on the
seat in front of her and leaned back.
She closed her eyes. She thought of New York and Hooman.


A Circle of Friends
These statements are made in the sphere of  that which is relative.
Otherwise, those souls who with but one step have traversed the world of  the
relative and the conditioned, and dwelt in the court of  independent
sovereignty, and pitched their tent in the realms of  absolute authority and
command, have burned away these relativities with a single spark, and
blotted out these words with a mere dewdrop.1
—Bahá’u’lláh, The Seven Valleys
Warm light filtered through the leaves of the cherry tree. Allison
was sitting on a chair in the light well, looking up at the sky above
the bookshop. Her legs were crossed, and her feet were resting on
the edge of the table. She had just finished reading a Bahá’í book
called Bahíyyih Khánum: The Greatest Holy Leaf. The book was sitting in
her lap, and her hands were resting on it. She was waiting for Nava
to come and pick her up after doing a shift at the bookshop. They
were planning to go to a nail salon in Manhattan.
Just under a year had elapsed, and the seasons had completed
another cycle, coming again to summer. During that time Allison
and Hooman’s love had deepened. They had decided to marry
before Allison’s visa options ran out. She closed her eyes and
became aware of the intensity of the warm light on her face and
hands.

After coming back to New York, Allison had moved into the
spare room in Shidan’s apartment in Brooklyn Heights. Although
Shidan had moved most of the books in the room back into his
shop, there were still piles of books in the room that she had picked
out to read during the year. She had also spent the year helping
Nikki in Shidan’s bookshop, the Sun Tongue. She would sometimes
manage the front desk or keep track of the stock. Occasionally, she
traveled with Shidan as he looked for manuscripts overseas and
within America. On one of his most recent trips, she had
accompanied him to Rome, where he had managed to convince the
Vatican Library to sell him an early Christian manuscript on behalf
of the Smithsonian Libraries. Allison felt privileged to be able to
read some of these rare books, those written in English. As many of
these early books were of a religious nature, she became acutely
aware of the continuity of all religious traditions, which in Bahá’í
terminology was called “progressive revelation.” She did not know
what the word “revelation” meant at the time, and when she looked
up its dictionary meaning, she liked it: “the divine or supernatural
disclosure to humans of something relating to human existence.”2
The word “progressive” referred to the continuous linear
unfoldment of God’s plan for humankind’s spiritual development
both collectively and individually through the different religions,
which appeared at different times in history and were therefore
relative to the time and conditions of the human society in which
they appeared. She wondered what her own personal unfoldment
was relative to this time. What was God’s specific plan for her?
And because the Bahá’í Faith was the latest installment of this
religious succession, she had spent a considerable amount of time
deepening herself in matters of Bahá’í metaphysics. Hooman had
begun inviting her to many of the New York and New Jersey Bahá’í
community events. Most of Hooman’s Bahá’í friends were in the
New Jersey community, so she had begun to meet and spend time
with them. Allison had also begun to attend the core Bahá’í
activities that the community was running, like devotional meetings
and study circles. Since she had been living in Brooklyn with Shidan

throughout that year, she had begun to attend the Ruhi Institute
courses running in that borough. She had almost finished the fourth
book, The Twin Manifestations. Because of all her interactions with
the community and her continued study of the Bahá’í writings, she
was now able to form a well-balanced view of the Bahá’í Faith, its
belief structure, and its two main goals of serving and unifying
humanity, which would eventually lead to the founding of the
Divine Civilization that Hooman had talked about so often.
She had begun to read various books by Bahá’u’lláh and
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, and her love for these two towering spiritual figures
deepened, and there was a subtle symmetry between her love for
Hooman, Bahá’u’lláh, and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. The book that had had
the most impact on her was a book by Bahá’u’lláh called the Kitáb-i-
Íqán (The Book of Certitude). She had read it several times and had
concluded that it could not have been written by a mere human
being and must have come from God, and from this she concluded
that Bahá’u’lláh was what he purported to be: a Manifestation of
God.
And she felt a profound sorrow and joy for Bahá’u’lláh and
‘Abdu’l-Bahá; she could see a tacit delicacy and strength as these
two emotions melded together: a joyous melancholy. They had
sacrificed themselves for the sake of humanity with an unparalleled
detachment that she knew she could never achieve in her own life.
And there was a profound silence and a resonating emptiness in her
mind that had never existed before, which flowed from her daily
prayers. Bahá’u’lláh’s words in her mind were exquisite, beautiful,
and full of poetic metaphor, and they evoked worlds on the edge of
her imagination.
She had also felt a strong connection to Bahá’u’lláh’s daughter,
Bahíyyih Khánum, the story of whom lay in her lap. Allison had
first heard of her from Hooman in the months before her travels to
Istanbul and had thought about her when she was standing in front
of Bahá’u’lláh’s house. There was not much available on the
internet about her life nor were there many comprehensive books
on her life, but Hooman had a very large collection of Bahá’í books,

and he had gone through them, bookmarking everything he knew
about her life. After reading these books, Allison began to piece
together a sketchy image of her life. Probably the most profound
insight into her status and rank within the Bahá’í community were
her own father’s words, which were the first words in the book she
had just finished reading. She decided to read these words again in
an effort to commit them to memory, so she opened the book to the
first section and read:
LET these exalted words be thy love-song on the tree of  Bahá, O thou most
holy and resplendent Leaf: “God, besides Whom is none other God, the
Lord of  this world and the next!” Verily, We have elevated thee to the rank
of  one of  the most distinguished among thy sex, and granted thee, in My
court, a station such as none other woman hath surpassed. Thus have We
preferred thee and raised thee above the rest, as a sign of  grace from Him
Who is the Lord of  the throne on high and earth below. We have created
thine eyes to behold the light of  My countenance, thine ears to hearken unto
the melody of  My words, thy body to pay homage before My throne. Do
thou render thanks unto God, thy Lord, the Lord of  all the world.

How high is the testimony of  the Sadratu’l-Muntahá for its leaf; how
exalted the witness of  the Tree of  Life unto its fruit! Through My
remembrance of  her a fragrance laden with the perfume of  musk hath been
diffused; well is it with him that hath inhaled it and exclaimed: “All praise
be to Thee, O God, my Lord the most glorious!” How sweet thy presence
before Me; how sweet to gaze upon thy face, to bestow upon thee My loving-
kindness, to favour thee with My tender care, to make mention of  thee in
this, My Tablet—a Tablet which I have ordained as a token of  My hidden
and manifest grace unto thee.3
She rested the book in her lap and let these words resonate in
her mind. Then she looked up at the cherry tree again. The
Sadratu’l-Muntahá was Arabic for “the tree beyond which there is
no passing,” or the boundary of the seventh heaven beyond which
creation could not pass; it was also a metaphor for the authority of
the Manifestation of God, or the authority of the various prophets

in all the religious traditions that had become manifest throughout
human history. Allison reached up and plucked a leaf from the
cherry tree. She smiled as she thought about Bahíyyih Khanum’s
rank as the Greatest Holy Leaf. She was a divine template for all
women who would come after her. She represented the ideal of
faithfulness and obedience to God. She put the leaf into the page
she had just read and closed the book.
She closed her eyes again, and her mind drifted back to the
previous week. One day Allison had been in the Sun Tongue
stacking books, and for some strange reason, which seemed random
at the time, she saw a grape quite clearly in her imagination. She
then had a strong desire to eat some grapes. At that exact moment
Shidan came through the front door of the shop and asked if
anyone was hungry. He had a bag of grapes swinging in his hand.
She realized that the thought of the grape was not random. It felt
like the symmetry of the universe, or a small fragment of it, had, in
that moment, flowed through her. Shidan passed her the grapes and
smiled. She was astounded, and then Nikki got up and went to put
some music on. The song was “Slave to the Rhythm” by Grace
Jones. And so, as the music started, she popped a grape into her
mouth, and it seemed to be of a richer nature and more succulent
than usual. The taste was extremely enduring, and she could not
define it as it was beyond any known experience. The grape was
destroyed on her tongue. The lyrics in the song were true; indeed,
the rhythm of time and place was inside her. Who had put the
desire to buy grapes into Shidan’s mind, and how had she seen a
fragment of the future? In time and eternity God could see the
future and past, and she had been immersed in eternity for a small
but exquisite moment.
Then she thought about the words “sun tongue,” and the name
had an underlying power to transcend and enhance the senses. An
image pushed through her mind. In her imagination her tongue was
shining with light, and she had a single mint leaf sitting on the tip
of her tongue. What was strange was that she could almost taste it
on her physical tongue. This image then changed to a chili pepper.

That, too, was in her mouth, almost burning, and it had a peculiar
strawberry afterglow. She compared it to Charlie and the Chocolate
Factory and saw a mental projection of the everlasting gobstopper
mixed with “lickable” wallpaper. As these sensations ceased and her
mouth returned to normality, she was flabbergasted and
dumbfounded. Nobody would ever believe her, even remotely.
Shidan and Nikki would think she was mad if she told them.
Allison had left the door to the rest of the bookshop slightly ajar
and heard Nava shout as she came through the front door of the
shop. Her voice increased in intensity as she came toward the light
well. Allison stood up as Nava came into the light well. They
hugged.
“Okay, are you ready to have your nails done?”
“Yeah, sure. It’s been a while since I had my nails done. Do you
think it is really necessary?”
“Oh, babe, you can’t get married with your nails like they are
now. You have to have them done, babe.”
“Okay . . . I suppose so.”
“I’m so excited. I am so, so excited.” Nava jogged on the spot
and smiled as she reached for the sky.
“Yeah, me too. I never actually thought I would ever marry
anyone.”
“So, remember that I’ll come early in the morning tomorrow,
and we’ll get your hair done in Brooklyn.”
“Okay, cool.”
“Okay, let’s go.”
They left the light well and walked into the main part of the
bookshop. As they walked out of the bookshop, Allison closed the
door behind them and locked it.
* * *
Allison stood in front of a mirror in the corridor of Shidan’s
apartment. It was mid-morning on the day of her marriage to
Hooman. She had decided not to wear the usual white wedding

gowns favored by most couples, nor would Hooman wear a black
suit; instead, she wore the yellow dress she had bought in London,
and Hooman was in his green herringbone suit. The colors of their
clothes were intentional, as they represented the green lion
swallowing the yellow sun from alchemical symbolism.
The mirror was the one she had bought when she first came to
New York, the magic mirror. Hooman stood behind her. He
embraced her from behind.
“You look amazing,” he said.
Allison became aware that she had been staring into space.
Hooman was smiling at her. She picked up his last words. “Thank
you,” she said, then added, “You look very dapper. Handsome, too,
I might add.”
“God, I feel fantastic. I don’t know what has come over me,” he
said.
“You look utterly amazing, Hooman.”
“Do I? I am not that good-looking, you know, but you are.
Beautiful, I mean. Utterly beautiful. I am very lucky to have you.”
Shidan walked through the front door into the corridor. “Are
you guys ready to go? The car is out the front.”
“Sure,” Hooman said.
She took one last look in the mirror and saw how Hooman saw
her for the first time. Maybe I am beautiful, she thought. She had
never really considered herself that way before.
In Hooman’s words was a euphoric realization: all her life she
had been a beautiful but ephemeral shadow, passing over the
horizon of life, over its unending deserts and their dunes, a shifting
form projected by the illimitable clouds moving above us, and from
that source, an immeasurable sun, with all the rain rolling down the
faces of those dunes, forever: the tears of creation come from all the
loves of long ago, in forgotten memories and lives, half-formed
selves trying to grasp at an unattainable future in this world; and in
each water bead on the sand a curved and unending world with a
reflection of the sky: our eye, with a tear unknown until now
forming and falling through and onto that shadow.

In this moment, she saw her true identity, her true poverty, her
pure desert road, diverging away from this fleeting and dissonant
world, into a place where nothing dies, where nothing changes, and
everything of impermanence fades, and nothing remains of regret
or desire, where that fractured sky resolves into staggeringly
beautiful shapes and heals the sky’s wounds, thereby merging all our
true desires, into that vast and unending road, vast and unending
suns and their moons overhead, looking down on us—worlds, each
with its own Sun. A sun of being, of sublimity, of absolute
perfection, and of a light unknown, but born from that tear: truth,
unimpeded by incomplete illusions, perceived in an unalterable
world that transcends the relativity of our understanding of
eternity: how could we ever truly know it?
Now she was complete, truly complete, reflecting her
shimmering Self, a transcended shadow, and with Hooman as her
mirror and consort through all the worlds of God. All those
unspeakable worlds in which we will never be separated, even by
death. How could the soul be touched by our desires for this world,
or touched by death? It would be impossible in any world, much less
this one. There is just us, she thought. Just us, just our humanity,
and nothing else will remain of our reflection in this world except
love itself.
* * *
Allison’s eyes moved between the road ahead and the forest framed
by her window. She and Hooman were sitting in the back seat. All
the foliage passed by as a light-filled blur and cast shadows and
shifting light patterns around the interior of Shidan’s car. Hooman
squeezed her hand, and she looked over at him, smiling.
The drive to Upstate New York took roughly an hour and a
half, but Allison and Hooman had said virtually nothing to each
other; she had felt an abiding sensation of love and nervousness rise
up in her body. Allison remembered how this forest had looked in
the fall of the previous year. The effect of dappled light was the

same, but the intense red-brown and yellow leaves had departed as
it was now summer. At the time she had driven around this part of
Upstate New York in a semi-random way. She had insisted to
Hooman that she wanted to find the location of their wedding
ceremony alone, so she had borrowed Shidan’s BMW, the same car
in which they were now traveling. She had spent a weekend driving
from town to town.
Shidan looked over his shoulder at Hooman. “Almost there. It
should be around the next bend.”
Allison remembered this bend too. As they came around the
bend, Allison saw the meadow in the distance. It was obscured by a
tall hedge, and the car soon slowed. The road veered away to the
left and ran between the forest and the hedge, but Shidan turned
right onto a dirt road. Eventually the hedge disappeared, and they
stopped next to a large meadow.
When Allison had driven down the dirt road, the hedge had
disappeared, and she knew this was the place. It was breathtaking
and as close to her dream of a perfect marriage place as she could
find. She had stopped the car and walked into the knee-high grass,
feeling a strange ecstasy and happiness that she was alone and that
God had guided her to this place.
Shidan stopped at the same spot that Allison had during fall,
and she was aware of the symmetry in time. They all got out and
walked into the meadow. What Allison saw immediately was that a
path had been cut into the meadow. Shidan had come up here a few
days before and had marked out a large circle where there were now
tables and seating. He had used a string line and wooden stakes
before using a weed eater and a lawn mower to cut out the shapes;
they were a little like crop circles with connecting paths.
There was a slight rise before them and another forest edge on
the other side of the meadow. They walked up the rise and came to
the spot where the ceremony would be held. The circle had been
measured to accommodate the exact number of guests. They stood
on the edge of the circle cut into the meadow.
“Oh, wow, Shidan, you did a great job.”

“Thanks. Is this what you wanted?”
“Yes, this is exactly what I wanted, only better.”
He turned. “I’ll go back to the car and get a few things. The
caterers should be here soon.”
Allison took Hooman’s hand and walked into the center of the
circle. She guessed that this was where she had stood in the fall, the
circle within the circle. After a few moments, she gently pressed his
hand, then let go of it, and they left the circle. Wading through the
grass, she stopped and lay down. He lay down next to her and then
took her hand again. They looked up at the sun together.
“So, this is it, then,” said Allison.
“Yep, this is it.”
“What are we doing together?”
“As you have said before, we are fulfilling our configured
destiny,” he said.
They turned their heads toward each other and smiled through
the veil of long grass.
* * *
All the wedding guests slowly moved from the assembly area, from
the larger circle into the smaller circle on the higher part of the
meadow. People began to stand on the outer rim of the circle, facing
inwards. Most of the guests were Hooman’s friends. The majority
were from either the New Jersey or the New York Bahá’í
community, and then there were a few of his friends from work and
his parents. Most of Allison’s friends from her Bahá’í study circle
had come too.
“Okay, can everyone please stand an even distance from each
other and then hold hands,” Shidan said.
He walked around the circle and spaced people. He then
walked back to his place next to Sara and became a part of the
circle. Allison and Hooman were standing opposite him on the
other side of the circle. Shidan smiled at her for a moment as he
waited for everyone to be quiet.

“Welcome, everyone, to the wedding of Allison and Hooman.
We are going to hear from Nava first, then Elliot and Paul will read
some Bahá’í prayers, followed by Allison, who will read a quotation
from the Bahá’í writings about the nature of love, and then Allison
and Hooman will exchange vows,” Shidan said. He put his hand on
Nava’s shoulder. She was standing next to him, and Allison saw her
look across at Hooman. She had tears in her eyes and waited for a
while to collect her thoughts.
Finally, she began, “I’m sorry, I am kind of lost for words. But I
am so so happy for you both. And I am happy that my brother never
heeded my advice about finding someone, so that Allison had time
to find him.”
There was a titter from the gathered circle.
“He waited for the right person. And you are now my sister,
Allison, and I love you so much. So very much.”
“Thank you, Nava. I love you too,” Allison said, and smiled.
“Okay, well, we will begin with prayers and readings, and then
Allison and Hooman will say the Bahá’í marriage vows.”
Elliot and Paul read several Bahá’í prayers in alternating order.
Allison was last and read a passage from ‘Abdu’l-Bahá:
“‘Know thou of  a certainty that Love is the secret of  God’s holy
Dispensation, the manifestation of  the All-Merciful, the fountain of
spiritual outpourings. Love is heaven’s kindly light, the Holy Spirit’s eternal
breath that vivifieth the human soul. Love is the cause of  God’s revelation
unto man, the vital bond inherent, in accordance with the divine creation, in
the realities of  things. Love is the one means that ensureth true felicity both
in this world and the next. Love is the light that guideth in darkness, the
living link that uniteth God with man, that assureth the progress of  every
illumined soul. Love is the most great law that ruleth this mighty and
heavenly cycle, the unique power that bindeth together the diverse elements of
this material world, the supreme magnetic force that directeth the movements
of  the spheres in the celestial realms. Love revealeth with unfailing and
limitless power the mysteries latent in the universe. Love is the spirit of  life
unto the adorned body of  mankind, the establisher of  true civilization in

this mortal world, and the shedder of  imperishable glory upon every high-
aiming race and nation.’” 4
Once Allison had finished reading the passage, she turned to
Hooman. She paused significantly, reflecting on the words she was
about to utter, and then said: “We will all, verily, abide by the Will
of God.”5
Hooman repeated this phrase, and they embraced. This was the
Bahá’í marriage vow. Everyone clapped, and the circle slowly broke
up. The guests returned to the large circle at the bottom of the hill,
and the caterers served lunch. Waiters walked through and around
the gathering handing out fruit juice and water.
Allison and Hooman walked over to a small portable table and
signed the marriage certificate.
After signing, Allison embraced Hooman again. “You have no
idea. I am so happy in this moment,” Allison said.
“I think I have some idea,” he said, smiling.
Hooman intimated to Allison with his eyes that Nava was
coming over to the table. Nava embraced Allison and lifted her off
the ground for a moment.
“This is so wonderful!” As Nava said this, tears began to well up
in her eyes. She brushed them away and smiled.
“It is, isn’t it?” Allison said. She smiled and put her hand on
Nava’s back.
“Yes . . . wonderful and amazing,” Nava said.
Hooman and Nava’s parents came over to convey their best
wishes. A few people lined up behind them and waited for their turn
to embrace the couple. Among them were Paul and Sophie, who
conveyed their happiness and then signed the marriage certificate as
witnesses.
Paul added his signature, which looped around the page. “I
never thought I would see you married. Never,” he said to Allison.
“Nor me,” added Sophie as she kissed Hooman’s cheek.

The sun overhead orbited gradually down in its arc toward the
horizon. It began to sink beneath that horizon and muted the colors
in the meadow.
Everyone returned to their cars and headed back to Manhattan
or to surrounding boroughs.
Nava drove Allison and Hooman back to New Jersey. Hooman
put his arm around her shoulder. They kissed. Allison was in a state
of unfathomable joy.
* * *
Walking through Shidan’s apartment, Allison gathered all her
things. She was trying to remember everything that she needed and
made a mental list so that she didn’t forget anything. She had
already packed her luggage a few days before for a honeymoon in
Australia but had thought of a few last-minute things to take. Once
she had everything, she descended the stairs and threw everything
into the back of Nava’s car and then got into the back seat and sat
next to Hooman. Hooman had already packed his suitcase and had
placed it in Nava’s trunk on the previous day.
Nava pulled away from the curb and drove off down Orange
Street and began to make her way to JFK Airport. Allison had
arranged a night at Jasper’s shack, just north of K’gari Island. From
there they would go to Cairns, which Allison had visited continually
throughout her childhood. Hooman had never visited Queensland,
so this trip was something new for him.
* * *
As they entered the airport, she looked briefly at the modernist
Terminal 5 as they passed by. She then leaned into Hooman and
took his hand. She placed his hand on her lap.
“Hooman, I have something I want to share with you.”
“Oh, yes. What’s that?”

“I think that I want to become a Bahá’í, you know, officially.
What do I have to do? I sign a card, don’t I?”
“First off, I just have to say that is the best news I have heard,
ever. I am truly happy for you. And officially, all you need to do is
sign a Bahá’í registration card. You sign it with the understanding
that you accept Bahá’u’lláh as the Manifestation of God for this
age, and that you will follow the spiritual precepts he has set down
in his various books and tablets, particularly the Kitáb-i-Aqdas.”
“I think I can do that. Anyway, I think I’ve been a Bahá’í for a
while now, you know, informally. I mean, I have been praying and
reading the Bahá’í writings for a while now.”
Hooman smiled. “That’s so wonderful. Absolutely wonderful,”
he said.
“I think I finally know who Bahá’u’lláh is now. I didn’t want to
become a Bahá’í until I understood his station fully, and the
implications of living a Bahá’í life.”
* * *
After spending the morning of Saturday, February 6, 1993, on the
peak of Mount Warning, Allison drove over the border of New
South Wales into Queensland. Her travels north from Melbourne
through New South Wales and into Queensland had slowly, but not
perfectly, acclimatized her to the increasing humidity and heat. The
first city she came to was the Gold Coast. She drove into its
southernmost suburb, Coolangatta. She stopped at a pawnbroker
and bought a secondhand boogie board and then drove on to Kirra
Beach, where she jumped into the surf and rode her board into the
shore several times. The sky was clear, and the waves were big and
forming into tubes. There were many surfers in the water around
her and others behind her who were closer to the headland, Point
Danger.
After half an hour, she drove on through the Gold Coast toward
Jasper’s shack. She passed through Brisbane on the way and

stopped at South Bank for a few hours, where she walked along the
Brisbane River, looking at the boats and ferries passing by.
She eventually left Brisbane and drove north past Hervey Bay.
She was lost for an hour, trying to find the sandy road that led to the
shack. Once she found the right road, she drove into a tea tree
clearing, where she parked and walked along a track that led to the
beach. The shack was nestled between tea trees at the back and
dunes at the front. The tea tree scrub lined the coast in both
directions. Before she unpacked the car, she went to the dune facing
the beach, looking at the ocean.
Bundaberg was near Jasper’s place, and Allison intended to
work on the farms near the town as a fruit picker. She stayed at the
shack for two months and each day made the commute into
Bundaberg and the surrounding farmland. Now that the wet season
was ending and summer was fading into fall, the heat had become
more tolerable on some days, and the nights, too, were beginning to
cool down.
In the last week she was on a lunch break at an avocado farm.
She was sitting amongst several other fruit pickers under an avocado
tree, mostly backpackers from outside Australia, when a Danish
couple she had seen a few days before approached her.
“Hello, we heard from other people that you are heading north
in a week.”
“Yes, I am.”
“Could we get a ride?”
“Sure, no problem. I was looking for someone to drive my car
from Townsville to Cairns. I want to travel up the coast on any boat
going up that way.”
“We would be happy to drive your car up to Cairns for you.”
“Great.”
“Do you want gas money?” the girl said.
“No, that’s fine. I was going that way anyway.”
“We’ll pay for gas from Townsville to Cairns.”
“Sure, okay. That sounds fine.”

After eight days, she packed up the car and picked up the
Danish couple in Bundaberg. After a day’s drive, arriving at six in
the evening, they came to Townsville.
The next day the couple drove on toward Cairns, and Allison
caught a ferry out to Magnetic Island, where she asked around if
anyone was sailing north. In Horseshoe Bay she found someone on
the beach with a boat willing to take her to all the yachts anchored
in the bay, and after talking to various people, she found a
particularly large yacht owned by an American couple. She
attempted to negotiate a price for taking her north to Cairns, but
the couple welcomed her aboard and said they were happy to give
her a lift north, gratis.


The Shack
And they swim in the sea of  the spirit, and soar in the holy atmosphere of
light. Then what existence have words, on such a plane, that “first” and
“last”, or other than these, should be mentioned or described? In this realm,
the first is the same as the last, and the last is the same as the first.

In thy soul, of  love build thou a fire

And burn all thoughts and words entire.1,2
—Bahá’u’lláh, The Seven Valleys
The wind beat at tufts of grass clinging to the sand on the dune in
front of the shack. It was Monday, July 17, 2000. Allison watched
them vibrate and flow as they were buffeted by the will of the air.
She could see the dunes through a large hole in the kitchen wall.
The shack’s walls mirrored the movement of grass with appropriate
whistling sounds; the wind pushed incessantly through its porous
skin. She heard the sea but could not see it. She saw only the blue,
unclouded sky that was visible through the kitchen window.
Hooman was sitting at the kitchen countertop on a stool. She was
sitting behind him next to a small table. She pushed her toast and
egg around her plate with her fork. It was a late breakfast or brunch
as indicated by the old manual wall clock faintly chiming eleven
times. They had slept in and were trying to adjust to the new time
zone.

The shack had been cobbled together by a local fisherman
many years before with whatever he had been able to collect from
the beach and the local garbage dump. The walls were made from
bits of driftwood, a few doors, and other scraps of wood. In a few
places there were a few olive oil tins, which had been flattened out
and tacked over holes in the walls. With only two rooms and a very
low roof, the place was small and cramped, but Allison loved its
humility.
An additional space had been built nearby: a single room with a
full glass front wall. The room was a short walk from the main
shack. Jasper called the space his “writing room,” and it was in this
space that he worked on his philosophy lectures and books during
semester breaks. The writing room had a better view of the sea and
the beach. From the shack, the view of the beach was blocked by
the dunes, where only the sea, sky, and birds were visible.
“Hooman.”
“Yes.”
“Do you think that we’ll ever really know what love is? In its
essence?”
“Well, I suppose its common meaning is attraction or affection
for a person. But that is a very basic idea of love. Some people love
material objects and others humanity and still others God and his
spiritual reality. I suppose that the important aspect of it is the
object of love. That defines the depth and impact of love in our
lives and the priority of the other objects we love, whether they are
material or spiritual.”
He paused and then continued, “Take the love between us.
That is a symbol of divine love. It can be sublimated for something
higher and more profound.”
“Yes, I agree, and there must be aspects of that higher love that
are hidden and mysterious.”
“Here, have some more egg.” Hooman leaned over and lifted
the frying pan from the stove.
“No, thanks, I’m full.”

She heard the cry of gulls for a moment, flying over the roof of
the shack.
Hooman paused for a moment, then said, “I think, as you said
when we first met, that love is a form of self-sacrifice. We give up a
part of ourselves for something greater. And I suppose when you
view it like that, it is not really a sacrifice in the ultimate sense,
because you gain something else higher in its place. Christ says:
‘Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for
his friends.’”3
She thought of Mona Mahmudnizhad in Iran, who had
sacrificed her life for her love of Bahá’u’lláh and his teachings for
humanity. She had placed the rope around her neck with utter joy.
She was a sun-bird flying in illimitable space, and Allison thought
that if Mona had renounced her belief in Bahá’u’lláh, it would have
been like renouncing her own soul, and that was the depth of her
faith.
Hooman continued, “And Saint Paul says, ‘If I have the gift of
prophecy and can fathom all mysteries and all knowledge, and if I
have a faith that can move mountains, but do not have love, I am
nothing.’4 And according to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá there are four kinds of
love. Some are knowable, and some are not knowable, but really all
are infinite, so we will never know every aspect of them.”
“Really, what are they?” she asked.
“Love from God to human, from human to God, from God to
God, and lastly from human to human.”
“Interesting. So, the love from God to God transcends what we
believe we know?”
“Yes, I think so. God seeks the beauty of his own image
reflected in creation. And part of that image is humanity.”
“Well, since we can’t ever know God’s essence, then I suppose
that makes sense.”
Hooman had brought with him a small book by Bahá’u’lláh.
The book was called The Hidden Words, and it was sitting on the
table near her. “Have a look in that book. I have put a bookmark on

the page I like,” he said, placing the last egg on his plate. He
adjusted his balance on the stool and resumed his gaze at the sea.
She picked up the book and turned to the page he had
mentioned and read the quote:
O SON OF MAN! Veiled in My immemorial being and in the ancient
eternity of  My essence, I knew My love for thee; therefore I created thee,
have engraved on thee Mine image and revealed to thee My beauty.5
After a moment she added, “I suppose that is the form of love
that passes from God to humanity.” She thought that by adding an
extra l to The Hidden Words it then became “the hidden worlds,” and
she realized that the whole of creation was one unending love story
without boundaries or beginning. Love was the story within the
story and the theme of our life as we passed through history, never
to be seen again on this physical plane. Love was the only thing that
remained in this changeable world.
She then observed him taking a small sip of coffee. He made a
face, then put the cup down on the kitchen countertop.
“The coffee must be ancient,” Hooman said as he picked up the
coffee packet and turned it over.
She assumed he was looking for the use-by date. He then put
the coffee packet down and stared through the window. Since she
could not see his face, she imagined certain shapes of pleasure
forming on Hooman’s face, and she waited for him to say something
about the sea, which he did. “Look at that water! Isn’t that
wonderful? Look at the white surf when the waves roll over.”
She stood up and looked out the kitchen window.
Hooman smiled and filled the sink with water. She passed her
plate to him, then continued to look out over the dunes to where the
sea met the sky, and those same shapes of pleasure formed in her
mind.
When the sun approached the midpoint in the sky, Hooman
suggested they go and sit on the dune facing the beach and watch
the sea from there. They left the shack and walked toward the

beach. From that dune, Allison saw a thick section of plywood with
burnt edges. She assumed that it had washed up on the beach on
the previous night. She wanted to try it out as a sand toboggan, so
she walked down the face of the dune to the beach and picked the
section of plywood up from the wet sand. After walking back up the
dune, she put the board down and sat on it.
She looked over at Hooman and smiled. “Wish me luck,” she
said.
“You don’t need luck.”
She rode down the dune and managed to stand up before
tumbling at its base.
Breathless after several runs to the top of the dune, she finally
slumped down next to him.
“Do you want to try it?” she said.
“That looks like a good sand toboggan.”
“Do you want a go?”
“No, I’ll try it later, maybe. Let’s sit and look at the water for a
while.”
Sitting in silence, they watched the waves for several minutes as
they rhythmically rolled over, spread out flat, and diminished. The
water then receded back down the beach into oncoming waves. The
wind pushed Allison’s hair around her face. The warm light beat
down on her skin. Her eyes squinted at the sun as she looked up at
it.
“Watch the patterns of foam as each wave goes back into the
sea. They look somewhat like cloud formations. You see?” he
commented.
“Yes, I see . . . you know, I’ve been reading in some of the
Bahá’í prayers recently a focus on the concept of eternity. And, in
fact, it was mentioned in that slice of The Hidden Words I read before:
‘. . . in the ancient eternity of My essence, I knew My love for
thee . . .’6 In recent times I have been wondering what eternity is. I
mean, I have some idea, but I was wondering if you know any more
about it? Because its common meaning is unending time,

timelessness, or endless life after death with the immortality of the
soul, but it must transcend this basic meaning.”
They watched the sea for a long time. Finally, Hooman looked
over at her. “You’re twenty-seven, right? So how long has the
universe been around?” he said.
“Billions of years.”
“So, you’ve had twenty-seven years to understand billions of
years of life . . . and that’s just the time we know about. I think
existence, maybe not time, or this kind of time, but the essential
unity of all existence, has always been. It never had a beginning.
Think about that. Can you imagine something never having a
beginning?” he asked.
“No, not really.”
“Is that a long time?”
Allison was quiet for a moment. “How can it be a long time if it
never had a beginning?” she asked.
“Exactly! Talking about time is useless when trying to measure
eternity. Try to imagine a clock with a second hand, like the watch
on your wrist, that has always been going around . . . around and
around . . . always. And the clock was always there, without a
beginning. It just was. It was never born nor was it created.”
“I can’t. I mean, I can try, but it seems impossible, because my
thoughts have a beginning and an end, so how can I think of
something without a beginning unless I didn’t have a beginning too.
Like unless I was always there, uncreated, seeing the clock without a
beginning too.”
“True, and Allison, what I’ve said is just a linguistic device to try
and free your mind from the bias of time as we know it on Earth.
And that is why understanding this life, the exact nature of time and
eternity, the next world, the true nature of love, and a range of
other things is beyond our understanding, because at some point,
we can’t measure things beyond our finite limits.
In this life, all we can expect is a fleeting and veiled glimpse of
these transcendent realities. Eternity is a different order of existence
compared to time and space. Anyway, you get my meaning.”

“Yes, I do. Fascinating. That is the first time in my life that I
have ever thought of something not having a beginning,” she said.
He continued, “You know, I have been thinking about your
ideas of symmetry and asymmetry recently and applying them to
time and even non-time. I have been researching it on the internet
for a few months now, how matter reflects time without actually
aging in the absolute sense.”
“Oh, that is so cool. You are such a smart cookie,” she chuckled
“As you may know, time is relative to gravity. Time runs slower
where gravity is stronger, so you see, as you travel away from the
Earth, time runs fractionally faster in space, which proves the
relativeness of the relationship between time and space, or that
gravity warps space and time equally and there is no time separate
from space; time is the duration of space and matter relative to
distance—spatial depth—and velocity. And our understanding of
time allows us to measure and predict change and motion in space,
like the spin of the Earth, on your old watch there”—which he
pointed to—“because there is symmetry between the spin of the
Earth and your watch that allows you to navigate through
spacetime.”
Allison looked down at her watch for a moment, then back at
his face.
“Further, time is symmetrical in even gravitational fields; the
intervals between seconds, minutes, and hours are even wherever
you go on Earth. And although time is asymmetrical relative to
different planet’s gravitational fields, where gravity bends time into
different speeds, the difference, as I said before, is miniscule, so we
may not notice this difference when gauging it with our senses. We
would only know there was a difference in time if we were to
compare clocks on Earth to those we might place on other planets.
“When thinking about this idea of time symmetry, I wondered
about other worlds in eternity and if they might have nonlinear
time with greater asymmetrical structures, like different times in
different gravitational fields but even more flexible, with uneven
time intervals, or the ability to speed up and slow down time in

eternity in a way that is not possible on Earth—to stretch it or
contract it. Since there is no gravity or space as we know it on
Earth, then time or timelessness in eternity would be manifested by
different and possibly unknowable realities within those other non-
spacetime worlds.  And I use the word ‘time’ in eternity purely as a
conceptual construct, given that time does not exist there as we
know it here, but I have to use some generalized idea of time since it
is all I know. You see, even I can’t escape the bias of time.”
“Yeah, no, that’s fine. I understand what you mean. You are
grappling with ideas that are without much context in this world.”
“Yes, and as I said before, I call this concept of time nonlinear
time, lateral time, or timelessness—three aspects of the same thing
—but it is not really time that is passing because nonlinear time is
transcendent and unchanging in its base configuration relative to
our universe. And this might relate somehow to the four worlds
mentioned in The Seven Valleys. I have also wondered if we might be
able to have objective time and subjective time, experienced by each
soul, which might be continually syncing back into a main, objective
timeline, collectively accepted as ‘the main kind of time’ that is
shared by all and with all lateral branches of subjective time
running parallel to that main timeline.
“This might mean that nonlinear time is far more perceptual
and subjective than time on Earth. Like the wavelengths of light,
time might be spectral in nature, or there might be different flavors
of time or timelessness where one person’s second is different from
another person’s second, where one plus one is not two but
something else, strange and beautiful. As an example, one person’s
second could be nine hours and another’s nine years, and yet when
they sync back into objective time, their second is the same, which is
to say that both nine hours and nine years both passed by in a single
second. So an asymmetric experience of time by two souls finds
symmetry on the main timeline . . . are you following me?”
“Totally.”
“Good, and as a soul progresses up, notions of time as we know
it on Earth may dissolve gradually as it passes through stages in

nonlinear time, adjusting slowly to relative timelessness, where the
past or future become perfectly symmetrical with both a forward
and backward arrow in timelessness, because time for us on Earth is
asymmetrical relative to the past and the future; this is due to the
forward direction of time. The future is almost never the same as
the past, relatively speaking, and the universe evolves rather than
devolves; it moves from simpler to more complex states. And
although there is a lot a cyclical symmetry, or gravitational
symmetry, between the past and the future, like the seasons, time on
Earth is mostly asymmetrical.”
Allison looked down at her watch again and tried to imagine
the second hand moving at different speeds, uneven asymmetrical
intervals, or skipping over certain intervals or just stopping in
absolute stillness, where all motion in space might stop too and then
magically start again after a moment of undefined timeless stillness,
and then moving backward; she imagined the whole universe
moving in reverse.
She looked at the sea for a moment and then said, “As you walk
into the future, you will realize you have been walking into the past.
All roads are forward in every direction, even when they go
backward; the past finds perfect symmetry in the future and the
reverse.”
“Yes. Wait here. I brought The Seven Valleys with me. There is a
quote about this, and I want to quote it correctly.” He stood up and
walked back to the shack. After a few moments, he came back with
The Seven Valleys. He sat down and flicked through the pages until he
found the passage he was searching for. He read:
“‘. . . the denizens of  the city of  immortality, who dwell in the celestial
garden, see not even “neither first nor last”: They fly from all that is first
and repulse all that is last. For these have passed over the worlds of  names
and, swift as lightning, fled beyond the worlds of  attributes’ 7
“And maybe eternity begins only partially when a soul reaches
the Valley of Unity, as the relativities of beginnings and endings

fade and our perceptions of time and space change. On Earth our
body is trapped by time, but our mind is not.”
She was silent for a while. “The body confines the mind to
time.”
He smiled. “Yes. Anyway, it’s all speculation on my part, but it’s
interesting, don’t you think?”
“What you’ve said is amazing.” She had found a new dimension
to her experience in the British Museum—her perception of time
had been different as she lay on the floor looking up at the sky
through the glass ceiling in the museum; it had seemed to have
stretched and slowed. And then there was her dream of Mona in
the world to come, where Mona had said that time in eternity was
different from Earth, maybe nonlinear and lateral time as Hooman
had said.
“Do you think time and space are an illusion at some level? I
mean, are we really surrounded by timelessness, or is our world built
on an unchanging foundation?” asked Allison.
“I think time is objective but finite, but perception plays a big
role in creating how we experience time and space, so only our
intellect can see aspects of the true foundation of time, whereas our
senses cannot. Beyond that foundation we are surrounded by non-
spacetime, but we cannot see or access it directly; we can, for the
most part, only infer its existence. Like it says in The Seven Valleys,
there is no real beginning or end to anything. So, if we can
understand how we perceive time and change, then we will be able
to understand how aspects of it are mutually constructed illusion.”
“Yes, I agree. I suppose our body cannot be freed from earthly
objective time, but our imagination and intellect can be freed. Like
you just said.”
Hooman didn’t respond to her last comment. He looked at the
sea again.
She looked at the sea and thought about the cultural and social
notions of time that were used in everyday language to refer to and
navigate through our world: the age of a child, the age of an
evolutionary time period, or the diverse geological ages of the

Earth, and that the conceptual structures attached to time and
aging had illusionary and limited reference points that were a
surface reflection of spacetime; they were objective on one level but
conceptually relative on another level.
So, what the senses saw was only the surface of time, given that
all matter was constructed and deconstructed dynamically from
moment to moment as matter and energy continually changed their
states (without actually being created or destroyed, which reflected
the law of the conservation of energy and mass), and all matter
appeared, on the surface, to be aging at diverse rates (molecular and
biological), but this was not an indication of true infinite non-time.
Hooman continued, “I have been researching one of the as yet
unproved string theories called ‘supersymmetry.’ It is attempting to
find spacetime symmetry between particles in the Standard Model
and sets of symmetric twins called ‘superpartners.’”
“Oh, that sounds really interesting.”
Yep, certainly is . . . and from what I understand, atoms,
subatomic particles, and strings—the constituent indivisible parts of
subatomic particles—do not age or get old as we understand it in
daily life. We infer the age of matter from the relative configurations
and interactions between atoms—molecular bonds—which have
only relative and finite beginnings and endings as they transition
from state to state but remain completely unchanging in their base
configurations: the numbers of electrons, neutrons, and protons per
atom, and the different vibrational frequencies of the strings that
make up subatomic particles, like quarks, leptons, or bosons. So,
atoms and their constituent parts are eternal and ageless as they
paradoxically pass through, and are, time, and appear to be
changing on one level but are not changing on another level; being
just tiny vibrating strings or membranes that haven’t stopped
vibrating since the Big Bang.”
Allison looked down at her vintage watch again. It gave the
illusion of being old, yet both her body and the watch were made of
atoms, like Hooman had said before, that had not aged for billions
of years. She looked at the gold leaf that had worn away over many

years. The gold atoms were the same age that they had been from
the moment they had been created inside stars. They had a finite
beginning but no absolute end (total nothingness) and were ageless.
So, her watch had then only the subjective patina of time. And her
body had been in existence for twenty-seven years biologically, but
at the level of atoms, subatomic particles, and strings, it had not
aged even a single second. Strangely, her watch would most
probably outlive her body. With all its complex organic molecules, it
was more prone to aging and death than the watch. So, she realized
that the secrets and illusions of time could be found within the
molecular bonds between atoms, because while atoms remained
unchanged in their base configuration (protons, neutrons and
electrons) and with regard to their basic atomic attributes,
particularly light and energy, the molecular bonds that bound them
together were always changing, and thus they reflected time and
change more readily. The human body was a good example. Most
of it was made from atoms of hydrogen, carbon, nitrogen, and
oxygen in addition to an array of other elements. From these were
formed more complex organic molecular bonds: proteins, fats,
glucose, DNA, and many others; the covalent bonds were the only
ones she could remember from her high school science class. Upon
death these bonds break down, and all the complex organic
molecules return to all their originating atomic and molecular parts.
Allison thought that maybe time was the mask of eternity,
which meant that we are surrounded by unchanging, timeless non-
duality, which creates the illusion of time and change; we needed
that “illusion” for purely psychological reasons as we were born,
reached middle age, then grew old and died. From this strange
illusion came the spiritual development of the individual soul and
the advancement of human civilizations throughout history.
Consequently, the past had not disappeared; it had gone nowhere
but had only changed its atomic and molecular configurations and
had always existed in the present as had the future, which was not
out there waiting to happen, but rather here in the present among

us as atoms continually changing their molecular states and moving
forward through time toward the “future present.”
Allison was staring at the sea and turning over these ideas when
Hooman passed her the book and pointed to a particular section of
the text:
Infer, then, from this the differences among the worlds. Though the worlds
of  God be infinite, yet some refer to them as four: the world of  time, which
hath both a beginning and an end; the world of  duration, which hath a
beginning but whose end is not apparent; the world of  primordial reality,
whose beginning is not to be seen but which is known to have an end; and
the world of  eternity, of  which neither the beginning nor the end is visible.
Although there are many differing statements as to these points, to recount
them in detail would result in weariness. Thus some have said that the
world of  primordial reality hath neither beginning nor end, and have
equated the world of  eternity with the invisible, inaccessible, and
unknowable Essence. Others have called these the worlds of  the Heavenly
Court, of  the Celestial Dominion, of  the Divine Kingdom, and of  Mortal
Existence.8
She closed the book and handed it back to Hooman. “Thank
you. That was really beautiful, and it gives me a better sense of the
relationships between the worlds with reference to time and
eternity.”
She was fascinated by the idea that humanity had been within
the mind of God for a very long time, that is not actually time, and
not just “eternity,” but “ancient eternity.” And that God’s love was
now manifest in this world after all that endless non-time, which
meant that there must be something special about this particular era
and this particular world. Now the mask of eternity was being
removed to a degree to reveal a reality and an existence of vast
unending splendor: a face of formless marshmallow light.
Allison returned to the present moment. She was unconsciously
looking at the sun, and, strangely, it did not hurt her eyes. She could
look into the splendor of the sun now and see it anew as a symbol

of God’s unequaled reality and a veil that hid his staggering beauty
in the created worlds.
Hooman stood up and looked back at the shack. He turned to
her. “Well, how about we go down to the beach? Do you want to
walk? Or are you tired?” he said.
“No. I’d love to go for a walk.”
“Great! Then let’s go.” She watched him walk over the dunes
toward the shack. He placed The Seven Valleys on a small stool next to
the door. He then picked up Allison’s flip-flops, which were on the
ground next to the stool.
He came back. “Here, put these on,” he said as he threw the
pair of tattered red flip-flops at her feet. He had a pair of gray flip-
flops on his own feet.
Taking her shoes off, she poured the sand out, then walked back
to the shack and placed them near the door. She walked back over
the dunes toward him. He was waiting for her on the top of the last
dune. She took his hand. They descended the dune together and
approached the water. At the edge of the water, they left their flip-
flops behind on the sand. She walked into the waves up to her knees
and let the water soak into her dress.
She turned to him.
“It’s beautiful. The water and the air,” he said.
“Yes . . . it is.”
The current pulled at her legs. She looked down at the swirling
haze of sand-filled water rushing past her obscured feet.
“It’s strong,” he said.
“Yes, we can’t swim here . . . it’s dangerous with the undertow.
But you can swim when we get to Cairns tomorrow.”
“How long will it take to drive there?”
“A day, I figure, maybe more . . . it depends. Do you want to see
anything on the way? We could go south for a day and see K’gari
Island, which is similar to this but with a few nice inland lakes, or
we could just go straight north without seeing much until we reach
Cairns.”

“Well, I don’t know if there is anything to see. What do you
want to do?”
“I think get up early and drive straight.”
“Okay. Fine by me.”
She stared down at her feet again. The water was clear now as
the current had changed direction and momentarily reflected the
ephemeral shadows of the rippling water cast on the sand. In the pit
of her stomach, she felt a barely perceptible affirmation: the body’s
precognition. Then her conscious mind caught up with her body,
and the word that came to the fore in an exuberant tone was
“patience.” Years of waiting for the right person had finally elapsed
and unfolded into this moment. Only she did not know that she had
been waiting until now. It seemed as if Hooman had been with her
for her entire life. As she looked into his eyes, she saw her own
reflection on the curve of his eye, and there was no past or future
without him.
The day slipped into dusk as they walked farther up the
coastline. And as dusk began to morph into darkness, in the last
remnants of light, they went back to the shack for fishing gear.
Allison caught several fish. The fish found their way into foil and
glowing coals along with some potatoes.
* * *
An hour later the smell of the fish and potatoes floated in the air.
Hooman got up. He walked toward the writing room. As he walked
along the track, he heard her voice intone a prayer. He was about to
return down the track and let her finish without interruption when
something in him decided to stay and listen, so he left the path and
sat down on the crest of a dune. His eyes searched the darkness for
a glimmer of the horizon, but by now it had faded into night. As he
listened to the sound of the ocean mingled with Allison’s voice, his
eyes adjusted to the low light. He found a dim edge of the sea and a
beginning of the sky. The glow of the town south of the property
was also visible on the horizon. He strained to hear the order of

words in the prayer. In time, he caught the stream of words midway
through:
O Thou Who art the sole Desire of  them that have recognized Thee, and
the Object of  the adoration of  the entire creation, not to suffer them, now
that Thou hast attracted them by Thy most exalted Word, to be far removed
from the Tabernacle which Thou hast reared up by Thy name, the All-
Glorious . . .
Her words disappeared into the sound of several large waves
crashing to the shore; he picked up the continuation at:
. . . assist Thy servant who hath turned towards Thee, and hath spoken
forth Thy praise, and determined to help Thee. Fortify, then, his heart, O
my God, in Thy love and in Thy Faith. Better is this for him than all that
hath been created on Thine earth, for the world and whatsoever is therein
must perish, and what pertaineth unto Thee must endure as long as Thy
most excellent names endure. By Thy Glory! Were the world to last as long
as Thine own kingdom will last, to set their affections upon it would still be
unseemly for such as have quaffed, from the hands of  Thy mercy, the wine
of  Thy presence; how much more when they recognize its fleetingness and
are persuaded of  its transience. The chances that overtake it, and the
changes to which all things pertaining unto it are continually subjected,
attest its impermanence.

Whosoever hath recognized Thee will turn to none save Thee, and will
seek from Thee naught else except Thyself. Thou art the sole Desire of  the
heart of  him whose thoughts are fixed on Thee, and the highest Aspiration
of  whosoever is wholly devoted unto Thee.

No God is there beside Thee, the Almighty, the Help in Peril, the All-
Glorious, the Most Powerful.9
The prayer ended there, and it seemed like the right place, as
the intonation on the last word expressed its expected cadence.
The door to the writing room opened. Allison turned the light
off, then stepped out. He got up and walked toward her.

“Sorry, I didn’t want to intrude. I was waiting for you to finish.
The fish and potatoes are ready, I think.”
“Oh, good. Let’s go see.”
They walked back down the track to the fire.
* * *
At midnight they went to bed. The sound of the ocean crashing
into the coast kept her awake for a while as she lay next to Hooman.
The bed was parallel to the coastline, and, through a hole in the
shack wall, she observed the dark sea. In her imagination she
visualized stars that were mirrored on patches of wet sand and a
thin layer of water that was receding back into the ocean.
Fragments of the various conversations they had had during the
day replayed themselves in her mind. She thought about endless
nonlinear time and, if there was such a thing, timeless symmetry.
Eventually, she drifted into sleep with the sound of the rough
sea as a backdrop. In a dream the sea’s violence receded as it spread
out submissively on the flat sand beneath the dunes. The dunes
cradled the shack and its occupants. Still asleep in her dream, she
thought she had woken from it, but she was still caught in her
dream.
She left the shack and walked down the dunes to the calm
water. She waded into the waves. She dove and swam in the
darkened sea and knew she would never come back to the shore.
She had passed a significant barrier in her life that was inherently
about love: the unfathomable and unsearchable kind; she was
passing into the Great Ocean.


On the Road
The wayfarer, after traversing the high planes of  this supernal journey,
entereth into THE CITY OF CONTENTMENT. In this valley he feeleth the
breezes of  divine contentment blowing from the plane of  the spirit. He
burneth away the veils of  want, and with inward and outward eye
perceiveth within and without all things the day of  “God will satisfy
everyone out of  His abundance.” 1 From sorrow he turneth to bliss, and
from grief  to joy, and from anguish and dejection to delight and rapture.2
—Bahá’u’lláh, The Seven Valleys
The next day the sun had not yet emerged over the horizon, and
what light there was lit up the pre-dawn sky with a pale light. He
took one last mental snapshot of the sea and sky over the dunes
before walking up to the door. The padlock on the door of the
shack clicked shut as Hooman locked it in place. He put the key
under a rock near the door and followed Allison through the tea
trees as she walked up the track toward the clearing where the cars
were parked. Her suitcase trailed behind her. It kept bogging down
in the sand, and she had to drag it with more force. He saw her bare
feet plunging down into the dry, squeaky sand with each step. After
a short walk through the tea tree scrub, they arrived at the clearing.
Hooman began to pack the luggage into the hire car in which they
had driven from Brisbane Airport.
“Hey, why don’t we take my Holden up to Cairns?” she said.

“I’ve never seen such a sorry-looking mode of transport. It’s
completely rusted out,” Hooman remarked.
“Hey, steady on. I drove this car around Australia. It’s been a
faithful companion all these years.”
“I’m amazed that it’s still going.”
“It has a completely new engine now, or reconditioned, but
basically new. I drove it up from Melbourne several years ago.
Jasper uses it from time to time.”
“I suppose you do have a sentimental attachment to this car.”
“Let’s drive it. We can pick up the hire car on the way back.”
“Sure, why not.” He laughed. “I hope we make it back. Where
is the key?” he said.
“It should be in the glove box.”
Hooman began to load the bags into the old car. When he got
into the driver’s seat, he noticed immediately a crystal cluster glued
to the dashboard. The light coming through the shards flickered as
he looked into the formation. On the passenger’s side of the
dashboard were a few origami birds, pure in the morning light. As
Allison got into the passenger’s side, Hooman saw that a section of
plywood had been placed on the floor under her feet.
Allison obviously saw him staring at the plywood and said,
“There’s a large hole in the floor.” She smiled. He then saw her
looking at the paper birds on the dashboard.
“Hey, do you want to hear one of my poems?”
“Sure.”
She reached out and took one of the origami birds and began
to open it up until it unfolded into a flat piece of paper. She began
to read the poem:
“The Waves and the Sky”
The waves are illiterate.
The sky is illiterate.
They know no pain.
That is our domain.

That we should feel pain when we are amongst such immeasurable beauty.
That the sky should not see its reflection.
That the waves feel no sun bearing down.
The waves and sky read no words, but they are the Word.
What need does the Word have but to be read by others?
All things are built with words.
All things are built into a house of  words.
A shelter for the illiterate seeking the illiterate sky and waves.
For those that know not themselves.
Know not the sky or waves.
The sky is comforted by the ignorant looking up.
The sky feels joy that it will never be understood except by the blind.
Hooman was quiet for a while before saying, “Wow. So
beautiful. Unfathomable too.”
“Thank you.”
Hooman started the engine and then backed up before driving
down a narrow sandy road.
Fifteen minutes later they emerged from the coastal bushland
onto an asphalt road that took them onto a larger road leading
them northward toward Cairns.
After a short time on the highway, Hooman said, “Is the road
illiterate too?”
* * *
Dark water reflected a soft, open sky. Gentle distortions in the water
spread out from the boat as it maintained an uncertain equilibrium
against the pull of the Earth.
It had taken a day to drive to Cairns. Now, on the following day,
a few hours after midday, they stood on a dive boat.
“Look. It’s so bright and clear. The reflection,” Hooman said.

Allison continued to look down into almost still water.
He turned away from his reflection in the water and smiled at
Allison.
Allison said, continuing her subterranean gaze, “Yes, it is. It’s
like a two-way mirror. If there was light in the ocean, shining up
from the bottom, then the reflection would disappear, and the world
above could see the world below: the world beyond the mirror of
this world.”
She looked up at Hooman and followed his gaze, which moved
diagonally along the water until he was looking at the harbor and its
boats, moorings, and the jetties.
“Then the upside-down world would disappear,” he said.
She laughed softly. He was referring to the reflection of Cairns
harbor, which intersected with the real world. They were like two
symmetrical twins, one living on the surface of the water and the
other above it. “Yes, it would,” she replied.
As she stared vertically down into the mirror of blue and the
sunshine reflecting in it, the engine started up and broke the
reflections they saw into fractured and twisted pieces. The captain
began to outline the day’s itinerary to a large contingent of
Japanese tourists gathered around him. They listened in dutiful
silence. He uttered a greeting in Japanese with a thick Australian
accent.
Hooman went to sit down at a table near the back of the boat.
She joined him.
The boat began to move toward the harbor channel. She
looked at him. “A beautiful day,” she said.
“Yes,” he confirmed.
* * *
The boat reached the first stop after forty-five minutes. A female
dive supervisor took the children snorkeling near the back of the
boat while the adults strapped on dive tanks, masks, and flippers
and dropped out of sight to the reef below. Allison and Hooman

were the only adults not diving with tanks, and after the main group
had gone, they sat on the back of the boat with their legs dangling
in the water. He had his flippers and mask on. She put a flipper on
her foot, then, resting her chin on her knee for a moment, looked
out at the gentle waves around the boat.
“Hey, let’s go,” he said. She put the other flipper and mask on,
and they slipped into the water.
The reef below was a colorful and otherworldly sight and a fully
self-contained world with its alien visitors floating above it. She
reached out and took his hand. She felt the texture of his skin and
his slender fingers.
* * *
A few hours later the boat went back to the harbor. From there they
drove up to the tablelands to a hill town—Kuranda. As they drifted
through the town, Allison commented on the changes to Kuranda
since her childhood vacations. She had noted over the years an
increased commercialization of the place, especially the tourist
money, which paradoxically kept the town alive but also killed it in
subtle and obvious ways. Several times, as they went from shop to
shop, she picked up what appeared to be local handcrafted items or
stuffed koalas and turned them over to reveal a tag. It invariably
said: “Made in China.”
She turned to him. “Isn’t it funny, the obvious irony of a so-
called genuine Australian experience? That tourists come to
Australia to immerse themselves in its unique identity only to buy a
stuffed koala made in China. Wouldn’t that be ironic? Or singing
the ‘Star-Spangled Banner’ to a Chinese-made flag. It would be a
strange new kind of global patriotism,” she said.
Allison observed Hooman listening carefully to her and seeing
how intense she was about the globalization of the Australian and
American economies.
They finished exploring the main township.

“Let’s go to the market. I have many sweet memories of it as a
child. You always say you want to know more of my childhood,” she
said.
“Yes, I do.”
* * *
As they began to walk into the market, Allison observed the tropical
rainforest surrounding them. Nothing about the forest seemed to
have changed since her childhood. They walked down a slight hill
through the main avenue, which was mostly fruit and vegetable
stalls. Other stalls were selling local handicrafts, old stamps, rare
bottles, and many other more modern products that were not part
of her memories. A blue Ulysses butterfly flew past them. It flew
from the present into a past memory and melded with all her
childhood memories of the market.
* * *
Allison dragged her father by the arm. They vanished from the sight
of Mum and Paul into the rainforest to find one particular stall,
which was situated at the very end of the market. This shopping
expedition was on the pretense of getting bananas, but what she
really wanted most was to see the stall owner’s gray beard cascading
down his bare chest. His beard invariably had twigs stuck in it.
On this day, four days before her twelfth birthday, they found
the stall, and Allison asked for two pounds of bananas. She watched
as a stray green tree ant found its way onto his beard. After being
crushed, it released the oddest aroma. The old man had waved the
crushed ant under her nose, and then with a huge laugh, and to her
special delight, he popped the ant into his mouth.
“Yum, yum . . . do you want one too?” the old man asked her.
After being persuaded by her dad not to eat them, she looked
around for more green ants. A few steps away from the stall, she
crouched down near the base of a large banyan tree and watched

weaving lines of green ants moving up into the canopy. The tree’s
leaves cut and layered descending light into shifting and abstract
patterns on the ground.
* * *
Allison remembered that time vividly and realized there was a
purity of motive in her actions as a child that she had lost as an
adult. The images in her mind seemed like a life review from the
Egyptian weighing of the heart ceremony. She thought that we did
not die at some unknown point in the future; we were slowly dying
and being born every day. So life was then one long, unending
review until all the images and sensations that made up our life
faded into the abstract luminescence of eternity, and we emerged
like the Phoenix from the ashes of the cyclical sun, dying each day
as we slept and being reborn on each dawn as we awoke.
She was shocked out of this reverie. “What memories from your
childhood are most resonant for you?” Hooman asked.
She explained that memory in the market, and they walked
toward the stall of the old man, but he was no longer there. Nor
were there any green ants walking up the Banyan tree near the stall.
She wondered what had happened to him. Was he still alive and
living near or in Kuranda, or had he merged into eternity and
diverged from this life to remain only in her memories?
“That year, my parents had decided to spend the school
vacation period in an RV park on the fringes of central Cairns.
Those vacations have a strong resonance now.”
They walked over to the Banyan tree, and Allison sat on one of
the protruding roots. Hooman remained standing and asked about
her family. She looked up at him. “My father arrived in Australia in
his early twenties. Most of his family were still living in Rome, so
there were no relatives on my father’s side of the family to spend
Christmas with. My mother came from a fourth generation of
Australian farmers. Her parents were dead by then, but she had
siblings who were spread out all over the country, so a traveling

Christmas developed into a tradition. Evolving initially from a need
to visit my mother’s relatives in Cairns, it became something
different after a few years—a trip for its own sake, as Mum’s sister
and her husband sold the farm and moved down south to Brisbane;
they had owned a sugarcane farm near central Cairns.”
Allison stood up, and they turned around and began to walk
back up the hill. Allison stopped for a moment and looked up at the
canopy. She then turned to Hooman and said, “I remember sitting
on the edge of a pool in the RV park.
“It was Christmas Eve, and my legs were dangling in the water,
and I had been staring at my feet for a while, then when I looked
up, there was a boy on the other side of the pool. He was standing
there looking at me with an intense, expressionless face. I smiled and
waved. He waved back and said hello. I had not seen him in the RV
park before, and afterward I learned that he had arrived that day
after a long road trip from Perth in Western Australia. He sat on the
edge of the pool and stared into the water. We didn’t speak for a
while, then gradually, we began to talk in a shy, stilted way. After a
while, he slipped into the water and swam over to me. After a few
minutes, I felt more relaxed, and our conversation became more
natural. It was strange, but for the first time I had met a male
version of myself. After that day, we were close friends for the
remainder of the vacation. We pretty much went everywhere
together.”
They left Kuranda’s market and came down from the
tablelands. They went south, away from central Cairns suburbia,
and drove through farmland on the outskirts of the town. They
passed the cane farm that Allison’s aunt had owned. She pointed at
it as they drove by. “I used to walk through the cane fields on my
own.”
“Where are we going?” Hooman asked after a while.
“Behana Creek,” she said. At the exact moment that she had
answered him, she saw a bridge ahead with a battered sign—
Behana Creek.

They passed over the bridge and turned right off the highway
onto a narrow dirt road. They drove along the edge of a cane field
that hugged the curves of the creek. Ahead of them were lush green
hills that formed another edge where the cane fields stopped, and in
the distance a forest arced toward the tablelands. The creek
widened out considerably, and Allison stopped the car.
“We’re here . . . I used to come here too when I was young. See
that swing,” she said, pointing to a Banyan tree on the other bank.
Behind the tree was another cane field. The water running past the
tree was only a thin strip under the swing, no more than a foot deep
and seven feet wide.
“I presume there was more water when you used the swing,” he
said.
“Oh, yes. In the wet season the water is much higher. At least
up to my shoulder in height.”
They got out of the car and walked over six yards of smooth
river stones to the edge of the water. Her mind drifted into the past.
* * *
Allison had asked her parents if they could take her new friend to
the creek. Her mother had asked the boy’s parents, and they agreed.
She remembered the family driving through the cane fields along
the same highway that she and Hooman had just taken.
The three kids were sitting in the back seat. She was between
Paul and the boy. The full light was on the boy’s face, and her eyes
moved around the contours of light and shade on his body. The
wind coming from the open window pushed his hair around. She
watched him for a few minutes as he looked out at the cane farms
passing by. In the half hour that it had taken to drive from central
Cairns, he had said very little. Occasionally, he looked at her and
smiled, and she felt immediately how self-contained he was.
She wanted to reach out and take his hand but felt another part
of her resisting this urge. They came to the bridge, and after
crossing it, they turned onto the dirt road. At this time of year, the

creek was swollen with deep, clear water coming from the tablelands
above them. They all got out of the car, and her parents started to
carry coolers with food and drink to the edge of the water.
She, Paul, and the boy immediately walked into the water and
swam over to the swing on the other side of the creek. They sat on
the tangled roots of the Banyan as each took a turn on the swing.
After ten minutes, she suggested to the boy that they swim
upstream. She pointed to a sandy bank in the distance. They both
plunged into the cool water and began to swim upstream. Allison
was looking at the bottom of the creek as she swam. She could see
small Barramundi fish swimming over the large river stones on the
bottom of the creek. Paul was hanging upside down on the swing by
his knees.
Hauling their bodies onto the sandy bank, the boy and Allison
sat shivering. The swing was a pendulum in time, swinging back and
forth over the water. They both watched Paul swing back and forth,
back and forth, before somersaulting into the water. The boy shifted
closer to her. He reached out and held her hand.
That instant she remembered now with the same sensation of
yesteryear flooding her nervous system, and it was a turning point in
loving another human being. Loving someone other than a family
member and its relevance was enhanced, as it was at a time before
any sexual awareness had appeared in her mind. There was an
indefinable purity to the relationship. The accumulation of several
relationships’ worth of experience and a fair deal of sentimental
projection had elevated that moment in hindsight; she tried to see
that memory without the filters of an adult mind.
And she then remembered leaving her boyfriend behind, which
was a new and unfamiliar sensation. They talked about sending
letters. She sent several. He replied, but after three letters he
stopped writing. When the family had arrived back in Melbourne,
she thought of visiting him in Perth. She could take the train. She
imagined herself taking in the vast, silent desert on the way. But this
desire was never fulfilled.

* * *
Now, at the creek, she remembered the beginnings of love, and she
strained to remember the boy’s name. And it was clear, too, that
Hooman was the beginning of love, but also the end of another
kind of love—a love formed within innocence and never tested by
the harsher realities of life. The boy had disappeared into Perth,
and Hooman had emerged from that city, so there was a degree of
circularity and symmetry in time.
* * *
The yacht left Magnetic Island on the morning of Friday, April 9,
1993. The American couple that Allison had met on the previous
night had hired a crew to help sail their boat from Long Island,
New York, through the Caribbean and into the Pacific via the
Panama Canal. They had been island hopping for several months—
staying at American Samoa, Fiji, Vanuatu, and New Caledonia, just
to mention a few of the main islands they visited—before reaching
the east Australian coast near the Whitsunday Islands.
On the first day, they sailed to Orpheus Island. Allison spent
several hours at the front of the boat staring at the ocean and the
cloudless sky, smelling the sea spray. She had taken many photos of
the shoreline and the expanse of the empty ocean with the Leica
camera. She also took shots of the boat, which represented a kind
of wealth that she had never seen up close before. After a while,
Jennifer came and sat next to Allison. Jenifer’s husband spent the
time steering the yacht while the crew adjusted the sails and the
rigging. She closed the book she was reading and smiled.
“What is your book about?” Jennifer asked.
“Oh, it’s about the collective unconscious.”
Allison raised the book, and Jennifer read it aloud. “The
Archetypes and the Collective Unconscious by Carl Jung. I have heard of
Jung vaguely, but what are the collective unconscious and
archetypes?”

“They are supposed to be the foundational symbols and
concepts that make up individual consciousness. They are inherited
from the collective unconscious, which is all the psychic experience
over the course of human evolution.”
“You have lost me already.”
“Well, instead of the idea that the mind is a blank slate at birth,
a tabula rasa, we inherit a psychic structure of ideas, which forms a
foundation for individual consciousness. Jung calls them archetypes,
or primal ideas.”
“Can you give me an example of an archetype?”
“Some archetypal opposites are ‘light versus
darkness,’ ‘meaning versus absurdity,’ or ‘chaos versus order.’ Or
there are individual archetypes like ‘the mother,’ ‘the hero,’ or ‘the
trickster.’ Even the ‘self,’ or our core ideas of self, are an archetype.
Then there is ‘the other,’ which is either another ‘self’ or the
collective of ‘selves,’ society or culture. But my problem is that Jung
assumed the archetypes were inherited from generation to
generation, both through nature and nurture and that a child’s
mind was predisposed to archetypes even before birth. Even Plato’s
universal forms were working on the assumption that consciousness
was built on an invisible and transcendent psychic structure beyond,
but connected to, the physical world. And if this is not true,
according to contemporary science, then how do you encode the
collective unconscious or even consciousness itself into the structure
of a human’s DNA? In other words, does spirit or consciousness
arise from and descend back into matter, or is spirit inserted into
matter? Does consciousness cease when the body dies— the idea
being that consciousness is just a property of matter—or does it
transcend matter and death?”
“Again, I have no idea what you are talking about.”
“Sorry. I am probably boring you.”
“Not at all. I am just not much of an intellectual.”
Allison put the book down and smiled. “Does what makes a
person an individual, different from others, die when the body dies,

or does this personhood essence—some would call it ‘the soul’—live
on into eternity after a body’s physical death.”
“Oh, I see. I think I understand.”
“What part of Long Island do you live in?” Allison said.
“Westhampton Beach. And we have another vacation house on
the beach at Montauk, the very extreme end of Long Island.”
“Is Westhampton Beach a part of the Hamptons?”
“Yes, it is.”
“Ahh . . . cool. I think I know where that is, roughly. Is that near
Jackson Pollock’s studio?”
“Yes, it is. He lived in East Hampton. I’ve been to his studio.”
“Cool.”
“Where are you traveling to?” Jennifer asked.
“Nowhere in particular. I am just traveling. I have given myself
roughly a year to get back to Melbourne.”
“Sounds like a good plan. We are going ashore at Orpheus
Island to walk around some of the nature trails. You are welcome to
join us if you want.”
“Thanks, but I might walk on my own.”
After half an hour, they came to the southern part of Orpheus
Island. Allison swam to the beach, while the others took a small
boat to another bay adjacent to the beach Allison had headed to.
Once she reached the beach, Allison walked along it alone for half
an hour, then sat in the water waist deep. The water was pure and
clear with a light blue hue. She eventually swam back to the yacht
over a reef, looking at the fish and coral on the way.
On the second day, they stopped at the larger Hinchinbrook
Island. Allison walked along some of the sandy trails and raised
boardwalks, which took her through mangrove estuaries and
wetland and then thick rainforest, which melded into a mountain
range along one end of the island. Toward the end of the day, they
sailed on to Dunk Island, where they stayed overnight in Coconut
Bay.
On the third day, they sailed out to different coral reefs, which
collectively made up the Great Barrier Reef. Jennifer and her

husband snorkeled on the reefs, and Allison followed behind them.
By the end of the day, they arrived in Cairns harbor and docked at
the main pier. Allison thanked the couple and the crew for taking
her to Cairns. She gave Jennifer a hug before she stepped off the
boat onto the pier.
She walked to a pay phone inside the Pier Shopping Centre
complex. She called the Danish couple who were staying at a hostel
nearby. They had parked the car in a parking lot behind the Pier
complex, and after a short walk, Allison got into the car and drove
through the suburbs of Cairns toward Mossman. On her way she
made one stop at the RV park that she had stayed at during her
childhood. As far as she could tell, it had not changed much since
then.
On the first night, she slept in the back of the car in the parking
lot near Mossman Gorge.
In the morning she walked through the rainforest until she
came to the Mossman River. At the gorge she stripped down to her
bikini and floated in the cold, clear water amongst large granite
boulders. She looked up at the canopy of the rainforest surrounding
her. After swimming for an hour, she followed one of the trails for a
few hours, then came back to the parking lot. She drove on to the
Daintree River, where she caught a car ferry and then drove on to
Diwan, looking for a bed and breakfast.
The road was only paved for a few miles, and once she hit the
dirt road, the car became bogged at various points along the road.
After some effort, she came to Diwan and asked around if there
were any good places to stay. Someone at the local supermarket
suggested a bed and breakfast buried deep in the rainforest.
After walking along a track for fifteen minutes, she found the
place. It was built over a creek. Her bedroom and a timber deck sat
on the edge of the water. She took a photo of her feet dangling over
the side of the deck, partially submerged in the water.
When night came, she lay on her bed, looking up at the dark
sky. A storm came in from the ocean, and she looked at the
lightning for a while before falling asleep to the sound of water in

the creek, heavy rain, and occasionally a clap of thunder. Storm
sounds and lightning never frightened her; their patterns absorbed
her.


A Charcoal House
O friend, till thou enter the garden of  these inner meanings, thou shalt never
taste of  the imperishable wine of  this valley. And shouldst thou taste of  it,
thou wilt turn away from all else and drink of  the cup of  contentment; thou
wilt loose thyself  from all things and bind thyself  unto Him, and lay down
thy life in His path and offer up thy soul for His sake. And this, even
though in this realm there is no “all else” that thou needst forget: “God was
alone; there was none else besides Him.” 1 For on this plane the traveller
witnesseth the beauty of  the Friend in all things.2
—Bahá’u’lláh, The Seven Valleys
The new house took fourteen months to renovate. It was the burnt-
out brownstone that they had found in Harlem roughly two and a
half years earlier. Allison lifted her shirt to expose her pregnant
belly to the sunlight that streamed through the bay window. Elliot
was alone with her, waiting for the others to return. Elliot had
become a friend now of Allison and Hooman’s rather than simply a
convivial colleague of Hooman’s. Allison was staring down at
brown, red, and yellow leaves in the street below. The leaves drifted
in circles, interlocking eddies, converging and diverging.
“The change of seasons here—they’re so well defined. More
than what I’m used to in Australia. You know where you are in the
year,” Allison said.
“That’s true enough,” Elliot answered.

“I’ve been walking around the park a lot over the past few
months.” She looked down the street at the park. “And I’ve recently
got into the habit of dragging my feet through the leaves. A little
ceremony for every day. Sometimes I just sit on the benches for a
few hours looking at the trees, or I sleep. It’s funny. The other day, I
woke up on a bench, and two old men had arrived while I was
sleeping. They were stretched out, dozing on the benches on either
side of mine. They had all their worldly belongings in two shopping
carts. In another context and time, they might have been travelers
seeking wisdom. I don’t know why I thought that, but really, they
are placeless citizens, of a fallen society, a dream of mutual
deception. That’s America.”
“So, are you a New Yorker yet?” Elliot said.
“I guess I like being a foreigner here. I like being the other. It’s
more real to me.”
The memory of the two homeless men mixed with the smell of
fresh paint. The stark, refracted light from the white interior of the
house pushed through her mind. These fragments and impressions
of the newly renovated house shimmered in her consciousness, but
the house represented two disjointed worlds that were only
separated with a few thin sheets of glass in the bay window; the
house was a luxuriant pod transported from the wealthier parts of
downtown and disguised with a Harlem exterior.
Elliot interrupted the detached contemplation in Allison’s mind.
“I notice your accent has changed though . . . in places. You say just
the odd word here and there with a New York accent. You have a
mixed Australian and American accent, like Hooman. Have you
noticed?” Allison did not answer her. She was still lost inside her
mind, in a sense of detachment that was akin to looking through
her eyes as if they were windows from within a hollow head. The
leaves outside were swirling slowly now. The wind’s intensity had
faded.
“So, you’re not a New Yorker, then?” Elliot said.
Allison watched an African American child kicking the fall
leaves in the gutter. He then crossed the street and walked up the

front steps of a house diagonally opposite. An affinity between her
and the boy bonded them instantly—his legs kicking leaves were her
legs kicking leaves.
“Sorry, what did you say?”
“I said, you’re not a New Yorker, then?”
“I guess I am. I mean, I live here, right? How does one qualify?
I’m in transition, and a part of me has crossed into the American
collective mind. It’s a kind of social gravity, I suppose.”
“Exactly, although I might have expressed it more simply.”
Elliot smiled.
“I’m losing my objectivity, though. It worries me. I watch TV,
and things that I used to find odd, they don’t seem outrageously
different anymore.”
Elliot laughed and shook her head. “God, you’re funny. Why do
you worry about things like that?”
“I don’t know. It’s like losing one’s sight, don’t you think? I’m
becoming culturally blinded. Not only is the newness of everything
fading here, but also the aura of cultural strangeness too. And I
guess that point of blindness is where one becomes a citizen.
Qualification is blindness: seeing in one way and not seeing in
another way. Strange, eh? And I am part homeless too, a placeless
citizen.”
She watched Elliot swivel her head around and up, looking at
the polished floorboards for a moment and then the stark walls. “I
just can’t believe this is the same place you guys first bought. And I
see all Hooman’s books are here now, and that white bird sculpture
he bought when you were in London,” Elliot said as she nodded
once at the new purpose-built bookshelves that engulfed a whole
wall on her left.
“Yes, I guess Hooman feels at home now. And it softens the
sharpness of Nava’s minimalistic approach.”
But the place was still off-kilter to her, and it was only when she
left the building for the street or park or any other place in Central
Harlem that she felt at home, but not in the house itself. She had
become de facto gentry by association with Hooman and Nava, and

she guessed that this was the source of her discomfort about the
place. She hadn’t wanted to seem ungrateful to Nava and Hooman,
so she had kept her thoughts to herself.
“Where is Hooman? And I thought Nava would be here today.”
“He went to buy some baguettes for lunch. Nava won’t be
joining us after all. She’s spending the weekend setting up her new
office in Soho. And she lives downtown, really. She only sleeps
here.”
“New office?”
“You know she has her own business, right? It’s been mainly
solo over the years.”
“Yes, I know.”
“But now she’s rebranding and expanding. A few other
designers have joined her, and she has developed some links with a
few big architectural firms.
The downstairs door clicked open, and Allison heard footsteps
echo up the stairwell. “Hello . . . I have lunch for us.”
After a few moments, he appeared in the doorway, then walked
into the living room. “Hey, Elliot. Hi there!” He put the shopping
bags on the kitchen island and then came toward the girls, dodging
a tattered cardboard box and a spread of Allison’s photographs on
the floor. He kissed Allison, then leaning over, he hugged Elliot.
“How are you?” he said.
“Fine, thanks.” Elliot smiled.
“It’s good to see you. I’m just going to unpack the shopping and
take the toiletries upstairs. I also have a few things to print out . . . so
I’ll come down after and make you all some salad baguettes. Is that
okay?”
Elliot responded, “Fine. No rush. If you have a copy of your
latest writing efforts, I would like to read it over lunch. Just a skim
read, and I’ll give it back.”
“I’ll give you a copy to take home, and you can go through it at
your leisure.”

He waved and disappeared farther up the staircase. Allison
listened for a few moments to his muffled footsteps in the rooms
above.
The various periods in Allison’s life were scattered across the
floor in the form of photographs. Several boxes of personal items
had been shipped recently from Australia. She had spent the
morning exploring the ebb and flow of her past life. Many of the
photos were of her road trip around Australia. She had started to
order them into different piles, but half were still out of order.
“So, how is your photography project going?” Elliot said.
“Doing fine. Thanks for asking.”
“What’s happening? I mean, I know you’ve got a bunch of kids
together, and you’re taking photos, but what for exactly? What will
you do with the photos they take?”
“I don’t know if it’s going to lead to anything particular. It’s
hard to tell so far, but for my own selfish reasons, I wanted to
contribute, to do something positive and artistic in the community
here. It might be an exploration of identity. And I have been
thinking I might try and organize an exhibition for them
eventually.”
“Sounds good to me,” Elliot said.
They were silent for a while as Allison watched a new BMW
pull up in front of a house a few houses down on her side of the
street. An African American couple with two children got out and
went into the house. The house was one of several, including their
own, that had been restored in the last year.
Elliot continued. “I know things are changing here in Harlem,
with all the poverty and crime abating and all that, but it still freaks
me out a little. After parking the car up the street, near Marcus
Garvey Park, there was this gang hanging off the steps of a
crumbling building. Their body language, well, it was intimidating,
and—”
“When I walk past them, I try to say hello, to be friendly.
Sometimes I stop and chat for a few minutes.”

Elliot shook her head. “I don’t know how you do that. I wanted
to cross the street, but by the time I saw them, it was too late. I
thought it would look suspicious if I crossed, and they might follow
me or harass me. So I walked past and tried to look collected.”
“Look, sometimes it’s just a bunch of kids hanging out. Not
every kid is in a gang, Elliot, and they aren’t used to seeing too
many Whites up here. It’s still mainly an African American
neighborhood. If you try to leave your preconceived ideas behind
when you come here, you’ll fare a lot better. Like the kids in my
photography project. They were a little suspicious of my motives in
the beginning, but now they try to protect me whenever we are out
together. We went for a photo session several blocks north of 125th
Street the other week, and they said to me, ‘Oh Ms Bird, don’t go
down that street, it’s not safe,’ and ‘You can’t say things like that
here, Ms Bird. People don’t like it.’ They were trying to educate me.
Anyway, it’s been a growth experience for them and me, I think. I’m
obviously still naïve about many things here in Harlem. I’m learning
about their world.”
Elliot smiled and shook her head again. “Well, if it makes you
happy, go for it, but I have to say it seems a bit crazy to me. What
does Hooman say?”
“He wouldn’t say anything discouraging. And it was my idea to
move here, and he didn’t object. Initially, Nava bought the property
as an investment. So I guess he is fine. I know he worries about me
sometimes when I do risky things. But hey! Didn’t your
grandparents come from the slums in the Lower East Side . . . in the
1920s, with all the grinding poverty of the time?”
“Yes, but it wasn’t like Harlem is today,” Elliot said.
“Why? How do you know that? There might have been a lot of
similar problems for your grandparents.”
Elliot’s face looked thoughtful. “I’m not going to get into this
conversation if you are going to lay traps for me. I’m not
prejudiced. I understand the difficulties that African Americans face
here in Harlem.”

“Good. I am glad you understand that while you and I have
options as Whites, many African Americans cannot escape the
gravity of the poverty they face here and in many of the poorer
African American neighborhoods in other American cities. We can
leave this poverty at any time, at any moment, whereas they, for the
most part, cannot. They continue to experience systemic racism, a
lack of employment opportunities, and ultimately the ongoing
gentrification of Harlem. And I just wanted to remind you of your
background and to say, don’t forget. And don’t get bourgeoisie on
me, that’s all.”
“Bourgeoisie! What do you call this house? You’re a landowner
here, Allison.”
“Yes, but at least I’m reminded of the poverty every day when I
step out on the street. Most people lock themselves away in
cloistered communities, filtered from the extremes of economic and
social diversity. They drift along in life without the least curiosity or
care for the plight of the poor. The ignorance from Whites of the
ongoing poverty that many African Americans must endure is
almost worse than overt racism. They are still second-class citizens
in many respects relative to employment and particularly with their
incarceration rates in American jails; there is a relationship between
poverty and crime. Had they had better opportunities like Whites,
then there would not be these high incarceration rates. Often with
the police, there is an assumption of guilt that African Americans
have to endure.”
Elliot smiled. The sound of Hooman’s footsteps echoed down
the stairwell. He came in with a smile on his face. “Right, okay, girls.
Time for lunch. Sorry to keep you waiting. Oh, I forgot. I printed a
copy for you. Wait a sec,” he said. He turned and went back up to
the top rooms. A few minutes later he came back with a hefty
manuscript.
“Here,” he said as he passed it to Elliot, “take your time. Any
feedback would be welcome.”

Elliot flicked over the title page, which said Untitled, and read
the first few pages while Hooman walked back to the kitchen to start
preparing lunch.
“I like these paragraphs. Very powerful, I think.” Elliot read out
loud:
“After 157 years of  technological change and innovation, the world has
become a global village. We can now see a melding of  economic, cultural,
and social diversity. But the financial benefits, in the main, are accessible
only to a small percentage of  individuals, companies, or nations who exploit
the poverty in the rest of  the world. The developing world subsidizes the
lifestyle of  wealthy nations; the rich stand on the shoulders of  the poor. And
consequently, wage slavery in the developing world is seen as an acceptable
part of  the free market system.”
Elliot stopped there but continued to read to herself for a while.
Allison eventually interrupted her. “You see, Elliot, this is
exactly the situation in Harlem but on a smaller scale. Hooman is
looking at a global scale,” Allison commented.
Elliot responded thoughtfully. “Yes . . . I suppose it is. Here.
This next paragraph is good too,” and she passed the manuscript
over to Allison, who read it in her mind:
If  we were to strip away the contradictory elements of  human diversity that
lead to disunity, then we would find a common paradigm of  being human,
which transcends language, place, and outward appearance. So within this
pattern we will find a new concept of  global citizenry emerging that
addresses inequality and begins to underpin a notion of  human rights that
transcends nationhood. When this consciousness of  oneness is fostered, then
the current poverty subsidy, among other global inequities, begins to be seen
for what it is: a by-product of  a facile, decadent, and immature notion of
humanity as being little more than a unit of  consumption prey to world
market forces and fed by consumer propaganda. Surely our humanity is
broader and richer than this limited materialistic vision. And, in fact, a
grander renaissance of  spiritual values has already begun its inexorable rise

and will in time overshadow the current global hedonism, which is already
crumbling under its own unsustainable weight.
* * *
Lunch passed by. Elliot had read more of Hooman’s manuscript as
she ate, and they discussed the various ideas raised that pointed to
global citizenship as a new paradigm of equality. Eventually, she
made her excuses and headed back to her house in Queens. A few
minutes after Elliot left, Hooman went upstairs to continue working
on his manuscript for a couple of hours. Allison went back to the
bay window. She stared at the leaves again. They were being pushed
around the street by a slight breeze. And there was also a warm light
that pushed through the bay window and into her body. After a
while, the sun disappeared behind a bank of clouds, and she lay
down and closed her eyes.
He shook her out of her sleep later in the day.
She sat up and said, “Let’s go to the park. I need to drag my
feet through the leaves. Like the boy across the street.”
“It’s a bit cold out, and the sun’s gone now. Are you sure you
want to go?”
“Yes. I’ve been cooped up today. I need to get out. Is that
okay?”
“No problem. I’ll go get your coat.”
Descending the steps in front of the house, they were about to
walk toward the park when the boy she had seen before lunch came
out of the house on the opposite side of the street. When he
reached the sidewalk, he looked up at Allison and Hooman.
She waved. “Hello.” But he did not reply.
Stepping into the gutter, he stared back for a moment, then
turned and walked away, dragging his feet through the red-brown
fall leaves.
They walked on toward the park. “He must be shy. Have you
seen him before?” Allison asked.

“No. But we haven’t been here that long, so it’s no surprise, I
guess.”
“I’ve never seen him before today, but I was thinking maybe I
have seen him but didn’t register it. He is so familiar somehow. I feel
like I have already met him.”
In the park they were about to walk past the recreation center
when she stopped. “Hey! You walk on. I just want to see if any kids
have shown an interest in my photography project.”
Allison had left a register for names on the noticeboard in the
center.
“Okay. I’ll meet you near the steps,” he said.
* * *
Hooman sat on a bench next to the base of the hill that inhabited
the center of the park. The steps that led up the hill were only a
short walk away from the bench. He felt a cold breeze on his face.
He looked toward the top of the park at the swimming pool before
looking at the amphitheater that was situated behind the recreation
center.
With nothing pressing in his work schedule during the week, he
found his mind quite free today. He was thinking of nothing and
worried about nothing. Even the sketchy first draft of his book was
not the burden it had been when he had first started. He had reread
some of the sections that Elliot had read during lunch; the
manuscript looked hopeful and coherent.
Looking around the park, which was relatively empty, he saw a
few old men sitting on benches near the edge of the lawn area that
was adjacent to the baseball pitch. He had noticed, when he drove
past with Nava every day on his way to work, that they were almost
always in the park. He guessed that some were retired and others
destitute, and he had noted one man in particular who always sat on
the same seat every day.
Beyond work, it was as if he had pushed back the mundane
moments in his life, and all aspects of his day had found an

integrated place. He smiled and recalled making lunch for the girls.
The task was a humble pleasure rediscovered: cutting bread,
arranging the cheese slices, lettuce, tomatoes. The baguettes were a
palette of flavors with some significance he could not rationalize; for
a moment, the arrangement of ingredients felt sacred.
At the table at lunch, Allison had broken off a piece of banana
and handed it to him. He had noticed the crystalline structures,
illumined in the warm light, where the banana cells had torn and
stretched into architectural threads: housing, he had imagined, for
some advanced future race.
He had passed it back to her. “Look. A city, on the top of the
banana, a yellow metropolis.”
He had liked chatting about nothing in particular to the
shopkeeper where he had bought the baguettes. He liked waiting
here on the park bench, thinking of nothing or whatever happened
to drift into his head. The 15 months since they had married had
dissolved a part of his ambition for the future. He was living in the
moment more than he ever had, and it felt good.
Of course, they did speak about things of significance too:
movies, books, culture, and religion. Their relationship had
liberated the suppressed elements in his personality. Other
potentials and attributes were being released to find a new
foundation in his life, and he felt himself becoming more like her.
Then there was the deepening relationship with the Bahá’í
community in Harlem and its goals to build and enhance social
diversity and equality through education and to foster community-
building activities in collaboration with the Harlem community.
Hooman and Allison were both moving through the sequence of
Ruhi Institute courses; they had got as far as book six, Teaching the
Cause. Allison’s understanding of the spiritual principles of the Faith
was deepening now, and their conversations about spiritual and
social reality were becoming more nuanced and complex as they
talked about the oneness of God, religion, and humanity.
* * *

Hooman looked over at the path alongside the recreation center
and saw Allison walking toward him. She was wrapped tightly in
her coat. When she was closer to him, she said, “You were right
about it being chilly. I’m feeling it now. But I don’t care.” She
smiled.
“How did you go?”
“No luck, I’m afraid.”
“Perhaps next week you’ll get more interest.”
“One of the volunteers says she’ll push it a bit harder for me
and suggest it to kids who come into the center.”
“That’s good.”
Opening her coat, she wrapped it around him as he got up from
the bench.
“You have to keep me warm, and the baby too,” she said with
exuberance.
He placed her hood over her head and wrapped it around her
face, which formed a tunnel with fur edges. He laughed after
blowing warm air into the fur tunnel.
“Is that warm enough now?” he said.
Her muffled voice escaped the hood. “Yes,” and she laughed
and broke away. She removed her hood. “Let’s walk to the top of
the hill. That’ll warm us up.”
He took her hand, and they began to walk toward the stone
staircase.
After a minute, they came to the staircase and then walked up
it. At the top of the hill, they emerged from the wooded area into an
open plateau paved with stone. They sat down on a stone wall that
faced the downtown area, and looking through the trees on the edge
of the hill, they looked down on 5th Avenue. They could just see
one edge of Central Park with all its fall leaves in brown tones. The
rest of Marcus Garvey Park, and Harlem beyond, stretched out
beneath the hill. The golden-brown hue of fall trees blended
harmoniously with the cool muted grays and the warm reds of the
buildings surrounding the park.

She eventually looked over at him.
“So . . . Mr. Hooman, what are we doing here?”
“I don’t know. I followed you here. Do you have any doubts?”
“No, it’s just going to be more difficult than I originally
thought.”
“What did you expect? This is a tough part of town. Only ten
or so years ago, we couldn’t even contemplate moving here. I found
out from the shopkeeper today that one house on our street was a
crack house during the late eighties, early nineties. So at least it’s
real. We’re not living in that walled paradise you mentioned a few
years ago.”
“No. You’re right. No walled paradise for us.” She smiled.
“Really, I am happy here when I think about it. Those kids in my
group are both amazing and frustrating. I realized the other day,
when we were out, that some of them were having trouble
concentrating because they don’t get breakfast on a regular basis. I
mean I know they get breakfast at school on the weekdays but
apparently not always on the weekends. We are living in the
developing world, right here in the middle of Manhattan.”
“I know. Isn’t it amazing that amongst all this wealth in
Manhattan, such poverty can exist in such close proximity?” He
pointed toward the downtown area. “And Bahá’u’lláh says, ‘If ye
meet the abased or the down-trodden, turn not away disdainfully
from them, for the King of Glory ever watcheth over them and
surroundeth them with such tenderness as none can fathom except
them that have suffered their wishes and desires to be merged in the
Will of your Lord, the Gracious, the All-Wise.’” 3
“I saw some photos recently on the internet from the 1960s.
Some of the poverty in Harlem from then to now has reduced, but,
relative to the rest of Manhattan, there is still disparity, and South
Bronx in particular still has extreme poverty rates. And, you know,
I’m not comfortable with our house.”
“I know, I know,” Hooman said apologetically. “I would have
lived in something humbler, but Nava insisted on making the house
a showcase of her talents.”

“It might be a good idea to sell the apartment in New Jersey,
buy a brownstone here, and offer it to local artists as a series of free
art studios or maybe even writing studios.”
“Yes, we could do that. That’s a wonderful idea, Allison.”
She stopped talking for a moment, then took his hand into her
lap. “One of the boys came with bruises on his face the other day. I
don’t know where he got them. He wouldn’t talk about it.”
“You mentioned the other day that there is a general anger in
them too, just below the surface.”
“Yes, it surfaces when we talk about racial identity and other
issues related to race. Though it’s not all bad. They are great kids
and really bright on the whole. I was talking to Elliot about it today.
She freaks out a bit when she is here, like Nava, but I didn’t want to
tell her about my issues with the kids because I didn’t want to
confirm any stereotypes she might have about the place and the
kids. Things here are not straightforward. The complexities of the
race issues are hard to put into easy terms, and I don’t think she is
ready for that conversation yet. Although I saw a change in Elliot’s
face after she read a little of your manuscript.”
“Listen, why don’t you ask the kids what they want to do. Try
taking a more consultative approach, more inclusive. Sit back and
let them take more of a lead.”
“Okay, that’s a good idea. I’ll try that.”
They sat on the stone wall for a few minutes in relative silence.
Hooman thought again about their new life together in Harlem. He
felt her slender fingers as they held hands. He liked to look over at
her and watch what she was doing. She was looking at the
downtown area. He saw the cars turning onto 5th Avenue and
moving toward Central Park and listened to the sounds of the traffic
and the ambient hum of the city.
* * *
Half an hour later they walked back to the house. They chatted
about lighter subjects. When they came to the street, she kicked the

leaves in the gutter. They reached the door, and she looked over at
the house where the boy lived. Its windows were empty, darkened,
but the house beckoned to her.
Once they were inside their house, they walked up the staircase
into the living room. Allison offered to sit down and take Hooman
chronologically through her photographs. So they sat down, and she
started to shuffle through the photographs that had not been
ordered yet. Most of them were taken in Australia, but there were a
few shots of Paris and London from years before. She continued
putting them in different piles, and he started to look at each one.
“This pile is the east coast of Australia,” she said, “and this pile
is central Australia.”
“The desert shots are interesting. You are such a good
photographer.”
“Thanks, babe.”
“What’s this?” He passed her a photo of a series of coins and
notes laid out on sand.
“Oh, that was part of my visual diary. On my road trip around
Australia.”
He picked up another photo. “Where is this? It’s beautiful.”
“That’s the Bungle Bungles.”
She picked up a photo of Cathedral Gorge and passed it to
him.
“Wow. That’s gorgeous.”
“It had rained several hours before that shot was taken, so the
waterfall inside the gorge was flowing.”
She started to find more shots of Paris, so she added them to
the Paris pile. She thought about all the wonderful cafés near
Montmartre and Épinettes, where she had lived for three months in
a cramped apartment with Gabriel and Aurélie.
He pointed to one photo of Centre Pompidou. “I recognize
that from one of my own trips to Paris,” he said.
In the photograph Centre Pompidou was partially obscured by
an avenue of plane trees. She explained that she had been sitting

outside near the Centre at a restaurant, Le Cavalier Bleu, when she
had taken the photo.
Then she saw one photo of the entrance of the Abbesses metro
station with all its Art Nouveau design. She kissed the photo and
passed it to him. “Isn’t the design fabulous?”
* * *
After four days in the Daintree, in Tropical North Queensland,
Australia, she drove south for an hour and a half toward Cairns,
passing through many sugarcane farms on the way. She took a
turnoff before Cairns to drive into the hills, eventually passing
through Kuranda. She stopped in front of the Kuranda Market for
a few minutes, recalling her childhood memories. Once she passed
through Kuranda, she left the rainforest behind and drove through
the Atherton Tablelands, which was a mixture of rolling green hills
and patches of forest, used mainly for cattle and sheep.
Occasionally, she passed farms growing different crops that she
could not always identify, but eventually, she left the rolling hills as
she stopped driving south through the tablelands and went west into
the center of Queensland. The countryside gradually flattened out,
alternating between red and yellow dirt and filled with grass and a
widely spaced spread of small eucalypts. It was not quite desert, but
the isolation of the place felt desert-like. As the distance between the
small towns increased, the population of these towns decreased, and
the amounts of cars on the road also dwindled. This was the
beginning of her social isolation and a singular connection to the
land, her own personal being in nothingness, though a different
“being” and a different “nothingness” to the one Sartre had
intended. The desert was an emptiness that was actually full, and
rather than nothingness being a void of absolute meaning in this
life, the desert was a mirror to Allison of the lack of human
presence, which allowed her to see her identity with more intensity:
it was just her, the road, the desert, and the sky, where she could
leave the world behind and find herself on the road.

It took five days to drive to Kakadu. Each night she pulled off
the highway into truck stops and slept in the back of the car. The
highway was not always a double lane. In places it turned into a
single lane, and she had to be careful not to hit cars coming in the
other direction. It was easier at night because she could see the
headlights of the cars and trucks coming in the distance.
On the second day she left Queensland and passed into the
Northern Territory. The size of the eucalypts gradually decreased
before disappearing completely and being replaced with small
bushes. The size of grass tussocks also decreased, and their color
changed from a rich green to a yellow-gray. This terrain remained
flat for most of the time, until she got closer to Kakadu, where she
started to see rocky outcrops and low red hills.
On the last day of the trip to Kakadu, Allison arrived at a
camping ground at dusk. It was situated in the heart of the Kakadu
National Park. Once she had pitched her tent, she got into her car
and drove a short way away to Yellow Water Billabong. She found a
parking lot next to the billabong and parked. The colors and the
dusk light reflected on the dark water were exquisite.
She was tempted to swim in the water but knew there would
most likely be crocodiles, so instead she imagined herself swimming
in the clear, dark water, brushing aside the water lilies as she swam.
Allison had been traveling for close to four months now. As she
had traveled, she liked the anticipation of another small Australian
town in the middle of nowhere. At times she had even traveled
without her map, just moving from town to town with no
understanding of the greater geography around her; she liked the
surprise of finding something beautiful and unexpected.
And traveling, or driving in a car, appeared to her to be a
metaphor for personal development—moving away from herself
with every mile and arriving at herself simultaneously, like two
opposing archetypes—future self and past self, moving through
future land and past land, brought into focus in the present
moment.

She had tried to compare the markers of change, to find what
moments were transformative. When she crossed a desert, was it the
emptiness that moved her—the lack of human presence? As she
had contemplated before, the desert was like a mirror of identity.
And then she thought about cities, where it was the opposite—with
the fullness of human life and its alien diversity, which were also
mirrors of identity. Allison saw that through this complex
juxtaposition of identity through the emptiness and fullness of
humanity, she might be able to find herself. By contrasting one’s
personality against the backdrop of others’ unique and diverse
personalities, one’s own unique identity became apparent, and from
that came the development of self.
But although the places she visited were a mirror for identity in
one way, they were also detached from the people who passed
through them and effaced identity in another way. They hardly ever
fully recorded the identity of a visitor; identity faded like tracks in
the desert sand, and when the wind blew, no traces remained of the
person who had passed through that desert. So external identity,
based within place, was a phantom. Even a city—more prone to
recording the lives of its inhabitants—changed and wiped identity
away as it moved forward and ground and crushed bones into the
earth under it. It glided over humans and went on into infinity, and
graves sprung up like flowers. That bright light shone down on
death, and all that could be said with surety of a person or place
was its impermanence, and whatever unique identity one developed
in this life eventually passed with them into death, never to be seen
again in this world.


The Notebook
In fire he seeth the face of  the Beloved; in illusion he beholdeth the secret of
reality; in the attributes he readeth the riddle of  the Essence. For he hath
burnt away all veils with a sigh, and cast aside all coverings with a glance.
With piercing sight he gazeth upon the new creation . . .1
—Bahá’u’lláh, The Seven Valleys
That invisible country—with its borders between Black and White
America—shimmered in Allison’s mind as she caught train 2 from
the corner of 125th Street and Malcolm X Boulevard. It was
Wednesday, and she and Hooman had arranged to meet up in
Greenwich Village during his lunch break. There was an obscure
book written during the time of the civil rights movement at the
Jefferson Market Library that she wanted to borrow. They were
going to meet near the library and walk to the Seven Stars Café
from there. She wondered why he wanted to meet at the library
because it was just as easy to walk directly to the café.
She stood on the platform, looking around at all of Harlem’s
citizens. She was about to undergo a familiar process: the crossing.
Allison began to cross Harlem’s racial boundary as she stepped onto
the train.
At 125th Street the carriages consisted almost entirely of
African Americans and a few Latinos. At the top of Central Park
and Malcolm X Boulevard, a few White Americans would get in the

carriages, and a few African Americans would leave. At 72nd Street
and Amsterdam, still more would exchange positions, so by the time
the train pulled into 42nd Street and Times Square, the carriage
was an equal proportion of African Americans to White. And in the
stops past 42nd Street, the trend completely reversed to almost
entirely White Americans and a few other diverse faces from New
York’s culturally broad populous.
Hooman had compared the process to traveling on the high-
speed trains in Europe when one crossed over a few country borders
in quick succession, but in Manhattan it was compressed into an
even tighter scale.
During the year she had read a book on the history of
segregation in America, from the pre- and post-Lincoln times up to
the fifties and sixties, with segregation in the South and the broader
inequalities that had led to the civil rights movement and
contemporary segregation along residential lines. She had weighed
the arguments. If economic and cultural diversity were brought to
Harlem, it would lose some of its character and individuality as an
African American neighborhood, but it would become more
culturally integrated. And Harlem would change further, in that she
had no doubt, but the direction might take the default path of
commercial necessity from property developers, which would be
driven by White middle-class aspirations, of which she was a self-
conscious part. As the rents increased, more White people would
probably thin the ranks of the African Americans. She felt that if
mainstream America pushed for more education and social
empowerment within Harlem, then some of the poverty would
dissipate, and more African Americans would find more jobs within
the middle class, which would in turn push against White
gentrification.
Her life there was on the end of a historical circle, which was
close to making another rotation. Leading up to 1890, Harlem had
been a wealthy White neighborhood, before the inflated housing
market had brought about a bust. A second bust in 1905 triggered
an influx of poorer African Americans, which transformed it into a

largely African American neighborhood, and, if White
gentrification continued, the circle of history would close out and
show how poverty had affected cultural separation along residential
lines.
Allison’s thoughts turned to her young photography group: she
wanted to gauge their perceptions of Harlem’s negative and positive
history. Harlem had become a flourishing cultural and artistic
community, from the times of the Harlem Renaissance, which
spanned from 1920 to 1930, up to the present day with Harlem’s
Studio Museum. And many other cultural, political, and artistic
organizations had encouraged the community to thrive. Did her
students have an opinion about it? Was there a sophisticated
aesthetic way she could incorporate their understanding of their life
and identity in Harlem into the pictures they took? Would they
grow in their perceptions of Harlem by seeing it as more than just a
separate enclave of those abandoned by a passive, but no less
insidious, racism in America?
Passive racism was the inactivity and indifference of
mainstream America to alleviate the decades of poverty and the
lack of educational and economic opportunities endured by the
African American community. This passivity had more subtle forms
in the way American identity was portrayed in the media, but in
totality it affected power distribution within American society and
the common will to affect change.
Racism would have to be addressed at the individual,
community, and institutional level, and on both sides of the racial
divide, to address pervasive systemic racism built into social,
political, and economic structures. There was a synergy between
these different aspects of society, that once engaged properly, and at
every level, would lead to a richer and more balanced perception of
identity and nation and continue to blur distinct racial identity and
deepen the ongoing process of America becoming a nation of
vibrant, mixed-race people.
And although history had eradicated much of the overt
superiority felt by Whites, there was still a subconscious superiority

prevalent in some parts of American society. Whites would need to
reach out with genuine friendship and address the grievances of the
past and present within the African American community, and the
African American community, on their part, would need to forgive
the past wrongs against them, which was asking a lot more of them
than was being asked of White people. Nothing short of genuine
love, extreme patience, and persistent effort on both sides would
resolve these issues, so that prejudice from within both Black and
White communities would not find a foothold, and racism could
continue to dissipate into history.
Near her final stop at Christopher Street Station, a Black poet
beggar walked into the carriage and recited a poem. As he walked
past people, he held his hand out for a few coins. Allison caught the
last few lines as he neared her end of the carriage: “a forgotten
people in a forgotten land. Swing low sweet chariot. Swing low to
catch your sweet brothers and sisters. Lift their faces to heaven
high.” These words cemented her resolve about Harlem and its
future. She would try to contribute to an alternate future of cultural
diversity, which transcended a purely African American
neighborhood, but which maintained a good part of its current
identity as a Black community. It seemed to her that Harlem could
absorb other cultures and depart from the limiting future that was
currently playing out.
At Christopher Street Station she got off the train and headed
to the surface.
* * *
Near the top of Union Square, Hooman saw one of those expensive
stationary shops. He had caught a taxi from Midtown, close to
where his new firm was located, and was now en route to meet
Allison for lunch.
He tapped on the glass. “You can drop me here,” he said to the
driver.
“Don’t you want to go to the Village?”

“I changed my mind. Here’s the fare and a bit extra.”
He left the taxi and crossed the street.
In the shop he went straight to the diary and notebook section.
A few weeks back, as he was driving to work with Nava, he had seen
the exact notebook he wanted in a window display of another
outlet. The notebook was large. It was made of good-quality paper
and bound in a thick leather cover, which had a flap to protect the
paper edges. A long leather strap bound it shut as it wound around
the notebook several times. Performing his usual ritual, he put his
face into the open book. He smelled the paper and leather aroma
mixing and drifting off the pages.
Once he had bought the notebook, he stepped outside and
hailed another taxi. He asked the driver to head to the corner of
6th Avenue and West 9th Street.
* * *
“What are you thinking?” he asked.
Smiling, she opened her eyes. “Oh, nothing much, just listening
to the sounds around me and thinking about a different kind of
Harlem.”
Allison was leaning against the fence of the Jefferson Market
Garden, which was right next to the Jefferson Market Library.
“Did you find your book?”
“Yes, I did.” She patted her bag and smiled.
“What is it?”
“It’s a novel written during the middle of the civil rights
movement. It’s called An Unequal Sun. It’s about an interracial couple
who marry in Detroit in 1962, and it highlights the courage and
determination that it took to live across the racial boundaries of that
era.”
“Sounds interesting.”
“Yes, I’ve heard good things about it.”
He took her hand, and they turned toward 6th Avenue.

As they crossed the street, she noticed Hooman carrying a bag.
“What’s in the bag?”
“I’m not telling . . . for the moment.” He laughed.
“Don’t tease, what is it?”
“I’ll show you when we get to the café.”
Once they were on the other side of the street, Hooman turned
left, and they walked past the entrance to 9th Street Station.
Allison looked back over her shoulder for a moment. “Where
are we going? The café is in the opposite direction.”
“I want to show you something that I think may interest you.”
“Oh . . . okay, cool. Is this why you wanted to meet me at the
library?”
“Yep,” he said.
They walked up 6th Avenue and then turned right down West
10th Street. Hooman led her to the left side of the street, and after a
minute, he stepped onto the sidewalk and looked up at a modern
apartment block that was surrounded on either side by older
nineteenth-century-era buildings.
“Yep, this is fifty-one.”
“Who lives here?”
“It’s not who lives here but who lived here. Past tense, babe.”
He waited for a moment with a big smile. “I give you . . . Kahlil
Gibran,” he said eventually with an excited tone as he raised both
arms up to the sky to encompass the building.
“Kahlil Gibran lived here?” she said with an air of
unbelievability.
“Yep, totally did . . . totally.”
“I have read The Prophet . . . years ago, but I did read it. I had no
idea he lived in New York.”
“Well, I think you can guess that he didn’t live in this more
modern building. His studio apartment was here until 1955, when it
was demolished. It had been, in Gibran’s time, a series of artists’
studios. He wrote The Prophet while he was living here. And I will
show you another interesting thing. Come, follow me.”

He stepped onto the street and almost bounced along until he
stepped onto the sidewalk on the opposite side of the street and
walked past four houses before he stopped in front of one. She
followed him across the street and stopped next to him as he looked
up.
“Who lived here?” she said.
“An early Bahá’í. An artist and close friend of Gibran—Juliet
Thompson.”
“Okay. I have never heard of her before.”
“No, I knew that, but she was very close to ʻAbdu’l-Bahá.
Come, I have one more thing to show you.”
“Okay, very cool so far. So this street is at least a part of why
Greenwich Village got its bohemian reputation.”
“Yep, along with the Beat poets, the sixties counterculture, and
many of the abstract expressionists who lived in the neighborhood.”
“Yeah, I knew about that part of its history. Although these
days, most artists have been priced out of the market.”
They crossed the street and walked until they came to 5th
Avenue. As they walked, she said, “So Kahlil Gibran had a
connection to the Bahá’í Faith?”
“Yes, he did. Gibran met ʻAbdu’l-Bahá during his time in New
York, and Gibran was deeply moved by him.”
Hooman eventually stopped in front of a large church on their
left.
He looked up at it. “This is the Church of the Ascension . . .
ʻAbdu’l-Bahá gave a speech here in April 1912, and the subject
matter is kind of appropriate for my book because he used a
metaphor of humanity as being a bird with two wings. One wing
being material civilization and the other, divine civilization.
Ultimately, without these two wings, humanity cannot make any
progress, as a bird with only one wing will obviously not be able to
fly.”
“Yeah, that is a good metaphor,” Allison said, looking around at
the features of the church. They lingered in front of the church for
a while in silence before Hooman took her hand, and they turned

around and walked south down 5th Avenue. They circled around
and eventually came to the Seven Stars Café on West 8th Street; the
café was close to 6th Avenue.
Inside the Seven Stars Café, they sat at a table and ordered food
and coffee. The table was toward the back of the café and
overlooked the courtyard. She looked out at the red brick walls
surrounding the courtyard and the intense red fall leaves of the
Boston ivy growing on these walls, before leaning back for a
moment and looking up at the stars painted on the roof of the café.
There were obviously seven large stars painted on the roof but
also many other smaller stars that were arranged in a regular
pattern of rows around the seven larger stars, which was supposed
to represent the roofs in the interiors of many Egyptian tombs. And
typically, The Book of  the Dead and other funerary texts were placed
inside a sarcophagus, or they were painted on the walls surrounding
a sarcophagus. The café had always had that odd eclecticism with
all the mismatched furniture, and then there was the Egyptian
theme on the roof that was odd too. And for a moment Allison had
an image in her mind of the whole café being transported into the
interior of an Egyptian tomb. She then looked over at the front of
the cafe where she and Hooman had sat on her first night in New
York. The old leather armchair was still there. Her life had come a
long way from that night and was circling back on itself.
The café was full and humming with conversations. Allison
listened to these conversations as Hooman placed the bag on the
table. “I bought you something. Guess what it is.”
“I have no idea, but I can smell leather.”
“It’s a notebook.” He pulled it out of the bag and handed it to
her.
She unwound the leather strap and opened it to the middle
pages. “Oh. It’s really nice, Hooman. The paper is so lovely and
thick. Thanks. This is so thoughtful of you.” She closed the
notebook and placed it on the table.
“It’s for your boxes full of Post-it notes, scraps of paper, and the
many small notepads you have lying around the house.”

“You think I should consolidate? Yes, I could. I had a thought to
do it but hadn’t gotten around to it yet.”
“I figured since you have left the idea of finishing your master’s
degree behind, you may as well start pulling all your own personal
research together in one place. It’ll give you something to do until
the baby arrives.”
“Yes, I will. That’s a good idea. Thank you.” She leaned over
the table and kissed him.
The coffees and food arrived, and the shape of his face
changed. She knew his mind had shifted gears, and she waited for a
change in the topic.
“I wanted to ask how you’re going. About things that I know
will go into this notebook.” He placed his hand on the cover and
continued. “You have been very quiet about your inner life this past
year. I haven’t asked, not because I don’t care, but because I didn’t
want to intrude. I know you don’t like to talk about it too much.”
“Nothing has changed, really. I mean, I still have these strange
experiences in both my inner and outer worlds, though what is
different is I’ve learned to integrate these experiences. I am no
longer perturbed, as I was before, and there is symmetry in my life
now that has come from my symmetrical destiny map and my
efforts to see patterns of meaning and connection in this world.”
“Do you mind if I ask you more about it?”
She smiled and reached out to take his hand. “I suppose I have
been elusive. I’m sorry. I was thinking of telling you eventually.”
She stopped and gathered her thoughts and began to think
about different metaphors to describe her recent experiences.
Eventually, she thought of a poem she had written that month
called “The Glass Womb” that explored the veils between this world
and the next.
“If the veil that separates this world from the next is thin, then
for me, it is somehow thinner now. I exist in a glass womb that is
slowly turning from opaque to transparent. I see the world outside
the womb, and beyond that womb, I see the pattern of existence

emerge from the illusion of this world as I pass through different
gates in reality,” she said.
She stopped speaking for a while and looked at the courtyard,
her eyes focusing again on the intense red leaves of the Boston ivy.
After a long pause, she smiled and continued, “When I was in
London, I discovered a book, a translation of Egyptian scripture
called The Book of  Gates. It is a funerary text associated with The Book
of  the Dead. The dead were meant to use The Book of  the Dead to
navigate the afterlife, called the Duat by Egyptians. All these books
feature a god, long obscured by history, called Osiris. He was
commonly known as the god of the afterlife, but I think he was an
actual person in the flesh. It’s speculative on my part, but I think he
might have been a messenger or a prophet who lived many
thousands of years ago. Egyptologist Wallis Budge maintained that
the Egyptian religion was at one time monotheistic, with Osiris as
the prophet who was eventually deified into a man-god, and that the
religion only degraded into polytheism much later in history. Osiris
was always connected with the spiritual resurrection of the soul and
immortality after death. Thus, Budge’s book was named Osiris & the
Egyptian Resurrection. I think you’ve seen me reading The Book of  Gates
now and then. It talks about the afterlife being divided into a series
of gates or regions. The Book of  the Dead describes seven gates, and
other funerary texts associated with that book, like The Book of  Gates,
have twelve gates, based on the twelve hours of the night as Ra
passes through the Otherworld each night on the ‘evening boat’
after a day, or twelve hours, in the sky. He then merges with Osiris
during the night, becoming Temu: the hidden God, and the dead
who have died that day travel with them on the evening boat into
the Otherworld.”
“Gates? Okay, that’s interesting. That reminds me of the Báb.
As you know, he is known as ‘the Gate,’” said Hooman.
“And do you remember that holy day a few weeks ago? At the
Bahá’í Center.”
“Yes.”

Allison continued, “You were talking to someone, and I was
browsing through the bookstall with Shidan at my side. He found an
Arabic book by Bahá’u’lláh called Gems of  Divine Mysteries. Shidan
translated parts of it for me when I was at the Sun Tongue not long
after that. And the Universal House of Justice is bringing out an
English version next year. Of course, this extends what Bahá’u’lláh
revealed in The Seven Valleys, and the concept of valleys was first used
in The Conference of  the Birds. Even some of the names of the valleys
are similar. I read The Seven Valleys properly just before we were
married. And, as you know, we studied parts of it together when we
were on our honeymoon. The birds must traverse the seven valleys
before they come to meet the Simorgh.”
“Yes, I know the connection between The Seven Valleys and The
Conference of  the Birds. The Seven Valleys outlines the seven levels or
conditions of closeness or proximity to God. But I have never read
Gems of  Divine Mysteries. My Arabic is not great. Is it similar to The
Seven Valleys?”
“Yes, it adds extra levels, bringing the total to nine cities or
valleys. So, these gates in the Egyptian afterlife are similar to the
concept of valleys or cities from Bahá’u’lláh’s writings. The gates
restrict souls from going to levels that they are not ready for.”
“How will a soul know which level to go to, then?” asked
Hooman.
“Basically, Osiris will know where a soul deserves to be relative
to the degree of righteousness it has attained in this life. And this
comes from the ‘weighting of the heart’ ceremony that comes after
death. So anyway, like I said before, the dead travel with Osiris and
Ra through the afterlife along a river in the night. Ra then enters
the ‘morning boat’ during the day, also called the Boat of Millions
of Years; this boat is used to travel between both worlds.
“Ra is the creator of all the gods, the father of creation. Like I
said before, he is also known as Temu, the great hidden God, and
the night-time form of Ra. And the link between The Conference of  the
Birds and Ra is the Egyptian idea of the Phoenix. The Egyptians
called it the Bennu, the sun-bird, which is similar to the Simorgh.

The Bennu’s cry at the beginning of creation marked the beginning
of time. It’s kind of like the Egyptian version of the Big Bang, I
suppose. But what these various texts associated with The Book of  the
Dead, used from 1550 BCE to 50 BCE, indicate to me is that ideas
that relate to the evolution in the life of the soul in the worlds of
God, in Egyptian culture at least, have been around for many
thousands of years, in times long forgotten. The oldest depictions of
Osiris go back as far as 2300 BCE. And there is clearly symmetry
between most of the major religions with regard to ideas that relate
to the existence of an afterlife; it’s a very old idea. And I think in
nearly all cultures it must go back tens of thousands of years, if not
hundreds of thousands of years.
“And what is really interesting is the similarity between Osiris
and Bahá’u’lláh. In a tablet by Bahá’u’lláh, the Tablet of  the Holy
Mariner, he refers to himself as the Mariner of the Ark in the
mysteries of the Seas of Light.2 And there are linked ideas between
The Seven Valleys and the Tablet of  the Holy Mariner.” Allison paused
for a moment in recounting her thoughts and ideas to Hooman.
It was just enough time for Hooman to get a word in. “That is
very interesting. So the symbol of the boat is similar in both
religions?”
“Yes, but what I couldn’t work out last year was that in the first
three to four gates in the afterlife there are the lakes of peace and
lakes of fire—the lakes of peace are on the right bank of the river
and the lakes of fire on the left bank. The fire lakes cease eventually.
And although hell is seen as the lowest levels, the grades of self, even
the more sanctified levels above this, have the lakes of fire, which
strip away lower attributes. This is linked to the Christian concept
of purgatory, the transitional phase before entering heaven in the
proper sense. The catalyst for change is represented as fire; it is the
cleansing fire. We are burning like the Bennu or Phoenix in cyclical
deaths and births of spiritual resurrection. You have to look at the
idea of transformation through change leading to changeless and
placeless states. ‘A lover is he who is chill in hell fire.’3 Because both
hell and heaven burn away both sin and virtue; sin is transfigured by

virtue, and virtue in turn is metamorphosized into more expansive
and breathtaking higher attributes. So, if you travel through fire or
water in eternity, you will be safe if God is inside you.”
“Yes, I’m with you. Amazing,” he said.
“Interesting, eh? That blew me away when I realized this idea,
and as you always say, on the whole, it is one reality, one God, one
afterlife, and one Holy Mariner.” Allison watched Hooman turn to
look at the courtyard. She continued when he looked back at her.
“Yes, well, I haven’t been able to fit The Book of  Gates completely to
The Seven Valleys, but I think they are connected. It is only that The
Book of  Gates has probably been reinterpreted so many times
throughout Egyptian history that its original purpose and purity
have been lost, but essentially, given this limitation of time, both
books talk about the same process and are written approximately
three and a half thousand years apart or maybe more; it’s hard to
say. It might be older. And when you read it through the prism of
the Bahá’í writings, its meaning becomes clearer. Although there are
many possible ways to unlock the meaning of The Seven Valleys, I
have come up with a few simple ideas of my own.
“As a soul ascends through the valleys, they go from self to
selfless, from change to changeless, from time to timeless, and from
lower self to higher self, in God. And as the soul moves up or
through these valleys or gates, they enter the spiritual worlds beyond
Nasut, the physical world. Remember we had that conversation in
Queensland during our honeymoon about the objective and
perceptual nature of time and eternity. These transitions are related
to that. I think that in the Valley of Unity our perception of time
and space fold away as we become aware of the two kinds of time
in Earth and heaven.”
“Fascinating theory.”
“And at the point in The Book of  Gates where the fire lakes cease,
it says that at the higher levels, the ‘wheat of truth’ is given equally
to all, the same portion, which is a reference to the oneness of
being. I think this corresponds with the Valley of Unity, level four,
described in The Seven Valleys. It’s where the plurality of our vision,

or duality, ceases, and the levels of the oneness of perception begin
—it is the unchanging reality beyond the ‘tree of the knowledge of
good and evil’ from the Bible. In the Tablet of  the Holy Mariner
Bahá’u’lláh says, ‘They passed the grades of worldly limitations and
reached that of the divine unity, the center of heavenly guidance.
Glorified be my Lord, the All-Glorious!’4 This is probably the
beginning of the world of Malakut.
“And, of course, the seventh level is called the Valley of True
Poverty and Absolute Nothingness. Absolute nothingness means
that you have left all attributes behind you, even higher attributes of
oneness found in the valleys below, until only the changeless
remains. This is immortality and eternal life. And this is the world
of Jabarut.”
“That’s fascinating. So assuming this is true, how do your own
experiences fit into the scheme of things?” he asked.
“Well, normally, in The Book of  Gates, it is assumed that the
person has died before they go through to the Otherworld or Duat.
So, what I am saying is what you told me when we first met. The
afterlife starts here—the physical world is not just a preparatory
phase for the next world. Remember, you once said the worlds are
comingling. Right? And it is the ‘Ba,’ the part of the soul according
to the Egyptians, that can make this transition in the Boat of
Millions of Years. The worlds are in the heart—the heart makes the
transition.”
“Yes, I did say the worlds are comingling. But how this happens
is obscure. The knowledge of it is hidden, except for a few rare and
holy souls. I mean, I suppose it is a very subjective and personal
experience anyway, so how would a person even know if another
soul was immersed in these higher worlds.”
“You don’t have to die to move through the worlds of God,
Hooman. Even Muhammad confirms this: ‘A believer is alive in
both worlds.’”5
“True, I suppose.”
“I started praying and meditating quite regularly when I was in
London.”

“Yes, you said that. I remember.”
“My destiny flows naturally from my daily prayers and
meditation. So, the secret incantations or passwords in The Book of
Gates that allow you to pass through the different gates are just
prayers to strip away earthly attributes and move you into an
unchanging world. And the other key is through action, serving
humanity. As you have said so many times, people are important.
People are a mirror of each other. That’s why I wanted to come to
Harlem. So you see, the worlds are hidden inside people, like I said,
in the heart. After all, the soul is the only constant between both
worlds. People are the building blocks, the architecture of the next
world. And mysticism is not a private pursuit or some obscure
esoteric practice but one that takes place in the context of
community. It always has.
“And as you move up the planes of consciousness, the world of
people move up the ladder with you in oneness. Except those on
lower planes are not aware of this upward movement or that they
are able to give away secrets that they are unable to comprehend
themselves. All the worlds are interfused perfectly. Everyone sees
their own reflection in the other, no matter what level they inhabit.
And there is also The Seven Valleys, which states: “Earth and heaven
cannot contain Me; what can alone contain Me is the heart of him
that believeth in Me.”6 And I think that he who contains God in his
heart is contained by God and lives in absolute safety from the
material world and its impermanence.
“Here, let me draw the nine gates or valleys. I know you’ve read
these books, so you will understand my base premise, I think. Can I
use your pen?”
He reached into his jacket pocket. “Sure.” He passed it to her.
Opening to the middle of the new notebook, she began to draw
a rough diagram by drawing a line across the page, then writing the
word “time” under the line and “timeless” above the line. Allison
added commentary to the movement of the pen on the page. “The
early levels are the grades of self. They represent the selfish soul, or

the rational soul, attached to the physical world. These are the
conditions of hell, and these first grades need to be burned away.
“Once this has happened, the soul comes to the first valley of
faith, which is called the Valley of Search. Its main purpose is the
recognition of the Manifestation of God, who in this day and age is
Bahá’u’lláh. There are then two more valleys that come under the
world of relative perfections, that are Love and Knowledge, and the
soul is still in the world of Nasut here. In Love there is pain and in
Knowledge certitude. Also, this is the soul whose identity and
thoughts are encapsulated and separate from other souls.”
She wrote these first three valleys under the line with the word
“time.”
She continued, “Then eternity and Malakut begin in the proper
sense as time folds away, and the next three valleys are the worlds of
oneness, the absolute planes. These are Unity, Contentment, and
Wonderment; the soul is tossed in wonder on the seas of the
absolute. This level is now the collective of souls where thoughts
and identity can be shared and synchronized between souls in both
worlds. This is a oneness where it is not clear where one soul begins
and another ends. This is the soul completely devoted to the service
of others.”
The next three valleys she wrote above the line with the word
“timeless” written on it.
She continued, “Then in Jabarut the face of God rises up from
eternity. This is the Valley of True Poverty and Absolute
Nothingness and is the beginning of the consciousness of the
Manifestation of God. This is entering the presence of the
Manifestation or the birds meeting the Simorgh. Then beyond this
is the Valley of Immortality and then a valley with no name and no
description, which is the central pivot of eternity and probably
Lahut. Bahá’u’lláh also described the worlds of God as ‘the world
of time, which hath both a beginning and an end; the world of
duration, which hath a beginning but whose end is not apparent;
the world of primordial reality, whose beginning is not to be seen

but which is known to have an end; and the world of eternity, of
which neither the beginning nor the end is visible.’7
“After the city of Immortality, in the highest level, nine,
Bahá’u’lláh explains that this city revolves around the seat of
eternity. The sun of the Unseen shines above the horizon of the
Unseen. A sun that has its own heavens and its own moons. But this
reality is staggeringly transcendent, given that only God and his
Manifestations are aware of this city.
“And these higher planes of oneness are way beyond the
average soul. Bahá’u’lláh says that only the ‘elect of the righteous’
travel in these higher valleys. It is purely my own understanding, but
I think that most people of faith exist in the first three valleys. Some
enter Unity before death, or after it, depending on what God has
willed for them and relative to their innate spiritual capacity. And
although I think it would be very rare, Bahá’u’lláh also said that a
soul could complete all these journeys and discover every mystery in
less than the twinkling of an eye. But the only really important
thing, which comes under free will, is the decision to recognize the
Manifestation of God for this age and follow his laws. This
eventually leads to liberation and moving from the ‘human spirit’ to
the ‘spirit of Faith.’
“If we have a fused existence with the Manifestations of God,
we can travel in these higher worlds. Of course, in saying that, a
blending of spiritual reality takes into account that the station of a
Manifestation is inherently and forever different from, and
immeasurably exalted above, that of a human being. But it is
doubtful that many, while on Earth, will ever reach these exalted
worlds. At least not in this time, but in the future, as the utopian
vision that Bahá’u’lláh saw in his heart comes to fruition, many will
probably enter these higher states or worlds. As to Hahut, which is
the hidden essence, nobody knows what happens in that world.
Even the Manifestations of God are lost in utter bewilderment and
awe at that world. But as we realize the reality of Malakut and are
lost in awe, we contemplate the higher worlds as a series of
metaphoric symbols. And each metaphoric symbol of these infinite

worlds is a reflection of the Supreme Manifestation’s heart, which
flows down from the heights of Lahut, as the first dawning point of
the essence, into the other three worlds below it.”
She noticed that Hooman had listened intently to her spoken
words while at the same time looking at her written words. “Wow,
that’s amazing. I’m stunned.” Hooman was silent for a while. He
then asked, “So what valley are you in?”
“I’m probably in the Valley of Unity, or maybe I’m in the
Valley of Knowledge. I waver between them. But I think that
although our soul is mostly in one valley, a part of our soul is in the
valleys above and below this, like a bell curve. It might be like you
said back in Queensland that timelessness might have a spectral
nature, then so too would consciousness be spectral and layered by
waves or vibrational frequency from low to high. And as you said,
there could also be a more perceptual aspect in the worlds of God
after death, where objectivity is more flexible, or a world’s objective
nature could be changed dynamically by the perception of the soul
that is perceiving that world: perceptual objectivity. And many souls
would see different aspects of a world depending on their own
unique perceptual limitations and strengths.
“But I wanted to explain another idea. I think there is a
relationship between ascension in these higher worlds and the laws
in the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, since Bahá’u’lláh explains that the ‘law’ is ‘the
secret of the Path,’8 which, as you may know, comes from The Seven
Valleys. It is through spiritual law that one rises up, and by deviating
from that law that one descends. Remember, you were the one who
told me this when we were in London together.”
“Yes, I remember that. It is true that law is the secret of the
Path.”
“But the spiritual laws are also intertwined with the laws of
physics. After all, it is mainly through the senses of vision and
hearing that we grow our spiritual virtues; it is not by chance that
there are seven colors in the spectrum of light and seven notes in
the musical scale most commonly used in modern Western music,
known as the heptatonic scale. The physical world, with light and

sound, is an expression of the four forces of nature, which in turn
merge into one universal law as described by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. I’m
using ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s concept of ‘one universal law’ creatively by
incorporating it into my own framework of ideas about the
spectrum of light and the structure of sound. Plato also had the
idea that all forms in the physical world have universal forms or
laws based in the other worlds, and these are based on one universal
template—The Good.”
“Wow! These ideas are so interesting. So I’m probably still
burning up selfish attributes in the Valley of Love, and I suppose
most people in this world are tested by spiritual trials that equate to
pain and suffering. Consequently, if they manage to transcend these
trials, then they move away from pain into the Valley of
Knowledge.”
“Yes, that is true. ‘Wherefore must the veils of the satanic self
be burned away at the fire of love.’”9 Allison continued, “Did I ever
tell you about the first time I saw the desert properly? I was in my
teens. I was on a secondary school art trip at Hattah-Kulkyne
National Park, in Northern Victoria in 1989. It was two weeks
before Dad died.”
“No. Go on,” said Hooman.
What came to her mind, as she explained it to Hooman, was a
time when she stood on the peak of a large sand dune looking out at
the desert. She had found a large, strangely shaped seed that she
had never seen before and was now searching for more. “I
eventually collected nine large seed pods. My teacher had found me
out in the desert and explained that these seeds could only be
germinated by the seasonal wildfires that spread through the desert
periodically. For the tree to be born, its seed must germinate in fire:
the outer husk must be scorched so that the seed’s growth is
triggered. So you see, the connection to the burning of earthly
attributes in the soul leads to spiritual development. These are the
lakes of fire in The Book of  Gates, and once a soul has burned away
its lower attributes, it can move through the next gate. If you have
faith and walk into the fire, you will not be harmed—these are the

seeds of the Phoenix emerging from the ashes from which it and we
are reborn.”
“Yes, I can see the connection,” he said.
She had taken a series of photos on the side of a dune where
she’d lain the nine seed pods in rows of three by three to form a
square. “After I had taken photos of the seeds, I took them back to
the campfire and scorched them in the coals. The next day, the last
day of the school trip, I trudged out into the desert and buried them
where I had found them. I never knew if they grew after that, but I
always wondered.” Allison was now thinking about the nine parts of
the Egyptian idea of the soul as being like the nine “seeds of fire.”
Hooman was too, because he said, “So, we are like those seed
pods, right? I mean, maybe we are the seeds of the Phoenix, or the
children of the Phoenix, created inside the glass womb or the womb
of time, and once we are born and are able to burn and destroy the
glass womb, we are free to fly from this world to the sun of the
Unseen.”
“That is a beautiful way to describe it, Hooman.”
“Maybe there is a poet in me after all.”
They laughed.
* * *
After lunch they walked to Union Square and entered the open
paved area at the bottom of the square. They walked past the
subway entrance and toward the statue of George Washington.
They slowly circled around the statue, looking at the memorial that
had sprung up since 9/11. After a while, Hooman sat on the
semicircular stone bench surrounding the figure of George
Washington, and Allison sat next to him.
Hooman recalled seeing the candlelight vigils on the news in the
previous month after the September 11 attacks. He had come down
here in late September, and there were still candlelight vigils even
then. Now, as he looked around the statue and the surrounding
area, there were thousands of candles and bunches of flowers

spread around, peace banners on the ground, and chalk messages
on the base of the statue and on the ground around it. The area
was disordered and crowded with all manner of objects that
represented people’s collective grief.
What he found most moving were the pictures of those who
had lost their lives in the attack. They were pinned up on walls, bus
stop shelters, and even mailboxes. These makeshift memorials had
appeared everywhere in Manhattan, but Union Square had become
the main focus of the city’s collective grief, and it seemed like the
whole world was in the square.
“I’m going to head to the market. I’ll leave you here to think.
I’ll see you in a bit.”
“Okay, I won’t be long.”
She left the statue of George Washington, walking to a path
nearby that passed through the wooded and lawned area of the
square. He looked over his shoulder for a moment and watched her
walk toward the Greenmarket, located at the top of the square.
He had been in his office on the day of the attack and did not
see the first plane hit the north tower from where he was. But
moving to another room on the other side of his building, he joined
his colleagues, and from there he saw the second plane hit the south
tower, and then later both towers collapsed. He was acutely aware
of the shock of everyone in the room and heard his boss, Paul, and
several others swear in utter shock for the first and last time. Those
first few days, and to a lesser extent the following weeks after the
towers had collapsed, had the most surreal aura of unbelievability.
This event was a moment in history that underlined his belief in a
global village that was still coming to terms with its common
humanity. And he thought then there were two kinds of poverty—
material poverty and the poverty of the ideals of our equality, which
leads to hate.
He stood up and left the statue, walking into the wooded area in
the center of the square. Other images in his mind from the news
reports were the smaller, more intimate vigils in this part of the
square, where small circles of light hovered in the night like light-

islands floating on a still, dark ocean. Now in the day, a few weeks
later, he noticed the red fall leaves scattered around the base of
trees, the colors of the leaves contrasting with the vivid green lawns.
Some trees had turned yellow and red, and a few were still partially
green as they resisted the oncoming winter.
When he caught up with Allison, she had already purchased a
few vegetables. She had put them in the bag containing her new
notebook. The sun continued to warm their faces as they moved
through the various stalls and meandered toward the top of the
square.
His cell phone vibrated in his coat pocket. “Hello. Oh hi, what’s
up? We’re in Union Square. I’m heading back to work soon. Allison
is here with me. We got some vegetables for tonight’s dinner. Okay,
we’ll wait for you up on the corner of Park Avenue South and 17th.
Okay, see you soon.” He flipped his cell shut. “That’s Nava. She has
been talking to Shidan about organizing a surprise birthday for
Sara. She is dropping Shidan off at the Sun Tongue. She’s going to
pick you up on the way. Shidan wants you to stop by for a while and
chat about something. I’ll catch a taxi back to the office.”
“Hmm . . . I wonder what he wants to talk about?”
* * *
Fifteen minutes later Allison and Hooman left the Greenmarket and
walked between two stall owners’ trucks that were parked on 17th
Street. They crossed over and walked up to a Barnes and Noble
store. Allison stopped for a moment to look at the window display.
Hooman embraced her from behind. He looked at the window
display over her shoulder.
“Anything interesting?” he said.
“No, nothing obvious,” she replied.
She turned and took his hand, and they walked toward Park
Avenue South. At the intersection they crossed over and waited for
Nava in front of the W Hotel. They didn’t have to wait long before
Nava’s car pulled up in front of the hotel.

Nava rolled the window down. “Okay, get in, Allison.”
Hooman and Allison embraced. “See you this afternoon,”
Hooman said.
“I can give you a lift to work if you want,” Nava said.
“No, that’s okay. I’ll get a taxi.”
He watched Allison climb into the back seat. She kissed Shidan
on the cheek.
“Allison, how wonderful to see you,” Shidan said. Then he
added, “There is something I want to talk to you about at the shop.”
Shidan nodded and waved at Hooman, who waved back at Shidan
as Allison closed the door behind her.
“Okay, I’ll see you tonight.” Hooman leaned through the
window and kissed Allison.
Nava pushed into the afternoon traffic and headed toward
Midtown East.
Hooman watched Nava drive up Park Avenue South until she
disappeared into traffic. He turned toward the road and looked for
a taxi to take him back to work.
* * *
Allison was lying on the leather couch at the back of the bookshop.
Nava had dropped them off and gone back to her office. Shidan
was in the back office kitchen making coffee. Nikki left the bookshop
to get some lunch for herself.
Allison heard the kettle come to the boil and eventually splutter.
“I have missed you, my dear. It really has been too long since
we saw each other. But of course, I understand, you have been busy
with the baby coming and the renovations to the house.” He raised
his voice over the noise of the kettle.
“And you know, recently, I’ve been so unproductive. I just sit at
home contemplating nothing in particular. But you could always
come and see me at the house, you know,” she said.
“I am with you completely. Yes. I should come up more often. I
am sorry. Anyway, recently I’ve been overseas, but I won’t bore you

with that, and you can’t say you’ve been unproductive. Pregnancy is
a pretty intensive job. And you will be a full-time mother soon.”
Shidan emerged from the back office with a tray and placed it
on the coffee table. He sank into the armchair. “Ahh . . . blessed
peace,” he said.
“I haven’t done anything. Pregnancy is all on autopilot,” she
said.
Shidan closed his eyes and leaned his head back. He took a
deep breath and exhaled.
She waited for him to open his eyes. “Well, what did you want
to talk about, Shidan? Hooman said you wanted to chat with me
about something. And you said as much in the car.”
“Oh, nothing much.”
From the couch her eyes drifted over the details of the ceiling
and the lampshade near her head. She turned her head toward
him. “So, what’s on your mind?”
Instead of answering, he leaned over to push the plunger down.
Eventually, he poured two coffees and placed one on her side of the
coffee table, near her head. He then relaxed fully. “I’ve noticed
some changes in you, and I wanted to talk them through,” he said.
“Oh . . . okay.”
“I noticed today, for instance, that you are wearing those typical
pastel overalls from—”
“Some trendy boutique.”
“Right. Whereas last year you would be wearing, say—”
“Grubby mechanic’s overalls.”
“Thank you, yes. Well, maybe that’s pushing the example a little
to the extreme, but yes, essentially. Don’t tell me you have
capitulated to Nava’s and Hooman’s mainstream tastes.”
“No, not really. I went shopping with Nava recently. She bought
these for me. It wasn’t my choice. If I didn’t wear them, she would
get upset. We’ve been shopping a few times this year for clothes that
fit my belly. Once the baby is born, I will wear my usual stuff.”
“You weren’t built for mediocrity, my dear. That’s not part of
your greater destiny.” He looked at her and smiled.

Nikki came through the front door with a selection of sushi in a
plastic container. Shidan turned his head toward Nikki. “What do
you think, Nikki? Does Allison look better in her more authentic
clothing? And you know that’s why I really like you. You’re original,
uncompromising, so anti-establishment, and it is such a breath of
fresh air. You are more divergent than most people.”
“Yes, I agree with Shidan. I prefer your usual look,” Nikki
replied. A customer came into the shop and started to talk to Nikki.
Allison turned her head to stare at the ceiling again. “You know,
with you sitting in that armchair and me on this couch of yours, I
feel like I’m getting free analysis.”
He laughed. “Analysis. From me? You’re already perfect . . .
besides, your character flaws are great. Why would I ever try to
make you boring?”
“I’m not entirely comfortable either. All of a sudden, I’ve
slipped into the upper middle class. When I married Hooman, I
inherited a new lifestyle, and it feels tight around me. It’s not me,
really. I can start wearing my retro leather jacket again. I’ll wear it
over these overalls.”
Shidan smiled and took a sip of his coffee.
“Well, I can look like my old self externally, but internally I
cannot turn back. And you know, I know Hooman has influenced
me on a certain level, but I have arrived at this on my own, through
my own search and investigation. I’ve had certain experiences in the
last few years that have confirmed to me the existence of God, and
as you know, I am a Bahá’í these days, and your prediction that I
would become a Bahá’í came true. Isn’t that amazing?
“And when I look at the social problems in Harlem, I realize
that the whole problem is that there is a spiritual malaise in our
world, a maladaptation to our true nature.”
He did not respond. He looked off into space. She continued,
“On that subject, I want to invite you to a study group that I am
tutoring. It’s called the Ruhi Institute courses. The first book in the
series is called Reflections on the Life of  the Spirit. I want you to come

and chant something in Arabic and join us if you like. I know you
used to chant prayers as a child.”
“Me! Allison, you know I am agnostic.”
The customer left the shop, and Nikki walked over to them.
“Nikki you can come too if you want.”
“Cool,” Nikki said. She came over to the couch and sat next to
Allison’s feet. She began to eat the sushi. Allison sat up and began to
drink her coffee.
“You didn’t mind discussing spiritual topics when we were
traveling in the Middle East. And I know you have a great voice, so
why not? If you are so confident in your agnostic beliefs, then a
single chant can’t shake your principles, surely.”
“I’ll do it for you, my dear, but I assure you it will be like
reading the dullest recipe.” He sat up straight, impersonating a TV
chef. “Three cups of sugar. Now, darlings, if you overcook the
asparagus, don’t you worry, darlings. I’m here to save you . . . blah,
blah, blah. You know the rest.”
“Look, I don’t want you to come if it’s a drag. I just wanted
some cultural and linguistic diversity. And you are deeper than you
think, Shidan, when it comes to spiritual matters.”
“No, I’ll come, and I’ll behave myself too. Besides, it will
disturb Sara. I can say I’m going back to my religious roots and
have a little fun with her for a few days.”
“Why are you so mean to her? I don’t understand.”
“Who knows? I’m going to change the topic now.”
“I know who you are, Shidan. Treat her like you treat me.” He
did not answer but grinned, and she continued, “You’re a good
person.”
“That is nice of you to say, but it isn’t so. And I couldn’t think
of anything more boring than being good.”
“I mean it. You’re wonderful. Why don’t you let Sara see what I
see in you? That could be our secret birthday present this year, and
I could try harder to get on with her myself. I know she thinks I am
a hopeless, lazy hippie.”

“Hmm . . . we’ll see, won’t we? That might be a good present.
And as for Sara, well, she is materialistic, as you know. That is the
very limited prism through which she sees everything in life. But
underneath all that, I think she is a good person.” He took another
sip of coffee. “I’ve been reading something that may interest you.
It’s a poem by Enceladus Laurent.”
Getting up, he walked over to a pile of books near the couch.
Once in his chair again, he opened a book. “Okay, here it is,” and
he read it out in a compelling voice, which, as he read, centered
itself in the emotional heart of her being.
“Water and Pain”
These are the tears of  pain.
This water rolls into the corner of  my mouth.
Once received the voice speaks of  sacrifice.
Of  the obliterated self.
Of  the realm of  absolute pain.
A pain unknown to humanity.
Because pleasure is a falsehood in the house of  words.
Our dominion includes suffering but is beyond it.
To take pleasure away and exchange this with pain is a gift.
So, it is with the detached heart that we are able to walk forward into this
realm.
Being leads to receiving and receiving leads back into being.
Faith leads to seeing what fact cannot know about itself.
I am the debased tree whose fruit led to the truth of  death, and the truths
that no one person could bear to hear.
It’s the pain that makes us empathetic not the pleasure.
From this compassion is born.
From this eye comes the water of  life, which is the transparent blood tear.
From here we go into ourselves.
And the tear retracts from the corner of  my mouth.

It retraces its path back up my face.
It merges back into the corner of  my eye.
And I see you for the first time.
And I love you beyond anything I have known in the future or the past.
And I see your eye give birth to the second tear in eternity.
The tear beyond pain.
“That’s absolutely beautiful, Shidan!”
* * *
Shidan went to the parking garage for the car. Allison lay down
again. She drifted into sleep. With her home life of late, she had
gotten used to an afternoon nap, and her body had fallen into that
rhythm.
A landscape appeared around her dreaming self. Standing on
the side of a low hill, she observed the tall grass moving in rhythmic
waves. The height and form of the grass reminded her of Upstate
New York, where she and Hooman had been married, and unlike
other dreams—which were dark, vague, and scripted—this dream
was well lit. As with waking life, she was more in command of her
own decisions and actions and knew that she was dreaming—a
lucid dream.
She looked down at her bare feet, which were crushing the lush
grass. Walking around for a bit, she caught sight of a small flower
and bent down to observe it. The shape of the flower was like
nothing she had seen before. The flower was otherworldly, almost
alien, and exceptionally beautiful. It reminded her of the dream she
had had in London with Mona. Although the grass and flowers
were not translucent in this dream, the panorama around her
sparkled with a light of exceptional clarity.
Deciding to walk up the hill, she heard voices near the summit.
At the top of the hill, she could determine that the voices were
coming from the other side, and she went forward over the rise. She

could make out Hooman as she came closer. He appeared to be
older, with grayer hair than he had now, and he was talking to a
younger man in his late teens. As she neared them, they stopped
talking and watched her approach. The younger man walked over
to her. He bent down on his knees and proceeded to tap her swollen
belly. At first she felt his light tapping, but then as he continued, she
felt a strong pain. Aware that this was a contraction, she realized
that she was beginning to give birth and needed to wake up. The
pain increased. Then she crouched down to look into his eyes,
which were the most intense iridescent blue. The color reminded
her of the shimmering wings of the Ulysses butterflies that she had
seen in her childhood in Northern Queensland. She looked around
his face, which was both intensely youthful and paradoxically worn
old, but his eyes were unblemished by time.
“I’m inside you, and I love you. You will not see me grow up,
but I will see you in the world to come,” he said just before she woke
up.
The words he spoke were surrounded and interwoven by a bell-
like harmonic.
* * *
In front of the shop, Shidan pulled up and turned off the ignition.
He looked up at the skyscrapers in Midtown for a moment, then got
out of the car. Opening the door to the shop, he stopped short of
walking in. He saw Nikki and Allison standing near the couch.
Allison stood with her legs slightly apart and was surrounded by a
pool of fluid. Her water had broken. He stood in the doorframe in
shock. She was still staring at her legs and the fluid. She looked up
at him finally. “My god, Shidan. The baby . . . it’s coming early.”
* * *
After spending four days at Kakadu, Allison decided to hike in the
Bungle Bungles in the northwest tip of Western Australia, a region

that was called the Kimberley. The roads in the Purnululu National
Park, where the Bungle Bungles were located, were inaccessible to
cars other than four-wheel drives. After a day’s drive, she came to
Kununurra, looking for anyone who might be driving south that she
could hitch a ride with. She had a map of the area but was not sure
where the paved roads ended, and the dirt roads began.
She drove through the town and saw a sign for Hidden Valley
RV Park. She spent the night in the RV park, and on the next day
she walked around asking if anyone was driving to the Bungle
Bungles. Eventually, she came to an older couple who were packing
up their tent and belongings and putting them into the back of a
Toyota Land Cruiser.
“Excuse me, but are you guys going south toward the Bungle
Bungles?”
“Yes, we are.”
“Oh, cool. Can I hitch a ride?”
“Yeah, sure, but we aren’t coming back this way. We are going
on to Fitzroy Crossing after the Bungle Bungles.”
“That’s okay, I’ve got my car here. Can I follow you until the
entrance to the park?”
“Yeah, that’s fine. There’s an RV park near Ord River. You can
leave your car there, and we’ll take you on from there. You’ll need
to take food and water into the park.”
“Great, thank you. I’ll go get my car.”
Before leaving Kununurra, Allison stopped at a supermarket for
supplies. She then followed the couple along the Great Northern
Highway. The landscape was mainly flat. There were a few red low-
lying hills appearing from time to time and small stunted eucalypts
living amongst sporadic tufts of green and yellow grass.
After two hours, Allison saw a dark-gray cloud mass coming
toward her. She was listening to U2’s “With or Without You” on the
car stereo when the clouds passed over the two cars. It began to rain
heavily. Even with the windshield wipers set to the highest setting, it
was hard to see the couple in front of her. Both cars slowed down,

and after an hour, they came out on the other side of the rain and
clouds, and the sky was clear again.
After another hour and a half, Allison saw the sign for Ord
River; the couple pulled over at the entrance to the Bungle Bungles.
“Follow us. Your car should be fine until we reach the RV
park,” the man shouted. Allison turned into the entrance and
followed them along a dirt road.
Once they came to the RV park, Allison parked and took her
supplies, hiking pack, a smaller backpack, and tent out of her car
and packed them into the back of the Land Cruiser before jumping
into the backseat. The road to the visitors center was rough and
corrugated, and the four-wheel drive swung from side to side at
certain points in the road. After two hours, they came to the center
and paid the camping fee. Beyond the visitors center, they could see
the Bungle Bungle range on the horizon.
They then drove south for half an hour and came to the
Walardi campsite, where Allison and the couple pitched their tents
and ate lunch. After lunch they drove another half an hour to the
Piccaninny parking lot. As they neared the parking lot, Allison saw
the Domes.
“We are only going to Cathedral Gorge today, then we will go
back to the camping ground after an hour or so.”
“That’s fine. I want to start with the Domes, then try other
hiking trails. I’ll hitch back to the campsite this evening.”
“Okay, just don’t leave it too late, or you’ll get stuck out here.”
“Yeah, don’t worry. I’ll be fine. Thanks for the lift here, by the
way.”
“You’re welcome.”
The couple parked the four-wheel drive, and Allison headed
toward the Domes trail on foot. As she came closer, the trail passed
through tall yellow grass that looked almost like a large yellow
hedge. After a while, she passed into the Domes. The rock
formations had been described by some as a series of fluid conical
hats. In some cases the domes stood alone, but in the majority of
cases, the domes melded into each other with a fluidity similar to

water. She wondered about the Aboriginal Dreaming for this land
because if you didn’t know anything about erosion and geography,
then the creation of these domes would seem quite magical and
supernatural. This land did seem to have a distinct spirit.
The trail came to a dead end, so she walked back to the parking
lot and hiked on toward Cathedral Gorge.
When she came to the gorge, the waterfall was flowing due to
the heavy rain that had come down several hours before. The gorge
was a cross between a massive open cave, a waterfall, and a creek
with a wide sandy bank. There were not many people around, so
Allison changed into her bikini and swam in the shallow water for a
while. Floating on her back, she looked up through the cliffs
surrounding the gorge to the sky above and felt the cold water
cocoon her body. After half an hour in the water, she changed back
into her clothes before moving on to the Piccaninny Creek trail.
Toward the end of the day, with the light fading, Allison went
back to the parking lot and walked on toward the campsite. After
fifteen minutes a car came along the road, and a young couple gave
her a lift. When she got to the campsite, she noticed that the older
couple had gone, and she assumed they had moved on to the
northern campsite where she intended to go on the following day.


An Image of Identity
After journeying through the planes of  pure contentment, the traveler cometh
to THE VALLEY OF WONDERMENT and is tossed upon the oceans of
grandeur, and at every moment his wonder increaseth. Now he seeth the
embodiment of  wealth as poverty itself, and the essence of  independence as
sheer impotence. Now is he struck dumb with the beauty of  the All-
Glorious.1
—Bahá’u’lláh, The Seven Valleys
Snow fell heavily outside the Studio Museum on 125th Street.
Allison watched it fall for a few moments before swiveling back
around to look at the children in her photography group sitting
quietly before her; they sat cross-legged on the floor. She had also
found Jessica, the girl she had met roughly three years before. Jessica
had responded to the notice that Allison had put up at the Pelham
Fritz Recreation Center in Marcus Garvey Park. And then there was
Aliah, a child of one of the local Bahá’í parents.
Jessica put her hand up. “Ms Bird, I don’t understand what you
want us to do.”
“I’m sorry, guys. Am I confusing you?” Allison asked.
“You want us to decide our own project. So you mean we have
to think of what we want to take pictures of?”
“Yes, Jessica, that’s exactly what I mean.”
“But how?”

“Try to decide, as a group, whose ideas seem the best to
everyone, through consultation.”
Jessica’s face went blank before she responded. “But Ms Bird, I
can’t think of anything right now.”
“Does anyone have any ideas?” Allison asked. The rest of the
group responded with silence and blank faces.
Noah was asleep in his baby basket, and Allison was sitting
cross-legged next to him. She leaned over to check he was warm
enough. She moved his blanket higher around his neck. The snow
outside was lit by the mid-afternoon light, which was a dark, rich
blue framed by the windows. Again, Allison looked at the street
below for a moment; it seemed like night had come early. Its soft,
deep colors contrasted profoundly with the hard whiteness of the
fluorescent light inside the room. A bulb flickered at the back of the
room. She looked back at the group and pressed on despite their
lack of enthusiasm. She wondered how to turn the meeting around.
“Okay. Everyone, I have some good news.” She waited to see if
her words had any effect. “My husband, Hooman, you remember
him from last year, right? He is going to purchase some old
secondhand 35mm cameras for you. So, when we meet back after
winter, I can start to show you how real cameras work, instead of
these disposables.”
With this news some of the group seemed to pick up a bit.
Jessica put her hand up again. “Ms Bird, will we learn how to do
black-and-white shots too?”
“Yes . . . definitely. That was my plan. We will learn about
different lens filters for black-and-white film, mostly yellow and red
filters.”
Encouraged by the changing body language, Allison decided to
go back to the topic of the group trying to determine its own
direction, but this time with some leading questions.
“Okay, I want to ask you all about Harlem, and then we’ll see if
we can find some ideas for the group to follow. Is that okay with you
all?” Allison said. They all assented in a relaxed but attentive
manner. “First of all, I want to ask you, who owns Harlem? What I

mean by this is who does it belong to, as a place. Do you know what
I’m asking?”
One of the boys, Johnny, asserted, “Us.” His face contorted
with aggression.
“Who is us?” she asked Johnny.
“Blacks, Ms Bird.”
“What does everybody else think?” Allison asked. She looked
around at their faces. Jessica added in a tone of curiosity. “What
about the Latino people in East Harlem?”
“Yeah, what about them?” Aliah said.
“Oh, yeah. Them too,” Johnny added.
“Do you guys know that almost everyone in America comes
from somewhere else originally? Where does everyone here come
from?”
Voices murmured. “Africa.”
“Thanks, that’s right. And did you guys know that Harlem is a
Dutch word? Originally, New York was called New Amsterdam.
And before the Dutch, the American Indians were the custodians of
the land.”
One of the other girls responded for the first time that
afternoon. “Ms Bird, we know that, so what?”
“You guys don’t have to call me Ms Bird. You can use my first
name, if you like.”
“What Ms Bird is saying is we, everyone, has a right to live here.
Not just Blacks,” Jessica said.
“Yes. Thanks, Jessica. For instance, Hooman and I come from
many places. He was born in Iran and grew up in Australia, but
now his home is here in America. My father was from Italy, but I
grew up in Australia, and now I am here, living in Harlem, with
you. And have you heard the phrase from the American
Constitution that ‘All men are created equal,’ which was a reference
to all the British colonies in America at that time? It is true that at
that time, the original founders meant mainly White men and not
women or African slaves. But its meaning did expand over time to
include all races in America. And in the future most people in

America will probably be of mixed race. There are some things we
have in common that unify us as a nation, and others that celebrate
our cultural diversity, which allows us to be different but still
American. And I wanted to discuss the fact that racial equality was
not just given to African Americans. It was hard won and hard
fought for by African Americans and Whites and all the other races
in America. And there was the civil rights movement, which ran
from 1954 to 1967. Do you know about the movement?”
“Yeah, we studied that last year,” Johnny said.
Allison picked up the novel An Unequal Sun from the floor. “I’ve
just finished reading this. It’s a beautiful story about an interracial
couple striving for equality in Detroit in the early sixties. It
highlights the characters’ struggles and triumphs and the power of
love in the face of ignorance and hatred. And it reminds me of how
far we have come and what we still need to achieve.”
Allison looked around the room at all their faces. The
conversation seemed to be dying again, so she decided to finish off
the session and resume her project idea at another time. “Okay,
everyone, let’s all think about your group project over winter. In the
meantime you could all take pictures of people from different
nationalities and races that live here. Try to find as many different
people as you can. Ask them how they came to live in Harlem. Find
out about their story, which is collectively our story.”
Next to her was a cardboard box full of unused disposable
cameras. She passed it to Jessica, who got up and took the box
around.
“So, everyone, the box is coming. Take two cameras each,
because we won’t be meeting again for a few months, and we can
look at the pictures you’ve taken in the spring. I’m sorry I can’t see
you for a while. It’s just that I need to spend time with Noah now,
until he is a little older.”
Allison glanced at her watch. Then looking down at the road
through the heavy snow, she saw Hooman sitting in Nava’s SUV;
the headlights were on. She picked up Noah in the baby basket and
reached into her pocket for the keys to lock the room.

“Okay, everyone, let’s go. Because it’s snowing so much today,
I’ll get Hooman to drop you younger kids off at your homes. Jessica,
you’re the exception because you live farther away than the rest.
Thank you for coming. It has been really great seeing you all today,
and I hope you have a great time in the next few months.”
The children left the room and descended the stairs until they
came out onto 125th Street. The older children began their walk
home, while Allison took the younger ones and Jessica with her as
she walked through the snow to the car.
“Say hi to your mum,” Allison said to Aliah as she walked away.
“Okay, I will,” said Aliah. “Bye.”
Aliah waved and looked back at Allison as she continued to
walk away.
After two of the children were dropped off, Jessica was alone in
the back seat. Hooman pulled up in front of a run-down-looking
building on St. Nicholas Avenue, which was adjacent to St. Nicholas
Park. The trees in the park had a thick layer of snow on their
branches. He turned to Jessica. “I think this is your house,” he said.
“Thanks, sir.”
“That’s all right. It was nice to see you again. I hope you’re
enjoying Allison’s project. Or maybe it’s your project.”
“Yes, sir.”
Allison smiled at Hooman and looked back at Jessica. “Do you
think the others like it too?” she asked Jessica.
“Oh yes, Ms Bird. Don’t mind them. They like it. Some of
them are just a bit grumpy because they’ve been told by our art
teacher that they have to do it.”
“Oh! I didn’t know that. I knew most of you were from the
same school, but I didn’t realize you were from the same art class.”
“Yes, Ms Bird, some, not all. Well, I know for sure that Johnny
has to attend. Art is the subject he is failing in, and Miss Gates says
that if he does well with this, she might pass him. But I wanted to be
in the group, and some of the others did too.”
“I’m glad you’re enjoying it,” Allison said.

“Oh yes, Ms Bird, I like photography.” Jessica turned to
Hooman and smiled. Looking back at Allison, she smiled again in
silence. After a few seconds, perplexed and in a reflective way, she
said, “You know, Ms Bird, I was thinking.”
“What about?”
“We all do come from somewhere else, don’t we?”
“Yes, Jessica, I think so. But people forget after a few
generations.”
“And do you think one day we’ll all be able to live together with
White folk and Latino and everyone? I mean, here in Harlem.”
“I think so. Yes, and not just here, but in the whole world.
Eventually they will all learn to live together.”
“Okay, Ms Bird.”
Jessica opened the door and jumped onto the snow beside the
car. Allison heard the snow crunching under Jessica’s boots as she
walked through the falling snow. Allison watched her as she and the
sound eventually disappeared into the building.
Six minutes later Hooman backed the car into a spot near the
house. The tires slipped on the icy road, but with a little effort the
car fit snugly in with cars close on either side.
Allison turned to him. “Do you remember the other day I took
Noah to a movie theater downtown?”
“Yes, I remember. You mentioned you saw a dark but very
interesting movie. Was it Donnie Darko?”
“Yes, it was,” replied Allison, “and I was struck by a reference in
the movie to the Smurf way of life. Donnie Darko, the main
protagonist, was talking to his friends and said, ‘Smurfette was sent
into the Smurf village as the evil spy of Gargamel, the nemesis of
the Smurfs, but Smurfette was transformed by the overwhelming
goodness of the Smurf way of life.’ And so, I was thinking that
Bahá’u’lláh had the same thought too. That he hoped the Bahá’í
community would transform humanity with that same
overwhelming goodness.”
“Bahá’u’lláh transformed the hearts of many he met, both
those that were already receptive to his teachings and those who

opposed him. In fact, all the great prophets were transformative
through their deeds and words. Take Paul, one of the disciples of
Christ, who was originally opposed to the Christian community,
which he persecuted, but the love of Christ and the other Christians
transformed him,” Hooman said.
“And so, I hope in my heart that one day humanity will be
transformed by overwhelming goodness.”
“Yes, me too.”
Down the street Allison saw the young boy she had seen months
before. He was holding the hand of a middle-aged woman, and
they were walking toward them on the opposite side of the street.
The two turned off the street and ascended the steps to their
building.
“Hooman, can you take Noah? I want to meet this kid.”
Jumping out of the car, she ran down the street waving her arm
and shouting, “Hello, hello . . . excuse me.”
She managed to grab their attention. The woman had opened
the door but turned around.
“Hi there. Hi. Sorry to stop you.” She ran up the steps,
breathing heavily. “Hi, my name is Allison. I’m your neighbor. I live
across the street.” She pointed to her house.
The woman studied her face. “Oh yes, I’ve seen you around.
You moved in last year.”
“Sorry to stop you at the door—it’s snowing and cold, I know—
but I won’t take a minute. I just wanted to introduce myself, and I
also wanted to ask your son something.”
“Oh! He’s not my son. He’s my grandson.”
“Oh, I see,” she said and crouched down to his level. “Hello,
what’s your name?”
The boy hesitated as if to say something but did not respond.
“He’s a bit shy,” the woman said.
Allison looked up at the grandmother. “What’s his name?”
“His name is Jonny Bell.”
“And how do you spell his name?”
The woman spelled out his name to Allison.

Allison addressed the boy again. “Jonny, I saw you in the fall,
kicking the leaves, and, you know, I like to drag my feet through the
leaves too, well, recently at least. I started doing it just before I saw
you. So, you see, we’re connected in that way.”
He did not reply to this either, and Allison stood up. “I won’t
keep you any longer. But I would like to talk to you again about a
photography group that I’m running. I want to see if Jonny would
like to join us. Are you free later on tonight or perhaps tomorrow?”
“Tomorrow is better. I am heading out again soon. I have
church in the morning, but you can come over any time after lunch,
if you like. I’ll be home all afternoon.”
“Great! I’ll see you tomorrow, then.”
Allison turned and walked down the steps. She reached the
bottom of the steps. “Is that your husband over there?” the woman
said.
Allison followed the line of the woman’s stare. “That’s Hooman
and our son, Noah.”
“Darling. I like that name. Noah is a good biblical name.”
“Yes, it is. It was Hooman’s mother’s choice.”
“Well, it’s nice to see that some folks still have respect for the
wishes of their parents.”
Hooman saw that they were looking his way and waved. The
lady waved back with a smile and a nod, then turned to Allison.
“Have a good night, dear, and I’ll see you tomorrow.”
The woman led Jonny into the house and closed the door.
Allison crossed the street. Hooman opened the door to the
house as Allison approached the steps. “What was that about?” he
said.
“Nothing really. I was just wondering if that boy was interested
in joining the group. I’m going over tomorrow afternoon to talk to
his grandmother.”
“Your brother and Sophie are arriving tomorrow afternoon.”
“Yes, of course. I hadn’t forgotten. I can do both. It won’t take
long. What time are they landing again? Is it one?”
“Yes, one.”

“Fine, no problem. There’s plenty of time.” Noah started to cry.
“I’d better feed him. Let’s go upstairs.”
They walked up the stairs, and Allison went straight to the bay
window. The window was a cold spot, now that winter was peaking,
but she could not keep herself from sitting there because of the view
down the street and the park beyond. Turning the heat up, she sat in
the bay window, and propping Noah up on one of her arms, he
began to feed as he latched onto her breast. She looked into the
blue, overcast light outside the house. She noted the denuded trees
and the snow that had collected on cars. Looking back at Noah for
a moment, she opened her notebook with her free hand. By now
this notebook, her symmetrical destiny map, had absorbed all her
previous notes, obscure quotes from various sources, and drawings.
She had also recorded fragments of overheard conversations from
friends and strangers that she felt were somehow insightful or just
curious, and the notebook was now close to two-thirds full.
Before writing a new page or rereading past entries, she was in
the habit of opening at the first page of her notebook. She had
begun it with a quote from The Seven Valleys that stood out among all
others, and that gave her entire notebook its meaning.
. . . in each realm, to every letter a meaning is allotted which pertaineth to
that realm. Indeed, the wayfarer findeth a secret in every name and a
mystery in every letter.2
Under this quote was her first ever entry, where she had tried to
unravel the mysteries of letters, words, and names.
The word “World” sat center page with the letter l crossed out,
which made it “Word.” Below this was the phrase “There are
worlds in words” that was paraphrasing what Hooman had said
when they first met, “In words there are worlds that are strange and
sublime . . .” Under this sentence was the letter l, which was
representative of the world of Lahut. So, by adding l to “Word,” it
was transformed back into “World.” She had explored this idea

when she was in Queensland at the shack when she had added an
extra l to The Hidden Words so that it became “the hidden worlds.”
Allison had made another entry a few months after that, which
explored the idea that humanity is the embodiment of letters and
language relative to the Word of God, and the Manifestations of
God are the source of the power of language (the Point or starting
point of each letter) and the Names of God. For example, the word
“Baha” was the representation of the Glory of God, but she knew
that the letters Ba or even just the letter B was the representation of
the Manifestation of God, and in this case it referred to the Báb, the
source of that glory, in conjunction with Bahá’u’lláh.
Within Bahá’í history were a group of early Bábís known as the
“Letters of the Living,” and these people were the first eighteen
followers of the Báb (the Báb being the nineteenth letter), the first
Manifestation of God in the Bahá’í era, who was the forerunner to
Bahá’u’lláh. Allison had found an article on the Bahá’í
Encyclopedia website that explored the relationship between the
Báb and the Letters of the Living. She had copied parts of the
article into the notebook:
The term “Letters of  the Living” is both a title and a theological
statement. . . .

The term “letter” is symbolic, as is the Báb’s use of  the term Nuqtih
(Point) to refer to the Manifestation or Messenger of  God, who is the
embodiment of  the Primal Will. . . . The term “Point” indicates that
everything originates with the Manifestation, even as each letter and word
originates with the mark made as the pen first touches paper. . . .3

From the point, the mark that is made as the pen touches paper, emanate
the letters of  the alphabet, which are the primary and basic units of  written
language. The whole body of  knowledge is based on these units. The letters
are all different, but they have a common root in the point, the first mark
made by the pen; no matter how numerous, they have one background, one
common source. The letter is the intermediary between the point, which is
the genesis of  all letters, and words and sentences, which are composed of
letters. Thus the term “letters” (hurúf), when attributed to the first to

believe in a Manifestation, acknowledges these souls as letters coming forth
from the Point, just as the form of  every letter begins with a point made on
a page. . . .

In line with the symbolism of  sacred script, including letters and points
as discussed above, the point under the Arabic letter b, or ba, the first letter
in each of  the two invocations cited, relates to the famous Tradition
attributed to Ali, the cousin and son-in-law of  Muhammad and the first
Imam of  the Shia: “All of  the knowledge of  all the holy books is in the
Qur’an, and all of  the knowledge of  the Qur’an is in the Fátiha [the first
sura], and all of  the knowledge of  the Fátiha is in the Basmala [i.e., the
invocation Bismi’lláhi’r-Rahmáni’-Rahím], and all of  the knowledge
of  the Basmala is in the letter ba, and all of  the knowledge in the ba is in
the point [nuqtih] under the ba, and I am that point.”4 The Báb is the
letter b itself. All knowledge is in the nineteen letters of  the Basmala and
derives from the Báb as a Manifestation of  God in the station of  the
Primal Point. The term “point” also refers to the Tradition that knowledge
is a single point that the ignorant have multiplied.5
She then thought about the transformative influence of the
Word of God in every age, and that we traverse eternity with words
and language; it was not just mere communication but a means of
internal intellectual and spiritual movement, and we were destined
to travel through all the worlds of God with its influence and
energy, eventually leaving this exquisite, beautiful, but ultimately
limited house of recycled star dust behind us, where we would find a
world in every letter, and a matrix of words and worlds intertwined:
from letters come words and from words sentences, from sentences
come paragraphs, and beyond that the story of eternity, in worlds
where this story unfolds, of our transcendent potentialities on that
undreamed-of and radiant horizon.
Hooman was sitting on the couch reading a book. “I’m just
going to watch the news for a bit. Let me know if it’s too loud for
you to concentrate.” He turned the television on.
“The sound is fine like that,” she answered.

Flipping randomly to page seventy-two, she read: “The number
and names of people I meet is an indication of interconnectedness
and significance.”
This idea was another form of the Kingdom of Names, and she
thought about her dream in London when Mona had said that all
souls were grouped by name, color, shape, and many other
hierarchical and lateral categories where thoughts and identity
could be synchronized within these groups; this led to a oneness of
mind and spiritual body. This was like drawing a circle around
many souls and calling them a collective “I,” so that “we” became
“I” and “I” became “we,” where threads of destiny intersected, and
then lives became inextricably bound into each other in a beautiful
interplay.
She could understand the name groups, so she had recorded all
the names of people she met with whom she had some spiritual
connection, and she wondered also if all the people in the world
with the same “name group” could somehow have their actions and
thoughts synchronized without them knowing. Like her thought
experiments of hidden asymmetrical conjunctions recorded in her
imaginary life-story depository, where all our actions were
synchronized; it may be that a thousand people with the same name
hugged other people in the same moment, or a thousand children
of the same name skipped in the same moment. There were endless
categories of actions synchronized in this way that may continue in
endless and continuous loops around the world.
She thought about name synchronization and read all the
names of people whom she had met that had some connection to
her.
Names and Symmetry
1. Paul Bird = brother
2. Paul Sparrow = miner in Coober Pedy, Australia
3. Paul = taxi driver first night in New York
4. Paul Nightingale = Hooman’s boss

5. Frank Paul = served me latte, Starbucks
6. Paul Frank = American designer
7. St. Paul (Saul of  Tarsus) = Apostle of  Christ (The Conversion of
Saint Paul by Caravaggio)
Mona Mahmudnizhad = Bahá’í girl from Shiraz, Iran
Mona Mavaddat = Shidan’s sister
Sophie Johnston = Paul’s girlfriend
Sophie Nightingale = Paul Nightingale’s wife
Alison Nightingale = Paul Nightingale’s daughter
Allison Bird = Me
Sara = Friend
Sarah = Jessica’s friend
Jasper Johns = painter of  the American Flag in MoMA
Jasper Trenfield = Friend from Melbourne
The entry continued: “I have no clue what the connection to
Hooman’s boss is. I suppose I was meant to read about the
nightingale in The Conference of  the Birds and in The Tablet of  Ahmad by
Bahá’u’lláh.”
These notes were extensive and continued for many pages. It
was clear to her that she had been communing with the souls in the
next world in an indirect and direct way and trying to understand a
higher symmetry through earthly names and places.
Beneath the names that she had linked to her symmetrical
destiny map, there was a series of places and objects that were also
symmetrical relative to her life.
Places, Objects, and Symmetry
St. Martins Place = London, UK

Martin Place = Sydney, Australia
Pineapple Street = Brooklyn Heights, New York
The Big Pineapple = Queensland, Australia
Orange Street = London, UK
Orange Street = Shidan’s apartment in Brooklyn Heights, New York
Simurgh Restaurant = London, UK
The Simorgh = The Conference of  the Birds
1. The Seven Stars Café = Greenwich Village, Manhattan, New York
2. The Seven Dials intersection = London, UK
3. The Seven Hills = Rome, Italy
4. The Seven Valleys = Book by Bahá’u’lláh
5. Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs = Movie
6. Seven colors = light
7. Seven-tones scale = Western heptatonic scale
Noah finished suckling on her sole breast and stared up at her.
He smiled at her, it seemed, for the first time. For the first month he
appeared to be smiling into space, but now he saw her.
Closing her notebook, her thoughts turned to Paul and Sophie,
who had planned to come for the birth of Noah, but since he came
early, they had delayed until both Noah and her were more settled,
which would allow Allison to drag Noah around New York as they
traveled around and visited different sites in the city. When they
were last in New York, they had not seen much of the place. They
had only seen the small towns in Upstate New York that were close
to where the wedding was held. At the time Paul could not spare
time away from the restaurants. Now that they would be here for
eleven days, Allison wanted to show them around a bit. She wanted
them to see some of the famous landmarks.
“What can we show Paul and Sophie while they are here?”
“I don’t know. Whatever they want.”

He was absorbed by the news about Afghanistan. He had just
switched channels to the BBC on satellite TV; a current affairs
report announced that 2,775 civilians had been killed in
Afghanistan by US bombs. Hooman put the book he was reading
down and concentrated on the report.
She remembered her travels in Afghanistan. “I wonder how
Nasim and Vahid are going. We need to call them soon,” she said.
“There’s no need. Shidan emailed them a few nights ago. I
forgot to tell you. They are fine, and Nasim thinks they are better
off without the Taliban, despite the violence in the country from the
American invasion. At least she can run her school without fear
now.”
“Ahh . . . okay then. That is true.”
She looked out at the street again. The blue light was fading
into night, which made the warm, golden light inside the house
seem stronger and more resonant. The shadows in the street were
deeper, and she looked up at the hazy light in the clouds lit by the
setting sun. She looked back at Noah. He had fallen asleep. She
smiled.
* * *
After spending four days in the Bungle Bungles, Allison drove back
to the Northern Territory via Kununurra. At Timber Creek she
began driving northeast until she hit the Stuart Highway, which
took her directly south to Alice Springs. It took two days to reach
Alice Springs. On the first night, she pulled over and slept in the
back of the car, and on the second day, she pulled into Alice Springs
toward the end of the day.
On the following day she drove a short way out of Alice Springs
to the MacDonnell Ranges and spent the day hiking through parts
of the ranges along the Larapinta Trail.
The formation of the geology was quite distinct from the
Bungle Bungles although they were the same shade of intense red.
The hills in the Bungle Bungles were soft and fluid, almost feminine,

whereas the MacDonnell Ranges were sharp and angular, and the
rocky outcrops had been pushed up into layered diagonals. The
formation of the Bungle Bungles in contrast was made from flat
layers, like a tower of pancakes. And the scale of hills in the
MacDonnell Ranges was larger too.
After returning from Stanley Chasm, Allison drove back to
Alice Springs and spent the night at an RV park.
The next day, she drove further south toward Coober Pedy in
South Australia. The land for most of the journey was flat desert
with small bushes and red dirt. It took a day to reach the town, and
on the outskirts of the town she saw a huge spread of white and red
piles of dirt that were the result of mining, where miners had sunk
thousands of vertical shafts in search of opals. After driving around
the town, she found Riba’s Underground Camping & RV Park,
where she stayed for a week as she tried to find work and a
roommate in a local house.
She found a room with a family in one of the underground
houses that locals called dugouts.
She eventually found a job in a café, but what she really wanted
to do was try mining for opals, so she found a part-time job assisting
one of the miners, Paul Sparrow. For the most part she ended up
removing rock rubble with a wheelbarrow, but Paul eventually
allowed her to have a go at drilling. It was hard work physically, and
at the end of each day mining, she had sore hands and arm muscles
from the jack hammer but felt content with the job. It was
interesting to identify as a miner, if only fractionally.
* * *
After a month of working with Paul, he took her out into the desert
surrounding Kati Thanda–Lake Eyre. The lake only filled once
every three to four years, and this year the lake was empty. Allison
and Paul walked into the salt flats. She enjoyed the crunch of salt
beneath her bare feet. The lake bed was vast, and the low hills on
the other side of the lake were many hours walk away. Paul

explained that when it filled, pelicans and other birds would arrive
in their tens of thousands. She tried to imagine the vast, still lake in
her mind, with a rich blue reflection of the sky. Allison asked if she
could be alone on the lake, so Paul walked back to the car, and she
walked further into the center of the lake. After half an hour of
walking, she sat down with her Leica and took shots with black-and-
white film and a red filter, which would increase the contrast of light
and dark in the images. She lay down flat and took a shot of her
torso, legs, and bare feet with the hills in the distance on the other
side of the lake; the immense flatness of the lake bed was intriguing.
She then stood up, and the last few photos she took before walking
back to the car were of her bare feet on the salt surface.
Paul and Allison didn’t say much on the trip back to Coober
Pedy. As they came into Coober Pedy, Paul asked, “Why are you
mining with me?”
“I’ll tell you when I know.”
“You’re strange. You know that?”
“Yes, I know that.”
“Strange, but nice.”
“Oh . . . thank you. It’s always nice to get compliments.”
“Why do you always want to do things alone?”
“That’s hard to say.”
He smiled and looked back at the horizon.


My Brother
Now is he struck dumb with the beauty of  the All-Glorious; again is he
wearied out with his own life. How many a mystic tree hath this whirlwind
of  bewilderment snatched by the roots, how many a soul hath it worn out
and exhausted. For in this valley the traveller is flung into confusion, albeit,
in the eyes of  him who hath attained, such signs are esteemed and well
beloved. At every moment, he beholdeth a wondrous world and a new
creation, and goeth from astonishment to astonishment, and is lost in awe
before the new handiwork of  Him Who is the sovereign Lord of  all.1
—Bahá’u’lláh, The Seven Valleys
Terminal 5 at JFK Airport was deserted; it had fallen into disuse in
the previous year, October 2001. Allison was sitting in the back seat
of the car with Paul and Sophie. They had just picked them up
from Terminal 4, and Allison had asked if Hooman could drive to
Terminal 5 and stop in front of it for a few minutes. She pointed the
building out to Paul and Sophie as they stopped near it. “Look, over
there, isn’t it great? It’s a piece of American history . . . iconic
modernism. All the other terminals seem utilitarian by comparison;
they lack a higher aesthetic purpose, I feel.”
Paul and Sophie stared at the building in silence.
Allison’s eye movements were fluid as her gaze moved over the
sculptural forms of the building, almost caressing it in her mind; the
bird, with its concrete wings outstretched, was covered in a layer of

snow—a home for metal birds. An observation that she had made
on her first day in New York, just before her plane touched down on
that winter day at JFK Airport just over three years before.
There had been three birds on that day: the metal bird, the
paper bird, and herself, the human bird. She wondered what had
happened to that airplane. Was it still in service somewhere? Did
she have a shared destiny with those who had flown in it? And she
never knew what had happened to the origami bird that she had
given away at the airport to that old woman who had traveled with
her in that metal bird; both the origami bird and the plane were
symbols of humanity’s collective destiny. This realization
shimmered in her mind as it had on her first day in New York. She
reached out and took Paul’s hand into her lap.
“Welcome to America,” Allison said and smiled.
“Thank you. Sophie and I are really looking forward to
discovering New York with you, babe,” he replied.
“And your first trip here doesn’t count, since you only saw
Upstate New York, for the most part,” she said.
Paul and Sophie smiled.
“Yes, true. At the time we were a bit preoccupied with your
marriage,” Paul said.
“Allison will be a good guide. She knows more about its history
than I do,” Hooman said as he looked back at them from the
driver’s seat. “She could easily take you on a walking tour of
Harlem and show you who lived where during the Harlem
Renaissance. I only know a few of the writers, but she knows most
of the key players in the various streams of art, music, and writing.
The Apollo Theater is being restored at the moment, and it will be
incredible to see it once it is finished.”
Allison looked back at the terminal, and as she did, an epiphany
washed over her mind. She realized that Terminal 5 was a Phoenix,
or a symbol of it at least, where metal birds came home to find
themselves at the end of their journey after flying over the six
valleys and landing in the seventh valley of Poverty and
Annihilation; in this valley, the Phoenix is annihilated and destroyed

in fire, and through this it is stripped of its attachments to objects in
the material world, its poverty but conversely its wealth.
In his own time Attar could never have imagined that a flying
machine was even possible, and that in the future, parts of the
symbolism in The Conference of  the Birds would be fulfilled with the
technological metaphor that had just arisen in Allison’s mind, and
that the travel and migration of human beings around the Earth,
along with the unfoldment of a new spiritual civilization, would
lead to the real beginnings of global citizenship and the gradual and
organic stages in the unfoldment of the oneness of humanity—an
idea that Hooman was so committed to—and through that, the
complete transformation of humanity at every level. And at that
time in history, the whole of humanity would enter into a collective
synergistic state of knowing the Phoenix, both our own higher
potential and our humanity. So, in the end, Allison knew that
airplanes were not just a symbol but an essential piece of
technology that changed and enhanced our destiny in place and
time, allowing us to find points of cultural integration as they
effectively shrunk the globe into that well-worn cliché of the global
village, and with the birth of the internet in 1983, the world was
becoming a digital village, particularly with the advent of social
media and internet search engines, which Allison could now see
emerging.
“It’s a Phoenix, Hooman. Maybe an American Phoenix.”
“Okay, wow. So it has moved on from being just a bird to being
a Phoenix,” he said jokingly.
“I remember seeing it on my first night in New York. Do you
remember that night, Hooman?”
“I shall never forget it. It’s burned into my memory. You were
beautiful and outrageously eccentric, and thankfully nothing has
changed.”
Allison laughed. “Okay, we can go now.”
Hooman drove off, eventually joining the expressway, and the
airport was lost to sight as Allison looked back at it one last time.

After half an hour of watching suburbia slide by, they came to
the Queensboro Bridge. The traffic was sparse, even for a Sunday,
and the car sped across unhindered. Everyone looked out at the
Manhattan skyline in silence. Allison gazed through the steel
supports flashing by in a blur. She remembered her first night in
New York with the skyline of towers glowing in the night—those
empty rooms with lights on—and the faint light in the interior of
the taxi as she crossed the bridge, with that cool snow falling onto
her warm face through the open window, although the symmetry of
night and day in the past and the present had been switched.
She now compared the aspects of her life that had changed in
that time. The intangible allure had dissipated, and she recalled her
impression that the inhabitants of the city lived out an existence in a
bliss of clichés. She was now a more integrated part of those clichés,
because, as she had mentioned to Elliot three months ago, some of
her cultural objectivity had departed; she had relinquished part of
her identity as an outsider. She was becoming an American in subtle
ways beyond the changes in her accent. And her own life had
moved from partially objective observer, from an Australian
viewpoint, to subjective participant within the contemporary
American zeitgeist. What she now knew was that New York was her
home, not Melbourne; she had made that transition in identity,
being a dual citizen: both American and Australian.
What occurred to her in this moment was that a city, like New
York or Melbourne, was not so much an objective place but a
subjective object, where a series of subjective mental processes,
underscored by each unique person’s viewpoint—connected with
others—formed into millions of conjunctions in consciousness:
networks, where peoples’ overlapping subjectivities were shared and
from which collective viewpoints began to become semi-objective,
and people then identified themselves as New Yorkers or Americans
or sometimes, like her, with several subjective cultural identities, and
still others identified themselves as tourists.
She now thought of Paul and Sophie’s point of view as
Australians in New York, and she knew she could guide them

around the city and enhance their experience in Manhattan by
throwing light onto their Australian identity and comparing and
contrasting their experiences in New York with Melbourne; they
were all now crossing two bridges: one physical and the other
cultural.
As they came off the bridge, Paul and Sophie asked questions
about the city and its history and were especially interested in Times
Square.
“We won’t be passing Times Square on the way to the house,
but if you want, we could all go down and look at it in the evening,
which is the best time to see it anyway,” Hooman commented.
He looked at Allison in the rearview mirror. “Hey, I heard
about a movie that’s showing right now: Metropolis. Apparently, it’s
very interesting. A colleague from work mentioned it to me,” he
said.
“Yes, I’ve heard about it too. It’s a Japanese anime, borrowing
some ideas from the 1927 Fritz Lang movie of the same name.” She
turned to Paul. “Remember I used to see reruns of the original
Metropolis at the Valhalla Movie Theatre in Westgarth, in
Melbourne?” Allison said.
“Yes, I remember . . . vaguely,” Paul said, slightly distracted as
he looked up at the buildings as they passed by.
“Since we would all be down that way anyway, we could see it
at the movie theater near the square, then explore afterward. Maybe
Sara could babysit for us tonight?” Hooman said.
“Sure. Sophie, do you want to see a movie tonight?” Paul asked.
Sophie nodded. Her face was absent as she stared out at the
city.
* * *
After leaving Hooman to show Paul and Sophie around the house,
Allison crossed the street to meet up with Jonny and his
grandmother.

Propping her back up with a cushion and sitting in the middle
of a large couch, her impression was one of being interviewed for a
job. Jonny’s grandmother had been polite while showing her into
the house; however, she sensed immediately that the older woman
was observing her intently. From the top of the stairs, Jonny had
been quietly watching the scene. He made eye contact, but no
emotions were evident in his face. Once they had moved into the
living room, he descended the stairs and sat on the lowest step,
looking through a doorway.
“So, dear, from what you tell me, this might be a good way for
him to interact with children his own age,” the woman said.
“Yes, there are some very sweet kids in the group who I know
would befriend him.”
She was thinking particularly about Jessica and the other older,
brasher Johnny from the group—Johnny with a different spelling.
She asked herself about the connection and repetition of the names
“Jonny” and “Johnny.” This confirmed to her that what she was
doing was right. She had a thought to make a new entry in her
notebook exploring the names Jon, John, Jonny, and Johnny. In
addition, she thought of the singer Joni Mitchell, whose music she
had always liked and whose first name was only a small phonetic
inflection away from the name Jonny. All names blended into an
abiding whole. All names condensed into letters. All letters were
found inside the word “Baha,” which was an Arabic word for glory,
which she had explored in her notebook.
“How old are they again?” the woman said.
“Fourteen . . . roughly. Some are younger.”
“But Jonny is very shy, and he’s only eleven. Will he get on in a
group of older children?”
“I don’t see it being a problem.”
“Well, let’s say he joins and, if all goes well, then . . . I mean if
there is any bullying, I will pull him out without a second thought.
You understand? Unfortunately, Jonny gets bullied a lot at school.”
“Of course, I understand. But I assure you, I will not let that
happen.”

His grandmother looked at him through the doorway. She did
not have to say anything, and, after a few moments, he nodded his
approval. She smiled and turned back to Allison. “Well, that’s fine,
then, but I want to ask you more about yourself. I don’t know
anything about you. I mean, you’re not a complete stranger, but you
understand why I need to know a bit more.”
A reasonable request, Allison thought. She placed her hands in
her lap. “What would you like to know?” she said.
“Well, dear, why are you doing this? Where did you say you
came from?”
“Australia.”
“Yes, right, so it’s rare, dear, that anyone from outside our
community would show an interest in our kids. Harlem especially.
It’s a tough place for folks here, let alone those from outside.”
“When Hooman and I moved here, I wanted to do something
constructive for the community. I wanted to contribute in some way.
To serve the community.”
“Well, that’s very Christian of you. I approve, dear, I do. Very
Christian.”
“Can I ask, does Jonny’s mother live here with you?”
“Oh, her. No, she’s a . . . well, let’s just say her life has drifted
off the path, and her husband, if you can call him that, is in a
correctional facility. Jonny lives with us now. My husband works in
banking.”
Allison had been watching the woman’s face. The woman had
grimaced slightly as she mentioned her daughter and lifted
contrastingly into unconcealed delight as she mentioned her
husband’s job.
“What’s your husband do, dear?” the woman asked.
“He’s a lawyer. He specializes in public international law.”
“Oh! Top profession that. Top profession, yes. And what about
you?”
At this point in the conversation, Allison was comfortable, but
now she struggled to find something to say. She did not know what
she did or had done.

If she was truthful, it could be said that she had drifted, like the
woman’s daughter, wavering on and off the path. And it was
interesting that, for the sake of social ease, she would try to put her
life’s efforts into one limited box. This notion was annoying, but she
did want to look credible to this woman. Something drew her to
Jonny. He must join the group. Some future potential, which could
not be quantified yet, was unfolding and would manifest eventually
in Jonny’s personality. She was connected to his future somehow.
And she dwelled on her need to kick the leaves in the fall. She felt
sure this desire came from Jonny and had been passed to her
through the other worlds.
She was drifting through her thoughts, then realized the woman
was waiting for a reply on what she did for work.
“I’m a mother,” was the hesitating reply that eventually came. It
seemed to satisfy the woman, but almost immediately Allison felt
dissatisfied with this idea. She had barely been with Noah for a few
months, and she was calling herself a mother? This was a title she
was as yet unqualified for, and further subtext formed around what
she had done in her life. Depressingly little, it seemed.
Jonny’s grandmother had been patiently waiting for elaboration
on the topic of being a mother, but Allison slipped into a blank
reverie despite her awareness of the woman’s expectation. She was
only brought back to the present when another question came.
“So, dear, do you go to church?” the woman asked.
“Sorry. Church. Oh, no, not me. Not yet, anyway.”
“Well, you’re welcome to join me on any Sunday,” came the
sunny reply.
“Oh, thank you, that’s very kind. And although I am not a
Christian in the formal sense, I do believe in Christ. His influence in
this world has been considerable.”
“Yes, yes.” The woman placed an approving emphasis on the
last yes.
“But I also believe that other religions are equally valid, like
Islam, Hinduism, Buddhism, to name only a few.”

“I . . . oh no. No, dear, that doesn’t sound right to me. Jesus is
our only Savior . . . I don’t understand. How can you believe in
Jesus and also in the false gods of other faiths?” The woman now
wore a pained and uncomprehending expression.
Allison felt sympathetic but could not find a way to ease the
woman’s obvious confusion, so she decided to ignore the question
and answer it indirectly. “Well, I associate myself with my husband’s
faith. And that is that we should not pride ourselves on loving our
own country, but rather we should love the whole world. So we
should treat each other with kindness and compassion and never
look with superiority at a person’s skin color, social standing, culture,
sex, or even religion. Doesn’t that sound like something Christ
would want?”
The woman wavered nervously. “Yes . . . I suppose.”
“We need beliefs in human kindness. In an age of moral
relativity.”
“Moral what, dear?” The woman did not ask Allison anything
more about her or her husband’s faith. She guessed that the
woman’s primary concern had been assuaged, and that Jonny’s
welfare in the group had been assured.
At the door the woman turned to Allison. “Harlem can afford
to welcome a few new people to her ranks, and I wish you all the
best with your photography group. I think Jonny will gain a lot by
attending.”
* * *
Snow fell heavily around them as they came out of the movie
theater onto West 42nd Street. The snow had begun falling while
they were inside. As they walked through Times Square, Allison
observed the relative emptiness of the place. The time was now 9:40
p.m., and Paul and Sophie wanted to explore, but Allison was tired,
so Nava offered to take them around while Hooman and Allison sat
in the Starbucks overlooking the square; the café was the same one
that she had sat in on her second day in New York. For a moment

they watched the other three wandering off toward the top of the
square into a light and snow-laden blur. Hooman went to the
counter and ordered two café lattes. He soon came back and passed
her a coffee as he sat opposite her. They were also sitting in the
same spot that Allison had sat in on her second day in New York.
“Did you like the movie?” he said.
“Oh yes, it was interesting. Thanks for taking me. It was nice of
you to suggest it. You are so attentive to my tastes in art, my
aesthetic sensibilities.”
“I thought you would like the diversion.”
“Yes, I did . . . I hope Sara is all right looking after Noah.”
“She’ll be fine.”
Allison looked out to see if she could still see Nava, Paul, and
Sophie, but they had disappeared into the crisscross of people. She
looked at all the advertising lights for a moment and their strange
collective abstraction, flashing and throbbing in the dark sky.
“So, the movie . . . was it like the original Metropolis?” he said.
“In places, yes. But I think that they are very different movies. I
think I read somewhere that the director, Fritz Lang, was inspired by
a visit to New York when he first saw the Manhattan skyline, and
Metropolis was born in that moment, kind of like my own experience
when I saw Manhattan for the first time as I was coming over
Queensboro Bridge on my first night in New York. But I think my
reaction was different from Lang’s reaction. I remember that his
experience of the Manhattan skyline was an aesthetic one, whereas
I thought of the veneer of civilization, but ultimately Metropolis is
about that veneer and indifference toward the suffering of others
outside of one’s class; the movie is a critique of capitalism really,
and it tries to blend in some communist ideology too. Interestingly,
the Nazis tried to highjack it and use it as a subtle form of
propaganda, but in a strange twist they ended up fulfilling a part of
the story by subjugating the Jews into a racial underclass and
eventually exterminating them in acts of unbelievable cruelty and
evil.”

“Yes, I know a lot about that through my studies of the
Nuremberg trials. It is shocking, really shocking, what they did.”
“Yes, absolutely.”
“So, New York is the true metropolis, then?” continued
Hooman.
“Yes, it is, I suppose. One of the main plot points in the original
Metropolis is that the city is made up of two classes: the elite, also
called the leaders, and the workers. So you can see that New York
mirrors this reality in many ways, without being quite as polarized
as the movie: Lang was casting the classes into either the
bourgeoisie or the proletariat.
“And it is interesting that the character Freder is at leisure in a
pleasure garden, where he meets a young woman named Maria,
who has brought a group of the workers’ children to see the
privileged lifestyle led by the rich. Maria and the children are asked
to leave, but Freder is attracted to Maria and searches for her in the
workers’ part of the city. But at the end of the movie, the story
doesn’t really present any viable solutions beyond the vague
resolution that love will conquer all, and Freder being the ‘mediator’
between the two classes, with the ‘heart’ bringing the ‘head’—elite
—and ‘hand’—workers—together, a metaphor of unity between
classes, but I am sure the real solution is far more complex and
more difficult. It is true that love is a part of the answer, but I would
add the words ‘justice’ and ‘equality’ to the mix, and I am sure that
the whole of humanity will be needed to make the change and not
just a few influential people from the elite sector of society. It may
be hundreds of years before we see any absolute resolution. And do
we really want any classes in society? Are we aiming for something
more complex where robots and machines are the primary sources
of production and everyone is mostly middle class? Who knows? It
is an open question. Maybe we won’t know until we actually get
there; either way we have to eliminate extreme poverty and wealth
as a first step.”
“Interesting.”

“I was thinking today, as we crossed the Queensboro Bridge,”
continued Allison, who was in the mood to share her thoughts, “that
a city is an odd phenomenon, a space of large and complex webs of
consciousness, almost unfathomable and untraceable at times, with
huge shared subjectivities and objectivities. Though, for the most
part, when you look at people walking by, like here in the square”—
she pointed out the window—“you only see the superficial detail of
their lives and not the deep, invisible connections and motivations.
Even if you stop someone and ask them about their life, you only
see their persona and not their deep self.”
“Yes. That can be true,” he said and paused. “But that is a
wonderful observation.”
“I don’t think I ever told you about my idea of a life-story
depository. It was a thought experiment for the most part that would
help uncover these invisible connections we have with each other; a
book for each person or object that reveals the deeper aspects of
our connected reality, our configured destiny.”
“No, you have never mentioned it. Sounds interesting. Your
notebook is a little like that idea, isn’t it?”
Allison didn’t answer. She took a sip of her coffee and looked
out the window again. She was lost for a moment in the whiteness
of snow. “And a part of these invisible connections comes in the
form of many large corporations, very much like the elite in
Metropolis, whose influences are global, but the benefits, in terms of
large amounts of money, usually flow back here to the corporations
without any real obligations being fulfilled, which is to support
smaller and poorer nations or even just poorer people within and
outside of America. It’s exactly as you have said in your book, On the
Shoulders of  the Poor. We all do stand on the shoulders of the poor,”
she said.
Hooman had begun writing a rough outline of the book just
after they had met in London but didn’t begin the first draft until
after they were married. It was far from finished. He had shared
excerpts of it with Allison throughout the writing process. “Yes,
money, pursued for its own sake, can allow dilution of responsibility.

It is rooted in the cult of individualism—free enterprise and the
pursuit of profit—and the lack of ethical standards expected of
corporations, which should be pursued by governing institutions.
This individualism is expressed in two ways. It applies to those who
run these corporations and governing institutions and the
individuals that consume the products made by these corporations.
People who run these institutions and companies should ask, Who
should benefit from the products produced? Should it be a specific
nation or shareholders, or should it be the whole of humanity?
There needs to be an equal distribution of wealth at every level of
the production of a product. I’ve said it before. There is a
fundamental relationship between the spiritual transformation of
the individual, community, and institutions. You need to change all
to achieve positive ethical growth in global culture. And
individualism is fed by our materialist desires—materialism—served
by the media, where we seek fulfillment from branded products. I
think that people believe that consumption is the source of their
happiness. And it’s strange that many products use words to evoke
spiritual states that do not exist in the products themselves; this is
the false promise of the material world.”
“You mean like the perfume ‘Eternity’ or ‘Everlast’?”
“Yes, exactly,” he said.
Allison drifted off into another stream of thought. “Oh well,
although I can’t see these invisible threads, I do see the way spiritual
laws affect our actions, and I see why international law is so
paramount to you. Now that I know more about you, in these last
few years, I see your need for a new global identity. I wish I had
done more in the past to further that cause, like you.”
“But in Harlem you’ve done plenty with the kids, trying to teach
them to see their own humanity: an equal humanity. And with
Noah, you’re a mother. That’s a powerful position. And you have
had an interesting life, very unconventional and in the best kind of
way. You have changed me, at least. I probably wouldn’t have
moved to Harlem without your influence. And you bring out the

best in me spiritually, like no one else does. I love you so much
because of that.”
“Maybe you’re right. And I have been trying to discuss with the
children what it really means to be American. To identify oneself
with nation and culture can be a strange phantom, which I hope
some of them may come to realize one day.”
“When ‘Abdu’l-Bahá was in America in 1912,” continued
Hooman, “he designated New York as the City of the Covenant,
and I think that despite the racial discrimination of the time, he
thought that the city had the capacity to become a great spiritual
center that could reflect the unity of the entire human race. I guess
this is based on the broad racial diversity found here, more than
many other cities, and, after all, the United Nations is based here,
right? In many ways New York is the capital of the world: the global
metropolis.”
Hooman then began to talk about a specific day when Juliet
Thompson, an artist and early Bahá’í, had met a group of children
in one of the tenements. Hooman reminded Allison that they had
stood in front of Juliet’s house in Greenwich Village almost three
months ago. “Juliet had arranged for the children to meet ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá. He greeted them, one by one, with smiles and laughter. The
last one was an African American boy, and when ‘Abdu’l-Bahá saw
him, his face lit up with a smile, and he exclaimed: ‘Here is a black
rose!’ Everyone present was impressed with a feeling of wonder,
which increased when ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, distributing a handful of
chocolates to each child with a kind word, picked up a particularly
dark chocolate and without a word, but with a humorously piercing
glance that swept around the group, laid the chocolate against the
black cheek. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s face was radiant . . . and that radiance
seemed to fill the room. The children looked with real wonder at the
African American boy as if they had never seen him before.”2
Allison thought that Jonny was a black rose too. She took
Hooman’s hand. “I’m so glad we’re together. I really am,” Allison
said in a low voice.

“So am I,” he said and smiled, looking at her. “I knew we would
be okay somehow.”
Getting up, and without breaking contact with his hand, she
slipped into his lap. They embraced for a long time, framed in the
Starbucks café window.
“I wouldn’t be myself without you,” Allison said. “I see myself
in you more and more. We are a mirror of each other. Like you
always say.”
“Do you remember that dream I had on the first night we met?
This moment, I think, is the last part of that dream, the meadow in
Times Square.”
“I know who you are,” she said, responding to her own
observation that they were a mirror to each other.
“Wow,” he said.
“What?”
“What you just said is what you had said in my dream. You
said, ‘I know who you are.’”
“Wow . . . and you know, I think you might be a version of
Freder. In your walled paradise that I rescued you from. And I
might be a version of Maria. Metropolis applies to our life in New
York. And New York is, in some ways, an urban dystopia, like the
movie. Although, as I said before, I doubt we can change or mediate
the reality of the class structure of New York as it stands today.
That is for the whole of humanity to achieve in the future. And I
think that the Bahá’í community will have a large part to play in
that resolution.”
“Yes, that is true. Although I don’t really know the plot of
Metropolis.”
“We’ll watch the original soon, and you can find out for
yourself. And the false Maria, or the ‘Maschinenmensch,’ literally
‘machine-human’ in German, is a symbol of both individualism
and materialism combined; the artificial human being lacks
compassion.”

“Yes, maybe that is everyone’s nemesis.” Hooman added, “And
by overcoming these two, we begin to eradicate poverty and
extreme wealth.”
Allison pointed at the square. “Can you see Hampstead Heath
overlayed here in Times Square? Use your imagination to see it in
your mind.”
He looked out the window. “Yes, I think I can see it now. Wow,
amazing. The only thing that is missing is your yellow dress,” he
said.
She stood up and spun around a few times. “Can you see me
wearing the yellow dress? Can you see it?”
As he was about to answer, Nava thumped on the café window.
Nava, Paul, and Sophie were covered in snow, and Nava was
jumping up and down excitedly. Hooman and Allison could not
hear Nava’s words but read her arm movements. They gathered
their coats, helping each other into them, and left Starbucks.


Decoding Reality
After scaling the high summits of  wonderment, the wayfarer cometh to THE
VALLEY OF TRUE POVERTY AND ABSOLUTE NOTHINGNESS. This
station is that of  dying to the self  and living in God, of  being poor in self
and rich in the Desired One. Poverty, as here referred to, signifieth being poor
in that which pertaineth to the world of  creation and rich in what belongeth
to the realms of  God. For when the true lover and devoted friend reacheth
the presence of  the Beloved, the radiant beauty of  the Loved One and the
fire of  the lover’s heart will kindle a blaze and burn away all veils and
wrappings. Yea, all that he hath, from marrow to skin, will be set aflame,
so that nothing will remain save the Friend.1
—Bahá’u’lláh, The Seven Valleys
The Rose Center for Earth and Space was a large open area that
spanned several floors of the American Museum of Natural
History. These floors were incorporated into a massive glass cube
built with interlocking squares of glass. Allison, Paul, and Sophie
had just walked out of the Hall of Planet Earth and taken an
escalator up to the second level. As they ascended, they looked at
the Hayden Planetarium, an enormous white sphere located in the
center of this large open area. Allison swiveled her head and stared
through the glass walls at the snow-covered terrace in the exterior
of the museum. Her eyes then moved back to the interior and came

to rest on the planetarium again; its shape represented the sun, and
it seemed almost to float near the roof of the glass cube. The nine
planets in the solar system were strung up around it.
Coming off the escalator, they walked up to the railing and
looked down at the café on the first floor.
“Do you guys want to look in here?” Allison asked Paul and
Sophie as she pointed toward the planetarium; on this level it was
the Hayden Big Bang Theater. The planetarium proper was on the
level above the theater, inside the sphere.
“Let’s look in here.” Paul nodded at the room. There was a
gangway between the second floor and the theater, and they walked
along it and entered the theater through a doorway.
Once inside, the lights dimmed automatically, and a projected
video, depicting the formation of the universe, appeared on the
floor of the theater. Noah woke up when a deep voice began
narrating the show.
“The universe, as we see it today, began with what we now call
the Big Bang. An explosion of immense violence . . .”
The narrator’s voice trailed off in Allison’s mind as she leaned
down to pull Noah out of the three-wheeled stroller. While the
others watched the projection, she fed him and did not concentrate
fully on the narration or the video projection, but as she was feeding
Noah, she thought about a Bahá’í and poet, Robert Hayden, US
Poet Laureate from 1976 to 1978. Obviously, the theater was not
named after Robert Hayden, but she liked the connection to and
repetition of Hayden’s last name with the theater. She had read
about his life recently in the book From the Auroral Darkness: The Life
and Poetry of  Robert Hayden and had also read some of his poetry, as
Hooman had Hayden’s complete collection on the bookshelf at the
house. Allison knew, after reading only a few of his poems, that he
was immensely talented and nuanced as a poet, and this threw light
onto her own poetry, which she wrote more for herself rather than
for other readers.

Toward the end of the show, she walked over to Paul and
whispered, “Dost thou reckon thyself only a puny form when within
thee the universe is folded.”2
“Where’s that from?” he said.
“Imam ‘Alí.”
“Strange fellow, I presume.”
“No more than you.”
“Ha. Very funny.”
After the show, they walked down to the café via a spiral
gangway that wound around the planetarium, eventually
descending to the first floor.
They sat talking. Paul bounced Noah on his knees. Allison was
looking up at the representation of the solar system floating above
them. She sipped her coffee.
Paul turned to Sophie. “What did you think?” he asked.
“About the show? Yeah, good. I liked the special effects. It
makes it easier to imagine how it all formed.”
“What about you, Allison. Did you like it?”
“I couldn’t concentrate on it all, but what I did see was good.”
Allison took a bite from a poppy seed bun. Several seeds stuck
to her palm and fingers, and she continued to speak with her mouth
partially full. She muffled, “You know, Paul, what amazes me is that
the universe was, at one time, smaller than this seed: the first seed of
time.” She pointed to a seed on the tip of her forefinger.
She aimed and flicked the seed at her brother. “Don’t you think
that is amazing? Who needs miracles when you have everything
created from nothing or at least relatively nothing. Who knows what
came before the Big Bang. Maybe it all comes from the womb of
the essence or the womb of Malakut? I have been thinking about
string theory recently. I think the universe might be made from one
infinite and infinitesimally small string, packed and folded together
like an infinite pack of invisible spaghetti that vibrates and unfolds
in seemingly empty space to reveal the elementary particles.”

Paul ignored her comments and continued bouncing Noah on
his knee. He then lifted him above his head. “What about you,
Noah? Did you like the show?”
Sophie laughed. “He was too busy having a feed. When did he
have a notion to care about the universe?” she said to Paul.
“Take no notice, Noah.” Paul put Noah back on his knees.
“Hey, sis, how is your life in New York?”
“What about it?”
“Are you happy? I presume you are. But you never mention
your life here or much of anything recently. Although I can’t say I’m
surprised. You have never been very  revealing about the things you
get up to, at least in recent times. We have no idea what your life is
like here.”
“I’m sorry, guys. I was meaning to keep in contact, but when I
got pregnant, things got more hectic. And there was the building of
the house, which took up a large chunk of my time. I pretty much
had to project manage the whole thing.”
“That’s okay. Paul’s just giving you a hard time. We knew you
had your hands full with your new life,” Sophie said.
“But you’re happy?” Paul reiterated.
“Well, yes, I am, but happiness is complex. The short answer is
yes . . . and Sophie, it’s not a new life. It’s the same life it has always
been.”
Sophie did not answer. She looked at Paul.
“Oh guys, I just had a thought, sorry. Excuse me for a bit.”
Reaching down under the stroller, Allison pulled out her leather
notebook and pencil. Opening to a new page, she wrote a question
to herself: “What is the complexity of happiness?” She then added,
“The alchemy of happiness is the transmutation of virtue.”
After reading it several times to imprint it into memory, she
then flicked through the pages to find a quote she had written down
some months ago: the words she had whispered to Paul in the
theater, which were contained within another quote. The extract
came from The Seven Valleys:

Likewise, reflect upon the perfection of  man’s creation, and that all these
planes and states are folded up and hidden away within him. “Dost thou
reckon thyself  only a puny form, when within thee the universe is folded?”
Then we must labor to destroy the animal condition, till the meaning of
humanity shall come to light.3
She knew this had a double meaning. The quote referred to the
mysteries in the physical universe that had been partially revealed
by quantum mechanics and string theory but also the worlds of
God, which had a conceptual framework, a spiritual universe, that
was folded up tightly within our hearts.
Paul placed Noah back in the stroller and dangled some toys in
front of him. Noah reached out and tried to grab the toys.
Paul looked over at Allison.
“What are you writing?” he inquired.
“Oh, just random thoughts and ideas.”
“I noticed you had the notebook yesterday as well.”
“Yeah, I pretty much take it everywhere. Hooman bought it for
me. He encourages me to put all my thoughts in here.”
“So, is it like a diary?” Sophie asked.
Allison’s instinctive reaction was to divert Paul and Sophie’s
attention away from the notebook by saying something vague and
unrevealing; however, something in her decided to tell the whole
truth about it. It couldn’t hurt, she thought, as they would not
remotely believe a word she said anyway.
“It is not a diary,” Allison said.
“What is it, then?” Paul asked.
“It’s my symmetrical destiny map . . . I use it to decode reality,”
Allison said finally.
Stopping herself from bursting into laughter, Sophie put her
hand over her mouth for a moment as she calmed herself down.
“You’re not serious, are you? But knowing you, you probably are,”
she said.
“Of course I am,” Allison said.
“Yes, you are serious. I should know that,” Sophie said.

Paul was quiet.
Not able to contain herself any longer, Sophie chuckled. She
then looked at Paul for some reply, but Paul did not reply, so Sophie
continued. “Allison, in some ways you have changed while you’ve
been in New York, but in another way, you are the same as you ever
were.”
Paul asked Allison in a slow and precise manner, “So, how
exactly does a person decode reality?”
“I read the world. I mean, through signs and meanings. In the
patterns of people’s speech, in the repetition of names. I see
connections. Nothing is exempt. Even the way someone smiles. It’s
hard to explain how it works exactly. People and objects tell me
things about reality, even without them realizing it. Remember I
told you in an email a few years back that Hooman’s boss and wife
were called Paul and Sophie? Remember? I said it was an
interesting connection of names, a symmetry of names. And then
there is their daughter, Alison; she has my name.”
“Yeah, okay, I remember,” said Paul. “But, Allison, I know what
reality is. And what exactly are you finding out while you’re
decoding? The truth is that there’s nothing to decode. Reality is just
physical. There’s nothing more to it than that. We make our own
meaning. You talk as if there is something behind reality.”
“Yes! There is something behind reality! And if I have to be
more specific, people from the next world communicate through
objects and names. As I said before, even the pattern or texture of
my own thoughts holds a certain significance.”
“Do you hear voices?”
“No, it’s the voices of everyday life that hide the supramundane.
Every person and object speaks of themselves in their own way and
in their own language, each with a unique voice. It’s like, say I see a
street advert that advertises strawberry ice cream, and then I meet
someone on the same day who says to me: ‘Gee, I really love
strawberry ice cream. Have you got any?’ Then I know I was meant
to meet that person, and I listen to what they say more carefully. I
look for more clues or signs. I learn things that way, about the

deeper nature of reality, things that have always been there but are
passed over because we are not imaginative enough to look for the
obvious truth of it. You see, you both could be telling me something
deeply mystical right now without realizing it; riding on top of your
voice might be another voice, of transcendence, of beauty, of
sublimity.
“Each person only perceives reality on their own level but can
communicate knowledge that they are unaware of themselves to a
person on a higher level of reality. When a person goes up the
ladder of reality, the world moves up with them, but those on lower
rungs don’t see what those on higher rungs do. Each person is
blissfully unaware of the higher worlds. They only see what is on
their level and below. But of course, over time, which isn’t really
time, people move up to higher levels and realize that they were
lower down in the past, but eventually the levels disappear, and
everything flattens out, and everyone is the same on the horizon of
eternity until even this fades in the glow from the essence, and
everything is destroyed in pure beauty. Then only the Glory of God
remains, which is a single word from God: ‘Be.’”
Sophie laughed. “Oh my god! Oh . . . my . . . god . . . that is
crazy talk, Allison. Strawberry ice cream! What a bizarre little
imagination you have. Ha ha. Paul, this kind of conversation would
keep me entertained for hours,” Sophie said.
“Sophie, please be quiet. Let her speak.” Paul’s tone was not
unkind, but it wounded Sophie anyway, and her smile melted away.
“So, I have developed a theory. The ancient Egyptians worked
out how to enter the afterlife while they were still alive, or I am
surmising that based on their understanding of the structure of the
afterlife. The soul, the nine-fold soul, with the exception of the
body, travels through a series of gates along a river. But it’s the same
phenomenon as Jacob’s Ladder in the Bible, or Muhammad going
through the levels of heaven on the ladder that reached up from the
Dome of the Rock. The Sufis called it the seven cities or valleys, but
I calculate nine levels. It’s all the same. Do you see?”
“Well, no, not really, but continue,” Paul said.

“So, through prayer and meditation and through reading
certain signs and mystical names and hidden knowledge, our soul
progresses through these levels. Absolutely everything in the
material world is a part of this scheme: words, symbols, songs,
movies, objects, and nature itself. Any sense-perceived reality is a
metaphorical cipher of the higher worlds; the meaning of
everything in the higher worlds potentially exists in this world.
Everything you need to progress is already here. You don’t need to
die to find these ciphers and move upwards. They exist in
fragments, like a puzzle, and you need to put them together to see
the oneness of reality.” Allison paused for a moment and said, “Oh,
I have a quote from Bahá’u’lláh that explains this.” She flicked
through her notebook. “Here it is,” and she read, “‘Herein the lowly
earth is in no conflict with the high heavens.’4
“And ultimately, only prayer can unlock these ciphers.”
“Oh, I see. So, through reading words and objects in the world,
a person finds this hidden knowledge,” Paul said.
“That’s it! You have it. I call it the ‘hidden school.’”
Sophie interjected. “Paul, you’re not considering . . . I mean,
you don’t think this is true?”
“No, no. I just want to hear her out. That’s all.”
“Thanks, Paul. I know this is hard for you guys to digest, but
this is who I am. You know that. I won’t change, or at least not in
the way that you expect. This is where I’m going. It’s where we’re all
going, in fact. Everyone dies. Everyone goes to these spiritual
worlds. This hasn’t changed since the beginning of human history.
The Egyptians called it the Boat of Millions of Years. We are
traveling in it now, but we just don’t know it. It’s here, it’s eternity,
it’s all around us. It’s hidden behind time. And even timelessness is
just another veil for the essence to hide behind.”
“Well, all I see is the planetarium right now and these worlds”
—and he pointed to the planets suspended from the ceiling—“but
I’ll take your word for it.”

“Hey! I guess I’m not surprised. I just wanted you guys to know
where I’m at, that’s all. You asked, so I told you the truth of it. Of
course, I don’t expect you to believe it. I just wanted to be honest.”
“Hey, sis, that’s great, and I support you in it. You do whatever
you like. It’s none of my business what you believe. And you know
me. I can’t go in for that kinda stuff, never have, but whatever gives
you kicks, you go for it.
“And I have to say that with regard to spiritual and religious
ideas, you have changed here in New York. It seems that you have
moved on from the various streams of existentialism and
postmodern philosophy, not that I really understand any of that
either.”
“Existentialism focuses on the ‘individual’ being and
postmodern philosophy on the ‘cultural’ being and on the
relativities of culture and ideology, rejecting modernism’s
metanarratives. But I think that Baháʼí-based philosophy will
incorporate both ways of ‘being’ and find unity within diversity.
The Baháʼí Faith will be the first real global metanarrative for the
future; it will be able to encompass all cultural and religious
relativity without destroying diversity completely. I mean, some
ideologies will fade, and others will remain or evolve.”
“Hmm . . . no comment.” He smiled.
She wanted to say that the world Paul saw was a pattern of
thinking and a projection of concepts. If he could change the
patterns and assumptions about what was “real,” he could see
another world. An emotion of frustration formed in her mind but
was then overtaken by a feeling of extreme contentment. It washed
over her. It did not matter. Nothing mattered. Paul and Sophie
would know one day. They would see and know it for themselves. If
this was the last word she uttered on the subject, then it didn’t
matter.
She smiled at Paul and Sophie. “I love you guys. And thanks for
coming to see Noah and me.”
Allison put her notebook and pencil back into the storage
basket under the stroller, then got up and went to hug Sophie.

When Paul’s turn came, he laughed as she sat in his lap and
embraced him. “You keep my life interesting, and I thank you for
that. It’s a cliché, but the world is a better place with you in it,” he
said.
They spent the remaining time in the museum exploring
various other halls adjacent to the Rose Center for Earth and Space.
Allison reflected on the myriad cultures that had come and gone;
these cultures were never to be seen again except here, in a static
form, behind glass display units, like the African peoples, the South
American cultures, and the American Indians, in particular the
Plains Indians. Time had reduced whole cultures to this and would
do the same to her own culture eventually. In three thousand years,
all the cares and concerns, fashions, opinions, and ideas behind
what New York had stood for in this moment may be completely
effaced. There may be buildings preserved, books, and
documentaries, but essentially the culture may be so changed that it
would become completely transformed. And the language may even
be Arabic, Chinese, or a hybrid of English. Or maybe a new
language would evolve, like the language that existed behind the veil
of this world, which she knew existed, but she understood only a
fragment of its glory.
After coming from the Hall of African Peoples and passing
through Birds of the World, they all walked into the Hall of Mexico
and Central America. They walked slowly around the glass display
units. Sophie stopped and pointed out an ornate gold necklace in
the Mayan section. Paul walked toward her and the artifact. It was a
circular disc of gold, a pendant, with gold spheres and exquisite
blue stones shaped into interlocking conical shapes, which made up
most of the necklace.
Allison, who was next to Paul, read the caption and exclaimed,
“Wow! This is an early calendar. An early timepiece.”
The pendant was designed with Mayan glyphs, signs, and other
complex markings that Allison assumed were a representation of
months. Allison thought about the person who wore it all those
thousands of years before. All the emotions that may have been

invested in the object were gone, but the object was still here,
unmoved and uncaring of any concern for its own apparent beauty.
The necklace was empty of true reality, and its beauty was only
projected through human consciousness as a subjective object, not
innate, and even if it existed for several hundred thousand years
into the future, it would still be empty, like everything else in the city.
All that did exist were peoples’ minds and personalities aspiring for
objects that were physical and the states of being associated with
these objects. She could strip away meaning until nothing existed
but the perception of the oneness of being and of the intermingling
of all souls at the center of existence where all the illusions peeled
away, all mysteries evaporated, until nothing in the changeable
world was left to strive for, and immortality hummed and flexed in
changelessness.
In that moment her mind broke through a subtle barrier. A
sensation of indefinable joy and radiance passed over her. She
looked at Sophie reading the caption beside the necklace. Sophie
was transfigured before her eyes and became a beautiful,
unfathomable being.
Allison put her arm around Sophie. “Beautiful, isn’t it?” Allison
said as they both continued to stare at the shining gold necklace.
And now the gold was a mirror of Allison’s soul as its emptiness
was filled.
“Yes, it is. So delicate in one way . . . but it also has a certain
primal strength. Now that I look at it more, you know, it is so
beautiful, Allison, it really is.”
These words penetrated Allison on many levels as tears formed
in her eyes. Riding on top of Sophie’s voice was another voice, and
it was an accent playful, joyful, and unimaginably sweet. Allison
could not tell if it was a soul from another world or Sophie’s own
higher potential, but ultimately it did not matter to Allison. The
words were Sophie’s, but the tone and depth were transformed.
They spoke of a meaning beyond Sophie’s perception and far
removed from earthly reality: that timeless world. Only Allison
could hear that astonishingly sweet voice calling from another

plane. It was, she now knew, a placeless sun whose invisible light
reflected that higher realm. Sophie’s words intimated that life is
teasingly beautiful and so endlessly wondrous. Allison stopped
herself from laughing in ecstatic joy. It all seemed like an amazing
joke.
After a few seconds, Sophie’s voice assumed its normal
proportions again, and the wave of joy in Allison’s body evaporated.
She found herself back on earth once more. Her hands shook as she
realized she had experienced another strange session of
transfiguration, only this time it had overtaken her in such a way
that she did not notice it until afterward. This session was shorter
than her experience at the British Museum but essentially the same.
Paul patted her on the shoulder. “Are you okay? You look a bit
dazed.”
“Huh, oh, no, I’m okay, I, uh . . . I don’t feel well,” Allison said.
“Oh, okay. We should get going, then.”
“Yes, I think I need to sleep.”
* * *
In Allison’s sleep she walked over a vast, flat desert, and the sand
was wet and cool on the soles of her feet. She was completely
naked, but the breast that had been removed after her cancer was
now there, and she was whole again. It seemed as if she was on a
long stretch of beach, and the waves had only just receded back into
the ocean. She could even hear what sounded like an ocean in the
distance, with huge crashing waves, but nothing of it could be seen
on the horizon. No matter what direction she walked, she found
herself no closer to the large body of water that she knew was out
there. She looked up at an intense, cloudless sky; all the colors were
polarized with deep contrasts, similar to the effect that a red filter
has on a camera using black-and-white film.
In the near distance she saw the only object in any direction; it
was red. As she came closer, she recognized it to be an oversized
pomegranate. Crouching down on the sand, she took the fruit and

broke it open with her thumbs. Allison saw immediately that the
seeds were unripe and had a white, translucent structure, like semi-
cloudy white crystal. She stood up and broke off a handful of the
seeds and began to blow on them. Glowing like embers, they
responded to her breath and changed slowly to crimson with a
glowing red light source inside each seed. The sound of the ocean
grew louder but remained out of sight.
Once the seeds seemed ripe, she put one on the tip of her
tongue. It tasted somehow transcendent and nothing like
pomegranate, like all the fruits she had ever tasted but all at the
same time: banana, watermelon, and strawberry were some that
seemed obvious. She then swallowed the translucent ruby. It slid
down her throat, and then a great wall of water, rising up 600 feet,
came toward her. She dropped the fruit, and spinning around, she
tried to escape, but there was nowhere to go. The water came from
all directions. In the periphery of her vision, she saw that the other
seeds on the sand and those still in the fruit had transformed into
blood and flowed away into the sand. The circle of the ocean,
which was threatening to crush her, reached only 650 feet from her
when the dream ended.


The Tourists
Whoso hath attained this station is sanctified from all that pertaineth to the
world. Wherefore, if  those who have reached the ocean of  His presence are
found to possess none of  the limited things of  this perishable world, whether
earthly riches or worldly opinions, it mattereth not. For that which is with
His creatures is circumscribed by their own limitations, whereas that which
is with God is sanctified therefrom . . . This station is that poverty of  which
it is said, “Poverty is My glory.” 1,2
—Bahá’u’lláh, The Seven Valleys
Allison opened her eyes and stared out the windows at the overcast
sky above the house on the other side of the street. Its pale light
came through the bedroom windows.
She then rolled over to face Hooman. His eyes were closed. She
was thinking about her dream and the strange transformation of
her consciousness on the previous day. As was her way, she decided
to mention only her dream. He knew she kept back aspects of her
life, and he seemed to tolerate it, but Allison did feel guilty. Though
on the upside, she had been sharing many of the entries in her
notebook recently, and he was obviously happy that she was sharing
more of her inner world. She had noted that he was careful not to
intrude too deeply into that world and was exceptionally
nonjudgmental, even when her experiences seemed slightly strange
or odd; she loved him for that, being so open in that way.

Allison put her hand on his shoulder. “Hooman, are you
awake?”
His eyes opened, and he rolled over to face her. “Good
morning. How do you feel?” He put his hand on her cheek. “You
were in bed very early last night.”
“Yes, I was tired yesterday, but I feel refreshed today.”
Fragmented images of her dream flashed through her thoughts.
“Hooman, I had a really odd dream last night. It was vivid, like no
other dream. Although its clarity reminds me of a dream I had in
Shidan’s bookshop just before I gave birth.”
She rolled back and looked at the ceiling. “I was in a flat desert,
which was really an empty ocean basin. I saw a pomegranate on the
sand, which I broke open. But I had to blow on the seeds to make
them ripe, and then the seeds transformed into blood after I ate one.
What do you make of that? What does that mean?”
“I think it signifies some kind of change, perhaps some new
potential. And the morphing of the seeds into blood, that might
mean some kind of sacrifice, giving up something lower for
something higher.”
“And just as I ate the fruit, at that moment of sacrifice, the
ocean closed in on me. I would have drowned and been torn to
shreds, but the dream ended before the water reached me.”
“The ocean. Well, actually, I was reading something on the
ocean last night.” Hooman reached over to the bedside table. On it
was a book by Bahá’u’lláh called The Gleanings. He opened to a page
with a bookmark and read:
“‘The one true God is My witness! This most great, this fathomless and
surging Ocean is near, astonishingly near, unto you. Behold it is closer to you
than your life-vein! Swift as the twinkling of  an eye ye can, if  ye but wish
it, reach and partake of  this imperishable favor, this God-given grace, this
incorruptible gift, this most potent and unspeakably glorious bounty.’” 3
“That’s interesting. The ocean is a symbol of God’s grace and
bounty in the spiritual worlds,” she said.

“And in this world too,” Hooman said.
Allison jumped out of bed and rummaged around her previous
day’s clothes, which were crumpled on the floor next to the bed.
Her notebook was revealed underneath her coat.
Hooman got out of bed. “I’m going downstairs to make coffee.
You stay here and relax; write up your dream. I’ll bring up some
coffee.”
He put his bathrobe and slippers on and walked through the
door.
As he was partway down the staircase, she shouted, “Thanks,
babe. Can you check on Noah on the way down? Is he with Nava?”
“He slept in Paul and Sophie’s room last night,” he said, raising
his voice. “Oh, babe . . . I have some good news,” he said and came
back through the doorway. “The apartment in New Jersey just
sold.”
“Oh, that’s great news. What do you want to do with the
money?”
“Do what you suggested. Buy a brownstone, or maybe two, in
Harlem and offer free accommodations and a wage, but I would like
to create writing studios for Harlem writers, rather than art studios
as we had discussed. Anyway, we can talk about it later. Oh, and
Sara and Shidan said they will give us a couple of million to sink
into the project. Sara is going to set the project up so that it is
completely self-sustaining financially.”
“Oh wow! That is so, so cool.”
“I’ll go get coffee,” he said and walked down the stairs.
The air was cold, and she wanted to see the morning and the
snow from the previous night. Wrapping the blankets around
herself, she dragged half of the bed over to the window and sat in a
cocoon on a chair near the window. She opened her notebook to a
clean page. The whiteness of the page jumped out at her, and its
pale purity was more impressive in the cool light, but something
inside her could not write. The dream was so fresh, and the imagery
so vivid that it did not need to be recorded. She knew it would
always be there in her memory, and her mind had a sharpness now,

which she realized was a remnant of her experience in the museum
on the previous day. Closing the notebook, she wound the leather
strap around the book and then placed it and her pencil on the floor
near the window. She then pulled the covers tightly around her and
looked at the snow in the street below.
The day was superficially dreary, but nothing could dislodge the
happiness she felt. It seemed as if the world had been recreated
afresh while she slept, and here it was in the morning for her
personal pleasure, and it was a day unique and rare, which had
never existed in this way before. Sophie had been right about the
fundamental changes in Allison’s life, and her dream prefigured
another change that started with this new day; she was now seeking
the Ocean through the pomegranate.
After fifteen minutes, Hooman came through the door,
balancing two coffees. She heard him coming up the stairs and
turned to see him come through the door. He walked over to the
windows and sat beside her on the seat. She dislodged the tight
cocoon of blankets that enveloped her to usher Hooman in; she
wrapped the blankets around his shoulder and torso so that they
were now comfortably cocooned together. He passed her a coffee.
She put her nose to it. “Thanks . . . smells good. Is this coffee
new?”
“Yep, found it in a deli near work the other day. I think it’s an
Italian brand.”
She took a sip, and they both looked out at the street for a while
without speaking. “I love the snow,” she said eventually.
“Yes, I know you do.”
“There is something about it. About its symbolic purity, and at
the same time it speaks of death. It seems to have something in
common with the desert. They exist at opposite ends of the
spectrum, but in a way they are the same as each other. This is a
white desert; the snow covers the unique identity of every object,
and so it equalizes everything.”
“Why death?” he said.

“Well, it’s winter, which represents death. Everything dies back
in preparation for spring.”
“Oh right, renewal for spring. Or death. All the seasons are
interlocked, I suppose.”
After taking the last gulp of coffee, he carefully unwrapped
himself and rewrapped her before standing up. “Well, I suppose I
had better get ready for work. What are you doing today?”
“Oh, I don’t know. It depends on what Paul and Sophie want to
do.”
He smiled and turned toward the bathroom door.
Allison watched him disappear and waited for the sound of the
shower to turn on. Turning back to the window, she took another
sip of her coffee, which was now lukewarm. She thought that
maybe the snow was not pure after all, nor did it stand for death.
Snow was just a by-product of winter, which was caused by the
Earth tilting away from the sun. The Earth did not feel or think
anything of winter or summer or any season, so symbolic purity in
snow was only a human projection. Even objects, fashioned and
created with human imagination, seemed empty at a certain level; a
thought of the emptiness of the Mayan necklace in the museum
returned to her.
At that moment she thought about the expanse of the flat and
empty ocean basin in her dream. That empty expanse, she knew
now, was both the physical world and her own soul. She could see
that with clarity. It was an empty ocean waiting to be filled with
water: a symbol for spirit and God’s bounty. And something was
going to happen to her, but she did not know what. All she could say
was that her soul was developing and changing but into something
new and unknown to her, as a child knows vaguely it will be an
adult one day but cannot visualize its own future.
Across the street, Jonny stepped out of his house. He looked up
and found Allison’s gaze. With initial hesitation, he slowly raised his
hand and waved. She waved back and watched him descend the
steps and walk past her on his way to school. He eventually
disappeared around the corner facing Marcus Garvey Park.

* * *
Eight days had passed. Allison had shown Paul and Sophie as much
of Manhattan as she could. They saw a fair amount of Harlem:
both Central and East Harlem and the Bronx.
Allison had borrowed Nava’s car, and they had driven out to
Long Island for a day. Although Allison felt a little repulsed by the
idea, Sophie wanted to see the Hamptons and look at all the old
and new money mansions there, so they drove around the area for a
few hours, eventually ending up on Meadow Lane, also known as
billionaire lane.
They then drove on and stopped at Jackson Pollock’s studio for
an hour, which was more Allison’s style. As they were walking
around the artist’s house and studio, Allison explained that there
was a Bahá’í artist named Mark Tobey who had been a part of the
abstract expressionism movement and whose work had some
similarities to Pollock’s action painting technique. Allison saw that
Paul and Sophie weren’t very interested in the topic, but she
continued to push on and explain aspects of abstract expressionism
and its part in the development of modernism as a rejection of
realism. This was despite the fact that the camera, a mechanical eye,
reflected realism by its very nature and had allowed art movements
to abandon the burden of reproducing reality faithfully, as high
renaissance painters had pursued, and by doing so had allowed
broader artistic means within the twentieth century through to
current times, allowing us to question the whole idea of
representation in art, leading to a considerable diversification of
artistic style within postmodernism, the death of large artistic
movements, and a broader democracy within art.
They eventually drove on to Montauk at the extreme end of
Long Island. They parked and walked onto the beach. A snow
flurry covered the sand in a thick layer of snow. The snow was soft,
and Allison felt her feet push through it, and she looked back for a
moment at her footsteps. There were no other footprints in the

snow, and she liked that they were the only people on the beach.
Sophie was pushing Noah’s stroller.
Allison thought of Jennifer and her husband, who she had met
in Townsville, Queensland, on their large cruising yacht, and she
remembered that they had a house in this part of Long Island.
Where, she did not know, as they had not stayed in contact, but she
wondered as she looked at the houses sitting up on the edge of the
beach.
Eventually, they stopped, and Allison took her shoes off and
gave Sophie her car keys and cell. She walked down the beach and
into the water up to her waist. She raised her arms to the sky and
shouted the word Alláh-u-Abhá nine times, before saying softly to
herself, “I love you, Ocean. I love you . . . Ocean. You . . . the
ineffable Ocean.”
She turned back toward the beach and waded through the
water, eventually coming out, and was shivering as she walked up
the beach to Paul and Sophie. They walked back to the car and
turned the heat on. She took her jeans off and got into the
passenger’s side seat. She put her hands to the air vent while Paul
changed the setting on the heater to blow hot air onto her legs.
“You’re a crazy woman. You know that?” Paul said, smiling.
“Yes. I know that. That’s okay, isn’t it?”
“Of course it is, babe; I’m just giving you a hard time.”
“Oh, cool.” She smiled and began rubbing her legs.
The next day Allison took them to Canal Street, and from there
they went up to Soho. They then did a semicircle, and from Soho
they went to the Bowery, East Village, Union Square, and then
down to Greenwich Village. Sophie wanted to see Park Avenue, so
they descended into the subway at West 4th Street and Washington
Square and caught a train back uptown on the F line. In the
evening they took in a Broadway show—Cats at Times Square.
Today, on their last day in the city, they were wandering
through Central Park. The park was relatively empty, and only a
few people crossed their path. Paul walked ahead of the other two,
taking photos with his digital camera. Near the edge of a broad,

winding pathway, Allison brushed away the snow and sat on a
bench. She checked Noah, who was asleep in the stroller. Sophie
walked to where Paul was taking photos and stood beside him. The
expansive lawn areas were covered with a heavy layer of snow, and
beyond that were denuded trees. In the distance, at the far end of
the park, were the high-rise apartments and other buildings that
surrounded one edge of the park. They were more visible now that
fall and winter had stripped out the leaves on all the trees.
On the path Allison watched a pigeon puff up his neck and
strut behind a female in a practiced dance. She flew away,
uninterested. Feeling pity for the pigeon, she wondered what he
would do next. Instead of a pursuit, which she had expected, he
fluffed up his feathers and sat down on the path; the bird was a fat,
mango-shaped fruit of feather and bone braced against the cold air.
The impression that came to her mind was that of resignation; even
in the natural world, this exists, she thought. At the exact moment
in which the thought occurred, the pigeon retracted his head into
his body and closed his eyes.
Allison leaned down to take her notebook out of the storage
basket beneath the stroller. On a clean page she wrote the word
“resignation.” After a few moments, she added the words “radiant
acquiescence.” She thought about Mona Mahmudnizhad in Iran
and how she had given her life so freely. Mona had been completely
resigned to her fate. Allison wondered if she could ever give up her
own life so easily, and then she thought about Hooman’s comment
that the blood in her dream was symbolic of sacrifice, and she
wondered what she would have to sacrifice.
Sophie came back and sat next to Allison.
She put her arm around Allison’s waist. “How is the decoding
of reality going?” Sophie smiled and put her hand on the open
book. “And I am sorry about laughing at your efforts the other day.”
“That’s okay. I don’t mind,” Allison said and smiled.
“What are you writing down today?”
“Nothing much. I was just thinking about resigning to God’s
will, about absolute self-surrender.”

Sophie stared at Paul, arching his back. He took a photo of the
branches on a large tree and the sky beyond.
“You’re doing well here . . . and Hooman is the sweetest guy.
You’ve landed on your feet here in America, Allison. You really
have, in every sense of the word.”
“Yes, I am happy. It may even be for the first time in my life. It’s
like I’ve woken from a long sleep.”
“What amazes me is your ability to drift along and find yourself
in interesting circumstances. You’ve changed, Allison. I can see that
now.”
“Do you think? For the better?”
“Yes, definitely for the better. And Hooman is a stable character.
He has a solid career and social circumstances. Now also with a
child to care for, you can settle down and make a real life for
yourself.”
Allison mused over the idea of a “real life.” She was not sure
what “real” was. Or at least they both had very different ideas of
what “real” meant.
Paul came back down the path to where they were sitting.
“Okay, girls, we should get going. Our flight leaves in five hours. We
have to go pack our suitcases.”
The girls got up, and they retraced their steps down the path,
walking toward 5th Avenue, which would allow them to skirt
Central Park and eventually return to the house.
* * *
Allison stayed in Coober Pedy for three months before moving on to
Adelaide. She hugged Paul, took one last panoramic look at the
town, got into the car, and rolled the window down before starting
the car.
“You were never really looking for opals, were you?” Paul said.
“No, just the experience of being a miner. I’m mining the
human psyche for the mental equivalent of gems.”

“You’re amazing. I have learned some obscure things from
you.”
“And I’ve learned plenty from you too.”
“I’m not sure about that, but it has been interesting getting to
know you. People like you don’t come through Coober Pedy very
often. I can tell you that. There has never been anyone in Coober
Pedy as exotic as you.”
She smiled and waved. “Bye.”
She drove off and looked at Paul in the rearview mirror for a
while as his figure became smaller, eventually disappearing as she
took a corner and found the highway.
The trip down to Adelaide took eight hours. The first part of
the journey was the usual flat redness that she had become
accustomed to in central Australia. After she passed through Port
Augusta, she noticed on the map that the rate of small towns would
increase, so she pulled off the highway and took the backroads
through these small towns. When she arrived in Adelaide, she drove
to Glenelg and parked next to the beach and looked at the ocean for
a while before going to a Woolworths Supermarket, where she
bought a baguette and cheese for dinner that night. She slept in the
back seat overnight.
She intended to stay in Adelaide for nine weeks, so she looked
for short-term accommodations in café windows and on university
noticeboards. After a week of sleeping in her car, she found a
cramped room in a student house near the University of Adelaide.
By chance one of the students was studying philosophy as a minor,
and so they had many long debates about postmodernism and the
death of objective reality. After three weeks, she found a job in a
restaurant washing dishes; she liked the repetitive emptiness of the
job. As she had promised Paul, she went for medical tests to see if
her cancer had returned. Eventually, the tests came back negative,
and she called Paul after this to let him know she was all clear.
* * *

After several weeks exploring Adelaide, Allison found an old factory
packed with artists’ studios. Her reason for staying in Adelaide was
the artistic life of the city, which she had heard about from a fellow
photography student in Melbourne the previous year.
One of the studios in the factory was rented by a photographer.
Allison paid her a modest fee to use her darkroom.
One weekend she was sitting at a table in the photographer’s
studio and shuffling through all the contact sheets that she had
made after processing all the negatives that she had accumulated
during her trip so far. She was now deciding which specific shots to
blow up, shots that evoked an emotional resonance in her.
It was interesting to look back at seven months of travel, and
because she had made a conscious decision to build a visual diary of
the trip, she’d taken shots that she wouldn’t usually take. The
camera was recording psychological moments that were subjective
and bound uniquely to her consciousness; the objects and people in
the photographs were things which would only interest her, and the
photos were more intertwined in her reality than photos she had
taken in the past: rather than her looking out at the world through
the lens, the world was now looking back at her.
As she had taken each shot, she’d had to resist trying to make
each shot beautiful through the way it was framed or by recording
something that was beautiful in and of itself. These photos were
supposed to be visual notes and not art, like a scientist taking notes
after an experiment.
There were shots of plastic bottles in the landscape or bottle
tops. There were many shots of the notes and coins she used to pay
for things. She had also stopped many times to record dead animals,
either flattened into the asphalt or lying beside the road; even in
death objects were beautiful. She had also shot her bare feet on
diverse types of ground: asphalt, granite, sand, dirt, grass, and
leaves. She now laid out all the contact sheets on the table to get a
better sense of all the shots of her bare feet on the ground, and
finally she came to the black-and-white shots of her bare feet on the
salt flats of Kati Thanda–Lake Eyre; she decided to start with this

series of photos. She then carefully examined the negatives until she
was able to find the series taken on the lake and then got up and
went back into the darkroom.
After exposing a large sheet of photographic paper with light
from the enlarger, she processed the sheet in the various chemical
baths before taking it out into the daylight in the studio. Sitting back
at the table, she examined her torso, legs, and her bare feet, taken as
she was lying on the empty lake bed. The immense flatness of the
lake bed and the hills on the other side of the lake were beautiful in
a way she couldn’t quantify. The photo was the closest she had
come to having an experience of the land in deep psychological
isolation. She realized that the hills were a future that she had never
walked toward; there were many possible futures, she thought, that
we would never fulfill but that we might see at a distance and
wonder about.


A Year in America
This is the station wherein the multiplicity of  all things perisheth in the
wayfarer; and the divine Countenance, dawning above the horizon of
eternity, riseth out of  the darkness; and the meaning of  “All on the earth
shall pass away, but the face of  thy Lord”1is made manifest.2
—Bahá’u’lláh, The Seven Valleys
Just under a year had cycled past, from winter to winter, and it was
December 2002. Hooman and Allison had bought two adjoining
brownstones facing Marcus Garvey Park. They had begun to
renovate the interior of both buildings in addition to restoring the
facades. They intended that the buildings would be used as a writing
studio where local Harlem writers would have free accommodations
and support to help them create works of fiction or nonfiction.
They would be paid a wage so that they didn’t have to work and
could therefore focus on their writing full time. Hooman was
interested in supporting up-and-coming writers who were in the
early stages of their careers. Both Allison and Hooman had also
agreed that the writing studio could be used to host Bahá’í
community-building activities in collaboration with the Harlem
community, using the arts to help underpin the Bahá’í community’s
efforts at community building.
Allison stepped onto the sidewalk on 125th Street after
shopping at the local grocery. She looked down at the slush of snow

surrounding her and then up at the sun for a moment before
looking sideways at the fruit on the stand in front of the shop. She
took her backpack off and took out her camera to take a shot of the
fruit. But before she could take the shot, she felt someone tugging at
her arm.
“Ms Bird.” She recognized Jessica’s voice.
She looked around and saw Jonny and Jessica. She assumed
that their parents were shopping somewhere nearby. Jonny pointed
at her Leica. She passed the camera to him.
A local Latino Muslim, with his distinctive white headdress, had
wandered down from East Harlem, and then two tanned, blonde
backpackers randomly arrived in the foreground of Jonny’s sight.
Jonny stopped these people by standing in front of them. Wordlessly,
he led them by the hand into a graffiti-filled doorway.
“This is a photography project. Do you mind if he takes a
photo of you?” Allison said to the people.
“No problem,” one of the girls responded.
The man smiled. “Sure, why not,” he said.
Allison asked where the girls came from. “Denmark,” they
replied, almost in unison.
The Muslim man sat on an empty milk crate, and the two girls
sat on their hiking packs. Pointing, Jonny directed Jessica to sit
across the laps of the two Danish girls. Jessica sat hugging a six-pack
of toilet rolls that Allison presumed her mother had given her to
carry.
These people were examples of diversity that Allison had
attempted to outline to Jonny and the other kids over the past twelve
months when they had talked about the civil rights movement and
American identity being diverse. She had tried to highlight a future
vision of Harlem as an increasingly mixed-race community in
addition to downtown and lower Manhattan being more than just a
White majority. Allison had tried to explain some of the
complexities of historical segregation. That today, in certain
neighborhoods, either wittingly or unwittingly, the Black and White
communities lived separated lives, avoiding mixture. Though this

conversation had not worked out as she had hoped, as most of the
children did not see a problem with living separate lives. So she took
another route, which was to just concentrate on the richness and
value of racial diversity as it existed in their everyday lives, and New
York was a multicultural city by its nature; its history of
immigration, going as far back as the mid-nineteenth century,
proved this. The city was also one of the most linguistically diverse
in America, and the demographic makeup was complex and
nuanced. Some of the main cultural groups were African
Americans, South Americans, Middle Eastern Americans,
Americans of European ancestry, Asian Americans, and American
Indians, and there were many mixed neighborhoods and suburbs
that had created a harmonious cosmopolitan whole where the
variety of cultures were well integrated. Allison realized that it was
better to build the children’s understanding on a positive model
rather than refuting the failings of the past, although much of the
cultural separation between Harlem and other neighborhoods was
purely down to poverty, as she knew from her own research and
Hooman’s book, where African Americans just couldn’t afford to
live in other wealthier neighborhoods, some being predominately
White mixed with other diverse races. There were, however, other
boroughs in New York where African Americans earned as much as
Whites, if not more, in some circumstances. And all the children in
the group now knew this, and it seemed to Allison that she had done
something positive for the community here to highlight the beauty
of their cultural identity in a sea of other diverse and equally
beautiful races in New York.
The moment passed, and Jonny gave the camera back to
Allison. She thanked the two Danish girls and the man from East
Harlem. Jonny’s grandmother emerged from a supermarket and
motioned for him to follow her.
Jessica waved as she walked away. “Ms Bird, I’ll see you at the
exhibition next month,” she said.
“Okay. Say hi to your parents for me.”
“I will. Bye.”

Allison watched the two children fade into the people walking
on the street as she put her camera back into her backpack.
Allison retraced her steps down 125th Street, turning down 5th
Avenue and heading toward Marcus Garvey Park; she had not been
there for a few weeks and looked forward to sitting in the sun. After
walking through the left side of the park, she approached a bench
adjacent to a path. Sitting down, she put her shopping bags on the
seat. She then slipped out of her backpack and placed it next to the
shopping bags. She looked out at the open lawn area covered in
snow and the plain trees, whose leaves had been stripped out by fall
and winter.
She enjoyed the sun hitting her face and the slight, cool breeze
pushing her hair around. Sitting on benches next to her were three
homeless people that she had seen before. She waved at them. They
smiled and waved back.
Fishing through her backpack, she found her change purse. She
took fifty dollars from it and got up and passed it to them. She sat
back down.
“Do you guys have somewhere to stay? I have a spare room in
my house.”
“We’re fine. Thanks for asking. We have a place in an
abandoned house a few blocks north,” said a woman.
“Okay. Are you sure?”
“Yeah, no. We’re all pretty well set up there. And we prefer it to
shelters and other places.”
“Okay, cool.” Allison smiled.
As she put her change purse back, she saw her notebook and
took it out. She unwound the leather strap and opened the
notebook to a new page. The pencil had been bound inside it and
fell out onto her lap. She picked it up and wrote the word
“bondage.” It was a word she had been contemplating recently, and
its meaning fell into two categories: the laws of physics, which we
were bound to and slaves of, and the cultural mores that bound us
to see life through a limited prism, which in turn governed our
identity and behavior that in turn determined our understanding of

reality. Consequently, we did not realize that we were bound to an
understanding of reality that was flawed. It was like a play—as
Shakespeare had said: the world was a stage—where we had a
predetermined part, bound within a specific culture, worldview, or
individual identity, but many of us were unaware that we were in a
play to begin with and had no knowledge of the world beyond the
fictional reality we were trapped in and bound by, and the
underlying laws of the universe were the stage on which the story of
our lives unfolded. When we died in the play and woke up from that
dreamlike existence, only then would we find ourselves free from
that world and that unseen bondage, but we could begin to free
ourselves from that stage before we died if we changed our
assumptions about what constituted reality, and we would see this
world as transitory and release our higher potential and thereby step
off the stage and become free from the play, seeing clearly who we
could become beyond that dream and beyond that stage.
She remembered a story about Bahá’u’lláh, who as a child, had
seen a puppet show of a king, his princes, and the intrigues of the
royal court. After the show, the puppeteer had remarked to
Bahá’u’lláh that all the puppets in the show had been put into a
box. Allison wondered if the puppeteer’s box was a reference to a
coffin; our life was put away eventually, and the stage faded into
death. She had a fleeting thought of Coffin Bay and Memory Cove
in South Australia, where she had stopped briefly during her road
trip around Australia. The coffin was the last house for the body in
this world, and after death, we only took who we had become and
our memories with us. She then thought about the old wonky house
in Istanbul, the house of relativity; the puppets had gone there too,
but the stage had remained, if only a little faded.
She flipped back to a previous entry in her notebook that was
about the relationship between predetermination (a type of
bondage) and precognition, and how our higher destiny can unfold
as we make better choices in our lives. These ideas had been
inspired by a movie that she had seen in June. The movie was called
Minority Report and had been based on a short story by Phillip K.

Dick about a future society where murder could be predicted by
three people with the psychic ability to see the future, called precogs
or precognitives in the movie. Those committing the crimes were
arrested before the crime was committed. The fundamental
paradox was that by stopping the future crime from happening, they
were changing the future. A person could be charged for the future
intention of a crime that never actually occurred, but that would
have happened had it not been prevented.
She had written a note to herself: “For precognition to work,
there must be a certain amount of predetermination in the world
and a clear line of causation through the linear structure of
spacetime, so the question raised by the movie is this: is all destiny
predetermined or changeable and dynamic under free will? I
believe it is both predetermined and dynamic, but I think God can
determine our destinies in advance and may even know a range of
alternate destinies, so through the laws of probability, at a very high
level, God will know, through the attributes of omnipresence and
omniscience, what our future choices will be.” She thought about
the symmetry of her yellow dress in Hooman’s dream as an
example of predetermination, where all the linked actions of several
people had to take place for this precise destiny to manifest, and was
not all destiny this precise and beautiful?
She thought that if God can know every single cause in the
universe, from vibrating strings (from string theory) right up to the
exact shell and path of every electron in every atom to the spin of
planets, then in turn, all destiny could be determined in advance. If
time and space were not predetermined, we could never use clocks
to arrange being at future events, which proved that we could
predict the future within certain boundaries. We knew that on
Friday at 12:00 p.m. the sun would be at a specific arc in the sky. Of
course, the cause of much of our destiny was the three-way synergy
between thought, action, and the world we moved through. All
three were like an interacting feedback loop where we learned the
lessons of life and being from birth to death.
She had written a quote from Albert Einstein:

Everything is determined, the beginning as well as the end, by forces over
which we have no control. It is determined for the insect, as well as for the
star. Human beings, vegetables, or cosmic dust, we all dance to a mysterious
tune, intoned in the distance by an invisible piper.3
She wondered, If we could see our future, would we still be
bound to fulfill it, or could we choose to betray it with an alternate
future? She had seen this idea explored in the movie Donnie Darko.
The protagonist, Donnie, knows from being immersed in a tangent
universe (parallel universe) that if he lives in the primary universe,
then his girlfriend, Gretchen, will die, so he betrays a possible future
destiny in the primary universe by allowing a jet engine, falling onto
his house, to kill him. Allison found the last scene fascinating as
Donnie laughs at the possibility of his own impending death and his
self-sacrifice for a person, Gretchen, whom he will never meet in the
primary universe.
She knew that precognition was possible because she had seen
her future once in her life: as a child, when she had dreamed of the
pineapple farm. Allison was twelve years old at the time. It was
1984. She thought that if the exact time of our death was fixed,
might we be able to take different paths until we reach the time of
death, so then our destiny was fixed but also dynamic and organic.
In addition to a fixed death, there might be other predetermined
milestones in our lives that we are bound to fulfill, like birth, our
names, the number and gender of our siblings, marriage, sickness,
or growing old.
A few of Bahá’u’lláh’s writings dealt with precognition and the
relationship between the waking world, the dream state, and the
infinite spiritual worlds beyond the material world. The dream state
was like an interface between the different worlds, and the
relationship was mysterious and probably impossible to understand
in all of its significance in this world. The reason many people
dismissed dreams as not real was because of the immediacy of our
experience in the material world through the senses. The dream

world, for most people, could seem a bit hazy and surreal by
comparison, but the surreal nature of dreams might be a faithful
reflection of the afterlife. It might be very different from this world
in many ways that we could not determine until we died, which
Hooman had said many times. The fact was that in the dream
world all our senses were active inwardly while our outer senses
were inactive, which proved that the soul was not entirely bound by
the limits of the body. For example, how could we see light in our
dreams without actually seeing light, and how could we hear sounds
without hearing actual sound? And so Bahá’u’lláh had discussed
this mysterious relationship. She read the quote from her notebook,
which she had pasted onto the pages after printing it out:
As to thy question concerning the worlds of  God. Know thou of  a truth that
the worlds of  God are countless in their number, and infinite in their range.
None can reckon or comprehend them except God, the All-Knowing, the All-
Wise. Consider thy state when asleep. Verily, I say, this phenomenon is the
most mysterious of  the signs of  God amongst men, were they to ponder it in
their hearts. Behold how the thing which thou hast seen in thy dream is,
after a considerable lapse of  time, fully realized. Had the world in which
thou didst find thyself  in thy dream been identical with the world in which
thou livest, it would have been necessary for the event occurring in that
dream to have transpired in this world at the very moment of  its occurrence.
Were it so, you yourself  would have borne witness unto it. This being not
the case, however, it must necessarily follow that the world in which thou
livest is different and apart from that which thou hast experienced in thy
dream. This latter world hath neither beginning nor end. It would be true if
thou wert to contend that this same world is, as decreed by the All-Glorious
and Almighty God, within thy proper self  and is wrapped up within thee. It
would equally be true to maintain that thy spirit, having transcended the
limitations of  sleep and having stripped itself  of  all earthly attachment,
hath, by the act of  God, been made to traverse a realm which lieth hidden in
the innermost reality of  this world. Verily I say, the creation of  God
embraceth worlds besides this world, and creatures apart from these
creatures. In each of  these worlds He hath ordained things which none can

search except Himself, the All-Searching, the All-Wise. Do thou meditate
on that which We have revealed unto thee, that thou mayest discover the
purpose of  God, thy Lord, and the Lord of  all worlds. In these words the
mysteries of  Divine Wisdom have been treasured.4
So, it was clear to her from that passage that there was a
relationship between the different worlds of God, both through time
and space and after this, in a timeless and changeless realm where
the future and past may be more flexible and fluid. She
remembered the conversation with Hooman about the different
kinds of time: standard spacetime, eternal time (nonlinear time),
and beyond this, a formless timelessness.
Though as interesting as precognition was, it was clear that we
were not meant to see our future very often; otherwise, we would be
dreaming of the future every night in our dreams. So her conclusion
about precognition was that it did not matter whether we could see
or not see our future. It was the power our choices had in life to
positively transform individuals and, indeed, the whole human race
collectively. There were critical moments in our lives where one
choice changed our future destiny utterly and completely. These
moments could appear to be superficially insignificant at the time,
so our destiny was not fixed when we were making choices about
which road to pursue, and at every juncture in time, we could
choose from a range of choices from most ideal to least ideal and
everything in between; we could also compensate for poor choices
in the past. Not just our own choices changed us, but how our
choices intersected with the lives of others also changed us, which
was the dynamic way our life unfolded into symmetrical destiny. We
might be able to change the advancement of the human race by
simple acts of love aimed at spiritual unification, and these waves
would spread out and encompass the future as we passed through
history and left our own unique mark on it. From this she concluded
that no action passed by without consequence or effect. And
Bahá’u’lláh’s life and teachings had done exactly this. He was like
all the great messengers of the past: Buddha, Christ, Muhammad,

and all the countless others. Their one purpose was to liberate us
from the bondage of the material world and allow us to fly in the
illimitable spaces in our hearts. For that was where God really
resided—without boundaries, beginnings, or endings—because
there was no past, present, or future without God. Bahá’u’lláh had
said:
So powerful is the light of  unity, that it can illuminate the whole earth.5
Then she thought that within the bounds of the physical world,
we had something to strive for, and then we had free will to see God
or not, so all the grades of spiritual development were filtered out,
and the “true believer” was created as the motivating force behind
the whole of creation. We could then strive toward the apex of
consciousness, and the oneness of God reflected over all creation.
We could then become a creative player in that schema and take
part in the creation process. The destiny of the “true believer,” then,
must be unspeakably glorious.
She then thought about an entry she had made in her notebook
the previous week that referenced The Four Valleys. It was a small but
powerful book by Bahá’u’lláh. In the seventh valley, The Valley of
True Poverty and Absolute Nothingness, it was said that there were
four stages of the heart, which she felt were outlined in The Four
Valleys. She turned back a few pages to find a quote about the fourth
valley. It was another printout that she had pasted into her
notebook:
If  the mystic knowers be among them that have attained THE BEAUTY OF
THE BELOVED, this station is the throne of  the inmost heart and the secret
of  divine guidance. This is the seat of  the mystery “He doeth what He
willeth, and ordaineth what He pleaseth.” Should all that are in heaven
and on earth attempt to unravel this exalted allusion and subtle mystery,
from now until the Day whereon the Trumpet shall sound, yet would they
fail to comprehend even a letter thereof, for this is the station of  God’s
immutable decree and His foreordained mystery. Hence, when asked

regarding this matter, He made reply: “It is a bottomless sea that none shall
ever fathom.” And when the question was repeated, He answered: “It is the
blackest of  nights through which none can find his way.” 6
. . .

This is the realm of  pure awareness and utter self-effacement . . . For this
is the realm of  God and is sanctified above every allusion of  His
creatures . . .
. . .

The first is His statement “O My servant! Obey Me, that I may make thee
like unto Myself. For I say ‘Be,’ and it is, and thou shalt say ‘Be,’ and it
shall be.” 7
And she thought that this valley might be linked to the world of
Jabarut, the world of command and the eternal laws, and that
maybe we could experience this world in a fused union with the
being of the Manifestation of God. But she knew that the station of
a Manifestation was immeasurably exalted above that of a human
being, and any fused union was relative to the limitations of human
beings. Then we could be truly unbounded and released into an
unlimited radiance of being, and this was when the lower self had
been entirely subsumed by the higher self, of God standing within
the self, shimmering with transcendence.
Allison closed her notebook and mused over these thoughts and
wondered if one day she would be truly free. That was her hope.
She stood up, put the backpack over her shoulders, and walked over
to the homeless people.
“My name is Allison. Can I give you all a hug?”
“Sure,” they said in turn.
She gave each one a hug.

As she was about to get her shopping bags and walk off, the
woman said, “Hey, do you want to come and have dinner with us?
We’ll buy some nice food with that money you gave us.”
Allison turned toward them. “Sorry, this might seem rude, but
do you have electricity at your abandoned house?”
“No, but we have propane camping stoves, heaters, and a few
propane lamps.”
“Okay, cool. When?”
“Tonight at six p.m.”
“Okay. Can I bring my husband and son?”
“Absolutely,” the woman said.
“Awesome. What is your address?”
Allison took out her notebook and tore a strip of paper from the
back of the notebook. She then gave the woman her pencil. She
wrote the address down and handed the paper and pencil back to
Allison.
Allison smiled. “Nice to meet you guys, and see you tonight,
then,” she said over her shoulders as she walked off.
“Bye, and thanks for the money.”
“No problem. Bye.”
“By the way, my name is Rose, and this is Micheal and
Michael.”
“Wonderful repetition of names. See you all tonight.”
She turned back toward them, waved, turned again, and began
to walk toward the renovated brownstones with her bags swinging at
her side as she went down the path.
Once she came to the Harlem Writers Studio, she walked up
the front steps, looking up at the scaffolding that was up to restore
the facade. The door was open. She walked through and looked
around at the interior. Parts had been partially restored, and other
sections had been gutted; it still looked chaotic and unfinished.
They had tried to maintain some of the original character of
the building but also added quite contemporary architectural
features. They wanted to make the two properties into one building
with accommodations for five writers, each with their own self-

contained studio, and other creative spaces for community events
that would be based around writing. Hooman wanted to build a
relationship with the Harlem Writers Guild, which had been in
existence since 1950. There would also be an underlying tenet that
young writers from Harlem would be a part of the writing studio,
and they would try to build relationships with local elementary and
high schools to scout for and encourage talented young writers.
Allison wanted to hire Harlem locals to do the work, so the
architect and builder, who were both named Robert, had been
hired.
“Robert,” she shouted out.
“Robert . . . are you here?”
But no one was in the building, so she turned around and left,
walking down the steps, assuming that they were all having a lunch
break somewhere.
* * *
By the time Allison left Adelaide, it was early October 1993. She
was actually sad to be leaving, which surprised her. But another
more detached part of her knew it was time to leave. She drove
north, back toward Port Augusta, which she had passed through
while coming in the opposite direction from Coober Pedy.
Eventually, she left the highway, moving from town to town
through farmland until she reached a coastal town called Wallaroo,
two hours out of Adelaide. The town was unremarkable, but it led
her on to a dirt road that hugged the bay. Wheat farms and beaches
embraced each other, and she speculated that the road was
probably only meant for farmers. It was slow going, with parts of
the road corrugated, but the isolated coastline was beautiful and laid
bare for her memory. She found that from Tickera onwards there
were no more coastal roads, so she rejoined the highway.
She stopped in Port Augusta for lunch. She sat in the town
square eating sandwiches and started talking to a crowd of
Aboriginal Australians sitting near her. She wondered where to go

next. She had seen a visitors center as she had driven into the town,
so she went back to the center and asked about the other side of the
Spencer Gulf. She had seen several national parks on her map but
was unsure if they were worth the extra drive-time south. The
woman at the center suggested she visit the southernmost tip of the
Eyre Peninsula. Allison then had two options: Lincoln National Park
or Coffin Bay National Park, so Allison headed south and arrived at
Lincoln National Park in the afternoon. Parts of the park had paved
roads, and other areas were for four-wheel drives. She spent the
remaining part of the day hiking the easily accessible trails, and at
dusk she got a lift in a four-wheel drive heading to Memory Cove,
where she camped overnight.
In the morning she walked along the beach, looking out at the
island chain in the bay. It was a little like Wilsons Promontory: white
sand, some low dunes, granite outcrops, and dense bush. After
walking along the beach for half an hour, she got a lift back to her
car. She wanted to make it to the last town before the Nullarbor
Plain before the end of the day and drive through the plain at
dawn, just to see what the quality of the light would be like at that
time of day. Before heading to Yalata, she stopped for an hour at
Coffin Bay. She drove out to the cliffs and stared at the sea for a
while; she decided against hiking there because it seemed quite
similar to Lincoln National Park.
She made it to Yalata just after dusk and pulled into a truck stop
to sleep.
In the morning Allison left Yalata before dawn. She planned to
take three or four photographs at different times in the dawn light.
The first photo was of a dark horizon with a thin strip of light. She
used her tripod for the first time on the trip. After half an hour, the
light started to reflect the red earth beside the road. The Nullarbor
Plain was primarily flat grasslands. There was just sky, road, and
empty space. The desert was enticing and covered by a thin mask of
death. She had thought about the plants and animals that survived
in this environment. Nature produced such strange and beautiful
adaptations when life was surviving at the margins of existence.

After an hour there, she had only taken two shots. She took the last
shot while leaning on the trunk of the car and looking out at the
expanse. She resisted the urge several times to walk into it and never
return. She eventually packed up the camera and tripod and started
her drive across the Nullarbor Plain.
After one hour, the highway began tracing the edge of the
ocean.
And two hours after leaving Yalata, she came out on the other
side of the Nullarbor Plain, driving into a small town called Eucla.
She asked around at the RV park about Eucla National Park, which
she could see marked on her map. There were no paved roads, only
rough tracks. So she drove to the nearest accessible dirt road, which
ended near the old telegraph station; it was being slowly swallowed
by a low dune. She got out of the car and walked past the sandstone
building over the low dunes that would take her to the beach. This
first set of dunes was covered in grass tufts and had trees growing in
it, but as she came to the shore, she could see larger dunes in the
distance. She found tire tracks on the beach, and so she followed
these for forty minutes until she came to the Bilbunya Dunes. The
dunes were the biggest she had ever seen, and she imagined that this
was how the Sahara felt. The sand was the purest white she could
remember of other dunes she had visited. She left the beach and
began to climb the first large dune. She guessed that some of the
dunes ahead of her were at least three hundred feet high. She
looked back at the ocean for a moment before descending over the
other side of the dune. Once she was deep inside the dunes, she sat
down and took out her cameras; the Zenit had color film, and the
Leica had black and white. She changed the red filter to a yellow
one to tone down the contrast in the black-and-white images, and
she began to snap a panorama of overlapping images; it was
something that she had seen David Hockney do in the eighties. She
saw banks of clouds pass over the sand, so she shot these in different
light conditions, watching the shadows of the clouds passing over
the dunes. She felt a strange mix of fatigue and exhilaration.

After a few minutes, she packed the cameras away and put a
beach towel over her head to block out the sun. She lay down, her
back straddling the peak of the dune, and after fifteen minutes, she
was asleep.


The Exhibition
From this most august and exalted station, and from this most sublime and
glorious plane, the seeker entereth the City of  Immortality, therein to abide
forever . . .

He will quaff  from the cup of  immortality, tread in its land, soar in its
atmosphere, consort with them that are its embodiments, partake of  the
imperishable and incorruptible fruits of  the tree of  eternity, and be forever
accounted, in the lofty heights of  immortality, amongst the denizens of  the
everlasting realm.1
—Bahá’u’lláh, Gems of  Divine Mysteries
Just under four weeks passed. Allison had made all the preparations
for the exhibition. Jonny’s photo was printed and framed but had
not been added to all the photos taken by the other children in the
group. Jane, the curator at the Studio Museum in Harlem, was
going to hang the photo today, a few hours before the opening at
6:30 p.m., Saturday, January 4, 2003.
Allison stood in front of a disused building on 125th Street; the
building was on the other side of the street, with its windows
bricked up with cinder blocks. She leaned against the window of a
jeweler’s shop. The shutter in her camera clicked open and closed,
and the impression of the building she had been observing burned
onto the film. She often walked by it whenever she came up for
weekly food shopping. The crumbling structure sat propped up on

both sides, a soon-to-be toppled old man, between a supermarket
and a new clothing chain store.
Lowering the camera to her side, she stared at the emasculated
windows and the rotting cast-iron balconies to imprint an exposure
to her memory. The dark shell would not stand idle for long. One of
the franchise stores would move in soon enough and either knock it
down or restore it.
Snow crunched under her boots as she turned around to face
the jeweler’s shop. Medallions and other jewelry displayed in the
front window sparkled in the sun. She looked down at the
translucent snow around her boots. The snow somehow reflected
her feelings of happiness. Her thoughts turned to the wonderment
of life, and these feelings were beyond what she could explain to
herself rationally, given that life seemed, for the most part, just
ordinary. She had left behind the tendency of the previous year to
interpret physical reality as being empty. Life was now full.
On the day before and in what seemed like a random
pronouncement—but of course, it fell in exactly with her own
thoughts—she was not surprised when Hooman said, “Hey, you
know, I think this is the happiest I’ve ever been.”
“I know; I feel the same. It’s like an aspect of our life is just a
thin film on the surface of something else, something expansive and
extraordinary. It will reveal itself. I feel it, at any moment.
Something is going to change soon. Something is going to play out
that changes everything.”
Hooman walked into the periphery of her vision. She turned
and watched him intently as he walked toward her, pushing Noah’s
stroller. They smiled.
“You caught me. Sorry, I was loafing about taking photos. I’ll go
in and get the ring now,” she said. On the tips of her toes, she
stretched to kiss Hooman.
“That’s okay, there’s no hurry,” he said.
She ducked down to check on Noah, who was happy to see his
mum but was distracted by the movement of people on the street.

Allison could see his fascination with a woman sitting nearby. She
was selling umbrellas and spun a multicolored umbrella on its tip.
Allison stood up. “I only have to pay for it. I’ll be back in a sec.”
She walked into the jeweler’s shop.
A few minutes later they crossed the intersection of Malcolm X
Boulevard and 125th Street. They walked a little further down
125th Street. As they entered the Studio Museum, Allison asked,
“Do you like my new ring?” She held her hand up. Fake diamonds
flashed on a round silver face; the stones were arranged in a series
of concentric circles.
“Yes, it looks good,” he said.
As they entered the large open gallery space, she took a fleeting
glance at the photographs hung around the room. The
arrangement had not changed from the previous few days. The
exhibition title, near the entrance, was now complete. The font type
carried at least half the meaning. The letters were a decorative
1800s typeface, which could have been straight off a poster
advertising passage on one of those old southern riverboats plying
the Mississippi:
Slavery Transfigured
Well known in Harlem art circles, Hayden Robert was known
for his sociopolitical statements, sometimes controversial, and this
exhibition continued that tradition. The majority of the
photographs in the exhibition were of African Americans in the
service industries downtown, flipping burgers, serving wheatgrass at
trendy juice bars, and making lattes. The photographs were all
black and white and shot with a medium-format camera.
There was also a series of photos of a White woman and an
African American man injecting heroin in the ruins of an
abandoned house. Allison was struck by the dirt and detritus in the
images that were focalized and intensified by the vivid texture of
surfaces and the quality of light and shadow in the shots, which only

a medium-format camera could reveal. In the first shot the man was
injecting the heroin into the woman’s arm. The next shot was of the
two embracing each other. The last shot was of the woman curled
up in his lap, her face expressing a placid ecstasy and her mind
traveling in that far-off land. These three images were exquisite.
And this raw beauty was a strange counterpoint to the desperate
poverty and pathos in the lives of these people. A part of her
wanted to reach out and merge into their life. During the hanging,
Allison had asked how these three photos related to the theme, and
Hayden had said that the woman, Ruby, had to prostitute herself to
pay for the heroin, and thus this was a form of slavery to drug
addiction but also a reflection of drug dealers who were dealing in
this form of slavery.
One photograph, which was nothing more than a young teen
serving French fries and a burger, had the title “We believe in your
potential.” Allison had asked Hayden about the meaning of the
title. He explained that many companies offered work experience
for the betterment of students’ education, experience that usually
had no relevance to students’ actual study needs other than being
cheap fodder for the company’s coffers. This work was a form of
economic slavery within the parameters of the poverty found in
Harlem and the South Bronx. So, slavery had not been abolished
altogether. It had morphed into a new and subtle form. And the
transfiguration in the exhibition title was supposed to be ironic,
given that its meaning was based on two kinds of transfiguration:
capitalist transfiguration, achieved through brand propaganda, and
true spiritual transfiguration, which from Allison’s point of view,
could be achieved through studying sacred texts, prayer, and
meditation, and through that, striving to live within the bounds of a
deeper and more expansive humanity. The meaning of these two
types of transfiguration oscillated in her mind in duality.
“Transfiguration” was a word used within the context of something
transforming into something higher and more beautiful. And
capitalism was all about material beauty, beautiful and desirable
products, but within that was spiritual emptiness, “being in

nothingness” that could paradoxically be filled with its opposite,
spirituality, in a very broad sense; an unintended meaning of
Sartre’s book Being and Nothingness was that it could be used to
highlight our relationship with capitalism (our being in that
nothingness), but Allison also thought that capitalism might be
transfigured in the future when this kind of economic exploitation
had been wiped out, and so then it might be truly transfigured from
material beauty to spiritual beauty.
She thought about child labor in much of the developing world,
where children could not go to school because they had to eke out a
meager living just to help their families survive, and although
Harlem and South Bronx were not quite this extreme, there were
some comparisons relative to the wealth of the average middle-class
American. And as she had expressed to Elliot almost one year ago,
Allison could escape this poverty at any moment if she chose to. As
a White person, she had more choices in this life than many African
Americans did. She possessed more socioeconomic freedoms purely
by virtue of her birth into a particular racial identity.
Allison stretched her neck over Hooman’s shoulder to see if
Jane, the curator, was anywhere close. “Hello.” She raised her voice.
“Hello, Jane,” but no reply returned to her, and Allison heard only
the echo in the room.
A modest-sized room off the main gallery space housed the
work of the children in her photography group. They moved into
the room to find the past year framed in each child’s unique
perception of the world they inhabited in Harlem.
Lying on the floor beneath Jonny’s photograph was a hammer,
a length of wire, and a small spread of plaster dust from the drill
hole made to hang the frame. The plaster dust fanned out on the
concrete floor with the consistency of hourglass sand.
Crouching down, she pulled her finger through the plaster dust
and formed a heart shape in the dust. A dry sensation of muted
pain shot through her finger and up into her arm. As she rubbed
the plaster dust between her fingers, for a fleeting moment, her
whole body exuded a distant but distinctive sensation of white dust.

She saw a vision of her body constructed with this dust, and her
skin felt tighter, as if it were stretched. She clenched her hand into a
tight fist and anticipated her skin peeling away like overcooked
chicken flesh, but this was not what her outer eye saw as her
imagination was overlaid with her sight. This vision soon faded, and
there remained only her clenched fist in front of her face, and she
wondered if this was only her imagination or one of the bodies
from the spiritual world.
Hooman had stood over her, quietly observing. “Are you having
one of your visions?” he asked.
“Yes, I am.” She stood up and released her fist. “But don’t
worry though. I’m okay. It’s gone now.” She looked down at the
heart shape her finger had made in the plaster dust. “But it’s
strange. My imagination, or my mind, seems to take certain obscure
qualities in physical objects into my body or my mind’s body. Like
just now, I saw another body of white dust, abstract but connected
to the physical world.” She thought about the spirit body, Sah, in
the Egyptian framework for the soul.
Hooman did not say anything. He only raised his eyebrows and
shrugged.
“Anyway,” she pointed at the framed photo to divert the
conversation, “this is Jonny’s work. What do you think?”
Hooman stepped closer and studied the photo. “There’s
something special about him, don’t you think?”
The photograph was the one of the people Jonny had
somewhat artificially gathered together on 125th Street. The whole
composition had a strange but beautiful aura and was something
akin to a Vermeer painting. It captured the stillness of time in a
unique way. Jonny had taken the shot without signaling the
moment, so only Jessica was staring through the lens at the viewer.
Her face was beautiful: a radiant poverty lived in innocence.
Hooman leaned in closer to examine the details.
Footsteps echoed around the larger part of the exhibition and
eventually came toward them. Allison leaned sideways through the
doorway to see Hayden walking toward her.

“Hey there. Hey, hey, how’s life?” Hayden said in a singsong
tone and smiled. He walked into the side room and looked for a
moment at Hooman, who was still standing in front of Jonny’s
photograph. “Hey, hey. Great shot, man, eh?”
“Thanks again for letting us join you in this,” Allison said and
raised her arms with her palms facing the roof, moving her arms
down to the horizontal position, which had the effect of
encompassing the whole gallery.
“Hey, hey, no problem. Glad to have you guys on board with
me. Yeah, for sure.”
“And I know our theme doesn’t fit in exactly with you—”
“Theme. No, that’s not true! Identity, it’s a big issue in Harlem.
We are slaves to our identity. We are all coming to terms with some
major changes. Yes, yes, identity, that’s where it’s at. And, in fact,
what you are doing is more important. You start here with the next
generation. The generation, hopefully, that’ll change the way we do
things. African Americans have been weighed down with some
pretty limiting stereotypes, created within and outside the
community, and this is just what we need. It is, I promise you. We’ve
got to loosen up, baby, ya know. There is still a lot of bitterness from
the racism of the past and present. We have to let go. Like I just
said, all humanity are slaves to their identity. In one way or another.
Ya know? Most of us were gifted a cultural identity that we never
made but that we blindly follow without question. Why do we do
that? We all do it. Even me. Anyway . . . babe. I’m getting way too
philosophical on ya,” said Hayden.
“No. What you say is wonderful,” she said.
Hayden then turned to Hooman. “Hey, you don’t mind if I hug
your wife?”
Hooman smiled and put his hands in his pockets. “Sure . . . go
ahead.”
“You don’t need to ask his permission. I am my own person.
You need to ask me,” said Allison. “And the answer is yes, you may.”
“Of course! Come here, babe.” Hayden stooped down and
smothered her. He lifted her off the ground for a moment and

laughed. “You’re very huggable, babe.” Once she was back on the
ground, he added, “Okay, hey, babe, so, let’s look at these other
photographs. I want to know each kid and each shot. Absolutely,
okay?”
Without letting her move from his side, he steered her around
the room as she explained the background behind each photograph
and the significant vignettes of the children’s lives.
* * *
A taxi arrived in front of the gallery. In Shidan’s rush to get inside
for the opening, he thrust his foot into the slushy ice water in the
gutter. On the sidewalk he swore at the general surroundings before
walking into the building.
As Shidan entered the main gallery space, Hayden closed off
his speech to the packed gallery and opened his arms, smiling as
Allison slipped through the crowd and into his embrace.
“I love this person,” Hayden said. Everyone in the room
laughed as he finally released her and stepped into the crowd.
“Don’t leave me here alone,” Allison said.
“Oh, okay then, I’ll come back.”
Hayden took a place beside her, and she linked her arm into his
as she began to speak.
Shidan made his way to the front of the crowd of people for a
better vantage point. He noted the odd word in Allison’s speech
wavered. She was obviously nervous.
“Hello, everybody, err, I’m feeling a bit shy now, so forgive me
as I attempt to blunder my way through what I want to express to
you about this exhibition and about my time in Harlem with the
kids. First off, I need to thank Hayden for allowing us to make this
occasion a joint exhibition. And also, I’d like to express my thanks to
some of the amazing people here in the room that I’ve come to
know in the last year, especially the kids in the group and, of course,
their parents. Harlem has been a beautiful place to live in.” She
smiled.

Shidan was standing directly opposite Allison and beside Elliot,
who put her hand on his shoulder. He turned his head. Elliot smiled
at him. Allison talked to the crowd for a few moments before
interrupting herself. She then addressed Shidan directly. “Hello,
Shidan. Welcome.”
He looked straight into her eyes and smiled.
She continued. “Although there is a crossover between the work
of the kids and Hayden’s themes, transfiguration and slavery, I
won’t speak directly to the traditional issues of slavery. Hayden has
already touched on this in his introduction. The ironies of slavery
transfigured and recast in a capitalist mold. Most of you are familiar
with these issues. What I want to look at exists in a wider circle,
more generalized maybe . . .” She paused and took a breath before
saying, “You know, it’s a strange thing, which I have never really
understood, that the greatest and most beautiful aspect of the
human race is its diversity. And yet this is also the hardest thing for
the human race to come to terms with, its own diversity. How can
that be? It’s so very strange and so peculiar. On the one hand, we
have a strong need to make everyone the same as us, to abolish
diversity, and to make others conform to a single idea of humanity.
Then, on the other hand, we strive for uniqueness, distinction, and
diversity, which is a paradox. I’m not just thinking of physical
diversity, which equates to external racial identity, but of internal
racial culture that carries more subtle distinctions of conformity.
That is, that Whites should act like Whites and only take an interest
in their sub-culture, or that African Americans should only be
concerned with their race exclusively. Striving then, in each
community, to keep people in bands of pure category, separate,
where they must not stray, where they are forbidden to refigure
themselves in a way which suits their own natural or desired
intellectual and spiritual potential. This conformity seems to hold
true for all culture, religion, and personality, or any type of internal
diversity. So above race is common humanity, which celebrates
diversity but is not limited by it and does not make distinctions of
superiority or favor one race over the other. It’s a fine line we walk

between the celebration of one’s own race and the exclusion of
others.”
Shidan saw that she was looking down at the ring on her finger,
a ring he had not seen before.
She tilted it back and forth in the light before continuing. “So
you see, my concerns include race but also span out in a wider circle
to encompass all of humanity, and that is what I wanted to explore
in the photography project I started here: identity.
“But the children also took their own paths, as you will see.
When I first started the group, I didn’t have any specific plans, and
as I got to know them, I realized there were deep-seated issues
surrounding racial identity. And who knows, maybe one day, in a
future without racial prejudice, we can celebrate difference. I hope
that this gallery, which now champions the development of Black
art, will be able to widen its circle to include the Hispanic
community, which is just down the road in East Harlem, or any
other minority race in Harlem. Maybe? Which is not to say that
supporting the art production of only one race is a negative thing. I
think this creates opportunities for Black artists who would
otherwise not have a voice. I just think that the future global society
will make sure that everyone has a voice in an equal community.
Anyway, I want you all to look at the photos the kids have produced
with all this in mind. And I want to thank the kids for trusting me,
for letting me into their lives.” Allison paused and looked at Shidan
with a smile. “Well, that’s it from me.” She then looked up at
Hayden, who beamed at her, and she said, “Thanks. . . . Oh, I
almost forgot, as you may already know, Hooman, Shidan, Sara,
and myself are opening the Harlem Writers Studio in three or four
months. Please support it and tell people about it. Thanks.”
People in the gallery clapped as Hayden leaned down and
hugged her. Shidan looked around to study everyone’s faces. A few
seemed unimpressed by her words, but most were accepting.
Hayden released her and jumped up. “Isn’t she wonderful? This
place is now officially open.” He waded through the crowd in a
chatty and excited fashion.

Shidan approached Allison. “Well done, you,” he said.
“I know that what I’ve just said won’t have gone down well with
everyone in here.”
“There’s truth to it, so who cares. It just highlights, as you said,
that the love of one’s race is a fine line to walk. Personally, I have
about an equal proportion of love and repulsion for my race, which
leaves me at point zero, and it’s a good place to be. More objective,
I think. And that is what you want too. Am I wrong?”
“Shidan, you really spoil me. You know very well that that’s just
what I want to hear. Don’t play with my ego.”
He laughed and patted her on the shoulder. “Congratulations,
it’s great to see this happen. I’m very happy for you, dear. Very
happy.”
Shidan watched Allison’s gaze move until she looked over his
shoulder. He turned to find the source of her stare.
“Hey, let’s go see Hooman. I’ve neglected him a little tonight.
Hayden has had me wrapped up for the last hour or so.”
“Sure, I haven’t seen him for a few weeks myself.”
They pushed through and around people until they reached
Hooman and Noah. Hooman was talking to his boss, Paul
Nightingale. Paul’s daughter, Alison, was standing beside him.
Hooman turned to Allison. “Paul and Alison have something
for you. It’s a paper bird,” he said.
“Oh really?”
Alison held her hand out and looked up at Allison.
“This is something you gave to my mother, Rose, at JFK
Airport about four years ago,” Paul said.
Shidan watched Allison crouch down to Alison’s head height.
“Oh, thank you. I remember this bird now, but I never guessed that
the lady I gave it to was your grandmother,” Allison said and then
turned to look up at Paul.
“It took us a while to realize that you made it. Alison found and
traced your signature on the paper. You must have been practicing
your signature on the page above the page with your poem,” Paul
said.

“Yes, I have always changed my signature over time. I always
allow it to morph and change, which is what I was doing as I
practiced a new version of my signature on the page above the
poem. But I don’t need this. I gave it away. You can keep this if you
want,” Allison said to Alison.
“Alison wants you to have it back,” Paul said.
Allison looked at the young Alison intently. “You want to give it
back to me?”
“Yes.”
“Okay, then.” Allison took the paper bird from Alison and
placed it into her jacket pocket. She then kissed the younger Alison
on the cheek before standing up.
After a short conversation, Hooman spun Noah’s stroller
around. Shidan followed Hooman and Allison into the side room to
find Jessica trying to entice a reluctant Jonny to come into a crowd
of her girlfriends.
Jessica yelled. “Oh, oh . . . Allison . . . come. Come here.”
They walked toward the crowd of girls.
Allison crouched down. “It’s good to call me Allison, and not
Ms Bird. What’s up?” she said to Jessica.
“Ask Jonny to come over here. We want to take a photo.”
“Why doesn’t he want to come over? Usually he doesn’t mind.”
“I don’t know. He’s being stubborn.”
Shidan looked at Jessica’s girlfriends, who were all giggling as
they motioned the boy to come over. Jonny’s face held a mixed
expression of mild terror, indignation, and disgust. He crossed his
arms and shook his head.
“Okay, okay, that’s enough, girls. I’ll ask him over nicely, but if
he doesn’t come, then you will have to leave him be,” Allison said.
Allison went over to him and whispered something into his ear
and then walked over to Shidan and Hooman. Shidan asked what
she had said.
“I said, if you come now, the pain will be over quickly. He’s
accustomed to that kind of logic.”

“Poor kid,” Shidan observed as the boy walked slowly over to
the girls with his hands in his pockets. “Straight into the mouth of
the beast,” he said.
“Shidan,” Allison shook her head, smiling, “it’s not that bad.”
“No, I think I agree with Shidan,” Hooman added.
They all watched Jessica, who was much taller than Jonny, stand
behind him. She placed her hand on his shoulder, which he
removed. One of the girls stood out in front, ready to take the shot.
“Oh, wait. Oh . . . Allison, you come, too, and Hooman.”
Taking the camera from the girl, Shidan offered to take the
photo. The two adults sat cross-legged as all the children stood
behind them.
“Where’s Sara?” Allison asked Shidan as he looked through the
camera’s viewfinder.
“I don’t know. She said she was coming.”
“What about Nava, where is she?”
“Same, I don’t know.”
Allison turned to Hooman. “Have you heard anything?”
“Nope. No news.”
As Hooman said that and Shidan was about to take the shot,
Nava yelled, “No, no, wait for me.” She ran and launched herself
across their laps.
The shot was finally taken, and at the last moment, when it was
too late for him to react, Shidan saw that Jessica had placed her arm
around Jonny’s neck in a semi-embrace. Nava then jumped to her
feet, chatting away excitedly at the group. She complimented all the
work while breathing in the buzz and energy in the gallery. “This is
exciting. Wow,” Nava said.
Hayden came into the room. He waded toward them through a
small crowd of people. He was chatting to everyone like a
hummingbird moving from flower to flower as he flipped from
person to person in a crazy flurry of movement. Finally, he stood
directly behind an obstacle in his path. Nava was so wrapped in her
stream of self-answered conversation that she had not seen the
others staring behind her.

Hooman introduced her. “Hayden, this is my sister, Nava.”
She swung around immediately and spoke to his chest.
Giggling, she looked up at him. “Err, sorry. Hello. You’re tall.”
Hayden let out a scream while waving his arms above his head.
Nava stepped backward, bewildered, but Hayden swooped down
before she could retreat any further and lifted her off her feet. He
then swung her around several times before letting her free.
“Well, hello, Nava. Is that the name I heard?” he said. He
laughed and added, “You’re the perfect weight for spinning into the
sky.”
The other three looked at each other and smiled.
Nava did not react in her usual gregarious way. She stood still
and looked up at Hayden with nothing to say.
“Hey, little girl, how about another swing?” Hayden said.
She put her arms up in protest and stepped back again. “No.
no.”
“Aww, come on. How about a hug, then?”
She giggled and looked over her shoulder at the others. “He’s
kind of funny,” and she did not have time to say any more before
being crushed in another embrace.
* * *
Shidan looked up at the dark sky for a moment as a crowd of
people from the gallery walked down Malcolm X Boulevard toward
a café that someone knew. Hayden was now permanently attached
to Nava’s side. Shidan was trying to decipher the rapid babble they
were firing at each other. Hayden would occasionally stop and spin
her around, after which there would be a lot of laughter.
Hooman was pushing Noah along in the stroller. They were
walking behind the main group of people heading to the café.
“Does Hayden hug everyone he meets?” Shidan asked.
“He does, yes. Man, woman, or object . . . without
discrimination.”

They laughed and watched him run back to the main group.
He dragged Allison forward and walked with his arms around both
girls.
They were quiet for a while, then Shidan asked, “I wanted to
ask about Allison. She seems happy, but that’s just my impression.
How is everything really? Beyond surface appearance.”
“We are really happy right now. I don’t have a single desire
beyond our current life.”
Shidan studied his friend’s face to see if anything was held back
because he knew Hooman even better than his own muddy aura.
Shidan had always been able to see through other people with
clarity and had always been afraid to turn this on himself. He
likened it to a light, which shone out on others but never on itself.
He found something faint in Hooman’s face. “Hooman, I know you
are holding something back. What is it?” Shidan said.
Hooman was quiet for a while, then said, “Did you ever speak
to Allison about her inner life? About her thoughts and the
notebook.”
“I know she has a notebook, but her inner life, what do you
mean?”
“Well, she keeps a lot to herself, so it’s not easy to explain it
fully. She tells me half, and I try to guess the rest, but we have this
arrangement now. She will tell me stuff, and I won’t make a
judgment, good or bad. I just hear what she is thinking, and I try to
be neutral.”
“Hooman, I’m not any clearer. What are you on about? She
never told me anything about her inner life. Not beyond our little
philosophical chats down at the bookshop.”
“When we first met, she told me about these experiences she
was having that scared her. Of course, that’s in the past now, and
she tells me that she has somehow integrated these experiences, but
there is something else that I can’t see. I have this sadness recently,
mixed with the happiness in our lives, so I’m confused.”
“What experiences, Hooman?”

“It’s her imagination. It’s been developing, extending into some
unfamiliar ground, more than the average person. Her mind, too, in
general, seems to have a more tangible existence. And well, one
example, which is unrelated to her imagination, but it fits in, is that
she feels people’s lives before she meets them. Like Jonny, the kid at
the exhibition. I remember a few months before we met him. She
had developed this uncharacteristic obsession with kicking the fall
leaves. And then, when we did meet him, I watched as nearly every
week he would be trailing through leaves in the gutter on his way to
school. And not long after she had met him, this obsession faded in
her. Sometimes it’s a color or a song or a seemingly random bunch
of words. She explained it to me last year, so that’s how I know. But
now, I can see it in her behavior more clearly, and I know what’s
going on. It’s so weird, but that’s how she meets and makes friends.
She knows they’re coming months before and identifies a person,
when she does finally meet them, by characteristics in her
personality that have arisen in that time. People become threaded
into her. She once called it attribute surfing. It’s like a collective
mind, an imaginative form of psychokinetic phenomena. I’ve seen it
three times this year. One was Jane, the curator at the gallery, and
the other was the parents of a few kids in her photography group
that joined halfway through the year.” Hooman stopped to take a
breath of the cold air. “She expressed it once, that all objects and
thoughts are in play. They flow perfectly interlocked through people,
without borders and limitations, but most people are blind to this
collective symmetry of souls. That world, the next world, is fused
into this world, and that is the kind of symmetry that she sees.”
“Well, I see why that might be odd to you. But I’m not
surprised. I’ve always known Allison is in her own sublime little
world, and it’s very different from yours and mine. I knew that when
we first met. Her agenda in this life has never fit with the average in
humanity. And she’s beautiful for it too. You are very lucky to have
her. You know that?”
“A bit of her has rubbed off on me, some of her intuition.
That’s how I know something is going to happen soon. I can feel it.

Something new is passing through her. For the last year she’s been
held up in the study every morning from four until dawn, praying,
meditating. When I get up, she is watching the sun rise from our
bedroom window, and she’s always happy, always smiling. Her
calmness is unnerving. It’s not what she was when we first met. I’m
unsettled by it.”
“Hooman. Nothing at all seems wrong with that picture, not for
her, it isn’t.”
“I know, I see that. That is why I can’t get around it.”
“Why don’t you just ask her?”
“I have, but I don’t think she knows herself. Something is going
to happen . . . I’m sure of it. Something is going to play out, and I
am not sure I’ll be happy about it when it arrives in our lives.”
* * *
Sara walked through the door of the café and apologized for her
lateness. She explained to Allison that she had seen the exhibition
after everybody else had left. Jane, the curator, had shown her
around.
“Come and sit next to me,” Allison said.
When Sara sat down, Allison put her arm around her waist and
continued to talk to Hayden.
“Allison! Allison, sorry to interrupt, but I just wanted to say that
I was moved by the exhibition. I was really moved. I think I can
understand why you and Hooman moved here. I could never do it
myself, but I can see why you did this,” Sara said.
Shidan had followed her words from the end of the table and
raised his eyebrows. He approved of her late interest in Allison’s life
in Harlem and of becoming partially enlightened. In many ways
Sara’s life had never been entirely in touch with the larger group of
friends, and it was her wealth that had been the barrier; she lived in
a materialistic bubble. Shidan had never tried to consciously pop
that bubble, but he was glad that Allison’s life had finally had an
effect on Sara. And there was the fact that she had contributed a

large sum of money for the development of the Harlem Writers
Studio.
“Allison, did you hear me?” Sara said, raising her voice.
Responding belatedly, Allison laughed. “Oh, good. You and
Shidan can move onto our street, then. A new place just went up for
sale, a few houses down from ours. The whole of Harlem is up for
sale right now,” she added casually.
Then Allison jumped up in a sudden jerking movement, which
surprised Sara.
“Oh god. Hooman! Oh god!” Allison said.
“What? What is it?” Hooman responded.
“I forgot to tell you. I had the most amazing dream last
night . . . do you remember last year, I think it was, that dream I
had? I dreamed about being in that empty basin, an ocean bed.”
“Yes, I remember.”
“Do you remember how I was surrounded by the ocean at one
point, but I woke up before it reached me?”
“Yes, I think so. Yes.”
“I thought you said it was empty,” Sara inserted.
“Something in the dream triggered the ocean to start closing in
on her. Is that right? Oh, I remember now, you ate the pomegranate
seed,” Hooman answered and turned to Allison.
“Yes . . . and, well, this time, the ocean came closer, and I knew
I was going to be destroyed by it, by the crushing weight of the
water. I knew I would be torn to shreds, but I didn’t care. I was
happy. It was so bizarre, but I lifted my arms up to greet it. I was so
happy, laughing uncontrollably, then crying in a kind of bliss. The
sun was directly above me, in perfect alignment with my body. And
my eyes . . . it was strange, but they were not hurt as I looked
directly at its white center. Then I saw the ocean in the periphery of
my vision close around me in a perfect circle, aligned with the sky
and the sun; they were two perfectly concentric circles. I felt the
spray on my face just before I was going to die, and I woke up. The
sound of the water, it was terrible, powerful, and unlike anything
I’ve ever heard. My whole body vibrated with it. But it was so

beautiful, you have no idea. I woke up with a sensation of ecstasy in
my chest so strong that I felt a need to vomit.”
Looking around the table, Shidan could see everyone was
thinking of something to say. Before anyone could answer, Allison
added quickly, “And I want to go up to Lake Placid soon. I want to
go walking in the mountains nearby, where we were in the summer.”
“What, in winter? Walking? Skiing, I could understand,” Sara
exclaimed.
“Yes, it’s cold, but there are no tourists or not so many. The
trails are almost empty at this time of year. There’s only the odd
cross-country skier around and people like us, winter hikers. We’d
have the place all to ourselves. Please, what do you think?”
Shidan answered immediately. “I’ll come. When are we going?”
He turned to Hooman and asked, “What about you?”
“Yep. I’m in. Sara?” Hooman looked at Sara, who sat opposite
him. “Do you want to come?”
“Me, no. That’s where I draw the line. I hate it when my knees
are cold.”
“Elliot, what about you?” Hooman asked.
“No, I can’t make it. I’m a bit busy for the next few months, but
you guys enjoy yourselves. I know you will.”
“I can’t come either,” Nava said.
* * *
After leaving the dunes near Eucla, Allison drove down the coast
road toward Esperance. She stayed there overnight, and on the next
day continued toward Albany, but after a four-hour drive, she saw a
sign for Bremer Bay. On a whim she decided to have a look at that
part of the coast. When she got there, the main town seemed a bit
dull and deserted, but she continued toward the coast, and once she
reached the beaches, she knew immediately that she would stop
here for a few months before heading back to Melbourne. At
Blossoms Beach she stopped at a resort and asked the owner if there
were any houses close by that she could rent on a short-term basis.

“You’re in luck,” the woman said. “There is an old timber
vacation cabin on the other side of the dunes.”
The woman pointed into the distance. “You can’t see it from
here because it is nestled into scrub, but it’s over there. The owner
usually only comes here during Christmas vacations.”
“Oh, that sounds cool.”
After fifteen minutes, Allison found the vacation cabin and
negotiated a two-month stay with the real estate agent back in the
main township.
* * *
Allison spent the full lease period, from October 8 to December 20,
1993, in Blossoms Beach, reading and looking at the ocean beyond
the dunes. She walked over the dunes to the beach almost every day,
and there were also many tracks to other beaches that she walked
along regularly. Allison had planned to arrive in Perth three or four
days before Christmas and spend time with Nava and Hooman. He
was planning to fly to Perth just before Christmas to spend a few
weeks with his parents, but then the plans changed, as Nava had
managed to get a job interview in New York in early January 1994.
So Nava and her parents would need to go to New York for
Christmas instead. Nava then decided to drive down to Blossoms
Beach and spend four days with Allison before she went to New
York a few days before Christmas. Allison then extended her lease
to take her up to Christmas Eve on the twenty-fourth, after which
she would begin the long drive back to Melbourne.
Allison was sitting on the balcony when she heard soft taps on
the front door. She jumped up with excitement and went to the
door. She opened it and hugged Nava.
“Oh, babe, it is so good to see you,” Allison said.
“I know. I know.”
Nava walked through the door and looked around the interior
of the house. “Wow, it is a bit of a dump,” Nava said.
“Wooh! Steady on there. It’s perfect.”

“A perfect dump, maybe.”
Allison laughed and took Nava’s hand. “Come, let’s sit outside.”
They walked onto the balcony and sat down.
“Look at that. What a view, eh?”
“Yes, it is nice.”
“It’s a perfect backdrop for reading and contemplation. So
what’s happening with New York?”
“If I can get a job in Manhattan, I’ll move in with Hooman.”
“Hmm, okay. Sounds good. Is there a particular reason you are
going?”
“I want to be with Hooman, I suppose, but New York is a
bigger pond. If I want to make it as an interior designer, then that’s
the place to do it.”
“True, I suppose.”
Nava looked down at the deck at a pile of books next to the
chair Allison was sitting in. “What are you reading?”
“Oh, all sorts of things. Mostly related to philosophy. And
mostly postmodernity.”
“Have you applied for university?”
“Yeah, I filled out the forms last year. Paul sent them to the
admissions center in August. I’ll hear back in January or February, I
think. Jasper thinks I won’t have a problem getting into the
University of Melbourne.”
“I’ll cross my fingers for you, babe.”
“Thanks,” Allison said. “Hey, I want to show you the beach.”
They talked more about New York as they walked over the
dunes. Allison had never thought of America as a place she would
like to visit, but now that Nava’s life was clearly merging into that
city, Allison felt a thread of interest tugging at her.
“You must come to America. You must come to New York.”
Allison wasn’t listening now. She nodded and smiled as Nava
kept talking about trips she had made to the US after Hooman had
finished his law degree.
They followed the sandy track to the beach. When they came to
it, they sat down, looking at the ocean.

“Are you coming? Are you going to come?”
“Come where?”
“America.”
“Oh . . . America. I don’t know. Maybe.”


The Lake Meets the Sun
From this station the wayfarer ascendeth unto a City that hath no name or
description, and whereof  one heareth neither sound nor mention. Therein
flow the oceans of  eternity, whilst this city itself  revolveth round the seat of
eternity. Therein the sun of  the Unseen shineth resplendent above the
horizon of  the Unseen, a sun that hath its own heavens and its own moons,
which partake of  its light and which rise from and set upon the ocean of  the
Unseen. Nor can I ever hope to impart even a dewdrop of  that which hath
been decreed therein, as none is acquainted with its mysteries save God, its
Creator and Fashioner, and His Manifestations.1
—Bahá’u’lláh, Gems of  Divine Mysteries
Three weeks had passed since the night of the gallery opening. The
car meandered along the Hudson River. The water was a twisting
cut pushed into the landscape by the tilt of the land. Over the hours
that passed, the stretch of water bloated and thinned as it appeared
and disappeared through trees that the cold had stripped out over
the winter months. There was a deep layer of snow around these
trees, which was faintly luminescent in the sun. As they drove
through Upstate New York, they passed a series of small towns.
Allison observed the many rustic wooden houses and cottages that
were typically painted white. For most of the journey Hooman had
followed the river along smaller roads rather than taking the main
highway. This was the same route they had taken in the summer. As

her memory rewound to summer, Allison compared the effect the
different seasons had on the surrounding countryside over that time.
The structure and form of trees were clearer without the softening
effect of the leaves and showed the river clearly now, whereas it had
been hidden in summer.
Allison watched the scenery slide by in the silence of her mind.
She huddled in the back seat of the car with her head resting
sideways on her knees. The blur of light and shadow from the
passing trees passed over her face. She also listened to Shidan and
Hooman talk in the front seats, but often she turned back to her
own vague thoughts, so their words only came to her in fragments.
Noah was asleep and lying next to her in his car seat.
Once they passed through Glens Falls, they began an ascent
into the Adirondack Mountains, and the Hudson River diverged
away as they joined the main highway. The stripped-out trees
disappeared and were replaced by the green and white of snow-
covered pines.
After an hour and a half in the mountains, they arrived at Lake
Placid and descended into a valley along a winding road. Allison
looked through the pines and saw the beginnings of the small town.
Something was wrong, and her gut tightened in worry when she
thought about it. Since the night of the gallery opening, she had
been vomiting more and more. The dream about the pomegranate
and the ocean closing in on her kept replaying night after night until
its meaning became clear, after which the dream stopped and was
then replaced by a week of calm, blank sleep.
While packing for the trip on the previous day, she lost her
balance for a few moments and fell, crashing sideways, into the
bookshelves in the living room. She knocked the white cube from
the shelf, and she had heard the lens break as it hit the floorboards.
The white bird slid across the floor. She had been losing her balance
for some months now and had managed to keep it all concealed
from Hooman. In the last few days, the vomiting had dissipated, but
this did not comfort her, as she still felt nauseous.

Allison was dying. The meaning of her dream was clear now,
and she felt a paradoxical and oscillating mix of anxious worry and
tranquility. The time had finally come as Mona had predicted, and
her three and a half years were now up. The blood that flowed from
the pomegranate into the sand in her dream was her own blood;
that was the sacrifice she would make: her own life.
She would have to tell Hooman eventually, but when was hard
to decide. She wanted to tell him at the right time and delay the
sadness she knew would wash over him.
In the valley a clear view of a frozen lake appeared. Houses
were dotted around its rim. The only thing that really bothered her
was she was going to miss everyone and in particular Hooman and
Shidan, and she also wondered how Hooman would cope bringing
up Noah without her. She also thought of Jonny. She knew that he
would become a photographer, a good one; that was her
contribution to his particular destiny, and that was her contribution
to Harlem. In recent weeks she had spoken to Hayden. He had
agreed to mentor Jonny in the future.
Allison looked over Noah’s relaxed features, which were
warmed by the evening sun. She knew that she would always be a
part of Noah’s life, if only at a distance. Hooman and Shidan
smiled at each other and talked about something she had not
followed.
She would also miss the opening of the Harlem Writers Studio
in the spring. They had worked so hard to realize it, but she knew
that Hooman would be there to guide it in the right direction. The
opening of the studio would also coincide with the publication of
his book, On the Shoulders of  the Poor, and she would miss that also.
When her symptoms first appeared, she knew it was a brain
tumor. She knew this because of research she had done in the year
her breast cancer had first appeared and more recently just after her
vomiting began. She had typed her symptoms into Google. To
confirm her fears she had gone to the hospital for a CAT scan, and
the result was positive. The doctor at the hospital had said she
would not have long to live, and he could not give a specific

timeframe. He went on to say that some people die between six
months to a year, and others die after only a month or two. The
tumor, a large, spindly mass, was essentially inoperable because of
its location in the brain, and it must have been there for some time.
Her diagnosis also explained the headaches she had had over the
last six months.
In the flat of the valley, they passed by Lake Placid and then
moved on to a more intimate town farther down the road—Saranac
Lake. The car turned off the highway onto a street leading to a
small cottage sitting on the edge of Lake Flower. The cottage was
the same one they had rented in the summer.
The boys unpacked the car. Hooman needed to go back to Lake
Placid to buy some hiking equipment before the shops closed. He
needed a new pair of snowshoes for himself and some poles for
Allison. He kissed Allison, then got into the car and drove off.
Shidan gathered some of the luggage and walked to the cottage
door, which he opened after finding the key under a statue of the
Buddha.
Allison followed him and took Noah into the cottage. She
stopped in the middle of the doorframe and put one hand out,
clutching the frame, to prevent herself from toppling over. She
checked to see that Shidan hadn’t seen her and then moved to a
long wooden table and sat down with Noah in her lap, his head
resting against her chest. She decided in that moment to ask either
of the boys to carry Noah in the future, just in case she fell to the
ground and injured him in some way. Through the large windows
overlooking the frozen lake, Allison observed the light fading over
the blue-white ice. The outline of houses on the opposite side of the
lake was beginning to fade, but their lights grew in the gloom like
jewels tossed and scattered on a dark horizon.
While Allison looked out at the horizon, Shidan lit a fire in a
small woodstove near the kitchen. She watched him do this in the
reflection on the window.
“I’ve got something symbolic for you. From Greek myth,” he
said once the fire was burning unassisted.

“Sorry, what did you say?”
Allison listened to him rustle through a plastic bag and waited
until she saw his arm reach out in front of her. He placed something
red and round on the table. Her stomach tightened when she
realized what it was. A pomegranate fruit sat isolated on the table.
And she immediately had a flashback of her dream with the
pomegranate sitting on the sand; the fruit was now another point of
future symmetry, like her yellow dress—her dream had now
intersected with reality.
“Where did you get it?” she asked.
“A Persian shop. In Queens. It is probably from California, I
would expect. I was at the shop with my mother a few days ago.”
Staring at the red fruit for a few moments, her mind went
blank.
She was about to formulate a question. Why give it to her? Why
now? But before she could, he said, “It’s the fruit of the dead. Or is
it the food of the dead . . . anyway, something like that.”
Her stomach tightened once more as he continued in a jovial
fashion.
“Don’t worry. I don’t think you are dying or anything. No, it’s
just that I was reading about Hades the other day, the Greek
underworld, and, well, it aroused my curiosity. I hadn’t had a
pomegranate for a while, and I never connected them with the myth
of Persephone. She was tricked into eating the fruit, and in turn she
descended to the underworld. And it has so much interesting and
rich symbolic association.” He pointed to the lake. “She’s in Hades
as we speak, Persephone. The queen of the underworld, of the
dead.” He went back to the woodstove to check on its progress.
“Anyway”—he raised his voice—“I don’t know why, but I thought
of you. I thought you might like it. It was the last one in the shop. I
saved it for you.”
Allison could not help herself as her arm reached over and
picked it up almost without her full consent. She broke the skin with
her thumbs into two equal halves and placed one half on the table,
and from the other she broke off a handful of the ruby-like seeds.

They crumbled into her palms, and she picked her way through
them. Occasionally, she held one up to the light, and their faceted,
red translucence was curious and otherworldly: a soft, fleshy gem.
Shidan came back from the stove and sat next to her. She
smiled at him as she placed her hand on Noah’s head. Her new ring
flashed in the low light.
“Hey, I saw that at the gallery. Why are you sporting gangster
wares all of a sudden?”
“Yeah. I know, it’s not really me, but it fits with my tattoo.”
“Your tattoo! Since when?” He looked up and down her body for
some invisible sign of it.
“Do you want to see it? I got it a few months back.” She passed
Noah to Shidan and slipped her arm out of her winter jacket and
proceeded to roll up her sweater sleeve.
Shidan moved his chair closer to get a better view of her
exposed arm. “Okay, I see now. The six concentric circles on your
shoulder match those on your ring. That makes sense now, but what
about these other three bands of color on your forearm?” He
pointed to them.
“Well, the three bands on my forearm represent the three
limited and relativistic levels or valleys. They are ‘Search,’ ‘Love,’
and ‘Knowledge.’” She then pointed to the six multicolored
concentric circles on her shoulder. “These represent the absolute
valleys. They are ‘Unity,’ ‘Contentment,’ ‘Wonderment,’ ‘True
Poverty and Absolute Nothingness,’ ‘Immortality,’ and the final level
that has no name or description. I got the idea for the circles and
bands of color from a composer called Simion. I met him in a
commune near Nimbin during a road trip I did many years ago. He
had exactly the same tattoo.”
“Fascinating,” he said.
“Yes, it is interesting. And thanks, Shidan. It was nice of you to
think of me. This fruit is a perfect topic of discussion. For winter
especially, I suppose. The fruit of the dead.”
“Yes, when it is winter, she descends into Hades. And when she
comes back to Earth, it is spring.” But Allison knew that she

wouldn’t be returning in spring. Her trip into the underworld was
one way.
She ate the last few seeds in the half she had started before. In
calm resignation she added, “Shidan. These are my tickets to the
underworld. My penny under the tongue, for the ferryman. To cross
the river Styx or the Hudson River, whichever comes first.”
He laughed. “I knew we would have fun talking about this.”
Allison’s bag was at her feet, and she leaned down to open it.
Rummaging around, she took out a sheet of paper and her
notebook. On the bottom of the paper, she wrote something. She
then flipped it over and continued to write something on the back
of it. She then flipped through the notebook and stopped at a
particular page before continuing to write on the sheet of paper.
“What’s that?” Shidan asked.
“It’s a paper bird. It has one of my poems on it. Alison
Nightingale gave it to me in the gallery. She wanted me to have it
back. I made it on the plane on my first day in New York.”
“Oh yeah. I remember Alison giving it to you.”
“Sorry, this might take a while.”
“That’s okay. What are you writing?”
“It’s a note for Hooman.” She smiled and watched him look out
at the lake as she continued to write. She ran out of room on the
paper bird, so she opened the back of the notebook and continued
writing.
Eventually, she finished writing and began to fold it back to its
original shape. Shidan watched in silence until it assumed the shape
of a bird again. She then placed it on the table and moved it around
with her index finger. She noticed the shadows the bird cast on the
table. Allison took Shidan’s hand and smiled at him for a moment,
then looked out at the dark lake.
* * *
In the morning they drove back through Lake Placid and down
Route 73. After a short drive, they came to Heart Lake. Hooman

parked the car beside the lake and took the map of the trails off the
dashboard. He passed it to Allison. She opened it and traced her
finger along the walking trail leading to Lake Tear of the Clouds.
They had walked to it in the summer, and Allison wanted to see it
now in the winter all iced over.
“How long is the trail?” Shidan asked.
“It’s a sixteen- to twenty-two-mile round trip, depending on
what trails we take. I’d like to go via Avalanche Lake and take a
different route this time,” she said.
“Apparently, Lake Tear of the Clouds is the highest source of
the Hudson River,” Hooman said to Shidan.
Allison then thought of the Boat of Ra. The boat had plied up
the Hudson River as she had slept in the cottage next to Hooman
on the previous night. The Boat of Ra was also known as the Night
Boat, with Osiris, Temu, and Ra merged together as they passed
through the gates on their way up the river during each night. On
the night before she had recited The Long Healing Prayer and the Tablet
of  Ahmad after her long obligatory prayer. These prayers had
released her into the boat. She was traveling in it and now almost at
the river’s source.
They got out of the car, and Allison stared at Heart Lake for a
moment before taking Noah out of his car seat. She passed the baby
carrier to Shidan. He strapped Noah to his back. She looked over at
the lake once more as she put her backpack on and remembered the
heart shape in the dust that she had made in the gallery and now
connected that with Robert Hayden’s first book of poetry, Heart-
Shape in the Dust. Allison felt, subjectively, that the title was a
reference to this world and what we left behind—the shape of love
in each other’s hearts in this, a world of dust. Hooman would have
her own heart shape in his soul that would last until his own death
and take him on and into and through those other worlds. The
same applied to all those whom she had ever loved in this world,
and she could make a way for everyone to follow her and complete
her symmetrical destiny map in those other worlds. And she also
knew that Noah’s destiny was important. She remembered her

dream at the Sun Tongue before she gave birth. In the dream she
had looked around Noah’s face, which was both intensely youthful
and paradoxically worn old, but his eyes were unblemished by time.
He had said, “I’m inside you, and I love you. You will not see
me grow up, but I will see you in the world to come.” She would
leave her heart shape in his heart also, although it would be a
vicarious heart shape through Hooman.
Hooman came around from the back of the car with all the
equipment, and they all got into the snowshoes.
They then headed toward the beginning of the trails on the
edge of the parking lot.
* * *
Lake Tear of the Clouds was only about an acre across and sat in a
valley between Gray Peak and Mount Marcy on one side and
Mount Skylight on the other side. After hiking through trails along
the twists and turns of the Opalescent River and eventually
Feldspar Brook, they arrived at the edge of the lake. Since their last
visit here, summer had faded into winter, and the water in the lake
had slowly been transformed into ice: the mirror had turned opaque
as the reflection had gradually faded before disappearing
completely.
Allison’s legs were unsteady. She had to sit down for a while to
ensure she did not lose her balance and fall down; she knew this was
from the tumor. During the long hike, she had had to stop and rest
several times. Getting to the lake had been a struggle, and she knew
that Hooman knew there was something wrong, but he had said
nothing.
“Are you okay, babe?” Hooman said.
“Yeah, just a bit tired,” she said and smiled up at him.
She looked up at the snow on the slope of Gray Peak, then at
the lower hills surrounding the lake. Panning her eyes around
behind her, she observed the snow on the pines near the edge of the
lake and Mount Skylight in the distance beyond the trees. She knew

there was a panorama of mountains beyond the valley that she
could not see now. When they had come in the summer, they had
seen them from the top of Mount Marcy.
After a few minutes, she got up, and they skirted the edge of the
lake and eventually found a flat clearing where they sat down and
prepared lunch. The weather did not degrade as they had expected
from the forecast; instead, the sun came out as they ate sandwiches
and drank thermos coffee. Motivated by the pleasant oscillation of
cool air and warm light on her face, she put her coffee down and
stood up. She looked up at the big patches of sky.
“I’m just going to walk across the ice.”
“Do you want company?” Hooman asked.
She smiled and thought for a moment. “No . . . no, you stay
here and keep Shidan entertained. You’ll be able to see me. I’ll just
walk out to the middle and back again. Okay?”
“Okay, we’ll watch you from here.”
Allison stepped onto the ice on the edge of the lake. She
decided to leave both her gloves behind, and they dropped to the ice
around her feet as she walked toward the center of the lake. Then
she heard a soft voice in her mind with a faint harmonic overlay,
“Allison, it’s Mona, Shidan’s sister. And the other Mona, Mona
Mahmudnizhad, is with me too; our identities and voices are
synchronized. Your destiny is with us now. You will soon begin to
fold and unfold into us. This will be a little strange for you and quite
intense, but don’t worry, we will try to make this transition as easy as
we can.”
“Thank you for guiding me to this moment.”
“You’re welcome. Keep walking, you’re almost with us.”
The clouds had cleared completely now, and she looked up at
the sun for a moment.
She stopped hearing the crunch of snow beneath her boots, and
instead, the immense silence of the desert and an invisible ocean
surrounded her. Shidan’s gift of a pomegranate was the clue she
had needed to prepare herself for eternity and to release herself
into it with radiant acquiescence.

The sun continued to penetrate the cold skin on her face as she
looked up at it again. For a reason she could not fathom, she
thought about the paper bird in her top pocket, and so she felt
around until her fingers closed around it.
At what she judged was the center of the lake she stopped, and
at that moment an intense pain exploded in her head. She staggered
sideways, then backward, clutching her head. The paper bird fell to
the ice.
She collapsed to the ground. For a few moments she looked up
at the sky, then lay back and spread her arms out with her palms
facedown in the same way that she had done at the British
Museum. She felt the cold from the ice flooding into her palms.
Time began to fold away. The pain in her head subsided slightly as
a pleasant sensation of joy radiated out from her chest in rhythmic
waves, and unlike her time at the American Museum of Natural
History, this time the sensations in her body were so pleasant that
they were almost painful in their intensity. She began crying and
laughing in the same moment. She stopped laughing for a moment
and took a big breath before sighing. Life was so funny, so
laughable. Why would a person not want to die and live on this new
horizon? The comic cipher was partially unraveled and released
into her, a joke with a punchline that always ended in death. The
puppet now needed to be put in its box.
She took another deep breath and looked over at Hooman and
Shidan briefly before looking back at the sun; its light was
exhilarating. Hooman was running toward her, but the distance may
as well have been unreachable, as Allison was already leaving the
small circle of time and space. She now lost feeling in one of her
arms. The other arm and her toes tingled with pins and needles.
The most peculiar sensation was that of gravity. It slowly began to
invert until it reached a full right angle. It seemed as if she was slung
to a wall, but that wall was the Earth itself. Slightly panicked, she
tried to calm herself. She was not sure what was stopping her from
falling down off the lake and tumbling down the face of the Earth
and into the sky.

The blissful waves continued to increase in intensity, and the
sun also seemed to change dimensions now. It started to dilate and
move toward her, slowly at first, then with speed. And as it came, a
wavering bell-like harmonic traveled with it. She laughed
uncontrollably now. The sun, as a vast fiery furnace, was dissolving
her and the Earth into cinders in its horizon of death, fire, and
light. She saw all things, all potentiality, all loves, all trees and
flowers blossom and fruit in moments before being crumbled into
red-and-black glowing ashes. The pleasure was unbearable now.
The disc of the sun, now a flat wall of light, was about to
impact on her in a planet-sized panorama, and she was still
laughing as her voice began to mingle with the bell noise. “It can’t
be this beautiful . . . it’s not possible,” she shouted, then laughed. It
was hard to hear her voice above the bell sound. “It’s not possible,”
she said again. She tried to squeeze out thoughts within the intense
pressure in her being. “Nobody would believe it.” Her laughing
turned to sobbing in her mind. As she had in her dream, she tried to
lift her arms to meet the sun, only to realize she no longer had any
arms or a body to do this. She wept a million tears into a million
oceans. She felt an immense rush in her mind as she left her body
properly and shot off at an incredible speed. She passed into a series
of nine colored concentric circles that formed a light tunnel, similar
to her tattoo. The sun hit her in a vast shock wave, and she tumbled
over and over, drowning in an immeasurable light, a soft and
enveloping mass of molten marshmallow light, and she continued to
sob in this new clarity that surrounded her. “Nobody could
understand this . . . nobody.”
She heard the words “You are with us now.”
“I see you now . . . and you are so beautiful. So unbelievably
beautiful. And beyond all words I have to describe you,” Allison
said. “Beyond all words” were her last thoughts, repeated over and
over in a loop that could contain her mind forever: Beyond all
words, Beyond all words, Beyond all words, Beyond all words,
Beyond all words, Beyond all words, Beyond all words, Beyond all
words, Beyond all words . . .

She disappeared into a vast, unsearchable eternity, where all
time was a forgotten memory and all space a bitter dream of
strange half mysteries lost in those charcoal houses where it had
been hard to relinquish illusion, houses where all things burn. And
the rain comes, and the sea comes, and nothing remains—only the
placeless sun, the home of transfigured birds.
* * *
Hooman had seen Allison clutching her head and falling to the ice.
He suddenly became aware of the panorama of the surrounding
mountains compressing and flexing around Allison’s small figure.
She was lying on the lake in a kind of beautiful but terrifying
solitude and isolation; the distance between them was now infinite,
and he knew by intuition that Allison was dying.
“Shidan, look. Something’s very wrong.” Hooman said,
pointing at Allison lying on the ice as he stood up.
“Oh god! . . . she’s dying, Shidan. I know it . . .  I know it,
absolutely,” Hooman said.
“You go. I’ll get Noah,” Shidan said as he picked up Noah,
stood up, and began to strap him to his back.
Tears began to well in his eyes as Hooman stepped onto the
lake and ran toward her.
He came to her body and slumped down beside her. He pulled
her body onto his knees, resting her head in his arms. Tears shot
down his cheeks, running into the corner of his mouth initially, and
then as he looked down at her, his tears splashed onto her face. He
looked over at Shidan, who was only now starting across the ice,
having strapped Noah to his back. When Shidan arrived, Hooman
said, “She’s gone . . . and I should have known this was coming. I’m
so stupid.”
Hooman became aware of the taste of his own tears as they ran
into the corner of his mouth. He looked up at the sky for a moment,
exhaled a breath, then looked back at her face, noticing the warm
light on her skin. She was so beautiful to him, even in death. He

knew already that all his love for her would turn to pain—a journey
without end in this world, and a story where the hero never returns.
Shidan slowly bent down on his knees beside Hooman. As he
sat, he slumped sideways slightly. He closed his eyes, tilted his head
to the right, and began to weep. After a few moments, he opened
his eyes and said, “My god . . . this is what you meant when you said
that something was going to play out in your lives?”
“Yes, Shidan. This must be what I felt was coming.”
Hooman saw Shidan looking at the paper bird on the ice, lying
near her knees. Shidan took his gloves off and reached out and
picked it up.
“This is the bird that the younger Alison gave her in the gallery
three weeks ago,” Shidan said, holding it up to the light.
“Yes, it is. It’s strange that she brought it here.”
“I saw her write something on it last night: a note to you. You
can see words on the surface of the paper.”
Shidan began to unfold the paper bird. He passed it to Hooman
once it was flat. Hooman took his gloves off, took it, and looked at
it. He immediately noticed all the folds and shapes in the paper and
its geometric symmetry and asymmetry before becoming aware of
the poem that had been hidden inside this geometry for many years,
folded up, waiting, secret, and sublime, its meaning waiting to be
understood by him in this moment. Each fold was an intersection of
beauty as it crossed other folds—other lives, each life an individual
fold, each life a linear timeline from beginning to end—a symbol of
all the people connected to her, all the people she had loved in this
world.
He knew even before he read it that the poem would be a
profound reflection of Allison’s faceted soul, as all her poems were;
they all mirrored aspects of her rich internal world and that utterly
unique worldview that she had always expressed and that had been
the reason for his abiding love for her. Hooman closed his eyes for a
few moments, gathering himself, before reading the poem with a
soft voice. Tears continued to stream down his face.

Death turns my right palm to the sky,
we smile, as he turns my left palm to the earth.
In my right hand, an empty nest—a world.
In my left, another world, from which a broken eggshell falls.
A paper bird has flown.
Its story written and gone.
The loves of  long ago faded—unfolded in light and its paper and ink heart.
Creases remain, shapes, and white bone, the source of  paper,
Until even this is ground under foot into white dust, on a word road,
Where everything returns to its first form, absolute and complete, into
formless words on formless paper.
What then remains of  Death?
He too has flown.
Seeking his own death.
Allison Bird
All is Sun Bird
Hooman thought about the meaning of the poem. She was the
paper bird that had now flown, her story written and gone and
faded into eternity as her bones were ground into dust on the word
road. He remembered her vision in the gallery of her body made of
white dust, and he wondered if it was bone dust that she had seen
her own body made from, on the “bone” road rather than the
“word” road. The bone road was the way we must all follow, even
Death.
He then thought about the destiny of the paper bird itself, a
sign and symbol of her own journey; it had found its way back to
her purely because she had practiced her signature on the page
above the poem. Otherwise, the younger Alison would have never
known that the bird had originally belonged to Allison; that simple
action of writing her signature had echoed through the years—the

configuration and power of names and the circularity of Allison’s
destiny through such a simple object.
“Look at the words under her signature. It’s like a line in a
poem, but contained in her name: ‘All is Sun Bird.’ I saw her add
that last night. You can tell. The color of the pen is different from
the rest of the poem; it’s blue, whereas the poem and her signature
are written in pencil,” Shidan said.
“It’s so strange, but her destiny was encapsulated in her name; it
was always there, all the time, and I never saw it; I suppose we are
all birds of the sun, like her. That is what she means by saying ‘All is
Sun Bird,’ and it’s also a reference to the purpose of creation, the
‘true believer,’ and our relationship with God; we all reflect the light
of the sun in our mirror-like hearts and fly like birds into the sun to
destroy all our earthly qualities, and from these ashes we are reborn
into cycles of immortality.”
“I will miss her,” Shidan said. He put his hand over his face and
began to weep intensely, and he bent forward slightly, putting his
other hand on the ice.
“I know, Shidan. Everyone will miss her.”
Hooman saw the light refracted on the ice as it came through
the back of the paper. He could see words were written on the back,
so he turned the paper over. She had scribbled a note to him as
Shidan had said, which took up the whole of the page in quite tight
and small writing:
Hooman, my love, I know as I write this that my death is close to me now.
And I write this with Shidan close by me. He was the one to give me the
final clue, a pomegranate, the key to my death; remember my dream about
the ocean and the pomegranate. Otherwise, I would have never written this
note to you. I am sorry I didn’t tell you this was coming. I meant to,
eventually. I hope you will forgive me some day. Think of  me in your
prayers. Think of  our wonderful life together and don’t be sad. However
short my life was with you, I am grateful. Ever since we met, I have been
counting my blessings each day. Your love will sustain me in those other

worlds, and I’ll be waiting for you there in absolute symmetry—a symmetry
with no earthly equivalent, the geometry of  the heart.

If  you look through my notebook, you will find the secret to unlocking
my symmetrical destiny map. It is in the number of  repeated names, their
different spellings, the number and order of  letters in their first and last
names, and the number of  each letter in the alphabet. Also, odd numbers are
asymmetrical and even are symmetrical. When you stack names and
sentences on top of  each other, you see the horizontal, vertical, and diagonal
intersections of  letters. It is kind of  like a huge alphabetical version of  a
sudoku puzzle, where you insert the numbers and letters into a grid
consisting of  nine squares, subdivided into a further nine smaller squares,
but as you will see, I haven’t been limited by grids of  nine. I have made
larger square grids. This is how I have been decoding reality. I have been
looking for instances where the same numbers or letters are repeated three
times or more, either horizontally, vertically, or diagonally. This is a
mathematical and letter-based symmetry.

You will notice that all the letters in the alphabet are either symmetrical
or asymmetrical or a combination of  both, like A, which is symmetrical on
a vertical axis, versus B, which is asymmetrical on a vertical axis but is
symmetrical on a horizontal axis. There are mysteries here in the geometry
of  language. It is not by chance that letters have the shapes that they do.
Look into the history of  the English language and the origin of  each letter
from other languages like Latin and Greek, and it goes back even further into
other older ancient languages too. And all languages are the expression of
one system of  symbolism and metaphor.

I’ve run out of  room here on the back of  the poem. The rest of  this note
will be at the back of  the notebook; I have bookmarked the page for you.
“Did she bring her notebook?” Hooman asked.
“Yes. It’s in her backpack. I saw her pack it this morning.
Why?”
“She has written me a note.”
Hooman showed Shidan the back of the poem.
“I’ll go get it.” Shidan stood up and walked over to the edge of
the lake.

Hooman watched him open the backpack and then watched
him come back over the ice.
Shidan passed her notebook to Hooman, who took it and
opened it at the back, where he found what he was looking for. He
continued to read.
You will also see that the symmetrical destiny map is a series of  ciphers
hidden within the “Kingdom of  Names,” both mathematically and
symbolically. You’ll see all the grids of  letters are an abstract riddle full of
different meaning patterns. I have worked on these throughout the notebook.
Baháʼu’lláh says: “He beholdeth in illusion the secret of  reality, and readeth
from the attributes the riddle of  the Essence.” 2

And remember, ultimately, the True Phoenix is “the Word of  God.”
That is where we see our true reflection at the end of  the journey. Attar
suggests that we be that Eternal mirror that we saw, which is to show
others the “Word” in our own hearts and reflect it back to them. When
everything is stripped away from the mirror of  creation, all that remains is
the “Word,” shimmering above the physical world, staggeringly beautiful,
and beyond all comparisons or understanding. And then we return into our
sun as birds, where we subside into a placeless, transcendent Sun—the
actual sun is only a symbol of  this higher, invisible Sun, the Sun of  Being.
In the ninth valley this new Sun has its own heavens and its own moons, as
you know—the Sun of  the Unseen is a hidden Sun; here, our destiny is
immeasurable and unspeakably glorious.

“Therein the sun of  the Unseen shineth resplendent above the horizon
of  the Unseen, a sun that hath its own heavens and its own moons, which
partake of  its light and which rise from and set upon the ocean of  the
Unseen. Nor can I ever hope to impart even a dewdrop of  that which hath
been decreed therein, as none is acquainted with its mysteries save God, its
Creator and Fashioner, and His Manifestations.” 3

My love, you must also learn the language of  the birds: the divine,
mystical language. It’s a language of  symbolism.
Below this was a quote from the Qur’án:

And Solomon was David’s heir. And he said: O mankind! Lo! we have been
taught the language of  birds, and have been given of  all things. This surely
is evident favor.4
—Qur’án 27:16
Lastly, I am sorry I won’t be here for the opening of  the Harlem Writers
Studio and for the launch of  your book. I know the book will be amazing
and really build understanding about the extremes of  wealth and poverty
and the need for balance on the world stage and within our local
communities. I hope that you can continue what we started in Harlem and
serve the needs of  that community. As we discussed a few times, I think you
need to make the Harlem Writers Studio a focus for Bahá’í activities; use
the space for arts and community-building projects.

Hooman knew he could carry on the work they had started
together, but then he wondered, What language was she talking
about? He passed the notebook to Shidan. “Look at that quote from
the Qur’án.”
“My god, Hooman. I know that quote from my childhood. I
memorized it growing up.”
“I wonder what kind of bird the paper bird is,” Hooman said.
“I am not sure. I wasn’t paying attention.” Shidan put the
notebook on the ice, picked up the sheet of paper, and began to fold
the paper back into the form of a bird.
As Hooman watched Shidan attempt to reconstruct the bird, he
immediately thought of their honeymoon at the shack in
Queensland and all the paper birds on the dashboard of her old car.
He had not been paying attention there also, like Shidan. He knew
only that she had made a variety of different bird species.
“It’s a swan,” Shidan said finally, passing it back to him.
Hooman rolled it around in his palm, looking intensely at the
refracted light and shadows on its surfaces. He noticed the
translucent quality of the paper with light passing through it and all
the words on its body. “Oh god . . .” Hooman said in an epiphany,
“I’m the white swan in alchemy. That’s me. I’m the swan. It

symbolizes illumination from the inner light that comes from first
contact with the divine world, which begins in this moment. She has
become the Phoenix, and I am the swan. I must pass through all the
remaining stages within the alchemical symbolism of the five birds
to learn the language of the birds, to learn the language of the
Phoenix, to become a Phoenix, like her. That is the sun tongue: the
language of fire and light.”
“God, Hooman. That is crazy beautiful. You’re right. The
name of the shop was connected to her as well: the Sun Tongue, or
the Tongue of the Phoenix.”
“Yes . . . I think so. Everything and everyone was connected to
her in some way. I have begun in this last year to see the symmetry
and asymmetry she has been talking about all these years.”
“How do you know about the five birds in alchemy? Over the
years, I have actually sold several alchemical manuscripts that the
five birds were highlighted within, but there isn’t much written
about them. It is a very obscure aspect of alchemy.”
“It was in one of the books she sent from London. At the time it
didn’t mean much to me, but I read it at about the same time that I
sent her that bird sculpture. That book, The Birds of  Transmutation, is
where I got the idea to put that quote from Baháʼu’lláh on the side
of the white cube—the one about the Phoenix of the realms above
crying out from the immortal Branch and the glory of all greatness
belonging to God.”
Shidan didn’t reply. He continued to weep, and his head
dropped as he closed his eyes. Hooman thought about the Harlem
community. He would continue serving the needs of that
community, relying upon the “society-building power of the Faith.”5
The Bahá’ís in the Harlem community would also need to push
forward and continue the process of social transformation through
spiritual education by broadening their outreach to neighbors and
families and by inviting their participation.
Hooman brushed the snowflakes from her hair. The snow was
so beautiful in the sun. He saw tears that had run down her face. He
wiped one line of tears away with his finger. He put his finger on

the tip of his tongue. “I can taste the Ocean that destroyed her,” he
said. He then closed his eyes for a moment and tilted his face
towards the sun.
“Hooman! It’s me . . . it’s Allison.”
“Oh god!” he said in wonderment. “I can hear your voice in my
mind.” He opened his eyes, and he was looking directly at the sun,
squinting.
“Hear who?” Shidan asked.
“Don’t worry. Everything will be fine,” said the transfigured
voice of Allison. “I will always be with you now. Always. I’ll talk to
you tomorrow, my love. And remember what the Qur’án says:
Nothing can befall us but what God has destined.” 6
—Qur’án 9:51

Notes
Preface
1. “Praise be to God Who hath made . . .” Bahá’u’lláh, The Seven
Valleys, in The Call of  the Divine Beloved: Selected Mystical Works of
Bahá’u’lláh (Haifa, Israel: Bahá’í World Centre, 2018), 5.
A Word on Symmetry
1. “. . . in each realm, to every letter a . . .” Bahá’u’lláh, The Seven
Valleys, in The Call of  the Divine Beloved: Selected Mystical Works of
Bahá’u’lláh (Haifa, Israel: Bahá’í World Centre, 2018), Preface.
2. “How strange that the Beloved is as . . .” Bahá’u’lláh, The Seven
Valleys, in The Call of  the Divine Beloved: Selected Mystical Works of
Bahá’u’lláh (Haifa, Israel: Bahá’í World Centre, 2018), 15.
Chapter 1
1. “By My life, O friend! Wert thou . . .” Bahá’u’lláh, The Seven
Valleys, in The Call of  the Divine Beloved: Selected Mystical Works of
Bahá’u’lláh (Haifa, Israel: Bahá’í World Centre, 2018), 5.
Chapter 2
1. A reference to the Islamic profession of faith: “No God is there but
God, and Muḥammad is the Messenger of God.”
2. “The true seeker hunteth naught but the . . .” Bahá’u’lláh, The
Seven Valleys, in The Call of  the Divine Beloved: Selected Mystical Works of
Bahá’u’lláh (Haifa, Israel: Bahá’í World Centre, 2018), 6.
Chapter 3

1. “On this journey the wayfarer dwelleth in . . .” Bahá’u’lláh, The
Seven Valleys, in The Call of  the Divine Beloved: Selected Mystical Works of
Bahá’u’lláh (Haifa, Israel: Bahá’í World Centre, 2018), 6.
Chapter 4
1. “And if, by the help of the . . .” Bahá’u’lláh, The Seven Valleys, in
The Call of  the Divine Beloved: Selected Mystical Works of  Bahá’u’lláh
(Haifa, Israel: Bahá’í World Centre, 2018), 6.
2. “Come you lost Atoms to your Centre . . .” Attar, Farid ud-Din,
Bird Parliament (also known as The Conference of  the Birds), in Letters and
Literary Remains of  Edward FitzGerald, ed. William Aldis Wright, trans.
Edward FitzGerald (London and New York: Macmillan and Co,
1889), sacred-texts.com, lines 1426–29.
Chapter 5
1. An allusion to the Ḥadíth in which God is said to address the
Prophet Muhammad in these words: “But for Thee, I would not have
created the spheres.” A Ḥadíth is an action or utterance traditionally
attributed to the Prophet Muhammad or to one of the holy Imams.
This Ḥadíth recognizes the station of Bahá’u’lláh as the
manifestation of God for this age.
2. “Wherefore, O friend, renounce thy self, that . . .” Bahá’u’lláh, The
Seven Valleys, in The Call of  the Divine Beloved: Selected Mystical Works of
Bahá’u’lláh (Haifa, Israel: Bahá’í World Centre, 2018), 7.
Chapter 6
1. “And if, confirmed by the Creator, the . . .” Bahá’u’lláh, The Seven
Valleys, in The Call of  the Divine Beloved: Selected Mystical Works of
Bahá’u’lláh (Haifa, Israel: Bahá’í World Centre, 2018), 7.
2. “I was the Sin that from Myself . . .” Attar, Farid ud-Din, Bird
Parliament (also known as The Conference of  the Birds), in Letters and

Literary Remains of  Edward FitzGerald, ed. William Aldis Wright, trans.
Edward FitzGerald (London and New York: Macmillan and Co,
1889), sacred-texts.com, lines 1414–16.
3. “With all my Wealth in the other . . .” Attar, Farid ud-Din, Bird
Parliament (also known as The Conference of  the Birds), in Letters and
Literary Remains of  Edward FitzGerald, ed. William Aldis Wright, trans.
Edward FitzGerald (London and New York: Macmillan and Co,
1889), sacred-texts.com, lines 1262–76 and 1387–435.
4. “Indeed we belong to Allah, and indeed . . .” The Prophet
Muhammad, Qur’án 2:156.
5. “He beholdeth in illusion the secret of . . .” Bahá’u’lláh, The Seven
Valleys and the Four Valleys, trans. Marzieh Gail, 3rd ed. (Wilmette: US
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1986), 21.
6. “Whereas recognition of the inherent dignity and . . .” In the
preamble of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (New York:
Draft Committee, United Nations, 1948), 1.
7. “Lo, the Nightingale of Paradise singeth upon . . .” Bahá’u’lláh,
Tablet of  Ahmad, in Bahá’í Prayers (Wilmette: US Bahá’í Publishing
Trust, 1991), 209–13.
Chapter 7
1. “‘We will surely show them Our signs . . .’” The Prophet
Muhammad, Qur’án 41:53.
2. “He breaketh the cage of the body . . .” Bahá’u’lláh, The Seven
Valleys, in The Call of  the Divine Beloved: Selected Mystical Works of
Bahá’u’lláh (Haifa, Israel: Bahá’í World Centre, 2018), 8.
3. “Those who have ascended have different attributes . . .” ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in London (London: UK Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
1982), 96.
4. “O SON OF THE THRONE! Thy hearing . . .” Bahá’u’lláh, The
Hidden Words (Wilmette: US Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1985), 14.

Chapter 8
1. “He in this realm is content with . . .” Bahá’u’lláh, The Seven Valleys,
in The Call of  the Divine Beloved: Selected Mystical Works of  Bahá’u’lláh
(Haifa, Israel: Bahá’í World Centre, 2018), 7.
2. “It is the mind that makes the . . .” William Shakespeare, The
Taming of  the Shrew (1590).
3. “O Thou Who art the Lord of . . .” Bahá’u’lláh, “The Long
Obligatory Prayer,” in Bahá’í Prayers (Wilmette: US Bahá’í Publishing
Trust, 1991), 7.
Chapter 9
1. “‘No defect canst thou see in the . . .’” The Prophet Muhammad,
Qur’án 67:3.
2. “Gazing with the eye of absolute insight . . .” Bahá’u’lláh, The
Seven Valleys, in The Call of  the Divine Beloved: Selected Mystical Works of
Bahá’u’lláh (Haifa, Israel: Bahá’í World Centre, 2018), 8.
Chapter 10
1. “The perfection of belief in Divine Unity . . .” From a Ḥadíth.
2.“. . . the denizens of the city of immortality . . .” Bahá’u’lláh, The
Seven Valleys, in The Call of  the Divine Beloved: Selected Mystical Works of
Bahá’u’lláh (Haifa, Israel: Bahá’í World Centre, 2018), 8.
3. “Was there a philosophy of the heart that transcended the
intellect, she wondered, or did the intellect need to be informed by
the heart?” The expression of these and following ideas by the
author are a paraphrase of Ian Kluge’s writings. The nine excerpts
from Kluge’s writing that have formed the basis for this paraphrase
can be found in the following text at the following nine page
references respectively:

“However, unlike the Counter-Enlightenment and its . . .”, “There
are two matters of interest in . . .”, “It [truth] is a word for the ‘will-
to-power’ . . .”, “In regards to reason, the Writings adopt . . .”,
“However, unlike the Counter-Enlightenment and its . . .”, “For God
has endowed us with faculties . . .”, “There are two matters of
interest in . . .”, “In a similar vein, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá informs us . . .”, and
“The Writings tells us that a ‘reliable . . .” Ian Kluge, Postmodernism
and the Bahá’í Writings, part 2, vol. 9 of Lights of  Irfan, (Evanston, IL:
Irfan Colloquia, 2008), 116–17, 118, 125–26, 115, 116, 118, 118,
118, 120.
4. In addition to note 3 above, there are other ideas in this chapter
that are paraphrased from Ian Kluge, Postmodernism and the Bahá’í
Writings, parts 1 and 2, vol. 9. The excerpts from Kluge’s writings that
have formed the basis for the paraphrases, listed below, can be found
in the following titles and page references respectively:
“What postmodernism primarily offers in return for . . .”, “This
position has at least six consequences . . .”, “‘Truth’ is therefore not
something there, that . . .”, “To the charge that this reduces it . . .”,
“Therefore, he rejects the belief that God . . .”, and “Kant’s
influence may also be felt in . . .” Ian Kluge, Postmodernism and the
Bahá’í Writings, part 1, vol. 9 of Lights of  Irfan, (Evanston, IL: Irfan
Colloquia, 2008), 65–66, 72, 71, 66, 66–67, 68–69.
“Nor can they accept his sweeping statement . . .”, “In regards to the
‘will-to-power’ . . .”, “The Bahá’í teachings about the reality of . . .”,
“It is also clear that the Bahá’í . . .”, “This relativism inherent in
Lyotard’s philosophy is . . .”, and “The unification of humankind
requires that we . . .” Ian Kluge, Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings,
part 2, vol. 9 of Lights of  Irfan, (Evanston, IL: Irfan Colloquia, 2008),
124, 126, 127, 137, 137, 139.
5. “That which the Lord hath ordained as . . .” Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings
From the Writings of  Bahá’u’lláh (Wilmette: US Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
1983), 255.

Chapter 11
1. “‘Guide Thou us on the straight path,’” The Prophet Muhammad,
Qur’án 1:6.
2. “Guide Thou us on the straight path . . .” Bahá’u’lláh, The Seven
Valleys, in The Call of  the Divine Beloved: Selected Mystical Works of
Bahá’u’lláh (Haifa, Israel: Bahá’í World Centre, 2018), 9.
Chapter 12
1. “‘Verily, we are God’s, and to Him . . .’” The Prophet
Muhammad, Qur’án 2:156.
2. “If thou be a man of communion . . .” Bahá’u’lláh, The Seven
Valleys, in The Call of  the Divine Beloved: Selected Mystical Works of
Bahá’u’lláh (Haifa, Israel: Bahá’í World Centre, 2018), 9.
3. “O my people! This present life is . . .” The Prophet Muhammad,
Qur’án 40:39. Sura 40: The Believer.
4. “Their Road is thine—Follow—and Fare . . .” Attar, Farid ud-Din,
Bird Parliament (also known as The Conference of the Birds), in
Letters and Literary Remains of Edward FitzGerald, ed. William
Aldis Wright, trans. Edward FitzGerald (London and New York:
Macmillan and Co, 1889), sacred-texts.com, line 1435.
5. “I am the Primal Point from which . . .” The Bab, Selections from
The Writings of  the Báb (Haifa, Israel: Bahá’í World Centre by the
Universal House of Justice, 1976), 12.
6. “He was assured that he would be made victorious by himself and
by his pen, and by the aid of those whom God would raise up.” This
story of the beginning of Bahá’u’lláh’s revelation came from the
following: Ruhi Institute, The Twin Manifestations, Book 4, Section 11
(Columbia: The Ruhi Foundation, 1996).
7. “The prisoners, including Mona, endured months of abuse . . .
The families were all in astonishment and awe.” Bahá’í Canada
Publications, The Story of  Mona: 1965–1983 (Toronto: The National

Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Canada, 1985). Reprinted with
permission. The original story has been edited and reduced. For the
full text see https://www.dramacircle.org/the-story-of-mona.
Chapter 13
1. “After passing through the Valley of Knowledge . . .” Bahá’u’lláh,
The Seven Valleys, in The Call of  the Divine Beloved: Selected Mystical Works
of  Bahá’u’lláh (Haifa, Israel: Bahá’í World Centre, 2018), 9.
2. “From the sweet-scented streams of Thine . . .” Bahá’u’lláh, Prayers
and Meditations (Wilmette: US Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1938), 258–59.
3. “Create in me a pure heart, O . . .” Bahá’u’lláh, Prayers and
Meditations (Wilmette: US Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1938), 248.
Chapter 14
1. “In this station he pierceth the veils . . .” Bahá’u’lláh, The Seven
Valleys, in The Call of  the Divine Beloved: Selected Mystical Works of
Bahá’u’lláh (Haifa, Israel: Bahá’í World Centre, 2018), 9.
2. “O SON OF THE SUPREME! I have . . .” Bahá’u’lláh, The
Hidden Words (Wilmette: US Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1985), 11.
Chapter 15
1. “‘Earth and heaven cannot contain Me; what . . .’” From a
Ḥadíth.
2. “O My brother! A pure heart is . . .” Bahá’u’lláh, The Seven Valleys,
in The Call of  the Divine Beloved: Selected Mystical Works of  Bahá’u’lláh
(Haifa, Israel: Bahá’í World Centre, 2018), 10.
3. “Knowledge is a single point, but the . . .” From a Ḥadíth.
4. “seeds of undreamt-of potentialities.” Shoghi Effendi, God Passes
By (Wilmette: US Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1979), 294.

5. “Is it within human power, O Hakim . . .” Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings
From the Writings of  Bahá’u’lláh (Wilmette: US Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
1983), 200.
6. “Know thou, moreover, that the Word of . . .” Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets
of  Bahá’u’lláh (Wilmette: US Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1988), 140–41.
7. “The Phoenix of the realms above crieth . . .” Bahá’u’lláh,
Gleanings From the Writings of  Bahá’u’lláh (Wilmette: US Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1983), 35–36.
8. “Soon will the present-day order be rolled . . .” Bahá’u’lláh,
Gleanings From the Writings of  Bahá’u’lláh (Wilmette: US Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1983), 2.
Chapter 16
1. “‘O Thou Whose Essence alone can lead . . .’” From a prayer of
‘Alí.
2. “But for Thee” refers to a Ḥadíth. “We have failed to know Thee”
alludes to a prayer attributed to Muḥammad that says, “We have not
known Thee, O God, as Thou oughtest to be known.” “Or even
closer” alludes to Qur’án 53:9.
3. “Wherefore the lovers of the countenance of . . .” Bahá’u’lláh, The
Seven Valleys, in The Call of  the Divine Beloved: Selected Mystical Works of
Bahá’u’lláh. (Haifa, Israel: Bahá’í World Centre, 2018), 10.
Chapter 17
1. “Indeed, the references that have been made . . .” Bahá’u’lláh, The
Seven Valleys, in The Call of  the Divine Beloved: Selected Mystical Works of
Bahá’u’lláh (Haifa, Israel: Bahá’í World Centre, 2018), 10.
2. “unto the essence of the fragrance of . . .” Bahá’u’lláh, Prayers and
Meditations (Wilmette: US Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1938), 258–59.

3. “Osiris—Judge of the Dead; God of . . .” and “Before a soul went
onto the section . . .” E. A. Wallis Budge, Osiris & the Egyptian
Resurrection, 2 vols. (London: P. L. Warner and New York: G. P.
Putnam’s Sons, 1911). This quote has been edited for better reading.
Some sentences have been paraphrased from other sources within
Osiris & the Egyptian Resurrection, and the full quote is therefore an
amalgam of several different sources.
4. “Egyptians believed that this life was only . . .” E. A. Wallis Budge,
Osiris & the Egyptian Resurrection, 2 vols. (London: P. L. Warner and
New York: G. P. Putnam’s Sons, 1911), 2:143. This quote has been
edited for better reading.
5. “After the heart is weighed and found . . .” E. A. Wallis Budge,
Osiris & the Egyptian Resurrection, 2 vols. (London: P. L. Warner and
New York: G. P. Putnam’s Sons, 1911), 2:116, 2:160. This quote has
been edited for better reading. Some sentences have been
paraphrased from other sources within Osiris & the Egyptian
Resurrection, and the full quote is therefore an amalgam of several
different sources.
6. “I am the living bread which came . . .” John 6:51, The Bible,
King James Version,1769.
7. “Life as a blessed soul was not . . .” E. A. Wallis Budge, Osiris & the
Egyptian Resurrection, 2 vols. (London: P. L. Warner and New York: G.
P. Putnam’s Sons, 1911), 2:159. This quote has been edited for better
reading. Some sentences have been paraphrased from other sources
within Osiris & the Egyptian Resurrection, and the full quote is therefore
an amalgam of several different sources.
8. “Egyptian scripture states that at one time . . .” E. A. Wallis Budge,
Osiris & the Egyptian Resurrection, 2 vols. (London: P. L. Warner and
New York: G. P. Putnam’s Sons, 1911), 1:357. This quote has been
edited for better reading.
9. “Let the dead bury their dead.” Matthew 8:22, The Bible, King
James Version, 1769.

10. “Nothing can befall us but what God . . .” The Prophet
Muhammad, Qur’án 9:51.
11. “O My servants! Could ye apprehend with . . .” Bahá’u’lláh,
Gleanings From the Writings of  Bahá’u’lláh (Wilmette: US Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1983), 236–37.
12. “As ye have faith so shall your . . .” ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, in May
Maxwell, An Early Pilgrimage (1917; repr., Oxford: George Ronald,
1953).
Chapter 18
1. “These statements are made in the sphere . . .” Bahá’u’lláh, The
Seven Valleys, in The Call of  the Divine Beloved: Selected Mystical Works of
Bahá’u’lláh (Haifa, Israel: Bahá’í World Centre, 2018), 11.
2. “the divine or supernatural disclosure to humans . . .” Angus
Stevenson, ed., Oxford Dictionary of  English (Oxford, UK: Oxford
University Press, 2001).
3. “LET these exalted words be thy love-song . . .” Bahá’u’lláh,
Bahíyyih Khánum: The Greatest Holy Leaf (Haifa, Israel: Bahá’í World
Centre, 1982), 1–3.
4. “Know thou of a certainty that Love . . .” ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections
From the Writings of  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá (Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 1982),
27.
5. “We will all, verily, abide by the . . .” Bahá’u’lláh, The Kitáb-i-
Aqdas (Haifa: Bahá’í World Center, The Universal House of Justice,
1992), 105.
Chapter 19
1. “In thy soul . . . entire,” Rúmí. Rúmí was a thirteenth-century
Persian poet.

2. “And they swim in the sea of . . .” Bahá’u’lláh, The Seven Valleys, in
The Call of  the Divine Beloved: Selected Mystical Works of  Bahá’u’lláh
(Haifa, Israel: Bahá’í World Centre, 2018), 12.
3. “Greater love hath no man than this . . .” John 15:13, The Bible,
King James Version 1769.
4. “If I have the gift of prophecy . . .” 1 Corinthians 13:2, The Bible,
American Standard Version, 1901.
5. “O SON OF MAN! Veiled in My . . .” Bahá’u’lláh, The Hidden
Words (Wilmette: US Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1985), 4.
6. “. . . in the ancient eternity of My essence . . .” Bahá’u’lláh, The
Hidden Words (Wilmette: US Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1985), 4.
7. “. . . the denizens of the city of immortality . . .” Bahá’u’lláh, The
Seven Valleys, in The Call of  the Divine Beloved: Selected Mystical Works of
Bahá’u’lláh (Haifa, Israel: Bahá’í World Centre, 2018), 8.
8. “Infer, then, from this the differences among . . .” Bahá’u’lláh, The
Seven Valleys, in The Call of  the Divine Beloved: Selected Mystical Works of
Bahá’u’lláh (Haifa, Israel: Bahá’í World Centre, 2018), 11.
9. “. . . O Thou Who art the sole Desire . . .” Bahá’u’lláh, Prayers and
Meditations (Wilmette: U.S. Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1938), 115–17.
Chapter 20
1. “‘God will satisfy everyone out of His abundance.’” The Prophet
Muhammad, Qur’án 4:130.
2. “The wayfarer, after traversing the high planes . . .” Bahá’u’lláh,
The Seven Valleys, in The Call of  the Divine Beloved: Selected Mystical Works
of  Bahá’u’lláh (Haifa, Israel: Bahá’í World Centre, 2018), 12.
Chapter 21
1. “God was alone; there was none else . . .” From a Ḥadíth.

2. “O friend, till thou enter the garden . . .” Bahá’u’lláh, The Seven
Valleys, in The Call of  the Divine Beloved: Selected Mystical Works of
Bahá’u’lláh (Haifa, Israel: Bahá’í World Centre, 2018), 12.
3. “If ye meet the abased or the . . .” Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings From the
Writings of  Bahá’u’lláh (Wilmette: U.S. Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1983),
314.
Chapter 22
1. “In fire he seeth the face of . . .” Bahá’u’lláh, The Seven Valleys, in
The Call of  the Divine Beloved: Selected Mystical Works of  Bahá’u’lláh
(Haifa, Israel: Bahá’í World Centre, 2018), 12.
2. “. . . he refers to himself as the Mariner . . .” Bahá’u’lláh, Tablet of
the Holy Mariner, in Bahá’í Prayers: A Selection of  Prayers (Wilmette: US
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1941). This is a paraphrase and not a direct
quote.
3. “A lover is he who is chill in hell fire,” Bahá’u’lláh, The Seven Valleys,
in The Call of  the Divine Beloved: Selected Mystical Works of  Bahá’u’lláh
(Haifa, Israel: Bahá’í World Centre, 2018), 7. These words were
originally written by Saná’í (ca. 1045–1131), who was Persia’s first
great mystic poet.
4. “They passed the grades of worldly limitations . . .” Bahá’u’lláh,
Tablet of  the Holy Mariner, in Bahá’í Prayers: A Selection of  Prayers
(Wilmette: US Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1941), 79.
5. “A believer is alive in both worlds,” The Prophet Muhammad,
Ḥadíth.
6. “Earth and heaven cannot contain Me; what . . .” Bahá’u’lláh, The
Seven Valleys, in The Call of  the Divine Beloved: Selected Mystical Works of
Bahá’u’lláh (Haifa, Israel: Bahá’í World Centre, 2018), 10. It is also
from a Ḥadíth.

7. “. . . the world of time, which hath both . . .” Bahá’u’lláh, The
Seven Valleys, in The Call of  the Divine Beloved: Selected Mystical Works of
Bahá’u’lláh (Haifa, Israel: Bahá’í World Centre, 2018), 11.
8. “law” . . . “the secret of the Path,” Bahá’u’lláh, The Seven Valleys, in
The Call of  the Divine Beloved: Selected Mystical Works of  Bahá’u’lláh
(Haifa, Israel: Bahá’í World Centre, 2018), 15.
9. “Wherefore must the veils of the satanic . . .” Bahá’u’lláh, The
Seven Valleys, in The Call of  the Divine Beloved: Selected Mystical Works of
Bahá’u’lláh (Haifa, Israel: Bahá’í World Centre, 2018), 7.
Chapter 23
1. “After journeying through the planes of pure . . .” Bahá’u’lláh, The
Seven Valleys, in The Call of  the Divine Beloved: Selected Mystical Works of
Bahá’u’lláh (Haifa, Israel: Bahá’í World Centre, 2018), 13.
2. “. . . in each realm, to every letter a . . .” Bahá’u’lláh, The Seven
Valleys, in The Call of  the Divine Beloved: Selected Mystical Works of
Bahá’u’lláh (Haifa, Israel: Bahá’í World Centre, 2018), 16.
3. “Nuqtih” and “Manifestation or Messenger of God, who is the
embodiment of the Primal Will . . . paper,” Báb, Persian Bayán, 3:11.
4. Translation by Todd Lawson (unpublished).
5. “The term ‘Letters of the Living’ is . . .” National Spiritual
Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United States, “Letters of the Living
(Hurúf-i-Hayy),” Bahá’í Encyclopedia Project (2009), https://www.bahai-
encyclopedia-project.org/index.php?view=article&catid=56%3Aa-
selection-of-articles&id=65%3Aletters-of-the-
living&option=com_content&Itemid=74.
Chapter 24
1. “Now is he struck dumb with the . . .” Bahá’u’lláh, The Seven
Valleys, in The Call of  the Divine Beloved: Selected Mystical Works of
Bahá’u’lláh (Haifa, Israel: Bahá’í World Centre, 2018), 13.

2. “Juliet Thompson, an artist . . . The children looked with real
wonder at the African American boy as if they had never seen him
before.” ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and Eliane Lacroix-Hopson, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in
New York: The City of  the Covenant, rev. ed. (New York: Naturegraph
Publishers, March 1, 1999). This is incorporated into the narrative
from a direct quote.
Chapter 25
1. “After scaling the high summits of wonderment . . .” Bahá’u’lláh,
The Seven Valleys, in The Call of  the Divine Beloved: Selected Mystical Works
of  Bahá’u’lláh (Haifa, Israel: Bahá’í World Centre, 2018), 14.
2. “Dost thou reckon thyself only a puny . . .” Bahá’u’lláh, The Seven
Valleys and the Four Valleys, trans. Marzieh Gail, 3rd ed. (Wilmette: US
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1986), 23. This saying is attributed to ‘Alí.
3. “Likewise, reflect upon the perfection of man’s . . .” Bahá’u’lláh,
The Seven Valleys and the Four Valleys, trans. Marzieh Gail, 3rd ed.
(Wilmette: US Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1986), 23. This quote
includes the saying attributed to ‘Alí in note 2 above.
4. “Herein the lowly earth is in no . . .” Bahá’u’lláh, The Seven Valleys
and the Four Valleys, trans. Marzieh Gail, 3rd ed. (Wilmette: US Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1986), 40.
Chapter 26
1. “‘Poverty is My glory.” From a Ḥadíth.
2. “Whoso hath attained this station is sanctified . . .” Bahá’u’lláh,
The Seven Valleys, in The Call of  the Divine Beloved: Selected Mystical Works
of  Bahá’u’lláh (Haifa, Israel: Bahá’í World Centre, 2018), 14.
3. “The one true God is My witness! . . .” Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings From
the Writings of  Bahá’u’lláh (Wilmette: US Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
1983), 326.

Chapter 27
1. “‘All on the earth shall pass away . . .’” The Prophet Muhammad,
Qur’án 28:88.
2. “This is the station wherein the multiplicity . . .” Bahá’u’lláh, The
Seven Valleys, in The Call of  the Divine Beloved: Selected Mystical Works of
Bahá’u’lláh (Haifa, Israel: Bahá’í World Centre, 2018), 14.
3. “Everything is determined, the beginning as well . . .” Albert
Einstein, quoted in an interview by G. S. Viereck, October 26, 1929,
Glimpses of  the Great, (1929; repr., New York: The Macaulay Company,
1930).
4. “As to thy question concerning the worlds . . .” Bahá’u’lláh,
Gleanings From the Writings of  Bahá’u’lláh (Wilmette: US Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1983), 151–153.
5. “So powerful is the light of unity . . .” Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings From
the Writings of  Bahá’u’lláh (Wilmette: US Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
1983), 90.
6. “It is a bottomless sea that none shall ever fathom” and “It is the
blackest of nights through which none can find his way.” From a
Ḥadíth.
7. “If the mystic knowers be among them . . .” Bahá’u’lláh, The Four
Valleys, in The Call of  the Divine Beloved: Selected Mystical Works of
Bahá’u’lláh (Haifa, Israel: Bahá’í World Centre, 2018), 14, 28–30.
Chapter 28
1. “From this most august and exalted station . . .” Bahá’u’lláh. Gems
of  Divine Mysteries (Adelaide: Griffin Press, 2002), 19.
Chapter 29
1. “From this station the wayfarer ascendeth unto . . .” Bahá’u’lláh,
Gems of  Divine Mysteries (Adelaide: Griffin Press, 2002), 21.

2. “He beholdeth in illusion the secret of . . .” Bahá’u’lláh, The Seven
Valleys and the Four Valleys, trans. Marzieh Gail, 3rd ed. (Wilmette: US
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1986), 21.
3. “Therein the sun of the Unseen shineth . . .” Bahá’u’lláh, Gems of
Divine Mysteries (Adelaide: Griffin Press, 2002), 21.
4. “And Solomon was David’s heir. And he . . .” The Prophet
Muhammad, Qur’án 27:16.
5. “society-building power of the Faith.” Shoghi Effendi, The World
Order of  Bahá’u’lláh, “Community of the Most Great Name”
(Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1991), 195.
6. “Nothing can befall us but what God . . .” The Prophet
Muhammad, Qur’án 9:51.

Bibliography
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in London. London: UK Bahá’í Publishing
Trust, 1982.
———. “As ye have faith so shall your . . .” In May Maxwell, An
Early Pilgrimage. 1917. Reprint, Oxford: George Ronald, 1953.
———. Selections from the Writings of  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Translated by a
committee at the Baháʼí World Centre and by Marzieh Gail. Haifa:
Bahá’í World Centre, 1982.
Attar, Farid ud-Din. Bird Parliament (also known as The Conference of  the
Birds). In Letters and Literary Remains of  Edward FitzGerald. Edited by
William Aldis Wright. Translated by Edward FitzGerald. London
and New York: Macmillan and Co, 1889. sacred-texts.com.
The Báb. Selections from the Writings of  the Báb. Haifa, Israel: Bahá’í
World Centre, Universal House of Justice, 1976.
Bahá’í Canada Publications. The Story of  Mona: 1965–1983. Toronto:
The National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Canada, 1985.
Reprinted with permission. The original story has been edited and
reduced.
Bahá’u’lláh. Bahá’í Prayers: A Selection of  Prayers Revealed by Bahá’u’lláh,
the Báb, and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Wilmette: US Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1991.
———. Gems of  Divine Mysteries. Adelaide: Griffin Press, 2000.
———. Gleanings from the Writings of  Bahá’u’lláh. Translated by Shoghi
Effendi. Wilmette: US Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1983.

———. Gleanings from the Writings of  Bahá’u’lláh. Translated by Shoghi
Effendi. Pocket-size Edition. Wilmette: US Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
1990.
———. The Hidden Words. Translated by Shoghi Effendi. Wilmette:
US Bahá’í Publishing Trust Publishing Trust, 1985.
———. The Kitáb-i-Aqdas. Haifa, Israel: Bahá’í Publishing Trust
World Centre, Universal House of Justice, 1992.
———. Prayers and Meditations. Translated by Shoghi Effendi.
Wilmette: US Bahá’í Publishing Trust Publishing Trust, 1938.
———. Tablet of  Ahmad. In Bahá’í Prayers. Wilmette: US Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1991.
———. Tablets of  Bahá’u’lláh: Revealed after the Kitáb-i-Aqdas. Pocket-
size Edition. Wilmette: US Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1988.
———. Tablet of  the Holy Mariner. In Bahá’í Prayers: A Selection of  Prayers.
Wilmette: US Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1941.
———. The Seven Valleys, in The Call of  the Divine Beloved: Selected
Mystical Works of  Bahá’u’lláh. Haifa, Israel: Bahá’í World Centre,
2018.
———. The Seven Valleys and the Four Valleys. Translated by Marzieh
Gail. 3rd ed. Wilmette: US Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1986.
———, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Effendi, Shoghi, and Bahíyyih Khánum.
Bahiyyih Khanum, The Greatest Holy Leaf. Haifa, Israel: Bahá’í World
Centre, 1982.
Bible, American Standard Version, 1901.

Bible, King James Version, 1769.
Budge, E. A. Wallis. Osiris & the Egyptian Resurrection. 2 vols. London:
P. L. Warner and New York: G. P. Putnam’s Sons, 1911.
Editors. “Letters of the Living (Hurúf-i-Hayy).” Bahá’í Encyclopedia
Project. National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United
States, 2009. https://www.bahai-encyclopedia-project.org/
index.php?view=article&catid=56%3Aa-selection-of-
articles&id=65%3Aletters-of-the-
living&option=com_content&Itemid=74
Effendi, Shoghi. God Passes By. Wilmette: US Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
1979.
Einstein, Albert. Quoted in an interview by G. S. Viereck, October
26, 1929. Glimpses of  the Great. Reprint, New York: The Macaulay
Company, 1930.
Eliane Lacroix-Hopson. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in New York: The City of  the
Covenant. Revised, New York: Naturegraph Publishers, March 1,
1999.
Ḥadíths.
Kluge, Ian. Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings. In Lights of  Irfan. 2
parts. Vol. 9. Evanston, IL: Irfan Colloquia, 2008.
Lepain, Jean-Marc. “The Tablet of All Food: The Hierarchy of the
Spiritual Worlds and the Metaphoric Nature of Physical Reality.”
Translated by Peter Terry. Bristol: Bahá’í Studies Review, Volume 16.
Intellect Ltd, 2010: 43–60.
Qur’án.

Ruhi Institute. The Twin Manifestations. Book 4. Section 11. Columbia:
The Ruhi Foundation, 1996.
Savi, Julio. Towards the Summit of  Reality. Oxford: George Ronald
Publisher Ltd, 2008.
Shakespeare, William. The Taming of  the Shrew, 1590.
“Universal Declaration of Human Rights.” New York: Draft
Committee, United Nations, 1948.

Acknowledgments
A writer is always immersed in a world of people that they see every
day who indirectly help them by becoming templates for their
characters. So here I acknowledge humanity for being a reflection of
an underlying spiritual reality that is contained within us all, a reality
I have tried to explore in this novel.
Then there are the people who help you more directly. And so
here is where I would like to acknowledge those people.
To start, I would like to thank my Waiheke High School English
teacher Helen Aldridge, whose guidance started me off on my
journey as a writer all those years ago. Also, Bronwen and Ramin
Safai, who always offered their house as a base for my research trips
in New York over many years. In fact, the destiny of this book is tied
up in their lives, because if they had not moved to America, the idea
for this book may never have occurred to me. It was at JFK Airport
in the year 2000, when I was visiting them for a week’s stopover on
my way to London, that the seed for the first chapter of this book
came to me.
A portion of the plot and the characterization of the main
protagonist, Allison, were taken from the real-life experiences of
Roya Movafegh. Roya lived in Harlem for a time and generously
allowed me to interview her and weave aspects of her life into the
Harlem chapters, in particular, and the photography group she
started with young children in Harlem. Another significant
experience I drew from was the life of my brother, Simion Tishler,
and his year driving around Australia. His personality is also woven
into my main protagonist, Allison.
For those chapters that take place in Iran, I thank Fariborz
Varjavandi. Also, a thank-you for the Iranian chapters must go to the
National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Canada, who allowed
me to use the life of Mona Mahmudnizhad in The Story of  Mona:
1965–1983.

I would also like to thank all my beta readers: Amelia Tishler,
Mari Webb, Kanella Charles, Nik Sala, Danny Yap, Mary-Lin
McMahon, Stef Strahle, Polly Nash, Cleo Tishler, and all the friends
from my writer’s group in Brisbane, Novel Ideas. They gave me
invaluable feedback over the years as I was attempting to craft those
early drafts.
I must thank Demelza Sutherland and Cally Jackson for helping
me with the first major structural edit of this book in 2009. Their
suggestions changed many aspects of the book.
Also, I must express my thanks to Nik Sala for his friendship over
the years and all his philosophical and metaphysical suggestions. His
feedback was invaluable with my last major structural revision of the
novel in 2013. And thanks also to Veronica Paterson, who has been a
sounding board and was most supportive when I was trying to finish
the manuscript just before publication.
I started writing this novel in London at my kitchen table, and
there I remember talking to my friend Fabrizio Nanni many times
about acting and the visual construction of movies, which helped me
write in a visual way.
The Bahá’í book and article that informed this novel in a
significant way were Julio Savi’s Towards the Summit of  Reality and “The
Tablet of All Food: The Hierarchy of the Spiritual Worlds and the
Metaphoric Nature of Physical Reality” by Jean-Marc Lepain,
translated by Peter Terry.
For all my American terminology and for being my American
beta reader, I thank Kat Hall for her invaluable help.
Thanks to my proofreader, Elizabeth Thorlton, who provided the
last polish to the manuscript, and Michael Johnson who did the last
proofread before publication.
My last thank-you goes to Ann Philpott, my editor, who helped
bring life to my manuscript in a way that I could have never achieved
alone.

Appendix 1: Brief Overview of Spiritual
Principles and Teachings of the Bahá’í
Faith
Some of the fundamental teachings of the Bahá’í Faith are:
o
The oneness of God
o
The essential unity of religion
o
The unity of mankind
o
Equality of men and women
o
Elimination of all forms of prejudice
o
World peace
o
Harmony of religion and science
o
Independent investigation of truth
o
The need for universal compulsory education
o
The need for a universal auxiliary language
o
Obedience to government and non-involvement in partisan
politics
o
Elimination of extremes of wealth and poverty.
The independent search after truth, unfettered by superstition or tradition; the
oneness of  the entire human race, the pivotal principle and fundamental
doctrine of  the Faith; the basic unity of  all religions; the condemnation of  all
forms of  prejudice, whether religious, racial, class or national; the harmony
which must exist between religion and science; the equality of  men and
women, the two wings on which the bird of  humankind is able to soar; the
introduction of  compulsory education; the adoption of  a universal auxiliary

language; the abolition of  the extremes of  wealth and poverty; the institution
of  a world tribunal for the adjudication of  disputes between nations; the
exaltation of  work, performed in the spirit of  service, to the rank of  worship;
the glorification of  justice as the ruling principle in human society, and of
religion as a bulwark for the protection of  all peoples and nations; and the
establishment of  a permanent and universal peace as the supreme goal of  all
mankind—these stand out as the essential elements [which Bahá’u’lláh
proclaimed].
—Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, pp. 281–82.
To be a Bahá’í simply means to love all the world; to love humanity and try
to serve it; to work for universal peace and universal brotherhood.
—‘Abdu’l-Bahá, quoted by J. E. Esslemont in Bahá’u’lláh and the New Era,
Wilmette: US Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1980, p. 71.
—From the Bahai Association at Stanford University, Stanford, California,
US, <https://web.stanford.edu/group/bahai/Teachings.html>, accessed
22 July 2020.

Appendix 2: An Introduction to the
Bahá’í Faith
by Shoghi Effendi
The Bahá’í Faith upholds the unity of God, recognizes the unity of
His Prophets, and inculcates the principle of the oneness and
wholeness of the entire human race. It proclaims the necessity and
the inevitability of the unification of mankind, asserts that it is
gradually approaching, and claims that nothing short of the
transmuting spirit of God, working through His chosen Mouthpiece
in this day, can ultimately succeed in bringing it about. It, moreover,
enjoins upon its followers the primary duty of an unfettered search
after truth, condemns all manner of prejudice and superstition,
declares the purpose of religion to be the promotion of amity and
concord, proclaims its essential harmony with science, and recognizes
it as the foremost agency for the pacification and the orderly progress
of human society.
It unequivocally maintains the principle of equal rights,
opportunities and privileges for men and women; insists on
compulsory education, on eliminating the extremes of poverty and
wealth, and on abolishing the institution of the priesthood; prohibits
slavery, asceticism, mendicancy and monasticism; prescribes
monogamy; discourages divorce; emphasizes the necessity of strict
obedience to one’s government; exalts any work performed in the
spirit of service to the level of worship; urges either the creation or
the selection of an auxiliary international language; and delineates
the outlines of those institutions that must establish and perpetuate
the general peace of humankind . . .

The Bahá’í Faith revolves around three central Figures, the first
of whom was a youth, a native of Shíráz, named Mírzá ‘Alí
Muhammad, known as the Báb (Gate), who in May 1844, at the age
of twenty-five, advanced the claim of being the Herald Who,
according to the sacred Scriptures of previous Dispensations, must
needs announce and prepare the way for the advent of One greater
than Himself, Whose mission would be, according to those same
Scriptures, to inaugurate an era of righteousness and peace, an era
that would be hailed as the consummation of all previous
Dispensations, and initiate a new cycle in the religious history of
mankind. Swift and severe persecution, launched by the organized
forces of Church and State in His native land, precipitated
successively His arrest, His exile to the mountains of Ádhirbáyján,
His imprisonment in the fortresses of Máh-Kú and Chihríq, and His
execution, in July 1850, by a firing squad in the public square of
Tabríz . . .
Mírzá Husayn-‘Alí, surnamed Bahá’u’lláh (the Glory of God), a
native of Mazindarán, Whose advent the Báb [Herald and
Forerunner of Bahá’u’lláh] had foretold . . . was imprisoned in
Tihrán, was banished, in 1852, from His native land to Baghdád,
and thence to Constantinople and Adrianople, and finally to the
prison city of Akká, where He remained incarcerated for no less than
twenty-four years, and in whose neighborhood He passed away in
1892. In the course of His banishment, and particularly in
Adrianople and Akká, He formulated the laws and ordinances of His
Dispensation, expounded, in over a hundred volumes, the principles
of His Faith, proclaimed His Message to the kings and rulers of both
the East and the West, both Christian and Muslim, addressed the
Pope, the Caliph of Islam, the Chief Magistrates of the Republics of
the American continent, the entire Christian sacerdotal order, the
leaders of Shí’ih and Sunní Islam, and the high priests of the
Zoroastrian religion. In these writings He proclaimed His Revelation,
summoned those whom He addressed to heed His call and espouse
His Faith, warned them of the consequences of their refusal, and
denounced, in some cases, their arrogance and tyranny.

His eldest son, ‘Abbás Effendi, known as ‘Abdu’l-Bahá (the
Servant of Bahá), appointed by Him as His lawful successor and the
authorized interpreter of His teachings, Who since early childhood
had been closely associated with His Father, and shared His exile and
tribulations, remained a prisoner until 1908, when, as a result of the
Young Turk Revolution, He was released from His confinement.
Establishing His residence in Haifa, He embarked soon after on His
three-year journey to Egypt, Europe and North America, in the
course of which He expounded before vast audiences, the teachings
of His Father and predicted the approach of that catastrophe that
was soon to befall mankind. He returned to His home on the eve of
the first World War, in the course of which He was exposed to
constant danger, until the liberation of Palestine by the forces under
the command of General Allenby, who extended the utmost
consideration to Him and to the small band of His fellow-exiles in
Akká and Haifa . . .
The passing of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá [in 1921] marked the termination
of the first and Heroic Age of the Bahá’í Faith and signalized the
opening of the Formative Age destined to witness the gradual
emergence of its Administrative Order, whose establishment had
been foretold by the Báb, whose laws were revealed by Bahá’u’lláh,
whose outlines were delineated by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in His Will and
Testament, and whose foundations are now being laid by the national
and local councils which are elected by the professed adherents of
the Faith . . .
This Administrative Order, unlike the systems evolved after the
death of the Founders of the various religions, is divine in origin,
rests securely on the laws, the precepts, the ordinances and
institutions which the Founder of the Faith has Himself specifically
laid down and unequivocally established, and functions in strict
accordance with the interpretations of the authorized Interpreters of
its holy scriptures . . .
The Faith which this order serves, safeguards and promotes is, it
should be noted in this connection, essentially supernatural,
supranational, entirely non-political, non-partisan, and diametrically

opposed to any policy or school of thought that seeks to exalt any
particular race, class or nation. It is free from any form of
ecclesiasticism, has neither priesthood nor rituals, and is supported
exclusively by voluntary contributions made by its avowed adherents.
Though loyal to their respective governments, though imbued with
the love of their own country, and anxious to promote, at all times, its
best interests, the followers of the Bahá’í Faith, nevertheless, viewing
mankind as one entity, and profoundly attached to its vital interests,
will not hesitate to subordinate every particular interest, be it
personal, regional or national, to the over-riding interests of the
generality of mankind, knowing full well that in a world of
interdependent peoples and nations the advantage of the part is best
to be reached by the advantage of the whole, and that no lasting
result can be achieved by any of the component parts if the general
interests of the entity itself are neglected . . .
—Selections quoted from Remembrance of  God: A Selection of  Bahá’í Prayers and
Holy Writings (India: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1990). Reprinted with
permission.

Appendix 3: Symbolism
by Dimitri Tishler, Author
(Spoiler alert: this section reveals plot points.)
Birds
Clearly, birds are one of the main symbols in A Placeless Sun. One of
the main reasons birds are used so often in literature is their ability to
fly. Flight itself is also a commonly used symbol, and for me, as the
author, I believe our longing for flight represents our longing for God
as signified by the sky and the sun and us flying in, through, and
toward that reality in symbolic air and light. As you may have
noticed, my use of birds in the story is related thematically to The
Conference of  the Birds by Sufi poet Farid un-Din Attar and the idea
that the birds fly through progressive valleys and stages in a process
of gradual spiritual transformation.
Allison goes through the same transformation in “spiritual” flight
as the birds do in The Conference of  the Birds as they journey toward the
Simorgh (the King of Birds), which is a reference to our own journey
toward God in this life and beyond in the more exalted worlds
beyond our understanding and imagination in that longed for, but
essentially unknown, horizon. Bahá’u’lláh refers to that horizon when
he says:
The world beyond is as different from this world as this world is different
from that of  the child while still in the womb of  its mother. When the soul
attaineth the Presence of  God, it will assume the form that best befitteth its
immortality and is worthy of  its celestial habitation.
—Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings From the Writings of  Bahá’u’lláh, Pocket-size Edition,
p. 346.

If we are to make the journey into the worlds beyond, like birds,
we can only fly with wings, so Allison and all of us must develop
spiritual wings in this world so that we can fly in those other worlds;
that is, our souls need a metamorphosis so that we can take on the
necessary spiritual values and key virtues to help us navigate this
world and the worlds beyond. Some key virtues are truthfulness,
detachment, compassion, justice, kindness, forgiveness, friendliness,
and generosity, to name but a few. Although it is by no means
definitive or exhaustive, you will find fifty-two virtues listed in
connection with The Virtues Project. For more information on The
Virtues Project and the function of virtues in spiritual development,
search on the internet.
Farid un-Din Attar’s idea of valleys or stages is reflected in
Bahá’u’lláh’s mystical composition The Seven Valleys and also in Gems
of  Divine Mysteries, which is one of the reasons I referenced these
mystical writings so heavily in A Placeless Sun. But, really, The Seven
Valleys is deeper than just the metaphor of the human soul traveling
in valleys or cities as if going on any normal journey toward a
destination. The Seven Valleys reveals the utterly transcendent
transformation of the soul, a metamorphosis, that is needed for its
journey toward God. In The Conference of  the Birds, there is a bird (the
hoopoe bird) that guides all the other birds toward the Simorgh
(God); this could be interpreted as one of the intermediary souls
between God and humanity, including Krishna, Moses, Buddha,
Muhammad, Christ, the Báb, and Bahá’uʼlláh. In the Baháʼí Faith
they are known as Manifestations of God.
Bahá’ís believe that Bahá’u’lláh’s writings are a reflection of
God’s attributes in this world and are needed for this symbolic flight.
These writings represent the whole foundation of the Bahá’í Faith as
a religion. The opening quotation in the preface reveals the exalted
journey that all humankind need to take to progress toward God so
that, according to Baháʼuʼlláh, we “all may reach that summit of
realities where none shall contemplate anything but that he shall

perceive God therein.” (The Seven Valleys, in The Call of  the Divine
Beloved: Selected Mystical Works of  Bahá’u’lláh, pp. 1–2.)
The first use of the symbol of the bird is in the opening scene,
where you might have noticed the origami bird with the poem inside
it, revealing Allison’s flight toward her death at the end of the book.
The idea of a bird made of paper is a reference to the relationship
between words and paper—“words” here being God’s attributes and
“paper” being God’s creation (the physical world and all human
spiritual reality). So, if we take the idea of flight and birds combined
with paper, we can see how God’s Word, or “spiritually exalted
language,” can be transformative to the human heart, and as it is
written for the most part on paper, this allows us to fly symbolically
and metaphorically within ourselves. Of course in more modern
times words are written on phones, tablets, and e-readers.
In addition to the origami bird is the symbol of the airplane (a
metal bird—symbolizing migration in birds and humanity, a modern
bird linked to cultural globalization*) in which Allison is sitting in the
opening scene. There is also her last name, Bird, that eventually
resolves itself in the last chapter. Hooman realizes that within
Allison’s full name is the key to her spiritual destiny: All is Sun Bird.
Light birds are attracted to the sun to the point of destroying
themselves when they fly into it (physical and symbolic death), thus
merging into the sun. As Baháʼuʼlláh explains:
Know thou of  a truth that the soul, after its separation from the body, will
continue to progress until it attaineth the presence of  God, in a state and
condition which neither the revolution of  ages and centuries, nor the changes
and chances of  this world, can alter . . .
—Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings From the Writings of  Bahá’u’lláh, Pocket-size Edition,
p. 346.
*The goal of the Baháʼí Faith is to develop a harmonious global
community. See Appendix 1: Brief Overview of Spiritual Principles
and Teachings of the Bahá’í Faith.

Trees
I thought it would be good to explore the idea of trees as symbols
here because they are closely linked to birds. Why? Because birds
shelter and nest in trees. Birds consider trees their home, and there
are many instances of this symbolism within the Bahá’í writings. So,
if humans are birds, then trees are God, our home.
Take ‘Abdu’l-Bahá (the Most Mighty Branch) and Bahíyyih
Khánum (Greatest Holy Leaf). Both are significant early Baháʼís whose
names are connected to the symbolism of trees. The reason they
have these names is because of the symbolism connected with their
father, Bahá’u’lláh, who Bahá’ís believe is the Manifestation of God
for this age. The name that is related to his station as a Manifestation
of God is the Divine Lote-Tree, or, literally, “the furthermost Lote-
Tree,” translated by Shoghi Effendi as “the Tree beyond which there
is no passing,” which in Arabic is “Sadratu’l-Muntahá.” (Bahá’u’lláh,
The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, p. 254, Note 128.)
The following quote from the Báb explores the symbolism
connected with the Divine Lote-Tree and light in more detail:
Incline thine ear unto the voice of  thy Lord, the Lord of  all mankind, calling
from the Divine Lote-Tree.

By My life! This is the truth, and all else naught but error. This is the
Day wherein the divine Lote-Tree calleth aloud saying: O people! Behold ye
My fruits and My leaves, incline then your ears unto My rustling. Beware
lest the doubts of  men debar you from the light of  certitude.

Say, this indeed is the Frequented Fane, the sweet-scented Leaf, the Tree
of  the divine Revelation, the surging Ocean, the Utterance which lay
concealed, the Light above every other light . . . Indeed every light is generated
by God through the power of  His behest. He of  a truth is the Light in the
kingdom of  heaven and earth and whatever is between them. Through the
radiance of  His light God imparteth illumination to your hearts and maketh
firm your steps, that perchance ye may yield praise unto Him. Say, this of  a
certainty is the Garden of  Repose, the Loftiest Point of  adoration, the Tree
beyond which there is no passing, the blessed Lote-Tree . . .

—The Báb, Selections from the Writings of  the Báb, pp. 154–55.
Boats
Boats are clearly another symbol I have used throughout the novel.
One of its main representations is the idea of faith in God and the
safety of being within God’s covenant. In other words, being inside
the boat and floating on the ocean safely is a symbol of being safe in
God’s covenant; most are aware of Noah’s ark and that those within
the ark were protected by their faith from the flood. So a boat is a
symbol of spiritual salvation through a community of believers being
obedient to the covenant of God through the Word of God;
language and, in particular, Sacred Writings are that boat. And this
idea is picked up in Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablet of  the Holy Mariner, where
Baháʼuʼlláh refers to himself as the Mariner on the Seas of Light, and
that:
Haply the dwellers therein may attain the retreats of  nearness in the
everlasting realm [and] . . . May know the mysteries hidden in the Seas of
light.
—Bahá’u’lláh, Bahá’í Prayers, p. 268.
I also explored the idea of boats from the viewpoint of Egyptian
scriptures where the God of the afterlife, Osiris, is the Mariner on the
Boat of Millions of Years (I think this is a representation of the whole
universe as a collective boat) or the sun (sun boat) existing for many
millions or even billions of years. So, the sun also represents Ra, the
sun god, that travels through the sky in the day and then passes
through the afterlife in the night with the dead souls aboard the
Night Boat. Ra is transformed (or merged) into Osiris during the
night and then transformed back into the sun on the next day and
again travels through the sky. It is important to note here that the
Egyptian religion was polytheistic toward the end of its development.
But According to Wallis Budge, it changed into this state from a more
monotheistic form earlier in history. The god Ra (and Temu, the

great hidden God, another form of Ra) was the closest thing to this
monotheism relative to other monotheistic religions. So, the many
different gods in the Egyptian pantheon, like Hinduism, represent
the various names or attributes of God, or different aspects of one
God.
In the Book of  Gates, which is an Egyptian funerary text, we see
the idea that the afterlife is made up of gates that only the virtuous
can pass through and that a soul’s level of spiritual development
dictates how far and to which gate they can travel to along the river
in the afterlife.
Here there is a link to that idea in The Seven Valleys and Gems of
Divine Mysteries where the valleys go up in levels of transcendence or
oneness when merging with God. As a caveat, the idea of going up to
higher and higher levels within our soul is bound to the limitations of
time and space but is used because of our familiarity with ideas of
location and time. It is easier for us to understand these terms, but
really all these spiritual realities within Bahá’u’lláh’s writings exist far
and above language, either as symbols or metaphors, whether they
are expressed as valleys, levels, stages, cities, or ladder rungs.
Bahá’u’lláh also says in Gems of  Divine Mysteries that the higher
valleys are only for the “elect of the righteous.” For most of us who
are mere mortals, it is probably safer to exist on the lower levels of
consciousness. Reading chapter 11, “The Cosmic Vision,” of the
Hindu Bhagavad Gita, will shed some light on this experience of utter
destruction and merging with God at the highest levels. Here we see
that Arjuna sees Krishna as the Cosmic Form of God but is
completely terrified by what he sees. So it is with the sun: we exist at
a safe distance where we feel its life-giving qualities, but we would not
venture any closer, as we would be destroyed by both the sun’s
creative and destructive power.
Names and Words
The very idea of names and words, or language, is that they are, by
their nature, symbolic and metaphorical signifiers. They stand in

place of other realities as pure representation and are paradoxically
limited in one way and transcendent in another. The immersive
experience of swimming in an ocean is always going to be better
than just reading the word “ocean” on a page. But then if the word
“ocean” is used to signify God’s transcendent world beyond and
within the human heart, then the experience of swimming in an
ocean will pale into insignificance. The water in the ocean cannot
signify anything beyond itself. Water speaks of its own nature without
words, and we infer its deeper nature as a symbol through the
projection of meaning, as we do with all language as a symbolic
shorthand for all existence.
So, names and words affect our destiny, and there is a
relationship between the names that Allison encounters in her world
and her destiny within the novel: Allison Bird or “All is Sun Bird” in
the last chapter. The word “son” from Allison’s first name is
pronounced phonetically in the same way as “sun.” So here we see
how the difference of one letter can affect the meaning of a word or
a sentence. And here the letter o in “son” is a mystical veil since it
hides the letter u that then reveals the word “sun.” Similarly, in
chapter 23, Allison is able to explore that mystical reality and the
power of single letters by either inclusion or omission. In her
notebook she removes the letter l in the word “World,” which then
becomes “Word.” Here we can see the power of and relationship
between the “Worlds of God” and the “Word of God,” which are
different realities in one way but are the same reality in another way.
Hooman also explains to Allison that “There are worlds in words,”
and that words or language are able to create intellectual and
spiritual realities that explore, reveal, and simultaneously transcend
the limitations of the physical world; in effect, they reveal realities
beyond the limitations of the human senses.
A quick survey of the current thinking in physics shows us that
physicists are finding a far greater and more powerful reality
underpinning the universe that only the intellect can see with
extremely abstract mathematics and an intimate knowledge of the

laws of physics. You may recall the quotes used in chapter 15 where
Bahá’u’lláh says:
Know thou, moreover, that the Word of  God—exalted be His glory—is
higher and far superior to that which the senses can perceive, for it is
sanctified from any property or substance. It transcendeth the limitations of
known elements and is exalted above all the essential and recognized
substances. It became manifest without any syllable or sound and is none but
the Command of  God which pervadeth all created things.
—Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of  Bahá’u’lláh, p. 269.
In the dream sequence in London, Allison travels to the next
world and meets Mona (Shidan’s dead sister). Here Allison finds out
a little of the mystery of how souls relate to each other in that world.
(This is pure speculation on my part but is done more to explain the
possibilities of human interaction in this world.) This shows that souls
can be related in groups almost like letters (see Appendix 4:
Symmetry of Names and Letters) or words or even different fonts; it
shows that all of us are letters, and God writes us into existence and
vouchsafes to us a collective destiny that we can only unlock
collectively through interdependence: each person unified with others
and reflecting God in different and diverse ways. The Bahá’í term
that is often used to express this idea is “unity in diversity.”
Allison tries to unravel the mystery of names and words in her
symmetrical destiny map. In it she unlocks the mystery from the
Qur’án and the cell phone shop in London called Singlepoint. Again,
here, by putting white space between the words “single” and “point,”
we can change the meaning. Of course, in the context of the phrase
from the Qu’rán, and from Allison’s subjective point of view, the
single point of knowledge is God.
Consequently, there is power in the names of people and places.
Another example of the importance of names is the locations in the
last chapter. I wanted spiritual resonance in the names of the
locations, like Heart Lake and Lake Tear of the Clouds. These are
symbols or reflections of Allison’s soul and almost a return to God

after a long journey. God’s tears fall down from the sky and fill her
heart like a divine receptacle or a receptive lake.
Sun
The name of this novel, A Placeless Sun, is another reference to God—
a transcendent non-physical sun—and the human soul as reflective
of this sun, which according to the Bahá’í writings is neither in nor
outside the body, and beyond time or space. Therefore, it has no
location and is therefore placeless. The idea of being placeless also
signifies the intermediary suns, represented by the Manifestations of
God, including Krishna, Moses, Buddha, Muhammad, Christ, the
Báb, and Bahá’u’lláh. A metaphor often used in Bahá’í writings is
that we are the mirrors of God’s light and that God is the sun, or
source of spiritual and physical light. Light is also another symbol I
use throughout the novel, and it represents on one level our total
reliance on God, since nothing in the universe could exist without
light, and on another level the human soul itself being like a mirror
that can reflect God’s symbolic light as spiritual attributes.
Another meaning in the use of the word “placeless” is that this
world is not our final home. We are, then, placeless here, and like
birds, once the cage of the human body is destroyed at death, we can
fly to that other world and no longer be placeless.
In the last chapter of the book, Allison makes that transition
from earth into that other world and does it by being destroyed by
the sun and ultimately by being merged into that light, a home for
transfigured birds, becoming then a “sun bird.” I used the words
“placeless” and “sun” at the end of the novel as a way to create
circularity in the story from the opening chapter, when Allison gives
her paper bird away to a stranger at the airport, to the bird making
its way back to her and then being passed on to Hooman at the end
of the story. The paper bird represents Allison’s “paper heart” into
which God has written words of destiny. The paper bird also has
been on a journey of its own, almost being separate from Allison’s
own soul; this shows that her heart is not entirely her own but guides

her and returns both to her and to the heart’s Creator, which is also
our destiny. The following quote asserts that the human heart belongs
to God.
All that is in heaven and earth I have ordained for thee, except the human
heart, which I have made the habitation of  My beauty and glory; yet thou
didst give My home and dwelling to another than Me; and whenever the
manifestation of  My holiness sought His own abode, a stranger found He
there, and, homeless, hastened unto the sanctuary of  the Beloved.
Notwithstanding I have concealed thy secret and desired not thy shame.
—Bahá’u’lláh, The Persian Hidden Words 27
. . . the heart is the dwelling of  eternal mysteries, make it not the home of
fleeting fancies; waste not the treasure of  thy precious life in employment with
this swiftly passing world.
—Bahá’u’lláh, The Seven Valleys, p. 34.

Appendix 4: Symmetry of Names and
Letters
by Dimitri Tishler, Author
. . . in each realm, to every letter a meaning is allotted which pertaineth to
that realm. Indeed, the wayfarer findeth a secret in every name and a mystery
in every letter.
—Bahá’u’lláh, The Seven Valleys, Preface
(Spoiler alert: this section reveals plot points.)
In the beginning of this book, I briefly touched upon the idea of
symmetry and asymmetry in everyday visual phenomena like flowers,
three-dimensional shapes, and the human face, and ultimately in
language. I tried to dispel any confusion that the reader might have
had when encountering the same names for many of the characters
within the novel, like Paul, where the reader encounters that name
several times over the course of the story. I will now expand on the
use of symmetry in letters, words, and language and explain why I
chose to develop the symmetry of names throughout the novel, and I
will also reveal some of its spiritual and mystical significance.
Words and Names
As you may already know, language is an abstract shorthand, or a
system of the representation of meaning for all physical, intellectual,
and spiritual reality, and it is constructed with a system of either
glyphs, hieroglyphs, or letters and words in different languages. In
fact, if every object, mental or physical, didn’t have a name, we could
not function, either through speech, through thought, or in

movement through spatial environments; this world is often called the
Kingdom of Names within the context of the Bahá’í writings. And
many of these names are representations of deeper realities and
attributes that transcend forms and the sense limitations of this
world.
Before I go deeper into letters and words, I will explore
hieroglyphs, which are interesting for the following reason: since they
are usually a visual representation of a physical object (or less
abstract than letters), they have the potential for deep symbolism and
visual symmetry. Take the hieroglyph for the “personality,” known as
“Ba”:* it is a bird (probably a hawk) with a human head. See below:
*The “personality” is one of the nine parts of a human being
according to the Egyptian religion. Eight of the parts survive death
and the body, the Khet, is left behind.
The phoenix, or “Bennu,” is also a bird, the heron. See below:
You will notice immediately that both hieroglyphs are both
symmetrical and asymmetrical. Since they are both birds, they are
symmetrical, and since they are different species of birds, they are
asymmetrical. And if we look at the English language, both the
“hawk” and “heron” have the same “meaning” symmetry (“bird”)

rather than “visual” symmetry, like the above hieroglyphs, although
they do have first-letter symmetry with the letter h.
No one will ever know why or how these particular hieroglyphs
were created with the visual representations that they have, in
particular using the representations of birds in different hieroglyphs,
but I can speculate that the bird represented freedom through flight,
which is a theme I explore in this book—particularly at that time in
history (some three thousand years ago) when the physical world still
had an aura of magic to it. Egyptians may have not known how
flight was achieved with birds, so it might have seemed like a special
or magical ability gifted to them by one of the gods.
Names have symmetry that we experience all the time but give
no real attention to. For example, we meet many people with exactly
the same name as us, but we don’t think there is necessarily any
connection to them that would affect our collective future destiny.
This might be true to a large extent in this world, but I think in the
other worlds beyond death, our name has a great power and spiritual
significance that I wanted to explore within the context of the
fictional world inside this novel.
The ancient Egyptians believed there was a spiritual significance
for the part of the soul they called the name: the Ren. The name was
considered extremely important for the ultimate destiny of the soul in
both this world and the afterlife realm. In fact, if a person’s name
ever stopped being used or spoken, it was a form of death. And
Egyptians attempted to protect their name with a magical rope
hieroglyph. This is because the Ren was considered to be a
representation of other parts of their soul, like the heart (Ib), the
personality (Ba), the vital essence (Ka), and the intellect (Akh).
In the West, many consider a name to be just a tag to identify
someone, and therefore it has no real significance beyond that, but I
believe it is deeper and more profound than that. In the past this
might have been different, given that many Western names were
derived from the Bible and therefore had spiritual resonance
associated with early Christian saints or spiritually important people
within the Bible. Within the Bahá’í Faith, names do have deep

spiritual import. Some of the early Bahá’ís were given names that
pointed to their spiritual attributes or station, like the Báb (the Gate),
Bahá’u’lláh (the Glory of God), ‘Abdu’l-Bahá (Servant of Glory and
the Most Mighty Branch), and Bahíyyih Khánum (Greatest Holy
Leaf).
If you remember the scene that took place in London, chapter
17, “The Book of the Dead,” Allison met Shidan’s dead sister, Mona,
in a dream. Mona explains to Allison that souls are grouped in
different ways that affect their individual and collective destiny and,
in particular, all those with the same names are connected in a form
of “name destiny.” There were other group destinies too, such as
“color destiny.”
Mona said, “Here, look at my arm. I want to show you
something. See, I have a light tattoo on my arm; it is an extension of
the thread body. Can you see the colors and shapes of flowers
scrolling about my arm? If I pass my hand over the yellow color of
the tattoo, you will see many yellow threads. These are the yellow
group, and amongst these is a single thread. That is the other Mona’s
eternal timeline, Mona Mahmudnizhad. And there are many other
Monas, and we are all connected. You will also notice that the tattoo
is continually changing, expanding, and moving about my arm, and
there are various points of light moving along each circuit. This
reflects the dynamic process of movement and ascension in the
spiritual worlds.”
And you will have noticed that later in the novel, Allison collects
the names of people that she has met and ponders over them,
wondering about both their symmetrical and asymmetrical
possibilities and their collective destiny, or how their destiny had
converged with her own. Since she has met many people with her
brother’s name, the name Paul has deep significance to her. Frank
Paul and Paul Frank are interesting since they are perfectly
symmetrical if you switch their first name with their last name. Most
names do not have this ability, since most first-to-last name
combinations are mostly asymmetrical.

1. Paul Bird = brother
2. Paul Sparrow = miner in Coober Pedy, Australia
3. Paul = taxi driver first night in New York
4. Paul Nightingale = Hooman’s boss
5. Frank Paul = served me [Allison] latte, Starbucks
6. Paul Frank = American designer
7. St. Paul (Saul of Tarsus) = Apostle of Christ (The Conversion of  St.
Paul by Caravaggio)
Mona Mahmudnizhad = Bahá’í girl from Shiraz, Iran
Mona Mavaddat = Shidan’s sister
Then there is the meaning inside names themselves. Clearly, I
could not reveal this idea until the last chapter of the book, where the
reader becomes aware that there is a hidden meaning inside Allison’s
name that relates to her destiny and shows that she and all of
humanity are birds of fire and light, or the Phoenix—Bennu in
Egyptian religious terminology. “All is Sun Bird” refers to the fact
that we are all related to, and seeking, God (Ra, or the sun
symbolically). And again we are birds of light and fire (the Phoenix).
Allison Bird
All is Sun Bird
If we take the name of Keira Knightley, we can see that her
name relates to the Egyptian religion and the fact that Ra, the sun
god, transforms into Osiris every night and travels through the
afterlife on the Boat of Millions of Years, or the Night Boat. Clearly,
Keira Knightley’s name is the key to Ra and Osiris.
Keira Knightley
Key Ra nightly

—The hieroglyphs and some text of the nine parts of the Egyptian soul are
taken from Wikipedia, <https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/
>, accessed September 15, 2020.
Letters
Lastly we need to look at the power of letters and their symmetry
inside words. An example of this comes from this novel:
Before writing a new page or rereading past entries, she [Allison] was in the
habit of  opening at the first page of  her notebook. She had begun it with a
quote from The Seven Valleys that stood out among all others and that
gave her entire notebook its meaning. . . .

The word “World” sat center page with the letter l crossed out, which
made it “Word.” Below this was the phrase “There are worlds in words”
that was paraphrasing what Hooman had said when they first met, “In
words there are worlds that are strange and sublime . . .” Under this sentence
was the letter l, which was representative of  the world of  Lahut. So, by
adding l to “Word,” it was transformed back into “World.” She had
explored this idea when she was in Queensland at the shack when she had
added an extra l to The Hidden Words so that it became “the hidden
worlds.” . . .

She then thought about the transformative influence of  the Word of  God
in every age, and that we traverse eternity with words and language . . .

. . . where we would find a world in every letter and a matrix of  words
and worlds intertwined: from letters come words and from words sentences,
from sentences come paragraphs, and beyond that the story of  eternity, in
worlds where this story unfolds, of  our transcendent potentialities on that
undreamed-of  and radiant horizon.
—Chapter 23, “An Image of Identity”
Some of you may have heard of the term “palindrome,” which is
the term for the symmetry of letters within names or words.
Although I haven’t intentionally used any palindromes within the
novel, I thought it would be good to explore the term here. Some
common palindromes within names and words are Otto, Anna, civic,

kayak, level, madam, mom, noon, tenet, and wow. These words are
the same either forward or backward and are like mirror words.
Letters of the Living
Within the early history of the Bahá’í Faith, there were a group of
believers that followed and acknowledged the station of the Báb (the
Manifestation of God that preceded Bahá’u’lláh). They were all
called the Letters of the Living, and there were eighteen in total.
Even now, some 178 years later, their actions still affect the Bahá’í
community.
Regarding the station of  Quddus, he should by no means be considered
having had the station of  a Prophet. His station was no doubt a very exalted
one, and far above that of  any of  the Letters of  the Living, including the first
Letter, Mulla Husayn. Quddus reflected more than any of  the disciples of  the
Bab the light of  His teaching.
—Written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi to an individual believer, November
11, 1936.
“Letters of Living, Dawn-Breakers, Quddús, Terraces.” Bahai-library.com.
Retrieved March 2, 2014.
https://bahai-library.com/uhj_letters_quddus_dawnbreakers#3.
You will see in the quotation below that Quddus (The last Letter
of the Living) is considered to be the Last Name of God.
It may be helpful to consider that in the Dispensation of  the Bab, Quddus is
referred to as the “Last Point,” and the “Last Name of  God,” is identified,
as pointed out in God Passes By, with one of  the “Messengers charged with
imposture” mentioned in the Qurʼan, and is one of  the “two witnesses” into
whom “the spirit of  life from God” must enter, as attested by ‘Abduʼl-Baha
in Some Answered Questions, yet, despite these sublime stations, he is not
regarded as an independent Manifestation of  God.
—Written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice to an individual
believer, August 24, 1975.

“Letters of Living, Dawn-Breakers, Quddús, Terraces.” Bahai-library.com.
Retrieved March 2, 2014.
https://bahai-library.com/uhj_letters_quddus_dawnbreakers#3
I hope I have been able to shed light on the importance of the
symmetry in language—names in particular—and its spiritual
themes in this book. This is by no means an exhaustive exploration
of this idea; no doubt, the reader will find more on this topic in other
books that are deeper and more comprehensive. This small
explanation was a way to dispel any confusion and explain why I
broke one of the cardinal rules of fiction, that is, not to have
characters with the same or similar names.

About the Author
Dimitri Tishler is a British-
Australian writer. He was born in
England in 1970. Although he was
born in England and spent several
years living in London, he grew up
in Melbourne, Australia, and spent
most of his life in that city. A
Placeless Sun: Toward Our Configured
Destiny is his debut novel and was a
labor of spiritual and literary love.
Previous to this book he had only
written poetry and several short stories.
The idea for this book began at JFK Airport in 2000, and the
first chapter of this book is quite autobiographical. A few years later,
during a sleepless night in Rome, Italy, at a friend’s house, the book
emerged into his mind almost fully formed. After returning to
London, he began writing in 2003, and after a nineteen-year odyssey,
the book was finally completed in 2022.
He is currently a full-time writer and working on his second
novel, The Illiterate Sky.
Dimitri Tishler is a follower of the Bahá’í Faith, which was his
main inspiration for this book. There is a brief introduction to the
Bahá’í Faith in appendix 2 of this book, and if the reader would like
to find out more about this faith, then www.bahai.org would be a
good place to start.
In addition to writing, he has studied music composition in
England and has composed several works for classical guitar and
other instruments that can be found on SoundCloud.com or Apple
Music.
If the reader would like to contact the author, please search for
his profile on www.facebook.com and send a private message. Any
feedback or questions would be welcome.