THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1990-10-25

To the b ahá’ís of the w orld

dear b ahá’í f riends,

it gives us great pleasure to announce the membership of the continental

boards of counselors as from the day of the covenant, 26 November 1990.

The number of continental counselors remains at 72, but adjustments have

been made in their geographical distribution in consonance with the devel-opment of the f aith around the world.

The membership of the continental boards of counselors as now ap-

pointed is:

Africa (18 Counselors): dr. hushang Ahdieh (T rustee of the

continental fund), mr. george Allen, mrs. beatrice o. Asare,  96.12

97 .1

97 .2

97 .2a

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

176mr. gila michael bahta, mr. kiser barnes, mrs. parvin djoneidi,

mr. mehraz ehsani, mr. friday ekpe, mr. Shidan fat’he-Aazam, mr.

kassimi fofana, mr. hizzaya hissani, mr. zekrollah kazemi, mr.

mu¥ammad kebdani, mr. daniel ramoroesi, mr. gilbert robert,

mrs. edith Senoga, mrs. lucretia m. warren, mr. wingi mabuku.

The Americas (17 Counselors): mr. eloy Anello, mr. gustavo

correa, mr. rolf von czékus, mrs. jacqueline delahunt, dr. wil-

ma m. ellis, dr. peter mclaren (T rustee of the continental fund),

mr. Shapoor monadjem, mrs. linda Neufeld, mrs. ruth pringle,

dr. william roberts, mrs. isabel de Sanchez, mr. fred Schechter,

mr. errol Sealy, dr. Arturo Serrano, mr. Alan Smith, dr. david r.

Smith, mr. r odrigo Tomás.

Asia (17 Counselors): dr. Sabir Afaqi, mr. burháni’d-dín Af-

shín, mr. fa¤il Ardikání, mr. jabbar eidelkhani, mr. bijan farid,

dr. john fozdar, mr. david huang, mr. Abbas katirai, dr. kim

myung jung, mrs. lee lee ludher, mr. S. Nagaratnam, dr. perin

olyai, mrs. rose ong, mr. vicente Samaniego, mrs. kimiko

Schwerin, mrs. zena Sorabjee, mrs. Shantha Sundram (T rustee of

the continental f und).

Australia (10 Counselors): mr. ben Ayala, mrs. beatrice benson,

mr. Afemata moli chang, dr. kamran eshraghian (T rustee of the con-

tinental fund), mrs. violette haake, mrs. Tinai hancock, mrs. betra

majmeto, mrs. gayle morrison, dr. Sírús Naráqí, mr. bruce Saunders.

Europe (10 Counselors): mr. louis hénuzet, mr. foad kazemza-

deh, mrs. elisabeth mühlschlegel, mr. patrick o’m ara (T rustee

of the continental fund), mr. Nabil perdu, mrs. polin rafat,

dr. Shapour rassekh, mr. paul Semenoff, dr. ilhan Sezgin,

mr. Sohrab y oussefian.

The following eighteen devoted believers who are now being relieved

of the onerous duties of membership on the boards of counselors will, as

distinguished servants of the cause, continue through their outstanding

capacities and experience to be sources of stimulation and encouragement to the friends.97 .2b

97 .2c

97 .2d

97 .2e

97 .3

1986–1992  •  T h e  S i x  Y e a r  P l a n

177mr. Suhayl Ala’i, mr. husayn Ardekani, justice richard benson, mrs. is-

abel de calderón, mr. oloro epyeru, dr. Agnès ghaznavi, mr. zabíhu’lláh

gulmu¥ammadí, mr. robert harris, mr. bharat koirala, mr. lisiate maka,

mr. rouhollah momtazi, mrs. ursula mühlschlegel, dr. leo Niederreiter,

mr. khudára¥m paymán, mr. masí¥ raw¥ání, dr. mihdi Samandari, u

Soe Tin, mr. m ichitoshi z enimoto.

we express to each and every one of these dear friends our heartfelt grati-

tude and assure them of our prayers in the holy Shrines for the confirma-

tion of their highly meritorious and self-sacrificing services to the cause of

bahá’u’lláh.

Throughout all the continents the influential and energetic services of

the counselors have demonstrated the progressive development of their es-

sential sphere of operation. The effective manner in which they inspire both

the believers and institutions with a greater sense of vision and direction; the

extensive consultations they carry out with National Spiritual Assemblies in the prosecution of the objectives of the Six year plan; the part they play in

the vanguard of believers addressing the needs of the supplementary T wo

year plan in eastern europe, the Soviet union, mongolia and china; the

widespread support they offer to the consolidation efforts at the grass roots

of the communities through the dedicated untiring efforts of their Auxiliary board members and their assistants; the steady encouragement they lend

to both the enrollment and deepening of youth and children; the gener-

ous assistance they extend to the teaching work through the allocation of subvention funds to special projects and the publication and dissemination

of bahá’í literature and audiovisual materials—in all these activities we wit-

ness the manifold evidences of the vital role exercised by these high-ranking

officers of the faith in the protection and propagation of the cause of god.

we are calling upon the counselors from all continents to gather at the

world center from 28 december 1990 through 3 january 1991 for a confer-

ence to deliberate on the tasks and opportunities of the years immediately ahead, as we approach the end of the Six year plan and the observance of

the holy year marking the centenary of the Ascension of bahá’u’lláh and

of the inauguration of h is covenant.

it is our fervent hope that from this conference will flow a stream of guid-

ance and inspiration to the followers of bahá’u’lláh in every land, reinforcing

a hundredfold their endeavors to achieve the triumph of the cause of god.

with loving b ahá’í greetings,

97 .5

97 .6

97 .7

97 .8

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

17898

Formation of New Local Spiritual Assemblies in

Eastern Europe and Former USSR

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]