THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

2000-11-26

To all National Spiritual Assemblies

dear b ahá’í f riends,

on 25 march 1987 you were sent a document titled “A codification

of the law of þuqúqu’lláh,” prepared by the research department at the

bahá’í world center; this document is cross-referenced to the compila-

tion “þuqúqu’lláh, The right of god.”345-1 At the request of the universal

house of justice the codification has recently been revised, to incorporate

points made in certain of the quotations provided in the supplement to the compilation that was issued on 12 o ctober 1992.

we now enclose a copy of the new revision of the codification for circu-

lation to the friends, to further assist in deepening their understanding of

the law of þuqúqu’lláh.

with loving b ahá’í greetings,

Department  of tHe secretariat

A CODIFICATION OF THE LAW OF ÞUQÚQU’LLÁH

prepared by the r esearch d epartment

of the b ahá’í w orld center in 1987,

and revised in 1999, at the request of the u niversal h ouse of j ustice

Preamble

þuqúqu’lláh (The right of god) is a great law (7)345-2 and a sacred institu-

tion (72).345-3 laid down in the most holy book (the kitáb-i-Aqdas), it is

one of the key instruments for constructing the foundation and supporting

the structure of the world order of bahá’u’lláh. it has far-reaching rami-

345-1. The referenced compilation on þuqúqu’lláh was released on 4 july 1985,

and a new compilation entitled “þuqúqu’lláh: The right of god” was issued by

the u niversal h ouse of j ustice in April 2007 .

345-2. The numbers in parentheses refer to the paragraphs of the compilation on

þuqúqu’lláh issued by the u niversal h ouse of j ustice.

345-3. reference to the extract number in parentheses has been removed from the

first sentence in the 2007 revision to the codification.345.1

345.2

345.3

2000–2001  •  T h e  T W e lv e  m o n Th  Pl a n

755fications that extend from promoting the welfare of the individual to but-

tressing the authority and extending the activity of the head of the faith. in

providing a regular and systematic source of revenue for the central institu-

tion of the cause, bahá’u’lláh has assured the means for the independence

and decisive functioning of the w orld center of h is faith.

by identifying this law as “The right of god,” bahá’u’lláh has reem-

phasized the nature of the relationship between human beings and their creator as a covenant based on mutual assurances and obligations; and, by

designating the central Authority in the cause, to which all must turn, as

the recipient of this right, he has created a direct and vital link between

every individual believer and the head of his faith that is unique in the

structure of his world order. This law enables the friends to recognize the

elevation of their economic activity to the level of divine acceptability; it is

a means for the purification of their wealth and a magnet attracting divine

blessings. The computation and the payment of þuqúqu’lláh, within the

general guidelines set forth, are exclusively a matter of conscience between the individual and god (8, 104); demanding or soliciting the þuqúqu’lláh

is prohibited (8, 9, 38, 71, 96, 104): only appeals, reminders and exhor-tations of a general nature, under the auspices of the institutions of the faith, are permissible (38, 70, 99, 104, 107). That the observance and en-

forcement of this law, so crucial to the material well-being of the emerging

bahá’í commonwealth, should thus have been left entirely to the faith and

conscience of the individual gives substance to, and sheds light on, what the beloved master calls the spiritual solution to economic problems. indeed,

the implications of the law of þuqúqu’lláh for the realization of a number

of the principles of the faith, such as the elimination of extremes of wealth

and poverty, and a more equitable distribution of resources, will increas-ingly become manifest as the friends assume in ever greater measure the

responsibility for observing it.

The fundamentals of the law of þuqúqu’lláh are promulgated in the

kitáb-i-Aqdas. further elaborations of its features are to be found in other

writings of bahá’u’lláh, in Tablets from ‘Abdu’l-b ahá and in letters from

questions raised by the friends. All these major references have been com-

separately published. A study of that compilation makes it clear that the application of the law has been progressive, and will continue to be so, as its ramifications and subsidiary rulings are elucidated.345.4

345.5

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

756The following is a preliminary attempt at codifying the information

in the writings on the subject of þuqúqu’lláh. it should be emphasized,

however, that the friends should not attempt to read into it an element

of rigidity or total comprehensiveness. The questions put to bahá’u’lláh,

the master and Shoghi effendi were from friends residing in places and

times with infinitely simpler economic systems and relationships than those

which obtain today. what can be learned from them are clear guiding prin-

ciples whose application to changing and more complex conditions must

be considered. The subject will undoubtedly occupy the universal house

of justice in evolving legislation, as necessary, for a long time to come. As

the fourth epoch of the formative Age of our faith unfolds before the

eyes of an increasingly watchful humanity, the universal assumption of the obligation of þuqúqu’lláh by the friends will be a clear sign of attaining to

a new level of spiritual maturity by the community of the greatest Name

throughout the world.

A Bounty Granted by God

god, while being wholly independent of all created things, has in his

bounty given us this law (7, 10, 63), for the progress and promotion of the

cause depend on material means (1). obedience to this law enables the

believer to be firm and steadfast in the covenant (63), provides a reward in

every world of the worlds of god (7), and is a unique test of true faith (62).

The þuqúqu’lláh is to be offered joyfully and without hesitation (2, 9,

32). when the þuqúqu’lláh is offered in this spirit it will impart prosperity

and protection to the friends, purify their worldly possessions (20, 31, 42,

46, 48, 100), and enable them and their offspring to benefit from the fruits of their endeavors (48).

Determining the Þuqúqu’lláh

everything that a believer possesses, with the exception of certain specific

items, is subject once and only once to the payment of þuqúqu’lláh.

A. e xempt from assessment to þuqúqu’lláh are:

1. The residence and its needful

345-4 furnishings (11).

2. The needful business and agricultural equipment which produce

income for one’s subsistence (12, 67, 68).

345-4. See iii.c.1.345.6

345.7

345.8

345.9

2000–2001  •  T h e  T W e lv e  m o n Th  Pl a n

757b. p ayment falls due:

1. þuqúqu’lláh is payable as soon as a person’s assessable possessions

reach or exceed the value of 19 mithqáls of gold (18, 19, 30). [19

mithqáls equal approximately 2.2 troy ounces, or approximately 69.2 grams (87, 105, 110).]

a) The amount to be paid is 19% of the value of the as-

sessable property (10, 14).

b) The payment is due on whole units of 19 mithqáls of

gold (15).

2. þuqúqu’lláh is payable on further units of 19 mithqáls of gold

when subsequently acquired possessions, after the deduction of the annual expenses, raise the value of the assessable property sufficiently. Among the expenses to be deducted are:

a) The general expenses of living (65, 66, 69, 78).

b) losses and expenses incurred on the sale of possessions

(103).

c) Sums which are paid to the state, such as taxes and

duties (78).

3. when a person receives a gift or bequest it is to be added to his

or her possessions and augments the total value in the same way

as does an excess of annual income over expenditure (111).

4. i f a property increases in value, þuqúqu’lláh is not payable on

that increase until it is realized, e.g., on the sale of the property.

5. i f possessions decrease, such as through the expenses of a year

exceeding the income received, þuqúqu’lláh falls due again only

after the loss has been made good and the total value of one’s assessable possessions is augmented (15–19, 30, 65–68, 78, 108, 111).

6. The payment of debts takes precedence over the payment of þuqúqu’lláh (22).

7 . The payment of þuqúqu’lláh is dependent on the person’s finan-

cial ability to meet his obligations (24).

8. o n the death of a believer, the completion of his/her payment of

þuqúqu’lláh is accomplished in the following manner:

a) The first charge on the estate is the expense of burial

(22).

b) Secondly, the debts of the deceased must be paid (13).

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

758c) The þuqúqu’lláh still due on the property should then

be paid. in establishing the value of the property on

which þuqúq has not already been paid, the follow-

ing are among the deductions to be made: expenses of

burial (22), debts of the deceased (13), loss of value of the assets when realized (103), and expenses incurred

in realizing the assets (103).

c. f urther notes on determining þuqúqu’lláh:

1. i t is left to the individual to decide which expenses are to be re-

garded as “necessary” and therefore deductible in computing the annual accretion to savings, and which furnishings of the house-

hold are to be regarded as “needful” and therefore exempt from the payment of þuqúqu’lláh (57, 65–67, 69, 78, 80, 104–106,

112).

2. Although references are made to annual payments of þuqúqu’lláh,

the time and method of payment are left to the discretion of the individual believer. There is, therefore, no obligation to liquidate

one’s assets in haste in order to fulfill one’s current obligations to

þuqúqu’lláh (103).

3. h usband and wife are free to decide whether they want to honor

their þuqúqu’lláh obligations jointly or individually (109, 110).

4. The account of þuqúqu’lláh should be kept separate from other

contributions inasmuch as the disposition of the funds of the þuqúqu’lláh is subject to decision by the central Authority in

the cause to which all must turn, whereas the purposes of the

contributions to other funds may be determined by the donors

themselves.

5. p ayment of the þuqúqu’lláh has priority over making contribu-

tions to other funds of the faith (78, 79, 97, 100), as well as over

the cost of pilgrimage (31). it is, however, left to the discretion

of the believer whether or not to treat contributions to the fund

as an expense when arriving at the value of his or her property in

calculating the sum due to be paid as þuqúqu’lláh (105).

d. Additional notes, based on the first supplement to the compilation:

1. whereas a believer has discretion to decide whether to treat his

or her contributions to the funds of the faith as an expense, or

make them only out of money on which þuqúqu’lláh has been

2000–2001  •  T h e  T W e lv e  m o n Th  Pl a n

759paid, he or she also has the discretion to treat some contributions

in one way and some in the other. (Supp. 8)

2. o ne believer cannot discharge the obligation of another to pay

þuqúqu’lláh, nor can a payment to þuqúqu’lláh be earmarked

for any purpose or be made in honor of anyone. (Supp. 10)

3. The law of þuqúqu’lláh imposes an obligation only on indi-

vidual believers, not on bahá’í institutions or corporate bodies.

(Supp. 11)

4. Although the law provides a certain leeway in the timing of the payment of þuqúqu’lláh, it should preferably be paid by a be-

liever during the course of his or her life whenever it falls due, and the only payment to þuqúqu’lláh which should need to be

provided for by will is such additional liability as may be found

to exist when the believer’s affairs are reckoned up as at the date

of death. (Supp. 12)

5. e ach believer should learn not only how to calculate þuqúqu’lláh

during the course of his or her life, but also how to provide for the

payment of the balance remaining at the date of death. (Supp. 12)

Applicability of the Law of Þuqúqu’lláh

for many decades the sacred law of þuqúqu’lláh had been applied only to

the believers from the middle east. The worldwide application was insti-

of the holy year marking the hundredth anniversary of the Ascension of

bahá’u’lláh.

Payment of Þuqúqu’lláhThe þuqúqu’lláh is normally paid to the T rustee of þuqúqu’lláh, his depu-

ties, or their appointed representatives (35, 58). These persons issue re-

ceipts and forward the funds to the b ahá’í w orld center (56).

Management of the Þuqúqu’lláh

decisions on the necessary ordinances concerning þuqúqu’lláh (81, 100),

as well as on its disposition, lie within the sole jurisdiction of the central

Authority in the cause. The þuqúqu’lláh can be employed for charitable

purposes (62, 65, 75), or for other purposes useful to the cause of god

(77, 78).345.10

345.11

345.12

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

760346

Message to the ASEAN Youth Conference in Thailand

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]