THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1984-04-21

To the Bahá’ís of the World

Dearly loved Friends,

394.1 The emergence from obscurity, which has been so marked a feature of the Cause of God during the first five years of the Seven Year Plan, has been attended by changes, both external and internal, affecting the Bahá’í world community.  Externally, there are signs of a crystallization of a public image of the Cause—largely uninformed, however friendly—while internally growing maturity and confidence are indicated by increased administrative ability, a desire for Bahá’í communities to render service to the larger body of mankind and a deepening understanding of the relevance of the divine Message to modern problems.  Both these aspects of change must be taken into consideration as we enter the third and final phase of the Seven Year Plan.

The Bahá’ís of Iran 394.2 The year just closing has been overshadowed by the continued persecution of the friends in Iran.  They have been forced to disband their administrative structure, they have been harassed, dispossessed, dismissed from employment, made homeless and their children are refused education.  Some six hundred men, women and children are now in prison, some denied any contact with their friends and relatives, some subjected to torture and all under pressure to recant their faith.  Their heroic and exemplary steadfastness has been the mainspring in bringing the Cause out of obscurity, and it is the consolation of their hearts that their suffering results in unprecedented advances in teaching and proclaiming the divine Message to a world so desperately in need of its healing power.  For this they embrace the final service of martyrdom. Our obligation is crystal clear.  We cannot fail them now.  Sacrificial action in teaching and promoting the Cause of God must follow every new instance of publicity arising from their persecution.  Let this be our message to them of love and spiritual union.

Developments in the International Sphere 394.3 In the international sphere, the beloved Hands of the Cause, ever growing in our love and admiration, have, whenever their health has permitted, continued to uplift and encourage the friends and to promote the unity and onward march of the army of life.  The International Teaching Center, operating from its world seat, has provided loving and wise leadership and direction to the Boards of Counselors.  Its sphere of service has been immensely extended by the assignment of new responsibilities and by raising the number of its Counselor members to seven. 499The dedicated services of the Counselors in all the continents, ably supported by the Auxiliary Board members, have been invaluable in fostering the spiritual health and integrity of the worldwide community.  To develop further this vital organ of the Administrative Order, it has been decided to establish a term of five years’ service for those appointed to the Auxiliary Boards, commencing 26 November 1986.  The work of the Bahá’í International Community in relationship with the United Nations has brought increasing appreciation of our social attitudes and principles, and in some instances—notably the sessions on human rights—the Bahá’í participation has been spectacular, again resulting from the heroism of the Persian friends.  The Geneva office has been consolidated and additional staff engaged to deal with its expanding activities.  In spite of severe problems the construction of the Indian and Samoan Houses of Worship has progressed satisfactorily, and the latter will be dedicated and opened to public

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]