Creating
Reflections
on the Individual
the Institutions
& the Community
A New Mind
Paul Lample

Creating
Reflections
on the Individual
the Institutions
& the Community
A New Mind
Paul Lample
Palabra Publications

Copyright © 1999 by Palabra Publications.
Published December 1999. All rights reserved.
Revised December 2009.
ISBN 978-1-890101-20-6
Cover photo by Emily Lample.
Palabra Publications
7369 Westport Place
West Palm Beach, Florida 33413
USA
561-697-9823
561-697-9815 (fax)
books@palabrapublications.info
www.palabrapublications.info

Contents
Introduction
Consciousness as the Basis of Mature Action 3
The Individual
The Promoter of Human Honor 11
The Seeker of Wisdom 17
The Champion of Justice 23
The Selfless Giver 27
The Pure Channel 33
The Faithful Lover 39
The Initiator of Systematic Action 45
The Quickener of Humanity 51
The Institutions
10 The Channel of the Spirit 59
11 The Trustees of Individual Freedom and

of the Common Good 67
12 The Mobilizers of Human Resources 73
13 The Executors of Systematic Plans of Action 79
14 The Nucleus and Pattern of a New Civilization 85
15 The Instruments of Effective Administration 91
The Community
16 The Organic Pattern of Community Life 99
17 A Community of Unified Thought and Action 105
18 A Community of Devotion and Service 113
19 A Community of Fellowship and Support 119
20 A Community of Excellence and Distinction 125
21 A Community of Conquerors 131
Conclusion
22 Learning in the Light of Divine Guidance 139
References 145
Bibliography 157

Acknowledgement
I wish to thank Dr. Farzam Arbab for his generous offer of time
over many months as we talked through the concepts presented here.
In addition, I greatly appreciate the assistance provided by Eleanor
Nimrod in reviewing and editing the text.

Introduction

Consciousness as the Basis of Mature Action
The power of Bahá’u’lláh’s Revelation has engendered a meta-
morphosis in humanity’s collective life—vast, steady, and irresistible.
Shoghi Effendi explains that the creative spirit of the Revelation has
generated mysterious processes whose operation “has provoked a tu-
mult in human society such as no mind can fathom.” “Through the
emergence of its slowly-crystallizing system,” he adds, the Faith has
“induced a fermentation in the general life of mankind designed to
shake the very foundations of a disordered society, to purify its life-
blood, to reorientate and reconstruct its institutions, and shape its
final destiny.”1  This unfolding historical drama calls for ceaseless effort
on our part to reach ever-higher levels of understanding and action.
The challenges have intensified in the decades leading to the close
of the twentieth century. In 1983, the Universal House of Justice ob-
served that humanity has entered a “period when the forces of history
are moving to a climax,”2 a period characterized by the “observable
acceleration” of the twin processes of “the disintegration of the old
order and the progress and consolidation of the new World Order of
Bahá’u’lláh.”3  “The stage is set,” the Supreme Body proclaimed in 1987,
“for universal, rapid and massive growth of the Cause of God.”4  And
at the start of the Four Year Plan in 1996, a critical moment both in
the “scheme of Bahá’í and world history,”5 the House of Justice called
upon the individual, the community, and the institutions to achieve
an advancement in the process of entry by troops in every part of the
globe. “That an advance in this process depends on the progress of all
three of these intimately connected participants is abundantly clear.”6

Creating a New Mind
If the Bahá’í world is to fulfill its obligations in this critical pe-
riod, the nature of each of the three protagonists must be carefully
examined. What are the attributes of this individual, this community,
and this institution that are to play so crucial a role in the destiny
of the human race? What capabilities must they develop in order
to advance the process of entry by troops? What characteristics will
enable them to extend their exertions toward the building of a new
civilization? Surely, we must not look to the individuals, the com-
munities, or the institutions that we are today, but rather seek within
Bahá’u’lláh’s Revelation the depiction of what we ought to be.
Human reality is bounded by the limits set in the mind. When
the Manifestation of God appears, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains, “human
intellects themselves must change.” The “antiquated forms of belief
and ancestral imitations which are at variance with the foundations
of divine reality” must “pass away and be reformed.”7  The Universal
House of Justice states that the Manifestation “is of a higher realm
and has a perception far above that of any human being. He has the
task of raising humankind to a new level of knowledge and behavior.”8
Change in mind becomes change in deed and change in the world.
When consciousness is expanded, so is the potentiality for action.
A simple example illustrates the point. One group of believers may
envision the local community as a congregation, another as a chapter of
a progressive social movement. Each perception gives rise to a specific
pattern of activity. Each community evolves differently, manifesting
distinct powers and exerting particular influences. Yet, inevitably,
each reaches the limitations inherent in its perspective, since both
fail to fully reflect what it means to be a Bahá’í community. Certainly
Bahá’u’lláh has not appeared and suffered innumerable afflictions in
order to secure the same limited results already realized by countless
religious communities and social organizations. It is only natural in
the early stages of the evolution of the Faith for us to fashion our
communities after the models with which we are familiar. Such an
approach, however, soon proves to be insufficient. “No man putteth
new wine into old bottles,” Jesus states, “else the new wine doth burst
the bottles.”9  Our efforts in the current period of history must be
framed by “a new state of mind.”10

The first questions of consciousness are: “Who am I?”, “Where
am I?”, “Where am I going?”, and “What should I do?” So we must
continually ask ourselves: “Who are we Bahá’ís?”, “What are the Faith’s
present powers and challenges?”, “What is our mission?”, “How do
we achieve it?” For example, as Bahá’ís we know that unity is impor-
tant. At one level, we can simply value unity and learn to work in
an environment where unity already exists. But is this adequate? At
a higher level of consciousness we learn to build unity and to trans-
form situations of discord and conflict into those of harmony and
loving fellowship. We are also aware that justice is imperative. But
is it enough to only deal fairly with others? At a higher level of con-
sciousness we are to become champions of justice and help create a
just social order. Questions such as these abound. Do our communi-
ties act merely as a spiritual refuge for a handful of believers, or are
they set out on a mission to spiritualize the planet? Are the institu-
tions nothing more than stewards of a small religious community, or
are they the channels of God’s grace for the entire region they serve?
The effort to create a new mind confronts a number of obstacles.
First, attempts to reach higher levels of understanding and action are
often perceived as a criticism of present conditions. If a more effec-
tive way to teach is proposed, it does not mean that current meth-
ods are wrong. If it is suggested that there is more to know about
the Revelation, it does not mean that we are ignorant. We must be
comfortable asking how we can rise without such an inquiry being
dismissed as dissonant criticism or autocratic condemnation. A fun-
damental characteristic of our new mind, then, is to be free from
polemics and rancor, from summary judgments of success or failure,
from fear of mistakes. We must appreciate the dynamics of evolu-
tion and maturation. The infant who takes a first step and falls, has
not failed. While learning to avoid judgmental attitudes, however,
we need to recognize that such attitudes exist, and, therefore, exer-
cise wisdom in our endeavors to lift the community to new levels
of consciousness. “An enlightened man of wisdom should primarily
speak with words as mild as milk,” Bahá’u’lláh states, “that the chil-
dren of men may be nurtured and edified thereby and may attain
Consciousness as the Basis of Mature Action

Creating a New Mind
the ultimate goal of human existence which is the station of true
understanding and nobility.”11
A second obstacle is created when, in the course of our
conversation about how to progress, our words degenerate into slogans
or cliches. Bahá’u’lláh has endowed words with new meaning. Yet,
our diverse interpretations of reality can usurp the meaning of these
words, depriving them of their power to uplift. For example, teaching
the Faith, the Bahá’í writings explain, is “exalting the Word of God.”12
It is the manifestation of the “quickening power of the spirit”13 and
the cause of “rebirth and regeneration.”14  Circular debate, countless
calls to action and exhaustive analysis can dull our understanding
of the subject until, finally, teaching is addressed merely in terms of
sales techniques. So too, is education a force for the advancement
of the community and the empowerment of new generations; it
may be reduced to an instrument of conformity or a battleground
for competing theories and pet projects. Bahá’í community life is
a distinctive pattern of action transforming spiritual, social, and
administrative affairs; disassociated from its mission, it may deteriorate
into frustrating meetings and consultations on trivial concerns.
A third obstacle to reaching higher levels of consciousness and
action is the result of forces that resist progress. In the physical world,
the effort to move is countered by the opposing force of friction.
Similarly, resistance appears when attempting to rise to greater
heights of service in the Faith. Increased consciousness calls for greater
responsibility, and thus, greater sacrifice. Effort is required along a
path that is to be traced from comfort, ego, control, and license to
exertion, humility, cooperation, and servitude. Some may not wish to
relinquish current patterns of behavior to meet the more formidable
challenges implied by change. The individual, Shoghi Effendi urges,
must “struggle against the natural inertia that weighs him down in
his effort to arise, shed, heroically and irrevocably, the trivial and
superfluous attachments which hold him back, [and] empty himself
of every thought that may tend to obstruct his path.”15
The aggregate result of these and other obstacles is the develop-
ment in the community of a culture that imperceptibly resists efforts
to rise. Although we are created to fly, our first reaction is to remain

inert, avoiding the difficulties this exertion implies. Trapped in such
a culture, the community becomes like a population of birds, left
to flutter about under a canopy of wire. The canopy, in this case, is
woven from the limitations imposed by our consciousness.
Such obstacles, however, are not insurmountable. Since the birth
of the dispensation, the believers have found the wisdom, love, and
consecration necessary to meet the challenges confronting the Cause
and to open the way to further progress. A new culture, vivified by a
new state of mind, gives rise to a framework for advancing the process
of entry by troops and, beyond, for the building of a new civiliza-
tion. We should be aware that, in the words of the Universal House
of Justice, “those of us who are alive to the vision of the Faith are
particularly privileged to be consciously engaged in efforts intended
to stimulate and eventually enhance such processes.”16
A new mind is shaped through the study of the writings in search
of a more profound understanding of Bahá’u’lláh’s will and purpose
for the individual, the institutions, and the community. It also de-
velops as we learn to translate this deeper understanding into action,
and then reflect on and refine that action. This pattern of study, ac-
tion, and reflection governs the behavior of generation after genera-
tion as each moves closer to that “pre-eminent purpose,” that “grand
design”17 which is inherent in His Revelation.
In the following pages, an attempt is made to explore and correlate
some of the salient features of the individual, the institutions, and
the community to which we aspire. The sequence of chapters does
not present a narrative, nor does it offer a single unfolding argument.
Rather, each chapter presents a distinct topic for reflection—a modest
effort to capture a single capability and examine its various facets. In
its totality, the book gives glimpses of a complex whole that is the
Bahá’í community. As the object of study is approached from different
angles, certain themes—such as organic growth, systematization and
learning—recur. It is hoped that each chapter will be viewed as an
initial contribution towards an exploration into the attributes being
addressed.
Consciousness as the Basis of Mature Action

The Individual

The Promoter of Human Honor
During His travels to America in 1912, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá offered, in
a Tablet to an early believer, the following assessment of meetings
He addressed:
I visited Philadelphia, for a few days, at the invitation of two
ministers and at the request of the friends of God. Two large
congregations gathered in the two churches, and I spoke with-
in the measure of my incapacity. But the confirmations of the
Abhá Kingdom, as evident as the sun, descended and enfolded
us. Although we are powerless He is Mighty. Although we are
poor He is All-Sufficient.1
Thus, with such extreme humility did ‘Abdu’l-Bahá—the Master, the
Interpreter of the Word of God, the Center of the Covenant—refer
to His own service to His Lord.
Throughout the ages, humanity has been afflicted by struggles
among individuals, families, groups and nations. Driven by the de-
mands of the animal nature, self-seeking individuals strive to exalt
themselves over their neighbors. Impelled by prejudice and a sense
of superiority, competing groups attempt to serve their own selfish
interests and endeavor to impose their will on others. Aggression and
conflict characterize the daily interactions of a humanity trapped in
an endless struggle for dominance. Bahá’u’lláh states:
Ever since the seeking of preference and distinction came into
play, the world hath been laid waste. It has become desolate. . . .2
He admonishes His followers in these unequivocal terms:

Creating a New Mind
O Son of Dust! Verily I say unto thee: Of all men the most
negligent is he that disputeth idly and seeketh to advance him-
self over his brother.3
It behoveth not, therefore, him who was created from dust, who
will return unto it, and will again be brought forth out of it,
to swell with pride before God, and before His loved ones, to
proudly scorn them, and be filled with disdainful arrogance.4
The desire to advance oneself over others as a motivating force
in one’s life is a defect of human character that, unfortunately, is
being promoted by certain social theories as a praiseworthy trait.
Aggression and unbridled competition are considered inherent to
the human condition. It is even believed that society is best served if
each individual pursues his or her own self-interest; the euphemism
“enlightened self-interest” is used to cover up the inadequacies of
social relationships built on competition. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá observes:
Glory be to God! What an extraordinary situation now ob-
tains, when no one, hearing a claim advanced, asks himself
what the speaker’s real motive might be, and what selfish pur-
pose he might not have hidden behind the mask of words. You
find, for example, that an individual seeking to further his own
petty and personal concerns, will block the advancement of an
entire people. To turn his own water mill, he will let the farms
and fields of all the others parch and wither. To maintain his
own leadership, he will everlastingly direct the masses toward
that prejudice and fanaticism which subvert the very base of
civilization.5
Through the divine teachings, the urge to indulge the self through
dominance over others is subdued by spiritual competition to serve
the well-being of all. It is only in the acquisition of divine virtues6
and in service to God and His Cause7 that individuals vie with one
another. “Happy the soul that shall forget his own good, and like the
chosen ones of God, vie with his fellows in service to the good of all.
. . .”8  Honor lies not in ephemeral positions of power, but in one’s ef-
forts to promote the welfare of humanity. The individual who wishes
to contribute to the progress of the Cause and the advancement of

civilization must strive to be free from arrogance and preoccupation
with self. “Humility exalteth man to the heaven of glory and pow-
er,” Bahá’u’lláh proclaims, “while pride abaseth him to the depths of
wretchedness and degradation.”9  And He exhorts humanity:
Beseech ye the one true God to grant that ye may taste the
savor of such deeds as are performed in His path, and partake
of the sweetness of such humility and submissiveness as are
shown for His sake. Forget your own selves, and turn your eyes
towards your neighbor. Bend your energies to whatever may
foster the education of men. Nothing is, or can ever be, hid-
den from God. If ye follow in His way, His incalculable and
imperishable blessings will be showered upon you.10
The humility that Bahá’u’lláh requires of us is not a sense of in-
feriority before others who are deemed more competent. It is not
feigned modesty that is akin to hypocrisy. Rather, true humility arises
from the recognition that God is the All-Powerful and Self-Subsisting,
while all others are weak and in need of perfecting. The glorification
of self, the exaltation of one’s limited knowledge, the lust for power,
and the compulsion to force matters in the direction of one’s per-
sonal choosing, are exposed for what they truly are: expressions of a
child’s whims and desires.
Acquiring humility calls for the rejection of both guilt—the para-
lyzing, harsh judgment of the failure to live up to the standard—and
complacency—the reinterpretation of the standard, lowering it to suit
personal comfort and preferences. The statement written on behalf
of the Guardian that “our past is not the thing that matters so much
in this world as what we intend to do with our future”11 help us to
overcome feelings of guilt. And we can avoid complacency by always
acknowledging the truth of the divine standard raised by Bahá’u’lláh,
upholding it under all circumstances, and refusing to compromise it
with the commonly accepted standards of our time.12
The seed of humility is planted in the act of recognition of God:
“I testify, at this moment, to my powerlessness and to Thy might, to
my poverty and to Thy wealth.”13  It germinates in the effort to adhere
to divine teachings, since “that which beseemeth man is submission
The Promoter of Human Honor

Creating a New Mind
unto such restraints as will protect him from his own ignorance, and
guard him against the harm of the mischief-maker.”14  It grows through
the belief that “In the estimation of God all men are equal” and that
“there is no distinction or preferment for any soul, in the realm of
His justice and equity.”15  It is cultivated by an honest appraisal of
one’s own faults and tolerance for the shortcomings of others: “Let
your thoughts dwell on your own spiritual development, and close
your eyes to the deficiencies of other souls.”16  It matures in action
as one “preferreth his brother before himself.”17  It bears fruit as one
becomes weary of self.
Do all ye can to become wholly weary of self, and bind your-
selves to that Countenance of Splendors; and once ye have
reached such heights of servitude, ye will find, gathered within
your shadow, all created things.18
The individual who arises to promote human honor needs to
be capable of establishing proper relationships with others, with the
community, and with the legitimate institutions of society. One must
begin with humility before God, become aware of the divine will and
purpose and, discovering in others a reflection of the Divine Essence,
stand humbly before them. The soul that walks humbly with God,
Bahá’u’lláh explains, will be invested with the honor and glory of
all goodly names and stations.19  It is instructive that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá,
Whom Shoghi Effendi described as the embodiment of every Bahá’í
ideal, chose for Himself the title “Servant of Bahá.” Servitude is the
highest station to achieve and through it one becomes the promoter
of human honor. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states:
Is there any greater blessing conceivable for a man, than that he
should become the cause of the education, the development, the
prosperity and honor of his fellow-creatures? No, by the Lord
God! The highest righteousness of all is for blessed souls to take
hold of the hands of the helpless and deliver them out of their
ignorance and abasement and poverty, and with pure motives,
and only for the sake of God, to arise and energetically devote
themselves to the service of the masses, forgetting their own
worldly advantage and working only to serve the general good.20

When individuals who have chosen the path of servitude come
together in a community for the sake of the Cause, they can readily
assume a posture of learning that is indispensable for collective en-
deavor. A systematic process is set in motion within the community
“in which the friends review their successes and difficulties, adjust
and improve their methods accordingly, and learn, and move for-
ward unhesitatingly.”21  Cooperation becomes the norm, and service
the motivating force that impels progress.
The Promoter of Human Honor

The Seeker of Wisdom
The Bahá’í writings extol the acquisition of knowledge and wis-
dom. So critical is knowledge to the advancement of society that, ac-
cording to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, “whatever people has ventured deeper into
this shoreless sea, has come to excel the rest,”1 while “the principal
reason for the decline and fall of peoples is ignorance.”2  Bahá’u’lláh
states:
Knowledge is as wings to man’s life, and a ladder for his ascent.
Its acquisition is incumbent upon everyone. The knowledge
of such sciences, however, should be acquired as can profit
the peoples of the earth. . . . In truth, knowledge is a veritable
treasure for man, and a source of glory, of bounty, of joy, of
exaltation, of cheer and gladness unto him.3
Knowledge of the fields of human learning and knowledge of the
teachings of God are both stressed in the Bahá’í writings:
Let the loved ones of God, whether young or old, whether male
or female, each according to his capabilities, bestir themselves
and spare no efforts to acquire the various current branches of
knowledge, both spiritual and secular, and of the arts.4
Two sources of knowledge make the progress of civilization
possible: science and religion. Together they enable us to understand
ourselves, our environment, our powers and our purpose. Science,
‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains, unlocks the secrets of the universe. It is
“the governor of nature and its mysteries” and the one agency by
which humanity explores the physical world.5  Through its powers,
material and social problems are resolved; it is the very foundation

Creating a New Mind
of all individual and national development.6  Bahá’ís are to acquire
knowledge and skills in those fields that benefit humanity and
contribute to an ever-advancing civilization.
At the same time, the Bahá’í writings state that knowledge comes
from the teachings of God. The Word of God is “collective wisdom,
absolute knowledge and eternal truth.”7  Religion provides understand-
ing of humanity’s spiritual nature and its implications for personal
and collective progress. Bahá’u’lláh urges the believers to immerse
themselves in the ocean of His words, unravel its secrets, and dis-
cover all the pearls of wisdom that lie hidden therein.8  The benefits
derived by each person, He explains, are in direct proportion to the
eagerness of the search and the efforts exerted.9
Beyond the acquisition of knowledge, however, wisdom is need-
ed. Bahá’u’lláh describes wisdom as “the greatest gift,” as humanity’s
“unfailing protector,” and as the “foremost teacher in the school of
existence.”10  The individual who desires to contribute to the progress
of the Cause and the advancement of civilization, then, must be a
seeker of wisdom.
Wisdom unites knowledge and action; it involves the application
of knowledge according to the exigencies of each situation.
Follow thou the way of thy Lord and say not that which the
ears cannot bear to hear, for such speech is like luscious food
given to small children. However palatable, rare and rich the
food may be, it cannot be assimilated by the digestive organs
of a suckling child. Therefore unto everyone who hath a right,
let his settled measure be given. . . . First diagnose the disease
and identify the malady, then prescribe the remedy, for such is
the perfect method of the skillful physician.11
“The essence of wisdom,” Bahá’u’lláh states, “is the fear of God,
the dread of His scourge and punishment, and the apprehension of
His justice and decree.”12  “The beginning of Wisdom and the origin
thereof,” He adds, “is to acknowledge whatsoever God hath clearly
set forth. . . .”13  The embodiment of wisdom is the Manifestation
of God—the “Divine Physician” whose “task is to foster the well-
being of the world and its peoples.”14  Through the teachings of the

Manifestation, humanity is enabled to understand reality and to
choose the right course of action. “He that riseth to serve My Cause
should manifest My wisdom,” Bahá’u’lláh explains, “and bend every
effort to banish ignorance from the earth.”15
Implicit in the very concept of wisdom is the proper use of knowl-
edge. Wisdom is not a self-serving expediency. To be wise is not to
be cunning. There is no such thing as “bad” wisdom. The individual
who aspires to wisdom is continually seeking orientation from the
twin knowledge systems of religion and science. Throughout history,
humanity has repeatedly fallen into the pitfalls of superstition and
fanaticism on one hand, and materialism and moral relativism on
the other. The complementary truths of these two systems make it
possible to avoid these dangers.
In order to understand how science and religion contribute to
wisdom, it is important for us to differentiate Divine Revelation from
religious beliefs, true religion from religious traditions, and true sci-
ence from biased materialism.
Divine Revelation is the repository of the pure teachings of God.
It is the supreme standard for understanding all things, since it is the
expression of divine wisdom which encompasses the knowledge of
all reality. Human beings cannot judge the descriptive or prescriptive
truths of Revelation. Bahá’u’lláh warns:
Weigh not the Book of God with such standards and sciences
as are current amongst you, for the Book itself is the unerring
Balance established amongst men. In this most perfect Balance
whatsoever the peoples and kindreds of the earth possess must
be weighed, while the measure of its weight should be tested
according to its own standard, did ye but know it.16
When religion as a knowledge system is in conformity with
Revelation, and not tainted by vain imaginings, then it is true reli-
gion. It protects the believer from arrogance and conceit that turn
knowledge into a grievous veil between the individual and God. “We
are quit of those ignorant ones who fondly imagine that Wisdom
is to give vent to one’s idle imaginings and to repudiate God, the
Lord of all men; even as We hear some of the heedless voicing such
Consciousness The Seeker of Wisdom

Creating a New Mind
assertions today.”17  True religion illuminates human understanding,
helping to separate science from dogmatic materialism.
The teachings of Bahá’u’lláh throw light on so many aspects of
human life and knowledge that a Bahá’í must learn, earlier than
most, to weigh the information that is given to him rather than
to accept it blindly. A Bahá’í has the advantage of the Divine
Revelation for this age, which shines like a searchlight on so
many problems that baffle modern thinkers; he must therefore
develop the ability to learn everything from those around him,
showing proper humility before his teachers, but always relating
what he hears to the Bahá’í teachings, for they will enable him
to sort out the gold from the dross of human error.18
Human understanding of the divine standard, however, is subject
to limitations. Religion can degenerate into superstition. Therefore,
religious beliefs about the meaning of Revelation—as opposed to
Revelation itself—must be weighed in the light of scientific truth and
reason. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá has explained that “religion must be reasonable,”
and that “every religion which is not in accordance with established
science is superstition.”19  Bahá’u’lláh has warned that learning about
religion should not result in ignorant fanaticism and bigotry;20 that
the literal interpretation of divine texts when a spiritual meaning is
intended leads to “false imaginings” that result in straying from “the
infinite mercy of Providence;”21 and that the masses, far from assum-
ing an anti-intellectual posture, should respect the divines and learned
whose “judgments are in conformity with His behests as revealed in
His Book” for they are “the lamps of guidance unto them that are in
the heavens and on the earth.”22
Acquiring knowledge and wisdom through the study of sciences
and the divine teachings is an endeavor in which all Bahá’ís can en-
gage to the best of their ability. Those who advance significantly in
learning, however, have the added task of infusing their fields with
the light of the new Revelation.
As the Bahá’í community grows it will acquire experts in numer-
ous fields—both by Bahá’ís becoming experts and by experts
becoming Bahá’ís. As these experts bring their knowledge and

skill to the service of the community and, even more, as they
transform their various disciplines by bringing to bear upon
them the light of the Divine Teachings, problem after problem
now disrupting society will be answered.23
The qualities and responsibilities of the seeker of wisdom are
summarized in the restatement by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá of an Islamic tradition
about the learned: “he must guard himself, defend his faith, oppose
his passions and obey the commandments of his Lord.”24  To guard
oneself, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains, is to acquire the attributes of spiritual
and material perfection, to consider the welfare of the community
as one’s own, and to arise with complete sincerity and purity of
purpose to educate the masses.25  To defend the Faith is to protect
the whole population in every way and to serve the Cause of God
so that “every effort should be exerted to adopt a combination of all
possible measures to raise up the Word of God, increase the number
of believers, promote the Faith of God and exalt it.”26  To oppose one’s
passions is the foundation of every laudable human quality and the
means of keeping all good qualities in equilibrium. “How often has
it happened that an individual who was graced with every attribute
of humanity and wore the jewel of true understanding, nevertheless
followed after his passions until his excellent qualities passed beyond
moderation and he was forced into excess.”27  As to obedience, ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá explains that the glory, rank and honor of an individual depend
on the close observance of the Divine commands, for “religion is the
light of the world, and the progress, achievement, and happiness of
man result from obedience to the laws set down in the holy Books.”28
In manifesting these qualities and fulfilling these responsibili-
ties, those who seek knowledge and wisdom contribute to their own
transformation and to the transformation of society. As members of
the Bahá’í community, they bring a profound level of understanding
that is conducive to its growth and progress.
Consciousness The Seeker of Wisdom

The Champion of Justice
Those who arise to serve the Cause in this critical period of human
history endeavor ceaselessly to uphold truth and champion justice.
Their dealings with others, in every instance, are characterized by a
rectitude of conduct that Shoghi Effendi defined as “an abiding sense
of undeviating justice, unobscured by the demoralizing influences
which a corruption-ridden political life so strikingly manifests.”
This rectitude of conduct, with its implications of justice,
equity, truthfulness, honesty, fair-mindedness, reliability, and
trustworthiness, must distinguish every phase of the life of
the Bahá’í community. “The companions of God,” Bahá’u’lláh
Himself has declared, “are, in this day, the lump that must
leaven the peoples of the world. They must show forth such
trustworthiness, such truthfulness and perseverance, such deeds
and character that all mankind may profit by their example.”
“I swear by Him Who is the Most Great Ocean!” He again af-
firms, “Within the very breath of such souls as are pure and
sanctified far-reaching potentialities are hidden. So great are
these potentialities that they exercise their influence upon all
created things.” “He is the true servant of God,” He, in another
passage has written, “who, in this day, were he to pass through
cities of silver and gold, would not deign to look upon them,
and whose heart would remain pure and undefiled from what-
ever things can be seen in this world, be they its goods or its
treasures. I swear by the Sun of Truth! The breath of such a man
is endowed with potency, and his words with attraction.”1

Creating a New Mind
The Bahá’í writings repeatedly call upon us to seek truth and
investigate reality and explain that by seeking truth, humanity will
become united, for reality is one and not divisible.2
The first teaching of Bahá’u’lláh is the duty incumbent upon
all to investigate reality. What does it mean to investigate reality?
It means that man must forget all hearsay and examine truth
himself, for he does not know whether statements he hears are in
accordance with reality or not. Wherever he finds truth or reality,
he must hold to it, forsaking, discarding all else; for outside of
reality there is naught but superstition and imagination.3
The capacity which makes possible the impartial investigation
of truth is justice. With its aid, Bahá’u’lláh affirms in His familiar
passage from the Hidden Words, we will see with our own eyes and
not through the eyes of others, and will know of our own knowledge
and not through the knowledge of our neighbor.4  “Whoso cleaveth
to justice, can, under no circumstances, transgress the limits of mod-
eration. He discerneth the truth in all things, through the guidance
of Him Who is the All-Seeing.”5
Justice finds expression on both the individual and societal levels.
On the individual level, as a faculty of the human soul, it is associ-
ated with a wide range of attitudes and qualities, including honesty,
truthfulness, and freedom from prejudice and from blind adherence
to tradition. In the collective life of humanity, justice creates order
and stability. Bahá’u’lláh explains that justice is a powerful force that
conquers the hearts and souls of men and raises the standard of love
and bounty.6  Its purpose is the appearance of unity.7  “No man can
attain his true station except through his justice,” He states. “No
power can exist except through unity.”8
The teachings of Bahá’u’lláh help us to protect justice from be-
coming distorted either by self-righteousness or by intolerance. He
exhorts the peoples of the world to observe tolerance and righteous-
ness, which are “two lights amidst the darkness of the world and two
educators for the edification of mankind.”9

The heaven of true understanding shineth resplendent with
the light of two luminaries: tolerance and righteousness. O
my friend! Vast oceans lie enshrined within this brief saying.
Blessed are they who appreciate its value, drink deep therefrom
and grasp its meaning, and woe betide the heedless.10
Regarding tolerance, Bahá’u’lláh states that we should not be too
critical of “the sayings and writings of men,” but should approach
them in a spirit of open-mindedness and loving sympathy.11  Shoghi
Effendi indicates that tolerance should be manifested among indi-
viduals and toward the institutions of the Faith.
The friends must be patient with each other and must realize
that the Cause is still in its infancy and its institutions are not
yet functioning perfectly. The greater the patience, the loving
understanding and the forbearance the believers show towards
each other and their shortcomings, the greater will be the prog-
ress of the whole Bahá’í Community at large.12
The tolerance that one shows towards others is to go hand in
hand with the standard of righteousness to which one holds oneself.
Be pure, O people of God, be pure; be righteous, be righ-
teous. . . . Say: O people of God! That which can ensure the
victory of Him Who is the Eternal Truth, His hosts and helpers
on earth, have been set down in the sacred Books and Scriptures,
and are as clear and manifest as the sun. These hosts are such
righteous deeds, such conduct and character, as are acceptable
in His sight.13
Righteousness requires us to scrupulously examine ourselves in
the light of the divine teachings. Bahá’ís are to set before their eyes
the unerring Balance of God and, as if standing in His presence,
weigh their actions in that Balance every moment of their lives.14  As
‘Abdu’l-Bahá says:
It is my hope that you may consider this matter, that you
may search out your own imperfections and not think of the
imperfections of anybody else. Strive with all your power to
be free from imperfections. Heedless souls are always seeking
The Champion of Justice

Creating a New Mind
faults in others. What can the hypocrite know of others’ faults
when he is blind to his own? This is the meaning of the words
in the Seven Valleys. It is a guide for human conduct. As long
as a man does not find his own faults, he can never become
perfect. Nothing is more fruitful for man than the knowledge
of his own shortcomings. The Blessed Perfection says, “I won-
der at the man who does not find his own imperfections.”15
It is worth noting, however, that tolerance should even occasionally
be extended to oneself, since, as the Guardian observes, “even the
Prophets of God sometimes got tired and cried out in despair!”16
For a Bahá’í, being an upholder of truth and a champion of
justice implies adhering to practices radically different from those
commonly accepted in society at large. Strife and contention are
not the proper means for achieving justice, nor is justice the fruit of
an adversarial process. To work for justice does not entail parroting
support for popular issues or the causes of the moment. Justice is
not an excuse for the promotion of self-interest. It is not obtained
by righteous indignation and loud demands made from a distance
on behalf of the oppressed when one is cushioned by the comforts
of privileged circumstances. It is promoted, instead, by patience and
long-suffering, through persistent action and loving education. One
endures injustice in the process of building justice. Bahá’u’lláh’s life is
eloquent testimony to this truth. “Because He bore injustice, justice
hath appeared on earth, and because He accepted abasement, the
majesty of God hath shone forth amidst mankind.”17
A community of individuals who uphold truth and champion
justice faces challenges, hardship, and even persecution with com-
posure and equanimity as it labors to establish Bahá’u’lláh’s system
of justice for all humanity.

The Selfless Giver
Justice must be complemented by generosity, forgiveness, and
loving-kindness, and those who are determined to contribute to the
advancement of the Cause and of society will do their utmost to
manifest these qualities. Generosity and giving are characteristics
of God Himself, of His Manifestation, and of the Exemplar in
Whose path we follow. “To give and to be generous are attributes of
Mine,” Bahá’u’lláh states in the Hidden Words, “well is it with him
that adorneth himself with My virtues.”1  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains that
Bahá’u’lláh
was most generous, giving abundantly to the poor. None who
came to Him were turned away. The doors of His house were
open to all. . . . In commenting upon this His friends said He
would become impoverished, for His expenses were many and
His wealth becoming more and more limited. . . . In truth, the
Blessed Perfection was a refuge for every weak one, a shelter
for every fearing one, kind to every indigent one, lenient and
loving to all creatures.2
‘Abdu’l-Bahá was renowned for these selfsame characteristics.
Shoghi Effendi notes among the Master’s attributes “a generosity,
a love, at once disinterested and indiscriminating.”3  “To the needy
thronging His doors and filling the courtyard of His house every
Friday morning . . . He would distribute alms with His own hands,
with a regularity and generosity that won Him the title of ‘Father of
the Poor.’” Even in the face of the life-threatening assaults directed
toward ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in the Holy Land, “nothing would be allowed
to interfere with His ministrations to the destitute, the orphan, the

Creating a New Mind
sick, and the down-trodden, nothing could prevent Him from calling
in person upon those who were either incapacitated, or ashamed to
solicit His aid.”4
In innumerable soul-stirring passages, the believers are encour-
aged to be the trustees of God and the emblems of His generosity
among His people.5
O ye lovers of God! Be kind to all peoples; care for every
person; do all ye can to purify the hearts and minds of men;
strive ye to gladden every soul. To every meadow be a shower
of grace, to every tree the water of life; be as sweet musk to
the sense of humankind, and to the ailing be a fresh, restoring
breeze. Be pleasing waters to all those who thirst, a careful guide
to all who have lost their way; be father and mother to the or-
phan, be loving sons and daughters to the old, be an abundant
treasure to the poor.6
Generosity, as described in the Bahá’í writings, should not be
confused with giving away a small portion of one’s abundance to
mollify feelings of pity for the poor—a mere compromise with in-
justice. The generosity to which the believers are called is an essen-
tial aspect of the relationships that unite the human family, weaving
the fabric of community and social order. It is the giving of the sun
to the earth, the outpouring of bountiful rain on parched fields and
meadows. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains that giving is bound up in the very
nature of reality:
Were one to observe with an eye that discovereth the realities
of all things, it would become clear that the greatest relation-
ship that bindeth the world of being together lieth in the range
of created things themselves, and that cooperation, mutual aid
and reciprocity are essential characteristics in the unified body
of the world of being, inasmuch as all created things are closely
related together and each is influenced by the other or deriveth
benefit therefrom, either directly or indirectly. . . .
And thus when contemplating the human world thou be-
holdest this wondrous phenomenon shining resplendent from
all sides with the utmost perfection, inasmuch as in this station
acts of cooperation, mutual assistance and reciprocity are not

confined to the body and to things that pertain to the material
world, but for all conditions, whether physical or spiritual....
The more this interrelationship is strengthened and expanded,
the more will human society advance in progress and prosperity.
Indeed without these vital ties it would be wholly impossible for
the world of humanity to attain true felicity and success. . . .
This is the basic principle on which the institution of
H. uqúqu’lláh is established, inasmuch as its proceeds are dedi-
cated to the furtherance of these ends. . . . The wisdom of this
command is that the act of giving is well-pleasing in the sight
of God. Consider how well-pleasing must this mighty act be
in His estimation that He hath ascribed it unto His Own Self.
Rejoice ye then, O people of generosity!7
How pleasing it is to God for His servants to follow His example
of generosity and expend their wealth for the well-being of others
and the prosperity of the entire human race. “Ye are the trees of My
garden,” Bahá’u’lláh states, “ye must give forth goodly and won-
drous fruits, that ye yourselves and others may profit therefrom.”
“The best of men are they that earn a livelihood by their calling and
spend upon themselves and upon their kindred for the love of God,
the Lord of all worlds.”8
Refusal to be generous and giving is an invitation to corrosive
habits and practices, among which are impatience with the mistakes
of others and a desire to control their actions. Ungenerous souls
in positions of authority deny others the opportunity to serve,
demonstrating interest and appreciation only for enterprises in
which they directly participate. They are, instead, to be free “from
every word and deed that may savor of partiality, self-centeredness
and prejudice.”9 As community members, souls who lack generosity
constantly criticize their leaders and institutions.
If the Bahá’ís undermine the very leaders which are, however
immaturely, seeking to coordinate Bahá’í activities and ad-
minister Bahá’í affairs, if they continually criticize their acts
and challenge or belittle their decisions, they not only prevent
any real rapid progress in the Faith’s development from taking
place, but they repel outsiders who quite rightly may ask how
The Selfless Giver

Creating a New Mind
we ever expect to unite the whole world when we are so dis-
united among ourselves!10
One of the first manifestations of generosity that comes to mind
is giving to the Bahá’í Funds. Contributing to the Fund constitutes,
according to Shoghi Effendi, “a practical and effective way whereby
every believer can test the measure and character of his faith, and
prove in deeds the intensity of his devotion and attachment to the
Cause.”11  Contributions, selflessly offered, reveal a fundamental truth
underlying the attribute of generosity: that the giver is also the receiver
of bounty. Shoghi Effendi illustrates the workings of this principle
by comparing it to a fountain:
We must be like the fountain or spring that is continually
emptying itself of all that it has and is continually being refilled
from an invisible source. To be continually giving out for the
good of our fellows undeterred by the fear of poverty and reli-
ant on the unfailing bounty of the Source of all wealth and all
good—this is the secret of right living.12
Hospitality—“with all its implications of friendliness, courtesy,
service, generosity and conviviality”—is another way in which in-
dividuals give to others and to the community. So important is this
quality that Bahá’u’lláh has made it an essential characteristic of the
Nineteen Day Feast, which is the cornerstone of His New World Order.
The very idea of hospitality as the sustaining spirit of so sig-
nificant an institution introduces a revolutionary new attitude
to the conduct of human affairs at all levels, an attitude which
is critical to that world unity which the Central Figures of our
Faith labored so long and suffered so much cruelty to bring into
being. It is in this divine festival that the foundation is laid for
the realization of so unprecedented a reality.13
But to be generous does not involve only the giving of material
things. Generosity is also expressed in attitudes toward others. It is
demonstrated in respect, free from any trace of envy, for their rank
and achievements.14  In the same way that we take pride in our own
accomplishments must we learn to find joy and pleasure in the suc-
cess of others, even when we have no part in their attainments.

The capacity to forgive and to return good for evil is yet another
characteristic of the generous soul.
Should any come to blows with you, seek to be friends with him;
should any stab you to the heart, be ye a healing salve unto his
sores; should any taunt and mock at you, meet him with love.
Should any heap his blame upon you, praise ye him; should
he offer you a deadly poison, give him the choicest honey in
exchange; and should he threaten your life, grant him a remedy
that will heal him evermore. Should he be pain itself, be ye his
medicine; should he be thorns, be ye his roses and sweet herbs.15
The most noteworthy expression of generosity is, of course,
teaching, for one shares with others the greatest bounty of all—the
knowledge of Bahá’u’lláh’s Revelation. By giving to others in teach-
ing, the generous soul contributes continually to the growth of the
community and becomes a fountain of joy to the world.
Be unrestrained as the wind, while carrying the Message of
Him Who hath caused the Dawn of Divine Guidance to break.
Consider, how the wind, faithful to that which God hath or-
dained, bloweth upon all regions of the earth, be they inhabited
or desolate. Neither the sight of desolation, nor the evidences
of prosperity, can either pain or please it. It bloweth in every
direction, as bidden by its Creator.16
The Selfless Giver

The Pure Channel
The challenges confronting those who arise to serve the world
cannot be met through human effort alone. Divine power is required
to counter the process of disintegration destroying the social order.
This power flows in proportion to the hollowness of the reed and
the purity of the channel.
First in a human being’s way of life must be purity, then
freshness, cleanliness, and independence of spirit. First must
the stream bed be cleansed, then may the sweet river waters be
led into it.1
“Be swift in the path of holiness,” is Bahá’u’lláh’s call, “and en-
ter the heaven of communion with Me. Cleanse thy heart with the
burnish of the spirit, and hasten to the court of the Most High.”2
“Whoso ariseth, in this Day, to aid Our Cause, and summoneth
to his assistance the hosts of a praiseworthy character and upright
conduct,” He promises, “the influence flowing from such an action
will, most certainly, be diffused throughout the whole world.”3  He
further establishes that the “betterment of the world” is achieved
through “pure and goodly deeds;”4 that such deeds “ascend unto the
heaven of celestial glory;” and that “ere long the assayers of mankind
shall . . . accept naught but absolute virtue and deeds of stainless pu-
rity.”5 And He exclaims:
We verily behold your actions. If We perceive from them the
sweet smelling savor of purity and holiness, We will most cer-
tainly bless you. Then will the tongues of the inmates of Paradise
utter your praise and magnify your names amidst them who
have drawn nigh unto God.6

Creating a New Mind
Among the highest aspirations of all people is freedom. It is their
dream, their expressed ideal, the object of their constant struggle. Yet,
few in modern society recognize that purity is the door to freedom,
since it is purity that releases a soul from earthly bondage and op-
pression. Bahá’u’lláh admonishes:
Ye are even as the bird which soareth, with the full force of
its mighty wings and with complete and joyous confidence,
through the immensity of the heavens, until, impelled to sat-
isfy its hunger, it turneth longingly to the water and clay of the
earth below it, and, having been entrapped in the mesh of its
desire, findeth itself impotent to resume its flight to the realms
whence it came. Powerless to shake off the burden weighing on
its sullied wings, that bird, hitherto an inmate of the heavens,
is now forced to seek a dwelling-place upon the dust.7
Purity should not be confused with Puritanism. It is not a
superficial state of “being good” accompanied by self-righteousness. It
is a divine attribute that touches on every aspect of life, an influence
on every other quality of the soul. “In every aspect of life, purity and
holiness, cleanliness and refinement, exalt the human condition and
further the development of man’s inner reality.”8
In relation to the material world, purity is manifested in clean-
liness. Bahá’u’lláh exhorts His followers to be the very essence of
cleanliness among humankind,9 and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states that even
in the physical realm, cleanliness will conduce to spirituality. For,
He explains, just as music acts as wings for the spirit, bringing joy
to the soul, so, too, does physical cleanliness exert an effect upon it.10
Purity is also manifested in daily living. Both in their “social rela-
tions with the members of their own community, and in their contact
with the world at large,” Shoghi Effendi calls for a chaste and holy
life which “must be made the controlling principle in the behavior
and conduct of all Bahá’ís.”11
Such a chaste and holy life, with its implications of modesty,
purity, temperance, decency, and clean-mindedness, involves no
less than the exercise of moderation in all that pertains to dress,
language, amusements, and all artistic and literary avocations.

It demands daily vigilance in the control of one’s carnal desires
and corrupt inclinations. It calls for the abandonment of a
frivolous conduct, with its excessive attachment to trivial and
often misdirected pleasures. It requires total abstinence from all
alcoholic drinks, from opium, and from similar habit-forming
drugs. It condemns the prostitution of art and of literature, the
practices of nudism and of companionate marriage, infidelity
in marital relationships, and all manner of promiscuity, of easy
familiarity, and of sexual vices. It can tolerate no compromise
with the theories, the standards, the habits, and the excesses
of a decadent age. Nay rather it seeks to demonstrate, through
the dynamic force of its example, the pernicious character of
such theories, the falsity of such standards, the hollowness of
such claims, the perversity of such habits, and the sacrilegious
character of such excesses.12
Intention and attitude are another facet of the individual’s life
in which purity is manifested. Shoghi Effendi warns the believers to
beware lest “partiality, ambition, and worldliness . . . becloud the ra-
diance, stain the purity, and impair the effectiveness of the Faith of
Bahá’u’lláh.”13  An individual whose motives are shaped by ambition
or thirst for power can easily become an impediment to the progress
of the Cause. Political behavior and manipulation, so common in
the world, are impure and alien to its unifying aims. Shoghi Effendi
explains that there is no room in the Faith for political maneuver-
ing; that full, unprejudiced consultation is our standard; and that
anything less is not only unworthy of a Bahá’í, but in direct disobe-
dience to the Master’s instructions and a sign of lack of faith.14  “Pure
detachment and selfless service, these should be the sole motives of
every true believer.”15
Above all else, purity is a prerequisite for a proper relationship
with God—to perceive the spiritual realm and enter into His presence.
Chaste eyes enjoy the beatific vision of the Lord and know what
this encounter meaneth; a pure sense inhaleth the fragrances
that blow from the rose gardens of His grace; a burnished heart
will mirror forth the comely face of truth.16
The Pure Channel

Creating a New Mind
From this description, it is clear that purity is neither an unat-
tainable ideal, nor easily achieved. Purification is an ongoing process,
won by degrees—a struggle which lasts throughout a lifetime. Each
time some frontier is conquered, a challenging new horizon appears.
The burnish that cleanses the heart is the love of God. Through
such love, ignited by the Word of God and fanned by daily prayer,
the individual is enkindled. Bahá’u’lláh states:
O Friends! You must all be so ablaze in this day with the fire
of the love of God that the heat thereof may be manifest in
all your veins, your limbs and members of your body, and the
peoples of the world may be ignited by this heat and turn to
the horizon of the Beloved.17
The fire of the love of God, Shoghi Effendi explains, will warm and
heal,18 and will, as ‘Abdu’l-Bahá describes, make the heart dance for
joy and fill the soul with the ecstasy of rapture.19  “There is nothing
greater or more blessed than the Love of God! It gives healing to the
sick, balm to the wounded, joy and consolation to the whole world,
and through it alone can man attain Life Everlasting.”20
Purification is not achieved through an ascetic withdrawal from
life, nor are divine attributes acquired through idle contemplation.
Goodness is not the absence of evil; rather, the reverse is true. The
acquisition of spiritual qualities requires constant and diligent effort
to strengthen the bonds which unite us with our Creator. It calls for
the discipline of systematically cultivating the good and weeding
out negative habits and attitudes. It proceeds as one devotes oneself
to the service of humanity and to the advancement of the Cause of
God. “One thing and only one thing will unfailingly and alone se-
cure the undoubted triumph of this sacred Cause,” Shoghi Effendi
states, “namely, the extent to which our own inner life and private
character mirror forth in their manifold aspects the splendor of those
eternal principles proclaimed by Bahá’u’lláh.” But to “mirror forth”
the “eternal principles proclaimed by Bahá’u’lláh,”21 surely means
to act to teach, to act to serve, to act to build unity and establish
justice, and to act to breathe a new life into the world. The greater
the effort to purify oneself, the greater the manifestation of spiritual

power. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s words about sacrifice are particularly instruc-
tive in this respect:
. . . man must sacrifice the qualities and attributes of the world
of nature for the qualities and attributes of the world of God.
For instance, consider the substance we call iron. Observe its
qualities; it is solid, black, cold. . . . When the same iron absorbs
heat from the fire, it sacrifices its attribute of solidity for the
attribute of fluidity. It sacrifices its attribute of darkness for the
attribute of light, which is a quality of the fire. . . . It becomes
illumined and transformed, having sacrificed its qualities to the
qualities and attributes of the fire.
Likewise, man, when separated and severed from the attri-
butes of the world of nature, sacrifices the qualities and exigen-
cies of that mortal realm and manifests the perfections of the
Kingdom, just as the qualities of the iron disappeared and the
qualities of the fire appeared in their place.22
As the storms of passion beat down on a despairing humanity,
undermining its moral integrity, the community whose members
are the embodiments of purity becomes a fortress of strength for the
world, the refuge of a tottering civilization.
The Pure Channel

The Faithful Lover
Through His Revelation, the Manifestation makes known to hu-
manity God’s will and purpose. “Whatsoever hath been revealed in
His Tablets is but a reflection of His Will.”1  But the capacity of hu-
manity to understand and respond to the Revelation is limited. The
power that enables the individual to follow the teachings in spite of
this inherent limitation is the power of the Covenant. Were it not
for the power of the Covenant, humanity would lose its bearings; it
would no longer be possible to know God’s will in order to achieve
His purpose. The Covenant is the wellspring of faith and love.
In this Dispensation, the individual receives the bounties of the
Covenant in two ways: through the greater Covenant, the Covenant
between God and humanity, and through the lesser Covenant, which
is established between Bahá’u’lláh and His followers. With respect to
the greater Covenant, Bahá’u’lláh describes, in the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, the
twin duties enjoined by God on His servants. The first duty is “the
recognition of Him Who is the Dayspring of His Revelation and the
Fountain of His laws.” Those who have attained to the recognition of
the Manifestation are also to “observe every ordinance of Him Who
is the Desire of the world.” “These twin duties,” Bahá’u’lláh explains,
“are inseparable. Neither is acceptable without the other.”2
Those who arise to serve the Cause and contribute to the prog-
ress of humanity strive to fulfill these duties with faithfulness and
firmness, manifesting “such steadfastness that were all the peoples of
the world to attempt to prevent [them] from turning to the Source
of Revelation, they would be powerless to do so.”3

Creating a New Mind
Follow not, therefore, your earthly desires, and violate not the
Covenant of God, nor break your pledge to Him. With firm
determination, with the whole affection of your heart, and with
the full force of your words, turn ye unto Him, and walk not
in the ways of the foolish. . . . Break not the bond that uniteth
you with your Creator, and be not of those that have erred and
strayed from His ways.4
The purpose of the lesser Covenant is “to perpetuate the influ-
ence of [the] Faith, insure its integrity, safeguard it from schism, and
stimulate its world-wide expansion.”5  “The essence of the Covenant is
the continuation of divine guidance after the Ascension of the Prophet
through the presence in this world of an institution to which all the
friends turn and which can indisputably state what is the will of God.”6
‘Abdu’l-Bahá is the Center of the Covenant and, after Him, the
Guardianship and the Universal House of Justice are the Centers to
which all must turn. The interpretations of the Guardian are statements
of truth about the meaning of the Book that cannot be altered.7  The
Universal House of Justice has “been invested by Bahá’u’lláh with the
authority to legislate whatsoever has not been explicitly and outwardly
recorded in His holy Writ,” and has “the right and power to abrogate,
according to the changes and requirements of the time, whatever has
been already enacted and enforced by a preceding House of Justice.”8
While its members are “not omniscient” and want to “be provided
with facts when called upon to render a decision,”9 yet, “whatsoever
they decide is of God”10 and “has the same effect as the Text itself.”11
To be firm in the Covenant, then, a believer turns, with fidelity
and unshakable resolve, to the Text and to the Center of Authority in
the Faith, thereby clinging to the will and purpose of God as revealed
by Bahá’u’lláh. To “accept Bahá’u’lláh is to accept His Covenant; to
reject His Covenant is to reject Him.”12  Firmness in the Covenant
requires trust—trust that God will fulfill His promise to keep open
the channel of divine guidance. This means that the believers should
have confidence that God will guide the Universal House of Justice
to do whatever is necessary for the welfare of the Cause at the propi-
tious moment. Without such confidence, service to the Cause rests
upon a foundation of sand.

The Hand of Omnipotence hath established His Revelation
upon an unassailable, an enduring foundation. Storms of hu-
man strife are powerless to undermine its basis, nor will men’s
fanciful theories succeed in damaging its structure.13
Let it not be imagined that the House of Justice will take
any decision according to its own concepts and opinions. God
forbid! The Supreme House of Justice will take decisions and
establish laws through the inspiration and confirmation of
the Holy Spirit, because it is in the safekeeping and under the
shelter and protection of the Ancient Beauty, and obedience to
its decisions is a bounden and essential duty and an absolute
obligation, and there is no escape for anyone.14
Service to the Cause of God requires absolute fidelity and
integrity and unwavering faith in Him. No good but only evil
can come from taking the responsibility for the future of God’s
Cause into our own hands and trying to force it into ways that
we wish it to go regardless of the clear texts and our own limi-
tations. It is His Cause. He has promised that its light will not
fail. Our part is to cling tenaciously to the revealed Word and to
the institutions that He has created to preserve His Covenant.15
The Covenant is not simply about the appearance of a new
Manifestation and the succession of authority after His passing. It
addresses relationships: the relationship between God and the indi-
vidual, between the individual and the Manifestation, between the
individual and the Faith, among the believers, and between the indi-
viduals and their institutions. The Covenant defines the bond of duty
and also the bond of love in each of these relationships. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
states that the spirit of the Covenant is the real center of love that
reflects its rays to all parts of the world, resuscitating and regenerat-
ing humanity and illuminating the path to the Kingdom.16  “Love is
heaven’s kindly light,” the “Holy Spirit’s eternal breath that vivifieth
the human soul,” and “the cause of God’s revelation unto man.”17  It is
through the love of God for man that the Covenant was established;
thus, God could reveal Himself, enkindle the spirit of faith, and pro-
vide the teachings to educate each human soul. It is the love of the
The Faithful Lover

Creating a New Mind
individual for God that engenders “faith, attraction to the Divine,
enkindlement, progress, entrance into the Kingdom of God, receiv-
ing the Bounties of God”18 and from which “stems a desire to submit
oneself to His Will, to obey His laws, to heed His exhortations and
to promote His Faith.”19  Bahá’u’lláh’s call to us is to “Observe My
commandments, for the love of My beauty.”20
Touched by the water of love, the seed of recognition grows to
become certitude.
Such should be thy certitude that if all mankind were to ad-
vance such claims as no man hath ever advanced, or any mind
conceived, thou wouldst completely ignore them, wouldst cast
them from thee, and would set thy face towards Him Who is
the Object of the adoration of all worlds.
By the righteousness of Mine own Self! Great, immeasurably
great is this Cause! Mighty, inconceivably mighty is this Day!
Blessed indeed is the man that hath forsaken all things, and
fastened his eyes upon Him Whose face hath shed illumination
upon all who are in the heavens and all who are on the earth.
Sharp must be thy sight . . . and adamant thy soul, and brass-
like thy feet, if thou wishest to be unshaken by the assaults of
the selfish desires that whisper in men’s breasts.21
Touched by the water of love, the seed of obedience grows to become
complete surrender to the Will of God.
By self-surrender and perpetual union with God is meant that
men should merge their will wholly in the Will of God, and
regard their desires as utter nothingness beside His Purpose.
Whatsoever the Creator commandeth His creatures to observe,
the same must they diligently, and with the utmost joy and ea-
gerness, arise and fulfill. . . . In the Prayer of Fasting We have
revealed: “Should Thy Will decree that out of Thy mouth these
words proceed and be addressed unto them, ‘Observe, for My
Beauty’s sake, the fast, O people, and set no limit to its duration,’
I swear by the majesty of Thy glory, that every one of them will
faithfully observe it, will abstain from whatsoever will violate
Thy law, and will continue to do so until they yield up their
souls unto Thee.” In this consisteth the complete surrender of

one’s will to the Will of God. . . . The station of absolute self-
surrender transcendeth, and will ever remain exalted above,
every other station.22
The movement from recognition to certitude and from obedience
to surrender requires spiritual discipline. The faithful lover embraces
the obligations of the law of God with joy and exaltation. “Whoso
hath inhaled the sweet fragrance of the All-Merciful, and recognized
the Source of this utterance,” Bahá’u’lláh affirms, “will welcome with
his own eyes the shafts of the enemy, that he may establish the truth
of the laws of God amongst men.”23  The faithful lover basks in the
bounties of prayer and fasting; drinks deeply of the life-giving water
of the Word of God; is enflamed by a passion for teaching; eschews
idleness and unseemly diversions; and delights in service for the well-
being of all. The faithful lover makes each morn “better than its eve,
and each morrow richer than its yesterday.”24
A community of faithful souls is confident and patient under tri-
als. It works systematically, marching ever-forward in serried ranks,
secure in the promise of ultimate triumph even when the field is as-
sailed by forces of opposition from within and without.
The Faithful Lover

The Initiator of Systematic Action
Individual initiative is indispensable for the progress of the Cause.
Calling on every believer to respond to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Divine Plan,
Shoghi Effendi underscores the privilege to “initiate, promote, and
consolidate, within the limits fixed by the administrative principles
of the Faith, any activity he or she deems fit to undertake for the
furtherance of the Plan.”1  He also states of the individual:
Without his support, at once whole-hearted, continuous and
generous, every measure adopted, and every plan formulated,
by the body which acts as the national representative of the
community to which he belongs, is foredoomed to failure. The
World Center of the Faith itself is paralyzed if such a support
on the part of the rank and file of the community is denied
it. The Author of the Divine Plan Himself is impeded in His
purpose if the proper instruments for the execution of His de-
sign are lacking.2
When opportunities for action are seized, individual effort is
characterized by courage, creativity, lofty aims, and enthusiasm. Shoghi
Effendi notes the “essential qualities of audacity, of consecration,
of tenacity, of self-renunciation, and unstinted devotion,” which
prompted Bahá’í pioneers to “abandon their homes, and forsake
their all, and scatter over the surface of the globe, and hoist in its
uttermost corners the triumphant banner of Bahá’u’lláh.”3  Similarly,
the Universal House of Justice praises “a boldness, a creativity, and
a tenacity that have resonated in the worldwide proclamation of the
Faith and the promotion of its vital interests.”4  In repeated appeals, the
individual believer is exhorted to waste no time and forfeit no further

Creating a New Mind
opportunity.5  So important is determined and creative initiative,
‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains, that it should be taught from childhood.
They must be constantly encouraged and made eager to gain
all the summits of human accomplishment, so that from their
earliest years they will be taught to have high aims, to conduct
themselves well, to be chaste, pure, and undefiled, and will learn
to be of powerful resolve and firm of purpose in all things. Let
them not jest and trifle, but earnestly advance unto their goals,
so that in every situation they will be found resolute and firm.6
A challenge that faces each believer is to find ways in which to
serve the Cause.
Neither the local nor national representatives of the commu-
nity, no matter how elaborate their plans, or persistent their
appeals, or sagacious their counsels, nor even the Guardian him-
self, however much he may yearn for this consummation, can
decide where the duty of the individual lies, or supplant him
in the discharge of that task. The individual alone must assess
its character, consult his conscience, prayerfully consider all its
aspects, [and] manfully struggle against the natural inertia that
weighs him down in his effort to arise. . . .7
In defining our path of service, however, we need to bear in mind
that teaching is a duty enjoined upon all. “For it is the individual who
possesses the will to act as a teacher or not. No Spiritual Assembly, no
teaching committee, no group of well-intentioned Bahá’ís, however
much it exerts itself, may usurp the position occupied by the indi-
vidual in this fundamental activity.”8  We are urged by the Guardian
to explore new channels for teaching9 and to make it the dominating
passion of our lives.10
When stepping into the field of action, the individual is
encouraged to be systematic and avoid freneticism. “Systematization
is a necessary mode of functioning animated by the urgency to act,”
the Universal House of Justice explains. While allowing for initiative
and spontaneity, “it suggests the need to be clear-headed, methodical,
efficient, constant, balanced and harmonious.” In responding to the
needs of the Cause, the individual

must make a conscious decision as to what he or she will do to
serve the Plan, and as to how, where and when to do it. This
determination enables the individual to check the progress of
his actions and, if necessary, to modify the steps being taken.
Becoming accustomed to such a procedure of systematic striv-
ing lends meaning and fulfilment to the life of any Bahá’í.11
For the high aims of the Cause to be achieved, the initiative of
each individual is to be harmonized and at times blended with the
efforts of others in collective action. Shoghi Effendi states that “it is
through cooperation and continued exchange of thoughts and views
that the Cause can best safeguard and foster its interests. Individual
initiative, personal ability and resourcefulness, though indispensable,
are, unless supported and enriched by the collective experiences and
wisdom of the group, utterly incapable of achieving such a tremendous
task.”12  The friends are thus urged “not to dissipate their efforts, but
to seek, after frank, mature and continuous deliberation, to arrive at
a common conclusion as to the most urgent requirements and needs
of the hour, and having unified their views to strive to uphold and
enforce them with promptitude, wholeheartedness and understand-
ing.”13  Personal endeavor provides “energy and resources to upbuild
the community, to uphold the authority of its institutions, and to
support local and regional plans and teaching projects.”14
The need to harmonize one’s initiative with collective action
does not imply that the individual is to wait for others to act or be
hindered by their doubts and concerns. “Let him not wait for any
directions,” the Guardian urges, “or expect any special encourage-
ment, from the elected representatives of his community, nor be
deterred by any obstacles which his relatives, or fellow-citizens may
be inclined to place in his path, nor mind the censure of his critics
or enemies.”15  “Be not grieved,” is Bahá’u’lláh’s own appeal, “if thou
performest it thyself alone.”16
Perceived injustice or improper behavior by others is often seized
upon as an excuse for inaction. Far from protesting or seeking to sepa-
rate from the community, the individual should in such instances,
according to the guidance of Shoghi Effendi, overcome the impulse
to withdraw and, instead, do that which is right. “Now that you see
The Initiator of Systematic Action

Creating a New Mind
more clearly what is lacking in your own community, there is noth-
ing to prevent you from arising and showing such an example, such
a love and spirit of service, as to enkindle the hearts of your fellow
Bahá’ís.” Through example, effort and prayer, he concludes, an indi-
vidual can bring about change.17
In accepting the responsibility for initiating action, we
simultaneously recognize that every “would-be warrior in the service of
Bahá’u’lláh” is opposed by a host of forces. Among these, the writings
of Shoghi Effendi tell us, are “gross materialism,” “the attachment
to worldly things that enshrouds the souls of men,” “the fears and
anxieties that distract their minds,” “the pleasure and dissipations
that fill their time,” “the prejudices and animosities that darken their
outlook,” and “the apathy and lethargy that paralyze their spiritual
faculties.” 18  Overcoming such barriers requires perseverance and
detachment. In addition, the individual “draws upon his love for
Bahá’u’lláh, the power of the Covenant, the dynamics of prayer, the
inspiration and education derived from regular reading and study
of the Holy Texts, and the transformative forces that operate upon
his soul as he strives to behave in accordance with the divine laws
and principles.”19
The greatest obstacle to action may be the contemplation of
personal limitation and weakness. The Guardian calls upon the
believers to cease looking at their own deficiencies, to have confidence
in the divine assistance promised to them by Bahá’u’lláh, and,
strengthened and revived by such an assurance, to continue to toil
till the very end of their lives.20
Perhaps the reason why you have not accomplished so much in
the field of teaching, is the extent you looked upon your own
weaknesses and inabilities to spread the Message. Bahá’u’lláh
and the Master have both urged us repeatedly to disregard our
own handicaps and lay our whole reliance upon God. He will
come to our help if we only arise and become an active channel
for God’s grace. . . . The criterion is the extent to which we are
ready to have the will of God operate through us.
Stop to be conscious of your frailties, therefore; have a perfect
reliance upon God; let your heart burn with the desire to serve

His Mission and proclaim His call; and you will observe how
eloquence and the power to change human hearts will come as
a matter of course.21
Ultimately, it is through the willingness of the individual to sac-
rifice that initiative is reinforced by divine power. And the greatest
sacrifice of all is the sacrifice of self, surrendering personal interests
and desires for the things that pertain to God. Self-sacrifice extends
even to the point of detachment from personal initiatives, for Shoghi
Effendi observes that there is a difference between those who offer
a service to the Faith that they choose to provide and others who
do whatever needs to be done. Attachment to one’s own service de-
values that service by placing personal opinions, ambitions, goals,
beliefs, or actions ahead of the general welfare. In the Bahá’í com-
munity, the will of the individual is subordinated to the common
good.22  Initiative, therefore, is not the expression of individualism,
but a properly channeled impulse on which social progress depends.
In the statement “I serve,” the emphasis is increasingly placed on the
word “serve,” while “I” is forgotten. As the individual arises in this
pure spirit to act for the triumph of the Cause and in service to hu-
manity, the community is infused with a power that accelerates its
advancement. Initiative is liberated from the anarchy of self-love to
become an instrument of God’s purpose for humanity.
We should continually be establishing new bases for human
happiness and creating and promoting new instrumentalities
toward this end. How excellent, how honorable is man if he
arises to fulfil his responsibilities; how wretched and contempt-
ible, if he shuts his eyes to the welfare of society and wastes his
precious life in pursuing his own selfish interests and personal
advantages. Supreme happiness is man’s, and he beholds the signs
of God in the world and in the human soul, if he urges on the
steed of high endeavor in the arena of civilization and justice.23
The Initiator of Systematic Action

The Quickener of Humanity
The purpose of Bahá’u’lláh’s Revelation is the creation of a new
human being and a new social order. Humanity is dead and the
Manifestation of God raises it to life. The earth is a frozen wasteland,
and He brings a new spiritual springtime.
When the Sun of Reality returns to quicken the world of man-
kind, a divine bounty descends from the heaven of generosity.
The realm of thoughts and ideals is set in motion and blessed
with new life. Minds are developed, hopes brighten, aspirations
become spiritual, the virtues of the human world appear with
freshened power of growth, and the image and likeness of God
become visible in man. It is the springtime of the inner world.1
Bahá’u’lláh proclaims His purpose to “quicken the world and unite
all its peoples.”2  God is capable of achieving the victory of the Cause
with but a single word, He assures us. But as a sign of His favor, and
for the well-being of His servants, He has ordained that we should
participate in the process of spiritualization and transformation.3
The Bahá’í writings define various degrees of spirit: mineral,
vegetable, animal, human. In relation to the higher degree, the low-
er degree may be considered as dead. What are the powers of the
stone when compared with those of the tree? What are the powers
of a tree when compared with those of an eagle? The human being
is endowed with the rational mind, the highest form of spirit in the
physical realm. However, there is a higher degree open to human-
ity—the spirit of faith. This is
the spirit His Holiness the Christ refers to when He says, “Those
that are born of the flesh are flesh, and those that are born of

Creating a New Mind
the spirit are spirit.” The spirit is the axis round which the eter-
nal life revolves. It is conducive to everlasting glory and is the
cause of the exaltation of humanity.4
The individual awakens to the spirit of faith through the recognition
of the Manifestation of God in His Day.
Every body calleth aloud for a soul. Heavenly souls must needs
quicken, with the breath of the Word of God, the dead bodies
with a fresh spirit.5
Teaching, then, is clearly not the act of pouring water into an
empty container, of selling a new product, of winning a debate,
or of signing-up new members of an organization. It is a spiritual
process concerned with awakening or rebirth. Bahá’u’lláh, by His own
testimony, emphasizes this intent: “Teach thou the Cause of God with
an utterance which will cause the bushes to be enkindled, and the call
‘Verily, there is no God but Me, the Almighty, the Unconstrained’
to be raised therefrom.”6  If God exists, if He has conveyed a fresh
Revelation of His will to humanity through Bahá’u’lláh, then every
individual has the right to learn of this message and personally decide
on its truth. Bahá’ís, then, bear the responsibility to share what they
know in a befitting manner.
If ye be aware of a certain truth, if ye possess a jewel, of which
others are deprived, share it with them in a language of utmost
kindliness and good-will. If it be accepted, if it fulfill its purpose,
your object is attained. If any one should refuse it, leave him
unto himself, and beseech God to guide him.7
Teaching is an act of intimate communication between one human
being and another. It answers heartfelt needs and aspirations by re-
moving the veils separating a soul from the paradise of the presence
of the Lord.8  “Most people are helpless,” the Báb explains, “and wert
thou to open their hearts and dispel their doubts, they would gain
admittance into the Faith of God.”9
Teaching is the preeminent act, the greatest gift, the most meri-
torious deed. It is “the head cornerstone of the foundation itself.”10
The appeal to teach runs throughout the entire Revelation. “It is

better to guide one soul than to possess all that is on earth,”11 the
Báb proclaims. “Teach ye the Cause of God, O people of Bahá,” is
Bahá’u’lláh’s own command, “for God hath prescribed unto every
one the duty of proclaiming His Message, and regardeth it as the
most meritorious of all deeds.”12  “Of all the gifts of God, the great-
est is the gift of Teaching,” ‘Abdu’l-Bahá asserts. “It draweth unto us
the Grace of God, and is our first obligation. Of such a gift how can
we deprive ourselves? Nay, our lives, our goods, our comforts, our
rest, we offer them all as a sacrifice for the Abhá Beauty and teach
the Cause of God.”13
The individual who arises to teach the Cause is to “teach his
own self.”14  This includes adorning oneself with “the ornament of an
upright and praiseworthy character,” so that “his words may attract
the hearts of such as are receptive to his call.”15  Every individual can
“teach by example” by applying diligently the laws and principles of
the Faith to his or her own life and thereby demonstrating the efficacy
of Bahá’u’lláh’s Revelation and His power to recreate human beings.
Deeds alone are, however, insufficient. Character is but a reinforce-
ment of the act of teaching. Teachers of the Faith “speak out, expound
the proofs, set forth clear arguments, draw irrefutable conclusions
establishing the truth of the manifestation of the Sun of Reality.”16
They “read the writings of Bahá’u’lláh and the Master so thoroughly”
as to be able to give the Message to others “in its pure form”17 and
“memorize phrases and passages bearing on various instances, so that
in the course of their speech they may recite divine verses whenever
the occasion demandeth it.”18  Above all, teachers remember that it is
not they who change human hearts or make converts; they are merely
the channels through which the spirit of God acts.19  Wisdom, cour-
age, enkindlement, confidence, audacity, and love are among those
qualities conducive to the flow of this transforming power.
Shoghi Effendi describes a number of steps in the process of
teaching, which include finding receptive souls, delivering the mes-
sage with wisdom, assisting individuals to embrace the Cause, and
confirming new believers until they can stand on their own. “Let him
not be content until he has infused into his spiritual child so deep a
The Quickener of Humanity

Creating a New Mind
longing as to impel him to arise independently, in his turn, and de-
vote his energies to the quickening of other souls, and the upholding
of the laws and principles laid down by his newly adopted Faith.”20
While the believers recognize the sacred obligation to teach and
are generally conscious of its vital importance, many lack confidence,
the Universal House of Justice explains, and feel that they do not
know what course of action to follow.21  Teaching is an art. It is the
sign of an effective teacher to adapt the presentation of the Faith
to the needs and capacity of the hearer,22 and channel the spiritual
powers that stir and influence souls. The individual who desires
to become a quickener of humanity commits himself or herself to
gradually but systematically acquiring the qualities, knowledge, and
skills necessary for effective teaching. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states that “the
awakening of the people, the diffusion of the divine teachings and
the education of mankind” all depend upon “instructing the friends
in the teaching work.”23  Noting that it is “imperative to acquire the
knowledge of divine proofs and evidences,” He praised the formation
of a study group for training teachers, calling for effort, perseverance
and constancy, since “this matter is highly important” and “is binding
on every one and must be regarded as an obligation.”24  Beyond study
classes for teachers, Shoghi Effendi observes that
. . . the best way to develop capacity in teaching the Faith, is
to teach. As one teaches, he gains more knowledge himself, he
relies more on the guidance of the spirit, and expands his own
character. This is why Bahá’u’lláh made it incumbent on all to
teach the Faith.25
While teaching is central to the quickening of humanity, it is, in
itself, only one part in a larger process. Bahá’u’lláh explains that He
has provided “the key for unlocking the doors of sciences, of arts, of
knowledge, of well-being, of prosperity and wealth.”26  The quickener of
humanity enters into diverse fields of service, raising the awareness of
the poor and the rich, the oppressed and the oppressor, the unlettered
and the learned, by introducing them to a new dimension of reality,
helping them to develop their latent potentialities and enabling them
to construct a new social order. Thus, writing beneficial articles and

books clarifying problems and presenting potential solutions, engaging
in activities of social and economic development, and participating in
projects to influence leaders of thought with Bahá’í concepts are all
avenues for the quickening of humanity. So, too, is participation in
worthy endeavors outside the Faith, infusing them with the teachings
of Bahá’u’lláh. The believers should be assured, the Universal House
of Justice states, “that this is, in and of itself, a tremendous service to
the Cause and [should] not feel that they are serving the Faith only
if they dedicate themselves directly to Bahá’í projects.”27
“We must now highly resolve to arise and lay hold of all those
instrumentalities that promote the peace and well-being and
happiness, the knowledge, culture and industry, the dignity, value
and station, of the entire human race,” ‘Abdu’l-Bahá urges. “Thus,
through the restoring waters of pure intention and unselfish effort,
the earth of human potentialities will blossom with its own latent
excellence and flower into praiseworthy qualities. . . .”28  It is clear,
then, that no matter how noble an individual becomes, no matter
how excellent his achievements, or how high his stature in the eyes of
the world, a commitment to the quickening of humankind remains
an essential obligation. For personal salvation is not the sole purpose
of Bahá’u’lláh’s Revelation:
Verily, He (Jesus) said: “Come ye after Me, and I will make
you to become fishers of men.” In this day, however, We say:
“Come ye after Me, that We may make you to become quick-
eners of mankind.”29
The heights to which a soul can rise are inextricably bound with
the social environment. What does it mean for a single person to be
just, when the social order oppresses the multitudes? Can material
prosperity be a symbol of success, when one third of the human race
survives on a mere pittance? Of what use is it to the victims of racism
that one soul is free of prejudice, while the very structures of society
proclaim and guarantee their inferiority? Shoghi Effendi explains that
“the inward life of man as well as his outward environment have to
be reshaped if human salvation is to be secured.”
The Quickener of Humanity

Creating a New Mind
We cannot segregate the human heart from the environment
outside us and say that once one of these is reformed everything
will be improved. Man is organic with the world. His inner life
molds the environment and is itself also deeply affected by it.
The one acts upon the other and every abiding change in the
life of man is the result of these mutual reactions.30
In this perspective, the purposes of life described in the Bahá’í
writings—to know and worship God,31 to acquire attributes,32 and to
carry forward an ever-advancing civilization33 —can be seen as parts of
a seamless whole. The quickener of humanity is an effective teacher
and a community builder, working incessantly to awaken others and
to transform the social order.

The Institutions

The Channel of the Spirit
Shoghi Effendi emphasizes that Bahá’u’lláh’s Revelation is
intimately associated with structural change in the social order.
Few will fail to recognize that the Spirit breathed by Bahá’u’lláh
upon the world, and which is manifesting itself with varying
degrees of intensity through the efforts consciously displayed
by His avowed supporters and indirectly through certain hu-
manitarian organizations, can never permeate and exercise an
abiding influence upon mankind unless and until it incarnates
itself in a visible Order, which would bear His name, wholly
identify itself with His principles, and function in conformity
with His laws....
For Bahá’u’lláh, we should readily recognize, has not only im-
bued mankind with a new and regenerating Spirit. He has not
merely enunciated certain universal principles, or propounded
a particular philosophy, however potent, sound and universal
these may be. In addition to these He, as well as ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
after Him, has, unlike the Dispensations of the past, clearly and
specifically laid down a set of Laws, established definite insti-
tutions, and provided for the essentials of a Divine Economy.
These are destined to be a pattern for future society, a supreme
instrument for the establishment of the Most Great Peace, and
the one agency for the unification of the world, and the procla-
mation of the reign of righteousness and justice upon the earth.1
The distinctive feature of Bahá’í administration is that it was
created by the Manifestation Himself. Bahá’u’lláh has, Shoghi Effendi
affirms, “revealed its principles, established its institutions, appointed
the person to interpret His Word and conferred the necessary authority

Creating a New Mind
on the body designed to supplement and apply His legislative
ordinances.”2  He placed the affairs of the Cause in the hands of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá; thereafter, the channel of divine guidance remained open
through the establishment of the twin institutions of the Guardianship
and the Universal House of Justice. They are “destined to apply the
principles, promulgate the laws, protect the institutions, adapt loyally
and intelligently the Faith to the requirements of progressive society,
and consummate the incorruptible inheritance which the Founders
of the Faith have bequeathed to the world.”3
While certain statements in the writings imply that these twin
institutions might have operated simultaneously, there are no limi-
tations set on their independent action. For thirty-six years, Shoghi
Effendi, acting as Head of the Faith and the Interpreter of the Book,
guided the spread of the Bahá’í community throughout the planet,
enhanced the understanding of the believers, and forged the basis of
the Administrative Order. He left for posterity a body of interpreta-
tion that clarifies the meaning of the Text. Today, although it acts
without a living Guardian, the Universal House of Justice is cloaked
in the mantle of infallibility described by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in His Will
and Testament. Recognizing the possible need for the formation of
the Universal House of Justice at a time when Shoghi Effendi was
too young to assume the station of the Guardian, the Master wrote:
“That which this body, whether unanimously or by a majority doth
carry, that is verily the Truth and the Purpose of God Himself.”4  And
Shoghi Effendi assures us that “the institution of Guardianship does
not under any circumstances abrogate, or even in the slightest degree
detract from, the powers granted to the Universal House of Justice
by Bahá’u’lláh in the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, and repeatedly and solemnly
confirmed by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in His Will.”5
The Universal House of Justice is now the Head of the Faith,
the Center of Authority to which all are to turn. It is empowered to
“pronounce upon and deliver the final judgment on such laws and
ordinances as Bahá’u’lláh has not expressly revealed”6 and to “deliber-
ate upon all problems which have caused difference, questions that are
obscure and matters that are not expressly recorded in the Book.”7  It

carries forward the functions, also exercised by the Guardian, to “in-
sure the continuity of that divinely-appointed authority which flows
from the Source of our Faith, to safeguard the unity of its followers,
and to maintain the integrity and flexibility of its teachings.”8  In sum,
although it does not interpret the Text, “the House of Justice is in a
position to do everything necessary to establish the World Order of
Bahá’u’lláh on this earth.”9
Bahá’í administration includes two complementary branches.
The first consists of elected institutions with their appointed commit-
tees and agencies “which function corporately with vested legislative,
executive, and judicial powers.” The second branch is composed of
“appointed, eminent and devoted believers” who “function primarily
as individuals for the specific purpose of protecting and propagating
the Faith under the guidance of the Head of the Faith.”10  This order,
“the Child of the Covenant,”11 designed to “canalize the forces of a
new civilization,”12 carries the spirit of the Faith to all parts of the
globe and opens the “channels of divine guidance”13 to every nation
and to every city, town and village.
The ordination of elected bodies in Bahá’u’lláh’s divine system
marks a revolutionary departure from previous religious practice.
Although this system is not identical with a democratic form of gov-
ernance, nevertheless, responsibility for religious affairs is placed in
the hands of the people. The freedom of individuals and the author-
ity of institutions are simultaneously upheld, while such disunifying
elements as distrust of authority, unbounded individualism, partisan-
ship, and electioneering are muted or suppressed. The Local Assembly
has the responsibility to “guide, direct and decide on community
affairs and the right to be obeyed and supported by members of the
community.”14  It focuses the spirit of enterprise and the initiative of
individuals. It sets the pattern of community life. It also guides the
involvement of the Bahá’í community in the life of society and influ-
ences the course of human affairs by its interaction with the wider
community. A National Assembly has similar functions, with exclusive
jurisdiction over the affairs of the Cause in a country.15  Consolidation
of the local level provides support and strength in the conduct of
The Channel of the Spirit

Creating a New Mind
national activities; the National Assembly and its agencies, in turn,
coordinate and stimulate local endeavors.
While historically the network of Assemblies and subordinate
agencies emerged before the other arm of the administrative order, the
latter plays no less a distinctive and crucial part in the advancement of
the Cause. “The existence of institutions of such exalted rank, com-
prising individuals who play such a vital role, who yet have no legis-
lative, administrative or judicial authority, and are entirely devoid of
priestly functions or the right to make authoritative interpretations,”
the Universal House of Justice explains, “is a feature of Bahá’í admin-
istration unparalleled in the religions of the past.”16  The development
of this arm of the Administrative Order began with the appointment
of the Hands of the Cause of God, whose functions are “to diffuse
the Divine Fragrances, to edify the souls of men, to promote learn-
ing, to improve the character of all men and to be, at all times and
under all conditions, sanctified and detached from earthly things.”17
The Continental Boards of Counselors were established to extend
into the future the duties assigned to the Hands for the propagation
and protection of the Faith. Through the Auxiliary Board members
and their assistants, the benefits of the institution of the Counselors
reach the entire worldwide community at the grassroots. Members of
the Protection Board concentrate on deepening the believers, nurtur-
ing the depth and strength of their faith, and promoting their unity.
The Propagation Board directs the friends’ attention to the goals of
the plans, encourages contributions to the funds, and stimulates and
leads teaching work.18  Together, the two Boards serve as companions
and tutors to the individuals, the Assemblies and the communities,
helping them to build their capacity to apply the teachings. This
institution knits and bolsters the fabric of the community—broad-
ening its base, fostering its strength, and ensuring its security.19  The
work of the Counselors is coordinated by the International Teaching
Centre, an exalted body which functions under the direct guidance
of the Universal House of Justice.
It is particularly in the interactions of the two branches of the
Administrative Order that the uniqueness of Bahá’u’lláh’s system is

apparent. Although they share responsibilities in such areas as teach-
ing, education, planning, community development and protection,
they approach these duties in complementary ways. With regard to
plans for the growth of the community, for example, the Assemblies
and their agencies hold decision-making and executive authority.
The Counselors and their auxiliaries rally the believers, working with
them to translate decisions into action. At the same time, they have
the necessary rank to be heard by the Assemblies, providing an inde-
pendent source of counsel based on direct experience of challenges
and opportunities in the field. In this way, the community enjoys
the benefits of elected bodies to govern it, but also outstanding in-
dividuals to lead it. And the Assembly has advocates and champi-
ons in the community, as well as advisors that protect it from the all
too common fate of elected bodies: becoming aloof from those they
serve, making decisions based only on the cloistered views of their
members. Thus, it is the complementary effect of the two institutions,
rather than either acting in isolation from the other, that galvanizes
the spirit of the friends.
. . . Only as the Bahá’í Community grows and the believers are
increasingly able to contemplate its administrative structure
uninfluenced by concepts from past ages, will the vital inter-
dependence of the “rulers” and the “learned” in the Faith be
properly understood, and the inestimable value of their inter-
action be fully recognized.20
The spiritual reality of Bahá’í institutions transcends those indi-
viduals who are called to their membership. As the Universal House
of Justice states:
There needs to be a recognition on their part of the Assembly’s
spiritual character and a feeling in their hearts of respect for the
institution based upon a perception of it as something beyond
or apart from themselves, as a sacred entity whose powers they
have the privilege to engage and canalize by coming together in
harmony and acting in accordance with divinely revealed prin-
ciples. With such a perspective the members will be able better
The Channel of the Spirit

Creating a New Mind
to acquire an appropriate posture in relation to the Assembly
itself, to appreciate their role as Trustees of the Merciful. . . .21
Nevertheless, the members recognize that their personal conduct
and moral character are intimately connected to the effectiveness and
proper functioning of the institutions.22  If the channels of the spirit
are obstructed, how can the divine blessings flow? “In these days
when the forces of irreligion are weakening the moral fiber, and un-
dermining the foundations of individual morality, the obligation of
chastity and holiness must claim an increasing share of the attention
of the . . . believers,” Shoghi Effendi states, “both in their individual
capacities and as the responsible custodians of the interests of the
Faith of Bahá’u’lláh.”
It is worth noting that for Bahá’ís, membership on an institu-
tion is not a goal to which one aspires but a service to which one is
called. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá tells us that rank is an essential feature of hu-
man society for “Equality is a chimera!” and “Degrees are absolutely
necessary to ensure an orderly organization.”23  Yet, positions of rank
in society have repeatedly been used for self-gratification and for the
oppression of others. Condemning such abuses, Bahá’u’lláh exhorts
His followers to regard themselves as being on the same level and
in the same station.24  Indeed, the Guardian explains that “differen-
tials of rank, functions or procedures between agencies of the Bahá’í
administration are meant to canalize, not obstruct, the work of the
Cause,” and that these aspects of the administration should “properly
be viewed in the context of humble service to the Blessed Perfection,
which is the loftiest objective of all who gather under the banner of
the Most Great Name.”25
Service is the essence of Bahá’í administration. As the Universal
House of Justice states:
. . . the importance of the Bahá’í administration is its value in
serving as a facilitator of the emergence and maintenance of
community life in a wholly new mode, and in catering to the
requirements of the spiritual relationships which flow from love
and unity among the friends. This touches upon a distinguish-
ing characteristic of Bahá’í life which such spiritual relation-
ships foster, namely, the spirit of servitude to God, expressed in

service to the Cause, to the friends and to humanity as a whole.
The attitude of the individual as a servant, an attitude pre-em-
inently exemplified in the life and person of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, is a
dynamic that permeates the activities of the Faith; it acquires
collective, transformative force in the normal functioning of a
community. In this regard, the institutions of the Faith stand
as channels for the promotion of this salient characteristic. It is
in this framework that the concepts of rulership and leadership,
authority and power are properly understood and actualized.26
When the institutions act as effective channels of the spirit, the
powers of individuals are stirred and oriented, and the community
is afforded the guidance essential for its progress.
The Channel of the Spirit

The Trustees of Individual Freedom
and of the Common Good
Throughout history, the interests of the individual have clashed
with those of institutions. Political philosophies and ideologies rise
and fall, each expressing a distinct perspective on this relationship.
Does the individual exist to serve the aims of the state? Does the
state exist to guarantee maximum individual freedom? Tension arises
because the needs and objectives of the individual and institutions are
perceived to stand in opposition to one another. The system created
by Bahá’u’lláh resolves this dilemma. In His Order, their aims and
aspirations become one. Both compromise their unrestricted latitude
of action to ensure the well-being of the other. Individual needs are
subordinated to those of society, while the institutions are confined
to a leadership that finds expression, not in control, but in servitude.
Unfortunately, it is not possible to instantaneously have mature
institutions that create a perfect environment for individual progress,
nor do perfect individuals suddenly appear who will patiently nurture
embryonic institutions. Both struggle to fulfill their responsibilities;
the progress of one influences the progress of the other. If individu-
als strive to acquire the capabilities described in the first section of
this book, the community will have an invaluable, ever-maturing
‘natural resource’: humble, wise, truth-seeking, just, pure, faithful,
sacrificial and effective servants ready to do whatever is necessary to
provide for the common good. Institutions draw their membership
from such believers, and thus, to the same degree, reflect these attri-
butes and capacities. Further, one of the functions of the institutions
is to create an environment conducive to raising up capable souls,

Creating a New Mind
ensuring that each person has a part to play, harmonizing the initia-
tive of many individuals, and directing the collective effort toward the
mission of the Cause. This depends upon cultivating a relationship
with the community members characterized by love, unity, and co-
operation. As the Universal House of Justice explains, “the guarantee
of well-being and success in all your endeavors to serve the Cause of
God can be stated in one word: unity. It is the alpha and omega of
all Bahá’í objectives.”1
The appearance of a united, firmly based and self-sustain-
ing community must be a major goal of a Spiritual Assembly.
Composed of a membership reflecting a diversity of personali-
ties, talents, abilities and interests, such a community requires
a level of internal interaction between the Assembly and the
body of the believers based on a commonly recognized com-
mitment to service, and in which a sense of partnership based
on appreciation of each other’s distinctive sphere of action is
fully recognized and unfailingly upheld, and no semblance of
a dichotomy between the two appears. In such a community
leadership is that expression of service by which the Spiritual
Assembly invites and encourages the use of the manifold tal-
ents and abilities with which the community is endowed, and
stimulates and guides the diverse elements of the community
towards goals and strategies by which the effects of a coherent
force for progress can be realized.
The maintenance of a climate of love and unity depends
largely upon the feeling among the individuals composing the
community that the Assembly is a part of themselves, that their
cooperative interactions with that divinely ordained body allow
them a fair latitude for initiative and that the quality of their
relationships with both the institution and their fellow believ-
ers encourages a spirit of enterprise invigorated by an aware-
ness of the revolutionizing purpose of Bahá’u’lláh’s Revelation,
by a consciousness of the high privilege of their being associ-
ated with efforts to realize that purpose, and by a consequent,
ever-present sense of joy.2

In the writings of Shoghi Effendi, the attention of Bahá’í ad-
ministrators—elected and appointed—is drawn to those actions
and qualities that guarantee loving and harmonious relations. One
requirement is for the institutions “to win not only the confidence
and the genuine support and respect of those whom they should serve,
but also their esteem and real affection.” To this end, their members
“approach their task with extreme humility” and demonstrate “their
open-mindedness, their high sense of justice and duty, their candor,
their modesty, their entire devotion to the welfare and interests of
the friends, the Cause, and humanity.”3  They “resolve to remove all
traces of estrangement and sectarian tendencies from their midst”4
and manifest a rectitude of conduct in every verdict they pronounce.5
For indeed, as Bahá’u’lláh explains, the very “purpose of justice is the
appearance of unity among men.”6
Yet another requirement stressed by the Guardian is free and lov-
ing consultation—among the members of an institution, with other
agencies and institutions, and with the believers—on all matters of
importance to the community. Outlining basic principles applicable
to every Bahá’í institution, Shoghi Effendi explains that, “within the
limits of wise discretion,” the members of a National Assembly strive
to “take the friends into their confidence, acquaint them with their
plans, share with them their problems and anxieties, and seek their
advice and counsel.”7  They “purge once for all their deliberations and
the general conduct of their affairs from that air of self-contained aloof-
ness” and from “the suspicion of secrecy.” Indeed, they “expose their
motives, set forth their plans, justify their actions, revise if necessary
their verdict, foster the sense of interdependence and co-partnership,
of understanding and mutual confidence between them on one hand
and all local Assemblies and individual believers on the other.”8
A third requirement is for the institutions to shun any semblance
of authoritarianism. The friends offer unqualified and whole-hearted
obedience to an institution, which in turn enforces its decisions “in
such a way as to avoid giving the impression that it is animated by
The Trustees of Individual Freedom and of the Common Good

Creating a New Mind
dictatorial motives.” For “the spirit of the Cause is one of mutual
cooperation.”9  Through the improper functioning of an institution
or the unwisdom of its members, partisan views or personal projects
may be imposed on the community, thereby obstructing the partici-
pation of the believers. The Faith, however, does not belong to the
members of administrative bodies. They are never to suppose that
they are “central ornaments of the Cause,” the “sole promoters of its
teachings,”10 and are to avoid giving the impression that they have
“assumed ownership and control of the institution in the manner of
major stockholders of a business enterprise.”11
Freedom of expression, including criticism, is yet another re-
quirement of a harmonious relationship between individuals and
institutions. Shoghi Effendi explains that it is “not only the right,
but the vital responsibility of every loyal and intelligent member
of the community to offer fully and frankly, but with due respect
and consideration to the authority of the Assembly, any suggestion,
recommendation or criticism he conscientiously feels he should in
order to improve and remedy certain existing conditions or trends
in his local community.” And it is “the duty of the assembly also to
give careful consideration to any such views submitted to them by
any one of the believers.”12
The statements of the Guardian and the Universal House of
Justice on criticism weave a delicate tapestry that portrays a dimen-
sion of the beauty and distinctiveness of Bahá’u’lláh’s system. This
system is not one of brutish checks and balances of a people who
distrust one another and the institutions they create. It is an associa-
tion of lovers, the members of one family in which the “injury of one
shall be considered the injury of all; the comfort of each, the com-
fort of all; the honor of one, the honor of all.”13  While the individual
is guaranteed the freedom to address criticisms to the Assemblies,
including views about policy or even about individual members of
institutions,14 this right is inextricably bound to the responsibility
to exercise it appropriately.15  Criticism is offered in a manner that
ensures that the authority of the institutions is not undermined,16
and those who give it are careful to avoid forcing the Faith along a
partisan path by promoting a particular agenda or interpretation of

the texts.17  The individual exercises restraint as the institutions ma-
ture18 and channels any appeal of a decision through the institution
that made the decision to a higher body.19  Conversely, because the
means for legitimate expressions of criticism are tightly structured, the
institutions fearlessly protect this right, aware that closing, pervert-
ing, or obstructing the appropriate channels for criticism—directly
or indirectly, consciously or unconsciously—will eventually foster
an atmosphere of backbiting and disaffection in the community.
How, for example, would an individual feel free to express his or her
views if, after making a critical but fairly stated comment at a Feast
or Convention, the members of the institutions arise, one after the
other, to repudiate the remark?
In addition to supporting the right of the individual to offer
critical views, the embryonic institutions of the Faith learn to properly
utilize their authority to correct or even to sanction the inappropriate
actions of the believers. They do not “react automatically to every
mistake, but distinguish between those that are self-correcting with
the passage of time and do no particular harm to the community
and those which require Assembly intervention.”20  Otherwise, out
of fear of doing the wrong thing, the individual believer will become
passive and lose the spirit of initiative. The Assembly acts “like a loving
parent, watching over and helping its children, and not like a stern
judge, waiting for an opportunity to display his judicial powers.”21  If
an individual believes an injustice has been done, the Assembly will
reconsider and, if convinced, reverse its decision without hesitation.
And if the matter is pressed further, it will “lovingly collaborate” and
“join with the appellant in submitting all relevant information to the
higher body for decision.”22  Even in the cases where firm or drastic
action is required, Assemblies “have always to be mindful that the
authority they wield must in general be expressed with love, humility
and a genuine respect for others,” thus striking “a natural note” that
“accords with that which is acceptable to spiritually attuned and
fairminded souls.”23
Many of the references cited above were written in relation to the
duties of Assemblies. Yet the principles apply equally to the Counselors
and their auxiliaries. They have, for example, been exhorted to “build
The Trustees of Individual Freedom and of the Common Good

Creating a New Mind
up a warm and loving relationship between themselves and the be-
lievers”24 that they serve, to promote within the community “an at-
mosphere of tolerance for the views of others,”25 and to encourage
the believers “to participate in Bahá’í activities and be unified under
all circumstances.”26  In fact, the existence of this unique institution,
exerting influence but exercising no authority, gives rise to a com-
pensating force that helps overcome the historical conflict between
individuals and institutions in society. In the council chambers of
authority, it gives voice to the sentiments of individuals. Its primary
duty is to release initiative. And it has a “freedom for independent
action,”27 to decide how to support the Assemblies’ plans for collec-
tive action or “satisfy a need not being met by any national or local
program.”28
The spirit of true partnership in a Bahá’í community can never
be achieved by a legalistic approach to principles of justice, freedom,
and order. “The individuals and assemblies must learn to cooperate,
and to cooperate intelligently, if they desire to adequately discharge
their duties and obligations towards the Faith,” the Guardian states.
“And no such cooperation is possible without mutual confidence
and trust.”29  In this way, an environment is created in which the
believers and their institutions are united in a common purpose,
and in which free expression, adorned with wisdom and love,
contributes to a never-ending process of investigation of reality and
service to the common good. In the Bahá’í community, the rights
of the individual are assured, not because the individual continually
fights for them, but because the institutions are their champion. So,
too, the authority and station of the Assemblies are guaranteed, for
they are cherished and supported by individual believers and by the
Counselors and their auxiliaries. And the rank of the institution of
the Counsellors is upheld by the Assemblies and individuals, who
acknowledge and appreciate its contribution. Each achieves honor
and ultimate fulfillment by working for the others, for the efficacy
of the entire system, and for that which Bahá’u’lláh has proposed.
The intricate relationship between the individuals and their
institutions endows the community with the strength to resist the
excesses of a social order in transition.

The Mobilizers of Human Resources
The purpose of the Bahá’í community is not achieved simply
by establishing and maintaining relationships of unity and support.
Bahá’ís have a mission to fulfill. And it is the institutions which inte-
grate the diversity of aspirations, talents, and activities of the believ-
ers into one forward movement. As ‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains, “We need
an army to attain victory in the spiritual world; mere plans are not
sufficient; ideas and principles are helpless without a divine power
to put them into effect.”1
There are at least two ways in which the institutions contribute
to the mobilization of the believers. One is by building their capacity
through education and training. Another is by releasing and canaliz-
ing the power of action latent within them. In one passage that sheds
light upon this dual obligation, Shoghi Effendi states:
Above all, the utmost endeavor should be exerted by your
Assembly to familiarize the newly enrolled believers with the
fundamental and spiritual verities of the Faith, and with the
origins, the aims and purposes, as well as the processes of a
divinely appointed Administrative Order, to acquaint them
more fully with the history of the Faith, to instill in them a
deeper understanding of the Covenants of both Bahá’u’lláh and
of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, to enrich their spiritual life, to rouse them to a
greater effort and a closer participation in both the teaching of
the Faith and the administration of its activities, and to inspire
them to make the necessary sacrifices for the furtherance of its
vital interests.2

Creating a New Mind
It is the “principal task” of the Auxiliary Boards, the Universal
House of Justice states, “to assist in arousing and releasing” the pow-
ers of the individual.3  Similarly, the Guardian explains that “the best
Assembly is the one that capitalizes on the talents of all the members
of the group and keeps them busy in some form of active participa-
tion in serving the Cause and spreading the Message.”4  In another
instance his secretary writes on his behalf:
The first quality for leadership, both among individuals and
Assemblies, is the capacity to use the energy and competence
that exists in the rank and file of its followers. Otherwise the
more competent members of the group will go at a tangent and
try to find elsewhere a field of work where they could use their
energy. Shoghi Effendi hopes that the Assemblies will do their
utmost in planning such teaching activities that every single
soul will be kept busy.5
In describing the efforts of National Assemblies “to enable both indi-
vidual believers and Local Assemblies to fulfil their respective tasks,”
the Guardian offers an overview of qualities and conditions that are
to be manifested by the members of all institutions:
Through their repeated appeals, through their readiness to dis-
pel all misunderstandings and remove all obstacles, through
the example of their lives, their unrelaxing vigilance, their high
sense of justice, their humility, consecration and courage, they
must demonstrate to those whom they represent their capacity
to play their part in the progress of the Plan in which they, no
less than the rest of the community, are involved.6
Encouragement and inspiration, however, no matter how
effectively conveyed, are alone insufficient to stimulate sustained
efforts within the community. Indeed, appeals for urgent or sacrificial
action can even degenerate into a formalistic procedure devoid of love
and sincerity, producing only guilt, disillusionment, or frustration
among the believers. Encouragement needs to be complemented by
education. For ultimately, it is the Word of God that is endowed
with the supreme power for galvanizing the believers and effecting
lasting change.

“The corrosion of ungodliness is eating into the vitals of human
society; what else but the Elixir of His potent Revelation can cleanse
and revive it?” Bahá’u’lláh asks. “The Word of God, alone, can claim
the distinction of being endowed with the capacity required for so
great and far-reaching a change.”7  “The principles of the Teachings
of Bahá’u’lláh should be carefully studied, one by one,” ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
states, “until they are realized and understood by mind and heart—so
will you become strong followers of the light, truly spiritual, heavenly
soldiers of God, acquiring and spreading the true civilization in Persia,
in Europe, and in the whole world.”8  Through study of the Creative
Word in a manner suited to the capacity of the believers, individual
consciousness grows, and the community becomes an environment
for learning to apply the teachings. The friends are enabled to par-
ticipate in the generation and application of knowledge necessary for
personal and collective transformation.
A wide variety of initiatives have been undertaken by Bahá’í in-
stitutions to promote learning. These include deepening programs,
study classes, conferences, seminars, summer schools, and classes for
children and youth. The educational process in the Bahá’í commu-
nity took a dramatic leap forward in the Four Year Plan, when the
Universal House of Justice called for the systematic development of
human resources and the adoption of formal approaches to training:
To effect the possibilities of expansion and consolidation
implied by entry by troops, a determined, worldwide effort to
develop human resources must be made. The endeavor of indi-
viduals to conduct study classes in their homes, the sponsorship
by the institutions of occasional courses of instruction, and the
informal activities of the community, though important, are
not adequate for the education and training of a rapidly ex-
panding community. It is therefore of paramount importance
that systematic attention be given to devising methods for
educating large numbers of believers in the fundamental veri-
ties of the Faith and for training and assisting them to serve
the Cause as their God-given talents allow. There should be no
delay in establishing permanent institutes designed to provide
The Mobilizers of Human Resources

Creating a New Mind
well- organized, formally conducted programs of training on a
regular schedule. . . .9
The training institute, “an agency of the National Spiritual
Assembly,” has the responsibility for “developing human resources
in all or part of a country.”10  The Counselors and Auxiliary Board
members are “intimately involved” in its work.11  The institute pro-
vides a means to train a percentage of the believers who can in turn
deepen others, teach, and make an increasing contribution to the
building of local communities. The Universal House of Justice has
described the features of this agency in the Four Year Plan messages
and in subsequent correspondence, much of which has been sum-
marized in a document prepared for and approved by it in April 1998
entitled “Training Institutes.”
For decades, the Bahá’í world struggled to sustain a systematic
process of large-scale expansion and consolidation. Rapid acceleration
of enrollments in a wide range of settings inevitably ceased when the
thrust in expansion could not be matched by an equally potent thrust
in the consolidation of new believers. In the Four Year Plan a prac-
tical vision has emerged of how, through the vehicle of the training
institute, this process of large-scale growth can become self-sustaining.
An example will help to illustrate the point. In the institute
program of a country, the sequence of courses is designed to begin
simply, then to introduce, gradually, deeper knowledge, higher level
skills, and greater spiritual insights. An initial course may focus on
spiritual fundamentals, a second may address simple acts of service.
Each subsequent course enhances specific capabilities for service,
thereby contributing to the raising up of children’s class teachers,
participants in systematic teaching endeavors, or tutors of the basic
institute courses.
After a teaching campaign in one region of the country, some
5000 fresh recruits are brought into the Faith. The system established
for the delivery of institute courses ensures that the first course can
immediately be offered to anywhere between 500 to 1000 believers.
These friends become confirmed in the Faith, and although some may
not continue to study, others move to higher courses. As they progress

through the series of courses, these trained human resources gradu-
ally learn how to interact with the other 4000 to 4500 new believers,
deepening them and involving them in activities that constitute the
foundation of Bahá’í community life such as devotional meetings,
the Nineteen Day Feast, children’s classes, or teaching endeavors. The
Universal House of Justice explains:
The development of human resources . . . may be likened to
the building of an ever-expanding pyramid, whose base must
be constantly broadened. An increasing number of friends are
recruited to enter the first basic course, and relatively significant
percentages are then helped to reach higher and higher courses,
acquiring thereby the needed capabilities of service.12
Further, as more and more of the friends complete the higher level
courses, the number of effective teachers of the Faith in the region
increases, making it possible for large-scale enrollments to continue.
A significant percentage of these new believers are, in turn, trained by
those who have been prepared to facilitate the courses of the institute.
Thus, the process of entry by troops, once initiated, can be sustained.
The numbers used here are simply suggestive. The example, how-
ever, illustrates the way in which the central challenge of sustaining
the process of entry by troops can be met: finding a balance between
expansion and consolidation; increasing not just numbers, but the
capacity of those who can carry out the work of the Cause.
It would be mistake to expect dramatic changes in the dynamics
of community life after some of the believers in a region have attended
the first few basic courses of the institute—to expect, for example,
that the efficiency of the Local Assemblies will be raised to a new level
because of a course offered on prayer. Nevertheless, to systematically
increase the number of those who identify themselves as confirmed
believers, who step forward to do simple acts of service, who teach
the Faith, and who train others—represents unprecedented progress
when compared with previous experiences with large-scale expansion.
Indeed, the Universal House of Justice emphasizes that for many
countries “the very act of training a few thousand believers, and
thus increasing the number who have a strong Bahá’í identity and
The Mobilizers of Human Resources

Creating a New Mind
a commitment to teaching the Cause, would in itself constitute an
advance in the process of entry by troops.”13
Developing the human recourses needed to carry out the
expansion and consolidation work is only one of the vital areas the
training institute can address to advance the aims of the Faith. The
Universal House of Justice explains that these centers of learning
may evolve in complexity to offer training for social and economic
development and even run development projects.
It is understood that the institute will be an agency for the
development of human resources for activities of expansion and
consolidation, as well as for projects of social and economic
development. . . . In this latter context, it could also gradu-
ally take on the administration of the development projects in
both areas [of the country]. The institute can establish a clear-
cut organizational structure that has various departments and
sections, each of which is dedicated to one of its programs—a
health program, a literacy program, and so on—as well as those
for training human resources for expansion and consolidation.14
The institute is to train human resources even if they are not im-
mediately utilized by the institutions. Yet, training, complemented by
encouragement, finds its full effect when the believers receive specific
guidance in specific situations from the institutions. Vision, enthu-
siasm, understanding, and practical skills can be channeled within
systematic plans to sustain the progress of the community.

The Executors of Systematic Plans of Action
In the Tablets of the Divine Plan, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá sets forth a vi-
sion of the spread of the Faith throughout the world. This Plan, the
Universal House of Justice states, is “‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s grand design for
the spiritual conquest of the planet.”1  It is “the mightiest Plan ever
generated through the creative power of the Most Great Name,”2 is
“impelled by forces beyond our power to predict or appraise,”3  and
holds within it “the seeds of the world’s spiritual revival and ultimate
redemption.”4  Unfolding under the guidance of the Guardian and,
now, the Universal House of Justice, through a series of national, in-
ternational, and global plans that mark its distinct stages, the Divine
Plan will continue through “the course of numerous crusades and of
successive epochs”5 that will reach “as far as the fringes” of the Golden
Age.6  At that time, Shoghi Effendi explains, the
final and crowning stage in the evolution of the Plan wrought by
God Himself for humanity will, in turn, prove to be the signal
for the birth of a world civilization, incomparable in its range,
its character and potency, in the history of mankind—a civili-
zation which posterity will, with one voice, acclaim as the fair-
est fruit of the Golden Age of the Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh.7
When Shoghi Effendi began his ministry in 1921, the Bahá’í world
did not have the institutional capacity necessary to systematically
execute the provisions of the Divine Plan. Initially, therefore, he
concentrated on the establishment of local and national institutions.
By 1937, he encouraged the Bahá’ís of North America to undertake
the first Seven Year Plan, which aimed at spreading the Faith and
raising Assemblies throughout unopened states and provinces, then

Creating a New Mind
in Central and South America. The Guardian observed that the
adoption of a plan represented the coming of age of a maturing
national community.8  Other countries soon followed with their own
national plans to spread the Faith within and outside their borders.
This period reached its zenith with the first global plan, the Ten Year
Crusade (1953-63), in which the twelve existing National Assemblies
joined efforts to open the remaining territories of the planet.
The unfoldment of the Divine Plan continued after the passing
of the Guardian with a series of global plans conducted under the
auspices of the Universal House of Justice. Each plan has built on
the objectives and achievements of the previous ones, demanding in-
creasing maturity and new levels of capacity for complex action. The
first plans launched under the House of Justice brought into focus
specific elements related to growth and development. The Nine Year
Plan (1964-73), the Five Year Plan (1974-79), and the Seven Year Plan
(1979-86) incorporated such objectives as vast expansion, universal
participation, regular observance of Feasts and Holy Days, activities
for women, the education of youth and children, the strengthening
of Local Assemblies, and a greater involvement in the life of society.
A period of increased complexity began with the Six Year Plan (1986-
92), when the responsibility for creating national plans, which until
then had been formulated at the Bahá’í World Center, devolved onto
the National Spiritual Assemblies and the Counselors. The Three Year
Plan (1993-96) introduced a triple-theme—enhancing the vitality of
the faith of individual believers, developing human resources, and
fostering the proper functioning of institutions—while the Four Year
Plan (1996-2000) integrated all the previous objectives into a single
aim: the advancement of the process of entry by troops.
In the Four Year Plan, the attention of the Bahá’í world has been
focused, more than ever before, on the systematization of endeavors.
The Universal House of Justice explains:
Systematization ensures consistency of lines of action based on
well-conceived plans. In a general sense, it implies an orderli-
ness of approach in all that pertains to Bahá’í service, whether
in teaching or administration, in individual or collective en-
deavor. While allowing for individual initiative and spontaneity,

it suggests the need to be clear-headed, methodical, efficient,
constant, balanced, and harmonious. Systematization is a nec-
essary mode of functioning animated by the urgency to act.9
Systematic progress of the Bahá’í community may be seen as a
process of learning with the institutions at its heart. “Step by step,”
Shoghi Effendi explains, “the community may make good the various
deficiencies that beset it and run its affairs on a planned and orderly
basis.”10  A national or local plan, undertaken within the framework
of a global plan, is not a wish-list of meritorious events or admirable
accomplishments. It includes not only goals, but strategies for winning
them based on an assessment of the capacities of the believers and
an understanding of the conditions of the wider community. These
strategies take into account the necessity to awaken initiative and
galvanize the community members to action. In creating a plan, the
members of the institutions “disregard utterly their own likes and
dislikes, their personal interests and inclinations, and concentrate
their minds upon those measures that will conduce to the welfare
and happiness of the Bahá’í Community and promote the common
weal.”11  The nature of the relationships among all of the participants
in the execution of a plan is dynamic, and the illumination of divine
guidance is found not only in study of the Texts and in consultation,
but also in reflection on experience arising from action.
Consider the example of a local Bahá’í community brought into
existence as a result of a large-scale teaching project. Under such condi-
tions, the community would consist of a sizable number of individu-
als, usually with little knowledge of the Faith. Even before the Local
Spiritual Assembly can be formed and activated, the institutions begin
to serve the area through the activities of the assistants to the Auxiliary
Board members and the endeavors of traveling teachers directed by
a Regional Council or regional committee—all according to a plan
for the long-term development of the region. The aim of the visiting
believers is to help the local friends increase their love for Bahá’u’lláh
and their understanding of His Cause, and to establish the basic pat-
tern of community life. Fundamental to this pattern is the habit of
immersing oneself in the Word of God, a habit which is increasingly
taking root in the Bahá’í world as participants in a growing number
The Executors of Systematic Plans of Action

Creating a New Mind
of study circles progress through the sequences of courses of training
institutes. As the human resources of the community are gradually
developed, the local believers are helped to undertake simple acts of
service. For example, after some of the new believers have studied
a course on prayer and spiritual fundamentals, a devotional meet-
ing might be established in the community. Once the new believers
learn through a training course to talk with their neighbors about
the Faith or to teach children’s classes, then the plan of the support-
ing institutions provide for simple teaching activities or organized
children’s classes as elements of community life. Parallel to this, the
Nineteen Day Feast is nurtured and the Local Assembly is assisted
to develop, over time, the capacity to assume responsibility for every
activity and for the growth of the community.
Consider another example, that of a local community with a
functioning Assembly moving toward maturity by striving for con-
tinuous growth and development. The Assembly and its teaching
committee consult with the assistants to the Auxiliary Board mem-
bers and then with the community to prepare a plan of action. In this
instance, because of the longing for spiritual sustenance widespread
in the population, a vision for the expansion of the Faith emerges
that is centered on regular devotional meetings. A gathering infused
with prayer, music and the Creative Word, it is believed, will capti-
vate receptive souls through the power of the spirit and move them
to embrace the Cause. The assistants, as standard bearers, lead the
community members in the teaching field by personal example; in
their informal interactions with the Bahá’ís, they encourage them to
participate in the meetings and to invite non-Bahá’í friends. After
some time, the progress of the plan is reviewed at the Nineteen Day
Feast. It is noted that an increasing number of seekers are attending
the devotional meetings, and that, indeed, their interest is stimulat-
ed. There is, however, little growth. The Assembly then decides that
greater emphasis should be placed on individual firesides. Through
its consultations with the Board member, the Assembly is reminded
of the important contribution to be made by the national training in-
stitute, and a study circle is established in the locality to acquaint the
believers with the knowledge, skills, and spiritual insights associated

with effective teaching. The assistants decide to build on the effects
of the institute courses by working with a few believers who want
to become better teachers and helping them to establish firesides
in their homes. Steadily, enrollments increase, and the strategy for
growth gradually becomes more complex as the Assembly extends
the range of the community’s activities to meet the needs and utilize
the talents of the new believers.
In both of these illustrations of systematic action, planning and
doing are parts of one whole. Time and energy are not wasted in try-
ing to determine from the beginning all of the necessary elements and
steps required for success. Nor does the community wander, freneti-
cally shifting from one program or activity to another. Shoghi Effendi
calls for “systematic, carefully conceived, and well-established” plans
that are “rigorously pursued and continuously extended.”12  Thus, the
execution of plans by the institutions is carried out in a context of
learning that includes ongoing consultation, reflection on action,
tolerance for mistakes, and adjustment of activities to ensure greater
effectiveness—all in the light of the guidance provided by the Text
and by the Universal House of Justice. One plan is not an end in it-
self; rather each gives rise to the next through a cohesiveness of action
that manifests itself in persistent progress on long-range objectives,
in the emergence of new powers and capacities, and in continual
growth and development. The overly generalized view that “the as-
sembly decides, the Auxiliary Board supports, and the individuals
act” gives way to an appreciation of a more complex and dynamic
process in which responsibilities are overlapping, interactive, and
complementary.
Without the strategic planning, encouragement, support, and
responsiveness of Assemblies, individual action is diffused or misdi-
rected; without the example, advice, and education offered by the
Auxiliary Boards, the power of the individual is untapped and the
hopes of the Assembly unrealized. In guiding the community through
systematic plans, the institutions establish a vision of spiritual con-
quest for an area and set in motion a process of learning through
action that sustains progress.
The Executors of Systematic Plans of Action

The Nucleus and Pattern of a New Civilization
The ultimate aim of Bahá’u’lláh’s Revelation is the establishment
of a new civilization. “The progress of the world, the development of
nations, the tranquillity of peoples, and the peace of all who dwell on
earth,” Baha’u’lláh proclaims, “are among the principles and ordinances
of God.”1  “Such means as lead to the elevation, the advancement,
the education, the protection and the regeneration of the peoples of
the earth,” He further asserts, “have been clearly set forth by Us and
are revealed in the Holy Books and Tablets by the Pen of Glory.”2
Shoghi Effendi assures us that
in the course of the Golden Age, destined to consummate the
Dispensation itself, the banner of the Most Great Peace, prom-
ised by its Author, will have been unfurled, the World Bahá’í
Commonwealth will have emerged in the plenitude of its power
and splendor, and the birth and efflorescence of a world civiliza-
tion, the child of that Peace, will have conferred its inestimable
blessings upon all mankind.3
This civilization, “divinely inspired, unique in its features, world-
embracing in its scope, and fundamentally spiritual in its character,”
receives its “initial impulse from the spirit animating the very institu-
tions which, in their embryonic state, are now stirring in the womb of
the present Formative Age of the Faith.”4  The Administrative Order
“will come to be regarded, as it recedes farther and farther from our
eyes, as the chief agency empowered to usher in the concluding phase,
the consummation of this glorious Dispensation.”5
The emergence of a new civilization will take centuries of effort
and will involve forces and processes working both within and outside

Creating a New Mind
the Bahá’í community. So far-reaching are the implications of this
vision that it is not possible, at this time, to even dimly perceive the
full extent of the changes which the future holds. “Consider the days
of Christ, when none but a small band followed Him,” ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
explains. “Then observe what a mighty tree that seed became, be-
hold ye its fruitage. And now shall come to pass even greater things
than these, for this is the summons of the Lord of Hosts.”6  If we re-
flect upon the transformation that has occurred since that the time
of Christ or the time of Muhammad—in the sciences, economics,
political affairs, education, and all other systems of social order—we
may catch a glimpse of the magnitude of the change which the com-
ing of Bahá’u’lláh will effect.
In The Secret of Divine Civilization, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá makes it clear
that the process of reform and reconstruction of society is gradual
and organic.
The world of politics is like the world of man; he is seed at
first, and then passes by degrees to the condition of embryo
and foetus, acquiring a bone structure, being clothed with
flesh, taking on his own special form, until at last he reaches
the plane where he can befittingly fulfill the words: “the most
excellent of Makers.” Just as this is a requirement of creation
and is based on the universal Wisdom, the political world in
the same way cannot instantaneously evolve from the nadir of
defectiveness to the zenith of rightness and perfection. Rather,
qualified individuals must strive by day and by night, using all
those means which will conduce to progress, until the govern-
ment and the people develop along every line from day to day
and even from moment to moment.7
Bahá’ís do not have an exact blueprint for the creation of this
new civilization. In describing the development of Bahá’í economics8
or Bahá’í education, 9 Shoghi Effendi notes that the teachings “offer
certain basic principles” and “set forth a number of . . . ideals,” but
that the solutions to be offered by these fields will require the work
of generations to come. There is, he further explains, a vast differ-
ence between “sounding a great general principle and finding its ap-
plication to actual prevailing conditions.”10  The Revelation provides

the community with principles, insights, institutions, a center for
collective action, certain methods, a vision of the future, warnings
and safeguards against harmful beliefs and practices, encouragement,
and direction for its efforts. It must then learn—by doing—how to
translate that guidance into action to contribute to the construction
of a world civilization.
Although the process of raising a new civilization will span cen-
turies, nevertheless, the institutions of the Faith in every age set in
motion initiatives appropriate to the current conditions and oppor-
tunities facing local and national communities. Shoghi Effendi ex-
plains that “the machinery of the Cause has been so fashioned, that
whatever is deemed necessary to incorporate into it in order to keep
it in the forefront of all progressive movements, can, according to
the provisions made by Bahá’u’lláh, be safely embodied therein.”11
The Universal House of Justice states:
Intimations in the non-Bahá’í world of a rapidly growing
realization that mankind is indeed entering a new stage in its
evolution present us with unprecedented opportunities to show
that the Bahá’í world community is “not only the nucleus but
the very pattern” of that world society which it is the purpose
of Bahá’u’lláh to establish and towards which a harassed hu-
manity, albeit largely unconsciously, is striving.
The time has come for the Bahá’í community to become
more involved in the life of the society around it, without in
the least supporting any of the world’s moribund and divisive
concepts, or slackening its direct teaching efforts, but rather, by
association, exerting its influence towards unity, demonstrat-
ing its ability to settle differences by consultation rather than
by confrontation, violence or schism, and declaring its faith in
the divine purpose of human existence.12
Three closely interrelated areas of action on the part of the institu-
tions are directly associated with a greater involvement with society.
First, there is the strengthening of Bahá’í communities so that
they will reflect a distinctive pattern of life that “will be a credit to
the Faith and will, as a welcome consequence, rekindle hope among
the increasingly disillusioned members of society.”13  This includes
The Nucleus and Pattern of a New Civilization

Creating a New Mind
development of Bahá’í administration in order to demonstrate the
efficacy of Bahá’u’lláh’s system to minister to the crying needs of hu-
manity, and to offer it as a “viable alternative” to the crumbling old
world order.14  Beyond the many elements of community life discussed
in the third part of this book, contributing to the raising of a new
civilization involves the “promotion of Bahá’í scholarship, so that an
increasing number of believers will be able to analyze the problems of
mankind in every field and to show how the Teachings solve them.”15
Second, efforts to raise up strong communities take place si-
multaneously with and in the context of activities for Bahá’í social
and economic development—which may be defined as building the
capacity of people to apply the teachings of Bahá’u’lláh to transform
their material and social conditions. Work in this area of action be-
gins at the grassroots as individuals and groups strive to address so-
cial problems as part of the organic pattern of community life. The
institutions monitor the capacity of the community and ensure that
it is engaged in development initiatives at a level in keeping with its
present resources and maturity. These efforts, however, are not car-
ried out as ends in themselves; they are to evolve until they have an
observable impact on the believers and society.
When development endeavors actually do evolve to higher levels
of complexity, the institutions of the Faith need to become concerned
with the creation of institutional capacity and the launching of
organized campaigns. Institutional capacity for development is
provided through the global network of training institutes being raised
in the Four Year Plan and through the establishment of Bahá’í-inspired
agencies by individuals. The Universal House of Justice looks with
“keen interest” as an “increasing number of believers around the world”
are taking advantage of the latter possibility to create organizations
dedicated to analyzing and resolving social and economic problems
in the light of Bahá’u’lláh’s teachings.16  The launching of organized
campaigns involves mobilizing the friends and their resources to
address specific issues such as health, education and literacy, and the
equality of women and men, often at a continental or global level.
Through an organized campaign, the practice, materials, and methods
proven effective in one community can be shared with others to greatly

increase the depth and range of action. Agencies for development in
each country provide channels for learning, while organized campaigns
systematize the knowledge that flows through these channels.
Third, greater involvement with society includes the efforts of
Bahá’í institutions, particularly at the local and national levels, to
collaborate with “the forces leading towards the establishment of or-
der in the world”17 and to influence leaders of thought “so that those
who hold the direction of peoples in their hands will learn accurately
about the nature and tenets of the Faith and will grow to respect it and
implement its principles.”18  At the international level the endeavors
of the offices of the Bahá’í International Community—with its fo-
cus on global prosperity, the status of women, moral education, and
human rights—are exemplary in this respect. As national and local
communities evolve, they move, one after the other, beyond isolation
and concern with internal matters to address the needs of the soci-
ety surrounding them. Without imagining that the real problems of
their villages, towns, and nations are, in any way, easy to overcome,
they gradually learn to work with government, community leaders,
and like-minded organizations to tackle pressing social issues with
increasing sophistication. In the process they correlate their beliefs
“with the current thoughts and problems of the people of the world”19
and bring to the attention of their fellow citizens those spiritual prin-
ciples “by which solutions can be found for every social problem.”20
In relation to the challenge of offering the Bahá’í teachings to
humanity, it is sometimes assumed that the individual must first ac-
cept Bahá’u’lláh as the Manifestation of God, and then receive the
ocean of His wisdom for the healing of social ills and the reordering
of human affairs. What is important to realize is that that portion
of the Revelation which pertains to matters of belief and recogni-
tion is but one part of His gift to humanity. The recognition of the
Manifestation is, of course, the first duty enjoined on every human
being. However, if some are not yet ready to enter the Tabernacle of
the Covenant, why withhold from them those teachings that they
may readily accept and eagerly apply to the challenges they currently
face? Greater involvement in the life of society entails offering the
The Nucleus and Pattern of a New Civilization

Creating a New Mind
people of the world access to Bahá’u’lláh’s principles and insights
through association, dialogue and collaboration.
Such interaction will, in turn, have a reciprocal effect on Bahá’í
communities. The world has already been influenced by the Revelation,
and, in many cases, may be far ahead of our nascent communities in
translating certain principles into action. Exposure to the thoughts,
problems, and experiences of humanity and its leaders deepens the
believers’ understanding and appreciation of the implications of
Bahá’u’lláh’s teachings. The outcome of Bahá’í involvement in so-
ciety is not a particular model or a technical prescription that will
cure such ills as the unjust distribution of wealth and widespread
oppression. Its fruits are an ever-growing number of those—Bahá’ís
and non-Bahá’ís—who struggle, individually and collectively, with
the support of the institutions, to apply Bahá’u’lláh’s teachings to
social problems.

The Instruments of Effective Administration
“Let us take heed,” Shoghi Effendi urged the believers from the
earliest days of his ministry, “lest in our great concern for the perfec-
tion of the administrative machinery of the Cause, we lose sight of
the Divine Purpose for which it has been created.”1  He emphasizes
that Bahá’í administration is not “an end in itself” but “merely the
instrument of the spirit of the Faith” which “is designed to benefit the
entire human race” by reforming “the community life of mankind, as
well as seeking to regenerate the individual.”2  He also states that “the
whole machinery of assemblies, of committees and conventions is to
be regarded as a means” and that they “will rise or fall according to
their capacity to further the interests, to coordinate the activities, to
apply the principles, to embody the ideals and execute the purpose
of the Bahá’í Faith.”3
The Universal House of Justice, too, reminds Assemblies that
the efficiency of administrative procedures, while important, is not
the ultimate goal:
In sum, the maturity of the Spiritual Assembly must be mea-
sured not only by the regularity of its meetings and the efficiency
of its functioning, but also by the continuity of the growth of
Bahá’í membership, the effectiveness of the interaction between
the Assembly and the members of its community, the quality
of the spiritual and social life of the community, and the over-
all sense of vitality of a community in the process of dynamic,
ever-advancing development.4
It is clear, then, that we must guard against over-administra-
tion. Yet the fear of bureaucracy should not cause us to ignore the

Creating a New Mind
exigencies of effective and wise management. “High aims and pure
motives, however laudable in themselves,” the Guardian stresses, “will
surely not suffice if unsupported by measures that are practicable and
methods that are sound.”5  When the institutions are properly ori-
ented to their purpose, then efficiency and effectiveness in adminis-
trative procedures can be the determining factors in whether or not
that purpose is achieved.
Consider once again a local community with a functioning
Assembly striving to achieve continuous growth through a systematic
plan of action. Clearly, the successful implementation of the plan,
whatever its particular strategies and lines of action may be, will
require of the Assembly certain effective internal operations. Among
these are the establishment of office routines and record keeping, the
prompt handling of issues, and attention to detail. The Assembly
needs to hold regular meetings and ensure “that all its members are
currently informed” of its activities and that “its secretary carries
out his duties, and its treasurer holds and disburses the funds of the
Faith to its satisfaction, keeping proper accounts and issuing receipts
for all contributions.”6 It has to carefully supervise the expenditures
associated with the implementation of the plan, realizing that it is
only through “a wise economy, the elimination of non-essentials,”
and “concentration on essentials” that all the necessary work will
be accomplished. Even in the process of decision-making the
implementation of proper procedures proves essential. Consultation
by the Assembly, while characterized by absolute love and harmony
and a scrupulous adherence to principle, is to be conducted through
a conscientious gathering of relevant facts, effective chairmanship, a
focus on the topic, and a precise recording of background information
and conclusions in order to ensure efficiency in reaching and executing
decisions. Further, if particular problems arise that go beyond the
expertise of the members, the Assembly needs to seek and carefully
weigh “expert advice” which, the Guardian tells us, is “absolutely
necessary for good administration.”7
The effective discharge of the various tasks associated with the
community’s systematic plan of action calls also for the establishment
by the Assembly of committees, initially only a few, but growing in

number as the work increases in complexity. The diligent efforts of
its committees free the Assembly from much of the details of imple-
mentation, constituting, in the words of Shoghi Effendi, “a con-
vincing evidence and inspiring example” of the “efficient spiritual
administration of the affairs of the Bahá’í world.”8 The successful
observance of the Nineteen Day Feast depends, for instance, on the
practical steps involved in its preparation, such as “the proper selec-
tion of readings, the assignment, in advance, of good readers, and a
sense of decorum both in the presentation and the reception of the
devotional program.” So, too, attention to the environment in which
the Feast is to be held, cleanliness, punctuality, and arrangement of
the space in practical and decorative ways all play a significant part.
When the Feast Committee is mindful of such details, the gathering
is better able to serve its intended purpose as “an arena of democ-
racy at the very root of society” where the Assembly and community
members meet on common ground9 and views are exchanged. Perhaps
the most critical component of the Assembly’s network of commit-
tees is an “efficient teaching structure,” the guarantor of growth. It
ensures that the tasks related to expansion and consolidation “are
carried out with dispatch and in accordance with the administrative
principles of our Faith.”10
Of course, the ability of the Assembly to maintain a proper
balance in the relationship with its committees is crucial to effective
administration and, ultimately, to efforts to sustain growth. The
Assembly, rather than exercising complete control over all activity,
provides an appropriate degree of autonomy to its agencies. Shoghi
Effendi explains that finding this proper balance is essential if, on
the one hand, “the evils of over-centralization which clog, confuse
and in the long run depreciate the value” of Bahá’í services are to be
avoided and, on the other, “the perils of utter decentralization with
the consequent lapse of governing authority”11 be averted.
Mobilizing the believers to play their part in the execution of
the plan of action, a subject already discussed in an earlier section, is
not without essential administrative procedures as well. Obviously,
the Assembly needs to put in place effective channels of communica-
tion, and regular newsletters and bulletins will help keep the friends
The Instruments of Effective Administration

Creating a New Mind
“well-informed about the events and developments”12 in the com-
munity. Moreover, certain parameters will have to be set to guide
their participation in the community’s plans. In this, the Assembly
must exercise care that procedures actually serve to open the way for
the indi-vidual believer to take part in collective endeavors, avoid-
ing excessive “rules and regulations” that “impede the work through
unnecessary red tape.”13
Although the Local Spiritual Assembly is invested with authority,
it must be remembered, it is not the sole institution that operates at
the local level. The application of effective administrative instruments,
particular to their functions, is also required, then, of the Auxiliary
Board members. The procedures followed by each institution have to
be such that they facilitate the interaction between them. For only if
the proper interaction between the two exists, in a way that is natural
and free of bureaucratic impediments, will the community enjoy the
kind of leadership that the institutions of the Administrative Order
are meant to offer.
Finally, it is important to realize that the efficiency and effec-
tiveness of the institutions increase gradually in accordance with the
capacity of the community as it grows. Too much emphasis on per-
fecting the machinery of Bahá’í administration at too early a stage in
a community’s development is counterproductive. The refinement of
the administrative machinery should be commensurate with the tasks
to be accomplished. Patience and support by the body of the believ-
ers are necessary if the institutions are to mature. Those who become
impatient with the functioning of the institutions may themselves
derail the progress of the community by sacrificing unity and long-
term development for perceived short-term efficiencies. Problems with
the institutions, when they arise, should not be seen as flaws in the
nature or structure of the system itself, 14 but rather as the result of
individual imperfections and institutional immaturity, to be expected
in the current embryonic stage of development. Both Shoghi Effendi
and the Universal House of Justice draw the attention of the believers
to the possibility of “human limitations and imperfections”15 affecting
the workings of the administrative machinery. These limitations are
overcome as the members of the institutions “deepen themselves in

the fundamental verities of the Faith and in the proper application
of the principles”16 that govern Bahá’í administration. It should also
be mentioned that, at this early stage in the evolution of the Faith,
the worldwide Bahá’í community is simply not large enough for the
true capabilities of the institutions to be made manifest. “The Order
brought by Bahá’u’lláh is intended to guide the progress and resolve
the problems of society,” the Universal House of Justice states. “Our
numbers are as yet too small to effect an adequate demonstration
of the potentialities inherent in the administrative system we are
building, and the efficacy of this system will not be fully appreciated
without a vast expansion of our membership.”17
The authority of the institutions, the Universal House of Justice
points out, is an “art to be mastered.”18  As the institutions grow in
their capacity to manage their affairs with efficiency and effectiveness,
they reinforce their efforts to become the channel of the spirit, the
trustees of individual freedom and the common good, the mobilizers
of human resources, the executors of systematic action, and the nucleus
and pattern of a new civilization.
The Instruments of Effective Administration

The Community

The Organic Pattern of Community Life
The Bahá’í teachings do not envision society in terms of a mere
set of interactions among individuals and institutions. Another en-
tity, subtle in its constitution, plays an important role in the prog-
ress of the Cause and the building of civilization. This entity is the
community, which, the Universal House of Justice indicates, is more
than the sum of its component parts.
. . . it is a comprehensive unit of civilization composed of in-
dividuals, families and institutions that are originators and
encouragers of systems, agencies and organizations working
together with a common purpose for the welfare of people
both within and beyond its own borders; it is a composition of
diverse, interacting participants that are achieving unity in an
unremitting quest for spiritual and social progress.1
The various elements of the community work together in an
organic whole in a manner comparable to the functioning of the
human body.
In the human body, every cell, every organ, every nerve has
its part to play. When all do so the body is healthy, vigorous,
radiant, ready for every call made upon it. No cell, however
humble, lives apart from the body, whether in serving it or re-
ceiving from it. This is true of the body of mankind in which
God “hast endowed each and all with talents and facilities,” and
is supremely true of the body of the Bahá’í World Community,
for this body is already an organism, united in its aspirations,
unified in its methods, seeking assistance and confirmation from
the same Source, and illumined with the conscious knowledge

Creating a New Mind
of its unity. . . . The Bahá’í World Community, growing like a
healthy new body, develops new cells, new organs, new func-
tions and powers as it presses on to its maturity, when every
soul, living for the Cause of God, will receive from that Cause,
health, assurance, and the overflowing bounties of Bahá’u’lláh
which are diffused through His divinely ordained order.2
To say that the community is an organic whole means that, as
an entity, it manifests the characteristics of a living organism. This
understanding offers valuable insight into how the community can
progress and how its constituent individuals and institutions can
foster its development.
Foremost among these characteristics is growth. A fundamental
challenge faced by every community, local and national, is to carry
the healing message of Bahá’u’lláh to humanity and continually enlist
fresh recruits. While it is true that receptivity varies in different parts
of the world,3 and that significant growth occurs in surges rather than
at a uniform rate,4 yet a community that does not grow is lacking
in one of the most basic requirements of organic life. Every mature
community is to achieve a continuity of growth5 and ultimately sus-
tain the process of entry by troops.6
Another significant characteristic of organic life is differentiation.
A single function does not serve all the needs of a complex organism.
Just as the cells of the human body differentiate to form organs that
serve specialized functions, collective action in the Bahá’í community
differentiates as the community grows and becomes more complex.
The Universal House of Justice explains:
As the Bahá’í community has moved from one stage to the
next, the range of activities that it has been able to undertake
has increased. Its growth has been organic in nature and has
implied gradual differentiation in functions. When the Bahá’í
community was small in size, all of its interactions with society
at large easily fitted together under the designation of direct
and indirect teaching. But, over time, new dimensions of
work appeared—involvement in civil society, highly organized
diplomatic work, social action, and so on—each with its own
aims, methods and resources. In a certain sense, it is possible

to refer to all of these activities as teaching, since their ultimate
purpose is the diffusion of the divine fragrances, the offering of
Bahá’u’lláh’s Revelation to humankind, and service to society.
But, in practice, it seems more fruitful to treat them as distinct
but complementary lines of action.7
Involvement in Bahá’í social and economic development is a par-
ticularly worthy illustration of the need for differentiation. In 1983,
the Universal House of Justice explained that “after all the years of
constant teaching activity, the community of the Greatest Name has
grown to the stage at which the processes of this development must
be incorporated into its regular pursuits.”8  While always an aspect
of the Faith described in the Sacred Writings, yet, it took nearly one
hundred and forty years of growth and evolution before Bahá’í so-
cial and economic development emerged as a distinct dimension of
consolidation.9
Another characteristic of organic life is the integration of the
differentiated processes within an organism. Collective action in the
Bahá’í community is not a series of disconnected events selected from
an arbitrary list of things to do. It is an interconnected pattern of
behavior expressed in “a unity in diversity of actions,” a “condition
in which different individuals will concentrate on different activities,
appreciating the salutary effect of the aggregate on the growth and
development of the Faith, because each person cannot do everything
and all persons cannot do the same thing.”10  The areas of action that are
integrated to make up the pattern of community life include “spiritual,
social, educational and administrative activities” and “engagement in
local plans of teaching and development.”11  Each of the processes in
the pattern of a Bahá’í community’s life has a part to play in achieving
its aim and purpose. Each reinforces and complements the others,
while the removal of any of them from a fully developed community
would leave it without an essential capacity for its progress.
Maturation accompanied by an expanding capacity to deal with
complex matters is yet another characteristic of organic development.
Not infrequently, a fledgling local community struggles to function
independently and requires a great deal of support from the out-
side. With such assistance, it begins to undertake activities, at first
The Organic Pattern of Community Life

Creating a New Mind
often of a simple nature, gradually establishing the pattern of Bahá’í
community life, which is increasingly carried forward by the local
believers themselves. The development of the community eventually
reaches the point where the Local Spiritual Assembly formulates its
own plans of action within the context of the national plan. With
time, such local plans become more and more complex and address
a growing number of issues.
Still another characteristic of organic entities is the dynamic spirit
of movement. In the exertions of individuals, groups and institutions
to advance the Cause, the Universal House of Justice observes an “or-
ganic vitality of the Faith” manifested in the “perpetual movement,
like the ceaseless surge of the sea, within the Bahá’í community, which
is the real cause of its growth”:
National and local spiritual assemblies facing difficult problems,
devising new plans, shouldering responsibility for a community
growing in numbers and consciousness, committees striving
to accomplish objectives, Bahá’í youth in eager and dedicated
activity, individual Bahá’ís and families making efforts for the
Cause, to give the Message, or hold a fireside, these constant
services attract the confirmation of Bahá’u’lláh, and the more
they are supported by prayers and intense dedication and the
more extensive they become, the more they release into the
world a spiritual charge which no force on earth can resist,
and which must eventually bring about the complete triumph
of the Cause.12
In designing and creating a physical structure, a builder is free,
within certain limits, to follow his imagination and take any direction;
an architectural plan is created from the start, then implemented step
by step. Fostering an organic process differs significantly, however. The
growth of a plant is influenced by a combination of internal genetic
factors and the vagaries of the external environment. Its unfoldment
is characterized by continuous activity and evolution. While a general
pattern of shoots, leaves and fruits is expected, it is impossible to
predict or control a specific outcome. The more the farmer understands
the needs of the plant, and serves it, the better it grows.

“The Kingdom of God is like unto a farmer who comes into
possession of a piece of pure and virgin soil,” ‘Abdu’l-Bahá informs us.
“Heavenly seeds are scattered therein, the clouds of divine providence
pour down and the rays of the Sun of Reality shine forth.” “Now the
believers of God and the maid-servants of the Merciful must irrigate
these fields,” He further explains,“ and with the utmost power engage
themselves in the cultivation of these heavenly plantations so that
the seeds may grow and develop, prosperity and blessing be realized
and many rich and great harvests be gathered in.”13  The results are in
direct proportion to the quality of our labors.
And if, as thou passest by fields and plantations, thou ob-
servest that the plants, flowers and sweet-smelling herbs are
growing luxuriantly together, forming a pattern of unity, this
is an evidence of the fact that that plantation and garden is
flourishing under the care of a skilful gardener. But when thou
seest it in a state of disorder and irregularity thou inferrest that
it hath lacked the training of an efficient farmer and thus hath
produced weeds and tares.14
The conscious efforts of individuals and institutions to develop
within the Bahá’í community the characteristics of organic life make
it a rich environment that cultivates appropriate relationships, cre-
ates opportunities for fellowship and worship, guides individuals and
families in the practice of Bahá’í ideals, and addresses social and ma-
terial problems. Such efforts expand and consolidate the community
and channel the forces of collective transformation that will yield, in
due course, the fruits of a new civilization.
The Organic Pattern of Community Life

A Community of Unified Thought and Action
The Bahá’í community has been brought into being through the
power of Bahá’u’lláh for the achievement of a particular mission. It is
a community pledged to a covenant, “united in one Divine purpose:”1
that the love of God may be spread, that the oneness of humanity
may be realized, that a new civilization may be raised, and that the
“era of blissful felicity which is to incarnate God’s ultimate purpose
for all mankind” may be inaugurated.2
‘Abdu’l-Bahá urges the believers to rally themselves and unite
around this purpose. “It behoveth all the beloved of God to become
as one,” He affirms, “to gather together under the protection of a
single flag, to stand for a uniform body of opinion, to follow one and
the same pathway, to hold fast to a single resolve. Let them forget
their divergent theories and put aside their conflicting views since,
God be praised, our purpose is one, our goal is one.”3  He indicates
that the “first condition is firmness in the Covenant of God,” for
“it is evident that the axis of the oneness of the world of humanity
is the power of the Covenant and nothing else,” and that “had the
Covenant not come to pass” then “the forces of the Cause of God
would have been utterly scattered.”4  “The Bahá’ís are commanded
to establish the oneness of mankind,” the Master explains, “if they
cannot unite around one point how will they be able to bring about
the unity of mankind?”5
Bahá’ís have thus entered into a covenant with Bahá’u’lláh prom-
ising that they will do His will in order to achieve His purpose. Yet,
it is impossible for the Bahá’í community to move instantly into the
divinely promised Golden Age; we have to collectively learn how to

Creating a New Mind
put the teachings into practice step by step in a manner that corre-
sponds to what Bahá’u’lláh intends. To work systematically to achieve
the transformation implied in His teachings, the community must
be unified in its thought and action.
One cannot obtain the full force of the sunlight when it is
cast on a flat mirror, but once the sun shineth upon a concave
mirror, or on a lens that is convex, all its heat will be concen-
trated on a single point, and that one point will burn the hottest.
Thus is it necessary to focus one’s thinking on a single point so
that it will become an effective force.6
Bahá’u’lláh calls upon the believers to be “united in counsel” and
“one in thought.”7  At the beginning of their meetings, the members of
a Local Assembly pray: “We have gathered in this spiritual assembly,
united in our views and thoughts, with our purposes harmonized to
exalt Thy word amidst mankind.”8 “Should harmony of thought and
absolute unity be nonexistent” ‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains, “that gathering
shall be dispersed and that assembly be brought to naught.”9  “What
the Cause greatly needs,” states the Guardian, “is unity, both of
thought and action.”10
Unity of thought and action represents a proper balance between
oneness and diversity in matters related to the collective concerns of
the Bahá’í community. “It is clear,” ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states, acknowledg-
ing the differences in human minds, “that the reality of mankind is
diverse, that opinions are various and sentiments different; and this
difference of opinions, of thoughts, of intelligence, of sentiments
among the human species arises from essential necessity.”11 Yet, He
further explains, “the diversity in the human family should be the
cause of love and harmony as it is in music where many different
notes blend together in the making of a perfect chord.”12 Building
unity of thought and endeavor is a process of constantly refining
collective understanding and behavior to move them progressively
closer to truth and effective action. Clearly, if the Bahá’í world is to
advance toward achieving Bahá’u’lláh’s purpose, the views of a few
cannot be imposed on the whole, nor is every idea equal and every
individual free to pursue a separate agenda. Without unity of thought

and action, no forward progress is possible. The community lacks a
compass—condemned to interminable wrangling and stagnation and
a hostage to freneticism and arrogance. In the investigation of truth
and the creation of a new civilization, building unity of thought and
action occurs in a broad middle way between the extremes of uni-
formity and relativism. “It is not uniformity which we should seek
in the formation of any national or local assembly,” Shoghi Effendi
makes clear. “For the bedrock of the Bahá’í administrative order is
the principle of unity in diversity, which has been so strongly and so
repeatedly emphasized in the writings of the Cause.”13  At the same
time, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá rejects relativism, explaining that “reality is not
divisible; it does not admit multiplicity. All the holy Manifestations
of God have proclaimed and promulgated the same reality. They have
summoned mankind to reality itself, and reality is one.”14
How is it possible to proceed along this middle way of unity of
thought and action? Through simultaneous efforts to weigh views
in the balance of the Revelation, to consult, and to learn in united
action, diverse points of view are harmonized so as to contribute to
the discovery of truth.
Unity of thought and action begins with the effort of each person
to respond to the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh. “Investigation of the
one fundamental reality and allegiance to the essential unchanging
principles of the Word of God,” ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states, “can alone
establish unity and love in human hearts.”15  And He adds:
Naught but the celestial potency of the Word of God, which
ruleth and transcendeth the realities of all things, is capable of
harmonizing the divergent thoughts, sentiments, ideas, and
convictions of the children of men.16
The individual efforts of believers to conform their personal views and
behavior to the standard of the divine will, as expressed in the revealed
Word of God and in the authoritative statements of the Center of the
Cause, draw them into closer harmony with one another.
Referring to the texts purifies and shapes opinion. Individual
interpretation is the fruit of our rational power and contributes to
a better understanding of the teachings.17 We all have a right to our
A Community of Unified Thought and Action

Creating a New Mind
opinions and we are bound to think differently.18  Yet reality is vast;
no single mind can fully grasp all its dimensions. Individuals must
of necessity hold subjective, partial views—personal opinions about
reality and truth that can be shared and contrasted with the views
and opinions of others in the quest for greater understanding. “As
believers with various insights into the Teachings converse—with
patience, tolerance and open and unbiased minds—a deepening of
comprehension should take place.”19  The right to individual opin-
ions is upheld in the writings and its value affirmed. However, two
opinions may equally represent different perspectives on the truth,
or one opinion may be closer to the truth than the other. Opinions
can also be wrong. Shoghi Effendi explains that the “more we read
the Writings, the more truths we can find in them, the more we will
see that our previous notions were erroneous.”20  It is a sign of prog-
ress and maturity to be capable of weeding out incorrect or inferior
views to attain a greater comprehension of truth.
Consider an example from the teaching work. In observing efforts
to bring about large-scale expansion over a number of years, a Bahá’í
teacher may conclude that the process simply does not work and
that teaching should be restricted to firesides and other methods for
sharing the Message during the course of one’s daily life. But upon
reading statements such as “It is imperative, therefore, that the process
of teaching the masses be not only maintained but accelerated”21 and
“All should recognize that entry by troops is an inevitable stage in
the development of the Cause,” 22 the teacher should acknowledge
that the process of large-scale expansion is valid and that the previous
belief was in error. A diversity of opinions may still legitimately exist,
of course, with regard to the most effective methods for achieving
such expansion.
Where the teachings of the Book are not explicit, where personal
interpretations differ, or where views about alternative applications
of the teachings vary, consultation provides a means for the believ-
ers to unify their thoughts and actions. “In all things it is necessary
to consult,” Bahá’u’lláh states, for “it is and will always be a cause of
awareness and of awakening and a source of good and well-being.”23

Consultation is the searching for the truth of a matter in order to
determine appropriate action in a given circumstance.
Consultation is guided by a number of clearly expressed principles.
Individuals are to be free to put forward their views and should not
be offended by the views of others.24  Opinions are presented without
passion or rancor; conflict and contention are strictly forbidden,25
and, if they arise, discussion should cease until unity is restored.26
The clash of differing opinions brings forth the spark of truth,27 and
all are to listen for the truth as differing opinions are shared, for “the
light of reality becomes apparent when two opinions coincide.”28  For
this reason, stubbornly clinging to one’s opinion ensures that the
truth will remain hidden.29  Above all, “true consultation is spiritual
conference in the attitude and atmosphere of love. Members must
love each other in the spirit of fellowship in order that good results
may be forthcoming.”30
If unanimity is not achieved by a consultative body, a decision
is reached by vote, and all are urged to “abide by the voice of the
majority, which we are told by our Master to be the voice of truth,
never to be challenged, and always to be whole-heartedly enforced.”31
Members of the authoritative body who have different views are not
to dispute or undermine the decision but rather, enthusiastically up-
hold it.32  In this way, even if the decision is wrong, the foundation
of unity is preserved during implementation and the community
can more quickly learn the way that is right.33  Thus comes into play
a third element along with study of the writings and consultation,
namely, learning through united action. For unity of thought with-
out unity of action is meaningless.
Mistakes—whether deriving from individual initiative or
collective action—are an inevitable part of the learning process. “A
wide latitude for action must be allowed them, which means that a
large margin for mistakes must also be allowed. . . . The Cause is not
so fragile that a degree of mistakes cannot be tolerated.”34  Through
reflection on action, based on further study and consultation, plans
can be revised and more constructive strategies for action undertaken.
Even after careful study, sound consultation, and united action,
there will remain differences in the subjective beliefs of individuals.
A Community of Unified Thought and Action

Creating a New Mind
Given the vast nature of reality, how could it be otherwise, since
human beings will ever fall short of an ultimate understanding of
truth? Rather than taking sides and arguing about matters, the friends
need to be comfortable with uncertainty, content to allow others
room to express a diversity of outlooks and actions. “Living with
ambiguities” the Universal House of Justice explains, is “a natural and
inescapable feature of the process of exploring reality.”35  The believers
are encouraged to “learn to listen to the views of others without being
overawed or allowing their faith to be shaken, and to express their
own views without pressing them on their fellow Bahá’ís.”36  If beliefs
or actions are erroneous, they will, presumably, yield to continued
learning; no harm can come unless these perspectives are advanced
in such a way as to contend with authoritative interpretations or to
undermine the legitimate authority of the institutions. Similarly,
irreparable harm is done by belittling the opinions of one’s fellow
believers through judgmental categorizations, assigning people to
camps that do not exist in the Faith:
He urges you to exert your utmost to get the . . . Bahá’ís to put
aside such obnoxious terms as “radical”, “conservative”, “pro-
gressive”, “enemies of the Cause”, “squelching the teachings”,
etc. If they paused for one moment to think for what purpose
the Báb and the Martyrs gave their lives, and Bahá’u’lláh and
the Master accepted so much suffering, they would never let
such definitions and accusations cross their lips when speak-
ing of each other.37
The gray area of ambiguity is the frontier of learning, the field of
inquiry where more accurate and insightful understandings of reality
geminate and grow. Two knowledge systems, science and religion,
shed light on that gray area; it must be preserved for independent
investigation by protecting it from the distortions of truth imposed
by intractable personal views. The Covenant maintains proper rela-
tionships of love and unity among the believers and preserves the
integrity of the teachings even when strong differences of opinion
are held. The Guardian explains that it is “premature and presump-
tuous on our part” to imagine that we can adequately assess the full
value of Bahá’u’lláh’s new World Order. As we work collectively to

raise it in every corner of the globe, “we must trust to time, and the
guidance of God’s Universal House of Justice, to obtain a clearer and
fuller understanding of its provisions and implications.”38
Unity of thought does not narrow, but widens the scope of
action within the community. It safeguards individual initiative and
clarifies arrangements for a diversity of actions. By understanding
the nature of the Cause and the full range of endeavor necessary for
its progress, all can be engaged constructively in the simultaneous
study, consultation, action and reflection that are the essential practice
of one’s faith in working toward God’s purpose for humanity. By
following the means offered by the teachings to harmonize thoughts
and actions, Bahá’í communities will mature and make a marked
impact on the society around them.
A Community of Unified Thought and Action

A Community of Devotion and Service
The pattern of Bahá’í community life includes the “distinct, yet
inseparable” elements of devotion and service.1  “Success and pros-
perity depend upon service to and worship of God,”2 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
observes, while Shoghi Effendi states that the very purpose of the
Bahá’í community “is regulated by the twin directing principles of
the worship of God and of service to one’s fellow-men.”3
The worship of God is the essence of religion. “Occupy thyself
in remembrance of the Beauty of Him Who is the Unconstrained,
at early morn and seek communion with Him at the hour of dawn,”
Bahá’u’lláh urges, for “remembrance of Me is a healing medicine to
the souls and a light to the hearts of men.”4  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains
that the state of prayer is the best of conditions, for prayer bestows
life.5  “Remembrance of God is like the rain and dew,” He adds,
“which bestow freshness and grace on flowers and hyacinths, revive
them and cause them to acquire fragrance, redolence and renewed
charm.”6  And Shoghi Effendi states:
. . . The core of religious faith is that mystic feeling which
unites man with God. This state of spiritual communion can
be brought about and maintained by means of meditation and
prayer. And this is the reason why Bahá’u’lláh has so much
stressed the importance of worship. . . .
For prayer is absolutely indispensable to their [the believers]
inner spiritual development, and this, as already stated, is the
very foundation and purpose of the Religion of God.7
Personal devotions are, therefore, essential, yet alone are insuf-
ficient. Everything in creation worships God, and the community,

Creating a New Mind
as an entity in itself, must certainly do so as well. “It behooveth the
friends in whatever land they be, to gather together in meetings,”
Bahá’u’lláh states, “and therein to speak wisely and with eloquence,
and to read the verses of God; for it is God’s Words that kindle love’s
fire and set it ablaze.”8  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains that the wisdom of rais-
ing places of worship is so that the people will gather together at a
certain time and engage in prayer, so that unity and affection will
grow in their hearts.9
At the current stage of development, the Nineteen Day Feast
is the central focus of Bahá’í community worship. “Here,” ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá states, “the holy verses, the heavenly odes and laudations are
intoned, and the heart is quickened, and carried away from itself.”10
In practice, however, most communities struggle to make the Feast
a gathering that achieves such high aims. The Universal House of
Justice has encouraged the friends to understand the concept of the
Feast and to explore various means to enhance its efficacy.11
But the Nineteen Day Feast is not the only collective expression
of Bahá’í worship. And because it is a meeting intended for Bahá’ís
only, communities which do not explore other opportunities for
devotional gatherings are left without a means to invite friends and
seekers to participate in Bahá’í worship. Holy Days represent one such
opportunity. In addition, the Universal House of Justice explains that
“it is essential to the spiritual life of the community that the friends
hold regular devotional meetings in local Bahá’í centers, where avail-
able, or elsewhere, including the homes of believers.”12  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
suggests the hosting of spiritual meetings, even up to once a week,13
in which the divine verses would be recited and music incorporated
in order to uplift and attract the hearts. These meetings, drawing
both believers and others,14 are powerful tools for teaching; they at-
tract the power of the Holy Spirit and can influence the entire city.15
It befitteth the friends to hold a gathering, a meeting, where
they shall glorify God and fix their hearts upon Him, and read
and recite the holy writings of the Blessed Beauty—may my
soul be the ransom of His lovers! The lights of the All-Glorious
Realm, the rays of the Supreme Horizon, will be cast upon such
bright assemblages. . . . These spiritual gatherings must be held

with the utmost purity and consecration, so that from the site
itself, and its earth and the air about it, one will inhale the fra-
grant breathings of the Holy Spirit.16
Worship of God takes different forms in different cultures. Shoghi
Effendi calls upon the believers to avoid fixed forms and rituals in
devotional practice. This is crucial in those communities that must
evolve to integrate minorities. Openness to spiritual meetings of
various kinds, suited to the cultural tastes of different populations,
contributes to an environment in which all peoples can feel the true
spirit of the Faith. This should not, however, lead to exotic experi-
ments in order to accommodate the whims of every member of the
community.
Dignity and reverence befitting the occasion should obviously
characterize observances of Bahá’í Holy Days by the friends, but
this does not mean that cultural traditions which do not con-
travene Bahá’í principles may not, and cannot, find expression
in the local observances and meetings of the friends.17
In the Bahá’í community, devotion must find expression in ac-
tion. Bahá’u’lláh has exalted work performed in the spirit of service to
worship,18 and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá equates service to humanity with service
to God.19 Such work draws us nearer to God and enables us to better
grasp His purpose for us in this world.20  “In His elevation of art and
of work performed in the service of humanity to acts of worship,”
the Universal House of Justice states, “can be discerned enormous
prospects for a new birth of expression in the civilization anticipated
by His World Order.”21
Service to humanity, whether through humanitarian acts or
social and economic development projects, is a sacred and obligatory
element22 in the pattern of life of every Bahá’í community. ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá explains that in past dispensations, with the exception of acts
of charity, concern for the common good was largely confined to the
religious community itself. In the dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh, however,
efforts to improve material and social conditions are conducted for
the benefit of all humanity.23  The emphasis of the Bahá’í community
is not on delivering charity, which so often debilitates the recipient,
A Community of Devotion and Service

Creating a New Mind
but on cultivating the capacity in individuals and their institutions
to participate in their own development. In promoting the general
welfare, the Bahá’í community should, according to the Guardian,
attract the favorable attention of all and lead the rest.24  The purpose
is to build both material and spiritual civilization.
From the beginning of His stupendous mission, Bahá’u’lláh
urged upon the attention of nations the necessity of ordering
human affairs in such a way as to bring into being a world uni-
fied in all the essential aspects of its life. In unnumbered verses
and tablets He repeatedly and variously declared the “progress
of the world” and the “development of nations” as being among
the ordinances of God for this day. The oneness of mankind,
which is at once the operating principle and ultimate goal of
His Revelation, implies the achievement of a dynamic coher-
ence between the spiritual and practical requirements of life
on earth.25
Development efforts may begin in a Bahá’í community with
the believers addressing challenges within the community itself, but
soon these grow to extend their beneficent influence to the entire
city or village. The focus is always on some dimension of the social or
material challenges facing the population of which the Bahá’í com-
munity is a part and on the application of Bahá’u’lláh’s teachings to
resolve the ills of humanity. The resources for these efforts are not
merely funds, but comprehension of the teachings, dedicated indi-
viduals and institutions, united community action, and a vision of a
better world. As the worldwide Bahá’í community grows in size, its
capacity to address human problems and influence society will cor-
respondingly increase, eventually reaching the point where it will be
possible for “great humanitarian projects” to be launched under the
aegis of the Universal House of Justice.26
Devotion and service are most clearly united in the Bahá’í com-
munity in the institution of the Mashriqu’l-Adhkár, the Dawning
Place of the Mention of God, which gives them concrete expression.
. . . it is assuredly upon the consciousness of the efficacy of the
Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh, reinforced on one hand by spiritual

communion with His Spirit, and on the other by the intelli-
gent application and the faithful execution of the principles
and laws He revealed, that the salvation of a world in travail
must ultimately depend. And of all the institutions that stand
associated with His Holy Name, surely none save the institu-
tion of the Mashriqu’l-Adhkár can most adequately provide
the essentials of Bahá’í worship and service, both so vital to the
regeneration of the world.27
In each community of the future, the Mashriqu’l-Adhkár and
its dependencies, operating under the direction of the local House
of Justice, will be the central point of collective worship and will
“afford relief to the suffering, sustenance to the poor, shelter to the
wayfarer, solace to the bereaved, and education to the ignorant.”28  It
is not necessary to await the building of these structures, however,
for either devotion or service to be tightly woven into the pattern of
community life. For “this process begins in an embryonic way long
before a Bahá’í community reaches the stage of building its own
Mashriqu’l-Adhkár.”29  It is interesting to note, in this regard, that the
Universal House of Justice drew upon the model of the Mashriqu’l-
Adhkár in its decision to incorporate social and economic develop-
ment efforts in the regular pursuits of Bahá’í communities.30 As a
local community grows, the Assembly will oversee the purchase of a
center and ultimately a H. az.íratu’l-Quds, and agencies with various
degrees of autonomy to administer sustained activities for develop-
ment will emerge.
The energies inherent in the association of devotion and service
contribute to the transforming power of the community. Universal
participation of the believers in acts of devotion and service endows
the Bahá’í community “with such strength that it can overcome the
forces of spiritual disintegration which are engulfing the non-Bahá’í
world, and can become an ocean of oneness that will cover the face
of the planet.”31
A Community of Devotion and Service

A Community of Fellowship and Support
Love, as described in the Bahá’í writings, is not merely a praise-
worthy emotion or an ephemeral inclination of the human heart,
but a force of attraction on which depends the very existence of cre-
ation.1  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states that the greatest gift to humanity is uni-
versal love. It is, He explains, a power that renders life eternal and
fills it with infinite joy. When this love penetrates the human heart,
all the forces of the universe are realized therein. Love is a power that
ignites the spirit of faith, raising the individual to a divine station.
No spiritual advancement occurs until the soul is illumined by the
light of love. “Strive to increase the love-power of reality,” He urges,
“to make your hearts greater centers of attraction and to create new
ideals and relationships.”
Create relationships that nothing can shake; form an assembly
that nothing can break up; have a mind that never ceases acquir-
ing riches that nothing can destroy. If love did not exist, what
of reality would remain? It is the fire of the love of God which
renders man superior to the animal. Strengthen this superior
force through which is attained all the progress in the world.2
The Bahá’í community is an environment in which love is culti-
vated and expressed in such a way that individuals both receive and
contribute to fellowship, unity, nurturing, and support. These are not
the characteristics of a passive state—the mere absence of discord and
self-interest—rather, they are the result of a dynamic similar to that
of the human organism in which the cells, organs and systems con-
tribute to a whole that is greater than the sum of its parts. The emer-
gence of a community of fellowship and support requires conscious,

Creating a New Mind
systematic, and sacrificial effort so that the believers may become as
one soul in many bodies.
This day is the day of union, the day of the ingathering of all
mankind. “Verily God loveth those who, as though they were
a solid wall, do battle for His Cause in serried lines!” Note that
He saith “in serried lines”—meaning crowded and pressed to-
gether, one locked to the next, each supporting his fellows. . . .
Whensoever holy souls, drawing on the powers of heaven, shall
arise with such qualities of the spirit, and march in unison, rank
on rank, every one of those souls will be even as one thousand,
and the surging waves of that mighty ocean will be even as the
battalions of the Concourse on high. What a blessing that will
be—when all shall come together, even as once separate torrents,
rivers and streams, running brooks and single drops, when col-
lected together in one place will form a mighty sea.3
Consider, for example, a community of one hundred believers.
Each faces personal problems—the pressures of earning a livelihood
and supporting a family, the difficulties of guiding and protecting
children, the challenges of loving and reciprocal interactions, and
a host of other concerns. It may seem as if individuals and families
that are struggling to address their own needs in a disintegrating so-
cial order have no time for community building. Yet, it is precisely
in the context of the community that they will find the means to
solve their problems. If each contributes just one act of service to
the common good, every person would be the recipient of ninety-
nine acts of service. When each member of the community seeks to
address the well-being of the others, the powers of the community
are multiplied and all receive blessings and assistance in a way that
attending to one’s own problems can never achieve. The Universal
House of Justice notes
the Master’s oft-expressed wish that the friends should love
each other, constantly encourage each other, work together,
be as one soul in one body, and in so doing become a true, or-
ganic, healthy body animated and illumined by the spirit. In
such a body all will receive spiritual health and vitality from

the organism itself, and the most perfect flowers and fruits will
be brought forth.4
The love that exists in the Bahá’í community is born of the love of
God. “Each sees in the other the Beauty of God reflected in the soul,”
‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains, “and finding this point of similarity, they are
attracted to one another in love.”5  From this point of attraction, the
believers build an impregnable stronghold of unity, in which each is
willing to serve every other member. “Do not be satisfied until each
one with whom you are concerned is to you as a member of your
family,” ‘Abdu’l-Bahá urges. “Regard each one either as a father, or
as a brother, or as a sister, or as a mother, or as a child. If you can at-
tain to this, your difficulties will vanish, you will know what to do.”6
And He also explains:
Your utmost desire must be to confer happiness upon each
other. Each one must be the servant of the others, thought-
ful of their comfort and welfare. In the path of God one must
forget himself entirely. He must not consider his own pleasure
but seek the pleasure of others. He must not desire glory nor
gifts of bounty for himself but seek these gifts and blessings for
his brothers and sisters. It is my hope that you may become
like this, that you may attain to the supreme bestowal and be
imbued with such spiritual qualities as to forget yourselves en-
tirely and with heart and soul offer yourselves as sacrifices for
the Blessed Perfection.7
One aspect of Bahá’í community life consists of activities and
interpersonal relationships that contribute to the upliftment of its
membership. Among the arrangements the community makes for
these interactions are gatherings for meditation and prayer, deepen-
ings, children’s classes, training courses, social events, the Nineteen
Day Feast, and Bahá’í summer school.
Just as a healthy body sustains its cells and organs, the commu-
nity of fellowship and support empowers its constituent elements—
men, women, youth, and children—to realize their full potential in
contributing to the divine purpose. Since “every child is potentially
the light of the world,”8 they are brought up to work and strive, to
A Community of Fellowship and Support

Creating a New Mind
be accustomed to hardship, and to dedicate their lives to matters of
great import.9  Thus children become equipped to play their future
role in achieving God’s purpose for humanity. Youth, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
explains, are “apprentices of God.”10  They are to be supported in
their deep study of the writings so that they may effectively teach
the Cause, prepare for future service, and learn to apply the teach-
ings to the problems of society. Youth can be the “spearhead of any
enterprise and the driving force of any undertaking”11 and can “con-
tribute significantly to shaping the societies of the coming century.”12
Since the equality of women and men is not universally realized, we
must painstakingly put into practice this principle. Therefore, the
Universal House of Justice adds, “Bahá’í women and girls must be
encouraged to take part in the social, spiritual and administrative
activities of their communities.”13  Marriage, in the Bahá’í commu-
nity, is conceived as the very foundation of social order.14  According
to the House of Justice, “as soon as a Bahá’í family unit emerges,
the members should feel responsible for making the collective life
of the family a spiritual reality, animated by divine love and inspired
by the ennobling principles of the Faith. . . . In this way the friends
could make of their families strong healthy units, bright candles for
the diffusion of the light of the Kingdom, and powerful centers to
attract the heavenly confirmations.”15
A particular challenge to any Bahá’í community is to reach out
beyond the people who are the majority in its jurisdiction and build
a unity in diversity that encompasses the entire population. All hu-
manity has a part to play in contributing to the emergence of a new
culture which is distinctly Bahá’í. The Word of God is endowed with
the power to attract people of every race and nationality to the Cause,
but they will drift away from the community if the pattern of life ap-
pears to them set in a format that is cold and distant. Shoghi Effendi
states that “every organized community enlisted under the banner of
Bahá’u’lláh should feel it to be its first and inescapable obligation to
nurture, encourage, and safeguard every minority belonging to any
faith, race, class, or nation within it.”16

The fellowship and support that are characteristic of the life of
the community serve the needs not only of the believers, but of the
entire population. The Bahá’í community does not see strangers; it
embraces and unites all. Everyone is to find in this community their
home, and in the believers, their true family. When you meet a strang-
er, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states, “speak to him as to a friend; if he seems to be
lonely try to help him, give him of your willing service; if he be sad
console him, if poor succor him, if oppressed rescue him, if in misery
comfort him. In so doing you will manifest that not in words only,
but in deed and in truth, you think of all men as your brothers.”17
The spirit of fellowship and support which every Bahá’í commu-
nity strives to manifest is captured in a description by Nabíl of the
early believers who were in the company of Bahá’u’lláh in Baghdád:
So intoxicated were those who had quaffed from the cup of
Bahá’u’lláh’s presence, that in their eyes the palaces of kings
appeared more ephemeral than a spider’s web . . . The celebra-
tions and festivities that were theirs were such as the kings of
the earth had never dreamt of. . . .
Many a night, no less than ten persons subsisted on no more
than a pennyworth of dates. No one knew to whom actually
belonged the shoes, the cloaks, or the robes that were to be
found in their houses. Whoever went to the bazaar could claim
that the shoes upon his feet were his own, and each one who
entered the presence of Bahá’u’lláh could affirm that the cloak
and robe he then wore belonged to him. Their own names they
had forgotten, their hearts were emptied of aught else except
adoration for their Beloved . . . O, for the joy of those days,
and the gladness and wonder of those hours!18
When such a spirit exists within a Bahá’í community, it becomes
a magnet that attracts humanity. Shoghi Effendi longed to see the
spirit of unity and love among the believers animate their commu-
nity life, for “unless and until the believers really come to realize they
are one spiritual family, knit together by a bond more lasting than
mere physical ties can ever be, they will not be able to create that
warm community atmosphere which alone can attract the hearts of
A Community of Fellowship and Support

Creating a New Mind
humanity, frozen for lack of real love and feeling.”19  It was his hope
that the “tiny nucleus of the Bahá’í Commonwealth of the future”
would so exemplify the spirit of universal love and fellowship as to
evoke in the minds of their fellows the “vision of that future City of
God which the almighty arm of Bahá’u’lláh can alone establish.”20

A Community of Excellence and Distinction
The Bahá’í writings call upon the believers to become distin-
guished among all the peoples of the earth.
Wherever a Bahá’í community exists, whether large or small, let
it be distinguished for its abiding sense of security and faith, its
high standard of rectitude, its complete freedom from all forms
of prejudice, the spirit of love among its members and for the
closely knit fabric of its social life. The acute distinction between
this and present-day society will inevitably arouse the interest
of the more enlightened, and as the world’s gloom deepens the
light of Bahá’í life will shine brighter and brighter until its bril-
liance must eventually attract the disillusioned masses and cause
them to enter the haven of the Covenant of Bahá’u’lláh, Who
alone can bring them peace and justice and an ordered life.1
“In these very days,” ‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains, “the Abhá Paradise
must pitch its pavilions on the plains of the world.”2  Humanity, Shoghi
Effendi observes, desperately needs to see the love that is engendered
in the hearts of the believers, and to partake of the atmosphere of tol-
erance, understanding, forbearance and active kindness that should
be the hallmark of a Bahá’í community.3  The believers are to distin-
guish themselves through the manifestation of spiritual qualities and
through service to humanity. It is, in the words of the Guardian to
one national community, a “double crusade,” both to “regenerate
the inward life” of the believers and to “assail the long-standing evils
that have entrenched themselves” in the society.4  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states:
I desire distinction for you. The Bahá’ís must be distinguished
from others of humanity. But this distinction must not depend

Creating a New Mind
upon wealth—that they should become more affluent than
other people. I do not desire for you financial distinction. It is
not an ordinary distinction I desire; not scientific, commercial,
industrial distinction. For you I desire spiritual distinction—
that is, you must become eminent and distinguished in morals.
In the love of God you must become distinguished from all
else. You must become distinguished for loving humanity;
for unity and accord, for love and justice. In brief, you must
become distinguished in all the virtues of the human world—
for faithfulness and steadfastness, for philanthropic deeds and
service to the human world, for love toward every human being,
for unity and accord with all people, for removing prejudices
and promoting international peace. Finally, you must become
distinguished for heavenly illumination and acquiring the
bestowals of God. I desire this distinction for you.5
In no way does the call to distinction represent an appeal for the
believers to demonstrate superiority to others or to vaunt themselves
over the members of other religious communities. The Bahá’í teach-
ings are not exclusive or sectarian; they reject any conception of “us”
versus “them.” Bahá’ís are exhorted to associate with all people and,
by their rectitude of conduct and disinterested service, win their re-
spect and esteem. “Show ye an endeavor,” ‘Abdu’l-Bahá urges, “that
all nations and communities of the world, even the enemies, put their
trust, assurance, and hope in you.”6 The summons to excellence and
distinction should be regarded as no less than an obligation on the
Bahá’í community to transform itself so as to become the means for
influencing others. “This is the magnet which will attract the masses
to the Cause of God,” the Universal House of Justice explains, “and
the leaven that will transform human society.”7
The Bahá’í community’s struggle for distinction takes place within
the context of the disintegration of an outdated social order. Bahá’ís
are not simply to move to the forefront of the existing order, but are
to work with the forces of integration to contribute to the creation
of a new one. In today’s world, while a desire for transformation is
widely proclaimed in many circles, there is little agreement on the
nature of the changes to be implemented. Some believe that with the

addition of a few structural adjustments and the infusion of spiri-
tual qualities in the individual the existing economic, political, and
social systems will function perfectly well. Bahá’ís disagree with this
position. The only alternative for true change is for the rules, laws,
habits, systems, and institutions of an old order to pass away so a
new one can be established in its stead.8  Consider the profound and
widespread changes that moved Europe from the Middle Ages to
modernity. Assuredly Bahá’u’lláh’s Revelation will evoke changes no
less dramatic and far-reaching given that it is to usher in the stage
of maturity in human affairs. As Bahá’u’lláh asks: “Is not the object
of every Revelation to effect a transformation in the whole charac-
ter of mankind, a transformation that shall manifest itself both out-
wardly and inwardly, that shall affect both its inner life and external
conditions?”9
It is in the local Bahá’í communities that the power of Bahá’u’lláh
to reorganize human affairs on a basis of spiritual unity can be most
apparent.10 The Universal House of Justice explains that “Souls must
be transformed, communities thereby consolidated, new models of
life thus attained.”11  The pattern of Bahá’í community life must nec-
essarily change the believers and the world simultaneously.
To realize the necessary degree of internal transformation, each
community of believers weighs its own cultural beliefs in the balance
of the Revelation—eliminating those aspects which contradict the
standard and polishing those characteristics which conform to it. In
doing so it takes part in the building of a global civilization. “Abandon
the things current amongst you,” Bahá’u’lláh states, “and adopt that
which the faithful Counsellor biddeth you.”12  Shoghi Effendi made
such an appeal to the Bahá’í community of North America, urging its
members “to weed out, by every means in their power, those faults,
habits, and tendencies which they have inherited from their own
nation, and to cultivate, patiently and prayerfully, those distinctive
qualities and characteristics that are so indispensable to their effective
participation in the great redemptive work of their Faith.”13  Similarly,
the Universal House of Justice wrote to the friends in Africa:
Since change is inevitable if progress is to be made by any
African society, a primary challenge to Bahá’ís is to preserve and
A Community of Excellence and Distinction

Creating a New Mind
improve those wholesome aspects of tribal and family custom
that are in accord with the Bahá’í Teachings and to dispense
with those that are not. Such a challenge must be embraced
with the understanding that the Book of God is the standard
by which to weigh all forms of behavior. While unwavering
action is necessary, wisdom and tact and patience must, of
course, be exercised. Let it be understood, too, that Africans
are not alone in the struggle to change certain age-old practices.
People everywhere have customs which must be abandoned so
as to clear the path along which their societies must evolve to-
wards that glorious, new civilization which is to be the fruit of
Bahá’u’lláh’s stupendous Revelation. Indeed, in no society on
earth can there be found practices which adequately mirror the
standards of His Cause.14
At the forefront of the efforts of the Bahá’í community to distin-
guish itself through its character and actions are Bahá’í youth. The
youth of every generation represent the future of the Cause. The
Guardian indicated that it is they “who can contribute so decisively
to the virility, the purity, and the driving force of the life of the Bahá’í
community, and upon whom must depend the future orientation of
its destiny, and the complete unfoldment of the potentialities with
which God has endowed it.”15  Youth are justifiably unimpressed by
a vision that translates the potent and revolutionary Bahá’í Message
into a trite formula for living: be good, stay out of trouble, get a good
education and enter a well-paying job. Of course, it is the respon-
sibility of the Bahá’í community to ensure that youth do receive a
proper education and prepare themselves for responsible positions
in society, but this is accomplished in the context of liberating, in-
spiring, and empowering them to become the saints, heroes, teachers
and martyrs of a new “race of men.”16  “Youth,” the Universal House
of Justice emphatically asserts, “can move the world.”17
The standard of excellence and distinction to which the Bahá’í
community is called can never be won by theoretical exercises or by
fretting about personal or collective shortcomings in programs that
are essentially passive and inward looking. It is to be achieved by ac-
tion in the world—with its attendant requirements of pain, sacrifice,

and perseverance—and reflection on that action in the light of the
writings as the community continually reviews and revises its efforts.
As the community increasingly attains higher standards of excel-
lence and distinction it becomes an attractive entity, and sets in mo-
tion forces for the building of a new civilization. It portrays to the
world a community united in its mission, confident in its methods,
and assured of the truth of its teachings.
. . . The eyes of the people of the world are beginning to be fo-
cused on us; and, as humanity’s plight goes from bad to worse,
we will be watched ever more intently by non-Bahá’ís, to see
whether we do uphold our own institutions wholeheartedly;
whether we are the people of the new creation or not; whether
we live up to our beliefs, principles and laws in deed as well as
word. We cannot be too careful. We cannot be too exemplary.18
The marked contrast between the vigor, unity, and discipline of the
Bahá’í community and the increasing confusion, despair, and feverish
tempo of society will draw humanity to the sanctuary of Bahá’u’lláh’s
world-redeeming Faith.19

A Community of Excellence and Distinction

A Community of Conquerors
Bahá’u’lláh did not proclaim His Cause simply so that several
million people would be attracted to and accept His religious teach-
ings. He did not suffer forty years of imprisonment and exile so that
a new church could take its place among a host of competing sects
and denominations. Bahá’u’lláh came for nothing less than the spiri-
tual conquest and transformation of the entire planet. His aim is the
realization in practice of the oneness of humanity.
The principle of the Oneness of Mankind—the pivot round
which all the teachings of Bahá’u’lláh revolve—is no mere out-
burst of ignorant emotionalism or an expression of vague and
pious hope. Its appeal is not to be merely identified with a re-
awakening of the spirit of brotherhood and good-will among
men, nor does it aim solely at the fostering of harmonious coop-
eration among individual peoples and nations. Its implications
are deeper, its claims greater than any which the Prophets of
old were allowed to advance. Its message is applicable not only
to the individual, but concerns itself primarily with the nature
of those essential relationships that must bind all the states and
nations as members of one human family. . . . It implies an or-
ganic change in the structure of present-day society, a change
such as the world has not yet experienced. . . . It represents the
consummation of human evolution. . . .
The principle of the Oneness of Mankind, as proclaimed by
Bahá’u’lláh, carries with it no more and no less than a solemn
assertion that attainment to this final stage in this stupendous
evolution is not only necessary but inevitable, that its realiza-
tion is fast approaching, and that nothing short of a power that
is born of God can succeed in establishing it.1

Creating a New Mind
It is in this context that Bahá’ís receive their mission of spiritual
conquest. The Universal House of Justice has referred to the “piti-
ful plight of masses of humanity, suffering and in turmoil, hunger-
ing after righteousness”2 and the “soul-crushing difficulties and the
shadow of despair” which weigh upon the peoples of the world at this
time in history.3  In response, “the community must become imbued
with a sense of mission and the Assembly grow in awareness of its
role as a channel of God’s grace not only for the Bahá’ís but for the
entire village, town or city in which it serves.”4  In addition, “there
must be revived among the individual believers a sense of mission, a
feeling of empowerment to minister to the urgent need of human-
ity for guidance and thus to win victories for the Faith in their own
sphere of life.”5
Bahá’u’lláh has explained that He has no desire for the things of
this world, but that He has claimed for Himself the cities of human
hearts. The believers are to conquer those hearts through their ut-
terance and their good character. “O people of Bahá!” is His appeal.
“Subdue the citadels of men’s hearts with the swords of wisdom and
of utterance.”6  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá compares the believers to a divine army
operating under the Lord of Hosts.7  The “ever-victorious Commander”
of the “valiant combatants on earth” is ‘Abdu’l-Bahá Himself.8  The
plan of conquest is the Divine Plan. The “conquest” is, in actuality,
the liberation of the human race. Its methods eschew force and co-
ercion and opts for service, wisdom and love.
To do battle, as stated in the sacred verse, doth not, in this
greatest of all dispensations, mean to go forth with sword and
spear, with lance and piercing arrow—but rather weaponed
with pure intent, with righteous motives, with counsels help-
ful and effective, with godly attributes, with deeds pleasing to
the Almighty, with the qualities of heaven. It signifieth educa-
tion for all mankind, guidance for all men, the spreading far
and wide of the sweet savors of the spirit, the promulgation of
God’s proofs, the setting forth of arguments conclusive and
divine, the doing of charitable deeds.9

The Bahá’í writings envision that humanity will ultimately em-
brace Bahá’u’lláh’s teachings. This will be achieved by allowing each
individual to freely investigate truth. To teach is to act as if offering
a gift to a king; if an individual shows no receptivity, the teacher is to
leave him to himself. Bahá’ís are enjoined to avoid contention—we
yield rather than impose:
O ye loved ones of God! In this, the Bahá’í dispensation,
God’s Cause is spirit unalloyed. His Cause belongeth not to
the material world. It cometh neither for strife nor war, nor for
acts of mischief or of shame; it is neither for quarreling with
other Faiths, nor for conflicts with the nations. Its only army is
the love of God, its only joy the clear wine of His knowledge,
its only battle the expounding of the Truth; its one crusade is
against the insistent self, the evil promptings of the human
heart. Its victory is to submit and yield, and to be selfless is its
everlasting glory. In brief, it is spirit upon spirit. . . .10
While cognizant of their mission and confident in the ultimate
victory of the Faith, Bahá’ís must exercise care to avoid conveying a
sense of triumphalism in their interactions with the members of other
communities. The battle between light and darkness engulfing the
world challenges all humanity. The forces of darkness arise from those
characteristics of the animal nature and materialistic instincts that have
ruled humanity throughout countless centuries and have taken on a
unique, insidious form in this day. The forces of light emanate from
those qualities that all religions and moral philosophies have sought
to cultivate and which have been revitalized through Bahá’u’lláh’s
Revelation. Nevertheless, “nothing short of a power that is born of
God” can ultimately succeed in liberating humanity. The Divine
Physician has prescribed His remedy, and Bahá’ís know that remedy.
Only if the Faith grows and develops to a significant size will it
be able to fulfill its life-giving mission. In describing the growth of
the Cause, Shoghi Effendi envisions a “steady flow” of “fresh recruits
to the slowly yet steadily advancing army of the Lord of Hosts.” This,
he explains, would
A Community of Conquerors

Creating a New Mind
presage and hasten the advent of the day which, as prophesied
by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, will witness the entry by troops of peoples of
divers nations and races into the Bahá’í world—a day which,
viewed in its proper perspective, will be the prelude to that
long-awaited hour when a mass conversion on the part of
these same nations and races, and as a direct result of a chain
of events, momentous and possibly catastrophic in nature . . .
, will suddenly revolutionize the fortunes of the Faith, derange
the equilibrium of the world, and reinforce a thousandfold the
numerical strength as well as the material power and the spiri-
tual authority of the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh.11
A steady flow of fresh recruits, entry by troops, and mass conversion
are, therefore, three distinct phases of a single organic pattern of
growth. From statements of the Universal House of Justice to national
communities that have achieved some degree of entry by troops, it
is clear that the rapid acceleration of enrollments with which it is
associated involves far more than an increase in the tempo of indi-
vidual teaching.12  In addition, entry by troops, we are assured, is “not
merely a stage of the progress of the Cause destined to occur in its
own good time,” rather, “it is a phenomenon which the Bahá’í com-
munities, by their own activities, can prepare for and help to bring
about,” and which, “once started, can be sustained.”
By a wise allocation of resources and the energetic pursuit of
simultaneous plans of expansion, deepening and consolida-
tion, the process of entry by troops should bring about a rap-
idly increasing supply of active believers, soundly based local
communities, and steadily evolving local and national Bahá’í
institutions.13
Confidence; unity of vision; systematic, realistic, but audacious
planning; acceptance of the fact that mistakes will be made, and
willingness to learn from these mistakes; and, above all, reliance
on the guidance and sustaining confirmations of Bahá’u’lláh
will advance this process.14
The organic pattern of community life, involving devotion and ser-
vice, fellowship and support, excellence and distinction, and teaching,

creates a milieu in which the peoples of the world are exposed to the
Faith, embrace it, and contribute to its purpose for humanity. “Until
the public sees in the Bahá’í community a true pattern, in action, of
something better than it already has, it will not respond to the Faith
in large numbers.”15
In a Bahá’í community oriented toward spiritual conquest, the
members are dedicated to refining their understanding of the nature
of teaching and learning how to work together in ways that will both
accelerate and sustain the processes of expansion and consolidation.
Individuals are not mere receivers of love and attention, but are
aided to turn away from self and dedicate their energies to the well-
being of all. Such a community, “the leaven that must leaven the
lump,” is “alert, clear-visioned, and resolute” and pursues its destiny
“undeflected in its course, undimmed in its serenity, unyielding in
its resolve, unshaken in its convictions.”16  It endeavors to “establish
greater stability in the patterns of its development,” through “sound,
systematic planning and execution of its work.” It is “consistent in
its fundamental life-giving, life-sustaining activities,” is “serene and
confident” and resonates with “spiritual dynamism.” It exerts an
“irresistible influence” and sets “a new course in social evolution.”17
As Shoghi Effendi explains:
In a world the structure of whose political and social institu-
tions is impaired, whose vision is befogged, whose conscience
is bewildered, whose religious systems have become anemic
and lost their virtue, this healing Agency, this leavening Power,
this cementing Force, intensely alive and all-pervasive, has been
taking shape, is crystallizing into institutions, is mobilizing its
forces, and is preparing for the spiritual conquest and the com-
plete redemption of mankind.
The potentialities with which the Faith has been endowed, and
through which it is destined to regenerate the individual and to re-
build a broken world are, the Guardian assures us, incalculable.18

A Community of Conquerors

Conclusion

Learning in the Light of Divine Guidance
In one of his first messages to the believers, Shoghi Effendi
explained that it is our duty “to strive to obtain as clear a view as
possible of the manner in which to conduct the affairs of the Cause,
and then arise with single-mindedness and determination to adopt
and maintain it in all our activities and labors.”1  Each chapter of the
book has attempted to provide a piece of a mosaic. In this concluding
chapter, we step back to examine the entire panorama.
The practice of the Faith is akin to walking a path, from the dawn
of the Revelation into the Golden Age. The birth of the dispensation
came at a time of corruption, when humanity was bereft of discern-
ment to know God and His will. Its fruition is the Kingdom of God,
a new civilization, when His will is done “on earth as it is in heaven.”
While this path is not mapped in every detail, it is illuminated from
beginning to end by the light of divine guidance. The believers, di-
rected by the Text and the Universal House of Justice, participate in
an ongoing endeavor as they seek truth and “strive to translate that
which hath been written into reality and action.”2  This endeavor in-
tegrates a diversity of actions in localities throughout the world. From
a wide range of explorations, some prove to be effective, and these
can be adopted by an increasing number of communities, allowing
them to chart their course step by step. The rate of progress depends
upon the degree to which the individuals, institutions, and commu-
nities understand, internalize, and act upon Bahá’u’lláh’s teachings.
The effectiveness of these three participants in promoting en-
try by troops—and, more generally, in building a prosperous world

Creating a New Mind
civilization—is contingent upon their ability to engage in an ongoing
process of learning, which has been defined in this book as consulta-
tion, action and reflection, all in the light of the guidance inherent
in the teachings. But how does this learning process find practical
expression in the work of the Bahá’í community? Two images help
to clarify some of the characteristics of learning as described here.
The first is the image of traveling in a car. One day, we leave our
home, drive and drive, thrilled by the fact that we are moving. Late
at night, overwhelmed by fatigue, we stop and rest. The next day,
eager to renew our efforts, we are shocked to find that we are parked
in front of our house—the very point where we began! With renewed
determination, we return to the road, driving day and night; our exer-
tion has never been greater. But when we pause to get our bearings,
to our dismay, we find ourselves once again at our starting point.
It is not traveling itself that is important, we now understand, but
whether we move closer to a desired destination. We have traveled
extensively, with diligent effort, and gone nowhere. Progress requires
more than activity. We have to have a destination in mind and then
chart our progress against that intended goal.
A second image is that of sailing a ship. A complex combination
of largely uncontrollable factors—weather, wind, waves—in addition
to skill, affects the journey, requiring a continual series of approxima-
tions and adjustments in order to arrive at the correct destination.
The actual course of the ship, therefore, results not in a straight line,
but a zigzag pattern. Progress is charted, essentially, by a series of
points of reflection where questions are asked about current position,
environmental conditions, and the location of the final goal, before
correcting the course and setting out on the next leg of the journey.
A similar process of consultation, action and reflection is to character-
ize the progress of the Bahá’í community in all of its endeavors. The
Universal House of Justice explains, for example, that “the periodic
reevaluation of the effectiveness of the teaching work is an essential
factor in promoting the growth of every community,” since through
this process “a community would reassess its teaching program with

a view to introducing improvements where necessary.”3  In a message
to the Continental Counsellors the Supreme Body writes:
We also urge you to consult with National Spiritual Assemblies
on the experience of past endeavors to assist such communities.
Arrangements can then be made for the lessons learned from
this experience to be discussed with the active supporters of the
Faith in each region, helping them to identify the approaches
and methods applicable to their specific conditions and to set in
motion a systematic process of community development. This
process should be one in which the friends review their successes
and difficulties, adjust and improve their methods accordingly,
and learn, and move forward unhesitatingly.4
The collective experience of the Bahá’ís from the dawn of the
Revelation to the present point on the path they are treading makes
up the tradition, or culture, of the global community. Accumulated
beliefs, methods, knowledge, systems, habits, stories, and patterns
of behavior are contained in this tradition, which shapes the under-
standing and practice of the believers at any given moment in their
journey. Because the Kingdom is not yet built, each generation must
add to and continually modify some aspects of the tradition through
systematic action and learning. Not every problem can be solved, or
even properly understood at a given juncture; it may have to wait for a
later age, and only harm can come from trying to impose a premature
resolution. In looking ahead, the community holds a vision of the
future that directs its steps. This vision is clarified continually through
ongoing study of the writings and the accumulation of experience.
The path on which the Bahá’í community advances is wide—very
wide. It is not necessary that everyone walk along the same line, be-
lieving and doing the same thing. There are, however, extreme per-
spectives on each side of the path that represent a danger to unity
and progress. Such extremes views have afflicted religious dispensa-
tions of the past, driving their followers from the path of guidance
into the wilderness of confusion ruled by human passions. “It is our
primary task to keep the most vigilant eye on the manner and char-
acter of its growth,” Shoghi Effendi advises us about the Faith, “lest
extreme orthodoxy on one hand, and irresponsible freedom on the
Learning in the Light of Divine Guidance

Creating a New Mind
other, cause it to deviate from that Straight Path which alone can lead
it to success.”5  Extreme orthodoxy involves an exaggerated conviction
of the validity of one’s grasp of truth, literalism in interpreting the
meaning of the teachings and a rigidity of practice. “Irresponsible
freedom” implies a relativistic perspective that causes disintegration
of the community as individuals choose what they will or will not
believe, or what they will or will not do. In between these extremes
is a balanced perspective that recognizes the existence of truth and, at
the same time, acknowledges human limitations to comprehend and
act on it. The Bahá’í world, therefore, transcends the false dichoto-
my of fundamentalism and relativism, conservatism and liberalism.
Truth exists, we can take hold of it and do not need to be subject to
the imprecise understanding of every believer. Yet, in time, through
learning grounded in action, the understanding of truth evolves and
is deepened, allowing for a greater expression in action.
The discourse, the systematic action, and the learning needed to
progress on the path depend upon proper relationships that are to
characterize the believers—with God, with the institutions, with each
other. Bahá’u’lláh has provided His Covenant in order to preserve
these relationships, thereby safeguarding the ability of the commu-
nity to continually progress. Thus, the Covenant is the “vehicle” for
the “practical fulfillment” of the believers’ duties, the “potent instru-
ment by which individual belief in Him is translated into constructive
deeds,” the “divinely conceived arrangements necessary to preserve
the organic unity of the Cause.”6
It is in this light that we can appreciate the wondrous blessing
bestowed on the Bahá’í world through the gift of the Universal House
of Justice. For this body is specifically designed by Bahá’u’lláh with
the powers to infallibly guide the believers in their journey into the
Golden Age: to decide all matters which have not outwardly been
revealed in the Book; to resolve problems which have caused differ-
ence; to prevent individuals from imposing their views; to ensure
that no body or institution within the Cause abuses its privileges; to
serve as the final arbiter on disagreements concerning the translation
of the teachings into practice; to protect the unity of the believers; to
establish plans for growth and development; to broaden the scope of

the influence of the Faith on society. The guidance that constantly
flows from the Universal House of Justice is indispensable; yet it
does not eliminate the need for learning. It provides the framework
within which the understanding and practice of the community ad-
vance. “‘God will verily inspire them with whatsoever He willeth,’
is Bahá’u’lláh’s incontrovertible assurance.” They are “the recipients
of the divine guidance which is at once the life-blood and ultimate
safeguard of this Revelation.”7
Learning in the Light of Divine Guidance

References
1. Consciousness as the Basis of Mature Action
1  Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By xi
2  The Universal House of Justice, A Wider Horizon 154
3 The Universal House of Justice, A Wider Horizon 3
4  The Universal House of Justice, A Wider Horizon 47
5  The Universal House of Justice, The Four Year Plan 43
6  The Universal House of Justice, The Four Year Plan 2
7  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace 144
8  on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, letter dated 8 February 1998
9  Mark 2:22
10  The Universal House of Justice, The Four Year Plan 33
11  Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh 173
12  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá 240
13  on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, The Individual and Teaching 35
14  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace 130
15  Shoghi Effendi, Citadel of Faith 148
16  The Universal House of Justice, The Four Year Plan 43
17  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá 263
2. The Promoter of Human Honor
1  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá 212
2  Bahá’u’lláh, in Messages of the Universal House of Justice, 1963-1986 376
3  Bahá’u’lláh, The Hidden Words 23-24
4  Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh 231
5  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Secret of Divine Civilization 103-04
6  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Secret of Divine Civilization 39
7  Bahá’u’lláh, in The Advent of Divine Justice 83
8  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Secret of Divine Civilization 116
9  Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh 64
10 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh 9
11  written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, Lights of Guidance 209
12  Shoghi Effendi, The Advent of Divine Justice 30
13  Bahá’u’lláh, Bahá’í Prayers 4
14  Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh 336

Creating a New Mind
15  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace 182
16  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá 203
17  Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh 71
18  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá 76-77
19  Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh 159
20 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Secret of Divine Civilization 103
21  The Universal House of Justice, The Four Year Plan 12
3. The Seeker of Wisdom
1  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Secret of Divine Civilization 2
2  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Secret of Divine Civilization 109
3  Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh 51-52
4  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Scholarship 3
5  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace 29
6  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace 50
7  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace 154
8  Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh 136
9  Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh 326
10 Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh 66
11  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Individual and Teaching 13
12  Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh 155
13  Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh 150
14  Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh 80
15  Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh 138
16 Bahá’u’lláh, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas 56
17 Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh 150
18 The Universal House of Justice, Messages of the Universal House of Justice, 1963-1986 94
19  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace 63
20  Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh 68
21  Bahá’u’lláh, The Kitáb-i-Íqán 27
22  Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh 128
23  on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, Scholarship 17
24  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Secret of Divine Civilization 34
25  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Secret of Divine Civilization 39
26  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Secret of Divine Civilization 41
27  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Secret of Divine Civilization 59
28  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Secret of Divine Civilization 71
4. The Champion of Justice
1  Shoghi Effendi, The Advent of Divine Justice 23
2 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace 63
3  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace 62
4  Bahá’u’lláh, The Hidden Words 4
5  Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh 342
6  Bahá’u’lláh, Epistle to the Son of the Wolf 32
7  Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh 67
8  Bahá’u’lláh, Consultation: A Compilation 3

References
9  Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh 36
10  Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh 170
11  Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh 329
12  on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, The Bahá’í Life 9
13  Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh 287
14  Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh 236
15  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace 244
16  on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, Unfolding Destiny 456
17  Bahá’u’lláh, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas 76
5. The Selfless Giver
1  Bahá’u’lláh, The Hidden Words 39
2  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace 25-26
3  Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration 194
4  Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By 269
5  Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh 297
6  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá 244-45
7  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Huqúqu’lláh 21-22
8  Bahá’u’lláh, The Hidden Words 51
9  Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration 143
10  on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, Lights of Guidance 82
11  on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Funds: Contributions and Administration 9
12  on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Funds: Contributions and Administration 11
13  The Universal House of Justice, A Wider Horizon 70
14  The Universal House of Justice, Messages of the Universal House of Justice, 1963-1986 377
15  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá 33-34
16  Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh 339
6. The Pure Channel
1  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá 146
2  Bahá’u’lláh, The Hidden Words 24
3  Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh 287
4  Bahá’u’lláh, in The Advent of Divine Justice 24-25
5  Bahá’u’lláh, The Hidden Words 46
6  Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh 307-08
7  Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh 327
8  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá 146-47
9  Bahá’u’lláh, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas 46
10 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá 147
11  Shoghi Effendi, The Advent of Divine Justice 29
12  Shoghi Effendi, The Advent of Divine Justice 30
13  Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh 10
14  on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, Lights of Guidance 180
15  on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, The Bahá’í Life 5
16  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá 146
17  Bahá’u’lláh, The Individual and Teaching 3
18  on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, Preserving Bahá’í Marriages 28

Creating a New Mind
19  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá 19
20 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Paris Talks 82
21  Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration 66
22  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace 451-52
7. The Faithful Lover
1  Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh 338
2  Bahá’u’lláh, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas 19
3  Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh 268
4  Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh 328
5  Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By 244-45
6 The Universal House of Justice, The Covenant: Its Meaning and Origin and Our Attitude
Toward It 39
7  The Universal House of Justice, Messages of the Universal House of Justice 1963-1986 56
8  Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh 23
9  The Universal House of Justice, Lights of Guidance 311
10  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá 11
11  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá 20
12  on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, The Covenant 18
13  Bahá’u’lláh, in The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh 109
14  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, in Messages of the Universal House of Justice 1963-1986 85
15  The Universal House of Justice, Messages of the Universal House of Justice 1963-1986 87
16  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Covenant: Its Meaning and Origin and Our Attitude Toward It 9
17  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá 27
18  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Paris Talks 180
19  The Universal House of Justice, The Four Year Plan 90
20 Bahá’u’lláh, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas 20
21  Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh 245-46
22  Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh 337-38
23  Bahá’u’lláh, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas 22
24  Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh 138
8. The Initiator of Systematic Action
1  Shoghi Effendi, The Advent of Divine Justice 50
2  Shoghi Effendi, Citadel of Faith 130-31
3  Shoghi Effendi, The Advent of Divine Justice 9
4  The Universal House of Justice, The Four Year Plan 47
5  The Universal House of Justice, A Wider Horizon 26
6  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá 135
7  Shoghi Effendi, Citadel of Faith 148
8  The Universal House of Justice, A Wider Horizon 26
9  on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, The Individual and Teaching 37
10  Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration 69
11  The Universal House of Justice, Rid.ván 1998 (155 B.E.)
12  Shoghi Effendi, Consultation: A Compilation 15
13  Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration 77
14  The Universal House of Justice, The Four Year Plan 18

References
15  Shoghi Effendi, The Advent of Divine Justice 50
16  Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh 280
17  Shoghi Effendi, The Importance of Deepening 50
18  Shoghi Effendi, Citadel of Faith 149
19  The Universal House of Justice, The Four Year Plan 32
20 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, The Power of Divine Assistance 20
21  on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, The Individual and Teaching 20-21
22  The Universal House of Justice, Rights and Responsibilities 21
23  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Secret of Divine Civilization 3-4
9. The Quickener of Humanity
1  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace 95
2  Bahá’u’lláh, in God Passes By 174
3  Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh 197-98
4  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá on Divine Philosophy 121
5  Bahá’u’lláh, in The Advent of Divine Justice 82-83
6  Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh 143
7  Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh 289
8  The Báb, Selections from the Writings of the Báb 77
9  The Báb, Selections from the Writings of the Báb 133
10 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá 10
11  The Báb, Selections from the Writings of the Báb 77
12  Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh 278
13  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá 25
14  Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh 277
15  Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh 335
16  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá 268
17  on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, The Importance of Deepening 28
18  Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh 200
19  on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, The Individual and Teaching 20
20 Shoghi Effendi, The Advent of Divine Justice 52
21  The Universal House of Justice, Messages of the Universal House of Justice 1963-1986 357-58
22  on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, The Individual and Teaching 21-22
23  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Importance of Deepening 9
24  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Importance of Deepening 8-9
25  on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, Lights of Guidance 599
26  Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh 96
27  The Universal House of Justice, memo dated 11 March 1987 to the Office of Social and
Economic Development
28  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Secret of Divine Civilization 4
29  Bahá’u’lláh, The Proclamation of Bahá’u’lláh 91
30  on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, The Conservation of the Earth’s Resources 15
31  Bahá’u’lláh, Bahá’í Prayers 4
32  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Paris Talks 177
33  Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh 215

Creating a New Mind
10. The Channel of the Spirit
1  Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh 19
2  Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh 145
3  Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh 20
4  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá 19
5  Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh 8
6  Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh 150
7  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá 20
8  Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh 148
9  The Universal House of Justice, Messages of the Universal House of Justice: 1963-1986 56
10 The Universal House of Justice, Rights and Responsibilities 30
11  Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By 243
12  The Universal House of Justice, The Four Year Plan 33
13  The Universal House of Justice, The Four Year Plan 33
14  The Universal House of Justice, Rights and Responsibilities 10
15  The Universal House of Justice, The Constitution of the Universal House of Justice 9
16  The Universal House of Justice, Messages of the Universal House of Justice: 1963-1986 217
17  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá 13
18  The Universal House of Justice, Crisis and Victory 54
19  The Universal House of Justice, Rights and Responsibilities 31
20 The Universal House of Justice, Messages of the Universal House of Justice: 1963-1986 217
21 The Universal House of Justice, Rights and Responsibilities 38
22  The Universal House of Justice, Rid.ván 1993, Promoting Entry By Troops 47
23  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Paris Talks 152
24  Bahá’u’lláh, in Messages of the Universal House of Justice: 1963-1986 376
25  on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, Lights of Guidance 326
26  The Universal House of Justice, Rights and Responsibilities 39
11. The Trustees of Individual Freedom and the Common Good
1  The Universal House of Justice, Rights and Responsibilities 37
2  The Universal House of Justice, Rights and Responsibilities 40
3  Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration 64
4  The Universal House of Justice, Rid.ván 1993, Promoting Entry By Troops 47
5  Shoghi Effendi, The Advent of Divine Justice 26
6  Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh 67
7  Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration 64
8  Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration 143-44
9  on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, Lights of Guidance 78
10 Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration 64
11  The Universal House of Justice, Rights and Responsibilities 38
12  on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, Lights of Guidance 82
13  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace 168
14  Shoghi Effendi, in Rights and Responsibilities 54
15  Shoghi Effendi, in Rights and Responsibilities 57
16  on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, Lights of Guidance 82
17  The Universal House of Justice, Messages of the Universal House of Justice: 1963-1986 87
18  The Universal House of Justice, Rights and Responsibilities 52

References
19  The Universal House of Justice, The Constitution of the Universal House of Justice 14-15
20 The Universal House of Justice, Rights and Responsibilities 46
21  on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, Lights of Guidance 34
22  on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, Lights of Guidance 66
23  Shoghi Effendi, in Rights and Responsibilities 45
24  The Universal House of Justice, Messages of the Universal House of Justice: 1963-1986 152
25  The Universal House of Justice, Scholarship 34
26  The Universal House of Justice, Lights of Guidance 41
27  The Universal House of Justice, Rights and Responsibilities 34
28  The Universal House of Justice, Rights and Responsibilities 33
29  on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, Letters to Australia and New Zealand 9
12. The Mobilizers of Human Resources
1  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace 250
2  Shoghi Effendi, The Importance of Deepening 26
3  The Universal House of Justice, Messages of the Universal House of Justice: 1963-1986 150
4  on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, Lights of Guidance 37
5  on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, in Messages of the Universal House of Justice: 1963-1986 224
6  Shoghi Effendi, Messages to America 12
7  Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh 200
8  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Paris Talks 22
9  The Universal House of Justice, The Four Year Plan 35-36
10  The Universal House of Justice, The Four Year Plan 7
11  The Universal House of Justice, The Four Year Plan 19
12  on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, Training Institutes 32
13  on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, Training Institutes 35
14  on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, letter to a National Assembly dated 24 September
13. The Executors of Systematic Plans of Action
1  The Universal House of Justice, A Wider Horizon 49
2  Shoghi Effendi, Citadel of Faith 62
3  Shoghi Effendi, Message to America 101
4  Shoghi Effendi, Citadel of Faith 62
5  Shoghi Effendi, Messages to the Bahá’í World 155
6  Shoghi Effendi, Citadel of Faith 21
7  Shoghi Effendi, Messages to the Bahá’í World 155
8  on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, Letters to Australia and New Zealand 97
9  The Universal House of Justice, Rid.ván 1998
10  on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, Trustworthiness 25
11  Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration 41
12  Shoghi Effendi, Message to America 7
14. The Nucleus and Pattern of a New Civilization
1  Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh 129-30
2  Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh 130
3  Shoghi Effendi, Citadel of Faith 6

Creating a New Mind
4  Shoghi Effendi, Message to the Bahá’í World 75
5  Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh 156
6  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá 82
7  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Secret of Divine Civilization 107-08
8  on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, Lights of Guidance 549
9  on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, Lights of Guidance 212
10 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, Directives of the Guardian 21
11  Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh 22-23
12  The Universal House of Justice, A Wider Horizon 35
13  The Universal House of Justice, Promoting Entry By Troops 47
14  The Universal House of Justice, Promoting Entry By Troops 14
15  on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, Peace 44
16  on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, in “The Evolution of Institutional Capacity for
Social and Economic Development”
17  The Universal House of Justice, A Wider Horizon 6
18  on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, Peace 44
19  on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, Scholarship 6
20  The Universal House of Justice, The Promise of World Peace 28
15. Effective Administrators
1  Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration 103
2  on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, in Rights and Responsibilities 39
3  Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh 9
4  The Universal House of Justice, The Four Year Plan 34
5  Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration 87
6  The Universal House of Justice, Messages of the Universal House of Justice: 1963-1986 224
7  on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, Consultation: A Compilation 14
8  Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration 56
9  The Universal House of Justice, A Wider Horizon 68
10  The Universal House of Justice, Messages of the Universal House of Justice: 1963-1986 72
11  Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration 142
12  on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, The National Spiritual Assembly 32
13  on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, The National Spiritual Assembly 52-53
14  on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, The National Spiritual Assembly 41
15  on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, The National Spiritual Assembly 34
16  The Universal House of Justice, Messages of the Universal House of Justice: 1963-1986 174
17  The Universal House of Justice, A Wider Horizon 80-81
18  The Universal House of Justice, Rights and Responsibilities 41
16. The Organic Pattern of Community Life
1  The Universal House of Justice, The Four Year Plan 34-35
2  The Universal House of Justice, Messages of the Universal House of Justice: 1963-1986 43
3  The Universal House of Justice, Messages of the Universal House of Justice: 1963-1986 402-03
4  The Universal House of Justice, A Wider Horizon 53
5  The Universal House of Justice, The Four Year Plan 34
6  The Universal House of Justice, The Four Year Plan 58

References
7  The Universal House of Justice, memo dated 27 April 1998 to the Office of Social and
Economic Development
8  The Universal House of Justice, A Wider Horizon 7-8
9  The Universal House of Justice, A Wider Horizon 9
10 The Universal House of Justice, A Wider Horizon 80
11  The Universal House of Justice, The Four Year Plan 35
12  The Universal House of Justice, Messages of the Universal House of Justice: 1963-1986 101
13  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Tablets of the Divine Plan 61
14  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá 290
17. A Community of Unified Thought and Action
1  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Paris Talks 99
2  Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh 171
3  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá 230
4  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Tablets of the Divine Plan 51
5  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá 209
6  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá 111
7  Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh 138
8  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Bahá’í Prayers 155
9  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá 88
10 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, The Light of Divine Guidance, vol. 2, 29
11  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions 301
12  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Paris Talks 53
13  on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, Dawn of a New Day 48
14  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace 96
15  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace 145
16  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá 292
17  The Universal House of Justice, Messages of the Universal House of Justice 1963-1986 88
18  on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, Consultation: A Compilation 18
19  on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, letter of 8 February 1998
20 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, Messages of the Universal House of Justice 1963-1986 88
21  The Universal House of Justice, A Special Measure of Love 29
22  The Universal House of Justice, The Four Year Plan 58
23  Bahá’u’lláh, Consultation: A Compilation 3
24  The Universal House of Justice, Lights of Guidance 179-80
25  Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh 88
26  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Consultation: A Compilation 9
27  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Consultation: A Compilation 5
28  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Promulgation of Universal Peace 72
29  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, in Bahá’í Administration 22
30  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace 72-73
31  Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration 64
32  on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, Consultation: A Compilation 19
33  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Consultation: A Compilation 7
34  The Universal House of Justice, letter dated 19 May 1994 to the US, Rights and Responsibilities 46
35  The Universal House of Justice, letter dated 19 May 1995
36  The Universal House of Justice, Messages of the Universal House of Justice 1963-1986 88

Creating a New Mind
37  on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, The Bahá’í Life 17-18
38  Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration 62
18. A Community of Devotion and Service
1  on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, Lights of Guidance 606
2  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Bahá’í Education 27
3  Shoghi Effendi, Messages to America 24
4  Bahá’u’lláh, Spiritual Foundations: Prayer, Meditation, and the Devotional Attitude 4
5  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá 202
6  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Spiritual Foundations: Prayer, Meditation, and the Devotional Attitude 4
7  on behalf of Shoghi Effendi Spiritual Foundations: Prayer, Meditation, and the Devotional
Attitude 14
8  Bahá’u’lláh, Bahá’í Meetings/Nineteen Day Feast 3
9  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá 94-95
10 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá 90
11  The Universal House of Justice, A Wider Horizon 66-70
12  The Universal House of Justice, The Four Year Plan 35
13  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Bahá’í Meetings/Nineteen Day Feast 6
14 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Bahá’í Meetings/Nineteen Day Feast 11
15 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Bahá’í Meetings/Nineteen Day Feast 5
16 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Bahá’í Meetings/Nineteen Day Feast 6-7
17 on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, Stirring of the Spirit 39
18  Bahá’u’lláh, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas 30
19  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace 8
20  note 56, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas 192
21  The Universal House of Justice, Right and Responsibilities 12-13
22  on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, Unfolding Destiny 123
23  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Social and Economic Development 25
24  on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Education 50
25  The Universal House of Justice, A Wider Horizon 7
26  on behalf of The Universal House of Justice, Peace 44
27  Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration 186
28  Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration 184
29  on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, Social and Economic Development 13-14
30  The Universal House of Justice, Messages of the Universal House of Justice 1963-1986 602
31  The Universal House of Justice, Messages of the Universal House of Justice 1963-1986 179
19. A Community of Fellowship and Support
1  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace 255
2  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá on Divine Philosophy 110
3  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá 260-61
4  The Universal House of Justice, Messages of the Universal House of Justice 1963-1986 43
5  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Paris Talks 180
6  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá on Divine Philosophy 277
7  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace 215
8  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá 130
9  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá 129

References
10  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Bahá’í Education 43
11  The Universal House of Justice, Messages of the Universal House of Justice 1963-1986 310
12  The Universal House of Justice, A Wider Horizon 14
13  The Universal House of Justice, A Wider Horizon 21
14  on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, Lights of Guidance 377
15  The Universal House of Justice, Messages of the Universal House of Justice 1963-1986 486
16  Shoghi Effendi, The Advent of Divine Justice 35
17  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Paris Talks 16
18  Nabil, in God Passes By 137
19  on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, Unfolding Destiny 439
20  Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration 132
20. A Community of Excellence and Distinction
1  The Universal House of Justice, Messages of the Universal House of Justice 1963-1986 137
2  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá 232
3  on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, Lights of Guidance 404
4  Shoghi Effendi, The Advent of Divine Justice 41
5  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace 190
6  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Excellence in All Things 7
7  The Universal House of Justice, Messages of the Universal House of Justice 1963-1986 402
8  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, in The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh 165
9  Bahá’u’lláh, The Kitáb-i-Íqán 240-41
10 The Universal House of Justice, A Wider Horizon 36
11  The Universal House of Justice, A Wider Horizon 64
12  Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh 71
13  Shoghi Effendi, The Advent of Divine Justice 20
14  The Universal House of Justice, The Four Year Plan 48-49
15  Shoghi Effendi, in Messages of the Universal House of Justice 1963-1986 93
16  Bahá’u’lláh, in The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh 110
17  The Universal House of Justice, A Wider Horizon 14
18  on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, Unfolding Destiny 350
19  The Universal House of Justice, Messages of the Universal House of Justice 1963-1986 82
21. A Community of Conquerors
1  Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh 42-43
2  The Universal House of Justice, A Wider Horizon 57
3  The Universal House of Justice, Right and Responsibilities 46
4  The Universal House of Justice, The Four Year Plan 10
5  The Universal House of Justice, Right and Responsibilities 46
6  Bahá’u’lláh, Epistle to the Son of the Wolf 55
7  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Tablets of the Divine Plan 49
8  Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration 42
9  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá 260
10 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá 256
11  Shoghi Effendi, Citadel of Faith 117
12  The Universal House of Justice, Messages of the Universal House of Justice 1968-1973 65
13  The Universal House of Justice, Promoting Entry By Troops 2

Creating a New Mind
14  The Universal House of Justice, The Four Year Plan 59
15  on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, Promoting Entry By Troops 10
16  Shoghi Effendi, Messages to America 13-14
17  The Universal House of Justice, A Wider Horizon 27
18  Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh 195
22. Learning in the Light of Divine Guidance
1  Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration 63
2  Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh 166
3  on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, letter dated 30 July 1987 to a National Assembly
4  The Universal House of Justice, The Four Year Plan 11-12
5  Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration 42
6  The Universal House of Justice, Right and Responsibilities 12
7  Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh 153

Bibliography
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá on Divine Philosophy. Boston: Tudor Press, 1918.
_____. Paris Talks: Addresses Given by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in Paris in 1911. 11th ed. London: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1969.
_____. The Promulgation of Universal Peace: Talks Delivered by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá during His Visit to the
United States and Canada in 1912. 2nd ed. Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1982.
_____. The Secret of Divine Civilization. 3rd ed. Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1983.
_____. Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 1978.
_____. The Tablets of the Divine Plan. Revised ed. Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1977.
_____. Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1971.
Bahá’u’lláh. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. 2nd ed. Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing
Trust, 1976.
_____. The Hidden Words of Bahá’u’lláh. Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1939.
_____. The Kitáb-i-Aqdas: The Most Holy Book. 1st English edition. Haifa: Bahá’í World
Centre, 1993.
_____. The Kitáb-i-Íqán. 2nd ed. Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1950.
_____. The Proclamation of Bahá’u’lláh.Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 1967.
_____. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh Revealed after the Kitáb-i-Aqdas. Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 1978.
Bahá’u’lláh, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, and Shoghi Effendi. Bahá’í Education. London: Bahá’í Publishing
Trust, 1976.
_____. Bahá’í Meetings/Nineteen Day Feast. Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1976.
_____. Excellence in All Things. London: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1981.
_____. The Importance of Deepening Our Knowledge and Understanding of the Faith.Wilmette,
Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1983.
_____. The Individual and Teaching: Raising the Divine Call. Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing
Trust, 1977.
_____. Spiritual Foundations: Prayer, Meditation and the Devotional Attitude. Wilmette, Ill.:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1980.
Bahá’u’lláh, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Shoghi Effendi and the Universal House of Justice. Consultation: A
Compilation. Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1980.

Creating a New Mind
_____. The Covenant. London: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1988.
_____. Huqúqu’lláh. London: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1988.
_____. Peace. London: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1985.
_____. Scholarship. Bahá’í Canada Publications, 1995.
_____. Stirring of the Spirit. Bahá’í Canada Publications, 1990.
Bahá’u’lláh, the Báb and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Bahá’í Prayers. Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1991.
Bahá’u’lláh, the Báb, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, and Shoghi Effendi. The Power of Divine Assistance. London:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1981.
Bahá’u’lláh, the Báb, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Shoghi Effendi and the Universal House of Justice. Developing
Distinctive Bahá’í Communities: Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies. Wilmette, Ill.:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1987.
_____. Lights of Guidance: A Bahá’í Reference File. Compiled by Helen Hornby. 2nd edition.
New Delhi, India: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1988.
_____. Social and Economic Development. National Spiritual Assembly of Australia, 1988.
Balyuzi, H. M. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. London: George Ronald, 1971.
National Teaching Committee. The Covenant: Its Meaning and Origin and Our Attitude Toward
It. National Spiritual Assembly of the United States, 1988.
Research Department of the Universal House of Justice. The Conservation of the Earth’s Resources.
Bahá’í Publishing Trust. London, 1990.
_____. Preserving Bahá’í Marriages. Bahá’í Canada Publications, 1991.
_____. Promoting Entry By Troops. Riviera Beach, Florida: Palabra Publications, 1993.
Shoghi Effendi. The Advent of Divine Justice. Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1974.
_____. Bahá’í Administration. Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1974.
_____. Citadel of Faith. Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1965.
_____. Dawn of a New Day. India: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1970.
_____. Extracts from the Writings of the Guardian on the Bahá’í Life. National Spiritual Assembly
of Canada, 1974.
_____. God Passes By. Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1974.
_____. The Light of Divine Guidance. Volume 2. Germany: Bahá’í Verlag, 1985.
_____. Messages to America. Wilmette, Ill.: National Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the united
States and Canada, 1947.
_____. The National Spiritual Assembly.Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1972.
_____. Unfolding Destiny. London: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1981.
_____. The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh. 2nd ed. Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1974.
Shoghi Effendi and the Universal House of Justice. Bahá’í Funds: Contributions and
Administration.Bahá’í Canada Publications, 1988.
_____. A Special Measure of Love. Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1974.
The Universal House of Justice. Constitution of the Universal House of Justice. Haifa: Bahá’í
World Centre, 1972.

_____. The Four Year Plan. Riviera Beach, Florida: Palabra Publications, 1996.
_____. The Holy Year, 1992-1993. Riviera Beach, Florida: Palabra Publications, 1993.
_____. Messages from the Universal House of Justice: 1963-1986. Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing
Trust, 1998.
_____. Messages from the Universal House of Justice: 1968-1973. Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing
Trust, 1976.
_____. The Promise of World Peace: To the Peoples of the World. Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing
Trust, 1985.
_____. Rights and Responsibilities. Bahá’í Publications Canada, 1997.
_____. A Wider Horizon: Selected Messages of the Universal House of Justice, 1983-1992. Riviera
Beach, Florida: Palabra Publications, 1992.
Bibliography