-
1 -
BASIC GUIDELINES
""\
REGARD MAN AS A MINE RICH
IN GEMS OF INESTIMABLE
VALUE. EDUCATION CAN ALONE
CAUSE IT TO REVEAL ITS
TREASURES AND ENABLE MAN-
KIND TO BENEFIT THEREFROM
• BAHA 'u' LLAH.
GEMSTONE

Copyright © National Spiritual Assembly
of the Baha'is of Australia Incorporated
First published in loose leaf form
by the National Community Development Committee
of the National Spiritual Assembly
of the Baha'is of Australia Incorporated
First Baha'i Publications Australia edition B.E. 143 (1986)
ISBN 0 909991 33 2
~
Bahci'i
PubUcations
• AustraUa

-
3 -
AN
OUTLINE
OF
THE
PROGRAMME
THE GEMSTONE PROGRAMME IS A PROJECT IN LIVING A BAHA'I LIFE, NOT
JUST A STUDY PROGRAMME.
It has three aspects:
(i)
Deepening understanding of the Baha'i teachings by
studying and discussing compilations on different
aspects of Baha'i life.
(ii)
Attempting to put the teachings which have been studied
into practice and thereby learning from experience.
(iii)
Deriving support, encouragement and inspiration from a
group which is committed to working over a six week
period on studying the Baha'i teachings together,
individually applying them in daily life and sharing
what is learned with each other.
All who wish may participate, Baha'i or non-Baha'i,provided
they sincerely wish to understand and apply the Baha'i teachings
in their own lives.
A definite commitment
of time is necessary.
The programme is only for a limited period, but improving the
quality of a Baha'i life requires some effort and perseverence,
and making a commitment
of time is a good start as it expresses
a recognition of the value of the task.
Furthermore the quality
of the group consultation depends very substantially on the real
commitment
of the participants.
The Deepening Materials
The materials consist of compilations on the following topics :
Prayer and Daily Reading
I
Meditation and Action
Justice
Love
Purity and Detachment
Happiness
The compilations consist primarily of quotations from the
Baha'i writings to define specific goals for applying the Baha'i
teachings.
THE COMPILATIONS ARE GIVEN OUT ONE WEEK AT A TIME SO
THAT TASKS FOR JUST THAT WEEK CAN BE CONCENTRATED ON.
Individual Goals and Practice
Each compilation has a list of specific goals.
Each person should
decide at the end of the consultation session which goal (or goals)
he/she will work on that week and write it down in the space prov-
ided.
Tick-boxes are supplied to assist the participant check on
the completion of his/her task every day.

-
4 -
It is not necessary or even advisable to attempt every goal.
To apply just one teaching throughout the six week
period
would
make the programme worthwhile.
Indeed Shoghi Effendi writes:
"How often the beloved Master was
heard to say:
Should each one of the friends take upon himself to carry out,
in all its integrity and implications only one of the teachings of the Faith,
with devotion, detachment, constancy and perseverance and exemplify it in all
his deeds and pursuits of life, the world would become another world and the
face of the earth would mirror forth the splendors of the Abha Paradise."
Living the Life, p.7
Group Consultation
The purpose of the consultation session is to obtain a deeper
understanding of the teachings with a view to applying them and
sharing experiences which may be helpful to others.
In accordance with the Baha'i teachings confession of sins is
definitely to be avoided, and discussion of particular personal-
ities is likewise not very helpful.
The role of the leader is simply that of a Baha'i chairman,
to see that the consultation proceeds in an orderly fashion, that
everyone has an opportunity to contribute and that the objectives
of the particular session are achieved.
It is generally prudent
for the chairman to refer questions first to the group before
offering his/her own opinion.
The chairman's role is to keep
consultation directed to practical means for applying the
teachings.
How to Beqin
The group leader should familiarize himself/herself with the
materials before the sessicn.
Each session begins with a prayer
for the development of spiritual qualities.
At the first session,
the leader reads through the programme outline so that everyone
understands the aims and procedure.
Then group members read
passages from the first study .
There is a break after each
section for consultation.
At the end of the session, each person
decides on a task or goal to work on during the week and writes
this down in the space provided.
The session may take about an
hour and a half.
At subsequent sessions, the first ten or fifteen minutes
can be allowed for a discussion of difficulties encountered or
new understanding gained from applying the teachings during the
previous week, and helpful ideas from other people.
Then the
teachings for the coming week are discussed.

-
5 -
UNIT 1:
PRAYER & READING
REGARD MAN AS A MINE RICH
IN GEMS OF INESTIMABLE
VALVE. EDVCATION CAN ALONE
CAVSE
IT TO REVEAL
ITS
TREASVRES AND ENABLE MAN-
KIND TO BENEFIT THEREFROM
• BAHA 'V' LLAH.
GEMSTONE

-
7 -
P RAY E R
& REA DIN G
"0 Son of Light! Forget aU save Me and cOlmlUne with My Spirit.
This is of the essence of My command, therefore turn unto it."
Baha'u'llah, The Hidden Words, Arabic 16
" ..... the core of re~igious faith is the mystic fee~ing which unites
man ~ith God .... This state of Spiritua~ cOlmlUnion can be brought about and
maintained by means of meditation and prayer.
And this is the reason why
Baha'u'~~ah has so much stressed the importance of worship. It is not sufficient
for a be~iever mere~y to accept and observe the teachings.
He shou~d, in
addition, cu~tivate the sense of spiritua~ity which he can acquire chie~y
by means of prayer ....
The believers, particu~ar~y the young ones, shou~d therefore realise
the necessity of praying.
For prayer is abso~ute~y indispensab~e to their
inner spiritua~ deve~opment, and this, a~ready stated, is the very foundation
and purpose of the re~igion of God".
Shoghi Effendi, Baha'i News, No.102
SPECIFIC GOALS
1.
To rethink how you feel about God
God has created us out of love as spiritual beings, and has created
for our pleasure and happiness every good thing.
"Veiled in My immemoria~ being and in the ancient eternity of My essence,
I knew My
~ove for thee, therefore I created thee, have engraved on thee Mine
image and revea~ed to thee My beauty."
Baha'u'llah, The Hidden Words, Arabic 3
"God hath ordained every good thing, whether created in the
heavens or in the earth, for such of His servants as
tru~y be~ieve
in Him.
Eat ye, 0
peop~e, of the good things which God hath a~~owed
you, and deprive not yourse~ves from His wondrous bounties."
Baha'u'llah, in The Advent of Divine Justice, p.28
God does not need our prayers, but we need to pray to realise our
true nature as spiritual beings and to open a channel of communication
to that ultimate Spiritual Power through Whom we have originated.
"Far, far from Thy g~ory be what morta~ man can affirm of Thee, or
attribute unto Thee, or the praise with which he can g~orify Thee!
Whatever
duty Thou has prescribed unto Thy servants of exto~~ing to the utmost Thy
majesty and g~ory is but a token of Thy grace unto them, that they may be
enab~ed to ascend unto the station conferred upon their own inmost being, the
station of the know~edge of their own se~ves. "
Baha'u'llah, Gleanings from the Writings of
Baha'u'llah, I, p.4
"0 Son of Man!
I
~oved thy creation, hence I created thee.
Wherefore, do thou ~ove Me, that
I may name thy name and fiU thy sou~ with the spirit of life."
Baha'u'llah, The Hidden Words, Arabic 4

-
8 -
"We must strive to attain to that condition by being separated from aU
things and from the people of the world and by turning to God alone. It will
take some effort on the part of man to attain to that condition, but he must
work for it, strive for it.
We can attain to it by thinking and caring less
for material things and more for the spiritual.
The further we go from one the
nearer we are to the other.
The choice is ours.
Our spiritual perception, our inward sight must be opened, so that we can
see the signs and traces of God's spirit in everything.
Everything can reflect
to us the light of the spirit."
'Abdu'l-Baha, talk reported by Mrs. E.J. Rosenberg,
Baha'u'llah and the New Era, p.l12
We can attain our highest happiness only through the love for God,
and God will give us this love if we sincerely ask for it.
"As to spiritual happiness, this is the true basis for the life of man,
for life is created for happiness, not for sorrow, for pleasure not for grief.
Happiness is life; sorrow is death.
Spiritual happiness is life eternal ..... .
This happiness is but the love of God .... "
'Abdu'l-Baha, The Divine Art of Living p.18
"Beg everything thou desirest from Baha'u 'Uah. If thou art asking faith,
ask of Him.
If thou art yearning for knowledge, He will grant it thee. If thou
art longing for love of God, He will bestow it unto thee.
He will descend upon
thee aU His blessings."
'Abdu'l-Baha, Tablets of 'Abdu'l-Baha, May 19, 1914.
2.
To pray every day
'~t the dawn of every day he (the true seeker) should commune with God,
and with aU his soul persevere in the quest of his Beloved."
Baha'u'llah, Kitab-i-Igan, p.l94
"Supplicate to God, pray to Him and invoke Him at midnight and at dawn.
Be humble and submissive to God and chant the verses of thanksgiving at morn
and eve ..... "
'Abdu'l-Baha, The Divine Art of Living, p.33
3.
To speak to God from your heart
"Prayer should spring from love, from the desire of the person to
commune with God.
Just as the lover never ceases wishing to communicate with
the beloved, so does the lover of God always wish for constant prayer or communic-
ation with the Deity.
Prayer need not be in words but in thought and attitude.
But if this love
and this desire are lacking it is useless to try to force them.
Words without
love mean nothing. If a person talks to you as an unpleasant duty with no
pleasure in his meeting with you, do you wish to converse with him? Efforts
should first be made to make attachment to God.
When asked how this attachment is to be made, how the love of God is to
be obtained, since there are many people in the world who admit the existence of
a Deity, but without emotion, 'Abdu' l-Baha said, 'Knowledge is love. Study, listen
to exhortations, think, try to understand the wisdom and the greatness of God ....
The soil must be fertilized before the seed is sown. "'
Words of 'Abpu'l-Baha, Star of the west,
Vol. VIII, p.42

-
9 -
"Prayer i s communi on with God....
Its efficacy i s conditional upon
the freedom of the hear t from extraneous suggestions and mundane t hought s.
The worshipper must pray with a detached spirit, unconditional surrender of
the will, concentrated attention and a magnetic spiritual passion.
Hi s inner-
most being must be stirred with the ethereal breeze of holiness .
I f the mi rror
of his life is polished from the dross of all desires, the heavenly pictures
and star-li ke images of the Kingdom of God will be reflected therein.
Then
he will be given power to t ranslate these celestial forms i nto his own dai ly
life and the lives of many thousands ."
'Abdu'l-Baha, Tablets of 'Abdu'l-Baha, September 3,1914.
4.
To wait on any answer
There are a number of different ways in which an answer to
prayer may be perceived:
as a feeling of communion with God or
being in His presence, as guidance in the form of thoughts or ideas,
or as events or happenings in the lives of ourselves or others.
"Reveal then Thyself, 0 Lord! By Thy merciful utterance and the
Mystery of Thy Divine Being, that the holy ecstasy of prayer may f ill our soul s
- a prayer that shall rise above words and letters and transcend the murmur
of syllables and sounds - that all things may be merged i nto nothingness
before the revelation of Thy splendour."
'Abdu'l-Baha,Baha'i Prayers, U.K. No.99, p.103
"It is the language of the spirit which speaks to God.
When, i n
prayer, we are freed from all outward things and turn to God, then it is as if
in our hearts we hear the voice of God.
Without words we speak, we communicate,
we conver se with God and hear the answer ... All of us, when we attain to a
truly spiritual conditi on, can hear the Voice of God."
'Abdu'l-Baha, from a talk reported by Mrs. E.J. Rosenberg,
Baha'u'llah and the New Era, Ch.6
"We cannot clearly distinguish between personal desire and guidance,
but i f the way opens, when we have sought guidance, then we may presume God
is helping us. "
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi to an
individual believer, January 25, 1943.
"God wiZl answer the prayer of every servant if that prayer i s urgent.
His mercy is vast, illimitable ... But we ask for things whi ch the divine
wisdom does not desire for us and there is no answer to our prayer ... God is
merciful.
In Bis mercy He answers the prayers of all His servants when accord-
ing to His supreme wisdom it is necessary."
'Abdu'l-Baha, The Divine Art of Living, p.31-32
5.
To read aloud from the Writings every morning and evening
"Chant (or recite) the words of God every morning and evening.
who neglects this has not been faithfuL to the Covenant of God and Hi s
ment, and he who turns away from it today is of t hose who have turned
from God."
Baha'u'llah, in Divine Art of Living, p.40
The one
agree-
away
The readings may be quite brief so long as the y expre ss
spiritual fe e lings.

-
10 -
"To chant but one verse with joy and gladness is better for you than
reading aU the revelations of the omnipotent God with carelessness."
Baha'u'llah, in Divine Art of Living, p.41
"Intone, 0 My servant, the verses of God that have been received by
thee, as intoned by them who have drawn nigh unto Him, that the sweetness of
thy melody may kindle thine own soul, and attract the hearts of all men.
Whoso reciteth, in the privacy of his chamber, the verses revealed by God,
the scattering angels of the Almighty shall scatter abroad the fragrance of
the words uttered by his mouth, and shall cause the heart of every righteous
man to throb.
Though he may, at first, remain unaware of its effect, yet
the virtue of the grace vouchsafed unto him must needs sooner or later
exercise its influence upon his soul.
Thus have the mysteries of the Revelation
of God been decreed by virtue of the Will of Him Who is the Source of power and
wisdom. "
Baha'u'llah, Gleanings, CXXXVI, p.294
TASKS
FOR
WEEK
1.
To rethink how you feel about God.
2.
To pray every day.
3.
To speak to God from your heart.
4.
To wait on any answer.
5.
To read aloud from the Writings every morning and evening.
My task for Week 1 is
Mon.
Tue.
Wed.
Thu.
Fri.
Sat.
Sun.
"Should each one of the friends take upon himself to carry out,
in all its integrity and implications, only one of the teachings
of the Faith, with devotion, detachment, constancy and perseverance
and exemplify it in all his deeds and pursuits of life, the world
would become another world and the face of the earth would mirror
forth the splendours of the AbhO. Paradise."
'Abdu'l-Baha Living the Life, p.7

-
11 -
UNIT 2:
MEDITATION & ACfION
REGARD MAN AS A MINE RICH
IN GEMS OF INESTIMABLE
VALVE. EDUCATION CAN ALONE
CAUSE IT TO REVEAL ITS
TREASURES AND ENABLE MAN-
KIND TO BENEFIT THEREFROM
• BAHA 'U' LLAH.
GEMSTONE

-
13 -
M E D I TAT ION
&
ACT ION
"One hour's reflection is preferable to seventy years of pious worship."
Baha'u'llah, in The Divine Art of Living, p.39
"Investigate and study the Holy Scriptures word by word so that you may
attain knowledge of the mysteries hidden therein.
Be not satisfied with Words,
but seek to understand the spiritual meanings hidden in the heart of the words
"
'Abdu'l-Baha, in The Divine Art of Living, p.40
"Guidance hath ever been given by words, and now it is given by deeds.
Every one must show forth deeds that are pure and holy, for words are the property
of all alike, whereas such deeds as these belong only to Our loved ones.
Strive
then with heart and soul to distinguish yourselves by your deeds.
In this wise
We counsel you in this holy and resplendent tablet."
Baha'u'llah, The Hidden Words, Persian No. 76
SPECIFIC GOALS
1.
To meditate on some aspect of the teachings at least once a week.
"The friends are urged - nay enjoined - to pray, and they should also
meditate, but the manner of doing the latter is left entirely to the individual."
Shoghi Effendi, in Baha'i Life, p.4l
"Meditation is the key for opening the doors of mysteries.
In that state
man abstracts himself; in that state man withdraws himself from all outside
objects; in that subjective mood he is immersed in the ocean of spiritual life
and can unfold the secrets of things-in-themselves.
To illustrate this, think
of man endowed with two kinds of sight; when the power of insight is being used
the outward power of vision does not see.
This faculty of meditation frees man from the animal nature, discerns
the reality of things, puts man in touch with God."
'Abdu'l-Baha, Paris Talks, p.175
"The Guardian hopes that along with whatever other studies you take up,
you will continually study the teachings and endeavour to acquire a profound
knowledge of them.
The importance of young Baha'~s is becoming thoroughly
steeped in every branch of the teachings cannot be over-emphasised ... "
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi,
Baha'i Life, p.43
During the Gemstone program, the meditation periods are used to
study and understand the Baha'i teachings for that week, to find
ways of applying them, and to find solutions to the practical
problems which arise at each stage of the project.
2.
To meditate on the development of your own unrealized
spiritual potentialities.
"0 SON OF BEING!
With the hand of power I made thee and with the fingers of strength I created
thee;
and within thee have I placed the essence of My Light.
Be thou content
with it and seek naught else, for My work is perfect and My command is binding.
Question it not, nor have a doubt thereof."
Baha'u'llah, The Hidden Words, Arabic No.12

-
14 -
"0 MY FRIEND!
Thou art the day-star of the heavens of My holiness, let not the defilement of
the world eclipse thy splendor.
Rend asunder the veil of heedlessness, that
from behind the clouds thou mayest emerge resplendent and array all things
with the apparel of Life."
Baha'u'llah, The Hidden Words, Persian, No.73
" ..... man should know his own self, and know those things
which lead to loftiness or to baseness, to shame or to honour, to affluence or
to poverty."
Baha'u'llah, Baha'i World Faith, p.167
"We must be patient with others, infinitely patient!, but also with our
own poor selves, remembering that even the Prophets of God sometimes got tired
and cried out in despair! .....
He urges you to persevere and add up your
accomplishments, rather than to dwell on the dark side of things.
Everyone's
life has both a dark and bright side.
The Master said:
turn your back to the
darkness and your face to me. "
(From a letter dated October 22, 1949, written on
behalf of the Guardian to an individual believer) .
Baha'i National Review, October 1979.
"When a person becomes a Baha 'i, actuaLLy what takes place is that the
seed of the spirit starts to grow in the human soul.
This seed must be
watered by the outpourings of the Holy Spirit.
These gifts of the spirit are
received through prayer, meditation, study of the Holy Utterances and service
to the Cause of God.
The fact of the matter is that service in the Cause is
like the plough which ploughs the physical soil when seeds are sown.
It is
necessary that the soil be ploughed up, so that it can be enriched, and thus
cause a stronger growth of the seed.
In exactly the same way the evolution
of the spirit takes place through ploughing up the soil of the heart so that
it is a constant reflection of the Holy Spirit.
In this way the human spirit
grows and develops by leaps and bounds.
Naturally there will be periods of distress and difficulty, and even
severe tests;
but if that person turns firmly towards the divine Manifestation,
studies carefully His spiritual teachings and receives the blessings of the
Holy Spirit, he will find that in reality these tests and difficulties have been
the gifts of God to enable him to grow and develop.
Thus might you look upon your own difficulties in the path of service.
They are the means of your spirit growing and developing.
You will suddenly
find that you have conquered many of the problems which upset you and then you
will wonder why they should have troubled you at all.
An individual must
centre his whole heart and mind on service to the Cause, in accordance with
the high standards set by Baha'u'llan.
When this done, the Hosts of the
Supreme Concourse will come to the assistance of the individual, and every
difficulty and trial will gradually be overcome."
From a letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi,
Living the Life, p.35-36.
3.
To think about some aspect of the teachings and put it into
practice.
"The reality of man is his thought, not his material body .....

-
15 -
Some men and women glory in their exalted thoughts, but
thoughts never reach the plane of action they remain useless:
thought is dependent on its manifestation in deeds."
'Abdu'l-Baha, Paris Talks, p.17-18
if these
the power of
"This faculty brings forth from the invisible plane the sciences and
arts.
Through the meditative faculty inventions are made possible, colossal
undertakings are carried out;
through it governments can run smoothly.
Through
this faculty man enters into the very kingdom of God."
'Abdu'l-Baha, Paris Talks, p.175
There is an interesting (if unauthenticated) pilgrim's note
on meditation in "Do'a -
On Wings of Prayer" by Ruth Moffett.
TrOne day our Guardian said to a prominent pilgrim in Haifa, 'Do you
pray?'
'Of course, beloved Guardian, I pray every morning.'
'Do you meditate?'
The man paused a bit and said slowly 'No, I guess I do not.' The Guardian
replied 'Prayer is of no use without meditation. '
Then the Guardian continued, 'Meditation must be centred on the Writings. '
The Guardian continued very earnestly and said, 'Meditation is of no use unless
it is followed by action ... '
'Meditation is not just sitting down, closing your eyes, keeping silent
in a silent atmosphere, and being blank.
That is not meditation.
You must
concentrate on the teachings, concentrate on their implications, and how they
can be used.
Prayer is of no consequence if it remains the murmur of syllables
and sounds ..... of what use is that? God knows really.
We are not saying the
prayers for God, we are saying them for our own selves. If we do not reflect
upon the Writings that we read, if we do not make the Writings part of our
daily action, I think we are wasting our time. /I'
Do'a -
On Wings of Prayer, by Ruth Moffett, p.16-17
"It is incumbent upon every man of insight and understanding to strive
to translate that which hath been written into reality and action ..... That
one indeed is a man who, today, dedicateth himself to the service of the entire
human race ..... "
Baha'u'llah, Gleanings, CXVII, (U.S.) p.250
4.
To take stock of yourself each d·ay.
"Bring thyself to account each day ere thou art summoned to a reckoning,
for death, unheralded, shall come upon thee, and thou shalt be called to give
account for thy deeds."
Baha'u'llah, The Hidden Words, Arabic, No.31
There appear to be two aspects to taking stock of one's
spiritual condition - to recognise achievements and give thanks for
them as divine confirmations and blessings, and to recognise problems
and mistakes and take corrective action.
"Be fair to yourself and to others .... "
Baha'u'llah, in The Advent of Divine Justice, p.20

-
16 -
"Wherefore, be thankful to God for having strengthened thee to aid
His Cause, for having made the flowers of knowledge and understanding to
spring forth in the garden of thine heart."
Baha'u'llah, Gleanings from the Writings of Baha'u'llAh
CXXXIX p.303
"We must always look ahead and seek to accomplish in the future what
we may have failed to do in the past.
Failures, tests and trials, if we use
them correctly, can become the means of purifying our spirits, strengthening
our characters, and enable us to rise to greater heights of service."
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi,
Living the Life, p.17
"He is very happy to see that you have put into practice one of the
most encouraging precepts of 'Abdu'l-Bahd in which He said that we should try
and make every stumbling-block a stepping-stone to progress.
In the course of
your past life you have all stumbled very gravely;
but, far from being
embittered or defeated by this experience, you are determined to make it a
means of purifying your natures, improving your characters, and enabling you
to become better citizens in the future.
This is truly pleasing in the eyes
of God. "
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, to the
Baha'is in H.M. Prison Farm, Kitalya, Uganda, Living
the Life, p.37
One method of stocktaking is to spend a few minutes before
going to sleep in reviewing the past day, particularly noting any
moments of discomfort which may suggest insensitivity to someone's
need, or having compromised one of the teachings.
TASKS FOR
WEEK
1.
T·o meditate on the teachings relating to meditation and
action.
2.
To meditate on the development of your own unrealized
spiritual potentialities.
3.
To think about some aspect of the teachings and put it into
practice.
4.
To take stock of yourself each day.
CONTINUING TASKS
1.
To pray daily.
2.
To read aloud from the Writings in the morning and evening.

-
17 -
My task for Week 2 is ............ _ ....................... _ ................. _ ................................................... _ ... _ .. _ ..... _ .. _ ...... _ ........... _ ....... _ ............... .
Mon.
Tue.
Wed.
Thu.
Fri.
Sat.
Sun.
"Should each one of the friends take upon himself to carry out.
in all its integrity and implications. only one of the teachings
of the Faith. with devotion. detachment. constancy and perseverance
and exemplify it in all his deeds and pursuits of life. the world
would become another world and the face of the earth would mirror
forth the splendours of the Abhc! Paradise. "
'Abdu'l-Baha Living the Life, p.7

-
19 -
UNIT 3:
JUSTICE
REGARD MAN AS A MINE RICH
IN GEMS OF INESTIMABLE
VALUE. EDUCATION CAN ALONE
CAUSE IT TO REVEAL ITS
TREASURES AND ENABLE MAN-
KIND TO BENEFIT THEREFROM
• BAHA 'U' LLAH.
GEMSTONE

-
21 -
JUS TIC E
"The best beloved of aU things in My sight is Justice;
turn not Clhlay
therefrom i f thou desirest Me, and neglect i t not that I may confide in thee .
By its aid thou shalt see with thine own eyes and not through the eyes of
others, and shalt know of thine own knowledge and not through the knowledge of
thy neighbour.
Ponder this in thy heart;
how it behoveth thee to be.
Verily
justice is My gift to thee and the sign of My loving- kindness.
Set it then bef ore
thine eyes."
Baha'u'llah, The Hidden Words, Arabic 2 .
"The light of man is Justice;
quench it not wi t h the contrary winds of
oppression and tyranny .
The purpose of justi ce is t he appearance of unity
among men."
Baha'u'llah, Baha'i World Faith, p.182
"That which t raineth the
pillars, reward and punishment.
the world. "
world is Justice, for it is upheld by two
These two pillars are the sources of life to
Baha'u'llah, The Advent of Divine Justice , p .23
SPECIFIC GOALS
Truthfulness:
1 .
Sensitivity to situations in which you are tempted to deviate
from truthfulness.
2 .
To speak the truth.
"Truthfulness is the foundation of aU human virtues.
Without truthfulness
progress and success, in all the worlds of God, are impossible for any soul.
When this holy attribute is established in man, all the divine qualities will
also be acquired. "
'Abdu'l-Baha, The Divine Art of Living, p .7 8
"Consider that the worst of qualities and most odious of attributes,
whi ch is the foundation of all evil, is lying.
No worse or more blameworthy
quality than this can be imagined to exist; it is the destroyer of all human
perfections, and the cause of innumerable vices .
There is no worse character-
istic than this; it is the foundation of aU evils."
'Abdu'l-Baha, Some Answered Questions , LVI I
"As to the quest ion whether it is right to teU an untruth in order to
save another, he feels t hat under no condition should we tell an untruth but at
the same time try and help the person in a more legitimate manner.
Of course i t
is not necessary to be too outspoken until the question is directly put to us ."
From letter written on behalf of Shoghi Ef f endi,
Liv ing the Life, p.lO-ll
Because the importance of truthfulness is so f undament a l i t is
i mportant to observe and recognize the types o f situa t ion s in which
one t ends to deviate from the truth (or perhaps bend i t a little ) .
The first goal is to become sensitive to these situations .
For
i nstance, for some people a temptation situation may be o ne in which
there is a degree of uncertainty as to the exact truth and a pe rsonal
interest in it being more in one direction than the othe r .
It is
the task of each person to identify the characteristics of h i s own
t emptation situations.
It may also be helpful t o t ry to analyse one' s
motive for telling a lie, e.g. to protect oneself f rom embarrassment
o r inconvenience rather than face up to the truth.

-
22 -
Not backbiting
1.
To recognize when you are speaking about someone else.
2.
Never speak against someone behind his or her back.
"How couldst thou forget thine own fauZts and busy thyself with the
fauZts of others?"
Baha'u'llah, The Hidden Words, Arabic, 26
"Beware lest ye offend any heart, lest ye speak against anyone in his
absence ..... "
'Abdu'l-Baha, Baha'i Life, p.37
"Do not complain of others. Refrain from reprimanding them, and if you
wish to give admonition 0 1' advice let it be offered in such a way that it will
not burden the receiver."
'Abdu'l-Baha, The Divine Art of Living, p.IIS-9.
The purpose of the first goal is simply to develop sensitivity
to situations in which one is talking about someone else, so that
particular care may be taken not to slip into backbiting.
Honesty
1.
To review situations in which it is common for people not to
practice strict honesty.
2.
To be honest.
Prohibitions in the Kitab-i-Agdas include:
"Theft" .
Synopsis and Codification of the Kitab-i-Agdas, p.47
"This wronged one enjoineth on you honesty and piety".
Baha'u'llah, Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, p.23
"It is not advisable to show kindness to a person who is a tyrant, a
traitor 01' a thief because kindness encourages him to become worse and does not
awaken him."
'Abdu'l-Baha, Baha'i World Faith, p.412
It is suggested that the group make a list of situations in
which honesty is not always practised, starting with filling in
income tax returns.
Fairness
1.
Sensitivity to situations in which you are balancing the rights
or interests of others.
2.
To be fair.
"Be fair to yourselves and to others that the evidences of Justice may
be revealed through your deeds among Our faithful servants ..... Equity is the
most fundamental among human virtues.
The evaluation of all things must needs
depend upon it ..... Observe equity in your judgment, ye men of understanding
heart!
He that is unjust in his judgment is destitute of the characteristics
that distinguish man 's station."
Baha'u'llah, cited in Advent of Divine Justice, p. 20

-
23 -
"If thou lookest towards justice, choose thou for others
what thou choosest for thyself."
Baha'u'llah, The Divine Art of Living, p.117
"Such rectitude of conduct must manifest itself, with ever-increasing
potency, in every verdict which the elected representatives of the Baha'i
community, in whatever capacity they may find themselves, may be called upon to
pronounce.
It must be constantly reflected in the business dealings of all
its members, in their domestic lives, in all manner of employment, and in any
service they may, in the future, render their government or people. It must be
exemplified in the conduct of all Baha'i electors, when exercising their sacred
rights and functions."
"It must be demonstrated in the impartiality of every defender of the
Faith against its enemies, in his fai~indedness in recognizing any merits that
enemy may possess, and in his honesty in discharging any obligations he may
have towards him."
Shoghi Effendi, The Advent of Divine Justice, p.22
"To discriminate against any race, on the ground of its being sociaUy
backward, politically immature, and numerically in a minority, is a flagrant
violation of the spirit that animates the Faith of Baha'u'Uah."
Shoghi Effendi, The Advent of Divine Justice, p.29
The first goal is to become sensitive to situations in which
one's judgment or treatment of others involves some balancing of
rights or interests.
For instance in a family or community a
selective love or kindness to some particular members may be unfair
and divisive if others are always left out.
The third and fourth
quotations identify eight situations in which fairness is a vital
responsibility of the individual Baha'i.
Trustworthiness
1.
To list important unfulfilled obligations.
2.
To reassess priorities and decide whether it is possible to
carry them out.
" ..... We beheZd one of the countenances of the exalted Paradise,
standing on a pillar of light, and calling out in the loudest voice, saying:
'0 ye concourse of heaven and earth, gaze upon my beauty, my light, my
appearance and my effulgence.
By God, the True One, I am Trustworthiness, its
manifestation and its beauty, and I am the reward to him who clings thereto,
who knoweth its rank and position and holdeth fast unto its hem.
I am the most
great ornament to the people of Bahd, and the mantle of honour to all in the
kingdom of emanation.
I am the greatest cause for the affluence of the world,
and the horizon of tranquiUity to the people of existence. ",
Bah~'u'll~h, Bah~'1 World Faith, p.170.
" ..... say not that which thou doest not."
Baha'u'llah, The Hidden Words, Arabic, 29.

-
24 -
"It (rectitude of conduct) must characterize the attitude of every
loyal believer towards non-acceptance of political posts, non-identification
with political parties, non-participation in political controversies, and non-
membership in political organizations and ecclesiastical institutions. It
must reveal itself in the uncompromising adherence of all, whether young or
old, to the clearly enunciated and fundamental principles laid down by
'Abdu'l-Baha in His addresses, and to the laws and ordinances revealed by
Baha'u'llah in His Most Holy Book."
Shoghi Effendi, The Advent of Divine Justice, p. 22
" ..... every organized community, enlisted under the banner of Baha'u'llah,
should feel it to be its first and inescapable obligation to nurture, encourage,
and safeguard every minority belonging to any faith, race, class, or nation
within it."
Shoghi Effendi, The Advent of Divine Justice, p.29
Courtesy
1.
To show greater consideration to others.
2.
To be punctual.
"0 people of God!
I exhort you to courtesy.
Courtesy is, in the
primary station, the lord of all virtues."
Baha'u'llah, Baha'i World Faith, p.175
" ..... no man should enter the house of his friend save at his friend's
pleasure, nor lay hands upon his treasures, nor prefer his own will to his
friend's, and in no wise seek an advantage over him.
Ponder this, ye that
have insight! "
Baha'u'11ah, The Hidden Words, Persian, 43
TASKS
FOR
WEEK
THREE
Truthfulness
1.
To identify situations in which you are tempted to deviate
from truthfulness.
2.
To speak the truth.
Not backbiting
1.
To recognize when you are speaking about someone else.
2.
Never to speak against someone behind his or her back.
Honesty
1.
To review situations in which it is common for people
not to practice strict honesty.
2.
To be honest.
Fairness
1.
To be sensitive to situations in which you are balancing
the rights or interests of others.

-
25 -
2.
To be fair.
Trustworthiness
1.
To list important unfulfilled obligations.
2.
To reassess priorities and decide whether it is possible to
carry them out.
Courtesy
1.
To show greater consideration to others.
2.
To be punctual.
CONTINUING
TASKS
1.
To pray daily for the development of your spiritual
qualities.
2.
To read aloud from the writings every morning and evening.
3.
Meditation:
To meditate on the Baha'i teachings about
Justice.
4.
Reflect on your day.
My task for Week 3 is
Mon.
Tue.
Wed.
Thu.
Fri.
Sat.
Sun.
"Should each one of the friends take upon himself to carry out,
in all its integrity and implications, only one of the teachings
of the Faith, with devotion, detachment, constancy and perseverance
and exemplify it in all his deeds and pursuits of life, the world
would become another world and the face of the earth would mirror
forth the splendours of the Abha Paradise."
'Abdu'l-Baha Living the Life, p.7

-
27 -
UNIT 4:
LOVE
REGARD MAN AS A MINE RICH
IN GEMS OF INESTIMABLE
VALUE. EDUCATION CAN ALONE
CAUSE IT TO REVEAL ITS
TREASURES AND ENABLE MAN-
KIND TO BENEFIT THEREFROM
• BAHA 'U' LLAH.
GEMSTONE

-
29 -
L 0 V E
Love for God is the source of spiritual
attraction between people
"Rear rove is irrrpossibre unress one tU1'l'! his face towards God and be
attracted to His beauty".
'Abdu'l-Baha, Tablets of 'Abdu'l-Baha, Vol.3, p.SOS.
"The rove which exists between the hearts of bdievers is prorrrpted by
the idear of the unity of spirits. This rove is attained through the
knowredge of God, so that men see the Divine rove refrected in the heart.
Each sees in the other the beauty of God refrected in the sour, and, finding
this point of simirarity, they are attracted to one another in rove."
'Abdu'l-Baha, The Divine Art of Living, p .98 .
" ...... The rove of God, and consequentry of men, is the essentiar found-
ation of every rerigion, our own incruded.
A greater degree of rove wirr produce
a greater unity, because it enabres peopre to bear with each other, to be
patient and forgiving."
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi,
Living The Life, p. 21.
SPECIFIC GOALS
1.
To recognize that all human beings are wholly in need of God's
mercy and grace, and therefore to be gentle and helpful.
"Every human creature is the servant of God.
AU have been created and
reared by the power and favor of God;
arr have been bressed with the bounties
of the same Sun of Divine truth;
arr have quaffed from the fountain of the
infinite mercy of God;
and arr in His estimation and rove are equar as servants .
He is beneficent and kind to alr.
Therefore no one shourd glorify himself over
another;
no one shourd manifest pride or superiority toward another;
no one
shourd rook upon another with SC01'l'! and conterrrpt and no one should deprive 01'
oppress a felrow creature.
Arr must be considered as submerged in the ocean of
God ' s mercy.
We must associate with arr humanity with gentleness and kindriness.
We must rove arr with love of the heart.
Some are ignorant;
they must be trained
and educated.
One is sick;
he must be healed.
Another is as a child;
we must
assist him to attain maturity.
We must not detest him who is airing, neither
shun him, SC01'l'!, nor curse him;
but care for him with the utmost kindness and
tende1'l'!ess.
An infant must not be treated with disdain sirrrply because it is an
infant.
Our responsibirity is to train, educate and deverop it in order that
it may advance toward maturity."
'Abdu'l-Baha, The Divine Art of Living, p.llO-lll.
"Be in perfect unity.
Never become angry with one another ..... [,ove the
creatures for the sake of God and not for themserves .
You wirr never become
angry or irrrpatient if you rove them for the sake of God.
Humanity is not perfect.
There are irrrperfections in every human being and you will arways become unhappy
if you look toward the people themserves.
But if you look toward God you wirr
rove them and be kind to them, for the worrd of God is the worrd of perfection
and corrrplete mercy.
Therefore do not lool( at the shortcomings of anybody;
see
with the sight of forgiveness .
The irrrperfect eye beholds irrrperfections.
The
eye that covers faurts rooks towards the Creator of souls .
He created them,
t rains and provides for them, endows them with capacity and life, sight and hearing;
therefore they are the signs of His grandeur."
'Abdu'l-Baha, The Divine Art of Living, p.llS-116

-
30 -
2.
To practise thinking of people in terms of
their good qualities.
"To look always at the good and not at the bad. If a man has ten good
qualities and one bad one, to look at the ten and forget the one;
and if a
man has ten bad qualities and one good one, to look at the one and forget the
ten. "
'Abdu'l-Baha, Baha'u'llah and the New Era, Ch. 5
3.
To review how you make friends.
"The followers of sincerity and faithfulness must consort with all the
people of the world with joy and fragrance;
for association is always conduc-
ive to union and harmony, and union and harmony are the cause of the order of
the world and the life of the nations.
Blessed are they who hold fast to the
rope of compassion and kindness and are detached from animosity and hatred!"
Baha'u'llah, The Divine Art of Living, p.117
"Consort with aU men, 0 people of Baha; in a spirit of friendliness and
fellowship. If ye be aware of a certain truth, if ye possess a jewel, of which
others are deprived, share it with them in a language of utmost kindliness and
good-will. If it be accepted, if it fulfill its purpose, your object is attained.
If anyone should refuse it, leave him unto himself, and beseech God to guide him.
Beware lest ye deal unkindly with him.
A kindly tongue is the lodestone of the
hearts of men.
It is the bread of the spirit, it clotheth the words with meaning,
it is the fountain of the light of wisdom and understanding. "
Baha'u'llah, The Divine Art of Living, p.116-ll7
"When you meet those whose opinions differ from your own, do not turn
your face from them ...... .
Do not allow difference of opinion, or diversity of thought to separate
your from your fellow-men, or to be the cause of dispute, hatred and strife in
your hearts."
'Abdu'l-Baha, The Diving Art of Living, p.117
"Wouldst thou seek the grace of the Holy Spirit, enter into fellowship
with the righteous, for he hath drunk the cup of eternal life at the hands of
the immortal Cup-bearer and even as the true morn doth quicken and illumine the
hearts of the dead."
Baha'u'llah, The Hidden Words, persian, 58.
"We know absence of light is darkness, but no one would assert darkness was
not a fact.
It exists even though it is only the absence of something else.
So
evil exists too, and we cannot close our eyes to it, even though it is a negative
existence.
We must seek to supplant it by good, and if we see an evil person is
not influenceable by us, then we should shun his company for it is unhealthy."
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi,
October 4, 1950.
4.
To show special kindness to strangers.
"When a man turns his face to God he finds sunshine everywhere.
A lImen
are his brothers.
Let not conventionality cause you to seem cold and unsumpathetic
when you meet strange people from other countries.
Do not look at them as if you
suspected them of being evil-doers, thieves and boors.
You think it necessary to
be very carefUL, not to expose yourselves to the risk of making acquaintance with
such, possibly, undesirable people.

-
-
I ask you not to think only of yourselves.
Be kind to the strangers,
whether they come from Turkey, Japan, Persia, Russia, China or any other country
of the world.
Help to make them feel at home;
find out where they are staying,
ask if you may render them any service;
try to make their lives a little happier.
In this way, even if, sometimes, what you at first suspected should be true,
still go out of your way to be kind to them - this kindness will help them to
become better ...... .
Let those who meet you know, without your proclaiming the fact, that you
are indeed a Baha'i.
Put into practice the teaching of Baha'u'llah, that of kindness to all
nations.
Do not be content with showing friendship in words alone;
let your
heart burn with loving-kindness for all who may cross your path."
'Abdu'l-Baha, The Divine Art of Living, p.115
5.
To visit those who are sick.
"We should all visit the sick.
When they are in sorrow and suffering it
is a real help and benefit to have a friend come.
Happiness is a great healer to
those who are ill ....... The people in the east show the utmost kindness and
compassion to the sick and suffering. This has greater effect than the remedy
itself·
You must always have this thought of love and affection when you visit
the ailing and afflicted."
'Abdu'l-Baha, Promulgation of Universal Peace, p.199.
TASKS
FOR
WEEK
1.
To recognize that all human beings are wholly in need of God's
mercy and grace, and therefore
to be gentle and helpful.
2.
To practise thinking of people in terms of their good qualities.
3.
To review how you make friends.
4.
To show special kindness to strangers.
5.
To visit those who are sick.
CONTINUING TASKS
1.
To pray daily for the development of your spiritual qualities.
2.
To read from the Writings every morning and evening.
3.
To meditate on the Baha'i teachings about love.
4.
Reflect on your day.

-
32 -
My task for Week 4 is
Mon.
Tue.
Wed.
Thu.
Fri.
Sat.
Sun.
"Should each one of the friends take upon himself to carry out, in
all its integrity and implications, only one of the teachings of
the Faith, ~ith devotion, detachment, constancy and perseverance
and ex~plify it in all his deeds and pursuits of life, the ~orld
~ould become another ~orld and the face of the earth ~ould mirror
forth the splendors of the AbM Paradise."
'Abdu'l-Bahii
Living the Life, p.7

-
33 -
UNIT 5:
PURITY & DETACHMENT
REGARD MAN AS A MINE RICH
IN GEMS OF INESTIMABLE
VALVE. EDUCATION CAN ALONE
CAUSE IT TO REVEAL ITS
TREASURES AND ENABLE MAN-
KIND TO BENEFIT THEREFROM
• BAHA 'U' LLAH.
GEM STO NE

-
35 -
PUR I T Y AND
D ETA C H MEN T
" •...... Possess a pure kindly and radiant heart, that thine may be a
sovereignty ancient, imperishable and everlasting."
Baha'u'llah, The Hidden Words, Arabic 1
"He is not to be numbered with the people of BahJr. who followeth his
mundane desires, 01" fixeth his heart on things of the earth.
He is my tl"Ue
follower who, if he come to a valley of pure gold will pass straight through
it aloof as a cloud, and will neither turn back, nor pause.
Such a man is
assuredly of Me.
From his garment the Concourse on high can inhale the
fragrance of sanctity ..... And, if he met the fairest and most comely of
women, he would not feel his heart seduced by the least shadow of desire for
her beauty.
Such an one indeed is the creation of spotless chastity."
Baha'u'llah, in The Advent of Divine Justice, p.26-27
" ..... Therefore, today "victory" neither hath been nor will be
opposition to anyone, nor strife with any person;
but rather what is well-
pleasing is that the cities of (men's) hearts, which are under the dominion
of the hosts of selfishness and lust, should be subdued by the sword of the
Word, of wisdom and of exhortation.
Everyone, then, who desireth "victory"
must first subdue the city of his own heart with the sword of spiritual tl"Uth
and of the Word, and must protect it from remembering aught beside God;
aftel"Wards let him turn his regards towards the cities of (other's) hearts ...... "
The Divine Art of Living, p.74
SPECIFIC GOALS
PURITY
1.
To strive to purify your motives
"0 friends!
Prefer not your own will to Mine, never desire that which
I have not desired for you, and approach Me not with lifeless hearts, defiled
with worldly desires and cravings .... "
Baha'u'llah, The Hidden Words, Persian, 19.
"Consider to what extent the friends of God have been urged and exhorted
in the will and Testament as well as in the holy Tablets and Writings to show
forth uprightness, good will, tolerance, sanctity, detachment from all things
besides God, and severance from whatever pertains to this world, and to exemplify
heavenly qualities and traits.
First and foremost one should resort to every
possible means to purge one's heart and motives, othel"Wise it would be futile
to engage in any form of enterprise. It is also essential to abstain from
hypocrisy and blind imitation, inasmuch as their foul odour would soon be
detected by every man of understanding and wisdom.
Moreover, the friends must
obsel"Ve the specific times for the remembrance of God, meditation, devotion and
prayer, as it is highly unlikely, nay rather impossible, that any enterprise
should prosper and develop short of divine bestowals and confirmation.
One
can hardly imagine what a great influence genuine love, tl"Uthfulness and purity
of motives exert on the souls of men.
But these traits cannot be acquired unless
every believer makes a daily effort to gain them ... . "
Shoghi Effendi, in Living the Life, page 7-8

-
36 -
2.
To practice physical cleanliness
"Even when applied to physical things, delicacy causeth the attairunent of
spirituality, as U is established in the Holy Scriptures.
External cleanliness, although it is but a physical thing, hath a great
influence upon spiri tua li ty. "
'Abdu'l-Baha, Baha'i World Faith, p. 334
CHASTITY
1.
To be sensitive to situations and actions which go beyond
the bounds of chastity and moderation.
"The brightness of the light of chastity sheddeth its illumination upon
the worlds of the spirit, and its fragrance is wafted even unto the Most Exalted
Paradise."
Baha'u'llah, in The Advent of Divine Justice, p.25
"It demands daily vigilance in the control of one's carnal desires and
corrupt inclinations. It calls for the abandorunent of a frivolous conduct,
with its excessive attachment to trivial and often misdirected pleasures."
Shoghi Effendi, The Advent of Divine Justice, p.25
"Such a chaste and holy life, with its implications of modesty, purity,
temperance, decency and clean-mindedness, involves no less than the exercise
of moderation in all that pertains to dress, language, amusements, and all
artistic and literary avocations."
Shoghi Effendi, The Advent of Divine Justice, p.25
"It condemns the prostitution of art and of literature, thfl practice of
nudism and of companionate marriage, infidelity in marital relationships, and
aU manner of promiscuity, of easy familiarity, and of sexual vices."
Shoghi Effendi, The Advent of Divine Justice, p.25
"We have received your letter of 19 June, 1973 and can sympathise with
the problems that Baha'i youth face when trying to live up to the Baha'i standards
of behaviour. It is, perhaps, natural that in the bewildering amoral envirorunent
in which Baha'i youth are growing up they feel the need for specific instructions
on which intimacies are permissible and which are not.
However, we feel it would
be most unwise for any Baha'i institution to issue detailed instructions about this.
The Baha'i youth should study the teachings on chastity and, with these in
mind, should avoid any behaviour which would arouse passions which would tempt
them to violate them.
In deciding what acts are permissible to them in the light
of these considerations the youth must use their own judgment,
following the
~~idance of their conscience and the advice of their parents.
If Baha'i youth combine such personal purity with an attitude of uncensorious
forbearance towards others they will find that those who have criticised or even
mocked them will come, in time, to respect them.
They will, moreover, be laying
a firm foundation for future married happiness. "
The Universal House of Justice, Baha'i Journal, (U.K.
publication), October, 1973.

-
37 -
" ..... we must reach a spiritual plane where God comes first and great
human passions are unable to turn us away from Him.
All the time we see people
who either through the force of hate 01' the passionate attachment they have to
another person, sacrifice principle 01' bar themselves from the Path of God .....
We must love God, and in this state, a general love for all men becomes
possible.
We cannot love each human being for himself, but our feeling towards
humanity should be motivated by our love for the Father who created all men."
From a letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi,
quoted in Living the Life, page 32.
AVOIDANCE OF ALCOHOL AND HABIT-FORMING DRUGS
1.
To recognize and break up habit sequences associated with the
use of alcohol or other habit-forming drugs.
2.
To reduce and discontinue use of habit-forming drugs.
"It requires total abstinence from all alcoholic drinks, from opium and
from similar habi t-f01'l7ling drugs."
Shoghi Effendi, The Advent of Divine Justice, p.25
"In l etters to the u.s. National Spiritual Assembly, the Universal House
of Justice has taken a clear position on the use of hallucinogenic drugs.
' .... Baha'is should not use hallucinogenic agents, including L.S.D., Peyote
and similar substances, except when prescribed for medical treatment.
Neither
should they become involved in experiments with such substances . ' "
Universal House of Justice to U.s.
N.S.A. May 19, 1966
From Alaska Baha'i News, May 1968
"As you have rightly noted in yoUP letter of 27 February, 'Abdu'l-Baha
advised against the smoking of tobacco.
While the Teachings strongly condemn its
use, they do not forbid it.
To letters inquiring about this subject, the beloved
Guardian replied through his secretary that we had not right to prevent anyone
from smoking;
that Baha'is were free to smoke but it was preferable f or them not
to do .so; and, that this question should not be made an issue."
DETACHMENT
Letter from the Universal House of Justice to an
individual believer, 8 April, 1965.
1.
To meditate on the transience of this material world.
"Be f orbearing one with another and set not your affection on thi ngs
below.
Pride not yourselves in your glory, and be not ashamed of abasement .
By My beauty!
I have created all things from dust, and to dust will I return
them again."
BahA'u'1lah, The Hidden Words, Persian No.48
"Be not troubled in poverty nor confident in riches, for poverty i s followed
by riches, and riches are followed by poverty.
Yet to be poor in all save God is
a wondrous gift, belittle not the value thereof, for in the end it will make thee
rich in God, and thus thou shalt know the meaning of the utterance, "In truth ye
are the poor," and the holy words, "God is the all-possessing," shalZ even as
;e
true morn break forth gloriously resplendent upon the horizon of the lover'8
heart, and abide secure on the throne of wealth. "
Baha'u'llah, The Hidden Words, Persian No .51

-
38 -
2.
To re-assess your financial contributions to the Faith and
make an annual budget for contributions to the Local and
National Funds.
"Contributions to this fund constitute, in addition, a practica~ and
effective way ~hereby every believer can test the measure and character of his
faith, and prove in deeds the intensity of his devotion and attachment to the
Cause."
Principles of Baha'i Administration, p.94
"It is the sacred obligation of every conscientious and faithfu~ servant
of Baha'u'l~ah ~ho desires to see His Cause advance, to contribute free~y and
generously for the increase of that Fund."
principles of Baha'i Administration, p.95
TASKS
FOR
WEEK
Purity
1.
To strive to purify your motives.
2.
To practice physical cleanliness.
Chastity
1.
To be sensitive to situations and actions which go beyond the
bounds of chastity and moderation.
2.
To practice clean-mindedness and self control.
Avoidance of alcohol and habit-forming drugs
1.
To recognize and break up habit sequences associated with the
use of alcohol or habit-forming drugs.
2.
To reduce and discontinue the use of alcohol and habit-forming
drugs.
Detachment
1.
To meditate on the transcience of the material world.
2.
To re-assess your financial contributions to the Faith and make
an annual budget for contributions to the Local and National
Funds.
CONTINUING TASKS
1.
Daily prayer for the development of your spiritual qualities.
2.
To read from the Writings every morning and evening.
3.
To meditate on the Baha'i teachings relating to purity and
detachment.
4.
Reflect on your day.

-
39 -
My task for Week 5 is ........ _ .. _ .... _ ......... _ ......... _ ................. _ .. _ ... _ .............................. _ .... _ .. _ ... _._ ...... _ ....... _ .... ___ . ___ .. __
._ ............... - ...................... __ ..................................... _
.................................................... _
... _-_ .. _." ...... _
.......... _-_. __ ........ __ ..... _ ... __ .. _._--_ .. _. __ .... _-_. __ .. __ ._-_._.-
Mon.
Tue.
Wed.
Thu.
Frio
Sat.
Sun.
"Should each one of the friends take upon himself to carry out,
in all its integrity and implications, only one of the teachings
of the Faith, with devotion, detachment, constancy and perseverance
and exemplify it in all his deeds and pursuits of life, the world
would become another world and the face of the earth would mirror
forth the splendours of the AbhO. Paradise."
'Abdu'l-Baha Living the Life, p.7

-
41 -
UNIT 6:
HAPPINESS
REGARD MAN AS A MINE RICH
IN GEMS OF INESTIMABLE
VALUE. EDUCATION CAN ALONE
CAUSE IT TO REVEAL ITS
TREASURES AND ENABLE MAN-
KIND TO BENEFIT THEREFROM
• BAHA 'U' LLAH.
GEMSTONE

-
43 -
HAP PIN E S S
'~s to spipitual happiness, this is the tpue basis of the life of man,
fop Zife is cpeated fop happiness, not fop soppow;
fop pleasupe, not fop grief.
Happiness is life;
soppow is death.
Spiritual happiness is life etePnal.
This is a light which is not followed by dapkness.
This is an honoup which is
not followed by shame.
This is a life that is not followed by death.
This is
an existence that is not followed by annihilation.
This gpeat blessing and
ppecious gift is obtained by man only thpough the guidance of God .....
This happiness is the fundamental basis fpom which man is cpeated,
woplds ape opiginated, the contingent beings have existence and the wopld of
God appeaps like unto the appeapance of the sun at mid-day.
This happiness is but the love of God .....
Wepe it not fop this happiness the wopld of existence would not have
been cpeated."
'Abdu'l-Baha, The Divine Art of Living, p.lS.
SPECIFIC GOALS
Cultivate Happiness
1.
Be happy, for the source of joy is in your own heart.
"Rejoice in the gladness of thine heapt, that thou mayest be wopthy
to meet Me and to mippop fopth My beauty."
Baha'u'llah, The Hidden Words, Arabic, 36 .
"Veiled in My immemopial being and in the ancient etePnity of My
essence, I knew My love fop thee;
thepefope I cpeated thee, have engpaved
on thee Mine image and pevealed to thee My beauty."
Baha'u'llah, The Hidden Words, Arabic, 3
"Lift up youP heapts above the ppesent and look with eyes of faith into
the futupe!
Today the seed is sown, the gpain falls upon the eapth, but behold
the day will come when it shall pise a glopious tpee and the bpanches thepeof
shall be laden with fpuit.
Rejoice and be glad that this day has dawned, tPy
to pealize its powep, fop it is indeed wondepful!
God r~s cpowned you with
honoup and in youP heapts has He set a padiant stap;
Vepily the light thepeof
shaU bpighten the whole wopld."
'Abdu'l-Baha, The Reality of Man, p.27-S
2.
Do not harbour negative thoughts about yourself and your
circumstances.
"With the hands of powep I made thee and with the fingeps of stpength
I cpeated thee;
and within thee have I placed the essence of My light.
Be
though content with it and seek naught else, fop My wopk is pepfect and My
command is binding.
Question it not, nop have a doubt thepeof."
Baha'u'llah, The Hidden Words, Arabic, 12.
" ..... I will no longep be soprowful and grieved, I will be a happy and
joyful being.
0 God, I will no longep be full of anxiety, nap will I let tpouble
harass me.
I will not dwell on the unpleasant things of life ....• "
'Abdu'l-Baha, Baha'i Prayers (U.S.) p.SO-S1

-
44 -
3.
Confront difficulties with faith, courage and persistence.
"Everything of importance in this world demands the close attention of
its seeker.
The one in pursuit of anything must undergo difficulties and hard-
ships until the /pbject in view is attained and the great success is obtained."
'Abdu'l-Baha, The Divine Art of Living, p.92
" ..... Have determination to carry the decision through.
Many fail here.
The decision, budding into determination, is blighted and instead becomes a wish
01' a vague longing.
When determination is born, immediately take the next step .
..... Have faith and confidence that the power will flow through you, the
right way will appear, the door will open, the right thought, the right message,
the right principle 01' the right book will be given to you.
Have confidence,
and the right thing will come to your need.
Then, as you rise from prayer, take
at once the fifth step .
.... . Then, he said, lastly, ACT; ..... "
Pilgrim's note of Mrs. Ruth Moffett, reo the Guardian's
statement on the Dynamics of Prayer, principles of Baha'i
Administration, p.9
4.
Do something you enjoy.
"God hath ordained every good thing, whether created in the heavens 01'
in the earth, for such of His servants as truly believe in Him.
Eat ye, 0
people, of the good things which God hath allowed you, and deprive not yourselves
from His wondrous bounties.
Render thanks and praise unto Him, and be of them
that are truly thankful."
Baha'u'llah, in The Advent of Divine Justice, p.28
5.
Laugh, or at least smile.
"His laughter rang through the room.
He said that the Orientals had
many such stories illustrating different phases of life.
Many of them are
extremely humorous.
It is good to laugh.
Laughter is spiritual relaxation.
When they were in prison, He said, and under the utmost deprivation and
difficulties, each of them at the close of the day would relate the most
ludicrous event which had happened.
Sometimes it was a little difficult to
find one but always they would laugh until the tears would roll down their
cheeks.
Happiness, he said, is never dependent on material surroundings,
otherwise how sad those years would have been."
Story about 'Abdu'l-Baha, Portals to Freedom, by
Howard Colby Ives, p.120
6.
Radiate joy to others.
"Let the love and the light of the kingdom radiate through you until all
who look upon you shall be illumined by its reflection."
'~ll faces are dark except the face which is a mirror of the light of
the love of divinity."
"I pray for each and all that you may be as flames of love in the world,
and that the brightness of your light and the warmth of your affection may reach
the heart of every sad and sorrowing child of God."

-
45 -
"May everyone point to you and ask 'Why are these people so happy?'
I want you to be happy ..... to laugh, smile and rejoiae in order that others
may be made happy by you."
'Abdu'l-Baha, cited in Counsels of Perfection by
Genevieve Coy, p.24
TASKS FOR WEEK 6
1.
Be happy, for the source of joy is in your own heart.
2.
Do not harbour negative thoughts about yourself and your
circumstances.
3.
Confront difficulties with faith, courage and persistence.
4.
Do something you enjoy.
5.
Laugh or at least smile.
6.
Radiate joy to others.
CONTINUING TASKS
1.
Pray daily for the development of your spiritual qualities.
2.
Read from the Writings every morning and evening.
3.
Meditate on the Baha'i teachings about happiness.
4.
Reflect on your day.
My task for Week 6 is . __ .. _ .................. _ ............ _-_ ...... _ ....... _
........•..... __ ... _----_ .. _
.. _--
Mon.
Tue.
Wed.
Thu.
Fri.
Sat.
Sun.
"Should eaah one of the friends take upon himself to aarry out,
in all its integrity and impliaations, only one of the teaahings
of the Faith, with devotion, detaahment, aonstanay and perseverance
and exemplify it in all his deeds and pursuits of life, the world
would beaome another world and the faae of the earth wouZd mirror
forth the splendours of the Abha Paradise."
'Abdu'l-Baha Living the Life, p.7