THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1993-06-24

To the b ahá’ís of the w orld

dearly loved f riends,

following fast upon the inspiring events of the seventh international

bahá’í convention and the subsequent counselors’ conference, the open-

ing weeks of the Three year plan have been marked with yet another highly

significant event. on the morning of Saturday 5 june, the hands of the

cause of god ‘Alí Akbar furútan and ‘Alí-m u¥ammad varqá, with all nine

counselor members of the international Teaching center, joined the mem-

of bahá’u’lláh for prayer as the initial act of the newly appointed Teaching

center. All then held a first meeting in the room used by Shoghi effendi

in the mansion of bahjí, recalling the many historic associations of that

blessed spot.

joint consultations continued on the afternoon of that same day in the

facing the international Teaching center as the world advances through the

climacteric years at the close of the twentieth century.

during the five years since may 1988, when far-reaching decisions were

made on the functioning of the international Teaching center and, for the

first time, the number of its counselor members was raised to nine, that

institution has abundantly demonstrated its capacity and eagerness to as-

sume the wide range of responsibilities conferred upon it.

The clarification of various approaches to the teaching work which the

Teaching center has issued, its indication of potentially fruitful methods

and fields of endeavor, and the collaboration of the counselors with the

National Spiritual Assemblies in the formulation of their goals for the Three

year plan have contributed immeasurably to the deepening of the under-157 .1

157 .2

157 .3

157 .4

1993–1996  •  T h e  Th r e e  Ye a r  Pl a n

7standing of the individual believers; the teaching, enrollment and inspirit-

ing of children and youth; the consolidation of growing communities; the

strengthening of their institutions; and unflagging pursuit of the expansion

of the cause.

The Teaching center’s former duties relating to the formulation of plans

for our approval have undergone a change as a result of the devolution of

planning upon National Spiritual Assemblies which was a mark of the open-

ing of the fourth epoch of the formative Age. we have been most favorably

impressed by the guidance it has given to the continental counselors to

promote consultation at the local and national levels, among institutions

and believers, leading to the initiation and sustaining of processes of growth

in the bahá’í community, and we look forward to the perpetuation and

expansion of this collaboration.

The responsibility of the continental boards of counselors to protect

the faith, under the guidance of the international Teaching center, will

undoubtedly gain greater importance in the years ahead. They will encour-age and assist the National and local Spiritual Assemblies, not only to deal

with questions on the faith raised by interested non-b ahá’ís, but also to

counter attacks launched by external opponents.

Study of the faith itself is a vital element in the soundness of the growth

of bahá’í communities, their consolidation and their protection. This

should include systematic study of the writings of the faith, its history, its

relationship to various systems of thought, and the application of its Teach-ings to the spiritual and material life of society. The international Teaching

center will contribute significantly to the advancement of such study.

in the production and dissemination of bahá’í literature, which is funda-

mental to both the expansion and consolidation of the cause, the support

given by the counselors to National Assemblies through the literature Sub-

vention fund and especially the Teaching center’s promotion of the core

literature concept have resulted in an admirable surge forward, and we are confident that this effort will be augmented in the years ahead.

The flow of pioneers and traveling teachers has been notably increased

through the development of the continental pioneer committees under

the aegis of the international Teaching center, as well as by the actions of

the continental counselors and National Assemblies. it has become appar-

ent that, with the growth of the bahá’í world and the increased mobility of

the friends, new methods are required for advising and routing pioneers. The pioneering call for the Three year plan therefore assumes a character 157 .5

157 .6

157 .7

157 .8

157 .9

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

8different from that to which the friends have been accustomed and will, we

confidently expect, permit a far more fruitful use of the energies and devo-

tion of the friends.

All the above matters were among the subjects of consultation between

their meetings on 5 june, and during a subsequent meeting towards the

close of the intensive consultations carried on by the Teaching center itself.

The five members who are still resident abroad are now preparing to move

to the h oly land.

it is our fervent prayer at the Sacred Threshold that these developments

will impart a yet greater impetus to the activities of the individual believers and their institutions throughout the world and accelerate the work already so eagerly launched for the achievement of the Three y ear p lan.

with loving b ahá’í greetings,

158

Visit to the Bahá’í World Center of Deputy Prime

Minister of Papua New Guinea

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]