Debunking the Myths:
Conspiracy Theories on the Genesis and Mission of the Bahá'í Faith

By Adib Masumian










© Copyright Adib Masumian 2009


To the loving memories of


Dr. `Alímurád Dávúdí
Professor of Philosophy,
University of Tehrán, well-
known author, translator,
lecturer, and member of Iran’s
Bah{’í National Assembly-
Kidnapped in November 1979.
His body was never found.

Mr. Ahmad Bashirí
Member of the third post-revolution
National Spiritual Assembly of the
Bah{’ís of Iran; executed in
November, 1984.

Table of Contents
Acknowledgements <<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<.. 4
Introduction<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<< 5
Historical Context<<<<<<<<. <<<<<<<<<< 6
Accusations and Reasons<<<<<<<<<<<<<<...... 6

Khomeiní and the Iranian Revolution<<<<<<<.<<. 15

Russian and British Ties<<<<<<<<<<<<<<...<20
Russian Ties: The Fictitious Memoirs of Prince Dolgorukov
Dolgorukov’s Actual Place in Bah{’í History

British Ties: Pawns of Imperialists<<<<<<<<<<<.35
The Báb and Mullá Husayn as British Agents
`Abdu’l-Bah{’s Knighthood
Ottoman Government’s Mismanagement
The Famine in the Haifá-`Akká Region

Views of `Abdu’l-Bahá by Those Who Met Him<<<<<42
Tributes to `Abdu’l-Bahá
Bah{’ís as Spies of Israel and Agents of International Zionism
Bah{’ís as Enemies of Isl{m

Bah{’ís as Agents of the Sh{h’s Regime<<<<<<<<..63
Bah{’ís in Positions of Power in the Pahlaví Regime

Bah{’í Ties to Freemasonry<<<<<<<<<<<<<<81
Conclusion<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<83
Bibliography<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<.....85


Acknowledgements
I would like to thank my parents Bijan and Farnaz Masumian for
encouraging me to expand what was originally a Wikipedia article
into this work. My father also reviewed the manuscript. I am also
grateful to my friend Neysan Zölzer and my father for co-designing
the cover of the book.
The map on the cover, dated August 31, 1907, shows the British and
Russian spheres of influence in Persia.
The original article that inspired this book can be found at:
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Allegations_of_Baha'i_involvement_with_oth
er_powers

Introduction
Opponents of the Bahá'í Faith have made accusations that the
religion has been involved with other powers. During its early
years, the Bahá'í Faith and its predecessor, the Bábí religion,
experienced growth in Persia. This growth caught the attention of
the government and the ecclesiastical leaders in the country1, who
began searching for ways to stop the growth of the religion, which
they saw as a threat to their power and authority.2 The resistance
stems from a variety of Bahá'í teachings which challenge traditional
Islámic beliefs, including principles that call into question the need
for a priesthood, and the entire Shí’ah ecclesiastical structure.3 In
addition to government and clergy-led persecution of the Bahá'ís,
post-revolution Iranian government officials have claimed that
Bahá'ís have had ties to foreign powers, and were agents of Russian
imperialism, British colonialism, American expansionism, Zionism,
as well as being responsible for the policies of the previous Sháh of
Iran.4 These statements toward the Bahá'ís are based on
misconceptions5, and have had no basis in historical fact.6
Bahá'u'lláh, the founder of the Bahá'í Faith, taught that Bahá'ís are
to be loyal to one's government, not be involved in politics, and to
obey the laws of the country they reside in.7

1 Moojan Momen (1981), The Babi and Baha'i Religions, 1844-1944: Some
Contemporary Western Accounts, Oxford, England: George Ronald, p. 70.
2 Ibid., pp. 71-82.
3 Friedrich W. Affolter (2005), "The Specter of Ideological Genocide: The
Bahá'ís of Iran". War Crimes, Genocide and Crimes Against Humanity 1 (1): pp.
59– 89.
4 Nazila Ghanea (2003), Human Rights, the UN and the Bahá'ís in Iran,
Martinus Nijhoff, p. 294.
5 Roger Cooper (1993), Death Plus 10 years, HarperCollins, p. 200.
6 Mohamad Tavakoli-Targhi (2008), "Anti-Baha'ism and Islamism in Iran",
in Brookshaw; Fazel, Seena B., The Baha'is of Iran: Socio-historical studies,
New York, NY: Routledge, p. 200.
7 Peter Smith (2000), "government, Bahá'í attitude towards". A concise
encyclopedia of the Bahá'í Faith. Oxford: Oneworld Publications. p. 167.

Historical context
The Bahá'í Faith grew out of the Bábí religion, which was
established in 1844 by the Báb in present-day Iran.8 89% of Iranians
adhere to the Twelver school of the sect of Shí’ah Islám, which
holds as a core doctrine the expected advent of a messianic figure
known as the Qá'im or as the Imám Mahdí.9 The Báb claimed he
was the Imám Mahdí and thus he had equal status to the Islámic
prophet Muhammad with the power, which he exercised, to
abrogate the final provisions of Islámic law.10
Bahá'u'lláh, a Bábí who claimed to be the one foretold by the Báb,
claimed a similar station for himself in 1863 as a Manifestation of
God* and as the promised figure foretold in the sacred scriptures of
the major religious traditions of the past and founded what later
came to be known as the Bahá'í Faith.11
Accusations and reasons
The principles in Bahá'u'lláh's writings dealt with themes that
challenged Shí’ah Islámic doctrines, including the finality of the
prophethood of Muhammad, the need for a priesthood, and also the
entire Shí’ah ecclesiastical structure.12 The claims of the Báb and

8 "The Bahá'í Faith". Britannica Book of the Year. (1988). Chicago:
Encyclopaedia Britannica.
9 Abbas Amanat (1989), Resurrection and Renewal: The making of the Bábí
movement in Iran, 1844-1850, Ithaca, NY: Cornell University Press.
10 Abbas Amanat (2000), Stephen J. Stein, ed.. ed.. "The Resurgence of
Apocalyptic in Modern Islam". The Encyclopedia of Apocalypticism (New
York: Continuum) vol. III: pp. 230–254.
* Manifestation of God is the Bah{’í term for divine messengers who
inaugurate their own religious dispensations. The phrase is not
synonymous with incarnation; Manifestations perfectly mirror God’s
attributes but they are not incarnations of God on earth.
11 Manfred Hutter (2005). "Baha'is". Encyclopedia of Religion (2nd ed.) 2. Ed.
Ed. Lindsay Jones. Detroit: Macmillan Reference USA, pp. 737-740.
12 Eliz Sanasarian (2008), "The Comparative Dimension of the Baha'i Case
and Prospects for Change in the Future", in Brookshaw; Fazel, Seena B., The
Baha'is of Iran: Socio-historical studies, New York, NY: Routledge, p. 163.

Bahá'u'lláh were originally treated by the Islámic clergy with
hostility as it was a threat to their doctrinal legitimacy and social
prestige.13 In 1852, two years after the execution of the Báb,
Bahá'u'lláh learned of an assassination plan against the Persian
King, N{siri’d-Dín Sháh, by a few radical Bábís in retaliation for the
Báb's execution. While Bahá'u'lláh condemned the plan strongly,
and renounced the anti-Qájár stance of radical Bábís, on August 15,
1852 a few overzealous members of the movement attempted the
assassination of the Sháh and failed.14 Notwithstanding the
assassins’ claim that they were working alone, the entire Bábí
community was blamed, and a slaughter of several thousand Bábís
followed.15
The savageries perpetrated and further cruelties were inflicted on
the Bábí martyrs in the summer of 1852. They were so revolting that
an Austrian officer, Captain von Goumoens, in the employment of
N{siri’d-Dín Sháh, sent in his resignation and wrote this bitter letter
to a friend (dated August 29th, 1852):
‘Dear Friend, My last letter of the 20th inst. mentioned the
attempt on the King. I will now communicate to you the
result of the interrogation to which the two criminals were
subjected. In spite of the terrible tortures inflicted, the
examination extorted no comprehensive confession; the lips
of the fanatics remained closed, even when by means of
red-hot pincers and limb-rending screws they sought to
discover the chief conspirator. All that transpired was that
they belonged to the Bábí sect. These Bábís are heretics . . .
This sect was founded . . . by a certain Báb, who was shot by

13 Abbas Amanat (2008), "The Historical Roots of the Persecution of the
Babis and Baha'is in Iran", in Brookshaw; Fazel, Seena B., The Baha'is of Iran:
Socio-historical studies, New York, NY: Routledge, p. 173.
14 Bahá'u'lláh (1988) [1892]. Epistle to the Son of the Wolf (Paperback ed.).
Wilmette, Illinois, USA: Bahá'í Publishing Trust, p. 20.
15 H.M. Balyuzi (2000), Bahá'u'lláh, King of Glory, Oxford, UK: George
Ronald, p. 72.

the King’s command. The most faithful of his adherents fled
to Zanjan, where, two years ago, they were reduced by the
Royal Troops, and, as was generally believed, were
exterminated without regard for age or sex. Like all
religious intolerance, this unmeasured persecution
produced exactly the opposite of the effects intended. The
B{b’s teaching gained more and more ground, and is at the
present moment diffused through the whole country. Since
the government obstinately clung to the system of
persecution, the schismatics found occasion to steel their
resolution, and to develop qualities which, contrasted with
the effeminate luxury of the State Religion, compelled
respect. Very skillfully had the Prophet [i.e. the Bab]
pointed out to the disciples of his teaching that the way to
Paradise lay through the torture-chamber. If he spoke truly,
then the present Shah has deserved great merit, for he
strenuously endeavours to people all the realms of the
Saints with Bábís! His last edict still further enjoins on the
Royal servants the annihilation of the sect.
If these simply followed the Royal command and rendered
harmless such of the fanatics as are arrested by inflicting on
them a swift and lawful death, one must needs, from the
oriental standpoint, approve of this; but the manner of
inflicting the sentence, the circumstances which precede the
end, the agonies which consume the bodies of the victims
until their life is extinguished in the last convulsion are so
horrible that the blood curdles in my veins if I now
endeavour to depict the scene for you, even in outline.
Innumerable blows with sticks which fall heavily on the
back and soles of the feet, brandings of different parts of the
body with red-hot irons, are such usual inflictions that the
victim who undergoes only such caresses is to be accounted
fortunate. But follow me my friend, you who lay claim to a
heart and European ethics, follow me to the unhappy ones
who, with gouged-out eyes, must eat, on the scene of the
deed, without any sauce, their own amputated ears; or

whose teeth are torn out with inhuman violence by the
hand of the executioner; or whose bare skulls are simply
crushed by blows from a hammer; or where the bazaar is
illuminated with unhappy victims, because on right and left
the people dig deep holes in their breasts and shoulders and
insert burning wicks in the wounds. I saw some dragged in
chains through the bazaar, preceded by a military band, in
whom these wicks had burned so deep that now the fat
flickered convulsively in the wound like a newly-
extinguished lamp.
‘Not seldom it happens that the unwearying ingenuity of
the Orientals leads to fresh tortures. They will skin the soles
of the B{bís’ feet, soak the wounds in boiling oil, shoe the
foot like the foot of a horse, and compel the victim to run.
No cry escaped from the victim’s breast; the torment is
endured in dark silence by the numbed sensation of the
fanatic; now he must run; the body cannot endure what the
soul has endured; he falls. Give him the coup de grace! Put
him out of his pain! No! The executioner swings the whip,
and - I myself have had to witness it - the unhappy victim
of hundred-fold tortures runs! This is the beginning of the
end. As for the end itself, they hang the scorched and
perforated bodies by their hands and feet to a tree head-
downwards, and now every Persian may try his
marksmanship to his heart’s content from a fixed but not
too proximate distance on the noble quarry placed at his
disposal. I saw corpses torn by nearly 150 bullets.
The more fortunate suffered strangulation, stoning or
suffocation: they were bound before the muzzle of a mortar,
cut down with swords, or killed with dagger thrusts, or
blows from hammers and sticks. Not only the executioner
and the common people took part in the massacre:
sometimes Justice would present some of the unhappy
Bábís to various dignitaries and the Persian [recipient]
would be well content, deeming it an honour to imbrue his

own hands in the blood of the pinioned and defenceless
victim. Infantry, cavalry, artillery, the ghulams or guards of
the King, and the guilds of butchers, bakers, etc., all took
their fair share in these bloody deeds. One Bábí was
presented to the crack officers-corps of the garrison; the
general in command dealt the first blow, and afterwards
each one as his rank determined. The Persian troops are
butchers, not soldiers. . . . Would to God that I had not lived
to see it! But by the duties of my profession I was unhappily
often, only too often, a witness of these abominations.’16
From 1852, N{siri’d-Dín Sháh always remained suspicious of the
Bábís and Bah{’ís and viewed them as agitators similar to the
European anarchists.17

16 E.G. Browne (1918), Materials for the Study of the Bábí Religion, Cambridge,
UK: The University Press, pp. 268-271.
17 Abbas Amanat (2008), "The Historical Roots of the Persecution of the
Babis and Baha'is in Iran", in Brookshaw; Fazel, Seena B., The Baha'is of Iran:
Socio-historical studies, New York, NY: Routledge, pp. 177-178.



Early Bábís were killed in brutal fashions,
some being blown from the mouth of cannons.

This 1911 illustration, depicting the death of an early
Bah{’í, appeared in the Persian magazine Imámat.


The body of this Bábí martyr is pierced with holes and
burning candles are inserted in them. Sulaymán Khán, a
Bábí martyr, died in this manner. The Russian artist of this
work claims this is a depiction of Sulaymán Khán (not
confirmed by Bahá'í sources).

While accusations against the Bahá'ís in the early history of the
religion were based on religious doctrine, non-religious accusations
started to increase and dominated in the 20th century due to the
propensity of Iranian society to "believe and endorse conspiracy
theories".18 Since Bahá'ís did not belong to any specific ethnic group,
could not be identified with any geographical location, and spoke
the same language, they became "the enemy within"19, and figure
prominently in Iranian conspiracy theories.20
By the end of the 19th century, there was a growing dissension with
the Qájár state, and thus charges of subversion and conspiracy
against the Bábís and Bahá'ís increased, drawing public attention
away from the government and instead toward the evils of the
'devious sect'.21
In the early 20th century, the Bahá'ís were seen as being non-
conformant in a society looking for unanimity and fearful of losing
its perceived unique Shí’ah culture due to threats from outside its
boundaries.22 During the Persian Constitutional Revolution (1905-
1911), due to the positive influence of Bahá'í teachings that
supported constitutionalism and parliamentary democracy, the
Bahá'ís and other progressive elements were seen as traitors and
agents of foreign powers:

18 Eliz Sanasarian (2008), "The Comparative Dimension of the Baha'i Case
and Prospects for Change in the Future", in Brookshaw; Fazel, Seena B., The
Baha'is of Iran: Socio-historical studies, New York, NY: Routledge, p. 159.
19 Ibid., p. 163.
20 H.E. Chehabi (2008), "Anatomy of Prejudice", in Brookshaw; Fazel, Seena
B., The Baha'is of Iran: Socio-historical studies, New York, NY: Routledge, pp.
186-188.
21 Abbas Amanat (2008), "The Historical Roots of the Persecution of the
Babis and Baha'is in Iran", in Brookshaw; Fazel, Seena B., The Baha'is of Iran:
Socio-historical studies, New York, NY: Routledge, pp. 177-178.
22 Ibid., pp.180-181

In reality, the widespread perfidious belief that ‚any non-
Islamic idea is a creation of foreigners‛ stemmed from the
putrid minds of the mullahs. Through this method, they
wanted to call ‚anti-Iranian‛ and ‚foreign‛ everything that
was not Islamic or might prevent them from acquiring
power through Shi‘a religious pretexts. This deceitful
‚Othering‛, and spreading the seeds of sedition and
enmity, not only engulfed religious minorities, progressive
nationalistic parties and independent leftist groups, but
eventually caused the authority of the government and
constitutional rule to be undermined as well. That is, it
eventually resulted in the clerics widely claiming that the
people’s Constitutional Revolution, which in reality had
taken place in revolt against clerical influence and the
absolutist rule of the Qajar, was an exploit of the Russians
and the British. They propagated this baseless idea,
insisting that constitutional rule and secular law were
fundamentally at variance with the luminous religion of
Islam and with Iran’s history.23
During the 1940s, the clerical and governmental groups started
stating that the Bahá'í religion was entirely manufactured by
colonialists and imperialists to destroy the "unity of the Muslim
nation" and that those who did not share the beliefs of the Muslim
nation were agents of foreign powers.24
By the 1960s, the cynical disdain for the Bahá'í social message
among the pro-religious intellectuals increased, and they
increasingly started using charges of spying, and of connections to
foreign powers over labeling Bahá'ís as heretics. These charges

23  Bahram Choubine, Sacrificing the Innocent: Suppression of the Bahá’ís in
1955 (trans. from the original Persian by Ahang Rabbani);
http://www.iranian.com/main/2008/sacrificing-innocent
24 Mohamad Tavakoli-Targhi (2008), "Anti-Baha'ism and Islamism in Iran",
in Brookshaw; Fazel, Seena B., The Baha'is of Iran: Socio-historical studies,
New York, NY: Routledge, p. 202.

helped define a new 'other' and reaffirmed a threatened Shí’ah self.
This new attitude towards the Bahá'ís no longer remained confined
to the clerics. It became rampant among the secular Iranian middle-
class as well.25
In the 1970s, accusations of Bahá'ís being numerous in the Sháh's
regime surfaced, as well as there being a perception that Bahá'ís
were generally better off than the rest of the population.26 H.E.
Chehabi suggests that the accusations and prejudices of secular
Iranians against the Bahá'ís arise from the anti-cosmopolitan
outlook of Iranian nationalism; while the Bahá'í Faith affirms the
unity of humanity, Iranian nationalism has contained strong
xenophobic elements.27 He notes that while Iran's sovereignty was
recognized in the 19th century, Britain and Russia continued to
meddle in the country's affairs to further their own interests, and
that groups that have trans-national ties like the Jews and the
Bahá'ís are therefore seen as suspicious by Iranian nationalists. He
also notes that while the teachings of the Bahá'í Faith mitigate
against a preferential attachment of Bahá'ís to Iran, Iran is seen by
Bahá'ís as the "Cradle of the Cause" to which it commands a degree
of affection by Bahá'ís worldwide.28
Khomeiní and The Iranian Revolution
Anti-Bahá'í sentiment continued to grow during the reign of the
second Pahlaví, especially from the 1950s on and reached new
heights after the Sh{h’s ‚White Revolution‛, a far-reaching series of
reforms launched in 1963 which included suffrage for Iranian

25 Abbas Amanat (2008), "The Historical Roots of the Persecution of the
Babis and Baha'is in Iran", in Brookshaw; Fazel, Seena B., The Baha'is of Iran:
Socio-historical studies, New York, NY: Routledge, pp. 171-172.
26 H.E. Chehabi (2008), "Anatomy of Prejudice", in Brookshaw; Fazel, Seena
B., The Baha'is of Iran: Socio-historical studies, New York, NY: Routledge, pp.
186-188.
27 Ibid.
28 Ibid.

women. Conservative circles in Iran, particularly the clerical
establishment, saw these changes as attempts by non-Muslims to
diminish Isl{m’s influence from the Iranian society and culture.
Some including the future leader of Iran’s Islámic Revolution,
Khomeiní, saw the Bahá'í influence as central to these
developments. The November 24, 2005 issue of government-run
daily Kayhán quotes a pre-revolution message from Khomeiní to
the clerics in Yazd, warning them about the growing influence of
the Bah{’ís in the country:
You must be alert to the fact that many important posts are
filled by the [members of] this sect who in reality are agents
of Israel. Israel poses an imminent danger to Islam and Iran.
A pact with Israel against Islamic governments either has
been or will be made. It is imperative for the clerics to
inform other strata [of society] so that we can prevent them
when the time comes.
The same article quotes another warning by Khomeiní in 1962–63:
In accordance with my religious duty, I am warning the
people of Iran and the Muslims of the world. The Quran
and Islam are in danger. The independence and economy of
the country is in the grasp of the Zionists who have
appeared in Iran as the Bahá'ís. Before long, owing to this
deadly silence by the Muslims, they [the Zionists] will
overtake the entire economy of the country with the
blessing of their agents [the Bahá'ís].29
After the overthrow of the Sháh during the Iranian revolution in
1979, the Islámic regime targeted the Bahá'ís in Iran, since they held
a deep hostility towards them as infidels. Bahá'ís were viewed as
unpatriotic and linked to foreign elements by the government. They

29 The Bah{’í International Community Website, Summary and Analysis of
Recent Media Attacks; http://www.bahai.org/persecution/iran/mediaattacks

were also accused of being anti-Islámic, agents of Zionism, friends
of the Sháh's regime, and being engaged with the US and British
governments. The National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá'ís of
Iran, both privately and publicly, addressed the charges against
them point by point, but received no response to their rebuttal. In
January 1980, with the election of President Bani Sadr and anti-
Bahá'í sentiment on the rise, the Bahá'í Faith was officially described
by the government as a political movement against the Iranian
revolution and Islám. Before the revolution, Baní Sadr had
connected the universal message of the Bahá'í Faith with Western
colonialism. In February 1980, the Iranian ambassador to the United
Nations, Mansour Farhang, added that Bahá'ís were SÁVÁK30
agents and repeated the clerics’ charges. Later when he broke with
the regime in 1982, Mr. Farhang recanted his previous statements. 31
Áyatu’lláh
Khomeiní:
Leader of Islámic
Revolution
Abu’l-Hassan Baní-
Sadr:
The First Iranian
President

Mansour Farhang:
Iran’s First U.N.
Ambassador after the
Islámic Revolution

30 Iran’s National Intelligence and Security Organization from 1957 to 1979;
in charge of domestic security and intelligence services (Persian: ساواک,
short for سازمان اطالعات و امنیت کشىر )
31 Eliz Sanasarian (2000), Religious Minorities in Iran, Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press, pp. 114-116.

By 1981, however, revolutionary courts no longer couched the
execution of Bahá'ís with political terms. Instead, they began citing
religious reasons only. Also, documents were given out to Bahá'ís
that if they publicly embraced Islám, their jobs, pensions and
property would be reinstated. These documents were shown to the
United Nations as evidence that the Iranian government was using
the political accusations as a front to the real religious reason for the
persecution of the Bahá'ís.32
In 1983, Iran's prosecutor general once again stated that the Bahá'ís
were not being persecuted because of their religious belief, but that
instead they were spies, and that they were funneling money
outside the country. The National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá'ís
of Iran, once again, addressed the issues raised by the prosecutor
point by point; the letter was sent to various government agencies.
It acknowledged that funds were being sent abroad as Bahá'í
contributions to the shrines and holy places, but denied all other
points, and asked for proof of the charges. No response was
obtained from the government to this letter.
The clerics continued to persecute the Bahá'ís and charged them
with "crimes against God" and Zionism.33 Then, in a 1983 report to
the Human Rights Commission of the United Nations, the official
view of the Islámic Republic was published in a twenty-page
document. The document stated that British encouraged the Bahá'í
Faith in Iran, and that it was not a religion, but a political entity
created by colonial powers, that there was a link between the Bahá'í
Faith and Zionism and SÁVÁK.
The United Nations Human Rights Commission rejected the
accusations. Their Sub-Commission Expert Mr. Asbjorn Eide of

32 Nazila Ghanea (2003), Human Rights, the UN and the Bahá'ís in Iran,
Martinus Nijhoff, p. 103.
33 Eliz Sanasarian (2000), Religious Minorities in Iran, Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press, p. 119.

Norway stated that the publication provided by the Iranian
government "recalled the publications disseminated in Europe in
the 1920s and 1930s, which had contributed to severe prejudice
costing the lives of hundreds of thousands of peoples and warned
that the Sub-Commission should be on guard against any
recurrence of such campaigns".34 The Iranian government's
statement was not accepted by the United Nations as the United
Nations had received no evidence from the Iranian government
regarding its claims.35 The representative from Germany stated that
"the documents concerning the Bahá'ís showed that the latter were
persecuted, not for criminal offences, but simply for their religious
beliefs". The Iranian delegate dismissed the text of the
Commission's resolution, and persecution of the Bahá'ís
continued.36
In 1991, the Iranian government again gave a statement to the
United Nations stating that since the administrative centre of the
Bahá'í Faith is located in Israel, it is directly controlled by Zionist
forces37, even though the Bahá'í World Centre has its historical
origins in the area that was once Ottoman Syria.38
More recently, during Muhammad Khátamí's presidency (1997-
2005), the allegations did not abate and, with the election of
President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad in 2005, the frequency and
intensity of the accusations increased.39

34 Nazila Ghanea (2003), Human Rights, the UN and the Bahá'ís in Iran,
Martinus Nijhoff, p. 114.
35 Ibid., pp. 109-111.
36 Ibid., pp. 112-113.
37 Ibid., p. 132.
38 Christopher Buck (2003), "Islam and Minorities: The Case of the Bahá'ís".
Studies in Contemporary Islam 5 (1), pp. 83–106.
39 Eliz Sanasarian (2008), "The Comparative Dimension of the Baha'i Case
and Prospects for Change in the Future", in Brookshaw; Fazel, Seena B., The
Baha'is of Iran: Socio-historical studies, New York, NY: Routledge, p. 157.

Eventually, on May 14, 2008, six of the seven leaders of the Iranian
Bah{’í community were arrested. A seventh leader, Mrs. Mahvash
Sábet was arrested earlier on March 5, 2008. Later, the government
announced the seven were arrested on the charge of working
together ‚against national interest.‛40
Bah{’í leaders were arrested in Iran in 2008. In the
front row seated from the left are Behroúz Tavakkolí
and Saeíd Rezáíe. Standing from the left are Faribá
Kamálábádí, Vahid Tízfahm, Jamáloddín Khánjání
and Afif Naeimí. On the far right is Mahvash Sábet,
detained since March.
Russian and British Ties
The Russian and British governments had a formidable presence in
the 19th-century Persia and competed for political, economic and
territorial influence.41 The support of the United Kingdom during
the Constitutional Revolution, the Anglo-Russian convention
during which Russia and the UK divided Persia into spheres of

40 Iran Visual News Corps, Iran confirms arrest of Baha’i leaders for ‚acting
against country’s interest‛; http://www.iranvnc.com/en/floater_article/1/2760
41 Abbas Amanat (1989), Resurrection and Renewal: The making of the Bábí
movement in Iran, 1844-1850, Ithaca, NY: Cornell University Press, pp. 23-28.

influence, the occupation of Iranian territory during the First World
War by the UK, Russia and the Ottoman Empire, as well as the coup
d'état of 1921 which was backed by the British, all encouraged the
development of conspiracy theories related to foreign powers.
Opponents of the Bahá'í Faith, particularly Muslim clerics, used this
atmosphere to allege that the Bábí and Bahá'í religions were also
products of Russian and British governments who were striving to
weaken Islám and create divisions in the Iranian nation.42
Russian Ties: The Fictitious Memoirs of Prince Dolgorukov43
The foundation of many of the conspiracy theories relating the
Bahá'í Faith to Russian influence is a fictitious memoir that is
attributed to Prince Dimitri Ivanovich Dolgorukov (known to
Persians as ‚Dolgorukí‛), who was the Russian ambassador to
Persia from January 1846 to May 1854.

Cover of Dolgorukov’s Memoirs

42 Ahmad Ashraf (1997), Conspiracy theories and the Persian Mind;
http://www.iranian.com/May96/Opinion/Conspiracy.html
43 For an in-depth analysis of the Dolgorukov Memoirs, please refer to Dr.
Mina Yazdani’s forthcoming paper, Story Writing and Identity Scripting.


The document states that Dolgorukov created the Bábí and Bahá'í
religions so as to weaken Iran and Shí’ah Islám. It is, in many ways,
the functional equivalent of the Protocols of the Elders of Zion,
which was a fraudulent anti-Semitic tract alleging a Jewish plot to
achieve world domination.44 Besides the fact that the original
Russian version of the document was never found or claimed to
exist, no rationale was given by claimants as to why the Russian
prince would make these confessions, incriminate himself, and
jeopardize potential Russian influence or relations with Muslim
nations!
Dolgorukov came from a distinguished Russian family which
almost took over the monarchy in a previous generation. He was a
high-ranking Russian diplomat from 1829 to 1854. In the 1830s-
1840s, at the very time the fictitious Dolgorukov memoirs claim he
was supposedly in Persia plotting with the Báb to undermine Islám,
Dolgorukov was in fact serving as a diplomat successively in the
Hague, Naples, and Istanbul. According to Russian scholar Mikhail
S. Ivanov who studied the prince’s dispatches from Persia,
Dolgorukov had literally no knowledge of the Báb and his
movement until 1847, three years after the inception of the Bábí
movement. Additionally, the prince’s dispatches show that he had a
poor understanding of the Báb and his claims as late as 1852, two
years after the B{b’s execution:
The Bábís, as far as I have been able to understand from
talking to the Imám-Jum’ih, are opposed to the doctrines of
Islám and reject them. At the same time, in the political
sphere, they lay claim to the position of the King. They plan
to establish a new religion and are proponents of an equal
division of property. It is possible to draw a comparison

44 H.E. Chehabi (2008), "Anatomy of Prejudice", in Brookshaw; Fazel, Seena
B., The Baha'is of Iran: Socio-historical studies, New York, NY: Routledge, pp.
186-188.

between their social and political aims and objectives and
those of the communists of Europe.45
Dr. Bahram Choubine believes that the memoirs were fabricated by
`Alí Javáher-Kalám.46 The first edition of the work was published in
1943 in Mashhad under the title‚Political Confessions or Memoirs
of Prince Dolgorukov‛ In the original Persian, the title read:
اعتزافات سیاسی- یاد داشت
های کینیاس
دالگزوکی
The work appeared in the historical portion of the 1943 ‚Khurásán
yearbook.‛ The memoirs’ publication was financed by Ástán Quds
Razaví, a Muslim religious organization responsible for
maintenance and supervision of the Sacred Shrine of Imám Rezá
(the 8th Shí’ah Imám). This body has had a strong publishing arm for
decades. It also administers many religious schools and
endowments in Iran. The Khurásán edition was replete with
historical inaccuracies. Therefore, a second edition was published a
year later in Tehrán with some of the most glaring errors corrected.
However, that edition still retained other mistakes.
Since the publication of the different editions, several well-known
Iranian scholars who were not Bahá'ís declared the memoirs a
complete forgery. For instance, in 1949, ‘Abbás Iqbál Áshtíání,
Professor of History at the University of Tehran, published the
following testimony in Yádgár, a well-known journal of history and
literature:

45 Dolgorukov to Seniavin No. 66, 17 Sept. 1852 OS (29 Sept. NS): Dossier
No. 158, Tihrán 1852, p. 608. Chahardihi Shaykhi-gari, Bábí-gari  p. 289 (trans.
from Persian). Cited in Moojan Momen (1981), The Babi and Baha'i Religions,
1844-1944: Some Contemporary Western Accounts, Oxford, England: George
Ronald, p. 62, note 14.
46 Bahram Choubine, Sacrificing the Innocent: Suppression of the Bahá’ís in 1955
(trans. from the original Persian by Ahang Rabbani);
http://www.iranian.com/main/2008/sacrificing-innocent

Concerning the matter of Prince Dolgoruki, the truth of the
matter is that this is a complete fabrication and the work of
some forgers. Apart from the fact that no-one knew of the
existence of such a document until now, it contains so many
ridiculous historical errors that these are in themselves
sufficient to refute this work.47

A similar declaration was made in 1963 by Mujtabá Mínuví,
Professor of Divinity and Islámic Sciences at the University of
Tehran:

I am certain that these memoirs attributed to Dolgoruki are
forged.48 Even the famous Ahmad Kasraví of Tabríz,
although he was an enemy of the Bahá'í Faith and wrote a
book, Bahá'í-garí, attacking it, stated that these Political
Confessions were a forgery and he even states that he knew
the identity of the forger.49
In 1966, Murtidá Mudarrisí actually translated Dolgorukov’s
dispatches into Persian in a work titled ‚Shaykhi-gari, Babi-gari
(Shaykhίsm, Bábísm).50 The content of the dispatches leave no doubt
about the falsity of the claims in the forged memoirs. However,
despite overwhelming evidence, in the decades following its
publication, Dolgorukov’s memoirs acquired a life of their own and
came to be accepted by many Iranians as a reliable source. Neither
the Pahlaví regime nor the Islámic Republic’s government allowed

47 Yádgár, 5th year, Farvardín/Urdíbihisht 1328/1949, no. 8/9, p. 148. Cited in
Moojan Momen (2004), "Conspiracies and Forgeries: the attack upon the Baha'i
community in Iran", Persian Heritage 9 (35), p. 28.
48 Ráhnimá-yi Kitáb, 6th year, Farvardín/Urdíbihisht, 1342/1963, no. 1/2, p.
25-6.
49 Kasravi’s quote can be found in Ahmad Kasravi, Bahá'í-garí, Tehran, 1323,
pp. 88-9. The source for the entire quote from Mujtabá Mínuví is from the
same work and page number cited in note 46.
50 Murtidá Mudarrisí, Shaykhi-gari, Babi-gari (2nd ed. Tehran: Furughi, 1351)
269-81. Cited in the same publication and page number as note 46.

the Bah{’ís to publicly defend themselves against the memoirs’
charges.
In the meantime, the anti-Bah{’í elements in the government and
religious circles have continued to appeal to the minds and hearts of
the Iranian masses, particularly those who support conspiracy
theories. In absence of a free press, they have largely succeeded in
their mission by continuing to include the fabricated claims of this
forgery in their polemical works against the Bah{’í Faith. To expand
the anti-Bah{’í hatred into the rest of the Middle East, the
Dolgorukov memoirs were even translated into Arabic and
published by Siyyid Ahmad al Músawí al-Fálí in Beirut under the
title Dolgorukí Memoirs, or as it appeared in Arabic:
دالکزوکی مذاکزات
Like its Persian counterpart, the Arabic version too has been largely
received in Muslim circles as an authentic source for the study of
Bábí-Bah{’í history and as proof for a Jewish-Zionist-Freemason
conspiracy to weaken Islám and eventually destroy it.51
Today, the anti-Bah{’í elements in the Muslim world continue to
appeal to the ardent supporters of conspiracy theories by citing the
Dolgorukov memoirs. A clear example of this is Kayhán (literally
‚The World‛), a daily state-run newspaper that supports the ultra-
conservative hardliners in the Iranian government. The managing
editor of this paper is appointed by Iran's supreme leader, currently
Ayatolláh Khámeneí. In the past several years, Kayhán has
published more than three dozen articles defaming the Bahá'í Faith
with the clear intention of arousing in readers feelings of suspicion,
distrust, and hatred for the nation’s Bahá'í community. Among

51 Moshe Sharon, The "Memoires of Dolgorukov and the Protocols of the Elders of
Zion"
http://honestlyconcerned.info/bin/articles.cgi?ID=IR12607&Category=ir&Su
bcategory=19

other things, the articles have continued to make use of
Dolgorukov’s fictitious memoirs to deliberately distort history and
falsely accuse the Bah{’ís of being agents of foreign powers and
enemies of Islám.
Nonetheless, the memoirs are so riddled with errors and
contradictions that no fair student of history would take the work
seriously. Some of these errors are outlined in the following table:
Memoirs’ claim
Fact

Dolgorukov came to Persia
in 1834 as a translator for the
Russian Embassy.52

Dolgorukov was the
Secretary of Russian
Legation in The Hague,
Netherlands (Holland) from
1832-1837. He was
appointed Russian Minister
in Tehran in June 1845, but
did not arrive at his post in
Persia until January 1846.53


52 Kayhán (Oct. 2005), Casting Light on Bahaism – Part 1: Knowing Bahai
History    http://info.bahai.org/pdf/kayhan3.pdf
53 Moojan Momen (1981), The Babi and Baha'i Religions, 1844-1944: Some
Contemporary Western Accounts, Oxford, England: George Ronald, p. 499.



Upon arriving in Persia in
the 1830s, Dolgorukov
converted to Islám and
learned Persian and Arabic.
He then repudiated Islám
and began to undermine it
by creating further divisions
among the Shí’as via the
Báb.54

Dolgorukov was not in
Persia at the alleged time.
See the note above.

Russian scholar Mikhail S.
Ivanov researched the
Russian diplomatic reports
of Dolgorukov as an
addendum to a book on the
Bábís. The book, titled
Babidskie vostaniya v Irani,
1848-52, (Bábí Uprising in
Iran, 1848-1852) was
published in Moscow in
1939. Ivanov was a
communist, and thus both
anti-Tsarist (against
Dolgorukov) and anti-
religious (against Bábís). If
there were any truth to the
allegations of Dolgorukov’s
conversion to Islám or his
collusion with the Báb,
Ivanov would have gladly
highlighted it. Yet, there is
no mention of these events
in his work.

There is also an entry for

54 Encyclopaedia Iranica, Dolgorukov Memoirs, entry written by Dr.
Moojan Momen;
http://www.iranica.com/newsite/index.isc?Article=http://www.iranica.com/
newsite/articles/unicode/v7f5/v7f525.html

Dolgorukov in the
authoritative Russian
biographical dictionary,
Russkii Biograficheski
Slovar55 (Russian
Biographical Dictionary)
which has no reference to
any of the memoirs’ claims.

Dolgorukov’s entire
diplomatic career can also be
followed by perusing the
successive editions of
almanacs and year-books,
such as the Almanach de
Gotha.56 Again, none of the
above substantiates any of
the memoirs’ claims
regarding Dolgorukov or his
alleged relationship with the
Báb.57

In the early 1840s (1841-
1843), Dolgorukov attended
Siyyid Kazim Rashtí‘s
classes in Karbalá where he

Dolgorukov was the
Secretary of Russian
Legation in Naples from
1838-1842 and Istanbul from

55 Vol. 6, St Petersburg, 1905.
56 The Almanach de Gotha, was a respected directory of Europe's highest
nobility and royalty.
57 All information in this cell is cited in Moojan Momen (2004), "Conspiracies
and Forgeries: the attack upon the Baha'i community in Iran", Persian Heritage 9
(35), p. 28.

first came into contact with
the Báb.58
1843-1845.59 Rashtí had died
in Karbalá, about three years
before Dolgorukov arrived
in Persia. There is no
historical record of
Dolgorukov ever traveling to
Karbalá.

In the early 1840s, the Báb
used to spend countless
hours on the roof of his
house in Bushihr under the
hot summer sun to recite
Shaykhí prayers. He was
also addicted to hashish.
The intensity of the heat
and the addiction impaired
the B{b’s mental faculties.
Since Dolgorukov’s main
mission was to undermine
Islám, he encouraged both
practices by the Báb.60


There is no historical record
of this outside the forged
memoirs. Also, Dolgorukov
never met the Báb and, thus,
there is no basis for any of
these accusations or claims.

The memoir contains
detailed dialogues between
the Báb and Dolgorukov in
the early 1840s. In one such
conversation, Dolgorukov
encourages the Báb to begin

Dolgorukov never knew or
met the Báb and did not
arrive in Persia until 1846.
He was not even aware of
the Bábí movement until
about 1847 (three years after

58 See note 52.
59 See note 53.
60 See note 52.

making prophetic claims,
while the latter is under the
influence of hashish.61
its inception). As late as 1852
(two years after the B{b’s
death), Dolgorukov was still
misinformed about the B{b’s
teachings and compared his
mission to those of
communists in Europe!62

Some of Dolgorukov’s
dispatches even show
antagonism to the Báb and a
fear that the spread of his
movement into the Caucasus
could disrupt the newly
established Russian hold in
that region.63


Dolgorukov later assisted
the B{bís and Bah{’ís to
migrate to the Russian city
of ‘Ishqábád and helped
them build their first House
of Worship (Mashriqu’l-
Adkár) in that city.64

No Bábís ever migrated to
‘Ishqábád. The first Bah{’í
settlement in ‘Ishqábád was
founded in 1882, fifteen
years after Dolgorukov’s
death. The design of the
‘Ishqábád House of Worship
did not start until 1902 and
was completed in 1908,

61 See note 52.
62 See note 45.
63 Moojan Momen (2004), "Conspiracies and Forgeries: the attack upon the Baha'i
community in Iran", Persian Heritage 9 (35), p. 28.
64 See note 52.

about 40 years after the
passing of Dolgorukov.65

Many of the writings of the
Báb were written by
Dolgorukov and sent to the
Báb. Others were written by
the Báb but Dolgorukov
later corrected any errors he
had made. Dolgorukov
continued this practice with
Bahá'u'lláh and his
writings.66

Again, Dolgorukov did not
know of the Báb and his
claims until 184767, about the
time the Báb was transferred
to the fortress of Mákú.
Except for a brief trial in
Tabríz in July 1848, the Báb
remained incarcerated for
the next three years until his
execution on July 9th, 1850.
Thus, no dialogue or
relationships between him
and Dolgorukov would have
been possible at any time.

Bahá'u'lláh and his half-
brother Mírzá Yahyá (Azal)
were servants of Mírzá Áqá
Khán Núrí, the future prime
minister of Persia.68

Bahá'u'lláh came from a
noble family. His father was
the vizier to Imám-Virdi
Mírzá, a son of Fath- `Alí
Sháh.69 While Bah{'u'll{h’s
family was distantly related
to Mírzá Áqá Khán, there

65 Encyclopaedia Iranica, Bahai Faith, Section ix, ‚Bahai Temples‛:
http://www.iranica.com/newsite/index.isc?Article=http://www.iranica.com/
newsite/articles/unicode/v3f4/v3f4a100.html
66 See note 52.
67 Moojan Momen (2004), "Conspiracies and Forgeries: the attack upon the Baha'i
community in Iran", Persian Heritage 9 (35), p. 28.
68 Ibid., p. 27.
69 H.M. Balyuzi (1980), Bahá'u'lláh, King of Glory, Oxford, UK: George
Ronald, p. 12.


was no reason for sons of
nobility to play servants at
the house of a relative.

Dolgorukov is said to have
attended gatherings at the
home of Hakím Ahmad
Gílání, a Persian statesman,
among whose companions
at those gatherings were
Bahá'u'lláh and his half-
brother Mirzá Yahyá
(Azal).70


According to the Khurásán
edition of the memoirs,
Hakím Ahmad Gílání died
in 1835. Elsewhere, the same
source claims Dolgorukov
arrived in Tehran in 1838,
three years after Gíl{ní’s
supposed death. In reality,
Dolgorukov did not arrive in
Persia until January 1846.

If Gílání did in fact die in
1835, Bahá'u'lláh would have
been no older than 17 and
Azal would have been a
child of five – ‚hardly the
sort of age that would make
for suitable evening
companions for senior
statesmen such as Gílání and
Dolgorukov.‛71


In the Khurásán edition of
the memoirs, Dolgorukov is
said to have provided
money for Bahá'u'lláh to

Dolgorukov died in 1867, a
year before Bahá'u'lláh was
exiled to `Akká. When
someone realized that the

70 Moojan Momen (2004), "Conspiracies and Forgeries: the attack upon the Baha'i
community in Iran", Persian Heritage 9 (35), p. 27.
71 Ibid.

build a house in `Akká. In
the later editions of the
memoirs, `Akká was
changed to Adrianople.72
information in the Khurásán
edition could not be
historically accurate, the
later editions of the
publication changed the
location of the house from
`Akká to Adrianople so that
Dolgorukov could have been
alive. However, Dolgorukov
retired from the Russian
diplomatic service in 1854,
nine years before Bahá'u'lláh
was exiled to Adrianople.
Thus, any help he would
have extended to Bahá'u'lláh
after 1854 would have had to
come out of his personal
funds, which is highly
unlikely. Regardless, the
memoirs present no
evidence for the source of
this claim.73

Dolgorukov’s Actual Place in Bahá’í History
In 1852, an assassination plot against N{siri’d-Dín Sháh, the King of
Persia, by a few overzealous Bábís, failed. Consequently, the entire
Bábí community went under suspicion. Many Bábís including
Bahá'u'lláh, who had no role in the attempt and later severely
condemned it, were arrested in a sweep. When Bahá'u'lláh was
jailed by the Sháh, his family went to Mírzá Majíd Áhí, who was
married to a sister of Bah{’u’ll{h and was working as the secretary
to the Russian Legation in Tehran. Bahá'u'lláh's family asked Mírzá

72 Ibid.
73 Ibid.

Majíd to go to Dolgorukov and ask him to intercede on behalf of
Bahá'u'lláh.74
Dolgorukov as well as Mírzá Áqá Khán Núrí, a distant relative of
Bahá'u'lláh and the Grand Vizier of Persia at the time, both asked
the Sháh to either produce evidence against Bahá'u'lláh or release
him. In absence of any proofs, N{siri’d-Dín Sháh agreed to free
Bahá'u'lláh, but decreed that he be banished from Iran. Dolgorukov
offered Bahá'u'lláh and his family the opportunity to migrate to
Russia but Bahá'u'lláh refused. Instead, he chose to go to Iraq where
there was a significant Shí’ah Muslim population. That was the
extent of Dolgorukov’s assistance to Baha’u’llah and his role in
Bahá'í history.75
Bahá'u'lláh arrived in Baghdád in April 1853 to start a 40-year exile
in different parts of the Ottoman Empire until his death in Palestine.
In May 1854, the Russian government sent Dolgorukov an imperial
order to attend the Senate. This effectively ended Dolgorukov’s
diplomatic mission and severed all his ties to Persia.76

74 H.M. Balyuzi (2000), Bahá'u'lláh, King of Glory, Oxford, UK: George
Ronald, pp. 77-78; 99-100.
75 Ibid., pp. 99-102.
76 Moojan Momen (1981), The Babi and Baha'i Religions, 1844-1944: Some
Contemporary Western Accounts, Oxford, England: George Ronald, p. 499.


Mírzá Áqá Khán Núrí
Persian Prime Minister and a
Distant Relative of Bahá'u'lláh

Mírzá Majíd Áhí
Russian Legation Secretary and
Bahá'u'll{h’s Brother-in-Law
British Ties: Pawns of Imperialists
There have also been claims that the Bábí movement was started by
the British, and that the Bahá'í Faith has ties to British imperialism.
The connection to the British, however, has also been supported
with erroneous conclusions drawn from false evidence.
The Báb and Mullá Husayn as British Agents
Some polemical works cite a claim by Fereydoon Ádamiyyat, a
well-known historian of the Qájár period and the Persian
Constitutional Revolution, that the Bábí movement was created by
the British. On pages 243-244 of the original 1944 edition of his well-
known biography of Amír Kabír – N{siri’d-Dín Sháh's first Prime
Minster – Ádamiyyat had claimed that Mullá Husayn, the Báb's first
disciple, was in fact a British agent who was recruited by Arthur
Conolly (1807- 1842), a British intelligence officer, explorer and
writer.

Ádamiyyat had noted that the evidence for his accusation appeared
in Conolly's book Journey to the North of India Overland from England
through Russia, Persia, and Affghaunistaun, which pointed to a
meeting between Mullá Husayn and Conolly in 1830 during
Conolly’s travel through Khurásán. According to Ádamiyyat, it was
Mullá Husayn who, acting in the British interest, pushed the Báb to
put forward his claims. The alleged meeting in fact never took
place. In 1830, Mullá Husayn was a teenager of 17 and the Báb was
a child of 11. Furthermore, Conolly himself died at the young age of
35, two years before the Báb had even made his claims public. When
a Professor Mujtabá Mínuví confronted Adamiyyat with a copy of
Conolly’s book and asked for any reference to Mull{ Husayn or the
Báb in the book, Adamiyyat was forced to admit the forgery. He
removed the fabrication in subsequent editions of his book.77
Fereydoon Ádamiyyat
Social Historian and
Diplomat

77 Moojan Momen (2004), "Conspiracies and Forgeries: the attack upon the Baha'i
community in Iran", Persian Heritage 9 (35), p. 28.


`Abdu’l-Bahá’s Knighthood
The alleged British-Bahá'í connection also has roots in the knighting
of `Abdu’l-Bahá by the British Mandate of Palestine78, an act that
anti-Bahá'í elements claim to be a clear indication of political
relations between the Bahá'í Faith and Great Britain. The following
picture is often provided as visual evidence for the connection:

The Knighthood Ceremony of `Abdu’l-Bahá on April 27, 1920, in
Haifá, Palestine

78 The Palestine Mandate – sometimes referred to as The Mandate for
Palestine, the British Mandate for Palestine, or the British Mandate of
Palestine – was a League of Nations [Predecessor to the United Nations]
Mandate that had been created by the Principal Allied and Associated
Powers after the First World War. The goal of the Mandate was to
administer parts of the recently defunct Ottoman Empire, which had been
in control of the Middle East since the 16th century, until these regions
were able to stand alone and function independently.

While polemical sources claim the knighthood was `Abdu’l-Bahá’s
reward for serving the British interests, in reality the award was
given for his humanitarian efforts during World War I that saved
many lives during a famine in Palestine.79
Throughout the years, the British government has knighted people
of different backgrounds. These range from politicians such as
Nelson Mandela to business leaders like the CEO of Microsoft Bill
Gates, and personalities in arts and entertainment such as
Hollywood director Steven Spielberg. There are seventeen different
categories in which British knighthoods are awarded for
outstanding services to humanity:
1. Entertainment and Arts
2. Politics and Government
3. Diplomatic
4. Military
5. Business
6. Religion
7. Royalty
8. Science
9. Medicine
10. Humanitarian
11. Sports
12. Education
13. Broadcasting
14. Law
15. Law enforcement
16. Finance
17. Exploration
`Abdu’l-Bahá was the first personage to receive the British
knighthood in the humanitarian category in 1920 shortly before his
death. This type of knighthood is given to individuals who have
rendered services that lead to the betterment of the human
condition and not service to the British government. Some of the
other individuals who have received British knighthood include
such great personalities as Dr. Albert Schweitzer in 1955 for his
outstanding medical missionary services in Africa and Mother

79 List of Honorary British Knights;
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_honorary_British_Knights#Humanitari
an

Teresa in 1983 for ministering to the poor, sick, orphaned, and
dying populations of India and other countries.80


Dr. Albert Schweitzer (1875–
1965)
Alsatian theologian, musician,
philosopher, and physician)
Mother Teresa (1910-1997)
Born Agnes Gonxha Bojaxhiu, an
Albanian Roman Catholic nun
and humanitarian
During World War I, Palestine was hit by a famine caused by a
combination of the Ottoman government's mismanagement and a
series of attacks by locusts, a type of short-horned grasshopper that
can quickly multiply, travel long distances in swarms, rapidly strip
fields, and greatly damage crops.81
Ottoman Government’s Mismanagement
During 1911-1914, the Ottomans had suffered successive and
decisive defeats in Tripolitania and in the Balkans. Despite this,
when World War I broke out in the summer of 1914, the Ottoman

80 See http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_honorary_British_Knights
81 H.M. Balyuzi (1972), `Abdu’l-Bahá: The Centre of the Covenant of Bahá'u'lláh,
Oxford, UK: George Ronald, p. 418.

rulers –  the Young Turks  –  and particularly the triumvirate of
Enver Páshá, Tal’at Páshá and Jamál Páshá unwisely forced the
government into another massive military campaign by entering
the War and siding with the Central Powers: Germany and Austria-
Hungary. This decision led to the decline and eventual collapse of
the Ottoman Empire.82
The Famine in the Haifá-`Akká Region
Bahá'u'lláh was exiled to `Akká in August 1868. In addition to his
immediate family, some 70 of his followers accompanied him to that
town. The first few years proved difficult for Bahá'u'lláh and his
companions. Eventually, the initial distrust of the exiles dissipated
and the situation began to improve. In the decades that followed,
the small Bah{’í community began to grow. Some Bah{’ís opened
shops, others engaged in different trades, and yet others began to
farm in the Haifá-’Akká region.

Also,  after Bah{'u'll{h’s passing in 1892, `Abdu’l-Bahá managed to
purchase certain parcels of inexpensive land in various villages in
the area, including some in Samrih and ‘Adasiyyih, situated near
the River Jordan.  He instructed some of the Bah{’í farmers in that
region to begin cultivating grain on his lands. A tenth of the grains
was sent to `Abdu’l-Bahá’s household. The remainder was stored in
pits, sold or shared with other Bah{’ís and neighbors.83
With the onset of World War I, `Abdu’l-Bahá wanted to protect the
140 or so Bahá'ís living in the Haifá-’Akká region from potential
bombardments or other aggressions. Thus, he temporarily re-
located them to Abú-Sinán, a Druze village about seven miles east
of `Akká. The relocation took place in September 1914 and lasted
through May 1915.

82 Ahang Rabbani, `Abdu’l-Bahá in Abu-Sinan: September 1914–May 1915,
published in Bah{’í Studies Review, 13 (2005) pp. 75-103.
83 Ibid.

From March 28 to April 15, 1915 a total of 18 locust attacks
devastated the farms in the Haifá-’Akká region and reduced most of
the crops to desolate, barren land. Regarding the first series of
attacks, an eye-witness Bah{’í in the region has recorded the
following:
Like a thick cloud, the locusts blocked the rays of the sun,
and when they landed, they formed several layers on top of
each other. In no time, even the finest of farms were
reduced to desolate, barren land.84


A locust attack

A locust

While in Abú-Sinán, `Abdu’l-Bahá had also taught some of the
Bah{’ís to grow vegetables. The fresh vegetables combined with the
wheat and corn that came from the Bah{’í farm lands in Nughayb,
Samrih, and ‘Adasiyyih saved many people, especially the poor, in
the area from certain death, irrespective of their social or religious
backgrounds.85

In 1918, when the British forces defeated the Ottomans and entered
the city of Haifá, they faced difficulties in supplying food to their
soldiers. The British officer in command asked for help from
`Abdu’l-Bahá. As a humanitarian, `Abdu’l-Bahá offered the British
soldiers the same treatment he had already extended to the people

84 Habíb Moayyád, Khátirát Habíb (Memoirs of Habib).
85 See note 81.

of Haifá and ’Akká region. He told the officer that he had enough
corn in the pits for his army.86 It was these humanitarian efforts
during the war years that led the British Mandate for Palestine officials
to confer knighthood on `Abdu’l-Bahá, a title he reluctantly
accepted out of courtesy. He never spoke of the title or used it
publicly or privately on any occasions.
Views of `Abdu’l-Bahá by Those Who Met Him
The contrast between how `Abdu’l-Bahá was viewed by impartial
people who met him and had first hand knowledge of him versus
his depiction in anti-Bah{’í Muslim circles is remarkable. While the
Iranian state-run media continue to portray him as an agent of
colonialism and imperialism, individuals such as the renowned
Khalil Gibrán, author of The Prophet, saw him noble enough to be
the receptacle of the Holy Spirit:

86 Lady Blomfield (1975), The Chosen Highway, Wilmette, Illinois: Bah{’í
Publishing Trust, p. 210.

1912 Portrait of `Abdu’l-Bahá by Khalíl Gibran, author
of ‚The Prophet‛
Gibran met `Abdu’l-Bahá in 1912 and asked to draw his
portrait. Of `Abdu’l-Bahá, he said: ‚For the first time I
saw form noble enough to be a receptacle for the Holy
Spirit. 87

87 Suheil Bushrui and Joe Jenkins. Kahlil Gibran: Man and Poet. Oxford:
Oneworld, 1998, p. 9.

E.G. Browne, the great Orientalist and Cambridge University
Professor who met `Abdu’l-Bahá in 1890 and remained in
correspondence with him, said of him:
Seldom have I seen one whose appearance impressed me
more. A tall strongly-built man holding himself straight as
an arrow, with white turban and raiment, long black locks
reaching almost to the shoulder, broad powerful forehead
indicating a strong intellect combined with an unswerving
will, eyes keen as a hawk's, and strongly-marked but
pleasing features such was my first impression of `Abbás
Effendi, 'the master' as he par excellence is called.... One
more eloquent of speech, more ready of argument, more apt
of illustration, more intimately acquainted with the sacred
books of the Jews, the Christians, and the Muhammadans,
could, I should think, scarcely be found even amongst the
eloquent, ready, and subtle race to which he belongs.  These
qualities, combined with a bearing at once majestic and
genial, made me cease to wonder at the influence and
esteem which he enjoyed even beyond the circle of his
father's followers. About the greatness of this man and his
power no one who had seen him could entertain a doubt.88
During his western travels
Secretaries of State, Ambassadors, Congressmen,
distinguished rabbis and churchmen, and other people of
eminence attained His presence, among whom were such
figures as Dr. D. S. Jordan, President of Leland Stanford
University, Prof. Jackson of Columbia University, Prof. Jack
of Oxford University, Rabbi Stephen Wise of New York, Dr.
Martin A. Meyer, Rabbi Joseph L. Levy, Rabbi Abram
Simon, Alexander Graham Bell [inventor of telephone],
Rabindranath Tagore, Hon. Franklin K. Lane, Mrs. William

88 H.M. Balyuzi (1972), `Abdu’l-Bahá: The Centre of the Covenant of Bahá'u'lláh,
Oxford, UK: George Ronald, pp. 4-5.

Jennings Bryan, Andrew Carnegie, Hon. Franklin
MacVeagh, Secretary of the United States Treasury, Lee
McClung, Mr. Roosevelt [future U.S. President], Admiral
Wain Wright, Admiral Peary, the British, Dutch and Swiss
Ministers in Washington, Yúsúf Díyá Páshá, the Turkish
Ambassador in that city, Thomas Seaton, Hon. William
Sulzer and Prince Muhammad-`Alí of Egypt, the Khedive’s
brother.89
Tributes to `Abdu’l-Bahá
On his passing, thousands of Muslims, Christians, Jews, Druses,
and Bah{’ís from the Haifá and `Akká regions thronged the streets
of Haifá to attend his funeral. They included Arabs, Persians,
Greeks, Turks, Kurds, Americans, and Europeans from the various
strata of society. In his biography of `Abdu’l-Bahá, H.M. Balyuzi,
provides a detailed account of the funeral and the various talks
given by different personages present:
The first speaker was a well-known Muslim orator, Yúsuf al-Khatíb
who said:
O concourse of Arabians and Persians! Whom are ye
bewailing? Is it he who but yesterday was great in his life
and is today in his death greater still? Shed no tears for the
one that hath departed to the world of Eternity, but weep
over the passing of Virtue and Wisdom, of Knowledge and
Generosity. Lament for yourselves, for yours is the loss,
whilst he, your lost one, is but a revered Wayfarer, stepping
from your mortal world into the everlasting Home. Weep
one hour for the sake of him who, for well nigh eighty
years, hath wept for you! Look to your right, look to your
left, look East and look West and behold, what glory and
greatness have vanished! What a pillar of peace hath
crumbled! What eloquent lips are hushed! Alas! In this

89 Shoghi Effendi (1974). God Passes By. Wilmette, Illinois: Bah{’í
Publishing Trust, pp. 289-290.

tribulation there is no heart but aches with anguish, no eye
but is filled with tears. Woe unto the poor, for lo! goodness
hath departed from them, woe unto the orphans, for their
loving father is no more with them! Could the life of Sir
`Abdu’l-Bahá ‘Abbas have been redeemed by the sacrifices
of many a precious soul, they of a certainty would gladly
have offered up their lives for his life. But Fate hath
otherwise ordained. Every destiny is predetermined and
none can change the Divine Decree. What am I to set forth
the achievements of this leader of mankind? They are too
glorious to be praised, too many to recount. Suffice it to say,
that he has left in every heart the most profound
impression, on every tongue most wondrous praise. And he
that leaveth a memory so lovely, so imperishable, he,
indeed, is not dead. Be solaced then, O ye people of Baha!
Endure and be patient; for no man, be he of the East or of
the West, can ever comfort you, nay he himself is even in
greater need of consolation.
The next speaker was Ibráhím Nassár, a celebrated Christian writer:
I weep for the world, in that my Lord hath died; others
there are who, like unto me, weep the death of their
Lord...O bitter is the anguish caused by this heartrending
calamity! It is not only our country's loss but a world
affliction...He hath lived for well-nigh eighty years the life
of the Messengers and Apostles of God. He hath educated
the souls of men, hath been benevolent unto them, hath led
them to the Way of Truth. Thus he raised his people to the
pinnacle of glory, and great shall be his reward from God,
the reward of the righteous! Hear me O people! ‘Abbas is
not dead, neither hath the light of Baha been extinguished!
Nay, nay! this light shall shine with everlasting splendor.
The Lamp of Baha, ‘Abbas, hath lived a goodly life, hath
manifested in himself the true life of the Spirit. And now he
is gathered to glory, a pure angel, richly robed in
benevolent deeds, noble in his precious virtues. Fellow

Christians! Truly ye are bearing the mortal remains of this
ever lamented one to his last resting place, yet know of a
certainty that your ‘Abbas will live forever in spirit amongst
you, through his deeds, his words, his virtues and all the
essence of his life. We say farewell to the material body of
our ‘Abbas, and his material body vanisheth from our gaze,
but his reality, our spiritual ‘Abbas, will never leave our
minds, our thoughts, our hearts, our tongues.
O great revered Sleeper! Thou hast been good to us, thou
hast guided us, thou hast taught us, thou hast lived
amongst us greatly, with the full meaning of greatness, thou
hast made us proud of thy deeds and of thy words. Thou
hast raised the Orient to the summit of glory, hast shown
loving kindness to the people, trained them in
righteousness, and hast striven to the end, till thou hast
won the crown of glory. Rest thou happily under the
shadow of the mercy of the Lord thy God, and He verily,
shall well reward thee.
The Christian writer was followed by the Muftí of Haifá,
Muhammad Murád, a Muslim:
I do not wish to exaggerate in my eulogy of this great one,
for his ready and helping hand in the service of mankind
and the beautiful and wondrous story of his life, spent in
doing that which is right and good, none can deny, save
him whose heart is blinded...
O thou revered voyager! Thou hast lived greatly and hast
died greatly! This great funeral procession is but a glorious
proof of thy greatness in thy life and in thy death. But O,
thou whom we have lost! Thou leader of men, generous and
benevolent! To whom shall the poor now look? Who shall
care for the hungry? and the desolate, the widow and the
orphan?

May the Lord inspire all thy household and thy kindred
with patience in this grievous calamity, and immerse thee
in the ocean of His grace and mercy! He verily, is the
prayer-hearing, prayer-answering God.
Another distinguished Muslim, ‘Abdu'lláh Mukhlis, followed the
Muftí of Haifá:
...the sun of knowledge has set; the moon of virtues has
disappeared; the throne of glory has crumbled, and the
mountain of kindness is levelled by the departure of this
benevolent one from the mortal world to the immortal
realm. I do not need to explain the sublimity of the great
one whom we have lost or to enumerate his great qualities,
for all of you who are just are witnesses and can testify to
what has been given him of personal beauty, beauty of his
character, greatness of his heart, vastness of the sea of his
knowledge and generosity...I beg your pardon if I fail in
doing my duty as far as faithfulness is concerned or if I am
unable to pay the generous one who has departed what he
deserves of the best and highest praise, because what my
tongue utters has emanated from a tender memory and
broken heart. Indeed, they are wounds and not words; they
are tears and not phrases...’This calamity has made all
previous calamities to be forgotten. But this calamity will
never be forgotten.'
Next, Shaykh Yúnus al- Khatíb, a Muslim poet of note, recited a
poem he had composed; and he was followed by Bishop Bassilious,
the head of the Greek Catholic Church of Haifá, who dwelt
particularly on `Abdu’l-Bahá's humanitarian deeds, His generosity
to the poor, His charm and majesty of mien. Then came the turn of
the youth to pay homage and tribute. Wadi’ Bustani, a young
Christian, had a poem to offer. Here are some lines from it:
In the souls and in the minds thou art immortal. One like
thee, who has all perfections, virtues and honors, is

eternal...O `Abdu’l-Bahá, O son of Bahá'u'lláh! May my life
be a sacrifice to one like thee. Thou art the all-wise, and all
else beside thee are only learned. What can the poets say in
thy day? O `Abdu’l-Bahá, O son of Bahá'u'lláh! Thou wert
just as God wanted thee to be and not as others wished.
Thou hast departed in the Holy Land wherein Christ and
the Virgin Mary lived. The land that received Mohammed;
the land the dust of which is blessing and wealth...We shall
be sustained by this Tomb and the One it contains. The
covenant of love and devotion will remain forever between
us.
The eighth speaker was Salomon Bouzaglo, one of the leading
figures of the Jewish population of Haifá, who spoke in French.
Here is a translation of his speech:
It is indeed strange that in an age of gross materialism and
lack of faith a great philosopher such as He whom we
mourn--’Abdu'l-Bahá ‘Abbas--should appear. He speaks to
our hearts, our consciences. He satisfies our thirsty souls
with teachings and principles that are the basis of all
religion and morality. In His writings and public talks, and
in His intimate conversations He could always convince the
most learned and the most orthodox. His life was the living
example of self-sacrifice, of preferring the good of others to
one's own.
The philosophy of `Abdu’l-Bahá is simple and plain, yet
sublime. It accords with human character. Its virtues
overcome prejudice and superstition ... ‘Abbas has passed
away in Haifá, in Palestine, in the Holy Land wherein
prophets have always appeared. The ancient glory of this
land is restored. We are not the only ones who weep for
Him, in Whom we take pride. In Europe, in America, in
every country, people athirst for social justice and
brotherhood also weep for Him. He suffered from
despotism, fanaticism and intolerance. For decades, ‘Akka--

the Bastille of the Ottomans--held Him a prisoner.
Baghdad--the ‘Abbasid capital--also served as a prison for
Him and for His Father. Persia--the ancient cradle of divine
philosophy--threw out her children, whose ideas were
conceived in her land. Cannot we witness the manifestation
of Divine Will to exalt the Holy Land that it become, once
again, the cradle of noble and generous ideals? He, Who has
left such a glorious heritage, is not dead. He, Who has
promulgated such great principles, is immortal in the
memory of posterity.
Shaykh As’ad Shuqayr, a prominent Muslim citizen of `Akká,
admired for his scholarship and eloquence, was the next speaker,
after whom Muhammad Safadi, a well-known Muslim poet, read
his threnody. Shaykh As’ad spoke of `Abdu’l-Bahá as

. . . one of the inhabitants of Acca because these inhabitants
lived with him for more than forty years. His meetings were
meetings of learning wherein he explained all the heavenly
books and traditions . . . His philanthropies to the widows
and orphans were never interrupted . . . He had so great a
station; yet he never failed to help the distressed! In the
winter season he met with the learned and notables of Acca
at the home of Sheikh `Alí Meeri, and in the summer the
meetings were held in a court in the Faklloreh90 . . . In both
of those meetings the attendants found him a book of
history, a commentary on all the heavenly Scriptures, a
philosophy of the pages of contemporary events that
pertain to scientific or artistic topics. Then he moved to
Haifa, and then went to Europe and America where he gave
comprehensive and eloquent addresses and exhortations.
His intention was to bring about unity among religions and
sects and to remove the severe strife from their hearts and
from their tongues, to urge them to take hold of the essence

90 The district in which the house of `Abbud, `Abdu’l-Bah{’s residence, was
situated.

and let go the non-essential. He did that by presenting his
message in a scientific manner. A group of Persians and
others criticized him and found fault with his ideals in
pamphlets they published and spread. Nevertheless,
without paying any attention to their criticism and
opposition, nor being hurt by their hatred and enmity, he
went forward and proclaimed his teachings. It is the law of
God among His creatures—a law which will not be
changed—that the originator and declarer of principles
must inevitably have those who agree and praise and those
who disagree and reject.

And here are a few lines from Muhammad Safadi’s poem:

On Sunday night heaven was opened and the spirit of
Abdul-Baha flew with its glory.
It was received and entertained by the prophets . . .

O Mount Carmel, thou art now more proud than the
heaven,for thou hast become the holiest mountain . . .

I shall weep with tears for thee as long as I am living;
how often thou didst wipe them with thy hands . . .91

Shortly after his passing, in December 1921, the Haifá weekly Al-
Nafír (The Trumpet) devoted an entire issue to `Abdu’l-Bahá.92 Al-
Nafír reports that those present described `Abdu’l-Bahá’ with such
appellations as ‚The great person‛ (Rajl al-Insaniyyih), ‚The great
gentle man‛ (Siyyid al-Akbar),  and ‚The eminent deceased one‛
(al-faqid al-karim). The issue also included a separate eulogy in
honor of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá by the Islámic Society of Haifá.

91 H.M. Balyuzi (1972), `Abdu’l-Bahá: The Centre of the Covenant of Bahá'u'lláh,
Oxford, UK: George Ronald, pp. 466-473.
92 `Abdu’l-Bahá (1921), Star of the West, vol. 12, pp. 284-288 (no. 18).

`Abdu’l-Bahá’s casket carried out of his home in
Haifa by dignitaries and distinguished people of
different background in 1921

An estimated crowd of 10,000 attend `Abdu’l-Bahá’s
funeral procession in the streets of Haifa
Bahá'ís as Israeli Spies and Agents of International Zionism
Since the early days of the Islámic Revolution, Bahá'ís have been
accused of espionage and treason, especially for Israel and Zionism,
an international political movement that was formed to support the
re-establishment of a homeland for the Jewish people in Palestine.
Based on that pretext, many Bah{’ís of different ages and

backgrounds have been arrested, kidnapped, tortured, assassinated,
or executed.
Shaykh Muhammad Muvahhíd
Muslim cleric who became a Bah{’í
before the revolution and was
kidnapped in May 1979. His body was
never found.





Professor
Manúchihr Hakím
Assassinated in his
office by gunmen in
1981.
Dr. `Alímurád
Dávúdí
Professor of
Philosophy,
University of Tehrán,
well-known author,
translator, lecturer,
and member of Iran’s
Bah{’í National
Assembly-
Kidnapped in
November 1979. His
body was never
found.93
Húshang Mahmúdí
Lawyer and
renowned pre-
revolution TV
personality. One of
nine Bahá’í National
Assembly members,
kidnapped in
August 1980. His
body was never
found.

93 For free access to a collection of Dr. Dávúdí’s articles and speeches, see
http://www.drdavoodi.org/
His fans also have a presence on Facebook at:
http://www.facebook.com/pages/Dr-Ali-Murad-Davoodi/31766782446



Jinús Mahmúdí
Iran’s first female
meteorologist and
director of the office
for meteorology.
Also, member of
Iran’s Bah{’í
National Assembly
and wife of Húshang
Mahmúdí (above);
executed on
December 27, 1981
Shahin (Shírín)
Dalvand
Sociologist, one of 10
Bah{’í women
executed in Shíráz on
June 18, 1983; she was
Moná
Mahmúdnizhád
Schoolgirl, Bah{’í
Sunday School
teacher; one of 10
women executed in
Shíráz June 18, 1983;
she was 17

Dr. Farámarz Samandarí
With his American wife Anita and children. He was
a physician and professor at the University of Tabríz;
executed in Tabríz in July 1980
However, labeling Bah{’ís as spies creates several issues for the
accusers. First, they should point to a teaching, guidance, or
instruction in the Bah{’í writings that instruct the followers to
engage in espionage. Yet, no such materials can be found in Bahá'í
scripture. Also, spies are expected to hide their true identities so
they could continue to engage in espionage activities. If Bah{’ís
were indeed spies, once arrested, they would be expected to deny
their religious affiliation so they could continue their mission.
Yet, historical records of the past decades show that arrested Bah{’ís
have overwhelmingly declared their religious affiliation, rather than
engage in dissimulation (Taqiyyíh), an accepted Shí’ah practice to
avert dangerous situations. There are also severe consequences for
the individual to accept membership in the Bah{’í Faith. These
range from loss of job, pension, property, and access to higher
education, to long-term imprisonment, torture, or even death. Yet,

arrested Bahá'ís have generally accepted these consequences, rather
than deny their Faith.94
A common way in which spy claims against Bah{’ís are advanced is
by pointing out that the most sacred shrines and holy places of the
Bahá'ís are located in today’s Israel and that Iranian Bahá'ís send
money to Israel to support their anti-Muslim activities.95 Bahá'ís
counter that there are numerous holy Muslim and Christian sites in
the state of Israel, too. Yet, the existence of these sites does not
suggest that Muslims and Christians are agents of Israel or
international Zionism.
Regarding the location of the Bahá'í sites in Israel, what is
overlooked or easily dismissed is the fact that the establishment of
Bahá'í shrines in today’s Israel were brought about by the forced
exiles of Bahá'u'lláh via edicts from two Muslim rulers. First, in
1853, Bahá'u'lláh was banished from Persia by N{siri’d-Dín Sháh to
Baghdád in the Ottoman Empire. Ten years later, N{siri’d-Dín Sháh
who was afraid of Bah{'u'll{h’s growing influence near the Persian
border, asked Sultan ‘Abdu’l-’Azíz – the Ottoman Emperor – to
send Bahá'u'lláh to territories further away from Persia. The
Emperor first invited Bahá'u'lláh to Istanbul and then, within four
months, exiled him to Adrianople (Edirne) in 1863 and then `Akká
(Acre) in 1868. At the time, `Akká was in fact part of the Palestinian
region of Syria. Bahá'u'lláh eventually died in `Akká on May 29,
1892.
Following his death, Bahá'u'lláh's son `Abdu’l-Bahá took over the
leadership of the religion until his passing in 1921. He was buried in
Haifá, in what was then Palestine. Another important figure for

94 N{der Sa‘eidí, The Accusation that Bahá’ís are Spies (اتهام جاسىس بىدن
بهائی), Iranemrooz;
http://politic.iran-emrooz.net/index.php?/politic/more/17135
95 H.E. Chehabi (2008), ‚Anatomy of Prejudice‛, in Brookshaw; Fazel, Seena
B., The Baha'is of Iran: Socio-historical studies, New York, NY: Routledge, pp.
190-194.

Bahá'ís who is buried in current-day Israel is the Báb whose remains
were secretly transferred to Palestine and buried in Haifá in 1909.
Israel was not formed until 1948, almost 60 years after Bahá'u'lláh's
passing, 39 years after the Báb's remains were brought to the region,
and 27 years after `Abdu’l-Bahá's death. Thus, the accusation that
ties Bahá'ís to the state of Israel based on the location of their
shrines disregards the historical circumstances that led to the
construction of those holy places in what was then the Palestinian
region of Syria.
It is true that Bahá'ís from Iran (and in fact all parts of the world)
send contributions to their international headquarters in Haifá,
Israel. However, these contributions are not sent to sponsor anti-
Muslim activities but rather for the maintenance and upkeep of the
Bahá'í shrines and historical sites as well as for attending to the
administrative affairs of their global community.96 Incidentally,
while Muslim, Christian and Jewish religious organizations receive
regular financial assistance from the state of Israel for the
maintenance and upkeep of their holy sites, the Bah{’ís cannot (by
principle) and do not accept contributions from any non-Bah{’í
entity for their projects or activities. That includes funds from the
state of Israel for the upkeep of their holy sites in that country.
Despite this, in 1983, the Islámic government of Iran ordered all the
Bahá'í administrative bodies in the country to disband. As Bah{’ís
are bound to obey the governments of the lands in which they
reside, the Iranian National Spiritual Assembly obliged with the
government’s order. However, they also wrote an open letter on the
occasion to share the Bahá'í position on the government’s decision
and the accusations made against their community. One of the
issues addressed in that letter was the often cited accusation of
espionage for Israel, which the Iranian government has repeatedly

96  Eliz Sanasarian (2000), Religious Minorities in Iran, Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press, p. 119.

suggested without ever producing any evidence to support the
claim:
The honourable Prosecutor has again introduced the
baseless and fictitious story that Bahá'ís engage in
espionage, but without producing so much as one
document in support of the accusation, without presenting
proof in any form, and without any explanation as to what
is the mission in this country of this extraordinary number
of "spies": what sort of information do they obtain and from
what sources? Whither do they relay it, and for what
purpose? What kind of "spy" is an eighty-five-year-old man
from Yazd who has never set foot outside his village? Why
do these alleged spies not hide themselves, conceal their
religious beliefs and exert every effort to penetrate, by every
stratagem, the Government's information centres and
offices?
Why has no Bahá'í "spy" been arrested anywhere else in the
world? How could students, housewives, innocent young
girls, and old men and women, like those blameless Bahá'ís
who have recently been delivered to the gallows in Iran, or
who have become targets for the darts of prejudice and
enmity, be "spies"? How could the Bahá'í farmers of the
villages of Afús, Chigan, Qal’ih Malik (near Isfahan), and
those of the village of Núk in Birjand, be "spies"? What
Secret Intelligence documents have been found in their
possession? What espionage equipment has come to hand?
What "spying" activities were engaged in by the primary
schoolchildren who have been expelled from their
schools?97

97  The Bah{’í International Community Website, An Open Letter from the
National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá'ís of Iran about the Banning of the Bahá'í
Administration, Sept. 3, 1981; http://info.bahai.org/article-1-8-3-19.html



‘Abdu’l-Vaháb
Kázemí-Manshádí,
the eighty-five-
year-old man from
a Yazd village who
was executed as a
spy on September 8,
1980.
Shikkar-Nisá’ and Muhammad-Husayn
Ma’súmí
Bahá'í couple from the village of Núk,
near Birjand in the province of Khurásán.
They were burned alive in November
1980 for allegedly being spies.
Bahá’ís as Enemies of Islám
Another charge against Bah{’ís has been animosity towards Islám.
Polemical works have often attempted to portray the founders of
the Bah{’í religion as enemies of their parent religion whose mission
was to weaken Islám by creating divisions within it and, thus, serve
colonialist and imperialist aims of their masters. Yet, Bah{’í
scripture is replete with glorification of Islám, its Prophet, and the
Shí’ah Imáms. Here is one example where Bah{'u'll{h’s extols
Muhammad  and his family, and praises the role of Islám in
religious history:
Blessing and peace be upon Him [Muhammad] through
Whose advent Bathá [Mecca] is wreathed in smiles, and the
sweet savours of Whose raiment have shed fragrance upon
all mankind-- He Who came to protect men from that which
would harm them in the world below. Exalted, immensely
exalted is His station above the glorification of all beings
and sanctified from the praise of the entire creation.

Through His advent the tabernacle of stability and order
was raised throughout the world and the ensign of
knowledge hoisted among the nations. May blessings rest
also upon His kindred and His companions through whom
the standard of the unity of God and of His singleness was
uplifted and the banners of celestial triumph were unfurled.
Through them the religion of God was firmly established
among His creatures and His Name magnified amidst His
servants.98
Bah{’ís have also been encouraged by their leaders to help rectify
erroneous views about Islám, particularly in the Western world:
There is so [much] misunderstanding about Islam in the
West in general that you have to dispel. Your task is rather
difficult and requires a good deal of erudition. Your chief
task is to acquaint the friends with the pure teaching of the
Prophet [Muhammad] as recorded in the Qur'án, and then
to point out how these teachings have, throughout
succeeding ages, influenced[,] nay[,] guided the course of
human development. In other words you have to show the
position and significance of Islam in the history of
civilization.99
Over the years, many Bah{’í authors have taken these admonitions
to heart and published numerous works on Islám, its history,
teachings, schools of thought, and contributions to world
civilization. Among them are:


98 Research Department of the Universal House of Justice (1978), Tablets of
Bahá'u'lláh (Trans. by Habíb T{herz{deh). Haifa, Israel: Bah{’í World
Centre, p. 162.
99 Helen Hornby (1983). Lights of Guidance. New Delhi, India: Bah{’í
Publishing Trust, #1664.


Stanwood Cobb 100 (1963), Islamic Contributions to Civilization.
Murfreesboro, Tennessee: Avalon Press.
(http://arthursclassicnovels.com/arthurs/islam/contributions10.h
tml).

H. M. Balyuzi (1976), Muhammad and the course of Islám. Oxford,
England: George Ronald.

Abu’l-Qásím Faizí (1977). The Prince of Martyrs101. Oxford,
England: George Ronald.

Moojan Momen (1985), An Introduction to Shí’i Islám102. Oxford,
England: George Ronald.
Numerous titles on Isl{m have also been published by Bah{’í
authors in Persian such as:


Muhammad `Alí Faizi’s A History of Islám (تاریخ دیانت اسالم)

`Alí Akbar Furutan’s Islám and the Bahá’í Faith (اسالم و دیانت بهائی)

`Alí Akbar Furutan’s The Prince of Prophets (سلطان رسل)
Yet, the accusations have continued and many Bah{’ís have been
executed on the charge, including Dr. Masíh Farhangí. Those who
murdered him went so far as to inscribe the charge on his body:

100 Professor Stanwood Cobb, a Harvard graduate, became a Bahá’í in 1906.
He was one of the founders and later the president of the Progressive
Education Association of America. This book was originally published in
1914.
101 Reference to Muhammad’s grandson, Im{m Husayn, the third Shí`ah
Imám.
102 This work by Dr. Momen is widely regarded as one of the best and most
comprehensive books written on Shí`ah Islám.



Dr. Masíh Farhangí
Medical doctor, author,
painter, and  member of
the Bah{’í Continental
Board of Counselors
The inscription on the leg reads:
Masih Farhangi, enemy of Islám
Before his execution, Dr. Farhangí served as a physician in the
prison.
Bahá’ís as Agents of the Sháh’s Regime
Another often-repeated accusation against the Bahá'ís is that they
were treated favorably by, and held many prominent positions in,
the government of Sháh Mohammad Rezá Pahlaví, and collaborated
with its secret police, SÁVÁK.103 Even before the Iranian revolution,
the Bahá'ís, as the "other" in Iranian society, were held responsible
by many for S[V[K’s abusive suppression by as well as some of
the Sháh's unpopular policies.104 The assertion partly stems from the
fact that, shortly before the revolution, Bahá'ís refused to join forces
with anti-government revolutionaries. However, this was due to

103 H.E. Chehabi (2008), ‚Anatomy of Prejudice‛, in Brookshaw; Fazel, Seena
B., The Baha'is of Iran: Socio-historical studies, New York, NY: Routledge, pp.
186-188.
104 Tavakoli-Targhi, Mohammad (2008), "Anti-Bahá'ism and Islamism in
Iran", in Brookshaw; Fazel, Seena B., The Bahá’ís of Iran: Socio-historical
studies, New York, NY: Routledge, p. 224.

Bahá'u'lláh's injunction to his followers that they should be obedient
to the government of the lands in which they reside.105
The Bahá'í International Community has stated that the Bahá'í
community in Iran was the victim of the Sháh's regime, and that
SÁVÁK was one of the main ways of persecuting the Bahá'ís.106 For
example Rezá Sháh’s government ordered the closure of Bah{'í
schools, such as Tehran’s Tarbiyat (literally education) school for
boys and girls, in 1934.107 Also during the month of Ramadan in
1955, when the government of Rezá Sh{h’s son, needed to distract
the general population from its decision to join the Baghdad Pact
under pressure from the British and American governments, it
sought the support of the clerics. [yatu’ll{h Siyyid Husayn
Borujerdí, acting as the Marja Taqlid (literally, Source of Emulation), a
Grand [yatu’ll{h with the authority to make legal decisions within
the confines of Islámic law, pushed the Sháh's government to
support the persecution of the Bahá'í community.108 The 1955
attacks were particularly destructive and widespread due to an
orchestrated campaign by the government and clergy who utilized
the national Iranian radio and its official newspapers to spread
hatred towards the Bahá'ís, which led to widespread mob violence
against them:109
Hujjatu’l-Islám Muhammad-Taqi Falsafí, has stated in his
memoirs that his sermons against the Baha’is took place

105 Moojan Momen (1981), The Babi and Baha'i Religions, 1844-1944: Some
Contemporary Western Accounts, Oxford, England: George Ronald, pp. 477-
479.
106 Nazila Ghanea (2003), Human Rights, the UN and the Bahá'ís in Iran,
Martinus Nijhoff, pp. 109-111.
107 Roy Mottahedeh (1985), The Mantle of the Prophet: Religion and Politics in
Iran, Oxford: OneWorld, p. 231.
108 Eliz Sanasarian (2000), Religious Minorities in Iran, Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press, pp. 52-53.
109 Nikki R. Keddie (1995), Iran and the Muslim World: Resistance and
Revolution, Basingstoke: Macmillan, p. 151.

with the prior consent of Ayatollah Borujerdí and
Muhammad-Rezá Shah. In an interview on 19 Urdibehesht
1334 [May 10th, 1955+ with a reporter of ‚Itehad-e Melli‛
Journal, Falsafí described his meeting with Ayatollah
Borujerdí in these words:
Before the blessed month of Ramadan, I went to Qum
where I met Ayatollah Borujerdi and found him deeply
distressed. He stated, ‚Now that the situation of the Oil
industry has been resolved and the Tudeh [Pro-Soviet
Communist] Party has been neutralized, we must make
plans for Baha’is and arise to this challenge.‛110
In his Kháterát va Mubarezát [literally, Memories and Struggles],
Muhammad-Taqi Falsafí writes:
Ayatollah Borujerdí sent a message for me to convey the
issue *of Baha’is+ to the governmental authorities. <
Eventually, after Ramadan 1332 [May 1953], he sent a letter
for me to meet with the Shah and to express the Ayatollah’s
disapproval and displeasure over the situation of [the
relative freedom of+ Baha’is. < Before Ramadan of 1333
[May 1954], I asked Ayatollah Borujerdí, ‘Are you
supportive of the idea that I discuss the situation of Baha’is
during my radio sermons which are broadcast live from
Masjed Shah?’ He thought for a moment and then
responded, ‘If you were to say so, it would be good. For
now, the authorities are heedless (of suppression and
annihilation of Baha’is). At least that would suppress them
*Baha’is+ in the field of public opinion.’
He added further, ‘It is necessary to mention this
beforehand to the Shah so that he would not have an excuse

110 Bahram Choubine, Sacrificing the Innocent: Suppression of the Bahá’ís in
1955 (trans. from the original Persian by Ahang Rabbani);
http://www.iranian.com/main/2008/sacrificing-innocent

later to intercede, ruin everything and terminate the radio
broadcasts. If the latter were to happen, that would be most
unfortunate for the Muslims and would embolden the
Baha’is.’
I called the Shah’s office and requested an appointment.
When I met the Shah, I stated, ‘Ayatollah Borujerdí has
consented that the issue of Baha’is, which is a cause of
worry for the Muslims, be dealt with and discussed in my
radio sermons during the month of Ramadan. Would your
majesty consent as well?’
Falsafí relates that the Shah remained silent for a moment
and then stated, ‚Go and preach accordingly.‛
From 1327 [1948], each Ramadan, Falsafí used to deliver
sermons against the Tudeh Party. Elimination and
annihilation of the Babis and Baha’is was the cherished
desire of the mullas and their partners in the government.
During those days, it was widely said that strikes against
Baha’is and destruction of their administrative and
religious centers was one of the government’s objectives.
However, this had to wait until Ramadan 1334 [May 1955].
The 1955 brutal radio attacks on Bahá'ís by Falsafí’ was coordinated
to coincide with government confiscation of Bahá'í properties in
major cities. In Tehran, in front of the cameras of both foreign and
domestic reporters, General [Náder] Bátmánghelích, the chief of
staff of the Iranian army, along with [General] Taymour Bakhtiár,
the military commander of Tehran, took pickaxes and demolished
the dome of the city’s Bah{'í Center, the most visible symbol of the
Faith in the capital. For many years, that building was impounded
by the military and used for its own command center.



The Sh{h’s military entering
Tehrán’s Bah{’í Center
General Bátmánghelích of the
Sh{h’s army, personally
participating in the
destruction of Tehr{n’s
Bah{’í Center; with General
Taymour Bakhtiár (later, first
head of SÁVÁK) observing
to the left

Muslim cleric Falsafí observes the
destruction of Tehran's Bahá'í
Center
Falsafí personally
participates in the
destruction of Tehran's Bahá'í
Center

In his memoirs, General Muhammad Ayarmalu, the deputy-chief of
SÁVÁK, recounts the events:
One morning, General Batmanghelich, the chief of staff of
the army, along with General Taymour Bakhtiar, the
military commander, ascended the dome of the Baha’i
Center [in Tehran] and with pickaxes started to demolish
the dome of the building.
The next morning, the military attaché of the United States
came to my office and with an infuriated voice stated,
‚What was this act that the chief of staff committed? Why
would the chief of military pick up an ax, and before
everyone’s eyes, demolish a building? Furthermore, he
targeted a building that is greatly respected and cherished
by many of your citizens! My country is assisting Iran to
repair the ruins, and now you turn a beautiful building into
a ruin?!‛
As I, too, was puzzled over this illogical destruction –
particularly by the hands of such a high-ranking officer – I
remained quiet and said nothing.
A few hours later, the late Batmanghelich summoned me
into his office and impatiently asked, ‚What are the military
attachés saying about yesterday’s occurrences?‛
Straightforwardly I shared the comments of the American
military attaché and added, ‚Several more of the military
attachés have expressed their perplexity and
disappointment over this incident.‛ When I saw him
overcome with sorrow, I asked, ‚General, what truly
motivated you to undertake this act?‛ He lifted his head
and responded, ‚I had no motives. It was the chief’s order.‛
And by that he meant the late Muhammad-Rezá Shah.

As later I read in various monographs, Muhammad-Rezá
Shah had given this order in order to appease several
influential akhunds *clerics+, particularly Siyyid Abu’l-
Qasem Kashani. < It is interesting to note that twenty-five
years later, the late Muhammad-Rezá Shah witnessed the
result of giving room and yielding to the akhunds. Also
twenty-five years later, when General Batmanghelich was
seized and prosecuted at the height of the 1357 [1978]
Revolution, he recounted this incident in his nearly-
successful defense.‛111
[yatu’ll{h Borujerdí later wrote a thank-you letter to Falsafí and
expressed gratitude for his ‚precious services.‛ He also expressed
the wish that Tehran’s Bah{'í Center would soon be completely
destroyed, the Bahá'ís would be ejected from all governmental and
official positions, and that the Iranian parliament would adopt a
plan to forcibly remove all Baha’is from Iran.112
Borujerdí, Khomeiní, and Falsafí were not the only prominent
clerics with strong anti-Bah{’í sentiments. Another student of
Borujerdí, the now Grand [yatu’ll{h Montazerí, was also active in
the persecution of the Bah{’ís in Central Iran, although he has now
moderated his position on Bah{’ís and recently defended basic
rights of citizenship for them.113 Before moderating his views, he too
engaged in repressing the Bah{’ís. In his memoirs, Montazerí
writes:
The late Borujerdí was extremely anti-Baha’i. For instance,
they had killed a Baha’i near Yazd and planned to execute
his murderer. < Borujerdí had lost all sleep and wanted
through any means possible to prevent this hanging. One

111 Yadvareh Yek Bacheh Qafqaz [Memoirs of a Lad from Caucasus], written
by General Muhammad Ayarmalu, first printing, Germany, pp. 213-214.
112 See note 109.
113 See http://www.mideastyouth.com/2008/05/22/ayatollah-montazeri-
proclaims-bahais-citizens-of-iran/

year, Borujerdí also instructed Falsafí to give sermons
against Baha’is on the radio during Ramadan. Ayatollah
Kashani also concurred with this.
At the beginning of Ramadan, Falsafí began his preaching
against Baha’is. That year his sermons became very popular
and people would gather around the radio to listen to him.
<
It was about that time that I was given a mission to go to
Najaf-Abad. I asked Ayatollah Borujerdí about business
dealings, trades and commerce with Baha’is, and in
response, he issued a written fatwa stating: ‚In the Exalted
Name of God. It is imperative for the Muslim to avoid
association, relationship and dealings with this sect
*Baha’is+. <‛
This proclamation was spread throughout the city and
much publicity was accorded in mosques and other public
places. < With the announcement of this religious ruling,
an extremely tense atmosphere was created against Baha’is
in Najaf-Abad.
At that time, I gathered representatives from every class,
creed and strata of Najaf-Abad and each was asked to
produce a proclamation against Baha’is. For instance, the
bakers wrote, ‚We will not sell bread to Baha’is.‛ The taxi-
drivers wrote, ‚We will not permit Baha’is in our cars.‛ <
In short, when previously the taxi-fare between Najaf-Abad
and Isfahan had been 1 tuman, it was turned into a situation
that if a Baha’i pleaded to be taken by taxi for even 50
tumans, he was not able to find a taxi to take him.
Of course, not all of these suppressions were based on faith
and conviction. Many participated because they feared
others or the general atmosphere of the society. <

Eventually, my efforts resulted in the Baha’is being
eliminated in Najaf-Abad. < After this, they were
dispersed and everywhere would hide themselves from
public view. < We extended this hostility to Isfahan as
well, where a widespread uproar against Baha’is was
initiated. <
After a while, it became known that I was the instigator and
the author of these incidents.114
While Montazerí made sure that the Bahá'ís of Najaf-Ábád were
plundered, forced out of their homes, and dispersed, the Sháh’s
government took no action to protect the Bahá'ís or prevent the
mobs who eventually also managed to burn the Najaf-Ábád Bahá'í
center to the ground. In the same memoirs, Montazerí admits that
[yatu’ll{h Borujerdí ‚was completely aware of my activities and
was most pleased.‛115





Áyatu’lláh
Borujerdí





Hujjatu’l-Islám
Muhammad-Taqí
Falsafí

Áyatu’lláh Montazerí

114 Khaterat Ayatollah Hossein-Ali Montazerí [Memoirs of Ayatollah Hossein-
Ali Montazerí], pp. 94-96.
115 Ibid.

Roy Mottahedeh states that under the Pahlaví dynasty, the Bahá'ís
were actually more a "political pawn" than a collaborator, and that
the tolerance the Rezá Sháh's government showed towards the
Bahá'ís in the early 20th-century was more a sign of secular rule and
an attempt to weaken clerical influence than a signal of favor for the
Bah{’ís.116
There is also evidence that SÁVÁK collaborated with Islámic
groups throughout the 1960s and 1970s in harassing Bahá'ís.117
SÁVÁK had links to Hojjatieh, a radical anti-Bahá'í group. Rahnema
and Nomani state that the Sháh gave Hojjatieh free rein for their
activities toward the Bahá'ís.118 Nikki Keddie states that the
accusations of Bahá'ís being part of SÁVÁK were mainly false
pretexts for persecution.119
Bahá'ís in Positions of Power in the Pahlaví Regime
In regards to the accusation that Bahá'ís held many prominent
positions in the government of Mohammad Rezá Pahlaví, there is
no empirical study that endeavors to determine the truth of such an
accusation.120 As a matter of principle, while Bahá'ís are free to hold
governmental positions, they are prohibited from involvement in
partisan politics.

116 Eliz Sanasarian (2000), Religious Minorities in Iran, Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press, pp. 52-53.
117 Iran Human Rights Documentation Center (2007), A Faith Denied: The
Persecution of the Baha'is of Iran, Iran Human Rights Documentation Center;
http://adibflash.googlepages.com/AFaithDenied.pdf
118 Nazila Ghanea (2003), Human Rights, the UN and the Bahá'ís in Iran,
Martinus Nijhoff, pp. 109-111.
119 Nikki R. Keddie (2006), Iran: Roots and Results of Revolution, New Haven:
Yale University Press, pp. 431-432.
120 Mohammad Tavakoli-Targhi (2008), "Anti-Bahá'ism and Islamism in
Iran", in Brookshaw; Fazel, Seena B., The Bahá’ís of Iran: Socio-historical
studies, New York, NY: Routledge, p. 224.

There were a number of individuals who held positions in the
Iranian government and who had Bahá'í backgrounds, but were not
Bahá'ís themselves. There were others who had no Bahá'í
backgrounds but were simply rumored to be Bahá'ís. One problem
that arises is the definition of a Bahá'í. A Bahá'í is a member of a
voluntary association that admits people only when they meet
certain religious qualifications, and one can choose to become,
remain or cease to be a Bahá'í. However, Muslims who do not
recognize the possibility of apostasy (leaving one's religion) may
not understand that individuals are free to reject their previous, in
this case Bahá'í, beliefs. Bahá'ís have used the term Bahá'ízada121 to
refer to people of Bahá'í background who are not Bahá'ís themselves
or part of the Bahá'í community; there is no Muslim equivalent of
the term.122
The following is a list of some of the individuals in the government
of the Sháh who were rumored to be Bahá'ís and the facts about
each:

121 Literally, ‚born into a Bah{’í family.‛
122 See note 102.



Amir Abbás
Hoveidá
Prime Minister

Farrokhroo Pársá
Minister of Education

Mahnáz Afkhamí
Minister of State for
Women’s Affairs



General Sani’i
Minister of Defense









General Nassirí
Head of SÁVÁK
Parvíz Sábetí
Eminent SÁVÁK
Personality


Amir Abbás Hoveidá (1920 –1979) was an Iranian politician who
served as Prime Minister of Iran from January 27, 1965 to August 7,
1977. Hoveid{’s grandfather – Áqá Rezá-i-Qannád-i-Shírází – was a
contemporary of Bah{'u’llah and one of his followers in the 19th
century. Hoveid{’s father, Mírzá Habíbu’ll{h, was also a member of
the Bahá'í Faith for some time.123

123 Velveleh Dar Shahr (Clamor in the City), p. 102;
www.velvelehdarshahr.com


In 1918, Mírz{ Habíbu’ll{h married Afsaru’l-Múlk (literally, Crown of
the Land), a Muslim woman whose father was the son of one of
N{siri’d-Dín Sh{h’s sisters. This marriage and increasing
association with influential political families fast tracked Mírzá
Habíbu’ll{h’s political career. Subsequently, he began to distance
himself from the Bahá'í Faith. In the same year (1918), he also
received the title of ‘Aynu’l-Múlk (literally, the Eye of the Land. In
1921, he accepted the position of the Persian Head Counsel in
Damascus. Ten years later, he accepted the same position in
Beirut.124 The acceptance of these political positions violated the
Bahá'í principle of non-involvement in partisan politics. When
Mírz{ Habíbu’ll{h refused to resign his political post, his name was
removed from the official roll of the Bahá'í Faith. This increased his
hostility towards the Bahá'í Faith. He died in 1936 and is buried in
`Akká.

In a letter addressed to an individual Bah{’í dated June 14, 1932,
Shoghi Effendi makes it clear that Hoveid{’s father was not
considered a member of the Bahá'í Faith by 1932. The letter is in
regards to another Bahá'í who is accepting a political position.
Shoghi Effendi is reminding the Bahá'í to whom the letter is
addressed that the aforementioned person should resign his
political position or he will be subjected to the same rule as
Hoveid{’s father (‘Aynu’l-Múlk) and his name will be removed from
the roll of the Bahá'í Faith:

He is required to obey and resign; otherwise like ‘Aynu’l-
Múlk <. He will be rejected and separated from the *Bah{'í+
community.‛125

Hoveid{’s himself was never a Bah{'í. According to his brother’s
testimony, the subject of religion in general and the name Bahá'í
Faith was never mentioned in their family:

124 Ibid.
125 Ibid., p. 105.


According to Fereydoun Hoveida *the Prime Minister’s
brother], the Bahá'í faith was never mentioned in the family.
‚I was fourteen years old,‛ he says, ‚when I first heard the
word ‘Bah{'í’ and learned what it meant from a friend.‛126
















Hoveidá himself was not religious.127 To dispel the rumors that he
was a Bahá'í, during his ministry, he took several measures against
the Bahá'ís to demonstrate that he had no sympathy towards them.
For instance, documents from the Sháh’s secret police (SÁVÁK)
confiscated and made public after the 1979 revolution revealed that,
in 1967, he had ordered the firing of Bahá'ís from the Ministry of
Petroleum. In the same year, Hoveidá also ordered termination of
all Baha’i students who were studying nursing and were affiliated
with Iran’s Ministry of Petroleum. He even went to Pilgrimage in

126 Abbas Milani (2000), The Persian Sphinx: Amir Abbas Hoveyda and the
Riddle of the Iranian Revolution, Mage Publishers, Washington DC, p. 47.
127 Mohammad Tavakoli-Targhi (2008), "Anti-Bahá'ism and Islamism in
Iran", in Brookshaw; Fazel, Seena B., The Bahá’ís of Iran: Socio-historical
studies, New York, NY: Routledge, p. 224.

Áqá Rezá-i-Qannád-i-Shírází
Hoveid{ ‘s Grandfather

Mecca, Saudi ‘Arabia and visited other Muslim Holy Shrines to
show commitment to Islám.128 Yet rumors continued to persist.

Farrokhroo Pársá129 (1922-1980) was the first female cabinet
minister in an Iranian government. She also served as the first and
only female Minister of Education in Iran during the Sháh’s regime.
In addition, Pársá was a physician, an educator, and a member of
Iran’s parliament before her appointment as the Minister of
Education.
Her mother Fakhr-e Áfágh (literally, Pride of Nations) was the editor
of the women's magazine Jahán-e Zan ("The World of Woman") and a
vocal proponent of gender equality and educational opportunities
for women. Her progressive views on women’s rights in the pre-
revolution Iran met opposition from the conservative circles which
essentially forced the government of the prime minister of the time
(Ahmad Qavám) to expel her family to the religious city of Qúm.
Her daughter Farrokhroo was born in Qúm in 1922. Farrokhroo
later obtained her medical degree and was a biology teacher in a
high school in Tehrán where she had Farah Díbá, the future Queen
of Iran, as one of her students.
In 1963, Pársá was elected to Iran’s parliament and began
petitioning Mohammad Rezá Pahlaví to give Iranian women the
right to vote. She was also instrumental in getting Iran’s parliament
to transform some of the more conservative legislation on family life
and women’s rights. In 1965, Pársá became the Deputy Minister of
Education and three years later appointed as the first female
Minister of Education in Hoveid{’s cabinet.

128 Velveleh Dar Shahr (Clamor in the City), p. 103;
www.velvelehdarshahr.com
129 All information regarding Pársá is cited in Ardavan Bahrami (2005), A
woman for all seasons: In memory of Farrokhrou Parsa;
http://www.iranian.com/ArdavanBahrami/2005/May/Parsa/index.html

Shortly after the Islámic revolutionaries took over the reigns of
government, they initiated a campaign called an Islámic Cultural
Revolution that aimed at restoring Islámic values in Iran. As a step
in that direction, they arrested and executed Pársá by firing squad
on May 8, 1980 in Tehran. Her charge was ‚spreading vice on Earth
and fighting God.‛
After her execution, the two main government newspapers of the
time – Kayhán130 and Ettelá'át (literally, Information)131 – claimed that
Pársá was a member of the Bahá'í community. This was consistent
with the general perception that advocates for women’s rights in
pre-revolution Iran were Bahá'ís. However, Mrs. Pársá was never a
Bah{’í and the confiscated Bah{’í records in Iran confirmed that. In
her personal blog, Pársá’s niece, Royá Pársá, also corroborates
this.132
Lieutenant-General Abdu’l-Karím Ayádí (born? - ) was the Sháh’s
personal physician. He was indeed a member of the Bah{’í Faith.
Not much is known publicly about Ayádí, other than that he came
from a modest background and his association with the Sháh
appears to have started from his term as the chief medical officer of
the Imperial Guard Division.
Mahnáz Afkhami (born? - ) Mahnáz Afkhamí  was Iran’s Minister
of State for Women's Affairs. She was the daughter of a Bahá'í
mother but was never herself enrolled as a Bahá'í. If she had, her
political office would have forced her to choose between that
position and Bah{’í affiliation. Like Pársá, Afkhamí was a leading
advocate for women’s rights in pre-revolution in Iran. Prior to her
government role, she served as assistant professor in the English
Department at the National University of Iran from 1967-1968. She

130 Kayhan, April 27, 1980.
131 Etela’at, April 23, 1980.
132 Roya Parsay (2005), A Bit of Iran's Legacy;
http://inconversationwithroya.blogspot.com/

then headed the English department from 1968 to 1970 until she
assumed the position of Secretary General of the Women’s
Organization of Iran. In 1976, she became the Minister of State for
Women’s Affairs, which she held until 1978. A year later, with the
onset of the Islámic Revolution, she left Iran for the U.S. and now
lives in exile in Maryland. Afkhamí continues to be a leading
proponent of women’s rights in the U.S. She has founded and
headed several international non-governmental organizations
focused on advancing the status of women.133
Ni’matulláh Nassirí (1911-1979) was the director of SÁVÁK, the
Iranian intelligence agency, during the reign of Sháh Mohammad
Rezá Pahlaví. He was a close associate of the Sháh and was known
as the individual who had personally delivered the warrant for the
arrest of Mohammad Mosaddeq after the successful coup against
the popular Prime Minister in 1953. As the head of Iran’s secret
police, Nassirí became the symbol of brutal government crack down
in pre-revolution Iran. In 1978, when the country edged closer to
chaos, the Iranian Ambassador to the U.S., Ardeshír Záhedí, and the
Martial Law Chief General, Gholám `Alí Oveissí encouraged the
King to arrest Nassirí, along with some other prominent
government officials such as Prime Minister Hoveidá in hopes of
calming the outraged masses. The plan failed. Shortly after the
revolution on February 13, 1979, Nassiri was executed by a firing
squad.134 Nassirí was never a member of the Bahá'í Faith.
Parvíz Sábetí (1949- ) was widely known as an influential official in
SÁVÁK. He was the head of one of S[V[K’s divisions. Sábetí was
born into a Bahá'í family in Sangsar but, according to his own
biographical information in the files of SÁVÁK revealed to the

133 Mahnáz Afkhamí’s profile at the website for the WLP (Women’s
Learning Partnership for Rights, Development, and Peace);
http://learningpartnership.org/viewProfiles.php?profileID=389
134 Fereydoun Hoveyda (1980), The Fall of the Shah. Trans. Roger Liddell. NY:
Wyndham Books.

public after the revolution, he chose Islám as his religion while in
secondary school and never joined the Bah{’í community.135 In the
mid-1970s, when anti-government activities were on the rise, Sábetí
became the face of SÁVÁK on the National Iranian Television. He
became known as Mr. Security (Magh{me Amniyatí) and ‚made
several breathtaking long television appearances, talking about
S[V[K’s successes in identifying, neutralizing, and arresting ring
leaders of guerrilla groups aiming to overthrow the regime."136
Asadu’lláh Sani’í  (born? ) was appointed Iran’s Minister of Defense
by the Sháh. Sani’í was a Bahá'í. Thus, the Iranian Bahá'í community
advised him to resign from his post. The Rise and Fall of the Pahlaví
Dynasty (vol. 2, pp. 468-469) contains a document from the Bahá'í
community of Iran which shows that Sani’í tried to obey and resign
on grounds that Bahá'ís could not hold political offices. However,
the Sháh was evidently not convinced and told Sani’í that no one in
the country but himself had the right to interfere in political affairs.
Thus, his resignation request based on his religious beliefs was
invalid. He was told to continue his work and not disobey the Sháh.
He agreed. Consequently, the Bahá'í administration removed his
name from its rolls.137
In short, many prominent Pahlaví officials were rumored to be
Bahá'ís. However, with the exception of General Sani’í who was
eventually disenrolled by the Bahá'í administration for accepting a
cabinet position, no Bahá'í was a member of the Sháh’s cabinet.
Regardless, some went so far as to claim that half of the Sh{h’s
cabinet were Bahá'ís; an allegation that H. E. Chehabi called a

135 H.E. Chehabi (2008), ‚Anatomy of Prejudice‛, in Brookshaw; Fazel,
Seena B., The Baha'is of Iran: Socio-historical studies, New York, NY:
Routledge, pp. 186-191.
136 Manouchehr Ganji (2003), Defying the Iranian Revolution, Greenwood
Publishing Group, CT, p. 9.
137 Velveleh Dar Shahr (Clamor in the City), p. 111;
www.velvelehdarshahr.com

fanciful and irresponsible exaggeration, given the persecution the
Bahá'ís have suffered.138
Bahá'í Ties to Freemasonry
Iranian conspiracy theorists have also accused the Bahá'í Faith of
having ties to Freemasonry. Freemasonry had been introduced to
Iran by Iranians who first encountered it in India and Europe.
Contrary to anti-Bahá'í claims, the earliest lodges, such as Malkom
Khan's faramush-khanih (literally, house of forgetfulness, founded in
1858) were not officially tied to European lodges.139 The nature of
Freemasonry as a secretive organization and its origin in Europe
made it a target of conspiracy theorists who claimed it introduced
Western ideas into Iran that helped subvert Islám. Eventually,
Freemasons were linked with the Bahá'í Faith and Judaism into a
grand conspiracy to undermine Iran and Islám.140
In a book on Freemasonry in Iran, the only substantive document
that relates to the Bahá'í Faith is the record of a discussion between
a number of prominent masons, including the Grand Master of the
Great Lodge (Luj-i Buzurg), Dr. Ahmad `Alíyábádí. In that
document, Dr. `Alíyábádí states that "no Bahá'ís have become
masons and this is repeated by others present with no-one
disagreeing."141
Iranian conspiracy theorists have also asserted that Dr. Dhabíh
Qurbán was a well-known Bahá'í and Freemason. The proponents
of the claim refer to Fázel Mázandarání's Zuhur al-Haqq, vol. 8, part
1 pp. 585-89. However, the indicated pages fail to mention Dr.

138 Ibid.
139 Nikki R. Keddie (2006), Iran: Roots and Results of Revolution, New Haven:
Yale University Press, p. 5, 431-432.
140 Moojan Momen (2004), "Conspiracies and Forgeries: the attack upon the
Baha'i community in Iran", Persian Heritage 9 (35): pp. 28-29.
141 Ibid.

Qurb{n’s name or anything pertinent to the subject.142 In reality, Dr.
Qurbán was indeed a Bahá'í and a friend of Shoghi Effendi in
Beirut. However, he was eventually expelled from the Bahá'í
community for marrying a Muslim woman without holding a Bahá'í
marriage ceremony and not taking any measures to rectify the
matter.143 He became a Freemason only after completely severing
ties with the Bahá'í Faith.144
The teachings of the Bah{’í Faith expressly forbid membership in
secret societies. A cablegram dated December 22, 1954 by Shoghi
Effendi addressed to the National Spiritual Assembly of the British
Islands makes the position of individuals who might desire
membership in both the Bahá'í Faith and Freemasonry clear:
Any Bahá'í determined [to] remain [in] membership [of]
Freemasonry loses voting right145.
A loss of voting rights means that the person may not attend any
meetings involving the administration of the Faith, such as elections
or the Nineteen Day Feast, and may not participate in other ways,
such as by contributing to the Bah{’í Funds or being married in a
Bah{’í marriage ceremony. This takes place when a community
member insists on following a course of action that is deemed
contrary to the teachings of the Faith.
Also, a letter written to an individual Bah{'í by Shoghi Effendi’s
secretary dated February 17, 1956, states

142 Ibid.
143 Mírzá Habíbu'lláh Afnán and Ahang Rabbani (2008), The Genesis of the
Bábi-Bahá'í Faiths in Shíráz and Fárs, Leiden: Brill, p. 246, note 376.
144 Velveleh Dar Shahr (Clamor in the City), p. 113;
www.velvelehdarshahr.com
145 Shoghi Effendi (1973), Directives from the Guardian, India/Hawaii PDF
edition (http://reference.bahai.org/en/t/se/DG/download.html), p. 129.

Therefore, all the Bahá’ís everywhere have been urged to give up
their old affiliations and withdraw from membership in the
Masonic and other secret Societies in order to be entirely free to
serve the Faith of Bahá'u'llah as a united body. Such groups as
Masonry, however high the local standard may be, are in other
countries gradually being influenced by the issues sundering the
nations at present.
The Guardian wants the Bahá’ís to disentangle themselves from
anything that may in any way, now or in the future, compromise
their independent status as Bahá’ís and the supra-national nature
of their Faith146.
Conclusion
Since its inception in the mid-1800s in Persia, the Bahá'í Faith and its
predecessor, the Bábí religion, have been labeled by certain circles
in the Muslim world as movements founded by colonialist or
imperialist governments with the express purpose of creating
divisions within Islám and gradually weakening it. A wide range of
charges against the founders of these religions have been set forth
through the years. Yet, no substantive proof for any of the
allegations has been produced. In the meantime, the Bábí and Bahá'í
religions and their leadership have been slandered, exiled, or
executed and thousands of their followers have died in the most
brutal fashion. More recently, since 1979 when the Islámic
government of Iran took power, at least 200 Bahá'ís have been
officially executed and thousands of others have been fired from
their jobs, deprived of pension, lost their property, and their young
denied access to higher education.

146 Hornby, Helen (1983). Lights of Guidance. New Delhi, India: Bah{’í
Publishing Trust, pp. 314-315.

The accusations and allegations, though baseless, have been
continuing for decades. Yet, the tide may finally be turning. A
growing number of individuals and groups inside and outside Iran
have recently come to the defense of the Bahá'ís. These include
political groups from leftists to nationalists and constitutionalists to
prominent human rights activists including six Nobel Peace Prize
laureates147 and Ahmad Bátebí, the internationally-known Iranian
student activist and current U.S. representative for Iran's Human
Rights Activists organization.
In addition, the Iranian Muslim student association inside the
country recently held a seminar in which they defended the rights
of Iran’s religious minorities including the Bahá'ís. A Bah{’í student
who was recently expelled from the Goldshat College in Kelardasht,
a city in the northern province of Mazandaran was one of the
speakers. In protest to the unfair treatment of this student, 26 of his
classmates went so far as refusing to take an exam.148
The Bahá'ís hope that these efforts are the harbinger of more
widespread public support for their Faith in Iran and can eventually
lead to the emancipation of the religion in the land of its birth and
its recognition as an official religious minority.
For continuous developments on the situation of the Bahá'ís of Iran,
see the Iran Press Watch blog at http://www.iranpresswatch.org


147 Bah{’í World News Service, Nobel laureates call for release of Iranian Baha’i
prisoners. http://news.bahai.org/story/641.
148 Bah{’í Faith: An Official Site of the Baha’is of the United States. Muslim
students protest Baha’i expelled from Iranian university;
http://iran.bahai.us/2008/12/01/muslim-students-protest-baha%E2%80%99i-
expelled-from-iranian-university/#more-312.

Bibliography
`Abdu’l-Bahá (1921), Star of the West, vol. 12.
Affolter, Friedrich (2005), "The Specter of Ideological Genocide: The
Bahá'ís of Iran". War Crimes, Genocide and Crimes Against Humanity 1
(1).
Afnán, Mírzá Habíbu'lláh and Ahang Rabbani (2008), The Genesis of
the Bábi-Bahá'í Faiths in Shíráz and Fárs, Leiden: Brill.
Amanat, Abbas (2008), "The Historical Roots of the Persecution of
the Bábís and Bah{’ís in Iran", in Brookshaw; Fazel, Seena B., The
Bahá’ís of Iran: Socio-historical studies, New York, NY: Routledge.
Amanat, Abbas (1989), Resurrection and renewal: The making of the
Bábí movement in Iran, 1844-1850, Ithaca, NY: Cornell University
Press.
Ashraf, Ahmad (1997), Conspiracy theories and the Persian Mind;
http://www.iranian.com/May96/Opinion/Conspiracy.html
Ayarmalu, Muhammad, Yadvareh Yek Bacheh Qafqaz [Memoirs of a
Lad from Caucasus], first printing, Germany.
Bah{’í World News Service; http://news.bahai.org/
Bahá'í International Community Website; http://www.bahai.org/
Bahá'u'lláh (1988) [1892], Epistle to the Son of the Wolf (Paperback
ed.). Wilmette, Illinois, USA: Bahá'í Publishing Trust.
Balyuzi, H.M. (2001), `Abdu’l-Bahá: The Centre of the Covenant of
Bahá'u'lláh, Oxford, UK: George Ronald.

Balyuzi, H.M. (1973), The Báb: The Herald of the Day of Days, Oxford,
UK: George Ronald.
Balyuzi, H.M. (2000), Bahá'u'lláh, King of Glory, Oxford, UK: George
Ronald.
Blomfield, Lady (1975), The Chosen Highway, Wilmette, Illinois:
Bah{’í Publishing Trust.
Browne, E. G. (1918), Materials for the Study of the Bábí Religion,
Cambridge, UK: The University Press.
Buck, Christopher (2003), "Islam and Minorities: The Case of the
Bahá'ís". Studies in Contemporary Islam 5 (1).
Bushrui, Suheil and Jenkins, Joe, Kahlil Gibran: Man and Poet.
Oxford: Oneworld, 1998.
Chehabi, H.E. (2008), "Anatomy of Prejudice", in Brookshaw; Fazel,
Seena B., The Bahá’ís of Iran: Socio-historical studies, New York, NY:
Routledge.
Choubine, Bahram, Sacrificing the Innocent: Suppression of the Bahá’ís
in 1955 (trans. from the original Persian by Ahang Rabbani);
http://www.iranian.com/main/2008/sacrificing-innocent
Cooper, Roger (1993), Death Plus 10 years, HarperCollins.
Effendi, Shoghi (1974). God Passes By. Wilmette, Illinois: Bah{’í
Publishing Trust.
Encyclopaedia Britannica; online version is found at:
http://www.britannica.com/
Encyclopaedia Iranica: http://www.iranica.com/

Ettela’at: Iranian daily newspaper; online version is found at:
http://www.ettelaat.com/new/
Falsafi, Muhammad-Taqi, Kháterát va MubaRezát [Memories and
Struggles]; Persian publication.
Ganji, Manouchehr (2003), Defying the Iranian Revolution,
Greenwood Publishing Group, CT.
Ghanea, Nazila (2003), Human Rights, the UN and the Bahá'ís in Iran,
Martinus Nijhoff.
Hornby, Helen (1983). Lights of Guidance. New Delhi, India: Bah{’í
Publishing Trust.
Hoveyda, Fereydoun (1980), The Fall of the Shah. Trans. Roger
Liddell. NY: Wyndham Books.
Hutter, Manfred (2005), "Baha'is". Encyclopedia of Religion (2nd ed.) 2.
Ed. Ed. Lindsay Jones. Detroit: Macmillan Reference USA.
Iran Human Rights Documentation Center (2007) (PDF), A Faith
Denied: The Persecution of the Bahá’ís of Iran, Iran Human Rights
Documentation Center;
http://adibflash.googlepages.com/AFaithDenied.pdf
Iran Visual News Corps; http://www.iranvnc.com/
Iranian.com online magazine; http://www.iranian.com
Kasravi, Ahmad (1323 [1944]), Bahá'í-garí, Tehran.
Kayhan Daily News: Iranian newspaper; online version is found at:
http://www.kayhannews.ir/

Keddie, Nikki R. (1995), Iran and the Muslim World: Resistance and
Revolution, Basingstoke: Macmillan.
Keddie, Nikki R. (2006), Iran: Roots and Results of Revolution, New
Haven: Yale University Press.
Mideast Youth: http://www.mideastyouth.com/
Milani, Abbas (2000), The Persian Sphinx: Amir Abbas Hoveyda and the
Riddle of the Iranian Revolution, Mage Publishers, Washington DC.
Moayyad, Habib, Khátirát Habíb [Memoirs of Habib]. Persian
publication.
Momen, Moojan (2004), "Conspiracies and Forgeries: the attack
upon the Bah{’í community in Iran", Persian Heritage 9 (35).
Momen, Moojan (1981), The Babi and Bahá’í Religions, 1844-1944:
Some Contemporary Western Accounts, Oxford, England: George
Ronald.
Montazeri, Hossein- Ali, Khaterat Ayatollah Hossein-Ali Montazeri
[Memoirs of Ayatollah Hossein-Ali Montazerí].
Mottahedeh, Roy (1985), The Mantle of the Prophet: Religion and
Politics in Iran, Oxford: OneWorld.
Mudarrisi, Murtida (1351 [1972]), Shaykhi-gari, Babi-gari, 2nd ed.,
Tehran: Furughi.
Parsay, Roya (2005), A Bit of Iran's Legacy;
http://inconversationwithroya.blogspot.com/
Rabbani, Ahang, `Abdu’l-Bahá in Abu-Sinan: September 1914–May
1915, published in Bah{’í Studies Review, 13 (2005).

Ráhnimá-yi Kitáb, 6th year, Farvardín/Urdíbihisht, 1342/1963, no.
1/2.
Research Department of the Universal House of Justice (1978),
Tablets of Bahá'u'lláh (Trans. by Habib Taherzadeh). Haifa, Israel:
Bah{’í World Centre
Saeidi, Nader, The Accusation that Bahá’ís are Spies (ا تهام جاسوس بودن
بهائی), Iranemrooz; http://politic.iran-
emrooz.net/index.php?/politic/more/17135
Sanasarian, Eliz (2008), "The Comparative Dimension of the Bah{’í
Case and Prospects for Change in the Future", in Brookshaw; Fazel,
Seena B., The Bahá’ís of Iran: Socio-historical studies, New York, NY:
Routledge.
Sanasarian, Eliz (2000), Religious Minorities in Iran, Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Sharon, Moshe, The "Memoirs of Dolgorukov and the Protocols of the
Elders of Zion";
http://honestlyconcerned.info/bin/articles.cgi?ID=IR12607&Category
=ir&Subcategory=19
Taherzadeh, Adib (1977), The Revelation of Bahá'u'lláh, Volume 2:
Adrianople 1863-68, Oxford, UK: George Ronald.
Tavakoli-Targhi, Mohammad (2008), "Anti-Bahá'ism and Islamism
in Iran", in Brookshaw; Fazel, Seena B., The Bahá’ís of Iran: Socio-
historical studies, New York, NY: Routledge.
Velveleh Dar Shahr (Clamor in the City);
www.velvelehdarshahr.org
Website for the Women’s Learning Partnership for Rights,
Development, and Peace; http://learningpartnership.org/

Yádgár, 5th year, Farvardín/Urdíbihisht 1328/1949, no. 8/9.
Yazdani, Mina (forthcoming 2009/10), Story Writing and Identity
Scripting.